

111
SUB
f
: ■■
"vi
vv
11
.4?*
it !!■*»
SlSlll
- V S‘
Sllliilll
’i
d
V
M
Jit.
■■
A V
-
'
Hj
if ?iiMli: SirlljS
Hi - I
:
H
jj
■
feffS
€ :
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street. Melbourne
IRON and STEEL WORKS .... NEWCASTLE, NSW.
.
-
Conceived with ambition and foresight nearly
25 years ago, The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.
Ltd. Newcastle Steel Works has developed
into the nation’s most vital industrial under-
taking. From widely separated parts of
Australia come the raw materials for con-
version into B.H.P. Steel, the master metal
which gives life to the nation’s industrial
progress. More than 20,000 men,
whose wages total nearly £6,000,000
yearly are employed in the
Australian iron and steel
The Bulletin
Read “The Other Fellow’s Mind”: pages 48, 49, 50
Vol. 60. —No. 3093.
.Wednesday, May 24, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
'story Writing
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free Booklet, explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 339
The Red Page
"THE YOUNG MELBOURNE."
Anyone looking for “This is the spot for a vil-
lage” in the first few pages of The Young Melbourne
(Constable; per Angus and Robertson) would be
disappointed ; but anyone looking for a really cap-
tivating biography will find that Lord David Cecil has
written it. It’s the story of the young man after whom
the Victorian city happened to be named —William
Lamb, afterwards second Viscount Melbourne and
twice Prime Minister of England. This book (Cecil
apparently intends another volume) doesn’t follow him
as far as the Prime Ministership; it is concerned
mainly with the development of his character, and
since his character had to do a great deal of its de-
veloping when his wife Caroline was conducting her
scandalous affair with Byron, the story is very different
from the usual political biography.
Cecil, who writes with grace, humor and a touch
of regret as if the clock of civilisation had stopped
when the year 1799 ticked to its end, begins with an
essay on the great Whig families of the eighteenth
century, the world of drinking and dicing, of culti-
vated eccentricity and uncultivated morals, the world
of wealth and politics into which William Lamb was
born. “A man,” Cecil quotes one of the gentry, “can
jog along on £40,000 a year.”
William had to totter along on £2OOO a year, for
when an elder brother died and he became heir to the
Melbourne estate the allowance his brother had been
granted was cut by more than half; his father, it sud-
denly appeared, had never forgiven him for not being
his son. As Cecil elucidates it, there were six chil-
dren in the Melbourne family: Peniston, William,
Frederic, George, Emily and Harriet (who died before
she grew up); “of these, William was universally sup-
posed to be Lord Egremont’s son, George, the Prince
of Wales’s, while Emily’s birth was shrouded in
mystery.”
Lady Melbourne, born Elizabeth Milbanke, was
a woman of affairs in the political as well as the more
obvious sense of the term and, discontented with a hus-
band who spent most of his time drinking port, fol-
lowing the hounds and playing faro, and who in 40
years of holding a seat in Parliament spoke only
once, she used her personal charms to make Mel-
bourne House a meeting-place for the most brilliant
men and women of the day. The Prince of Wales
came there to drink and talk; and “untidy, delightful
Fox” ; Sheridan, “sparkling and a little drunk” ; the
Duchess of Devonshire and Lady Bessborough; “the
witty Mr. Hare and the artistic Mrs. Damer.”
Cecil has a difficult task in keeping track of a
boy among such glittering company. The children,
united under the spell of Lady Melbourne’s person-
ality, seemed all alike, “vital, sensual, clever, positive
and unidealistic.” William’s emergence as a per-
sonality makes odd reading:
Soon after he went to Eton he had to a boy
bigger than himself. “He pummelled me amazingly,” he
related, “and I saw I should never beat him; I stood
and reflected a little and thought to myself and then
gave it up. I thought it one of the most prudent acts,
but it was reckoned very dastardly From this time
forward, after the first round if I found I could not
lick the fellow, I said, ‘Come, this won’t do, I will go
away; it is no use standing here to be knocked to
pieces.’ ”
As Cecil remarks, William early revealed his
capacity for “compromising genially with circum-
stance.” In the cowardice that wasn’t cowardice, in
the rational mind, in the indifference to the opinions
of his schoolfellows and above all in his easygoing
self-assurance, he exhibited exactly the qualities that
let him keep his head when Caroline led him a dance.
He met her first when she was 14 and he 21. She
was the daughter of Lady Bessborough—“an extra-
ordinary child, at one moment a wild tomboy gallop-
ing bareback round the field, the next conversing on
poetry and politics like a woman of 40, her whole
being vibrant with an electric vitality which dominated
any room she entered.” Four years later, against
some opposition, they married. They were happy for
three years, but Caroline, needing to hold the lime-
light now as she had when she was a child, took to
creating scenes; the Lambs, who had never liked her,
knew her as “the little beast.” Lady Melbourne,
jealous of the wife who had usurped William’s interest,
was'tireless in hostility. William had proved an
unromantic husband; Caroline might have forgiven
him if he had been a success in politics, but there
first his principles and then his gentlemanly laissez-
faire made it seem most unlikely that he would ever
do anything important. William observed dolefully
in his commonplace book, “Before marriage the
shape, the figure, the complexion carry all before
them; after marriage the mind and character unex-
pectedly claim their share, and that the largest, of
importance.”
He retreated to Parliament. He disagreed with
the Whigs and approved of Canning, but felt he could
not join him because Canning was officially a Tory.
There was a chance of a “centre party,” led by Can-
ning, attaining office, but that happy solution of his
difficulties failed to eventuate, and then, when the
Tories offered him Cabinet honors, he felt that he
could not accept. Caroline, meanwhile, had been
seeking consolation with arty ladies of doubtful re-
pute and with a certain Sir Godfrey Webster who
had been blackballed even by the Whips Club.
Caroline met Byron. “Childe Harold” and its
author were the rage of London. “I must meet him
-—I am dying to meet him,” Caroline told a friend.
But when she was introduced to him at a ball a few
days later she looked at him, and turned away with-
out speaking. “Bad, mad and dangerous to know,”
she wrote in her diary.
It was the first touch of the melodrama that was
to color the whole affair. Two days after the first
meeting, they were introduced a second time, and
Byron said “This offer was made to you the other
day. May I ask why you declined it?” Whatever
the answer was, they arranged to meet again. Caro-
line’s passion for publicity outraged a society that
made a virtue of tolerance. Wherever Byron went
she went; at the opera, at the ball, at parties, driving
in the park, they were always together. If Byron
alone was invited to a party, Caroline would wait
outside for him among the link-boys. She would
appear unexpectedly in his rooms, disguised as a
page. Then went through a mock marriage cere-
mony, signing their names in a book Byron and
Caroline Byron.
The scandal, and with it the indignation of both
William’s and Caroline’s families, blew a high gale.
While Lady Melbourne, the cynical, tried not unsuc-
cessfully to divert Byron’s attention to herself and
to other women, Caroline, her hysteria and her hus-
band were shipped off to Ireland. When they came
back, and Caroline and Byron met again at a ball,
the gale became a tornado. Furious because he
mocked her, she rushed into the supper-room, broke
a glass and began to gash her bare arms. In the
uproar that followed, she was carried from the room,
still trying to mutilate herself.
Byron haunted her memory for years. Later
lovers, to whom she turned in desperation, had to
wear in turn the ring he had given her. When she
tried to justify herself in a novel , Glenarvon, Byron
was hero and villain in one. In revenge for his
desertion of her she had him jumping into the sea
pursued by particularly large devils. In life, it was
she herself who was tormented ; her last years, though
she found peace before she died, were sometimes
sordid and always sad, with William’s devotion as
the one shaft of sunlight.
William appeared in Glenarvon as “Lord Avon-
dale,” a gentleman whose nobility of character was
marred by cynicism, and whose neglect of his wife
exposed her—already corrupted by his conversation
—to a sinful society. There was something in her
theory. But when things had gone wrong, William
showed extraordinary patience and strength of char-
acter. After the scandal at the ball, society would
have nothing more to do with her, and after the
publication of the novel her friends, her relatives
and her in-laws were united against her. William
remained friendly. He agreed once to family demands
for a separation, but lawyers coming to have the
documents signed found Caroline sitting on his knee.
A separation was signed later ; Caroline left Wil-
liam’s house for ever, and within three months was
back again. When Caroline was dying she whispered,
“Send for William ; he is the only person who has
never failed me.”
Cecil leaves his hero at the age of 47, at the
beginning of his active life as a public man. “All
he had seen of the world,” he writes, “confirmed
him in his view that it was ruled mainly by folly,
vanity and selfishness.” The expected second volume,
dealing with his public actions as they were influenced
by the events recorded in The Ydung Melbourne
should be worth watching for.
Some T. E. Lawrence Stories.
Sir Ronald Storrs’s Orientations (Nicholson and
Watson), is one of those immense books that tell the
story of a diplomatic career in minute detail. First
glimpse of the author is as an exasperated little boy
taken shopping by an impetuous mother who is too
impatient to wait till her purchases are wrapped, so
that he has to carry home the most embarrassing
articles without a shred of camouflage. Follows the
story of his long and earnest career serving his country
diplomatically in Egypt and elsewhere.
His chief claim to fame is probably that he knew
Lawrence of Arabia well and has preserved some
glimpses of him. Lawrence often stayed with Storrs
in Jerusalem, “an amusing as well as an absorbing
if sometimes disconcerting guest”:
He had Shelley’s trick of noiselessly vanishing and
reappearing. We would be sitting reading on my only
sofa. I would look up, and Lawrence was not only not
in the room, he was not in the house, he was not in
Jerusalem. He was in the train on his way to Egypt.
If soldiering and diplomacy were Lawrence’s
work, the classics were his passion, and his ambition
was to set up a private press and reprint his favorites.
He would say, “I’m longing to get back to my print-
ing press, but I have two kings to make first.” That
he was a misogynist is, Storrs says, not quite true,
though “he would have retained his composure if he
had suddenly been informed that he would never see
a woman again.” He expected women to pull their
weight in the world, and to the frivolous he was merci-
less.
There was a lady at a dinner party who liked to
let everyone know that she was on terms of intimacy
with the great. She noticed that Lawrence looked
bored and said, “I fear my conversation doesn’t in-
terest Colonel Lawrence.” Lawrence bowed. “It
doesn’t interest me at all,” he answered.
Then there is this story:
I was standing with Lawrence one morning in the
Continental Hotel, Cairo, when an elderly English-
woman, quite incapable of understanding his talk, but
anxious to be seen conversing with the uncrowned
king of Arabia, moved towards him. It was hot, and
she was faning herself with a newspaper as she intro-
duced herself. “Just think, Colonel Lawrence, 92, 92!”
With a tortured smile Lawrence replied, “Many happy
returns of the day.”
Faulkner's Unusual Novel.
William Faulkner has written a succession of
novels that undoubtedly belong to major fiction, and
the latest, The Wild Palms (Chatto and Windus), will
add to his reputation. He appears to feel that,
in a world in which the novelist is increasingly a
specialist fencing off some little corner and exploit-
ing it efficiently, the novelist’s true function is to raise
up an image of life as a whole.
The Wild Palms is such an image. It is two
stories interleaved. They are separated in time by
10 years, and their action never intersects. The first
is the love story of Harry Wilbourne and Charlotte
Rittenmeyer. Wilbourne is a young doctor, interne
at a hospital in New Orleans. His father had wanted
him to be a doctor, and he had taken it for granted
that he wanted it, too. There had been no money,
and he had got his training only at the expense of
everything else in life. At 27 he was dragged by a
friend to what was probably his first party. He saw
Charlotte there, and two days after they were saying
to one another “What are we going to do?”
She was a sculptor, had a well-to-do husband,
two little girls and 125 dollars of her own. Even
Harry’s small pay was mortgaged. They went for a
night together to a hotel, but found such an expedi-
ent was only an insult to themselves. Going back
to the hospital Wilbourne found a wallet full of notes
in a street rubbish-bin. The owner’s name and
address were in it. Wilbourne telephoned Charlotte
that he had money, and she came to him at once.
They went to Chicago and launched themselves on
the world with 2000 dollars.
Wilbourne tried for a job, but he couldn’t care
enough to get one. Charlotte made some money
with figures, and then the market dried up. They
spent their last 100 dollars on food and took it to a
friend’s shack in the woods. Winter and hunger
drove them out. They both got jobs, but they felt
walls growing up round them, felt themselves being
“drawn into being married.”
They broke away, and Wilbourne took a post as
doctor at a mine. It was a bogus mine and no salaries
were paid. They spent the winter and saw the spring
there. Charlotte was going to have a baby, and she
couldn’t face it. “They hurt tOo much,” she said,
thinking of the agony it had been to abandon her two
little girls. After a long struggle Wilbourne agreed
to perform an operation, but it goes wrong and
Charlotte dies. He is tried and condemned to 50 years
for manslaughter. He sees a way to kill himself but
rejects it. “Yes,” he thought, “between grief and
nothing I will take grief.”
The other story is of the Mississippi floods in 1927.
The convicts had to be taken from a gaol. Some of
them are set to relief work, and one, “the tall con-
vict,” is carried away on the swirling river in a little
boat. He is reported missing and marked off as dead.
He has escaped, but he had no wish to escape. He
was serving a long sentence for attempted armed
robbery of a train when he was 15. He had got the
idea out of a book, and it hadn’t worked. Now, for
the first time in many years, he is alone. He rescues
a woman from a tree and her child is born on the
riverbank. He hates her, the responsibility, the burden,
but he can’t get rid of her. He works at alligator
catching; the river comes down again and whirls him
away. When at last he reaches a town he gives him-
self up. He gets another 10 years for escaping. It is
an immense relief; he is safe again in a world he
knows.
These two stories are both the same story. They
are about a romantic who pinned his faith to some-
thing outside reality and then trusted his weight to it.
The man who tried to rob a train out of a book and
the man who “gave all for love, and the world well
lost” is the same man. The difference is that one
tried to escape and the other tried not to. In the
one story there is the river, in the other the wind,
the dark forces of life. The convict is like the flotsam
carried on the river; Wilbourne is like the palms
rooted in the ground and at the mercy of the wind.
The two stories, which are of about equal bulk,
interleaved episode by episode, are set in relation to
each other by the use in one of a full light and in
the other of a half-light. The characters in Char-
lotte’s story are all named; in the river story all are
anonymous, so that it slips into the position of back-
ground, of the general in relation to the particular.
Man is seen as the variable caught between events
that follow one another in hard, logical sequence and
the dark underlying forces of life, the wind and the
river.
The book is expertly managed and magnificently
written. It is a study in technical devices used with
such certainty and so completely subordinated to it
that they never compete with it, in the sense of ob-
truding themselves upon the consciousness of the
reader, or break away into a life of their own.
The tradition that favors short simple sentences
goes down before the necessities of Faulkner, a master
of the sentence at its most complex. One of his best
(Continued on page 8.)


Muv UNDERWOOD
2UumAAoI portable
FOR ALL PEOPLE . . .
AND ALL PURPOSES!
PRICE
f19'19-
m
A
yf&k
EASY TERMS. DEPOSIT £2.
12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF £l/11/5.
THE COMPLETE WRITING MACHINE!
Difficult writing tasks are made easy because this easy typing Underwood Universal Portable
Standard offers a quick way of conveying thoughts to paper. Uneven handwriting gives way to
neatly typed reports, lists, or whatever you wish to write. The Universal is equipped with a
Champion keyboard, variable line spacer, stencil switch, and an automatic ribbon reverse. The
line space lever is longer, the cylinder knobs enlarged, and the rubber suction feet have been
improved.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE £l9/19/-
UNDERWOOD
unior G^ortable
Easy to use, convenient and speedy in
action, the Junior Portable is a full; fledged
writing machine with standard size keyboard,
ribbon, right and left hand shift-keys, back
spacer, a standard easy-to-reach line space
lever, a shift lock and many other writing
conveniences formerly found only in higher-
priced portables. At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE £l2/12/-
EASY TERMS. DEPOSIT 25/2. 12 MONTHLY
PAYMENTS OF 19/1©
£1212
• Stationery—Second Floor. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
■*aas
w ■
&M&M M 'W o on
*z
WM
H
m
m
:
t
mm.
m.
r
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone M 2401.
Day and Night.


Diplomacy on Dugong Island
CHARLIE
BUMPS
A SNAG
by Freeman Sandom
DRAWINGS BY SUCH.
ON No. 1 wharf that Saturday morning were
gathered—in addition to Tubby Morton, who
could be regarded as a fitting of that structure
—more kid fishermen than usual. That was
because Hopalong Cassidy would shoot his way
through cattle-rustlers that afternoon, and a whiting
wrested from the sea spelt the sprat it cost to watch
him.
The competition worried Tubby not at all.
Besides drawing fish from the water he drew rations
from the police station, and from a large circle of
acquaintances tribute in cash or kind. He rested
cross-legged at one end of his fishing line like a fat
and complacent Buddha, presenting a picture of som-
nolent content.
A dapper little man about thirty years of age in
a white linen suit and topee strolled on to the wharf
and greeted Tubby pleasantly. He was a stranger,
and a stranger to Tubby had possibilities. He started
the game for information with his usual weather-
and-fish gambit, learnt that the stranger’s name was
O’Halloran, that he had arrived from Brisbane only the
night before, that, as far as he could judge thus early,
the town was a great little town, the people a like-
able, free-and-easy lot, and that their contention that
North Queensland was the greatest spot on earth had
some foundation in fact. Also that he was the new
inspector of fisheries.
Tubby experienced a mild shock at that, and
immediately explained that he fished only for pleasure.
The possession of a license was therefore unnecessary.
O’Halloran very pleasantly concurred with him, and
Tubby made a mental note that the new inspector
was reasonable and easygoing and would in conse-
quence be an asset to the fishing community.
“And,” said O’Halloran, “if you catch more than
you can use I suppose your mates benefit?”
Tubby shot a glance to the face above liim. He
saw a faint twinkle in the mild-seeming blue eyes
and was reassured. This bloke knew a thing or two,
but was going to be sensible.
At this juncture came a diversion. Two young
fishermen had been engaged for some time in a heated
argument as to the ownership of a certain jam-tin of
prawn-bait, and had arrived at a stage when words
were too feeble a medium of expression. One let
out a very dirty left to the chin. But Tubby, cocking
an interested eye, had his hopes of free fistical enter-
tainment nipped in the bud. The smitten one,
stumbling back, tripped over a loose rope-end and
fell backwards into the channel.
While Tubby, emitting a startled grunt, was pre-
paring to separate his generous hindpart from the
floor O’Halloran rose to the occasion. He tore off his
coat and sprang to the wharf edge. He saw that the
lad was a strong swimmer with a cool head, but that
the current caused by the outgoing tide was too fierce
to buck. To jump in meant merely that two, each
capable of keeping afloat, would be swept outwards
until a boat could come to the rescue or a shark to
a feast. Then he saw the lifebuoy with rope attached
hanging on the shed wall ready for just such an emer-
gency. In a moment he had grabbed and flung it to
the boy, who clamped on promptly. He began to
haul on the rope.
Tubby also hauled on the line, shouting mean-
while unnecessary advice and encouragement to the
boy, to whom a ducking was as nothing, and who,
in fact, had already begun to construct the frame-
work of this heroic exploit of his to excite the envy
of his cobbers. The boys, too, were hauling on the
rope. There were more boys than rope, so O’Halloran
let go, rescued his coat from the trampling feet and
presently strolled away.
1 “Get into Bill Flowers’s boat,” yelled Tubby.
“That’s right! No, climb”
The boy glared up at him through a mop of
wet hair. “I ain’t a sissy, fathead,” he growled.
Presently he was on the wharf, had stripped off
his Jacky Howe and knickers, hung them in the sun
to dry, and was explaining to an admiring audience
how it felt to have a shark muzzle your legs while
they are helplessly suspended from the interior of a
lifebuoy. Then, the matinee being near at hand, the
boys present effected a noisy withdrawal. Tubby had
returned to his line and Buddhaesque attitude when
Bill Flowers arrived.
“Hallo, Tub,” he greeted the fat one, “getting
anything?” He saw the mess in his boat. “Those
damn’ kids’ve been in my launch again,” he growled.
“Why didn’t you chase ’em, Tub?”
Tubby set himself for the recital. “One of the
kids fell overboard,” he explained with a fine assump-
tion of casualness. “Had to pull him into your boat.
Saved his life, I reckon.”
“Hope you didn’t risk your own?” asked Bill,
who had seen the dripping lifebuoy on the wall and
inferred the nature of the rescue.
Tubby shrugged fat shoulders. “You c’n only
die once,” he opined philosophically. “By the
way, I’ve got news for you, Bill. The new inspector’s
come; was down here.”
Bill nodded. “I know. Met him in the harbor-
master’s office. Had a drink with him. A likeable
chap.”
Disappointed at being forestalled with this im-
portant news item, a touch of acidity flavored Tubby’s
summing-up. “Oh, I don’t know. Easygoing sort
of feller, but too perlite ; bit of a toff, too, dolled
up all in white ; starched ; tiger-shooter on ; bit of a
sissy, too, I reckon.”
“Yes? How’s that?”
“Well, when that kid fell overboard he tore off
his coat, but jibbed on the dive. Had the wind up,
I reckon, or mebbe ’fraid of getting his clobber wet.”
Bill discounted the information, knowing Tubby
and having already formed an opinion of O’Hal-
loran’s character. “Seeing you were on the spot,” he
said, “he probably knew the kid was safe. Well, I’ve
got to get home.”
“If you get a crayfish or two think of me,”
Tubby called out as Bill began to tinker with the
boat’s engine. “Some of me customers’re pestering
me for the crays. Fifty-fifty as before.”
The engine sprang into life. Bill waved. “All
right,” he promised. Tubby was useful at times.
“Watch your step, though, with the new inspector.
You haven’t a license, you know.”
“That’s okay,” Tubby shouted after him. “Got
a special permit from O’Halloran himself to carry
on without a permit.”
TAUGONG Island, a dark-green circle edged with
silver-white in a blue sea, never failed to give
Bill a thrill of pleasure at each homecoming. He
whistled happily as he ran the launch alongside the
small jetty and threw the painter to old Peter Holz-
kopf. Peter disliked music when there was work
to do. He stopped the concert by asking for the
latest news.
“Another crisis in Europe,” announced Bill.
“Tubby Morton saved a kid from drowning, so he
says, and the new inspector’s arrived.”
Peter disregarded the first item of information ;
crises in Europe, he had learnt, were as common as
dishwater. Also the second. The third was different.
“Is der mans von Sherman mans?” he inquired,
throwing a half-hitch over the mooring post. “Der
young Spitzbub’ Mordon he dell me der next in-
schbegdor he vos Sherman, sure.”
Charlie Thompson was waiting for the beer Bill
had brought for him. He was too busy charging his
pipe to help to land the stores. “Is he a Sherman
mans?” he mocked. “Don’t you know yet that Tubby
always talks through his hat when there ain’t profit
hangin’ to his noos? What’s the odds anyway where
the man is born? Is he easy-lookin’, Bill?”
Bill dealt with the questions in order of asking.
“His name’s O’Halloran, which doesn’t sound Deutsch
to me. As for easy-looking —well, he seems a good
sort to me, though Tubby reckons he’s a squib ; but
you know Tubby.” He repeated the fat man’s ver-
sion of the rescue.
Charlie’s pipe was drawing well, he had got his
beer and was ready to leave.
“He’ll be an easy mark,” he decided with satis-
faction. “Tubby’s right sometimes.”
“Don’t be cocksure,” advised Bill. “He’s pleasant
and quiet, but still water runs deep.”
Opposition made Charlie obstinate. “It’s good
enough for me,” he announced. “He’ll be a mile
improvement on the last hell-hound. Anyway, I’m
goin’ to stake Pearl River to-night while the fresh’s
cornin’ out. The red-bream ought to be there in
droves.”
Staking a net across a river is an easy and profit-
able method of fishing. It is also illegal, punishable
by confiscation of the staker’s net and a thumping
fine to boot. The previous inspector had succeeded
in almost stamping out the practice. He had been,
as Charlie said, a hell-hound, vigilantly on the heels
of lawbreakers.
“Go easy,” Bill advised a second time. “The iron
fist in the velvet glove, remember.”
“A bloke must get up early to catch me,” boasted
Charlie. “Got to be tough, too, if he does.”
“There are tough Irishmen,” said Bill drily.
“Oont dey likes von pig schcrap besser den any-
dings,” piped old Peter with a reminiscent chuckle.
FOR the best part of the following week Charlie
staked his net nightly across Pearl River. He
got some phenomenal hauls, too, because it had rained
heavily in the back country, and barramundi and
red-bream followed the fresh. Bill anticipated trouble.
Fish must be sold, and big catches —Charlie’s trap
was producing well, too —will start tongues wagging
along the town’s waterfront. So when one morning
the inspector’s launch chugged into the jetty Bill was
not surprised.
O’Halloran was introduced to Peter and Charlie.
“Just having a look round,” he explained, and
chatted pleasantly on such topics as weather, tides,
high cost of netting and lines and low price of fish,
and the surprising cussedness of dealers. He touched
on Hitler’s latest move and the prospect of a major
war, and then turned to Charlie.
“I’m told you’re in the habit of staking nets, Mr.
Thompson,” he said, speaking casually.
“Me?” said Charlie, surprise in his voice. “Not
guilty, Mr. O’Halloran. Never staked a net in me
life.”
“No? Still, I’m told you staked Pearl River last
night.”
Charlie snorted contemptuously. “Somebody’s
been tellin’ you tales, that’s all.”
“You shot from Redbank side and made fast
to the big mangrove opposite.”
Charlie was getting ill at ease, so he spoke loudly.
“Old woman’s tale, I tell you!”
“You went ashore and made tea on your spirit
stove,” said O’Halloran inexorably. “You smoked
and yarned, you and Half-caste Joe, your offsider.
Then you hauled and got a big catch.”
“Bit of a Nosey Parker, ain’t you?” jeered
Charlie angrily. “Got Joe to squeal, hey?”
O’Halloran smiled. “You admit it!” he stated.
“I haven’t met Mr. Joe —not yet. But they talk in
the waterfront pubs—and not in whispers. And my
clerk likes his pot of beer. Red bank’s the likeliest
place for staking, and this morning I called there
and saw telltale signs. Fish you missed, dead on the


bank. The tree you tied to, marked by the rope.
Nightwork calls for tea, and over the billy men jarn.
I saw a spirit stove in your boat at the jetty.”
Charlie gaped, Bill smiled, and old Peter cackled
openly at Charlie’s discomfiture.
“But never mind that now,” O’Halloran con-
tinued. “I’m told you’re a decent enough fellow, and
I give a decent man his chance. But that racket must
stop! Please, understand that.”
He made his good-byes and departed.
“Bluff!” blustered Charlie a moment later. “Pure
bluff! ”
“I don’t think so,” said Bill thoughtfully. “That
bird’ll peek in unusual places. Take my tip and go
easy.”
“Rot! If he interferes with me I’ll knock his
block off.”
“Dot’s righd!” piped old Peter enthusiastically.
“Dot’s righd, Sharlie! Meinself, I haf nod von goot
schcrap seen dis long dime. You dell me ven der
schcrap gome pouff, Sharlie.” And the old battler
rasped his calloused palms together in gleeful antici-
pation.
Charlie snorted. “The little whippersnapper can’t
bluff me. Think I’m givin’ up four quid a night for
the likes of him? Anyway, he can’t prove any think
unless he catches me redhanded, and I’ll keep me
eyes skinned.”
“Carry on, then,” said Bill. “But I’m telling you
that bird’ll find a way of dealing with you.”
STUBBORN as Charlie was, he was not altogether
a fool. He kept on staking, but shifted about in
time and space —never in the same place or at the
same hour two nights running. He kept his eyes
peeled and his ears cocked for chug of engine or beat
of oars. And when he staked Pearl River he had a
lookout posted on the point. He saw no sign of
O’Halloi’an. A bloke must get up early to catch
Charlie Thompson! Even when the fish petered out
he carried on, driven by sheer contrariness.
But Bill’s forecast that O’Halloran would strike
when and where least expected came true.
IT was Sunday, and Dugong Island lay somnolent,
1 windless, in the already hot rays of the early sun.
None of its three inhabitants saw the launch arrive.
Bill, having fished his trap during the night, had risen
late. He was washing up the breakfast things when
he heard steps on the sand outside, and then a cheer-
ful hail. Going to the door, he saw O’Halloran. He
was arrayed in shorts and silk Jacky Howe, but looked
as dapper as ever under his white topee.
“Hullo!” greeted Bill. “Have a cup of tea?”
“Don’t mind if I do, thanks.”
He sat on a deckchair on the verandah, and Bill
brought tea. While O’Halloran drank Bill rolled a
cigarette and watched him curiously. He looked
a different person altogether in those togs, Bill thought.
There was something familiar about this new O’Hal-
loran. He whipped his memory in vain, and finally
gave up trying. .Suddenly he sat up and took notice.
“Bill,” O’Halloran was saying, “you strike me as
a sensible man, and I think you’ll understand. You
know what game Thompson is playing—just a
moment, I’m not asking you to give him away ; it’s
common knowledge—and he’s setting a bad example.
What chance have I of enforcing the law when the
fishermen laugh up their sleeve at what they no doubt
consider my inefficiency? This game did not go on
when my predecessor was in office, and it’s got to
stop right now. I’ve given Thompson his chance.
He’s smart enough, and he knows I’m after him, so I’m
not going to chase him up and down the inlet night
after night.” He smiled. “The way I’m taking is an
unusual way, but I think it’ll work. I’m going to fight
him to a standstill, fairly and squarely, and purely
as a private citizen.”
Bill considered. “Admitting
nothing,” he said, “as to what
Charlie has done or not done, I
can see your point.” He
chuckled. “I told Charlie you
were an unusual bird.” He
rolled a cigarette, lit it and
smoked thoughtfully. After a
while he said, “I don’t like see-
ing two men cutting each other
to pieces—seems stupid to me.”
“You’re a philosopher, I
see. But can you suggest a
better way?”
Bill shrugged. “It’s hardly
my place to do that. Charlie’s
a neighbor, you know, and, in
fact —I’m admitting nothing—l
can’t see what harm staking a
net does. The law says you
must not stake, and even if the
law is an ass I obey its braying
—perhaps only because I won’t
risk being caught. But Charlie’s
as stubborn as another ass.”
“Well?”
“And he’s a big man.”
“That’s my concern,” said
0 Halloran rising. “I want you
to come along, and old Peter
too.”
Bill threw away his cigar-
ette and rose. “All right, then,”
he said on a note of regret. “As
you say, it’s your funeral. As
for Peter, he’ll be delighted.”
When they called on Peter and the business had
been explained, he made no secret of his pleasure.
He was engaged in disposing of a substantial break-
fast, but rose with alacrity.
“Finish your breakfast,” said O’Halloran, “there’s
plenty of time.”
“To hell mit der breagfast!” piped the old man.
“Von goot schcrap is besser den der best breagfast
altogedder.” He stumped through the loose sand
with the other two, keeping the pace with his short
legs with difficulty, but with the eagerness of a plough-
horse towards the stable at feeding time.
was mending a net at the back of his
humpy. He scowled as he saw O’Halloran, and
scowled darker when the matter was explained.
“Fight!” he said incredulously. “Why, I c’n give
you three stone, man, and six inches of reach.”
“Don’t be a biker, Sharlie,” taunted Peter, fearful
of the promised entertainment being blocked. “You
haf nod der yellow schtreak, haf you?”
Charlie paid no attention to him. He looked
cunningly at O’Halloran. “Fight a Government in-
spector!” he jeered. “Buckley’s chance I’d have with
the law if I lift my hands to you.”
“This is Sunday, and I’m off duty. I’m just plain
O’Halloran. And there are no witnesses except your
friends.”
Charlie began to see the fun ahead of him. To
knock a fishery inspector about without fear of legal
retribution would be sheer bliss.
After a short discussion anent a suitable battle-
ground a spot on the beach was picked. Here the
sand was pounded firm by the breakers, and, as Peter
pointed out, a hop-step-and-jump away an unlimited
quantity of cool water was available for the revival
of a fallen gladiator. It was arranged that Bill should
second O’Halloran and act as referee, Peter to look
after Charlie and keep time.
O’Halloran removed his lacky Howe, and Bill
eyed him appraisingly. Small of stature, he was yet
well developed, his muscles seemed supple, and his skin
was smooth and clear as a baby’s. His resemblance
to the person lost in Bill’s memory puzzled him again.
But suddenly recollection came, and he marvelled that
it had been so slow in coming. Here was something—
his mind worked rapidly. He studied Charlie specu-
latively ; big, brawny Charlie, huge tanned torso,
powerful muscles of shoulder and arms, eminently
capable of giving a good account of himself in a rough-
and-tumble fight—but not so strong from the neck up.
Bill decided on his course of action.
“Hold on a bit,” he said, stepping between the
two men. “I’ve just remembered something. You’re
‘Mulekick’ O’Halloran, one-time amateur champion of
Queensland.”
For a moment O'Halloran looked surprised. He
seemed to debate with himself, eyed Bill sharply, then
nodded. “Well?”
“Du lieber Gott!” Peter almost jumped out of
his wrinkled old skin in his excitement. “Von pig
schcrap! Von pig schcrap vor to see I schtop in hell
all mein life!”
Charlie looked disgusted. Perhaps this affair was
not going to be the one-sided one he had looked for-
ward to
“That’s a tough one to spring on a man,” he
growled. “I didn’t know I was to fight a professional.”
“Amadeur, amadeur!” piped Peter. “You vos
dwice der odder mans.” There was to be no peace
talk if he could help it.
Charlie shrugged. “Carry on,” he said. “Cham-
pion or no champion, I c’n beat him.”
“Goot mans!” Peter approved. “Dot’s der vay
to schpeak, mein poy.”
Bill never moved. If Peter could have read his
thoughts just then he would have been aghast. Bill
was an unusual type of fisherman. He had chosen
his work because fishing gave him time to read and
think and “stand and stare.” “Go easy,” was his
favorite saying. “Bulling into a thing gets you no-
where. Reason it out.”
“Hold on a bit,” he was saying now. “Before
you start this fight, what exactly is it all about?”
A sudden gleam sprang to O’Halloran’s blue eyes.
He read a meaning into Bill’s procedure which the
others missed. He felt as if the ball had been passed
to him in the course of a football match, and that it
was up to him to pass it back.
“What else can I do to stop Mr. Thompson?”
“I can’t see yet how the fight’ll serve your pur-
pose. Suppose for argument’s sake that Charlie does
what you say he does. Suppose you knock him out
to-day—will that stop him going out to-night?”
“I think so. He’ll be too sore to bother about
fishing for a day or two.”
Charlie snorted contemptuously.
“Gud oud der dalk,” said Peter.
“All right,” said Bill, ignoring Peter. “I grant
you that. But sooner or later he’ll be fit —to-morrow
or next week.”
“Possibly. But if he doesn’t promise to behave
I’ll be back next Sunday to give him another hiding.”
“Say” began Charlie, but Bill interrupted
quickly. “And the next Sunday after that? And the
next? A sort of perpetual-motion affair?”
O’Halloran nodded. “That’s the idea.”
“And suppose you get the worst of the scrap?”
“Makes no difference. I’ll do a fair bit of damage
to Mr. Thompson. And I’ll keep on doing it until
he gives in.”
Bill threw a swift look to Charlie. Then he threw
back his head and laughed loud and long.
Charlie’s face registered a series of conflicting
emotions. Dismay was the last and strongest. He
saw himself fighting this amateur-champion lunatic
with bare fists every Sunday for the rest of his life.
The prospect dismayed him. He did not mind a scrap
—rather, he enjoyed it. But there is such a thing as
getting an overdose of pleasure, he thought. He was
beginning to regard this Government man with con-
siderable respect. He was apparently a man to get
what he wanted sooner or later —and in this case it
was his, Charlie Thompson’s, scalp. Decidedly the
prospect was not pleasant. Perhaps the game was not
worth the candle. The fish were getting scarce, too.
The last few nights he had not earned beer money.
Bill’s sudden laughter gave him a lead. He saw
a way to back out without loss of “face.” He, too,
threw back his head and barked to the sky, the sounds,
(Continued on page 7.)
"Hold on a bit. Before you start this
fight, what exactly is it all about?”


A Man of Parts
OUT OF THE
PAST
J-H-M- ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
MR. MARMADUKE.
THE art, craft and mystery of bushranging was
not, one hundred years ago, what it afterwards
became in Australia, but there were nevertheless
many guileless citizens who honored it and looked
with much disfavor upon the merciless and ruthless
measure designed by Governor Darling for its sup-
pression.
The Bushranging Act of 1830—passed by the
dozen or so members who constituted the Legislative
Council of New South Wales, which was the sole in-
adequate semblance of representative government so
far in vogue in Australia—was a measure almost
unique in its severity. Inter alia, it provided that any
suspected person might be arrested without a warrant;
that anyone carrying weapons might be taken up ;
that, if provided with general search-warrants, the
police might enter or break into any house by day
or by night, seize whatever firearms might be dis-
covered therein, and apprehend the people found upon
the premises. When found guilty, thieves and house-
breakers were to be sentenced to death and executed
on the third day following. The Act was rigorously
administered, and it may well have been applied in
the case of Collins Marmaduke, Esq. But that gentle-
man was a martyr before he became a hero, and then
turned into a kind of low comedian of the sort he
most abhorred.
K/| R. MARMADUKE had been an actor in the
*** English provinces for a few years previous to
1828 —not a very good actor, it is true, but one of
whom it was possible to say that there were worse.
In that unhappy year he became involved in a street
disturbance in Nottingham wherein a watchman had
been so roughly handled that he had subsequently
given up the ghost. Although the ill-starred Mr.
Marmaduke had been present, he always maintained
that he had merely been there in the role of a passer-
by, that he had not been in the fracas at all, and that
his identification as the man who had struck the blow
which fractured the skull of the unfortunate “Charley”
was a piece of perjury unparalleled in all the records
of evidence.
But another watchman had sworn to it, the inn-
keeper had sworn to it, and the man who really did it
had sworn to it, to the utter damnation of Mr. Col-
lins Marmaduke, tragedian. The jury had made it
manslaughter, and had recommended him to mercy,
to the unequivocally expressed regret of the Judge,
who had congratulated him upon his undeserved
good fortune and sentenced him to fourteen years’
transportation as some satisfaction to himself for not
having been able to sentence him to death.
So in the following year Mr. Marmaduke landed
in Sydney and was immediately sent road-making
up the country, in the neighborhood of Wiseman’s
Ferry, on the Hawkesbury River, where the Great
North Road was in painful course of construction by
the iron-gangs.
“Marmaduke, C., No. 2041, per Lady Chatham,
Nottingham Assizes, 14 years,” as they had him in
the muster roll, was a tall, cadaverous, loosely-built
man of an irrepressible pomposity and a tragic de-
meanor that had helped to earn for him among his
uncongenial companions the nickname of “the Blue
Crane.” He was long in the limbs and solemn, and
his characteristic attitude of standing, whenever pos-
sible, upon one leg—for the reason that his right
foot was afflicted with painful bunions —had suggested
this appellation to the mordant wit of the single
“funny” man who toiled in the stone-breaking gang
to which he belonged.
“An’ phwat’s ailin’ ye now, ye poor ould bur-rd?”
inquired Pat Driscoll, the inventor of his nickname,
of the sombre Mr. Marmaduke as he sat a little with-
drawn from the rest of the group that shared the
bark hut within the slab enclosure of the stockade.
“Ye’re lookin’ as poor in the mout’ as a Proddystan
at Mass. Phwat the divil’s wrong wid ye, me bould
bad acthor-man?”
Mr. Marmaduke put down the dirty tin basin
from which he had ravenously wolfed his scanty even-
ing meal, rose wearily to his feet and, with arms
folded across his narrow chest and a frown on his
sunburnt and not ill-looking face, made tragic declara-
tion of his woes to his fellow-prisoners.
“I have come,” he said in a sepulchral tone, “to
the end of that modicum of endurance with which it
has pleased Providence to endow me. I shall bear
no more of it. The end of the road has been
reached”
“Wish to Gawd it had! ” growled one of his audi-
ence. “No sich luck!”
“I mean the end of the road so far as my
patience is concerned,” went on the tragedian, irri-
tated by the interruption. “To-night I leave this place.
I shall take to the bush and chance whatever conse-
quences may attend upon the execution of such a.
resolve. I care not what they be. My mind is made
up.”
“Whisht, thin, an’ don’t talk so loud about it,”
warned Paddy Driscoll. “D’ye want for to inforrum
all the blashted sojers o’ the gyard about it? But
phwat’s come to ye now, me ould Blue Crane, that
ye’re thinkin’ o’ makin’ a bolt for it? Ain’t yer
lodgin’s to y’r loikin’?”
“That overseer, that man Burriss! He has be-
come unbearable, positively unbearable.”
“What in the name of fortune
are you doing?”
“Wot’s ’e done now, Marmydook?” solicited a
wizened little fellow known as Shoreditch Sam. “Ain’t
’e treated ye wiv proper respec’? I alius did think
that there Burriss weren’t no gentleman.”
“This afternoon he approached me from behind,
so that I could not see him coming, and as I was
stooping over my heap of stones he kicked me. And
then he said he would report me to the superintendent
for insolence —because I had not saluted him as he
approached. I shall be flogged. I have not hitherto
been flogged. I do not intend to remain in order to
undergo that painful indignity. And, besides, I do
not appreciate being kicked behind. That is the last
straw. I shall go away.”
A shout of laughter greeted this solemnly
uttered pronouncement.
“Ho,” grunted a big man who sat on the ground
with his back against the bark wall of the hut. “Ye
will, will ye? There’s two places ye can go to, me
ole toff, if ye tries for to bolt from thishyer stock-
ade. Ye can go to hell wi’ a soldier’s bullet in y’r
guts. Or ye can go to Nuffick Hisland —an’ that’s
worse’n hell, I’m told.”
Coldly Mr. Marmaduke regarded this pessimist.
“I have made up my mind,” he remarked with dignity.
“Your opinions, gentlemen, do not concern me in the
least.”
The big man spat in the dust.
“Him!” he growled scornfully as Mr. Marma-
duke entered the hut. “Him do a bolt! He ain’t got
it in him. Not his sort ain’t.”
Nevertheless, when the prisoners of No. 1
Stockade, G.N.R., were mustered for labor in the
morning, “Marmaduke, C., No. 2041, per Lady Chat-
ham, Nottingham Assizes, 14 years,” was missing.
And at the end of a day’s search of the enveloping
forest by a corporal’s patrol, he was still missing.
'"T HE Maitland road runs across the far-stretching
* levels of the Hexham swamps in a more or less
straight line as it makes its way up the broad be-
ginnings of the valley of the Hunter between New-
castle and Maitland. Over to the right, as you travel
westward, are dark green belts of mangrove along
the wide yellow reaches of the river, and to the left
distant blue ranges make a high wall between the
watersheds of the Hunter and the Hawkesbury.
It is all of fifty miles between the two rivers, and
the mountains in between are steep and rugged and
densely timbered. Sombre deep gorges split their
sides, and they are barren and forbidding lands. When
Major Morrissett pioneered the track to Windsor in
1826 he took nine days over the hundred-odd miles,
and it was a hard and strenuous journey. It took Mr.
Marmaduke twelve of the worst days of his life to
travel from Cattai Creek to the point near the right
bank of the Hunter where he “bailed up” Mr. Braith-
waite and Major Standish, commanding the detach-
ment of H.M. 63rd Regiment in garrison at New-
castle, as they drove to Maitland on a sunny morning
in December.
Mr. Braithwaite was a gentleman who had come
to the country with a considerable amount of capital
which he designed to employ in pastoral undertak-
ings, and in appearance he much resembled a distin-
guished contemporary —Mr. Pickwick. He was not
so old or so stout, but his countenance and charac-
ter were notable for the aspect and reality of benevo-
lence which have endeared Pickwick to countless
thousands. Major Standish, stern and erect and
humorless, was in striking contrast with the genial
gentleman seated beside him in the high gig. He was
taking Mr. Braithwaite to inspect a property situated
a mile or two out of Maitland which he had every
desire to sell to that gentleman. As they drove along,
he was reassuring his guest as to the possible dangers
to be apprehended from bushrangers, concerning
which Mr. Braithwaite confessed to have heard some
alarming tales in Sydney.
“Ha —bushrangers?” he said. “Greatly exag-
gerated, my dear sir. Deplorably exaggerated.
Wretched refugees from road-gangs, for the most
part —runaways. I should be under no apprehension
whatever on the score of bushrangers. Bushranging
is a thing of the past since the new Act came into
force. The country is being so completely cleaned up
that it is becoming as safe to travel through the
loneliest parts of the bush as to take a walk down
George-street. So little do I now regard the activi-
ties of these gentry that I have not even brought my
pistols with me to-day. We have no reason what-
ever to fear molestation. The banditti have been


propelled by his powerful lungs, causing a couple of
seagulls circling overhead to sidestep sharply as if
dodging a bullet. At the end of the demonstration
he stepped up to O’Halloran with outstretched hand.
“You win,” said Charlie.
O’Halloran shook warmly. ■ “Say no more,” he
said.
Peter Holzkopf did not laugh. He saw nothing
to laugh at. On the contrary, he felt that this tame
milksop ending—before it had begun to what had
promised to be a glorious scrap should be an occa-
sion for the shedding of tears.
“Zehntausendteufel! ” he swore disgustedly.
“Donner und blitzen! You vos doo preddy Sunday-
school deachers, ya! ” He swung around and stumped
away, indignation visible in every step of his short,
slightly-bandy legs.
O’ LJ ALLORAN stayed for lunch. Bill, who was
n a good cook, excelled himself: it was an occa-
sion of sorts. Afterwards he saw the inspector to
the launch. Bill carried two parcels.
“In a way, your trouble with Charlie was my
fault ” he explained on the way to the jetty. “Tubby
Morton said a few things about you which I repeated
to Charlie without thinking. It gave him the idea you
were a ‘softie.’ I’ve brought you a couple of crayfish
I caught last night. Sort of helping to square things
up, you might say. The other parcel contains another
brace of crays. For Tubby Morton, if you don t mind
giving it to him —he’s sure to be loafing about the
wharf.”
Bill paused. Then continued, speaking with tongue
in cheek: “They’re for his customers. I understand
he’s got permission from you to sell without a license.
“Ah,” said O’Halloran. “And Tubby’s the cause
of all this pother. Aha!”
“But not too much hell,” said Bill. “I know ;
otherwise I wouldn’t have given him away.”
“He shall burn,” the other promised, “but not
to a cinder.”
Later, when the engine was turning over slowly,
Bill, having let the mooring ropes go, holding the
launch off the piles with his foot, O’Halloran asked
the long-delayed question. He was sitting in the cock-
pit, one hand on the clutch lever, the other on the
tiller, and looking up at Bill quizzically.
“By the way, where did you see ‘Mulekick’
O’Halloran fight?” 1
“In Sydney many years ago.”
O’Halloran laughed. “I was never in Sydney.
It was my brother you saw.”
Then Bill surprised him. “I knew that,” he said
quietly. “But you’re very like him, and the resem-
blance gave me the idea, which I think helped to bluff
Charlie. What’s the good of fighting when you can
work the trick with a word?”
“Good man!” O’Halloran said. He slipped the
clutch in, and as the boat leapt forward: “You saved
me a father of a hiding, I think.”
“A series of them?” asked Bill.
O’Halloran nodded grimly.
thoroughly scared. Yes, terrorised into abandoning
the pursuit of bushranging as a means of livelihood.
Fact, I assure you.”
“But,” began Mr. Braithwaite, his jolly coun-
tenance taking on a look of concern, “surely ’twas a
little unwise, my dear Major, not to have brought
your pistols. When, even in England”
He was suddenly interrupted. The rough track
had bent round a clump of swamp-oak, and as they
came out into the open again a gaunt figure rose up
from the ground and barred their way with presented
musket. Mr. Braithwaite involuntarily raised his right
arm across his face, and with a strangled and startled
“Damn!” the Major reined in the mare.
IT was a queer and grotesque
1 caricature of manhood that con-
fronted them. Ragged clothing
hung about a tall scarecrow of a
fellow who looked so thin and
wasted that, naked, he might have
been expected to be transparent.
Great dark, sunken eyes burned in
his sallow face, the lower part of
which was dirty with the black
stubble of two weeks’ growth of
scraggy beard. In a croaking,
sepulchral voice Mr. Marmaduke
enunciated the opening lines of his
newest part.
“Stand and deliver! ” he quavered. “I am a
desperate man.”
“Goodness gracious! ” gasped Mr. Braithwaite,
staring open-mouthed at the apparition by the road-
side. “What on earth”
“What the devil!” suddenly bellowed the Major.
“Here, take the reins,” he cried to his companion.
“I’ll teach this rapscallion a lesson. The infernal
impudence! Bless my soul!”
He took a flying leap over the dashboard of the
gig, stumbling as he came to the ground, but im-
mediately recovering himself. In a couple of bounds
he had reached the highwayman. The musket barrel
wavered, and the man shrank back as the angry
officer threw himself upon him, knocking the weapon
out of his trembling clutch and making viciously with
his hands for the fellow’s scraggy throat.
“By the Lord Harry! I’ll teach you!”
It was a very brief encounter. They rolled over
once, and the Major found himself astride the bundle
of rags and bones that lay, strangely inert and life-
less, beneath him. Suddenly he rose up, and stood
looking down at his opponent, standing wide-legged
over what seemed startlingly like the body of a dead
man who had perished of starvation. The Major
turned his head, and called to his companion.
“Bring me a strap, will you, please, Mr. Braith-
waite? The scoundrel’s fainted, or something—if
he’s not dead. You can leave the mare —she’ll stand.
I’ll truss this fellow up, and we’ll take him into Mait-
land. Good gad, he must have been desperate! I’ve
never seen such a picture of wretchedness in all my
life. What infernal impudence, to be sure! You’ll
find some loose straps beneath the seat. Bring me
one, if you please. I’ll tie his hands behind him.”
Displaying less activity than the Major had done,
Mr. Braithwaite lowered his portly person from the
high seat on which it had been perched and, wide-
eyed with astonishment, waddled along the road to
where the Major bestrode his captive.
“This fellow,” said Major Standish, “has con-
travened the Bushranging Act in more than one par-
ticular. He is a suspected person —I suspect him of
being a runaway convict. He has been taken with
arms in his hands —has attempted the felony of rob-
bery under arms. He has probably broken into a
house and stolen the rags he is wearing, since they are
not the clothing issued to prisoners. As a magistrate
of the Territory, it is my duty to arrest him. As soon
as he comes to I shall do so, and we will have him
locked up until inquiries can be made about him. He
will be very soundly dealt with. The confounded
scoundrel! ”
“Dear me —dear me! ” murmured Mr. Braith-
waite. “What an adventure, to be sure! Here is the
strap, Major. Well, well —what a coincidence that
we should have been discussing bushranging. Oh,
very strange —very!”
The stout little gentleman came closer and peered
down at the unconscious captive. Until he passed the
Major the bushranger’s head had been hidden from
him. Suddenly he saw the face of the man on the
ground, stared at it in gaping amazement for a
moment or two, and then gave vent to a startled
ejaculation of astonishment. “Oh, heavens! What’s
this? In the name of Heaven, what’s this?”
Surprised, the Major turned to look at his fellow-
traveller, and became even more astonished at that
gentleman’s immediate behavior. He fell on his knees
beside the unconscious scarecrow and lifted the un-
kempt head, staring with obvious recognition into the
wan features of the emaciated countenance.
“Quick, Major,” he said hurriedly, “the poor
fellow’s alive. Feel in the side pocket of my jacket —
the left-hand side. Flask o’ brandy—quick!”
Astounded, the Major mechanically obeyed, found
the flask and handed it to Mr. Braithwaite, who by
this time had the man’s head resting on his knee, sup-
“Stand and deliver!” he quavered.
porting it with his right hand. Taking the flask in
the other, he extracted the cork with his teeth and
forced the neck of it between the bushranger’s blue
lips. Some of it was spilled, and some of it went
down.
“What in the name of fortune are you doing, Mr.
Braithwaite?” gasped the Major, who had been too
amazed to do more than stare down at the extraordi-
nary performance of his companion. “Surely you
don’t know the man?”
The plump little gentleman looked up at him and
nodded. His round face was comical in its aspect of
perplexity, combined with a certain appearance of
gratification. He was evidently very pleased, though
almost overwhelmed with surprised doubts whether
these present experiences could be real.
“Know him? Oh, by George, yes. Unbeliev-
able! Extraordinary! Miraculous!”
“What —how? Who is the fellow then?”
Mr. Braithwaite lifted the flask from the blue
lips as he looked up at the Major, and nodded again.
The unconscious man had moved a little, and his
features twitched spasmodically.
“Yes, yes —the one man I was hoping to come
across in New South Wales, my dear Major. He is
the principal reason for my having come here to
settle. Couldn’t rest at home. Terrible injustice.
Partly my fault —very much my fault. Deplorable
haste. Prejudice. Oh, awful!”
“Pray explain yourself, my dear sir. I am all
curiosity.”
“I was on bench o’ magistrates —Nottingham —-
when this man was committed for trial. Murder.
Tried at the Assizes. Jury finds manslaughter. Sen-
tenced transportation. Fourteen years. Horrible in-
justice. Poor fellow entirely innocent.”
“Innocent!” There was the suspicion of a sneer
in Major Standish’s tones. “They are all innocent.”
“Fact, though. Indeed, yes. Last year, fellow
who killed the man whom this poor fellow was pun-
ished for killing gets himself hanged. Theft. Before
he’s turned off makes a clean breast of it. This man
here —Marmaduke —entirely innocent. Nothing to do
with it. Not to be doubted. Entirely innocent. Awful
feelings of compunction for my share in it. Couldn’t
rest. Must come out here. Obtained free pardon
wronged man. His Excellency’s got instructions from
Secretary o’ State pardon him and send him home.
Oh, my dear Major, I’m overwhelmed by this good
fortune. Incredible!”
“Extraordinary! ” said the Major. “But see, Mr.
Braithwaite, your patient’s recovering his senses. His
eyes are open. I’d give him some more brandy.”
Compassionately, the stout little gentleman looked
down at Mr. Marmaduke. The big eyes were open,
and he was staring wonderingly up at his rescuer.
Mr. Braithwaite pressed the flask to his mouth, and
he drank the spirit in gulps that made him gasp and
splutter. Feebly he raised a hand to push it away,
closed his eyes for a moment or two, sighed and then
opened them again to a better understanding of the
situation. He uttered a little groan, and Mr. Braith-
waite bent down over him.
“Yes, yes, my poor fellow. What’s the matter?
Don’t worry. You’re all right now. Nothing to
worry about. Rest a moment, and we 11 presently
get you into comfortable quarters. Why, what’s the
matter? Tell me what’s troubling you, I beg of you.
Come, now, tell me. If you please.”
Very weakly Mr. Marmaduke gasped his grief
into that pink and sympathetic ear. He spoke with
difficulty, in a husky sort of whisper. Mr. Braith-
waite had to bend very close to make out what he
said.
“Disgrace I am —disgrace to the profession.
Mucked my part. Small part —but important. First
robber. Horrible bungle. Disgraceful!” He closed
his eyes, and tears welled out on to his sunken cheeks.
“There, there!” said Mr. Braithwaite soothingly.
“There, there!”


efforts contains 378 words. It is integral to the man
and his method. Impetuous but controlled, subtle and
clear, with a fluency that will co-opt any material re-
quired without regard to rules and live the more vigor-
ously for it, these involute sentences are like an
image of the book. It is in the same spirit and the
same way that he treats both narrative and time. His
prose is not a conventional medium taken over from
a thousand other writers. It is newly moulded around
what he has to say just as the way of telling the story,
simultaneously from within and without, is newly-
fitted to this particular novel, and round it again
time is adjusted. The Wild Palms is not a literary
curiosity ; it is moving and piercingly real.
Another Elgar Biography.
Latest addition to Dent’s admirable “Master
Musicians” series, Elgar, by W. H. Reed, strikes a
more personal note than could be sounded by most
of Elgar’s earlier biographers, even though the milk
has been skimmed in this respect by Reed’s own
earlier volume Elgar as' I Knew Him. Mr. Reed is
leader and solo violinist of the London Symphony
Orchestra, and was a close personal friend of Elgar
for a great many years. Yet he is able to tell rather
less about his subject than can be gleaned by any
discerning musician from the Elgar scores.
The sources of Elgar’s inspiration were never
very obvious ; his development to the stage at which
Richter could acclaim him as “the greatest modern
composer” is full of the unexplained miracles that
puzzle those who seek to analyse genius.
Of course, his early environment was musical.
His father had a “music shop” in Worcester ; played
pianoforte, organ, violin and viola. Mother had
strong literary tastes and imbued in the young Elgar a
love of the music of words. And there was a school-
master whose chance remark that the 12 Apostles
were probably very ordinary fellows, not a bit clever,
before the Holy Ghost descended upon them, oriented
young Elgar’s mind in the direction of deliberately
seeking inspiration and allowing himself to be guided
by it, undeterred by criticism.
He hadn’t a thick skin, but he had a stout heart,
plenty of initiative, and a habit of industry that car-
ried him through the early trials and disappointments
that beset every genius. He had no silver spoon. He
was earning his living as a musician at 16 or 17 ;
taught himself harmony and counterpoint; made him-
self an excellent violinist on a few lessons from a
Worcester teacher and a very few more later on from
Pollitzer. An early job was the conducting of a
lunatic asylum band. Before he was 20 he had had
some years of experience as an arranger and adaptor
of orchestral and band music—paucity of instruments
so great that in one case he and his brothers and
sisters manufactured a double bass out of packing-case
boards and “hundreds of nails.”
A fortnight in Leipzig (where he heard Rubin-
stein conducting one of his own operas) at 25 and a
week listening to Dvorak rehearsing and conducting
his “Stabat Mater” and “Second Symphony” at
Worcester at 27 were highlights in his musical experi-
ences.
After his marriage (a very happy romance) in
1886 Elgar’s progress was prodigious. In 1890 comes
“Salut d’Amour” (much sneered at, but a good tune);
in 1895 “Scenes from the Bavarian Highlands” and
“King Olaf” ; 1897, “Banner of St. George” ; 1898,
“Caractacus”; 1899, “Enigma Variations”; 1900,
“Dream of Gerontius.”
That last-named work, which made such a tre-
mendous impression on Australia and M.L. when
performed by the touring Sheffield Choir, some years
after it had come into its own, was reckoned on first
hearings in England and the U.S.A. to be obscure,
eccentric and altogether too difficult for any but a
super-choir. It was not till it had been perfomed in
Germany and praised to the skies by Richard Strauss
that England revised its opinion and the work got a
hearing at a Sheffield Festival. By the middle of
1902 it was being performed all over England, in
many cities in Europe, and in all the more musical
cities of the U.S.A.
The rest of Elgar’s musical career down to his
death in 1934 is a pageant of triumphs and honors,
which he took modestly and philosophically. He was
by no means a one-sided man. Music was his great
love, but he could spare enthusiasm for golf, for bil-
liards, for chemistry, for microscopy and other pas-
times and hobbies. Nor was he an ascetic. London
got a grin out of the raiding of Elgar’s cellar in war-
time, the loot including a dozen bottles of whisky—
under control just then. “Fancy Elgar having all that
whisky,” said someone to musical pundit Sir Alex-
ander Mackenzie. “Not at all strange,” snorted the
Scot. “It’s well known he’s a Hoarder of Merit”
(a reference to Elgar’s 0.M.).
Elgar died practically in harness, his Third Sym-
phony and an opera, “The Spanish Lady,” on the
stocks. In his dying moments he begged that the sym-
phony scores should be destroyed, so that nobody
else should “tinker” with them —an echo of the caus-
tic tongue that often got him into hot water. But
his wasn’t the pepperiness of pomp and circumstance ;
“I’m just a member of the band,” he said on a notable
occasion. In late life he looked the picture of a retired
colonel of cavalry, and was conscious of it. “I have
enough of the soldier in me to be proud of having
written some marches a soldier could march to,” he
said when some highbrow critic suggested to him that
such simple tunes as “Land of Hope and Glory”
(originally in the first of the “Pomp and Circum-
stance” marches, and later used to wind up the
“Coronation Ode”) were a cut below his status.
The Quins.
Dedications, being little personal bits that sneak
into the impersonality of a book, are usually worth
looking at, and there’s a peculiar fascination in the
stereotyped tribute —“Without whose effort this book
could not have been written” —attached to the dedi-
cation of Dr. William E. Blatz’s The Five Sisters
(Dent). For it’s neither Mrs. Dionne nor poor Papa
Dionne, but the celebrated Dr. Dafoe whom he
thanks for the existence of the Quins. It is another
indication that the Quins are, inescapably, the prop-
erty of the public.
If anyone opened Dr. Blatz’s book on page 31
to learn that “Whereas the first five words of the
average child are ‘mamma, dada, ta-ta, bye-bye,
mum,’ the first five words of the Quintuplets were
‘mamma, papa, tantan, dotteur, tittat,’ he might be
well content to leave it to the section of the public
which has already lapped up gallons of that sort of
stuff from the women’s mags. And Dr. Blatz, with
photographs of little Yvonne, little Annette, little
Cecile, little Emilie and little Marie in their big little
bath, has quite a bit of that sort of stuff.
But he has also some valuable notes on the care
of children, on child psychology—information for
the benefit of children in institutions and in the home.
The Quins are continuously under observation, and
not only such matters as weight and growth have
been recorded, but the progress of the intellect, social
and anti-social behavior, the development of indi-
viduality. They are held to be “identical” quintuplets,
so that heredity should not cause their natures to differ
to any extent; they have shared exactly the same en-
vironment and have had no contact with the outside
world; yet Dr. Blatz says that no two are alike.
Without explaining why one child should interest or
fail to interest another, he proves that such was the
case, and finds personality arising from “the inter-
action of four of them on each of the others”:
The fact that Annette is watched by her sisters more
frequently than any of the other children definitely
alters her behavior in every social situation. When one
child is ignored by another in an attempt at a social
overture, this experience modifies her behavior in the
next. Multiply this by a number that represents the
frequency with which those children have interacted
one with the other, and one gets a picture of a variety
of social influences that might reach astronomical pro-
portions.
Dr. Blatz, who has had charge of the education
of the Quins since they were ten months old, believes
he has enabled the youngsters to avoid to a large ex-
tent the passions of fear and anger. Here, too, every-
thing is recorded: the number of times each child was
afraid or angry, and the reasons. Fear, owing to their
environment, to careful training and to the fact that
fear was never used as a punishment, cropped up
very seldom. Greed and envy, incidentally, since the
children were plentifully and equally provided for,
were also infrequent. Anger, arising naturally from
bafflement, was frequent; Dr. Blatz maintains that by
calmly ignoring all temper tantrums he was able to
cure the Quins at least of uncontrollable anger. Only
one punishment was ever used —isolation of the child
in a “cheerfully decorated room with a window open-
ing on to the playground. A chair, a table and
materials with which the child could play were pro-
vided.” Early “lessons” consisted of letting them
loose with blocks, plasticine and paint, and teaching
them dancing and singing.
In physical development the Quins at first were
somewhat retarded, about as backward in relation to
twins as twins are when compared ,with single chil-
dren. Largely owing to the efficiency of their own
“gesture” language, they were slower than usual, too,
in their intellectual development, of which Dr. Blatz
says:—
We may safely say that the children are well on
their way to overcoming their handicap in this respect
also; that in course of time they will develop strong,
healthy, robust bodies endowed with normal intelli-
gence ; and that by their training they will be well able
to fit into their social environment, and to deal
adequately with the innumerable situations which are
bound to appear in the lives of those born into such
an unusual family relationship.
“Unusual” it is, with books about their mental
development coming out when they’re five years old.
Dr. Blatz points out that they have enough money
not to need to go on the stage for a living, but if
they survive to maturity, as it seems they will, they’re
going to lead an extraordinary existence.
Speaking for the Chinese.
Carl Crow’s I Speak for the Chinese (Hamish
Hamilton) presents the author’s view that Japan’s
ambitions have been directed toward the conquest of
China ever since the Sino-Japanese war of 1895, when
Japan acquired Formosa.
Speaking for the Chinese, Crow sets forth that
as a result of the successful war against Russia
in 1904-05 Japan secured control of Southern Man-
churia, which was leased to Russia. From that van-
tage-ground Japan began a political and economic
penetration. China was then, in the last days of the
Manchu dynasty, in a very disrupted and corrupt
state. Chiefly by bribery, the Japanese worked .them-
selves into many strategic positions. The nationalist
republican revolution of 1911 and the fall of the
Manchu dynasty came as a setback to Japan, which
now must begin to cultivate another set of officials.
The revolution weakened rather than strengthened
China ; it had no organisation and seemed incapable
of evolving one. Japan, according to Crow, played one
war lord against another, and, after troubling the
waters, fished in them. The war of 1914-18 gave Japan
a splendid chance. In accordance with the Anglo-
Japanese treaty it entered the war on the side of the
Allies and seized the German concession in Shantung.
It took far more than the Germans had ever held.
Now, while Europe’s attention was riveted on its own
desperate affairs, was the time to send China its ulti-
matum.
On the 7th of May, 1915, Japan presented 21
demands to the Government at Peking. These
demands included the renewal of the Southern Man-
churia lease for 99 years, recognition of Japanese
rights in Shantung and Inner Mongolia, control of
the iron industry in China, the lease of all harbors on
the Fukien coast, the employment of Japanese experts
in the Chinese army, navy and finance departments,
schools to teach the Japanese language to be estab-
lished throughout China and China to receive mis-
sionaries from Japan. The last was the more curious
as Japanese Buddhism had come from China and
the only religion they could teach the Chinese was the
worship of the Mikado. The last demand was that
the Chinese should consult Japan before coming to
an agreement with any other foreign Power.
Crow says he came into possession of a copy of
this document through the Russian ambassador.
Managing an American paper in Tokio, he received
an intimation that the Russian ambassador would
like to see him about a subscription. When he
attended the embassy he was shown into a small wait-
ing-room. There was only one chair in the room.
It was drawn up to a small table on which lay a type-
written document. The invitation was obvious. The
interview, when it came off, concerned nothing but
the subscription. Only one of the several copies sent
by Crow to America ever arrived.
Japan denied the demands, but the Peking Gov-
ernment had already agreed to them, and it was China,
not Japan, who was berated by the Powers. The
concession would infringe the rights of Great Britain
and America in China. In the end, under the lime-
light, Japan greatly modified its demands. Chinese
delegates sat at the Peace Conference, but the only
satisfaction they got was the return of some ancient
bronze astronomical' instruments taken from Peking
by the Germans during the Boxer rebellion.
There matters rested for the time being. In 1922
Japan signed the Nine Power Treaty guaranteeing to
respect the sovereignty, the independence and terri-
torial integrity of China. After the Washington Con-
ference Japan appeared to abandon its military projects,
and Shantung was returned to China. It contented
itself with propaganda ; schemes for a Pan-Asiatic
pact and for an Asiatic Monroe Doctrine. China
refused both pacts.
A change was taking place in China. In 1926
Communism seemed to have a strong hold on the
country. Crow writes:
I feel sure from what many Chinese afterwards told
me that the trend towards Communism which appeared
so strongly about 1926 was not due primarily to admira-
tion for Communist doctrines. But, because the Soviet
party had apparently consolidated and unified the chaotic
country of Russia, it was hoped that Communism would
accomplish fhe same thing for China. As a matter of
fact the Communist advisers taught the Chinese how to
organise a political party, and when that had been
accomplished the Chinese had no further use for them,
and they returned to Russia leaving but little of their
Communist teachings behind them. The machinery of
the Kuomintang is identical with the machinery of
the Communist party, but that is as far as the simi-
larity goes.
Renewed pressure from Japan —-which had estab-
lished its own choice of war lords in Manchuria in
1924 —and the rise to power of Chiang Kai-shek
were, according to Crow, making a new China. Hatred
of Japan inspired patriotism, and Chiang organised it
into something like unity. In 1928 the pro-Japanese
Chang Tso-Lin met a violent death in Manchuria.
Confusion in the province gave Japan an excuse to
intervene. It invaded Manchuria in 1931. China replied
with a boycott of Japanese goods. As a reprisal
Japan began an undeclared war in Shanghai in 1932.
In the same year Japan established the deposed
Manchu emperor Henry Pu Yi in Manchuria and
next year absorbed the Chinese province of Jehol.
Crow argues that the League of Nations halted
Japanese aggression by condemning, on the find-
ing of the Lytton Commission, this action in Man-
churia, but Japan was only biding its time. In July,
1937, it invaded the coveted province of North China
and a month later attacked Shanghai. The moment
was chosen because Europe was embroiled in the
Spanish affair. In the face of the growing strength
of China Japan was afraid to wait any longer. The
war still rages, but Crow believes that in the last
analysis China is undefeatable.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
The Wheel: Vernon Sommerfield (Nicholson and
Watson). Transport through the ages. Packed tight
with information on the subject, following the various
steps towards the modern variety to give a patiently-
done chronological record.
“Service”: Quarterly devoted to army, navy and
air force affairs in W.A., as well as rifle clubs, V.A.D..
ambulance, ex-service, etc. Interesting articles on the
new Bren light machine-gun, the rifles favored by
the various Powers, marksmanship and aerial photo-
graphy in war.
Verse . . .
Prologue and Other Poems: Beryl Halinbourg
(Robertson and Mullens). Verses on the National
Theatre Movement, bush scenery and cats have an
average lyrical quality which can descend to com-
monplaceness. But in two or three, poems, where
there is genuine emotion, it is conveyed with an effec-
tive simplicity:
Contact is gone . . . Your spirit could not be
More alien; more ultimately lost to me
If, in the Epilogue, your body lay
Beneath the earth.
Nor could oblivion widen that black gulf
Of separation you successfully achieved—
The only purposeful, determined thing
I ever saw you do.


THEY TOOK HIGHBROW OUT
OF PHILOSOPHY!!!
AN AMAZING
BARGAIN
“Library of World’s Great
T llinkers”
Considering the everlasting worth of
real literature, and the value of it
to the individual groping for light in
a world of political and economic
turmoil, it is truly amazing how this
twenty-volume “Library of the
World’s Great Thinkers’’ can be
sold at such a low, well-nigh
ridiculous price.
PUBLIC DEMAND FOR
INFORMATION
The welfare of the modern man, and
woman, too, is so intimately con-
cerned with the ever-changing scene
of political, social and international
life that to-day brings an ever-
increasing desire for information and
knowledge; to interpret the problems
of the times—problems which, if not
clearly understood, may be vital to
the very life of an individual as well
as a nation.
Hence the demand for serious read-
ing—and the reason for this master-
piece . . . the “Library of the World’s
Great Thinkers”—at a price to
please all.
Angus and Robertson will deliver to your home
for a deposit of 10f- and small monthly pay-
ments.
W. M. HUGHES
says
“TAKE MORE INTEREST ’
The Rt. Hon. W. M. Hughes,
M.H.R., in recent public utterances,
stressed the need for more general
appreciation and understanding of
the trend of world events- —events
which might at any moment shake us
rudely from our insular apathy!
And the pathway to shrewder, surer
understanding, keener appreciation of
world events is through the “Library of
the World’s Great Thinkers” !
Your copy will be delivered to your
door by Angus and Robertson for
10/- deposit and small monthly pay-
ments.
Act quickly—the edition is limited
and selling rapidly!
NOTE THESE
AUTHORS
FREUD
PLATO
FRANKLIN
ARISTOTLE
FRANCIS BACON
ROUSSEAU
JOHN DEWEY
EMERSON
MONTAIGNE
THOMAS PAINE
DARWIN
CONFUCIUS
GOETHE
SPINOZA
SCHOPEN-
HAUER
TOLSTOI
VOLTAIRE
NIETZSCHE
KARL MARX
HAVELOCK
ELLIS
HOW KNOWLEDGE OF
PHILOSOPHY BUILDS
MENTAL STRENGTH
The great philosophers were the seekers
after solutions to the greatest problems
that have troubled mankind! Their
thoughts, as written down in the “Library
of the World’s Great Thinkers,” awaken
the reader to a new world, to a greater
strength of mind.
Reading through the works of the many
great thinkers and philosophers, we begin
to see our complicated world in a newer
light. Things once a mystery take shape
and form. Events that puzzled us become
clarified. And the tremendous drift of
modern peoples under autocratic leaders
becomes a reasoned, logical sequence of
many historic events!
Surely it would be hard to find a more
useful set of 20 volumes than this library
for the small sum asked for it! Ten
shillings deposit brings this wonderful
library to your home!
THE GREATEST MINDS OF ALL TIME
LIVE AS OUR COMPANIONS TO-DAY!
The “Library of the World’s Great Thinkers” is, in every sense,
“popular” reading. It is a veritable delight to follow the workings of
such great minds as those of Bacon (who is said by some to have written
Shakespeare) and Voltaire, whose vitriolic pen did so much to provoke
the French Revolution.
One could scarcely suggest any greater or more profitable pleasure than
to. spend one’s leisure hours in the companionship of the greatest
thinkers of all time! To read their works as they are presented in this
magnificently produced and printed set of twenty volumes is the next
best thing, if that were possible, to actually talking to the writers.
What, however, is so fascinating about the reading of these books is
the fact that they impart to one’s thinking a new strength, a stronger
personal outlook, a keener understanding, not only of those about us,
but a shrewder interpretation of the thundering march of world
events to-day.
None who love books, who
venerate genius, and who
treasure knowledge will miss
this opportunity to secure
these twenty volumes of
mighty “thinkers” literature
from the greatest minds the
world has known.
DARWIN DID NOT SAY
“MAN CAME FROM
MONKEYS!”
There’s a ' revolutionary statement,
an absolute reversal of all our pre-
conceived ideas of Darwin and his
theory of evolution! Read the
“Library of the World’s Great
Thinkers’’ and find out what Darwin
really did say about man and his
proximity to the monkey in the pro-
cess of evolution.
Ten shillings deposit puts this grand
library of 20 mighty volumes in
your home.
MORALITY
SPLIT IN TWO
FREUD, world-famed
psychologist—renowned for his
research on sex and its problems—
here in these mighty volumes gives
you his views and findings on that
contentious subject. He delved so
deeply into the innermost recesses
of the human mind
that even the so-
called “sub-con-
scious” was robbed
of its secrets!
Few men created such
a storm of controversy
as this mild-mannered
scholar. As a result
of his work, the
science of psychology
is split in two the
Freudians (who attributed most mental
aberrations to a sex basis) and the non-
Freudians, who would have none of his
theories 1
The entrancing story of Freud and his startling
theories is told in the “Library of the World’s
Great Thinkers,” 20 volumes of the greatest
thoughts and interpretations ever committed
to print.
§
\
T/ I
TWENTY VOLUMES OF THE
WORLD’S GREATEST PHILOSOPHIES
Delivered to your Home for only 10/- Deposit
The “Library of the World’s Great
Thinkers,” from Angus and Robert-
son, comprises 20 volumes, by
siin., richly bound in “lifetime”
binding of two-toned Royal Blue Silk
Weave cloth—inlaid panels, gold
titles and decorations with coloured
end-sheets. Stained and polished
tops and mercerised head bands.
Young and old alike will enjoy read-
ing the works of these great minds,
about the men whose works have so
influenced the world of to-day. Each
volume will bring comfort and con-
solation to the aged; strength and
courage to those who grapple with
life a problems, and inspiration and
knowledge to the young student.
BUILDS YOUR PRESTIGE
A sound knowledge of the great philo-
sophies will enhance your prestige. To-day
we are expected to know about the vari-
ous influences that shaped our interesting
world and this age of transition.
A few minutes each evening with this
wonderful Library, or an occasional hour
or two when time permits, and soon you
will acquire a working knowledge of the
great philosophers— to the enhancement
of your prestige, to your personal enrich-
ment, and to the broadening of your
mental vision.
FORTIFY YOUR MIND
The stress of modern living leaves us at
times in dire need of mental refreshment,
of inspiration, and a different outlook.
The “Library of the World’s Great
Thinkers ’ is virtually a set of companions
to inspire, to refresh and to stimulate when
we need mental relaxation or change!
m
O
□
fl
.
Ml
ir
I';;:, ■
|
_ , s: 'f
ONLY
K>-
DEPOSIT
ENJOY THESE VOLUMES
Simply fill in the required particulars in the accom-
panying Order Form, attach Postal Note, Money Ordet
or Cheque for the full price of £7/19/6, or, if you
prefer, just 10/- deposit. Send this at once to us,
and your set will be sent, complete, by return mail.
To be obtained only from
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street : - - SYDNEY
DREAMS REVEAL
YOUR MIND
Havelock Ellis—contemporary of
Sigmund Freud—along with Jung
and Adler, has delved into dreams,
their cause and effect; their miseries,
terrors and delights.
His findings are an absorbing volume
in the “Library of the World’s Great
Thinkers” —a feast of gripping
interest and knowledge.
Ten shillings deposit to Angus and
Robertson secures this comprehen-
sive library, immediately.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
FILL IN AND POST THIS
ORDER FORM TO-DAY
ORDER FORM
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Please send me the “Library of the World’s Great Thinkers,” 20 volumes, for which
enclose a deposit of 10/-, and agree to make 13 further monthly instalments of
12/6 £B/12/6 in all; or I will pay £7/19/6 cash within 30 days of delivery.
NAME
OCCUPATION
B. 24/5/’39.
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
yf ffydli^ne
In that none-too-attractive section of
London bounded by Tottenham Court-
road on the west, Euston-road on the
north, Gray’s Inn-road on the east and
Holborn and Oxford-street on the south,
embracing the district of Bloomsbury, is
an older open space of the Metropolis
—Gordon Square. Here is located one
of the finest Gothic ecclesiastical build-
ings in the country, though in certain
particulars incomplete. It is the spiritual
headquarters of that not-numerically-large
body who constitute the Catholic Apos-
tolic Church. People from all quarters
of the world when in London visit this
beautiful and impressive edifice, which
may be compared to an early English
Gothic cathedral; hence its unofficial
designation, “Bloomsbury Cathedral,” is
not inappropriate. The founder of the
denomination to which it belongs was
the Rev. Edward Irving, M.A., a divine
of the Church of Scotland, who while
at Edinburgh University had a particu-
larly brilliant mathematical career. Com-
ing to London in 1822 as minister of the
Caledonian Asylum Chapel, Cross-street,
Hatton Garden, he soon came to be
recognised as the most eloquent preacher
of the day. He was likewise a literary
figure of note, belonging to that remark-
able coterie which included such famous
men as Maginn, Barry Cornwall, Southey,
Bankes, Thackeray, Churchill, Sergeant
Murphy, Ainsworth, Coleridge, Croker,
Lockhart, Theodore Hook, Brewster,
Carlyle, Count D’Orsay, Brydges, Gleig
and Mahoney (“Father Prout”),who made
“Fraser’s Magazine” one of the greatest
periodicals in the literary world of that
time. His unorthodox theological views
led to his deposition by the Presbytery
in 1833, whereupon he and his followers
founded the Catholic Apostolic Church.
The standard of faith is based on the
Apostolic, Athanasian and Nicene creeds.
Baptismal regeneration and the Real
Presence in the Eucharist regarded
as a sacrifice and memorial for the
dead, being always retained on the
altar are part of the Church’s
tenets. The ritual, largely adopted
from Greek and Roman usages, is
most elaborate, including the symboli-
cal employment of incense, lights, oil and
London’s Unfinished Cathedral.
vestments. The liturgy, however, is based on the Book of Common Prayer of the Anglican Church, with numerous additions and alterations, and
special offices for the ordinations of the various orders of its hierarchy. From a musical standpoint the services are noteworthy. Altogether the
Gordon Square Cathedral is an outstanding feature in the religious life of London. All who admire the sublime work of the school of church
builders the architects followed when this glorious pile arose in 1851-1854 will not fail to make a pilgrimage to Gordon Square.


SAFE AT LAST, THE TINFISH PASSED.
“Arriving in Canada two days late, the King explained that it was because of ‘fog, which kept us immobile for three days,' and of ‘an ice-field, unprecedented for this time
of the year,’ adding that ‘the highest praise is due to the captain.’ The inevitable alarimist had suggested that the ship was diverted from normal shipping lanes because
of the situation in Europe.’"
“Thank ’Eaven they’ve escaped all them henemy submarines that were 'idin' be'ind hicebergs an fogbanks!


The Bulltin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper HQuse, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.'
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
THE P.M.'S PACIFIC POLICY.
In his Sydney Town Hall speech Mr. Menzies said a
number of things that Australia had wanted to hear.
He presented the outline and some concrete details
of a promising policy. On the most pressing concern
of the moment his legal mind applied a nice distinc-
tion to correct order of priority:
The first duty of a Government in Australia, always
assuming it is within the limits of honor, is to keep
Australia out of war. The second duty of a Gov-
ernment is to keep war out of Australia.
Evidently he has no doubt as to which of those
dangers is the more pressing—an extraordinary change
from “war is thundering at our gates” and similar
ranting. That “first duty” nailed to the mast, Mr.
Menzies could make his matrimonial declaration, “For
better or worse, richer or poorer, we are for Great
Britain,” without subscribing to a helpless colony
outlook. Also, he could go on, confident of Australia’s
solid support, to ridicule isolation-for-Australia:
We do not stand for any policy of isolation. We
do not believe, much as we might like to believe, that
Australia can possibly sit quiet in her corner and expect
that the world will overlook her. The fact is that we
are a community with a vast foreign trade, a com-
munity integral with other great countries of the British
Empire. Our independence is due not only to the
Statute of Westminster and other legal doctrines; it
is due to the continued existence of the power and
integrity of Great Britain. Because that is true, no
policy of isolation can be regarded as more than mere
frenzy by any responsible Government.
Combined, these statements provide the founda-
tion for as sound a foreign policy as Australia could
have. Mr. Menzies was just as sound on Australia
as a Pacific Power, a conception that urgently needed
reasserting.
We are one of the Pacific Powers, and so we have
a primary interest in it, and that is why we have
decided to push on with a new Pacific policy—not a
policy that will be content with pious statements of
our desire to be friendly with other Pacific countries,
but a positive policy of setting up real machinery
for the attaining of friendship and the putting of that
friendship on a firm footing. .
Mr. Menzies might need a microscope to find the
“pious statements” or expressions of “desire for
friendship” under the heaps of utterances to the con-
trary —provocative, quarrelsome, designed to make
friendship or even ordinary business relations impos-
sible between Australia and the Pacific Power which
Mr. Menzies had chiefly in mind.
It was time responsible statesmanship faced up
—and faced Australia up —to realities in the Pacific.
There is always present in the Australian make-up a
measure of doubt regarding that Pacific Power. Though
it cannot be said that Nippon has ever done anything
to warrant this, it is natural enough. In terms of
population to acreage of arable land Japan has for
some time been the most overpopulated country in
the world. Germany, which bases the bulk of its
demands on these grounds, has less than one-third
the density. The writing has long been on the wall
that Japan, forced to it by its internal conditions,
would have to expand in some direction. Doubts in
a rich and defenceless Australia were therefore
natural. It is fatuously unnatural to translate such
doubts into a general stand of belligerence, or to
bear patiently with inciters in that direction.
Australia wants no quarrel with Japan, China,
Russia, or any other Asiatic or Pacific country. Yet
there has been no lack of noodles ready to have this
country —with its small population and its neglected
defences —involved in the Asiatic war that is going
on, with combatants numbered in millions and total
populations in hundreds of millions. Cables, seldom
as unrelated to outright propaganda as such things
ought to be, have persistently presented one side of
the case to the almost total exclusion of anything that
might have been said for the other side. Notorious old
fire-eaters have rushed every opportunity to make pro-
vocative brimstone speeches. Others have sought
over and over again to impose aggressive action on such
foreign policy as Australia has had —a negative policy
at the best. Others again demand a Russian alliance,
reckless of the consequences to the Commonwealth.
Mr. Menzies said truly, in particular reference to
waterside boycotts:
You do not keep the peace by exhibiting prejudices
or passion in relation to those who might be our
friends. We make no contribution towards peace in
the Pacific by hostile action towards Japan.
He proposes:
As soon as we can we shall have an Australian
diplomatic Minister and an Australian delegation at
Washington, and the United States, I hope, will have
an American Minister and an American delegation at
Canberra. As soon as we can we will establish the
same sort of contacts with Japan.
This begins to look something like a sound
Pacific policy for Australia. It is a healthy change
from the sort of utterances Australia was treated to
only a few months back as a means of gathering in
a handful of recruits. As a direct reaction to those
outbursts —Mr. Menzies himself sounds like a reaction
to them—there is now issuing from printers in various
States a whole crop of publications written by Aus-
tralians with the object of correcting false impressions
about what has been happening between Japan and
China, and why. One of these writers —Dr. Horna-
brook, of Melbourne —quotes what Mr. Hughes was
telling Australia in a nation-wide broadcast last
January: —
The position of the dictatorships in the Far East is
most menacing to Australia. The penalty for failure to
make adequate preparation will mean national death.
Australia must put everything else aside, and act now
as if she were already at war.
Another of these writers —of Sydney this time —
also quotes Mr. Hughes; a much earlier speech:
The blood runs cold in our veins as we think what
might have happened if the Japanese navy, instead of
convoying Australasian soldiers to the war zone —
and keeping open our trade routes as well as policing
the waters of the Pacific —had been hostile or even
apathetic, neutral.
Australia has had about enough of either sort
of ranting. If it should come to a pinch, it might give
a better account of itself than appearances would
suggest. It would do a great deal better if Mr. Men-
zies’s programme included the restoration and exten-
sion of the system suspended ten years ago, and the
training of every fit man for home defence.
However, he offers Australia in the meantime an
active Pacific policy which is also a pacific policy, and
that is at least heading somewhere.
The High Cost of Broadcasting.
For the year to June 30 the Postmaster-General’s
department reported a surplus of £3,533,400, “after
charging interest on capital.” The Auditor-General’s
calculation is that, after payment of interest and
sinking-fund contributions, the surplus was £2,788,600.
He gives earnings as £16,753,100, and expenditure at
£13,964,400; the department reckons earnings at
£17,005,100. There are other differences, none of
them material; the fact remains that the Post Office
is making immense profits, chiefly as a result of charges
which, over and above what is a fair thing, represent
extortionate taxation. That applies to the exaction
of twopenny postage for land carriage, fivepence for
carriage by air and a guinea for a listener’s license.
The Post Office gets 9s. of the £1 Is. annually
extracted from the listener, and it gives the 1937-38
receipts of its wireless branch as £469,500. After
payment of interest, the profit was £82,200.
A.B.C.’s receipts from license fees for the twelve-
month —A.B.C. gets the other 12s. —amounted, accord-
ing to the Auditor-General, to just on £600,000. “Other
revenue, £38,400,” and “interest on investments,
£3600,” brought the total to £642,000. “Investments,
with accrued interest,” were valued on June 30 at
£144,500,” “land and buildings, freehold, less depre-
ciation,” at £70,200, and “cash in hand and at bank”
was £34,500. Staff salaries cost £37,700. This should call
for Parliamentary examination, especially as an-
nouncers, producers and programme officers are not
included in the staff. Their emoluments and those of
lecturers (including dismal professors and scare-
mongers) figure in “artists’ fees and programme
expenses, £429,300.” In spite of this substantial expen-
diture, details of which are kept an A.B.C. secret,
there was a profit of £50,000 on the year, and in six
years the concern has accumulated a surplus of
£302,100.
In addition to the Post Office expenditure of
£13,964,700, as calculated by the Auditor-General,
“£3,171,500 was expended from revenue on additions,
new works, buildings, etc.” Obviously the department
could have spent a lot more and still shown huge
profits. In particular it could have provided out of
revenue all the accommodation needed by A.8.C., and
all service extensions fairly asked for by customers,
especially those in remote parts of Queensland and
Westralia and in the Northern Territory.
But A.8.C., following bureaucratic tradition,
desires monuments to its glory. It has ambitious
building plans of its own, and it coolly suggests that
the Government should find most of the money, its
accumulated £300,000 being insufficient. And, although
a temporary' concern awaiting long-overdue reorgani-
sation, it has had the face to set up what it calls a
Public Relations Department, and to propose to com-
pete with taxpayers by publishing a weekly news-
paper. This when the Sydney “Mail” and the “Queens-
lander” have recently gone out of existence, largely
because of radio competition, and when the market
puts a very low value on shares in two companies
publishing three weekly newspapers. Perhaps the
idea is to get a wider audience for the dismal howls
of “The Watchman,” Kurt Offenburg, Professor
Roberts and other dispensers of gloom.
Broadcasting control calls for urgent attention,
and excuses for delay will not be accepted. The task
has been made more urgent by the very obvious fact
that the foreign policy which “national” stations have
had the effrontery to thrust on the public is poles
apart from the foreign policy announced by Mr.
Menzies, and supported as to its main principle—the
cultivation of friendly relations with foreign countries
—by Mr. Curtin. In the meantime, the listener’s
license fee should be reduced to 15s. That is clearly
enough, if not more than enough, and a nation that
is going to be hit in other directions should be spared
gross extortion in at least one field.
China's Millions.
Melbourne Town Hall was recently given over to a
rice-bowl festival, organised by the Chinese commu-
nity in conjunction with Melbourne citizens —bankers
and university professors among them —and society
ladies, in aid of Chinese refugee relief. The aim
was excellent, as has been the case with countless
other efforts to help the inhabitants of China out of
their difficulties.
There has been a refugee problem in China, and
relief has been organised in Britain, Europe and the
United States, for generations. The refugees have fled
from floods, famines, pestilences, provincial misgovern-
ment, banditry and civil warfare. Millions of refugees
have been created by the impact of American and
European methods of mass production on the Chinese
family system and Chinese home crafts and industries.
An Englishman, a Japanese or an American
erects a factory for making cotton articles in the
environs of Tientsin or Shanghai. A day’s production
from his factory equals in quantity the production
by the ancient methods of an entire Chinese province.
The articles are cheaper, the Chinese buy them, and
by so doing they automatically destroy the livelihood
of a thousand families, as well as a beautiful craft
that has been developing since the days of Confucius.
The dispossessed families begin a trek, and by a
natural instinct they gravitate towards the coast—
towards the influence which has unconsciously pro-
duced their destitution.
Every provincial Governor regards this invasion
of human locusts as a menace. When they reach a
particular province the Governor passes them on to
the next province, if he can. If pestilence is scourging
the multitude, the next Governor shuts his city gates
against them. If it is a case of famine, the villagers
arm themselves to protect their slender granaries. If
a general wants a bigger army to overcome some rival
general, and has acquired the necessary funds some-
how, he may recruit the hale and hearty beggars and
leave the children and the women to their own devices.
When the surviving fugitives reach the coast they
settle down in beggar camps as close to the factories
of the foreigner as the police will permit. There is
thus provided a vast reservoir of cheap labor for the
factory-owner to draw on, and hence exacerbate a
problem the solution of which is already almost
beyond the power of man.
Immense refugee camps have been a feature of
the Shanghai landscape from time immemorial. From
time to time a fire sweeps through them, and the Eng-
lish fire brigade rushes to the rescue. When beggars
die from disease or inanition some Chinese philanthro-
pist will supply the coffins. The coffined dead are
dumped on a vacant allotment to wait for another
philanthropist to come and bury them. After a year
or so all that is left is a boneyard which even the
starving dogs have ceased to find of any interest to
them.
Bandit wars, civil wars —Nationalism v. Com-
munism of recent years —and the Chino-Japanese war,
which Japanese call an Incident-, have magnified the
problem out of all proportion. But the thing that
has caused it, the inrush of the West —including the
Westernised Japanese influx—on the East, goes on
unchecked, and is accelerated by the very methods
adopted to allay it. Relief funds have been poured
into China. The Americans, being interested in engi-
neering, took over the; conservation of the Yellow
River and other waterways which, because of Chinese
indifference and peculation, had become a frightful
menace. When the country was more or less peaceful,
relief funds were left in the hands of the foreigner, but
when there was civil disorder or fighting, Fu alone
knows where the money went to.
The Chinese themselves can’t afford to be con-
cerned about the individual who goes under in the
fierce struggle for existence which is the normal condi-
tion in China. They are too desperately concerned
themselves, with trying to fulfil the sacred Confucian
duty of looking after their own families. A general
isn’t even concerned about his own wounded. It is
only lately that a Chinese military leader thought of
the Red Cross, except as a charming idiosyncrasy of
the foreigner and a possible source of unexpected
luxuries for himself and his officers. If a Chinese
general or Governor, by the kindly philanthropy of
the foreigner, is relieved of the necessity for looking
after his own kindred, he has more money in his
coffers to spend on aeroplanes and rifles. Hence he
has more opportunities for turning coolies into sol-
diers, the soldiers have more opportunities for turning
peasants into beggars, and the beggars provide more
opportunities for the foreigner to express his charit-
able instincts. Thus there is a vicious circle.
There are said to be over 450,000,000 people in
China. The Chinese appear, for the first time in their
history, to be more concerned with repelling an in-
vader by force according to the modern manner than
with absorbing him by persuasion according to tradi-
tion. Hence every attempt to deal with the situation
by sending relief funds to China wifi only produce
more dead and wounded, Chinese and Japanese, more
bombing of cities, more beggars and more starvation.
If the foregoing analysis is correct, the effort of
the charitable of Melbourne, well-meaning as it is,
can do no good. Equally well-meant was the proposal
of Einstein and Bertrand Russell, adopted here and there
and enthusiastically recommended to Australians by
Reds and Feminist Leaders, for a boycott of Japan.
Japan’s main trouble is population pressure. The
Japanese went into China because they felt restricted.
To restrict them still further would only make it more
necessary than ever for them to go somewhere— prob-
ably further into China.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Palestine Gets a White Paper.
“And there was peace in Palestine that night.” -Last
line of an old Bulletin jingle.
There was no peace in Palestine the night Father Bull
communicated particulars of his plan for restricting
Jewish emigration to and setting up a new regime in
that country. Sydney’s “D.T.” described it as A night
of terrorism.” “S. M. Herald” didn’t go that far, but
it reported that “terrorists attacked Government offices
at Tel Aviv and immigration headquarters at Jerusalem
with incendiary bombs,” and that they gutted the build-
ings, and destroyed all immigration records. The
“terrorists” were Jews.
Subsequent to the bombing at Tel Aviv there were
riots, in which “40 persons were injured.” In Jeru-
salem, Britons and Arabs were hooted in the streets,
“Jewish youths marched, shouting ‘Down with Cham-
berlain, MacDonald and Halifax!’” and “3000
demonstrators” tried to wreck the District Commis-
sion offices —with unpleasant results for the demon-
strators, 90-odd being batoned into hospital. After
these proceedings, and others, some orderly and some
violent —there was even a spot of machine-gunning -
a one-day strike occurred.
In the terms of the White Paper “about 75,000
immigrants, including 25,000 refugees, are to be ad-
mitted, at the rate of 15,000 a year, during five years
to the beginning of April, 1944.” After that no
further Jewish immigration will be permitted without
the consent of the Arabs, who are then expected to
number two-thirds of the population. Within 10
years, weather and other factors permitting, an inde-
pendent Palestine State in close relations with the U.K.
will be set up, and during the transitional period de-
partments will be increasingly passed under the con-
trol of representatives of both races.
It is no ideal settlement, but in the position
brought about by the Balfour Declaration, which, as
construed by the inhabitants and their friends abroad,
promised Palestine (1) to the Jews and (2) to the Arabs,
no ideal settlement is possible. The British Govern-
ment has made the best of a bad business, and if the
Americans think they can do better the British Gov-
ernment no doubt would be charmed to let them try.
There can be nothing but sympathy for good Jews
throughout the world in the shattering of their dream
of Palestine as a national home ; but to protest with
bombs, firesticks, stones and machine-guns is rather
overdoing it.
A Rejected Address.
Nowadays Parliamentary reports are cut down so
that dailies may have more space for war-scares, s.p. in-
formation, “the dogs,” pictures of the elite showing
the unemployed how to enjoy life at night clubs and
“studies” of young women in “costumes” which reveal
almost everything except their immortal souls. This
process was applied to reports of the debate on foreign
affairs, and Mr. Curtin was one of the sufferers.
The leader of the Labor party spoke for 34
minutes. It is certain that every word he uttered
will be read—with profit, it is to be hoped—by the
British Foreign Secretary and the leaders of the
British Labor and Liberal parties, careless of Aus-
tralian opinion as those gentlemen have hitherto
shown themselves ; but Great Dailies dismissed his
able speech in a few sentences, which could have been
uttered in two minutes at the most.
The Minister of External Affairs had said that
his Government was kept fully informed of “the
international moves: the information is remarkable
for its range and detail.”
Every pertinent fact, opinion or view which reaches
the Foreign Secretary from his Ambassadors and Min-
isters. .. .is immediately retelegraphed to us. This diplo-
matic service is not confined to the activities of the
British embassies and legations, but includes a multitude
of reports from Consuls and agents....
On which Mr. Curtin dryly commented that “there
would be a greater degree of confidence on the part
of the Australian people” if they knew that “infor-
mation” of that nature was “gathered and verified
by men” under no suspicion of “coloring it in order
to justify policies pursued by Governments other
than our own.” He might have added that people
who have followed the course of events with cool
heads have learned to mistrust opinions and views,
and that the Foreign Office is not what it was in the
days when Castlereagh and Palmerston knew all the
secrets of Europe. The Foreign Office has been badly
astray on important occasions, especially in March.
The British Ambassador at Berlin, high as his reputa-
tion is, knew no more of what was afoot than a baby
in a pram, and just before the promenade to Prague
Lord Halifax assured the world that the situation had
greatly improved.
Mr. Curtin went on to deal with scaremongers
and hate-propagandists in good set terms:
The atmosphere has been prejudiced by the partisan-
ship and, to some extent, the uncontrolled propaganda
which vested interests have let 1005e....We have had
the spectacle of what Australia thinks about the inter-
national situation repeatedly stated by newspapers and
over wireless stations in a way which has not contributed
anything towards the settlement of the problem, but
has contributed to the inflammation of hysteria.... It
is not a service to democracy if ill-founded accusations
are made and scares engendered by those who have no
responsibility to the people as a people.
Mr. Curtin made other remarks on this phase of the
subject, all very much to the point. He concluded
with the suggestion that “honest and straight state-
ments as to where Australia stands” should be “de-
livered from short-wave stations in the languages of
the countries to which we desire to address such
statements.” Excellent! And now perhaps A.B.C.
will get Mr. Offenburg to address the Germans, with
piano accompaniment by Mr. Schnabel.
What Led to Black Friday.
In 1926 30 Victorians lost their lives in bushfires. In
1932 there were more fires, in which nine people
perished. After the second disaster measures were
taken which, it was stated, would make a similar disas-
ter impossible. But in January of this year there were
conflagrations which made those of 1926 seem like
local bonfires. The deathroll was over 70, whole towns
were wiped out and the destruction of timber was
colossal.
A royal commission was handed to Judge Stretton.
He made a thorough inquiry, touring all the relevant
districts and examining a host of witnesses. The
Government now has his report before it, and it is as
damning a document as has even been presented to a
Victorian Government.
It reveals, among other things, that the Lands
Department claims jurisdiction over land for which it
has no fire-prevention policy. For that the Forests
Commission is responsible, but the Forests Commis-
sion has no power to object to the giving of a license,
even to individuals with a local reputation for illegal
and dangerous use of fire. As if this division of con-
trol —and of inaction —wasn’t bad enough, there were
long-standing feuds between Forests officers and
Metropolitan Board of Works officers and between
officers of these two bodies and other water-supply
authorities.
The technique of fire-prevention is already known,
and has been applied in other countries, such as
Canada and France. The Forests Department has had
at its disposal all the most approved and up-to-date
systems. But it was deprived, not only of responsi-
bility, but of funds. Field staffs were hopelessly in-
adequate because half the money available was taken
from the commission for other Ministerial expenditure.
Naturally, the apathy and dissension between the
various authorities had their reactions among the
people. It is difficult to get settlers to co-operate, even
when their own property is in jeopardy, because nobody
wants to co-operate with leaders when the leaders are
fighting one another. Authority had the legal right to
impose safety conditions, but failed to enforce them ;
consequently Authority was flouted.
As far back as 1930 the Forests Commission
adopted a policy of limited installation of dugouts,
and in 1932 it made dugouts obligatory. But “having
made its decision,” Judge Stretton says, “the commis-
sion at no time thereafter took any steps to compel
the observance of the condition on the part of saw-
millers.” It “argued” and “advised” ; argument and
advice were ignored.
The Judge did not find any fresh or mysterious
causes of bushfires. For the most part they are
lighted by human beings, and the human beings for
the most part are breaking some regulation or other
when they light them. If locomotives start them,
spark-arresters are at fault. So, except for a rare light-
ning flash, bushfires are preventible. But so long as
the people who would most benefit by protection have
just cause for their lack of confidence in their pro-
tectors it will be impossible to prevent them.
Bulgaria Has Claims.
“E.V.”: Bulgaria is less than half the size of Vic-
toria. It is surrounded by high mountains. It has
a capital in which the cathedral was blown up by
Reds. Ten years after the war I saw sleek Bulgar
soldiers in green uniforms canter across large turnip
fields while in Sofia Allied Missions fed starving
queues half a mile long. Bulgaria has a king who, a
few years ago, stole a bus from a Transport Workers’
picnic to evade pursuing Reds who had shot his
chauffeur.
Bulgaria, the cables declare, now “more than
ever occupies the key position in the extension of
the peace bloc.” Bulgaria is “pressing its claims on
Rumania for territorial concessions in the Dobrudja.”
This pressure has presumably increased since a lot of
Bulgars, prisoners of the Rumanians in the Dobrudja
region, were shot “while attempting to escape”—a per-
formance for which our Rumanian “allies” have
become rather notorious.
Twenty-eight years ago Bulgars, Serbs and Greeks,
under the wing of Russia, agreed to carve up European
Turkey. The Bulgarian army—much the best—drove
to the gates of Constantinople. Then Austria, in con-
test with Russia for control of Balkan policy, drove
the Serbs out of Durazzo. The Serbs demanded
Salonika. Ferdinand of Bulgaria had claims to it —
supported by Russia. Particularly, he wanted a route
by which he could keep contact with the new
Albanian kingdom. The Bulgarians attacked the
Greeks and Serbs. Rumania joined in the dogfight
and took the Dobrudja—from the Bulgars.
Austria stood by Bulgaria and suggested to Italy
the invasion of Serbia. Russia prepared, in February,
1913, to land troops on the Bosphorus.
Bosnian Slavs, sympathising with the Serbs and
burning for freedom from Austria, murdered the
Austrian Archduke and his wife in the dirty little
town of Sarajevo. Their weapons were stolen from
a Serbian arsenal. Count Berchtold advised the Aus-
trian Ministry to “take advantage of the crime to
settle accounts with Serbia.” Within six weeks, the
whole world was at war —over a little packet of
countries whose wild peoples had for generations
rarely gone to sleep for a whole week without hear-
ing the rattle of gunfire.
The immediate cause of the British Empire’s
entry into the war was the violation of Belgium,
whose population was then 7,600,000. Belgian losses
in the war were 38,172 killed and 44,686 wounded.
Australia, with a population 2,000,000 less than that
of Belgium, had 60,456 killed and 154,722 wounded.
And history will say it all began through Bulgaria,
a country less than half the size of Victoria, having
“claims.”
The King in Canada.
“Ek Dum” considers the visit from afar: —•
In going to Canada the King has introduced a new
era. A visit was considered for George V. as far back as 1926,
when Mr. Mackenzie King, Mr. Bruce, Mr. Coates, Mr.
Morris, the Maharaja of Burdwan and Mr. Hertzog agreed
with the British Government that the self-governing Dominions
were “autonomous within the Empire, equal in status though
united by a common allegiance to the Crown.” Mr. Mac-
kenzie King, so enthusiastic now, didn’t seem enthusiastic
at that time.
Canada isn’t a bit like other Dominions. Agriculturally,
and perhaps minerally, it is the richest of the lot. It has
more water power than the rest of the British Commonwealth
put together. A great deal of the country is scarcely or only
newly touched. As provinces, Alberta and Saskatchewan are
24 years old. That’s why Alberta’s Government is run on
schoolboy lines.
Being a permanent king in Canada would be no fun, whereas
in Australia, with only about 50,000 real foreigners, it would
be a simple business. To begin with, out of a Canadian
population of roughly 11,000,000, three millions are French-
Canadians, not a bit like the modern French. They have the
habits, aspirations and piety of the peasant French of the early
eighteenth century. During the war a lot of them got*into
a controversy as to whether they should go for the sake
of France or for the sake of England, or go at all. They
are a self-contained community—a country within a country.
Then there are 473,000 Germans. Mr. Mackenzie King
himself was born in a place called Berlin; the name was
changed to Kitchener and kept changed. Some of the Germans
wouldn’t mind declaring war on Quebec. But the majority,
after the habit of emigrating agricultural Germans, have almost
forgotten Germany. Give a German a ploughed field and he’ll
be loyal to it anywhere.
Next there are a couple of hundred thousand Scandi-
navians, 225,000 Ukrainians, 156,000 Jews, 148,000 Dutch,
128,000 Indians .and Eskimos, 98,000 Italians and a few tens
of thousands each of Finns, Hungarians, Czechs, Bulgarians
and Belgians, with some Kalmucks and San Salvadorians.
Only half the population is of British stock. About the best
way in Canada to buy a fight is to tell a second-generation
Latvian or Ukrainian that he is a foreigner.
In the mass Canadians are good colonists and hard
workers, somewhat susceptible to weird creeds like Social
Credit, but proud of their orderly and decent national govern-
ment and of their educational system. Canada runs to public
schools of the English type, and there is nothing much finer in
the way of a university than Mac Gill, home of Goldwin
Smith, Banting (of insulin fame) and Stephen Leacock.
But Australia is the better country. The air of Canada
is so dry and cold that when you comb your hair it gives
off electric sparks. If you go outside the pub in Winnipeg
in midwinter you are apt to have an eye burst to remind
you that the temperature is fifty below. And getting a drink
at the Laurier in Ottawa —all pubs in Canada look like some-
thing out of Grimm’s Fairy Tales —is fraught with the same
sort of ceremonies with which they used to conduct victims
to the Bloody Tower. Yet there are no liquor gangsters worth
the name in Canada.
Why? Well, essentially the Canadians are a people with
simple British ways. They don’t wait till their gangsters make
a few millions and then collar them under the income-tax
laws. The first time a gangster machine-guns anybody they
take him before an old-fashioned Court with conservative
ideas about murder and have him hanged.
That marks a vital variation between government on
one side of the U.S.A.-Canadian border-line and the other.
You could tell the difference between the two countries with
your eyes shut. It’s one reason why Canada will always
remain independent and have a king.
A New Territory.
News from Port Moresby says that all the high
country of interior Papua, including that explored by
the Hides expedition, has been declared open for
whites.
It is four years since Hides and O’Malley visited
the Strickland-to-Purari area. Their approach to it
from Daru over the limestone country showed that
it was not easy to reach from that angle. The lime-
stone belt, full of fissures, craters and other obstacles,
on which almost every step must be watched, was
nearly the death of the earlier Champion-Karius ex-
pedition. In this country, there is no running water,
and the pits and fissures are sometimes seemingly
bottomless. The sole residents seem to be large
pythons, bats and furred bandicoots.
From this, the land merges into rich valleys about
6000 feet above sea-level—which is fairly high for
normal white settlement. Beyond the Strickland,
there was “green and gold as far as the eye could
see” —rolling timbered slopes and “grasslands with
cultivated squares.”
For a month, the Hides expedition was in this type
of country and found it densely populated by natives
some friendly, some bitterly hostile. The party “had
to fight its way against determined and repeated
onslaughts of enemies armed with bows and arrows,
stone axes and bone daggers.”
On the Purari side was more limestone. The
expedition’s more remote travels ended in a whirl
of tumbling water as it worked down a Purari tribu-
tary towards the old Samberigi track to Kikori.
Hubert Murray reported:
When it is remembered that the natives are generally
hostile, and that the party was never free from the
danger of attack or from the risk of starvation, one
may form some idea of the perils and hardships which
were surmounted so bravely. There have been arduous
and dangerous expeditions in Papua.... but none that
called for higher qualities of leadership than this one.
The population of the plateau area was, Hides
believed, denser than anywhere else in Papua. The
people were an ordered agricultural community, cut
off from the sea oh two sides by the terrible horse-
shoe of uninhabited limestone.
Yet, despite their hostility, the population-
density and the difficulties of approach, this land,
four years after the expedition, has suddenly been
thrown open to unofficial whites, apparently with-
out reservation.
From the moment of its discovery, numbers of
prospectors and oil men have been eager to get into
it, but that they wish to go there is no reason why
they should. If there is anything in the modern
doctrine of self-determination, the owners of the land
should be allowed to have some say as to whether
they wish their country invaded by strangers.
All these untouched areas both in Papua and
New Guinea should be declared inviolable native
reserves.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
with WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Dhas”: Some time when Dr. Freud
has a spare moment I’d like him to tell
me why the public takes such a peculiar
delight in the misprints that creep into
the newspapers. “S.M.H.” (poor old
Girl!) made a beauty on May 16, and
by midday on May 17 it seemed that
everyone in town was in transports of
unholy joy about it. The impropriety, I
gather, is the first attraction; coming
from such a respectable source, it would
be all the more pleasing; there’s the
impish satisfaction of having caught
Homer nodding; and perhaps Freud
would add that there’s an almost sadistic
enjoyment behind the remark everyone
makes, “Someone will get it in the neck
for this.” I worked on a country paper
once where the editor, knowing the pub-
licity value of a really choice error, would
sometimes deliberately let one through;
but I should say the Hunter-street prank
was as accidental as an earthquake.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A Lismore (N.S.W.)
speaker got off a neat one at a Primary
Producers’ Union meeting of protest
against the embargo on the sale of wax
matches as a fire-prevention measure.
“Friction is a much more prolific cause
of fires than wax matches ever were,” he
stated. “I mean the kind of friction that
is generated by an insurance policy rub-
bing against an overdraft.”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Police Commissioner
Leane prophesies the final disappearance
within a year or two of the mounted
trooper in S.A., except in the city, where
“for traffic control they are without
equal.” Even in the Mount Gambier
district, where Lindsay Gordon
jumped and galloped as a trooper, there
isn’t a police horse left. Within Leane’s
time as Commissioner the total has
dwindled from over 200 to about 65,
nearly all of those remaining being in
Adelaide. Yet, meanwhile, horses are
making a big comeback for social pur-
poses, helped greatly by the expanse of
parklands right round the city. Already
there are half a dozen riding clubs busy
each week-end, and around North Adel-
aide the City Council has graded and
fenced a bridle-track of a mile and a half,
which brought fully 150 riders, to its
opening.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The British Army has a long-
range memory. An Adelaide man who
was in the 20th Hussars as a youth, but
retired in 1904 after the Boer War, has
just been informed that he is awarded
the Meritorious Service Medal, plus an
annuity.
* * * *
“Kerys”: My neighbor, a clergyman
long retired, tells this one. One night
he answered the door of his country par-
sonage, to find a derelict on the step ask-
ing for food and raiment. The cleric
supplied both, and the not-too-sober
visitor departed in tears of gratitude.
“An’ you take this, mister,” said he,
handing over a penny, “an’ if ever y’re
down on y’r luck jus’ use it an’ you’ll soon
pick up.” Regarding the coin as a mascot
the padre put it in a pocket apart and
forgot all about it. Nearly a year later
he was stopped by a tramp and asked for
a trifle to speed the wayfarer. He searched
his pockets in vain for a coin, then
thought of the mascot penny. Handing
it over with apologies, he remarked, “It’s
very little to offer you, but I trust it may
bring you good fortune.” Nearly six
months later he received a call from a
cheerful individual who, tendering a
pound note for church charities, recalled
the incident of the penny, and told a tale
of affluence built on the receipt of the
coin. “Well, it’s very good of you to
bring this donation,” quoth the cleric.
“It seems a lot of interest on an ordinary
penny.” “Ordinary!” exclaimed the
donor, even more astonished. Then he
gazed with intense concentration at his
benefactor. “ ’Struth!” was his ejacula-
tion, “d’yer mean t’ say y’ didn’t know
it was a double-’eader?”
H* •I' •{•
“Selma”: Our char., a sprightly dame
for her years, apologised for being late
the other morning, she having deviated
“We’ll give it a fly for another hour, Joe , before We turn it in.”
from her usual route. I just went along
to a , ook Womera
school, she reported. They say if t
an a * r ralt j over Darlmghurst that f, n . ir
we have to go to get treatm
collective gaze of blank astonishment put
her on the defensive Oh, you n
know, she said It s just as w
ready for anyth ng A P
some morning and see one of those
descend,ary bombs dropping down on
me I H know where to run.
p * rilinda{?a ; nsiSW) in addi-
. J P.B. • Gundagai (N.b.W; m aam
tion to the Dog <m theJuck ei' Box has
constant labor he has finished
" The completed masterpiece is
a model of a town hall with a clock-
tower set in gardens and constructed of
tiny slabs of Australian marbles, ah
hand-polished and -cut. It is composed
of 20,948 pieces and in the long years
of building another 9011 were cut ind
discarded. The style of building is seven-
teenth-century baroque, and its architec-
ture was made up as the work progressed,
no plans being drawn. The finest detail
has been attended to, such as door-knobs
and door panels in varying colored
marbles. For example, the front door,
which is 4|in. x 2|in., is panelled in five
different colors, and contains 41 inlaid
pieces. During the job the axle of Frank’s
home-made lathe wore out, and was
replaced three times, and 4368 fretsaw
blades, 451 b. of emery grain and 15 dozen
files were used.
* * *. *
“H.S.G.”: A petrol thief got a shock
recently when he drove up to a King s
Cross (Sydney) service station and asked
the shock-headed, ingenuous-looking at-
tendant for' ten gallons. His sedan was
old but smart, and the youth ran the
required amount into the tank and went
to collect his cash. Smarty let in the
clutch and got away to a flying start.
There was a sudden jerk, a terrific clattei
and the car swerved to a stop. A cruis-
ing P.D. car swung over to investigate,
and found a petrol pump almost torn
from its moorings, plus a sedan with its
petrol tank trailing on the ground. The
bowser boy had had the foresight to leave
the hose in the tank while collecting the
money * * *
“Lao-dah”: My paper this morning
contains an account of bankruptcy pro-
ceedings in Sydney, wherein it is stated
that “about £2OO worth of lead was sold
to a Jew in Sydney, and when the Jew
went out to get it he found the insurance
co in possession. The Jew went to the
C. 1.8., etc.” Before the present alien
influx “the Jew” would have been given
his name or referred to as “a certain
person.” In pre-war days precisely the
same procedure was used by English
papers in Singapore and Penang with
regard to Australians. If an Englishman
was jugged for some misdemeanor his
name was either not mentioned at all or
he was merely called “John Smith,” with
no national prefix. But if it happened
to be one of my own fellow-countrymen
it would be “an Australian named John
Smith was charged with being drunk and
disorderly” or with having broken some
law or other. The effect was to convince
the otherwise friendly English that Aus-
tralians were responsible for all the crimes
and offences not committed by China-
men and Indians.
* * * *
“Shep”: Time and depression have not
dulled the war-dag. At our local Diggers’
meeting the president was calling over
a batch of nomination forms of intend-
ing members. The last was a stranger
to us. “Anyone know this bloke So-and-
so?” he asked. “Yair,” came a calm
voice from the background. “In about
two hours ’e’ll be getting into bed with
my missus.” When the roars subsided
and the president got his second wind, he
inquired, “Who are you?” “Me? Oh,
I’m 7m,” was the unruffled reply.
* * * *
“Cumulus”: What the S.M. who ad-
judicated on it described as “one of the
worst cases of tax evasion I have ever
dealt with” was heard in Sydney’s Cen-
tral Police Court last week. A mercan-
tile agent who had been in business in
Sydney since 1915, and whose assets
now were stated to amount to over
£30,000, had paid not a penny of income
tax. He was assessed to owe £4339 in
taxes, and ordered to pay that and other
sums, including a fine of £650, totalling
£743 —a nasty little slug of £5082, with
a month to find it in. But he got off
lightly. Only £46 16s. of the amount
was due to the double charge which the
department could have applied to the
w hole amount, and which it has applied
to muc h milder cases. And I think that
w hen the agent analyses the transaction
be w jjj fi nc j himself handsomely in
credit. He is a' thrifty soul, and has
socked his money away year by year
into investments which probably pay
him better than 5 p.c. Every £lOO he
p U t as ide in the earliest years has doubled
itself to-day. From what details are
available in the newspaper reports it is
possible to make a shot at the gradual
progress of his tax bill, and it may be
computed that he is paying about £lOOO
j ess than his arrears compounded at 5 p.c.
* * * *
- CR „. Me i bourne -Argus” published
a leader from an indignant correspondent
complaining that the “Fine Arts Gallery”
was displaying a collection of Russian
photographs with Stalin and the hammer
and sickle prominently exhibited and
asking why our Art Gallery should be
used for political propaganda This is
a trifle rough on the Gill Gallery in
Exhibition-street which goes by the name
of the Fine Arts Gallery. The real
offender or alleged offender is the
National Gallery, whose display of the
Soviet coat of arms is the most striking
feature of an attempt to foster inter-
national harmony by the Society for
Cultural Relations. A worse method ol
doing it could hardly be imagined. The
Soviet insignia is like a red rag to a
bull to the average Melbourne citizen,
but pacifists never were blessed with
overmuch intelligence. They are the sort
of people who would pave the way to a
better international understanding by
singing “The Wearing of the Green'’ at
an Orange meeting.
* * * *
“D.M.H.”: The writer of the
“Courier-Mail” (Brisbane) leader who
twice referred to our royal voyagers as
King George and Queen Mary recalls to
me an old Irishwoman I met in 1919.
Holidaying in the Emerald Isle we came
upon Biddy sitting in the doorway of
her cabin in one of the loneliest spots
of County Galway. We had sojne num-
bers of the “Illustrated London News”
with us, and offered them to Biddy with
the information that there were some
good pictures of King George in them.
Biddy took her pipe from between her
blackened teeth. “Ochone! ” she moaned.
“Do ye mane to tell me Queen Victoria’s
dead?”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The effort and money
spent on teaching motorists road caution
in Vic. has been wasted on at least one
young lady. The mechanics were peace-
fully working in one of Melbourne s
leading service stations the other after-
noon, surrounded by twenty thousand
pounds’ worth of Rolls-Royces, Packards
and other expensive models, when a
sweet young thing dashed in in a
limousine, pulled up smartly and, opening
the door, shouted excitedly: “My cars
on fire! Quick, bring a bucket of water.
THE FISH THAT GOT AWAY.
“Zane Grey related to the N.S.W. Institute of
Journalists how he had hooked in South Australian
waters, and lost after an hour’s fight, a shark that
must have weighed 30001 b., was about 22ft. long,
and had swallowed a whole porpoise as bait.” ,
Let other folks gammon the trout and the
salmon
To rise at synthetical flies;
It’s a test of endurance devoid of allurance
In our eminent visitor’s eyes.
The swishers and sievers of lakes and of rivers
A man may well hold in disdain
Who baits with a corpus that once was a
porpoise
And tackle for standing the strain,
Like Zane
When out on the limitless main.
Some anglers converge on the tarpon and
sturgeon
Which merely to hundredweights run;
He feels sort of sorry whenever his quarry,
If landed, proves less than a ton.
And he reckons no fish is so near to his wishes
For a combat that’s stirring and stark
As the ugly, predacious, rapacious, voracious,
Grim subject for hostile remark,
The dark
Foul terror of bathers, the shark.
We’ve had hunters —and spry ’uns —of tigers
and lions
In forest and jungle and plain,
But ne’er, I’ve a notion, a Nimrod of ocean
To match the redoubtable Zane.
Let’s hope, his next coming, he’ll set the wires
humming,
And we’ll count it no more than his due,
If he steers to his gaff a ton and a half
Of shark or, conceivably, two.
Entre nous
I’d not put it past him, would you?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Qwert Yuiop”: A 13-year-old Mel-
bourne girl seems to have a good clear
notion of how to put in a well-filled and
enjoyable day, given a reasonable note-
roll. In a competition for ideas of how
to spend £5O, she began by allotting a
tenner for a bike and a scooter. A £3
pair of skates was to follow ; then four
tennis rackets and four wristlet watches
for herself, two sisters and a brother would
mop up £l2. After getting herself a good
winter dress and a hat, a few books and
a Shetland pony (the child seems to
possess a distinct tendency towards get-
ting about), there would remain £l2 10s.
With this, she proposed to take the morn-
ing ’plane to Launceston, and after re-
turning at 5.30 to shout the family a
party at Luna Park. A generous, single-
minded lass like that must have been
a huge relief to the selectors from the
Good Little Gertrudes who would use it
to pay off Daddy’s mortgage or get
Mother a vacuum-cleaner to save her
poor knees.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: The crew of a British
freighter which recently visited Australian
ports practises an unusual but quite effec-
tive method of varying tramp-steamer
diet. A 30ft. stout bamboo is secured
to a deckrail, its inboard end made fast
to a ringbolt. A stout line is led through
a small block at its tip by rings, carried
up to another block on the mizzen-mast,
and brought down to a ball-fender rest-
ing on the deck. At the outboard end
of the line is a swivelled wire trace carry-
ing a stout hook on which is lashed an
ordinary stiff white gent.’s-wear collar.
This unusual bait was found, after much
experimental trial, to be the most attrac-
tive to large pelagic fish in all the oceans
visited during a 16-month voyage. When
a fish bites the fender is lifted from the
deck and bobs up and down alongside
the mast, signalling need for the landing
party in quick time. The excited yowl-
ings of the fo’c’sle cat provide an addi-
tional means of detecting a catch.
* * * X
“Lino”: Adelaide, former “City of
Churches,” has a few curiosities in that
line. In Young-street, City, a former
tabernacle is used as a garage, a twin-
domed building in Hindmarsh-square
has the name of a well-known city firm
across its face, and Scots Church, NOrth-
terrace, is surmounted, not by a cross,
but by a big tin rooster.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: An echo of the Bounty
affair reached Melbourne the other day
with the arrival of the freighter Tre-
vorian. Passing Pitcairn Island she was
hailed, and a boat loaded to the gun-
wale with the island’s products and 30 of
its inhabitants put out and asked the
captain to take 200 letters to Australia.
The descendants of Fletcher Christian
and his fellow-mutineers now number
215, and none of them wants to leave the
island. Why should they leave a spot
where sweet-potatoes, beans, sugarcane,
yams, taro, melons, pumpkins, oranges,
bananas, pineapples, arrowroot, coffee,
goats and poultry flourish in profusion,
and where there is no sectarian problem,
inasmuch as they are all Seventh Day
Adventists. The affairs of the island are
administered by a council of seven
members, with a Pooh-Bah for president
who acts under a mandate from the High
Commissioner for the Western Pacific.
The only thing that puzzles ethnologists
is why the two square miles of earth
appears to present an exception to the
law of the celebrated Rev. Malthus, that
population (ends to increase beyond the
means of subsistence.
“Will you marry me? Yes or no?”
“C.Q.”: The worst thorn in the civic
side of Melbourne is Dudley Flats, on the
foreshore at South Melbourne. Threats
and persuasion have failed to induce the
inhabitants to vacate this festering sore in
the city’s gateway, and for a very good
reason. They like it. As units in sub-
urbia nobody would have ever heard of
them. As denizens of Dudley Flats, they
get a mention in the papers almost daily,
and romantic young lady novelists visit
them in search of local color. Moreover,
the dilapidated heaps of tin and timber
they inhabit are at least something they
have made themselves, despite the sever-
ity of the architecture and the absence
of the usual conveniences. Their methods
of making a living are picturesque and
various, and include an occasional jaunt
to Mildura in the fruit-picking season
and browsing on the council tips, which
provide surprises almost daily. The sur-
rounding landscape is open and spacious
and the sea breezes healthy. The major-
ity have incomes ranging from 30s.
weekly up to the £4 drawn by a water-
side worker. One man manufactures and
sells a patent soap, and most draw sus-
tenance, old-age or military pensions. So
poverty isn’t their trouble. Probably
they are reacting from the monotony of
Melbourne suburbia.
* * * *
“Jachris”: No real need for the
harassed song-writer to lie starving in his
bed-sit. while his friend the poet tries to
earn the rent with verses extolling the
virtues of Swillit’s soap. There’s an un-
touched field, and there should be money
enough for beefsteak pudding and good
red wine, in composing “hillbilly” dit-
ties for the Australian outbacker. Cow-
cocky or boundary-rider, bagman or
station-owner, that’s the type of thing
they want. In the absence of the genuine
home-grown article they seek romance
now in the exploits of the “rootin’,
shootin’, tootin’ man from Texas.” They
applaud the marksmanship of the
Martins and the Coys, and with the
brave and lonely cow-valet they mourn
the fact that the lonesome trail ain’t
lonesome any more. N.S.W. country
radio stations cater for their tastes; a
string of them have a “hillbilly” hour
every midday, and the bagmen time their
visits for handouts to coincide with the
yawpings of the yodelling cowboys,
Matilda doesn’t waltz about the bush
any more, and guitar salesmen trample
on the grave of the thick, stalwart stock-
man.
* * * *
“Moussa”: Recent press reports to the
effect that bugles from the tomb of
Tut-ankh-Amen had been blown after a
silence of 3000 years sound a bit dubious
to me. An attempt was made several
years ago to get some harmonious sounds
out of these two silver trumpets while
they were in the museum in Cairo (where
they should be still). After closing hour
in the museum the director, two English
visitors and the best bugler in the British
Army, then in Cairo, were brought to-
gether for the experiment. The bugler
used modern mouthpieces which fitted the
ancient trumpets, and altogether he man-
aged to produce two or three discordant
notes out of one of the trumpets and
only one note out of the other. There
was neither music nor melody in the
sounds. Eventually, without the modern
mouthpieces, the bugler managed, after
great effort, to blow a blast on one, but
from the other not a single note could
be got.
* * * *
“Kali”: Recently arrived in Melbourne
an overseas vessel that had been
shortened in order to save tonnage dues.
The idea is not new. Boats traversing
the upper reaches of all Chinese rivers
must pass a lilkin, a local customs station
where, from time immemorial, the prac-
tice had been to determine the carrying
capacity of a boat by its girth measure-
ment at the insert of the mast and to
assess the amount payable on its measure-
ment. But 30 years ago the boatmen
found the lilkin duties were to be raised,
and they immediately sought some means
of escaping the extra impost. This they
did by altering the shape of every river
boat, constricting the vessels at the in-
sert of the mast and rapidly widening
the hull both fore and aft the mast, so
that the boats now have the appearance
of huge wasps. In most countries the
authorities would have at once instituted
some other method of calculating the
tax, but the Chinese Government, war
lord or bandit who was receiving the tax,
in appreciation of the joke played on the
customs, allowed the old method of com-
putation to remain.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Latest news from
London is that the Australian gland
expert Menzies Sharpe, who has become
a hero to the flapper press since he treated
a football team, is anxious to tackle
the sad case of Marshal Goring. The
Marshal has been slimming, and the press
has it on unimpeachable authority that,
though he has succeeded in working off
401 b., the effort has caused heart trouble.
It seems to me that the unfortunate chap
is a poor bet as Hitler’s successor, as
some other members of the flapper press
prophesy that he will be. Owing to his
weakened condition, presumably, he is
“on a rigid ration of sausages, ham and
beer,” and has been having massage,
electric baths and Scotch showers. I
don’t like .his recipe for slimming, but
I’d like to have the one for his method
of finding time in between reduction
sessions to run Prussia and the German
Air Force.
“That’ll teach you not to be such a stickybeak !”
IN A MANNER OF SPEAKING.
I hone we have finished with missing the bus,
Tn a manner of speaking,
And will get, without any more feathers and
fuss, , , .
The peace that we re seeking .
And I reckon that even the Turk and the Russ.
May render material assistance to us
In putting the skibunk on Hitler and Muss., .
In a manner of speaking.
T trust that now Menzies has riz to the top,
In a manner of speaking,
He’ll start overhauling his vessel, and stop
The holes where she’s leaking
He’s an excellent chance—what they call a fair
Now discord still reigns in the Laborite shop,
And the volatile Page has gone down with a
flop,
In a manner of speaking.
The racecourses rock to the bookmakers’ din,
In a manner of speaking;
And after the hares manufactured from tin
The long dogs go streaking,
While punters still hope for a lucrative spin,
Though, for every one who exults in a win.
You’ll note the good brass of a dozen done in,
In a manner of speaking.
Life isn’t all skittles and beer, it is plain,
In a manner of speaking;
But whipping the cat is proverbially vain,
No profit in squeaking.
When you’re downed by some tug with more
brawn or more brain
Remember the tip in the Ingoldsby strain:
“Take a suck at the lemon and at him again!”
In a manner of speaking.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


CRAVEN Ar
..(tie so
■m
m
&
El 868
10 for 9°
20 for 1/6
m
r J
mmm.
m
mi
dx....
-■
J'JfiS
MADE
SPECIALLY
PREVENT
TO
POLITICAL POINTS
If Graham, the Protestant Labor can-
didate for Griffith (Q.), could have got
into the second ballot he would have
been a certainty, for the A.L.P. asked its
supporters to vote “straight down the
ballot-paper,” and “straight up the ballot-
paper” was the U.A.P. injunction, though
“unofficial.” On Monday Graham was
third, but a significantly close third:
Conelan (A.L.P.), 21,737; McGowan
(U.A.P.), 16,418; Graham, 14,738.
Graham preferences may put Mc-
Cowan in.
Since Protestant Labor arrived in
Queensland a new note has crept into
political reports. “Courier-Mail” readers,
looking for a bit of color in Griffith
election stuff, came on candid confes-
sions:—
Mr. Makin, M.H.R., said that he had
been an ardent supporter.of the Methodist
church for over 20 years, attending the ser-
vices week-end after week-end.
And interesting revelations:
Mr. Barnard, M.H.R., will speak at
the meeting to-night. Mr. Barnard, who
represents Bass (Tas.), is well known as a
Baptist worker, and was present at the
City Tabernacle yesterday morning and at
night attended the service at Vulture-street.
The faithful would have liked to have
“Texas” Green’s testimony. “Texas” is
noted for sending missionaries to China.
To Sydney “Worker,” Litvinov’s dis-
appearance is no mystery: Lit., it seems,
“was invited to resign because his nego-
tiations with Britain were viewed with
grave suspicion in Moscow.” “Invited to
resign” is good, considering how many
of Lit.’s old pals were “invited” to re-
ceive bullets in the back of the neck.
The “Worker” goes on to state an im-
portant “fact”:
The fact is that Soviet Russia doesn’t
trust Britain, with very good reason.
And with very bad reason the “Worker”
trusts Soviet Russia implicitly. So does
“S. M. Herald” ; and on Monday Granny
was heard wailing that Menzies is holding
up her Russian alliance. It seems almost
too good to be true.
So many Sydney people were anxious
to hear Menzies that half an hour be-
fore his meeting was to begin hundreds
were being turned away from the Town
Hall, which holds 3000. Hundreds of
thousands of others must have listened
to him on the wireless. They had to
tune-in to a commercial station. To
A.8.C., a P.M. speaking as such for the
first time in his Commonwealth’s great-
est city is “political” and therefore taboo.
Kurt Offenburg’s one-eyed “news com-
mentary” is “non-political.”
Churchill and Lloyd George are furi-
ously demanding an alliance with the
Soviet Russia they fought 19 years ago,
and the old windbags are so blind to the
interests of Australia and M.L. that they
are apparently willing to let Russia make
the terms. Lord Raglan, who was
with Wellington in the Peninsula and
France, used to embarrass his staff in the
Crimea by saying in the presence of
French liaison officers, being a forget-
ful veteran, that he hoped his men would
give the French hell. It will be awk-
ward if Churchill or Lloyd George suffers
a corresponding lapse of memory, and
thunders for an alliance with Germany
against Russia.
Discussion of the Lyons annuities was
preceded by the reading of a dignified
letter addressed to the P.M. by his pre-
decessor’s widow, in which the bereaved
lady said in effect that, while she con-
sidered it right that provision should be
made for her fatherless children, she
would want nothing for herself when the
state of her health permitted her to work.
In their amended form —£500 for the
widow, to cease in the event of re-
marriage, and £5OO for the children until
the youngest of the eleven is 16 —they
were adopted by both Houses, only
Laborites dissenting. And in the Senate
Darcey, one of the three Tasmanians
elected in 1937, supported the Govern-
ment.
Senator Darcey’s refusal to vote against
the Lyons annuities has made Federal
Labor uneasy. It remembers other ex-
amples of independence shown by Tas-
manian Labor Senators, particularly the
late Ogden, and wonders what may hap-
pen if it gets a Senate majority next
year. But it shouldn’t have placed Darcey
in the position of having to choose be-
tween dumb devotion to Caucus and
what he considered a fair thing to the
living and the dead.
There are now more N.S.W. Indus-
trial Commissioners, who rank as Judges,
than there are Justices of the High Court.
By appointing Mr. Edwards, at £2600
“Mr. Lloyd George and Mr. Churchill are demanding a ‘tripartite’ alliance with
Soviet Russia, on which they made war after ‘the’ war.”
“Joost a moment, comrades, and let me get this rightsky. Do you vant to kees
me or keel me?”
p.a., the lazy Government has brought
the number to six. It has a hazy idea
of getting Industrial Commissioners to
fix the price of everything except Gov-
ernment lottery tickets and politicians’
salaries — those the' politicians fix them-
selves, looking back. Last time they
awarded themselves another £14,000 p.a.,
all told, and looked back four months.
The Kents, it seems, will be accom-
panied to Australia by a household staff
of 30. That will mean an increase of
44 in the Court population, since the
S.A. Governor-elect is bringing a staff
of 14, including two aides. If a few
other States change their imported Gov-
ernors this year, arrivals of people of
British stock may overtake departures at
long last.
After the 1926 Victorian bushfires it
was here pointed out that there was no
supreme authority charged with the duty
of safeguarding forests and life and
property. Judge Stretton’s report on the
1939 bushfires shows that there is still
no supreme authority, only a rabble of
authorities. It is a dreadful revelation
of things that happen in an over-
governed country. In the multitude of
Governments, Parliaments and depart-
ments there is confusion, and there can
be tragedy.
“D.E.”: By objecting to the latest Brit-
ish plan for Palestine —with incendiary
bombs, machine guns (one of the victims,
a British policeman, is dead), stones and
the like, Jewboys in Palestine have finally
disposed of the impression, fostered by
journalists and radio commentators, that
refugee Jews are all plaster saints. My
advice to the Jews —they haven’t asked
for it, but let me thrust it on them —is
that they should accept 75,000 as the
immigration limit and send only ladies
in an interesting condition, widows
recently bereft of their lords preferred.
It would conform to the terms of the
White Paper, and it would make the
world laugh. And the world of which
Jewry is a part needs laughter more than
it needs alliances.
Under N.S.W. lottery law, other .States
that run lotteries are “foreign,” and sale
of “foreign” lottery tickets is illegal. This
part of the law has been upheld by
the High Court on the ground that State
lotteries are not trade or commerce, and
therefore don’t come under Section 91
of the Constitution Act. McTiernan, J.,
as mild-mannered a wig as ever con-
curred in or dissented from a judgment,
suggested that they were just “gambling
or gaming.” The Sydney Government
and newspaper idea is that lotteries are
“investments.”
“As I see it, Britain is attempting to
rebuild a system of collective security on
a basis that will last.”—Roberts, the cock-
sure professor, in “S. M. Herald.” In
the same issue it was mentioned that
Estonia, Latvia and Denmark are sign-
ing non-aggression pacts with Germany,
which means that they are out of the
collective-security business. So are
Sweden, Norway, Lithuania, Finland,
Spain, Portugal, Yugoslavia, Switzerland,
Belgium and Holland. All hate Russia
more than they fear Germany.
There is no more talk in Maoriland
of “costless credit.” The Government is
in the market for £4,500,000 of four per
cents, “for public works and general de-
velopment,” and is letting local bodies
borrow at p.c. The limit for local
bodies when the Government had its
head in the clouds was p.c.
It isn’t going to be “roses, roses all the
way” for the Menzies Government. In
the debate on the Supply and Develop-
ment Bill, McEwen said, with unusual
asperity, that the measure recalled
Hughes’s War Precautions Act: “Almost
every clause is loaded, and the House is
asked to give the Minister [Casey] the
blankest of blank cheques —surrender to
the executive almost every vestige of
power.” Menzies himself, proposing the
appointment of a select committee “to
review National Insurance and prepare a
scheme acceptable to Parliament,” it be-
ing “clearly impossible now to bring the
present scheme into operation on Sep-
tember 4,” was met with cold looks and
testy murmurs. He looked relieved when
members dispersed for the week.
There has been a sharp slump in Hef-
fron Labor stocks, and not only because
a receiver has arrived at the “Daily
News” office. It is almost certain that the
“party” will “squib” the Federal unity
conference it demanded for so many
months, and Labor people soon turn
away from factions that “squib”—cour-
age is the quality that appeals to them
most. Then the Labor Council’s direc-
tion to the unions to admit refugees has
had a bad effect on organisations with
many unemployed members, and on
others whose rules are so strict as to ex-
clude Australian-born youths. Mean-
while Heffron Labor and Lang Labor
are choosing Federal candidates at a
brisk rate.
A British trade delegation is going to
Greece, and no doubt returned soldiers
at Griffith, Mildura and Renmark
will read presently that it has arranged
to get huge cargoes of currants and the
like from the Levant, in part payment
for the alliance with Greece, which has
a Fascist dictator. Wheatgrowers have
read already that Britain is “buying for
stocks” 200,000 tons of wheat from that
ally Rumania.
Australia sold a bit of war wheat to
Rumania, and had to wait nearly 20
years for payment, having agreed to take
Rumanian bonds. Twenty years is the
term specified in the Anglo-Rumanian
trade agreement: Britain is to export
arms and machinery and give the manu-
facturers cheques for £5,000,000, and
Rumania is to pay in wheat and oil. If
our Glorious Press calls for three cheers
for gallant little Rumania, growers of
two-bob wheat won’t be in them.
“After disarming the sentries, terrorists
attacked with incendiary bombs the Gov-
ernment immigration headquarters at
Jerusalem and the Government offices at
Tel Aviv.” That’s how it appeared in
“S. M. Herald,” whose devotion to the
cause of Jewish refugees is equalled only
by that of Martin, the Heffron Labor
M.L.A. for Waverley (N.S.W.), and his
pals of the Sydney Labor Council.
Readers were left to discover for them-
selves that the Tel Aviv bombers were
Jews.
Parliament has made it clear that it
is not in the mood to stand any non-
sense from A.B.C. or from Harrison, the
new P.M.G., if Harrison’s idea is to be
merely a rubber stamp for that crowd.
Johnson in the Senate and Nairn in the
House went very sour over A.B.C.’s pro-
posal to establish an income-tax-free
weekly with the taxpayer’s money. Nairn
inquired whether an editor of the
superfluous sheet had been appointed at
£l5OO a year, whether the position was
advertised and whether the Government
approved of the project; and Harrison
hastily asked for notice of the question.


FED TO THE TEETH.
“Who can wonder that in a nerve-racked world the ordinary citizen longs for the peace and quiet to be found among less civilised races.


GOING TO LONDON?
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
GLOUCESTER RD., LONDON, 5.W.7
This renowned London Family Hotel
offers everything the overseas visitor
requires. Close to Tube and Underground
stations, yet quiet and undisturbed by
traffic noise. Within ten minutes of
London’s famous West End and theatres,
and convenient for Earl’s Court, Olympia,
Kensington Gardens, Hyde Park and
the Museums and Institutes of South
Kensington. Inclusive terms or room with
breakfast only. All types of accommodation
from single rooms to suites, including
private bathrooms and sitting rooms.
Illustrated brochure free from
Bulletin, Sydney.
MERCHANDISE
W=r=T=:
as
»
Ur
Comprising General
Samples, Textiles, Office
Equ i p m ent, Furniture,
Sports Goods, Photo-
graphic, Engineering and
Building Fairs.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL
WILL BE EXHIBITED.
If vou buy for future reselling ... if your business depends upon the
latest in mechanical equipment ... if you are engaged in any phase oi
commercial enterprise . . . then Leipzig Trade Fair is necessary to
your success. .
Twice yearly 10,000 manufacturers from 23 countries assemble m this
historical German city to meet the demands of a quarter of a million
purchasers from all parts of the world.
LB IPZIE
FAIR
INTERNATIONAL
INDUSTRIES
COMMENCES AUGUST 27th, 1939.
Information (including Travel Marks and A ski Trading Marks) and
Letters of Introduction available of Lars G. Brundahl, Commissioner in
Australia for the Leipzig Trade Fair, Chall is House, Mai tin I lace,
GPO Box 3127 P, Sydney; C. N. Keppel, Temple Court, 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne; J. M. Beiers, 305 Queen Street, Brisbane;
H. C. Ittershagen, Shenton Park, West Australia.
Australians are always welcome in Greater Germany.
The Mutual Life and Citizens ,
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £28,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,200,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
PERTONAL ITEM S
Hattil Spencer Foil, Senator for
Queensland since 1917, formerly Minister
for Repat. and now Minister of the In-
terior, signalised his new appointment by
doing his best to win a former Queens-
land Labor seat for the U.A.P.
Although he’s been a Senator for 22
years, he’s still under 50. A Londoner
born, he commenced his Australian ex-
perience as secretary to a Queensland
SENATOR FOLL.
Minister of Railways. Joined the A.I.F.
in 1914, and was wounded at Gallipoli.
His entry into politics came via the sec-
retaryship of the Q. Soldiers’ Political
Federation. He’s a married man with
four daughters, plays tennis and golf, and
is a pillar of the Legacy Club.
A fine old Australian pioneer passed
over the Divide when Robert William
Knight died at 96 at Tweed Heads
(N.S.W.). Born at Balmain, Sydney, he
settled with his young wife in 1862 in
the Richmond River district, and pros-
pered in the timber business. It is over
40 years since he had his first, only and
highly-successful brush with the law. The
late Judge Harris was holding Court
sittings at Lismore, and decided that the
noise from the Knight sawmill was
hampering the proceedings. A peppery
old gentleman, the Judge sent a court
orderly with an order to stop the mill
forthwith. Stopped it was. It stayed
stopped until the sittings ended, and
continued in a state of stoppage until
one of the court officials hastily wired
the fact to his Honor and suggested
formal permission to reopen. The per-
mission arrived in record time, and the
mill was started again, but the Crown
lost its case in contesting the swingeing
claim for time, wages and interference
with business subsequently presented by
the law-abiding sawmiller.
At her first concert on her return to
Sydney last week, Lotte Lehmann in-
cluded Ernest Wunderlich’s “Good Night”
in her programme. The composer, who
that day celebrated his eightieth birthday,
was among her audience. In Sydney for
something over 50 years Wunderlich has
found time in a life crammed with varied
interests to work hard in the interests of
any movement or any body even remotely
connected with music. The chairman-
ship of the metal-ceiling and tile firm
which bears the family name claimed his
workday hours, but music, archaeology
and fishing have battled for first place
in his spare-time thoughts. He was one-
time president of the Australian Museum,
to which he has just presented a valu-
able library of archaeological works,
and he remains a vice-president of the
British Astronomical Society. The song
which attracted Lehmann is one of a
number of compositions he has pub-
lished, vocal and instrumental; but he
claims his most important work on behalf
of music in Sydney was the campaigning,
ultimately successful, which he did to
have the old cane chairs in the Town Hall
removed to the scrapheap.
The Bulletin’s old friend J. H. Curie
is back in Australia again and as restless
as ever. One of the few tracks he has
not covered in his peregrinations is the
road from Adelaide to Darwin, and he
is doing this with retired Adelaide bank
manager Charles Wreford. It is 30 years
since Curie found himself a best-seller
with his travel book The Shadow Show.
Noel Nickson, the versatile young
product of Melbourne Uni. who won the
Clarke Scholarship, and goes abroad
shortly, will be worth watching. He has
a distinguished father in the veteran
music critic of the “Age,” and has more
than usual musical culture behind him.
He has already made his public bow as
a composer and a violinist, and in
addition last week conducted the Uni.
Symphony Orchestra at his farewell con-
cert at the Town Hall.
John Spence, who as Auditor-General
for N. S. Wales for the last 11 years has
been guarding the State’s bawbees as
faithfully as if they were his own, was
born in Kilmarnock, Scotland, but be-
came a good Australian a very few years
A UDITOR-GENERAL SPENCE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
later. He was a clever lad at school,
and won shoals of prizes at Sydney High
and Sydney Uni., in which latter insti-
tution he graduated B.A. and LL.B. and
earned honors in Political Science. He
entered the public service at 22, and
became a barrister 12 years later. Among
other important jobs he has been Gov-
ernment Printer and Director of
Finances. For a while he was a lecturer
at Sydney Uni. on business principles
and public finance. He lives at Killara,
but is often on the beaches in the surfing
season. Also he plays golf.
Had a 75th birthday in Adelaide, the
Charles Birks Co., established as a small
drapery firm in 1864, and now occupying
all one side of Rundle-street from Gaw-
ler-place to Stephens-place. It has stayed
in the family, too; Napier Birks is
managing director, and his son Norman
one of the board.
C. J. P. Magee, who received the de-
gree of Doctor of Science in Agriculture
at Sydney Uni. the other day, was born
at Lismore 38 years ago, and matricu-
lated at Sydney Uni. from Sydney High
in 1919. He is now a Government plant
pathologist. By the research work he
started in 1924 in regard to the inroads
of bunchy-top disease, he was instru-
mental in saving the banana industry
from disaster —• and that saved Australia
£500,000 a year and brought benefit to
1500 families.
Closed his account at 67, Edward
Percy Yaldwyn, formerly M.L. manager
of the Commercial Bank of Australia.
He was, born in England, but early
arrived in Australia and joined the Com-
mercial in 1888. Managerships at Fre-
mantle and Launceston and an inspec-
torate in Melbourne preceded his cross-
ing to M.L., where he opened the first
branch at Wellington. He remained
there till his death, which came 18
months after his retirement.
Two able Australians are tipped for
the new legation jobs in the U.S.A. and
Japan respectively. Keith Officer, now
Australian Counsellor at Washington,
and in line for the first post, was born
in Melbourne in 1889, took his LL.B.
at Melbourne Uni., and gave dis-
tinguished war service with the A.I.F.
from 1914 to 1918, collecting the M.C.
and four mentions in dispatches. From
1920 to 1924 he was political officer in
Northern Nigeria, and later secretary to
the Governor. Two years ago he was
attached to the British Embassy at
Washington. Alfred Stir-
ling, who may go to Tokio,
was born in Melbourne in
1902, graduated M.A.,
LL.B. at Melbourne, won
the Mollison Scholarship
in French, and took a
B.A. at Oxford. He prac-
tised at the Vic. Bar from
1927 to 1934, and was a
member of the Australian
delegation to the British
Commonwealth Relations
Conference at Toronto in
1933.
“Cauboy”: A rhetorical
scribe remarked that the
shades of Dion Boucicault,
his father and Bland Holt
walked the boards at the
King’s Theatre, Mel-
bourne, on the occasion of
the recent revival of that
ancient melodrama “The
Streets of London.” If
that was true as regards
the last-named, it must
have been a substantial
shade. The veteran actor-
manager of late Victorian
days still lives in the flesh,
and not so long ago a
party of old friends and
histrions helped him to
celebrate his eighty-fifth
birthday at his home in Sorrento,
where he teaches children to be
actors gratis. He still takes an in-
terest in the theatre, attends Satur-
day matinees, and is the only retired
actor in Australia who has never asked
a manager for a pass. He is often to
be seen surveying the passing show from
a city street corner. Mrs. Bland Holt is
no more a shade than he is, and with
them lives Miss Coppin, the daughter of
the mighty George.
Lord of intersections and arbiter of
halts, stops and go-slows is T. W.
Hooper, N. S. Wales Superintendent of
TRAFFIC SUPERINTENDENT
HOOPER.
Traffic. He’s been a policeman for 33
years. After his first ten months on the
beat he went into plain clothes and be-
came one of the State’s 14 detectives
(there are now 300). Seventeen years of
detecting led to control of Goulburn
Police Station, where ten years were
spent. Since then the superintendent has
been one of the big fellows in Sydney’s
equivalent of Scotland Yard and Centre-
street.
Ernest Johns Payne, for the last six
years chairman of the N.S.W. Public
Service Board, who died suddenly in
Sydney last week, was Australian-born,
and became a civil servant after 10 years’
private practice as a solicitor. From 1916
to 1918 he was Registrar of the Arbitra-
tion Court, served six years as Under-
secretary of the Dept, of Labor, and
for nine years thereafter was Public
Trustee. He was a Rotarian, and num-
bered racing, gardening, music and ten-
nis among his interests.
“Mort”: The passing of 79-year-old
Lord William Nevill in London will recall
to Diggers his lean figure at the C.W.L.
Hut at Westminster Cathedral, where he
valeted many of them while on leave.
He was a son of the first Marquess of
Abergavenny and brother to Lord
Richard Nevill, who was A.D.C. to a
former Australian G.-G. He spent two
terms in gaol for fraud, and wrote a
book on his experiences in gaol, experi-
ences which he took very philosophically.
I remember a morning on which I
returned to my C.W.L. cubicle, and found
him making the bed. “You’re an expert
bed-maker, my Lord,” says I. “Why
not?” says he. “I learnt the art in
chokey, my boy.”
Thornes Bilbe Robinson, who passed
over in London at 86, full of civil and
rdilitary honors, was an Englishman who
spent his early manhood in Queensland.
He became a partner in Mcllwraith,
McEachern, and a director of various
other shipping concerns. In war-time he
was director of meat supplies for the
Allied armies and coincidently Agent-
General for Queensland in London. He
was knighted in 1910. He revisited Aus-
tralia on many occasions, the last five
years ago.


WCB« ®
i
tit*
0
If
no
//
toft
Zi<*
S
I'd'%
W
m
m
#
yx*
sssmSSm
m
m
W'
■*&e
:
■■'is
m
m
Ik
k,
k
k#
1
n
k
11
sks
#
5#
Tt . s always Time f° r
It s 13 10 for
a Red capstan
„ 20 for 1/"
fiat and round
Mso ire*''
• „ and hundreds.
fifties anu
.;.x:
9589-5-9.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Trevdee”: When I got back to the
hut I found old Bill still out of bed.
This was most unusual: Bill generally
tucks himself under the rug on his bunk
a bit after sunset. He was sitting on the
kerosene-tin box, pipe in mouth but not
alight, arms folded and a very intent look
on his face. The wireless was sending
forth a mixture of rumbles, snorts,
scratchy squeaks and muffled roars and
booms. “Is that statics or a broadcast
from the zoo?” I asked. “Shuttup, can’t
yer?” snorted Bill. “’ltler’s speakin’!”
From the radio came another series of
snorts, scratchy squeaks, muffled roars
and booms. Once or twice a horrible
unearthly sort of voice came through,
but it was quickly drowned by a noise
like bacon and eggs getting fried in dyna-
mite. Next morning I heard Bill saying
to the local bartender, “It’s marvellous
to think I was sittin’ up in me little hut
and gettin’ every word of Ttler’s speech
like ’e was sittin’ there beside me.” The
bartender didn’t seem impressed. “But
you get it all in the papers next day,” he
said. “I reckon it’s a mug’s game sitting
up.” “Aw, I dunno,” replied Bill. “You
can’t ’ear the machine-guns and cannons
goin’ off like I did! ”
* * * *
“Werrimee”: I met Jacky on a dry
track carrying a stout piece of bamboo
which was plugged at both ends. The
hollow was filled with water, which he
said was “lubly cool.” A few minutes
later I met his spouse Maggie with a
piece of hollow limb half a yard long on
top of her bundle. “Is that your water-
bag, Maggie?” I asked her. “No,”
laughed Maggie. “Jacky gotum water-
bag. This one meatsafe keep out fly.”
*
“Grey Gum”: Will the Council please
hearken to a voice crying in the wilder-
ness on behalf of the manufacturers of
Kellys and Plumbs (B. 10/5/’39)? As a
representative of an honest, straight-
grained and well-cursed timber, let me
cautiously suggest that maybe the real
culprits are the users. An axe should
fall like a sledge-hammer or a maul, with
the maximum of force always behind the
very centre of the cutting edge. That
extra bit of wrist work which to the fast
bowler may represent a wicket is a very
common flaw in the art of Douglas-
wielding. Further, the blade should be
ground evenly, gap or no gap, and the
original profile retained.
# * * *
“Bray Rock”: American big-game
anglers are experimenting with slow-
trolling of baits at 60 to 70 fathoms over
deep reefs off the Florida coast to get
the big swordfish when there are no sur-
face food-fish to attract them up. A 201 b.
lead, shaped like a sled so as to run
over rough bottom, is attached by a
swivel to 600 ft. of 4501 b.-test thin steel
rope, wound on a drum. About 50ft.
above the bait, the line is attached lightly
to the rope, a few feet above the sinker,
by a twine “rotten stopper” of 101 b. or
so breaking strain. The gear is paid out
at about three knots, allowing bait and
line to stream away from the sinker gear.
When the fish strikes, the stopper carries
away and leaves the line free, the lead
being wound in quickly. Straightened
hooks and broken lines are the only re-
ported results so far, but strikes have
been terrific. It would be an interesting
experiment to try on the deep reefs off
the S.Q. coast.
* * *
“E.G.”: The Lone Pine seedling men-
tioned by “L. 1.” (B. 3/ 5 / ’39) is quite
young compared with four other progeny
of the famous tree, and its history is not
half so interesting. Sergeant Keith
McDowell, of the 24th Battalion, A.1.F.,
brought home a cone from the pine,
which he gave to Mrs. R. Gray, of
Grasmere, near Warrnambool (Vic.).
Evidently the seeds were tough as the
parent, for Mrs. Gray succeeded in rais-
ing from them four little pines. One
was given to Mr. M. L. Carter, of Warr-
nambool, who fostered it for some years
and later presented it to the city. It
was planted in the beautiful Warrnam-
bool Gardens in 1934. The seedling has
become a tall and healthy young pine, to
which an annual pilgrimage is made on
the Sunday before Christmas Day. The
second seedling was planted in Wattle
Park, Melbourne, in 1933 ; another was
given to the 24th Battalion and was also
planted that year at the Shrine of Re-
membrance. The fourth was set in quiet
country surroundings at the Sisters’
Memorial Hall, near Terang (Vic.).
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A case of “tarantism” —
dancing under the influence of spider
venom —was described by a Sydney
doctor in a recent “Medical Journal of
Australia.” The face of the patient, a
man of 55, was masklike, the eyes star-
ing, pupils dilated, and the mouth turned
down at the corners. He was doing
short dance steps in front of a large dead
“Says 'e's got a gammy leg. I'll see if 'e's kiddin'."
spider—subsequently identified as At rax
robustus, a funnel-web species whose bite
has been known to kill —and was semi-
conscious. A paste of ammonia and
sodium bicarbonate applied to the wound,
with warmth, and copious drinks of hot,
fresh tea brought him round ; 12 hours
later he was quite well, but stiff and
sore all over. The dancing mania which
spread through Europe in the fifteenth
and sixteenth centuries was, particularly
in Italy, ascribed to the bite of taran-
tulas, and was supposed to be curable
only by a special kind of music. From
contemporary and later accounts it Was
probably a form of mass-hysteria, stimu-
lated by the appalling filth, bad food
and insecurity of the period. The music,
still extant, resembled a mild jazz.
* * * *
“Mandurah”: No, I won’t have
“Bungham’s” theory (B. 26/4/’39) that
creatures of the wild, confronted always
with a scarcity of food, merely eat re-
gardless of taste. And any line fisherman
will bear me out. Take the days, no
different apparently from a hundred good
fishing days, when the finny blokes abso-
lutely refuse to bite. They will be there
all right, the water may be full of them,
but they simply aren’t hungry. Again,
the discrimination shown in taking a
bait. If doing quite well with common
bait, such as mullet, let someone start
anywhere within 50 yards with nice fresh
crayfish or prawn. No question about
fish having taste. But I’m sure gulls
have no sense of smell. Put some “high”
prawns in a tall jam-tin, then scatter a
few around on the sand. Ever watchful,
the gulls will be down and the scattered
prawns picked up to the last whisker.
But they will miss the ones in the tin,
even though it merely needed an eye
lifted over the edge to spy them. With
no sense of smell the gulls never think of
looking inside.
•f. % H? *
“White Ibis”: Every Aboliar has seen
a jumbuck providing free transport for
starlings or willie-wagtails. Something
different in jockeys bobbed up at Penola
(S.A.), when a frill-neck lizard noncha-
lantly rode on the topknot of a weaner
in the middle of a closely-packed yard.
The excitement among the spectators was
shared by neither of the principal per-
formers. Frilly even appeared bored
when his woolly cobber was knocked
down for 14 bob.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Two hundred miles
from a doctor, with a piece of steel in
his eye, it looked as though Tom was in
for a bad time. We’d all had a go at it,
and the result, a badly-inflamed optic,
met with instant disapproval when old
Don, the boundary-rider, came in. “I
wouldn’t trust youse blokes ter git a
splinter out of a dorg’s paw,” he snorted,
but when, after a critical examination,
he got out his razor and stropped it, Tom
entered a protest. “It’s not as bad as all
that, Don,” he assured him, but Don
waved him to silence. Then he instructed
Bill to hold Tom’s head firmly—the
slightest move was forbidden—and, hold-
ing eyelids apart with finger and thumb,
he gently drew the cutting edge down-
wards over the eyeball. The old chap’s
hand was as steady as a rock, and the
tug as the blade drew over the steel
splinter increased each time. A minute
later it flew out. Tom's thanks were
fervent, but for months after he sported
a beard.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Shyest cove who ever
cadged for handouts on a track was the
“Rose o’ Tralee,” who would sooner sing
for his tucker than beg for it. He kept
to himself, tfusting in mates no more
after an episode near Moulamein
(N.S.W.) when Dick the Dasher and
Calico persuaded him to put the hard
word on a station cook at Noorong. The
Rose shuffled bashfully up to the cook-
house, knocked gently, and was rendered
almost speechless when the poisoner
appeared with a truculent look.
“C-c-could y’ s-s-spare a—er—bit o’
t-t-tucker?” he gasped, wishing the earth
would swallow him up. Then from be-
hind the tree to which they had sneaked
the Dasher and Calico roared with one
voice: “Why don’t y’ say ‘please’?”
The Rose bolted straight through the
cookhouse and has never been seen with
a mate since.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: That terrific jet of
water which “Nor’-west’s” squid ejected
(B. 3/5/’39) was merely its propelling
agent, and it was ejected forwards, and
consequently over its captor, because
that’s how the squid moves quickly—
backwards. Rapid progress frontwards
would be impossible because the long
arms would all spread out fanwise. If
“Nor’-west” had examined his squid
closely he’d have seen that the head
wobbles loosely in a wide collar of gristle,
in one side of which there is an orifice
through which the creature can eject a
jet of water with a force that hurls it
backwards with remarkable speed, its 10
arms trailing along in a compact pointed
bundle. The jet is stained with sepia,
“Nor’-west’s” “ink.” And the crew’s ver-
dict on squid soup is endorsed by all the
higher vertebrates of the finny tribe.
Squids form the greater part of their
food.
* * * *
“Langshan”: For weeks a large grey
spider has swung his web outside my
window. At the first glimmer of day-
light it races for the shelter of the
window-shade, where it remains all day,
not emerging to occupy the web again
until dusk. Yet the dazzle of a torch-
light played on it at night it utterly
ignores and goes on spinning as if it were
operating in pitch darkness. Why?
* * * *
“Bufo”: The hoarse protests of a frog
being swallowed by a snake are familiar
to most bush dwellers, but Joe doesn’t
have it all his own way by any means.
Frogs are amongst the most dangerous
of all enemies to young snakes, and kill
infinitely more of them than does our ex-
cellent publicist Jacky Kookaburra. The
curator of the great nature sanctuary at
Healesville (Vic.) has described how,
when he was curator at the Melbourne
Zoo, a frog, only a couple of inches long,
swallowed an B|in. young copperhead
snake. It began at the head, and for
some hours was capsized repeatedly by
the unwilling meal, but stuck to the job
until, after 22 hours, the last vestige of
the tip of young Joe’s tail was safely
under hatches,
* * $ *
“Mundowie”: Reported that Lake
Eyre, the baffling giant that has never
been properly explored, is gradually silt-
ing up with the millions of tons of sand
swept into it from the northern plains
and dunes. The great mystery of the
lake is what becomes of all the water that
pours into it. Its basin has an area of
4000 square miles, and in floodtime it
receives enormous volumes from the
Finke, Macumba, Georgina, Mulligan,
Burke, Hamilton, Neale, Cooper, Dia-
mantina, Barcoo, Frome, Kalla-koopa,
Wilson and numerous smaller streams;
and with all the great intake of fresh
water the lake remains salt. Rivers and
creeks from east, west and north lead
into it, but no sign of a watercourse leads
out of it. Yet the vast accumulation dis-
appears, and in drought periods the im-
mense bed is mostly mud, sand and salt,
interspersed with pools—an expanse of
blinding whiteness extending far beyond
the horizon. The only feasible theory is
that there is an underground connection
with the sea.
RICE HARVEST.
I know the look of a rice plot
When it gleams like a mantle spread
With tasselled fringes of golden grain
Hung down from each drooping head—
With a kite high in a clear sky,
And the bittern’s lordly booming;
And the fine sight of a hawk’s flight
Where the towering gums are looming.
And I will go to the rice fields
When there’s not a cloud in the sky—
To the green sward and the clean sward
That marks where the gleaners ply;
And a warm sun and a straight run
And the engine’s rhythmic drumming,
Like the low croon of an old tune,
A-blend with the header’s humming.
I love the smell of the moist earth,
Resilient where you tread,
And the fresh scent of the crisp stack
Where it thrives on a marshy bed,
And the calm scene and the pale green
Where the knives have shorn it level;
And a shade cool and a deep pool
Where the feathered fishers revel.
And I would join in the harvesting
In the warmth of the noonday sun
When the long team and the strong team
Are hauling the bounty won —
With my brow wet with the salt sweat
And never a thought of leisure,
While the bag fills as the grain spills
Like rain in a ceaseless measure.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat is an honest
man, too honest to hire his labor cheaply,
so when the cocky offered him a quid a
week and tucker, any hours, the big fel-
low rejected it. The cocky sneered, “I
seen your sort. Want a tenner a week,
don’t y’! You don’t know what good
honest work is!” “Well,” came back
Mat, “what good is it, at your price?”
* * * *
“Dash D.”: Simson and Williams had
struck good payable gold after years of
searching, and with the gold came sus-
picion. Each watched the other furtively
during their waking hours, and at night
dreamed of the growing store of metal
hidden in the earthen floor of their shanty
until such time as they could leave their
job to take the gold to the nearest bank.
One day when Williams was hauling
Simson from the shaft there came a
sudden jerk, and Simson was left dang-
ling half-way up. After much hard
climbing, and with disturbing thoughts
of his mate’s treachery, Simson reached
the top, prepared to do battle for his
share of the gold. Instead, he found the
body of his mate lying across and wedg-
ing the handle of the windless. Feeling
a heart attack coming on, Williams had
thrown himself across the windless rather
than let his mate go to his death at the
bottom of the shaft.
* * * *
“Passage Pilot”: Those fellows who
praise dugong bacon can have it their
own way. I don’t waste time making it
into bacon. I’ve eaten steer that won
the prize at the Brisbane Exhibition ; I’ve
sunk my teeth into baby-beef that was
sent to England as a sample of what
we could grow ; but the best beef ever I
ate was a young cow dugong, estimated
at about a two-year-old, and fat. With-
out giving any free ad. to anyone, mus-
tard is required to bring out the full
flavor of dugong, even as it is the proper
thing with turtle.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: I am always intrigued by
the tendency of patriots to identify their
nations with animals and birds, and with
the narrow range to which they confine
themselves. Look at
all the countries
which have eagles—
Germany and Aus-
tria have united
theirs. Italy’s is in
the background, but
Uncle Sam’s never
stops screaming. Re-
cently Russia has
gone into the bird
line. Stalin talks
about the Fascist
“ vultures, ” and
Voroshilov about
his “gallant Soviet
falcons.” The vul-
ture is an ugly-look-
ing cuss, but I have
nothing against him
except that he looks
like a standing ad-
vertisement for a
depilatory. He rarely
kills anything living ;
just eats dead meat,
like ourselves. But a
falcon —who would
identify himself with
a falcon? Falcons
are a race in which
the lady is the
stronger. Falcons are
birds of prey, the
prey being always
something smaller
than the falcon —
larks, grouse, hares,
partridge, rabbits.
I’d much sooner be
a kookaburra, who
serves a useful purpose in killing
snakes and rats. But when I start
my republic the giant clam of the
Barrier Reef is going to be my emblem.
Armored to the ears, always in the same
place, he is about the most dependable
animal alive. He minds his own busi-
ness ; but when you tread on his face
he just closes pp and you go home with-
out your leg—if the tide doesn’t rise
while you are getting rid of it.
* * *
“Laetitia”: A patient and efficient
tailor is the case-moth of N.Q. scrubs,
which encloses its young in a cocoon of
extra-robust texture, woven with marvel-
lous care. This protection is invulnerable
to animal or insect interference, but can
be torn with a deal of exertion by human
hands. However, if the ruptured cocoon
is left undisturbed, within the space of a
few hours the rents will be repaired, the
moth using a species of invisible mending
that would put any human tradesman to
shame for neatness.
* * * *
“Reef Dodger” (Noumea): That many
native superstitions are based on reason
was brought home to me recently. I had
to visit a small uninhabited island which
has no anchorage, and on which one can
only land during the calmest days of the
year, So a cutter dropped myself and two
natives in a dinghy in which we were to
row the five miles back to the mainland
next day. This small island is all that
remains of the sides of a large submarine
volcanic crater, and plays a large part
in the local native mythology. My two
black henchmen spent a jittery night
“Willing little beggahs , aren't they ?”
“What are you makin, Spike?"
“A pullover for the chief Warder .”
praying that there would be no deaths on
the mainland, for spirits of the departed
would have appealed on our island en
route for the nigs.’ “houri land.” On the
way back in the dinghy we reached a
spot in the submerged crater where dwelt
a devil, and the natives desired my
silence. Being naturally sceptical, I went
on talking till a native silently pointed
over the stern. I looked round and, being
windy, shut.up, for following about five
feet behind the dinghy was the daddy of
all ’rays. It must have weighed about 20
tons and measured about 15ft. from wing-
tip to wingtip, and it was recurving its fins
lazily. Perhaps the coons were right
after all, as I have seen one of these
monsters take a large canoe under by
cuiving its fins upwards round the canoe
and then sinking to the bottom with it.
* * * *
“Larrakeah”: The popular belief is
that Binghi is an improvident gorger, con-
tent to let the morrow look after itself.
That is probably true enough up to a
point; but two exceptions are his storing
away of the quids of bogong moth as a
standby in case of famine, and his treat-
ment of fish. In the Territory, when more
fish are caught than required for im-
mediate consumption, the flesh is scraped
from the bones after cooking and is then
kneaded into rissoles the size of a foot-
ball. When cool these are coated with
mud and stowed away for future use.
According to Binghi’s taste, whether he
likes his food just high or very much so,
these will keep up to six months.
* * *
“Jim the Joiner”: To “Salmon Gums”
(B. 10/5/’39) re curly jarrah. I have
seen that grain in stumps of tea-tree and
in the blades of cricket bats, and even
in pine. Fiddleback grain is only found
in the butt of trees, being formed by the
tree’s swaying in the wind when young,
owing to fibres in the butt becoming dis-
located and then succeeding growths
forming over the twisted parts. You can,
if you pay a high price, buy fiddleback
maple, blackwood, walnut, cedar, syca-
more, silver ash and satinwood.
* * * *
“Nawoc”: Cats don’t have charmed
lives on their own. A kite-hawk grabbed
a chicken from our butcher’s backyard
and, frightened by the report of a .22 rifle
fired by the butcher-boy, dropped it, the
chicken falling clean down a well.
The lad shinned down the well-pipe,
rescued the victim, dried and warmed it
by the fire, and an hour later it was
scratching round with the others.
* * sf *
“Gumsucker”: Ground bait, is it (B.
5/4/’39)? Many the time I was up at
dawn, out with old “Click” Shannon on
Lake Wendouree, Ballarat. “Click”
always laid his ground bait the night
before—firstly, to evade the eyes of the
fish curator, and, secondly, to give the
perch and tench ample time to gather
round. And it was a bit more artistic
than a perforated kero.-tin. A parrot
cage covered with fine wire mesh. For
enticement there was a freshly-boiled
liver (we called it a “pluck”), and an-
other liver in which had been developed
a fine population of inch-long maggots.
And did the waiting congregation take
the nice fresh worm so enticingly dropped
into their midst? Later, on a trip to the
Murray, I struck the hashmagandy bag.
This was a loosely-woven potato-sack full
of mutton and rabbit boiled to rags.
Hung over the stern of the dinghy and
given an occasional shake, it brought the
cod around.
* * * *
.“B.O.”: Having often had it impressed
on me that one should rise “with the
birds,” I feel that it is high time this
matter was cleared up. Actually birds—
with few exceptions—open a sleepy eye
at daybreak and don’t make a move until
the sun is high enough to shed warmth
as well as light. On an extra-cold morn-
ing the birds are active until much later
in the day, and this is because they don’t
busy themselves feeding until later than
usual. In fact, they are very human in
their outlook on early rising.
GUIDANCE.
I must take a walk to-day
While the morn is young and fair;
Leave my house and stray away—
Where I do not know or care.
While the eastern skies aglow
Still their early splendor keep,
From the town I’ll silent go
Rousing no one from his sleep.
By tall seaside pines I’ll wend,
Freshened by the morning wind,
Till I reach the long street’s end
And have left the town behind.
I shall pause upon a hill,
Thinking there what way to take.
While the dew is shining still
And the flowers are scarce awake.
At a loss what way to fare
There a ’wildered while I’ll rest —
For the track leads north from there,
And from there a track goes west.
But, anon, a bird a-wing
In the bush may music make,
And its guidance following
I shall know the way to take.
Straight ahead, my doubting gone,
West or northward I shall stride,
With a song to lead me on
Through the golden morningtide.
As that bird with luring song
Down the dewy distance speeds,
Time forgetting, leagues along,
I shall follow where it leads.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
mmH
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ADAMS' (T ATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
è
O. E. FRIEND
CECIL, 11. DOYLE
Directors*.
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman)
A. E. BOND
é
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager.
N. L.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
I Dividends— To Nominal
Pref. Re- Re-
feb., Profit.* 71 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £ £
1829. .200,404 56,250 8 p.e. = 100,000 44,154 64,568
1930. . 187,049 56,250 7 „ „ 87,500 43,299 107 867
1931.. 55,280 56,250 2 „ „ 25,000 81,897
Loss.
1932.. 16,907 Nil Nil 64,990
Profit.
1933.. 16,817 Nil Nil 16,817 81,807
1934.. 51,864 51,139 Nil 725 82.532
1935.. 84,387 87,188 f Nil 79,731
1936.. 97,941 87,188+ 2 p.c. = 25,000 65,484
1937. .109,416 43,593 44,, „ 56,250 9,573 75,057
1938. .113,026 43,593 5 „ ~ 62,500 6,933 81,990
1939. . 107,095 43,593 5 ~ ~ 62,500 1,602 83,592
* After deducting debenture interest. + Two years.
J Subject to goodwill, etc., now £273,153.
The services this more-than-century-old
organisation offers —they have been a big
factor in further widening and cementing
its extensive goodwill are second to
none, while reorganisation of depart-
ments, new show-windows and better
display and lift facilities have further
added to the attractiveness of the store
and the comfort of customers. Still,
owing to the universal nature of the
business, the co. has to carry a very wide
range of stocks, which include several
slow- as well as quick-moving lines, and
country trade accounts for a good slice
of turnover. The organisation, therefore,
cannot be judged on the same basis as
other retail establishments doing a purely
city turnover in specialised, quick lines.
After the public became interested in
1926, when £2,000,000 of share capital
was subscribed, it looked as though the
co. might develop into a steady 8 p.c.
proposition. But slump and subsequent
developments have strewn more difficul-
ties in the path of the universal pro-
vider than in that of most other traders.
So, although comfortable finances
enabled the co. to take immediate ad-
vantage of any improvement in condi-
tions, and the management lost no time
in successfully assaulting its problems,
it is doubtful whether much better than
5 p.c. need be looked for at present.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts unfavorable seasonal
conditions and low prices for wool and
wheat affected the volume of country
orders, while costs continued to rise,
mainly owing to the lift in wages. But
the lift in wages, continued growth of
buildjng activity and high level of em-
ployment helped city sales, which were
further assisted by shrewd buying, while
a tight hold was kept upon outgoings.
The management reports a further in-
crease in the total volume of business and
quickening of the rate of turnover. After
paying interest on debentures, making
whatever provision was considered neces-
sary for taxation and other contingencies,
and setting aside £51,714 (down £3584)
for depreciation, the board figured the
net result £5331 short of the previous
year’s at £107,695. That was 5.3 p.c. on
the £2,000,000 of share capital, of which
£750,000 carries a cumulative 7\ p.c.,
reduced to 5.8 p.c. under the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act. After paying the
prefs. their 5.8 p.c, enough remained to
show 5.1 p.c. on ord. capital. The div.
was kept at 5 p.c., and the £1602 that
remained reduced the amount of capital
unrepresented by tangibles to £189,561 —
goodwill, etc., figures at £273,153.
As for the current term, rains have
brightened the seasonal outlook and
eased the credit position, while export
prices have strengthened a trifle, and the
co. has bought the stocks of Highgates,
Ltd. But a long autumn has not helped
the sale of fashion goods, and further
increases in taxation can be expected on
account of defence expenditure. Still,
immediate prospects are that 5 p.c. to the
ords. will not be beyond reach at next
balance.
Last week-end the market priced the
ords., which touched 19s. in 1938,
at 15s. 3d. The return at 15s. 3d. is 6.5
p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at
21s. (24s. Id. in 1938) yield 5.5 p.c. on
a 5.8 p.c. distribution. The net tangible
backing is £2 8s. 3d. prefs. and 16s. lid.
ords.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it: —
1937. 1938. 1939.
Old. capital . . £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capita] . . 750,000 750,000 750,000
Debentures . . 600,000 580,000 560,000
Sundry creditors,
etc 84,633 117,175 152,014
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 1,281,236 1,258,865 1,246.123
Plant, etc. . . 256.951 242,086 212,828
Stocks . . . . 757,221 822,978 801,523
Book debts . . 224,469 243.487 306,761
Cash, etc. . . 63,289 32,597 49,959
To carry an extra £63,274 of book debts,
add £17,362 to cash and snip £20,000 off
the debenture debt, stocks were reduced
by £21,455, while £34,839 was added to
the outside debt and £42,000 more was
written off than was spent on fixed assets.
Including stocks, the year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£446,229) was £44,342.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
t Dividends ,,
Jan., Profit. Ord. Pref. Total. Reserves.
1929.. 229,322 10 p.c. 6 & 7 p.c. 120,303 543,345
1930.. 230,366 10 ,. 6 &7 „ 128,297 645,414
1931.. 226,265 9 „ 6&7 „ 122,170 749,509
1932.. 171,833 8 „ 6&7 „ 110,208 810,134
1933.. 181,967 8 „ 6&7 „ 110,208 881,893
1934.. 126,487 8 ., 6 & 7 ,, 110,208 898,172
1935.. 86,740 64,, 6&7 „ 91,410 893,502
1936.. 119,541 71 „ 6&7 „ 103,942 909,101
Insurance reserve, £1000 .. .. 910,101
1937.. 182,863 7J p.c. 6 & 7 p.c. 103,942 989,022
1938.. 153,870 74,, 6 <Sr7 „ 103,942 1,038,950
1939.. 162,995 7i „ 6&7 „ 103,942 1,098,003
Too much notice need not be taken of
those figures now. Legislation passed at
the end of 1937 placed electrical under-
takings in Queensland under control of
a commission (four members), which is
the price-fixing authority for current,
subject to the supplier’s right to appeal
to the Industrial Court.
For years the “Wild Cat” has pointed
to the danger, from an investor’s point
of view, of legislative control of cos.
operating public utilities. This Bris-
bane co. paid a steady 10 p.c. on its
ord. capital for the 15 years to the close
of accounts in 1930. Slump brought the
rate down to 9 p.c. in ’31, followed by
8 p.c p.a. for the next three terms.
Then fresh legislation was passed which
aimed at keeping earnings on share-
holders’ account at not more than 7 p.c.
on actual capital invested in assets used
for electric supply, actual capital being
the book value of assets less the allow-
ance for depreciation. That enabled the
co. to pay 6} p.c. in ’35 and 7i p.c. for
the four years to the close of last
accounts.
The State Electricity Commission Act
of 1937 does not specifically limit divi-
dends payable by a co. authorised to
supply current, but it charges the com-
mission with the duty of seeing that “the
price for electricity payable by con-
sumers shall be fair and reasonable to
the consumers and.... to the electric
authority supplying the same.” The
proposed agreement between the co. and
the commission provides for annual divi-
dends at approximately 2 p.c. above the
yield obtainable in the previous year
from Commonwealth loans “issued for
voluntary subscription.” If the agree-
ment is signed in its present form the
ord. div. for the 12 months to the end
of January next will be £5 17s. 6d. p.c.,
or £1 12s. 6d. p.c. less than the co.’s
last annual distribution, with the pos-
sibility of a trifle more in the following
term. Further, there will be no issue of
bonus shares, and, although a good deal
of capital will have to be borrowed, the
chairman is unable to say when share-
holders are likely to be asked for more.
The co.’s various reserves compare as
follows: —
1938. 1939.
Renewals, contingencies, etc... £724,426 £787,869
Renewals direct current . . 140.760 140,760
Taxation 106.421 104,823
Rad debts . . . . . . 2,000 2,000
Elec. loco, insurance . . .'. 1,000 1,000
Franchise . . . . . . 62,723 62,723
Reserve fund account . . 64,020 61,122
Profit and loss balance* ... 323 429
£1,101.673 £1,160,726
* After payment of final divs.
The franchise sinking fund exactly
offsets the intangible, leaving the
£1,098,003 shown in the introductory
table. At the end of January the two
renewals, etc., reserves were together
equal to 42.5 p.c. of the book value
(cost) of fixed assets; the year’s
allowance for depreciation was £68,776,
or approximately 3.1 p.c. of cost.
The tax reserve, however, appears to be
substantially in excess of actual require-
ments, last year’s allowance being
£34,460. Deducting this last-mentioned
amount, both renewals reserves and the
franchise sinking fund, the £134,914 that
remained would provide a one-for-nine
bonus scrip issue to the ords., to whom
the money belongs.
Under its agreement the co. is to co-
ordinate and extend the supply of current
throughout the south-east portion (it con-
tains about half the population) of the
State. Undertakings it is proposed to
acquire include Ipswich Electric Supply,
Ipswich, by amalgamation ; Electric Con-
struction Co., Southport and Nerang;
Coolangatta Electric Supply Co., Coolan-
gatta and Nerang; Universal Electric
Supply, Gympie ; and the Maroochy and
Beaudesert Shire Council plants, etc., at
Nambour and Beaudesert respectively.
The Crown has the right to purchase the
undertaking when the co.’s agreement
runs out, or at the end of any subsequent
period of 12 months thereafter. Payment
may be in debentures or cash, or both.
Last term extensions added £104,874 to
fixed assets, £15,511 to stocks and £53,098
to debtors’ balances: —
1936. 1938. 1939.
Capital .. ... £1,398,226 £1,398,226 £1,398,226
Sundry creditors.. 58,978 71,627 179,925
Property, plant,
mains, etc. . . 1,850,223 2,075,825 2,180,699
Stock . . . . 63,784 105.401 120,912
Book debts, etc.. . 50,566 137,541 190,639
Cash, public securities,
etc 454,703 241,647 235,874
To meet the outlay £108,298 was added
to the outside debt. The year’s contrac-
tion in the more or less liquid surplus
(£367,500) was £45,462.
The profit claimed was £11,206 lighter
than the previous year’s at £87,048, or
enough to pay the pref. divs. and show
6.1 p.c. on the £1,253,226 of ord. capital.
During the year the selling price of elec-
tricity was reduced by approximately 4
p.c. per unit, despite a lift of 6 p.c. in
the price of coal, a rise of 20 p.c. in rail
charges and an increase of 3s. per week
in the adult basic wage.
The proposed agreement with the com-
mission shocked the market, and the
price of the f.-p. £1 ords. fell sharply
from 31s. 4jd. in February to 24s. lOd.
last week-end. At the lower figure the
return is 4.7 p.c. on a 5.875 p.c. div.
basis. The 6 p.c. prefs. at 23s. 6d. and
the 7 per cents, at 27s. 3d. each yield
5.1 p.c.
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries
, — —Divs. Nominal
Net Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. 6 p.c. 5 p.e. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1936. . 31,625 1500 23,514 1 <, qq, q(, qou
Written off intangibles, £2717 ) a ’
1937.. 64,436 6000 23,542 \ aos 19 i9Q9
Written off intangibles, £3899 1 30 ’ 99a 121,233
Written off goodwill, £59,387 .. .. 61,846
6 p.c.
1938.. ' 75,212 6000 28,273 40,939 102,785
* Subject to goodwill ( £164.387 to commence, now
£105,000).
This is the co. which in 1934 fused the
interests of Electricity Meter Manufac-
turing Co. and New System Telephones
Pty., two Sydney concerns, formed in
1911 and 1920 respectively, with London
affiliations. The public became interested
toward the end of 1936, when 100,000
6 p.c. cum. prefs. were offered and
snapped and 75,344 new ords. were taken,
mainly by an English co., and both lots
of scrip listed. Paid capital thus became
£571,218 in 100,000 prefs. and 471,218
ords. At the end of December the lot,
together with the p. and 1. balance and
£5024 coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
was represented by shares in subsidiaries,
£394,936; advances to subsidiaries,
£177,945; divs. due from subsidiaries,
£50,081 ; debtors and cash, £134.
The meter co. (paid capital £294,344)
turns out electric meters, visible petrol
pumps, Philco radio equipment and
electric motors for refrigerators. The
telephone co. (paid capital £100,500) sells
or hires on long-term contracts the inter-
communication telephones made by its
principals (Telephone Manufacturing Co.,
London), and handles many of the
products of the meter co., as well as those
of Siemens and Halske, London.
During the last few years turnover of
the organisation has bounded ahead,
thanks to continued improvement in con-
ditions generally, the boom in the wire-
less trade, new building activity, aggres-
sive competition in the flat business and
defence expenditure. After providing
for depreciation, etc., and setting aside
£32,372 (up £16,488) for taxation, last
year’s net earnings for the entire organi-
sation were £10,776 better at £75,212, or
enough for the parent to pay its pref.
div. and show 14.6 p.c. on its ord. capital
as against 12.4 p.c. and 6.4 p.c. for the
two preceding years. Only a point was
added to the div., making it 6 p.c. More
was put by than was distributed, thus
reducing the amount of capital unrepre-
sented by tangibles to £2215 —goodwill,
now £105,000, was reduced by £59,387
during the year.
Referring to the small increase in the
div., the chairman says:
The directors were influenced by the present
unsettled state of international affairs, our
commitments and obligations in connection
with our accepted offer of co-operation
with the defence authorities, our building
plans (necessary in order to obtain more
economical production at our works), and
the distinct possibility that our sales and
profit for 1939 would not reach the level
of 1938.
The announcement fitted in pretty well
with the anticipations of the market,
which prices the ords. at 245. 9d. and
the prefs. at 245. lid. The yield in each
case is approximately 4.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is
£5 13s. 9d. prefs. and 19s. lid. ords.
Here are combined balance-sheet
figures:—
1935. 1937. 1939.
Paid capital* .. .. £394,944 £571.218 £571,213
Paid capital, etc/f . . 5,144 7,426 11,684
Sundry creditors! . . 143,220 118,421 113,201
Loans, etc.+ . . . . 83,000 -
Freehold, plant, etc. . . 154.000 163,451 173,512
Stocks 200,527 247,339' 246,089
Debtors’ balances, etc. 195,009 243,334 224,868
Cash and deposits . . 26,237 77,599
* Owned by holding co. t Not owned by holding
co. or its subsidiaries. § Including tax provision.
I From overseas shareholders.
Chief movements were a reduction of
£18,466, in debtors’ balances, a net growth
of £10,061 in fixed assets and an addition
of £51,362 to cash, etc. The year’s growth
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£435,355) was £36, 8(16.
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


AUSTRALIAN
CONSOLIDATED
INDUSTRIES LTD.
ANNUAL MEETING
VAST AUSTRALIAN UNDERTAKING
The annual meeting of the Australian
Consolidated Industries, Ltd. (formerly
the Australian Glass Manufacturers Co.,
Ltd.), was held on Wednesday, 17th inst.,
at the company’s office, Melbourne. The
chairman of directors (Mr. E. Norton
Grimwade) presided.
The chairman, in detailing the vastness
of the company’s undertaking and the
proposed extensions, said the various
companies employed almost 5000 persons,
and distributed annually in wages and
salaries well over £1,000,000. In addi-
tion to the increasing number of products
manufactured by subsidiaries, a new fac-
tory for the manufacture of figured rolled
glass would be in production in a few
weeks’ time. The chairman added that
the company was now planning to make
new lines in glass not previously made
in Australia’.
In moving the adoption of the report
and balance sheet, the chairman said:
“Ladies and gentlemen, before com-
mencing the usual business of the meet-
ing I would like to refer to an important
matter concerning an additional director
on the board. I am pleased to say Mr.
Arthur E. Smith, our general manager,
accepted an invitation to join the board
of the company. His knowledge and
experience of our industries and business
make him a valuable acquisition to the
board. Under article 84, Mr. A. E. Smith
retires, and offers himself for re-election,
NAME ALTERED.
“Since our last annual meeting, held
in June, 1938, the company, on the
twenty-fifth day of January last, altered
its name from Australian Glass Manu-
facturers Co., Ltd., to Australian Con-
solidated Industries, Limited., the latter
being considered a much more appro-
priate name in view of the widespread
nature of the company’s interests. On
March 15 last the shareholders, at an
extraordinary general meeting, unani-
mously ratified and confirmed your direc-
tors’ action in sectionalising the major
activities of the company by forming
eight (8) subsidiary companies. A copy
of the proceedings of the meeting of
shareholders was sent to every share-
holder.
“The shareholders have been kept fully
informed by communications sent out
from our head ogice, and further refer-
ence to the plan was made in the direc-
tors’ report sent out with the balance
sheet on the 27th of last month. I believe
I need neither reiterate nor deal any
further with the matter; suffice to say
that the necessity and wisdom of section-
alising our various industries, in the best
interests of our industrial development,
has already been amply confirmed.
ACCOUNTS.
“The profit and loss account shows that
the net profit arising from the year’s
operations, after provision for taxation,
depreciation, reserves, and all trading
charges, was £324,511 12s. 4d. Out of
this the directors have transferred to the
credit of the general reserve £50,000.
A dividend of 7 p.c. was paid on Novem-
ber 16, 1938, on the ordinary shares
then issued, as well as the usual half-
yearly dividend on the preference shares,
these payments absorbing £73,008 9s. 3d.
It was also recommended that final divi-
dends for the year be declared as under:
On ordinary shares, Is. per share, re-
quiring £174,464 125.; on preference
shares, 4| p.c., requiring £7875 —
£182,339 125.—£305,348 Is. 3d., leaving
£19,163 11s. Id., which, added to the bal-
ance brought forward from the previous
accounts, £128,360 ss. lid., makes
£147,523 17s. to be carried forward to
the current year.
SUBSIDIARIES.
“Your Company now owns fourteen
(14) subsidiary companies, and they are
as follows:
NAME AND KIND OF
MANUFACTURE.
1. Australian Glass Manufacturers
Company Proprietary, Limited: Glass
Containers of all kinds, Felspar and
Silica deposits, etc.
2. Australian Window Glass Pty.,
Ltd.: All kinds of Window Glass,
Figured Rolled Glass, Glass Bricks, etc.
3. A.C.I. Engineering Pty., Ltd.:
Machines, Moulds, Dies, Presses, and
general engineering.
4. A.C.L Fibre Packages Pty., Ltd.:
Corrugated Strawboard Boxes and
Cartons.
5. A.C.I. Investments Proprietary,
Ltd.: To deal with the Investments of
the Parent and Subsidiary Companies.
6. A.C.I. Metal Stamping and Spinning
Proprietary, Ltd.: Metal Caps, Steel
Furniture, Lighting Ware, Display Stands
and, generally, Stamped and Spun Metal.
7. A.C.I. Plastics Proprietary, Ltd.:
All kinds of Plastic articles.
8. Bernard-Smith (Pty.), Ltd.: Fabri-
cated Steel.
9. Brunton’s Bright Steel Proprietary,
Ltd.: Free Cutting Bright Steels. -
10. Crown Crystal Glass Pty. Ltd.:
Flint, Blown, Pressed, Hand-cut Crystal
Glassware and Lighting Ware, etc. (in
Sydney).
11. Dott and Co. Pty., Ltd.: Flint and
Blown Glassware and Lighting Ware (in
Melbourne).
12. New Zealand Glass Manufacturers
Company Proprietary, Ltd.: Glass Con-
tainers of all kinds and Corrugated Straw-
board Boxes (in New Zealand).
13. Queensland Glass Manufacturers
Company Proprietary, Ltd.: Glass Con-
tainers of all kinds (in Queensland).
14. South Australian Silicates Com-
pany Proprietary, Ltd.: Produces Silica,
Flint, Kaolin, etc.
“During the year the demand for the
production of the various companies has
been good, and in some cases record
turnovers were established.
“Australian Consolidated Industries,
Limited, is now a holding company, and
will receive its revenue by way of divi-
dends from its subsidiary companies,
rents from certain freehold property-
such as the property in Spencer-street,
Melbourne, and the one to be built in
William-street, Sydney—interest, etc.
GLASS CONTAINERS.
“During the last year we have made
important additions to our glass plants,
and in every department they have been
kept maintained in first-class order.
Our machines, equipment and methods
are most modern, and the service ren-
dered by our overseas connections, plus
visits abroad by our important officers,
play an invaluable part in keeping us
continually abreast of world-wide im-
provements in the glass and other fields
of industry. In all States of the Com-
monwealth and New Zealand we pur-
posely keep a surplus of plant and
equipment, which may be commissioned,
if necessary, at short notice, in order
to maintain prompt service to cus-
tomers. Heavy stocks of bottles and
jars are always on hand, the variety of
shapes and finishes of which continue
to grow enormously in number. The
different kinds of machines and equip-
ment we have enable us to produce
varied and fancy designs of glass con-
tainers, with accurate finishes, some of
which are designed to take our different
patented seals. The advantages of the
glass container are substantial; such
containers give maximum eye appeal, and
create confidence; for instance, in a
food manufacturer’s products, because
quality is associated with goods sold in
transparent containers; they are most
adaptable, and they lend themselves to
creative design; they are hygienically
perfect, and easy to clean and sterilise;
goods cannot suffer due to reaction
with glass. I predict continued and in-
creased importance for glass containers
in this country and New Zealand, and
our efforts will always be directed to in-
creasing sales by maximum service.
ARCHITECTURAL GLASS.
“During the early part of the finan-
cial year the Australian Window Glass
Pty., Ltd., acquired from overseas the
latest process for the manufacture of
figured rolled glass, and a new factory
has been erected and equipped with
modern plant and machinery. The glass
will be produced by a continuous method,
and it is safe to say that the product
will be of the highest quality it is pos-
sible to produce. The factory will be
in operation within the next few weeks.
The demand for glass bricks continues
to grow. The usefulness of glass bricks
has gained wide recognition among archi-
tects and builders. The demand for bent
glass, also grave glass—which previously
was all produced by us in Sydney—is
so encouraging that we have recently
established plants in Melbourne.
ENGINEERING.
“The A.C.I. Engineering Pty., Ltd., is
engaged in purchasing work for all our
subsidiary companies, and general engi-
neering requirements. The plants in both
Sydney and Melbourne are equipped with
all the modern tools,, which enables the
company to carry out probably a greater
variety and volume of work than any
other similar concern in the Common-
wealth. This company is supported by a
highly technical designing staff, has its
own foundry, and specialises in Mee-
hanite Metal, for which we hold the ex-
clusive Australian license. The merits
of this metal are well known to the
engineering trade, both in this country
and abroad.
METAL STAMPING.
“Our plants produce a wide range of
metal articles, catering fully for all the
requirements of commercial buildings
and the home.
PLASTICS.
“The A.C.I. Plastics Pty., Ltd., is con-
tinually adding to its lines of produc-
tion, the latest installation in this de-
partment being a 1000-ton press for the
production of articles such as radio
cabinets, etc. The demand for plastic
goods continues to increase, and so the
directors are encouraged by the prospects
of this subsidiary company.
STEEL.
“Bernard-Smith (Pty.), Ltd., is very
actively engaged in the fabrication of
steel for building construction, and has
recently made substantial additions to the
buildings, and acquired more machinery
with a view to furthering its manufactur-
ing activities in other directions.
CROWN CRYSTAL.
“We have reason to be proud of the
high standard of quality obtained in all
sections of this industry. The increased
turnover of the company is strong evi-
dence of the public’s approval and appre-
ciation of the excellent quality of these
Australian products. We invite share-
holders, after the meeting, to inspect the
display on the ground floor.
N.Z. GLASS MANUFACTURERS.
“The New Zealand Glass Manufac-
turers Company Proprietary, Limited,
produces all kinds of glass containers and
corrugated strawboard boxes in the
Dominion, and, at the present time, is
duplicating its plant to produce corru-
gated strawboard.
QUEENSLAND GLASS.
“The Queensland Glass Manufacturers
Company Pty., Ltd., is producing glass
containers, and the demand in the
northern State is satisfactory.
SOUTH AUS. SILICATES CO.
“Your company recently acquired a
valuable silicate deposit at Longwood,
South Australia, and as a result of such
purchase certain important industrial ex-
tension is now being considered by your
directors.
SYDNEY PROPERTY.
“For some time past we have consid-
ered the advisability of erecting in Wil-
liam Street, Sydney, a seven-storey build-
ing. Tenders will be let this month, and
the work will proceed forthwith. The
building is to provide offices and show-
rooms for the various companies, and is
splendidly located for the purpose.
CURRENT FINANCIAL YEAR.
“As regards the current financial year
just entered upon, prospects are good,
subject, of course, to a continuance of
present conditions. We are fully con-
scious that the immediate future is full
of uncertainty and possible difficulties,
and we are well mindful of it in shaping
our plans.
SHAREHOLDING.
“Our shares are widely held by 3631
different holders. Eighty-two per cent, of
the shareholders are resident in Australia,
17 per cent, in New Zealand and 1 per
cent, elsewhere. The average number
of shares held by each shareholder is
1009.
WIDESPREAD ORGANISATION.
“In concluding this address I claim
that we may look with satisfaction over
the last 67 years, when there was started
at South Melbourne, Victoria, a small
works -from which this large industrial
organisation has sprung. In those early
days primitive rule-of-thumb methods had
to be, or were, used. To-day our dif-
ferent industries are spread over the
Commonwealth of Australia and at
Auckland (N.Z.), and the plants have all
benefited —and continue to benefit —by
research and proper technical guidance.
Scientific management has contributed
much to our advancement. Our organisa-
tion always carefully investigates new
ideas, and there is always some important
one on the way.
“I claim we can pride ourselves on our
industrial achievement. The early vicissi-
tudes and repetitive difficulties were met
with indomitable courage and continuous
expenditure of substantial capital, in spite
of financial loss and further risk. Our
success is the result of courageous and
enterprising policy, and it is well deserved.
We are now planning to manufacture
new lines in glass not previously made in
this country, and other plans for indus-
trial development are being considered..
I hope when the shareholders meet a year
hence the plans will have materialised.
“At the present time our various com-
panies directly employ almost 5000
people, and distribute annually, in wages
and salaries, well over £1,000,000. To
what extent our expanding ramifications
indirectly cause employment in Australia
and New Zealand I cannot say, but I am
encouraged to think it is both very sub-
stantial and very valuable. We are
pleased, indeed, to serve the country by
playing our part in developing industry,
and, consequently, by providing addi-
tional employment for Australian and
also New Zealand workers. It is both
encouraging and pleasing to us to see
the number of employees on our payrolls
increase.
“We are assisting the Commonwealth
Government by providing land and build-
ings for the manufacture of defence ma-
terial. I am sure shareholders will ap-
prove of the company realising—and act-
ing up to —its national responsibility by
heartily co-operating with the military
authorities in these menacing days.
“I cannot close my remarks without
paying a sincere tribute to the honest
work and good will of our entire staff
of workers. This fact conduces largely
to the general efficiency of the entire
activities of the company, and, briefly,
the directors take great pleasure in ac-
knowledging this most happy condition.”
The motion for the adoption of the
report and balance-sheet was seconded by
Mr. L. Evans, and was agreed to. The
retiring directors, Messrs. H. W. Grim-
wade, W. J. Smith and A. E. Smith, were
re-elected, and the appointment of Mr.
A. E. Smith to the board was confirmed.
The retiring auditor, Mr. A. G. Hooke,
was re-elected.


ê
OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD.
FOR THE QUARTER ENDED 31ST MARCH, 1939.
* The Estimated Mine Profit is from permitted quota sales before providing depreciation and overhead charges.
A better way
than
GAMBLING
ALL gambling is not with cards
or on horses.
When a man makes no
financial provision for the protection
of his wife and children in the event
of his death, he gambles with
DEATH—AT THEIR EXPENSE.
If he die they will suffer. There is
a better way to live than that: a
happier way that provides peace of
mind for all concerned.
If you, sir, are gambling with
Death and are anxious and worried
about the financial future, ask the
nearest A.M.P. office to send you
an experienced man to show you
how the Society can help you elimi-
nate worry; and can help you look
the world in the eye. It is a cheer-
ful story that he will tell you.
If you prefer, write for a copy of
“Investing in Happiness. Write
to-day. Even to-morrow may be
too late; you never know.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
Northcote Brick Co., Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1929.. 16,985 10 p.c. = 15,000 1985 49,974
1930.. 13,198 10 „ „ 15,000 48,172
Loss. -
1931.. 1,858 2J „ „ 3,750 42,564
1932.. 2,530 Nil 40,034
Profit.
1933.. 3,181 l§p.c. = 2,500 681 40,715
1934.. 8,846 5 „ „ 7,500 1346 42,061
1935. . 14,398 85 „ „ 13,125 1273 43.334
1936.. 9,375 6| „ „ 9,375 43,334
1937.. 9,591 6J „ „ 9,375 216 43,550
1938.. 15,861 85 „ „ 13,125 2736 46,286
1939.. 11,532 74 „ ~ 11,250 282 46,568
There are 14 brick cos., or thereabouts,
in Melbourne metropolitan area, which
means that competition is very keen, and
delivery charges, which are part of the
cost to the buyer, have become an im-
portant factor affecting manufacturers’
sales. This co., whose works are at North-
cote, north of the Yarra, gets its fair share
of city business, and it owns approxi-
mately one-third of the capital in other
brick cos. operating at Blackburn,
Auburn and Oakleigh.
What has happened in the trade the
following table, showing the value of
building permits issued in Greater Mel-
bourne, helps to illustrate:
Year to Year to
Mar. 31, Value. Index. Mar. 31, Value. Index.
1929. . £8,196,377 100 1930.. £6,984.180 85
1932.. 1,429.431 17 1937.. 7,310,673 89
1934.. 3,896.064 48 1938.. 8,451,216 103
1935.. 5,058,216 62 1939.. 8,572,486 105
The spring of £121,270 in last year’s
figure (the leap in the previous term was
£1,140,543) lifted the index further above
the 1929 level; but steel-and-concrete
structures now figure more prominently
than they,used to.
Since November, 1938, standard bricks
have been selling in Melbourne at 68s.
per 1000, plus cartage, as against 625.
for the preceding 22 months. The lift
in price was due to the rise in wages.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts this co.’s sales were a bit
lighter, and, after allowing £553 (down
£1551) for depreciation, the net result
(down £4329) was 7.7 p.c. on capital as'
against 10.5, 6.3, 9.5, 6.8, 5.8 and 2.1
p.c. back to 1933. The div. was lowered
from 8| p.c. to 1\ p.c., making the
distribution over the last eight
*years 5.8 p.c., and for the 10 years be-
fore that 10.9 p.c.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1927. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 4,823 2,205 2,173 2,317
Freeholds . . 88,230 90,021 89.133 88,073
Plant, etc. . . 34.725 36,951 39,602 40,936
Stocks . . 2,447 1,888 2,876 2,189
Book debts . . 11.861 4,055 6,614 6,934
Shares other cos. 36,361 41,821 41,821 44.321
Cash, etc. . . 33,060 24,552 27,787 23,932
Including stocks but not shares in.other
cos., the more or less liquid surplus
(£30,738) was £4366 lighter than at the
previous balance.
The market expresses its estimate of
the risks involved by pricing the pound
ords., covered by 265. 2d. in net tangibles,
at 21s. The return at 21s. is 7 p.c. on
a 7j p.c. div. basis.
Jelapang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
With a rich property and dredge capa-
city high in relation to capital this
Malayan venture in the Anglo-Oriental
stable is capable of attractive divs. under
favorable quota conditions.
The property extends along the Ipoh-
Jelapang road, Perak. Water is plenti-
ful, and there are no special digging dif-
ficulties, though clay is present in parts.
Dredging reserves at Dec. 31 were
20,350,000 c.y., averaging 0.861 b. per c.y.,
metallic tin content of the oxide being
high at over 75 p.c. At the nominal capa-
city of the plant (150,000 c.y. monthly),
an 11-year life is indicated nearly 19
years at last term’s rate of turnover.
Floated by Tanah Biji in 1925, the
dredge was idle between 1930-36.
Operations were resumed in the latter
year, with these results, the plant being
meanwhile reconstructed and converted
to electric drive: —-
_ „ t —Surplus— y —'Dividends—,
Dec., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1936.. I £49 ’ 330 £28 > 7 89 £20,541 3/4 Nil Nil
ITo bucket-line renewal, £4OOO.
,„ ow ( ‘ GB > 392 32 > 767 35,625 5/11 4/-£24,000
1907.. -J To bucket-line renewal, £2OOO.
[Struck off plant, £30,000.
1938 . ' 25 > 890 16 > 904 5,986 1/6 1/- 6,000
( To depreciation, etc., reserve, £5OOO.
* Includes depreciation: 1936, £1648; 1937, £7625.
Quotas were against the co. last term,
permissible output being 37.3 p.c. of
assessment, or less than half the previous
term’s 77.75 p.c. allotment. Also, the
metal fetched less, and unit costs rose
owing to the restriction of digging to
seven months of the year. The net result
thus slipped £26,639 to £8986, and divs.
were cut back from 4s. to Is. a share.
For depreciation and depletion reserve,
£5OOO was earmarked. In the previous
term, £7625 was written off the book
value of the assets direct; in addition,
balance of general reserve (£30,000) was
struck off the plant, the idea being “to
relieve future years of any heavy charge
on account of depreciation.”
Dredging performances compare this
way:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Cubic yards dug . . 949,000 1,365,000 1,030,000
Recovery t. 0., tons 408.64 441.4 419.3
Av. per c.y., 1b... 0.96 0.72 0.91
Assay, p.c. .. 75.6 75.3 76.0
Working costs c.y.,
pence ... . . 4.42 3.39 3.97
Net ore realisation,
ton .. .. £122/5/8 ’£l47/7/3 £ll6/16/
Singapore average
metallic tin, ton £192/11/10 £236/9/1 £lBO/9/11
At Dec. 31 ore stocks at the mine
amounted to 180 tons. The plant has
consequently been on a care-and-mainten-
ance basis since the beginning of the year,
and the report gives no hint as to when it
is likely to start up again. Nominal assess-
ment is 404 tons t.o. p.a.
Paid capital is £120,000 in £1 shares,
worth 365. apiece in the sharemarket as
against 41s. a year ago. At balance date
the co. had £34,966 in liquids and owed
£10,370. London price of tin for the first
four months of the current term has aver-
aged £215, compared with a mean £lB9
12s. for 1938.
Recent returns from the Grey River
(M.L.) gold dredge have not been up to
maket expectations, and the f.-p. 10s.
shares (570,000 issued) have slumped to
16s. 9d. A few weeks ago they were
eagerly sought at 18s. The co. is working
an alluvial deposit at Ikamatua, 33 miles
from Greymouth. Taking gold at
£8 15s. per ounce, N.Z. currency, the
prospectus estimated that the 62,000,000
c.y. measured up would have a gross re-
coverable value of 6.9 d. per c.y. All-in
costs were put at 3.3 d., leaving a net
profit of 3.6 d. per c.y. The deposit is
easy to work, and since operations com-
menced early in December, 1938, the
dredge has treated 1,720,145 c.y. for
35410 z. of gold. This works out at only
4.31 d. per c.y., but those who ought to
know say that the dredge has not yet
worked into the “golden ground,” where
returns will equal or exceed prospectus
estimates.
* * * 4=
Leechworth Alluvials made a profit of
£26,381 last year as against a loss of
£2259 for the preceding 12 months, and
a 20 p.c. div. (£3277) was paid. The profit
came from the sale of the co.’s Harriet-
ville (Vic.) property to Harrietville
(Tronoh), Ltd., for £15,000 cash, plus
£25,000 in f.-p. shares, together with
10 p.c. of any capital increase above
£375,000 and the right to subscribe for
£lO,OOO worth of scrip in the operating
co. at par. The cost of acquiring and
testing the Harrietville property was
£9OBO, and £3988 was spent during the
year on testing other areas, none of
which was reckoned to be worth further
consideration. The co.’s Reedy Creek
offshoot, in which it holds 77,800 shares,
suspended operations in January, owing
to unsatisfactory yields. The pup, which
has an up-to-date sluicing plant, is on
the hunt for another property. The
parent now has under consideration some
alluvia 1 in Queensland
* £ * *
Haaietville (ironoh), j_4d., regis-
tered in Melbourne in March last with a
nominal capital of £500,000 in ss. shares
by Tronoh Finance, Ltd., an offshoot of
Tronoh Mines, Ltd., of London, which
controls a number of tin-dredging con-
cerns in Southern Asia. A. H. Flower-
dew figured that the area contains
96,000,000 c.y. of dredgeable dirt, aver-
aging 1.92 gr. gold, and, if things go as
expected, the new venture will pay some-
thing around 20 p.c. p.a. The dredge,
designs for which are now being finalised,
will have a capacity of 350,000 c.y.
monthly, and will be able to dig to 130 ft.
below water level. The pontoon, which
will weigh 1080 tons, will be 300 ft. long
by 72ft. wide, and have a maximum
depth of 12ft. The superstructure to
support the bucket-band and gold-
collection equipment will weigh 1300
tons. Total weight of the entire dredge,
which will be among the largest in the
world, will be over 4500 tons. A con-
tract has been let for excavation of the
paddock, which will have an area of
more than three, acres. The plant will
be electrically operated, power being
drawn from the State Government
supply. At least 1200 kv.a. will be re-
quired
* * $
Lake View and Star (W.A.) continues
to do well. During the March quarter it
treated 158,204 tons of ore and re-treated
173,269 tons of tailings for £A362,825.
Working costs took £182,582, and ordi-
nary development £19,256, leaving a
working surplus of £160,987. Expendi-
ture on capital account, special develop-
ment and plant totalled £32,935. Out-
standing features of exploratory work
were the exposure of good ore at the
3670 ft. level in the Horseshoe, and the
intersection of No. 2 lode on the 3260 ft.
level in Chaffers. Over 4000 ft. of
diamond-drilling was done.
* * * *
Reduction of the div. from 6s. to ss.
a share by Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) is
due to the increased demands of the
taxgatherer, for whom £34,000 is re-
served, as against £20,000 in ’37. Before
appropriations, profits for 1938 were
actually £4878 higher at £5131,874.
Depreciation provision is unchanged at
£5OOO, but allotment for sinking of the
new internal shaft is £5OOO heavier at
£lO,OOO. Thanks to increased through-
put, the latest showing was £2714 better
than the 1936 effort, despite loss of ldwt.
in recoveries (s.9dwt. for 1938) and the
upward trend of costs meantime.
* * * *
Norm Kalgurli (W.A.) estimates posi-
five ore reserves, including 172,297 tons
broken stQpes and hand? at
780,701 tons, averaging 7.B4dwt. A year
ago the figure was 45,647 tons less;
meanwhile 132,666 tons has been mined
and treated Probable ore is ured at
201>770 tons> averaging 6 . 6od wt. De-
pmental features during 1938 were
tbe o p e ning-up of several long shoots of
b j gb iy_p a y ab i e ore j n tbe nor th (Union
Jack) £nd of the co/s main group , and
eX p OSUre between the 1000 ft. and 1250 ft.
leve]s of big formations of a grade above
m j ne average in the south (Kalgurli) end.
j be flotation treatment plant to be in-
stalled on the Croesus Prop grouP) some
d j stance nordl of the main group, will
have a capacity of 6000 to 7000 tons a
mondl an d is expected to be in operation
withjn n months
BRIEF ANSWERS,
L.s.: It means that there are 4.68 dollars
to the P° und sterling. Since the dollar is
....g.A.D.: No open market for the bonds,
which are a long-term speculation. Write
secretary and ask if he can find a buyer
J.T.: (1) Co. has not sent a balance sheet to
the P ress for some time, nor are requests for
one of any avail. (2) Bondholders’ prospects
anything but bright... .M.P.: Never likely to
be J mU ch j n it. South Aus. Brewing offers much
better prospects H.S.: Hold; development
and prospecting programme not yet com-
P lete M.M.: A gamble, and guesses at what
bond i lo j ders are likely to get aren’t worth
much at the moment.


SP*
«<e m
1
SB
r*
*
At
& OTHER CORpiAgS
SMOKE-OH!
“Banks strike a balance at the end of every
month.”
Ours is always too weak to strike back.
4* *b »b
“Singers have the power to lift people out
of themselves.” — “Sunday Sun.”
Some are strong enough to empty a
hall, tor*
“But how did I know you Were going to stop? You didnt put your hand out.”
“Lingerie to Fit the Purse.” — Advt.
It has long been expected it would
come to this.
' *b *b *b *b
“Garden of Eden Improvement.”
— “Sun” heading.
How about growing the apples ready-
peeled?
•b *b *b *b
“What is more pleasant than the piping of the
yellow robin in an eastern jungle?”
—“S. M. Herald.”
The liquid notes of the sunburnt swal-
low in a Far West pub.
•b *b *b *b
“There* are many things which hold us in
strong attachment to a garden.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
F’rinstance, the wife.
•b *b *b *b
“Notwithstanding that Mr. Jorgensen is
over 80 years of age, he has never spoken to
anyone over the telephone.”— “D.T.”
Still, there’s always the hope that he
will get the right number before he dies.
•b *b 4* *b
“Writer says the caveman enjoyed more peace
of mind than does modern man.”
He settled his domestic rows by going
to his club.
•b *b *b *b
“She looked at the young man so obviously
in love with her with a salvage joy.”
— Women’s paper.
Salvage? Well, she was saving him
from some other girl, of course.
4* 4* 4*
“Gun play after dispute at party.”
—“Daily News.”
There’s always a bit of a row when
people get shot at a party.
»!«
“There is music in all of us.” — Musical mag.
Many a married man has been harped
into giving out a few notes.
•b *b *b *b
“Sailors are usually more robust than
soldiers.” — News item.
A weigh they have in the navy.
•b 4* »b *b
“Telephone Apparatus Stolen.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
If they get the thief they’ll get the
receiver at the same time.
•£•
“Picture theatres should not be shoddily
built.” — “Sun.”
They do need sound equipment.
•b *b *b *b
“The two largest fish ever caught, a black
marlin and a tiger shark, are to tour Aus-
tralia.” —“ Daily News.”
Lotte Lehmann predicts that if they
go by rail they will catch death of cold.
•J*
“Movie Museum to be established at Holly-
wood.” — Film blurb.
The.first exhibit no doubt will be the
scenario on which the industry was
founded and has flourished ever since.
“Where do songwriters get their ideas?”
—Musical mag.
What ideas?
■s' »b -I*
“Big-game fisherman best man at society
wedding.”— Daily.
Seeing another poor fish landed.
Correspondence.
“There should be a movement to sweep
away the stodgily-worded business letter. The
stilted, mid-Victorian endings are read, if at
all, with derision, and the salutations are even
more stereotyped and monotonous.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
The letters which to me they’re always
sending
May finish up with “We remain,” “We
are,”
“Believe us, sir,” or some such other
ending;
I can’t be sure —I never get that far.
The salutation ? Well, that never ranges
Over the lexicon, as one might guess.
It’s quite monotonous and never
changes —
Its opening words are these: “Dear
Sir, —U nless”
Bo.
Premeditated.
“Germany is ready to march the moment
her patience is exhausted. This moment will
be carefully determined beforehand.”
—“Danziger Vorposten.”
The resemblance between Maria and
Germany becomes more plain to me
every day. She doesn’t lose her temper
at any old time. It’s always there, in a
state of perpetual mobilisation, as it were.
Indiscreetly I may let out that I expect
a special cheque on the 15th of the
month. Maria plans—whatever her up-
heavals in the meantime may be —that on
the 15th of the month her patience will
be exhausted. Whatever my nervous
efforts to avoid it, the crisis comes that
day. She is ready to march, so to speak,
and she walks all over me.
“Aitchem,” she says, “you haven’t come
home smelling of liquor for a week. I’ve
been watching you carefully. You think
you’re clever, but I know you’ve got some
deep scheme in your mind. And you’ve
brought me home flowers two nights run-
ning! ”
“I thought you would like them,” I
say lamely.
“You thought I would like them!” she
repeats scornfully. “A model husband,
aren’t you? Do you think I haven’t read
enough novels to know that when a hus-
band brings home presents to his wife it
means he’s trying to salve a guilty con-
science? Who is the woman? It’s no
use you trying to hide it from me —I in-
tend to find out.”
“I assure you”
“You assure me! Let me tell you,
Aitchem, that my patience is exhausted. I
have stood this kind of thing too long,”
she says, her belligerence rising at once
to a high tempo.
That’s the start of it. By the time she
has finished that cheque is a mere rag, so
to speak.
H.M.
“Why not a fashion page for men ?”
A writer bleats in grief.
Why not ? A precedent there is —
For Adam had a leaf.
ELM.
Brown Study.
“While he was begging pennies in the city
streets, nobody realised that he was a ‘wanted’
man.”— Crime story.
I wonder if the sinner
Perceived the humor grim
In being after coppers
With coppers after him ?
T. W. N.
How to Become a Handyman.
A Complete Guide.
VI.
By the time the paint has been mixed,
the brush reduced to a more or less
malleable condition and the “blisters” on
the woodwork flattened, darkness will
have overhauled you. Next morning there
will be a thick “skin” over the paint.
In no circumstances stir this in.
Not that it would spoil the paint; far
from it, for it possesses considerable
“body.” But too much of it, even if cut
up into small bits, would sink to the
bottom and be wasted.
First get a sharp knife and run it right
around the vessel holding the paint. This
will free the “skin,” which can be lifted
out in one piece. There are alternative
methods of utilising it. The best is to
wring it out, but unless you possess wrists
sufficiently strong to extract the last drop
it would be preferable to slice it into
handy-size pieces, which can then be held
in the palm of the hand, the dry side
inwards, and then to briskly rub the other
side, which will be of the consistency
of hot burgoo, over the woodwork. This
can later be finished off neatly with the
brush, and any dried bits of the “skin”
still adhering to it can easily be blown
off.
Having thus made use of something
which the ordinary mug would thought-
lessly have 'tossed away as useless, stir
the paint again.
Before going any further you must
decide whether you will take the whole
keg up the ladder with you or take it
up in dribs and drabs.
Only the amateur painter who com-
pletely lacks confidence in himself will
favor the latter method. Nothing is more
annoying than to have to keep rushing
down and up a ladder to replenish a small
tin. Another disadvantage is that cigarette
ash, if it falls into, say, a jam-tin full of
paint, may cause it to go smudgy, whereas
if it drops into a whole keg it won’t be
noticed.
For the timid man who is afraid to
take it all up with him, a jam-tin with
the lid opened only three-quarters way
around is the best size. If it is nailed
by the turned-back lid to the top rung
of the ladder the springiness imparted by
the lid will prevent the paint from spilling
should any jerky movement be made.
For the man with courage and vision
much time can be saved by having the
whole of the paint at hand while up the
ladder. Far from being hazardous, it
is in reality a simple operation.
Take the ropes off the step-ladder and
let the legs out (as you would attempt
the “splits”) until the top step is only
a foot or so from the ground. Next,
getting the wife and kids to guard against
the legs slipping, heave the keg up on
to the top step and balance it there.
Then, by co-ordinating steady pushing
from both sides, the keg will automati-
cally rise as the ladder legs come closer
together.
This would prove awkward to paint
from if you were content to stand half-
way up the ladder trying to wield a
brush with the curving rim of the keg
against your chest. But there is a better
way—roll your trousers to the knees and
stand in the paint barefooted while you
splash it on. Not only will you be able
to balance the keg better, but by joggling
the toes now and then the lead can be
prevented from “settling.”
Special preparation is necessary before
tackling the guttering. With this over-
head work the paint from the saturated
brush will run off the handle on to the
wrist, down the inside of the arm to
the armpit. With very hairy men it might
even be diverted to the middle of the
back.
To prevent this, tie a piece of cheese-
cloth around the chest, and shave the
hair from under the right arm. The paint
will thus run uninterruptedly into the
cloth, whence it can be squeezed back
into the keg at intervals.
To save getting the lungs and eyes full
of dust when painting under the eaves
dip the brush in right down to the
handle ; take a deep breath, shut the eyes
after having taken a rapid survey of the
section to be done, and then slap the
paint on speedily. You will be able to
gauge this after a while, so that by the
time your breath is expended what dust
has not been disturbed and blown away
will have been covered up by the paint.
Painting comparatively large areas like
doors is often slow and monotonous
work, but it can be done quickly and
efficiently by getting as much paint on
the brush as it will hold, and then, before
it starts dripping on to the ground, stand-
ing off and giving it a quick wristy flick.
Unless a man is hopelessly flat-footed
it should be easy for him to reach the
bottom of the door and start to spread' It
out evenly before the paint has had time
to run off on the floor.
Much time can also be saved if, in-
stead of tediously doing first one edge
and then the other of the slats which
quarter a windowpane, the brush is
liberally dipped and drawn down and
across the whole thing in one wipe.
Certainly the paint will go on the glass
as well as the wood, but with a steady
hand a straight line can be achieved. It
might make the slats seem rather wider
than they actually are, but who, after all,
is to notice it?
At regular intervals throughout these
operations your wife will come out and
point out all the places you have missed
—that is, if you don’t promptly scotch
it. Not that you mind accepting a little
advice from a woman —far from it. But
to have to scrape all the paint off your
feet, get down the ladder and peer up
through a blur of paint to where she is
pointing, and this every ten minutes or
so, is something to test the patience of
even the most placid of handymen.
Therefore, every time she commences with
“Henry, I can see another bit that you’ve
missed. Look, just there to the right
of” say, offhandedly, “Yes, I had to
leave that bit —I’ve got to putty up a
nail-hole afterwards.” That’ll settle her
—sort of stun her with technicalities. If
you think the nail-hole excuse is wearing
thin after a while vary it with something
about having to spokeshave a knot away
or solder up a split in the wood —she
won’t know the difference.
Later, when you are painting over the
parts showing your finger-marks where
you had to grab on for support, you can
keep an eye out for these alleged “misses.”
If they are where they can be seen in
a good light, give them a dab over.
S. W. K.


m
m
AUSTRALIA-ITALIA
SHDMM© ©O^MTILm
249 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
The Income received by the Custodian Trustees from the
shares forming each Unit of the above Trust for the half-year
will allow them to distribute
6d. PER SUB-UNIT
ON THE 15th JUNE NEXT TO ALL SUB-UNIT HOLDERS
ON THE REGISTER AT 15th MAY, 1939.
Custodian Trustees 1 .
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.,
Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney.
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 4028V.V., G.P.O.
Tel. 85294.
1835
Telephone
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY
OF CANTON, LTD.
A British Colonial Office Incorporated in Hongkong:.
ASSETS EXCEED £<1,000,000.
MARINE - FIRE - ACCIDENT
UNION BUILDING. 8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
87131 (2 lines). NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH. C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Still Uncertain
We are now well into the eleventh
month of 1938-39 financial year. It has
been a very uncertain period so far, with
new problems sufficient to worry even
the most worldly-wise. There has been
trouble enough in the state of world
trade itself without the extra distraction
■ of war rumors, coups and threatening
gestures. The recovery from the 1930-33
slump inevitably led up to a boom, and,
strangely, it was the possibility of war
that added the final frothy kick to the
speculative rise in prices that marked the
closing of 1936 and the beginning of
1937. When Roosevelt started to talk
about “revaluing” the dollar in a direc-
tion opposite to the last revaluation in
order to check booming prices the posi-
tion began to “disintegrate,” as the dip-
lomatic writers say, and it has been shaky
and uncertain ever since.
It would be interesting to know exactly
how much the various “international
situations” have had to do with the
falling-off in trade. If such knowledge
were available it would be comparatively
easy to assess the importance of the
several factors influencing depressed
trade and prices at the present time. As
it is, in Australia it is almost impossible
to separate the war-scare influences from
the inevitable consequences of the busi-
ness cycle. The sharemarket particularly
finds it difficult to make up what it
pleases to call its mind in this direction.
Another confusing aspect of things in
this country arises from the actual and
projected outlay on defence. Thus, whilst
ordinary spending has been curtailed
owing to war fears, there is an opinion
existing that defence expenditure will help
to balance things up. And that may be
true, too. But outlay, especially enforced
outlay, by Governments isn’t to be com-
pared with the free spending of a people
with plenty of money in its pockets.
Whereas a strong public spending-power
usually tends to speed up the circulation
of money to a still greater extent, Gov-
ernment spending generally results in
increased borrowing and higher taxation.
Already our public borrowings are having,
the effect of raising the cost of money,
and taxation, high already, is to go
higher. Our trade balance overseas,
owing to heavy imports and shrunken
export values, is bad, not being nearly
enough to cover London and New York
interest commitments.
In the Commonwealth at the moment
we have low wool and wheat prices, a
credit position that is not easy, interest
rates that are hardening, taxes that are
increasing, and costs that are not being
reduced. The combination of items isn't
a pretty one. Taken together, they spell
difficulty. The rise in costs, taxes and
interest is the most serious thing to con-
sider. Internal matters such as these
often bring social and economic unrest.
The more obvious factors —the falls in
prices for wool, wheat, metals, etc. —are
things outside our control, and therefore
we don’t fight and argue amongst our-
selves about them. But so long as these
commodities remain low in price they
emphasise the inflation that has taken
place in other parts of our economy —
“To Let, beautiful flat, unexcelled views, one roomette, kitchenette and
bathette, £4 p.W.”
an inflation that could hardly be said
to have got out of hand yet—and there-
fore aggravate the friction between vari-
ous interests.
World prices adjust themselves, and
there’s no use protesting about them,
But arbitrary matters such as taxation,
borrowing, spending, wage awards,
tariffs, etc., are most difficult to adjust
when prices and business conditions fluc-
tuate. Usually the line of least resistance
is taken by the arbitrator, and invariably
it leads to trouble.
In the 1930-33 slump we reached a
point where prices were so low, costs
were so high and jobs were so few that
wages, interest, rents, etc., were cut by
something near an average of 22} p.c.
Great and grave confusion preceded this
drastic measure. Our currency mean-
while had depreciated by about 50 p.c.
in terms of gold, and the outlook was so
mixed and disheartening that trade be-
came a skeleton of its accustomed self.
Uncertainty is the worst feature of
the present outlook in Australia. With
war reputed to be “thundering at our
gates” there has been a public clamor
for additional defence
measures, most of them
to be provided in a
hurry and at overtime
rates of cost. In this
clamor many things of
importance to the
people’s general wel-
fare can be easily over-
looked. Additional
taxes have been clapped
on, in N. S. Wales rail
fares have been bumped
up, and retail prices of
many things have gone
higher.
No good ever comes
to anyone from blow-
ing up the economic
balloon. Some of
the inflation happens
imperceptibly to start with, but after-
wards evidence of the swelling is taken
as an excuse to further increase prices—
and costs. So the crazy business goes on.
Meanwhile, prices for our staple pro-
duct keep low, in sharp contrast with
costs. The wool cheque for the 10
months to the end of April brought
£34,545,000 from 2,601,714 bales, as
against £37,842,000 from 2,346,179 bales
in the preceding season. Average price
of greasy fell to which compares
with 12£d.
There are hopes, based partly on the
return to compulsory training in Britain
and other countries (which means more
uniforms), that wool will lift in price
soon. Such a happening is possible. It
would be of the greatest value to our
economy, and would ease the strain all
round.
G. J. Coles rights came on to the
market at 48s, 3d., representing 68s. 3d.
when the scrip becomes fully paid on
Jan. 15, 1940. On application (July 15)
10s. is payable, with one call of 10s.
Interest at 5 p.c. is allowed on moneys
paid up to Dec. 31, 1939 ; the shares
will rank for full div. as from Jan. 1,
1940. Sellers are asking 725. 9d. for the
old scrip, on which a 11} p.c. div. went
o'ut last year.
* - * * *
The High Court, in a judgment de-
livered on May 11, held that the pro-
hibition of the coupon system by a State
(South Aus. in this case) was not inter-
ference with the freedom of inter-State
trade, “but merely a regulation of what
many regarded as an objectionable and
parasitical system upon legitimate trade.”
Appeals had been made by two Sydney
cos. which had been prosecuted under
the Trading Stamp Act of S.A.
* * * *
The Federal Government is interested
in B.H.P/s proposed new tinplate works
at Whyalla (S.A.) and the possibility of
making motor-car engines and chassis in
the Commonwealth. The pros and cons
concerning a tariff on tinplate are to be
discussed, and ruling given by about the
end of July. As regards motor-cars, the
Government is prepared to encourage
either an all-Australian venture or an
Australian-p/t/s-overseas combination. A
£350 car is at present being talked of ;
that is near the price at which the Ford
and the Chevrolet sell retail. A Govern-
ment bounty of £5O a car is also men-
tioned.
% jH ❖ *
Most Australian stocks listed in Maori-
land are at a 10 p.c. premium compared
with Commonwealth quotes, thus show-
ing that the present exchange rate be-
tween the two countries is fictitious. The
rate is nominally at par—pegged,
shackled and blockaded at that level. But
though the banks are holding aloof from
“black” exchange dealings, a good deal
of it is going on through outside chan-
nels. Hence, partly, the buying of scrip
on Australian ’Changes “for N.Z. deliv-
ery.” That seems to be one method of
getting funds across to Maoriland, and
by the same means, seemingly, money
can be brought back from Maoriland,
the M.L. user of the facility paying ex-
pensively for the service. Juggling with
scrip to beat the exchange rationing
doesn’t hurt Maoriland’s credit. But it
is an indication of the difficulties of the
situation.
* * * *
Garratt’s, Ltd., car agent, of Sydney,
reports a net profit £1906 lower at
£20,585. Motor sales generally fell off
in the latter half of 1938. A 10 p.c. div.,
plus 2} p.c. in respect of arrears, goes
out on the prefs. again, and p.c. to
the ords. (calling for only £2662) is re-
peated. There was £40,167 of pref.
arrears as at Jan. 31. Divs. on both
classes of scrip are at present being paid
in accordance with an agreement entered
into in 1935. The £1 prefs. and 4s. ords.
are both near par, the market asking for
a 12} p.c. yield in both cases, having
regard to the past history of the motor
trade generally and Garratt’s in particu-
lar. Finances of the co. and its subsidi-
aries at the moment seem to be improv-
ing. But conditions in the motor trade
aren’t.


Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/1/ 38). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street. Adelaide.
Western Australia : Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States ,
The National Bank
of Australasia Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Head Office and Registered Office:
271-279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
AUSTRALIA
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir James A. M. Elder, k.b.e., Chairman. The Hon. Sir Frank G. Clarke,
k.b.e., m.1.c., Vice-Chairman. T. C. Alston. General Sir Henry Chauvel,
g.c.m.g., k.c.b. H. G. Darling. Clive McPherson, c.b.e. D. York Syme.
Chief Manager: L. J. McConnan. Chief Inspector: E. J. Osborne.
Auditors: John Bishop (F.C.A., Aust.) ; S. J. Warnock (F.C.A., Aust.).
Boards of Advice:
LONDON— The Right Hon. Lord Inverforth, p.c., Chairman.
The Right Hon. Lord Hutchison of Montrose, p.c., k.c.m.g., c.b., d.s.o.
Sir James Leigh-Wood, k.b.e., c.b., c.m.g.
BRISBANE— Sir Edward H. Macartney, Chairman.
Sir William Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. De Burgh B. B. Persse.
SYDNEY — Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, d. 5.0., 0.b.e.,
v.d., m.1.c., Chairman. Rodney R. Dangar. Hunter White.
EXTRACTS FROM BALANCE SHEET DATED 31st MARCH, 1939
LIABILITIES.
Capital—■
200,000 £lO shares, fully paid £2,000,000
600,000 £8 shares, paid to £5
per share 3,000,000
—£5,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund (used in the business) - - 3,000,000 0 0
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in the
business) ± 300,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 306,186 2 0
Total Shareholders’ Funds .:... £8,606,186 2 0
Deposits and Other Accounts _. .... __ __ 44,057,572 17 2
Notes and Bills in Circulation _• 1,565,975 13 1
Total : £54,229,734 12 3
ASSETS.
Coin, Australian Notes, Cash at Bankers, Cheques and Bills
in Transitu, Investments and other Liquid Assets .... £16,433,643 10 7
Bank Premises, other Real Estate, etc. .... 1,392,312 9 1
Advances and other Assets 36,403,778 12 7
Total 1 _.. £54,229,734 12 3
The Statutory Declaration made by the Chief Manager, the Auditors’
Report and Certificate, and the Statutory Certificate signed by two Directors
appear on the original Balance Sheet, a copy-of which, including the Statutory
Report of the Directors made in conformity with Section 123 of the Companies
Act 1938 has been posted to each Shareholder.
Dividend for the year is at the rate of six per cent, per annum.
THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
will be held at the Head Office of the Bank on Wednesday, the 31st day of
May, 1939, at 11.30 a.m.
On Friday there was a strengthening
in the sharemarkets again, some stocks
„ o jng to new recovery levels. Aus-
tralian Consolidated Industries was in
the lead once more, prospects of general
expansion and a higher div. next year
sending the scrip to 365. 9d. at one
stage, with a steadying at 365. Turnover
was extensive both in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. At 365. for A.C.I. ords. the
yield has fallen to 3.9 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
div. basis, as against 4.7 p.c. when the
scrip was recommended on this page at
30s. At 365. for A.C.I. new shares, the
market puts a valuation of £6 15s. on
what used to be one Australian Glass
share.
Broken Hill Prop, scrip recovered to
625. 6d. last Friday, which was equivalent
to the best price of the preceding week.
The market still hopes for a new issue
and a steady 124 p.c. div. The div. looks
a safe bet, anyway, and if the tinplate
project is gone ahead with the new issue
should be in the same category. In
Sydney John McGrath shares came up
sharply to 345. 6d. again, a rise of 2s.
being recorded. This motor-agency and
investment concern handles the Hillman,
among other interests, and it has
been depressed for some time, owing
partly to the general tapering-off of
motor-car sales in N. S. Wales. But it
has always been a very solid concern
of its type. Another smart rise in last
week’s market was associated with Elec-
trolyic Zinc ords., which went up Is. 6d.,
to 485., in Sydney and Melbourne. The
prefs. were also slightly higher. Electro.
Zinc is interested in the proposed
aluminium industry. Last week’s quotes
for the scrip were the highest since 1938.
* * * *
The Menzies Government seems to be
taking a more alert interest in the Aus-
tralian economy, and the national im-
portance of secondary industries is one
of the first things to receive considera-
tion. For two years now we haven't
paid our way overseas ; we have lived
on our slender London cash balances
to some extent, and in any case well
beyond our means. A statement pre-
pared for Federal Ministers estimates
that imports valued at £31,000,000 a
year could be made in Australia, and
of this total £18,000,000 represents goods
now bought from Britain and the Em-
pire. Motor-cars (£7,000,000 a year),
textiles (£7,500,000), machinery, etc.
(£6,000,000), tractors (£2,000,000), and
tinplate (£2,400,000) are among the more
important overseas purchases that it is
considered could be made in this country.
And unless the market for our primary
production either strengthens or widens
it is quite plain that we shall soon have
to start making these things for our-
selves or else go without them. Only
overseas borrowing, of which we want
no more, prevented our facing this posi-
tion in the 1920’5.
« * * *
At the extraordinary general meeting
of Smith’s Newspapers (Sydney) share-
holders last week, Joynton Smith ad-
vised the appointment of a committee,
and it was resolved that W. B. Rains-
ford, L. Deer, Stan Cross and a Mr.
Solomon, all pref. shareholders, should
“go fully into the affairs of the co. with
the directors and report thereon” in
about three or four weeks’ time. Touch-
ing on the co.’s “regression,” Joynton
Smith blamed overhead exes., rising costs
and the spread of the scope of daily
newspapers. The policy of “Smith’s
Weekly” was right when it started 20
years ago, he said, but with the change
in circumstances he was satisfied that the
present policy was wrong. At the be-
ginning of 1938 the directors sought the
advice of “experts” and had a “survey
taken of a cross-section of the com-
munity in N. S. Wales and Victoria” in
order to determine the co.’s future
course. The new managing editor, H.
Cox, advocated sweeping changes, “of
which the .directors could not approve.”
Expert advice and all, the board decided
to stick to its former policy, but had
instructed Cox to make economies and
improvements wherever possible. Circu-
lation was difficult to maintain, and
advertising had fallen off since 1938.
S’Joynton announced that he had a
scheme which couldn’t be divulged to the
meeting, but which he intended to reveal
to the shareholders’ committee.
* * * *
Notwithstanding the imminence of a
new auctioning of A shares (15,000 were
put under the hammer on Monday, 22nd),
Australian Gas scrip was firm at £7 ss.
last week. Monday’s offering was the
third since the beginning of last Septem-
ber. The new scrip carries 2s. lOd. a
share less div. at the moment than the
old A shares. After the August interim
all scrip will be on an equal footing as
regards div.
* * * *
The ord. shares of Henry Jones, the
IXL jam and preserves concern, haven’t
been much above 50s. at their highest
level, but last week buyers were offering
495. 9d. The return is only a little over
4 p.c. on the present 10 p.c. div. basis,
so apparently better things are looked
for later on. H. Jones ords. have been
one of the steadier stocks during the
vicissitudes of the past two years, and,
like Gordon and Gotch and British
Tobacco ords., have lost little ground
over the period. The Jones co. is essen-
tially a holding concern, and its full earn-
ings each year are entirely a matter for
speculation so far as outsiders are con-
cerned. It is in a highly competitive line,
and has to face subsidised price-cutting
from mainland canneries. So perhaps
the secrecy enwrapping operations of the
subsidiaries has more justification than
is usually the case.
* * * *
Union Theatres Investments, the con-
cern running the State Theatre and shop-
ping block, in Market-street, Sydney,
earned £25,263 in 1938—up £3606 on
1937, and by far the best showing since
the theatre was opened in 1927. The
pref. div. of 5 p.c. calls for £17,500 and
1 p.c. on the ords. requires £5OOO, leaving
£2763 to go forward. -Greater Union
owns all the ords., on which divs. have
totalled no more than 2.1 p.c. from the
beginning. At 13s. 6d. the prefs. yield
7.4 p.c.
There was continued activity in motion-
picture scrip last week, and some people
are wondering why. West’s, the pick of
the bunch, sold up to 75., and Greater
J. D. Williams and Spencer’s also appre-
ciated. A year or more ago West’s held
a nice nest-egg in the shape of Consols
and cash; then it was agreed to
modernise the co.’s Adelaide house.
Greater Union to lease it for another 10
years at the existing weekly rental of
£53 17s. 6d., plus 8 p.c. on additional
capital outlay (about' £40,000), G.U.T.
also paying rates and taxes. The expen-
diture of its nest-egg on theatre proper-
ties seemed to depress the market for
West’s shares at the time rather than
stimulate it, although immediate income
was increased.
* * * *
The latest from Tableland Tin, Mt.
Garnet, Q.:
No. 1 dredge was shut down on May 6 to
complete the electrification of the bucket
drive, the necessary material being now on
the way to the mine.
The last two months’ operations have proved
that the bottom wash has better digging quali-
ties than appeared to be the case at an earlier
date, and there is now no doubt that the electri-
fied bucket band will dig to full capacity. Ex-
perience has shown, however, that the screen
as driven will not cope with the heavy wash,
and while the dredge is shut down the screen
driving gear is being altered to remedy this
defect.
A survey shows that the yardage dug to
date is 70,000, from which over 31 tons of tin
concentrate has been recovered, showing a
yield of a pound to the cubic yard. This is
very gratifying, particularly in view of the
fact that the dredge was not digging to bottom
for fully a third of this yardage. At present
tin prices the company is receiving £lBO net on
the field for its concentrate.
It is hoped that the dredge will start digging
again early in June.
This is the biggest tin proposition ever
tackled in Australia. Malcolm Newman
is the sponsor, and when initial dredging
difficulties are overcome it promises to
turn out all right. Profits from the small
No. 1 dredge will help to finance the big
dredge for which most of the mine’s
equipment has been designed.
=l= * * *
Fairymead Sugar, which has shown its
best profit for several years and which
has lifted its div. from 9 p.c. to 10 p.c.,
has been notified that the Queensland
Government will, grant it a “somewhat
improved peak tonnage” in respect of its
sugargrowing area near Bundaberg. This
followed representations made by the
co.; it didn’t get all it expected, but the
new arrangement will be of some bene-
fit. The “peak-year” tonnage applies
to production up to a maximum allotted
in the past by the Sugar Board, and
sugar produced within this limit goes
into No. 1 pool, which benefits from the
home-consumption price. Sugar grown
in excess of peak-year quotas goes into
No. 2 pool, and is sold, mostly in Britain,
at world parity, plus British preference,
less freight and other charges. No. 1
pool, of course, is always the best propo-
sition from the grower’s viewpoint. Fairy-
mead has its own substantial sugar plan-
tations, and it mills for other growers
as well.
* * * *
Though Mt. Kasi’s working profit for
1938 has been disclosed at £21,000 (Fiji
currency), net earnings, after providing
for taxation, depreciation and develop-
ment, are reduced to £11,648 in the pub-
lished accounts. That is an increase of
only £3600 on 1937, though 5188 tons
more ore (38,420 tons altogether) was
milled. Recoveries were 4.35dwt. (86
p.c.), against 4.sldwt. (83.4 p.c.). There
are indications that earnings have been
conservatively written. Surplus liquid
assets, including stores, have increased
from £8507 to £14,796, and fixed assets
have grown from £72,893 to £82,296 in
book value. Development has been the
most disappointing item during the year.
Ore reserves (115,500 tons positive,
5.4dwt., and 96,200 tons probable,
5.2dwt.) are estimated at a figure reduced
by approximately a year’s milling, indi-
eating little or no addition to these re-
serves. But the figures exclude ore below
No. 4 level, where 12dwt. values have
been found extending over 109 ft. The
co. is doing well to show profits on the
present scale from the low-grade ore
treated, and development underfoot may
yet produce something really worth while.
* * * *
Queensland Jias taken the lead among
Australian butter-exporting States. Dur-
ing the present season Victoria and N. S.
Wales have fallen to second and third
place respectively owing to a dreadfully
bad season during most of the summer.
But Queensland’s production for export
more than made up for the slip in those
two States:
Commonwealth Butter Exports.
1 / 7 / ’37 1 / 7 / ’3B
to 7/5/’3B. to 6/5/’39.
Tons. Tons.
New South Wales .. 13,304 8,243
Victoria .. .. .. 31,504 23,378
Queensland .. .. 27,868 47,440
South Australia .. 3,682 2,964
Tasmania .. .. 2,374 2,079
Westraiia.. .. .. 1,615 1,821
Total .. .. 80,347 85,925
Of these totals, the United Kingdom took
75,309 tons in the 1937-38 season and
81,338 tons during the 1938-39 period.
* * * *
Overproduction of some lines and con-
sequent price-cutting all thrown in—there
has lately been a move towards some
stabilisation —the 15.1 p.c. on ord. capital
shown by Prestige, Melbourne, for the
year to March suggests there are still
good profits in the hosiery business for
cos. with plant right up to the minute
and exercising strict control over outgo
and the selling side. In Sydney the Lustre
people appear alive to these things. At
18s. the 9.1 p.c. return offering from
the £1 ords. seems to allow for any pos-
sible point or two cut in the div., now
8 p.c.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Howard, Smith ords. sold at 20s. 3d., well
up in the market again in sympathy with the
rise in B.H.P. shares.
The ords. in Davies, Coop, which firm is
asking for a duty on tyre cord and other items,
changed hands .at 245. The business is to be
extended to other States.
Emperor and Loloma shares showed un-
usual buoyancy. There was some big buying
of Emperors. But Lolomas look the better
spec, of the two.
Australasian Paper ords. continued very
weak at 275. 3d., returning 5.9 p.c.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
These Things Rankle in U.S.A.
FvS iS p aV^ e ,° U i burs^ i , s . condensed from a “Saturday
p °st” leader 22/4/’39. It should be read in
. y ', iey telegraph” office and in other places
where there are people givfcn to whooping with opti-
mism over the U.S.A. as an eager ally.]
It was the righteous-warrior dream. We would go
to war to end war. Where? On another continent
—where, since the beginning of historic time, there
had been only interludes of peace.
We would make the world safe for democracy.
Where? In Europe—where the only relation of the
individual to the State that has ever been understood
or perhaps ever will be, is that of subject.
if w ? establish the divine right of political
™‘V C f l t f n ? 1 , lnatlon for minorities. Where? In that
Old World—where the symbol of a minority is a
broken sword, where every racial fragment burns on
its altar the incense of revenge, where there is no
boundary between nations but it is a trace of scar tissue.
1 he romantic theme of the dream was to say that
w f fu *3? < l uarre l with any people, certainly none
with the German people. It was for their own good
that we were going to destroy the war lords.
So we took part with England and France and all
who were fighting Germany. They did not under-
stand what we were saying, any more than the Ger-
mans did ; but, whatever it was, it was all right for the
moment because it meant an American army in
France and unlimited access to the U.S. Treasury.
The war ended in what, for Europe, was another
truce. Incredulous European ears heard us say that
we would take nothing for ourselves, only a just and
durable peace. Cynical European eyes watched the
American Jehovah of Peace and his band of angels
as they sat down in Paris to redraw the map of
Europe in the zigzag lines of simple humanity and
justice. Every line they drew would be another trace
of scar tissue. They did not know that because they
did not know Europe.
Between the dreaming peace-bringers and the
hai d-eyed truce-makers lay twenty-five hundred years
of bloodstained history. The peace-bringers were for
wiping all of that out in the drawing. The truce-
makers knew better. They knew also how imperma-
nent the drawing was. Having laid down for them-
selves. the principal lines of the next war and then
the lines stipulated for in .their secret treaties, they
were willing that the Americans should play with
the fringe.
The fact was that the hard-eyed Europeans were
deeply concerned about something else, a thing the
Americans would not understand. For once and for
the first time, they faced the fact that the ancient and
honorable business of war was bankrupt on its own
premises. It had gone too far. The stakes had got
too high. There was no profit in victory. Revenge,
yes, advantage and territory; but no cash on the
drumhead. They could charge it all to Germany in
the customary manner, as Germany before had
charged it to them, but this time that meant nothing
at all, because it was more than Germany could pay.
The idea of making the Americans pay is sup-
posed to have occurred first to the practical British.
It became the controlling idea of Europe, united
friend and foe. And, naturally, it was England’s part,
since she had the advantage of language, to lead the
propaganda, which she did.
The propaganda was a symphony in two move-
ments. The first movement was that the richest, most
unselfish, most romantic people in the world —so rich
they could afford to take the decisive part in a world
war and want nothing material out of it—now owed
it to themselves, to mankind, to civilisation, to lend
their wealth in a prodigal manner to rehabilitate this
fallen Europe—a theme which the richest and most
romantic people in the world received with swelling
pride. The second movement was that, after having
lent their wealth for that purpose, they would be a
hateful, money-loving, Shylock people ever to want
any of it back.
It was England that named the United States
“Shylock.”
It was England that struck hands with Germany
and proposed to forego her share in German repara- s
tions and forgive her own war debtors, who would
then forgive one another and Germany all around,
if only the great rich Shylock nation across the sea
would forgive England her war debt.
It was the British Government, commanding the
serpent’s-tooth rhetoric of Lord Balfour and the in-
sulting tongue of a Chancellor of the Exchequer, that
called upon the world to witness that America, the
Shylock, valuing gold more than blood, sacrifice or
friendship, was bleeding Europe white by exacting her
pound of flesh in the name of war debts —at a time
when the only money Europe was paying us on
account of either the interest or principal of the war
debts was money begrudgingly shaved from the pro-
ceeds of new American loans. Out of each new loan,
so long as she could borrow, she paid a little on ac-
count of old loans, and that is the only kind of money
we ever got back —a little of our own.
After we entered the war, in addition to the cost of
our own exertions, represented by an army of
2,000,000 men in Europe, the United States Treasury
lent the several Allied Governments seven billions of
dollars on their IOUs. For nearly two years after
the Armistice the United States Treasury continued
to lend, not to the same Allied Governments only but
also to new Governments like Czechoslovakia, Latvia,
Lithuania, Poland and Yugoslavia, until the competi-
tive clamor for more, more, became indecently brazen.
When at last the United States Treasury slammed its
doors in disgust, the amount owing to it by the Gov-
ernments of Europe on their promissory notes was
more than eleven billions.
We were lending Europe the money to rehabili-
tate her agriculture, her industry, her life. We had
done better to throw it away, for not only did we
lose it, but the effect of it was to subsidise European
industry in competition with our own, as we may see
now in South America, besides subsidising the start
of her rearmament for the next war.
To save less than $200,000,000 a year, Great
Britain dishonored her bond at the United States
Treasury. How many times that sum does she spend
on new armament?
For $125,000,000 a year, France dishonored her
bond at the United States Treasury. Yet now she can
find the cash to buy a fleet of bombing ’planes in the
United States.
The value of Italy’s word is known. It is worth less
than $20,000,000 a year.
Germany’s word was not worth writing.
British word, French word, Nazi or Fascist —
which will you take on a bond? If you will not take
it on a bond, what will you take it for? On a treaty,
perhaps.
The idea that united them worked. Victor and
vanquished together, they made the Americans pay.
Again the fires of revenge are lighted. Again
the tracings of scar tissue on the map of Europe are
tumescent and red. The aggressor is loose and heavily
armed —more heavily than ever before, thanks to not
having paid his American debts. The non-aggressors
also are heavily armed—more heavily than ever before,
thanks to not having paid their American debts —and
yet, as they think, not heavily enough. Again France
and England are calling to America for help. To
help them? No, no, to help them save for mankind
the priceless legacy that is Europe.
Great Powers’ War Resources.
{Condensed from a Manchester “Guardian” article by
Bernard Keeling.)
It has been said that in the next war the “life”
of the average aeroplane (not to mention that of its
pilot) will be about two months ; the entire Air Force
will need to be replaced six times in the course of a
year. That is why even more attention is being paid
to the “output capacity” of the Great Powers than
to their present strength. What is true of aeroplanes
is even more true of munitions. In the long run, the
victory must go to the side with the superior indus-
trial resources.
Broadly speaking, the present industrial capacity
of Germany (like her population and her Air Force)
would appear to be at least equal to that of Britain
and France combined. Germany’s position has been
further strengthened by the addition of Czecho-
slovakia. The equipment of Italy and Japan, small
though it is, would suffice to give the anti-Comintern
triangle a definite superiority over the Western Euro-
pean democracies. On the other hand, the reinforce-
ment of Britain’s and France’s resources by those of
either the United States or the U.S.S.R. would at
once reverse the scale, while if both these Powers
made their resources available this superiority would
be overwhelming.
In order to complete the picture it is necessary
to take account of three further factors: the degree
to which each Power is dependent upon imports of
essential foodstuffs and raw materials ; the military
accessibility of such supplies; and the financial re-
sources available to pay for them.
As regards foodstuffs, the complete dependence
of the United Kingdom upon outside supplies is well
known. Two-thirds of Britain’s total food supply—
and even more of her wheat —must be imported. No
other Power’s position is remotely comparable. Ger-
many need only import one-fifth of her food, and
South-eastern Europe, over which the annexation of
Czechoslovakia may give Germany control, should
supply any deficiencies in cereals and meat. Ger-
many, however, must import something like 50 p.c.
of her supply of fats ; the incapacity of South-eastern
Europe to supply these in the last war was an impor-
tant factor in Germany’s defeat. The situation of
Denmark, Holland and Lithuania, three of the world’s
largest exporters of butter, on the borders of Ger-
many is therefore immensely significant. The other
five Powers, including both Italy and Japan, are even
more, self-sufficient in foodstuffs than Germany.
With the notable exception of Britain (and to a
very much lesser extent of Germany) the Great
Powers are not therefore subject to any major prob-
lem of food supply. It is in respect of industrial raw
materials that their deficiencies are most glaring. To
name only the four most important materials —coal,
iron ore, oil and cotton —the United States and
Russia are alone self-sufficient in all four. None of the
other Great Powers possesses oil reserves or can grow
cotton. Britain and Germany both have a surplus
of coal, but neither has sufficient iron ore ; France
has more than enough iron ore, but not enough coal.
Italy and Japan are in an even worse position with
insufficient reserves of either material, the former in
particular lacking coal and the latter iron ore.
Coal, iron, oil and cotton are only the most
important of a large number of essential raw ma-
terials. But the position of the Great Powers is no
better, if indeed it is not worse, as' regards other
materials. All but the United States and Russia have
to import wool, copper and manganese, while even
those two Powers must import rubber and nickel.
The situation can, of course, be eased by means
of synthetic production. The production of syn-
thetic nitrates was of immense value to Germany in
the last war ; and under the Four-year Plan she is
rapidly expanding her output of synthetic oil, textile
fibres and rubber, and developing the exploitation
of low-grade iron ore. In textile fibres she is already
nearly 50 p.c. self-sufficient, while Buna is said to be
actually superior to rubber, although it costs seven
times as much.
The prospect of self-sufficiency in oil and iron
ore is far more remote. Germany produced one-third
of her requirements of oil in 1938, but these were
peace-time requirements. In time of war it is estimated
that Germany’s oil consumption would rise from
7,000,000 to at least 15,000,000 tons. Against this her
domestic output of 2,500,000 tons does not make
much impression. As regards iron ore, Germany at
present supplies one-quarter of her own needs ; but
it is very doubtful whether she can ever supply more
than one-third so long as her present rate of ore
consumption is maintained.
In spite of her Four-year Plan, therefore, Ger-
many must continue to import large quantities of key
materials. Rumania’s oil and Sweden’s iron ore, not
to mention the aluminium ore of Hungary and Yugo-
slavia and the latter’s copper, must therefore acquire
immense significance in time of war. In each case
the countries concerned could go far to supplying
Germany’s needs.
The Western European democracies, no less de-
pendent upon outside supplies, Britain’s deficiency in
food supplies being particularly striking, possess two
invaluable weapons which Germany lacks —sea power,
which would enable them to draw on overseas re-
sources, and immense financial reserves in the shape
of gold and foreign investments. Without these their
position would indeed be difficult, physically cut off
as they now are from Eastern Europe by the Rome-
Berlin Axis. But with them they can hardly be
defeated if once they can survive the initial “knock-
out blow.”
Last Jews in Germany.
o Condensed from an article by a London "Times”
correspondent.)
There are still over 100,000 Jews in Berlin. The
total Jewish population in the Old Reich has fallen
from 520,000 in 1933 to about 320,000, but the pro-
portion in the capital has actually increased, because
life is made impossible for Jews in the villages and
some of the smaller towns ; and so a hapless remnant
has been forced into the big cities. Most of them are
over 45 ; the children and young persons are getting
out more rapidly.
The Berlin Jewish communal institutions have
been closed one after the other. Two famous rab-
binical seminaries which have fostered Jewish scholar-
ship for some 70 years have had to cease their work.
The one communal newspaper has been suspended.
Now the only journal authorised is a sheet which
contains official announcements of the fresh measures
against the Jews, and advertisements of tickets and
passages of emigration. A few of the synagogues
have been reopened since the burnings and destruc-
tion of November ; and there are occasional lectures,
usually on prospects of emigration. But the doom
of dissolution hangs over all.
It is clear that Jewry in Berlin, and throughout
Germany, will be eliminated in a few years ; yet the
Jewish central organisations maintain their morale,
and go about their work with the old thoroughness.
The great need is for getting out, particularly for the
thousands who are in the concentration camps, and
will be released only if they have a permit of immi-
gration.
It might have been thought that the Jew wishing
to emigrate would experience no difficulty in leaving
Germany, provided he was prepared to go without
his property. Yet the very opposite is the case. Almost
all Jews have been deprived for some time of their
passports ; and they can get them back only when
they can prove that they have a definite chance of
emigration. The obstacles to securing visas of transit
for the countries to be crossed are often insurmount-
able when the prospective emigrant has been made
Stateless in Germany.
It is now proposed that a new body shall be
formed to organise the emigration of the Jews and also
of the “non-Aryan” Christians counted as Jews. The
State’s contribution would be to allow a quarter of
the Jewish property to be used for travel expenses
and for goods which would assist the settlement of
emigrants. The process, it is hoped, would be com-
pleted within five years, and Berlin as well as Vienna
would then be clear of Jews. Younger Jews would
have gone out first and established new homes.
All the Jewish population, young and old, ortho-
dox and assimilated, accept the necessity of the exodus.
They are resigned to the virtual elimination of the
Jewish community of Berlin, which has played a part
in the life of Prussia since the days of Frederick the
Great, has been one of the civilising elements in
Germany, and has made its contribution not only to
the economic life but to the philosophy, sciences, and,
above all, the arts of Europe.
Refugees in Poland
o Condensed from Manchester “Guardian.”)
When the Germans marched into Prague hun-
dreds of refugees who had fled into Czechoslovakia
from Germany, Austria and the Sudetenland, and
had been waiting months until committees completed
arrangements for them to emigrate, had to flee again.
The unlucky ones were caught On the frontier. The
others arrived in ones and twos, usually without
money, often exhausted or half-starved, in Southern
Poland.
Most do not get as far as Warsaw, but stay at
Katowice, in Polish Silesia (dangerously near the
German frontier and in a dangerously tense political
atmosphere), or at Cracow. In each of these towns
the Jewish community is keeping some hundreds of
destitute people whose only hope is emigration.
Some, perhaps 100 or 120 a week, are being
brought to England as a first step to emigration over-
seas, and the Scandinavian countries are taking a few,


but new refugees are arriving at a much fastei rate.
On one day 70 new people arrived in Katowice alone.
A new organisation had to be created to deal
with them; this has been the work of the British
Committee for Refugees from Czechoslovakia. To
short-circuit the formalities a collective guarantee
(called a “block visa,” but not officially a visa at all)
was devised, and this document is still being used to
get parties of refugees out of Poland. It is a declara-
tion in two parts: one making the British committee
responsible for the maintenance of the people whose
names are attached, and another by the British Consul
at Katowice certifying that they will be admitted into
Great Britain.
One of the committee’s hardest jobs is to prevent
the Polish authorities, who have many reasons for
wanting no more refugees, from handing the whole
mass back to Germany. Every few days helpless
people are arrested for being in Poland “illegally” and
threatened with expulsion. This happened to 15 men
and women I knew in Warsaw, and the psychological
effect was one of the most dreadful things I have
ever seen. To do them justice, the authorities have
given plenty of warning. If the refugees are not
moved on very quickly they will be sent back.
The Tanganyika Mandate.
(i Condensed front an article written on the spot for
London “Daily Mail” by Negley Farson.)
It would be nothing less than a crime if, because
of the very fairness of the British in Tanganyika, the
number of Germans and their enterprise should be
held as a reason for losing the Mandate. The British
have “leaned over backward” in their efforts to be
scrupulously impartial, and it is the English settler who
has suffered because of it.
The Germans have an overwhelming predomi-
nance in the coffee and tea plantations. The same thing
applies in sisal, and many of the Indian sisal planta-
tions have German managers. Many of the Indian
stores have German managers. The Usagara Co.,
which many people contend is but an agency of the
German Government, has the Imperial Airways
Agency and many British products marketed here
through German hands.
Whitehall’s policy has been “native paramountcy”
and that “the country is being held in trusteeship for
the native.” The Masai are a picturesque example of
the freedom allowed. Some 37,000 of them inhabit
the arid plains below the Kenya border for 23,000
square miles southward. They collect their own poll
tax of 15s. a year for each adult male, plus 15s. for
each wife more than one. Their actual organisation,
by which they run themselves, is still a secret from the
British.
Cynical realists here discount the “native protest
meetings” recently reported from Dar-es-Salaam,
where, it is alleged, thousands of natives met to show
their wishes not to be given back to Germany. They
say they were “stage-managed.” If the 5,000,000
natives in Tanganyika were turned over to German
propaganda, with the Germans on top in the country,
they could provide a base for getting propaganda to
all the natives of Africa, because, in spite of their tribal
differences, the natives have a common feeling about
any white man in Africa. The Germans could use
propaganda in Nyasaland, the Rhodesias—and es-
pecially in the Union of South Africa, where the
natives feel they have an outstanding grievance.
That, for 20 years, there has been no White Policy
for English settlement or development in Tanganyika
is a fact that will one day probably dawn on the
world —and Whitehall. Meanwhile there is the Tan-
ganyika League, with headquarters at Nairobi. Its
policy has been to try to awaken the English public
to the importance of holding Tanganyika—with the
final resolve to fight rather than let the territory be
surrendered to any other country. I believe they would
do this. They would be beaten, no doubt. But it
would involve an Ulster situation —in this case fought
out.
The situation between English and German
settlers is friendly. At the September crisis the Ger-
man leaders in both the south and north of Tangan-
yika came to the Provincial Commissioners there and
said: “You will have no trouble from us.”
The Germans are good settlers; honest, hard-
working men who intend to make their lives in the
Territory. Under the British they are having as much
freedom as, if not more than, they would have under
their own Government. This absolutely fair treat-
ment they admit freely themselves.
Flaws in Gandhi’s Recipe.
[Pointing out that in war now the Empire will
depend on the goodwill of India as never before,
Edwaid Thompson, in the article here condensed from
“Time and Tide,” suggested that things were at present
coming to a crisis in India on this very issue, and went
on to attack the stand advocated by Gandhi.]
Mr., Gandhi insists that, if war comes, India must
practise strict non-violence, and at all costs refuse
to have any hand in the accursed thing.
As was pointed out to Mr. Gandhi, at a dis-
cussion in my own home during the Round Table
Conference, his “non-violence” weapon is a kind of
scissors. It needs two blades, his own and his oppo-
nents’. It succeeded in India because his opponents
were a Government that had streaks of humanity and
hesitation in it. Fifteen years ago, it was generally
accepted that, while your police could be brutal and
your Judges could inflict heavy prison sentences,
you must not execute for political offences. In
consequence, Mr. Gandhi obtained an entirely wrong
impression of the efficacy and validity of “non-
violence.”
He has argued that it would have been effective
in Abyssinia, as in India, if the Abyssinians had
practised it. Presumably he believes that, if Japan or
Germany invaded India, non-violence would still have
the psychological effect that it had when lines of
Indian Nationalists stood up fearlessly, to be struck
down by the lathis of the police—while British spec-
tators felt shame, and American journalists cabled
home their indignation. But, if Mr. Gandhi had been
against a Fascist or Nazi Power 16 years ago, for
the last 16 years there would have been no Mr. Gandhi.
He would have died, as he has lived, unterrified
and calm of soul. But it is not to be imagined (though
rigid pacifists persist in imagining it) that the National-
ist movement would have survived. History shows
that, so far from the blood of the martyrs being the
seed of the Church, there is no Church if the martyr-
dom is wholeheartedly ruthless and thorough. If
you go forward without pity, and have power con-
centrated in your hands (as, in these days of bombing
’planes and machine-guns and press and film censor-
ship, totalitarian States have it concentrated), you
can extirpate opposition in the “battle without a
morrow” that is always the aim of totalitarian strategy.
When the “scissors” simile was used to him, Mr.
Gandhi rejected it. That, I think, was because he
judged other men’s spirits, by his own, and also judged
possible opponents by his experience of the British
administration in India. He has not had his superior
since Socrates for cool self-control, for presence of
mind. He is a very great man. But he errs if he
thinks that the grim world of to-day is the world
in which he won his victories. If war comes and
Britain loses that war, India will find that there is a
vast difference between the government of a Lord
Irwin and that of Powers which lay waste whole
provinces with bombs and machine-guns and firing
squads.
Postscript on Litvinov.
(Condensed front an article by Dennis Clarke in London
“Daily Express.”)
Maxim Maximovitch Litvinov, for the last 10
years Soviet Commissar for Foreign Affairs, was born
of Jewish parents in Russia in 1876. His real name is
Meer Moiseeff Wallach.
Hitler’s Germany would be considered mild com-
pared with the conditions which Jews in Russia had
to put up with then, and the young Litvinov became a
revolutionary against a system which oppressed his
race. In 1901 the Tsarist secret police imprisoned him
for running a secret printing press on which he pro-
duced revolutionary pamphlets. He escaped. He de-
cided that printed matter alone would not bring the
revolution. In 1905 he ordered a shipload of arms
from England. The ship foundered on the way. He
ordered another. That ship sank too.
After that he spent most of his time working for
the revolution outside Russia. He joined the Social
Democrats in Switzerland. They were too mild for
him, however, and he became a confirmed Bolshevik.
For 10 yeafs fie lived in England. As all revolu-
tionaries have to, he often changed his name. He had
changed from Wallach to Maximovitch, Gustav Graf
and finally Litvinov. In England he took the name
Harrison.
He had a job as a bookkeeper and earned a few
extra shillings by teaching Russian. All the time he
kept up his revolutionary work, attending international
Socialist conferences, keeping in touch with the pro-
gress of the revolutionaries in Russia, talking till all
hours of the morning with like-minded English friends.
He married one of these English friends. She
was Miss Ivy Low, niece of that staunch British Tory
Sir Sidney Low. She does not live in Moscow. She
teaches Basic English in a town far away, to which
she was banished because, it is said, she said some rude
things about the famous Purge. Maybe that was the
beginning of her husband’s decline.
He was working in England when the war broke
out. So after the revolution Mr. Harrison became
Maxim Litvinov, first Bolshevik Ambassador to the
Court of St. James’s, although he was not received
there.
In fact, most undiplomatically, the ambassador
was clapped into Brixton gaol as a reprisal for the
murder of a British diplomat in Moscow. The Bol-
sheviks had meanwhile arrested the British agent to
Russia, Mr. R. H. Bruce-Lockhart. Litvinov was
swapped for Bruce-Lockhart in 1918.
On his return to Russia he became assistant to
Tchitcherin, then Foreign Commissar. In 1929 he
succeeded his chief.
He is a benevolent-looking fellow, stout, with
shrewd, apparently kindly, eyes. Actually he is not
at all benevolent. He is brilliantly shrewd, with a fine
logical mind. He speaks well, makes contacts easily.
His barbed wit is an unpleasant memory for some of
the statesmen who crossed swords with him at Geneva.
His going is like the end of an epoch. He stood
for the post-war League diplomacy of enormous con-
ferences and millions of words. He knew the humbug
of the business. But he knew also how to get what he
wanted by cunningly steering the speeches into the
channels he wanted.
He was one of the inventors of the Geneva back-
staircase diplomacy which led foreign statesmen to
creep into the side doors of hotels to have whiskies
in one another’s bedrooms and “fix” things for the
morrow. And he had great triumphs. Among his
achievements were the American recognition of Soviet
Russia, the Franco-Russian and the Russian-Czecho-
slovak alliances. But all the elaborate structure fell
down like a pack of cards when Germany, and later
Italy, just refused to play according to Litvinov’s rules.
Litvinov defined his own policy when he made his
now famous remark: “Peace is indivisible. He meant
that every country must guarantee every other coun-
try. It did not work. His influence in Russian affairs
has progressively declined with the rise of Nazi Ger-
many. He never had much say in Russian internal
3.ff
Wisely the old master of international intrigue
kept out of the intrigues round the Kremlin. When
foreign ambassadors complained to him about the
arrest of their nationals, Litvinov would smile apolo-
getically and say he did not even know ot the arrest.
He kept out of the way of the Ogpu like that.
For that reason he is one of the few remain-
ing members of the Bolshevik Old Guard. Most of
them have died since, from natural or unnatuial causes.
Sleuthing the I.R.A. Conspirators.
(Condensed from an article by C. A. Lyon in London
“Sunday Express.”)
Astonishing facts about the I.R.A. in Britain are
known to the police. They know, for instance, that
the I.R.A. has more than a thousand members in
Britain ; that it is supported, not by “foreign gold,”
but by the pennies of numerous secret supporters ;
that it was able to get R.A.F. uniforms and reams of
official Government notepaper ; that it was able to
get people into the inmost control rooms of British
power stations iri order to make plans of them ; that
it had a munition agent who sent explosives about
England, not by the pound, but by the ton.
The I.R.A. declared war on his Majesty’s Govern-
ment on January 12. The object was to get the
British right out of Ulster. On January 12, after the
most lengthy preparations, they sent Viscount Halifax
an ultimatum telling him to get British troops out of
Ireland in four days, or else
On the “red night” of January 16 electric pylons
were dynamited at Didsbury and Barton, in
Lancashire ; a fish porter was blown sky-high in a
Manchester street and died of a fractured spine ; two
more Manchester street explosions occurred ; the
South-East England electric grid was nearly blown up
at Southwark by a biscuit-tin bomb ; there was an
explosion at Harlesden in N.W. London.
Now intense police activity, more intense than any
since the spy round-up of 1914, was initiated. The most
important discovery was due to a plumber, Charles
Heap. At work in a house in Manchester, he saw
some barrels and bags in a wardrobe. It occurred to
him that he might be in the stronghold of the I.R.A.
Later he went back to the house and had another look.
He saw that the wardrobe had been nailed up. Two
days later the police raided the house. They found that
the wardrobe and the sacks in it contained explosive.
There were detonators and alarm clocks. There was
cable like the cable that had been run round the legs of
Lancashire pylons. Under the floorboards they found
56 sticks of gelignite and a plan of the Bristol Electri-
city Board control room.
Next a note was found in one of the raided houses
bearing the name of an Old Trafford lorry driver:
“For going to London and bringing back
a cargo of stuff to be used on January 16 paid
£6 10s.”
The lorry driver was quickly found. He told his
story. He was clearly an innocent, unknowing
accomplice. One of the I.R.A. men told the lorry
driver he wanted some beeswax brought from London
to Manchester in a van. It was to polish the floor
of a dance hall.
He said he had made his journey as far back as
October 31. But there was a bad snag. The lorry
driver did not know where he had been for the “stuff.”
He had called at an address in Kilburn, and from there
had been piloted through a maze of streets to—some-
where else.
He was now driven in a police car around North-
west London for three-and-a-half days until,
miraculously, he picked up the trail. So was caught the
man who was a principal, if not the principal, sup-
plier of the munitions of war to the I.R.A.
. The garage was the property of Mr. John Healy,
a furniture dealer and a club proprietor, married and
with two children, and in a good way of business.
He was a great buyer of potassium chlorate, which,
mixed with sugar or with certain wax, becomes an
effective explosive. He had been buying it not for
weeks, but for years. Tons of this important ingredient
of explosive had been delivered to him.
The London police had already had a lucky start.
In November, 1938, a lorry was in a minor accident at
Ilford. The police found potassium chlorate in it. Two
men in charge were arrested. Those arrests led the
detectives on to a whole row of conspirators.
The police put tabs on them and roped them in
after January 16. Papers in their possession opened
up a new vista to the police. The explosions of
January 16 were only the first shots of a whole
campaign. After electrical installations there were
new objectives. They were going to plant incendiary
bombs in big stores. Selfridge’s, Liberty’s, Swan and
Edgar’s, Woolworth’s Oxford-street and Strand
branches were all in their plans. They were going on
to post offices, newspaper offices and railways, includ-
ing Waterloo and Victoria stations. They contem-
plated poisoning the water, but gave that idea up,
as the plan naively records, because they would, too,
have to drink it.
A week after Mr. Healy, who was perhaps the
quartermaster-general of the movement, was captured,
the London police captured the chief of the general
staff—Peter Stuart.
The final triumph, the arrest of Michael Joseph
Cleary, the “Officer Commanding Britain,” was as
complicated as the rest. A clock which was part of
the exploding gear attached to an electric pylon at
Windle had in it part of a fingerprint, a few lines and
loops, little more than a smudge. At Scotland-yard
one of the foremost fingerprint experts in the world
built it up into a complete thumbprint. But not the
thumbprint of any known criminal.
On January 12, the day of the ultimatum, two
suitcases had been left at a suburban station to be
sent to an address in Manchester. Liquid was seen
running out of one of the suitcases, and they were
found to contain bottles of sulphuric acid. The
address turned out to be Cleary’s.
The police watched Cleary all through the period
of the explosions, but did not interview him until
February 3. Then it was found that his thumbprint
was the same as the built-up print.
The first part of the I.R.A. man hunt is finished.
But when an I.R.A. man is captured another takes his
place. It is believed that a new officer commanding
Britain has already taken Cleary’s place.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVE YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
With Grand National weights due to
appear on the Monday, no striking dis-
closure of form was anticipated in the
jumping events at Williamstown. How-
ever, the Kororoit Hurdle victory of
Kevastar suggests that this Gay Lothario
gelding may have to be reckoned with in
the first “leg” of the Flemington double
—he has 9st. 61b.
Kevastar is owned by A. G. Silk, a
wholesale banana merchant. Silk backed
King Colossus for a colossal sum in the
National Hurdle of 1938 and, by “hedg-
ing,” stood to win £17,000 to nothing.
Silk got busy on the course at Williams-
town before racing started and secured
£35,000 about Kevastar and Shere Khan
for the two Nationals. As in the case
of King Colossus 12 months ago, Silk’s
outlay was small.
Kevastar justified the confidence of his
owner, romping home seven lengths in
advance of Cape Race and Star Lover.
No reliable line was obtained about Shere
Khan in the Autumn Steeplechase. His
rider was unseated through collision with
Wakerife when that horse fell at the first
fence.
Heroic Chief, favorite for the Kororoit
Hurdle at twos, led until supplanted by
Kevastar at the half-mile. He ought to
have been third, and the stewards cen-
sured Douglas for not riding him out.
Heroic Chief cost Archie Crofts lOOOgns.
as a yearling. He competed in the last
National Hurdle, but, being obviously a
non-stayer, hasn’t been entered this
winter.
Lou Robertson won the National
Hurdle in 1912 with Wingarara, but his
hope of success with Royal Messenger
next July seems negligible. The novice
performer finished an ignominious last.
He belongs to T. Hogan, of Sydney, who
had a half-interest in the 1935 Melbourne
Cup winner, Marabou.
Bully Hayes (9 to 4, favorite) beat Beau
Placid (tens) by three lengths in the
Autumn Steeple. He withstood a weakly-
grounded protest for interference at the
home turn. Both horses, together with
King’s Warden, who finished well in
third position, are National Steeple can-
didates. Bully Hayes has 10st., Beau
Placid 9st. and King’s Warden 9st. 121 b.
In years gone by C. Quinn did par-
ticularly well over fences with the grey
gelding Vanguard, His perseverance with
Beau Placid may be rewarded in minor
events, but a Grand National victory
seems remote. Seymour, who broke
down after being second last year, had
not raced since until Saturday. He
appeared to pull up sound in the first
division of the Beach Welter. He has
list. 121 b. in the National.
Duncan had to retire from the saddle
because of a fall when riding Rose Valais
at Williamstown. Strange to relate, his
only two successes as a trainer have been
on that course,
Devonian won for Duncan at the be-
ginning of last year, and on Saturday he
landed the Juvenile Handicap for “B. C.
Crown,” a city dentist, with The Progeny
(Beau Fils-Repulse). At 7 to 2 The
Progeny started next in demand to Con-
siderate, whom he comfortably defeated.
Rain overnight and showers during the
afternoon made the going heavy at Wil-
liamstown. This may have had some-
thing to do with Desert Chief finishing
last in the Bay View Handicap, for
which the M.L. stallion was backed at
9 to 2 and better.
Desert Chief had 9st. 51b. He vainly
chased Rambler and knocked up at the
half-mile. Rambler, a much-improved
mare by Windbag, led throughout with
7st. 41b. Minor places were filled by
other lightweights—Ruckman and Minim.
At 8 to 1 Rambler represented the only
turn-up for ringmen in seven races.
Vincent O’Neill pulled off a double
with Rex Felt (5 to 2) in the Gellibrand
Handicap and Millie’s Hope (11 to 8) in
the first division of the Beach Welter.
O’Neill had a great opinion of Spearfelt
the racehorse ; now he is equally enthusi-
astic about Spearfelt the sire.
Most impressive victory of the day was
that of Gladstone (Liberal-Arrasene) in
the second division of the Beach Welter.
Favorite at 5 to 2, this half-brother to
Chilperic, a Toorak Handicap winner,
had a terrific leeway to make up from
the bend, yet scored by three parts of
a length from Somerset. Somerset is on
the up-grade again.
* x * * *
It used to be a common practice on
Sydney racecourses to pour whisky,
brandy or champagne down horses’
throats. Sometimes when the boss wasn’t
looking the boy entrusted with the spot
had it himself. Both practices have been
rare since the A.J.C. brought in a rule
to the effect that a trainer keen on
giving his nag something with a stick
(or a telegraph post) in it must first get
permission from the stewards.
At Moorefield on Saturday the Canter-
bury owner-trainer Pettit forgot all about
the rule and gave Last Chance a nip
of brandy before the start of the Rock-
dale Mile. He admitted his fault, ex-
plaining that his aim was merely to
soothe his gelding, a nervous beggar;
and the stewards expressed themselves
satisfied on that point. But Pettit was
fined a tenner. Last Chance carried out
his part of the contract, galloping past
Dulcedo at the top of the straight and
winning with his head on his chest. There
were only four starters, and Goliath was
third. His rider, Harvey, was caught
napping when Dulcedo and Last Chance
shot away at the three furlongs, and
Goliath had too much ground to make
up over the final furlong. Last Chance
started at 7 to 4.
The Rockdale Mile was the principal
race of the day, and club, punters and
bookmakers grumbled at the poor ac-
ceptance. It cramped the style of mer-
chants of doubles especially, as the
Moorefield Handicap brought out a mere
five runners. Masterpiece (4 to 1) won it
by a head from Aristocrat (5 to 2);
Felicia was a poor third. The protest flag
was hoisted, Lappin, the rider of Aris-
tocrat, pleading that Masterpiece had in-
terfered with his mount in the straight.
Aristocrat actually ran past Masterpiece
at the Leger, but lugged in and then
moved out. Had he gone straight he
would have won, but he is not honest.
The protest was dismissed.
Tony, successful at the previous
Moorefield meeting, had another win,
this time in the Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap ; but there was no 20 to 1.
Mrs. Dolly Clayton, the owner, had en-
gaged Munro to ride her big chestnut.
Opening at 6 to 4 and easing to 9 to 4,
because of solid support for Demon Lad,
Tony won like a real horse. After lead-
ing for a couple of furlongs, Munro let
Tony take the hill at his leisure. Coming
to the home turn, Tony moved up on
the outside of Demon Lad, Enatic and
Craigite. He ran past them without an
effort and scored in runaway fashion
from Demon Lad and Enatic.
Moorefield trainer Mead has a good
colt in Radical, by Brazen-Extreme, and
has given him time to develop. Backed
from sixes to 7 to 2, Radical scored com-
fortably in the first division of the
Juvenile for colts and geldings. The
second division went to My Friend, by
Winooka-Spear Lily. Nicely handled by
the apprentice Hall, a 16-year-old youth
from Brisbane, the Winooka colt had the
race won at the home turn. Some of
his backers got twelves, but he started
solid at 4 to 1.
Good Morning, a member of F. W.
Hughes’s extensive string, finished solidly
in the first division of the Juvenile for
fillies —too solidly for Castalia. Both are
trained at Moorefield; Good Morning
started at twos. Plassey, the best-looking
filly in the field, started from an outside
position, a real handicap in a Moorefield
sprint, and could never get across to the
rails. Canterbury businessman C. F. Gall
was not present to see his Grand Joy
filly Lady Zenta (5 to 1) romp home in
the second division. Decelea, an odds-on
favorite, was third. She will do better
at a longer journey and on a bigger track.
Desert King was the medium of a
plunge in the Flying Welter. He, how-
ever, was not nippy enough at the barrier
and could not get out of the ruck until
the race was over ; in the circumstances
his fourth was a fair effort. But it is
improbable that he could have beaten
Tolerant (8 to 1), who hopped out
smartly and galloped clean away from
his opponents, winning by six lengths
from Bradley, with Morning Gift third.
Shean’s anxiety to be on a winner, after
a lean time since the spring, accounted
in part for the unusual margin.
Tolerant is a six-year-old gelding by
Silverado-Linbee. He races in the colors
of J. J. Leahy, who bred him. He has
been difficult to train.
* * * *
The retirement of C. B. Kellow from
the role of racehorse-owner and -breeder
will be a big loss to the Victorian Turf.
All of Kellow’s thoroughbreds, including
brood mares, are to be offered for sale
in Sydney next month.
Kellow made history so far as Aus-
tralia is concerned when he outbid
Otway Falkiner and paid 16,000 guineas
for Heroic as a three-year-old. That
was in the autumn of 1925. Alan Cooper
in 1936 bought Talking privately for
£19,000. Results amply justified Kellow,
who is a shrewd businessman.
Nephew of Jimmy Paterson, one-time
Premier of Victoria, Kellow began work
in a Flinders-lane warehouse. He pros-
pected for gold in Westralia and then
took up pushbiking, winning an Austral
Wheel Race. From selling bikes C.B.
blossomed into a vendor of motor-cars.
He has palatial showrooms in St. Kilda-
road.
Jack Holt, the Mordialloc trainer, will
greatly miss Kellow as a patron, es-
pecially as Mrs. L. R. Buxton, for whom
he won big money with High Syce, High-
field, Heros and other equine celebrities,
has “shortened sail” as owner since her
father’s death a few years ago.
@ * * *
“Sturt”: The Betting Control Board
in S.A. is making drastic new rules for
the “advantage” of backers: (1) No shop
is to lay, on local race days, anything
but starting price ; (2) every racecourse
bookmaker must display his prices on a
board. “The public should not have to
ask the price of any horse,” says Dr.
Benson, chairman of Port Adelaide.
Price-boards are already used in the
Derby enclosures, and it is supposed that
the migration there of grandstand patrons
—which has already caused a strike of
bookies at the trots —will be checked by
the new system.
* * * *
The night-trotting people are active
again in Sydney. What with bi-weekly
lotteries and “the dogs” and three or four
race meetings a week, “sports” have
more than enough ways of losing their
tin, but the night-trotting section has
hopes—and also, of course, supporters in
the alleged Parliament. It points to the
resounding success of night trots in Perth
and Adelaide as evidence that in Sydney
they would fill a yawning public need.
Also, it has been encouraged by the dis-
favor into which chasing the tin-hare and
following the dough has fallen among
people whose votes cannot be ignored.
Moved by the complaints of ladies that
unmuzzled greyhounds have a playful
habit of tearing cats and small dogs to
pieces, and by the protests of humani-
tarians against the pampering of the use-
less brutes, many of which get more and
better food —rump steak, for example—•
than men on the dole and even workers
on the basic wage can buy for their
families, suburban council after subur-
e
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Federal Hurdle: Pooley Bridge
or Kevastar ; next, Restford.
Commonwealth Steeple: Turf
Boy ; next, Bully Hayes.
Mt. Alexander Handicap: Millie’s
Hope ; next, Pooley Bridge or
Rambler.
Keilor Handicap: Stoic; next,
Finch.
Highweight: Gladstone; next,
Somerset.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Handicap: Moaveil; next,
Aureus.
Turf Club Handicap: Tony ;
next, Cid.
Park Stakes: Rummage ; next,
Vintage.
Ashbury Handicap: Adonis;
next, Cable Boy.


ITS ALL A MATTER OF BALANCE
Johnnie Walker has the gift of making finely-balanced whisky
by skilful blending, and all the many whiskies in the blend are
fully matured in the wood. That is why, when entertaining
friends, you should make sure of having some Johnnie Walker
in the house... and why, when at the club or bar, you should
always ask for Johnnie Walker by name.
Johnnie Walker is obtainable in the famous
square bottle and in handy flasks of smaller size
mi
■i
;S^o&s
LV'UI
JOHNNIE
WAhKER
BORN 1820-STILL GOING STRONG
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD, LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY
JW94-FP.


ljou can depend on
CHAMPION"'
for SAFETY
SPARK
IPLUGS
Many accidents are avoided by
cars that can dart out of danger-
ous situations. Keep your car
alert. Install new Champions at
regular intervals and enjoy the
safety and pleasure of quick ac-
celeration, abundant power and
speed. Champions pay for them-
selves in the fuel they save.
s Empire product—made in Windsor, Can.
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK and clean spark plugs when YOU CHANGE OIL’
A "fairly
accurate” tyre ■
gauge is useless
—it cannot give you
a perfectly balanced
car. The Kismet “Cadet”
is guaranteed accurate.
Used regularly it ensures
your driving comfort, skid-
less motoring and less tyre wea
You’ve got to have
ACCURACY
in a tyre gauge
Calibrated up to
501 b. in large, clear
figures. Handsomely
finished in leather
wallet.
KISMET
CADET TYRE GAUGE
William Turner & Bros., Ltd., Eyre Works, Sheffield, Eng.
Factory Rep. : JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71. Melb., Vic.
7/6
Under the Whip
The Moonee Valley club made a profit
of £5647 for the year to March 31 after
distributing £35,850 in stakes and
approximately £20,000 in improvements.
It has existed for 23 years on a non-
proprietary basis. During that period
the former owners —descendants of the
late W. S. Cosx —were bought out.
Without doubt Moonee Valley did not
change hands at any modest figure. Per-
haps those concerned were surprised at
the rapid liquidation of the debt. Balance
sheet presented to members last week
disclosed a reserve fund of £182,776.
Had it remained a proprietary club this
money would not have been at the
service of racing.
=i= * * *
Bill Tasker, after several years’ resi-
dence in Melbourne, has shaken the dust
of that city off his feet and returned to
Sydney. His luck as a trainer in recent
months has been wretched. African and
Starset injured themselves in races and
had to be destroyed, while Severn be-
came useless through fracturing a sesa-
moid bone.
African began his turf career in Syd-
ney, where he was regarded as an out-
law, but the gelding seemed to relish gal-
loping left-handed in Melbourne, and
won there over hurdles and on the flat.
Asa special favor, the V.R.C. stewards
allowed African to be mounted in the
birdcage at metropolitan meetings. He
was nervy but not a vicious horse.
* * * *
Ted O’Sullivan, who won the Mel-
bourne Cup of 1921 on Sister Olive, has
made more than one attempt to stage a
comeback as lightweight jockey. Now
well on to middle-age, he is riding in
Tasmania. On May 13 he piloted Lady
Quex to victory in a Flying Handicap
at Hobart.
“Wally” Burn, one of the best light-
weights that Victoria ever produced, re-
sumed riding after several years’ absence
from the saddle, and in 1916 landed the
Australian Cup on Cherubini, trained by
his brother Fred. However, “Wally”
soon drifted back into the role of
onlooker.
* * * *
During the V.R.C. autumn meetings
Turoa Webster expressed the desire to
hand in his jockey’s license and be-
come a trainer, his opportunities being
limited by increasing weight. So far
Webster hasn’t obtained a patron. At
Avenel last week Turoa rode a win-
ner in quite his old style. His father,
A. D. Webster, has gone into retirement
as trainer in M.L.
* * * *
Vincent O’Neill failed with Rex Felt
at Ascot (Vic.) on May 13, but in the
following week he pulled off a betting
coup with Millie’s Hope in the Geelong
Handicap. Millie’s Hope was backed
from sevens down to 7 to 4 and scored
without effort, minor places being filled
by Hardwood and the much-raced Peggy
O’Neil.
Both Rex Felt and Millie’s Hope were
sired in Queensland. They are by Spear-
felt, whose success in the Melbourne Cup
of 1926 placed O’Neill on the map as a
trainer. On Queensland form, Millie’s
Hope was remarkably well treated in
the Geelong Handicap with Bst. 51b.
Five favorites in a row scored at
Geelong—Sweet Lullaby (threes), Felicity
(6 to 4), Bardina (9 to 4), Scyros (5 to 4)
and Millie’s Hope (7 to 4). The next
winner, Green Thorne, was a near-
favorite, but sevens could be had about
Carry Over in the final event, and from
a bookmaker’s angle this “reduced the
swelling” to some extent.
Baryta did T. J. Hayes such good service
in Melbourne over sprint courses that
he attended the Randwick yearling sales
in 1938 and gave 625gns. for a half-
sister to that horse. Under the name of
Felicity this filly annexed a division of
the Two-year-old Trial at Geelong.
Owned by “Vernon Winn,” who gave a
big sum for the 1937 Goodwood Handi-
cap winner, Night Gang, she is by Con-
stant Son.
* * * *
An otherwise dull meeting at Rose-
bery, Sydney, was brightened by a close
finish in the Flying Handicap. Constant,
“T hat makes us all square!”
owned and trained by the veteran
O’Rourke, won by half a head from
Laurel G., with heads between second
and third (Miss Linbul) and third and
fourth (Breeze). Constant, a four-year-
old mare by Constant Son-Ila Tait, was
backed from 33 to 1 to 8 to 1, and, as
usual on these occasions, newspaper
readers were assured that her victory
“took thousands of pounds out of the
Ring.” But at these Wednesday meet-
ings very little is ever laid at 100 to 3,
nor does it require much to be “invested”
(all money gambled on Sydney courses is
“invested”) to bring the price down to
eights.
* * * *
“0.T.”: It was Marvel, not Penance
(B. 3/5/’39), that beat Carbine. A great
miler, Marvel did the deed in the All-
Aged Stakes at the Randwick Easter meet-
ing 48 years ago. Trainer Hickenbotham
and jockey Ramage were blamed for
Carbine’s defeat, the trainer for sending
him out without plates on slippery going,
and the jockey for trying to make a
hell-for-leather race of it. Carbine, taken
to the front, ran the first furlong in
“twelve” and the first six in 1.14, and
when Marvel tackled him in the straight
he could not produce the finishing run
for which he was noted. In the Cumber-
land Stakes, then a two-miler, the same
afternoon, the pair met again, and, plated
this time, Carbine easily turned the
tables \ but Marvel was no stayer,
Carbine won the A.J.C. Plate two days
later ; the last six furlongs of three miles
he traversed in 1.15|, and seemed to be
only cantering. At the same meeting
Highborn won the Sydney Cup with 9st.
31b. In the spring he had been a rather
poor second to Carbine in the Melbourne
Cup, receiving 531 b. No ; we have never
had a racehorse like Carbine, and, brief
as his stud career was in Australia, we
have had no greater sire. And there are
many who believe that one of his de-
scendants, Spear Chief, will prove him-
self the best horse in Australia over all
distances next season.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Lud Mayor Coles and ex-
Lud Mayor Luxton, of Melbourne,
struck a nomenclature puzzle when they
bought a yearling colt by Lothario from
Mitzi. After making two attempts to
name the animal, both of which were
rejected by the registrar, they tried
Casanova. No good again ; there is a
superfluity of Casanovas —one is in the
Epsom Derby. Coles has had to implore
the public not to flood him with sugges-
tions through the ’phone.
* * * *
S.P. bookmakers, who crept into holes
and hollow logs when the Sydney Gov-
ernment legislated against their useless
trade, emerged when they found that
administration was to be of the slack and
shiftless Stevens variety, and the game
is going as strong as ever. All the subur-
ban racing clubs are protesting, and the
A.J.C. has joined forces with them, but
so far without the slightest effect. The
brotherhood of harpies and tax-dodgers
is assisted by the silent telephone business
and by delivery of telegrams to race-
courses. Very tardily the P.M.G.’s De-
partment offered to co-operate with the
State in these matters, but the superfluous
Government which hangs out in the
neighborhood of Macquarie-street says
it would be interference with the liberty
of the subject or something. The subject
who scabs on bookmakers that pay
license fees and taxes, and on all tax'-
payers who follow other callings, doesn’t
deserve such liberty. But the mind of
Sydney Government works in an
i nscrut able way its blunders to perform.
■
»j ** . B „
GOG ROTTePty
T. : One thing I miss among modern
boxers, and modern bowlers too, for
that matter, is style. Disregarded nowa-
days, it used to be cultivated, and,
whether they were getting wickets or
not, you could watch bowlers like
Palmer, Turner and Giffen (I never saw
Spofforth) for the mere pleasure of seeing
elegance in action. The same with boxers
of the Mace-Foley-Newton school,
whether they were winning or losing. 1
suppose Melbourne has forgotten Billy
Williams, but a more graceful boxer I
never saw. A well-preserved man, he
made occasional appearances in the days
when the ugly American crouch had
come in, and how clumsy those crouchers
and corkscrew punchers looked beside
him! When he was past 40 he gave
Jack McGowan, who was quite 15 years
younger, a boxing lesson. And Mc-
Gowan is remembered in Sydney as well
as Melbourne as a very good lightweight
with as destructive a right as has ever
been seen in the Australian ring.
* * * *
Addicts of the Noble Art everywhere
should find the “Australian Boxing
Blade,” a new and expertly compiled
monthly, right to their taste. It’s edited
by Jack Read, as good a trier outside the
ring as he used to be in it, and one who
knows the game thoroughly as a press-
seat spectator ever since he gave up the
more strenuous part of it. The “Blade”
is all the work of experts. Read picked a
great moment for bringing it out —the
Richards-Stewart occasion and sold
close.on 3000 copies in the Stadium that
night.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Among the luxuries which
have flowered in Darwin since the Com-
monwealth Government began to rain
Defence money upon it is the White
Horse Club, presumably named after
Larry Foley’s White Horse, and given
over to youths full of speed and stamina
and “terrific two-handed effectiveness.”
They take their training seriously, too.
Johnny Wilkshire, getting into form for
a contest with Ron Shadforth on May


Co G 0 0 D
SMOOTH SHAVE
2%
(o7^
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
r
&■ JOUBERT PTY. LTD. |
DEAF
Hearing is now being restored in every
condition of deafness or defective hearing
from causes such as Catarrhal Deafness,
Relaxed or Sunken Drums, Thickened
Drums, Roaring and Hissing Sounds,
Perforated, Wholly or Partially Destroyed
Drums, Discharge from Ears, etc.
WILSON S EAR DRUMS
effectively replace what is lacking or
defective in the natural ear drums. They
are simple devices, which the wearer
easily tits into the ears, where they are
invisible. Soft, safe and comfortable.
Write to-day for our FREE booklet, or
order by post. The price is 22/-.
WILSON EAR DRUM CO.
279 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
z
&
«-*> I
T ■
%
o
m
r
z.
3
S'
inff
ga
y
TJ
2S
X
a*
-
Sf
3
±
?»
o
f*3*
3
3&
ft
*\©
5 2
*o
ft
m to
r^
UJ
H!»
K b'
“To drown and drench our heads icith fuel,
“Fet give us d-r-a-g-g-i-n-g oil, is cruel! ”
HU
/4r£
“Drain the old oil, for HERE WE COME!
“Ready ? NOW let the starter hum! ”
&
o\\-
•tOH
77
J j A ' . P J A
F J
m
The Drag-Free Drops said, “Why the fuss?
“To cut out drag you just need US! ”
Si
“We work by stealth and never brag,
“But things move fast when out goes drag V
CHANGE NOW
TO THE
DRAG-FREE 01
SHELL MOTOR OIL
The Shell Company of Australia Limited (Incorporated in Great Britain) L0.39/11F
23, felt that the punching-bag was not as
resilient as usual. Some “unknown prac-
tical joker had replaced the shavings with
gravel.”
Footbrawl
After many years Haw-Hawthorn is in
“the four” —and the money —in Mel-
bourne. On Saturday it achieved the very
considerable feat of beating Carlton 13-8
to 11-17. Carlton’s sharpshooters had an
off day, but that is apt to happen in the
best-regulated club, and there can be
no denying the merit of Hawthorn’s per-
formance. Richmond (16-22) found
North (13-11) fairly easy. Richmond is
first of “the four” ; Collingwood is back
in second place, leading Melbourne on
percentages, Hawthorn being fourth, a
couple of points below.
St. Kilda, in-and-out for so many
seasons, is living up to its unfortunate
reputation. After beating Collingwood
splendidly, it was trounced by Essendon
14- to 8-18. ’Wood improved its posi-
tion at the expense of Fitzroy, 17-14 to
11-13. Sowth notched its first win of the
season, and ran up the day’s highest score
(120 points). Footscray, which it beat
18-12 to 16-6, is now alone at the bottom
of the list. Geelong could not cope with
Melbourne, the Red Legs winning by
15- to 12-18.
* * * *
All five Australian selectors, the Gover-
nor and 6000-odd Brisbane people saw
the N.S.W. Rugby Union tourists hor-
ribly licked in their first match against
Queensland. As is so often the case in
Sydney, the visiting forwards forgot that
their job is to pack tight and imitate the
steamroller —not the Russian one —and
they were not only beaten but humili-
ated by a much lighter pack which at-
tended strictly to business. The spec-
tacle of forwards ranging alongside their
backs in passing movements is pretty
enough, and it may answer for a time.
Thus N.S.W. led 12-11 at lemons. But
at the finish the board told the rest of
the sorry story: 32-15.
The N.S.W. forwards were licked in
lineouts and loose rucks. Not only
that: the Queensland pack kept the
N.S.W. inside backs on the defensive, and
rattled them till their handling became
ragged. Wilson was an able leader of
those forwards, and the Queensland
backs, especially the winger Nicholson
(he notthed three tries), made good use
of their opportunities. Hodgson was one
N.S.W. forward who played up to repu-
tation, and Windon had his moments.
Kicking for goal was atrocious ; of 12
tries scored (nine by Queensland) only
one was converted.
On the way to Brisbane the Union
footballers from Sydney tarried for an
afternoon at Newcastle and ran up a
cricket score against the local team—s 4
points to 6 with quarter of an hour to
go, and then 59 to 27. That looks bad
for local form ; all the same, Newcastle
expects that a man from its three-quarter
line, Fleming or Hills, will be among
the Australians who are going to
Britain. Malcolm, from Newcastle, was
one of the Waratahs of 1927-28. As
scrum-half he was one of the successes
of the side, and he enjoys the distinction
of having been mentioned in a novel by
John Buchan, now as Lord Tweedsmuir
helping to entertain the King as Gover-
nor-General of Canada.
* * * *
With most of their key men away in
Brisbane East and Randwick had to
scout round for substitutes for Satur-
day’s round of Sydney’s Rugby Union
premiership. Both teams were beaten,
East for the first time this season ; but
East still has a lead of one point, North
and West having joined Randwick in
second place. Gordon, regarded as the
best outsider, is lying next.
West —Ramalli its star —defeated East
29-17 (seven tries to three). With Stone
hooking for the State team the Easterners
couldn’t get nearly their usual share of
the ball. Weak tackling let ’Wick down
against Parramatta, for which winger
Jones crossed for three tries —22-10. St.
George led Drummoyne in the first half ;
then it lost its full-back, Clifford, and
couldn’t get going without him: Drum-
moyne 28-6 (seven tries to one). Uni-
versity and Manly are still lamenting
former glories. North put the Students
through 20-11, and Gordon accounted
for the Villagers 23-6.
* * * *
In the Rugby League competition,
South Sydney threw a large spanner into
Balmain’s works, winning 13-11. The
ball was thrown about with abandon, as
also were fists and boots, and a good time
was had by all, especially the spectators
—the attendance was the best for the
season. East proved easy meat for St.
George, which rattled up 32-5, and now
shares the lead with ’Main. Canterbury-
Bankstown continued its winning vein by
upending North, 11-8, and Newtown
qualified for the leather medal by taking
the knock from West, 18-10.
* * * *
N.S.W. Soccer League’s tenth round
was marked by runaway wins. Good-
year kept its three-point competition lead
by handing out a 5-0 hiding to Glades-
ville-Ryde. The premiers gave a fine
display of co-ordinated aggression, hav-
ing no defence to worry about.
Wallsend, in second place, and within
shooting distance of the rubber men,
trounced Cessnock 7-3, and Metiers
towelled Newcastle 5-1. Granville held
off Leichhardt 3-1 ; Weston just pipped
Woonona-Bulli 2-1, and St. George regis-
tered the surprise of the day at Adams-
town’s expense, 7-2.
* * * *
“J.C.W.” (Vic.): At the last football
match I attended a player received a
nasty cut over the eye and the first-aid
kit was opened. In it were two pieces of
cloth (dirty), each about 6in. long, two
boxes of pills, a tin of antacid powder, a
bottle of Creme Charmosan, a screw-
wrench, a spanner, a piece of string,
two hairpins, and —yes —six dozen moth-
balls. The patient recovered.
* * * *
“D.”: South Australians are begin-
ning to take their football with the
solemnity which distinguishes control
and patronage of the game in Melbourne.
Before the season began, the Glenelg
club imported three players from Broken
Hill and two from Victoria, finding jobs
for the Victorians, who had been jobless
in their own State. One, Boyall, was
from Collingwood and the other, Abbott,
from Geelong, and their clubs coldly
refused them clearances. Glenelg sent
its mayor and town clerk to Adelaide
to seek the local League’s intervention,
and after the civic worthies had made
speeches, quite in the Victorian style,
the League agreed to send a delegation
to Melbourne to intercede with ’Long
and ’Wood. The mission to Geelong was
successful, but ’Wood wouldn’t budge.
Perhaps if the services of Richards,
leader of the Labor Opposition, had been
requisitioned, Glenelg would have had
better luck. ’Wood is Labor, and a vote
for the Cause is as good in Glenelg as
it is in Collingwood.
ft^BSceiicmeous
Melbourne Grammar’s crew—an un-
commonly good one—won the boatrace
on the Barwon at Geelong, making the
school head of the river for the second
successive year and for the eighth time
this century. Grammar’s opponents were
Wesley and Scotch —Xavier and the two
Geelong colleges had been beaten in
heats. After a false start the three crews
got away perfectly and, helped by a
strong following breeze, made good
time. Grammar soon had the lead, but,
hanging on tenaciously, Wesley was half
a length away when Grammar started to
spurt at a signal from coach Walter
Ricketts. Pulling with strength and con-
fidence in a boat equipped with the latest
fittings and bracings, Grammar had in-
creased its lead to a length at the finish,
its time being 5.4 y. Scotch, third all the
way, with a despairing effort got to within
half a length of Wesley.
# % sf:
A little fellow beat a big fellow in
the N.S.W. golf championship final, and
was cheered to the Kensington clubhouse
by a big gallery, which had got out of
hand at times. The little chap is Alan
Waterson, of the Moore Park club ; he
is 10|in. shorter and nearly five stone
lighter than his opponent, Jim Ferrier,
of Manly, champion for the two previous
years. Ferrier was beaten 4 and 3. Four
holes to the bad at the end of the
first round, he never afterwards looked
like retaining his title. Again and
again he was outdriven by the Moore
Park lad. For six days Waterson
played golf of a brand seldom seen
in Australia and never before at Ken-
sington. Breaking 70 seemed nothing to
him ; 10 holes in 35 was his dazzling
performance against Heard ; and his
record for the series was 177 holes in
13 under par. A real champion.
* * * *
W. A. Mackney, who plays Union
Rugby for North Sydney, has a unique
record in international sport. He has
played football and rowed in eights for
N.S.W. and Australia —he went to South
Africa with the Wallabies, and was one
of the eight that visited Berlin for the
Olympic Games. Now he has been
chosen as one of the surf lifesavers who
are to tackle the Hawaiians at Honolulu.
Fie is a police constable, aged 34.
* # H 5 *
Having gone through all the profes-
sionals in America, notably Perry and
Vines, Budge has crossed to Britain,
where he captured the indoor champion-
ship at Wembley. After two sets, 6-2.
6-2, with Tilden, he heard the exhausted
old boy say to reporters that he was
“perfect.” He must certainly be
accounted the greatest of all lawn-tennis
players. Budge is revisiting the home
of his ancestors. Scotland is entitled to
claim him as a grandson. His father
played Soccer for a representative Scot-
tish club until an accident ended the
elder Budge’s football career.


r
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postagt Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union
e
TlWlfl
r
“The Eiaugh Rouml-up/’ featuring
WILL MAHONEY
and 10 Other New Acts.
SLIDE RULE COURSE
FOR BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL MEN
Modern executives
in every sphere
conserve mental
energy and en-
su r e quicker,
more accurate calculations by the use of the slide
rule. For all types of accountancy, engineering and
other problems , . . multiplication, division, propor-
tions, square and cube roots. Our simple course
enables you to master the use of the slide rule quickly
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE with course.
Write for details to Kingsford Smith Colleges, Dept.
14, 255 a George Street, Sydney,
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Sydney’s New Theatre.
King’s Cross makes a habit of that
sort of thing on New Year’s Eve, but
the only explanation that offered itself
for a street packed with people, 30 har-
assed John Hops, howling taxis and the
wild air of carnival on an ordinary
Thursday was that the new Minerva
Theatre was burning down on the night
of the opening. Actually, when the crowd,
scraped aside by mudguards as a comb
parts the hair, reluctantly made way for
a vehicle, the most dashing apparitions
were not firemen in helmets and armed
with axes, but gents in tophats armed
with blondes.
Inside the theatre, everything was blaz-
ing : white ties, white waistcoats, white
carnations; lights, masses of flowers and
the crisp colors of new furnishings. Fire-
brigade hoses would have quenched the
most glittering array of evening dresses
this Showman has yet seen in Sydney ;
the gutters outside would have run scarlet
with lipstick, and large numbers of elegant
ladies, without disrobing any further,
could have had quite an adequate bath.
Seen from the upstairs lounge at the in-
terval, the galaxy of bald pates was an
almost irresistible temptation to some
new kind of indoor sport—theatre polo,
perhaps.
The Minerva itself was extremely im-
pressive. It will look better when the
newness that gives it something of the
atmosphere of a hotel lounge has worn
off. There’s a feeling that, because one
day it might have to be used for talkies,
the decoration has been made just a little
too “glamorous,” but it is a beautiful
theatre, delightful architecturally because
it is one organic whole. From the back
of the circle the lines move forward with
a natural flowing rhythm, in which the
boxes—splendidly—are a ripple r a Tier
than an interruption, and the stage comes
in as the logical climax of the design. If
a daffodil had produced a trumpet as
smooth as the thrust to the stage, or if
a hen had laid an egg as excellently self-
sufficient as the whole interior, bulb and
poultry should be well pleased.
There’s a tub of goldfish and other
small fry that aren’t much use as they
don’t serve chips with them. And a
couple of vastly enlarged photographs of
the harbor, though they serve their pur-
pose of contrast to the bright coloring
everywhere else, could well be replaced
by something less patriotic and more
ambitious.
Tucked away in a narrow alley, and
dwarfed by the neighboring boxes of
brick, the white building with its modern
lines looks as if it had lost itself and
wandered there by mistake. It is attrac-
tive enough to demonstrate how very
ugly most of the district really is.
When the building itself was so in-
teresting, and when the crowd made it
so important both as a social occasion
and as an extremely significant tribute to
the people who had given Sydney the
second legit, theatre it has needed for so
long, the actors deserved a sympathy they
didn’t fully receive for the difficulty of
trying to make a show “go over.” It was
a night really for musical comedy, or
for ballet, or for the out-of-the-way cos-
tuming and atmosphere of “The Mer-
chant of Venice.” “Idiot’s Delight,”
though it is a good play and was, on
the whole, extremely well done, didn’t
get quite the reception it merited. Any-
one who missed the first night is lucky,
for, divorced from the circus of the
crowd, it is the best live show Sydney’s
had a chance of seeing since the blue
moon of the Ballet momentarily inter-
rupted a long darkness.
The play was by no means perfect. It
failed to maintain the emotional intensity
that the plot demands. It is set in an
inn on a mountaintop near Switzerland
at a time when world war has broken
out, and is in Italian territory, near an
aerodrome. There is constant danger
that the hotel will be bombed, and since
they didn’t have the mechanical aids of
the talkies flights of bombers the
players themselves should have con-
veyed, beneath the surface of comedy,
the underlying horror. They did convey
it sporadically, but not continuously.
When Lloyd Lamble, vivid as a young
Communist, was having hysterics, there
was obviously a war on, but a minute or
two later there would be only comedy
again. It wasn’t asked that the dogs of
war should have been yelling the whole
time, but one should have been able to
sense them always, even under the bed
in “the hotel Governor Bryan.” Frank
Bradley, a German scientist who is first
pure Healer, anxious only to complete
his investigation of cancer, and then bit-
terly but nonetheless proudly loyal to the
Fatherland, gave easily the best perform-
ance.
Henry Mollison, delightfully funny as
a wandering Yank, took it all just a bit
too casually, and Lina Basquette, as a
N’Yark guttersnipe and bogus Russian
princess, went to the other extreme and
seemed to overact. The Yank knew her
Lloyd Lamble shakes a Red fist at arms-manufacturer Frank Harvey in “Idiot's Delight” at Sydney Minerva. Henry
Mollison does Uncle Sam’s restraining act: disapproval from Wm. O’Neal and horror from blonde.
for what she was ; she showed in a good
scene with her Zaharoff-sort-of-lover that
she didn’t take her pose seriously ; she
had to keep on posing to the Yank, but a
touch of the mock-heroic was surely miss-
ing. Frank Harvey, the armaments manu-
facturer, wasn’t grim enough, and
Reginald Collins, an impertinent Yank
ski-ing instructor, would have been fun-
nier if he’d thought of himself as cheeky.
Jane Conolly and John Wiltshire were
good as honeymooners, William O’Neal
as an air-force captain and Charles Zoli
as the inevitable pathetic-comic waiter;
Mollison’s burlesque beauties from the
States were always pleasing.
Sherwood chose a curious ending for
his play. Everybody, after various difficul-
ties, gets away from the hotel except the
Yank and the bogus princess, and as the
bombs begin to fall they scream out the
core of Sherwood’s thesis, “The whole war
is to kill us! We are the Little People!”
But they’re not the Little People ; they’re
life’s amused and amusing onlookers. To
destroy them is a good enough comment
on the meaninglessness of war, but it
would have been more effective to have
stressed the tragedy by wiping out the real
Little People—the honeymooners, the
waiter, or even the old scientist with his
rats. But it is a strong play, ingeniously
constructed, and while it is in progress the
merits of the acting are very much more
apparent than the faults.
“The Lambeth Walk”
Lupino Lane, Sally Grey.
When Mr. Stevens broke Holman’s
record as N.S.W. Premier some of his
political brethren marked the occasion
by entertaining him on the Show Boat,
where, according to three Sydney dailies,
the most important event of the evening
was a performance of the Lambeth Walk
by Mr. Stevens, Transport Minister Brux-
ner and Works Minister Spooner. Mr.
Stevens, it is recorded, made “a rather
apprehensive beginning.”
With recollections of a brace of 12-
stoners who thump the Lambeth Walk in
the flat above and a bloke who grinds it
out on a gramophone in the flat below,
present film-taster went to view this cur-
rent Sydney Liberty offering in a similar
state of trepidation. All fears were com-
pletely dispelled. It’s an uproarious
stretch of honest comedy, vaudeville,
music-hall stuff and a fair sprinkling of
wit, all revolving round the troubles of
one of those pathetic little coves who are
born comedians.
Film is an M.-G.-M. release made in
England, and it certainly couldn’t have
been made anywhere else. The lay of
it, its characters and settings are as
peculiarly English as Uncle Sam is
Amurrican. Characters are among the
best caricatures of English luds and their
dames yet screened. There’s a tall, weary,
aquiline chap with a droop in every part
of him, and there’s a big florid cove whose
diction is absolutely unintelligible, but
who, like Disney's Donald Duck, makes
himself understood by sheer wealth of
expression and gesture. There are dozens
more—from sassiety dames and snooty
young blokes to self-assertive Cockneys
and their lasses—some brief, but all ex-
cellent portrayals.
Lupino Lane is one right out of the
box, and it’s remarkable that more hasn’t
been seen of him. He’s a comedian of the
first order, funny right through the film.
In juggling, miming and pure clowning
he’s right up with the best of ’em. Sally
Grey, the lass with him, is an engaging
little minx, the role she fills being a
weaker edition of that of Shaw’s wench
in “Pygmalion.”
What the film is all about doesn’t
matter much. It concerns a little Cockney
racing tout who suddenly finds himself
elevated to a lud but refuses to stay there
without his Cockney female at his side.
His attempts to get her there and his
family’s attempts to drive her off make
up a light framework which is loaded
down with humor.
The film fairly sizzles. It is packed
with English humor delivered at the
Hollywood pace, and the combination
works remarkably well. Much of the
humor is lost in the laughter of the
audience. When, for instance, Mr. Lane
is parading in his House of Lords finery,
or when he is having some trouble with
his breakfast, bath and valet, or with
his hat and four footmen, it is useless
to try to hear anything above the gales
of guffaw that seem to shake the Liberty
to its foundations.
“Huckleberry Finn.”
Mickey Rooney.
Sydney St. James couldn’t have done
much better for the school holidays than
screen this M.-G.-M. adaptation of Mark
Twain’s story of a youngster who must,
at some time or the other, represent just
about everything any normal healthy
school kid dreams about.
It’s impossible to see the film and not
wish it had been in color. There are
some delightful river scenes and dreamy
landscapes, pictures of old streets and
old homes, arresting bits of a storm in
a forest, and many other lovely scenes.
In ordinary black and white they are
fair enough, in color they would have
been unforgettable.
Color, too, would have emphasised the
happy nature of the yarn about a like-
able young scamp who spent his days
dreaming and fishing on the river bank
instead of going to school, who was
adopted by two old sisters and who ran
away to save them paying a small for-
tune to his beery father in order that
they could keep the boy. Color would
have made it all the more unworldly.
Rooney in the main role has to discard
most of his cocksureness and boisterous
mannerisms. He’s a very intelligent actor,
and appears to have been influenced by
both Spencer Tracy and Wallace Beery,
which, of course, will stand him in good
stead. Walter Connolly and William
Frawley provide an occasional chuckle
as the “King” and the “Duke,” and Rex
Ingram does a fine job as the runaway
slave.
Puppets.
The flesh-and-blood people are making
valiant efforts at the moment to slip the
clutch that talkies have on Sydney’s en-
tertainment houses. If the Mayfair’s
contribution is successful, it won’t be
because of the Twelve Dancing Debu-
tantes or the Van Twins or “Bozo"'
Snyder, but because of the puppets —
dancing dolls manipulated from above
by the Salici people.
Tucked away in the second half of
a revue programme—-“Funz-a-Poppin’
these dolls are giving a tiptop show. They
do everything a revue show should do.
There are clowns and tumblers, a doll
balancing a barrel on its feet, a long-
haired pianist, ballet, soprano —all of
them good, and each new doll apparently
better than the ones before.
Doing their turns on a small and
cleverly-proportioned stage, the dolls


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 783 of 1930.
BETWEEN THELMA EMILY WILLIAM-
SON Petitioner
And WILLIAM ARTHUR WILLIAM-
SON Respondent.
TO WILLIAM ARTHUR WILLIAMSON
and to STELLA IRENE KEEVERS late
of No. 253 Glebe Road, Glebe.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
THELMA EMILY WILLIAMSON has com-
menced a suit against you WILLIAM ARTHUR
WILLIAMSON in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of your adultery She alleges that you
committed adultery between the First day of
April One thousand nine hundred and twenty-
seven and the Sixth day of June One thousand
nine hundred and thirty at Glebe in the State
of New South Wales AND TAKE NOTICE
that you the abovenamed WILLIAM ARTHUR
WILLIAMSON are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the Seven-
teenth day of August 1939 and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding THIS NOTICE
is given to you the said STELLA IRENE
KEEVERS so that you may have an oppor-
tunity to apply to the Court to be let in to
defend the charge if you so desire. A copy
of the petition may be obtained from the
office of the undersigned Solicitor free of
charge.
DATED this 19th day of May, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALFRED J. T. BLAKE, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1069 of 1938.
BETWEEN FLORENCE EMILY MOYES
Petitioner
And SYDNEY CHARLES HECTOR
MOYES Respondent.
TO SYDNEY CHARLES HECTOR MOYES
late of Ronald Avenue Gore Hill.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FLORENCE
EMILY MOYES has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground
that you have without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted her and without any such
cause or excuse have left her continually so
deserted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Tenth day of August 1939 and in the eyent of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of May, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALFRED J. T. BLAKE, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 953 of 1938.
BETWEEN RAYMOND LANG BYRNES
Petitioner
And RUBY ISABELL BYRNES Re-
spondent
And THOMAS MOHR Co-respondent.
TO the said THOMAS MOHR formerly of
Bertram Street Eastwood and Smithtown
Macleay River in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RAYMOND
LANG BYRNES has commenced a suit against
the said RUBY ISABELL BYRNES (wherein
you have been joined as a co-respondent) in
this Honorable Court and is applying for dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of adul-
tery between the said Ruby Isabell Byrnes and
you AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to' enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Tenth day of August 1939
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copv of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of May, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ABRAHAM GEORGE BRINDLEY, Solici-
tor for Petitioner, Frome Street, Moree.
P*u/
w
mm
Returns *
the
Barometer
of
Investments
Q
The value of an investment is
measured by the average rate
of returns over a long period.
Few investments are exempt
from risks —ordinary and unforeseen. Money placed on
Interest-bearing Deposit gives the depositor protection and
insurance against loss of capital and fluctuations of interest.
It provides an assured return of capital and an equally
assured profit, in the form of interest, which is payable
every six months if required. Amounts from £5 upwards
will be accepted. Ask at any of the National Bank s
Offices and Branches for full particulars.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited (Incorporated in Victoria )
appear almost life-size. It’s only when
the front curtain goes up and they can
be seen in contrast to the five Sahcis who
work their strings that it is realised how
really small they are. , +
The rest of the show doesn t attain to
the “happy, snappy American revue” it’s
supposed to be, but dressing and scenery
are better than average ; the ballet is a
surprising collection of loveliness; the
Carr Brothers a fine pair of tumblers,
and Jack Bickle as supple a young eccen-
tric dancer as anyone might wish to see
risking his neck. But they’ve nothing
very new to offer.
Incidentally, Aunt Jane couldn’t raise a
blush in five visits, though that’s not to
say the Twelve Debutantes won’t feel the
cold this coming winter.
Lehmann Says Farewell.
Lotte Lehmann sang her good-bye to
Sydney at the Town Hall on Saturday
night. Her final season had started in-
auspiciously on the Tuesday, when the
beginnings of a bad cold affected her
voice and the singer felt impelled to
apologise to her audience. Her Thursday
night’s recital was cancelled.
By Saturday her voice was again, if
not at its best, under perfect control.
The novelty of the evening was a group
of songs by Moussorgsky, “Songs and
Dances of Death,” unfamiliar and bitter
in flavor. More to the liking of the
audience, judging by its response, were
well-loved lyrics by Schubert, Richard
Strauss, Gretchaninoff and Tschaikowsky
which Madame has sung so often. She
has never sung them better in Australia,
and leaves Sydney with the memory of
the most sympathetic voice it has heard
in the last decade.
Szell in Mehourne.
On Saturday night at Melbourne Town
Hall, the Symphony Orchestra, under the
direction of Georg Szell, and with Aus-
tralia’s old friend Edmund Kurtz as
’cello soloist, played the Haydn Concerto
in D and (allegedly for the first time in
Australia) Richard Strauss’s symphonic
poem “Don Quixote.”
The Strauss work is one of those
affairs supposed to require four pages of
explanatory notes in the programme.
What was clear without explanation was
the bleating of the sheep which the
Knight of the Rueful Countenance took
for the noise of the advancing army of the
Emperor. The rest could have stood for
anything in the audience’s imagination
which beautiful sounds may stand for.
Don Quixote went off his head to a
wild uproar from the orchestra with a
suggestion of megalomania in a glissando
on the harp, and he fell ill to shivers of
fever and ague from the strings, dying to
an extraordinarily touching air from
Kurtz’s ’cello.
The playing was excellent, and Szell’s
conducting was extraordinarily skilful,
but there was no life in the audience,
though it was the same audience which
cheered, clapped and stamped on Wednes-
day night when Schnabel played the G
Major Concerto of Beethoven. Schnabel
is one of those rare creatures who not
only know how to play their instruments
but how to play their audiences.
Saturday night’s programme led off
with the jolly “Overture to an Italian
Comedy,” by the Australian-born com-
poser Arthur Benjamin.
A Battle of Titans.
A Bulletin man had an exciting
experience the other morning when he
wandered into the concert auditorium of
the Melbourne Town Hall and found a
battle of Titans in progress. It was
between composer Ludwig von Beethoven
on the one part and Czech conductor
Prof. Szell and Artur Schnabel, gener-
ally conceded to be one of the greatest
living exponents of the man of Bonn’s
music, on the other. The weapons they
were using were the members of the
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, who,
minus their first-night equipment and in
their shirt sleeves, looked like a real
Guild of Workmen.,
One of the superstitions held by the
general public is that its opinions about
music have an absolute validity. Thus
one of the familiar spectacles during
intervals at symphony first nights is of a
horde of listeners rushing into the foyers
to air their views on the performance of
a work they have heard for the first time
by a composer they had never previously
heard of. Their opinions are expressed
with passion and conviction ; and if an
individual comes along humbly remark-
ing that he doesn’t know what to think
about it he is regarded as somehow an
arrogant person.
What struck the Bulletin man at the
Town Hall rehearsal was the extraordi-
nary humility of all concerned in the per-
formance. It might have been expected
that Prof. Szell, being a conductor popu-
larly presumed to know all concertos
backwards, would regard himself as
knowing all that is worth know-
ing about a Beethoven concerto. But
the moment Mr. Schnabel, squatting
relaxed at the piano, introduced a smil-
ing objection to a phrase in the middle
of a movement, Mr. Szell was all atten-
tion. Their hands came together over
the script of the concerto, the amiable
discussion invariably resulting in the con-
ductor accepting the pianist’s ruling and, by
whistles, stampings, guttural noises and a
complicated system of manual signals,
conveying it to the relevant musicians.
The phrase was then repeated, and then
again and again until a subtle change
came over its tone and contour, or so
it seemed to this hearer. The symphonic
ship then cracked on all sail for another
half a minute until the head-shakes,
arm-wavings, shrugs and hand-weavings
of the pianist indicated the approach of
another danger to shipping.
Sometimes Schnabel got up and trotted
round on a tour of inspection of the in-
struments or held a silent dialogue with
the piano. At others the professor deli-
vered a dissertation on musical ethics.
Two jollier protagonists could hardly be
imagined. The only thing that seemed to
concern them was that full justice should
be done to old Beethoven. Their emotion
was communicated to the orchestra and
from the orchestra to the opus, which,
for the first time in'present writer’s ex-
perience, seemed to exude the soul of
exultation with which it is credited by
all respectable programme annotators.
Herr Schnabel is a stout little man
with greying hair and a moustache.
Without his spiritual education he would
pass for a suburban greengrocer. With-
out his spiritual education, Prof. Szell
would pass for a minor Government
official. Their joint belief that it was
extraordinarily important for the first
violins to come in a hundredth part of
a second sooner on the last note of the
piano made them look like a pair of
angels. The worst hell that present
writer could imagine for a first-nighter
would be for him to be invited to climb
into the rostrum and tell Szell and
Schnabel just why that hundredth part
of a second wasn’t necessary.
“Judas Maccabcsus.”
Handel, who might, with Shakspeare,
have boasted of the enduring qualities
of his “powerful rhyme,” was never in
a more vigorous, trenchant mood than
when he scored “Judas Maccabaeus.”
Sydney Phil., under the conductorship
of Vern Barnett, essayed the oratorio at
the Town Hall last week. Chorally, the
result was disappointingly dull, and the
orchestral backing wasn’t inspiring. The
work is simple enough in form to war-
rant a far better performance. Soloists
Elsie Findlay, Alice Prowse, Raymond
Beatty and Godfrey Stirling, however,
didn’t let Handel down.
Sydney Apollo Club.
Royal Sydney Apollo Club, an insti-
tution of respectable age, still maintains
a fairly good male-voice choir; if it
could rope in half a dozen more tenors
it be excellent.
At a concert at the Con. Hall last
week there were spirited unaccompanied
performances of such robust part-songs
as Bantock’s “Cavalier” ballads, Bul-
lard’s rousing “Sword of Ferrara” and
Dudley Buck’s “On the Sea.” Walter
Kingsley, in his best voice, scored most
heavily in his encore numbers, “Old
Man River” and “The Rich Man.” Mil-
dred Walker sang “Ocean, Thou Mighty
Monster” from “Oberon” effectively.
Lance Solomon’s Show.
Still in his early twenties, Lance
Solomon, winner of the 1938 N. S. Wales
Travelling Art Scholarship, shows more
promise as a landscapist than any other
Sydney artist of his generation.
His one-man show at the Rubery Ben-
nett Galleries, Sydney, is his au revoir
to the city, for he goes to Europe next
month. Of the fifty or so pictures on
the walls one or two have been shown
before, but the bulk of the work is new,
and it shows surprisingly wide develop-
ment, the fruit of experiment in various
modes of expression. Solomon’s affection
for the soft greys and greens found so
often in Australian bushland scenery has
led a critic to label him a follower of
Griiner. But he isn’t consciously follow-
ing anyone. It is true that “Mosman
Bay” in his present show might have
been painted by Streeton ; that his “Berry
Road,” if it were in water-color and not
in oils, could pass as the work of Harold
Herbert; that “Landscape, Berry,” and
“Rainy Season” could be mistaken for
Syd Long’s, and that “Departing Day”
has some of that elusive quality Percy
Lindsay can put into the tiniest canvas,
but when a young painter, feeling for his
artistic feet, can successfully manage all
those styles and then go back to his own
with a feeling of contentment the charge
of plagiarism falls flat.
Solomon is a good draughtsman, and
has an unfailing color sense and an in-
stinct for effective composition. On that
foundation he is building all the time,
and he should go far.


e
BRAN DALE ITS
m.
SK-i t
ct
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUKR * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
SMILE THROUGH
Treat colds, 'flu and
catarrh where the trouble
starts ... in the nose
and throat . . . with
Nazoi the germ - de-
stroying application that
gives instant relief and
r
rapidly ends infection. Nazol soothes
while it heals! Use Nazol liberally at
the first sign of winter ills and you'll
smile through winter! Nazol costs 2/6
for a big supply . . . ask your chemist!
eer
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Eighty-five thousand pounds, 100 Aus-
tralian workmen working for over a year,
and a bunch of noisy goldfish which burst
their bowl at two on Thursday morn-
ing when he was just about to snatch his
first bit of sleep were points that caught
the ear in David Martin’s speech. This
came at curtain-fall on the opening night
, of the Minerva, the social and theatrical
event which Sydney had talked about for
months. Before it, last Thursday, all other
happenings paled into wanness. It was
the rouged, perfumed and starry-eyed doll
of the week. Young men strove valiantly
to get tickets for their girl friends. First-
nighters had chained their seats weeks
before. Part of the d.c. was like a press
conference. By the night itself the house
was sold out.
The street leading to the theatre was
thick with gazers. Orwell-place, opposite
the entrance, was filled with an impene-
trable army. Crowds were still there
when the audience was coming out. The
doormen were smart in olive-green.
Green were the uniforms of the pages,
one on each side of the glass doors.
Green were their small cake-tin hats, and
scarlet their cavalier capes turned back
on the left side to show dull green. In
the foyer you couldn’t see a feather of
the rosy birds on the carpet for feet.
Large feet, small feet, but all smartly
shod. Under the bright lights flowers,
masses of them, glowed magnificently.
Admirers and friends had sent along
flowers with their good wishes. Here
and there along the promenade upstairs
flowers bloomed. There was a flower
belle, and on the chrysanthemum and
gladioli of another arrangement small
white birds were poised.
There were girl ushers in rust and
green, a green scarab at the throat. There
were programme-girls in black velvet and
red roses, and at the top of the stairs
stood a girl in a white bouffant taffeta
frock sashed in lilac. The goldfish, hav-
ing apparently capitulated, swam goldenly
on the upper stairway ; the stage curtains
were gold also, the door curtains salvia-
red.
And did the audience live up to this
grandeur? Color was all. Down in the
front row of the circle the green of Mrs.
Bertie Kelly’s velvet coat burned emerald.
High up towards the back of the circle
sat Mrs. Pao, her straight black satin
frock, with its little cape squared at the
shoulders, embroidered in gold dragons.
The purple-red of raspberries was in Mrs.
Grace’s chiffon frock and feather cape.
White were Mrs. E. Wunderlich’s coat
and frock.
In one box sat the E. J. Taits. And in
the opposite box Marie Burke displayed
poinsettia-red blazoning on black silks.
Romance entered the circle with newly-
engaged Patricia Macken and fiance.
Patricia’s frock was of rich white moire
inlet with lace medallions. Add her
blonde prettiness, and you have the pic-
ture.
Film-makers and little-theatre actors
and playwrights were everywhere. Ken
Hall was there, Ken Brodziak, Philip
Lewis, Marjorie Birmingham and Mar-
jorie Rodgers. Pink as a rose was the
second Marjorie’s cape. Patricia Salenger,
in a powder-blue crinoline that exactly
reproduced the style of Queen Victoria’s
wedding dress, was with her mother and
her brother. Gag Beaton brought a
party. Doris Pauncefort, in white moire,
and Mrs. Sep Levy, in white satins, were
notable. Betty Munro came with Tim
Osborne. Blue flowers bloomed on Mrs.
Dick Allen’s chiffons, Bea Meeks, Robin
Eakin, the John Humans, the Jimmy
Bancks couple, she in grey chiffons, Mrs.
E. Baume, in black velvet and silver fox,
a pretty girl in ,swaying pastel taffetas,
topped by a tiny Dickensian hat, and the
Schartls with niece Brenda Turnbull were
among the thousand applauders.
When the Roystone Daveys give a
party all their friends come running.
Their five-thirty-onwards last week more
than lived up to expectations. The host and
hostess seemed to have tapped an unend-
ing spring of champagne, and the drinks
were blithe with no hint of headache in
the glass. The party was really in honor
of nephew Henry Hordern, whose birth-
day it was, and who had just returned
from a trip to Honolulu. The reception
rooms at the Macquarie Club were
starred here and there with gladioli and
chrysanthemum ; and you couldn’t help
noticing Mrs. Davey’s ermine wrap and
the saucy blue feather in her black hat.
Patience Cay in a brightly-patterned
afternoon frock was attractive. The flat-
ness of Mrs. Stacpoole’s sapphire blue
beret was the peak of smartness ; loop-
ings of hyacinth blue velvet were the
ornamental fa?ade to Mrs. Glanville
Satchell’s hat. The Denison lady, Beulah
Bolton, Dora Sparks from Newcastle,
the Roskruges, Roslyn and Alison Bow-
man were among the guests.
Lotte Lehmann had to cancel her
Thursday concert because of a cold caught
in transit from the South to Sydney. Her
Town Hall concert earlier in the week
had been very crowded and warm with
applause, but even then the singer was
not happy about her own work. During
the evening she paid Ernest Wunderlich
the compliment of singing his “Good
Night.” This was Ernest’s 80th birthday,
and the composition is one of many
works from his gifted brain and pen.
Lotte’s frock of magnolia chiffon was
patterned in gold beads and rhinestones.
Its train was knife-pleated, and she car-
ried an amber chiffon handkerchief.
Visiting Sydney is Mrs. W. N. Cus-
tance, wife of Rear-Admiral Custance.
She is enjoying our sunshine, and it’s to
be hoped Mr. Mares will instruct the
weather to behave for the next two
months or so, the remainder of Mrs.
Custance’s visit. Photograph from
Dorothy Welding.
Animal-lovers filled Prince’s one night
last week in the interests of the dogs’
home and other R.S.P.C.A. causes. This
almost-brand-new restaurant with its soft
lighting was a pretty setting for the bright
chiffons and lames and the taffeta
crinolines worn by the women dancers.
The Mayoral Norman Nocks were in
the official party, her frock of azure blue
very spreading as to skirt. The Julius
lady, who was president, and Mrs. J. L.
Ruthven, who was vice-president, were
in the official group. Justice Halse Rogers
and his wife and the Norman McLeods
were others noted. Round and round
fan the black-and-white stripes of Mrs.
Richard Allen’s frock. The Jimmy
Bancks couple were there. She was
among the graceful, nicely expressed in
pearls and black marquisette. Mrs. E.
Baume’s chiffons were lobelia blue.
It was nice to wave a flipper, even at
a distance, to Zane Grey, who is already
acquainted with other queer fish along
our coasts. Zane was the guest of the
Institute of Journalists (he sipped a
foaming beaker of milk, incidentally) at
lunch last week, and he more than paid
for his cut from the bird by putting the
spotlight on the white shark. Zane ad-
mires the white shark. It is graceful, in-
telligent, a man-eater. The author-fisher-
man made it sound picturesque, but not
picturesque enough to tempt one listener
to go to Port Lincoln looking for the
one that got away from Mr. Grey. Presi-
dent D. Stewart, who introduced the
guest, and Lance Fallaw, another speaker,
were sprightly in their remarks. Referring
to something, Lance said he was being
tactful, “like the burglar who found the
lady in the and covered her with
his revolver.”
A pretty sylphlike creature in black
at the Journalists’ lunch took the hunter
of sharks under her wing in purposeful
fashion at the end of proceedings, and
got him into the lift. She was his Aus-
tralian secretary, Kathleen Allen. Kath-
leen tells of long travels in both England
and the U.S.A., of study with Yolande
Proctor, and of her own work, which
concerns the encouragement of beauty
in face and form. She is a Sydney girl,
Lorna Byrne, of the Department of
Agriculture, has for some time been run-
ning a broadcasting session entitled “For
Women in the Country.” This has gone
so well that the A.B.C. has asked her to
extend the session to half an hour so
that matters of interest to rural women
in all parts of the Commonwealth will
be included. Lorna will not keep the
microphone altogether to herself, but
will snare other authorities to tell
listeners all about such matters as meal-
planning, child psychology, poultry-
raising, choice of books, and musical
appreciation. Lorna has just been run-
ning a girls’ leadership camp at Mary’s
Mount, near Gunnedah, which was
attended by fifteen to twenty girls from
surrounding farms. The routine took
in household economy, health exercises,
and even public speaking. Photograph
from Le Guay.
The Trocadero took on a spirited and
martial air for the ball of the United
Services Institute. This was the sixteenth
birthday of the ball, and the Governor-
General came to the celebration. Shirley
Burt turned her pretty oval face towards
grown-up gaieties. She was the night’s
only debutante, and was presented to
Lord Gowrie by the wife of the presi-
dent, Major-General Hardie. Mrs.
Ilardie’s frock was a swirl of black net.
Rear-Admiral and Mrs. W. N. Custance,
Colonel and Mrs. Spain were also in the
official group. Machine-guns, and near
the “important” table a Bren, brought to
mind that all might not be well in the
town of Danzig. Blue and silver mingled
in the lame frock worn by Mrs. Custance.
Marjorie Male, of Bellevue Hill, and
Captain E. J. Quick, of Manly, an-
nounced their engagement among the
flags and the lances gay with pennants.
The Diggers Abroad Association (350
of them) turned into Grosvenor House,
Park-lane, for their yearly get-together.
A.1.F.-ers from every corner of the
British Isles, and some just arrived in
England, were in the dining hall, which
resembled a field of gaily-colored
anemones. The guest was the Duke of
Kent, and Field-Marshal Birdwood pre-
sided. Army nursing sister Eileen King,
M.M., proposed “Fallen Comrades.”
Acting-High Commissioner J. S. Duncan
gave the toast of the Duke of Kent.
The royal reply struck the right note
of friendliness.
On behalf of the bushland creatures
of Australia, this Letter wishes Bertie
Kelly many happy returns of his birth-
day, which was last week. This real
Australian has been one of the chief
workers towards the preservation of the
gentle koala bear. His birthday-cake,
planned as a surprise, was baked in the
shape of a koala, a caramel coating
giving the right color for the coat.
The Jack Glass couple helped to open
the Minerva. He has been a first-nighter
for 25 years, so, of course, he had to
run his eye over Sydney’s new theatre.
His laurels for the cast of “Idiot’s Delight”
go to Frank Bradley’s old German doctor.
But he adds that the play ran with smooth
sureness throughout.
Artists, artists’ models and lots of ordi-
nary citizens popped into the Blaxland
galleries for the opening of the Australian
Art Society’s show. Sir Hugh Poynter
said the prologue, and daughters Jocelyn
and Shirley were among the art-lovers
who gazed at the happy seascapes, land-
scapes, portraits and flower pieces that
decorate the walls. Julian Ashton and
Howard Hinton, the Jerrold Nathans, the
William Oates couple and Elaine Cogh-
lan were there. President Mrs. White
Burgess, secretary Clif Pier and vice-
president William Whitney helped in the
launching.
The boys of the Vienna Choir can do
other things well besides their singing.
In Maoriland they were the victors in
four Soccer matches. These youngsters
have a countrywoman, the widely-
travelled Mrs. Marsh, taking care of
them. Also travelling with the company
is a trained nurse.
Agent-General for N.S.W., genial Clif-
ford Hay, wrapped his good-looking wife
in silver fox to help him receive the
200-odd guests invited to welcome newly-
arrived H. P. FitzSimons, Minister for
Health, and Mrs. FitzSimons, at London's
Langham Hotel. H.P.’s youthfulness im-
pressed everybody, as did that of his
wife, who had a cheerful word for every-
one over an outsize sheaf of pink car-
nations and lily-of-the-valley. The room
was massed with pink and blue
hydrangeas, and there were buttonholes
of red carnations and lily-of-the-valley
on every second shoulder, regardless of
Simon’s Budget. Clifford Hay is known
in London as “the Agent-General who
sees everyone.” It was a great party.
Peers and mannequins rubbed shoulders
with Suburbia. Lady Wakehurst brought
her dowager mother-in-law, and Canon
Baker talked Rugby football with a
group of ex-King’s School fellows.
Lord Gifford dashed in just before the
party ended (with his blue-eyed bride,
who was decked from shoulder to waist
in a spray of orchids), having only picked
up his invitation after landing by air
at Croydon on the previous day. Fred
Thompson swapped jokes with Albert of
The Bulletin. George Fitzpatrick came
with his wife, who wore leaf-green chif-
fons. Peggy Brown, who has made a
fortune out of cakes, enjoyed sampling
someone else’s. Padre Pennington Bick-
ford came with Australian friends. Don
Finley’s part in the Shakspearean festival
in Stratford-on-Avon prevented his being
present, and Nancy Bird telegraphed her
regrets from Moscow. Colonel Nugent,
King’s Equerry when Canberra was
opened, talked happily about the royal
visit to Canada.
On June 19 a show called “The Star
Parade” will be presented at the Sydney
Town Hall in aid of the Kindergarten
Union of N.S.W. Amongst the per-
formers will be the Hawaiian Club Band
of 300 players, the Weintraubs (by cour-
tesy of J. C. Bendrodt), the Harmoniques,
Newton Goodson, John Milton, Betty
Bryant and many others. Gordon Currie
is the producer.
Still another bit of restaurant glitter
will dazzle Sydney this week. It is
Romano’s new home that faces both
Castlereagh-street and Martin-place.
Brenda (Dutchy) Somerville, daughter
of the secretary of the R.A.S., committed
matrimony last week. St. Mark’s, Dar-
ling Point, was the church ; John Back-
house, of Double Bay, the bridegroom.
The Kitano Maru brought Japan’s new
Consul-General, Mr. M. Akiyama, and
his wife to Sydney last week. The
popular Wakamatsus leave to-day in the
Nieuw Zeeland. The new Vice-Consul for
Japan, Mr. Ichikama, and Mrs. Ichikama
were also travellers in the Kitano Maru.


e
Sir HARRY LAUDER
writes:—
'7 tried HEENZO and
found it good”
is all you pay for
ONE PINT
of the world’s best
remedy for
COUGHS,
FOR ALL
CHEST AILMENTS
Take HEENZO internally .
COLDS, CATARRH,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS, SORE THROATS, ’FLU
You save lots of money by making in your own home ONE
PINT of the best possible family remedy for chest, nose,
and throat ailments, by simply adding a two-shilling bottle
of concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water. An equal
quantity of the best ready-made-up remedies would cost
up to £l. HEENZO is a genuine 3-in-ONE money-saving
remedy. You take HEENZO internally as the quickest
method for banishing coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis, and
influenza. You use HEENZO as a nasal antiseptic for
catarrh and colds in head. You use HEENZO as a gargle
to gain instant relief from sore throats. A dose of
HEENZO is also the best preventive against catching the
ills of winter chills, when venturing out into crowds or
wet and windy weather.
HOW TO USE HEENZO IN TREA TMENT OF
COUGHS
Take HEENZO every few
hours until cured. Relief
comes with first dose.
COLDS
Same treatment as coughs.
If taken at first sign, cold will
quickly vanish.
CATARRH
ALSO COLDS IN HEAD.
Put a few drops of made-up HEENZO in each
nostril night and morning.
CROUP
Four doses of HEENZO
daily, also take when cough
is distressing.
BRONCHITIS
Take night and morning, and
when cough is distressing.
SORE THROATS
Gain instant relief by gargling with made-up
HEENZO.
CATARRH
also COLDS in HEAD
Put a few drops of made-
up HEENZO in each
nostril night and morning .
WHOOPING COUGH
Call doctor immediately for injections. Ease the cough with
made-up HEENZO.
INFLUENZA
Go straight to bed. Take half teaspoonful of concentrated
HEENZO in wineglass of hot water every four hours. Ease
cough with made-up HEENZO. Keep bowels open.
HEENZO IS NICE TO TAKE
GOOD FOR ADULTS AND CHILDREN
SORE THROATS
Use made-up HEENZO as
a gargle for instant relief.
'HEENZOi
saves you money


IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body .circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of
over 3 pounds of waste matter. When the
kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of
being filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous.' This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don't wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY DILLS and get. the same
quick relief they have been giving millions
for many years. If backache is bothering
you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
FINE
JEWELS
. Tel : M 2222. t
-344-346 COitlNS ST. MELBOURNE.
RENOWNED FOR ENGAGEMENT RINGS
REMOUNTING OR exchanging OtD jewels.
Missing Friends
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM THOMAS McMILLAN or JAMES
EDWARD McMILLAN, sons of HONORA
McMILLAN, deceased, late of Easey Street,
Collingwood, Victoria, please communicate
with DILLON, NICHOLS & STARK, Solici-
tors, 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BURGESS. —Will Leslie Burgess, aged 46 years,
or anyone knowing of his present whereabouts,
kindly communicate with the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE in connection with the Estate of his late
father, James Burgess?
W. B. GEDDES, Public Trustee,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
EIRE CIRCUIT COURTS.
SOUTH WESTERN CIRCUIT No. 7,
County of Clare.
Equity Suit No. 1288.
BETWEEN JAMES GILLIGAN of Old Mill
Street Ennis in the County of Clare Eire
Labourer Administrator of the Personal
Estate and effects of Laurence Doherty
late of Brewery Lane Ennis in the County
of Clare Labourer Deceased Plaintiff
And THOMAS GILLIGAN of Corn-
market Street Ennis in the County of Clare
Labourer Defendant.
ADVERTISEMENT FOR CREDITORS,
Claimants and Next-of-kin of LAURENCE
DOHERTY deceased.
PURSUANT to a Decree of his Lordship the
Circuit Court Judge for the County of Clare
made in the above suit on the 17th day of
April 1939 all persons claiming to be Creditors
claimants or Next-of-kin of LAURENCE
DOHERTY late of Brewery Lane Ennis in the
County of Clare Ireland Labourer who died on
the 15th October 1922 and particularly John
Doherty a lawful brother of the deceased or
his issue are on or before the 14th day of
September 1939 to lodge with the County
Registrar for the County of Clare Court House
Ennis a statement in writing of their claims
With full particulars of debts and claims and
of relationship to deceased of such as claim as
his next-of-kin and are also required to attend
before the said Registrar at the Court House
Ennis by themselves or their Solicitors on the ,
15th day of September 1939 with all necessary
proofs and documentary and other evidence
in support of their claims otherwise they will
be peremptorily excluded from benefit of said
order.
DATED this Ist day of May, 1939.
MICHAEL KILLEEN,
County Registrar for the County of Clare.
KERIN HICKMAN & O’DONNELL, Solici-
tors having Carriage, Ennis, Co. Clare.
Melbotrne
Chatter
Another flock of debs, is on the wing
since P.L.C. Old Collegians’ annual dance
at the Palais. The girls all agreed about
white frocks, but werd given the chance
of expressing their preferences for frills
or straight lines, for diaphanous materials
or those of heavier weave. Among official
guests present were the college principal,
Miss Neilson, Old Collegians’ president
Mrs. Lex Rentoul (who brought her hus-
band as escort) and the sec. of Old Scotch
Collegians, Keith Wilson, who was .ac-
companied by his wife. Mrs. J. L. Wyatt
was hon. secretary of the committee,
pleased with the success of the dance, for
the numbers present ensured a financial
margin. Dorothy Anderson, who pre-
sented the debs., wore turquoise chiffon
and a deep-red sash, its color echoed in
her presentation bouquet.
Among the 15 young girls at their
coming-out party the city was well repre-
sented with 11 of them. From the country
came only four—Edith Maxted, of Wood-
end, Leila Coutts, of Serpentine, Joan
Cameron, of Beveridge, and from Jarklin
Wilma White, who has a flair for hand-
work and is teaching arts and crafts at
Horsham. Careers among the other debs,
include that of nursing. Joan Fraser is
training at Royal Melbourne, and Norma
Kelly is due soon to enter the Alfred as
a probationer. Estmere Hanson, who has
had some experience at photography, now
has a job at the Defence Department
Physics Laboratory at Maribyrnong.
“Getting the Bird” (of Peace, pursued
by Mr. Chamberlain with butterfly-net
and umbrella) was the title of Melbourne
University students’ seventh annual revue.
Its topical interest during rehearsals was
kept up to date with constant rehashes
of vacillating opinions on foreign affairs,
and the slant on the “bird” itself was at
a different angle from the dig originally
intended against Chamberlain. In “Son-
gress” Wilbur Curtis, Tom Ready and
Alec Janover aa Herr Skitler, Signor
Minestrone and Mr. Scusi’ama stated
their demands in song, with David Cohen,
lan Lasry and Gwen Young parrying
their thrusts as Mr. Chamberlain, Joe
Starling and Mile, from Armentieres.
In the finale, “Birds in Handfuls,” the
Big Shots were assisted by a number of
minor politicians and Sam Cohen as
Samuel Goldwinner of the U.S.A., whose
movie company had purchased the rights
of every roar of the British lion. Each
member of the Axis thought himself to
be Donald Dove, the bird of peach, and
came along in a fluttery fancy costume
of white feathers. The result was a prac-
tical demonstration of what might go on
in the minds of three women who meet
at a party in three similar frocks all paid
for as exclusive models.
Make-up throughout the show was ex-
cellent, particularly for Chamberlain and
the two Dictators, who got away with
their parts without overacting. Wilbur
Curtis, who is a medical student, has
plenty of parlor tricks, has acting ability,
will tackle a tune or a dialect, and if he
gets tired of prowling about with a dis-
secting-knife could always find a vaude-
ville job as an acrobat. With Frank
Hyett and Keith Opie his “Tippling
Tumbles” was put over with a capital
display of india-rubber muscles.
Another student, Joy Youlden, who is
working for a physical education diploma,
made a lively comedienne. Margaret
Lawrence (also doing physical education)
was another versatile acquisition. She
danced an apache piece of night life with
Terry Hughes (who produced the ballets)
and sang with Tom Moloney a song of
her own composition (both words and
music). Keith Dowding played the parts
of two padres in two different sketches.
His friends think he ought to have prac-
tice, for he is studying for the ministry.
The “Gilbert and Sullivan Cocktail” was
enjoyed by both ingredients and imbibers.
Maidie Flint and some good voices from
the Conservatorium added to its froth
and bubble.
Another number that went over suc-
cessfully was “Stone Age Stella,” per-
formed by Keith McNaughton and a
bunch of anthropoidal pals with hairy legs
and dinosaur bones in their fists. Through-
out the show there were plenty of thrusts
at newspaper news and propaganda. Cos-
tumes were elaborate, and Dorothea
Dixon as wardrobe mistress showed an
eye for color and design. Terence Crisp
was producer, lan Braid musical director
and Desmond Connor stage-manager.
That there were no hitches over lighting
or curtains on the first night was a credit
to the technicians, mostly embryo engi-
neers. This year only University students
took part in the show, which is probably
the best effort produced up to date.
The subject of this Eve Ray photograph
is Dorothy Mailer, youngest daughter of
the J. M. Mailers, of Kalynma Grove,
East St. Kilda. Her marriage to Joseph
Mather, of Edsall-street, East Malvern,
will take place at All Saints’, East St.
Kilda, on June 3.
Major-General Bruche and F. W. Spry
backed one another up with propaganda
and lightweight speeches in the Town
Hall Council Chamber at a meeting
called by the Lady Mayoress to set upon
its feet a collection campaign for the
Adult Deaf and Dumb Society. After a
preliminary interlude of tea those direct-
ing the effort set out to lure all others
into it, successful tactics followed by
general acquiescence and some bright
suggestions. Mrs. Harold Clapp’s brain
child was a cabaret Cocktail party at a
haunt yet to be decided upon where
aperitifs „ dancing and a buffet meal for
those prone to linger over the dinner
hour will be a gentle persuasion upon
their pockets.
There were also suggestions of golf
gymkhanas at various clubs. Mrs. F. W.
Spry offered her home in lona-avenue for
a bridge party on Friday evening (26th),
and Mrs. Jim Paxton (who is off to Eng-
land in June) mentioned flags to be sold
on Empire Day. A proxy message from
H. Bedggood anounced the co-operation
of the Apex Club (of Scooter Derby
fame), and from another quarter came
the assurance that the cause will benefit
from the opening night of the Trocadero,
which is to rise on the ashes of the old
Green Mill.
This year, it being Geelong’s turn for
the boatrace, the folk of the district, aug-
mented by a number of Melbourne en-
thusiasts, gathered along the banks of
the Barwon for barracking and for inci-
dental picnics on the afternoon of the
heats and on the final day, when Mel-
bourne Grammar had an easy win from
Wesley, with Scotch College third (this
victory gives Melbourne its thirteenth
Head-of-the-River title). In the evening
no one was at a loss to find a a celebra-
tion, for there were plenty in progress —
private parties in Geelong and old-school-
tie do’s back in town. Old Wesley Col-
legians held their dance at the Palais, and
Old Scotch finished up the day histrioni-
cally with “Housemaster” at the Apollo.
This year the Xavier Old Boys’ Ball for
so long a boatrace fixture, was cancelled,
so Leo Quin turned his organising ability
instead to the Public Schools Club dance
at Earl’s Court (a decided success), and
the Xavier present boys snatched the
chance of a date going to waste for hold-
ing their annual dance at the Hawthorn
Town Hall. This was a very juvenile
affair, but a few parents were present,
including Dr. and Mrs. Richard Manly
(Mrs. Manly was president of the com-
mittee) and Dr. and Mrs. John Hurley,
from Corowa (their son Desmond is the
school’s captain). Baronet Reginald
Barnewall and his lady also made a point
of being present. Their young son and
heir is also at Xavier.
A coach ambled up to the King’s
on the opening night of “Streets of
London” to disgorge the sort of cargo
that the same vehicle might have carried
to the same play 50 years ago. Out
stepped four bewhiskered, high-collared
gentlemen—Dick Linton,, David Barn-
worth, Denis Croft and Tom Power —
who chivalrously assisted to alight a
quartet from the family album: Katie
Weir and Iris Connolly, wearing frills
and flounces ; Gwen Jona, crimson velvet,
black ribbons and a muff ; and Maura
Kieran, bobbing ringlets and hooped
skirts. These Victorians thought that a
homoeopathic dose of melodrama should
be taken with the right atmospherics,
which decision met with loud approval
from the rest of the audience.
The play went over in great style, the
house was packed and no one left early,
although the villain didn’t get his deserts
and all the innocent people their just
rewards until 11.20 p.m. (Part of the
delay was due to the stage horse, who got
tangled up with his Cobb coach in the
wings.) The villain (Austin Milroy, in
Boucicault’s old role) was hissed and
booed ; the hero and the honest gentle-
men were cheered ; the heroine (Marie
Rendle), a sob in her voice and the light
of sweet innocence in her eye, and her
brother (Paul Leon), for hours dying in the
cold, cold snow, made eyes water through
every scene (but not through emotions of
distress). Some snowflakes that missed out
on Hampstead Heath flickered down into
the Alley of Fire and Crawley’s drawing-
room, but no one minded such a trifle.
Carrots, turnips and pennies were hurled
upon the stage, and • the bride and her
maids had to take three encores for their
can-can dance.
In the Broothorn portrait is Mrs.
M. W. S. Boucher, a recent arrival from
England. She is the wife of Captain
Boucher, R.N., who has been appointed
Second Naval Member. Captain and
Mrs. Boucher have a flat at Rycroft Hall,
South Yarra.
There were many disappointments over
seats for the first Szell-Schnabel concert,
for subscribers filled the hall and there
were only 50 chairs left for the general
public. But for tense facial expressions
and a habit of muttering to himself in
moments of frenzied emotion Schnabel
has no mannerisms. He sits back in his
chair, his body seldom moving, his short
strong fingers working without any sug-
gestion of exhibitionism. In appearance
he has none of the alleged characteristics
of the artist. His thick iron-grey hair is
cut regularly by a barber, his build is
stocky and with his moustache (large
enough to be noticed) suggests a practical
rather than an artistic profession.
As their husbands are old friends, so
are Madame Schnabel and Madame Szell,
who were in the first row of the gallery
with a bunch of A.B.C. people. Black
and dark shades predominated generally
in the dressing of the tightly-packed
house, but there were some feather capes
and flowers aloft to balance the picture.
Peggy Fraser’s black velvet gown had a
bunch of glistening flowers at the waist.
Valerie Crowther’s frock, also black, de-
pended for waistline effect upon a girdle
of white leaves. Joan Watt’s coat of
ankle-length woollen sheer was lifted into
the realm of color with its woven tapestry
design in “faded” greens, yellows and
purples. Dorothy Mattingley gave an
allegiance of feathery pink flowers to her
frock of spring-green taffeta.
No matter how far the thermometer
drops between now and September (when
she and her husband are due to leave
Australia) Mrs. Edmund Kurtz will not
complain about the cold ; after a winter
in Chicago she feels inured against shivers
and icy blasts. Mrs. Kurtz, who was
Barbara Bellair, is finding that her wel-
come back to her home town of Mel-
bourne is making her feel that she has
never been away, though it is nearly two
years since she left for abroad after her
marriage. In France she and her husband
found a small car a good companion and
a useful means of transport. While in
England Mrs. Kurtz paid several visits
to her sister Betty (Mrs. Peter Kenrick),
who lives near Birmingham. Mrs. Kurtz
seldom misses her husband’s concerts.
While they were in America she took the
opportunity of his long series of engage-
ments in Chicago to stow away her suit-
cases and settle into a flat in that city
for six months. She says that the domes-
tic problem there is acute and that wages
are high, but that coal-black mammies
survive in spite of the fact that they are
so many degrees removed from the warm
country of watermelon and cotton.
Although tally-clerking on a wharf and
painting pictures are spaced fairly widely
apart Geoff Jones manages both, for
when he’s not casting an eye over cargoes
from foreign lands he’s applying color to
canvas in George Bell’s studio. His first
one-man show' opened at Riddell’s Gal-
leries last week. The young artist hopes
to go abroad some day and wishes that
tallies were not kept on tally-clerks and
that stowing away was not a lost art.


BALANCE .. QUICK MANEUVERING
Lfive ■ you
the model m
-jyiiu i iur
{ ftius.-g'fcugt.s
*■<»«. * i
m*
%■ *
w?
«»
vv
* A?* **
V'
LIGHT ON ITS TRACKS... NO EXCESS
WEIGHT TO INCREASE YOUR COSTS
The Allis Chalmers MODEL M’s faster power is exerted
on the drawbar . . . it’s not lost in lugging dead-weight. Fuel-
eating excess weight is eliminated, leaving ample weight
properly distributed for sure traction on the hills and heavy
draft jobs. That’s the secret of the M’s balanced power,
and it’s why the M covers more ground per gallon of fuel.
IDEAL FOR TANK OR DAM SINKING
Headquarters
- House -
EDW4RD ST
CRISEANE
è e
NQBranch
STURTS
TOWNSVILLE
C.Q.Branch
ENGINEERING
*°l East S
>UPPLY
T Rockhampton..
c?Cf AUSTRAIIA F>
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Scat”: John Edward Price, M.P.,
asked in the House when the Common-
wealth Government proposed to honor its
obligation to S.A. by joining Alice Springs
and Birdum by rail, thus completing the
Darwin-Adelaide railway. The reply was,
of course, that “the matter will receive
consideration.” It has been receiving
“consideration” for 30 years. Nowadays
if the rail were put through a good deal
of Alice Springs-Adelaide trade would be
diverted to Darwin. Still, judging by the
present trend of Commonwealth activity
in the Territory, S.A. hasn’t much cause
for worry.
* * * *
“Green Island”: Hope they never have
to take a battleship into Townsville. The
other day a Shaw, Savill and Albion boat,
the Matanka, drawing 25ft. 4in., had to
give the port the go-by. Official low
water in the main channel at Townsville
is 18ft. 9in., but there is another entrance
with 20ft. A big British battle-cruiser,
with full war load on, draws over 30ft.
* * * *
“Torres”: A new Australian aero-
drome was born last week—on E. J. Ban-
field’s Dunk Island (“My Tropic Isle”).
Hugo Brassey has done most of the job
himself. The field is 200 yards wide and
572 yards long, and preparing it must
have produced a few corns. The tropical
growth on Dunk is not only thick but
tough. However, there will be no cows
and sheep grazing on it at the wrong
moments, as there are reported to be
in more civilised N. S. Wales. John
Collins took the Governor-General’s
wife, Lady Gowrie, up there with the
Queensland Governor and Lady Wilson
a few days ago.
* * * *
“Dangie”: One recent change shows
how much northern pastoral affairs are
being reoriented through the flying ser-
vices and other influences. Alec Murray,
chief pastoral inspector of Vesteys, has
moved his headquarters from Wave Hill
(N.T.), where it had been since time im-
memorial, to Morestone, Camooweal (Q.).
* * * *
“Munni”: Abo. census for the N.T.
last year gave 6324 adult males, 4792
adult females and 3200 children. Esti-
mate of the nomadics is 4406 males
and 3306 females. The figures don’t
seem to include outback Arnhem Land,
Binghis within reach of civilisation are a
law-abiding crowd. Their chief mis-
demeanors are drinking beer and metho.,
but serious crimes sheeted home to them
last year totalled one alleged attempt
at rape - almost unprecedented one
bodily-harm charge, two cases of murder,
one wounding with intent, and a couple
of other matters —seven in all.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: A couple of grazing blocks
which have been opened for ballot in
Queensland should attract a queue of
grazing gamblers. Each is round the
24,000-acre mark, and is part of Ayr-
shire Downs, 20 miles from Winton, one
of the best-known properties in N.Q.
Rent is 2d. per acre. A few years ago
somebody would have been killed in the
rush ; but high taxation, drought and low
wool prices have made a difference.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: New Guinea goldfielders
have decided that if the Commonwealth
Government feels that the mandate inter-
feres with official defence, something can
at least be done unofficially. Almost
everybody on the goldfields over 40 years
of age is a returned soldier, and it was
estimated at the Wau meeting at which
an initial move was made on Anzac
Day that it would be possible to raise
two battalions of whites on the New
Guinea mainland.
* * * *
“Zamia Bill”: I’m not one of those
who would break their necks to see a
battalion of abos. drilled into a fighting
force, because I know it would not
work. But there is an idea in the develop-
ment of a harrying force against any
invaders cheeky enough to make their way
inland. Humbert Tommy gave a good
illustration last year of what could be
done. H. Tommy, without issuing an
ultimatum, attacked an armed constable
and a tracker at Timber Creek with
spears. Of the three in the battle two
finished as casualties —Tommy not among
them. As this was “a very serious hap-
pening,” the Administration decided to
make every effort to catch Tommy and
reason with him. An experienced copper
and a gang of trackers were put on the
job. At Victoria Downs they found that
the quarry had just left a camp. .They
picked up his tracks, and, “riding day
and night,” they succeeded in surround-
ing him in just over two days. Tommy
had only a couple of prehensile native
soles to pad along on over pretty rough
country, some of it jungle, and had to
find food as he went. His pursuers
had horses and a full police plant. What
Tommy could have done with a food
pack, water and a military rifle is no-
body’s business.
“ Cripes, Auntie, you're in the boom with old Fleabag!"
“East Point”: ’Tisn’t often you see a
Judge writing to the press, but Darwin
has had the experience. Judge Wells, a
returned soldier, wrote to the “Northern
Standard” about the celebration of Anzac
Day. There are a good many Anzacs
round Darwin but not enough to stand
up against the pageantry of 400 uni-
formed troops headed by the Adminis-
trator in tabs and braid to take the
salute in a march past. ’Sonor remarked
that “if the Administration and the mili-
tary authorities wish to hold a parade, a
pageant or even a Lord Mayor’s show,
there is no reason whatever why they
should not do so, but there are 364
days in the year other than Anzac Day.”
* * * *
“Aileron”: Last year’s official “Aerial,
Geological and Geophysical Report”
on the North is considerably smaller than
the previous production ; but there was
only £40,000 to spend. The first great dis-
covery was that the Tanami-Granites
field “is very suitable for investigation
by a mining company with capital for
gold-development on a large scale.’’
Dozens of companies with large capital
have had the area looked at already, and
they have made one unanimous discovery
—water shortage. From Tanami the inves-
tigators went to Yeuralba, n.-e. of Kath-
erine (N.T.), and although the survey
was begun after the end of the year
“the results were worthy of inclusion in
this report.” The surveyors found that
the ore-body contains wolfram, tin and
copper. Maranboy’s battery manager
could have told them that—he has been
treating part of the ore-body for a long
time. He could also tell them that
“further testing is necessary to prove or
disprove whether there are large low-
grade deposits present.” So much for the
general results in the N.T., which are
paralleled by those in W.A. and Queens-
land.
* * * *
“Narine Cubby”: Rains have drenched
almost the whole of Queensland. Ex-
cept for a few small areas round Long-
reach the whole of the pastoral areas are
safe till next summer. The Maranoa and
Darling Downs grasslands are like wheat-
fields —Mitchell knee-high where Mitchell
grows. Sugar conditions promise a
bumper crop. Cotton output will be
heavy, but the weather has lowered the
grade. Dairying output is certain to be
a record. Farm production will be at
its peak. As for employment—well, in
1929 there were 148,000 wage- and
salary-earners, and 16,660 out of work ;
in February, 1939, there were 181,000
in normal work (plus 1000 on full-time
relief), and only 8990 without work.
What a place Queensland would be if
butter price was back at its 1929 Lon-
don figure of 1695. 9d. instead of the
latest quote of 1125., and if wool was
bringing the immediate pre-depression
rate of 15.68 d„ instead of the Brisbane
March sale average of 10.14 d.!
™ „ * .. , * .
Dominic : Is it sheer ignoian e
what that leads newspapers to say that
Madigans expedition will be the first
to cross the Simpson Desert. Back \ n
the winter of 1936 Ted Colson, of Blood s
Creek, on the O.T. line, marched right
across the Great Stony Desert to Birds-
ville, W.Q,, and returned home by a
slightly different route. His discoveries
are recorded on the latest Common-
wealth map.
. * * * *
“Carpentaria”: Normanton, on the
Gulf of Carpentaria, is becoming almost
as busy as it used to be in the days when
Croydon gold poured through it.
Better roads and motor-trucks have done
the business. Hundreds of bales of wool
are being carted every season to Nor-
manton ; much of it is being brought
from country next door to the northern
railway. Many graziers seem to find that
it is cheaper to truck it a couple of
hundred miles direct to a remote port
than to send it to Townsville by rail.
* * * *
“Travel Stain”: Fifty years ago the
Far North had a more creditable defence
force than it has had ever since. After
the Russian scare in 1883 the Cairns
Garrison Battery came into being with
96 volunteers, Martini rifles and a
muzzle-loading cannon from Sebas-
topol. Simultaneously were formed a
naval brigade, a rifle corps and a cadet
corps. The battery at first was com-
manded by W. C. Smith, manager of
the North Queensland Bank, with the
late A. J. Draper as
his lieutenant.
Draper soon after
became captain, with
R. A. Tills as his
;econd, and a few
years later Tills was
captain. The Naval
Brigade was com-
manded by Lieut.
Bob Sturt, the rifles
were under Captain
Rudd and the cadets
under Captain Mc-
Coombe. The first
rifle range was along
the beach towards
the Barron River,
but Archie Meston
complained of
bullets careering
across his property,
so the range was
shifted across the
inlet. There was a
memorable “battle
of Lilybank”
(Draper’s property)
in which the brigade and cadets held the
hill against battery and rifles. One com-
batant had his ear nearly severed with
a cutlass stroke.


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/- per year,
through The Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
IT'S BETTER
FOR YOU !
THE INDEPENDENT
NETWORK
6PM
6AM
6KG
Perth .. . 500 watts
Northam . . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Ilse., St. George’s Tee., Pertli
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
TWO-VALVE A.C. SHORT-WAVE RECEIVER.
The ¥/ide-World Two receiver de-
scribed in B. 15/8/’34 and in improved
form in B. 21 /8/’35 proved one of the
most popular small receivers ever de-
signed by the writer. It was a simple
little job intended chiefly for headphone
use on short waves, but it could be used
on the broadcast range by provision of
Fig. 1. —Circuit diagram, with valves of the simple two-valve short-wave receiver.
two extra coils. Fundamentally it was
nothing more than an electron-coupled
detector with impedance-coupled audio
sthge. A similar receiver is described by
GSZJ in the April issue of “Television
and Short-wave World.”
It is designed around American-type
valves —the six-volt metal types 6J7 and
6F6—and, although a humless A.C. power
pack is diagrammed, it will be obvious
to most that the receiver can be used
for A.C. operation or from a six-volt
accumulator and B batteries. It could also
be used from a six-volt accumulator with
a vibrator power unit, but that is not
recommended unless the constructor is
experienced in making up short-wave re-
ceivers. It is often difficult, despite the
efficiency of the modern vibrator pack,
to eliminate noise in short-wave circuits.
Careful screening and filtering are
essential.
The Receiver Circuit.
The circuit diagram in Fig. 1 illustrates
the simplicity of this little receiver. The
6J7 is used as a grid leak detector with
plate feedback coil and variation of
screen-grid voltage by potentiometer for
oscillation control. Main tuning control
is a .00016mfd. variable condenser, and
this should be operated by a positive-
drive vernier dial from the front panel.
It should be understood that even with
a simple receiver such as this it is essential
to use the best components. For the
variable condensers the ultra-low-loss
type made by Eddystone, Radiomac
and Raymart is recommended. The
.00016mfd. tuning condenser is shunted
by a 15mmfd. variable condenser which
permits the combination to be used in
two ways. Either the main tuning con-
denser can be used as such and the
15mmfd. condenser as a vernier tuner,
or the main tuner can be employed as a
bandsetter and the 15mmfd. condenser
for spreading the amateur bands.
The plate circuit of the detector valve
is filtered by the R.F. choke and two
.0005mfd. mica condensers. This is sound
practice always with regenerative detec-
tors, being a precaution against what is
known as “threshold howl.” A detector
that squawks when going into oscillation
is useless for anything but very strong
signals. Grid combination is, as usual,
a .OOOlmfd. mica condenser bridged by
a 2meg. leak.
Of interest is the audio coupling. This
is by audio transformer, which normally
would be inefficient after a valve with
high plate resistance, but effective coup-
ling is obtained by shunt-feeding the
primary. Not only does this give a
reasonably good audio step-up, but it
safeguards the transformer against break-
down by keeping the D.C. out of the
primary winding. The shunt feed is
through the 200,000-ohm resistor and
.Olmfd. mica condenser. In series with
the 50,000-ohm screen grid regeneration
Fig. 2. —Chart showing coil construction and details. The lower set of coils is
for 1½in, diameter formers.
potentiometer is a 75,000-ohm voltage
dropping resistor from the 200-volt H.T.
feed and the screen grid of the detector
is by-passed to earth through a .Olmfd.
mica condenser. Better to use mica rather
than tubular paper condensers through-
out, as trouble can be caused by leaky
paper condensers.
Both primary and secondary windings
of the audio transformer are grounded
to chassis because of the shunt-feed
method, and, although almost any trans-
former can be pressed into service here,
the better the audio characteristics the
better the reception of telephony stations
in general. The audio pentode is cathode-
biased by the 400-ohm resistor and
lOmfd. electrolytic tubular condenser,
and the plate of this valve is fed through
a 32-henry (or thereabouts) audio choke.
This permits a capacity output to the
headphones through a .Olmfd. mica con-
denser and earth return, and such is
another safety feature. There is no D.C.
flowing through the headphones, and they
in consequence are likely to last much
longer than may be the case where D.C.
is applied through fragile windings:
Note that a slightly lower voltage is
applied to the 6F6 screen grid than the
plate, through the 1000-ohm resistor
shown. Although the valve normally
operates with the same plate and screen
voltage, it is found that there is a con-
siderable saving in plate current with
somewhat lower screen voltage.
The heater leads to the two valves are
by-passed to earth through two .Olmfd.
mica condensers. This not only helps
considerably in removing traces of heater
hum but is most effective in counter-
acting the annoying trouble known as
“tunable hum.”
Although the valves shown are the
6J7 and 6F6, there are many combina-
tions which could be employed. In glass
types one could use for the detector
valves such as the 6C6, 6D6, 77, 78, and
more recent octal G series ; audio pen-
todes could be types 42, 41, 38, and others
with six-volt heaters. In the Philips range
many of the four-volt heater valves could
be used, but with those and 2.5-volt
valves the receiver could not conveniently
be powered from a battery supply.
Hum Considerations.
It is often quite difficult to make a
receiver of this type, operating from A.C.
power, perfectly hum-free. The capacity-
reaction-controlled triode detector can
cause trouble, as can the “electron-
coupled” detector with cathode tapped a
few turns above earth on the grid coil.
Hum may be noticeable in that kind of
detector just when it is on the “edge”
of oscillation, with the result that what
should be T 9 (or pure D.C.) carriers
assume an A.C, ripple, caused by hum
modulation of the signal. The plate-
feedback (or tickler) coil detector of the
R.F. pentode type with screen-grid con-
trol is not liable to this trouble.
In the circuit diagram the coil con-
nections are numbered to correspond
with a coil kit produced by the Eddystone
Co. in England, but as such kits will not
be available to the Australian reader a
coil chart is shown in Fig. 2. This chart
shows grid and plate coils on two former
sizes: l£in. at the top and l|in. at the
bottom. These windings will be right
for the .00016mfd. tuning capacity and
cover the useful short-wave bands up to
200 metres.
Grid and plate windings are shown,
but an aerial winding will need to be
added to each coil. In each case this will
have about the same number of turns
as the plate coil, and can be spaced about
|in. from the plate coil on the former.
This chart has been reproduced for a
few Bulletin short-wave receivers, and
is given again for the benefit of those
who may not have seen it previously.
Details of wire sizes and number of
turns are clearly indicated, and need no
further reference. Because there are three
windings to each coil, six-pin formers
should be used, but as the earth end of
the aerial coil and earth end of the grid
coil are common, five-pin formers may
be substituted.
A.C. Power Unit.
Although the power unit diagrammed
is not essential, it is advocated by GSZJ
as being without hum. It is shown in
Fig. 3 and makes use of a Westinghouse
HTIS metal rectifier in a voltage-doubling
circuit from a transformer secondary,
giving 140 volts at 120 milliamperes. If
the dry rectifier unit is used, it should
be understood that the two 4mfd. con-
densers for voltage division must not in
any circumstances be electrolytic types.
These are paper condensers rated at 500
volts A.C. working. The Bmfd. condenser
across the filter choke to negative is the
usual electrolytic type. The transformer
carries a six-volt one-ampere winding for
the valve heaters with a centre-tapping
connected to earth. This again is a help
against heater hum. Although 200 volts
is the output from the pack under load,
this will be much higher off load, so 500
volts working is the rating specified for
the two 4mfd. condensers. If small-rating
Fig. 3. —A humless A.C. power pack
using a Westinghouse HT15 dry rectifier,
suitable for the receiver.
condensers were used and the pack should
be switched on without the receiver con-
nected the condensers would be likely to
break down. This metal rectifier unit is
really worth while for the little receiver.
Alternatively, of course, a well-filtered
pack employing the usual 80 rectifier can
be used.
As the valves specified are octal-base
types, it is desirable in constructing the
receiver to use a ceramic or trolitul
socket for the detector valve, but the
ordinary wafer kind may
be used for the audio
valve. The receiver can
be made up on a small
aluminium or steel
chassis with rigid front
panel, and although the
power unit could, by
using a larger chassis, be
included in the layout, it
is better to use a separ-
ate chassis with four-pin
plug connector between
power and receiver units.
Almost any form of
aerial can be used, but
some lengths may cause
“tuning holes” in various
wave-ranges. If this
occurs it can be over-
come by including a vari-
able condenser with
about .00016mfd. maxi-
mum capacity in series
with the aerial. If the
receiver oscillates more
freely without an earth
connection it usually
means that the aerial is
too long.
The series condenser is useful for
manually altering the effective length of
an aerial. Don’t expect to get good
results with an inefficient indoor aerial.
One arranged along a picture rail close
to a wall is not much use with a detector
and one audio receiver. If the aerial
must be indoors it must be kept away
from walls.
Components.
Chassis and panel.
Coils as in Fig 2.
Condensers, fixed —■
One .OOOlmfd. type.
Two ,0005mfd.
Six .Olmfd.
One lOmfd. electrolytic.
Two 4mfd. type, 500 volt.
One Bmfd. electrolytic.
Condensers, variable —
One .00016mfd. type.
One ,000015mfd. type.
Chokes —
Two type 40ma. 3OH.
One R.F. choke.
Dials—
Two vernier types.
Headphones.
Valve and coil holders.
Jack —
One open circuit type with plug.
Resistances, fixed —
One 2-megohm \ watt.
One 200,000-ohm 1 watt.
One 75,000-ohm 1 watt.
One 400-ohm 1 watt.
One 1000-ohm 1 watt.
Resistances, variable —
One 50,000-ohm type potentiometer.
Rectifier —
One metal type H.T.15 (Westinghouse).
Transformers—
One in ter-valve type 3/1.
One H.T. type 140-volt 120 ma.
Valves —
One 6J7
One 6F6.
D. B. K.


and VIGOROUS AGAIN
uoetors s«y your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6, Write TO-DAY.
é
T.JONES E CO.
CHEMIST. ..3I4 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
Build Your »
Own Radio •'
The Special Birthday Number of
“Australasian Radio World,” now on
sale, features full constructional details
of four magnificent receivers. • “Tiny
Tim,” a midget two-valve battery-
operated portable, brings in stations all
over the world. • The “Ultra DJ Three”
is designed si»ecially for reception on
the ultra-high frequencies, now being
used overseas for television trans-
missions. • The “Companionette Three”
is cheap, simple to build, and a great
performer. • The “Astra Dual-wave Six”
is an outstanding superhet that will
outperform receivers costing several
times as much.
Hourly Tuning Guide tells you when
and where to listen on the short Waves.
GET YOUR COPY NOW
from any newsagent, or send one
shilling in stamps or p.n. to —
“RADIO WORLD,”
214 George Street, Sydney.
Land Men /
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’ Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations >»
Sheep bought »> 20
Wire netting » 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 29/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
Tower at VK5ZU.
The new wooden lattice tower at ex-
perimental station VKSZU, owned and
operated by A. M. Phillips, at 68 Kin-
tore-avenue, Prospect, S.A., should appeal
Fig. 1.—Method of fixing base to con-
crete slab. Base is of jarrah, measuring
12 x 12 x 4 inches.
to many experimenters. Total height is
77ft. 6in., the main four members being
of 2in. by 2in. Oregon. These are latticed
into a Ift. square. There are two sets
of guys, with three to each set, holding
the structure at 40ft. and 70ft. respectively
from ground level. Guy wires are of
Fig. 2—Up she goes! Top end of tower
resting on roof ready for hauling.
six-gauge galvanised fencing wire. Total
cost, including timber, screws, iron bolts,
paint, concrete, guy-wires and insulators,
was £l3 4s, lOd.
The tower is solid enough at the top
to permit erection of a 56mc. rotary
Fig. 4. —In the clear, with VK5ZU look-
ing out over the world from the top. A
good solid, tower to hold up the heaviest
of experimental aerial arrays.
beam. It will also hold up an extended
double zepp aerial, as described in “QST”
for 1«8. That system gives a
very sharp beam in a horizontal plane,
b “t fairly broad in the vertical plane;
a desirable state of affairs. Gain over
one half-wave element
is around 7db. VKSZU
is now working on the
new 56mc. rotary array
in order to get in on
the American tests tak-
ing place this month.
Regular schedules are
run between VK2NO
and VKSZU on 56mc.
with the hope that
sooner or later signals
will break through.
VKSZU was logged on
56mc. on 13/3/’3B in
M.L. by ZL4DQ, of
Dunedin.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
American 20-metre ’phone men are
keenly interested in the ballot to be taken
in the U.S.A. to deal with proposals
for putting telephony stations on the
7200 kc. to 7300 kc. portion of the 7mc.
band. So far the use of telephony in
any portion of that band has not been
permitted in U.S.A., but the situation
Fig. 3.—Steps are arranged up one side,
spaced 18in. apart.
which has arisen since the Cairo confer-
ence might well lead to the appearance
of W ’phones on “forty.” At Cairo it
was decreed that 7200 kc. to 7300 kc. be
used by amateurs and short-wave broad-
casters on a shared basis, commencing
in September this year. But some coun-
tries have ignored amateur rights com-
pletely by putting broadcasting stations
in that territory without delay. Amateur
radio, headed by A.R.R.L. and 1.A.R.U.,
is justly incensed, and if amateurs in
U.S.A. are permitted to put ’phones on
“forty” little, if anything, will be heard
of even high-power broadcasters for
lengthy periods The U.S.A. numbers
about 50,000 active amateurs, and if only
two-thirds of these, including many with
a fair amount of power, are let loose
with ’phone on top of the broadcasters,
the latter will be up against a formidable
obstacle. If the Americans succeed in
their plan they will be backed by
amateurs everywhere. Amateur radio
has the strongest of claims to even wider
territories.
VK2VU (Geoff Partridge, of Singleton,
N.S.W.) tells how he received 56mc.
signals from VK2LZ, 100 miles distant.
He had noticed that very short skip pre-
vailed on 14mc. during the afternoon of
7/5/’39, and decided to listen around
56mc. He heard nothing during the
afternoon, but at 7.30 p.m. a carrier at
the low-frequency end resolved itself,
with 8.F.0. switched off and I.F. gain
opened, into “VK2LZ at Wentworth
Falls, on top of the Blue Mountains,
calling VK2EM and VK2ABC.” The
transmission was steady at Q 5 R 5, but
considerable interference was caused by
car ignition systems. Each “over” was
copied, and at 7.40 VK2LZ was heard
calling VK2WJ. When VK2LZ ceased
transmission on 56mc. at 8.15 p.m. that
night, VK2VU changed to 7mc. and
called VK2NO on that band with the
hope of attracting attention. Unfor-
tunately he was not able to contact any
Sydney stations at that time owing to
unsuitable skip conditions on 7mc.
The most interesting feature of the
reception is that the aerial at VK2VU
at the time was a plain Jones single-wire-
feed type, 66ft. long, with feeder tapped
lift, off centre. It was not possible to
get a comparison with the vertical WBJK
array, since the feeders had been pulled
off this structure, but, as the transmissions
from VK2LZ are vertically polarised, the
vertical system should show a great
improvement in signal strength. Yet a
plain vertical 33ft. wire was tried with-
out finding a trace of VK2LZ’s signal!
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
A feature of the higher frequencies is
the excellent reception just now on the
amateur 10-metre band, Americans being
at full strength between 8 a.m. and noon.
The 11-metre broadcast channel has also
opened up, the first station I have logged
in this band being W4XA on 5/5/’39,
with plenty of punch and as clear as
crystal. The call W4XA was given and
the address Nashville, Tennessee. There
was no reference to the frequency, but
this is fairly low in this channel as four
other stations were heard at higher fre-
quencies. W4XA was still audible, but
only weakly, at 12.20 p.m. The 11-metre
stations are certainly worth going for
as there is no background noise at all,
and in the matter of clarity and power
they completely outclass the lower-fre-
quency stations.
On 5/5/’39 at 9.41 p.m. HCJB, “The
Voice of the Andes,” was heard trans-
mitting a special programme for Aus-
tralasia. A new transmitter for this sta-
tion will be in action in August or Sep-
tember. Replies to letters included one
from Norfolk Island. Address of the
station for reports is Box 691, Quito,
Ecuador.
On 31.48 metres, W6XBE now opens
at 9 p.m. and is at good strength.
W3XAL and WIXK close at 3 p.m. in-
stead of 4 p.m., but WBXAL on 49.5
metres still finishes at 5 p.m. XEWW
closes at 3 p.m. On 6/5/’39 I had Radio
Noumea on 49 metres at good strength
at 6 p.m., but this station is gone by
7 p.m.
Night reception generally is patchy at
the higher frequencies. Morning recep-
tion is excellent, and Berlin has added
DJA with news in English' at 7.15 a.m.
It is the best 31-metre station, which is
saying something in view of the good
signals from TAP, RV96, SP3I, GSC,
2R03, 2R09 and DJX. The 25-metre
stations are improving, the best being
RNE, 2R04, DJD, GSD, WBXK,
W2XE and WIXAL. Outstanding 19-
metre stations now are DJR, DJQ, DJB,
DJL, GSP, GSO, GSF and 2R06. Dur-
ing the mid-morning stations are few
and far between, those audible being
GSE and DJR on 25 metres and RNE
stronger between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. There
are many more stations than those re-
ferred to at good strength for entertain-
ment value, and others not good enough
to hang on to. At night, the amateur
40-metre telephony stations up and down
the Australian eastern coastline are heard
very strongly.
K B G ., Thargomindah (Q.).
Radio (U.S.A.) for May.
The ultra-high-frequency reception
question is well catered for in the May
issue of “Radio,” an article on superhet
converters being contributed by W6DHG
and W6CEM. Other technical articles
include a description of a 100-watt trans-
mitter with four-stage bandswitching ex-
citer, by W2AMN ; construction of ply-
wood antenna towers ; multi-wire doublet
antennae (this is something new from
WBJK); a band-edge frequency spotter ;
five-band coil-switching exciter; the
four-element rotary beam; suggestions
regarding close-spaced 10-metre beam
antennae. Subscription to “Radio” is
18s. 6d. per year, acceptable at The
Bulletin office, 252 George-street, Syd-
ney. Copies are mailed to subscribers
direct from the publishers in U.S.A. and
not from the Sydney office.
“VK6WZ”: Dynamic speakers have
certain limits in handling power. It is
possible to exceed these figures in some
cases; sometimes by placing a small
speaker across an audio line carrying
power to larger units (as for a monitor
speaker in a sound system)—damage to
the smaller unit can be avoided by re-
ducing or completely removing the field
supply. Under these conditions move-
ment of the diaphragm assembly is re-
duced and if the input transformer will
stand up the speaker will not be damaged.
It is a useful makeshift.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
m
w<4
W.\t&
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street. Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
'Phone: M 4 14 1 (10 lines).
_
VM'
/v
■U
A
i M*
Is*'
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Rugging Sheep.
“Ghanam”: J. E. Duncan, the M.L.
Government Wool Instructor, has just
completed an important series of sheep-
rugging tests—two in Canterbury and one
in the Mackenzie country.-
Each test group consisted of 60 hog-
gets divided into two lots —one rugged,
the other unrugged.
In the first trial Corriedale hoggets
were shorn in October. Rugged animals
were found to be noticeably larger and
better grown. The covered wool ap-
peared “very much cleaner, brighter,
better grown, with a marked absence of
wasty tip compared with the unrugged
wool.” The greasy yield of the 30 rugged
animals was 230.31 b., of the 30 unrugged
209.71 b.—rugged average per sheep
7.681 b., unrugged 6.991 b. Scoured yield
of the rugged wool averaged 67.4 p.c.,
against 66.2 p.c. for the unrugged. The
greasy weight was not due to improved
wool condition. Some portions of the
fleeces showed much better results.
Pieces scoured 7.3 p.c. .better from
rugged sheep than unrugged. Clean-
scoured weight of the rugged output was
147.71 b., of unrugged 130.71 b. The two
lots of wool were not sold separately.
In the second trial, again with Corrie-
dales, shearing was in mid-November.
Unrugged hoggets showed in every case
a patch of weathered wool, sometimes
9in. long, and valueless. The clean-
scoured yield of the rugged lot was
125.11 b., of unrugged 121.51 b., but at the
sales the covered wool brought 12|d.
against 10Jd. for unrugged wool. It
meant a difference between 7s. 4d. per
sheep and ss. B|d. per sheep in animals
identical save for rugging.
The third experiment was carried out
with merinos in the Mackenzie country,
where feed is shorter and the climate
drier. Two teams of 25 hoggets from
the same draft were compared. On a
greasy weight basis, there was a slight
difference in favor of the rugged sheep.
On a clean-scoured basis, the rugged lot
had an advantage of 1141 b. to 96.41 b
12oz. per head. The rugged wool brought
15|d. and the unrugged 10|d. Thus total
rugged return was 9s. 10fd. per sheep,
unrugged return 6s. 10jd.
These trials seem to present the whole
rugging question in its true perspective.
Clean-scoured yield is the thing that
counts with buyers, and their greasy
prices are based on consideration of yield
and clean-scoured value.
In the merino trial the cleanliness of
the rugged wool was “striking.” Cleanli-
ness and freedom from fine rubbish
clearly account for much of the differ-
ence in yield—6o.4 p.c. rugged, 51.5 p.c.
unrugged average.
Duncan concluded that “with certain
breeds and under certain conditions there
is ample evidence that rugging pays.”
But “there can be no sweeping or general-
ised statement.”
There are other considerations beside
wool. Other experiments have shown a
considerable advantage in body weights
in favor of rugged sheep. However, con-
sidered solely from the wool aspect, the
Mackenzie country merino figures tell an
interesting story. The rugs used cost 25.,
estimated life was 2\ years—say lOd.
per annum, plus labor of rugging, which
is not heavy. Increased return from wool
was 3s. Old. per head, so that the net
gain was 2s. per head.
More Wrinkles for Wrinklers.
“Peppin”: Any merino-breeder who
really knows his job has learnt that the
wool must grow'at right angles to the
skin for the fibre to be healthy. How
does “Damram” (B. 3/ 5 / ’39) propose to
achieve this and still “retain the wrinkles
in moderation”?
No, wrinkles should be bred out of
merino types.
Any Queensland shearing contractor
will tell you the plain body is the only
sheep to do well, year in and year out.
Wrinkles bring trouble with fly and grass-
seed in a good year, and with unthrifti-
ness in a bad one.
“Damram” is obviously a flock-sheep-
man in his championship of jetting. If
“I've stopped the Water gettin' in her milk, sir."
„ .
you. believe in wrinkles for heavy cuttihg
your 211 b. top-label ewes will show the
trait. Not many graziers care to expose
valuable stud sheep to the danger of
poisoning from jetting a struck sheep. |
In respect of the “extra pound of
wool,” I will back two or three plain-
bodied, medium-wool sheep in N.S.W.
and a like number of strong wools in
S.A. to “scour”—which is all. that matters
against any developed ram “Damrarn
ca n name. I have an idea that with cards
on the board my sheep will be more
attractive out of the wool than his. j
Scouring tests should be introduced at
all shows, to let the public see what each
individual studmaster is working towards,
Few experienced Queenslanders are as
enamored of the jetting system as “Dam-
ram.”
Jetted sheep collect dust through
the fleece, apart from being knocked
about by continual yarding and hand-
ling.
Perhaps a better system, it treatment
is needed, would be to dip two months
off shears and crutch twice a year when
the sheep need it.
Jetting is of value for only two or three
weeks —less after heavy rain. Preven-
tion of strike by the simplest means is
obviously the best method. And the
simplest way of protecting sheep is to
breed them as free as possible of the
physical features which attract fly.
“Peaton”: “Damram” (B. 3/5/’39) is
on the right track, but he does not go
far enough. It should not be necessary
to treat sheep more than once a year,
provided the base fluid in which the
poison is applied will not evaporate or
wash out with the rain. I am using such
a mixture, which, in our rainfall, remains
effective from shearing to shearing. The
C.S. and I.R. is trying out this fluid at
present. Its report should be available
at. the end of the winter.
Sheep and Wool Statistics.
“Merino”: The latest official estimate
of sheep numbers in N.S.W. places them
at 46,500,000. It indicates the further
wastage of flocks through drought dur-
ing the opening months of 1939. The
previous estimate was 48 million at De-
cember 31. The State’s sheep population
has not been so low since 1921, when
37,750,000 was returned, after the toll
of the disastrous 1919-20 drought.
A tentative estimate of the year’s
lambing is 1\ millions, as against an
average of millions for the previous
10 years. “
The preliminary estimate of wool
production for 1938 -39 season is
436,000,0001 b., including skin wool. This
means a decline of 59,000,0001 b. on the
year, and compares with the peak of
532,000,0001 b. in 1932-33. The average
cut of wool per sheep for the season is
estimated at 7.31 b., which is a fraction
less than in any low-level year since the
war. The recession is borne out in
part by the general average of offerings
at the Sydney sales, a large proportion
of the clip having shown thinness of
fibre and shorter staple than usual.
“X.T.”: Up to April 30 almost 250,000
bales more wool were exported from Aus-
tralia than last year, yet 'the return was
£2,900,000 1e55—£38,405,000. Both Ger-
many and Italy bought less wool than in
1937-38. Germany’s payments were
£1,600,000-odd for greasy lines and
Italy’s £1,113,000. The final Sydney sales
open on June 5, and about 62,000 bales
will be offered.
The Maggot Trap.
“B-gar”: The maggot trap evolved in
S. Africa to combat blowfly could with
advantage be tried here.
Two sheets of corrugated iron arc
bolted tightly together, the whole being
shaped to form a trough, which is sus-
pended from four posts high enough
from the ground so that the two open
ends are directly above two kerosene
tins.
By leaving a rim when cutting out
the tops of the tins, and turning it down
inside slightly, the maggots will be pre-
vented from crawling out. The edges
of the corrugated iron should also be
bent in so that the maggots when crawl-
ing away must fall into the tins,
The trough is baited with portion of
a carcass to attract flies. When the mag-
gots become full grown they’ll crawl
uway and fall into the tins below.
Periodical visits can be made to collect
and poison and renew baits. The carcass
is protected with netting from carrion
birds. .
The bait should not be poisoned, the
maggots being allowed to reach maturity
before they crawl to their deaths,
. .
Agriculture in the N.T.
“Zamia”: The Administrator’s latest
report should make interesting reading
for those earnest advocates of refugee
colonies in the Northern Territory,
Despite the heavy developmental and
defence expenditure which has been
( Continued, on page 44.)


pu>!
mmm
miS&mmM:
■
■aiMipwiwiini
ml m IMP"! T
iiiiiitiijwwrr^
lynyyiimipiry*- 1
23*
iiilii
s
ass
> > , , "- ‘
\ 0- .
* r - * * <
]»
v,£j
x- •'
VVyS 5
W&:
■
illilfl
WiiW
111111
&%3^fiESB§£
new
SUHSHINE MASSEY HARRIS
-to
«- aC
eV
V*
■■*%*«&*■* >*
tf> eT -
tA
C \'‘ A
OT
PACEMAKER
. . . with all the big advantages,
that have made Sunshine Massey
Harris Tractors the sensation of
recent years, PLUS
NEW FEATURES - - - -
STILL GREATER EFFI-
CIENCY - - - - - - -
* MORE COMFORT - - - -
MODERN STREAMLINING
l *Ush
e cr
Mr e
«th
s Pe
**e
*Jsf
e iia
9tjf
c O/
*^o
nhy
fill
Of
le *nt
Sl *ch
Petf
ot ni
Ots
ê
...IN PERFORMANCE!
...IN APPEARANCE!
...IN SHEER VALUE!
AS WELL AS FOR SEEDING
Many crop competition winners use these
combines for all their soil preparation.
ë
The ideal
machine
for cleared
country.
The Famous SUNTYNE
Combined Grain and Fertilizer Drill and Spring
Tyne Cultivator, NOW BETTER THAN
EVER. Seven sizes, 17 to 49 tynes, cultivating
sft. to 14ft.
A great
success in
stumpy and
stony land.
ē
The new SUNLEA
Stump-jump Rigid Tyne Cultivator Drill.
Unites the Suntyne feed-run with bridle draught
similar to the Sunduke Scarifier. Three sizes—
-25, 33 and 41 tynes, cultivating ft. to 12ft.
There’s important work for these machines the whole
year round on modern farms and stations
For BETTER
FALLOWING
YOU NEED
SUNSHINE IMPLEMENTS
I
The New No. S
SUNDERCUT
STUMP-JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
... with NINE NEW FEATURES
that make it better than ever.
Made in 10, 12 and 14 disc sizes. Discs
are 18in. and 20in.; or 20in. and 22in.
Alemite lubrication for disc bearings if
desired. Levers are adjustable for either
team or tractor working without extra
cost. Wide range of wheels to suit any
conditions.
The Sundercut DOES BETTER
WORK ... IS LIGHTER TO
PULL ... IS EASIER TO
CONTROL ... LASTS LONGER.
SUNDUKE
STUMP-JUMP SCARIFIER
The Sunduke is the only scarifier with all the
draught gear above the frame —a patented
feature!
18 inches clearance from ground to frame.
Exceptional space in every direction between
the tynes.
Tynes set so as to cut all the ground.
Cuts uniformly and leaves a level bottom.
Built with great strength for tractor haulage
and difficult conditions.
Runs straight when pulled by either horses or
tractor.
Points shaped to penetrate hard ground and
cut weeds.
MANY NEW IMPROVEMENTS
Illustration shows the Sunduke equipped with
hitch for team or tractor haulage. Special
tractor hitch can also be supplied, also screw
lift for tractor working.
14-tyne .. 7ft. cut 18-tyne .. 9ft. cut
16-tyne .. Bft. cut. 20-tyne .. 10ft. cut
Ask your local agent for FREE CATALOGUES; or write direct .
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY, LTD.,—,.—
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE. Also at CONCORD WEST (near Sydney) ; 95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE; Corner Murray
and King Streets, PERTH. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Qld.) Pty., Ltd., SOUTH BRISBANE.


u
<L
1=:
42/-
972
If It’s for Hard Work, It’s the “Stockman
Made with a double sole and genuine Scotch Zug Upper.
Leather-lined throughout with best quality Calf Skin.
Reinforced Elastic-sides and ankle strap.
PRICE 42/-
“// it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
.316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
“AWATEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
e
ffurfytrfleZz/iL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It—Automatic Overflow—Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 850 Sold—Shell Co., 60 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY > GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated. Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
è
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
entered on, “no advance has been made
in commercial agricultural productions
during the year.” Peanuts remained the
only produce on a commercial scale,
giving occupation to seven settlers on
the Daly River, 21 at Katherine and one
other. The seed at present is supplied by
the Administration. Some of the settlers
are recently arrived White Russians.
For 1936-37, the output was 279 tons
off 1210 acres, price 3d. per pound, for
those who were not flooded out at the
Katherine during the rainy season. The
estimated crop for 1937-38 is 350 tons.
The crop, on the whole, is said to be a
bad one —rain ceased too soon on the
Katherine last year.
There is an attempt to find a drought-
resistant variety with leaf-spot resistant
seed. But assuming this is found, the
whole fate of the industry depends on
production at Kingaroy (Q.), a district
which could double its normal output if
it were worth while and payable.
The tobacco industry of the Territory
is the most united primary industry in
the Commonwealth. Voting is always
unanimous on every question connected
with it. The Industry decided after his
last season’s failure to give the business
another go. In 1937 his plants died for
lack of water, and last year they were
washed away by flood.
The supply of veg. and fruit sent to
Darwin last year “fell far below the
capital’s demands.” That even though
the Tobacco Industry took a hand and
laid down some cabbages.
But let any anxious organiser of carrots
and lettuce pause a moment. The river
flats which will grow veg. profitably are
from 70 to 160 miles from Darwin. Half
the season is so dry that only irrigation
will keep the plants going ; for the rest
of the time veg. rows are flooded. The
once-weekly train service still hampers
the forwarding of produce to the Darwin
market, and “its arrival on Saturday
afternoon almost precludes the handling
of perishable material by European shop-
keepers.”
Dairying may present opportunities.
Even with the help of goats the Darwin
milk supply is “negligible compared with
the demand.” The Butter Industry has
closed down. He used to turn out lcwt.
of butter a week.
There must be some useful product
which the wet-season lands can grow,
even it is only something in the way
of timber or fibre, but nobody yet seems
to have the slightest inkling what it may
be. Soil analysis in the peanut-growing
areas by Professor Prescott, of Adelaide,
shows consistently low nitrogen and
phosphate contents. This seems to point
to a chance for legumes. Rice-growing
might be made profitable in wetter Arn-
hem Land. But the States and Common-
wealth have a “gentleman’s agreement”
that rice shall be confined to the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation area.
Biscuit-flour Wheats.
“Observer”: Wheatgrowers in the
N.S.W. north and central tablelands dis-
tricts have been strongly recommended
to try Apollo. A weak-flour type, it is
barred for the general milling trade, but
its low gluten content and baking quality
make it suitable for biscuit flour.
A cross made at Wagga Farm and
fixed in 1928, Apollo was first officially
recommended in 1937. As yet it is not
much grown. The area sown last season
totalled 1000 acres. It is a good yielder
under cool conditions.
Occasionally millers have obtained as
much as £2 a ton extra for special biscuit
flour —equivalent to Is. a bushel more
for wheat. Tasmania, once Sydney’s
chief source of supply of weak wheats,
has changed to the production of bread
grain.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sheepo”: Though cattle and horses
will take to hard molasses, few sheep like
it on its own. To help Woolly develop
a molasses tooth, place a lump under
the ball cock in the troughs. It’ll gradu-
ally dissolve. Where feed is lacking
molasses in the drinking water is a big
help to lambing ewes. It is both food and
aperient.
“Ekib”: Feed molasses to breeding
sows when green fodder is scarce. Don’t
give too much, or severe diarrhoea will
result. Always feed molasses with rich
protein foods —milk or meatmeal. Pump
a small quantity through the milk pump
and pipes from the dairy to the piggery
each day. It puts a smooth film on the
inside of the pipe and prevents milk curds
forming on the pipe, thus lessening one
risk of poisoning and digestive troubles.
“Mullengah”: Remove wool from
skins by painting on the flesh side a mix-
ture of lib. of sodium sulphate, 1 gallon
of water and sufficient lime to make a
paste. A vegetable fibre brush is needed.
The wool can be plucked after eight to
12 hours.
“Yeno Ham”: Make an early choice
of pigs intended for shows. Keep them
by themselves and let them run on clean
pasture with ample water and shade.
Feed well, but don’t get them overfat.
Exercise and handle them daily so they
will be tractable. Wash them with warm
water and soap, and after they have dried
apply a liberal dressing of oil to remove
scurf and dirt. Use old sump oil for
black pigs. For red or white pigs apply
part of a mixture of six parts of fish oil,
half part of benzine, half part of kero-
sene. Several washings and oilings mhy
be necessary to get the skin and hair
thoroughly clean. Before judging, groom
the pigs with a brush and coconut oil
applied in moderate quantity.
“Zedo”: The cutworm (or army
worm) grub is having a high old time
in parts of N.S.W. Bran bait is the right
recipe for him: Bran 241 b., Paris green
lib., water 2\ gallons, salt Boz. Arsenite
of soda and of molasses will do
in place of the Paris green and salt.
Don’t think because the damage is done
it’s too late to do anything. That’s the
time the animal is really hungry.
“Dungog”: F. Leake, of Gresford
(N.S.W.), has a horse, Barrington Tops,
now 30 years old, with which he’s taken
prizes at each of the district’s 13 shows.
The latest was for second placing in the
open hunt!
“Nevertire”: G. R. B. Meers, of
Sunnyclime, Warren (N.S.W.), won the
local section of the R.A.S. drought-
insurance competition, thanks to the
wilga-trees growing on the property.
They were lopped for 18 months during
the recent drought, each tree feeding up
to 300 sheep for a day. There are 4200
sheep on the 6000-acre property.
“Jayem”: A. W. S. Moodie, N.S.W.
Government agrostologist, doesn’t agree
that it’s inadvisable to attempt silage-
making at this time of year (B. 10/5/’39).
Hfe admits that the present profuse growth
of lucerne will not make first-class hay
because of showers and heavy dews, but
says it can be conserved either in stacks
or pits.
“Bovis”: Isn’t it time cattle were sold
on actual weight instead of “estimated”
weight? It is easy to make a very poor
guess at the weight of an overwatered
or overfattened animal, but the guess is
usually all to the buyer’s good. Lean
cattle are comparatively easy to estimate.
There should be no objection to the sale
by liveweight. The cattleman knows
exactly what he is selling ; and if the
buyer likes the guessing system he is no
worse off than before. He can still guess
what the animal will kill. A weighbridge
should pay for itself.
“Pappamosca”: Vesteys have brought
out J. J. H. Heutz to put an export
bacon factory into production in Mel-
bourne. He says that an eight-months
Australian Large White under 1501 b. is
what is needed. Results at the firm’s
Newcastle-on-Tyne factory with big white
freezers have been excellent. It is a
sound hint to Australia to unify its breed
of pig.
“Mookau”: If every owner with con-
tagious abortion in his dairy herd would
take steps to have a blood test made
there would be less loss from the now
common disease. The only way to deal
with c.a. is to isolate all suspect animals
and to keep all healthy beasts, including
bulls, well washed and disinfected. Cost
of a blood test is small. Agricultural De-
partments are only too ready to arrange
it.
“S.T.S.”: The current S.A. wheat
harvest is officially set down at 31,750,000
bushels, with a big falling off in average,
from last season’s 13f bushels an acre to
about 10|. Averages are deceptive. A
small area on Kangaroo Island brought
20 bushels, while plucky but misguided
efforts to grow wheat far north, well out-
side Goyder’s line of rainfall, ranged
from three bushels down to nil. Hay
is estimated at something over 500,000
tons. The important spring months were
abnormally dry, but the standard weight
for f.a.q. wheat was fixed at 64|1b., the
highest yet recorded. Overseas orders
show China and Japan back in the mar-
ket, and Egypt’s buying revived. The
U.S.S.R. seems to have dropped right out.
“Merino”: Breeding ewes have never
been cheaper in M.L. While drought and
low wool prices have been a big factor
in the fall in prices, it is the fear of
further restrictions in the export of fat
lamb to England that is primarily the
cause. Frozen lamb is bringing 6|d. to
7d. on the London market, with prospects
of even lower prices owing to heavy
stocks and the approach of warmer
weather. To-day in Sydney and suburbs
prime cuts of lamb are fetching lid. to
Is. 4d. a lb.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to propagate American oak acorns? —
3273.
“Acorns” are sown as soon as they are ripe
either in boxes or pans or in the open ground,
covering to their own depth. If sown in the
open ground, they can be put in drills, leaving
two to three inches between seeds and one foot
between rows. They can be planted out in a
permanent position in two years from seed.
* * * *
Prospects of breeding and fattening turkeys
on 200 acres in inland N.S.W. ? —3298.
Good in the wheatgrowing districts, particu-
larly as an adjunct to other farming. N.S.W.
Agricultural Department has a leaflet available.
* * * *
How to soften wallaby, possum and snake
skins ? —3307.
Set the skins to soak in rather warm water
containing one . tablespoon of ammonia to the
gallon, and leave them for at least a day,
working about occasionally with a stick; if very
dry, they may need more time. Take out and
let drip over a line; before they are quite
dry, work them about in the hands thoroughly;
then lay out on a table, fur side down, and
rub with a broad, blunt stick to loosen and
soften the skin. If this is not sufficient, rub
in neatsfoot oil sparingly until dry, again and
again, which usually makes the skins pliable;
home-cured skins are often very difficult to
make pliable by amateur methods. Professional
work is tapped or patted by machinery and
pared to thinness in a manner not possible at
home.


5®
m
w
y
/
i
U.
r\yy <? n
;
/ }/>5
. y
f\ »
>A) L \
~ ~Or^
. —v. X
v> -
\ yy
jr,
- s^?
.. V'' " /
*
l.
, ✓?
to
»S)'; >,
z-, >
/
k?
m
sM\k
. .
'/
*N
k
m
:- \m
?> •
/(
iAW
$2?
‘2-.
f *— ft*
£%&
?
<s *
fy*
"t*'<U*
The Waning Season
Sounds a Warning Note
HP HE falling leaves of Autumn...
* the birds leaving for warmer
climes. In these, and in a thousand
other ways, Nature is providing
against seasonal changes. To man-
kind the warning is clear—the system
must be on guard against any ills
and ailments that the change of
seasons may provoke. “Have
Wolfe’s Schnapps every day for
your health’s sake,” is a cardinal
rule at any time of the year, which
assumes a still greater significance
at the change of seasons.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a
potent diuretic that aids the system
to function freely by cleansing the
blood-stream of impurities. Just
now, at the fall of the year, when
a general toning up is necessary,
you will find Wolfe’s Schnapps in
moderation an. unquestionable
benefit. With hot water and lemon
it is the greatest “night-cap”
of all.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is obtainable in
Quarter Bottles as well as in the
familiar Half and Large Sizes.
OLFE
EESBSQDUCT OF HOLLAND
a
=rr=r— THIS
ALCOHOLIC
ffaneoulacturcd Exclusively i
B I
ily and in B red«n«, bu
Cisible ••••*\
attention of AjtMU*ai
SfrW:
Cut dial, em'jofctrt.o
2^
'iwb
r_—-ROtVER
SEffajriewvy nttmupt at fafrini
CTt 1 PINT I PL OZ
WOLFE'S
(zz^cmdticcjtkkdam
SCHNAPPS
As Good for Women as for Men


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq, (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
\\ ith offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
EKPttHiMTTiI
You will learn Dutton Shorthand completely in
12 two-hour lessons. Practice gives speeds to
200 w.p.m. Already over 50,000 writers. Details
and first lesson free without obligation.
DUTTON SHORTHAND (N.Z. Branch), P.O. Box
1644 P, Wellington, N.Z.
IN ONE WEEK
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
seeks typing work; used to handling manu-
scripts; neat and accurate. —3460.
Refined country girl wanted as lady help
for small family; assist all duties; reference
required. (Apply Mrs. Thornely, Tirga, Cheepie,
Queensland.)
Young man (21) seeks position on sheep
station anywhere.—3443.
To buy The Dead Heart of Australia, by
J. W. Gregory.—342.
To buy Bassett Hull’s Stamps of New South
Wales, also holey dollars and dumps.—34so.
For sale, bound copies of The Bulletin,
30 volumes, colonial basil, 1924 to 1938, £BO.
Vendor pays freight, etc. —3467.
Words and music of comic songs that were
sung 40 to 50 years ag0. —3447.
Words of monologues “Mad Carew,” “The
Green Eye of the Little Yellow God” and
“How I Played Two-up with the King.”—
3481.
Whereabouts of Lawrence Chalmers Hartt,
last heard from at Coolhi station, Muckawawa
(N.S.W.). Mother inquiring. (Reply direct
to Mrs. Ruby A. Hartt, 21 Winton-street,
Surry Hills, N.S.W.)
Information Sought.
What is the method employed by an Aus-
tralian aboriginal in making smoke signals ?
Any of the aboriginal names for smoke signal ?
—3336.
Prof. R. P. Elkin, of Sydney Uni., to whom
the question was referred, replies: My own ex-
perience and studies, and also those of a bushman
who has made careful studies of the natives
for the past 20 years, are that the aborigines
do not send any definite messages by smoke
signals. They generally merely make a smoke
in the ordinary way when settling down to
camp or if a special smoke is made, to acquaint
anybody with their whereabouts; nothing
further is indicated. Those who see the smoke
just meditate on the possibilities of who is likely
to be in the region of the smoke, as they know
the whereabouts of practically every individual
and smaller group at the various times of the
year. The name for smoke signal would, I
think, be the word for smoke.
* * * *
Was there an Australian case of a “man
they could not hang”? Was he reprieved? —
3493.
According to Henniker Heaton’s not-always-
reliable Dictionary of Dates, Joseph Samuels,
sentenced to death for theft in Sydney, was
strung up on September 20, 1803. The rope
snapped, and Samuels fell prostrate. At a
second attempt the rope unrove at the fasten-
ing; at the third attempt it snapped once more.
So Provost-Marshal Smith interviewed Gover-
nor King, who reprieved Samuels.
* * * *
Are there any well-known operatic com-
posers not of Italian birth? —3512.
Quite a number. Here are just a few of the
composers: British —Sullivan, Balfe, Wallace
and Goring Thomas; French—Gounod, Herold
Berlioz, Bizet, Auber, Audran, Lecocq and Am-
broise Thomas; German —Wagner, Gluck,
Meyerbeer, Weber, Flotow, Humperdinck, Beet-
hoven and Richard Strauss; Belgian—Von
Suppe ; Russian —Tschaikowsky, Rimsky-Kor-
sakov and Mossourgsky; Austrian —Mozart.
* * * *
Why does the new moon at times lie on an
even keel and at others tilt at different angles?
Does the fact of the 'moon coming in with a
tilt indicate that there will be a likelihood of
rain during the month, as many people aver
is the case ? —3527.
The apparent angle is due to the relative
positions of sun, moon and earth, and varies
regularly throughout the year. It has nothing
to do with the weather.
* * * *
(1) Was Henry Kingsley, author of “Geoffry
Hamlyn,” any relation to Charles Kingsley, the
novelist ? (2) During what years was Henry
Kingsley in Australia? (3) Where and when
was “Geoffry Hamlyn” written, when pub-
lished, and has it any relation to where H.
Kingsley lived here ? (4) Did he write any other
books about Australia? —3540.
(1) A younger brother. (2) He migrated to
Vic. in 1853 to work on the goldfields, but
had no luck there and drifted to the western
district of Vic., where he stayed with William
Mitchell, of Langawilli. (3) Written while he
was living at Langawilli and published in 1859
after his return to England. He mentions the
names of many places in the region between
Geelong and Skipton. (4) Yes, The Hillyars
and the Burtons.
* * * *
What does the prefix “von” attached to
German names signify? —347B.
Meaning “from,” in German and Austrian
personal names “von,” originally prefixed to a
place-name, was formerly the sign of nobility
of birth. It is now often used prefixed to the
family name, as a title of individual distinction.
In foreign usage the von is written with a small
“v”; in British and American usage the style
of the individual owner of the name is generally
followed.
v * * *
Brief list of principal happenings in Austral-
asia in 1840 and 1841 ? —2524.
Principal events were: 1840 —Hobson made
Lieutenant-Governor of M.L. and treaty of
Waitangi concluded ; transportation to Austra-
lian mainland abolished; McMillan discovered
and Strzelecki explored Gippsland; Adelaide
incorporated; Perth “Inquirer” first issued;
Caroline Chisholm began her immigration work.
1841 —M.L. separated from N. S. Wales;
Eyre’s “march” round the Bight; Clarke found
gold on Cox’s River (N.S.W.); first savings
banks established at Melbourne and Adelaide;
Sydney first lit with gas.
* * * *
A few details concerning the sandalwood and
sandalwood-oil industry in Australia?— 3s36.
The distillation of oil from W.A. sandal-
wood has been marked by improvement in
quality and quantity within recent years. It
is claimed that the W.A. oil is at least as valu-
able medicinally as the well-known Mysore
oil, besides having an extensive use in the
manufacture of perfumes. Exports of essen-
tial oils from W.A. amounted to £38,185 in
1936-37, the bulk of the product consisting of
sandalwood oil, which was shipped principally
to the U.K., eastern States of Australia and
Germany. In addition to its distillation, quan-
tities of sandalwood are gathered for export
each year. W.A. is the chief source of supply,
followed by S.A., while Q’land also produces
a small quantity;- In 1936-37 3555 tons valued
at £106,448 were exported, the whole of which
was shipped to Asia; Hong Kong (2120 tons)
and China (1154 tons) were the principal
countries of destination.
* * * *
Number of (1) old-age pensioners and (2)
invalid pensioners, male and female, in the
various Australian States as at June 30, 1938 ?
—3517.
(1) N.S.W. 36,801 males and 47,861 females,
Vic. 25,428 and 39,775, Q’land 12,605 and
15,593, S.A. 8470 and 12,943, W.A. 7056 and
8276, Tas. 4077 and 5269. (2) N.S.W. 17,184
males and 23,384 females, Vic. 7994 and 10,823,
Q’land 5510 and 6345, S.A. 2643 and 3983,
W.A. 2208 and 2655, Tas. 1546 and 1821.
* * * *
What is “Wilson’s Rule” for calculating the
bursting pressure of a steam boiler? —3490.
To find the bursting pressure in pounds per
square inch, divide the thickiifess of the shell
in sixteenths of an inch by the diameter of
the shell in quarter feet and multiply the result
by 1097 for single-riveted wrought iron, 1723
for single-riveted steel and 2156 for double-
riveted steel. For example, a 4ft. internal
diameter boiler shell, |in. thick (double-riveted
wrought iron), will have a bursting pressure of
6 multiplied by 1372, divided by 16, or 5141 b.
per square inch.
* * * *
List of newspaper feature services in Sydney
and Melbourne handling syndicated literary,
artistic and photographic matter? —3491.
Australian United Press, lie Castlereagh-
street; Country Press, Utd., 5 Barrack-street;
Alan Foley, 169 Castlereagh-street; Special
Press Photos, 32 Jamieson-street; Sun Feature
Bureau, 60 Elizabeth-street; Yaffa Syndicate,
Warwick Building, Hamilton-street—all Sydney.
General Press, Ltd., 210 Queen-street; Herald
Feature Service, 62 Flinders-street; Kosmos
Press Bureau, 271 Collins-street; and News-
paper Features, Box 906, G.P.O.—all Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
Names and addresses of about 10 American
literary agents with offices in New York?—
3477.
Brandt and Brandt, 101 Park-avenue; Curtis,
Brown, Ltd., 18 East 48th-street; Robert
Thomas Hardy, Inc., 55 West 42nd-street; Hill
and Peters, 22 East 40th-street; Hughes Massie
and Co., 40 East 49th-street; Grace Moore,
545 Fifth-avenue; Virginia Rice, 18 East 41st-
street; Sydney A. Sanders, 522 Fifth-avenue;
Ann Watkins, Inc., 210 Madison-avenue; and
Willis Kingsley Wing, 205 East 42nd-street.
*k *£ jjj
To be eligible for a service pension, in what
areas and between what dates must an applicant
who served in the Australian theatre of war
have served? —34B3.
Includes all operations against the German
Pacific dependencies, as follows: New Britain,
from midnight Sept. 10-11, 1914, to midnight
Sept. 21-22, 1914; New Ireland, from midnight
Sept. 15-16, 1914, to midnight Oct. 18-19, 1914;
Kaiser Wilhelm Land, on Sept. 24, 1914; Ad-
miralty Islands, on Nov. 21, 1914; Nauru,
on Nov. 6, 1914; and German Samoa, on Aug.
29, 1914. 6
* * * *
Details regarding imported films dealt with
by the Commonwealth Film Censor for the last
year for which figures are available? —3506.
Imported films dealt with by the Censorship
for the year 1937 were as follows: 1538 films
of 4,150,256 ft. passed without elimination, 157
films of 750,500 ft. passed after elimination, and
17 films of 87,861 ft. rejected in first instance,
making a total of 1712 films of 4,988,617 ft.
(one copy). The countries of origin were as
follows: U.S.A., 1152 films of 3,579,495 ft.;
U.K., 459 films of 1,302,851 ft.; and 101 films
of 106,271 ft. from other countries. The fore-
going figures relate to standard size films (35
millimetres). There were also imported during
1937 1189 miniature films (16, 9.5 and 8 milli-
metres) of 526,556 ft.
* * * *
Particulars of the nationality of overseas ships
that entered Australian ports during the 12
months ending-June 30, 1938? —3497.
Australian 363,086 net tons, U.K. 4,021,272
tons, Canadian 30,910 tons, M.L. 505,976
tons, other British 236,907 tons, Danish 55,753
tons, Dutch 199,913 tons, French 102,952 tons,
German 180,314 tons, Italian 70,451 tons,
Japanese 318,499 tons, Norwegian 482,470 tons,
Swedish 116,036 tons, U.S.A. 216,083 tons,
other foreign countries 227,782 tons.
* 4= * *
Brief biographical details concerning Barron
Field, author of “The First Fruits of Australian
Poetry” ?—3so9.
Born in London on October 23, 1786, he was
said to have been educated at Christ’s Hospital,
trained for the law and called to the Bar at
the Inner Temple in 1814. He had by that
time made himself a small reputation among the
literary companions of Charles and Leigh
Hunt; he was also theatrical critic of the
“Times” and a contributor to the “Quarterly
Review.” His career at the English Bar was
short and unsuccessful, and in 1816 he applied
for and obtained a position as Judge of the
Supreme Court of N. S. Wales in succession to
Jeffery Bent. He administered justice in Syd-
ney for seven years, then he returned to Eng-
land on a pension of £4OO a year, and obtained
the position of advocate-fiscal (i.e. Crowm
prosecutor) for Ceylon, and dropped it in 1829
to take the Chief-Justiceship at Gibraltar. In
1835 he resigned, returned to England once
more and abandoned the law altogether, dying
at Torquay on April 11, 1846.
* * * *
Population of 10 largest towns in Queens-
land outside Brisbane at the 1933 census? —
3502.
Rockhampton 29,369, Toowoomba 26,423,
Townsville 25,876, Ipswich 22,498, Cairns
11,993, Bundaberg 11,466, Maryborough 11,415,
Mackay 10,665, Gympie 7749, Charters Towers
6664.
* * * *
What size is the yellow-bellied flying opossum,
and what regions does it inhabit? Short de-
scription ? —3515.
This opossum (Petaurus australis ), which in-
habits the coastal ranges of N. S. Wales and
Victoria, is much smaller than the common
opossum, though still of considerable size, the
head and body being 12in. long and the tail
13in. It has long fur, brown on the upper
surface, and variously marked with orange
and black; the under surface is orange. The
long tail is very bushy, especially at the base.
* * * *
(1) How can wattle be propagated from seed?
(2) When should established trees be pruned? —
3486.
(1) Acacia seed should be sown from Septem-
ber to December in pans or shallow boxes con-
taining equal parts of leaf-mould, sand and
sieved soil. It will help germination if the seed
is placed in hot water for an hour before being
sown. Damp the soil, then cover with a thin
layer of grass clippings, and finally place in a
glass-frame or cover the boxes with glass. When
the seedlings appear gradually lift the covering.
(2) Only if the trees are getting too large should
they be pruned, and then immediately the
flowering is over.
* * * *
What is the best method of treating crotons
in order to bring out the brilliant leaf colors?
—3463.
Keep the pot plants in a northerly aspect so
that as much sunshine as possible can shine
on the leaves. Where the plants are kept in a
conservatory place them near the glass. Re-
move old leaves,' and when young growth
appears dig in a small quantity of superphos-
phate (about a teaspoonful) about the roots.
Crotons are at their best after about two
years.
* * * *
How much fine granite and cement would it
take to erect a cottage 24 ft. by 12ft. with one
12 ft. dividing wall; height of walls 10 ft.?—
3347.
Quantities of materials required for the con-
struction of a cottage of the dimensions given,
the quantities being based on walls of 6in.
thickness, with footings 18in. wide and 9in.
thick, would be 120 bags cement (five tons), 8.8
cub. yds. sand and 17.8 cub. yds. crushed
stone or screened gravel of fin. thickness.
These quantities do not provide for cement
rendering the concrete walls. Allowing for fin.
3-to-l cement rendering externally and inter-
nally, the additional quantities required would
be 26 bags cement and 3 cub. yds. sand.
* * * * *
How many times was former world’s heavy-
weight champion Jack Dempsey knocked out
during his career? —3500.
Once, by Jim Flynn in the first round of
. their fight in 1917.
* * * *
(1) How many matches did Australasian
Rugby Union teams play on their English tours,
and the results ? (2) How many matches are
listed for the 1939-40 Australian- team?— 347l.
P. W. L. D. For. Agst.
M.L. Natives
(1888-89) ..74 49 20 5 394 188
All Blacks
(1905-06) ..33 32 1 0 868 47
Aust. Wallabies
(1908-09) ..31 25 5 1 438 146
All Blacks
(1924-25) ..30 30 0 0 721 112
M. Natives
(1926-27) ..31 22 7 2 457 194
N. Waratahs
(1927-28) ..31 24 5 2 432 207
All Blacks
(1935-36) ..28 24 3 1 431 180
(2) The itinerary of the tour is for 28 matches.
* * * *
When did the first intercolonial eight-oar
race take place between Vic. and N. S. Wales,
and who won ? Members of both crews ?
3136.
It took place oh March 6, 1878, on the
Yarra, and the Victorians won. The crews
were: Vic., R. Ward 10.10, J. Booth 11.2, W.
Bray 11.8, J. L. Irvine 11.0, W. H. Trickett
11.13, J. M. Simpson 11.4, T. H. Young 12.11,
G. Fairbairn 12.2 (stroke), F. Fairbairn 5.6
(cox); N. S. Wales, W. R. Benson 10.1, J.
Arthur 11.2, J. McKansey 11.1, W. G. Brett
11.11, J. H. Wilkinson 11.12, T. F. Strange
12.8, W. Dind, 11.5, G. C. Medcalf 10.2
(stroke), W. Thomas 5.7 (cox).
Does Anybody Know?
Best way of trapping water-rats and pre-
paring pelts?—342s.
Brief Answers.
C.D.N.: (1) Waterproof drawing ink, as
used for coloring lantern slides, can be obtained
fropi W. C. Penfold and Co., 88 Pitt Street,
Sydney; Is. 3d. and 2s. per bottle. (2) This line
is manufactured by the Thistle Chemical Co.,
23a Jamieson-street, Sydney W.G.P.: Write
Under-Secretary, Department of Agriculture,
Adelaide... .P.8.M.: Write Griffith, Hassell
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and Bar-
rack streets, Sydney... .A.FJ.: Write Lecturer-
in-charge, Tanning School, Bourke-street,
Waterloo... .1.V.A.: How to Speak Dutch in
Three Months without a Master (Hugo’s Sim-
plified System), two parts, price 4s. 6d
G.F.G.: Would prefer to see a rubbing of
the coin before expressing an opinion... .R.A.:
Husqvarna Saftpressar, obtainable from
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Sydney; price
25s L.R.: Guide for the Chairman and the
Secretary, by J. P. Munro (35.), obtainable from
leading booksellers... .J.T.: Write Civil Avia-
tion Branch, Department of Defence, Mel-
bourne... .C.W.F.: (1) Won 1926 Caulfield
Futurity. (2) Only fair stud success
N.J.8.: (1) Grand Flaneur won the 1880 Mel-
bourne Cup, Victoria Derby, A.J.C. Derby
and the 1881 V.R.C. St. Leger. (2) A great
stayer and considered among the best horses
of the past D.S.: (1) Arch More, bay
gelding, six years, by Cyllene More-Arch-
brooke. (2) Lord Archery, bay gelding, nine
years, by Archery-Sincere... .W.S.: (1) The
1919 Tattersall’s Cup was won by Wedding
Day; price 6 to 1, dividend £2 6s. (2) Protest
was dismissed... .W.K.W.: (1) Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, and New
Century Press, The Arches, York-street North
—both Sydney. (2) MS. should be typed in
double space with wide margins and the whole
bound in some easily-detachable form K.F.:
He is looking at his son’s photograph
A.M.H.: You are liable for all rates up to the
date of sale G.W.E.: (1) Haying contracted
to purchase the goods and having paid a de-
posit as portion of the purchase money you
cannot now withdraw and demand the return
of the deposit. (2) Yes, the offer was a recog-
nition of the firm’s right. (3) Do not think that,
in the circumstances, such a letter would help.
F.W.: Write to him saying that you cannot
recognise his wife in the matter; that the
sketch was sent to him and he is responsible
for the payment. Inform him that unless pay-
ment is made forthwith you will take proceed-
ings to recover the amount in the Small Debts
Court... .K.E.E.: Do not know of any Aus-
tralian agents G.W.T.: Information is con-
tained in Federal “Hansard,” October 19, 1938,
page 946 A.C.: It was Emerson who said
“Can anybody remember when the times were
not hard, and money not scarce?” S.H.D.:
The testing of cattle dips is done at the De-
partment of Agriculture and Stock, William-
street, Brisbane, free of charge and as often as
is required. A dip-testing field apparatus can
be obtained from Surgical Supplies, Ltd., 428
Queen-street, Brisbane... .1.T.H.: The trouble
is gastritis, for which he should be treated at
once. If treatment is delayed enteritis is likely
to ensue. Stop all water and give barley water,
or equal parts of Vichy water and milk. A
gastric mixture can be obtained from David
Moore, 16 Bridge-street, Sydney, at a cost of
2s. 6d., plus Is. postage 8.G.A.: Write
Secretary, Police Department, Hunter-street,
Sydney... J.S.L.: Would require to see crest
before advising... .A.C.M.: Since they were
not allowed to resign they are still members
and entitled to share in the proceeds—H.T.:
Society of Australian Genealogists, 91a Phillip-
street, Sydney W.H.L.: Handline fishing in
the creek is in order. If private property, per-
mission must, of course, be obtained. If for
net fishing, there may be some closure. Infor-
mation can be obtained from the Harbor
Master, Townsville.... R.J.F.: The Kelly Gang
comprised Ned Kelly and his brother Dan,
Steve Hart and Joe Byrne. Ned Kelly was
hung in Melbourne on November 11, 1880,
after his capture at Glenrowan. The bodies
of the other three were found in the ruins of
the hotel where they had been besieged. They
were probably self-slaughtered L.J.G.M.:
Information not available in Sydney. Write
Clerk of the House of Commons, House of
Commons, London... .C.C.M.: (1) Submit
MS. to a book publisher. (2) Typed matter
is preferred, but most publishers will consider
handwritten manuscripts. (3) Not necessary;
letter-pad more suitable. (4) Advisable to
separate into chapters yourself. (5) Yes. (6)
N 0... .A.H.N.: C. J. Dennis’s “Australaise”
was printed on the “Red Page” of The Bulle-
tin for December 12, 1912... .P.F.H.: Under
the Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act, the
grant of service pensions is confined to three
categories: (a) Ex-soldiers who have reached 60
years of age ; ( b ) those who are considered to be
permanently unemployable; (c) those suffering
from pulmonary tuberculosis. Under (a) and
(fe) an applicant must have had service in a
theatre of war, and in respect of (a) only the
ex-soldier is eligible for grant, no payments
being allowable to dependants. In your case
you qualify in respect of age, but no indication
is given as to whether you have been con-
sidered by the Queensland Repatriation Office
as permanently unemployable. If pension has
been granted on the age question only, the
grant is confined to the member, and the maxi-
mum rate is £2 per fortnight, subject to other
income and property in excess of £BOO, other
than the house in which the pensioner resides.
The standard allowed income of the ex-soldier
under Category (a) is £B4 10s. per annum =
£3 ss. per fortnight, from all sources. Even
if the wife is ineligible for grant of service
pension, her income is taken into consideration
in assessing the amount of service pension
granted to the husband... .R.S.: The cost of
the Sydney Harbor Bridge was met principally
from loan funds, which are being repaid over
a period of between 50 and 60 years from the
date of opening in 1932. The repayments are
met from the proceeds of toll collections levied
on road, rail and tram passengers. The toll
charge for cars is 6d., which covers the driver
of the car. Passenger charges are as follows:
Each car passenger 3d., rail passenger .26d.,
tram passenger 1.32 d., omnibus passenger
,26d.


fU
Four and a half weeks’ tour of the South
Sea Islands crowded with a succession of
picturesque vistas, novel and amusing inci-
dents and the delights of a sea voyage
under the best conditions.
Numerous ports, with their coral lagoons,
palm-fringed beaches, quaint villages and
colourful native life, offer a never-ending
source of interest.
There are no hotel expenses—-you live on
the vessel throughout. Fares are free of
exchange.
BURNS- PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY Telephone: 87901
c
tit Me
to
New Guinea
& Papua
At your request we shall
be pleased to forward
Folder No. 99.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
n
i
ii
and reused
e dd<° n °\, e
Here's good news ior farmers,
storekeepers, ironworkers,
builders, plumbers and
tradesmen! A new 1939 edi-
tion of "Lysaght's Referee"—
the most popular reference
handbook in Australia is
out! Packed full of useful,
authentic information, tables,
distances, rates, etc. Write
to-day for your copy sent
free and post free—to the
nearest office of
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY BRISBANE MELBOURNE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
SYDNEY STREETS
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
SYDNEY’S streets apparently run
anyhow and to any width or
narrowness, so that the popular-
legend as to their survey by bul-
lock-drivers would seem to have some-
thing in it—though it hasn’t.
The streets came before the bullock-
drays, and when Governor Phillip
planned them he made quite a good
job of his urban layout. But he went
away at a critical time in its develop-
ment, and those he left behind to carry
on were so intent upon their own main
chance that they allowed the town to
shape its destiny as best it might.
Alignment didn’t matter, short cuts be-
came thoroughfares, people built houses
where and how best pleased themselves.
If the streets had continued as they
were in Bligh’s time that part of the
city immediately south of Sydney Cove
would have been even more astonishingly
irregular than it is to-day. But in 1810
came Macquarie, who didn’t approve of
the appearance of his capital, so it wasn’t
very long before Sydney got itself sur-
prisingly straightened out and regulated.
Macquarie couldn’t do everything
necessary, but what was possible he did.
He expressed himself vigorously in a
“Government and General Order” of
August 11, 1810. The town’s rearrange-
ment was so imperatively necessary that
fatigue parties from the garrison were
told off to see to it, and were to get
extra pay for their work.
Every thoroughfare was to be 50ft.
wide, paling fences in front of allotments
were to have a uniform height of 4ft.,
and were to be strongly and neatly con-
structed. Houses were to be removed
that were in the way of his improvements,
with or without compensation to the
owners. No one was to build without the
approval of the Government surveyor.
Barking dogs and straying pigs and goats
were to be destroyed or impounded,
and the latter sold for the benefit of the
Orphan Fund.
In less than a month a change for the
better had taken place, as is evidenced by
the “Sydney Gazette” of September 8:
The vast addition given to the appear-
ance of the town by the widening of the
streets daily becomes more obvious. The
improvement is nowhere more conspicuous
than in Pitt’s-row.
Macquarie appointed himself Lord
Mayor, Commissioner of Police and
Public Works Committee, divided the
town into five police districts, each with
its watch-house, and renamed the streets.
“The principal street in the town,” he
says in another drastic Order, “and
hitherto known alternately by the
names of High-street, Spring-row and
Sergeant-Major’s-row, is now named
George-street in honor of our revered
and gracious Sovereign.”
He made Macquarie-place the centre
of the town, fixed the site of a market,
and built a market-wharf close by in
Cockle Bay (Darling Harbor). He de-
fined the boundaries of the open space
of land variously known as “the Com-
mon,” “Exercising Ground,” “Cricket
Ground” and “Racecourse,” and called
it “Hyde Park.” And in October he
gave names to four new streets
Gloucester, Harrington, Argyle and
Elizabeth —and to five lanes.
Then he set to work to regulate the
traffic. Vehicles were not to be left un-
attended or ridden in by their drivers
whilst in town, and cattle were to be
kept off the footways. Severe penalties
were to result in any infringement of his
by-laws—even to public whippings. And
next he concerned himself with the
efficient policing of the reconstituted
capital—but that is another story.
“Ming”: For some time the more
modern-minded section of our village
community has been dissatisfied with
the headmaster of the local school, hold-
ing that he is a stick-in-the-mud bloke
who doesn’t move with the times. A
few days after the last discussion on
educational matters the chairman of our
school committee got his young daughter
to type a note to the headmaster. It was
about the flower show, so he wasn’t pre-
pared half-an-hour later to find Mr.
Whackem on his front porch gesticulating
wildly and waving his letter, shouting the
while .something about insults and
apologies. Then Mr. Whackem thrust
the envelope under the committeeman’s
eye, so that he read thereon, “Dead-
master, Blankville School.” It was daugh-
ter’s typing, of course, but the h.m. took
some convincing that it wasn’t deliberate.
He on his part convinced the chairman
that he wasn’t as dead as some parents
alleged.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address'must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.A.K.: It’s not funny... .RJ.S.: Doesn’t
grip K.E.: Showed your su]E.L
to the d00r... .W.J.H.: You ve been reading
the flapper magazines... .KA.. He bored us,
too J.E.S.: Out! ... .A.R: Its a worn
track R.A.Mc.: Can’t have that fishing con-
test E.S.: That one’s a long way off, but
read the type of stories we publish and keep
trying % .. .M.A.P.: Newspapers judged that
free publication of programmes amounted to
free advertising for competitors well able to pay
for ads E.McD.: Quite fair. The A.-C. s
statement could have been obtained tor publi-
cation in the issue in which the account appeared.
G.S.: Try it on sweet Addie A.D.M.:
But ’e loves ’er so sentimentally R.E.R.:
Pretty, but it’s the pathetic fallacy M.G.:
“Outburst of a disillusioned soul overwhelmed
by politics and overcome by beer wont stand
the grim light of the morning after E.E.:
Read Masefield on the wild duck... .G.E.McK.:
No need to tell a stoker what to do with that.
EJC : It may comfort you to know that
patriotic bards are dying for Australia at the
rate of about three a day... .D.O’C.: Keep
at it . .S.S.: Sorry, but we don’t want your
old man H.M.: He’d have been close if the
necessities of rhyme hadn’t made him sprout
those wings E.8.H.: Did you really hear
“soldiers for an outfit shriek” ?.... H.E.L.:
“On the Spot” bumped off... .K.R.1.: That
one’s got whiskers as well as fur....E.H.:
Neat, but no meat J.O’G.: Pedestrian
EV.B.: “Scunned”? C.F.: It’s not funny,
V.K.: It’s original, anyhow; the first time
we’ve ever met “young turns” in a poem....
BMC: Yes, yes, and every cloud has a silver
lining... .R.W.: You’ve a long way to g 0....
A.P.: For children... .W.E.S.: Rocky....
M.K.: Should place it with one of the flapper
mags F.O’R.: You’ve a lot to learn about
storytelling... .J.W.O’K.: Whew!... .W.H.C.:
Still n 0... .S.S.: Not for us... .G.F.P.: Find
something to say, and say it more directly....
S.T.: “A Message from Mars” came to the
wrong address....A.S.G.: Just doesn’t hit
file mark L.E.G.: “There Comes a Day”—
yes, but this one isn’t yours... .C.R.: Not
quite; try it elsewhere... .8.R.C.R.: Nothing
in that batch M.V.S.: Please write on one
side of the paper 0n1y... .D.D.D.M.: Should
make a par....A.C.: You’re still off our beat.
....V.E.W.: A tiddler C.S.: Unsuitable,
....H.D.C.: “A Moonlight Night at Manly”
reminds us of prawns and beer and sand....
A.J.8.: “Nightmare” was... .5.E.A.8.: Yes,
but where’s the point? ... .R.H.T.N.: N 0....
P.W.: Reads all right, but it’s too slight....
I. An old one... .H.H.P.: Not up....
J. : No, but keep at it....M.K.: Has its
moments, but there are too many others like
it D.C.W.A paragraph, possibly....
H.Wa y ffi' a E h?me ‘ekewhere!^:
.f Won’t hive “The Pickled Chinaman” on
premises ... . H . S . F .; “It’s a long time
since p ve wr i tten anything worth while.
Xrue> j H .C.: Hopeless... .G.8.M.: “Wot
, , U 9„ Exactly... .C.P.W.: “Old Joe”
. home> .. .S.C.P.: “And don’t tell me it’s
week’s worst.” Righto, but K.8.E.:
The mar j cet certainly won’t adapt itself to suit
u b.G.L.: Your “joyfully contributed
f raKn^nt G f poetic prose” is being joyfully
returnec j F.P.S.: Won’t have gangsters who
their victims with penknives R.C.P.:
«.tt r Smoke'” Phew! L.D.P.: Missed.
J
ARTTSTTC (AND INARTISTIC)
TO ARTISTIC <£ND lrjAK it)
CORRESPONDENIS.
, , . , . .
EJ.R.: Captain Cook brought that ancient
out in the Endeavour... .F.R.: You ve a treak-
ish style of your own, but very little idea of
what makes a joke block... .J.J.. Hop hit
on that gag very many years ag0....1.N..
Not recognisable... .W. 8.: You would be more
usefully employed whitewashing the fowlhouse.
N.S.: Shows a small glimmer of promise.
... .W.H.C.: Not taking it at any price. ...T.N.:
Too many signposts and labels .. .. A.H.F..
We’ll try to struggle on without that fearsome
comic strip, thank you. ..P.D.: A heavy-handed
drawing and a lightweight gag....C.8..
Only neat thing about the drawing is the
pasted-on stipple... .R.W.: When the
Rain Came” reveals ambition, but practically
no artistic ability... .J.P.: What happened in
the Greek fish cafe will not be served up for
our readers C.V.: J ry t° mak p y° ur figures
less wooden A.8.L.: Drawings are so
markedly uneven in merit that we suspect the
origin of the better-drawn ones... .P.L.: Gag
is not suitable for illustration; also it has been
used in paragraph form many times.. . .5.W.8..
Not bad in a rough-and-ready way, but inter-
est is too local 8.5. G.: We quarantined that
queer collection of animals... .M.H.: You re
let off this time, but dont repeat the offence.
....C.L.: Effort to depict the interior of a
Sydney tramcar worst we ve seen to date....
R.C.: What slight prospect it had was spoilt
by a lame wheeze... .F.D.: Make application
to the Undertakers and Gravediggers Union
for position as official jester.... I.B.: From
what parish magazine did you pilfer that soiry
little chestnut? ... .0.G.: Irishman, Scotch-
man and Jew are artistic monstrosities, and
three-decker gag is a washout....P.B.: You
managed the paunch, but made a mess of the
old boy’s dial... .C.D.N.: Use fixative on the
next batch of charcoal drawings you send us.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S
MIND.
This competition will be continued until further notice.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
Candid friends have been saying for half a century that “The Bulletin” is hard
to please; but “The Bulletin” is frankly pleased with the quality of the matter it is
getting from these Other Fellows. Again, as a mark of appreciation, it is adding
a page this week.
Minority rule in trade-unionism is the subject of a letter from Broken Hill, and
the writer tackles it so well that he wins the £3 3s. this week.
The Great God Apathy
It is the usual fortnightly meeting of
an industrial union with a membership
exceeding 2000. There are present in
addition to the president and secretary
18 of the rank and file. No quorum is
apparently recognised, as the meeting
opens on time and proceeds to business.
The members present are a mixed lot—
Communists, mild and extreme Laborites,
Lang men and Heffron men, “Aginsters”
and Pacifists —but they have one attribute
in common —enthusiasm.
They strike levies for the relief of
distress in Spain, China, and wherever
else they think the need exists, their own
country excepted. They advise members
to resist Government regulations of which
they disapprove. The resolutions are
binding on all their fellow-unionists.
What of the other 1890-odd members?
Well, a third will be on afternoon shift
and unable to attend. The majority
will be found to be decent, level-headed
citizens quite capable of exercising sane,
discretionary power in union and civic
matters, but they simply can’t be
bothered. They are languidly worship-
ping at the shrine of the great god
Apathy.
They will meet off shift in small
groups, sometimes each with a foot on
a brass rail, and moan about the levies,
but the talk ' soon turns to the dogs or
the oracles’ tips for Saturday, and the
union is forgotten until the quarterly
card is due.
This is not an isolated case. It is an
attitude prevalent in every walk of life
in Australia to-day, and we’re paying for
it. Can’t we wake up and knock this
blasted god off his pedestal? —H. J. S.
(N.S.W.).
Three guineas for H. J. Storey, of
Beryl-street, Broken Hill.
Women Workers
Criticism of married women workers
appears in the press from time to time.
But why is it that only those who leave
their homes daily to attend business or
an actual salaried position are classed
as workers? What of those who keep
the home fires burning? Aren’t they also
workers, and often the hardest-worked of
all?
Where does the woman stand who not
only attends to the usual round of house-
work, cooking, washing and mending, but
also works for hours out of doors, toiling
to help wrest a living from flower farm,
market garden or orchard?
Their days begin at or before daylight
and seldom end before midnight, be-
cause as much inside work as possible
must be done by lamplight to conserve
the daylight hours for actual income-
producing work. And often months of
hard work will be ruined by fire, flood
or drought.
City friends will drop in to find one
in the midst of transplanting or some
such “pleasant outdoor task,” and coo
sweetly: “Oh, I do think you are ever
so lucky having nothing to do but potter
round in the lovely sunshine. No wonder
you look so healthy!”
I am one of the toilers, and know from
experience just what we are up against.
I like the outdoor life, and it suits my
health. But a little intelligent under-
standing, both from those within and
without our own boundary fences, would
help a lot. — Mary, Mary (N.S.W.).
A Vienna Fellow’s Mind
I arrived in Australia on the hottest
day in your country’s history, after hav-
ing recently sojourned in Banff, where
it was 45 degrees below zero. People
said it was “oppressive” here. I agreed.
But I had just been driven out of a coun-
try which was oppressed in a different
way, so your kind of “oppression” was
a welcome relief.
In Vienna papers there is no “other
fellow’s mind.” There is no other fellow,
and only one mind. Hitler’s afternoon
paper (no other is allowed publication),
“Neues Wiener Tageblatt,” said in bold
lettering that your Federal Government
had “absolutely prohibited all Jewish
refugees from landing.” This was de-
signed further to distress already har-
assed Jews. When I left Vienna I had
to pay my employees a full year’s wages
after having given them the customary
six months’ notice. Hitler said that of
the 2000 lawyers practising in Vienna he
would allow 60 Jewish ones to remain
there, but they could only take Jewish
cases ; and since none of the lay Jews
had any money left to pay for litigation
the generous gesture lost its value.
After living in Australia for a little
while I am able to see that we were
oppressed, even under Dollfuss and
Schuschnigg. In Australia you grumble
about silly things like bridge taxes, in-
come taxes, hotel hours, the price of
bricks —because, like all people, you must
grumble about something or you are not
happy. But you do not know what it
is to be oppressed.
One afternoon at five o’clock a man
came to my door, presented a gun at my
head, and said that he had an order to
confiscate everything excepting my wife.
The Nazi Stormtrooper who thus men-
aced me was wearing the Blutorden
(Blue Order) given by Hitler for excep-
tionally good service ; so I knew that it
would be futile even to argue the point
with him.
That night we had to take refuge with
a friend (and here is “another fellow’s
mind”) —it was actually a Nazi Storm-
trooper who put me up for the night and
helped me to leave Vienna next day.
That man, who was my friend, will not
win the Blutorden unless he changes his
ways.
So now I am in Australia, and I shall
soon start grumbling, just to be a true
Australian. I shall begin by saying that
your streets are very dimly lighted. I
have never seen such poorly-lighted
streets in any part of the world.
And that bridge tax I think is most
terrible. —J. Reves (N.S.W.).
Australians and Australia
“I’m an Australian.” The proud boast
can be heard in town or country and in
every State, yet at the first stroke of good
fortune the average Australian will con-
template a trip abroad. Cannot Aus-
tralia offer pleasures to suit all tastes, or
do our people fail to appreciate their
own country?
Perhaps the answer is that Australians
as a whole do not know Australia. They
are aware that Tasmania offers attrac-
tions during summer, that snow-sport en-
thusiasts can find entertainment at Kos-
ciusko, that the Blue Mountains are
worthy of lengthy visits, and that the
Barron Falls is the natural winter resort
for those who dislike cold weather.
Lovers of nature will tell their friends
of the beauty of Westralian wildflowers,
but few know of the unsurpassed love-
liness existing in the extreme south-
western corner of that State, where every
plant or shrub vies with its neighbor in
an effort to produce still more beautiful
blooms, to the great joy of honey-seeking
birds. Memories of a glorious spring
spent in the lovely sou’-west between
Perth and Albany are still with me.
Along the Queensland coast Mackay
presents attractions with its near-by moun-
tain scenery and the Whitsunday Islands ;
and further north, behind Cairns and
Innisfail, there are now splendid motor
roads over the lofty coast range where
the rich tropical vegetation is a spec-
tacle never to be forgotten.
It would be more fitting for patriotic
individuals to extol the attractiveness of
the many islands inside the Great Barrier
Reef and the marine life in these shel-
tered waters than to screech about sam-
pans allegedly bent upon sinister motives.
Albany Pass, overlooked by the old Jar-
dine homestead, is alone worthy of a
visit to the north.
Then we have Apsley Straits, a narrow
stream separating Bathurst and Melville
islands, where launches can cruise for 50
miles by dense mangrove fringes and
many inlets beloved of crocodiles —a
veritable paradise for boating men and
hunters. Here one can still view the
remains of the early military settlement
prior to the transfer to the more tran-
quil but now defunct Port Essington.
These are but a few of our historic
places and beauty spots. Walter D.
Dodd (Q.).
Back to the Home
“J.F.H.” (B. 10/5/’39) rings the bell
with his advice to get back to the fireside
to cure the ills of modern life. John
Bull, senior, owed his success (and still
does) to his recognition that the family
is the bulwark of civilised life and the
foundation of all successful government,
right back to the days of the early
Britons. As for healthy excitement, I’ll
lay odds on the rearing of a family (the
bigger the merrier) against horseracing,
escaping from sharks, running brumbies
in the scrub, fighting with the fists, win-
ning the approval of an editor, hopping
the bags with the A.1.F., sweeping the
polls at an election with the candidate
you are organising or sampling the minor
sins which are said to be necessary for
the making of a full man, all of which
I have experienced in a varied career.
Phar Lap and Joe Louis cannot pro-
duce the thrill of an inch paragraph tell-
ing me that His Nibs has won his
intermediate, or that the rigout for Her
Nibs, bought at some sacrifice of energy
and cash, is just right in the eyes of good
judges, while a squeal of delight acclaim-
ing another small victory by “good old
Dad” brings me more sheer joy and last-
ing peace than having my picture printed
as the “well-known etc.,” or hitting
the highest rung of the local social ladder.
Let’s get back to the home and the
family, and it won’t be long before the
tearing up of treaties and the bayoneting
or bombing of those who object to that
process will be relegated to the lunatic
asylums.— Father’s Voice (N.S.W.).
Just Another Penny
Boarding an almost empty tram with
a young baby and a boy aged years,
I tendered the guard 2d. for one sec-
tion. He gave me my ticket and then
demanded another penny for the boy. I
demurred, saying that the boy was under
age. I was then invited to read a notice
nailed up in the tram stating that, if a
person with more than one child under
age rides in the tram, only one can ride
free.
I can understand such a rule being
enforced during peak hours, but one
would be not unreasonable in expecting
the Government to carry free of charge
as many young children as possible judg-
ing by the wail we hear about our de-
clining birthrate.
To make my case more ludicrous, two
out of the other four persons in that tram
were policemen! —A. H. W. (N.S.W.).
Democracy?
What is a democracy? We hear this
word used constantly to describe Yugo-
slavia, France, America, Poland, Eng-
land, Australia, yet of them all is not
Australia the only one with any real
claim to the name? Leaving foreign
countries to come nearer home, what claim
has England to the name democracy
save that of universal suffrage and a
certain superficial freedom? We cannot
be fooled all the time, and the word
cannot correctly be used to describe a
country which is rigidly controlled by a
deeply entrenched old conservative class
—and this irrespective of whatever Gov-
ernment may be in power —a House of
Lords, with exclusive birth privileges, a
Foreign Office whose traditions are
handed down and kept amongst a small
coterie, a body of powerful magnates
forming the directorates of most indus-
tries of a “key” nature, and a State
Church with far-reaching and great
powers, and with legal taxing status. Can
all this describe a democracy ?
Like many others, I awakened to
the immense and potentially crushing
power of the old conservative influences
of England only after the abdication of
Edward. The relentless harshness and
power exhibited was a revelation —an un-
palatable one. Even in the recent broad-
cast by him as an ex-soldier on peace—
and no one will deny his great work in
this direction —ex-servicemen who still
hold him dear were denied the pleasure
of even hearing his voice.
Rumors, seemingly well-founded, are
abroad of France’s leaning towards
Fascism, and there are indications not a
few of unrestful distrust of the “old
brigade” in England itself. One thing
is certain: things will not just continue
to muddle on. If we truly want to have
and hold a democracy, the powers that
be will be well advised to unbend from
that stiff-necked holding to old and out-
worn positions, and make the Old Coun-
try a democracy in fact. Otherwise the
door will islowly but surely open to
Fascism.
For if the Empire ever weakens it will
not be from pressure without, but from
that lack of vision within which allows
these old conservative forces a power not
legitimately theirs. Margaret Day
eras.). _____
Taxes by Instalments
The proposal that the Commonwealth
Income Tax Department accept pay-
ment of assessments by instalments
should not be adopted. It would increase
costs of collection.
Why not issue special stamps which
the taxpayer could buy at any time and
send to the department in payment of his
assessment when it came along?
This would meet the requirements of
those who wish to pay by instalments,
and at the same time enable taxpayers
to provide the approximate amount of
tax from income as earned.
Such stamps could be issued by State
Governments as well as Federal, and be
available through post offices. F. F. B.
(Q-).
“Bogies and Threats”
“The world is becoming bored by
bogies and threats,” said Lord Austin,
the multi-millionaire British motor manu-
facturer, recently. A great industrialist
and a very important figure in the
“shadow” scheme of aircraft production,
he surely should be better able than the
scaremongers to gauge the chances of
war; yet he is backing peace to the tune
of £7,500,000. Three and a half millions
has already been sunk in plant and ma-
terials and another £4,000,000 worth is
ordered for the next six months for the
production of his new “Eight,” successor
to the famous “Seven,” which achieved
400,000 sales in 16 years. Lord Austin
summed up: “The continued talk of the
possibilities of war, the seizing of every
trivial international incident as rui excuse
for a fresh outburst of pessimism, is
bound to cease because already the world
is becoming bored by bogies and threats.”
—E. G. (Vic.).
Child-rearing
Quite recently I heard a lecture by
somebody or other on child-rearing. I
gathered that the modern and correct
way to train a child is to make sure its
“ego” is never frustrated, never force it
to do anything it doesn’t want to do, and
so on, ad nauseam. Then I thought of
the revolting slush put over by some
radio stations during the children’s hour.
I recollected that any teacher using a
cane, or even tapping a child’s knuckles,
would run the risk of an action for dam-
ages, and that he daren’t let kids fight in
case he is blamed.
As a result, present-day children are
being brought up with the idea that life is
“one long sweet song,” with some good
fairy to smooth their path all the way;
that duty is a bore, success easy and the
world a nice, peaceful place. The reverse,
of course, is the case, and we are very
annoyed with certain countries which take
the trouble to bring up their young with
a realistic view of life which will help
them to cope with it.
Anyone who recollects his own child-
hood knows which way he would rather
be brought up, and without consulting
an astrologer it’s pretty easy to predict
that the present-day kids will have a
tough time cleaning up the mess our
armchair fighters are going to get them
into ; so, wouldn’t it be better to train
them early for their task?
Still, we mustn’t expect too much
realism from people who try to start a
war, and are then stunned with sur-
prise when it dawns on them that the
institution of conscription and national
service is the only way to get ready for
it. —J. N. Rookledge (N.S.W.).
The Useful Language Test
Many times as a surveyor I have
approached homes in Australian group
settlements and felt myself a stranger in
my own State when the children have
stared blankly at me and run indoors to
gabble in foreign diction.
Our land policy should discourage
foreign grouping and perpetuation of
alien sentiment and culture from genera-
tion to generation.
I think it was Jack London who
pointed out that this trouble was so great
in U.S.A. that that country would find
it difficult to fight for its own national


interests as a cohesive whole. We sur-
vivors of pre-war days can remember the
ramifications of the Black Hand in
USA., which made a business of kid-
napping, blackmail and mutilation. It
became so bad that representations were
made to Italy, resulting in the Camorra
trial. . ~
Take such American characters as A 1
Capone and “Legs” Diamond, and then
read through the list of other such
criminals with “Southern European”
names. This trouble has been imported
into Australia in general and Queens-
land in particular, and you can hardly
pick up a “North Queensland Register”
without reading of some dastardly affair.
In Queensland a knowledge of Italian
has become an additional police qualifi-
cation in a State which is constitutionally
British.
This state of affairs is conclusive proof
that, had a language test been constitu-
tionally applied, these undesirable aliens
would have been excluded. Knowledge
of the language is the very first qualifi-
cation in both adaptability and assimila-
tion requirement. But it has further
virtue in that it insures an intellectual and
educational standard competent to rise
superior to Red politics.
The German Lutherans in New
Guinea, though heavily reinforced with
third-generation Australian-born, use
only German speech, and of the large
families of children born under the Aus-
tralian flag you could not find one. able
to say “good day” in English. These
children are Australian nationals, but
they are aliens in spirit from childhood,
and they finish their education in Ger-
many.
This is no crime—it is race loyalty —•
but it is detrimental to Australia. —E. A.
Sheldon (Salamaua, New Guinea).
A Second-hand Battleship
A new battleship would cost 13 mil-
lions, delivered in five years, if lucky.
Now the Anglo-German Naval Treaty
has been denounced we may need one
some day. One of the Royal Sovereign
class, built for millions in 1922, is
due for scrapping in 1942. But recon-
ditioned at the cost of its original figure,
it would make a formidable weapon
round our coasts. In time we shall get
one. This may be a good chance, at less
than half the cost of a new ship. And
perhaps as effective. —C. H. Regelsen
(Q-).
Publicity
According to the vulgar notion of
democracy fostered by the press, nothing
must be kept private. If an aggressive
editor drops the hint, his photographers
leap over walls, peek through keyholes,
push doors open, scramble in windows,
creep, intrude and climb into anything
that is creepable, intrudable or climbable.
They rush into bedrooms, crawl under
beds, try the plumbing in the bathroom,
tip the dirty clothes basket upside down,
all because it is alleged that readers must
be kept informed, by means of the latest
photographs, of the doings of the day.
Publicity, the bane of modern life,
decrees that everything and everybody
must be thrown wide open. There must
be no such things as privacy, solitude or
reserve. According to the press concep-
tion a true democrat lives in a glass
house, wears his heart in his stomach
and shouts all his intimate daily doings,
his triumphs, hopes and amorous experi-
ences, to the housetops. If some ordinary
creature does anything the least bit out
of the ordinary then the public must be
told about it by means of loud squeakers.
Privacy is going and, along with it,
manners, taste, style and modesty. It’s
part of the price we are paying for the
modern newspaper. — Anti-Blah (N.S.W.).
Under Their Skins
Although amongst the grey-haired, I
should say that “U. Kad” (B. 29/3/’39)
must be glaring at the female form
through jaundiced eyes. Let’s divest it of
“absurd hat, silk stockings, high-heeled
shoes, etc.,” and even a becoming touch
of powder and lipstick, and we arrive
at the delightful beach-girl adorned with
little more than a fig-leaf. Who on
earth, even of the sere and yellow, would
spare a glance— except of a pitying or
hostile nature for marring the landscape
• —for a man with “tattered shirt, dirty
pants, and a three-day growth of beard”
in such an atmosphere! It isn’t human.
And I venture to say that this natural
girl with her unaided grace of form and
movement knocks the padded, over-
dressed damsel of Grandpa Kad’s day
to a frazzle in this respect at least.
Moreover, she has banished the arts
of dangerous tight-lacing and affected
fainting. She is more self-reliant, open
and companionable. The young fellow of
to-day has a fairer chance of knowing
what he is getting. Whatever matrimonial
differences ensue are age-old. Youth can-
not look into the future. Opinions and
even natures change as the years roll
on. Few men remain content with secur-
ing a good housekeeper and bearer of
children. Even the former comes natu-
rally to most women, though drawn from
most unpromising occupations.
I’ll concede that “Kad’s” final note
strikes the right chord —a man does want
a mate. Yet a mate of to-day may not
necessarily suit his mental or other re-
quirements five or ten years hence. If
one looks back there is usually a striking
example in one’s choice of male com-
panions. And, it seems, here lies the crux
of the question. Mentally, or perhaps
emotionally, many a young couple begin
to drift apart. Perhaps the woman con-
fines all her interests to the home. She
is an excellent housekeeper, a good
mother. She can think or speak of
nothing else. Apart from the common
interests of the home the man has lost
his mate. There is something lacking,
“Blast those scones the missus makes! That's the third rope this Week.
and maybe he seeks elsewhere. On the
other hand the like is apt to apply when
the husband becomes totally absorbed
in his personal affairs. They have be-
come misfits. If only they could have
continued together along some common
mental ground apart from everyday
affairs literature, art, music, sport,
politics, for instance —many a rift may
have been prevented, lipstick and absurd
hats notwithstanding.— Jae (S.A.).
State Governors
“How E.” (B. 3/5/’39) was lucky to
land the guineas.
State Governors are not satellites of
the Governor-General, whether his blood
is of royal purple or peerage blue. Each
State Governor is a direct representative
of the King, and as such gives the royal
assent to State laws. While State Gov-
ernments remain, so must State Gov-
ernors, even if King George himself sat
at Canberra as Governor-General.
Abolish State Governments and State
Governors automatically go with them.
—Fair Dinkum (Q.).
Satchels for Schoolchildren
I am an intermediate student going for
a fairly difficult examination at the end
of the year. With the present educational
system I am made into a crippled pack-
horse —crippled because our teachers
prevent us from doing individual work
and make us rely upon our texts and their
brains for a pass, and a packhorse be-
cause of the immensity of books we carry
back and forth to school.
It is usual to carry one’s suitcase in
the right hand, and after several years
of this your right shoulder goes down.
If the Education Department would re-
lieve the tension on the shoulder it would
be rewarded by seeing brighter children
and better exam, passes.
Lockers over which a monitor held
control would do away altogether with
the unwelcome cases.
If satchels were supplied it would also
mean more work for the makers —thus
relieving the unemployed situation —and
would improve the nation’s physique as
well. What about it?— April McKee
Wright (N.S.W.).
Employment of Prisoners
For some years past, attempts have
been made to find employment for our
gaol population which would help to
reduce the cost of upkeep and, at the
same time, not be in conflict with
secondary industries.
To my mind there is a solution to the
problem which could be turned to the
mental and physical advantage of many
of the prisoners, and would be of great
advantage economically to Australia.
There is one product which needs no
costly selling in strenuous business com-
petition, and this product, of course, is
gold.
Well known to the Mines Department
in each State are many old mines which
were abandoned for lack of capital or
inefficient pumping and other machinery,
but which, under modern conditions,
should prove good gold-producers. They
may not be quite tempting enough to
attract capital for reopening, but the
Government would be on a heads-I-win
tails-you-lose proposition, as the upkeep
of selected volunteer prisoners at a mine,
even with better food and extra privi-
leges, should be little above the present
cost of "housing in expensive buildings.
By making the conditions more attrac-
tive than the ordinary gaol routine
prisoners would volunteer to obtain the
chance of these better conditions and the
opportunity of learning to be practical
miners.
For obvious reasons it is not suggested
that any prisoner be drafted to a mine
against his will, but I feel that certain
types would benefit wonderfully by
the experience, especially if under wise
and humane guidance.
A conference between the heads of
Mines Departments and the heads of
Prisons Departments should result in
some very interesting recommendations
going before their Ministers. One or two
good mines like Chewton’s Wattle Gully
(Vic.) would enable practically all taxa-
tion for prisoners’ keep to be written
off and go quite a long way towards the
cost of the administration of justice.—
Ex-fossicker (Vic.).
A Soul of Sheer Despair?
“Scribe,” in his reply (B. 10/ 5/’39) to
“Den” on the pessimism of the Austra-
lian novel, apart from noting the lack
of any outstanding national motif, offers
no solution.
The pessimism is due to a sense of
frustration which seems to permeate
every phase of our national life. Not
only have we Governments that do not
govern, but despite our many advantages
we have unemployment and other social
evils. Even the soil in which we be-
lieved has proved unfaithful, its passive
resistance to the settler being the main
cause of our swollen cities. Who has
not felt during a droughty winter that
the sunny smile of the Australian inland
is the smile of an imbecile? Our authors,
conscious of this frustration, have re-
flected it in our literature.
Yet pessimism is not inevitable. Most
of our difficulties, even the land’s indif-
ference, will respond to united effort.
Our soul, when we find it, need not be
one of sheer despair. It depends on our-
selves.
The trouble is that, although we have
reached national status, we have not
learned to think nationally. What with
fashions from Paris, literature from Lon-
don, drama from Hollywood and “cul-
ture” from all over the place, a puerile
internationalism of thought is more
common among us than any definite
national aspirations.
It is not material things that make a
nation; it is understanding and will.
Until we can think in terms of our own
country first, and formulate our own
ideals independently of outside influences,
we cannot claim to have come of age.
And until there is a more complete under-
standing among us —and it is not a matter
only for a few authors and thinkers,'but
for the majority —we cannot expect to
find our national soul. —T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Shipping and Fuels
Talking of Bowen (Q.) and its coal
trade, “Zamia” (B. 5/4/’39) says the port
looks with a jaundiced eye on modern
ships, “modern” being taken as meaning
oil-burning, which is hardly correct. As
far as coastal tonnage goes—and such
tonnage alone would be affected by the
suggested reduction in port dues to coal-
burners —I can name more than 15 ships,
built in the last couple of years for nine
owners, of which only three burn oil-
two if you exclude the powerful South
Steyne, which is dual-fired. Of these,
one is for the A.U.S.N., which, in com-
mon with the rest of the vast P. and O.
combine, has gone in for Doxford
Diesels: the other for the North Coast
Steam Co., the latest unit of which burns
coal. This latter, as in the case of the
Adelaide and other cos., is a reversion to
coal-burning after more than ten years
of Diesel operation.
Passenger ships, whose consumption of
around 100 tons a day provides the best
Our Neglected Poet
I am a lover of the red-blooded, virile
type of Australian poetry, Lawson’s
especially. If there is a verse of his that
I haven’t read it is because I haven’t had
the opportunity. Yet I am ashamed to
say I have a* very vague knowledge of
the poet himself, simply because when
I went to school I was never taught even
so much as his birthplace.
Ask any fellow in the late twenties
what he knows of Henry Lawson and
he’ll probably string off the names of
half a dozen or more poems; but ask
him what he knows of Lawson the
man and more than likely he’ll mumble
something about “Well, they do reckon
he was a bit of a boozer!” Such is
fame!
I have tried hard to learn Lawson’s
life story, but beyond the meagre details
in the preface of some of his books of
verse and occasional mention in The
Bulletin —such as E. J. Brady’s poem
“The Hole in the Wall” —I have learnt
little.
Therefore I put this suggestion to The
Bulletin: Why not run an article occa-
sionally on “Celebrities of the Past” —
those men who made The Bulletin and
whom The Bulletin made?
I believe the result would be interest-
ing, educational and greatly appreciated.
B. A. Ker (N.S.W.).


market for the miners, are a horse of a
different color. Unless a continuous
supply of coal and, not less important,
of stokehold labor can be guaranteed,
the motorship is likely to prevail despite
disadvantages of high cost, vibration, etc.
Given such a guarantee, turbine-driven
ships with mechanically-fired boilers,
dust-catchers and up-to-date bunkering
arrangements would be ideal from every
point of view.
“Zamia” suggests pulverised coal, which,
he says, is as easily handled and as clean
as oil, and much safer. Possibly so ashore
in large power-houses, certainly not at
sea. Britain and Germany tried pulver-
ised coal and abandoned it, to the intense
relief of every engineer who came in
contact with it. As for safety, I hope
“Zamia” never goes looking for a leaky
pipe with a match, for, compared with
the dust, petrol is comparatively harm-
less. — Mistri Sarb (Calcutta, India).
•
The Healthy Hobo
Why is it, if hygienic conditions of
living are so necessary to obtain good
health, that the hobo or swagman is so
seldom ill? Take his mode of living,
for instance. He lives most of his time
in an old camp surrounded by empty
tins, flies everywhere, ants, too, some of
which get into his food and are taken
out again. Dust also gets into his food and
drink, but it doesn’t seem to matter. He
sleeps on an earth, floor, with ventilation
more copious than “conditioned.”. Yet
with all this he is as healthy as anyone
living a spick-and-span life.
I have travelled across Australia as a
swagman, from W-A. to here in North
Queensland, and have seen only one sick
swaggie the whole of my travels. The
one explanation I can find is that fresh
air builds up the constitution, and a real
appetite gives all food nourishment value.
Take the ordinary person living a regu-
lated life in a house—everything is clean,
his food the best, three meals of it a day ;
but is he really hungry when he eats, or
does he eat because it is mealtime? I
say in nine cases out of ten just because
it’s mealtime.
On the other hand, the hobo eats only
when he is really hungry, and sleeps not
because of “comfort,” but because he is
really tired. —W. E. Mead (N.Q.).
Annual Holidays
A surprising number of working
awards make no provision for annual
holidays, and there are many employees
in various occupations who receive none,
paid or otherwise. To avoid paying for
public holidays some firms resort to the
mean practice of dismissing their em-
ployees at the end of a year and then
re-engaging them.
How can employers expect whole-
hearted co-operation from workers
treated in this serflike fashion? Surely
they must realise that one cannot work
year in, year out without a vacation, and
health and efficiency remain unimpaired.
Generally, married men with ■ large
families cannot afford to lose a single
day’s pay. Though perhaps ill, they must
keep plugging discontentedly on.
It is time that legislation was enacted
to give every employee at least a fort-
night’s annual holiday on full pay.—
Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
’Ware Dictatorships
Thousands of Australian “democrats”
are developing Hitlerphobia. Their tonic
is the blah of “new” journalism, and
their gargle “Down with dictatorship!”
While these “democrats” are occupied
in setting somebody else’s house in order
certain State Parliamentarians take the
opportunity of extending their term of
uselessness from three to five years (with-
out a referendum, of course); high-
handed legislation like the Transport
Strangulation Acts, butter stabilisation
schemes, Milk Board regulations (S.A.
etc.’, is stifling private enter-
prise ; outback doctors, are charging sick
stockmen exorbitant fees because their
autocratic union dictates a ridiculous
mileage rate ; a wealthy A.B.C. is telling
its listening public (for a guinea a year)
what it should have instead of giving it
what it wants.
By their very apathy these “democrats”
are laying themselves open to that which
they dread most. Dictatorship is but
the sign of a tired democracy.— Pedomug
(S.A.).
The Lyons Grant
All the wrangling over Dame Lyons’s
pension brings home the truth that the
“legion of the paltry” is still with us in
spite of the fact that we are supposed
to belong to the great army of broad-
minded moderns. The decision to grant
Dame Enid £lOOO p.a. should never have
been questioned. Surely the wife of the
leading statesman in Australasia, whose
later years were devoted to public service
in its highest form, and who died in har-
ness, is worth a thousand a year! Bring
the 11 children into the picture, and the
thousand quid comes into the category
of the magician’s presentation—“ Now
it’s here, now it isn’t.”
It is true that no one asked the J. A.
Lyons couple to have 11 children. But,
then, did anyone ask Mr. and Mrs.
Dionne to have quintuplets, now “set”
for life? One should not begrudge the
Quins their good luck, but a comparison
makes one wonder if the world is com-
ing to such a pass that only the freakish
is worthy of honor and glory, while he
who dons the wide-spreading mantle of
national responsibility, with its death-
dealing weight, goes into the rut with the.
rest. What greater monument to Joe
Lyons could the people of Australia
erect than to put up the “all-‘set’-for-life”
sign on his family’s door?—S. C. W. (Q.).
Birth Control
The reasoning of N. Blundell (B.
5/4/’39) is not logical. He proposes to
remove the one excuse for war by limit-
ing the “surplus” population by national
birth control.
Quality not quantity is his cry, but
how can these two be dismembered? An
artist knows a masterpiece may be pro-
duced after a thousand attempts, and
from every hundred brushmen one artist
emerges. In plant life the best strains are
only produced by repetition upon repeti-
tion, together with the strict culling of
the expert. The principle that “quality
comes of quantity” is the basis upon
which our famous stud flocks and herds
have been built. Man is no exception to
this rule, and to produce the quality of
man the nation must have a high birth-
rate.
On the stud farm men have no place
for an inferior animal, but life has a
place for the not-so-brilliant human. In
our civilisation all of us cannot be
managing directors and live like Roman
nobles, so some must be satisfied to do
unskilled work. Streets must be cleaned,
roads repaired, drains-dug and manual
work performed. Nature has provided
accordingly by endowing some with
brains and some with muscle. To want
brains a nation must have muscle, and to
provide that Nature must have a free
hand to balance the complex structure
of human nature. —E. L. (N.S.W.).
Australia “Fair”
' Irrespective of our political opinions
and agreement or otherwise with the
policy of the party in power, as citizens
of the Commonwealth of . Australia we
do agree to abide by the laws passed by.
the Government of the day. When,
therefore, the Government allows foreign
immigrants to enter this country, we have
no. right to prevent those people earning
their, living here, so long as they carry
on their occupation at a standard equiva-
lent to that practised by our own people
engaged in similar occupations.
Certain trade organisations are, how-
ever, using their control over manufac-
turers to prevent competition in the retail
field by effectively stopping supplies to
immigrants wishing to start in business,
and I quote a glaring example of this
type of thing to support my argument.
A Jewish gentleman with ample capital
for his purpose, not long from Poland,
was allowed to rent a shop for six weeks,
but was stopped from putting in any
stock, being eventually told by the trade
“association” that he could not be ad-
mitted to membership as the shop was
not satisfactory. He was given no guar-
antee that by obtaining larger premises
he could gain admittance, nor could he
obtain a “permit to buy” and trade in
the existing shop until such time as a
shop which would be approved by the
association became available. The shop
was not inspected. It was the equal in
floor space and appearance of many
others of similar business throughout the
suburbs and within its own neighbor-
hood. It was opposite one of the many
branches of a large firm operating in
this State.
In such cases as this new members of
our community must think that in escape
from a totalitarian State and open dic-
tatorship they have fallen prey to a
democracy with a cloaked and more
pernicious form of the evil from which
they fled. —A. R. B. (Vic.).
“The Overseas News”
At 7.20 p.m. on 10/5/’39 2FC an-
nounced “Here is the overseas news.”
Dropped my new Bulletin and prepared
for it. After some of the usual propa-
rumor about Russia, Poland, etc., I
heard a brief but very interesting report
that the Scandinavian States intended to
remain outside European blocs. Then
followed a long and detailed statement
all about a trade discussion between Ger-
many and Lithuania. It took up most
of the session. For the life of me I
couldn’t see what it had to do with me,
couldn’t regard it as “big news” to my
Australian ears. What the hooray did I
care about trade treaties between Ger-
many and Lithuania! Now, if the an-
nouncer had given me something about
the royal visit to Canada (say) that
would have interested me. But there was
nothing about that. If any reader of
this page can genuinely assure me that
Fritz and Oskar dickering about im-
ports and exports makes news for him
(or her) I’ll send a written apology to
the A.B.C. — Capt. P. (N.S.W.).
Radio Announcers
Rebuking radio announcers in B.
3/5 / ’39, “D.J.G.” calls for “reasonable
accuracy in the use of the mother-
tongue” ; but is he not himself guilty of
the worst of radio’s standard howlers
when he says that a B-class announcer
committed one error “whilst” an A-class
ditto committed another? If the two
errors were really made simultaneously
(as perhaps they were), “D.J.G.” could
hardly have heard both ; so one suspects
him of the abuse of English that appears
to be common to radio announcers — e.g.,
“At 4 o’clock this station will give a
programme of recorded music, while at
4.30 you will hear....,” etc. “While”
means “during the time that,” and not
even Einstein is able to tell us how we
can listen-in at 4 o’clock to what is going
to be broadcast at 4.30.
And wherever did the purist “D.J.G.”
dig up that queer phrase “Self-pronounc-
ing Dictionary”? One can just conceive
a “self-pronouncing” mopoke or peewit,
because those birds do pronounce them-
selves to be mopokes or peewits when
they release their respective notes; but
surely a “self-pronouncing dictionary”
would be an eerie companion in a lonely
hduse. —P. Fortescue (N.S.W.).
“Keep the Seat in the Family”
Pleased to note in B. 19/4/’39 some
criticism of the “keep-the-seat-in-the-
family” political complex. Soon after
The Bulletin wrote of the discussion
anent Dame Enid Lyons for Wilmot,
M.L. Labor circles were endeavoring (un-
successfully) to bring forward to contest
her father’s seat the daughter of the
late Ted Howard, Chairman of Com-
mittees.
Maoriland has had a plethora of
“family” seats. A Seddon followed a
Seddon, a Massey a Massey, and Joseph
Ward was followed by his son for Inver-
cargill. The Lyttleton case is a classic.
That seat has been in the family for 25
years, father, mother and son. When a
popular Parliamentarian dies, it is very
difficult for his political opponents to put
up a candidate against his offspring,
especially when, as is nearly always the
case, a dying wish is being respected.—
Winton Keay (M.L.).
The Price of Emancipation
No one questions a woman’s right to
be independent and self-sufficient, but
when, having become man’s equal, she
goes on to be his rival, it is time to call
a halt.
Back from the war some demobilised
men found that they had been superseded
by cheap female labor. That was a be-
ginning ; to-day, because of competition
from women, thousands of Australian
men are either unemployed, employed in
dead-end jobs or earning only sufficient
to keep themselves. The minority of un-
married dependent women of 30 years
ago has been succeeded by a minority of
men without prospects. In Melbourne
alone this minority is estimated at 40,000.
A deal of money that, under a hap-
pier state of. affairs, would go to
build homes and rear families, and by
way of butchers, grocers, bakers, milk-
men, etc., go to support primary indus-
tries, is spent on stockings, dresses and
cosmetics that are chiefly imported or
made from imported materials. As long as
this continues the rate of natural increase
of the population will drop, and this in
a country whose greatest need is popu-
lation and whose industries are bol-
stered up with bounties and high tariffs.
We are a small people, and in the event
of aggression would be compelled to go
to the limit of our resources to preserve
our freedom. Yet our leaders calmly
face a not-very-distant future when, in-
stead of a natural increase, there will be
a decrease of population, and take no
steps to prevent the wastage in the supply
of our primary means of defence —our
man-power.
Already demands have been made for
equal rates of pay for men and women,
but the situation is serious and may only
be met with desperate remedies. Why
not taxation, to a minimum wage, for
bachelors and spinsters over 25 years of
age, to be disbursed as an endowment to
families of three or more children? —
H. Dodgshun (Vic.).
A Capital Proposal
Why not abolish capital letters? The
change would do its bit towards economy
and efficiency by making typewriting,
and presumably typesetting, simpler and
easier. It would carry to its logical
conclusion a movement which has already
gone a long. way.
In more leisurely days writers used to
seek emphasis by scattering capitals all
over their letters. Governors King, Bligh
and Macquarie were much given to this.
Probably the only reason why books of
that age do not have more is that in the
days of handsettirig capitals were a
nuisance. Some verse writers have
already done away with capitals, and
their use is decreasing in private corre-
spondence and in business announce-
ments.
There is no reason to suppose that
capitals aid clearness or make under-
standing easier. The one question that
does arise is whether in a page of prose,
especially if it is in small type, capitals
are a help to the eye, a kind of relief.
This might be tested and, if necessary,
capitals could be retained at the begin-
ning of each sentence. There is no real
need to have capitals for place-names and
proper nouns. If you write australia,
britain or london no one will have any
doubt of the meaning. Besides, the
abolition of capitals would save all the
trouble of trying to decide when a proper
noun has become a common one and so
has ceased to be entitled to a capital. In
any case, the decision is mostly wrong.—
Sans-Serif (N.S.W.).
“Little Devils” and “Amazons”
Who says China won’t win? “It is
reported that the self-styled ‘Little
Devils’ (200,000 Chinese urchins)... .have
joined the Eighth Route Army. They elect
their own officers, and are pledged to a
strict code of h0n0r.... and receive the
same pay as regular soldiers, namely, Bd.
a month.” That, of course, is cable news.
This, out by aeroplane, is from a priest
at Hanyang:
Last night’s shooting was caused by
some locals (youths) pouncing upon soldiers
and obtaining their rifles....We are due
for a few peaceful days and nights, as
a number of soldiers have returned here
and will remain for a while. They came at
the request of the Chamber of Commerce.
The local youth corps had begun to show
its hand. It had stolen 12,000 dollars’
worth of salt, and had demanded 10,000
dollars from the town. Three thousand
were paid. A night of terror and shoot-
ing resulted in four being killed at the
youth h.q., but many of them escaped
Many townspeople would like to see the
Japanese come soon and end all the sus-
pense and danger.
The 200,000 “little devils” appear to be
about as helpful to the Chinese as were
the 30,000 Amazons of Madrid to the
Spanish Reds. Knoblaugh, the American
war correspondent, has this to say of the
Amazons: “They were the town pros-
titutes and played havoc amongst the
Reds. Their casualties were evacuated
to Permanganate Hill.” Tracechain
(Q-).
“Dad and Dave”
Listening to this broadcast master-
piece, one can’t help wondering what
impression of our noble settlers outback
is being received by people unaware of
the real state of affairs.
Anyone paying attention to this epic
would imagine them to be quarrelsome,
thriftless, shortsighted and pessimistic.
When two or more meet a wordy argu-
ment ensues, and sometimes, the argu-
ment is backed up by offers to “take my
coat off.” Official meetings of the Shire
Council appear to be merely an excuse
for taking “rises” out of each other and
personal bickerings.
The only person who comes out with
credit is Mum, and her time seems to be
spent in soothing the ruffled feelings of
all the menfolk in the district, and en-
couraging Dad when he is suffering from
a grouch.
I have always found the folk on the
land not only get along amicably to-
gether, but are always ready to help a
neighbor out of a difficulty. It is their
farsightedness and hard work in the
past—and now—that have put Australia
on the map.
It seems a pity that, in a land where
there is so much to tell, life should be
presented to the world in such a dis-
torted form.-
B. O. BROOKS (Tas.).


“The key to a man’s Career” —Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D.
“The results endure” —Canon Hannay.
ê
ë
r
r
ŕ
ŗ
ř
COURAGE
and
PURPOSE
defined and affirmed.
COURAGE, firmness of spirit
and swell of soul in the face
of danger and difficulty.
PURPOSE, the inspiration to
effort, developing character
and increasing courage by
enlargement of confidence.
The following extracts are from
letters published in “The Efficient
Mind,” copies of which are
posted free:
“I have become much stronger in
Will Power, and I am now not afraid
to say ‘No’ when it is necessary to
do so.”
“My fears are things of the past.
I have gained in mental energy, in-
terest, alertness and concentration.”
“Fear is practically eliminated. The
Course has given me faith in my
abilities and the power of more per-
sistent effort.”
“Childish fear of ridicule has de-
stroyed or marred much of my work
in the past. Now Pelmanism has
shown me how to conquer that fail-
ing.”
“It gives one more self-confidence
and courage in expressing his opinion.”
“I have learnt the value of plan-
ning ahead, of having a settled pur-
pose, of consecutive thinking.”
“I now have a definite aim; my
powers of concentration, memory and
will have been greatly improved.”
“Occasions often arise when a sud-
den crisis, small or otherwise, is apt
to throw one off one’s balance. 1
have found that the Pelman Course
is of the greatest benefit in helping
me to retain my equilibrium in such
cases.”
“My aim is clear and more defined.
My powers of observation are very
much keener all round. I gained very
much from the study of the Lesson on
Will Power.”
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of
Mind, Memory and Personality
What Pelmanism Does.
A course of Pelmanism brings out the
mind’s latent powers and develops them to
the highest point of efficiency. It banishes
such weaknesses and defects as:
Depression
Timidity
Forgetfulness
Boredom
The Worry Habit
Unnecessary Fears
Indefiniteness
Mind-Wandering
“Inferiority Complex”
Indecision
Weakness of Will
Pessimism
Procrastination
Inertia
Brain-fag
Morbid Thoughts
which interfere with the effective working-
power of the mind, and in their place it
develops strong, positive, vital qualities such
as:
—Concentration
—Observation
—Perception
—Optimism
-—Cheerfulness
—rJudgment
—lnitiative
—Will Power
—Decision
—Originality
■—Resourcefulness
—Organising Power
—Directive Ability
—Presence of Mind
—Courage
—Self-Confidence
—Self-Control
-■-Tact
—Reliability
—Driving Force
—Salesmanship
—Business Acumen
And a Reliable Memory.
By developing these qualities you add to
your Efficiency and consequently to your
Earning Power. In a word, Pelmanism
enables you to live a fuller, richer, happier
and more successful life.
Pelmanism is a sure, way to success if
you will give it your loyal effort, your
honest endeavour, and a regular and definite
amount of time until you have completed
the Course. A sustained effort over a period
of but a few weeks will yield you dividends
that will last you your whole life through,
and the Textbooks and personal notes and
correspondence will remain in your posses-
sion, ready at any moment to give you a
steadying encouragement in times of stress,
indecision or fatigue.
Pelmanism is a vital force, the most
powerful stimulus to success the world has
ever known. It seldom fails. The instruc-
tion is easy. Half an hour a day of spare
time for a few weeks is all that is required.
The benefits last a lifetime.
Pelmanism has stood the TEST OF TIME.
It is a scientific method of Mind and
Memory and Personality Training which, in
a few weeks, makes such an impression
that its followers take a different outlook
on life. Their character strengthens, their
minds improve, they gain confidence, and
this is soon noticeable in all their dealings.
Pelmanism fires you with energy and de-
termination, and shows you how to succceed.
It develops the qualities that mark you
out for promotion. It enables you to work
more quickly and efficiently. It makes you
worth more to your employer, and, therefore,
sooner or later —and perhaps sooner than
you expect —it enables you to earn more. ,
Pelmanism is for every man and every
woman, because every man and every
woman depends on his or her mind. The
Course is given by Correspondence, is easy
to follow, is for all Classes and all Ages.
The benefits are life-lasting.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these over
40,000 have enrolled with the Institute
in Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l, where
it has been established for 30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Liege 1930. Geneva 1933.
Nanfcy- - 1932. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised
by every one of the many opinions and
letters published in “The Efficient Mind.”
Copies of this book are posted free. Write
or call.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
81
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
r
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(.Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
AUSTRALIAN
barkers
““BITERS
||L Robert
i t
fmmmm
Judging and Buying
Cattle- and Sheep-dogs
One of many interesting faf*
subjects in this splendid
()0
book on Dogs.
p nce 3/6; now «<P
reduced to 2/2 « /*V
(post free). Jr /^V
c S e V'
256 Pages
(illustrated).
aO^
0<
..••■ 4*.
• • * * *" • "


ENJOY
Its a thrill in store for YOU!
New Tonal Realism . . . Greater Sensitivity and Selectivity . . .
Super Efficient Circuits . . . New “Legi-Line” Tuning.
Only the resources of the World’s Largest Radio Manufacturers
could have created Philips “NEW LISTENING.
Don’t take it for granted! Hear it for yourself at your
nearest Philips Retailer, or contact the local Philips Branch
to arrange a demonstration.
ILLUSTRATED
MODEL 1941 (Mantel)
For A.C. Operation
13
GNS.
Available also for Battery Operation in
cabinet of similar design Model 1949
19 Gns.
MODEL 1852 (Console)
For Electric Mains
(World-Wide)
25 GNS.
Available also for Battery Operation in
cabinet of similar design Model 1840
28 Gns.
m
mm
J
mi
Gns.
A complete range o Models from . •
MADE BY THE MAKERS OF THE FAMOUS PHILIPS LAMPS AND VALVES
)
#
