

• • • •
FOR WINTER
BATTERIES
> -
m
m
»
s.
ii
OF COURSE!
r
QUICKER and
DEPENDABLE
STARTING
UNDER ALL
WEATHER
CONDITIONS!
I
Batteries for all Purposes:
Car, Truck, Tractor,
Radio, Launch,
House Lighting, etc.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 GOULBURN STREET, SYDNEY
ALL N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
DEPARTMENTS AND THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
USE ERG BATTERIES
EXCLUSIVELY!
Equipment on Radiola for
10 years
manufactured by
Other Distributors:
Victoria KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.. 200 Latrobe Street.
Melbourne, C.l.
Queensland H. J. TOLHURST, Factory Representative, Box 1731 W,
G.P.0., Brisbane.
South Australia .. DAVID L. PRESCOTT, 91 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Tasmania DAVIES PTY., LTD., Launceston.
New Caledonia.. .. HAGEN FRERES, Noumea.
New Zealand .. .. BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS. LTD., 436
Broadway, Newmarket, Auckland, S.E.I.
Fiji ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO.. Suva.
UVfc-J
i
ERG BATTERIES PTY.. LTD.
156
outturn Street, Sydney
ERG THE UNIT OF ENERGY
The Bulletin
“Shaking Hands with Murder”
Vol. 60.—N0. 3094.
Wednesday, May 31, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
33
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Plra.se send , without obligation, your New Free t6pp.
Penmanship Prospectus explaining your Muscular Movement
Writing, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
Illustrated
System of
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 139 .
The Red Page
S. H. PRIOR PRIZE.
Intending competitors need to post or deliver their
entries now for the 1939 S. H. Prior Memorial Prize.
The closing date is next Tuesday (June 6), and entries
must be lodged at The Bulletin office, Sydney, or be
in the post not later than that date.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is a permanently-
established award designed to advance Australian and
Maoriland literature and to give practical encourage-
ment to writers in both countries. Provided the stand-
ard fixed, broadly speaking, by the winners in 1935
and 193 6—Tiburon and All That Swagger— is reached,
the award of £lOO is made annually.
Last year, as in 1937, the judges considered that
no entry measured up to their idea of the standard, and
so no awards were made in those years. Whenever
this happens the amount is automatically added to the
next year’s award, so that the prize offered this year
totals £3OO. The current competition is open to any
prose work —fiction, biography, autobiography, his-
tory, etc. —that is considered the most outstanding
contribution to Australian literature.
The Prize is an outright award for merit and in
no way subtracts from possible profits that may be
made out of the MS. All rights, including book, serial,
dramatic, cinema and radio, are reserved to the author,
subject to the provision that The Bulletin shall have
the option to purchase the first Australian serial rights
of any work submitted, such option to be forfeited if
not exercised within two months of the publication of
the judges’ award.
Entries will be acknowledged in The Bulletin
a few weeks after the closing date, when the names of
the judges will also be announced.
"Address Unknown."
Of Kressmann Taylor’s Address Unknown
(Hamish Hamilton), a long short-story told in the
form of letters, the publishers say “It will be read in
less than half an hour—but it will be remembered for
a lifetime.” If that claim, because Taylor avoids
analysis of character, seems extravagant, the book’s
ingenuity certainly makes it worth reading, and its
measure of “greatness” is at least worth arguing.
Taylor takes a German Jew and an “Aryan’ Ger-
man. who are partners in an art gallery in San Fran-
cisco. At the end of 1932, just before Hitler’s advent
to power, the German returns to the Fatherland. The
complete story is told in the exchange of letters
between the two. The German has been a Liberal, the
Jew is his friend as well as his partner, and in his
youth he has had an affair with the Jew’s sister, an
actress in Vienna.
At first, the German’s letters are friendly. He
disapproves of the first Jew-baiting by the Brown-
shirts, but he says that there is new hope in Germany.
He wonders where Hitler will lead the nation:
I tell you, my friend, there is a surge—a surge. The
peopie everywhere have had a quickening. You ieel
it in the streets and shops. The old despair has been
thrown aside like a forgotten coat. No longer the
people wrap themselves in shame; they hope again.
Perhaps there may be found an end to this poverty.
Something, I do not know what, will happen. A leader
is found! Yet cautiously to myself I ask, a leader to
where? Despair overthrown often turns us in mad
directions.
As the letters progress, the German becomes more
and more the complete Nazi, blindly and savagely
trusting in the Leader, bitter against the Jews. The
Jew is puzzled, and then horrified. The correspon-
dence ceases. But the Jew learns that his sister is to
appear on the stage in Berlin, and begs the German
to see that she comes to no harm. Driven from the
stage, with Stormtroopers at her heels, she flies to
the German for refuge. He writes to the Jew saying
that the “silly” girl came to his house, that he told
her to go on and hide in the woods, that she was
strangled. He himself is under suspicion because a
Jewess came to him for sanctuary.
The Jew in the meantime has had a letter written
to his sister returned bearing the ominous stamp
“Address Unknown.” He sends the German a weird
cable:
Your terms accepted November twelve audit shows
thirteen per cent, increase February second fourfold
assured plan exhibition May first prepare leave for
Moscow if market opens unexpectedly financial instruc-
tions mailed new address. —Eisenstein.
This is followed by equally puzzling letters, all
mentioning the forthcoming “exhibition” and giving
the German incomprehensible instructions about
paintbrushes, canvases and students. Aided by a
desperate letter from the German —“Max, my old
friend, do you know what you do!” —the reader
suddenly realises that the Jew is trying to convey to
the Nazi authorities, who have been opening the
German’s mail since the suspicious affair of the
Jewess that his ex-friend is involved in a Jewish plot
against the Hitler regime. The Jew’s second-to-last
letter ends with “The God of Moses be at your right
hand.” The next letter is returned marked “Address
Unknown.” The revenge is complete.
The story is brilliantly constructed. The surprise
ending is arranged with the greatest skill. The plot
doesn’t sound improbable, and only two of the letters,
an explanatory one at the beginning and the one
describing the death of the Jewess, read at all un-
naturally. And though the book may have originated
in political and racial bitterness, it is sufficiently aware
of the underlying human tragedy, the horror tna
such things could happen to both the Jew and tne
German, to give it literary significance.
But it fails as literature because it does not
demonstrate the processes of the German’s mind wnert
he is becoming “Nazified,” nor those of the ? w .®
mind when he conducts his terrible revenge. lhls J
deliberate on the author’s part; too detailed an analysis
would have clouded the neatness of the ending, so e
relies on the right of understatement The reader
must imagine the passions for himself, as he mignt
have to imagine a landscape when a Hemingway
imitator says “The fields looked good.
At the present time, of course, it is easy to clothe
this bare skeleton in its texture of flesh and blood
The change of nature in Taylor’s German is supposed
to have occurred in millions of his fellow-country-
men. But to say that a “Liberal” has become a
“Nazi” is merely a political statement, and one of
only temporary validity at that. In failing to analyse
the character, Taylor has not only failed to create a
personality which will remain convincing in the calm
and enduring light in which literary values are assessed,
but he has evaded a study which would have been or
great contemporary interest the psychology of
“Nazification,” if there is such a thing.
Only because of the series of crises to which
Europe has been subjected is it possible to accept his
German as a person. That men in the mass will
acquiesce in cruelties in which they are not person-
ally involved is true in Germany as it is anywhere
else ; but Taylor involves his German personally in
Nazi policies, and if it is possible that the kindly,
tolerant and real personality of the early letters could
change into the fanatic of the later ones, the phases
of the change, the spiritual cataclysm, should have
been shown. It’s an extremely improbable transfor-
mation, and the letters offer no evidence to make it
probable. In the case of the Jew, the transition from
friendship to hatred is completely intelligible, but
once again the change is never demonstrated, so that
the reader has to do all the author’s work for him. A
writer can’t say “Mrs. Smythe-Smythe ran away with
a bottle-oh,” and leave it to the reader to imagine
what everybody thought about it.
The conclusion, after half an hour reading
Address Unknown and half an hour wondering if it is
really as good as it might be, is that its chief merit
is its ingenuity-—the attraction of the detective novel
and it is not, as the publishers contend, “worthy
of De Maupassant.” Its psychology is not-proven or
false, but its technical dexterity and its effectiveness on
the plane of the detective novel are unquestionable.
Victor Hugo—Lover and
Revolutionary.
The blood relationship of the author, Leon
Daudet, to the subject of his book The Tragic Life
of Victor Hugo (Heinemann) is indirectly stated in
the dedication, “To my son Charles Daudet, great-
grandson of Victor Hugo, grandson of Alphonse
Daudet and Charles Hugo.”
The tragedy of Hugo’s life lay in two things, the
early deaths of his children and his disappointment
at not being offered the Presidency of France after
the 1870 revolution. On the evidence advanced by
his grandson the latter was possibly the more endur-
ing grief. . «
Hugo had taken a writer’s part in the revolution
of 1848, and after Louis Napoleon’s coup d’etat of
1851 he had to leave the country in disguise. He
settled in Belgium, from where, until he was ordered
out, he poured forth a veritable flood of satiric abuse
of Napoleon 111. and all associated with him. It is hard
on the evidence to decide in what degree Hugo was
a revolutionary and in what degree he was simply
a dramatisation of his conception of a revolutionary
writer, for, although he sustained the role —or what-
lever it was —during the long years of his exile, it is
clear that he failed to keep abreast of French affairs.
When the revolution of 1870 came he thought it was
the revolution of ’4B all over again which, of course,
it wasn’t. . A ~ ,
The influence of Louis was too great tor Bel-
gium to continue to extend hospitality to so widely-
read a critic of the monarchist regime, so Hugo re-
moved himself and Juliette Drouet, his mistress tor
many years, to Guernsey. Here, for the first time in
many years, he was also united with his family and the
wife, Adele, who had played him false with his
friend Sainte-Beuve the critic. Two establishments
were kept up, and Victor lived in one or the other ac-
cording to his mood, taking the children with him
to dine at Juliette’s when he was living at home, much
to his wife’s chagrin. At Guernsey he wrote Les
Miserables and Toilers of the Sea, the latter having
its genesis in long talks that he enjoyed with a local
fisherman. „ . . • „
Hugo undoubtedly was a “proletarian writer
before the term had become overworked. He enjoyed
being widely read, and there was some justification
for the rather exalted vision he maintained of him-
self during the years of exile. Leon Daudet gives a
good picture of the hours of suspense in Hugo’s house-
hold after the 1870 outbreak; Hugo preparing his
proclamation in both prose and. verse and confidently
waiting to be sent for to take his place at the head of
the new France. The only communication he received
was a belated telegram from a friend in official circles.
A little puzzled by official neglect but still un-
doubting, Hugo decided it was time for him to go to
Paris With Juliette and a fair copy of his proclama-
tion he set forth. The train carried a number of sol-
diers straggling back from the Franco-Prussian War.
Hugo gesticulated to them and shouted words of en-
couragement. They didn’t know him. They were dis-
illusioned men, war-weary and intent on personal and
immediate problems. He was just a queer old fello .
The question that occupied Hugo s mind during
the train journey was whether as President he wou
adopt the red flag or retain the tricolor. He decided
on the latter. Happily, on arrival at Paris, he was
accorded a rousing popular welcome. A way had to
be forced for him through the crowd, he shouting
like a victorious liberator. Confidence and optimism
at full flood, he went with Juliette to a hotel, there
to receive those who would wait upon him officially.
No one came. He had done much to keep the spirit
of republicanism alive in France, but additional ele-
ments had entered into human affairs. There were
even those who regretted his presence in Paris.
Juliette, a realist in everything except her de-
votion to a man who betrayed her affection at every
opportunity, shielded him from the truth as far as she
could. She gathered about him those of his admirers
who were prepared to render him in private the
homage it was not politic to render him in public.
Further blows awaited him. A novel, Qucitt e-vitigt-
Treize, for which he had anticipated a success equal-
ling that of Les Miserables, fell flat. The day of
romanticism was over.
His play Le Roi s’Amuse, a second-rate effort,
was mistakenly revived by his admirers. It failed
among titters of mirth from an audience unaware of
the identity or indifferent to the feelings of the old
man in the box. Then Juliette died. He wrote no-
thing afterwards, but contented himself with playing
the doting grandfather to the two adored children ot
Charles. After the failure of the Commune, coin-
passion and political jobbery procured him a seat in
the Senate, which he filled very inconspicuously.
The Tragic Life of Victor Hugo is a well-written
and interesting book, but not a completely satisfac-
tory one. The author presents his matter with admir-
able clarity, and interest mounts as the tale pro-
gresses, but there is evidence in several places that
Victor Hugo was just beyond the imaginative grasp ot
his grandson. Of Hugo’s children Charles died early
of heart failure, Leopoldine was drowned in the
Seine, Adele lost her reason after an unhappy love
affair, Franqois died of consumption. Leon Daudet
makes much of Victor’s grief on each occasion. Un-
doubtedly it was great; but it was also theatrical.
During the fighting of ’4B Hugo was in con-
cealment, his meals being brought to him by Juliette,
and after the coup he was one of the first to get
out of France. In respect of the first, Leon Daudet
contents himself with Juliette’s defensive cry, Must
the revolution risk decapitation?” ; and in respect oi
the latter her observation when his courage was
challenged by a fellow-refugee that the leader must
save himself for “la revanche.’’ There is a sugges-
tion that Hugo was restrained from helping man the
barricades by revolutionary friends who felt them-
selves better able to handle such matters. Leon
Daudet might have gone more fully into this.
There remains the question of his relationship
with Juliette Drouet. Hugo was a man of many mis-
tresses, a voluptuary who developed in his old age
idiosyncrasies that might have got him into serious
trouble but for Juliette’s care of him. She apparently
knew that for all his unfaithfulness he had a real and
continuing need of her, and she trainedherself through
all their years together to ignore and forgive things
she could not prevent. ,
She was an actress, beautiful and much sought
after, and before her meeting with Hugo, which oc-
curred during the currency of his wife s affair with
Sainte-Beuve, she had had several lovers. Leon
Daudet ascribes Hugo’s regard for her wholly to her
—supposed—erotic erudition. This is possibly unjust
to both ; certainly it is rather unkind to Juliette. In
view of her years of sacrificial devotion it wears a
somewhat improbable air. Men are strangely com-
pounded, and it is possible that Hugo found in her a
refuge from an unloved aspect of himself. Leon
Daudet devotes the first third of the book to con-
sidering the relationship of Victor and Juliette. It is
the least convincing part of his study of his illustrious
ancestor.
Maugham Takes a Vacation.
The trouble with Somerset Maugham’s new novel,
Christmas Holiday (Heinemann), is that it would have
been much happier as a long short story. It gets tost
in itself—and that isn’t like Maugham at all.
It is a story within a story within a frameworK.
The kernel is the story of a murder in Pans. Robert
Berger, a young man of good family but no prospects,
had marked criminal tendencies and his mother knew
it so she rushed him into marriage with a poor but
charming Russian girl, Lydia, in the hope that s e
would steady him. She didn’t. He continued his career
of petty crime with sunny insouciance..
He had an ingenious way of robbing women, tor
one thing. He would drive past a bus stop m his
“borrowed” car at a slow pace and offer a well-dressed
likely-looking girl a lift. Often enough, disarmed by
his appearance and charm, she would accept and th
would drive away. At a lonely spot the car would
develop engine trouble, and after some tinkering
Robert would ask his passenger to get out and watch
something or other while he manipulated the dash-
board. More likely than not she would leave her hand-
bag and parcels on the car seat and he would drive
(Continued on page 8.)


ŕ
W. Cashmore's Hammerless Pigeon Gun.
Cross bolt action, side clips, automatic
safety bolt, steel barrels, choke bored, flat
dead level file cut rib, dark -well-figured
walnut pistol grip stock, fine finish, high
_ ■ §
/ml
ŗ
ř
£45
a
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
WELL KNOWN BRITISH
CARTRIDGES
t
SPARTAN
4 7 6
BOX OF
25
18 7 -
PER
TOO
THE CHEAPEST CARTRIDGE IN AUSTRALIA
The Spartan Smokeless Cartridge is made in England. This well known
make is offered by Anthony Horderns' at, Box of 25, 4/6; Per 100, 18/-
ţ
TRENT
STEEL LINED
CARTRIDGES
5'6
BOX OF
25
22
PER
100
ť
TRENT
SUPER RANGE
s'e
BOX OF
25
22'-
PER
100
‘4lllllllllllllllllllllmm i i!imiiiiimiimnmmiiimniMiiimiimiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiii*i!iiMi»iim***iii*ii*Mi!*i*iiiiiiiiiiiiMiii»ini<iiiiniiiiiiiii£
1 THERE ARE ONLY TWO FIRMS IN GREAT BRITAIN !
| MAKING SPORTING CARTRIDGES, ONE OF THEM [
IS TRENT GUNS AND CARTRIDGES LTD.,
GRIMSBY. ENGLAND.
GREENER'S D.B. B.L GUNS AT
Hammerless Gun, made
on W. W. Greener's
Facile Princeps system
of breech mechanism.
Side safe, 30in. steel
£37io-
barrels, both choke, engine-turned rib, with Greener's
patent treble wedge fast cross bolt; chambered for 2|in.
cases, proved for all nitro powders, walnut heart stock,
neatly engraved. A good pigeon gun. Weight
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' £37/10/-
12 Gauge D.B. Hammerless Gun
Hollis & Sons' 12 gauge
Anson <&- Deeley Pattern
Hammerless Gun, treble
bolted action on the cross
bolt principle, left choke
"/Si/613
bored, automatic safety bolt, Walnut heart stock, half
pistol grip, Deeley-Edge fore-end. 30in. barrels, side
clips, chambered. For 2fin. cases.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' £l9/15/-
A HIGH CLASS RIFLE
310 B.S.A. CADET MARTINI ACTION, 25in. BARREL
Rifle 25in. barrel, military rear and front sights. Range 600 yards.
In perfect condition. Weight 6 lbs. A good kangaroo or wild pig
rifle, at a very low price.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' 27/6
Same as above, with a new barrel and in new condition 50/-
310 Smokeless Cartridges, per 100 19/6
276
• Guns and Cartridges—Lower Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED, SYDNEY
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY 'PHONE M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT


A Feeling Sketch
WHEN I WAS
A KID
by Gavin S. Casey
ILLUSTRATED BY PHILLIPS.
So I punched him on the nose, and
we made quite a mess of each other,
because we were getting big and heavy
enough to really hurt when we hit.
WHEN I was a kid there was a girl in our town
who used to make me blush and turn dumb
just by talking to me. She was older than
me, of course, because when you’re a kid
girls anywhere near your own age aren’t girls at all,
but just brats. I wouldn’t have given tuppence for
any girl in the town except this one, and what I felt
about her was my secret.
I used not to see her very often, but there was
a big family by the name of Thomson living a few
doors from our place, and they had a couple of sons
a year or two older than me who my parents thought
I should cultivate. They were nice lads, I suppose,
but they didn’t interest me much, being very clean
and superior compared with my own school cobbers.
Anyway Thomsons’ place seemed always to be full
of their friends, and it was there that I used to see
Judy Black. I can’t remember what she looked like
now, and it doesn’t worry me much, but she had con-
siderable effect on me when I was a kid.
She was a singing teacher, and I daresay she
was pretty “modern” for those times, though it didn’t
seem to worry anyone much, because she had a knack
of being sweet to the old ladies and the small fry and
the old men, as well as the young chaps.
You can imagine one of the Thomsons’ parties,
with a big room crowded and the piano rocking and,
all the young people yelling popular songs, and the
old folk lined around the wall, with a few nippers
like myself not knowing whether we were enjoying
ourselves or would rather be out throwing stones at
the street lights.
I used to hear all sorts of nice things said about
Judy Black and no nasty ones, which I probably
would have, as I was at the age when no one kept
quiet much when I was around. And I used to agree
and feel faintly miserable because I wasn’t at least
eighteen, and big and sleek and self-possessed like the
fellows she used to favor. But I used to get more
pleasure than misery out of watching her, by a long
chalk.
I used to feel grubby and red when she spoke to
me, and I used to think what a scrubby, disreputable
lot my school cobbers really were, and sometimes
I used to wonder if there’d possibly be any girls like
her who’d be as old as she was when I was as old
as she was. I used to make good resolutions about
brushing my hair and boots and cleaning my teeth
every time I’d seen her. That was the effect she had
on me.
But a few years passed, and I finished with school
and went to work, and the Thomsons left our town,
and Judy Black went away, too, to sing and teach
singing in the city, and before long all that was left
of her in my mind was a pretty vague impression of
what a young woman ought to be, and by that time
I was in the stage when almost any girl—even the
ones that were a long way from what I thought girls
ought to be —could make me blush and go dumb.
My cobbers reckoned I was an ass in that respect, and
were pretty right. But every now and again one of
them would have another go at jolting some life
into me, and giving me another chance.
ONE day when I was supposed to be on a message
somewhere, I was at Dillon’s warehouse, yarning
with Chook Martin, and either because it suited
him or because he felt particularly friendly he de-
cided to give me a bit of a go. We were in the yard
staring at his boss’s car and talking about cars, for a
start, but the conversation drifted to girls.
“I got a meet with young Dolly Crawford to-
night,” he said. “I’m doin’ all right with her. She’d
have a cobber, she said. You ought to come along,
Johnnie.”
“Aw,” I said, feeling eager but nervous, as I
always did. “I don’t go much on girls.”
“Well, y’re a goat!” said Chook. “I know Dolly’s
cobber, too, and they’re a couple of bonzer tarts. We
could have some fun. Y’ want to kid ’em a bit. Y’
want to string ’em along, like I do. How do you ever
expect to have any fun if you stand and scowl at
’em, like you?”
“You should talk!” I said. “A fat lot you know
about tarts, anyway. What about young Maisie
Lucas?”
“Never mind about Maisie Lucas, said Chook
hotly. “That’s over and done with. I know more
about tarts than you do, anyway.”
“Well, I don’t want to know about them, any-
way,” I said loftily. But of course I did want to
know about them. I wanted to know about them more
than I wanted to know about anything else at all,
but I couldn’t see that I ever would. I didn t know
how to start finding out.
“All right, softy,” said Chook bitterly. “But
you’re lettin’ me down, see? I told Dolly I d be
there with another bloke, see?”
“Take someone else then,” I said. “What about
Sam Bickford?”
“They reckon they wouldn’t touch Sam Bickford
with a forty-foot pole,” said Chook. “You ought to
’ave heard what Dolly reckoned about Sam Bickford.
They’re a couple of good sports, but they wouldn’t
have anything to do with him at any price.
“Young Brownie then?” I suggested.
“Aw, I don’t want a sissy like him,” said Chook.
“If you won’t go, I won’t.”
Chook looked pretty disgusted and hurt, while I
thought about girls and felt a fool and wondered if
I could wangle it so that 1 could go after all without
feeling a bigger fool.
“Bill Gilmour and Snaky Regan reckon they’re
a couple of bonzer sports,” said Chook regretfully.
“They took ’em to the railway picnic, an’ they reckon
they had a bonzer time.”
“Snaky Regan!” I snorted. “What does Snaky
Regan know about girls?”
“Cripes! ” said Chook. “Snaky Regan thought
he was goin’ up for twelve an six a week not long
ago. Did you know that?”
“Aw,” I said. “There’s nothing clever about that.
He sounds like a bit of a mug.”
That made Chook sit up a bit, it sounded so wise.
“Well, p’r’aps I’ll go after all,” said Chook.
“P’r’aps I can get Jonesy.”
“Garn!” I said. “You wouldn’t knock around
with a little weevil like him, would you?”
“Well, if you won’t come, what the hell else can
I do?” grunted Chook.
“Aw, I’ll come, if y’re so keen,” I said, as if I
was doing it only as a favor to him.
AT tea that night I ate as much as usual, but I
shoved it into me a bit absentmindedly. I climbed
into my best grey slacks, and I polished my boots
and hair and had a good look at myself in the mirror
and felt fairly satisfied, though pretty nervous, by
the time I went off to meet Chook.
By half-past eight we were waiting in the dark-
ness under the trees outside the night-school building
for the girls. We weren’t the only ones. The building
was full of light and bustle, and outside it there were
plenty of moving shadows and mutterings of conversa-
tion between pairs of cobbers and bright spots where
cigarette-ends glowed. I was nervous, but I chat-
tered away to Chook about one thing and another
with my mind full of how I had to behave and what
I’d made up my mind to say all the time. Then there
was a bit of an upheaval in the building, and one of
the big doors swung open and let out a lane of light,
and a couple of classes of girls of all sorts flowed out
along the lane.
There was something of a stir among all the young
chaps waiting, and I felt like getting for my life. But
I saw Dolly coming across with another girl, and it
was too late to do anything but blush in the darkness
and lick my dry mouth and curse myself for a fool.
“Hullo, Chook,” said Dolly. “Been waiting long?"
Her cobber hung back in the shadows, and I
wondered if it would be better or worse for me if she
was shy, too.
“Come on-, Clarrie,” Dolly called out.
The girl and myself “came on” bashfully, and we
were all introduced. Her name, Dolly said, was
Clarissa, and she had to be called Clarrie for short.
I mumbled something, and what I saw of the girl in
the shadows looked good, and made me more terri-
fied than ever. I shifted so that the shade of a pepper-
tree fell over my face and tried to look stern and
sophisticated, and wondered if my hair was all right,
and wished that the palms of my hands didn’t
perspire so.
“Well,” said Chook, breaking a silence with a de-
termined sort of bark that made us all jump a bit.
“Where’ll we go?”
“I’d like to go down to the merry-go-round,”
said Dolly. “P’r’aps you’ll be able to win us some
chocolates at one of the sideshows.”
“Aw, y’ don’t want to go down among all the
kids,” said Chook. “I’ll buy y’ some chocolates if
y’ want some.”
I’d been a bit relieved at the idea of going to
the merry-go-round, where there’d be plenty of light
and plenty of people, and I wouldn’t have been asked
to do anything much except throw balls and darts,
at which I was pretty good. But it evidently didn’t
suit ChGok, and Dolly apparently decided that they
were rather a lot of kids, and that there wouldn’t
be much sense in going there if Chook was willing
to buy chocolates.
“All right. We’ll just go for a walk then,” she
agreed.
The girls went through the school gate together,
and Chook and I lagged a bit, while he borrowed
two bob from me to buy the chocolates and gave me
some good advice.
“I’ll get the chocs, in two lots, see?” he hissed.
“So you and Clarrie can keep a respectable distance
from me and Dolly. You git hold of her and see if
you can give her a good time if you want her to
come out again. Matter o’ fact, she an’ Doll didn t
want nothing to do with you after Lil Goodwin told
them what a slow sort of bloke you are, on y I told
’em it was all rot and that you’d changed. So see
you live up to it.”
I’d thought that what had happened between Lil
Goodwin and myself had been known only to the pair
of us, and what Chook said made me angry.
“Ho!” I said. “She reckons I’m slow, does
she? A fine cobber you are not to tell a bloke befoie.
I’ll show her whether I’m slow or not! ”
“That’s the spirit!” said Chook in a hurry. “Now
come on an’ catch ’em up.”


BUT though I’d skited about what I was going
to do, I didn’t do it. After we’d walked up and
down the streets for half an hour I felt pretty sick
of myself. I’d talked and talked and talked until I
was dry of talk, and even then my talk didn’t seem
to have been of the right kind. I couldn’t even make
Clarrie laugh, though I was always good enough at
making my cobbers chuckle ; and ahead of me all
the time I could see Chook and Dolly getting along
like a house afire. They were sharing the same shadow,
and every now and again Chook’s silly bray of laugh-
ter or Dolly’s giggles came back to us.
Clarrie was pretty silent, and I knew it was all
up with me. If I’d managed to interest her Tn what
I’d said I might have got as far as putting my arm
round her waist early in the piece, and everything
might have been all right. I was jealous of Chook,
and sick of myself, and I began to feel narked with
her. I’d have liked to have turned around and
stamped off home, but I had to go through with it
somehow.
“Gosh,” I said, just to make some sort of con-
versation after what seemed like about ten minutes
of silence, “Chook and Dolly have got a pair of
funny laughs, haven’t they?”
“Your friend Chook might have,” said Clarrie
stiffly. “I’m sure Dolly hasn’t.”
I was pretty sick of her, and though I’d been
feeling fed up with Chook, too, I didn’t like the way
she spoke.
“Well, if you ask me, hers wins for a nasty
noise,” I said. “But I suppose poor old Chook’s
sounds pretty crook to you after Snaky Regan’s.”
“Who told you I ever had anything to do with
Snaky Regan?” she asked. “I wouldn’t touch Snaky
Regan with a forty-foot pole.”
“No,” I said, very sarcastically. “You wouldn’t!
Of course you wouldn’t! What about the last rail-
way picnic?”
“I only went with Dolly,” said Clarrie vigorously.
“I’ve never seen him since.”
“Aw, no,” I said.
“No,” she snapped, in a proper temper. “I
wouldn’t be seen dead with Snaky Regan. Cecil
Brown’s my boy.”
That made me laugh.
“Girly Brownie!” I said triumphantly. “’Struth,
Chook wotildn’t bring him to-night. He’s a sissy.”
“He’s not a sissy,” said Clarrie. “You don’t even
know Cecil Brown. He wouldn’t have anything to
do with your sort.” *
“I don’t know Cecil Brown! ” I snorted. “Cripes,
I’ve known him since he was knee high to a duck!
You. ask your precious Cecil Brown if him and me
didn’t used to both go to Thomsons’ place years ago,
before they went to the coast to live.”
“Cecil wouldn’t go to silly old Thomsons’,” said
Clarrie, pretty loftily.
That was too much for me. I remembered Thom-
sons’ place with a good deal of affection.
“Wouldn’t he?” I pretty near yelled. “Anybody’d
go to Thomsons’, an’ be pleased to. There was some
bonzer people used to go to Thomsons’. The Con-
ways from the mine, and Ted Ewing that’s teller in
the Inland Bank now. An’ Judy Black, the singin’
teacher, used to be there pretty near every second
night!”
Judy Black was my trump card. I’d remembered
her suddenly, and she compared pretty favorably with
the juvenile, scraggy flapper I was arguing with. I
waited for Clarrie to show signs of being crushed,
but Clarrie’s lip curled.
“Pooh!” she said. “Judy Black! Well, that was
enough to keep decent people away.”
“What?” I roared. “You never even knew Judy
Black. Gosh, I’d like to see you beside Judy Black.”
I laughed as scornfully as I could, but Clarrie looked
superior and stubborn.
“Well, you won’t,” she said distantly. “ ’Cause
Judy Black’s dead, see?”
That was a shock, and for a minute I felt sick.
When you’re a kid it’s generally old people that die,
and as far as my experience went nobody like Judy
Black had died.
“Aw,” I said trying to convince myself. “She
ain’t dead. Cripes, she was a real healthy girl, Judy
was. I saw her a day or two before she went to the
coast, an’ she was as well as I am.”
“She’s dead, anyway,” said Clarrie.
“What happened to her then, if you know so
much?” I asked. “Did she have an accident?”
“It was a sort of an accident, if you like to put
it that way,” said Clarrie. “And it wasn’t a very nice
sort of accident to happen to a girl either.”
She giggled, and I suddenly felt a long way out
of my depth. I felt sick and frightened. I looked at
Clarrie through the dark, hating her for what she’d
told me, and for the manner in which she’d told it.
“What was it?” I asked, with some sort of slim
hope that there might be some possible explanation
other than what I was thinking.
“You know,” said Clarrie, giggling again. “Don’t
be silly!”
I knew all right, and it made me sore and afraid
to think of it. I wanted to get away from everyone,
to be on my own, but most of all I wanted to get
away from Clarrie. And I wanted to hurt her, before
I did, for Judy Black’s sake, but I couldn’t think of
any words to use for the purpose. I was too upset,
I suppose. Anyway, all I did was walk fast, until
we’d caught up to Chook and Dolly, and then keep
up a wrathful silence until we’d got rid of the girls.
“Cripes!” said Chook when we were walking
home together. “What’d you do to Clarrie? You
certainly had her wild.”
“She’s a dirty little bitch,” I said.
Chook looked amazed. “But what the hell did
you do?” he asked again.
I couldn’t answer Chook. But I had to give him
some sort of a reply, and though it made me feel
lower than ever I did it the easiest way.
“Aw, maybe I got a bit too fresh,” I mumbled.
“She’s a stupid sort of tart, anyway.”
“Gosh!” said Chook, looking at me admiringly.
“By the look of her face you won’t be taking her out
again, anyway.”
I didn’t want to take any girls out again. We
tramped towards our homes, and I suppose it wasn’t
long before Chook began to wonder why it was I still
had nothing to say.
For perhaps a fortnight I dodged people and
gloomed over it all till my parents decided I was sick-
ening for something, and my boss nearly gave me
the sack. Then I ran into Chook, and I had a fight
with him. Some sort of a mangled report of what
had really happened had got back to him, of course,
through Dolly, and he said something about Judy
Black and myself, so I punched him on the nose,
and we made quite a mess of each other, because we
were getting big and heavy enough to really hurt
when we hit. But when I fought Chook, it wasn’t
really for Judy Black or anything like that. It was
for myself, because I was ashamed and felt a fool,
and a punch on the nose was the only answer I could
think of,
She giggled, and I suddenly felt a long way out of
my depth. I felt sick and frightened. I looked at
Clarrie, hating her for what she’d told me, and for
the manner in which she’d told it.
The Old Pianist.
I listened for old times’ sake, but —old frame
And flame extinguished, famished for old fame,
And chill bone fingers hardened as lead comb,
And glassy heart and ear as hollow tomb.
I kissed dry-lipped, as wind on dewless grass,
The dull dead greying streamers of her hair;
But burdened soul this mind might never pass,
This rib-white gate now fastened with old care.
In perished cities of young days it grew,
This grey dust of her keys, so old eyes weep,
Preferring it as gold, and heed anew
New value in her song’s loud ban on sleep;
Open wide windows and lie awake like day,
Pressing the dark with eyeballs white as fear,
’Mid silence hear her old piano play
Day in and day out and immortal year.
I listen for old times’ sake, but —old frame
And flame extinguished, famished for old fame,
And chill bone fingers hardened as lead comb,
And glassy heart and ear as hollow tomb.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


WORN
THREADBARE
BY LESLEY WICKHAM.
DRAWING BY BAIRD.
THE new house is finished. From the back of it
I can see the charred remains of the old pug
place that was burned to the ground the day
the fire swept down over the hill. Just the
blackened posts left standing, and a bit of the
chimney. I was hard hit the day the old house burned,
so people say, for I was there, you see, and saw the
whole place go up in flame and smoke, and there
wasn’t much saved beyond Evangeline’s doll.
Finished, the new house glistens, dreamlike, in
the moonlight. I creep down when the youngsters
are asleep, and look at it standing there. Board
floors underfoot. I walk about on them. Just hear-
ing my footsteps going from room to room does me
good. I open and shut the doors ; they’ve all got
locks and keys. And the windows have all got glass
in them. They are low enough to see out of, and
every one will open without being propped up with
a stick.
Yes, I’m done with dirt floors, bag partitions and
all those blackfellow makeshifts. Fifteen years I’ve
had of them, but I’ve got a house at last. Four rooms
Herbert said I could have. Before he went north he
talked it over with Joe Wright, who contracted to
do the job. Herbert would have liked to be on
the spot to tell Joe where to hammer each nail and
how to lap each sheet of iron. Herbert’s a dictator,
and I’m a doormat. But a doormat, when it’s
threadbare, is apt to develop spots that trip unwary
feet. And I’m not the mat I used to be. Fifteen
years of being married to Herbert have worn a good
many threadbare places.
It went against Herbert’s grain to leave while
the house was going up, but he couldn’t afford to
let three months’ work slip. I waited till he was out
of sight and well away, then I went across to the
new house.
“Joe,” I says, “Herbert and I have been talking
things over.” And that was true enough. “Now
look, Joe,” I says, “there’s to be a few alterations
and additions. That back verandah has to be a bit
wider and the south end enclosed for a kitchen, see!
That means a fancy fireplace in the room we had
marked for the kitchen, because now it will be a
sort of sitting-room.”
“Good-oh!” says Joe. “I suggested that to the
boss meself, but he didn’t cotton on.”
“And, Joe,” I says, “about the boys’ bedroom.
Shift the window along a bit, will you, and put up a
sleep-out, opening off the room. Houses all have
sleep-outs these days, and we’ve got five boys. Keep
it as cheap as you can, Joe. And then there is the
bathroom. Just close’in the other end of the back
verandah for that. Did Herbert say anything about
a tank?”
“No, Mrs. Bruce. He forgot to mention that.”
“Five thousand gallons’ll do, Joe,” I says, think-
ing I might as well be killed for a sheep as a lamb.
“ You see we’re further from the waterhole now. And
last summer it dried up, and we had to carry water
in buckets from the lagoon, half a mile away. We
don’t want to be caught again.”
“Good-oh, Mrs. Bruce,” says Joe, making notes.
So I left Joe to it, but every night I went down to
see how the new house was shaping. And now it’s
finished. And to-morrow the furniture comes.
Thirty pounds Herbert gave me to spend on
linen and furniture. Not much when there’s every-
thing to buy. I went down to Adelaide and stayed
with Susan Tester, and we haunted
second-hand shops as long as the
cheque lasted. And never once
did I breathe a word to Susan
that it was because of her and the
wonderful doll she gave Evan-
geline that I’d got the new house.
The beds cost a bit, but a
solid bedstead, however shabby,
looks fine when you’ve put up
with forked supports in the earth
and bags stretched over saplings.
And Susan said “Give them a
coat of paint.” And then, turn-
ing to the man, “If we take all
that old junk off your hands you
ought to give something in. What
about that little set of shelves?”
That’s how I got the bookshelves
for Evangeline’s room.
WE went to school together,
Susan and I. When she was
eighteen she left the hills for good,
and I married Herbert. He
brought me here, to this gully, to
a bag hut. I was just a girl, play-
ing at keeping house. I saw fun
in everything. And it was a
mighty fine thing helping your
man from scratch. They call it pioneering now. Well,
you’ve got to live with a man before you know him.
And I got married believing that Herbert wanted a
helpmate. But he didn’t. He wanted a doormat.
Those first years he talked sometimes of the
house we were going to have, and at last he put up
a pug place. It wasn’t much improvement on the bag
hut—lean-to roof, bag partitions, dirt floors. And
because I wanted windows I could look out of, and
because he was in a bad mood owing to a cow we’d
just had die on us, he skied them up to the roof,
and I had to stand on a chair if I wanted to see any-
thing. Not that there ever was anything to see save
the sky, trees, scrub and the rocky hill beyond the
creek.
Fifteen years I’ve been buried in this gully. And
the loneliness gets you sometimes —it gets you deep
down and wells up inside of you until you could
scream and curse the trees, and the scrub, and the
smothering everlasting silence that’s choking the very
life out of you. And the shrieking parrots, and the
jackasses shouting laughter at you from the dead
trees, you could stand and curse them, too.
Months I’ve been here, in the gully, and never
seen another woman’s face. And I’ve just gone on
putting up with it, because of the children. Just kept
plodding on and on, like a leg-weary horse. Until
Evangeline came.
I will never forget it —how Herbert brought me
home, back to the gully here, and how I just stood,
the baby in my arms, looking round.
It had been raining. There was a puddle of
water on the floor, in front of the fireplace. The
old dog had sneaked in, looking for a dry spot. The
dishes hadn’t been washed up. The bag division
walls —they didn’t re&ch the roof by a foot —sagged
beneath the weight of old clothes thrown across them.
I held Evangeline closer, and I thought I’d go mad
if this hovel was to be all the background her young
life was to know.
The weeks that followed were bitter enough. Her-
bert couldn’t understand me. He said I’d changed,
that I was always nagging.
“What’s wrong with the place?” he’d say. “Keeps
the rain off, don’t it?” and then, trying to smooth me
down, “I’m puttin’ money behind me, Allie, ’stead
of spendin’ it on flash homes, like some. We’ll be
wantin’ it some day”
“We want it now,” I said. “For a place to live
in—not for tombstones.” And then I wept into the
shawled bundle in my arms, and in the end Her-
bert decided that what I wanted was a holiday. A
holiday, when all I wanted was decent surroundings
for the family most of all for this little only
daughter.
But I had my holiday. Two weeks at his sister’s,
and he’s still talking about it. Holiday! With five
boys and a new baby! All that was five years ago.
This summer Susan came.
Through the years we’ve kept up a casual sort
of correspondence, Susan and I, and always my pride
guided my pen. For instance, training creepers over
the new porch at the back door doesn’t sound much
like the fowl-scratched plants behind a bit of broken
netting against the rickety affair the twins put up
for me. Susan had been in Tasmania for years. Now
she was back, and coming to see me. I would have
invented measles, diphtheria, anything, only there
wasn’t time. So Susan came, and I saw the look in
her eyes when she realised what Herbert, and life,
had done for me. She brought Evangeline a doll, a
wonderful doll with a whole wardrobe of clothes.
O USAN stayed only a week. Herbert went down to
Adelaide with her, and the children went off to
school as usual. It was Evangeline’s first day; four
miles through the scrub, over the rough hills, and she
not yet six. I was alone. It was a nasty day, a hot
wind blowing. A brittle sort of day with a pale,
hazy sky. I worked about all morning, had a bit to
eat and then went and lay down for a bit. Evan-
geline’s doll was on the machine, where she had left
it that morning, and I thought of putting it away,
yet left it there, looking so out of place in its lovely
party frock.
I must have fallen asleep at once, for the next
thing I knew was the shouting of men’s voices out-
side. I jumped up and rushed out. Ben Bolder and
a crowd of others had just driven up in his crazy old
car.
“The fire, missus!” Ben shouted, pointing across
the gully, and beyond the ridge I could see thick
clouds of smoke ascending and staining the hazy sky.
A queer yellowish glare had descended upon every-
thing, the wind had swung round to the north, and
the heat of it seared like a flame. “Thought you
were safe till the wind changed,” Ben said. “The fire
started up in Mason’s back paddocks an hour ago.
Get a break goin’, you boys, t’other side the garden
and down to the crick. With this wind she’ll be up
them gullies and over the hill afore we knows it.”
They got the break going, and began to beat
back a long line of fire upon itself across the clear-
ing. But they didn’t reach the creek in time. With
a rush and a roar the fire topped the ridge. Great
sheets of flame detached themselves to race in the
wind ahead of the burning scrub, to leap luridly
through the smoke, to dart and writhe about the
trunks of the tall timber, to twist along the boughs,
scorching where there was no time to burn, to spring
aloft from tree top # to treetop in a wild race.
I was down by the creek with them, beating
desperately at those yellow living devils dancing along
the edge of the clearing. There was fire leaping to
life underfoot, flying through the short grass, leav-
ing in its wake ugly irregular patches of smoking
blackness. Time and again the flames jumped the
creek, swept up and licked the garden fence, time
and again we beat them back. It was thrash, thrash
with our singed and ragged boughs ; thrash, thrash,
thrash with aching arms and smarting eyes, and
parched throats nearly bursting with the heat.
In the end we won.
“Yairs, we’ve beat it,” old Ben drawled, hitching
at his sagging dungarees.
Wearily I dragged across the still-smouldering
clearing. In the kitchen I drew the fire together, piled
on sticks and boiled water in a bucket, took a loaf
and roughly cut and spread it. It was when I reached
to take down the tea-tin that I saw the doll, and I
stood there, hand still reaching up, just staring at it.
Though I wanted Evangeline to have so much, I’d
I sat there, fascinated, watching to the end.
And the men said among themselves, “She's
taking it bad. ’Twan’t much of a place, but
it was all she had.”


fought like a crazy thing to save this wretched
hoV gj . -
And then suddenly my head cleared, and every-
thing which followed was done so quickly that now
I wonder at it.
I threw a few worth-while articles together,
placed Evangeline’s doll on top and carried all into
the rough dugout which served as a summer dairy,
Then I made the tea in the bucket, stood it outside
the door, went back and took a burning stick from
the fire. Afterwards I closed the door, picked up
the bucket, crossed under the orchard trees and went
down over the burnt clearing to where the men had
gathered by the waterhole. Yarning and staring across
at the devastated hillside they drained off great mugs
of tea.
~. , ,
IT was old Ben who first saw the smoke which sud-
I denly belched up beyond the apple-trees. Pausing
in the act of wiping his mouth on a great grimy,
hairy arm, he let out a shout and started at a stiff
trot up the slope from the creek.
The whole place was a raging inferno. All the
men could do was walk round it and discuss how
it could have caught so quickly. A bit of blown
burning bark in the long grass alongside the side
wall, perhaps. But to get such a hold in such a short
time. They remembered other fires, other homes
burned.
Old Ben tried to comfort me. I sat on a stump
i n front of the dairy, watching the leaping flames,
feeling the heat of« them on my face.
“Blanky stiff luck, but y’ friends’ll stand by y’,
Mrs B ruce .”
n 0 answer f rom me . I sat there, fascinated,
watc hing to the end. And the men said among them-
seiveSj “She’s taking it bad. ’Twan’t much of a place,
but j t ’ was all she had.”
“Even the very best doormat wears threadbare
jjj the end,” I said to myself, and then the last of the
rafters gave and the roof caved in with a fiery crash.
s
, , . ,
I T all seems a long while ago as I stand here in t
1 cool moonlight. I touch the new house to make sure
it is real—galvamsed-iron, glistening like a silver
dream. And to-morrow comes the furniture, and
Susan to help me move in.
A BOUT WITH LADY LUCK
BY CON DREW.
I’M doin’ a lap on the sunny side of Pitt-street one
mornin’ when up breezes me partner Handsome
Harry.
“To-morrer,” says he, all excited, “I’m
bringin’ a bloke up to the gym. He should take your
fancy.”
“I hope he don’t take nothin’ else,” says I
“What is he?”
“He’s a wrestler,” says Handsome. “I’ll bet
there ain’t a grappler in Sydney that can throw him.”
“I thought we’d done with wrestlers,” says I.
“They’ve only brought us trouble.”
“But this bloke Gorzol’s a wonder,” answers
Handsome. “You wouldn’t have heard of him be-
cause he’s only been in Australia two weeks.”
“All right,” says I, “but don’t,say I didn’t warn
yer. It’s the Sydney Town Hall to a packet of pea-
nuts he’ll bring us bad luck.” .
EXT morning in blows Handsome with three
huge orang-outangs whose collective weight must
have been fifty stone. The biggest of them had his
head jammed on to his shoulders so tight that you
could hardly see his ears.
“This is Gorzol,” says Handsome, bringing him
over to me. “Gorzol, shake hands with Mr. Silver.
He’s me partner.”
“I no unnerstan’,” says Gorzol.
Handsome catches hold of his own hand and
shakes it, but still the big baboon don’t tumble.
“Let it pass,” says I to Handsome, “and show
us somethin’.”
“All right,” says Handsome, and he signs to the
blokes to peel down for business.
When they were ready he takes Gorzol into the
ring and beckons to a boa-constrictor in pale blue
trunks. ✓
“Give Gorzol a run around, Axel,” he says, “and
go your hardest.”
Axel did go his hardest, but not for long. Gorzol
grabbed him by the neck after he’d been in the ring
half a minute and heaved him clean over the ropes.
It was lucky for him that he lobbed on top of his
head, otherwise he might have done hisself serious
injury. As it was he was dazed and refused to go
on with the business.
The other bloke put up a better show from a
spectacular point of view. He went up in the air
when Gorzol caught hold of him, and we thought
he would hit the ceiling. He missed it by a couple
of inches, and after doin’ a one-and-a-half lobbed on
his back in the centre of the ring.
That concluded the day’s entertainment.
“I told you he could wrestle,” says Handsome
to me. “Do you want to go half shares in him?”
“I’ll be in with you,” says I, “but I’d sooner he
was a fighter.”
WELL, we kept Gorzol in smoke for a bit, and
then I bowled down to Len Grogan’s hall to see
if I could arrange about a match. When I told Len
what I’d come for he shook his head.
“This bird Gorzol is an unknown quantity,”
he says, “and he wouldn’t draw better than a penny
segar.”
“He’ll soon get known,” says I.
“But while he was gettin’ known I’d be losin’
money.”
“You’d make big money in the long run,” says I.
“We’d give you the first call on him.”
“I don’t want the first call on no one,” Len
come back. “It’s the last call I want, when a grappler
is right in the boom.”
“You’re pretty hard,” I says, and I’m gettin’ up
to go when Len opens a kind of a ledger that is lyin’
on his desk and has a screw at it.
“Is your gorilla in good condition?” he asks after
a bit.
“He’s in the pink,” says I.
“Well, if a preliminary will do you, I’ll put him
on with the Swedish Strangler for a curtain-raiser
on Saturday night.”
“That’s better than nothin’,” says I, and off ,1 go.
Handsome wasn’t too pleased. “We’ll have to get
even on the bettin’,” he says.
WE carried on with Gorzol’s trainin’ as per usual,
and when he entered the ring on the Saturday
night he looked the picture of health. The Swede
blew in soon afterwards. He was half a head shorter
than our baboon, but what he lost in height was
made up in breadth:
While we were waitin’ for the ref. a bloke at
the ringside kept offerin’ to bet an even twenty quid
on the Swede. It got on Handsome’s nerves after
a bit and he dashed across to the feller. “I’ll bet
you,” he says, peelin’ out two tenners.
“Put it in,” says the bloke, holdin’ out his hand.
“You’re no better lookin’ than me,” says Hand-
some. “What’s wrong with me holdin’ it?”
They argued the point for a bit, then Handsome
sights a well-dressed old gent, sittin’ in the second row.
He was planked down in the middle of the row and
he couldn’t have got out in less than ten minutes if
there’d been a fire or an earthquake. *
“What’s wrong with lettin’ this gent, hold it?”
says Handsome.
“All right,” says the Swede’s backer, and they put
the money in.
Handsome was hardly back in the ring when
the ref. arrived and gave the grapplers their instruc-
tions. Then he sent them to it.
Gorzol was first to commence hostilities. In
half a tick he had crossed the ring and clamped a
headlock on the Swede, but before he could drag him
to the canvas the Swede slid out of the hold and
nailed him with a double wristlock. It looked as
though Gorzol would visit the mat, but with a mighty
heave he tore hisself clear.
They sparred around for a bit, then the Swede
made a dive for our bloke’s legs. It was a risky thing
to do, and Gorzol took his chance. Grabbin’ the
Swede under the arms he heaved him backwards over
his head. It was a real rip-snorter of a throw, and
it sent the Swede flyin’ over the ropes. He landed
half-way up the exit passage and he stayed there. It
was about the quickest end to a wrestlin’ exhibition
I ever seen.
Handsome lets out a yell and dashes across to
the stakeholder. In a tick he was back with the
money and grinnin’ like a hyena.
“This is one time when a wrestler don’t bring
us bad luck,” he says, shovin’ the notes in his pocket.
AFTER we’d seen Gorzol into his clothes the three
of us made a beeline for the nearest pub, as Hand-
some was itchin’ to celebrate the win. There was a
big crowd drinkin’ in the bar, for the pubs was open
until 11 p.m. in them times. Handsome knew two or
three of the blokes and called them over.
“You’re drinkin’ good luck to Gorzol,” he said,
throwin’ a note on the counter.
The barman served the drinks and went to put
the note in the till. Suddenly he stopped and
examined it again. “I can’t change that, he says,
handin’ it back to Handsome.
“Why?” says Handsome, surprised.
“Because it’s a crook one,” says the barman. It s
pretty well made, but it’s crook.
Handsome dives his hand into his pocket and
fishes out the other notes. Then he looks at them
closely under the electric light.
“By cripes, you’re flamin’ well right,” he says
then. “The old bloke rung the changes on me.
They’re all crook.”
I didn’t say nothin’ to Handsome. Silence is
golden at times.
LOSERS AND
FINDERS
BY LES ROBINSON.
THERE are always, of course, more losers than
finders. I don’t know whether losers are born
and not made, but have come to the conclusion
that there are finders who, although they do
not use hazel twigs or divining rods, except, perhaps,
when desirous of finding water, are actually led
towards, whether they want to be or not, things lost
of every conceivable kind.
Sand is very helpful to losers. Finders who live
near beaches are rewarded far more often than those
who dwell in clayey country. Long grass and sand
in abundance together at pleasure resorts raise the
expectation of the seeker-and-finder, and of the pre-
destined finder who doesn’t need to do any seeking,
more than any other kind of terrain in which things
disappear. It is nearly always the predestined finder,
by the way, who finds the things most worth finding.
I am a finder myself, but only of the useless
things that other people lose gladly or throw away.
I have, for instance, more empty tobacco-tins, prob-
ably, of every known size, shape and color than any-
body, except, perhaps, the proprietor of a tobacco
factory, in the Southern Hemisphere. My collection
of stubs of pencil, tin-openers, golf and tennis balls,
marbles, small mirrors, combs, buttons, studs, safety-
pins, sixpenny brooches, coupons, metal disks, pen-
knives, odd cuff-links, lumps of lead, bits of rope,
wire and string, blunt and rusty razors —the bluntest
and rustiest having the Shakspearean quotation
“More sharper than your swords” engraved upon its
blade —broken pipes, spectacles, watches and clocks,
odd padlocks and keys, bed knobs, buttonhooks,
shoehorns, whistles, lighters and torches that won’t
light, nail-files, brass rings, rubber bands, commemo-
rative medals and medallions, and stacks more odds
and ends besides, is, I should say, the largest ever
to be crammed into one lopsided and dilapidated
packing-case.
Among those miscellanea are some that would
doubtless be useful to me at some time or other, if
I could only find them, but anything that I happen
to need, and, in consequence, look for, never seems
to be there, or, if it is, lies buried so deeply that the
most exhaustive search generally fails to bring it to
the surface.
To dream of finding things means, according to
my dream-book, that the finder has always needed or
coveted those particular things, but has had to do
without them. This I have found to be erroneous,
for I dream of finding wrecks, icebergs, strange
machinery, meteorites, gigantic vines and trees, mas-
sive mounds and monuments, beetling crags, yawning
and abysmal caverns and chasms, cataracts, thunder-
ing waterfalls and many other such largenesses, vege-
table, animal and mineral, fabulous creatures also
and myself, oft-times, in alarming predicaments.
Spaniards in the sixteenth century believed that
where spiders were plentiful gold was to be found,
yet, although my abode and its environs are infested
with them, I often have to borrow the fare into town.
If you scan the lost-and-found columns of the
newspapers at all, you begin to think, after a while,
that a good living could be made by a predestined
finder who decided to become a professional, even
though he applied himself only to the pleasurable
pastime of finding possessions for the recovery of
which regards were offered.
I met a predestined finder once. He was a milk-
man by trade, but needn’t have been, and it was a
pity, I remember thinking at the time, because every-
thing he required and heaps besides that he didn’t
actually require himself, though, as he explained,
they came in handy to his relatives and friends, he
was always able to find, apparently, without even the
exertion of searching. Being always up and about
in the morning long before anybody else was, as so
many things are lost overnight, helpful, of course,
but, nevertheless, if I had been he, I would have
ceased being a milkman. I would most certainly
have become a professional finder.
His eyes weren’t telescopic, I noticed, nor was
he, to an observable extent, at any rate, magnetic. A
more ordinary looking person, in fact, except perhaps
myself, it would be hard to find, but that he had an
astonishing gift, uncanny faculty or a singular pro-
pensity for finding what other people so often lose,
valuables in particular, there could be no doubt
whatever.
People weren’t always overjoyed to get their be-
longings back, because sometimes, he said, they meant
and had tried to lose them. One morning, for instance,
he picked up a woman’s coat which was lying in
some bushes alongside the road, and succeeded at
last in finding to whom it belonged. The owner
was furious when he returned it. She had lost it
deliberately, he, having been married several times,
surmised, in order to make her husband buy hv.r
another.


gaily off, leaving her in the road. This was more for
sport than profit. He dabbled too in the drug trade,
and brought off a spot of embezzlement now and then.
At home he was always charming.
He grew tired of the fringe of crime and planned
something really interesting—the murder of an English
bookmaker of shady repute. The crime was most suc-
cessful. Only his wife and mother suspected, and they
were loyal. Then gradually, from the discovery of a
broken watchglass, the police built up a case against
him. He was tried and convicted, getting the compara-
tively light sentence of 15 years in French Guiana
because his wife’s pathos touched the heart of the
jury. Lydia, shamed and despairing, deliberately
sought a life of prostitution so that she might help
to expiate her husband’s sin. Robert Berger never
appears in the book. He is heard of through his wife,
a reporter who attended the trial, and from newspaper
cuttings. By this indirect method he becomes the
centre of the whole book, the most striking character
in it.
This tale, which all comes out piecemeal in retro-
spect, is set inside the story of a very young man’s
first visit to Paris alone. Charley Mason is an engag-
ing boy out of the very heart of the new Philistia. His
people are cultivated, they never miss an important
concert and follow the items intelligently on the score.
They are “in” every “movement” and are never more
than a lap behind the most advanced art critics. They
have Cezanne and Van Gogh on the nursery walls in
order that their children may safely follow the adven-
turous path.
Occasionally father is more honest than he
realises. When a young man gives up art for com-
merce he remarks, “He’s got his head screwed on his
shoulders all right, that young fellow. When it comes
to getting a job with a living wage attached to it, like
every sensible man, he’s prepared to put his theories
in his pocket.”
From this world Charley emerges into Paris to
have a good time in a conventionally daring manner.
Instead he meets Lydia, and out of pure chivalry be-
friends her and gives her a “week-end off” from her
occupation. She tells him her story. Simon, a Parisian
friend of hers who is training himself to be a revolu-
tionary of a most sinister kind, supplements it, and
Charley has anything but a gay time. He returns
home at last with the suspicion that there is some-
thing wrong with his comfortable and decorative world.
The frame round these telescoped stories is heavy
and elaborate. There is a good deal about the Masons’
taste in art and Simon’s yearnings after frightfulness
that the reader, anxious to get on with the story, could
easily do without. Maugham can always tell a story.
He tells, one here with his usual hard, shining com-
petence, but he smothers it. As a commentator on the
modern scene he falls very flat. So many people can
do it—-and are doing it —so much better. Using it as
an adjunct to a novel he never gets beyond regions
already well explored.
Of the characters, the unseen Robert Berger is by
far the most interesting. Lydia is barely convincing.
Her inverse morality seems improbable to the cool
reader. Simon is unintentionally comic, Charley little
more than a lay figure. The prose is Maugham’s usual
pleasant but undistinguished vehicle. If he wanted
to write a crime story it is a pity he didn’t do it with-
out highbrow garnishings.
Mr. Harris in Old Japan.
The clock that ticks approval to Carl Crow’s type-
writer as it taps out books about the East is going
the wrong way round, but the scene of Harris of Japan
(Hamish Hamilton) is perhaps topsy-turvy enough to
justify this comedy of the early days appearing after
instead of before / Speak for the Chinese, a study of
the present Sino-Japanese situation, recently reviewed
on this page. Harris was America’s first Consul to
Japan ; he might well have been Gilbert and Sullivan’s
official observer.
There was, for instance, the exchange problem:
it was a long and weary battle against polite evasive-
ness before Harris could even get the officials to admit
there was anything unfair in their demanding one
dollar for one ichibu —when they could, and did, make
three ichibus out of each dollar simply by melting it
down and recoining. And there was the fantastic
muddle over the identity of the Emperor: Commodore
Perry, who opened the country for trade, the U.S.
and all other interested Governments, and Harris him-
self, addressed letters to the Emperor and dealt with
officials under the assumption that they were his ser-
vants ; but the Tokugawa family was ruling Japan,
the real Emperor and his faction were powerless, and
the “Emperor” who handled foreign affairs was the
Shogun, the head of the Tokugawas. Harris, led to
believe that the Shogun was the Emperor, was always
trying to get to Yedo (Tokio) to interview him,
unaware that there was a genuine Emperor biding his
time in Kyoto.
Harris’s qualifications for dealing with such trials
and confusions were tact, patience 'and a great de-
votion to duty. Once a chinaware merchant in New
York, he had had no training in diplomacy—not that
ordinary experience would have been much use with
a people who, as he found when he landed, had tricked
Perry into signing a treaty in Japanese which differed
materially from the English version he had carried
back in triumph to Washington. Perry’s treaty had
provided that Uncle Sam could send a Consul if he
wished ; the Japanese version, Harris was informed,
provided that a Consul could be received only if both
Governments thought it desirable. The Japanese
Government did not think it desirable. Would he not
go away and come back later, perhaps?
Harris had been out East for some time. During
a temporary fall from grace on his part, the china-
ware business slipped, and he had quit America to
trade on the China coast. After the Japanese, under
the muzzles of Perry’s guns, had agreed to allow the
U.S.A. its meagre trading rights, Harris, with the aid
of influential friends, secured his Consulship. “I have
a perfect knowledge of the social banishment I must
endure while in Japan,” he wrote, “and am prepared
to meet it. I am a single man, without any ties to
look anxiously to my old home, or to become im-
patient in my new one.” But he hardly realised
then that Uncle, having dumped flim alone except for
Heusken, his Dutch interpreter, in the strange and hos-
tile country, would do his best to forget all about him,
nor that for seven years, apart from occasional visitors
from the sea, he would have no conversation except
with Heusken and with the people he came to describe
as “the greatest liars on earth.”
He had returned to America to battle for the
Consulship, and it was agreed that his salary was
not to start until he reached Japan. It took him a
year to get there. He had casually been ordered to
negotiate a trade treaty with Siam on his way. Six
years previously an attempt at a treaty had failed,
but the inexperienced Harris, after exasperating delays
and a great deal of unnecessary pomp on the part
of the Siamese, succeeded. Britain had recently con-
cluded a treaty with Siam which Harris wished to
use as a model, but the Siamese nearly floored him
with the ingenious argument: -“The English were a
rapacious race, and the treaty with the English had
not been made out of love but out of fear ; surely
the Americans, the esteemed friends of the Siamese,
would not ask as much from them as they had been
forced to give their enemies?”
It was a foretaste of Oriental diplomacy. But
the persistence and the patience Harris needed in
Siam were a very mild exercise in the arts which
he was to practise for despairing years in Japan
before there, too, he was successful. Every possible
means was tried of preventing his landing in Japan.
He arrived aboard a naval vessel, so that he could
not be forcibly dismissed, but they performed marvels
of courteous obstructiveness. There was the dispute
about the treaty, the request to go home and come
back the following year. He could not go to Yedo
but would have to remain in the crude fishing village
of Shimoda. There was no accommodation for him.
His letter of complaint to Yedo, less than a hundred
miles away, would take five days to reach there.
When they did find accommodation—a deserted
temple—they would not guarantee provisions. When
he wanted to buy food there was none for sale. When
he wanted servants there were none to be had, but
the officials would “write to Yedo.” Harris could
not speak Japanese ; none of them could speak Eng-
lish. Afterwards he found out that one of his tor-
mentors spoke English very well.
Harris was determined to stay. Seamen from
the warship put up a giant flagstaff for him outside
the temple. Later, when a storm tilted it over to
an . undignified angle the Japanese would give him
no assistance to right it, and it stayed as it was, a
perfect symbol of Japanese non-co-operation and
Harris’s dogged refusal to surrender. His life at
Shimoda took on a Swiss Family Robinson color ;
if he had to get documents signed he also had to
plant his own vegetables ; affairs of State took second
place while he sought desperately for live poultry,
for the only fowls he could buy were dead ones, birds
that had perished not by the axe but from natural
causes ; it was a red-letter day when the State De-
partment in Washington deigned to send him a letter,
but it was even more exciting when his sow produced
a litter.
There was hardly any active discourtesy. There
was always an excuse. The market man who in the
first few weeks always supplied one tough old rooster
and one tough old hen in response to an order for
two pullets had the decency to explain that in Japan
chickens were hatched in pairs, one hen and one
rooster, and could only be sold that way. In political
affairs it was the same. When he could not get
replies to his letters to Yedo, they explained that it
was against the law for Japanese to write to foreigners.
Harris reproved them:
I told them I knew better; that letters had been
written by the highest officials, and even by the
Emperor himself, to Commodore Perry, to the Russians
and the Dutch; that to assert such palpable falsehoods
was to treat me like a child; and that, if they repeated
it, I should feel myself insulted.
Harris was in his fifties; frequently sick, at the
mercy of Japanese doctors, and afraid of death ; he
was lonely, and in moods of depression talked of
suicide. Negotiations of any sort meant hours of
trivial argument, then perhaps a smiling acknowledg-
ment of the justice of his claims; and then next day
a trifling amendment which would lead to an exact
repetition of all the tedious debating of the previous
day. He won the right to visit Yedo, and the ex-
chinaware merchant travelled through the country
with all the panoply of a Japanese prince, the villagers
by the way kneeling and knocking their heads on
the ground as he passed.
The British and French fleets had compelled
China to sign a treaty granting all the demands of
the foreign Powers; the Japanese feared similar
treatment. Harris assured them they would get it,
and partly because of this threat, partly because the
partisans of the genuine Emperor were becoming
powerful, Harris was able to negotiate a trade treaty,
signed aboard an American warship, which paved the
way for a British treaty signed soon afterwards.
Though his interpreter was murdered, he remained
unafraid in the anti-foreign upheavals which followed,
and stayed on in Yedo when the other foreign repre-
sentatives fled to Yokohama.
He received little recognition in America for his
work, but the Japanese Government, which had
showed such hostility on his arrival, tried hard to
persuade him against leaving and showered honors
upon him. Crow says that Harris to-day is one of
the heroes of the Japanese people, who have dedicated
shrines to his memory. An American Secretary of
State said that Perfy had unbarred the gate of the
island empire, “but it was the skill of Harris which
threw it open to the commercial enterprise of the
world.” Crow’s book is interesting not only for its
account of an unusual career, but also for its lively
descriptions of Siamese and Japanese life before the
peoples had felt the influence of the Western world.
Borrowing from the Bible.
The Bible is quite a popular quarry with modern
novelists —but- they take a big risk when they chal-
lenge comparison with its literary style and narrative
force. Beside the original, Max Catto’s The Hairy
Man (Seeker and Warburg) seems thin for all its 400
pages. It makes the reader long for the Bible’s terse-
ness.
He tells the story of Elijah, Ahab and Jezebel;
how Ahab married Jezebel, daughter of Ethbaal, king
of the Zidonians, and brought her, a heretic, into
Israel. There she set up the worship of Baal, to
which she was brought up. The Lord God of Israel
was affronted, and through his prophet Elijah, “the
hairy man,” first punished the country with a severe
drought and then challenged the 800 priests of Baal
to a miracle test. The priests failed to draw down
fire from heaven to their sacrifice, but the supplica-
tions of Elijah were heard and the miracle happened
before the congregated people. Fortified, they slew
the pagan priests and Elijah broke the drought.
Here The Hairy Man might well have ended, but
it goes on for another 200 pages describing Ahab’s
middle age, a fictitious shipwreck and escape during
which he makes his peace with Elijah, his ill-starred
war against Syria and inglorious death in battle. The
book ends with Jezebel’s death, old and deserted now,
according to the prophecy that the dogs would lap her
blood:
Then she looked out of the window as a cry rose
up and the stamping of horses’ hooves was heard on
the stones. A young man with a leonine face and wild
yellow locks —Jehu, himself, she guessed—had halted
beneath the window and was staring up. There were
many dogs about the horses’ legs. (Dogs? Dogs?
Where before had she heard that prophetic mention
of dogs?) Then she caught a furtive whispering behind
her and saw that three eunuchs, servants in the palace,
had stolen into the room. She looked into the street
again.
Jehu stood up in his stirrups and shouted, “Throw
her down.”
The eunuchs crept nearer. She patted her red hair
and peered down with bright inquiring eyes at the
leonine young man and half-smiled at him.
That last picture of Jezebel is the best. The book
is not so much a reconstruction of the biblical story
as a padding, out. It is written in a mixture of ancient
and modern styles, an infusion of slang and pert
modernisms into biblical language that is hardly felici-
tous. Enemies are “liquidated” in quite the manner
of to-day, and a sophisticated gloss is given to the great
miracle scene:- —
This was no longer a contest between Elijah and the
hosts of Baal —as it seemed on the face of it—but the
final battle between the old racial conscience of Israel
and this new sophisticated defiantly-blasphemous
morality that was being developed by Jezebel.
The author might have been taking a sidelong
glance at contemporary affairs when he wrote that.
Was he thinking of a comparison between democracy
and Communism or Fascism?
There are large purple patches ; and the characteri-
sation is not convincing. Jezebel begins as a pert little
flapper, clever and sensual, always giggling and
facetiously thinking up tortures. She ends like an ex-
barmaid out of melodrama. Ahab is an oaf who
becomes a henpecked husband. Jezebel decides every-
thing :
“Yes, Ahab, while I live you shall be a strong
being, not a weak one. And you shall seize your
destiny with both hands when the moment is ripe. War
is the final test of human beings and the measure of the
glory they hand down to history. The destiny of a king
is not as the destiny of other men, it lies in blood and
battle —not necessarily your blood,” chuckled Jezebel.
“Look not so scared, the common cattle of your sub-
jects have blood to lose —and Israel has been at peace
too long. We stagnate! Now we move to gather
our sinews for war.”
“With whom?” said Ahab faintly.
Elijah is a giant in a grey habit who always sighs
deeply before performing a miracle. There is very
little more to him than that. He doesn’t, as he should,
illuminate the book.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
Baden-Powell: R. H. Kiernan (Harrap). An
account of an interesting career, “for boys of all
ages.”
“Art in New Zealand”: Latest issue of this
quarterly has an article on color woodcuts and an
analysis of the decoration of the Te Ore Ore Maori
house near Masterton. More space than usual is
given to reviews of M.L. books.
Penguins: Latest additions include George
Moore’s Confessions of a Young Man; The Egypt’s
Gold, by David Scott (raising the million pounds’
worth of gold from the sunken P. and O. liner);
Night Flight, by Antoine de Saint-Exupery ; “Saki’s”
Selected Short Stories; The Fight of the Fire-Crest,
by Alain Gerbault (across the Atlantic in a small
cutter); Penang Appointment, by Norman Collins,
and But Soft: We Are Observed, by Hilaire Belloc
(both fiction); and the mystery thrillers, Murder in
the Maze, by J. J. Connington, and Death of My
Aunt, by C. H. B. Kitchen.
Verse . . .
Casting Off: Enoch Powell (Basil Blackwell).
The second collection of short lyrics from an English
writer now living in Sydney. Tone shows the in-
fluence of Housman, and the poems have a touch of
Housman’s clarity and simplicity:—•
I grieve because I shall forget,
And curse no more the day we met;
Because I shall not always feel
The ache that aftertime will heal. -


mam
SMiW *
,y .-’Ss
:-^l3Stl@^
$B?-i
S.'.LJ
till®
m
mm
•m
£fi
_,,V *£*' | ,• XVIIL-. 'L.jffi f V* .1 >».«• » /•«* '( •’- *■ ** ■'■’ { : >n **■
lg TTfswK’
ii i.i. i. i i —T’i i~ ’ *« ,,,T .. t --- ~—v*q •;
‘5 S
m:
Haw
In]
! *6=£g|g^
mm
Mm*;
m
SSSIb
WWwMi
ifHiM
*/,V>vr;„)(*,
*•' t.-»H •./"-.>>» w*I»0 ss*
('.i.£ •v'^-1* 1 <** J *^ 4 ‘A-C^^C.- *
m
J-acV'‘T> '•" '• *'*> **
GV-jte -<>v.<*a
r K :y - ;• •
• iffir-A
1 \
mm
Wm.
M
m
■
*',-, v , s.'.?-K’}*.*'* ft-V ft* <#v ..., .^, r , .., ,
».\' h ;•
yBSPSPI
/mi
IffSHArafi
SSSv;i-
-•• -A\l *.A*f *.
..,..• '••*»«»&
Sfe'j
fj
SOT?
tel
1
l4w/*T,r'
wiSno
*¥*Cu *1
Kra
raggE
,\t • •**»• 7>r
5 /.//
£R
11
ft*
Mi,?
/lx®
LK'
Mt
m
'•'^wSi^i
m
m
m
WmM
u
m
s//
I?
*PM
A
m
oMStmi
m
m
MTf?
**."•' .■.sjKtort&B&i
OT
mm
■wx..,, .„.,:.-#»V-'^'"-"
|W«NW
i^f»S
i^y
<fOu-_.A A-
A LOAN for Public Works of the Commonwealth and States was opened on 30th May,
1939, and will close not later than Wednesday, 14th June, 1939. The amount asked
for is £4,750,000—the interest rate is £3/17/6 per cent, per annum, the issue price is £99
—and the effective return to investors will be an average annual yield of £3/19/2 per cent.
Prospectuses may be obtained from and applications lodged with any Bank, Savings Bank,
Money Order Post Office, or any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Subscriptions may be paid in full, or by instalments up to Ist September, 1939, as per
prospectus.
The issue is a Trustee investment under the Trustees Acts of the several States.
Interest will not be subject to State Income Taxes.
INTEREST 317.
ISSUED AT £99
AVERAGE ANNUAL YIELD
£3/19/27.
REPAYABLE IN 1953-1955.
The Treasurer reserves the right to close the Loan
at any time before 14th June, 1939.
COMMONWEALTH
LOAN
ISSUED UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE
AUSTRALIAN LOAN COUNCIL.
ROBERT G. MENZIES,
Treasurer.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
(fyd r H£ne
An object of interest to all visitors to
London is the Mansion House, almost
facing the Bank of England. It is the
official residence of the Lord Mayor dur-
ing his term of office, which lasts for
one year. The building, occupying the
site of a market, was begun in 1739, but
not completed until 1753, the total cost
being about £50,000, a very considerable
sum at that period. It is not an imposing
edifice, laboring under the disadvantage
of being “crowded in” by other buildings.
The facade, overloaded without being
rich, has allegorical sculpture in the
pediment, designed by Sir Robert Tay-
lor, but not particularly intelligible. A
long narrow “attic,” seen in the illus-
tration of 1839, originally ran across the
centre of the roof, and was called the
Mayor’s (mare’s) nest. Happily it has
been long since removed. The Mansion
House contains some handsome rooms,
the most famous being the Egyptian
Hall, an imitation of what Vitruvius, a
celebrated architect of the age of Augus-
tus, first Emperor of Rome, describes
under that name. Here the Lord Mayor
gives splendid banquets on State and
other occasions, and it i& occasionally
employed for meetings of national im-
portance. During his short term of office
and within his narrow realm of the City
boundaries, the Lord Mayor is so com-
pletely paramount as to take precedence
even of the royal family, as Sir James
Shaw successfully maintained against
George IV. when Prince of Wales. The
new Lord Mayor on assuming office
each November 9 proceeds in procession
to the Law Courts on the fringe of the
City’s western boundary to take the oaths
of office, in procession known as “the
Lord Mayor’s show,” the most cere-
monious occasion that has survived to
this day. He rides in a carriage second
only to the Sovereign’s State coach, in
cumbrous magnificence, designed by
Cipriani in 1757. The Mansion House
is really a palace, and is well worth in-
specting, permission to do which can
usually be obtained by application to
the Town Clerk. This historic civic
residence is even something more than
a home for the Lord Mayor. It plays a
national, Imperial and international part
in the relief of distress. All have heard
THE MANSION HOUSE, LONDON, 1839-1939.
of a Mansion House Fund. There can be scarcely instanced a world-wide calamity without a Mansion House Fund to relieve those who suffer
from it. It stands for the great, generous heart of the Metropolis, hence it has been truthfully affirmed that “the whole Empire and the whole
world look to the City of London for help in times of trouble.”


LEAGUE TO ENFORCE PEACE.
“Italy and Germany want peace, and they will impose it, if necessary."-Mussolini on the Italo-German military alliance, which was signed last week.
“Our peaceful aim we both proclaim in one concerted breath."
The Axis talks. Whoever baulks our plans we’ll kick to death.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
"WE ARE FOR BRITAIN."
Mr. Menzies having reaffirmed this long-standing
doctrine, with matrimonial embellishments, he would
help further by now explaining just exactly what, in
his view, is Australia’s position in the partnership.
The embellishments —“For better or worse, richer or
poorer, we are for Great Britain” —tend to make the
position somewhat confused.
The well-known sentimental feelings of this coun-
try for Britain —demonstrated in the clearest fashion
during the war and quite as embracingly since—would
support the vision of Australia as the blushing bride
going down the aisle with that splendid fellow J. Bull.
Unfortunately, other considerations besides
national sentiment must enter into an attempt to divine
what the Prime Minister had in mind, pending his own
explanation. There is, for one thing, national self-
interest. As things are, this does not help to conjure
up half as pretty a picture, whether Australia be cast
for the part of the bride or the bridegroom. If the
bride, the picture the artist would have to set forth—
Mr. Lindsay would do it very well —would be that of
a designing female bagging a bemused J. Bull because
he represented to her a continued life of boudoir
luxury without any effort on her part that would
cause her the slightest discomfort.
The vision of Australia as bridegroom, bent on
self-interest, would be even less attractive. Here the
artist would be confronted with the job of depicting
Australia as a gigolo finding it convenient to go
through the service with an Amazonian Britannia.
Yet another vision, certain to occur to some jaun-
diced minds, would call for the depiction of Australia
as a helpless young lady in a possum skin being
dragged along by the hair of the head by a coarse
J. Bull in a lion’s pelt, already with more of her help-
less kind in his cave than he knows what to do with.
As this, however, would be marriage without benefit
of service it can no doubt be dismissed from any
genuinely serious speculation on what view of Aus-
tralia Mr. Menzies may be keeping in mind.
These various speculations are respectfully sub-
mitted to Mr. Menzies as some sort of evidence that
his matrimonial declaration on this country’s behalf
is not really as clear as his legal mind should be able
to manage. A further explanation from him would be
much appreciated, especially one made in the light of
present realities, rather than in the smoke of past cir-
cumstances that were very well in their day but no
longer hold good. He has himself asserted that “pious
statements” are not enough, so he would not regard
this request arising out of his own scarcely impious
statements as an impertinence.
On one point in particular the P.M. might be
especially helpful. It cannot have escaped his notice
that the other partner to this matrimonial episode has
lately suffered, or at any rate undergone, a most
sudden, violent, quite unforeseen and as yet unpre-
dictable change in general relationships. He —the
senior partner —has undertaken to cherish, for better
or worse, richer or poorer, so many more on an equal
footing to that proposed for Australia that it is a
wonder a notable legal mind did not at once size up
the real position—downright bigamy.
There is, of course, an alternative —false metaphor.
Taking this view—that mentioning a marriage at
all was a mistake ; that the picture called for is rather
one of father and son in joint partnership for" their
mutual benefit —there is still a degree of confusion that
the P.M. might helpfully clear up.
In this view the senior partner suddenly gets him-
self involved in a whole host of new and strange en-
tanglements. What, then, is the junior partner’s posi-
tion? To translate the P.M.’s metaphor—as it would
then need to be translated —from the clerical to the
secular, the position would appear to be correctly
stated as “We’re for the old man, right or wrong.”
Little to fault in that. For one thing, national senti-
ment seeks no choice; for another, national self-
interest leaves no option.
But here the excellent dictum that “pious state-
ments” are not enough comes in again, more strongly
still. Australia is for Britain. Nobody with any sense
is likely to dispute it. Very good. Australia—per-
force or otherwise does not matter—accepts Britain’s
present foreign policy as, say, necessary. To further
this policy, J. Bull is now compelled to the unprece-
dented step of adopting conscription in a so-called
time of peace. How does the junior partner figure in
this?
The answer can be that Australia is doing a great
deal. (“Doing a great deal” is not meant in an offen-
sive sense.) Australia is spending unheard-of sums on
defence. Mr. Hughes, by means legitimate and other-
wise, doubled the militia strength. Industry is being
organised. A compulsory register is on the way.
In most respects J. Bull had done all that. In
some respects he had done ten times as much. He
found it of no use in the face of existing realities. His
new policy, or threatening circumstances —it does not
matter which —demanded an all-in effort or nothing.
By the enforcement of compulsory service his already
voluntarily enlarged forces will be further enlarged by
an additional 200,000 men this year. Next year and
the year after this number will rise by 50 p.c. Imme-
diate additions will bring the total forces to 1,021,000
before the end of this present year.
That is an all-in effort. How can the junior part-
ner be said to stand in regard to it?
Can it be held that such an all-in effort is here
being made? In view of what the senior partner per-
force is now doing, would Mr. Menzies, or anybody
else, contend that without the reintroduction of com-
pulsory national service Australia will be doing other
than disgracefully poling in a partnership that none
but halfwits will dispute is dictated both by national
sentiment and national self-interest, at least as much
by the forrrier as by the latter? And while this holds
true can Mr. Menzies or anybody else in Australia
speak with a clear conscience of being “for Britain,”
against Britain, or in any position even to suggest a
respectful word of advice?
If an all-in policy is necessary to Britain, and
Australia is “for Britain,” obviously an all-in policy
is necessary here also. Either that, or silence. Any-
thing short of it has already been well labelled by Mr.
Menzies in the category of “pious statements,” which
are “not enough.”
Hailing Mr. Menzies as a most promising Prime
Minister for Australia, the London “National Review”
suggests that he “will probably make military service
compulsory, thus carrying out the democratic tradition
of Australia of equality for all.” Then, to borrow
from one of his own chosen sources, he should speak
now or for ever hold his peace.
Protection and the Land Industries.
The Bulletin worked for Protection in the colonial
days, when support for it involved sacrifices. It has
lived to see Protection become the national fiscal
policy and give results which are magnificent.
Australian-made goods once had to be apolo-
gised for. Australian manufacturers and workmen
have overcome that prejudice by sheer efficiency.
The worth of their productions is recognised not only
in the home market but in foreign markets. The
high reputation established by the makers of agricul-
tural implements and machinery has been paralleled
in many other fields.
On the lengthening list of Australian exports arc
steel plates and galvanised-iron (England is buying
them), car bodies and all manner of radio appliances.
Australia is manufacturing aeroplanes for its own use,
and before long it will be manufacturing them for
other people. And at no distant date it will be mak-
ing tinplate and cars.
The Bulletin never took a narrow view of Pro-
tection. The election of a Protectionist majority to the
first Commonwealth Parliament it celebrated in these
words, published on April 6, 1901:
National progress should continue at every possible
point. The physically-perfect man is not a cripple: he
has not a magnificent torso and shrunken limbs, or
good limbs with a contracted chest. So the economi-
cally-perfect nation does not develop its industries in
one direction, while neglecting other directions in which
development is just as necessary.
The most vital industries are always those which
actually afford national subsistence by drawing wealth
from the land —agricultural, pastoral, mineral. But
the farmer does not live by bread alone; the pastoralist
does not live by wool; the miner does not live by
gold or coal. They all demand manufactured products;
they demand an exchange of products. Clothes
and boots, fdrniture and tools are not essentially
necessaries of life; but they are necessaries of
civilisation which have practically become necessaries of
life. The men who produce these things, by an
exchange of products, are practically as necessary to
primary producers as primary producers are to them.
The aim of Protection is to encourage national
industries in all directions. What father of a. family,
because he has some strong sons and some less-strong
or weakly, would nourish the strong at the expense of
the weaker who can become strong and useful? Every
nation is a family of industries, to be reared as a just
father rears his sons and daughters. And just as a
father’s protection is repaid by his family, so a nation’s
Protection is repaid by the nation.
“The aim of Protection is to encourage national
industries in all directions.” Woolgrowers and wheat-
growers may now fairly ask —and are asking in great
numbers—what Protection is doing for their indus-
tries? Their cry is that, while the great majority of
manufacturers are doing well, most woolgrowers and
nearly all wheatgrowers are doing badly. And they
won’t be put off with the reply that it is no fault of
Protection that the price of wool has fallen below a
shilling a pound and the price of wheat below two
shillings a bushel. This is a fact, but it is no use
reasoning with profoundly discontented sections ; and
that applies also to the great body of wage-earners
who find it increasingly hard to maintain their families
according to accepted Australian standards of living,
because things are so dear, and who grow bitter when
they read of sweating in the clothing trade and of
profiteering in the brick trade.
There are manufacturers who recognise their
obligations to other industries and consumers. There
are others who seem more intent on producing spec-
tacular balance sheets, and on applying for fantastic
duties on articles they propose to turn out, duties
which would make things a bit worse for the wheat-
grower and more than a bit worse for the wool-
grower. Unconscionable examples of the latter ten-
dency have lately come before the Tariff Board, and
others are threatened.
The condition of the woolgrowing and wheat-
growing industries now calls strongly for the atten-
tion of manufacturers, and it should never be ignored
by them. It is all too probable that the wheatgrower
will have to be tided over another bad year; and if
wool keeps below a shilling it will be impossible to
refuse a bounty to make up the price to that amount.
Sumptuary laws even may have to be invoked to
enforce the wearing of more wool —in a sterner Eng-
lish age, when women had few jobs and no votes and
the idiosyncrasies of the young female of the species
were not studied, even shrouds had to be woollen.
Co-operation of manufacturers in keeping down
costs would help these land industries in times that are
trying souls and tempers.
Australia for Tourists.
In most civilised countries the tourist traffic is a heavy
trade. Switzerland, which has a population nearly
3,000,000 less than Australia’s, reckons its annual in-
come from visitors at £20,000,000 sterling. Hawaii
banks on about £3,000,000 ; California —it has Holly-
wood, of course —on £40,000,000 sterling. An Aus-
tralian estimate of the return in Australian currency is
£1,700,000.
We are, of course, at a disadvantage through dis-
tance, but that does not matter to some tourist types,
the ones who can most afford to spend money. There
is enough traffic from all directions to call for in-
creasing luxury in ships and for more ships. Before
the war, a 12,000-ton mail ship was a giant. To-day
standard size of new vessels is 25,000 tons. The
biggest on the run from Europe —Dominion Monarch
—is 26,500 tons.
Before the war the Matson line bagged the
Pacific business with the small Ventura and Sonoma,
in which there was a careful censorship of bedtime
hours and the behavior of passengers was toned down
to Quaker-picnic pitch. The Monterey and the Mari-
posa are now too small for the co., which proposes to
run tonnage up to that of the latest Orient boats in
vessels now to be ordered.
Each country has its method of collecting tour-
ists. Britain and many other countries leave the
thing to private enterprise. Some of the European
countries have their own special tricks. Germany,
for instance, has the A ski mark, a special-rate-of-
exchange currency for trippers. 111-disposed persons
suspect that when a hotelkeeper sees an A ski mark
his prices go up ; but, anyway, it attracts business.
Other countries specialise in hotels. Fatted
travellers go to Quebec not to see the French-
Canadians —most of them have heard enough French
spoken to last them the rest of their lives —but to
stay at the Chateau Frontenac. Ottawa is a better
tourist centre than Canberra, not because there is
anything much more to see there, but because of
the Chateau Laurier.
Hotel, transport and comfort are three things
which have to be sold to tourists. Sightseeing counts,
but it must be the right sort. A Californian calculation
of ratios of expenditure by tourists is food and lodging
60 p.c., refreshments 7 p.c., transport and petrol 15
p.c., clothing about 5 p.c. and the balance in sun-
dries such as photography, souvenirs and entertain-
ments.
Hotels are the first item. Let the average tourist
think of a city and the first thing he thinks of is the
name of the leading pub. With Australian tourist
propaganda, the first thing thought of is the surf god-
desses of Sydney ; next, sheep, wide open spaces and
corroborees, which are such miserable affairs that
no tourist wishes to see one twice. Thirdly, there is
Kosciusko.
Beaches and surf goddesses have no lure for the
overseas tourist. Atlantic City, Floridan and Cali-
fornian goddesses wear less than Australian, and show-
manship there is worked up to a fine art. Anyway, if a
European or Yankee wishes to see people bathing he
would go to Juan les Pins or the Lido, where he can
see real live lords without their shirts and real live
ladies in very small shorts, rather than come 12,000
miles to gaze at a lot of “colonials.” If he is an ex-
tremist, he will even prefer Rostov. Rostov is cheaper
and nearer, and the ladies don’t wear bathing-suits —
or didn’t a few years ago.
Canberra could be made one of the best tourist
attractions in the world. If the £20,000 a year now
lavished on the superfluous “National” Travel Asso-
ciation were used to provide capital to build an out-
standing hotel there, and if there were another at Kos-
ciusko and a big-game fishing chalet at Bermagui or
Bateman’s Bay, and radiating roads through all the
mountain country round the Snowy River and down
to Khancoban, it would be an excellent beginning.
Add a five-mile tan ride through the blossomed
streets and a supply of horses, some real trout fishing
and a golf course worth while in surroundings which
Canberra could supply in few years, and the expendi-
ture would soon pay for itself.
The scheme could be repeated a few times over
in other parts of Australia. Even at present, when
its best pub looks like harem quarters souvenired from
Old Turkey, Canberra’s Tourist Bureau handles 10,000
inquiries a year.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Fearless Fighters."
Jack Johnson was never challenged so valorously by
White Hopes as dictators are challenged by two
League diehards: Mr. Jordan, the Maoriland High
Commissioner, and the editor of the Sydney “Morning
Herald.” Not all dictators ;■ the two worthy knights
have discriminated in favor of Dr. Salazar, of Portugal,
and General Metaxas, of Greece. Moreover, the
dictator-king of Rumania, once “Carol the Cad,” has
been taken into favor, and great and abounding merits
have suddenly been found in Marshal Smigly-Rydz and
Mr. Stalin. As for Hitler, Mussolini and Franco, the
editor was with difficulty restrained from taking on all
three, and, Franco having become a non-combatant as
it were, any Japanese general who chooses to go look-
ing for fight can be accommodated in Hunter-street,
Sydney, behind the Cafe-de-Fairfax.
Mr. Jordan, for his part, wanted to have a cut,
by the collective-security route, at the Enemy in Abys-
sinia, Spain, China, Austria and Czechoslovakia. He
was silent during the Albanian business, his feelings
having perhaps overcome him, but last week when the
League Council met for one of its enthralling discus-
sions and the Chinese delegate demanded sanctions
against Japan, Mr. Jordan, according to his brother-
champion’s paper, “strongly supported it.” So, of
course, did Mr. Maisky, of Moscow.
Mr. Jordan has evidently been active in the cause
of unlimited lash in London as well as Geneva. Any-
way a “special representative” of Sydney “Sun” penned
the following dispatch from London on the day which
saw Mr. Jordan work himself into a frenzy for
“sanctions” in the palace of the League.
There is excellent reason for believing that the
representative of at least one Dominion pointedly
hinted that, if Britain failed to make a Russian pact and
became involved in war with Germany, there would
certainly be a most serious split in the Empire, quite
apart from a possible upheaval of public opinion in
Britain.
The “one Dominion” can only be Maoriland, for the
Canadian and South African Governments are notori-
ously averse from European entanglements, and the
Australian Prime Minister’s lack of enthusiasm for a
Russian alliance has been repeatedly referred to with
asperity in “S. M. Herald.”
But who is Mr. Jordan that he should be set up
as an authority on Empire opinion? He is not even
a Maorilander by birth. He never saw Maoriland till
he had passed in his uniform as an English policeman
and had imbibed the fixed ideas on foreign politics
of the silliest Labor party in the English-speaking
world. If he had been in the service of any other
Dominion Government he would have been ordered
long ago to put his head in a bag. But the Maoriland
Administration has let him have his fling, being too
busy trying to extract sunshine from pumpkins.
"Shaking Hands with Murder."
The French, the British Liberal and Labor parties,
the Gingerbeer Group of Conservatives, the League of
Nations Union, the “News-Chronicle,” the Sydney
“Morning Herald,” the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” and
the band of American reporters who gather so much
of the foreign “news” have had their way. The
Chamberlain Government has agreed to enter into a
military alliance with Soviet Russia. It is a great come-
down for the British aristocracy, and the feelings of
the royal family, though they will not be expressed,
are intelligible enough. The royal family cannot have
forgotten the murder, with every accompaniment of
savagery, of their kinsman the Tsar, his wife, his
four daughters and his crippled son.
No doubt Mr. Chamberlain also feels his position
keenly. Wearied by his exertions in the cause of
peace, resentful at having been let down by the
German leader, alarmed at the course events were
taking and threatened with a split in the party which
might have easily-predictable consequences, he was
forced into a position where circumstances had become
too strong for him. He had to choose between doing
a distasteful thing himself and letting it be done by
some successor, himself the creature of circumstances
—perhaps some reckless fool who might land the
Empire into war within a month or two. What he has
consented to do is bad enough ; the Dominions, re-
assured to some extent by the cautious attitude ot
the Japanese Government —though it is no certainty
that the Japanese Government will not be overborne
by the pro-German militarists, who last week boarded
a P. and O. steamer and talked of a China-Seas
blockade—will allow that in other hands it might have
been infinitely worse.
The Russian alliance, it is claimed, is a logical
consequence of the change in foreign policy which
had for its first step the guarantee to Poland. Perhaps
it is ; but at this distance it looks equally useless and
even more dangerous. So far the change in foreign
policy has produced nothing but trouble and manifold
possibilities of more trouble, illustrated by the frontier
shootings in Rumania and Poland. One-sided pledges
have been made to Rumania and Greece. Rumania
and Greece have a foot in each camp, democratic and
totalitarian. This is also the case with Turkey, with
which country a provisional agreement for an alliance
has been made.
Australian wheatgrowers, so many of whom are
returned soldiers, have read with mingled feelings ot
the British undertaking to buy 200,000 tons of wheat
from Rumania and to take further supplies of
Rumanian wheat against a credit of £6,000,000. By
those of them who fought against the Turks, these
extracts from a London “Times” article, published
on April 19, will be read with similar emotions:
In May of last year the British Government granted
Turkey a credit of £16,000,000, and in October Turkey
signed an agreement with Dr. Funk for a further loan
of £12,500,000, again for purposes of military and indus-
trial development. At little or no cost to herself, Turkey
is the richer by £28,500,000 and the port of Alexan-
dretta [given up by the French]; and, having accepted
something from everyone, she is in no way politically
committed. Her trade with the Reich increased during
1938 by over 20 p.c.
The provisional agreement for an alliance with
Britain is no doubt an effect of the Italian seizure of
Albania. That grab did Italy great harm in the
Moslem world; on the other hand, it manoeuvred
Yugoslavia out of the Franco-British orbit and put
the fear of God in the hearts of the Greeks and
Rumanians. In any case, the seizure of Albania, the
neutralising of Yugoslavia and the solidification of
the Italo-German pact into a military alliance are
plain results of the change in British foreign policy.
And now Britain is, in effect, guaranteeing the
immense European possessions of Soviet Russia, some
of which are quite modern acquisitions. Undertaking
to protect a Power of unknown military strength,
whose Government has in the past 18 months shot
half its generals ; a Power given to cracking up sud-
denly and mysteriously, as it did in the wars of 1854-
55, 1904-05, 1914-17 and 1920 ; a Power, moreover,
which is hated throughout Europe, hated by demo-
cratic neighbors who know it best, the Finns and the
Swedes, by Britain’s other “allies,” the Rumanians
and the Poles, and most of all by Nationalist Spain.
And entry into this alliance will bring the world no
respite from the mad armaments race, which, apart
from its other deadly possibilities, threatens all the
Powers with bankruptcy. Rather it means that the
two groups of allies will go on arming harder than
ever.
Mr. Hertzog’s speech delivered on April 12 comes
back to memory. The South African Prime Minister
said:
The Dominions have been kept informed of diplo-
matic developments in Europe, but they have not been
asked to give their approval of any step taken by the
British Government. The position now is the same as
when the Locarno Pact was signed; the Dominions
are not bound by European commitments assumed by
Britain.
If Mr. Menzies agrees that this is the position, he
should issue a statement to the same effect. Such a
statement would at least remove some measure of
anxiety and humiliation from the public mind and it
might be a valuable contribution to peace in the
Pacific.
Singapore.
“Feng-Shui” has another look at it:
Singapore has become Britain’s key fortress, a mighty
naval base and gateway to the Orient, in conjunction with a
triangle whose other salient points are Borneo and Darwin.
Moreover, it is to become general headquarters for the British
and French forces, with the Dutch no doubt in the offing,
immediately a world war threatens. In pre-war days the
flatfish island supported a single British regiment, and a
bored British officer instructed volunteers, who marched up
and down the parade-ground followed by a wondering crowd
of Chinese, Malay and Indian children.
In those days there was no serious contestant of the
power of Britain, and as Britain was a democracy democracy
was all the fashion. The native took to it like a duck to
water.
In Java, Singapore, India and China everybody was
either trying on the new hat or knocking it off the head
of somebody. Every tinpot Asiatic sultan was either declaring
for a Constitution or chopping off the heads of Constitutional-
ists.
Under instructions from the Colonial Office, which had
learnt no more about the “East” than it knew when Raffles
made it a present of Singapore in 1819, Governors of tiny
little British colonies were trying to be democratic to their
houseboys, and their wives were filling themselves and every-
body else with embarrassment by mixing with veiled harem
ladies at garden parties. Even planters on lonely islands were
trying democratic principles on their bewildered coolies, regard-
less of the fact that they had the power of sacking their coolies
as soon as the planters’ conception of democracy clashed
with the immemorial coolie habit of going to sleep underneath
a coconut-tree. In China the ancient throne of the Manchus
was being rocked to its foundations while politicians were
throwing inkwells at each other inside a bad copy of the
House of Commons and having bombs thrown at themselves
outside it. The Tsar of all the Russias was trying on the
new hat on Monday, taking it off and jumping on it on
Tuesday and having it rammed over his ears on Wednesday.
Then the Great War came. China, Russia, Austria and
Germany went to pieces. Britain, France and the U.S.A.
held together. But in the ensuing chaos an individual named
Mussolini started anew fashion. The Italians changed their
hats overnight, as did the Germans when an individual
named Hitler appeared. Within a decade, except in places
like Australia which had special conditions, every country
become obsessed with the dictator fashion as it had previously
been obsessed with the rule of the many. War lords like
Chiang Kai-shek cashed in on the prevailing racket.
The result is a world arranged much as it was in 1914,
except that the focus has shifted somewhat. During the
last war Singapore was as remote from the centre of the
tornado as it was possible to imagine. All that happened to
it was the mutiny of a Bengal regiment, which had such a
poor notion of geography that German prisoners were easily
able to convince it that its seizure of the island would
iriCcin the downfall of the Empire.
Senators on the Stunt Press.
If Stunt Press editors’ ears could burn, they must have
burned when the Labor leader in the in a
speech described by an opponent, Senator Abbott, as
one which “will go down in the annals ol this Chamber
ŕ
Assisting Australian Letters.
è


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“If the Japs try to get aboard my ship it'll mean war pretty damn' quick!”
“Pawang”: A bright little controversy
is being waged in Melbourne. A leading
businessman who preferred to remain
anonymous announced that he would like
to have children but strongly objected to
paying the price in lifelong existence with
one woman, and drew the line at pro-
faning the marriage vow. This conun-
drum proved to be beyond the solution
of contemporary Melbourne, although
Shaw offered a way out, at least for
spinsters, in a play written 30 years ago.
A woman corresponaenr remarked that
there were plenty of married couples
with more children than they could
manage, and suggested the unhappy man’s
going in for adoption. He tartly replied
that he didn’t intend to be a charitable
institution for children whose parents
don’t do their own job. Another female
acidly replied by suggesting that he
should marry and have as many children
as possible before his wife deserted him,
knowing that she would eventually do
so with such a husband. Nobody seems
to have noticed that the bachelor gent.’s
conditions are irreconcilable. He might
as well have said that he wanted to go
to Sydney but insisted on walking in the
opposite direction.
* * * *
“Hawkshaw”: The conviction by a
Maoriland jury of the principals in what
Sydney newspapers call the “Piha Bones
case” was a foregone conclusion. “Guilty
of arson and interfering
with a dead body, but not
guilty of conspiracy to de-
fraud the Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance,” was
the foreman’s pronounce-
ment. Counsel for one of
the accused contended that,
if any conspiracy had ex-
isted, then the crime was
committed in Australia,
not Maoriland. Perhaps
the cardinal blunder made
by the convicted men was to cross the
Tasman to stage their elaborate drama.
As strangers in the little village of Piha
they attracted attention. Their move-
ments were watched and commented
upon. But, with all this, they had bad
luck. Something found among the bones
in the debris of the fire at Piha was mis-
taken for a surgical clip, and this led
the police to search a certain grave in a
certain cemetery and discover an empty
coffin. But the late occupant hadn’t any
surgical clips about his head, only the
usual cottonwool filling in the mouth.
And despite the heat of the blaze at
Piha, the skull found in the burnt cottage
still carried some recognisable wadding
in its jaws.
* * * *
“R.1.P.” : Auckland (M.L.) City Coun-
cil has introduced a novelty in the matter
of funeral processions. A small white
flag, with a mauve cross on it, is carried
on the driving side mudguard of the
hearse as an indication to traffic officials
that a funeral is approaching a crossing,
preventing a holdup of the cortege.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: A Sydney doctor
tells in a letter to the “Medical Journal
of Australia” of a patient who had the
severest haemorrhage he’d seen in 20
years. Within 15 minutes the harassed
man, as pale as his patient, had told the
story by ’phone to the superintendent
of a big midwifery hospital, asking that
a blood transfusion be done as a matter
of urgency. Things moved at once; in-
side three-quarters of an hour a doctor,
a nurse with the necessary equipment,
and a blood donor arrived at the house,
seven miles from the hospital. The little
team of three brought along their own
outfit and didn’t ask for as much as a
safety-pin. In less than an hour the
mother had been given 600 cubic centi-
metres of blood. The story would have
ended differently 10 or 12 years ago ;
but, as the doctor says with some show
of reason: “I am indebted to the hos-
pital for this service, and would recom-
mend it to my fellow-practitioners.”
Both doing well.
“P.J.R.”: “K.P.” (B. 17/5 / ’39) appears
to have swallowed a tall yarn. Blood
Group 4 is not “relatively rare” ; it is
quite common, and the odds against 64
people having no member of this group
must be many thousands to one. Also,
the odds against a medical staff testing
64 separate bloods while a desperately-ill
paient waited for his transfusion must
be equally long. In voluntary-trans-
fusion corps the largest group is usually
Group 4, the practical importance of this
obviously being that the blood of a donor
already known to be Group 4 can be
given, in emergencies, to a patient with-
out testing the latter’s blood at all. It
is, of course, preferable where possible
to use a donor of the same blood-group
as the patient, as this reduces the chance
of certain reactions which can occur
when a universal donor gives blood to a
patient of another group. In rare in-
stances a patient’s blood cells are clumped
by any blood serum, including, after
withdrawal, his own. This phenomenon
occurs only when the blood cools below
body temperature, and will therefore be
noted in the ordinary testing of blood at
room temperature, but can be avoided
if the test be carried out at the tempera-
ture of the body. Possibly some such
trouble occurred in the Brisbane case.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: The recruits were lined
up outside the storeroom waiting for
their issue of uniform. A well-dressed
young fellow received attention first.
He seemed to be very fastidious, trying
on several pairs of trousers, tunics, etc.
Meanwhile, the others began muttering
impatiently. At last the hard-to-please
recruit appeared to be quite satisfied.
“Are you sure everything’s all right
now?” sarcastically inquired the Q.M.S.
“No fear,” drawled a voice from the mob ;
“he ain’t tried on his water-bottle yet!”
* * * *
“D.F.”: Australia has never had any-
thing answering to the Mayflower Society
or the First Founders of Virginia, but
there must be swarms of descendants of
First-Fleeters about. Many of them
possibly do not know that they are.
The first that I ever knowingly ran into
was the Rev. Lethbridge King, then rec-
tor of Camden. The next was L. A.
Palmer, at the Nadgee Rover cattle
station, the nearest habitation to Cape
Howe on the N.S.W. side. The third
was D. Hope Johnston, who chanced
at that moment to be sitting next to a
direct descendant of Governor Bligh,
whom Johnston of the First Fleet over-
threw in the 1808 rebellion.
* V * *
“Sftorus”: An up-country town was
holding its “Back to the Old Spot” re-
union recently, and a very stout and opu-
lent city personage had arrived to address
the parents in the schoolhouse. “Yes, I
was a pupil here for many years,” he
remarked. “I remember how I used to
take a short cut to school across the
paddocks, and how I managed to get a
paling off the school fence so that I
could get into the playground without
going round to the gate.” “What! Only
one paling?” came a genuinely astonished
voice from the rear.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Port Adelaide is having an
“Edwin Drood” sort of mystery. A boy
of 15 disappeared. A body was found
in the canal two and a half days later
in such a condition that his relatives
were dubious about recognising it except
by the undoubted clothing. The doctors
declare that this was probably an older
man, and certainly had been dead for a
week. To which the police reply that
nobody else seems to be missing, and
anyway who would put the older and
longer-dead body into the boy’s clothes?
* * * *
“Artifex”: The perils of the sea are
accentuated in these days by man’s in-
genuity. The latest and one of the
biggest of Uncle
Sam’s submarines,
the Squalus, sent to
the bottom in 240 ft.
of water, stayed there
because a valve failed
to close during the
descent. Twenty-six
men were trapped in
compartments that
were immediately
flooded, and it seems
they must be dead,
either from drowning
or the impact of the
water when the sub-
marine hit the
bottom at an angle.
That the disaster
wasn’t worse must
be credited to an
unnamed hero, who
as soon as he saw
water coming in
pounced on a water-
tight door and
screwed it shut
single-handed. That’s
not a one-man job,
and how Seaman
Anonymous did it is
a mystery to his
mates. Thirty-three
men in the un-
inundated compart-
ments of the Squalus
were taken off in re-
lays in a diving bell
—a hazardous busi-
ness because of the
depth, lower than
divers usually ven-
ture. The rescued
men had to be kept
in an artificially high
air pressure for
hours to minimise
the risk of “bends,”
that fearful paralysis that comes to divers
who work too deep or too long. Behavior
of all the crew of the submarine was
exemplary. No complaining ; perfect dis-
cipline. And it wasn’t till all hope had
gone that the naval authorities disclosed
the extent of the disaster. No scare-
mongering there, but plenty of food for
rumination on the folly of commercial
scare-purveyors whose vagaries half a
dozen times a month engender a risk
that those quiet heroes who man war-
ships and line trenches may be sacrificed
in yet another silly war.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A fine point of heraldry has
been exercising the cables between the
College of Arms in London and the S.A.
Ministry. What should the new flags
for the new Parliament House show, the
S.A. crest, dating only from 1936, or the
old coat of arms? The college seems
quite shocked by the former idea, and
cabled “Heraldically incorrect to place
arms on flags. Crest should not appear
at all.” S.A. had, it seems, made the
shocking error of confusing “arms” with
“coat of arms.” So the old familiar
magpie is to continue to roost on Parlia-
ment House.
THE ASTROLOGER.
Were you bom in Gemini or Sagittarius
Or Mercury? You’ve only got to say,
And I’ll tell you what is safe and what pre-
carious
For you to do on such-and-such a day.
Whether you purpose punting at the races
Or merely mooching round your fav’rite bars,
If you’re bent on work or leisure, solid graft
or airy pleasure,
You can always get a pointer from the stars.
Did you come to light when melancholy
Saturn
Or brightly-smiling Venus ruled your fate?
I can give you, cut reliably to pattern,
The accurate and right and proper date
To engage in any business transaction,
From backing prospectors to buying cars,
For I know the secret forces of the planets
in their courses,
The pull on human fortunes of the stars.
Just acquaint me whether Jupiter or Pisces
Impressed upon you occult emphasis
And I’ll tell you when it’s time to cut out
whiskies
And the best days for giving beer a miss.
Was it Neptune, Leo, Aries or Uranus
That marked you for his own —or maybe
Mars?
You need only make me wiser and I’ll be your
sound adviser,
For I’ve made a lifelong study of the stars.
If you started life when Pluto or when Taurus
Shed influence on your cradle from above,
I can tip you when it’s fitting and decorous
To make a start in either war or love.
For astrology’s the science on which all may
place reliance
For steering clear of accidents and jars.
They’re impervious as granites to chicanery,
the planets,
And they never make a bloomer, do the
stars.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Melbourne’s new Hotel Aus-
tralia. which is rearing its huge gridiron
front opposite The Bulletin office in
Collins-street, is on a site once owned
by Henry (“Money”) Miller, who founded
the Victoria Insurance Co. Miller’s home
was Findon, Kew, and was the birth-
place of the Findon Hunt, started by
son Septimus. Henry was the first Mayor
of Richmond. He died in 1886, full of
affluence. In 1880 the site had been
divided among his five children, but the
hotel is on the whole of it, the family
having pooled interests. The name has
passed through various vicissitudes. In
1877 it was Gunstler’s Cafe ; then the
Vienna, celebrated for its Continental
atmosphere and cooking when the side of
“the Block” adjoining was a daily
promenade for Judges, authors, artists,
doctors and beauties. Phil May used to
stand on the corner of “the Block” biting
his nails and making sketches. For a
Bulletin full-page he did Theodore
Fink; L. L. Smith, father of Gengoult,
late Lord Mayor of Melbourne ; Benno
Scherek, the musician; Zox, the poli-
tician and philanthropist, well known
for his rotundity and white whiskers;
ex-Premier Gillies; Smythe, the entre-
preneur ; Alfred Myers (“Telemachus”);
and J. L. Purves. Theodore Fink has the
original of the May drawing, which he
values at £5OO.
* * * *
“Chelaka”: Writer handled thousands
of those free overseas radio mes-
sages on May 1, but saw nothing so
outstandingly clever in the way of com-
pression as came the way of Qwert
Yuiop” (B. 17/5/’39). A lot had to strain
themselves to take advantage of the whole
12 words. One sender used four words
in the address, and the text was made up
of eight “Hoorays.” The text of another
message, significantly to Aberdeen, read:
“Happy returns July 9 premature but
free.” For brevity and aptness a message
from the Sydney messengers of the
Eastern Extension to their London com-
peers takes some beating. Two words
only: “Good hiking.”
* * * *
“Avoca”: A minor mystery of life to
me is why banks, insurance cos. and
other financial and commercial institu-
tions, with few exceptions, persist in using
“nett” for “net” in balance sheets and
other documents. Says Fowler: “In the
commercial sense (free from deduction,
etc.) the spelling should, as elsewhere, be
net, not nett.” Another puzzle is why
the great majority of solicitors in their
divorce notices use “grounds” instead of
“ground” when only one reason, such as
adultery or desertion, is given for the
institution of divorce proceedings.
“Grounds,” of course, is plural, and two
or more reasons should be enumerated —
e.g., adultery and desertion —when it is
used.
* * *
“Devil Fish”: Popularising fish and
chips is the way out for those who want
to develop the Commonwealth’s rather
stagnant fishing industry. It is to supply
the fish-and-chip shops which vend a
semi-staple, semi-luxury need in the Eng-
lish cities and towns (the Scots have other
fish to fry, and, except in Glasgow and
the south-west, are not so fond of pota-
toes) that the British fishing fleets rake
over the seas from Bear Island to the
Morocco coast and from Davis Straits to
the White Seas. Incidentally, the demand
for chips largely determines the kind of
“Keep your shirt on, mister — I'm Wearin' them rubber gloves."
potato grown in Britain. Waxy potatoes
suitable for chipping have in many areas
displaced the floury type popular for
boiling. Last year the fried-fish shops,
according to the secretary of the National
Fish Friers, used 375,000 tons of fish, or
nearly 201 b. a head for every man,
woman and child in Britain. This alone
is a higher amount a head than the people
of the Commonwealth consumed in all
forms, including Soviet salmon and im-
ported herrings. It meant 60 p.c. of the
“white fish” landed in British ports. With
the fish went a million tons of potatoes.
The struggling potato-growers might get
a lift out of it, too. The climate in some
parts is a little against the chips, if not
the fish, but Melbourne in the winter is
an ideal fish-and-chips town.
*** * ,
“C.B ”: The A.B.C. has introduced an
innovation into the symphony concerts
in Melbourne. The interval is enlivened,
or allegedly enlivened, by members of
the audience being invited to broadcast
their opinions about the performance.
The opinions of a professor of
economics, of an Olympic athlete, of a
beauty-parlor specialist and other repre-
sentatives of the general public were
thrust upon the air on a recent occasion.
What the A.B.C. hopes to gain by it isn’t
known. Surely the opinion of the
specially-imported conductor is the one
best worth having, if he is worth import-
ing. Anyway, the innovation doesn’t help
to reconcile listeners to getting the less
juicy cuts off the joint provided for box-
office patrons, nor to the disorganisation
of timetables inseparable from attempts
to adjust a broadcasting service to the
convenience of an ordinary concert-
promoting business.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: There are more ways
than one of looking at the same thing.
I was watching a gang of wreckers when
the boss approached flourishing a letter.
“I’ve just heard from me son that went
for a trip to England,” he remarked,
and added proudly, “A .chip of the old
block, he is. Listen to this: ‘l’ve just
been shown over Westminster Abbey.
What a magnificent job that would be!’ ”
* * * *
“D.F.”: I went into’ a post office at
Oxford (Eng.) to send a cable to Hobart.
After a search for it the clerk asked
which one. Challenged to produce any
others except the Speck’s capital, he in-
formed me that there were four Hobarts
in the U.S.A. It is curious that the
smallest capital should have more name-
sakes than any of the others. Sydney
has only one, Sydney, Cape Breton
Island, unless you count Sydney Farm in
Surrey (Eng.) Melbourne has no other
save a couple of English villages, but
they’re spelt without the final “e.” Adel-
aide shares its name only with a Pata-
gonian island, and Brisbane seems to be
unique. Perth has namesakes in Scot-
land, Canada and Tas.
■* * * *
“Scat”: There has been a brisk' im-
migration of “Ks” into the new Sydney
telephone book. Names there now and
not there before include Kammer,
Kandal, Karrasch, Kassianos, Kasten-
muller, Katradis, Kaufmann, Kircher,
Koening, Koning, Korter, Kouvelis,
Kovacs, Krahmann, Krekau, Kriz, Kruse,
Krubig, Kubler, Kuehn, Kurtz and
Kusick. Only one letter of the alphabet
examined.
* * * *
"Clio”: “Craiser’s” hero (B. 17/5/’39)
had more luck with his deaf aunt than
a Maoriland woman I know. Her very
deaf but very affluent uncle spent a year
abroad, and on his return happened to
call on her when she was entertaining a
couple of society acquaintances. She sat
uncle in a corner, shrieked a few remarks
at him, and then devoted herself to her
other visitors, one of whom seemed in-
clined to try to exchange a few words
with the old gentleman. “Don’t bother
to talk to him, dear Mrs. Blank,” said
niece in her most affable manner. “He
was hit on the head in an accident some
years ago, and he’s practically stone-deaf.
1 really never try to talk to him ; it quite
exhausts me. And if you start him he’s
a frightful old bore and never stops.”
To her annoyance uncle outstayed the
guests. “Well,” he said as he departed,
“I just came in to tell you 1 was operated
on by a specialist in Brussels six months
ago and my hearing’s quite restored.”
# * * *
“II Vecchio” buys his Saturday fruit
and veg.:
Scene: Darlinghurst, Saturday, noon. Venus
and Adonis straight out of Raphael are wrap-
ping veges. in Friday’s issue of “S. M.
Herald.” Beautiful ladies, a wrestler, a boxer,
a violinist and an Australian exiled to King s
Cross are grouped round large and golden
lady. Adonis hands lady a parcel, and lady
says throatily: “Und . . . die Boline ?” Adonis
looks at her pityingly, waggles a hand and
says : “No got —up th’ road. Butchei • • •
Chop! Chop!” Lady says: “800-chaire?
Was ist das?” Aussie chips in: ‘ Entschuldi-
gen . . . Darf ich ... ?” All beautiful cus-
tomers look at him with respect. He is evi-
dently a cultured bloke, no crude colonial.
“She wants beans,” says Aussie. Oh,
yeah?” says Adonis. “How much? Lady
says “Bee-ee-enssss?” and spells it in
German: “B-u-h-n-s .. . Beenss!’ Aussie
says: ‘‘Nein! Auf englisch, b-e-a-n-s. Lady
argues. It then dawns on her that a chorus
is asking her how many beans she needs. Leav-
ing grammar lesson, she shouts Hun? ~ •
“Give her a pound,” says Aussie. 0.K., says
Adonis, chucking ’em on the scale. Lady
watches scale and explodes like gelignite.
Chorus explains to her that scale is marked
in pounds, not kilos; also tells her what a
pound is. Everybody differs as to relation of
pound to kilo. At this point, enters old gentle-
man who proceeds to examine the neaiest
bunch of carrots as if he were judging bulls.
Selecting the largest carrot and neglecting every-
body else’s preoccupations, he shouts: Zecsc
one!” Adonis says: “Y’can only have the
bunch. Stone th’ crows, think we re selling
canary seed?” Aussie translates to multitude.
Multitude tries to translate to old gent, who
stands holding lone carrot by the tail mur-
muring in bewilderment Comment ? which
seems to be the only word in French that he
understands. Fat lady goes out to pavement
remarking: “Beenss! Beenss! Beh-eh-ah-en-
ess—Beenss!” Adonis sighs as he serves
Aussie: “Refugees! Cripes! Makes a man
wanter be in Annandale!
“Crank ’er, ’ Arry , an' we'll push on.”
A TIDY PACKET.
«roM held by the U.S. Treasury amounts to
15,605,000,000 dollars —58 per cent, of the world s
stock.” ,
With splosh enough, held firmly m your fetters,
To make a mob of multi-millionaires,
You’ve precious little need to dun your debtors
Who’ve ceased for many a year to bothc
theirs;
You’ve doubtless lOUs for every penny,
But Uncle, ’twould be dilficult to show,
Judged by your bulging bankbook, you re in
Immediate need of dough.
The wide world o’er men hunt the yellow
They dig' for aureate wealth from shore
to shore, , . , ...
Two-thirds of which will ultimately settle
In your capacious kick —or maybe more.
The race in armaments, despite all protest.
Will never slacken until war’s grim clasn,
But nobody but you has the remotest
Chance in the race for cash.
O Midas among nations, Yankee Doodle—
Or Croesus —neither of those kings of old,
Bethink, won any happiness from boodle
Or peace of mind from quantities of gold.
In riches that enthral and hoards that dazzle,
When you consider it, there’s scant appeal
If one must pine, like Croesus, for a razzle,
Or Midas for a meal.
Still, one may shut his ears to envious scoffing
Who sits on velvet, sure that never more
He’ll glimpse a process-server in the offing
Or hear a bailiff tapping at the door
Compared with most, your outlooks blight
and breezy,
Uncle. For dollars you can ne er be stuck.
Therefore, when pressing for your dues, go
easy
With those that lack your luck!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


€>:
CRAVEN
IfouM <utfyieciate that.
10 for 9d...2Q for I'6
E 1869
7^-
MADE
PREVENT
99
e*
o
POLITICAL POINTS
J. A. Guy, who left the Labor party
with Lyons and was one of his U.A.P.
Ministers for three years, 1931-34, is
likely to succeed him as member for
Wilmot. When 21,282 effective votes
had been counted, the U.A.P. had 10,684
(Guy 6411, Cameron 2516 and Parsons
1757), Labor 9824 (Spurr 6124 and
Weston 3704) and an Independent
(Watson) 770. Cross voting could, of
course, put Spurr in, but there’s rarely
much of that in Tasmania, where both
parties believe in the open go.
Directly and indirectly, the late Frank
Baker was concerned in the only close
contests that the outer-suburban-Brisbane
division of Griffith, formerly Oxley, has
had. Not till Baker, then only 26, went
up against J. G. Bayley ten years ago
was the elected member’s majority ever
anything but substantial; then Baker
reduced Bayley’s lead to 100 —26,308 to
26,208. After getting in easily at two
subsequent elections, Baker’s own
majority was reduced to 324 in 1937.
Now, after a recount, Conelan (A.L.P.)
has been declared elected with only
eight votes to the good over McCowan
(U.A.P.), 27,790 to 27,782. Eighteen votes
was the difference at the end of the first
count; then it was found that votes had
been put in the wrong bundles, and
five additional ballot-papers arrived.
McCowan is appealing.
Graham, the Protestant Labor candi-
date in Griffith, finished with 15,431
effective votes —there were 1002 infor-
mal. Over two-thirds of his preferences
were U.A.P. It drove Curtin to comment,
perhaps imprudently, that the Protestant
Labor crowd ought to call itself the
Protestant U.A.P.
The slump in Queensland A.L.P.
stocks suggested by the voting in Grif-
fith seems to be general. In the Assembly
by-elections, though Keyatta will get in
for Townsville and Jones for Charters
Towers, each failed of an absolute
majority, which the dead member got (a
Protestant Labor man was the runner-up
in each case), and in Gregory Thompson
(A.L.P.) was being hard pressed on
Monday by Dr. Brown, who stood as an
Independent and has a strong personal
following. With outback boxes to come
in, Thompson’s lead was only 55. The
still-predominant party threatens to
abolish preferential voting. Sinfully
paltry, and it won’t strike at the root of
the trouble, whatever the trouble may be
The news that Chamberlain was agree-
able to a military alliance with Stalin
should have helped Paterson, the Com-
munist candidate, in the Townsville by-
election, especially as he is a member of
the Townsville Council. But when the
returning officer had got through 8362
effective votes, only 1432 were for Pater-
son —529 fewer than Protestant Laborite
Webb’s number.
Shocked into realising that the public
is grimly opposed to the rise in prices,
the Stevens Government is “amending”
the Industrial Arbitration Act for the
onety-oneth time. The latest “amend-
ment” empowers Industrial Commis-
sioners (six at present, and more to
come) to investigate and fix prices, that
being the Stevens way. Australia has
seven Governments. Six are daisies at
dodging responsibility by appointing all
manner of boards, commissions and
committees; but Stevens’s show is the
unchallenged champion.
The Bank of N.S.W. is advertising
Sydney “Daily News” for sale, as a going
concern or in separate parcels. Nelson,
the boss of the “Daily News” board, has
publicly testified that “the bank adopted
a very sympathetic attitude throughout
the fight,” adding that his board didn’t
notify the bank that it couldn’t carry on
till it had “exhausted every avenue of
raising money.” Nelson is a Miners’
Federation boss, and in one way and an-
other a huge swag of coalminers’ money
has been sunk in the paper. This con-
sideration has not deterred the Miners'
Central Council from voting £lOO for
“Spanish war orphans in France.”
Harrison, the new P.M.G., is a very
flustered Minister these days. Members
of his own party keep at him over his
meek acceptance of A.B.C.’s plans for
running unnecessary weekly papers, and
Thorby got heavily home on him by
revealing, with appropriate comments,
PARLIAMENTARY GOVERNMENT IN FULL RETREAT.
“It is pleaded that the Commonwealth Government cannot prevent the publication
of A.B.C. weeklies because the Commission is beyond its control. Simultaneously, the
Sydney Government has brought in legislation to give the Industrial Commission vast
price-fixing powers.”
that the lowest tender for additions
to the Sydney G.P.0., approved of
when Thorby was Minister, had been
rejected in favor of another which added
nearly £l5OO to the outlay. Harrison
“explained” that the alteration had been
made to suit the wishes of permanent
heads, who wanted terra-cotta instead of
sandstone facing. Foil was a party to
this ignoble sacrifice of Ministerial re-
sponsibility to bureaucratic caprice.
Franco has had his Victory Parade, and
his Italian and German auxiliaries are on
their way back to their own countries.
Stunt Press writers and their Parliamen-
tary heroes, who glossed over the flight
of the Reds’ French auxiliaries, were
sure that the Italians and the Germans
would remain in Spain. They didn’t
know the proud Spaniard. John Bull did,
and that was why he declared for non-
intervention, and practised it, though em-
barrassed by the Communist French.
Bull remembered that in the Napoleonic
wars the Spaniards were so proud that
they would not fight alongside Welling-
ton, and so were beaten time and again.
As it seems to this paper:
The British understand the Spaniards and
Portuguese better than do the Italians, Ger-
mans and French.
The Italians understand the southern Slavs
and Rumanians better than do the French,
Germans and British.
The Germans understand the northern Slavs
better than do the British, French and
Italians.
The French understand nobody, and nobody
understands the French.
The Spooner policy of encouraging
municipal councils to borrow by trans-
ferring part of the debt to posterity is
bearing bitter fruit, especially in working-
class districts like Bankstown and Canter-
bury. In both these suburbs rates have
gone sky-high, and there have been indig-
nation meetings of homebuyers and rent-
payers. Under the Spooner scheme an
amount that would have been sufficient
to transform West Kimberley or the N.T.
into a permanent home for thousands of
white settlers has been squandered on
Olympic swimming pools, concreted
ways, footpath-chipping, tree-destruction,
picnic grounds and the like without,
of course, adding a penny to produc-
tion of wealth.
Having failed to get their Moscow
collective-security plan adopted by
Federal Labor, the brisk boys of the
A.C.T.U. are proposing a “mass boy-
cott” of the national register. Moscow
has a national register and compulsory
military training and service, but the
A.C.T.U. won’t let Australia have them.
It is announced that “sixteen members
of the Ironworkers’ Association will go
to gaol rather than fill in national-
register forms.” It will be unnecessary
for the gentlemen to go to gaol or to
inflict any other form of punishment that
would fail on their families. Disfranchise-
ment of all boycotters for one Common-
wealth general election would be suffi-
cient.
In Jackson and Co. v. the Collector
of Customs, Justice Callan, of the Maori-
land Supreme Court, has ruled that
neither the Customs Act nor the Reserve
Bank Act empowered the Governor-
General-in-Council or the Minister to
exclude imports by regulation. He gave
judgment for the plaintiff, with costs.
It means that the Labor Government’s
import-control policy collapses until sus-
tained by the Appeal Court or validated
by Parliament; and Parliament is out of
action.
If Maoriland Labor had had experi-
ence of office, it mightn’t have fallen into
the legal bog in which it is floundering
or stumbled into other bogs. It has never
had any use for elective Ministries; and
election of Ministries has fallen into dis-
favor in Australia. But it does enable
minority parties to grin experience which
is as necessary for them to have when
(or if) they become majority parties, and
thrice necessary for the country.
The original M.L.A. for Forrest (W.A.)
was Peter O’Loghlen, a bachelor. When
Peter died he was succeeded by J. B.
Holman, whose family was almost as
large as that of our late P.M. When
J.B. died his daughter May took his
place, and now Miss Holman’s untimely
death has resulted in a brother taking
her place. Forrest is about the safest
Labor electorate in the State, but in a
poll of about 3500 the brother’s majority
was 250 or so less than the sister’s,
although the sister’s opponent was a local
man of some tonnage and the brother’s
an oft-defeated Independent from Perth.
After Britain gave the Greeks a guar-
antee, Italy gave them another. This
was briefly mentioned in the cables, but
the text of the Greek dictator’s acknow-
ledgment was not published. It was a
most profuse communication, written in
the third person and beginning with an
expression of the Greek dictator’s “warm-
est thanks.”
M. Metaxas adds that, in taking note
with every satisfaction of Signor Musso-
lini’s declaration, he is absolutely con-
vinced that no events can arise which
might disturb in any way the traditional
friendship which has always united the two
countries, and that he sees the beginning
of a new cordial period for the continua-
tion of this pacific collaboration.
In other words “our ally” is a non-
starter.
Exulting over the offer of an alliance
to Moscow, the “S. M. Herald” editor
declares that if Moscow condescends to
accept it “the peril of a new world war
would happily begin to recede.” On the
same page, Professor Roberts quotes “the
Japanese naval spokesman at Shanghai”
as having “stated that the Japanese pro-
pose to blockade all waters for 200 miles
from the Chinese coast,” and describes
it as “an astounding claim, a challenge
that cannot be overlooked, a move prob-
ably sponsored by Germany playing on
Japan’s ever-present fear of Russia.”
If this blockade should be endorsed by
the Japanese Government... .then a new
factor will have entered which may well
transform the entire Anglo-Russian situa-
tion.
Old pressmen crowded out of columns
they are well qualified to fill by pro-
fessors, politicians, unnamed “diplomatic
correspondents,” Martellis, Faragos and
the like derive a morbid satisfaction
from the frequent spectacle of Roberts
contradicting or otherwise differing from
“Granny” in the same issue.


THE REST CURE.


GOING TO LONDON?
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
GLOUCESTER RD., LONDON, 5.W.7
This renowned London Family Hotel
offers everything the overseas visitor
requires. Close to Tube and Underground
stations, yet quiet and undisturbed by
traffic noise. Within ten minutes of
London’s famous West End and theatres,
and convenient for Earl’s Court, Olympia,
Kensington Gardens, Hyde Park and
the Museums and Institutes of South
Kensington. Inclusive terms or room with
breakfast only. All types of accommodation
from single rooms to suites, including
private bathrooms and sitting rooms.
Illustrated brochure free from
Bulletin, Sydney.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
INTEREST RATES:
WHY THEY RISE AND FALL.
OUTLOOK FOR SECURITY PRICES.
FINANCING THE DEFENCE PROGRAMME.
June Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . . .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George's Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Wallace Charles Wurth, who has been
a member of the N. S. Wales Public
Service Board for the last three years,
steps up into the chairmanship, succeed-
ing E. J. Payne. New head of the board
is 43, has been a civil servant for 27
years, and, like his predecessor, has had
legal training. He served with the A.I.F.
for three years during the Great War,
and on returning became assistant to the
then chairman of the P.S. Board. He
has been Industrial Registrar and Under-
secretary of the Department of Labor,
and is deputy-chairman of the Returned
Soldiers’ Employment Board.
Before he goes home each evening
W. H. Ifould, Principal Librarian of the
Public Library of N.S.W., steps across
the corner to see how the new building
beside the Mitchell Library has advanced
during the day. Since he came from
Adelaide 27 years ago Ifould has been
battling for a new library to replace the
inadequate old place where space is so
short that the attendants who work
amongst the bookstacks down below have
to be chosen for slimness. He will prob-
ably see the new library running before
his term ends.
“Hamfat”: The curtain has fallen for
George Marlow, whose real name was
Marks, but who kept his stage moniker.
Marlow loomed largely in the days when
Sydney had flesh-and-blood theatres all
over the place ; he graduated from small-
part actor to manager for some of Bill
Anderson’s cos., became Bill’s general
manager, and later started out on his
own account, building what is now the
New Tivoli and much later having a big
hand in the Empire Theatre. His wife
was Ethel Buckley, who stirred the
hearts of the populace in melodrama
days. Marlow had a hand in other
amusement ventures —Wonderland City
at Bondi and the White City, where now
the tennis headquarters at Rushcutter
Bay are situated; but during his last
years he was satisfied to be merely theat-
rical landlord and racehorse owner.
Edwin Henry Peake in office hours is
Clerk of the Leg. Council of South Aus-
tralia, but in private life he presides over
what most South Australians consider a
much more important institution, the
Commonwealth Club. The newly-elected
E. H. PEAKE.
club president was born at Naracoorte
(S.A.), son of the State’s one-time
Premier, A. H. Peake. E. H. Peake has
been a public servant since he was old
enough to be one, and has occupied many
lofty clerical posts. One of his hobbies
is the collecting of pipes. He’s interested
in politics and debating, and is a past
president of the Johnian Club. A brother
is Public Trustee of S.A.
When Frank C. Medworth, who fol-
lows Rayner Hoff as art director at East
Sydney Technical College, was in Spain,
FRANK C. MEDWORTH.
(Modelled by Frith.)
rude little girls and boys used to form
in procession behind him chanting “Don
Quixote de la Mancha.” Frith’s model
tells why. But Medworth is an English-
man, fought in the Great War and wound
up as a full sergeant. He’s a gradu-
ate of Camberwell (South London) Art
School, was for a while a commercial
artist, won a scholarship, and then found
teaching more congenial. He has been
one of the examiners in art of the British
Board of Education, and came to Aus-
tralia from the job of principal of the
Hull Art School. He’s married to a wife
as artistic as himself, and has two young
daughters.
“Ek D.”: George Barstow, knight, at
present in Australia, is another example
of the propensity of the British Treasury
for producing clever businessmen. Born
in 1874, Barstow still ranked as a “prin-
cipal clerk” in the Treasury when the
Great War ended, but nine years later
he was on the board of Anglo-Persian
Oil as a Government director, and a
year later a director of Prudential
Insurance. He is now chairman of the
latter co., whose new building is one of
the features of Martin-place, Sydney.
What is this Prudential which has sprung
into prominence in the Commonwealth
these last few years? Just a discreetly
prosperous insurance co. whose American
funds enabled it to lend the British Gov-
ernment on a few minutes’ notice
£10,000,000 in negotiable securities on
one war-time occasion when £10,000,000
was urgently needed in U.S.A. If the
money had been required in London
Prudential might have managed
£50,000,000 under the same conditions,
but it “doesn’t keep much cash at the
overseas branches.”
111-health is given as the reason for
the projected retirement of the Speck’s
Chief Justice, Harold Crisp, but 65 years
is a fair age anyhow for a man who
has lived through as many strenuous
legal battles as Crisp has. Born in
Hobart, the son of a barrister, educaled
there and called to the Bar in the same
place, he was a Judge of the Supreme
Court in 1914.
Queensland is preparing a warm wel-
come to a long-absent daughter in the
person of Mrs. Andrew Fisher, widow
of the erstwhile Gympie
enginedriver who became
three times Prime Min-
ister of Australia, and,
later, High Commissioner.
She took no active part in
politics or political life,
but devoted herself to
looking after her husband,
her family and their home.
“Andy” preferred it that
way, having little time for
politically-active women,
but her quiet dignity and
cheerful kindliness won
him many a woman sup-
porter on the sound femi-
nine reasoning that if he
was the kind of man who
could make such a very
nice wife think so much
of him, then he must be
a pretty good sort of man.
A Victorian engi-
neer with a humorous
twinkle in his eye can look
back to a remarkable
youth. Leo Byrne was
born in Brisbane in
1883, son of J. E. Byrne,
a farer upon the Inky
Way, then editing Brisbane
“Punch.” With his mother,
a well-known actress of
the day, he made his first
stage appearance at five in
Hobart as the baby in
“Bootle’s Baby,” and fol-
lowed it up with notable
successes in the mainland
States in “East Lynne” and “Little Lord
Fauntleroy.” When he was seven David
Christie Murray wrote the part of Harold
in “Ned’s Chum” for him, and after a
successful run in M.L. took it and Leo
to England. Before he was 10 Leo was
playing the boy Geoffry in Tennyson’s
“Becket” to Henry Irving’s lead and
drawing ten pounds a week. Gene-
vieve Ward announced him as the future
Coquelin of England, on account of his
wit and stage poise. Two years later he
resigned his part of Stephanus in “The
Sign of the Cross,” returned to Aus-
tralia with his mother, and never acted
again. From childhood he wanted a
natural life, and finally got it.
Bugles have sounded “The Last Post”
for Brigadier-General William Grant,
“the hero of Beersheba,” who died, aged
68, at his station Corack, in the Dirran-
bandi district (Q.). He was the founder
of the 11th Light Horse Regiment of
the A.1.F., and fought with it in Gal-
lipoli, Egypt and Sinai. He was at the
head of that wild rush of mounted men
which fell upon Beersheba like a whirl-
wind, and had the Biblical town under
discipline and all prisoners rounded up
almost before the defenders realised what
had struck them. A tall, wiry Aus-
tralian, son of a Vic. mineowner and
sheepbreeder, Grant, as Henry Gullett
says in the Official History of Australia
in the War, “was the accepted type of
the Australian countryside.”
Some June birthdays:
S.A. Museum Director Hale, 44, on 3rd;
medico-knight David Hardie (Brisbane), 83,
and Coadjutor Bishop Pilcher (Sydney), 60, on
4th; Mrs. .Eneas Gunn (We of the Never-
Never) on sth; Frank Bulcock (Q. Min. for
Agric.), 45, ex-Defence Minister T. W. Glas-
gow, K.C.8., 63, Justice Inglis Clark (Speck),
57, and Federal Film Censor O’Reilly, 62, on
6th; Prof. G. V. Portus (Adel.), 56, and Alex
Wilson, M.H.R. (Wimmera), 49, on 7th; Dr
C. J. Prescott, M.A. (Sydney), 82, S. L. Gard-
ner, M.H.R. (Robertson), 55, and author
Charles Rodda (“Gavin Holt”), 48, on 9th;
W. J. Beckett, M.L.C. (Vic.), 69, and Prof.
Kerr Grant (Adel.), 61, on 10th; Kent Hughes,
M.L.A. (Vic.), 44, and Canon Hammond
(Syd.), 69, on 12th; Rowland James, M.H.R.
(Hunter), 54, and Percy Hunter (Syd.), 63, on
14th; Tas. Railway Commissioner F. P. St.
Hill, 65, and Justice Duffy (Vic.), 57, on 15th;
author Archer Russell (Gone Nomad), 58, J. H.
Prowse, M.H.R. (Forrest), 68, and Bishop
Halse (Riverina), 58, on 16th; Justice Cantor
(N.S.W. Industrial Commission), 52, on 17th;
Bishop Barry (Goulburn), 64, Federal Assist-
ant Minister Senator Mcßride, 47, and Frank
Tate (Vic.’s former Director of Education), 76,
on 18th; artist James Muir Auld, 60, Dr. J. H.
Cumpston (Director-Gen. of Quarantine), 59,
R. A. Crouch (former M.H.R. for Coran-
gamite), 71, J. W. Kitto (Aus. Broadcasting
Commission), 68, and W.A. ' Police Commis-
sioner Hunter, 59, on 19th; former N.S.W.
Govt. Printer Alfred Kent, 67, and historian
K. R. Cramp (Syd.), 61, on 21st; singer Ray-
mond Beatty, 36, Prof. J. B. Cleland (Adel.),
61, and artist A. Dattilo-Rubbo (Syd.), 69, on
22nd; author Frank Dalby Davison, 46, and
knight Gilbert Dyett (pres. R.5.5.1.L.A.), 48,
on 23rd; Dr. Jas. Booth (Melb.), 78, R. O.
Blackwood (Vic.), 78, and Q’land Museum
Director Heber Longman, 59, on 24th; knight
Harold Luxton (former Lord Mayor of Melb.),
51, and Errol G. Knox (Melb.), 50, on 25th;
anthropologist Dr. Donald Thomson, 38,
author C. L. Barrett (Melb.), 60, Justice Boyce
(N.S.W.), 67, Melb.-born Prof. W. K. Hancock
(Birmingham Uni.), 41, Frank Green (Clerk of
House of Reps.),. 49, and P. R. Le Couteur
(headmaster, Newington Coll., Syd.), 54, on
26th; Dr. Frank Stilwell (Vic.), 51, and Dr.
Fred Watson (editor of Historical Records),
61, on 27th; former Senator J. H. Keating,
67, on 28th; Tas. Solicitor-Gen. Philip Griffiths,
58, knight Victor Wilson (ex-Commerce Minis-
ter), 62, painter Norman Carter, 64, and author
Henry G. Lamond, 54, on 30th.
The Rev. Arthur Dudley Marchant,
newly-elected Moderator of the Presby-
terian Assembly of N. S. Wales, is a six-
foot exponent of muscular Christianity.
During five years he taught youth at
REV. A. D. MARCHANT.
Shore (Sydney) he was sports master, and
much looked up to by the youngsters in
more senses than one. He’s 50, was born
at Dungog, N. S. Wales, and has five
olive branches. A good mixer, and a
Rotarian.
Few schoolmasters retire with the
flourish of trumpets which is seeing
Tommy Henderson, headmaster of the
teeming Ascot (Q.) school in the Brisbane
suburbs, off into his age of leisure. A
mass meeting of parents decided to raise
£5OO as a present, and to ask the Educa-
tion Minister to name the new school
extension the Thomas Henderson Wing.


MANY STUDENTS EARN £6, £7, £7lOl-
- WEEK After Few Months’ TRAINING
e
TRAIN AT HOME
For An Interesting Position In
DIESEL ENGINEERING
Many Diesel Engineering College students have
completed their courses in as short a period as four
months—qualifying for £6, £7, £7/10/- a week
jobs.
To-day is the Diesel Age! Mines, ships, buses,
trains, aeroplanes—more and more power-users
in every industry are changing to Diesel, the
modern, highly efficient, more economical power.
As a result, new, well-paid jobs are opening up
every day to Diesel-trained men. Still more men
will be wanted in the future in Diesel operation,
service, maintenance and sales, and positions in
other power fields will become scarcer. Post the
coupon below NOW for free booklet explaining
this new motive power, and get the facts about
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE home
study course . . . See how YOU can fit your-
self for a position in this new industry of to-day
and to-morrow by qualifying for the D.E.C.
Diploma.
NO EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
No Previous Engineering Knowledge Needed
Because of the professional standing of the
College, the practical method of training
and its proved record with 1700 students
throughout Australasia, the D.E.C. course
offers the surest way to success in the
Diesel field.
The lessons in the course are briefly and simply written
by highly-qualified and specially-trained engineers. They
are illustrated with clear, easily-understood diagrams, etc.,
which everyone can follow. You can read them as easily
as your newspaper. Each lesson is checked by competent
examiners, who take a personal interest in every student,
and to whom students may write about any problem
connected with the Course.
Join the band of 1700 Successful D.E.C. Students
Remember the motor industry, radio, talkies! Those who
got in early got the best jobs. YOU can get ip early in the
Diesel field if you act now. The simple act of sending for
this free Diesel booklet may be the turning point in your life.
The D.E.C. Primary Course deals with the whole subject from
the ground up. It covers the two main sections of Diesel
engineering—TßACTlON DIESEL (tractors, motor buses,
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE IS AUSTRALIA’S
LARGEST DIESEL SCHOOL
The Only College
Teaching Diesel Only.
Therefore Concentrating on Diesel Students.
lorries, etc.) and STATIONARY DIESEL (mining and other power
plants). The fees are low, and may be paid by easy instalments or
in cash, whichever you wish.
Get This
FREE BOOKLET...
This interesting booklet by Mr. W. Kingsford Smith,
Principal of the College, provides you with full particulars
about this simple and efficient Training Course. Sending
for it means no obligation to anyone, but you owe it to
yourself to have the facts. Tear off and post the
coupon NOW.
D !3t* l «ei«s
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.3J,/5/;39.
DIESEL ENGINEERING
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE. BRISBANE. PERTH. NEWCASTLE.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Hed”: Old Skinnem was so hard that
nobody in the district would work for
him. Called over to see him one day.
His missus was tearing into the wood-
heap with a gapped piece of steel which
bore some resemblance to an axe. The
kids (the eldest is 10), barefooted and
ragged, were chopping burrs, and all of
them looked as if they could do with a
good square meal. Skinnem was inside
wrestling with pen and ink. “Just writin’
out an ad. for a man,” he said. “They’re
terrible hard to get, but this ought to
fetch ’em. ‘Wanted man for dairy farm.
Treated like one of family.’ Yair, a man
shouldn’t mind a bit of hard yakka as
long as he knows it’s a good home he’s
cornin’ to.”
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: Kangaroos have dis-
crimination. They know their friends and
have great capacity for devotion. The
largest of all, the forest kangaroo, his
back to a tree, will disembowel a dog
with a lightning slash of his big toe, or
he will drown a dog by ducking it in a
waterhole. But the same ’roo in captivity
will share his feeding trough with other
animals, and, if it comes to blows, they
will be administered in paternal fashion.
Saw an argument at supper-time between
an old-man ’roo and a greedy deer. A
few cuffs on the ear steadied the rush,
and they finished their meal in peace. One
big red fellow shares a paddock with an
X.O.S. emu at the Colin Mackenzie
Sanctuary (Vic.). Visitors give the ’roo
titbits. He makes a game of it by put-
ting his arms around your neck while you
feed him. The emu has become an un-
willing partner in the game. It is a ridi-
culous dance to watch, the emu’s neck
enfolded in the ’roo’s arms as they
wriggle and spin and jig about, but the
big bird might, as well give up protesting,
for he cannot free himself. The ’roo
breaks at last and, bounding away with
a grin on his face, pretends he is being
chased by the ruffled and much morti-
fied monster in feathers.
“Tired Tim”: He got a job on a
N.S.W. railway-construction contract, and
hadn’t been many hours gravel-shifting
when a fellow-knight of the shovel re-
marked between Government strokes:
“What brings you ’ere, mate? I was
’arvestin’ on the Downs last year where
you ’ad twenty men under yer.” “Oh,
that was my brother’s place. I had very
little interest in it.” Then, sensing that
the explanation wasn’t considered din-
kum, the amateur navvy thought it best
to be candid: “Fact is, the doctor pre-
scribed a change of scene and rest.” That
one was.
* * * *
“J.L.”: The snake manipulator at La
Perouse (Sydney), after passing round
the hat, dumps the minted coins non-
chalantly into a sugarbag. Yes, it’s per-
fectly safe—the bag is also full of very
lively red-bellied blacks.
H= * * *
“Nor’-west”: Just how far can an abo.
really throw a spear (B. 3/5/’39)? I’ve
met quite a few who could send it 80
yards with commendable accuracy, but
my real champion was a West Kimber-
ley buck who could do 140 yards—we
taped it. The Spear used was a composite.
Glass-tipped, the top section was a 4ft.-
“Quick, put the kettle on! A customer's coming.”
length half-inch lancewood, perfectly
straight. This was skilfully fitted into a
main shaft, 6ft. of light bamboo. Cut
off just half an inch below the bottom
joint, this gave a neat socket into which
the hook on the bottom end of the
wommera fitted nicely. The wommera
was nearly 4ft. in length, and tapered
from the width of a palm at the handle
end to the narrowness of a forefinger at
the hook end. This design could hardly
be bettered, since, as can be seen, it re-
duced air resistance to a minimum. Of
the thrower, too, the same might be said.
Over 6ft., he had the chest development
of a middleweight wrestler, though rangy
around the calves. But that abo. reck-
oned the throw only a moderate one. In
the tenseness of the chase, he averred, he
could do quite ten yards more —and at
that could send the glass tip home into
a standing kangaroo.
* * * *
“Hanid’s Son”: We had the peanut
crop stacked, and were awaiting the visit
of the threshers when on us descended a
minor plague of mice. They ate the nuts
at the bottom, and were reinforced by
birds, who liked peanuts so much that
they ignored the mice. As we couldn’t
lay poison on what we hoped would be
an edible crop, we were at a loss until
the boss tried mixing cement and flour,
It clogged up both mice and birds, all
right, but the trouble came when the
weighted birds came down on the
ground ; the dogs wore their teeth down
to the gums eating cement birds.
* * * *
“Delroy”: “Puffinus” (B. 3/ 5 / ’39)
gives the correct reason why domesti-
cated birds turn their eggs at least once
in every 24 hours during incubation. The
primary reason, however, is that such eggs
lie on their sides, which again provides
another reason—to give the down-
(colder) side a turn up against the sitter’s
blood-heat body. Mound-building birds
don’t turn their eggs because, being buried
in an unright position, small end down,
that just nicely keeps the yolk floating
in the ideal centre of the albumen.
* * * *
“Yarri”: Long Mack was shearing in
a second-rate shed where a shearer was
liable to be prosecuted or blacklisted if
he left his job without good reason, when
he got a letter from a mate stating that
a stand had been secured for him in a
big shed farther west. Mack had been
yearning for a cut in that shed, so he
wrote to his cobber to send him an urgent
wire. This duly arrived, informing him
that his mother was dead and requesting
him to come home at once. It was signed
“Your sorrowing aunt, Bill Tacker.”
After cursing Bill for his thoughtlessness
Mack showed the telegram to the boss,
expressing regret that the sad circum-
stances compelled him to knock off at
short notice. He explained that “Bill”
was an official error, his aunt’s name
being Mill. The boss was sympathetic,
but when Long Mack had ridden away
in exuberant spirits he remarked that he
had doubts about the bereavement. “Oh,
she’s dead all right,” said a shearer who
knew the family. “I was at her funeral
three years ago, and she’s died twice since
then.”
* * * *
“Archer”: Binghi’s therapeutics have
received a compliment from the Queens-
land Health Department in the matter of
treating Portuguese man-o’-war stings.
The department remarks that little can
be done for physalia sting, but probably
the best treatment is that of the natives,
who scrub the affected part with sand
to break the tiny blisters and let out the
dangerous fluid.
* * * *
“Toheroa”: A Maoriland centenary pro-
ject is a reconstruction of the Ruapeka-
peka Pah, in North Auckland, where the
great chiefs Hone Heke and Kawiti made
the last stand against the invading British.
Christchurch had a good model of the
pah, but that for the reconstruction had
been brought from England. Ruapeka-
peka, the Bat’s Nest, has always been of
great interest to military strategists, and
is regarded as an almost perfect example
of an invincible ancient stronghold. The
pah would not have fallen when it did had
not the Maoris relaxed their vigilance on
a Sunday, believing that the Christian
British would not fight on their Sabbath.
When the Maoris retreated and the Brit-
ish entered a youthful M.L. soldier looked
round for souvenirs. He found only an
incredibly old Maori woman and a brass
candlestick. He left the old lady and
collected the candlestick ; and I have it.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Nature’s artillery barrage
is not confined to splitting bamboos (B.
10/5/’39). The seedpods of the rubber-
trees explode on dropping to the ground,
the released gases propelling the seeds
over a wide area. In Torres Strait islands
I observed my only case of animal death
from shellshock when a pod exploded
near a quietly feeding fowl. Chook
threw a seven in its tracks,
* * * *
“Langshan”: Bill would not wear
boots while working. The kids, bane
of his life, swore they saw sparks fly
when he walked on stones at night. Then
came the day when, strolling across the
paddock, Bill followed his usual prac-
tice of dealing a hefty kick to each large
tuft of grass. Seeing two feet of brown
snake laid across the road with the rest
hidden by grass, Bill muttered darkly
about “damfool kids” and kicked
viciously. After a short and hectic
altercation with the justly annoyed Joe,
he walked on, but an extra large tuft
lured him. One kick and Bill uttered
an anguished howl and sadly inspected
three damaged toes and the stump which
the grass had hidden. Then Skinner
drove up in his utility. To him Bill
luridly related his woes, half-opening the
door to put his foot in for Skinner’s
inspection. After a prolonged discussion
on various matters Skinner started the
engine and slammed the door —on Bill’s
foot. Bill wears boots now.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat had got a job
as wood-and-water joey on a Wakool
station. Mat noticed that the missus was
wearing at least one leg of the trousers,
though he was not surprised, for the boss
was on the meek side, more interested
in religion than other things. One night
Mat came home from Moulamein hilari-
ously sozzled, singing doubtful songs, and
offering to fight or footrace anybody.
Next morning the boss admonished him
thus: “Y’ know, Mat, y’ oughter realise
that such conduct not only grieves me,
but there is One far greater who sees
all we do, and will call us to account
for it in the long run.” “Don’t fret about
that,” piped Mat ruefully ; “she’s already
given me a tongue-bangin’ about it.”
MURRAY MAN.
“I’ve knocked about u tairish bit, from Hull
to Mirboo North;
Had bonzer times in U.S.A. an’ on the Firth
of Forth.
There’s spots along the Spanish coast” —he
shook a pensive head
And dreamed a moment on the life in other
parts he’d led—
“ But none o’ them was home t’ me” —a grin
just touched his mouth —
“I couldn't tell y’ what it was, but somethin’
pulled me south.”
(Ay, never the keening curlew cried
In the dark and still belars,
But an echo touched the wandering heart
Beneath the alien stars.)
“There’s roses bloom in English lanes in
jaunty English Junes,
An’ larks by day an’ nightingales t’ fill y’
head with tunes;
The mornin’s in the Irish hills when summer
days are long,
They make y’ want t’ do a jig—or right an
Irish wrong;
I’ve seen the sun come up in Ayr an’ make
the heather blush—
It minded me o’ river gums, their purple
leaves a-flush.”
(For never the magpie hailed
the dawn
From the lonely billabong
But the melody sang on
foreign air
To ears that knew the song.)
“Y’ oughter be in Maoriland.
down Lake Te Anau way,
When evenin’s on them crysi .
gems an’ shadows start t’
play;
Y’ oughter see them Sounds at
noon” —the memory lit his
eyes—-
“Them laughin’, sparklin’ silver
streams, the peaks against
the skies;
They’ve marvels there in gorge an’
glen’d make a sinner pray;
An’ yet at times I’d wish meself
a thousand miles away.”
(For never the golden sandsprit glowed
On the long arm of the bend,
But a wondering eye had thought it saw
The wave of a distant friend.)
“This wide, wide world is full o’ things t’
set y’ thinkin’ hard
When to y’ nightly bunk y’ go, an’ cares
o’ day discard;
No matter what me daydreams were, no matter
where I strayed,
Me thoughts at night was all the same when
down t’ sleep I laid.
I’d see meself for what I was, an’ know the
only end
Was where me feet are takin’ me —a quiet
river bend.”
(For never the wild swan bugles ring
Far over that winding shore,
But the Murray men to the river turn
That calls them for evermore.)
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Old-timer”: In the hills east of Gum-
bowie (S.A.) dwelt an isolated commu-
nity of farmers whose visits to town were
rare, whose lives knew little else but
work from dawn to dusk, who were
noted for their silence and taciturnity,
both among themselves and with stran-
gers. To one old battler was born a son
who outdid them all. As he grew from
infancy to boyhood he spoke never a
word, though he was a voracious reader.
He was accepted as a deaf mute until the
day the black snake looked out of the
haystack at the old man. “Look out,
Dad! ” cried the youth. The father’s
emotion at escaping was mixed with
astonishment at the lad’s giving tongue.
“But why ain’t y’ spoke before?” he
cried. “Well, what was there t’ talk
about?” spake the boy laconically, and
lapsed into muteness again.
¥ * * *
“Archer”: I, too, have seen the stock-
whip used as an earmarker and lamb-
tailer (B 10/5 /’39), and also for brand-
ing XYZ on either rump of a fractious
steer. And now, although getting up in
years, I still possess the knack of that
artistic wield which used to enable me
on horseback to eradicate up to half
an acre of the noxious star thistle in half
an hour by chopping them out from lin.
to 2in. deep under the clay. The fall I
used was the good old greenhide.
**■'.*■#
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Asdfg” belted
stone (B. 3/5/’39) with a 121 b. hammer
and calls it hard yakka! I call it
stupidity. I was first introduced to the
game by a chap who offered me the
pick of a five- and a seven-pounder, and
advised me to take the latter. His argu-
ment was that a heavy hammer brought
itself down hard enough without assist-
ance from the wielder. The fallacy has
a lot of adherents, and “Asdfg” would
probably have been highly sceptical of
any attempt to smash those rocks with
a five-pounder ; but in the days when I
could swing a beetle I’d have backed
myself and a five against “Asdfg” and
his twelve. In a game where pure crush-
ing weight • alone counts, as in some
smithy work, a 12-pounder may be
warranted ; but in stone-napping, which
“ Ye'll no start playin' that thing in THIS street!"
is an art and a science, you want a tool
that can strike quickly and accurately.
It’s the sting at the end of the punch
that counts.
“Boulder Bill”: If all the other lads
have finished giving their hard-yakka jobs
let me give, not my hardest, but my
toughest. Dead broke, I, with a pal in
similar plight, took on the job of clean-
ing out a 30ft. Cornish flue-boiler on
Christmas Day and Boxing Day, the only
days the wild-cat could afford to close
down. Climbing into the still-hot Cor-
nishman, we found, not encrusted sedi-
ment, but grease —an inch of deposited
heavy cylinder oil. They had been using
condensed exhaust from the engine with-
out proper filtration. Our job was to
scrape or wipe this oil off by any method
possible. Sounds easy, but before long
we were saturated, clogged with this oily
slime. And every now and then we would
slip—right down under the flue —to lie
there, quite helpless, half-smothered in
oil, until the engineer, who kept guard
at the manhole, tossed down a rope.
Scores of times this happened —and if
there’s anything calculated to give a man
the jitters it is to be jammed prostrate
under the flue of a Cornish boiler. Still,
as Mac, the engineer, reckoned, it all
helped to wipe the grease off. Heat,
grease, sweat! It was nearly two weeks
before I got the last of that grease off my
hide and out of my hair. And all for
thirty bob —fifteen shillings a shift!
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: A notable characteristic
of the Murray cod is its ability to swal-
low things out of all proportion to its
size. I’ve caught little fellows on spin-
ners (home-made) that, from swivel to
barb, were actually longer than the fish.
It’s just as well they don’t come ashore ;
a 521 b. specimen caught the other week
in the Macintyre, below Goondiwindi
(N.S.W.-Q. border), had the remains of
a full-grown black duck in its innards.
* # * *
“Poseidon”: To ensure a good thirst
when he arrived in town, Stumpy chewed
a piece of bacon for the first 40 miles
of the trip. But the truck broke down
11 miles out, and after the long walk
in he had a thirst that was bigger and
better than ever before, and soaked beer
up like blotting-paper. But Stumpy
swears he will never try it again; says
that even beer does not seem to be quite
worth the agony of that thirsty trek.
* * * *
“O. Possum”: In what part of Aus-
tralia did Eric Porter, maker of Aus-
tralia’s first colored cartoon (B. 17/4/’39),
see a squirrel? I’ve climbed a lot of
trees in this country, but not a squirrel
have I seen or heard of, outside the zoos
and museums. The B.’s Sundry Show-
man didn’t seem surprised to find a
squirrel cavorting amongst the Aussie
fauna, but perhaps his eyes are dazzled
with too many free picture shows. Any-
how, on behalf of my fellow-ringtails, I
hereby protest at our being left out.
"This makes ploughin' a pleasure!"
“Wang”: “The best
liar I ever knew,” said
Dan, “wus a bloke who
worked on the next
farm t’ one I wus
graftin’ on one time.
No matter how tall a
tale y’ put over, he’d
cap it with a bigger an’
better one; an’ he
iseter boast about what
l i champeen he wus at
it. One mornin’ I met
him goin’ along the
road with his swag up.
‘Hullo!’ I ses, ‘got the
sack?’ ‘No,’ he ses, sorta
mournful; ‘tossed the
job.’ I didn’t b’lieve
him, him bein’ such a
liar; but didn’t say so,
an’ he goes on, ‘I wus
forced t’ leave.’ ‘How?’
I arsks. ‘Well,’ he ses,
‘last night after tea the
boss starts skitin’ as
’ow he wus acknow-
ledged t’ be one of the
best blokes in the dis-
trick t’ work fer, an’
that ev’ry man he’d
ever had reckoned he
wus. Well, a lie like
that was too much fer
me, an’ I up an’ tole
him he wus makin’ a
helluva mistake, an’
that I didn’t like
workin’ fer him. Then
the cow laughed an’
sed he’d won his bet
with his ole woman!
‘What bet?’ I arsks.
‘That I’d make y’ speak
the truth fer once,’ he
ses, an’, by cripes, he
had! Caught me fair
on the hop before I
had time t’ think what
I wus doin’. But I’ve
got me pride, an’ it won’t allow me t’
work fer a swine what puts up a dirty
trick like that.’ ”
* * * *
“Greenhide”: I’m sceptical about some
of these pronouncements on the relative
effectiveness of snake-venoms. The aver-
age bushman is ready to lay down the law
on tiger versus death-adder without even
first-hand contact with a victim, while
the hearsay evidence would bamboozle a
royal commission. Some of those scientists
collect Blake-juice in bottles and pump
measured doses into sheep, measuring the
time taken for toxin to kill. Snake fangs
differ in efficiency for striking, while the
same reptile’s stock-in-trade is not made
up to British Pharmacopseia standards,
but varies with factors like age, frequency
of sac-discharge and season of the year.
Sheep, also, are not human, despite super-
ficial resemblances in crowd behavior.
Only reliable data seem to be hospital
reports on actual cases, but these are
comparatively rare and hard to come by.
"f* i't jJ: sj;
“Puffinus”: Another fond illusion has
faded away under the cold searching eye
of science. Mutton-bird oil, it now
appears, is practically valueless as a
source of vitamins or as a food, and
instead of being a particularly rich fat
is really a liquid wax. The Melbourne
Uni. Dept, of Chemistry obtained com-
mercial samples, also non-commercial
ones, from young birds on Babel Island
treated in the usual commercial way.
Tested for vitamin A, the crude samples
contained from 100 to 800 times less than
did the liver oils of common Bass Strait
fish, such as barracouta and certain
sharks. Any in it would be destroyed by
the commercial refining process. Of vita-
min D, they contained five international
units per gram, compared with 60 to
300 for cod-, 2300 for M.L. groper- and
200 to 4000 for halibut-liver oils. The
biological purpose of the oil contained
in the stomachs of young muttonbirds is
not that of a food or digestive factor, but
to gloss the feathers and protect them
from sea water.
* * * *
“Dominic”: Wouldn’t doubt that a
very small toadie (we call them blowfish
in W.A.) will stiffen the poultry-yard (B.
19/4/’39), because fowls are queer. For
instance, they don’t seem to mind arsenic
at all. Pestered with flies, I wipe them out
by the million with sheep-dip. Any
number of these poison-laden corpses are
in turn picked up by the chooks, with
never a casualty. But there was one
awful occasion when I accepted the
baker’s offer of a bag of floor-sweepings.
One good feed of this soiled flour settled
the hash of several pens of my best leg-
horns. Those floor-sweepings were full
of salt, and it acted on those fowls more
radically than even strychnine would
have done. So I doubt, even though I do
not mean to try, whether a toadie, alias
blowfish, would prove toxic either to a
shark or a human.
REAL MUSIC.
“Not only is there a decided back-to-the-concertma
movement in most bush ‘hops,’ but a return to the
Inrerand songs which charmed our grandparents,
dances a s —c'. W.A. speaker.
In days when pioneers, all verve and vigor,
Wore whiskers creeping downwards to their
chests
And hopped into the bush to face the nigger,
The ’roo. the agent and the other pests,
And set old Nature bounteous riches yielding,
They asked but this (when tiring day was
o’er . , . ,
And axes dropped), that someone might be
wielding . .
A soothing concertina —nothing more.
Who says our land knows naught of old tra-
dition
Prevaricates (politely, he s a liar);
What of the tough and hardy bush musician
Who squats with smoke-filled eyes beside the
fire?
He smites no lute as Orpheus did, or e en a
Guitar. But you can safely bet a quid
He’ll pull and push a battered concertina,
As sweet (or not) as once his old man did.
The concertina-jerker’s groans and curses
Now change to wails and wheezes, meaning
joy;
Once more he’ll sound the background to the
verses .
Of classics like “The Wild Colonial Boy.
The coon-inspired, hot-rhythmed “canned
creations
Of Sammy Finkelbaum and A 1 Spaghett,
And equally horrific syncopations
Too long have had our native woodnotes wet.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


izdiai
¥ i —it—it-/
«3fH)
Since the 12th Century Leipzig has held its own as
the world’s most famous market. For the past 700
years manufacturers and business men have met twice
yearly in this pleasant city to buy and sell for mutual
benefit.
Leipzig offers the newest and best in all types of
merchandise and mechanical equipment. It will pay
YOU to consider Leipzig in your buying plans.
LEIPZIG
INTERNATIONA!
INDUSTRIES
F ft X H
Commences August 27th, 1939.
Comprising General
Samples, Textiles, Office
Equipment, Furniture,
Sports Gooffs, Photo-
graphic, Engineering
and Building Fairs.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL
will be exhibited.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading Marks) and
Letters of Introduction available of Lars G. Brundahl, Commissioner in
Australia for the Leipzig Trade Fair, Challis House, Martin Place,
G. Box 3127 P, Sydney; C. N. Keppel, Temple Court, 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne; J. M. Beicrs, ■ 305 Queen Street, Brisbane;
H. C. Ittershagen, Shenton Park, West Australia,
Australians are always welcome in Greater Germany.
ADAMS’ (T ATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:— .
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
FE. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon. K. 88., M . L .C. (Viee-ChairmanS
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends. Writ- To
Mar Profit. 10 p.c. ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 659,278 500,000 50,000 109,278 3,257,773
1930.. 655,134 500,000 50,000 105,134 3,362,907
8J p.c.
1931.. 561,206 425,000 60,000 86,206 3,449,113
6 p.c.
1932.. 276,838 300,000 3,425,951
5 p.c.
1933.. 291,944 250,000 20,000 21,944 3,447,895
1934.. 274,024 250,000 20,000 4,024 3.451.919
1935.. 275,591 250,000 20,000 5,591 3,457,510
5i p.c.
1936.. 294,403 202,500 30,000 1,903 3,459,413
5f p.c.
1937.. 325,027 287,500 40,000 3,457,540
6 p.c.
1938.. 347,401 300,000 50,000 3,454,941
1939.. 351,245 300.000 50,000 1,245 3,456,186
The public has much for which to thank
the trading banks, whose chief service
to the community is as lenders. They
opposed the Federal Government’s pro-
posal to introduce credit-interest and ex-
change-control legislation, based on com-
pulsory deposits with the central bank,
etc., largely on the grounds that such
action would tend to retard their lending
capacity, as well as help to force up
interest rates, and that at a time when
such things were least to be desired. It
is now obvious that, had the advice of
the trading banks been disregarded, the
money market would have been much
tighter than it is to-day, and the interest
question would be a good deal more per-
plexing than it has yet become. Already
the central bank has taken action to re-
lieve the position which has developed
owing to (1) fall in export prices, (2)
continued high level of imports, (3) rise
.in costs, and (4) increased local demand
for funds —this because of (1), (2) and
drought and the extent to which the Gov-
ernment, local-government bodies and
co-operative building societies have
mopped up whatever money has become
available.
The National, which in point of size is
third on the list of the 10 big associated
trading banks in Australia, gathers about
58 p.c. of its deposits in Vic., its home
State, and the balance in S. Aus. (12
p.c.), Qld. (11 p.c.), N.S.W. (10 p.c.),
W.A. (8 p.c.) and Tas. (1 p.c.). There
are no branches in Maoriland, where
Government planning and its concomi-
tants have given private bankers and other
traders a headache, for which the Reserve
Bank’s remedy of repeated credit-
injections has not proved very efficacious.
Despite a contraction in total volume
of external trade, which affected earnings
in the exchange market, the management
was able to write gross earnings £31,610
beff.r than the previous year’s at
£1,388,647 —that was after making what-
ever provision was considered necessary
for contingencies. Including the tax
bill (£122,349, down £17,078), exes.
(£1,037,402) took £27,766 of the increase,
leaving the net result (up £3844) at 7
p.c. on the £5,000,000 of share capital,
compared with 6.9, 6.5, 5.8, 5.5, 5.4, 5.8,
5.5, 11.2 and 13.1 p.c. back to 1930. On
capital and reserves combined share-
holders are entitled to a fair return on
their total funds —last year’s net return
was only 4.1 p.c. The div., which had
been steady at 10 p.c. for the nine years
to the close of accounts in 1930, was kept
at 6 p.c. After striking another £50,000
off the book value of premises, making
total amount written off over the last
decade £330,000, the £1245 that remained
lifted visible reserves to 13s. lOd. per
pound of paid capital.
Balance-sheet figures exhibit a sound
financial structure:
1935 1938 1939.
Paid capital .. £5,000,000 £5,000,000 £5,000,000
Notes . . . . 47,590 47,556 47,549
BiUs, etc. . . 623,948 1,678,789 1,518,426
Free deposits.. 12,448.036 ) .„ - .
Fixed deposits 24,601,379 J 4 3,004,982 44,057,5 m
Liquid assets. . 14,549,672 17,198,260 16,433,644
Advances .-. 31,182,973 34,836,414 36,403,779
Premises, etc... 1,292,644 1,351,594 1,392,312
Last term an expansion of £1,567,365 in
advances and a contraction of £160,363
in bills payable were accompanied by a
growth of £1,002,591 in deposits and a
reduction of £764,616 in liquids. On
premises £40,718 more was spent than
was written off. The ratio of advances
to deposits was 82.6 p.c. as against 80.9
p.c. for the previous term and 86 p.c.
in 1929. Cash plus Treasury bills
amounted to 18.2 p.c. of deposits com-
pared with 19.6 p.c. in 1938, and the
ratio of liquids to liabilities to the pub-
lic was 2.4 p.c. lower at 36 p.c. The
bank was holding £5 7s. lid. of the
public’s money for every pound of its
own. It is a very strong position.
The dominating feature of the money
market for the next 12 months or more
promises to be finance of defence and
other Government expenditure. How-
ever, there is nothing in sight at the
moment to suggest that the National’s
6 p.c. div. is likely to be interfered with.
The f.-p. £lO shares at £l2 10s. (£l4
a year ago) and the £8 shares paid to £5
at £6 6s. each return 4.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible backing is
nearly 9s. in the pound more than the
market pays. Put another way, the market,
which backs its opinion with so much of
its resources as it chooses to employ,
doesn’t consider the bank earns a reason-
able return on its total funds.
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. OIL Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1900.. 406,428 218,526 77,735 67,969 42,198
1926.. 152 591,843 242,131 2,875 1 sgo 003
Superannuation Fund, £l3OO ..f
1930.. 1.903.314 951,986 314,949 3,870 i - 09
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. ) ’
1931.. 2561.145.843 338,960 50,909 ) 323544
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..) ’ ’
1932.. 911.243 1,225,812 367,822 5,169 ) 31 i 440
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..}
1933.-2,284,6191,159,531 406,192 3,358 ) 711
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. j ’
From Accident Dept., £lO,OOO ]
Profit reval. securities, £495,357 L 1 ir2 187
1934- 468,110 3,703 I ’ ’
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J
From Accident Dept,, £12,000 ]
1935- 519,316 10,954 1 qfi , 0 -q
Staff bonus, £5185 .. .. f ’
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ■• J
Profit on sale securities, £62,335 1
From Accident Dept., £60,000 L 1 121 80’
1930-3,146,251 1,559,795 581,827 4162 f ’ ’
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. 1
From Accident Dept., £20,000 ]
1937- 1,559,405 573,936 48,371 ) 1,402,827
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO- ..J
Unexplained addition res., £8624 ]
From Accident Dept., £20,000 [ j 66 q gjg
1938- 1,413,983 521,285 83,903 f
Superannuation fund, £lOOO J
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.*
£ £ £ £
1932 .. 592,052 140,114 170,4581
Written off, £24,380 •• .. 1 2,586,296
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
1933 .. 642,329 171,479 178,767 1
Written off, £556 .. ..) 2,876,923
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
Profit reval. securities, £116,779]
1934 .. 715,779 178,463 203,517 [, 326 163
Written off, £438 .. .. | ’
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..j
1935 .. 768,006 178,868 215,378 |
Written off, £431 .. •• 1 3,696,673
Staff bonus, £l9lB .. ..
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..)
1936 .. 837,036 187,022 230,434 |
Written off, £702.. .. .. V 4,114,651
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..J
1937 . . 916,293 254,552 246,612 j
Written off, £1261 [ 4,527,619
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
Added Guarantee Fund, £Bso' ]
1938 .'. 981,657 351,217 252,852 (, qo o 026
Written off, £2131 .. .. f 4 - yud ’ uzb
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
* Includes contingency funds, etc.
Formed in Melbourne 75 years ago,
the Colonial, one of Australia’s five big
mutual life offices, has a sound financial
structure, pays regular and satisfactory
bonuses, and, more encouraging still, the
margins upon which these bonuses and
progress depend are widening gradually,
to the benefit of policy-holders, who
received a slightly higher rate of distri-
bution for last year. The business the
society writes Ordinary, Industrial and
Accident and Sickness policies —is well
spread throughout the Commonwealth,
U.K., S. Africa and Maoriland. Group
assurance (a line which the co. pioneered)
and house-purchase policies (introduced
in 1934, and nearly £1,600,000 had been
advanced under this head at the end
of December) are features of the co.’s
contracts, • while the nursing welfare
service in the Industrial section continues
to widen and cement the society’s good-
will.
Last year the writing of fresh con-
tracts was affected by international de-
velopments, drought, bushfires and lower
prices for primary products. Still,
£12,765,999 (down £2,598,648) of new
business was put on the books —
£10,561,416 (down £2,367,060) in the
Ordinary and £2,204,583 (down £231,588)
in the Industrial section —while the busi-
ness in force in the Ordinary section
(£75,752,432) increased by £4,070,751 and
in the Industrial branch (£14,447,782) by
£753,851. Progress was thus very sub-
stantial, but not quite so marked as in
the previous term.
Combining the figures of all three sec-
tions, the year’s net premium income
sprang £99,839, reaching £3,790,187, and
interest and rents, etc., turned in an extra
£64,705, or £973,040 in all, making total
income £164,544 better at £4,673,227.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., striking off £86,224 for depreciation
and including a net unexplained addition
of £13,683 to reserves, the co.’s various
funds and reserves together benefited by
£2,057,260 (41.9 p.c. of income), raising
them to £23,435,172, made up of Ordi-
nary £18,371,976 (up £1,660,916), Indus-
trial £4,903,026 (up £375,408), Accident
£150,170 (up £10,937) and tax reserve
£lO,OOO.
The surplus available for distribution
among policy-holders (excess of funds
over actuarial liabilities under policies)
compares as follows:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Ordinary .. , . £450,416 £539,648 £628,630
Industrial . . • • 90,971 122,270 146,783
Accident . . . . 33,214 41,873 35,848
Total. . . . . . £579,601 £703,791 £811,261
In the Ordinary department £518,924 is
to be distributed among policy-holders
in reversionary bonuses at a slightly in-
creased rate compared with 1937, £lOOO
is transferred to the staff fund, and the
balance (£108,705) is carried forward. In
the Industrial section £93,860 is to be
distributed in bonuses at the same rate
as for the previous term, £9OO goes to
the staff fund and £52,031 is carried for-
ward. In the Accident branch £18,926
is to be used to again provide permanent
additions of £2 p.c. to all benefits con-
tracted for, leaving the accumulated sur-
plus in this section at £41,879.
After deducting the tax bill and allow-
ing 3 p.c. for consideration of annuities,
exes, took 17 p.c. of premium income in
the Ordinary branch,, compared with
19.3, 22.2 and 22.7 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding years. On the same basis, the
expense rate in the Industrial section was
31.6 p.c. as against 33.3 p.c. for 1937.
The smaller amount of new business
written and savings following a recent
overhaul of the organisation are mainly
responsible for the encouraging trend in
the expense rate.
The office assumes that its assurance
funds will turn in only 3 p.c. After
deducting taxes, last year’s net return
on mean funds (assurance and other re-
serves combined) was 4.2 p.c. as against
4.3 p.c. for 1937.
At the end of December the co.’s in-
vestments totalled £23,781,017 (up
£2,058,809), made up as follows:
Public securities 1937. p.c. 1938. P-c-
-and debentures. £11.029,301 50.8 £12,211,008 01.3
Mortgages . . 5,482,865 25.2 5.912,512 24.9
Freeholds, etc... 2,685,371 12.3 2,826.081 11.9
Loans on policies 1,619,163 7.4 1,706,034 7.2
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 272,883 1.2 290,842 1.2
Cash and deposits 438,759 2.2 622,642 2.6
Other assets . . 193,864 0.9' 211,898 0.9
There has been little change in the co.’s
investment policy for many years. Gov-
ernment securities (up £1,181,707 last
term) accounted . for 51.3 p.c. of the
balance-sheet total at the end of Dec., as
against 63.5 p.c. at the close of accounts
in 1920.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1928.. 21,271 7 p.c. = 6452 14,819 76,748
1929.. 17,264 7„ „ 6522 10,742 87,490
1930.. 13,996 7 „ „ 6568 7,428 94,918
1931.. 12,642 7„ „ 6568 6,074 100,992
Loss.
1932.. 3,909 7 ~ „ 6568 90,510
Surplus.
1933.. 14,031 7,, „ 6568 7,463 97l ®‘®
1934.. 12,469 7 „ „ 6568 5,901 103,879
1935.. 16,057 7 „ „ 6568 9,489 113,368
1936.. 18,822 7 „ „ 6575 12,247 125.615
1937.. 13,910 7 „ „ 6662 7,248 132,863
1938.. 22,746 7 „ ~ 6662 16,084 148,947
To contingency fund', £2OOO . . 146,94 i
1939.. 27,366 7 p.c. = 6662 ) R 165 151
To contingencies, £2500 J ’ ’
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks.
This 18-year-old Australian fire, marine
and accident underwriter is stepping
along like a thoroughbred. From the
start the policy has been to build up
strength. No divs. were paid for the
first three years, then 6 p.c. was handed
out, followed by a steady 7 p.c. for the
last 14 years. And for the most part
more has been put on the shelf than
has been distributed, reserves being piled
visibly £69,976 higher than paid capital
at the end of March. Still, the growth
of the business, which spreads all over
the Commonwealth, north to Asia and
the Indies, and out over the South Sea
Islands and elsewhere, has lately out-
stripped the growth in shareholders’
funds.
Here is a comparison of underwriting
performances:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1922. . £22,358 £7,605 £8,884 34.0 p.c. 39.7 p.c.
1926.. 97,486 55,048 33,890 56.5 „ 34.7 „
1928.. 157,422 96,737 48,348 61.4 „ 30.7 „
1930.. 172,870 114,099 55,860 65.9 ~ 32.3 „
1931.. 138,729 82,066 55,261 59.1 ~ 39.8 ..
1932.. 100,171 69,356 44,254 69.2 „ 44.1 „
1933.. 104,137 58,637 40,041 56.3 .. 38.4 „
1934.. 105,>781 59,596 42,137 56.3 „ 39.8 „
1935. . 130,221 71,367 51,741 54.8 „ 39.7 „
1936.. 145,922 82,382 53,876 56.4 „ 36.9 „
1937.. 170,729 105,358 61,626 61.9 ~ 36.2 „
1938.. 206,037 122,537 72,021 59.4 .. 34.9 ~
1939.. 224,287 132,110 77,277 58.9 ~ 34.4 „
Last year’s growth in net premiums was
£18,250. Equally encouraging was the
contraction of 10s. p.c. each in the loss
and expense ratios. One result was a
growth of £3421 in the underwriting sur-
plus, making it £14,900. Interest and
rents sprang £1199, reaching £12,466.
Net earnings from all sources were thus
£4620 better at £27,366, or 28.7 p.c. on
capital as it now stands, compared with
23.8, 14.6, 20, 17.1, 13.2 and 14.9 p.c.
back to 1933.
Now consider these figures:
1929. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. £93,175 £95,175 £95,175 £95,175
Sundry creditors* 99.072 100,750 113,037 124,161
Public securities.. 121,675 196,938 201.781 204,958
Fixed deposits . . 27,000 16,000 16,000 23.500
Cash, etc 13.872 26.237 41,953 48,323
Book debts, etc... 49.671 22,235 28.048 40,328
Freeholds . . . . 74,041 74,041 74.041 74,041
* Includes provision for contingencies.
So rapidly has the business expanded
of recent years that, at March 31, net
tangibles had fallen to little more than 116
p.c. of the year’s net premiums, whereas
150 p.c. is usually looked for. To ease the
position and provide for still further ex-
pansion, those on the register at the end
of July are to be offered 190,350 new £1
shares, one for one, at par. The money
is wanted 2s. 6d. on application, and it
is proposed to make three further calls


There it is, Joan— the
greatest car of them all!
THE NEW HAPPY MEDIUM
Vauxhall 14
ym* 9
gj;g:g::¥K;:*S:;:;SS
A®: : SSS:iS:vS:¥SS
The new ‘IT has the seating capacity of a big car yet is actually 50%
more economical than most other 5-6 seaters. It registered 31 m.p.g.
fully loaded in a test run averaging 40 miles an hour.
pride and excitement
** there is when your new Vaux-
hall ‘l4' arrives home! Parked at
the kerb (waiting to take you for
your first thrilling run) you'll agree
it's the prettiest car of all this year's
models. And when you step into it
and notice its beautifully furnished
All Steel Body by Holden that seats
six in comfort (for the body is
inches wider and longer) you realise
Vauxhall 'l4' is the ideal family car.
Nothing is missing! The improved
6 cylinder engine is more powerful,
yet more economical . . . the brakes
are super-safe Lockheed Hydraulics
. . . the front springing is the
patented “T.T.” type which auto-
matically adjusts itself to every road
surface .. ♦ and it's a much easier car
to handle with its genuine synchro-
mesh 3 speed gear box and new
Safety Vision due to larger area
windshield and side windows of
Armourplate Safety Glass.
Come and see the car that suits
you best ... a car that's not too big
and not too small . . . the “Happy
Medium" that has all the character-
istics for safe, comfortable family
motoring.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
Buy from your local
Vauxhall Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia.
A Car r to Oir .
y,„„ “ *■o.,
"> H.P. ‘
] ° r sep ou ._ T . P/o n “Sfrafia’* .
i ~*** « uer e 5 *
/)orse P0 WP r u pio « er/ UStrali a s ,
y ° U a rea/ aUXha U ‘W° my
sa ve s vo, y a«j a2j . «, /" e -?0
,4 “». . ic{ sr
b 0m y<
14 H 8 e i Ve
idea; "pr eSf
.'n' > 2:V' ■oo Py b M^ m -
'°° » °all, y" S " K coo/" i,nrf co,„,'“; >•«
30 nl p^oaoaica ,Jo : 5 tg
25 U n ~
Or fore s?« f(
W.P. v nuxhali’
'” 9 9 5 ,a, “
«*r iraC re D C ° w W Vpe of f"S-
at '”3- R.A.C.V ><» co°„ e '° ad -
‘Air Chief’Car Radio.
Specially designed for y '
Yauxhall at prices from
Eighteen Guineas.
r 2 6d each by the end of September,
°L, making the shares called to 10s.
1:1’ Meanwhile, 10,000 shares are to
each. M a ’ . t~ rm c
he issued to the staff on similar terms.
When both lots of new shares have been
paid to 10s. each, paid capital will be
f 195 350 in 390,700 £1 shares paid to
10s. apiece. On the basis of last year s
p tu„i will lift net tangibles to over
figures that wilt nit net langmies lu uvc!
160 p.c. of net premiums, bull, ii tne
business keeps on expanding at the same
rate as during the last few years the next
mav not he manv
call upon shareholders may not oe m y
vears distant. Meanwhile, many on the
y .' , • r „ t t,„ t hoard
register cherish a hope that tne boar
may see fit to also reward them other-
wise than by a par issue. Last years
net earnings were equal to 14 p.c. (under-
writing 7.6 p.c. and interest, etc., 6.4 p.c.j
on £195,350 of capital. So the board
should have no difficulty in maintaining
the 7 p.c. div., or in lifting the distiibu-
,io„ beyond that rate should it want to.
The market notes this and the policy
of those in control and prices the old
shares (£1 paid to 10s.) at 335. 6d„ equal
to 21s 9d (subject to brokerage) after
exercising the rights. The return at
21s. 9d. is 3.2 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis,
with possibilities. The net tangible cover
is 18s. sd. per share. That is on the
basis of both the new issues referred to
being called and paid to 10s. per share,
& F F
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co. (S.A.)
To r^-
£ £ £ £
1925.. 7,749 10 p.c. = 5000 2749 25,541
8 ; 663 10 m 6000 2663 28,204
1927.. 10,366 10 „ „ 6000 4366 32,570
iop.c. = \ 5514 36>084
1929.. 11,182 iop.c. = 6000 5182 41,266
1930.. 13,101 10 „ „ 9000 4101 45,367
1931- . 11,764 10 „ „ 9000 f , 7131
Provident fund, £lOOO 1 ’
1932.. 11,160 10 p.c. = 9000 2160 49,291
1933.. 10,213 10 „ „ 9000 1213 50,504
1934 12,210 10 „ ~ 9000) 2010 52 514
1935.. 12,186 10p.c. = 9000 3186 55,700
1936.. 12,828 10 ~ „ 90001 2g28 58,52 s
1937.. 11,337 10 p.c. = 9000 2337 60,865
1938.. 12,284 10 „ „ 9000 3284 64,149
19 ' J9 provident fund’’ £l2oo°°) 302i> G 7117(
e j a4( j e trustee co. was launched
under wjng o£ Hder> Smith and Co .
29 afs and for (he , ast n o£
3 3 ’ .
shareholders have enjoyed an un-
interrupted 10 p.c., thanks to the wide
margin between earnings and distnbu-
tions before the slump and continued ex-
pansion of the business, which helped to
offset the effects of the fall in values,
etc., upon returns from investments and
corpus and other commission earnings,
Also, until about four years ago, the
co. had nothing invested in bricks and
mortar, thus escaping the effects of slump
upon property values and rentals, while
benefiting from recent recoveries in this
connection, so far as its own funds are
concerned.
The year’s net growth in the volume
of trusts in hand was £200,765: —
Exes. p.c. of
mi.. «Sti» I" wm
1931.. 10,545,284 40,502 28,738 70.9 „
;SSS:: lliu’Tol IS US Ml
1934.. 12,276,708 41,034 28,824 70.2 „
1935.. 12,509,078 43,395 31,209 71.9 „
1936.. 12,950,598 43,952 31,124 70.8 „
1937.. 13.701,443 46,496 35,159 75.6 „
1938.. 13,791,547 47,207 34,923 73.9 ~
1939.. 13,992,312 50,874 37,649 74.0„
T . „
Income from all sources was up £3667,
and exes took £2726 of the increase
leaving the net result £941 better at
P ,te on ,ff f f , a fa"n H u i
14.2, 13.5, 13.5, 11.3, 12.4, 13 and 14.5
p.c. back to 1930.
Last term £32,087 was spent on the
freehold in Currie-street, raising its book
value to £66,225, and £l6OB was chipped
off the amount coming to outsiders (now
only £26). To do it cash, etc., was drawn
on for £2247, advances for £5349 and
Government securities, etc., for £21,574,
reducing this holding to £89,077. Paid
capital is £90,000 in £1 shares paid to
ss. each.
Commission and other earnings are
not now separated in the accounts; but
a couple of years ago the co.’s own in-
vestments turned in £9179, or 10.1 p.c.
on capital. This and recent expenditure
on the freehold, and the steady expansion
°f the trustee section of the business, give
the future a very comfortable look, bub-
iect to the possibilities of Government
interference, these trustee cos. haven t got
-riel/’ miif'h finurt from the small
t 0 rlSk mucn > «P art IlOm me SllldU
chance they take when investing their
own fnnrlQ Tf therf* is ffnv doubt about
ownfuncls. it mere is any aouoi cIDOUI
the internretation of a will there is always
tbe c our£ [ 0 g 0 £o f or instructions.
Content to wait for its benefit the
market ices , he at 13 at which
figure the return is 3.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
t | |v bas j s y be CO ver is Bs. 9d. in net
tangibles.
(“Wild Cat” continued on next page.)


Are You About to Travel?
IF you are going abroad and require expert management of your affairs during your
absence, you cannot do better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited,
to act as Attorney or Agent. The Company offers the services of a staff highly
qualified to manage all details of your affairs. It can arrange to make regular
payments to you in any part of the world. You are invited to make an appointment
with a senior officer of the Company to discuss its methods and charge. You might
prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS.
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
POWER
Lf
13
&r\d
STILL
PQMiip
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 68-63 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, IS Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: VV. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * ¥
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfield
“TENSOMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelyab” Melbourne,
ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST'
: ? ;;
If not you owe if to yourself and
family to enquire about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UlflT TRUST
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
Write far .a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0.. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE; 8 5294
Federal £4,750,000 3 g p.c. Loan
The Loan Council is on the market
again; this time with £4,750,000 (face
value)’of 3| p.c. Consols, which have a
16 years’ currency, and are offered at £99,
making the effective interest return, in-
eluding redemption, £3 19s. 2d. p.c. The
money is wanted for public works of the
Commonwealth and States. The yield is
Is. Bd. p.c. more than was offered in
February, when £8,500,000 was asked for,
and the underwriters were left with
'jaa aaa r jj.
~ Here is a summary of all Government
issues on the local market since borrow-
inp heaan after the slumn-
mg began after theslump.
Date. Amount. Years. Mce. '"p.c’ p.c. I *’
7/n/’32 £8,000,000 io Par 3| £3/15/-
li/iiris io’si6,ooo 10 £99 1 " 3! 3/12/5
s/6/’34 12,234,000 14 98/10/- 3i 3/7/8
20/11/’34 15,042,000 14 99/15/- 8 3/0/5
11/6/’35 12,500,000 14 99/10/ 3& 3/8/5
26/n/’35 7,500,000 14 99/15/- 3f 3/15/5
2/0/’36 9,000,000 15 98/10/ 3ij 3/17/6
26/ii/’3o 7,500,000 15 97/io/- 3j 3/19/4
27/4/’37 7,500,000 ii 99/5/- 3/ 3/19/1
30/n/’37 8,000,000 14 99/15/ 3| 3/15/6
19/5/ 38 10.250,000 16 99/10/- 3i 3/15/10
i5/i2/’3B 7i.700,000t'i6 Par 3J 3/17/6
WWi’ll SS 16 £99 ar s! 1/19/2
—/e/’39 3,000,000 j 4 Par 3£ 3/10/-
, * including redemption.
tissue taken by central bank in place of
Treasury bills for like amount.
Outstanding features of the latest issue
are (1) the rise in interest return,
and (2) the amount asked is smaller than
the market expected.
As for interest, the general trend is
upward, because heavy Government
demands for funds for public works, in-
eluding defence, and a loud call from
local-government bodies and from co-
operative building societies have coin-
cided with a slight shrinkage in the supply
available for investment. The shrinkage
is due mainly to lighter export prices, a
dry spell, which affected the volume of
production, and rising costs. The future
of interest rates will depend largely upon
the extent to which State Governments
and other public bodies can be induced
to curb their expanding ordinary works
expenditure, upon seasonal conditions,
the course of prices and costs and the
amount of central bank credit that is
made available.
The sum asked for is £3,000,000 short
of the full amount of the year’s revised
loan programme. But this shortage has
already been advanced by the central
bank against three-month If p.c.
Treasury bills, which would be normally
redeemed out of the proceeds of the loan
now on the market. The bank, however,
has agreed to swap these bills at par for
3f p.c. Consols, maturing four years
hence, thus relieving the pressure on the
market at a time when such relief is
needed, and also enhancing the prospects
of success for the current issue, while
giving the Government a slight tem-
porary advantage as to cost, and at the
same time nipping in the bud any
further drift in the public accounts
before June 30.
From sale of quota rights, Kundang
Tin shows a profit of £53330 for the 12
months to Dec. 31, of which £2OOO is
written off underwriting account and £767
allowed for depreciation. During the
year the co. reconstructed and electrified
its plant at a cost of £37,000-odd. The
unit set in again in the last month of
the term, and for the three months to
March, when operations were suspended
owing to restriction, 291,000 c.y. yielded
6IT tons t. 0., or 0.471 b. per c.y. ; work-
ing profit for the period was £BOB, actual
working costs 3.2 d. per c.y. In a trial
run in the preceding term 567,000 c.y.
yielded an average 0.271 b. t. 0., costs
being 4.58 d. Formed in 1927, the co.
has had a disappointing trot. The prop-
erty, of 20,000,000 c.y., was bored to
go 0.751 b. To the cessation of dredging
in 1931, recoveries averaged 0.581 b., or
54.9 p.c. of bore values (0.981 b.) of
ground dug. Original boring of remain-
ing wash had indicated 0.631 b. values,
whereas checkboring gave only 0.361 b.
The future of the co. depends on what
the reconstructed plant, which appears to
have made a satisfactory start, can ac-
complish in regard to costs and recoveries
—the tin is in a particularly fine state —
and on the trend of metal prices, to
which the low-grade wash will render
earnings particularly susceptible. Paid
capital is £125,000 in £1 shares. At Dec.
31 more or less liquids amounted to
£4332 and indebtedness, including £lB,OOO
raised at 6 p.c. to see the reconstruction
programme through, to £20,429. Dredg-
ing reserves aggregate some 19,000,000
c.y.
* * * *
The Queensland Government recently
purchased a number of compressors and
jack-hammer • drilling outfits at from
£550 to £770 per combination unit. The
idea is to help miners with limited
capital develop and prove what might
look like promising finds. The plants
will be rented to users at a nominal
charge, for a specific job of work, on the
recommendation of the mining inspector
of the district concerned. In this way
it is hoped a plant will go the rounds
of prospectors who want it. Diesel
equipment goes with the compressors.
The machine at Charters Towers is
capable of using a medium-sized single
drill or two small drills ; the one at Clon-
curry, another at Clermont and a third
at Portland Roads are each single-drill
affairs; at Forsayth and Cracow each
plant will be capable of working two
drills.
* * * *
Recent heavy rains have rendered the
road from Coen to the Batavia and Blue
Mountains goldfields, Cape York Penin-
sula, untraffickable, and pack teams have
had to be employed to bring up food
supplies. At Batavia falls registered up
to 80 inches, the river flooded, of course,
and water poured down the shafts of
practically every mine of the field. The
Government has taken prompt action
to repair the road ; but unless the work
is completed by the end of the month all
major mining operations will cease until
it is finished, because supplies of fuel
oil, etc., will then just about have run out.
* * * #
Shareholders in Yellow Boy Gold
Development (a Melbourne prospecting
concern interested in the Solomon
Islands) are offered one £5 share payable
to £2 (application and allotment) in
Valikorta Gold Ridge, N.L., for every
Yellow Boy share now held. The Yellow
Boy Co. will receive 300 f.-p. shares in
Valikorta, and, if the option is exercised,
£2OOO spot cash plus £15,000 out of gold
won as well. Valikorta has taken a six
months’ testing option, with the right to
six months’ extension, over 790 acres,
known as the Kovagombi or Never More
area, on the Island of Guadacanal,
British Solomons. If the management’s
hopes are realised the co. will have some-
thing like 20,000,000 c.y. of 4s. 6d. dirt.
This guess is based on perfunctory pit
prospecting. A lot more systematic
work needs to be done before any reliable
estimate as to the value of the property
can be formed.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) climbed a little
higher up the golden stairs last year.
Profit at £S 131,874 was £54878 above
that for 1937, and a slight increase in ore
reserves put the mine nearly six years
ahead of the mill. Recently two winzes
sunk to the future No. 30 level showed
no diminution in average values at that
depth—present ore reserves average
approximately 6.3Bdwt. a ton. In ster-
ling working costs last year at 245. 4.10 d.
and development charges at 2s. 10.82 d.
show decreases of 1.65 d. and Bd. respec-
tively. Balance-sheet items include prop-
erty, £116,500; machinery, plant and
buildings, £60,937 ; stores, £45,000; in-
vestments, £54,323; bullion in transit,
£26,698 ; cash, £26,316. Algy Moreing,
chairman for many years, has resigned
from the board owing to old age, and
will probably be succeeded by his son.
* * ■ *
Development added 27,174 tons net to
Paringa’s proved and partly-proved ore
reserves (285,323 tons) in the six months
to Feb. 28 ; 248,794 tons of the stuff is
proved, the grade being fractionally
higher at 6.o3dwt. Recently the co. added
the old G.M. Block 45 and North Kal-
gurli Central blocks to its holdings on the
Mile, and plant capacity, increased to
60,000 tons p.a. a year back and now
running at the rate of 75,000 tons p.a., is
to be further pushed up to 85,000 tons.
For the first eight months of the current
term the co. has put through 42,172 tons
for average 4.3dwt. recoveries. Costs
have been around 265. Aust. a ton.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) is con-
solidating its shilling shares into 4s.
counters. It is a commendable pre-
cautionary move against the speculation
that shares of small denomination some-
times lend themselves to. Net profits
for the year to Dec. 31 are disclosed
£2846 down at £79,211, chiefly owing to
a slip in ore grade, but div. is maintained
at 40 p.c. In Australian currency the co.
showed working profits of 31s. 7d. per ton
of ore treated, recoveries being 645. 6d.
per ton. For the first four months of the
current term, recoveries have been down
to 61s. lOd. per ton and mine profits to
275. lOd.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated (W.A.) re-
ports a profit of £17,947 for 1938, com-
pared with £14,917 for 1937. The amount
brought in was £1668. Four threepenny
dividends were paid. A little more than
19,000 tons was extracted during the
year, and at the close ore reserves were
estimated at 27,500 tons. Current year’s
developmental programme includes deep-
ening of the main shaft from No. 4
to No. 5 level and opening up of a new
drive at the latter point. A winze sunk
62ft. below No. 4 level has averaged
17dwt. over 3ft., with the full width of
the ore not exposed.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Areas (W.A.) an-
nounces (1) that the Norseman venture,
which it has been working under option
in conjunction with the Midas Co., and
which was thought to be a “property of
promise,” has been abandoned ; (2) that
to accurately determine the value of gold
and antimony in the Nullagine area a
preliminary treatment plant has been in-
stalled ; (3) that, having acquired a
second-hand treatment plant from the
State Government, the co. hopes to turn
its Hampton Plains properties to profit-
able account before long—these proper-
ties include the White Hope and Golden
Hope mines.
* He sfc sje
Perth-controlled New Golconda’s latest
annual report briefly refers to its past
and present, and to its hopes for the
future. Receipts last year totalled £l4O,
including £lOO tributor’s royalty. Expen-
diture, including £615 for depreciation
and £350 directors’ fees, aggregated
£1392. At the end of January assets were
cash £333, plant and machinery £5039
and a property with short, narrow and
erratic shoots which the co. found im-
possible to work at a profit and which
a tributor, after 12 months’ fossicking, is
hesitating about continuing. In a later
report the board states that, after turn-
ing down two proffered propositions, it
decided to try its luck at Norseman,
where it is prospecting an option “of
good promise.”
* * * *
London-controlled Mt. Magnet Gold
Mines, Ltd., has annexed the Westralian
record for low-grade ore treatment,
the average last year being 2.56dwt.
per ton. Big Bell was runner-up with an
average of 3.52dwt. Some years ago
tributors at Mt. Charlotte, Kalgoorlie,
treated ore of little more than 24dwt.
value, but it was quarried from near the
surface, not mined at depth.
* * * *
At the annual meeting of North Kal-
gurli (W.A.), chairman Whitfield was
asked how it was proposed to meet ex-
penditure on the new plant, estimated to
cost between £BO,OOO and £lOO,OOO. The
reply was that the board hoped to find
enough without increasing issued capital ;
cash in hand would go a long way to-
wards meeting the cost, and no difficulty
is anticipated about finding the balance.
* * * *
“Gusher” (W.A.): Freney officials bill
the co.’s new oil-drilling plant as the
largest and best yet imported into Aus-
tralia, and reiterate that boring at Nerima
dome will kick off at the end of July or
early in August. Others say that the
plant, though of the best, has a high
consumption of water, and argue that
the proposed substitution of wood for
oil fuel on the score of expense might
white-ant efficiency. Many also doubt
whether boring will begin about the time
mentioned.


SMOKE-OH!
“An American woman who was awarded
20,000 dollars damages against a man after a
car accident recently subsequently became his
wife.” — News item.
He apparently married her for his
money.
4* 4* 4*
“A hawker declared in court that doorstep
selling was almost a thing of the past.”
So many people already have door-
steps.
4- 4- 4* *
“Herr Hitler is not unfriendly to Britain,
but his colonial demands must be met.”
—General Ritter von Epp.
He wants to see “Welcome” on the
mat, provided they let him take the mat
home.
4* 4* 4* *4*
“When a woman tells me that she can’t be
bothered using cosmetics 1 know that she is
definitely ill.” — Medical writer.
It would certainly indicate that she is
off color.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A woman who wears cheap stockings
is always sure of a run for her money.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Fireman Insolvent.” — News item.
Still, his business has been going to
blazes for years.
4* '<• 4* 4*
Raising a family is like being dealt a
hand of cards. Some turn out trumps,
others go to the pack.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The strains of the stewards’ after-dinner
band on the Strathaird moved a passenger to
throw all the musical instruments overboard.”
—News item.
No wonder the ocean roared.
“A man who sings an hour a day at the
top of his voice won’t be troubled by chest
complaints in his old age.”— Medical note.
He probably won’t even be troubled
by old age.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Certain clothes often make women bad-
tempered.”—Women’s mag.
Usually those worn by the woman
next door.
4* 4* 4* 4*
What goes up must come down, unless
it’s food prices.
“Which Way you making for? Up north?”
"No; down south. It 's easier Walkin '."
“Lotte Lehmann Concerts.—Programme also
includes a group by Richard Strauss and sons
by Purcell, Puccini, Martini and Sibella ”
— “S.M.H.”
Phantoms of the opera?
“But it's an obstacle race, mister!”
“Most politicians assert they are self-made
men.”— Radio talk.
Taxpayers are of the opinion that they
have to be borne.
4* 4* •»* 4*
“Even the best writers turn out their failures
occasionally.”— Writers’ guide.
They prefer to call them minor suc-
cesses.
4*
“What has become of those small groups of
young men who used to voice their opinions
on things at large?”— Correspondent.
No doubt they’re married.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
“What do you run your car on?” — Advt.
Instructions from the back seat.
Over the Odds.
“An Auckland (M.L.) choir boy was dis-
covered selling racing tips after a church ser-
vice.” — News item .
With snowy surplice and countenance
bright
He looked in all truth an ethereal sight.
His dulcet voice won me, I yielded * was
lost;
Lent ear to his tale to my ultimate cost.
I paid for my trusting and paid over-
much ;
My wallet, alas ! is now flat to the touch.
How grossly deceiving that innocent
face —
Of that sweet childish treble not one got
a place.
LEON.
Liquid Assets.
“Richards had a copious draught of cham-
pagne to help him on his way in the last
round of the fight.”— “S. M. Herald."
Although that sort of thing is more
likely to help a fighter on his sway, an
overflowing house poured out its bottled-
up feelings when Champagne Chiller and
the Brewery Kid stepped into the ring.
If both fighters ran true to label a cork-
ing bout was expected.
A trifle stout from too vigorous train-
ing on hops, the Brewery Kid, using his
left-hook as an opener, soon realised
that trouble was brewing when he col-
lected a bung eye from Champagne
Chiller, who was giving a sparkling and
heady display.
As the fight went on the Brewery Kid
tried to connect on Chiller’s mug with a
dash of bitter fighting, but only succeeded
in landing a few light taps. “Cham-
pagne” was still sparkling when the
Brewery Kid was suddenly overcome by
a rum feeling. He was punch-drunk and
groggy in the legs when the referee lifted
his opponent’s arm and declared him the
winner on pints. The crowd was on its
feet shouting.
McM.
Frugal.
“McAlister refused to argue with his wife,
he said it was waste of time.” — “Sunday Sun.’’
Scotchmen are frugal, as a rule —
They save their siller, legend saith
But here’s one, stubborn as a mule,
Who even tries to save his breath.
H. M.
A Hard Job.
“She leapt into the driving seat, said im-
periously, ‘Get in, I’m driving,’ and shot off
down the road like a bow from an arrow.”
—The “Outspan” (South Africa).
Failure to shoot bows from an arrow
lost me the job of archer-in-chief to the
Sultana of Muscatel.
One day, when all was quiet at the
palace, a punkah ceased working his
wallah. “The Jam of Jellybag approaches
the back gate,” he screamed.
“Archer,” yelled the Sultana, excitedly
thrusting away her box of crystallised
onions. “Fire a salute of 21 bows from
your arrow ”
“Bub-bub-but” I stammered.
“Hurry,” she thundered.
Dashing to the armory, I grabbed 21
bows and an arrow. Bah! What did
they take me for, a fakir? I turned,
shouldered aside a poddy elephant,
booted a drab peacock from my path, and
sped to unemployment like a rifle from a
bullet. That night I slept in a curry
plantation, and next day took ship to
freedom, home and the dole.
HANKEO.
Fatal Charms.
“She charmed him into marrying her, and
then systematically poisoned him.”
—Crime story.
’Tis often thus. His love was hot
When first he yearned her form to
hold;
But when they tried the wedded lot
How soon, alas! she left him cold.
T. W. N.
How to Become a Handyman.
A COMPLETE GUIDE.
VII.
It is always best to do your house
painting in midsummer. Not only are
the days longer, but the paint will dry
quicker. There is, however, one dis-
advantage —the presence of myriads of
flying insects.
To avoid the unsightliness which these
pests cause the obvious remedy would be
to use paint the same color as the insects.
After all, it would strike a new note to
do your place in black throughout. How-
ever, your wife will probably veto this
and order, with feminine lack of logic,
something like Egyptian ivory—a color
against which the insects, which average
200 Jo the square inch, will show up
vividl)
It is fatal to try to argue the matter.
Better adopt her decision in the first
place ; you’ll adopt it in the last, in any
case. The question then remains—how
to remove the insects once they are on?
There are two schools of thought on this
problem. One favors getting them off
while the paint is still wet; the other
when it has dried.
Where large insects, such as those of
the order Lepidoptera, settle on wet paint
it is a comparatively simple matter to
remove them with the putty knife. But
mosquitoes, midges, etc., are difficult to
remove, even if the handyman has let
his fingernails grow long for the purpose.
Where the paint has been allowed to dry
they can be chiselled off, though this may
spoil the “finish” of your work. The
method I would recommend is to get
up about 10 o’clock at night when all
insects except a few mossies should be at
rest and slap more paint over the affected
parts. This will trick them, as by the
time the sun is up it will be sufficiently
dry to frustrate the efforts of any insect
to get a grip.
Having given the house two coats the
cleaning-up must be done, i.e., getting
the spilled and dripped paint off. This
can be roughly divided into three tasks:
the pathways, the brickwork and the
front verandah.
No man who has his own house built
and intends doing his own painting
should ever have concrete paths close up
against the house. A neatly-laid brick
path has this great advantage, that when
it is liberally splashed with paint it is
only a matter of reversing the bricks.
Moreover, as there are six “faces” to
each brick they can be turned-in rotation
after each painting until every “face ’
is used up.
Of course, each “face” isn’t the same
size, and putting the bricks on their end,
for instance, will give a higher path.
Also, there will be more space between;
the bricks, but, after all, a neat appear-
ance is worth some slight inconvenience.
As you paint on an average only once
every five years it would be approxi-
mately 30 years before you came back
to the first spotted side, and by then
you should be comfortably dead and
have left the worry of it to someone else.
If you are still going strong the proba-
bility is that the splashes you made a
quarter of a century before have faded
sufficiently to allow of that side’s being
once again turned upwards.
Paint splashes on a concrete path are
practically impossible to get off with a
rag and kerosene or turps, or even nitric
acid, as either the roughness of the con-
crete or the acid will wear all your rags
away before they can be effective. It is
best to cover the splashes over.
Into a bucket of water tip a bottle
of white shoe-cleaner and a few handfuls
of cement and stir until it is all dissolved.
Swill this along the path as far as it
will go, and keep doing this until all the
paths have been covered. To give the
whitened cement a chance to thoroughly
stick it is best not to walk on the paths
for a week or two.
As nobody looks at the side wall of
a house except that part of it in direct
line with his vision as he walks along-
side it only those paint splashes within
this range (say, between sft. and 6ft.
from the ground) need be attended to.
A vigorous rubbing with the edge of
another brick is sometimes effective, but
the quickest method is to make up some
brick-colored paint and put this on over
the splashes.
You will have to be more particular
about the front verandah, as this will
catch the wife’s eye more. Get your
blowlamp going and frizzle the paint up ;
the heat will cause it to curl up and it
can be brushed off. Don’t keep the
flame on the one spot for more than
about 10 minutes, otherwise it may crack
the tile. Similarly, if it is a wooden
verandah floor, keep a keen nose for
smouldering wood ; at the first sniff or
the sight of smoke remove the blow-
lamp and douse the floor with water.
S. W. K.


BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ASSETS EXCEED
£127,000,000
900
BRANCHES throughout Australia,
New Zealand, the Pacific Islands
and London.
7,500 AGENTS and CORRESPONDENTS
throughout the world.
460 A.
ē
FOLDS AND PACKS
FROCKS FOR YOU
In a lightweight, neat-looking Globite Robe
Case you can pack 12 frocks in about 3
minutes. There's no folding to do. They
don't crease or crush. They need no press-
ing when taken out . . . they're fresh and
ready to wear. Available at all good stores.
GLOBIT€
ROBE CASE
FORD SHERINGTON LTD., MANUFACTURERS
(Wholesale only)
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Living Costs Still Rising
At the end of March this year Aus-
tralian trade-union unemployment stood
at 9.8 p.c., compared with 8.9 p.c. for
December and 8 p.c. for March, 1938
(which was the lowest “recovery” figure
recorded). The backward movement in
employment is indicative of the more
difficult times we are passing through,
but as yet the position is no worse than
it was two years ago. The difference
is that then we were on the upswing,
whereas at present a reaction the other
way is predominant. And, as is custom-
ary when the business cycle starts to
turn against “prosperity,” troubles seem
to arrive in a heap. We now have in-
fated and burdensome taxation rates but
falling public revenue, increased living
costs but less employment, only slightly
reduced imports but contracting exports,
low prices for land products but increas-
ing costs of production, and less loan
money available at a time when interest
rates are rising.
On June 1 the average Commonwealth
capital-city basic wage goes up a shilling
a week, to 795. That is a lift of 2s. over
the year, compared with a rise of 7s. a
week (from 70s, to 775.) during the pre-
ceding 12 months. For this slackening
in the increase the wage-earner himself
should feel particularly thankful. The
big lift in 1937-38 was due to the “pros-
perity” loading under the Reddaway
award, and the employee benefited
slightly from the extra 6s. a week he
found in his pay envelope. Possibly he
was 3s. a week better off after he had
paid the increased prices which the higher
award had prompted. But increasing
wages since have done no more than
keep in step with the growing cost of
living. Increasing living costs are a
burden on the export trades and on those
manufacturers for home consumption
who are subject to overseas competition.
And while such industries are carrying
such burdens they are more inclined to
dispense with labor than to add. to their
payrolls. So the lot of the wage-earner
is made more precarious by his
nominally higher wages.
Items of usual household expenditure
have been lifting without a break since
September, 1934. They rose swiftly over
the 12 months to March 31 last, with
special emphasis during the final quarter
of the year. The anxiously-awaited
steadying hasn’t yet occurred, notwith-
standing the check that might have been
expected from the effect of reduced
spending of the people following the
slightly reduced employment figures —due
in no small measure to low wool and
wheat prices. Perhaps the withdrawals
from savings banks helped to keep prices
up during the first three months of 1939.
After rising steadily to a record in Janu-
ary, total Australian deposits fell
£1,600,000 during February and March.
At March 31 they were still equal to
£34 18s. 4d. per head of the population.
The surplus of exports over imports
for the 10 months to April 30 has fallen
to £9,596,000 sterling £2,301,000 less
than in the same period of 1937-38.
Assuming that we finish up with a credit
of £10,000,000 for the year, we shall still
have to draw on our London balances
for £12,000,000 or thereabouts in order
“Fancy "im shift boss! Un caant even give out a hymn proper .”
to meet overseas interest commitments.
The inflow of capital to Australia during
the financial year closing shortly has
been much smaller than in the two or
three periods immediately preceding it,
so in all probability we shall be more
than £12,000,000 to the bad.
The worst features of our present
situation show up in the necessity for pub-
lic borrowing, and in the price which has
to be paid for loan accommodation. The
new loan which opened yesterday (30th)
carries £3 19s. 2d. per cent., as against
£3 17s. 6d. per cent, on the previous
occasion, and only £4,750,000 is asked
for, compared with £7,750,000. The last
couple of loans haven’t been filled by
public subscription, the underwriters
being left with a swag. The present offer
may prove more attractive in yield and
more digestible in size. In any case,
considering the rather straitened con-
dition of the national finances, it de-
serves full support. The yield offered
compares favorably with existing issues.
The reason why Governments have to
pay higher interest for accommodation
at present isn’t entirely their own fault.
Alongside their excessive and sometimes
misdirected spending in the past has to
be set the drift of the national economy
generally. Times are uncertain. Money
is tight all round. Only on the Stock
Exchanges has there been much sign of
recovery lately, and in this instance prices
may have been unduly depressed before
recent rises commenced. Sharemarkets
are readily influenced both up and down.
At present there is an optimistic feeling
following quietness in the “international
situation.”
The big question is whether Australia
can get out of its present ticklish situation
without, arbitrary “adjustments” having
to be made eventually. It would be a
much better omen to see the cost of
living falling of its own natural accord
than to have it “adjusted judicially” by
some price-fixing body. The hard work
and suffering of the depression period,
which brought toughened sinews to Aus-
tralia for several years, are being set at
naught by the present inflation in ali
costs, taxes and interest rates. The de-
pressed land and other industries cannot
endure this position much longer with-
out something cracking.
Country Producers’ Selling Co., of
Sydney, announces the worst year since
operations were begun in 1910. A profit
of £6223 is declared for the term to
March 31, which is the lowest since 1921,
when the business was much smaller. The
co. handled slightly less wool, cattle and
sheep during the year, and there is no
bonus to consignors this term. The div.
to shareholders has been reduced from
8 p.c. to 5 p.c. When wool was selling
well in 1936 and 1937 10 p.c. divs. were
paid. The price has slumped over the
past two seasons, and at present is very
dull. The Country Producers’ board
doesn’t feel optimistic about a recovery
in quotes unless conditions in Europe
show signs of becoming more settled.
There are other opinions to the effect that
wool is about to move up somewhat.
Commonwealth Wool (N.S.W. and
Vic.) has reduced its div. from 4 p.c. to
2\ p.c. Profits were less than half those
for 1937-38, and less than a third of
those for 1936-37.
Younghusband, Ltd., has reduced its
div. from 10 p.c. to p.c.
* * * *
Ten months’ trading by Australia with
the rest of the world hasn’t been satis-
factory. Up to April 30 the credit was
£9,596,000 sterling, just £2,301,000 less
than for the same period of 1937-38.
Movements in imports and exports are
compared in this table:
Overseas Trade —lo Months.
1937-38. 1938-39. Movement.
£stg.’ooo. £stg.’ooo. £stg.’ooo.
Exports—
Merchandise .. 95,467 82,313 -13,154
Gold .. .. 11,363 12,399 -1,036
106,830 94,712 -12,118
Imports—
Merchandise .. 93,159 82,635 10,524
Gold .. .. 1,774 2,481 -707
94,933 85,116 -9,817
Balance +11,897 +9,596 -2,301
Imports of merchandise again refused to
fall at the same rate as
exports. The import-
ance of our gold pro-
duction is very appar-
ent from the fore-
going figures. Had it
not been for the gold-
mines we would have
had a balance on the
wrong side, with over-
seas interest still to be
paid. Imports were
actually reduced
£10,524,000, and this
shows the necessity for
having efficient and
economic factories
within the Common-
wealth. The reduction
in overseas buying was
due to the shortage of
purchasing power in
the hands of the Aus-
tralian people and the
tightening of credit in
London. When this
sort of thing happens it
goes to show how deli-
cate the balance be-
tween the encourage-
rnent of factory production in Aus-
tralia and the dependence of the land
industries on overseas markets must be
for some years, to come. Factories we
must have to protect ourselves economi-
cally and otherwise ; yet our large pas-
toral and agricultural population de-
mands outlets overseas for its products,
and markets these days are only safe so
long as there is reciprocity.
* & * *
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance, affili-
ated with the Queensland, of Sydney, is
making a one-for-one par issue to exist-
ing shareholders. At present the 190,350
£1 ords. are paid to 10s. ; the uncalled
balance will be left as additional security
for policy-holders. There should be no
difficulty in paying 7 p.c. on the in-
creased capital, and if the old scrip can
be bought at 355., cum rights, the yield
obtainable would be 3.1 p.c., with future
prospects still attractive. The stock was
a favorite of this page a couple of years
ago when the price was lower.
# * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Shareholders in Compressed Medical and
Industrial Gases decided to defer acceptance
of an offer of £47,000 for their fixed and
liquid assets, excluding book debts, by Aus-
tralian Oxygen and Industrial Gases. The
offer would mean a return of between 10s.
and 12s. in the £1 to shareholders.
At a meeting called to consider an agree-
ment entered into (subject to ratification) by
the directors of B.R. Radio, Ltd., a number
of shareholders expressed disapproval of the
board’s action in accepting the offer (nine Uni-
versal Guarantee prefs. for ten B.R. prefs., and
five U.G. ords. for ten B.R. ords.) of Univer-
sal Guarantee to acquire the B.R. undertaking.
The chairman said that 70 p.c. of the share-
holders had assented to the proposal.


Castiemaine Perkins.
This Brisbane brewery stock,
listed in its own capital and Mel-
bourne and Sydney, returns an at-
tractive 4.6 p.c. at 225. It is a very
solid and progressive institution.
Makes -
OtHTM *****
[ Ctf M* as neW
1
BEFORE
Fill the cap of the tin /
with 'Steradent’ and 1
pour the powder into a
glass containing sufficient
warm water (not hot) to
cover the dentures Stir
well—Put in your dentures
and leave them while you
dress or overnight and take
them out and rinse thoroughly
under the tap. Stains vanish.
Discoloured plates and 'gums’ regain their
natural-looking colour. Dull, yellow-tinged
teeth become clean—lustrous, like 'live’ teeth.
'Steradent’ is sold by all Chemists. Price 2/-,
double size 3/6.
IMPORTANT: Be sure you get 'Steradent'.
Dentists recommend it.
RECKITTS (OVER SEA) LIMITED
(Pharmaceutical Dept.), SYDNEY
AFTER
RECD. TRADE MARK
eA
W*M
€5
m
m
THE
No. 161
"TUMBA"
CATTLE
DROVER
POLEY
£9/5/-
(COMPLETE)
This is a moderately-
priced saddle of
splendid quality. The
seat is hogskin and the flaps of good
kip. The pads are set high up and
the stirrup bars are free.
N.S. ll'. Rail Freight on Saddles Paid, for Cash
with Order.
WALTHER * STEVEMSOM
39S CEORCE ST. SYPMEY
PTY.
LTD.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers ’Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax re urn
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the boo
Ringbarking—Wages. . • P a S e 39
Rations , • • • ■ •• • • " ;
Sheep bought . . ” , f
Wire netting ” b
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
The holding-up of a P. and O. Uner’by
Japanese off Hong Kong and the tailing
of the temperature in Sydney to the
lowest level for eight months had no
noticeably adverse affect on the Stock
Exchanges last week. Instead, a number
of front-line stocks were bought a
steadily firming prices, Broken Hul
pty. being the outstanding case. On
Friday 665. was paid for the old shares,
an increase of more than 10s. a share
in a few weeks. Australian Consolidated
Industries ords. went above 365. early in
the week and stuck around that level
consistently. British Tobacco ords. were
bought at firm rates, there now being
an accumulation of small rises on this
stock—one noted for its steadiness in ail
kinds of market moods. Fairy mead
Sugar, of Bundaberg, which recently in-
creased its div. and spoke of improved
prospects, registered transfers of its
scrip at prices as high as 36 s. up
ss. in less than a month. Kandos
Cement contribs. were bought at 14s. 3d.,
the fully-paids being scarce at 295. Aus-
tralian Cement, Melbourne, attracted
buyers at 38s. ; the yield offering in this
case was about 6.6 p.c., as against
6.9 p.c. in the instance of Kandos.
Howard Smith ords. retained their appre-
ciation, changing hands above par late
in the week. G. J. Coles ords. were
turned over at the price of
725. 6d., whereas a few weeks ago they
were nearly down to that figure cum
rights. Adelaide Steam scrip rose to
31s. 9d. Electro. Zinc shares and Bar-
rier Mines were much firmer than early
in May, though lead and spelter were
very little stronger than the average
London quotes for April.
Shares in Meggitt, Ltd., the Sydney
linseed co. that is interested in the lino-
leum business, came up to 30s. again
for the first time in several months.
Newbold Firebrick lifted to 30s. 6d. —
a distinct recovery. General Industries
ords. moved up among the stocks de-
pendent on construction trades. W. R.
Carpenter, a strong Islands trader, firmed
to 425., as against 40s. 3d. when recom-
mended in B. 10/5/’39. Australian Gyp-
sum showed a rise of 3s. on closing
April quotes, with sales at 235. 6d.
In contrast with the high-pressure
demand for certain leading stocks, some
other front-rankers and most of the
middle-class order were given indifferent
support. Breweries in particular were
neglected, Tooth’s, which recently in-
creased its div., being the only issue to
gain more than a few pence over the past
month. Dunlop Perdriau ords. kept static
near par. Bank scrip was dull, though
brightening a little. Woolworths ords.
were quiet at near 225., and, although
David Jones and Farmer ords. in Sydney
lifted, Myer ords. in Melbourne were
quiet at 295. Australasian Paper ords.
had been falling rather than rising
until the end of last week, when a slight
appreciation sent them up to 28s. 3d.
again. Beau Monde Hosiery sold at
Bs. 4d. in Melbourne, and Lustre ords.
were still quiet at 19s. in Sydney. Pas-
toral stocks like Winchcombe, Carson and
Goldsbrough, Mort were lifeless owing
to the shrunken wool cheque.
By the week-end there was a slight
drift in Stock Exchange quotes. Broken
Hill Prop, steadied at 655. in Sydney (645.
9d. Melbourne), and Electro. Zinc and
most’'Barrier issues were a shade quieter.
Metals continued to firm in London
right up to the time business ceased for
the week. Australian Consolidated In-
dustries ords. were again the most active
stock on the Australian list, and they
closed very firm at 365. 9d. Australian
Gypsum dropped back 6d. (to 235.) on
Saturday, whereas Kandos Cement lifted
3d. (to 295. 3d.). There was a noticeable
upward movement among second-rank
stocks toward the week-end. Speculative
activity, if it lasts, is now likely to be
concentrated in this direction.
On Monday morning prices were in-
clined to be easier again, though A.C.I.
was buoyant, and so were cement issues.
* * * *
British unemployment (14 p.c.) during
January this year was the worst since
March, 1936. The best period in -recent
times from the employment viewpoint
was August, 1937, when only 9.6 p.c. of
insured people between the ages of 16
and 64 were out of jobs. Apparently
the September (1938) “crisis,” etc., upset
the comparatively stable 12.5 p.c. level
established for most of last year, and,
despite the activity that has followed
large outlay on defence, the restriction
of private building and other construc-
tional activity has more than offset all
other stimulants to employment. The
scares, etc., of the last two years have
been very damaging to confidence, but
the snowball of “prosperity” in Britain
was destined to be slowed up in any case.
Rehabilitation of outworn and outmoded
industries made necessary the spending
of large sums on new heavy equipment,
and while mills, factories and yards were
humming with activity there was a flood
of brand-new companies, all raising capi-
tal and spending it. This outlay had to
cease some time. But had war scares
not caused a buttoning-up of many
pockets these rehabilitated and new in-
dustries would have had a better chance
of “doing their stuff” and keeping the
revs, of industry up. As it happens, a
slowing-down of retail sales has affected
the whole British economic system.
Other countries are in much the same
condition.
* * * *
The International Harvester Co.’s new
Geelong works, as well as new premises
at South Melbourne, were opened on
May 22. At Geelong in the future will
be made McCormick-Deering agricul-
tural machines and implements, as well
as parts for the co.’s tractors and Inter-
national trucks. It is a big new enter-
prise into which a couple of million
pounds has gone and in which many
Australians will be employed. The first
McCormick reaper was imported into
Australia 83 years ago.
* * * *
Washington H. Soul shares soared to
965. in Sydney about the middle of last
week. Rumors were current that a mar-
riage with Boots had, been definitely
arranged. The market was so vigorous
that the co.’s directors acted quickly;
on Wednesday they announced that at
the last annual meeting shareholders were
told nothing further had happened in the
Boots negotiations after the original
statement had been made, and that since
the meeting nothing additional had tran-
spired. So it seems that the courtship is
still in the “preliminary” stage. The
market for W. H. Soul shares afterwards
slipped back to 955. sellers, 89s. buyers.
At 90s. the return is 3.3 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis.
# * * *
Gold has been steady at or near 148 s.
6d. for some months in London. It indi-
cates that sterling has remained depre-
ciated for a lengthy period at somewhere
near its lowest point, and that trade,
financial and other conditions in Britain
aren’t regarded with great favor in the
exchange markets. Perhaps the most dis-
turbing influence is Britain’s proximity
to the Mad Continent and a fear that
some day the Bank of England may be
blown sky-high. In other words, war
scares appear to have a great deal to do
with the depreciation of sterling, and a
stream of money flowing from England
to the U.S.A. is mainly represented by
capital movements, and is not entirely due
to Britain’s trade position with the rest
of the world. Oddly, the London Stock
Exchange shows more equanimity than
does Wall-street, where some of the
world’s worst panics have occurred over
the last couple of years. Yet, presum-
ably, it is into Wall-street that a lot of
British and Continental migratory capital
is finding its way these days. It is diffi-
cult to judge the state of world financial
affairs so long as war talk is the chief
influential factor. When fear and emotion
take the place of reason, anything may
happen. And international bluff and
dished-up “news” flourish on such con-
fusion and uncertainty. Uncertainty sur-
rounding the “international situation is
tending to keep the whole economic
world out of gear.
* * * *
Prestige N.Z., Ltd., a subsidiary of the
Melbourne hosiery concern, is increasing
its paid capital by £30,000. The parent
will take 20,000 ords., and 10,000 6 p.c.
prefs. will be offered to existing pref.
shareholders. The Maoriland co. made
a profit of £4728 in its last term and paid
an all-round 6 p.c. Earnings were rather
in-and-out during the preceding few
years. Following its better recent results,
the 10s. ords. of the Melbourne parent
have lifted to 14s.' 6d.
*** ' *
Vale of Clwydd Colliery, Lithgow and
Wallerawang (N.S.W.), which recon-
structed after heavy expenditure, on No.
2 colliery had got it into financial diffi-
culties during the slump, is in clover
again. Once it was the most prosperous
western colliery co. in the State ; then
the scrip went begging. The outlook
looked hopeless for a while. Helped *
seemingly, by its brickworks, the co. has
paid a steady 10 p.c. for the past 3- 2 -
years (capital is only £15,180 now, as
against £110,733 before the reconstruc-
tion), and shareholders are to get a bonus
issue of five’new ss. shares for every two
now held. This will call for £37,950,
and will be provided from the writing-
up of book values. Capital will lift to
£53,130. There was a sale of the old
shares at 7s. 6d. in 1938. Buyers offer
9s. now, no sellers about.
* * * *
Swan Brewery, Perth, largest purveyor
of beer in the Golden West, has shown
an increased profit and maintains a 25
p.c. ord. div. The ss. shares return 4.5
p.c. at 28s.
* * * *
Great Boulder’s div. of 3d. sterling,
payable July 7, makes a total distribu-
tion of 9d. per 2s. share over the last
year. There were divs. of similar amount
in December and April. The’ shares are
at just under 12s. in Adelaide and Mel-
bourne. There has been a temporary lull
in the war of circulars. But the div. isn’t
high enough yet.
* * * *
The Law Book Co. was quickly in the
field with an Index to the Victorian Com-
panies Act, 1938, and Company Law
Amendments Effected by the Companies
Act {Victoria). The Index (compiled by
R. L. Gilbert, 8.A., LL.B.), of course, is
an immensely valuable little volume so
far as acquainting oneself with the new
Victorian company legislation (pro-
claimed this month) is concerned. Until
a complete treatment of the Act itself
is available, the index will be indispen-
sable to accountants. Company Law
Amendments (by John Bloomfield, LL.B.)
represents a quick means of becoming
familiarised with the changes in company
legislation brought about by operation
of the new . Act.
The Employer’s Handbook, by L. W.
Farrar, put out by the Gregory Publish-
ing Co. at 7s. 6d., is a handy book deal-
ing with industrial legislation in N. S.
Wales. It endeavors to explain to the
employer his responsibilities, etc;, in con-
nection with arbitration and awards,
appenticeship, wages statistics, workers’
compensation and Factories and Shops
Act. The extensive index alone makes
the book worth while.
Bills of Sale, Liens and Stock Mort-
gages (Law Book Co.) is a revised edition
of R. J. Atkins’s, work on the law in
N. S. Wales as recently amended. The
Act is reprinted from preamble to “God
Save the King,” and it is plentifully an-
notated and indexed. Those interested
in lending money could hardly do with-
out something of the kind.
* * $ *
Osmiridium (Tas.), N.L. (Adamsfield,
Tas.), reports having driven south on No.
1 level to 30ft. Opening out to start
stoping on a face of payable ore 6ft.
wide was begun on May 20. Stoping
began earlier northward in No. 1 level
on payable ore. The mill treated 81
tons ore fo,r 12oz. 14dwt. osmiridium,
sold for £254. The mine is near full
production according to the present pro-
gramme. Plant is working satisfactorily,
and the water problem has greatly im-
proved, according to mine-manager
Byrne.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Chamberlain on Present Policy.
[Referring in an accompanying leader to the speech
here condensed from its issue of May 12, London
“Times” said: “Mr. Chamberlain’s unheralded speech
of yesterday was one of the most important he has
ever delivered, and it may be hoped that it will attract
at least as much attention everywhere as the much-
heralded speeches of other leaders of nations. No
one has more naturally or more unmistakably grown
into the position of a national leader than the present
Prime Minister of Great Britain, and he is fully
entitled to claim, as he did yesterday, that the nation
is fundamentally united behind the policy that he is
pursuing with growing confidence and vigor.” As
well as stating simply and clearly exactly what that
policy is and what it entails, Mr. Chamberlain replies
specifically to leading points in Herr Hitler’s last speech.]
We have been through the whole gamut of the
emotions—anxiety deepening until it became acute,
then intense relief, varied by renewed doubts and
fears, until now the people have settled down into a
mood of firm and fixed resolve, confident in our
strength, clear in our conscience that we have done
and are doing all that men can do to preserve peace.
Convinced of the rightness and the unselfishness
of our aims, we are as ready as ever to listen to the
views of others, but determined not to submit to dic-
tation. And whatever differences there may be among
us as to the methods, I feel satisfied that throughout
the country there is fundamental union on the prin-
ciples of the policy which we are following.
Nothing would induce us to enter upon a war
unless we are absolutely convinced that it could not
be avoided without sacrificing our own liberties and
our own good name. Recent developments in our
policy have been forced upon us and have led us to
undertake new commitments in Europe leading inevit-
ably to fresh increases in the armed power of the
nation. It has never been part of our policy to be
meddlesome busybodies interfering in other people's
concerns. We have long had certain alliances and en-
gagements on the Continent, and, of course, we have a
general interest in the maintenance of peace ; but so
long as these things were not threatened we had no
desire to go farther.
As for Germany’s actions, we were not necessarily
concerned with them so long as they were confined
within the limits which they themselves laid down and
sought only to promote the interests of Germany with-
out threatening the independence of non-German
countries. But when Bohemia and Moravia were
annexed to the Reich, then other countries began at
once to ask where is this process going to stop. The
natural result was that every neighbor of Germany
felt its security threatened, and a widespread suspicion
was created that we were only watching the first step
in a policy which might be contemplating the swallow-
ing of State after State, with the intention ultimately
of dominating the world.
It may be that the Nazi leaders have no such
ambitions. They themselves say that there is nothing
farther from their minds than to use these gigantic
forces which they have accumulated for the purpose of
aggression against others or of attempting the eco-
nomic, political and military domination of smaller
States. If that be so, then I say that Germany has
nothing to fear from British policy.
I am told that there are people in Germany who
do not understand our policy and think that we have
some intention of encircling their country. I can
understand that people who suffered after the war from
the consequences of severe privation have got a dread
of being stifled or restricted by the deliberate policy
of some foreign Power. Never has it entered our
thoughts to isolate Germany or to stand in the way of
the natural and legitimate expansion of her trade in
Central and South-eastern Europe ; still less to plan
some combination against her with the idea of making
war upon her. Any suggestion of the kind is simply
fantastic, and if it is repeated for the purpose of propa-
ganda it will not be believed anywhere outside of
Germany.
On the other hand, we are not prepared to sit by
and see the independence of one country after another
successively destroyed, and it is because there can be
no rest, no security in Europe until the nations are
convinced that no such attempt is contemplated, that
we have given assurances to several countries.
Herr Hitler, referring to the Anglo-German Naval
Treaty, said that it was based upon one condition —
the will and conviction that war between England and
Germany should never again be possible. He added
that that will and conviction were alive in him still
to-day, but he suggested that his conviction was no
longer shared in London, that war against Germany
was taken for granted here, and accordingly, he said,
the basis for the Treaty had been removed.
This is a very serious matter, and I want now to
make a firm and definite assertion that so far as we
are concerned the basis of the Treaty has not been
removed. On the contrary, I hold now, as I have
always held, that the Anglo-German Naval Treaty
could properly be regarded as symbolic of the desire
that our two peoples never go to war with one
another again. I believe that desire to be as firm as
ever among both peoples, and I am convinced that
both peoples expect their Governments so to arrange
their relations with one another and so to conduct
their affairs that no question of war between us shall
arise.
Herr Hitler went on to say that he hoped we
might avoid an armaments race between Germany
and England, and he added that he was ready to
negotiate with us on the naval question with a view
to coming to a clear and straightforward understand-
ing. That is a statement to which his Majesty’s Gov-
ernment will give most careful consideration, and in
due course we shall send our reply to the German
Government.
Let me say here and now that neither in arma-
ments nor in economics do we desire to enter into
unbridled competition with Germany. We have
already made an Anglo-German payments agreement
which has proved, I think, of mutual benefit, and
which has resulted in a fair volume of reciprocal trade
in spite of the great differences in the economic sys-
tems of the two countries. And, moreover, we would
not refuse to enter into a discussion upon measures
for the increase of our mutual trade or for the im-
provement of our economic condition ; but, of course,
only if unmistakable signs can be given to us of a
desire to restore that confidence which has been so
severely shaken.
It must be apparent that these assurances to
European countries have added greatly to our respon-
sibilities, and, therefore, the necessity that we should
put ourselves in a position to fulfil them.
If war should ever come —which God forbid —
the brunt of the fighting will have to be borne by the
younger men. In the last war the lives of some of
the finest of our young men were sacrificed because
they had never had a full opportunity of making
themselves acquainted with the use of the weapons
of war. We must not take the responsibility of letting
that happen again. With our compulsory military
training we shall call up 200,000 men in the first year ;
at the end of the third year we shall have 800,000 men
who will have had an intensive training for six months
in the use of the weapons and the equipment that they
would have to use in time of war. That is an im-
mense addition to the strength and the safety of them-
selves and of the country.
M. Blum, the French Socialist leader and former
Prime Minister, has told me that in his view
there was only one danger of war in Europe,
and that was a very real one: it was that the impression
should go about that Great Britain and France were
not in earnest and that they could not be relied upon
to carry out their promises. If that were so, no
greater, no more deadly mistake could be made, and
it would be a frightful thing if Europe were to be
plunged into war on account of a misunderstanding.
In many minds the danger spot in Europe to-day
is Danzig. While our assurances to Poland are clear
and precise, and although we should be glad to see the
differences between Poland and Germany amicably
settled by discussions, and although we think that they
could and should be so settled, if an attempt were
made to change the situation by force in such a way
as to threaten Polish independence, that would inevit-
ably start a general conflagration in which this country
would be involved.
An American Views Britain.
[John W. Owens, the editor-in-chief of the Baltimore
“Sun” newspapers, who is at present in England studying
the international situation, sums up on current British
public opinion in an article sent to his newspaper group
and here condensed from Manchester “Guardian.”]
The one important fact in the situation here is
the evidence of a powerful and growing public will to
hold Hitler, ready to fight if necessary to do so. My
belief is that this feeling will grow stronger and become
more potent in final decisions here and in Germany.
Meantime negotiations for allies go on and on.
Britain and Russia are seeking a marriage of conveni-
ence that will be as awkward and full of distrust as
that between Germany and Italy. This is to com-
plement British arrangements with Poland, Greece and
Rumania. It all looks very well on paper, but what
will it mean to Hitler unless there is a will to say
“No” and to mean no?
Here it is that public opinion in Britain enters.
Britain has been worked up at various times in the last
few years only to subside into resignation. But it
seems to me that something elemental is running this
time and must be taken seriously.
If Mr. Chamberlain negotiates in another crisis he
will need desperately to guard himself against the
appearance of surrender. There is little doubt about
the present will of the majority of articulate groups of
the British public. In non-British quarters here which
have exceptional opportunities to measure the situa-
tion it is said that the British people now want to
fight, and the Government, too. It would be more
accurate to say that large sections of the people here
have a hardening of the will to pay the price of war
if called upon to do so.
The people here have no illusions and know that
there can be no tangible gain in war for their country,
that war will not promote liberty or democracy, and
they know too that if war comes it will be no business
of the old and the middle-aged sending forth the young
men ; on the contrary, they think that the Germans
would have the initial advantage and would ravage
London. But great and apparently growing groups
want Hitler held, and if they cannot hold him without
war they are prepared to see what they can do in war.
The weakness of Eden and of Liberal and Labor
opposition when they criticised Chamberlain’s appease-
ment policy last year was that they faltered when asked
to face war if necessary to sustain resistance to the
dictators. They argued that stern resistance could be
offered dictators without danger of war, but they could
give no guarantee of that. To-day advocates of a firm
policy are standing up to the issue of war if necessary
to stop Hitler.
Hitler’s swallowing of Bohemia and Slovakia was
the turning-point in British thought. Up to that time
Hitler was able to force a certain honest straddle in
the thinking of many people in Britain as in the United
States. Hitler lost that advantage when he seized
peoples upon whom he had no claim save that of force.
In what he had done before that Hitler had been
able to make a case, but when he seized the peoples
and lands of Bohemia and Slovakia it was obvious
rape, and his excuses were obvious pettifoggery. By
that he enraged those Britons who cared not only for
their own country but those who cared for order and
decency in the international field.
Fourteen years ago [when Mr. Owens was London
correspondent of the Baltimore “Sun”] numerous
moderate Conservatives and nearly all the intellectual
Liberals and Labor men in Britain were working hard
to liberate Germany from the military and economic
restrictions of Versailles. To-day there is a kind of
nervous exhaustion which may lead to a sudden
explosion.
Mr. Chamberlain some weeks ago said that
“people could not live for ever in an atmosphere of
surprise.” That feeling now pervades the country. If
Mr. Chamberlain makes a genuine surrender again
the uproar in Britain will be terrific. He might not
be able with safety even to join in a rational settlement
of the question of Danzig and the Polish Corridor were
Hitler to propose measures that normally would be
called rational, for here the feeling grows that any con-
cession is an invitation to another demand, and every
concession increases the might with which he will
ultimately confront Britain.
Italy’s Claim to Jibuti.
(i Condensed from a “Contemporary Review” article by
R. A. Friedman.)
In regard to Jibuti Signor Mussolini continues a
policy which had been established by former Italian
Governments long before the rise of Fascism.
The settlement of France in this region dates from
1860. When in 1858 it became sure that the Suez
Canal would be really constructed a French naval
detachment was sent to the Red Sea to take possession
of the then unoccupied Isle of Perim. But while the
French fleet sojourned in Aden a remark of a French
officer revealed the intention of France. Immediately
a British cruiser was sent to Perim, and when the
French arrived they found the Union Jack already
planted on the shore. In 1888 the French bought the
Jibuti site from the Sultan of Zeilah, much to the dis-
pleasure of the British Government. It even lodged
a protest with the French Government.
In October, 1918, Sonnino, the Italian Minister of
Foreign Affairs, sent a memorandum to Colonel
House claiming the whole French colony, Jibuti
with its railway, and the British colonies of
Somaliland and Jubaland. Italy based these claims on
Article 13 of the Anglo-French-Italian agreement of
April 26, 1915, which decided Italy to take part in the
war on the side of the Allies. This article said: If
Britain or France obtain an increase in their colonial
possessions in Africa, Italy might in principle claim
equitable compensation, particularly in the shape of
a favorable settlement of questions affecting frontiers
between Eritrea, Somaliland and Libya, and the ad-
jacent British and French colonies.” The Italian aspira-
tions were rejected by Clemenceau. Mr. Lloyd George
was not entirely unfavorable and suggested the cession
of Jubaland. The Cabinet did not follow him.
Sonnino frankly avowed that Italy wished to
obtain a preponderant influence in Abyssinia, and that
for this purpose she needed the railway connecting
Jibuti with Addis Ababa in order to cut off supplies
of arms and munitions. This rather naive confession
was too much for Britain, France and President
Wilson. It was argued that Italy, while insisting
on the agreement of 1915, had not fulfilled her own
obligations. She had pledged her word to declare war
on all the enemies of the Allies, but had only done so
in regard to Austria. During a whole year she had
refrained from declaring war on Germany. The
Italians declined also to fall in with the arrangements
entered into by the British and French fleets for the
control of the Mediterranean and the protection or
that sea route against German submarines. They were
Complications.
From a “Contemporary Review” (May)
article by Sisley Huddleston:—
Poland, on whose behalf we are now active,
was the first to profit by the dismemberment
of Czechoslovakia, and to take Teschen by
force from her unhappy Slav sister.
Poland has a traditional distrust of Russia,
rather than of Germany, and has always
affirmed that she would defend herself alone
rather than accept the assistance of Russia.
Indeed, Poland has a pact with France which
has been left in abeyance precisely because
France made an alliance with Russia.
That Russian alliance is hotly disputed in
France. There are two schools of thought, one
of which pins its faith to the Russian hordes
and the Russian aeroplanes, the other of which
recalls the Russian collapse of 1917, doubts the
military value of the Russian army, of the
Russian equipment, of the Russian roads, and
above all questions Russian intentions, which
are not, it holds, to help any country to win a
war, but to conduct all countries through defeat
to universal revolution.
The Polish alliance with Rumania is, be it
remarked, at present directed against Russia,
not against Germany.


not prepared to risk their fleet in a common endeavor
under a united command. They argued that they were
fully discharging their obligations by holding up the
Austrian army on the Italian frontiers. In 1917 they
even refused a powerful reinforcement of their artillery
offered by Britain and France on the condition that
they should conduct an offensive against Austria.
Italy’s claims in Africa were rejected, but not
forgotten. The Fascist regime inherited them from its
predecessors. In 1924, Great Britain ceded Jubaland,
which made Italy renew more than ever the demands
in regard to French cessions. Later Italy was granted
2000 shares in the French railway from Jibuti to
Addis Ababa.
Now the situation has changed once more. Since
1935 Jibuti has become of increased importance to
France as well as to Italy.
Although thfe Italians have constructed new roads
from the sea to the capital, transport is very expensive
and necessitates large quantities of petrol, which Italy
lacks to a great extent. The railway is claimed as indis-
pensable. Italy pretends also that Italian anti-Fascists
and Abyssinian chiefs who have escaped to Jibuti have
started a violent anti-Italian propaganda from Jibuti,
exciting the natives to revolt. It is also known that
great quantities of Italian lire are smuggled out of
Abyssinia and sold at any price in Jibuti.
Franco-Italian relations in this region have become
openly hostile. The Italians have established military
outposts in a territory which, according to the French,
belongs to the colony, while Italy pretends that the
frontier is uncertain. The French have now copied
the Italian procedure and established a line of similar
outposts. Also, the French Government decided to
reinforce the garrison and send several warships to
Jibuti. The railway continues to work, but the station
of Addis Ababa is surrounded by barbed wire. The
French flag flies no longer on the building. Most of
the French who had settled in Abyssinia before the
war have been forced to leave.
Though the atmosphere is very unpleasant a
Franco-Italian agreement is not impossible if Italy does
not claim what France cannot concede. France might
grant an increased influence in the administration of the
railway without ceding it completely. Such an agree-
ment would perhaps lead to tariff reductions. But it
is out of the question to cede the whole colony. The
cession of Jibuti would deprive France of an inter-
mediate station for traffic with the Far East and
especially with Indo-China. It is inconceivable that a
French Government would ever take such a step. Only
the French Parliament can renounce French territory,
and it is out of the question that the French Parlia-
ment would vote for such a proposal.
Britain’s Colossal Naval Effort.
[Condensed from articles by the Manchester
“Guardian” naval correspondent, this information brings
up to date the account of J. Bull’s stupendous efforts
to regain as rapidly as possible the former strength of
the Navy on which the whole Empire depends.]
The extent of the work now in hand for the Navy
is not always appreciated by the layman, because pro-
grammes are made public piecemeal, year by year,
and not, as is mainly the foreign practice, in one com-
prehensive plan to cover a period of years. In addi-
tion to the ships here shown there are a number of
smaller and auxiliary craft also on order or about to
be ordered. The state of progress after the launch of
the Prince of Wales is as follows:
Laid
Launched. Down. Authorised.
Battleships 2 3 4
Aircraft-carriers .. .. 1 4 1
Cruisers .. .. .. 4 15 8
Destroyers .. .. ..8 12 16
Submarines .. . . .. 8 7 4
Escort vessels .. .. .. 1 5 22
Motor torpedo-boats . . 10 6
This gives a total of 141 vessels. In terms of displace-
ment it represents something like 680,000 tons, which
is more than the total amount allocated to Japan for
the whole of her fleet under the revised figures of the
1930 Limitation Agreement. That fact perhaps serves
to dramatise the present position in our shipyards and
to make clear the immensity of the effort.
The battleship position is entirely satisfactory.
Five ships of the 35,000-ton, 14-inch gun class will be
completed by the end of 1940. Four of the next class,
the Lions, of 40,000 tons, with 16-inch guns, should
be on service by 1942. By the end of 1943, Britain
will have two new battle squadrons.
At that date 10 of the existing 12 battleships will
have passed the official age-limit of 26 years, but the
extensive (and expensive) reconstruction which they
have all undergone is generally supposed to have given
them at least 10 years of additional effective life. The
official proposal to scrap the five Royal Sovereigns
after 1942 met with immediate criticism on all hands,
and, although they are manifestly inferior to foreign
ships of more recent design, they would still be valu-
able for second-line purposes. It must be remembered
that foreign navies also have a large proportion of
pre-Washington capital ships.
The number of cruisers now in hand is equal to
the total number built during the 15 years from 1920
to 1934. It is nearly twice as large as the number
built in the four years 1935 to 1938. And even so it
is not sufficient to carry out the policy laid down by
the Government in 1936, the provision of 70 cruisers,
of which not more than 10 should be over age by
1942. Britain will be four short of that figure.
Six cruisers should be launched during the present
year and probably eight in the following 12 months.
The first group are comparatively small 5450-ton ships
with a remarkable armament of the new 5.25-inch gun.
They are, in the view of the technicians, far more
suited to the general and diversified tasks of cruiser
warfare than a 10,000-ton ship, despite the heavier
armament of the larger design. Continental navies
have gone back to the small and exceptionally-fast
cruiser type.
Of the remarkable figure of 22 escort vessels, 20
have been ordered already, though none of the keels
can be laid before June owing to the four months’
notice required to be given to other Powers which have
accepted the Exchange of Information clauses. It has
been officially stated that delivery of the ships for
service is to begin in May of next year, so that the
Admiralty is expecting the builders to produce the
vessels, of an entirely new type, within 10 or 11 months.
This is a notable achievement, technically quite as
remarkable as the building of a battleship.
The fleet certainly has need of these ships —and
as many more of them as can be built within the limits
of finance. Twenty of the group are only 900-ton
ships, but each of them will cost more than £160,000.
The Board of Admiralty must have been much
impressed with the design, for no “specimen” was
built for preliminary tests and 20 were ordered
“straight off the drawing-board”—a most unusual thing
in naval practice.
* * * * *
As far back as 1909 a beginning was made with
plans for the creation of an Imperial Eastern Fleet to
which Australia, New Zealand and the home country
would all contribute units. The first battle cruisers
built for the Dominions were to be the main units in
that fleet. The strategical needs of the Great War
altered the position, and since 1919 neither Australia
nor New Zealand has cared to undertake the burden
of naval defence on an Imperial scale, while Britain
has not had the ships with which to do it.
But, as the recent Pacific Conference has shown,
opinion is now moving in the direction of more ade-
quate joint preparation for defence in the vast triangle
of ocean between Dunedin, Hong Kong and Colombo.
The material burden will be a heavy one, and the bulk
of it will have to be borne by the home country. But
the enthusiasm with which Australia and New Zealand
welcomed the birth of their Dominion navies 30 years
ago is reviving. Sea sense is reawakening, and what
our Victorian forebears mistakenly called Britain
Beyond the Seas is coming to realise that all Britain is
on the seas and lives only by virtue of the sea.
Air Lessons from Spain.
[This London “Daily Telegraph’’ contribution by
Air-Commodore F. MacNeece Foster shows how some
of the lying over Spain’s civil war is coming home
to roost. Instead of it being realised that air operations
there were greatly exaggerated for newspaper sensation
purposes, the moral drawn is that it is the dangers from
air attack that have been exaggerated. Correcting this
notion, he also corrects a year or two of prodigious
lying about alleged huge-scale Italian and German air
attacks.]
After six months with the Commission for the
Exchange of Prisoners in Spain, I find a somewhat
dangerous conclusion widely held as regards the poten-
tialities of air warfare in so. far as Britain is con-
cerned.
It is pointed out that the civil war lasted nearly
three years; that the Burgos Government had a
marked air superiority ; and that air action had been
quite inconclusive in bringing the war to a speedy end
despite the bombardments of great cities like Madrid
and Barcelona. The moral that has been drawn is that
the dangers from air attack have been greatly exag-
gerated.
This deduction is not warranted. The following
considerations, which applied to the civil war in Spain,
would certainly not apply to a war in which Britain
was engaged:
(1) Actual aircraft engaged in the raids were quite
insignificant compared with those that must be ex-
pected in a major European war. Ten bombing air-
craft over Madrid or Barcelona was a very large raid.
For Britain the number would have to be multiplied
10, 20 or even 50 times.
(2) It is fair to say, without minimising the horrors
of the war, that on the whole the bombing aircraft
concentrated the bulk of their attacks on legitimate
war objectives and not directly on the morale of the
civil population. This conclusion was reached by the
Bombing Commission, presided over by a distinguished
R.A.F. officer, and is indeed indisputable. Anybody
who was in Barcelona or Valencia will testify that the
great majority of bombing attacks were directed
against the ports of these cities, and not against the
most crowded centres.
(3) One other reason was still more important.
General Franco was not only the Generalissimo of
the Burgos armies, but regarded himself as in due
course the leader of all Spaniards. He wished to estab-
lish his future Government in Spain, with Madrid as
the capital. He was further determined that Bar-
celona and Valencia should resume with the minimum
of delay those activities on which the future prosperity
of Spain must largely depend. It followed, therefore,
that it was supremely to his interest to inflict, not the
maximum, but the minimum of material damage.
It is true that a few big bombs fell in the centre
of Barcelona. Every visitor to the city was brought to
see the damage which they caused. On every in-
structed observer the effect was the same. If such
chaos could be caused by six big bombs what would
have been the result of 600?
The greatest single factor making for peace is
the full realisation by all the peoples of Europe of
the dangers not only to their lives but to their Civilisa-
tion, inevitably resulting from war under modern con-
ditions. The Second greatest factor for peace is the
universal realisation of the stark determination of
Britain, if, despite every effort, it is involved in war.
The most serious danger would arise from any belief
that we in Britain had been lulled into a false sense
of security and were diminishing in any way the inten-
sity of our effort both for counter-attack and for
defence by air-raid precautions.
It is vital for the morale of the country that no
unduly alarmist view should be taken of the effects
of modern warfare. It is equally vital that we should
face facts as they are, and that we should not be
misled by events in Spain into drawing comfortable
conclusions which are plainly not only unjustified but
highly dangerous from every standpoint.
A Soviet “School History.”
(Condensed from a “Contemporary Review” article by
Paul Olberg .)
The nationalist and militarist spirit of the new
School History of the Soviet Union comes out particu-
larly in the accounts of the waging of wars. As a
rule, all Russia’s wars have been forced upon her
by her enemies; and, equally as a rule, Russia is
victorious, for the mighty Soviet Union is invincible.
Of course, there were exceptions; but these only
confirmed the rule. It is not disputed that Russia had
to undergo numerous defeats ; but it was never the
enemy’s military, economic or cultural superiority that
caused them. Heaven forbid! Russia was always
invincible: defeat was the result of “treason” alone.
Only a few prominent examples need be quoted.
Ivan the Terrible lost the war with Poland, Lithuania
and Sweden because the Bojars practised treachery
against him. In the Great War Russia was unable to
gain victories because “the Russian Ministers and
generals, together with the Empress, betrayed military
secrets to the Germans.” Thus the same legend of
the stab in the back which was launched by the Ger-
man generals and Nazi demagogues as the cause of
the German defeat is similarly made use of in the
Russian schoolbook.
Concerning the close of the Russo-Polish War
(1920) and the catastrophic defeat of the Red Army
near Warsaw, the School History states: “The Red
Army did not take Warsaw: it was ordered to retire.”
Everything, clearly, in perfect order. A Chauvinist
soldier’s witticism follows: “The Polish gentlemen
were taught such a lesson in the war that they have
not forgotten it to this day.”
The glaring lies and unscrupulous demagogy of
modern Russian history teaching reach unparalleled
excesses in its picture of the development of Russia
in the last two decades. This section of the book
opens with the assurance that “from the first days of
the victorious Bolshevist Revolution Lenin and Stalin
set about organising the Soviet State.... The Soviet
Government gave the Russian people complete libera-
tion —such a liberation as has been conferred on no
other nation in the w0r1d.... That contemptible enemy
of the people, the Fascist agent Trotsky, and his con-
temptible friends, Rykov and Bukharin, organised
within the Soviet Union bands of murderers, ruffians
and spies. They assassinated the ardent Bolshevist
Kirov. They also plotted the murder of other leaders
of the proletariat. The Fascist scoundrels who lol-
lowed Trotsky and Rykov organised train-wrecking,
explosions, fires in coalmines and factories ; ruined
machinery, poisoned workmen and did damage
wherever they could.” All of them, so runs the
legend, sought to restore the yoke of Capitalism. “But
the bandits were convicted and punished.”
The reasons for pouring ignominy on the former
Bolshevist leaders, who for years held the highest
posts, are: To be able to pass off the failures of the
dictator system as the result of sabotage ; to find some
justification for the terrorism of late years ; and to
contrast the “honorable” and “statesmanlike” figure
of Stalin with those “despicable internal enemies.”
There are no limits to the abuse in the legends of
“traitors” and “spies,” It goes so far that the children
are actually asked “to track down carefully all sus-
picious persons, so that Fascist agents may be trapped.”
Lenin once coined the saying “A good Communist
is a good Chekist” — i.e., a good agent of the political
police.
To our great astonishment we read that “even in
1933 the Soviet Union caught up with, and outstripped,
quite a number of European States.” The States,
however, are left unnamed.
The legend is put forward that the Russian State
under Bolshevist leadership has become the Chosen
Land. “Soviet aeroplanes fly higher and traverse
longer routes than any others.”. Where is the finest and
best underground in the whole world? Why, in Mos-
cow, of course. Similarly, art and science flourish
better in Soviet Russia than anywhere else.
The story about Professor Pavlov is particularly
pungent —an illustration showing that scientists of the
Soviet Union live and work as in paradise: “It was
only under the Soviet Government that Pavlov, as
member of the Academy of Science, could develop
his talents. Cherished by the care of the Russian
people, supported by the power of the Soviet, Pavlov
made many new discoveries about human life.” In
reality Professor Pavlov received the Nobel Prize for
his achievements in physiology as early as 1904.
The Soviet dictator is named only “Leader of the
Nations—the great Stalin.” Everything is praised to
high heaven that Stalin has done or even merely wanted
to do. “Stalin was commissioned to defeat Denikin’s
army.” Stalin “worked out the First Five Years’ Plan.”
Stalin “gave the people the best Constitution in the
world.” Like Figaro in “The Barber of Seville,” he
appears everywhere, marching from one triumph to
another. If other people have also played a consider-
able part in the Soviet State, they are generally de-
scribed as his colleagues or disciples. Truisms uttered
by him are quoted as pearls of political and philoso-
phical wisdom.
The reader closes the History, in which satire and
tragedy meet, with a heavy heart —with pity for the
rising generation of Russia to be brought up on a
book so far removed from historical truth, and for
the fate of Russia, where a ruthless dictatorship is
taught, officially, ostensibly in the name of Socialism.
The new teaching of history reflects the mentality of
the Kremlin of to-day and the mentality of the per-
sonal dictatorship of Stalin. From this point of view
it is a valuable record of the dramatic phase through
which Russia is passing.


SPORTING
MOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
LOVEUNESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Beau Placid, the winner over fences
at Moonee Valley on Saturday, is en-
gaged in the Grand National Steeple with
the minimum weight of 9st. It will be
ironical if this hitherto despised gelding
leads home the field, for he cost Charley
Quinn only 22igns. at a Newmarket
(Vic.) yearling sale.
Rising 74, Quinn has had a notable
career as jockey, trainer, owner and
horse-dealer. On seven occasions he rode
the winner of the A.R.C. Fulham Park
Plate. He was on Gratitude when that
horse (backed for £60,000) took part
in Grace Darling’s fateful Caulfield Cup,
but avoided the terrible smash which re-
sulted in Donald Nicholson being killed
and Frank McGrath being laid up for
months with a fractured skull and con-
cussion of the brain.
Quinn has nothing to learn in the art
of educating jumpers. He bought Van-
guard for £IOO, and with that wonderful
little grey captured the Great Eastern at
Oakbank (S.A.) on two occasions. But
the best timber-topper ever he owned
was Distiller. Distiller broke a blood-
vessel and died on the eve of being sent
over from Adelaide to run in the V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdle.
Opening up pages of past memories in
a chat at Moonee Valley after Beau
Placid had romped home, Quinn said:
“My intention had been to win a Perth
Cup with Distiller and then take him to
England.” But if someone had made an
attractive offer he probably would have
parted with that horse. Charley an-
nounced on Saturday that Beau Placid is
for sale at £4OO.
• • * * * •
Brightello, favorite—at 11 to B—for8 —for
the Commonwealth Steeple, missed a
place. He took charge lj miles from
home, and led until Bully Hayes ran him
down with five furlongs to go. Bright-
ello quit after measuring strides at a
couple of fences. Beau Placid (eights)
swept past Bully Hayes (9 to 4) on the
bend, and from that stage it was a case
of “pay out.”
?
La t winter Davanthus won the V.R.C.
Keilor Hurdle and was runner-up to
Pooley Bridge in the Doutta Galla
Hurdle after failing in the Grand
National. Put by until May 17, when he
had an outing on the flat at Geelong, this
powerfully-built gelding was produced
for the Federal Hurdle.
Fullarton’s being in the saddle no doubt
accounted for Davanthus being made a 3-
to-1 favorite, taking preference over
recent winners in Peerie and In Arms.
Rather short in condition, Davanthus had
to be ridden out to beat Bridge of Dee
by Iqss than a length, but it was an en-
couraging trial for the National, in which
he has 9st. 71b.
Bookmakers came into their own at
the Valley. Apart from Davanthus the
only favorite to score was Millie’s Hope,
at 10 to 9 on, in the Mount Alexander
Handicap. Other winners were Welling-
ton Maid (twelves), Beau Placid and
Bow Tie (each at eights) and Maldevon
(tens).
Wellington Maid (Koomeela-Nuit) got
up in the last stride to beat Old Scotch
(a brother to the 1930 Perth Derby
winner, Beaunilly) by half a head in the
Piccaninny Handicap. Her sire is a
brother to Amounis, and was trained by
George Price for James Murdoch. Heavy
going operated against the 10-to-9 favor-
ite, The Progeny, who finished fourth.
No difficulty was experienced by
Millie’s Hope (Spearfelt-Millieme Miss)
in winning the Mount Alexander Handi-
cap, of li miles. He had three lengths
to spare from Mutable (14 to 1), with
Minim (tens) two lengths farther off. This
made three in a row for Millie’s Hope,
who may now be eased before receiving
a spring preparation.
Bow Tie —who, like the Steeple winner,
Beau Placid, is by Beau Fils—bolted
away with the Keilor Handicap. Stoic
(2 to 1, favorite) could make no impres-
sion on her. The Headwind Highweight
was fought out stirringly, Maldevon,
owned by R. P. Trihey, of Regular
Bachelor, fame, squeezing home by half
a neck from the pacemaker, My Boy.
* * * *
In ideal late-autumn weather over
11,000 people went to Canterbury for
the races on Saturday. Canterbury is
now the headquarters of “the Canterbury
Park Turf Club, Ltd., a non-proprietary
members’ club,” and the limited non-
proprietary club is putting down anew
track “modelled,” the programme says,
“on the lines of the leading tracks of the
U.S.A.” It will be oval in shape, with
two turns and two straights. But why
copy America when Australia has
courses like Randwick and Flemington?
• ••*••
Moorefield trainer Gray, once a
jockey, saddled up Samurai and Table
Talk "for the Members’ Flying Handicap,
and took the unusual course of assuring
the chief stipendiary before the race that
both were trying. They race in different
colors, and both started at eights. The
pair had a great tussle over the final fur-
long ; it ended in favor of Samurai by
a head, with Moaveil —also - trained at
Moorefield —half a length away third.
Moaveil should have won. She lost
ground at the start, and then, after mak-
ing a fast move at the half-mile, was
knocked back to the rear division. She
was so far back that her name wasn’t
“called” till the last 20 or 30 yards.
Gray must be a good judge. He
fancied Samurai, whose second win in
succession it was —he is owned by Mrs.
Sam Solomon. The gelding gets most of
his training on Botany Bay beaches.
• •••so
Darby Munro has a big following, and
backers went strongly for his mount,
Bianconi, in the Turf Club Handicap.
They left their money in the bags. Bian-
coni was in the thick of a scrimmage
going out of the straight, and afterwards
he refused to do his best despite Munro’s
urgings. Cid (10 to 1), with a smart little
apprentice, Smith, aboard, chased Aren’t
We All to the home turn, and then
streaked away. At that stage he looked
a certainty, but near the judge’s box
Fearless, who had been ridden patiently
by Hickey, came with a run timed to
a split second, and beat Cid in the last
stride. Alan Verde, badly placed in the
early stages, was a close third. Gold Spark
was fourth, after having been badly in-
terfered with, and looks an early winner.
Fearless started at sixes.
Backers were well on the mark in
both divisions of the Park Stakes. In
the first division, Politesse, raced by
bookie Alec Williams and William Kelso,
was backed from tens to fours. She was
sent to the outside, hurdled off, and
then played up. But she jumped
out like a greyhound, and set up
a winning lead in the first furlong. She
ran on strongly to beat Belvoir and
Molyssa. Munro, Belvoir’s rider, lodged
a protest for “interference” at the 4jr
furlongs, Politesse, he alleged, having
taken Belvoir’s ground. The protest was
dismissed and should have been declared
frivolous.
Cable Boy is bred to stay, being by
Marconigram from that Once-useful per-
former Jimmie B. For the Ashbury
Handicap he was well backed at fours.
Putting in a long run from the five fur-
longs, Cable Boy just got there, but Gold
Pan, conceding 151 b., was beaten by only
a head, with Felicia a length away third.
The pacemaker, Exning, a stablemate of
Bianconi, was fourth.
Politesse and Cable Boy are trained by
William Kelso, Nowadays Kelso has no
Statesman in his stable, but obviously his
hand has not lost its cunning. Lappin
rode both his horses.
F. W. Hughes had to go to 800 guineas
to buy Good Morning as a yearling. She
has now won three races. The rails
position and a good run early enabled
her to hold off Dollar in the Juvenile,
but it was a near thing. Dollar was
under the whip for two furlongs. Grand
Billy found his 9.2 too much. Good
Morning started at 7 to 4. She is related
to Wakeful, Noctuiform, Nightfall and
Radnor.
. • i *>
Fresh from a victory in the Dubbo
Cup, Search had another in the second
division of the Park Stakes. A son of
Glenariff, who cost 3800 guineas as a
yearling but was a failure on the turf,
Search jumped away well and won as he
liked from Fox Foote and Roley’s
Choice; Rummage, heavily supported to
6 to 4, was fourth. Search started at twos
and big money went to Bathurst, Orange
and Dubbo as a result of the win.
* * * *
Malagigi has been sold to George
Tancred, owner of High Class and other
horses trained by Jamieson. He is spell-
ing until it is time, to put him in work
for Spring events, particularly the Mel-
bourne Cup.
* * $ ©
Adonis would have been favorite for
the Ashbury Handicap at Canterbury
Park, but he was withdrawn after being
sold to the Rajah of Kolapore. A big son
of Pantheon-Parfait Amour, Adonis ran
third in the Wagga Cup, and will do
better. He is now being trained by
Poison.
* * * *
Cheery Jack, who has 9.6 in the G.N.
Hurdle, may not go south, having suf-
fered a check in his preparation. Fairly
fast on the flat and a proficient jumper,
Cheery Jack has a future over the sticks,
but is not to be hurried.
* * * *
C. B. Kellow stated at Moonee Valley
that he doesn’t mean to retire from rac-
ing. The thoroughbreds that will be
offered for sale on his behalf in Sydney
shortly are brood mares that could not
be mated with Hall Mark or Nuffield
because of similarity in breeding.
* * * *
Gold Rod has been nominated for the
Doomben Newmarket and the Doomben
Cup. Though the Newmarket prize
(£3150) is much more valuable than the
Cup (£2000), he may be reserved for the
11-furlongs race, as E. J. Watt has
Waireka in the Newmarket also. The
big chestnut was a close fourth in the
Metropolitan, behind three good ones in
Royal Chief, Buzalong and Cooranga, so
11 furlongs at Doomben should not
trouble him. But Cooranga is also in the
Doomben Cup, along with St. Constant,
Hilarious and Herarde. St. Constant is
in the Newmarket as well, together with
Hamurah, Trimmer, Grey Derby, Bodley
Head, Might Not and Desert King. Mel-
bourne entries for Doomben include
Aurie’s Star, French Gem and Mutable
(both races), Lynch Law, Ronolive and
Keeping Watch (Newmarket).
* * * *
Lord Rosebery’s Blue Peter went out
favorite for the Epsom Derby (at 7 to 2)
and won easily. Smith made his run at
Tattenham Corner, and the chestnut colt
streaked to the front, putting so much
daylight between him and the rest of
the field of 27 that it was all over a
furlong from home. Gordon Richards’s
mount, Fox Cub, finished second, four
lengths behind Blue Peter, and Lord
Derby’s Heliopolis was third, another
three lengths away. Blue Peter’s time,
2.36 4-5, would be considered slow in
Australia, but time is a false standard
where Derby colts are concerned. British
opinion is unanimous that Blue Peter is
an exceptionally good colt.
Carslake wasn’t the only Australian
who had a Derby mount. Sibbritt rode
Autout Maitre. Neither his neddy nor
Carslake’s (King’s Legend) was in the
first half-dozen, though Autout Maitre
r
FOR FLEMINGTON.
York Hurdles: Pooley Bridge;
next, Kevastar.
Hopetoun Steeple: Turf Boy;
next, Bully Hayes.
Royal Handicap: Bow Tie ; next,
Stoic.
Sandringham Handicap: Digni-
tary ; next, Somerset.
Buckingham Handicap: Glad-
stone ; next, Carry Over.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
George’s River Handicap: Grey
Derby ; next, Moaveil.
Homestead Handicap: Gold
Spark ; next, Bachelor King.
Amateur Cup: Vintage; next,
The Frenchman.
Welter: Strathisla ; next, Tony.


A WHISKY WITH MAHY QUALITIES
—The Basis of Perfect Cocktails
■ n ■
By Appointme
The mellowness, softness
and quality of this Whisky
—the only one distilled
outside the British Isles
that has won and retained international repute —
will instantly appeal to the discerning palate.
Canadian Club Whisky is bottled in bond, after being
matured for years in old oak casks.
Although of pre-war strength it costs no more than
standard Scotch brands. For fine cocktails it is
unequalled.
The Cocktail Recipe that won the prize in a com-
petition open to the World
had as its main ingredient
Canadian Club Whisky.
This Whisky, bottled in
bond at pre-war strength,
costs no more than stand-
ard Scotch brands, yet it
has won and retains inter-
national repute.
Whisky
DISTILLED BY
SINCE
HIRAM WALKER & SONS,
LTD., WALKERVILLE, ONTARIO,
CANADA,
1858
fc
y ~ 7'*' ' %>mr * 'irr fitiiUtrtJ t* 1 *
«*« * ■"•'««»£..
* r »<fl,UON». *W( 1 * “
r hi% r< * 4 ****otr»*A'Mrfr"'* 9 '
S Wh,s- «i
owP
A»>
,


you can depend on
CHAMPIONS
Ar POWER
The power that comes from
strong hot sparks takes you over
the roads and up the hills with
less effort, less fuel and less
expense. Get the greater pow-
er that a new set of Champions
will give. The fuel they save
quickly p ays their small cost.
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
18 Improved 1939 Models: 3 to 160 Horsepower. 1,2, 4,
6, 8 and 12 cylinder sizes: all 4-cycle types. Prompt
Deliveries: 300 Engines always in stock. Five Years
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in satisfac-
tory daily use all over the world, many of them for over
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a record io
Economy, Durability and Reliability; they are, size ior
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines on
the world’s market to-day. . .
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, investi-
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Established in 1906,
Under the Whip
The V.R.C. handicapper is obviously
of the opinion that good hurdlers and
fencers are scarce. In the original G.N.
Hurdle handicaps there are four li-
steners (Pooley Bridge, Erination, Turf
Boy and Dominor), seven 10-stoners and
69 nine-stoners ; in the G.N. Steeple three
12-stoners, six 11-stoners, 10 10-stoners
and 51 nine-stoners. Pooley Bridge, 11.10
and 12.7, heads both lists, and next to
him comes Erination with 11.6 and 12.2.
Grantley, third in the last G.N. Steeple
and first in the Great Eastern Steeple
at Onkaparinga, is the early favorite for
the big Flemington steeplechase to be
run on July 8. At Onkaparinga he car-
ried 11.2, touched none of the 21 jumps
and completed the journey of 3J miles
in 6.1 li, a record for the race. He was
receiving 121 b. from Turf Boy,‘ who was
third, beaten just on three lengths. There
will be 61b. between them at Flemington,
which seems fair. Grantley, bred on a
Yorke Peninsula (S.A.) station, is a six-
year-old gelding by Paving Away out
of an Antol mare. Nobody’s Son, a
good second to Grantley on Easter Mon-
day, and the leader till the last 20 yards,
has 9.6 in the National, and if he starts
will be meeting Grantley on the same
terms. He pulled up groggy at Oak-
bank, but that doesn’t mean that he
won’t appear at Flemington. In any case
S.A. will have a strong double in
Dominor (11.4) and Grantley.
.** * *
Martin Whelan, who has taken Prime
Seal across from Adelaide to run in
the V.R.C. Grand National Steeple, finds
pleasure in visiting Melbourne because
of past memories. He won the G.N.
Hurdle of 1904 on Sarasati, and was suc-
cessful in the following year on York.
Bought as a yearling by C. Quinn for
30gns., York was passed on to C. L.
Moorhouse for lOOgns. He proved a
great bargain. The Flemington triumph
was quickly followed by victory in the
Caulfield Grand National Hurdle and
the A.R.C. Grand National, after which
the gelding was sold for export to Eng-
land.
The association between Whelan and
Moorhouse continued after Martin re-
tired from the saddle. The Adelaide sports-
man entrusted him with the training of
Fiscom, who proved himself a jumper
far out of the ordinary by landing the
V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle in 1921
and again in 1922.
* $ * *
All idea of converting Dignitary into
a jumper at the present juncture has been
abandoned. Bill Burke withdrew the
chestnut from the Grand National
Hurdle soon after weights were declared.
Private trials revealed that Dignitary had
no aptitude for service over the battens.
■it * * *
Though Country Party, formerly
trained by J. T. Jamieson but now in
the Caulfield stable of C. T. Godby, gave
a sorry exhibition in the role of jumper
at a recent Ascot (Vic.) meeting, he re-
vealed marked improvement on the same
course last Wednesday, finishing second
to Peerie, an even-money favorite.
Entrusted with the mount on Country
Party each time, Fullarton expressed
doubt as to whether the Chief Ruler
gelding would be qualified to compete
in a National this year. Fullarton also
issued a warning that Methuen, from
his own stable, might not be a runner
because of inadequate experience.
Four of the seven Ascot events went
to short-priced candidates, Peerie Winning
at 10 to 9, Ronwin at evens, and Decurio
and Montaza at 5 to 2 each. But it was
no disastrous day for the bookmakers,
the last two races going to rank outsiders.
Sir Ken (Wallingford Trial) and
Lotharic (Villiers Welter) were real “life
savers” for McShortodds. Each started
at 20 to 1. Sir Ken returned £lO 2s.
(nearly 40 to 1) for each ss. on the tote.
He belongs to G. J. Barton, whose other
candidate, Cortina, was next in demand
to the favorite, Beau Boy.
Cortina (Limond-Curtain) is closely
related to Veilmond, who performed so
notably in the colors of the late “Ned”
Moss. For part of the journey Cortina
was moderately placed, but he finished
tenth only in a field of 17 with the
minimum impost reduced by a 71b.
apprentice allowance.
The other “turn-up,” Lotharic, is
owned and trained by Harry Freedman.
Leading practically all the way, he de-
feated the favorite, Trowsdale, by a nar-
row margin. Lotharic is by Gay Lothario
“Were in good time , Auntie. Train won't be in f'r another six hours.”
fr o . l * l sister to Mira Donna, who
finished second to Madstar in the Aus-
tralian Cup of 1932. *
AJ . C . chairman Main has a fair cut
Qf a horse jn the three _ year _ old gelding
x rum p e ter, by Denis Boy-Auchenharvie,
traine g at Rosehill by Booth .
2 n his h T e , Course laSt Wednesday
Trumpeter had a v . ery easy win in a
division of the Maiden Handicap for
which was a 6_t °' 4 favorite T
to the home turn. Trumpeter mad so
? s . t . a , 1:1111 fron ? l^ at f h oin V J f tb "
finish he was sa lengths ahead of the
second hoise, Response, the third ho . ,
Buzzal, being another three lengths away.
It was a seven-furlongs race, and Trum-
peter’s time was 1.26 L The Frenchman,
also favorite (at 6 to 4 on), had taken
a second slower in winning the first divi-
sion, and was all out.
The Frenchman is owned by Pat
Osborne, and Numeral, winner of the
Granville Stakes (at fours), by Hunter
White, so the A.J.C. committee was very
well represented at Rosehill. Numeral
and The Frenchman were ridden by
Munro, Trumpeter by McMenamin.
Lappin was on the first in the Rosehill
Handicap, Gimme (7 to 4). Gimme wins
one race a year regularly. Lappin, who
was brought out by Poison —now devoted
as much to golf as to racing—has been
much more successful: Gimme was his
sixth winning mount in four days.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Farrington Beats La Verne
It would be exaggerating a bit to say
the local lad Frank Farrington surprised
the multitude in beating Danny la Verne
(imp.) at Sydney Arena, but, at any rate,
he surprised those present. Even after
he’d won the first round handsomely,
only outright patriotism could have in-
duced anyone to accept the odds on offer
against him. And that despite the im-
ported robot having been recently down
with ’flu, and at 9st. |lb. was giving
Frank the benefit of 4£lb.
For Danny is credited with having
beaten Kui Kong Young twice, and that
should have sufficed for this occasion.
Also, he was introduced as the fedder
champ, of the Pacific Coast, though he
certainly has not yet performed like a
champion here. His style is much like
Moreno’s and as monotonous to watch.
He’s a busy, bustling little man, always
jerking up and down and sideways as if
he had a bit of clockwork inside him.
Like all the present Americans, he keeps
on the attack, and he has a good right
hand.
The local boy, on the contrary, suffers
from never being busy enough; he likes
the fight brought to him ; then he will
lock horns and wallop away with his
right over an area extending from the-
solar to the kidneys. If there was just
a bit more fire and snap and attack in
him he’d be a good ’un; he’s game
enough, has speed, and is not afraid to
punch.
Going for the body in the in-fighting
and delivering one or two fairish lefts
aloft, Frank won the first well, but the
expectation was that the more seasoned
Danny would wade in at his leisure and
destroy him. This looked like being borne
out when Danny took the next three
rounds comfortably, and then the fifth
at his ease. He was picking Frank off
with a clean, clipping right to the jaw,
seemed to have the fresh young chap’s
measure, was bustling him, and having
a good deal the better of it.
It was a nice display, but not punish-
ing stuff. Frank, only a trifle marked
about the mouth, came out for the sixth
as fresh as a daisy after a swig of dew
and full of fight as Ferdinand when
the bee stung him. Poking a straight left
frequently into Danny’s face, he wal-
loped hard and often for the tummy
when they were locked together, coun-
tered solidly against Danny’s bustling till
he forced Danny into retreat, followed
up and kept punching. The punches
could not have been as good as they
looked, for Danny took enough of them
in the middle to make a restaurant steak
tender, and yet showed neither mark nor
ill-effect.
The local lad took the seventh nar-
rowly ; just a hard mill, with nothing
spectacular to it; indeed, the most spec-
tacular occurrence of the whole scrap
was Frank ducking to dodge a right in
the fifth, getting his head between
Danny’s legs and standing up with Danny
balanced on his shoulders. Frank im-
proved again in the eighth, and won it
nicely, though Danny caught him once
on the retreat with a tidy right swing
to the jaw. Frank was named in the
ninth for letting his right stray round
about the kidneys, but, unless that was
held against him, he took the round by
a shade. From here on it settled down
into a hard-fought but unexciting
struggle, with Danny making the fight
but not getting the necessary clean-cut
advantage in doing so, and most of the
fire gone out of both of them.
Decision to Frank, though the margin
must have been so slight that it could
have been called a draw without causing
a riot.
Moreno Too Good for Varner
Pocket Mexican Henry Moreno (Bst.
131 b.) improved on all his previous show-
ings in these parts to give Claude Varner
31b. and a most' decisive drubbing at
West Melbourne Stadium.
Apart from getting home a right to
the jaw that shook Henry severely in
the ninth, Claude was never in the hunt.
Always a hustling little customer, Henry
defended himself safely against Claude’s
similar methods, and was even able to
do to Claude what he’d done to the
much-less-aggressive Joe Hall in Syd-
ney—that is, drive him back across the
ring into the ropes, a sight that fairly
staggered even Claude’s detractors and
bent his supporters double with righteous
weeping.
Against a scrapper of Claude’s maul-
ing aggressiveness that was remarkable
enough, but what was even better in
Henry’s splendid display was his very
crafty boxing. Push and bustle are
expected of him, but this was as
pretty as Jackie Wilson at his neatest.
It led Claude into wild mistakes that
made him look foolish and left him open
to very neat punching. He was no match
for this transformed Henry, who, on
this showing, is worth stacking up against
the best of them.


e
FREE! !
A SAMPLE OF
RE-NU
LIQUID
NU-METAL.
Call, Write, 'Phone.
•Just deposit through plug holes; recon-
ditions any engine while-U-drive. Saves
re-bore, ends piston slap, oil, petrol
waste; restores compression, new power,
top-speed, zip, etc. Guaranteed for 10,000
miles. Harmless finest engine. TRIAE
TUBE, 6/6; or we send C.O.D. or install
anywhere. Anyone can use Nu-Metal.
Advice, literature—free. RE-NU ETII.
Opp. Richmond Stn., Melbourne.' J 4797
(_est. 1932). Agents required. 70 other
lines. Free samples.
Open Eate Friday Nights.
r
1939 FORD UTILITIES FIT YOUR
PERSONAL NEEDS WITH 17 SUPER-
STYLED MODELS, 3 ENGINES . . .
Style, sturdiness and comfort are highlights of
the 1939 Ford Coupe Utilities. For social
occasions there’s pleasure in their sleek appear-
ance, satisfaction in their ability to work hard.
Ford V-8 Coupe Utilities have all-steel bodies
with Baked Enamel finish; “Quick-stop”
hydraulic brakes, 4 hydraulic shock absorbers,
silent, V-8 power.
For ultra-economy transport there is the 10
H.P. range, including the new “Ten-Ten” Van
for loads up to 10 cwt. For capacities up to
15 cwt. Ford V-8 Standard Utilities. See your
nearby Ford Dealer.
® V-8 Coupe Utilities from £326
® V-8 and % Ton Standard Utilities from £304
® V-8 Panel Vans from £330
® 10 H.P. Utilities from £245
® Two New 10 H.P. Panel Vans .. from £265
Prices F. 0.8. Ford Plant, Plus Sales Tax.
V-8 Standard Utility with
Steel Straighlside Body
V-8 Coupe Utility uith
Welltype Body
10 H.P. Coupe Utility
mi
A
mmm*
mm:
Ford V -S Coupe Utility
FORD 1939 UTILITIES
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F54.27L
Armstrong Wins in England
Unless the English welter Ernie
Roderick has improved out of all imagin-
in'* since Australia knew him some years
back, world champ. “Homicide” Henry
Armstrong can’t be so homicidal as
reputed. Roderick stayed the full 15
rounds with him, though Armstrong took
it on points. In Australia both Bobbie
Blay and Bobbie Delaney trounced
Roderick. Australia apparently missed
a chance of bagging a world champion-
ship by not exporting Carroll.
Footbrawl
“Sowth” beaten by a hundred points
in a V.F.L. match! “I never thought I
should have lived to see the day,”
groaned old-timer Billy Windley. Mel-
bourne rarely allowed “Sowth” time to
see the ball, much less to kick it.
“Sowth,” outplayed everywhere, had only
15 scoring shots as against Melbourne’s
42. The crowd had begun to go home
long before the sorry business was over
—then the board said 19-23 to 3-12. It
was the day’s highest, as well as lowest,
score; and the achievement put Mel-
bourne into second place on the table,
percentages taking it above Collingwood.
’Wood had a win, too: 14-14 to 12-7
over Hawthorn, sadly disappointed. It
meant that Hawthorn lasted only a week
in “the four,” giving way to St. Kilda,
which accounted for Geelong 16-18 to
10-16.
Richmond is still the only unbeaten
team, but Carlton didn’t let the Tigers
maintain that record without a struggle.
It kept their forward line quiet, and
there were only seven points between
them at the finish —9-14 to 8-13. Poor
old Footscray hasn’t opened its account
yet: Fitzroy notched its second win at
’Scray’s expense, 15-10 to 11-13. North
also had a second success, downing
Essendon 15-11 to 13-10. .
$
The new Prime Minister, who barracks
for Carlton, saw Haw-Hawthorn beat
last year’s premiers on the Haw-Haw-
thorn ground, and made a speech during
the interval—all politicians visiting Mel-
bourne matches and all presidents and
secretaries, also captains, vice-captains,
trainers and rubbers, are expected to
make speeches before, during and after
Melbourne football matches. Menzies
referred to this expectation in his utter-
ance, remarking with the wit that rarely
forsakes him that a football club presi-
dent had one advantage over a Prime
Minister “he never seems to make a
speech unless he sees a glass in every
right hand.”
But at the height of its elation over
its conquests of Carlton and Geelong,
Haw-Hawthorn suffered a felon blow. It
came from Sydney in the form of a re-
quest that Haw-Hawthorn should play
Canberra as a curtain-raiser to a Carlton
v. N.S.W. match at Sydney Cricket
Ground at the end of luly. This to Haw-
Hawthorn was like asking Joe Louis to
box a preliminary to Skeeter v. Lizard
for the pickle-factory championship.
Haw-Hawthorn will consent to visit Syd-
ney provided it is matched with the
Rest ,of Australia and the Governor-
General, the Governor and all the mem-
bers of the Commonwealth Cabinet are
present.
* * * *
Before Haydn Bunton went to Perth
he was a V.F.L. star. V.F.A. clubs, finan-
cial at last, are making the young River-
ina man offers to return to Melbourne.
He mightn’t be a good investment, as
a leg has been troubling him. Bunton
plays for Subiaco, which has been strik-
ingly unsuccessful this season. Which
shows that one man can’t make a team.
* * * *
Toowoomba has often been a tough
proposition for visiting Rugby teams,
League and Union, and when its Rugby
Union side scored two quick tries, 6-0,
against N.S.W. it looked as if the Ma
Staters—all Sydneysiders, Fleming being
unable to play—jvere in for another lick-
ing. At half-time the Downsmen led
6-3. But in the second half it was all
N.S.W., and at the finish it was 31-6.
Smith, transferred to five-eighth because
Richards, the captain, was a casualty,
got three of N.S.W.’s five tries, and
Hodgson, besides doing his share in the
forwards, kicked four goals.
In Brisbane on Saturday Queensland
beat N.S.W. at Rugby Union again, but
the Bananalanders were never on top to
the extent they had been in the previous
match. Three down at half-time, they
pulled off the try which gave them
victory (20-17) in the last few minutes
as a result of an intercept. And then
they had only four tries to five. The
N.S.W. forwards packed tighter and more
determinedly on this occasion, and got
their share of the ball. The backs, too,
with Rankin in the centre, Smith—the
best back on the trip— at five-eighth and
Porter in on the wing, were more impres-
sive. Porter ran hard for a try, but
ricked his ankle again and was off before
half-time. Richards was again patchy.
The Queensland forwards played the
same solid, hard-working football as
before. It’s a finely-balanced pack this,
and it should form the nucleus of the
lot to go to England. Nicholson was
again in everything from his wing until
he got a knock and was taken off. He,
too, may go abroad.
The forwards are sorting themselves
out for the selectors, but the backs are
going to be hard picking. Rankin and,
perhaps, Smith are the only sure tips.
The others are too in-and-out. Queens-
land is sending the same team to Sydney
for another couple of matches.
* * * *
Eastern Suburbs, Randwick (with 10
of its regulars out) and Western Suburbs
were all beaten again in Saturday’s round
of the Sydney Rugby Union premiership.
North is now on top, a point above East
and Gordon, together, with Randwick
and West sharing the next position, an-
other point lower down. North made
the most of its opportunities against the
weakened East, slammed on five tries to
one and ran out 17-8. The Randwick
makeshifts put up a better showing
against Drummoyne—they managed to
cut even in tries: four each —but were
no match for the Reds in the hard stuff.
Penalties made it Drummoyne 27-16.
Gordon is making a strong bid to stay
in “the four.” Its forwards are a handy
lot, and it was thanks to them chiefly that
the northerners were able to hang on to
a one-point lead over West —12-11 ; two
tries to one. Manly and University lost
again—Parramatta beat the Villagers
19-16 (five tries to three), and the Stu-
dents were downed by St. George 19-9
(five tries to one).
* * * *
A crowd reminiscent of the code’s
palmiest days forgathered to see Sydney
Rugby League co-leaders, Balmain and
St. George, battle it out on Sydney C.G.
On the Hill a lot of them battled it out
themselves, stoush being suspended to
admit of all hands watching some bright
movement on the other side of the fence.
The game opened sluggishly ; then ’Main
appeared suddenly to realise that the
dragon-killers could themselves be
slaughtered, and hopped in with a will. It
was 12-2 in Balmain’s favor at lemons,
and on the resumption ’Main applied
full pressure, finishing with 23-5. South
Sydney jolted North Sydney 26-12 ; Can-
terbury-Bankstown had a solid 19-8 win
over Western Suburbs, and Eastern
Suburbs piled up 27 against Newtown’s
modest 4.
* * * *
In one of the hardest and closest
matches of the Soccer season, Wallsend
beat Metters 6-5. Evenly matched in all
divisions, both teams turned on an exhibi-
tion of the code at its best. That extra bit
of finish to its attacking movements gave
the northern combination the odd goal.
Woonona-Bulli and St. George dispensed
with the ball quite a lot, and when gore-
cleaning and knuckle-bandaging time
came 2-all was on the board. Goodyear
scored 6 to 1 against Newcastle ; Adams-
town belted Granville 4-0 ; Weston beat
Gladesville-Ryde 2-0 and Cessnock ham-
mered Leichhardt 4-1.
Miscellaneous
Hopman, Crawford, Quist and Brom-
wich are on their way to the U.S.A.,
having left Sydney by the Mariposa on
Friday. Unless misfortune interrupts the
programme, they will play Mexico and
the Philippines at Los Angeles, Canada
at Montreal, the European-zone winner
(probably Germany) at Boston, and the
U.S.A. at Philadelphia.
* * * *
Australia’s old friend Menzel, who said
we were “cannibals,” has been in the
wars again—at Warsaw this time. Now
a member of the German Davis Cup
team, and matched in the second round
with Tloczynski, he got into difficulties,
perhaps in trying to pronounce his oppo-
nent’s name, and showed “temperament.”
The Polish crowd, already worked up
over the postponement of the doubles
because Henkel was tired —a forfeiture
ruling was given against the Germans,
but waived in consequence of English
intercession —barracked the giant, its
remarks, no doubt, being spiced with
politics, and he showed more “tempera-
ment.” Finally, the gentleman with the
unpronounceable name gained the decid-
ing fifth set, 9-7, and Poland felt that the
three partitions had been avenged. How-
ever, Henkel got the better of Baworow-
ski in the last match, making it three to
two in Germany’s favor; and then the
Poles did a bit of shrieking, as did Free-
dom when Kosciusko fell.


Cr(JJ-y^
rnTT^Trvm
Twice. Daily-2'30-Q
wwOrmtEm]
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-Q
Big New Company Overseas Stars featuring
THE FOUR FRANKS,
SENATOR MURPHY
In Broadway Hot Shots.
“The Laugh Round-up,’’ featuring
WILL MAHONEY
and 10 Other New Acts.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Continental and Holly wooden.
Sydney Savoy now offers “Grand
Illusion,” another of those Continental
productions which Australia, curiously,
is suddenly seeing for the first time.
Comparison with Hollywood is in-
evitable, but on several grounds seems
rather pointless. For one thing, these
films are selected: “Grand Illusion” won
an American award as the best foreign
film of 1938. Therefore, if criticism is to
have any point, they need to be compared
with Hollywood’s best, not with the
general run. It is as well to remember
“Snow White” ; also scores of films —-
especially in comedy, but also in fictional
drama—that set high cinema standards
and provide completely satisfying enter-
tainment. Otherwise Continental pro-
ducers are given a false reputation which
the general run of their films could never
hope to live up to.
Even so, it still can be said that these
Continental films have a quality that is
not to be found in Hollywood films at
all, the best included. That is the quality
of living naturalness. They aim to
represent life as it is ; they seek to portray
authentic human feelings, emotions and
reactions, and to depict the real settings
and conditions of human existence. In
a word, they make some claim to be
accepted as art. The right critical touch-
stone for them is nature.
Therefore there is not much point in
holding them up against Hollywood. They
are a different thing. You might as well
compare water-colors with hewn stone.
There is no resemblance at all between
the outlook responsible for the production
of a film like “Grand Illusion” and that
which generally animates Hollywood.
“Grand Illusion,” which represents the
characters, reactions and surrounding of
several French officers who are German
prisoners during the war and are seeking
to escape, depends so little on the use
of fictional devices that it could pass for
actual experience. It gives the impression
of factual documentation.
It has a thread of story. In the first
camp they are put into, the prisoners have
all but completed an escape tunnel when
they are shifted off to another camp, and
so have to start all over again. In the
second place—an old German castle—
one of them has to sacrifice his life to
enable two to escape. Making for the
Swiss border, these two come to a farm-
house occupied only by a German peasant
woman who has lost her menfolk in the
war. She shelters them, gives one of
them more, and after a few weeks they
go on again and at last cross the border.
Apart from a slight employment of
coincidence, this story emerges and un-
folds inevitably from the circumstances.
It isn’t in any degree forced; its im-
pressive quality is its moving naturalness.
To put this up against Hollywood
would be completely pointless. Holly-
wood would not turn out such a film.
It would be fundamentally impossible.
Hollywood has its own outlook on what
film entertainment should be. That out-
look can be accused of being a trafficking
in exaggerated emotionalism, fake senti-
ment, false human values, the artificial
and superficial, the impossible and unreal.
But it also represents consummate clever-
ness, abundant comedy, engaging fictional
narratives, rich pageantry and spectacle,
and also a sparkling clarity of presen-
tation which is of some worth in itself.
It can be accused of being ostentatious
and vulgar ; so can a great many novels
too ; and highbrow critics commonly fling
the same epithets about in their own
temples. Its field, however, is that of
general fiction, and taken on this its
proper ground it is highly successful.
That being so, it will no doubt con-
tinue to hold the general bulk of people
without much trouble, for the bulk of
human beings like fictional story-telling,
and have done so since the invention of
the Arabian Nights entertainments, which
are Hollywood’s chief pattern.
Apart from the habit of mind that
Hollywood’s monopoly in Australia has
brought about, it would seem that these
Continental productions, because they
have some claim to be regarded as art,
must have a somewhat special appeal.
They are for people who ask something
more of films than superficialities that
drift across the half-shut mind. Those
who prefer superficial entertainment—
and there does not seem to be much sense
in pretending that these are not the great
majority—might find these Continental
products even a trifle embarrassing.
As for “Grand Illusion” in particular,
it is very finely acted by Erich von
Stroheim, Jean Gabin and Pierre Fres-
nay ; Stroheim as a German officer who
first brings down a French ’plane and
Oliver Hardy staggering with what he believes to be a one-legged Stanley in
“Blockheads” at Sydney State.
so makes its occupants prisoners and later
is in charge of the castle prison, and the
others as the most important of the
prisoners. As the peasant woman Dita
Parlo has little to do, but does it with
proper naturalness.
Giving the impression of a day-to-day
depiction, it all moves on to its end re-
gardless of time. There are no exciting
highlights, but every now and then occurs
a revelation of human feeling like a
lighted space that is beautiful and in-
spirational. There is a thorough feeling
for landscape, and the people move in
their setting, not as against a background,
but belonging naturally there. Quiet,
even and devoid of theatrical emotions,
the whole thing lives.
“Let Us Live ”
Henry Fonda, Maureen O’Sullivan.
Here, at Sydney Mayfair, is a rare
film which actually has something to say
and—still more rarely—which says it
wholly and completely without diverging
from its purpose for an instant.
Its statement is open to argument, but
that doesn’t matter a scrap, It is not
what is said but how it is said that counts.
Many films have essayed to make some
sort of statement, but over the past
several years there have been few which
have adhered so unswervingly to their
original concept and delivered their case
with siich force.
What this film has to say is against
the judicial system. It argues that the
police, as a social institution, should, but
do not, impartially try to believe a sus-
pected man might be innocent, and that
the law is more concerned with success-
ful prosecutions than with administering
justice. It sets out to show that, under
those conditions, a man is not, as
generally accepted, innocent until proved
guilty, but guilty the moment he becomes
suspect and bearing the onus of proving
himself innocent without the assistance
of the very institution on which he might,
and should be able to, depend.
The events and circumstances —a taxi-
driver and his friend arrested and con-
victed for murder on the testimony of
irresponsible witnesses and by an
irresponsible jury—are more improbable
than they are probable, but that they are
even possible is the core of the film. For
that statement to gain its maximum
force it must be embodied in tragedy,
and there the film succeeds, not through
any shade of inevitability in its story,
but through its atmosphere of tension
and brooding and through, the sheer
force and brilliance of its ending.
Here and there the film does lean on
coincidence, and it has one or two melo-
dramatic moments, but, generally, it is
a strongly woven and carefully developed
photoplay. Excellent directing keeps the
film constantly restrained, strong scenes
are not overshaded and always follow
naturally on the atmosphere of sup-
pression that precedes them. With each
step forward the film grows more taut,
and each incident seems to take on a
more significant quality. Photography,
too, has been exploited thoroughly to
give new angles to old scenes and to add
power to the narrative.
Acting is good all round, with Fonda
turning in some of the finest work he
has done to date. The latter sequences
of the film depend greatly on his ability,
and he does not once slip. Miss
O’Sullivan seems to be improving out of
recognition in serious roles.
(t The Oklahoma Kid ”
James Cagney, Rosemary Lane, Humphrey
Bogart, Hugh Sothern.
A Sydney Plaza Western, with the
Lilliputian Cagney, swinging a six-shooter
on each hip instead of a “gat” under the
armpit, rushin’ round the countryside
keeping undertakers employed, beltin’ the
lights out of all goldarned coyotes who
upset the Cagney applecart, holdin’ up
stages, and generally making himself as
popular as pork pie at a Yiddish picnic.
But it’s not till his old pappy, a stickler
for law ’n’ order, is handed a passport
to less-troubled pastures by a lynching
party that the Cagney blood really
threatens to burst its blood-vessels, even
though the old codger booted him from
the family hearthside as a black sheep.
Later proceedings make heavy inroads on
Uncle Sam’s small-arms supply.
These numerous gun-killings, however,
run off one like hair oil off a bald pate ;
it’s the lynching, though stripped of most
of its macabre detail, that’s the highlight
of the piece. The denouement, a half-
light close-up of a rope still dangling
after the body has been cut down, is a
particularly shuddersome piece of screen
symbolism.
The theme is the avarice and vice of
the Oklahoma land-grabbing rush of ’93.
But Cagney is no pioneer. No, suh! No
sweating his heart out on the soil, only
to see the late-comers scoop up the
cream with one hand and the gravy with
the other, as his idiom puts it.
It’s a fairly lusty stretch of derring-
do, with action as lively as fleas in
summer. But it’s a largely expressionless
Cagney, not near as at home in pigskins
as Humphrey Bogart, another of film-
land’s bad men. A comely wench, Rose-
mary Lane, provides some unnecessary
feminine adornment, Cagney being as
comfortable at lovemaking as a young-
ster caught at the jam-jar. As Cagney’s
dad, Hugh Sothern’s work is full of quiet
dramatic strength.
On the supporting bill is “The
Whalers,” latest Disney rib-damaging
creation, with Pluto a modern Jonah.
One day some bright lad is going to
create fresh transport problems by start-
ing a theatrette to show this sort of thing
exclusively.
Laurel and Hardy.
Sydney State has the latest Laurel and
Hardy inducement to uproar, a most
hilarious stretch of nonsense entitled
“Blockheads.”
The very best of it is at the beginning.
Nearly every Laurel and Hardy product
has at least one truly inspired moment,
and they have never done better than
in the passage here referred to. Rather
it should be said that Laurel has never
done better, for, taking a pick from
these partners’ films, it seems that Laurel
is always in the very best bits, and
usually alone.
After its superb opening the comedy
moves into the usual line of slapstick the
partners ordinarily deal out. Even it,
however, is rib-racking.
Artur Schnabel.
Artur Schnabel repeated his initial
success in Melbourne with the three-
concerto concert at the Town Hall on
Thursday. House was sold out days be-
fore the occasion.
The plump little man with the plump
little hands sat as free and easy at the
piano as if he were conducting a friendly
conversation with a casual acquaintance
instead of being engaged in an exacting
operation at a complicated instrument.
But the work had all been done years
before, no doubt, and the audience felt
as confident as the performer, who
seemed to have as complete control of
the orchestra as of his own instrument.
The orchestra under Szell seemed to
be sweating a trifle, but this is under-
standable —it doesn’t often have to meet
the demands of a soloist so accustomed
as Schnabel to playing with the greatest
international orchestras. It did remark-
ably well, all things considered.
The Beethoven, Mozart and Schumann
concertos were all of the same even
texture. There was nothing unduly ex-
citing about them or the audience might
have got up and cheered as it did the
other evening. But each was beautiful
after its own quiet fashion, and the
soloist weaved the parts together like
the star in a well-ordered play amongst
a crowd of well-drilled actors. He
seemed to be feeling the feelings of his
collaborators and the feelings of his
audience, as well as all his own feelings,
and it was enchanting to watch his
fingers manipulating the keys as per-
fectly as if they were a piece of detached
machinery divorced from any thinking
process.
The concert lasted till 10.30, and after
the applause had finished the audience
resumed its seats thinking the soloist had
returned for an encore. But it was only
the first violin.
Schnabel returns to Melbourne for a
series of solo recitals in July, and he has
made such a deep impression that the
rush at the booking office is already fast
and furious.
Schnabel’s first appearance in Sydney,
at the Town Hall on Saturday night, was
unembellished by orchestra. The pro-
gramme consisted of two Beethoven
sonatas, the “Waldstein” and the seldom-
heard Op. 110, a Mozart Sonata (K 310)
and the four Impromptus (Op. 142) of
Schubert.
The recital was a new experience for
a Sydney audience. Beyond frowning
and shaking his head like a Newfound-


1
i I
- ■
C*
I i
HOW
DO
TAKE
CHILDREN
THE
TO
ZOO
THE
This illustration was drawn
in the Victoria Entrance Hall
Bring your children with you when you come to the
Victoria. Special accommodation and care is pro-
vided for them, and the Gardens, the Zoo, the
Aquarium, are all easily reached from the Victoria.
At the Information Desk, information will be sup-
plied about trains and trams (within a few minutes
of the Victoria), shops, theatres, and all that is
on in Melbourne.
No other hotel offers you and your children accommodation
and service equal to the Victoria’s. So, when you come to
Melbourne, stay at the Victoria.
VICTORM PnLHtE
215 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ROOM ONLY, DAILY
TARIFFS
Doubles, B to 16/-
Singles, 4'- to 7/6
Sidney D. Horne, Manager
(Next Town Hall)
Write for illustrated Booklet
“ MELBOURNE HOLIDAY ”
to Room 136, Victoria Palace.
Send 2d. in stamps to cover postage.
land dog throwing off drops of water
when coughing disturbed his meditations,
Schnabel appeared unconscious of his
hearers. To all his intents and purposes
the affair was a private seance attended
by the pianist and the spirits of long-
dead composers. No encores were
oranted and thunderous applause added
nothing to the performer’s usual serene
cheerfulness.
There never was a first-class pianist
who was less of a showman than
Schnabel. After you’ve heard him play
you aren’t thinking about Schnabel at
all, but about Beethoven’s tremendous
range of resources or Mozart’s infallible
good taste, or wondering at the heights
of pure inspiration to which Schubert
attained. You’re not thinking about
Schnabel’s technique, wonderful though
that is, because it is obviously something
he himself stopped thinking about many
years ago. His fingers are now auto-
matic, his mental concentration on the
composer’s thought complete. He never
pedal-blurs a difficult figure in either
hand, never loses a note even when
scales are rushing past like comets ; gives
everything its just value. He has no man-
nerisms, no affectations.
Frequently his conception of tempo is
at variance ' with various pedagogic
editors of pianistic classics, but his
reason for the difference is clear before
he has played three bars. Altogether an
admirable pianist; one who tempts the
use of superlatives.
“Leaning on Letty**
In “Titus Andronicus” Shakspeare (?)
had two characters executed, five stabbed,
one killed in battle, two baked in a pie and
served up to their mother, one killed in
combat, chopped the hand off another,
had another buried alive, chopped both
hands off his heroine, had her tongue
cut out, had her ravished and finally
stabbed by her father; and there was a
black child whose fate is obscure but who
was possibly smothered.
Hence he would not have been unduly
surprised at this American play (perpe-
trator unstated), in which a young un-
married mother, hiding from her million-
aire father, has an unwanted babe in a
roadside guest-house, abandons it and
goes off with her chauffeur, who flings
her dead out of a motor-car. Nor would
he have been unduly perturbed to find
that the abandoned baby is made of
celluloid, and is merely a blind for a real
kidnapped baby in whom a gang of
crooks have invested and whom, when
they find it impossible to realise on their
investment, they would dispose of in the
same way as they have disposed of its
alleged mother, were it not for the in-
domitable Letty.
Letty is the spinster proprietress of the
guest-house whose warm human heart and
cool intelligence rise superior to every
emergency, and she saves the situation
by accepting the biological responsibility
for the baby, and thrusting the paternity
on one of her tenants, a parson, thus
raising a scandal amongst the neighbors.
The hue and cry after the kidnappers
and the local scandal get inextricably en-
tangled ; the crooks, of whom the alleged
parson is the leader, are checkmated ;
the house is surrounded, and after a
pretty bit of shooting the gang is cap-
tured, the baby restored to its rightful
parents and Letty’s honor vindicated.
“Titus Andronicus” isn’t one of the
Bard’s successes (if he ever wrote it), and
nobody feels any horror at the atrocities
committed in it. A mild amount of
emotion was stimulated in the audience
at Melbourne Kingls in the beginning
when the situation appeared to be what
it appeared to be, especially as the act-
ing of Wendy Atken, as the alleged un-
married mother with the ostensibly un-
wanted baby, was outstanding. But as
soon as the crookedness of the crooks
became obvious, the audience settled
down to being pleasantly entertained
without having its social feelings un-
duly violated.
The play was saved from extinction
by Miss Charlotte Greenwood (Letty),
who captured her audience immediately
she entered. The play was all over at
10.20, but there was an epilogue unpre-
cedented in local theatrical history. The
leading lady had been feverishly chang-
ing, and she came forth in glistening
white raiment looking like an iceberg
which had escaped from its moorings, or
a perambulating cypress or something
covered with hoarfrost. The apparition
announced that it was going to sing, and
the audience’s faces lengthened. After
a couple of minutes they brightened. Miss
Greenwood hadn’t been given remark-
ably long legs for nothing. She sang
two extraordinary songs in an extraordi-
nary manner, and then used her legs in
an extraordinary fashion, and the house
was rocked to its foundations.
After “The Women ”
Gwen Sherwood’s “Wives Have Their
Uses,” tried out by the Chelsea Club at
Sydney’s Little Theatre, has a general
resemblance to Claire Boothe’s gossip
play “The Women.”
The Australian women spend their
leisure —none of them ever has anything
to do —at a Blue Mountains golf club
instead of at bridge on Park-avenue.
Chief fault is that the dialogue’s been
polished beyond any resemblance to the
dull chatter of the people it hopes to
present. •
The players began badly, finding the
first act too quick-moving and snappy,
but improved as the thing got under
way. At the finish Gwen Plumb was
going great guns as the empty-headed
Binnie who discovers quite a measure
of shrewd commonsense in a crisis, and
Molly Kealy and Brefnee Brittain helped
her along. None of the three men in
the business ever approaches anything
like life.
It would be interesting to see what a
professional company could make of it.
The Chelsea people all appeared 10 years
too young for their parts.
Repertory in Adelaide.
The latest production to three packed
houses is Harry Graham’s clever trans-
lation from the German “Candlelight.”
It is a less cynical Schnitzler type, a
romance of the Vienna of song, when it
knew cocktails but had never heard of
Hitler.
Light stuff, it was brilliantly rendered
by Ronald Simpson and Henry Roberts,
with Florence Brown; other clever
sketches in brief opportunities. Produc-
tion (and unusually sumptuous stage set-
ting) by Irving Johnston. The Repertory
will miss Roberts greatly when he
migrates to Melbourne with the vice-
regal household.
The very strong Adelaide Musical
Comedy Co. revives the old “Student
Prince” for a fortnight at the Royal, with
Alan Chapman as producer and Norman
Sellick conducting. Howard Pfitzner as
usual has the lead ; Mary Dempster and
Iris Hart are the two girls in love with
the prince, Margaret Pirie having moved
on to a grand duchess part. Ronald Beck
makes his mark as comedian, and Alex.
Foster as the old tutor. The chorus is
of almost professional tone.
Soviet Photo. Show.
Trustees of the National Gallery of
Victoria have turned out a large num-
ber of paintings to make room for an
exhibition of photographs, which includes
a huge coat of arms of Soviet Russia,
with hammer and sickle all complete,
prominently displayed above a huge
photograph of Stalin, something after
the style of a Moscow Red Square
demonstration.
The photographs depict various phases
of activity of the Russian proletariat,
from the inevitable smiling collectivist
families in the country to the inevitable
smiling youth movements and sports
movements of the cities. Then there are
smiling Tartars trapping animals and
smiling Mongols keeping guard over the
far-flung frontiers of the empire over
which the hammer and sickle never sets ;
and so forth and so on.
In addition there are a great number
of pictures of tanks at manoeuvres, war-
ships frothing at the mouth in the Baltic,
soldiers in gas masks (no doubt smiling)
and various other signs and portents of
Soviet preparedness.
Present viewer was informed that the
exhibition was sponsored by some society
for the promotion of cultural relations.
The only evidence of culture appropriate
to an art gallery was the photographs of
Stanislavsky and other People’s Artists
of the Soviet Union. Implements of war
don’t promote culture, whatever the
trustees may think about it; they pro-
mote warfare.
Every country in Europe is increasing
its implements of warfare, the Soviet
being no exception; and surely it is a
stupid proceeding for the trustees of a
great public institution to give their bless-
ing to one party in the prevailing dispute
and say, in effect, that these are the right
ones.
The Germans or the Italians or the
Japs or the Chinese are perfectly entitled
now to come along and ask for the right
to display similar examples of their
peaceful efforts at persuasion. And why
shouldn’t the pushes of Footscray ask
for space for photographs of knuckle-
dusters and razors? After all, they’re
only demanding the right to live in the
same way as the European nations.
ARTBURSTS.
Sydney
A painter with a mind of his own and
a passion for realism is Herbert Bad-
ham, whose contributions to Sydney art
shows in the last decade or so have been
sometimes remarkably good ; sometimes
extraordinarily gauche, but never in any
danger of escaping attention. His first
one-man show at the Grosvenor Gal-
leries, Sydney, contains much that is
admirable.
A self-portrait in oils (“The Painter,”
No. 9) is a masterpiece of competence
.and sincerity. There is good painting in
such interior scenes as “Girl at the
Piano” and “Interior Harmony,” though
in the latter the composition is artificial
and stiff. “Wynyard,” a street scene out-
side that magnificent Plaza Hotel which,
in the imagination of its proprietors, em-
bellishes George-street, is a fine piece of
realism, the peculiar quality in the light-
ing, which comes from the sky and the
two towering walls that flank the Plaza’s
gaunt foundations being cleverly caught.
Best of the lot, to this critic’s mind, is
a group of holiday beach scenes. “Jetty,
Watson’s Bay,” “Nielsen Park,” “Parsley
Bay,” “Bondi Beach” and “Sand and
Sunlight, Rose Bay,” are as gay and color-
ful and careless as the scenes they depict.
No painter has caught the spirit of a
sunny holiday morning on the Sydney
waterside so exactly.
* * * *
At the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
Miss Stewart is still unrepentant. Her
collection of landscapes and flower pieces
seem to be a series of efforts to recapture
impressions of early childhood, but they
trail no clouds of glory and give no
intimation of immortality. Her portraits,
despite the affectation of ingenuousness,
look as if they might be good likenesses,
and her pencil studies show that she
learned to draw.
$ $ $ $
J. Carington Smith, who won the N. S.
Wales Travelling Art Scholarship in 1936,
has brought back from abroad a style of
water-color painting that gives a general
impression of faded greens, blues and
yellows diversified by slapdash scribbles
in black. Even such a picturesque sub-
ject as St. Michael’s Mount, Cornwall,
looks drab and jejune thus treated. Some
portraits in oils are in a vastly different
manner, and look as if they might be
good likenesses.
* * * *
Adelaide
The autumn exhibition of S.A. Society
of Arts is just f.a.q. The dominating
item, on the north wall, is a seafaring
group by Mainwaring, who is perhaps
unlucky not to have won the recent
travelling scholarship that took Welsh
to Europe. Composition is good, of a
boldness which S.A. in general notably
lacks ; but the white men of the group
should not all have been twin brothers.
Mainwaring has a future.
Gwen Barringer and Max Ragless are
their own accomplished selves, and the
veteran MacNally, now an Adelaide resi-
dent, critic and lecturer, has a bright
beach scene, teaching the locals how to
combine figures with ’scape. Elsewhere
H. M. Rolland makes a promising start
with glimpses gained in Europe.
The society’s autumn prize for still-
life —with Louis McCubbin doing the
judging—goes to the versatile George
Whinnen for flowers plus fruit; the etch-
ing award to Allan Sierp.
The National Gailery has bought from
the show a landscape by the also-versatile
Mainwaring and an impressionistic alba-
tross of Ethleen Palmer’s.
Rex Battarbee has, at the Adelaide
Society of Arts gallery, one of his charac-
teristic shows of Centralian scenery. The
vivid colors are almost unbelievable, but
the painter was able to secure Madigan
the explorer to open the show, and so got
a certificate of absolute truth to Nature
as seen up there. The National Gallery
has bought some bright red cliffs.
H* *>*
Encouraging the Academy
Adelaide National Gallery has bought
several of this year’s Australian Academy
pictures now on exhibition there. Its
policy at the moment being to fill up
gaps rather than to duplicate, it has
passed over many of the less-known
names.
The purchases are a bush landscape
by Lloyd Rees (a romantic affair look-
ing rather as if it might have been painted
a century ago) and by contrast a prac-
tical hillside study of the track left by
a seed-drill by Kenneth Mac Queen.
Thirdly, Arnold Shore’s very modern
idea of green fruit and leaves has taken
the trustees’ collective eye, and, to further
demonstrate that eye’s catholicity, Max
Meldrum’s self-portrait, showing him
elderly, bearded and robed in scarlet, has
been added to the collection. Also a
beautiful little bronze of an Australian
soldier by Leslie Bowles.
* * * *
For review comes a dainty portfolio
of six aquatints and drypoints by Harold
Byrne, of Sydney, depicting characteristic
Russian Ballet scenes. Title is Homage
to the Ballet, and there is a foreword by
Anton Dolin. Byrne’s excellent drawing
and his mastery of etching technique
have never been better exemplified.
Seppelts, the wine people, will shortly
be advertising themselves from leading
radio stations in all States with an attrac-
tive line of programmes under the
general title “Piccadilly on Parade.” They
have the merit of entertaining listeners
while unobtrusively doing their intended
job. In quarter-hour lengths they bring
listeners present-day favorites from the
London stage giving engaging turns. In
all the series will comprise 52 of these
variety shows.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
'•» i
r
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 ypringwood ; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, . Sydney,
’Phone: 84771.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
From the groups clustered in the ves-
tibule of the Town Hall it seemed as
though 50 per cent, of Artur Schnabel’s
first audience in Sydney was made up of
teen-olds and early twenties. And that’s
real fame —to hold not only your own but
the succeeding generation. One of the
prettiest was Denise Orme, just merging
into 21, which fact is to be celebrated
with the usual trimmings. With her was
Gwen Ainsworth, another attractive old
Frensham girl. Frensham was well in the
picture. Founder Miss West, her lac-
quered satin coat brightly patterned and
fitting her slim waist, and Frensham’s
Miss Bryant were also listeners. The
eurhythmic Mary Whidborne brought
long-standing admiration and cycla-
men moire. Lute Drummond, with
student days’ memories of Schnabel play-
ing the “Waldstein,” and Ruby Rich,
who in those days was a pupil of the
great pianist, talked old Berlin and
Vienna days.
Mrs. Schnabel, tall and distinguished
(before her marriage she was a concert
singer of note), wore black velvet, a
diamond glittering at the throat. The
Charles Moses couple were there, and
took the Schnabels off for supper. Mrs.
W. J. Cleary’s moire jacket was Parma-
violet in tone. The Bertie Kellys were
enthusiasts, and her coat was emerald
velvet and sable. David Maddison was
with Miss Shadforth Hooper. The good-
looking Mrs. Henry Piat’s black stiffened
chiffons were bright with appliqued
flowers. Starry-eyied and vivid Mrs.
Fitz Coper won the approval of the Town
Hall black cat. In the middle of a Beet-
hoven sonata, it suddenly sprang from
nowhere on to her knee. Pianist Trix
Tange, getting ready for the U.S.A. in
August, wore a touch of green in her
red-gold hair. Mrs. Rex Bennett was an
applauder. Judging by fragments of the
language lots of Germans were in the
audience.
The walls of the big room seemed to
open out and expand into infinity. You
were no longer one of 300 at the Royal
Empire Society’s dinner in a large room
of the Australia Hotel, toasting the
24th of May because of past glories.
You were a citizen of a great
Empire toasting victories in the cause of
Peace, Justice and Liberty still to be hers.
That was the effect of William Morris
Hughes’s speech. At the words of Dr.
F. A. Maguire, down the avenue of the
years came Raleigh, and Drake, and
Nelson the immortal; came Wellington,
and Kitchener, and Hinkler, Ross Smith,
Kingsford Smith and such heroes to join
the board. The little doctor’s was the
speech of the evening, as his voice was
the richest in tone. Yet in the mellifluous
accents was wrapped the cold hard fact
of the need of preparedness.
Knight Hugh Denison, the society’s
president, was- as usual perfect in his
part. After proposing the toast of the
Governor, his task was to draw out the
native woodnotes of the other speakers.
And is it communing with the wild sea
waves gives admirals that nice, easy,
breezy flow of words? Every flag-officer
of the navy who has been within ampli-
fier distance of this writer has been able
to make a good speech. Admiral Cus-
tance is no exception.
Frocking was on the gorgeous side.
Hugh Denison’s wife was handsome in
black romaine, the sleeves and neckline
of the bolero iridescent with sequins.
Archbishop Mowll and his wife, the
Mayoral Nocks, the Frederick Mc-
Masters, her black frock bright with
green and red, an orchid in her silver
fox, were there. Blue and silver brocades
gleamed as Mrs. Norman Brookes, of
Melbourne, passed. Knight Thomas
Buckland was there. Mrs. Crawford
Robertson and Mrs. Florence Taylor
were outstanding. Silver-embroidered
was Mrs. John Human’s white frock.
The Leslie Denisons, Dr. Greg Roberts
and his wife, the Kelso Kings and Mrs.
Wheatley were among the many others.
Like an undertone of the heavenly
choir was the pasan of pleasure sung by
architect Jack Hennessy and first “loot”
Arthur Wilson when they escorted this
Letter about the -new Romano’s a day
or so before the opening. The new bit
of dazzle is below Castlereagh-street and
Martin-place, and if a girl doesn’t look
a peach there she’s just one of Nature’s
gooseberries. Every mirror in the place
is peach-tinted.
Second only to the mirrors is the glitter
of the woods. There are pillars clothed
in paper-thin avodaire and its twin.
Avodaire has a faintly golden grain and
is found in the West Indies. But the
Australian architects knew that its twin
grew in North Queensland. Indeed, every
State of the Commonwealth has given
its woods to the building. There are
jarrah and blackwood and pine. The
dance floor, set in an acre or so of bright
green carpet, gleams like a pool in a
field of lucerne. It looks deceptively
small. It will hold comfortably 200
couples, and it has so many springs in
it that if you were sprung enough you
could sleep on it and think you were
in bed.
The murals have been painted by Fred
Leist on pine, and the grain of the woods,
the two tones of cerise in the sofas and
the green of the carpet have all been
worked into the design. The background
of each panel is a map, and before it a
spirited group representative of the
country. England might be a bit of Shak-
speare’s England. Abos. and spears come
into the Australian scene. Julius Caesar
takes the front of the stage in Italy.
Perhaps one of the most arresting is the
Mexico panel. The idea is as world-
embracing as The Bulletin’s “From
China to Peru.” The lighting floods
golden, green, pink, lilac. On the green
of the carpet, cerise velvet chairs and
settees have a carnival air. And (times
we live in!) beyond the peach-tinted
mirrors and seductive lights there’s a
bomb-proof shelter that runs under
Martin-place.
And talking about food queues in
Germany, and the Spartan-like regime,
the most dashing restaurant two Aus-
tralian architects saw in a world trip was
one in Berlin. It is the Gurmenia. Its
great feature is a central spiral staircase
of glass. Everything is in keeping, and
its patrons and those of like places never
seemed to go home.
Here is pretty Margaret Ruthven, who
goes everywhere, and who wears her
clothes with the flirt of comedy or
touch of drama the style demands. And
why shouldn’t she? She is one of the
Independent Theatre group’s leading
young actresses, In the studio’s present
production, “Baisers Perdus,” a modern
French play by Andre Birabeau, Mar-
garet plays the part of Henriette Cogolin,
the young daughter. Phyllis Roberts, one
of the Independents, made the translation.
Photograph by Kuehn.
Of all music, flute-playing is the one
that links us closer to the hills and
pastures of Thessaly. One of the
sweetest players among Sydney’s dis-
ciples of Pan is blind Bill Kirkbride
Smith. Bill writes his own music in
Braille. He started to teach himself to
flute on a bicycle pump with three
finger-holes made for him by a friend.
He later won a scholarship at the Con.,
and he is a pianist of note. No loafer
is this Bill Smith. He won a five years’
scholarship to Sydney High, and he
taught himself to type. The sudden death
of his father has left the young musician
and his mother practically destitute.
Sydney flautists and other musicians are
holding a concert to help. This will be
on June 21 at the Con. There is also a
subscription fund. Studio 69, Paling’s,
will find it.
The night before the Mariposa carried
off our Davis Cup champions to the
U.S.A., tennis enthusiasts gave them a
stirrup-cup at the Trocadero. President
Bryan Fuller voiced the sentiments of
the throng amidst a salvo of handclaps.
Mrs. Fuller’s lame frock gleamed green
and sold as she received the guests.
Stalwarts of the game the knight Fred
McMasters, the Norman Brookes couple,
who also went off in the Mariposa, and
the Claude Readings were entertaining
or being entertained. The Harry Hop-
mans and the Jack Crawfords were cen-
tral figures in the night’s happenings;
so were Adrian Quist, Jack Bromwich
and the Roland Conways. Mrs. Conway,
who was president of the ball committee,
wore silver brocade. Joan Hartigan,
too, was a silver glitter, and pretty Mrs.
Charles Donohoe expressed herself in the
softness of blue lace. The Jack Glasses
brought a party. The E. A. Buttenshaws
were importants.
Clifford Hay is making a name in
London as a genial and accessible Agent-
General for N. S. Wales. His wife is
recognised as the complete hostess. Old
friends in Sydney who have sampled the
Hay hospitality (nothing to do with the
Hay diet) are not surprised. This photo-
graph of Mrs. Hay was made by Ray-
mond vSawyer.
Mrs. Iva Clarke, who for some years
was a well-known presswoman, had a
wedding in her family last week. Eldest
child, Lloyd, was ’groom to Marie Pepper-
day’s bride in the Methodist Church,
Mosman. Marie’s father is one of the
partners in the old-established firm of
printers, and Lloyd himself is on the
staff of a city newspaper. The tradi-
tional finery clothed the wedding pro-
cession, and the picture was complete in
every detail. Doris Clarke, ’groom’s
sister, also introduced the pen motif. She
was there, in a spreading crinoline, with
her young man, who is a son of J. A.
Bourke, the ink manufacturer.
The Vienna Boys’ Choir is to give
Sydney many of the operettas which its
members act with such delicacy and sing
with such sweetness. The wardrobe, with
its brocades and wigs a.nd buckled shoes,
is authentic in every detail. The season
starts on Monday at the Town Hall.
Are we downhearted? Certificate
night at the Feminist Club didn’t look
like it. Four hundred and one certifi-
cates, all stamped with the Red Cross,
were handed out to women and girls
who have passed exams, in A.R.P., first
aid, and home nursing. Consider that
every woman’s club around the city has
held these classes, and you get the picture
of a trained army a few thousand strong
—not an aggressive army, but one of
mercy. Lots of the certificate-clutchers
were teen-olds, and passes in the 90 p.c.
and 100 p.c. region occurred frequently.
Proud lecturers —all on the platform—
beamed at members of. their particular
classes. President of the Feminists, Mrs.
P. A. Cameron, her bright complexion
radiant above black chiffons, handed the
certificates to Miss Higman, of the Red
Cross. Impressive in her Robin Hood
green velvets and her decorations, Miss
Higman handed on the prize cardboards,
all 400 signed by Red Cross chiefs R. M.
Downes and S. Mackay Sim.
The Industrial Arts Club members
farewelled Lady Gowrie in their club-
rooms last Friday night. Mrs. David
Cohen, president of the society, received
the vice-regal guest, and gave her a sheaf
of roses, the right flower for the cream-
and-gold frock worn by Lady Gowrie.
Exhibits of Nell McCredie’s pottery and
Jessica Booth’s weaving attracted the
gaze ; so did the floor rug of undyed
wool which Mary Soady, in the name of
all the members, presented to the Gov-
ernor-General’s lady. Mrs. A. T. Ander-
son’s white Spanish shawl was pictur-
esque with her blue-and-silver frock.
Wilfred Peisley proved himself a pianist
as well as a painter, and supplied the
night’s programme.
All the usual bubble and squeak of a
first night was present at the opening of
Romano’s. Dancing Sydney was there to
a shoe. Pretty among the girls were
Margaret Ruthven and Patricia Macken.
Margaret’s exquisite little figure sustained
a swaying crinoline frock of pink and
blue taffeta. Patricia got a lily-white
effect in a shimmer of satin. Sisters
Mrs. Colin Galbraith and Mrs. Jimmy
Bancks aided and abetted each other’s
color-scheme —one in cyclamen, the other
in dove-grey chiffons. The orchid-like
Mrs. C. V. Walker wore black velvet.
Nina Bragg was one of the crinolined.
The Douglas and Pat Levys were there,
and' Mrs. Oliver Osborne wore white
effectively. Finely pleated and deeply
blue were Mrs. Dick Allen’s chiffons.
Marie Burke, who is Mrs. Guy Nelson
King, made the grand entry —her frock
all black and white. Mrs. Richard
Dreyer, who barbers the flowers, wore
black velvet. Captain Llewellyn Palmer
was in the fun. Mrs. Sam Hordern, Sheila
Tonkin, Jocelyn Poynter and Betty
Munro joined in the dance. A special
bouquet for Nuttie Mackellar, who with
partner Bob Bradley did a Cuban
rhumba, grace and fire in cerise. The
bodice was all frilled ; so was the skirt,
but the frills of this were underneath.
The Victoria Club’s lunch is always
one of the features of Empire Day.
Hundreds turned up at the Australia to
listen to speeches by Lord Wakehurst,
the guest of the day, Admiral Custance
and knight John Peden. President Miss
Sibella Macarthur Onslow, an outstand-
ing personality in black, a cluster of
pink hyacinths in her frock, made the
right length of speech. The silken Union
Jacks on the official table waved in the
breeze of the oratory, and red roses and
poinsettia burned bright as resolution
against the white table linen.
Besides the 1200 dancers at David
Jones’s 101st anniversary ball there were
100 card-players in the auditorium above
the restaurant. The staff mutual aid
society will be the beneficiary. A birth-
day cake illuminated by 101 candles and
beautiful flowers decorated the official
table. Just before supper began Mrs.
Clarence Edwards, wife of the managing
director, cut the big three-tiered cake.
Seated around the cake were Mr. and
Mrs. Clarence Edwards, Mr. and Mrs.
D. T. Bradford, Mr. and Mrs. D. Mc-
Neill, Mrs. Russell Bennett and Gordon
Jones.
Mrs. Clarence Edwards was smart in
a model gown of mulberry silk jersey
designed with a shirred bodice. A sequin
cape gleamed on Mrs. D. T. Bradford’s
frock of vintage velvet and silver lame.
Her daughter, Mrs. Russell Bennett, wore
her white wedding gown of French moire.
Velvet in a rich vintage shade was the
choice of Mrs. D. McNeill, whose hus-
band was the president of the ball.
“French is spoken here” might have
been the sign on the Feminist Club last
Friday night. There the Friends of
France danced blithely. About 80 mem-
bers of the little club were there, and
the Henry Piats motored from Avalon
lor the occasion. Mrs. Ivy Moore was
the hostess and did her act in black
velvet, pearls and a great knot of violets.
Her daughter-in-law-to-be, Elizabeth
Eadie, brought a party. This club has
enough good looks to form a Cochran
beauty chorus, and all the girls seemed to
be there escorted by slim and upright
young men who are also friends of
France.
Princess Marie Louise gave her patron-
age and Australia’s Margaret Baxter was
in the chair at the yearly lunch of the
Overseas Section of the Forum Club in
London. Beside Margaret was Canada’s
former Prime Minister, R. B. Bennett,
still full of his visit to Australia. Our
own Lady Wakehurst was a guest; so
were Minister for Health FitzSimons
and his wife and S’Australia’s Agent-
General Charles McCann and his lady.
Papua was represented by Hubert
Murray’s wife, who was hostess to
and Lady Gifford. The good-looking
Mrs. Robinson Renshaw, Mrs. Eric
Harrison and Captain Evan Cameron,
who has just retired from the Orient S.S.
Co., and his wife were other friends of
Australia.
The Leon Lyons couple have arrived
in London. They had a most interesting
time in Rome, and were among the first
to be granted an audience by Pope Pius
XII. The South of France and Paris
were sampled before the Lyonses made
for London.
Tenor Charles Benson will sing to a
very fashionable audience to-morrow
night. The Conservatorium has been
heavily booked by our best-known and
best-dressed. An air-mail letter last week
told the singer how disappointed Mrs.
Walter Swinson was that she would not
be at the concert. Extended travels are
the cause. She and Mr. Swinson, who
set out on a trip to India, decided, alter
all, to go on to England.


WELL "HERES TO'EE
ff
"N,
1
'
%
«
ii
§§''
m
gg§
111
■
©H P
,;I l *«
a**:
y
¥ " 1
c* I *'” 4
i (
: ■
■I
sgSs'
1
I
IMtai
■'p ■ s
*
v
.
.it lU
4#
«4
. <
TOOHEYS
OATMEAL STOUT
TOOHEYS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Agents: VlCTORlA—Goldsbiough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


FLUSH OUT
15 MILES OF
KIDNEY TUBES
Win Back Pep . . . Vigor . . . Vim
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 MILES of tiny tubes or filters
which help to purify the blood and keep you
healthy.
If you have trouble with too frequent blad-
der passages with scanty amount causing
burning and discomfort, the 15 MILES of
kidney tubes need flushing out. This danger
signal may be the beginning of nagging back-
aches, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, get-
ting up nights, lumbago, swollen feet and
ankles, puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait. Ask
your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE KID-
NEY PILLS . . . used successfully the world
over by mill’,oils of people. They give quick
relief and will help to flush out the 15 MILES
of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
Personal and Missing Friend.
LAMB, ALEXANDER, deceased, late of
Daymar, Queensland. —Anyone having know-
ledge or custody of any Will executed by the
abovenamed is requested to communicate with
the undersigned.
W. B. GEDDES,
Public Trustee,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
ON SALE EVERY WEDNESDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 68-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Every week six to nine
patterns are featured.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
As a preliminary to the Joy Bells Ball
at Menzies on June 5 for the childrens
section of the Orthopaedic Hospital at
Frankston, Mrs. Wallace Mitchell gave
a luncheon party at the Prince of Wales,
St. Kilda, to some friends interested in
the hospital’s welfare. An appropriate
touch upon the long and festive table was
the choice of place-cards decorated with
the chimes of goodwill. Among those
present at the party was Mrs. Jim Watt
(treasurer of the committee), who had
feathers balanced on each side of her
hat, deep cyclamen on one side and a
paler shade of the same ostrich on the
other. Another guest was Mrs. Wilson
Johnston, who is a stepsister of Brett
Randall. She and her husband are recent
arrivals from England.
Mrs. Evan Pearse, who is one of the
ticket secretaries for the ball, was all in
black, as was Mrs. Harold Kerr. Mrs.
Kerr’s accessory for the day, of which
she was pardonably proud, was a glamor-
ous orchid, a gift from her daughter,
Peggy Harrison Owen. It was bought
with the first money Peggy has earned,
a cheque for her first job on the com-
pletion of her Tweddle Hospital Baby
Welfare training.
Two sessions of bridge on the one
day at Mrs. F. W. Spry’s home in lona-
avenue brought in a very satisfactory
sum for the Adult Deaf and Dumb
Fund. A small committee ran the
parties, kept the fires burning brightly
in several rooms, sold Turkish delight
(Mrs. Spry’s recipe), chocolates, cigar-
ettes wrapped up in festive paper, and
lucky numbers for stockings or golf
socks. Jean Thompson, Joan Adamson,
Mrs. Walter Williams and Yvonne Spry,
wearing for the evening a mermaid’s-tail
gown of white crepe, were among those
who assisted. Most of those present
played bridge, but in the afterhoon Mrs.
Sladen Gibson brought along a mah
jongg four; and in the evening four
young folk, Margaret McNamara, Pat
Armstrong, Logan Lindsay and Howard
Spry, also shut themselves in the den
to pursue the same Oriental diversion
of flowers, winds and dragons.
As an addition to the decorations of
chrysanthemums, violets and poppies
used throughout the house, Mrs. Spry
let her Chinese horses have their heads.
She made a meadow of grass and ferns
on the mantelpiece in the ballroom for
the small porcelain animals to romp
and roll upon and to attract good luck
(so the Chinese say) through the door
towards which they are facing.
•The Irving sisters (Kay, Marjorie and
Mrs. Vousden), of the Waverley Riding
School, deserve congratulations for the
success of their equestrian rally up at
Berwick, which was open to all young
riders under 18. The organisation was
a big job, but everything went off well
for the fifty-or-more girls, who had a
splendid five days’ holiday. The gym-
khana was at the Berwick showground,
but marks were given to the children
from the time they left to ride to Ber-
wick in either of two groups, one from
Waverley, the second from Frankston.
At Berwick the children stayed at
Blairgowrie, which roomy domain was
until quite recently a guest house. That
it was untenanted at the moment was a
spot of bad luck for the Irvings, who
unexpectedly had to provide furniture,
bedding, a staff, etc., for the welfare of
their large family. Included in the gym-
khana programme were a variety of
events for all ages and degrees of horse-
manship. The handy horse had a chance
to show off his tractable nature at gate-
opening and the young rider her skill
and balance in taking low jumps while
carrying a billycan of water. A bun-
eating race was another popular event.
A great array of trophies was presented,
and there were badges for every child
who took part in the rally.
Additional entertainments were pic-
nics, several lectures on horsy and
hunting subjects by well-known riders,
a supper party on the last night at
Berwick and a session of the local pic-
tures, where the management had
arranged that The Horse would be the
nucleus of the programme. On the last
day of the holiday the Melbourne Hunt
Club arranged a children’s hunt in the
district with jumps for those who were
used to them and gates for those who
weren’t. It was a great thrill for the
lucky youngsters, very few of whom
had ever had a chance of following
the hounds. Among those who assisted
at the rally by judging, lecturing anti
supervising or patrolling the road in cars
as the young cavalcade travelled up to
Berwick were Lieut.-Colonel Whitfield,
D. Mr. and Mrs. T. Coffey, Mrs.
Ken Moore, Mrs. Herbert Allen, Mrs.
E. J. Adam, Gwen Stead, Charles Moore,
Louis Monod and R. Hicks.
In Broothorn’s photograph is Beryl
Moore, whose wedding day is June 8.
Beryl is the only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Louis Moore, of Melbourne, and
her future husband is James Conrad
Davis, son of Mr. and Mrs. James Davis,
of Fiji. She originally intended to be
married in a hat and the sort of frock
suitable for afternoon parties, but re-
cently succumbed to the persuasion of
her friends and the sentiment of her
mother’s orange-blossom and of a veil
that has been in the family for 150 years.
She is having no ’maids, but brother Jim
is being entrusted with the responsibili-
ties of best man.
A new bungalow three miles from Suva
will be ready for the newly-married
couple when they disembark from the
Mariposa at the end of June. Beryl has
no worries about its architecture or fur-
nishings, for she has received photo-
graphs of the house and patterns of
chintzes and other fabrics have been for-
warded by her fiance for her approbation
’Groom's sister Ria Davis and an artist
friend or two living in Suva have assisted
with color schemes and general layout.
Jim Davis’s hobby is sailing, and he owns
a yacht, so Beryl is including a number
of cruise outfits in her trousseau.
All goes well with plans for the Golden
Gate Fiesta (the American Women’s
Auxiliary Ball on June 30). Mrs. S. J.
Prytz, who calls herself the “oldest
American inhabitant,” says that next
year she is going to celebrate the anni-
versary of her 10 years as an auxiliary
office-bearer. She is the ball committee’s
treasurer, and admits a suspicion that the
newest and youngest recruits to the move-
ment must give her the nickname of
“Economy,” for her password is like a
hand-brake on suggestions at so many
of the meetings.
Mrs. Herbert Allen, who with Mrs.
James Welker has duties among the
liquid refreshments at the ball, comes
from Philadelphia, though she has an
English accent left over from her school-
days across the Atlantic. That isn’t the
only ocean she has crossed on several
occasions. In the 18 years she has lived
in Australia she has made 12 trips back
to the U.S.A. Mrs. Allen has a hack of
her own and rides regularly. Golf is
another of her hobbies, and she plays at
Kings wood, Yarra Yarra and Riversdale.
A commendable production was the
National Theatre’s week’s season of
“The Beggar’s Opera”—an ambitious
work which came up to scratch, for
several people who had seen it in Lon-
don (during its three years’ run at Ham-
mersmith) had kindly comments to make
on the local piece of work. What they
did miss was a cut scene, an embarrass-
ing moment for the handsome young
scoundrel Macheath, when he is led from
the condemned cell to face some of his
responsibilities, 20 pretty wantons with
their 20 come-by-chance babies.
A “discovery” of the Melbourne pro-
duction was Frank Laslett, a young man
of attainments (who in his sombre hours
works in a savings bank, and for relaxa-
tion takes to music and drama). In the
part of Macheath he had scope for sing-
ing and swaggering, acting and making
love and wearing the knee breeches and
lace ruffles of the period with an air of
gallantry. William Carr, whose diction
is a delight, played the Beggar, the alleged
author of the opera. Tom Minogue pro-
duced the show, in which there were 34
characters, and also took the part of
Lockit, the gaoler. Mary Brown was
Lucy, Lockit’s daughter, a maid of many
affairs. Beatrice Oakley was Polly
Peachum, Macheath’s last love, and Elsy
Treweek staged a comeback as Mrs.
Peachum (the alleged wife of Peachum),
the receiver of stolen goods.
“Everything I like I own—let some-
one else pay for it if he wants to,” was a
spot of philosophy from A. E. Anderson,
of the National Gallery, when opening
Ralph Warner’s exhibition of pictures
at the Sedon Galleries. Mr. Anderson
was Ralph Warner’s art master down at
Geelong, so it was as a particular com-
pliment that he was invited to open his
ex-pupil’s show. Warner’s water-colors
are a pictorial impression of a caravan
journey round the Victorian coast from
Melbourne to Mario. An adventure on
the trip which was not recorded in paint
(no colors would have been violent
enough) happened with the axles sunk
deep in soft sand on the way home from
Walkerville and Waratah Bay. Several
hours’ work with spades and axes was of
no avail, and a truck had to be requisi-
tioned. During that painting holiday
Mrs. Warner proved herself handy with
a rod and line, and caught the where-
withal for several substantial meals.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Marion, only daughter of the late Stanley
P. Lindsay and of Mrs. Lindsay, of
Toorak. Marion is to be married next
Saturday to Archie White, son of Mr.
and Mrs. A. White, of Camberwell. The
wedding will be in the Littlejohn Chapel,
for Archie is an old Scotch Collegian.
He will have a£ his supporters his
brothers Guthrie and Bruce and his new
brother-in-law, Maurice Lindsay. The
bride’s attendants will be Mollie Hyams
(she and Marion were at St. Margaret’s
together), Mollie Riley and the ’groom’s
sister, Del White. Felicitations will be
at Menzies.
Three generations were present at the
opening of Nancy Moffatt’s exhibition of
pictures at the Leighton Galleries. There
were Nancy’s mother, Mrs. G. W. Moffatt,
and some of her friends, the young artist
herself, brother Lloyd, who is managing
the show, and their friends, and small
Barbara Etheridge, the subject of one of
the portraits. Mrs. W. G. Ruffle, a yellow
plume as a note of gay color in her hat,
was present in person as well as upon
the wall. Jean Mclnnes was the subject
of another portrait. She and Nancy were
fellow-students at the National Gallery.
Nancy, who taught art at the Emily
McPherson College (Jean was appointed
to that job when she was transferred) is
now on the staff at Box Hill Technical
School. As she lives in East Malvern
she has more than her fair share of train
travelling, night and morning.
During 10 months spent abroad Nan
Brett has managed some deviations from
the well-trodden tourist pathways. After
a few weeks spent recently in Malta as
the guest of English friends, Lieut.-
Commander and Mrs. Hewson, she
travelled in a tramp steamer to Haifa
on the way to other friends in Jerusalem
(mutual acquaintances hope that Nan
knows Dr. Sylvia Young is in Jerusalem
and will look her up). Other experi-
ences of her journeying include a trip
to Paris, which she enjoyed in the com-
pany of Mrs. Esmond Lillies, and
“casual” jobs in Harrods in the beach-
wear section. This work, apart from
its financial perks, she liked immensely.
Nan has booked her passage home by
the Largs Bay, which arrives in Mel-
bourne at the end of July, but her
family wouldn’t be very surprised if
she stayed away longer to allow herself
a visit to Nice, where her friends Mar-
garet Cochran and Chiqua Edgeworth
have been staying for several months.
Another Szell-Schnabel concert packed
the Town Hall, making such a demand
upon the seating accommodation that
the front row of chairs was practically
under the grand piano. The people
allotted to them must have been
prominently in Schnabel’s line of vision,
but, beyond directing at them between
movements of the concertos a worried
glance or two, the pianist displayed no
sign of distressed temperament. Neither
did he exhibit any degree of fatigue at
the end of the arduous programme of
Beethoven, Mozart and Schumann.
Madame Szell and Madame Schnabel
were once more in the front row of
the gallery. Mrs. Edmund Kurtz, who
was with her father, J. B. Bellair, wore
a gown of lobelia-blue crepe with fan-
pleated skirt and elbow-length sleeves.
Her hair, arranged in a demure chignon,
was tied at the nape of the neck with
black velvet ribbon.
Long velvet wraps were seen in all
parts of the house. Bunty Schofield’s
was ruby-red ; Peggy Speeding’s was
black, and hung with the elegance of
a cape from firmly-padded shoulders;
Helen Drysdale’s was green and showed
elaborate fluting midway upon its
voluminous sleeves. J. Chaldjian was a
blonde vision of plastic curls, white
ermine and long white gloves. Bunny
Parnham went gay with violets, a muff
and lilac-and-green birds in her hair.
“Leaning on Letty” gave an audience
at the King’s its money’s worth, plus a
bit over, for while the cast was taking
its final curtain bows Charlotte Green-
wood was extracting her six-feet-odd of
length out of one of the nondescript dun-
colored dresses that she wore in the
play, getting into white georgette, getting
rid of her false hair and giving her own
crowning glory a chance to show off its
golden glints. Her solo curtain was the
signal for great applause, a speech and
an unexpected quarter of an hour of song
and dance with eyes effectively directed
godsward. For the tired and worried man
on whom business responsibilities sit
heavily a dose of Charlotte in “Leaning
on Letty” should be worth at least one
pick-me-up schooner of beer. In the
audience Mrs. Larry Adler was a sur-
prise packet, for her Edwardian curls of
so many other first nights are now things
of the past. She was ingenue with a
long bob, and neither flowers nor a
diamond star to chase away the school-
girl simplicity.


Relaxation, recrea-
tion, wide scenic
vistas and modern
comfort are assured
to travellers who
take the Canadian
Australasian route
to Europe.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF
N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.).
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND
FIJI.HONOLULU
CANADA.U SA-
A
A
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Doings on the Daintree
“Rey”: Very long-distance devotees
of the movies are the burgesses of Dain-
tree (N.Q.). Their nearest talkie palace
is at Mossman. Mossman is 50 miles
away, but when there is a really good
helping of slush on the programme
Daintree mounts its jaloppies to a man.
Daintree is a coming district. It has
one of the most beautiful rivers in the
“ Don’t you find those things round your neck uncomfortable?”
Commonwealth, full of the loveliest
crocodiles. The river banks are clothed
with rich and tangled verdure and such
curious and interesting flora and fauna
that I wonder anybody ever wishes to
leave the place.
I was once sitting on the banks of the
Daintree River with an indigenous Dain-
treean, when I became drowsily aware
of screams, grunts, breaking timber and
sliding rocks.
Something shot clean over our heads
—you should see some of the Daintree
bank grades—hit the water like a meteor-
ite and went to the bottom in a maelstrom
of contention.
“What’s the matter?” I said to the
Daintreean, who had been moved so
much to excitement as to open half one
walnut eye.
“Mightit be kangaroo big pfeller
snake,” replied the intelligent aborigine,
closing his blase optic.
Such scenes appeared to be nothing in
his young life.
I was glad to see old Womp-Womp
climbing wearily out on the bank look-
ing as if he had been through the
Taxation Department, but the python
who had picked him for dinner seemed
to have disappeared.
“Aileron”: Guinea Airways fares
from Darwin to Adelaide have been re-
duced to £25 single, £45 return. Brisbane
can be reached from Darwin by the other
services for £25 and Sydney for £3O.
It’s cheaper than any other mode of
travel, irrespective of the comfort and
time. Previously, any Darwinite with a
month’s holiday had to spend the whole
of it on a boat if he wished to go to
Melbourne that is, unless he went
overland and took the risk of never
arriving.
* * * *
“Motu Mike”: Can’t civilise the
Papuans, can’t we? Well, what about a
recent legal tussle, Faramu v. Kamea
Goru, in our Moresby court? Faramu
asked for £l6O, 42 armshells and a pig
as damages against the defendant for
leading Mrs. Faramu astray. He claimed
he had paid the exact equivalent of the
damages for the lady. However, as he
had had Mrs. F. for 14 years, the Court
apparently concluded that she was
slightly shopworn ; anyway, it awarded
plaintiff £6O (to be paid off at £3 a
month) and 44 armshells; no pig.
Sixty notes and 44. armshells ought to
enable him to acquire a new spouse
under the hire-purchase system, which,
I presume, has now reached Hanuabada.
If it hasn’t, there should be a golden
time in store for anybody prepared to go
to Papua and start the Happy Wedding
Cash Order Co.
“Q.C.R.”: Illuminating item from the
tough, rough, rip-roaring wide-open
Queensland North-west:
Mr. Joe Johnston was unfortunately the
only competitor to be seriously injured at
the Show and Rodeo. During the steer-
riding, the beast on which he was mounted
ripped him in the groin, necessitating an
operation the following day, and he now
seems to be progressing fairly well.
This, perhaps, is the only occasion in
history on which it has been possible
for “rodeo” steers to agree with a
“rodeo” reporter.
* * * *
“J. Want”: Forgan Smith has begun
to talk about the decline in bore water.
In 1914 there was a daily flow of
360,000,000 gallons from 1100 bores; in
1938 278,000,000 gallons from 1800
bores. The Premier says it “calls for
quick action.” His own officers have
been telling Queensland Governments
that for a couple of decades. Foghorn
proposes “a Federal Commission,” but
what’s the good of a Federal Commis-
sion? When it has finished taking evi-
dence it won’t be able to provide half
the information which competent Lands
Department officials have acquired or
any constructive ideas which they could
not provide. Between them and Dr.
Bradfield, who has made a close study
of the situation, it should be possible to
have a long-term scheme framed which
will put at least the best of the Mitchell-
grass country beyond danger inside 30
years.
* * * *
“Philp”: Not only the Darwin worker
is growling about living conditions. The
“mobile force” of 250 men that went to
Darwin two months ago was quartered
in Vestey’s meatworks and is to remain
there for another seven months —if
strikes don’t delay the completion of
the new barracks. The men complain
that, so far, they have spent most of their
time attempting to make their quarters
habitable; that limited water supply
allows only one shower a day ; that the
whole mob of them have to wash their
clothes in 20 small dishes —miners’; that
electric light from two 20-year-old
generators prevents reading or writing
at night, and that no provision has been
made for sick men. The commandant
admits that “much could be done _to
improve the circumstances under which
the men are working.”
* * * . *
“Scat”: Last week in the House, A. M.
Blain, M.P. for the Northern Territory,
was told, among other things, that the
basic wage at Darwin is £4 13s. 9d. and
that a workers’ homes scheme for N.T.
towns is “still under consideration.”
While that has been “under considera-
tion” the Administration at Darwin has
spent nearly £lO,OOO in building and
furnishing quarters for 10 of its female
staff, and is paying two half-caste maids
to look after the place. The resident
young ladies, few, if any, of whom get
less than £250 p.a., pay a nominal weekly
rent of 4s 10d. If Darwin is ej
have anything more than sold^nravision
servan s an ’. . ,
must be made for white labor.
* * * *
“Guava” • At Ineham (NO) they
uuava . At rngn t V J y ,
found a passenger without a ti
hauled him off the Townsville train and
haled him before the Ingham Beak,
“Any defence? asked the Beak. Please,
sir,” the passenger said, “I was served
with a Townsville summons and couldn’t
get there in time by walking.” He was
fined £1 ss. 6d., including the fare, in
default one hour’s imprisonment. Then,
glancing at the clock, Buxton, P.M., re-
marked helpfully that he could reach the
Townsville court on time if he caught
the train that day.
* * * *
“Ex-Alexis”: Tell “Morobe” (B.
3/5/’39) that his reference to “Alexis-
hafen, the great island mission otf the New
Guinea coast,” is correct as to Alexis-
hafen being a great mission, but it is
on the mainland, 10 miles north of
Madang. Moreover, the mission attends
to considerably more than 100 villages,
and the ’plane piloted by Parer (accom-
panied by the chief mission pilot, Wil-
liam Schaffhausen, one of three) is the
fourth addition to the mission’s fleet of
’planes. It owns two Klemm machines,
a single-engined Junkers, and now this
Fokker —not the same type as Kingsford
Smith’s, but a Fokker Universe, a
single-engined machine. The mission
’planes do their work on the mainland.
They are constantly employed in carry-
ing supplies, building material, etc., into
the mission stations situated in the Bis-
marck Mountains, almost inaccessible by
foot, and other inland stations.
* * * *
“Zedo”: The committee touring the
west of Queensland has been getting a
mixed bag of evidence in favor of the
linking of the Queensland Central and
S. Western railways by a western loop.
A representative of the Barcaldine
graziers told it that his branch was
wholeheartedly behind the Blackall pas-
toralists in their advocacy of joining
Blackall and Charleville. Somebody asked
if there would be much traffic on the
Blackall-Charleville line. The reply was
that “there would be in drought time ;
in good times stock routes take all the
traffic.” Seems to me that the amount
proposed to be spent on this line would
be much better expended in water con-
servation and fodder storage as drought
insurance.
* * * *
“Munni”: Great institution, our post
office —the manner in which it can nullify
the advantages of speedy transport is a
caution. Take a letter posted in Rock-
hampton by air mail about 10.30
It arrives in Brisbane at 2 p.m. They
deliver it in the Brisbane suburbs at 9.30
next morning. Ordinary mail posted late
in the afternoon at Rockhampton arrives
in Brisbane before breakfast next morn-
ing and is delivered in the outer suburbs
after lunch. But it’s a wonderful per-
formance compared with air-mail de-
livery time. Air mail lies in Brisbane
G.P.O. nearly 20 hours, ordinary mail
hours.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Rabaul isn’t taking very
seriously what for want of a better name
is called the “determination” of the Com-
monwealth Government to move the
New Guinea capital. In the last few
months the town has acquired a recon-
structed golf links. Swimming baths
are being constructed, houses and shops
are going up steadily, and B.P.’s have just
opened a new store to replace the one
burnt down in 1937.


fOR W£AN M£N AND IVOMfN
Loss, of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
fU9 George St., Sydney
m
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
COVERAGE
COUNTS!
IT’S CERTAIN THROUGH
6PM
6AM
6KG
Perth .. .
Northam. .
Kalgoorlie
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
ULTRA DX THREE.
Designed specially for experimenters wanting to explore the interesting
possibilities of DX reception as offered on the ultra-high-frequencies, this
three-valve tuned R.F. receiver uses the latest types of valves in R.F. and
detector stages.
A receiver which attracted considerable
attention among experimenters was the
Ultra-Searcher (B. 3/8/’3B). Main
feature of that receiver was the use of
Fig. 1. —A general view of the completed receiver, with a combined power-pack and
audio amplifier for A.C. operation with speaker reception.
a 956-type acorn valve ahead of a con-
ventional capacity-reaction detector and
audio stage. The receiver described here
is the work of W. McGowan (VK2MQ).
assistant secretary of the u.-h.-f. section
of W.1.A., N.S.W. Division, and by
reason of excellent mechanical design and
use of two highly-efficient valves in R.F.
and detector stages it constitutes a desir-
Fig. 2. —The circuit. Radiotron television pentodes of types 1851 and 1852
are used in R.F. and detector stages respectively, with a 6C5 in the audio
socket for headphone use.
able type of receiver for general u.-h.-f.
reception or for amateur-band coverage
on 56mc. and 28mc. particularly. It was
designed primarily for the 56mc. band,
and all necessary details are given in this
description.
Fig. 3.—Front view of the Ultra DX Three. Elaborate
shielding and a carefully-planned layout are important
features of the design.
It has been recognised during recent
years that conventional valves, other than
the special acorn types, are not very
effective in ultra-high-frequency work,
although they can be applied with vary-
ing degrees of success. The fact that a
76-type valve is the detector in the Ultra-
Searcher receiver shows this. If that
valve is replaced by one designed
specially for u.-h.-f. work, it follows that
results will be much better in every way.
The advent of the new television valves,
1851, 1852 and 1853, brought interesting
possibilities. Experimenters and amateurs
have hesitated to use acorns because of
their cost, but there is no difficulty in
this respect with the “1850” series, as they
cost no more than standard valves.
It was decided to build a high-gain
tuned R.F. receiver with
a stable regenerative de-
tector and one audio
stage, so constructed
that it could be used
with batteries on port-
able locations. The re-
ceiver circuit diagram
includes no power
supply for A.C. opera-
tion, but that is only a
matter of powering
from a suitable pack.
The valves being of six-
volt heater type, the re-
ceiver can be used
economically with a six-
volt accumulator and
dry battery plate supply
alternatively.
Normally, this is a
headphone receiver and
should be considered as
such, but if speaker
operation is wanted the
addition of a pentode
audio stage in conven-
tional manner will
give ample speaker volume. A permag.-
type speaker is recommended in prefer-
ence to an exciter field used as a filter
choke.
Filtering needs to be very complete in
a power supply for a receiver using an
oscillating detector over very high fre-
quences, and speaker-field windings are
very inefficient smoothing chokes at the
best.
A high-gain R.F. stage is most im-
portant at ultra-high frequencies, as
regeneration in that stage does not im-
prove the signal-to-noise ratio. This is
because both are amplified, and there-
fore the signal-to-noise ratio does not
alter, though it may serve to ride over
noise contributed by a following low-
gain stage. More than one R.F. stage
would increase the overall gain, but
tuning difficulties are then introduced.
Also, an exceptionally high-gain valve,
such as the 1851, would run into in-
stability trouble, and oscillation would
be hard to check in the two stages. As
with the Ultra-Searcher designed by the
writer, Mr. McGowan decided to tune
the R.F. stage of this receiver separately,
as this makes for a more efficient
layout. A really good drum dial
could, however, be employed in this
particular layout, and the R.F. and
detector stages could be ganged, with
bandsetters arranged for front-of-
panel control.
In the design of the set, all by-
pass condensers and leads are very
short; so much so that, if anything
has to be altered in the detector
stage, partial dismantling is almost
essential. Fig. 5 gives a clear indica-
tion of the short and direct wiring
in the detector stage, this being a
close-up view. It will be seen that
everything is very compact, and the
only lead that is of any length is the
plate lead to the R.F. valve from the
top of the coil. That lead is only
2in. long. Above the coil is the
lOmmfd. tuning condenser, one of
Raymart type, and to the left of this
is the bandsetter. Directly under-
neath this is the socket for the 1852
detector valve with pins 2 and 7
arranged in the vertical plane. A point
to watch with this valve is the unusual
pin arrangement. The normal cathode
pin is the plate ; the cathode goes where
the suppressor usually is, and the grid
and cathode are next to each other, thus
making for an extremely good arrange-
ment for cathode regeneration.
To the left of the socket is the five-
metre R.F. choke, and to the left of this
are the detector-plate by-pass condensers.
These are .000 lmfd. mica ceramic
types, and are both compact and
efficient. Tucked snugly under the
1852 socket is the .Olmfd. mica by-pass
condenser for the 1852
screen grid. All earth
returns for this valve
are common to a point
at the left of the socket.
The sockets are the
Raymart ceramic octal
type.
Just above the 1852
socket, and resting on
pins 2 and 3, is the
lmeg. grid leak be-
tween the control grid
(pin 4) and earth. Be-
hind the coil assembly
is the .000lmfd. ceramic
grid condenser, con-
nected from the grid
pin direct to the centre-
tapping on the grid coil.
The cathode pin (5) is
taken to the bottom of
the coil and to earth.
This arrangement pro-
vides sufficient feed-
back, as the 1852 is
such a lively oscillator
that a fraction of a
turn up the coil is too
much for cathode tapping.
To the right of the coil is seen the
socket for the 1851 R.F. amplifier. This
valve is mounted horizontally to permit
of good physical separation between R.F.
and detector stages, thereby safeguarding
against instability. To the left of the
valve socket are the by-pass condensers
for screen and cathode, connected
directly to the socket pins. The socket
is mounted with filament pins 2 and
7 in the horizontal plane, with sup-
pressor in the central point for all earth
returns. As the valve manufacturer says
that the screen resistor must be at least
60,000 ohms from a 300-volt supply, two
150,000-ohm resistors are used in
parallel. To their right is the 1500-ohm
bias resistor, and arranged horizontally
near the chassis base is the 2000-ohm
decoupling resistor for the plate of the
1851. Behind this is the .lmfd. by-pass
condenser.
High-grade Condensers Essential.
Efficient by-pass condensers must be
used throughout, junk-box paper types
being out of the question. The best
possible quality must be used, and they
must be of the mica type. On the extreme
right-hand side of the chassis is the R.F.
stage, with the grid ;«in just protruding
through the second partition. The R.F.
tuning condenser is mounted similarly to
that for the detector stage, with the
associated bandsetter to the right. The
grid connection is again taken from the
centre of the coil with a very short lead.
As the 1851 valve has a small-diameter
grid-pin, a clip for this was made from
a. contact taken from a wafer octal
socket. In the centre of the two parti-
tions separating detector and R.F.
section is the 6C5 audio valve, and in
front of this, on the panel, the headphone
jack. To realise the utmost gain from
the detector, a high impedance audio
choke is used in the plate circuit, de-
coupled by a 25,000-ohm resistor and an
Bmfd. dry electrolytic condenser.
56mc. Coils.
Details are given for coils for the band
with which this receiver is most likely
to be used, but, following conventional
practice, other coils could be readily
wound to cover any range between four
metres and 12 metres. The original
receiver is used only on 56mc., so that the
coils are soldered directly across the
tuning condensers. It would be an easy
matter to make up a plug-in coil arrange-
ment if desired. Coils for 56mc. are
similar in both R.F. and detector stages.
The grid coils have eight turns of
12-gauge enamelled copper, yin. inside
diameter and spaced to take up a length
of lyin. The aerial and primary coils
both have 10 turns of 22 enamelled
copper yin. inside diameter and close
wound. These coils are mounted inside
the grid coils toward the earth end. In
the case of the primary winding inside
the detector grid coil, the plate connec-
tion to the 1851 is that end nearest the
grid end of the grid coil.
Constructional Points.
The aluminium panel has been attrac-
tively finished by rubbing with steel wool.
Fig. 4. —Rear view, showing clearly the horizontal
mounting of the 1851 R.F. amplifier.
After this three light coats of clear duco
are applied in succession.
All the metal work, including parti-
tions, is treated in this way, but the polish
should not be removed from the parti-
tions. A glossy surface on metal gives
better interstage screening than when the
surface is roughened. In mounting the
partitions it must be remembered that
there will be no contact between these
and chassis when laid in position. This
is desirable because of elimination of
noise due to poor contact at various
points. Contact is made only through
the mounting screws, a small section
around-and under each being thoroughly
cleaned. Lugs are placed under the nuts
underneath the chassis and all bonded
together. This assures a good electrical
and mechanical job, and should apply to
any u.-h.-f. or short-wave receiver.
The R.F. tuning control, whilst not
broad, does not need a vernier drive, but
the detector very definitely does. Only
the best type of dial mechanism must be
used here, free from slip, backlash, or
other undesirable features. The dial used
in the original is a Raymart 6 : 1 epicyclic
reduction drive with plated indicator, and
does an excellent job. Tuning condensers
on each stage are lOmmfd. capacity, just


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
m?
m
,1
n -
IMlfyil/l
Every Radiotron valve
undergoes extensive tests
before it is sealed in its
carton sealed for your
protection. It will repay
you to . . o
Revalve
with
Z
THE W 0 R L D’S
STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
large enough to give full-scale coverage
of 56mc. ; 15mmfd. condensers can be
used here.
The bandsetter condensers have a
maximum capacity of 50mmfd., and with
these “all in” it is possible to heat the
u.-s.-w. beacon at Kingsford Smith aero-
drome, Sydney, signing “SY” at intervals.
Further down the scale, VK2MA can be
heard on 42mc. (seven metres) on Sun-
days. This relates, of course, to recep-
tion in a Sydney suburb.
Aerial recommended for maximum
results is either a twisted pair doublet
or “I” type, designed for the 56mc. band.
Total length is Bft. 4in. for general pur-
poses.
Too much care cannot be taken with
the wiring of the receiver. There is a
right and a wrong way in the construe-
Fig. s.—Close-up view of the detector section, showing the short, direct
wiring that is imperative for highest efficiency on ultra-high frequencies. The
primary coupling coil is wound concentrically inside the detector-grid coil.
lion of u.-h.-f. receivers, and the illustra-
tions of the Ultra DX Three give a clear
idea of how the job should be done.
These parts are used in the receiver:
One aluminium chassis lOin. x 64in. x 2j-in.,
with panel lOin. x Bin., and four partitions.
One combination power-pack and audio
amplifier for alternative A.C. use.
Two eight-pin ceramic sockets (Raymart).
One octal, one five-pin socket.
Two lOmmfd. midget variable condensers
(Raymart).
Two 50mmfd. air padding condensers.
Three knobs.
Two dials.
One 250-henry high impedance audio choke.
One five-metre R.F. choke (Raymart).
One closed circuit jack (ordinary single-circuit
’phone jack can be substituted if ’phones
only are to be used).
Two flexible couplers (Raymart).
Two 6in. lengths aeronoid rod.
One epicyclic, reduction drive (Raymart).
Two midget stand-off insulators.
One 50,000-ohm potentiometer.
One .5-megohm potentiometer.
FIXED RESISTORS:
One 1500 ohm 4-watt.
One 2000 ohm 4-watt.
One 10,000 ohm 4-watt.
One 25,000 ohm 4-watt.
One 50,000 ohm -4-watt.
One 75,000 ohm 4-watt.
One 1-megohm 4 watt.
One 20,000 ohm 2-wattV
One 2500 ohm wirewound.
FIXED CONDENSERS:
Three .0001 midget mica,
One .001 midget mica.
Three .01 midget mica.
Two .02 midget mica.
One .lmfd. paper type.
Two .smfd. paper type.
One Bmfd. dry electrolytic, 450-volt working.
One lOmfd. dry electrolytic, 25-volt working.
VALVES:
One 1851, one 1852, one 6C5.
MISCELLANEOUS:
Small quantities of 12-gauge tinned and
22-gauge enamel copper wire for winding coils,
solder tags, hook-up wire, nuts and bolts, two
grid clips.
D.B.K.
Wha's What in Radio.
P.M.G. figures for radio licenses
throughout Australia showed a total of
1,122,207 at the end of April. Experi-
menters number 2019.
* * * *
The ultra-short-wave beacon recently
installed by A.W.A. at Kingsford-Smith
Aerodrome, Sydney, is intended for con-
sistent operation up to 150 miles, aircraft
flying the radio course daily with full
reliability over this distance. Reports
have been received from observers located
at Bandoeng, Java, a distance of 3000
miles from Sydney, of reception of the
signal from this beacon.
# * * *
At present radio-transmitting valves
are not manufactured in Australia, but
Amalgamated Wireless announces that
production will begin shortly at the valve
factory at Ashfield, N.S.W. E. T. Fisk,
in pointing out that Australia is at present
dependent on overseas factories for most
types of transmitting valves, stressed the
fact that, if supplies were interrupted in
an emergency, all broadcast, overseas,
ship-to-shore, point-to-point and neces-
sary defence services would be threatened
with disruption.
Radio Comment.
“Querex”: Electronics play their part
in many spectacular gadgets. Latest is
the electronic marimba, a musical instru-
ment now being demonstrated at the New
York World’s Fair. It is operated by
flashing the beams from two hand-torches
on photo-electric cells, which actuate ham-
mers —in. effect, an electric xylophone.
* * * *
“Mako”: A Wellington (M.L.) amateur
wireless operator put in some good work
recently. He heard the wireless man on
Canton Island, the isle in the Phoenix
Group that will be shared by Britain and
America when the Pacific airmails are
fully established, calling Honolulu to
send medical aid to a man suffering from
appendicitis. The Canton operator could
not raise Honolulu, nor could the Wel-
lingtonian, so the latter sent an urgent
message to the U.S.A. Consul-General in
Wellington explaining the case. The
C.-G. cabled, also urgently, to Honolulu,
and two hours later a doctor set off from
there to attend the patient.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: A discovery associating
radio and the divining rod is related in
England’s amateur radio publication
“T. and R. Bulletin”:
Water-divining, or “dowsing,” is now an
accepted scientific fact, and is even a com-
mercial proposition. Metals can also be de-
tected by the use of a divining rod in the
hands of an adept. GBLY, together with a
water-diviner, has found that his powers can
be extended to color-detection and the detec-
tion of metals by using a colored divining rod.
The rod used is the usual vee-shaped one, but,
when colored, it will rotate in the hand a
given number of times according to the nature
of the substance to be detected. Now comes
the amazing fact. When a red rod is used it
rotates 21 times whenever it comes near a
wireless transmitter! This is independent of
frequency; in fact, any receiver in a state
of oscillation can produce the effect. Other
colors have been tried, but it has been found
that the rotation is only produced when a red
rod is used. Experiments proving that the
phenomenon is not of a random nature have
been carried out, and details are given to show
that the discovery cannot be explained under
any known natural laws. Transmissions from
the vertical aerial at GBLY were detected at
a distance of one mile, and when transmissions
were made from the half-wave horizontal beam
the width of the beam was given accurately
up to 150 ft. from the aerial. The various
“lobes” of radiation were “detected” with
surprising accuracy and verified from the
theoretical diagram. Eet it be said that the
diviner in question knows nothing about
wireless transmission, and merely observes the
rotation of the divining rod.
* * * *
“VK6WZ”: Terminal-strip construc-
tion in radio sets and audio amplifiers is
popular because of its neat appearance,
but the temptation to observe the “short
leads” rule by mounting a bias resistor
and associated electrolytic by-pass on
adjacent lugs may lead to trouble if the
resistor heats under normal conditions.
Pigtail semi-dry electrolytics are best
kept away from heat. One set of lugs
left vacant between the resistor and its
condenser should do the job.
Amateur Chatter.
Don B. Knock lectured at the W.I.A.
general meeting in Sydney on 18/5/’39
on “Present-day Applications of Ultra-
high-frequency Apparatus.” Two re-
ceivers were produced for inspection—
the seven - valve three - band u.-h.-f.
superhet now in use at VK2NO, and
the combination T.R.F. super-regenerator
which preceded it. The lecture covered
the graduation from the super-regenera-
tive to the tuned R.F. and superhet type
receivers, stressing the fact that even a
T.R.F. receiver with ordinary valves is
preferable these days to the obsolete
super-regenerator because of the stable
transmissions now on the air from most
experimental stations on 56mc. It was
explained that a highly satisfactory
method is to use a superhet converter
ahead of an amateur band or other
receiver having sufficient R.F. gain to
form an efficient superhet combination.
Transmitter design was then dealt with,
emphasising the importance of stability
of signal even at the expense of apparent
R.F. output. Because of selective re-
ceivers now in general use, unstable
signals are unheeded by many stations,
and rightly so. Various forms of simple
transmitters were discussed, winding up
with a description of the four-stage
crystal-controlled transmitter responsible
for the 56mc. C.W. and telephony signals
from VK2NO. The lecture concluded
with reference to recent experiments with
vertically and horizontally polarised
aerial systems of the plain and beam
types, and an appeal for co-operation in
establishing the new u.-h.-f. section of
N.S.W. Division of W.I.A.
Things are moving with the newly-
formed u.-h.-f. section of W.I.A.
(N.S.W.). Plans include provision for
consistent transmission on 56mc. in the
Sydney district, whereby stations will take
turns to ensure at least one transmission
on the air nightly for at least an hour,
with extended activity at week-ends. The
nightly transmissions will probably be
telephony for the first 30 minutes, deal-
ing with u.-h.-f. news and advice on
technical problems, with C.W. telegraphy
transmission for the remaining 30
minutes. General news of the sec-
tion will go to W.I.A. members with
the usual monthly bulletin, and listeners
are to be included in the section equally
with licensed transmitters. Lectures and
monthly meetings are to be arranged
with visits to clubs and stations, and it
is hoped that lectures will in the near
future be helped by the use of a projector
for diagrams and illustrations.
A report of reception by VK2VU,
Singleton, of 56mc. signals from VK2NO
has been corrected. Owing to skip on
7mc., VK2VU broadcast a report of
reception of VK2LZ at RB, with a
request that the information be passed
on either to 2LZ or 2NO. The infor-
mation was relayed incorrectly by a VK4.
Telephony and C.W. signals from
VK2LZ, located at Wentworth Falls
(N.S.W.), are received consistently at Q 5
R 8 at VK2VU in Singleton, a distance
of approximately 100 miles. Nothing
definite has yet been heard of Sydney
stations.
The writer visited VK2LZ recently and
worked with Sydney stations from this
3000 ft. elevation. Receiver at VK2LZ
is a comprehensive superhet using Philips
valves with octode mixer-oscillator and
a power supply including voltage regu-
lation. The latter feature is imperative
because of heavy voltage variation in the
240-volt A.C. power supply. Oscillator
section of the receiver is used at 10
metres with two R.F. amplifiers and
mixer at five metres. The 2LZ trans-
mitter responsible for the excellent signal
over 100 miles or so uses no more than
40-watts power to two Philips pentodes
in the final stage, aerial being a vertical
half-wave zepp. No signals have yet
been heard at VK2LZ from Singleton,
although a crystal-controlled transmitter
has been on 56mc. at VK2VU. Erection
of a high vertically polarised beam array
is expected to overcome the difficulty.
Two new stations may appear on 56mc.
from Blue Mountains locations in the
near future. There are VK2ACP, of
Katoomba, and VK2QI, of Wentworth
Falls.
A visitor to VK2NO has been VK3CB,
Bill Sievers, of W.I.A. Victorian Division
’phone section. It is likely that some-
thing will be heard around Melbourne
of VK3CB on 56mc. in the near future.
VK4WT, of Queensland Division of
W.1.A., also passed through Sydney re-
cently.
VK2NO.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
General. —Many readers write asking for
copies of “Australian Radio News,” the radio
weekly published by The Bulletin in 1933-34.
Back copies in limited number are available
as advertised. Many, however, are under the
impression that the publication still continues,
and several yearly subscriptions have been re-
ceived. These have been returned to the
senders. “Australian Radio News” ceased
publication with the issue of June 15, 1934.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible to renew B batteries by
boring a hole and filling with sal ammoniac ?
(2) Is there any other way in which B batteries
can be restored? (3) How can valves that
have been injured by being run at double
the normal filament voltage be rejuvenated ?
—779.
(1) B batteries don't lend themselves to this
treatment because each B block is made up of
individual cells. Flooding the interior with
sal ammoniac solution would be useless owing
to short circuiting of cells. It is possible to
extend the life of the large circular 1.5-volt
Standard cell by boring holes through the zinc
and immersing the whole in a jar containing
sal ammoniac solution. In effect, the cell
then works as a Leclanche type. (2) No. (3)
If a valve is not too badly damaged, it is
sometimes possible to restore it by running
the filament for some time with a voltage
overload, but with no plate voltage applied.
The remedy, however, is only temporary, as
the valves don’t last long thereafter.
* * * *
I have been making up some aluminium
parts for disk-type variable condensers with
the aid of a miniature metal-cutting lathe. No
matter how fine the finishing cut I take on the
surface I have not succeeded in obtaining a
clean finish and have to resort to polishing.
What lubricant is suitable when cutting alu-
minium ? —7BO.
One of the best cutting lubricants for alu-
minium, and also copper, is a solution of soft
soap and water. This is useful also when drill-
ing and tapping aluminium and copper, as these
metals tend to grip the drill or tap if the work
is attempted dry.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction.
No. 302 of 1939.
EBBA DORA BILLINGE Petitioner
And FRANCIS REGINALD BILLINGE
Respondent.
TO FRANCIS REGINALD BILLINGE
formerly of 64 Bondi Road and 59 Old
South Head Road Waverley in the State
of New South Wales Salesman.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife EBBA
DORA BILLINGE of 45 Mathoura Road
Toorak in the State of Victoria Married
Woman has instituted proceedings against you
for Divorce on the grounds of desertion
Unless you enter an appearance in the Protho-
notary’s Office of the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria Law Courts William Street Melbourne
in the State of Victoria within twenty-one days
from the 7th day of June 1939 the said suit
will proceed in your absence and a decree for
dissolution of marriage may be granted and
you may be ordered to pay costs.
DATED this 31st day of May, 1939.
JAMES M. N. McINTYRE, Solicitor, of
485 Bourke Street,' Melbourne, in the State
of Victoria, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
a
m
4MM<.
BSwfflß
sSss
♦
I
-. SuP« Pl T«e .c-»
: o B «us “ Ben zol
*b*p° w t rSS^Ttos® ol6
V§£rf*^
CP
pgß
sn
SU
Si** 1,
THERE’S A GRADE TO SUIT YOUR CAR
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government and AnsloTranian Oil Co. Ltd.) Incorporated in Victoria
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 1465 of 1938.
BETWEEN LAURA ADA BLENCOE Peti-
tioner
And ERNEST EDWARD BLENCOE
Respondent.
TO ERNEST EDWARD BLENCOE late of
Castlereagh Street" Redfern.
TAKE NOTICE that LAURA ADA
BLENCOE has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Court on or before
the Ninth day. of October 1939 and in the
event of your not so doing within the time
limited or obtaining further time the peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned solicitors free
of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of May, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
M. B. BYLES & CO., Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 895 of 1939.
BETWEEN HEATHER ALICE AGNES
DIXON Petitioner
And OWEN LIONEL BERNARD
SIWARTT DIXON Respondent.
TO OWEN LIONEL BERNARD SIWARTT
DIXON late of Lismore in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HEATHER
ALICE AGNES DIXON has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Eighteenth day of August One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on appli-'
cation to the undersigned solicitor free of
charge.
DATED this 23rd day of May, a.d. 1939.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) N. J. PHILLIPS,
Clerk in Divorce.
LEWIS C. ABIGAIL, Solicitor, 34 Aus-
tralia Street, Newtown.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 916 of 1939.
BETWEEN VERONICA MAY BAILEY
Petitioner
And GEORGE WILLIAM BAILEY
Respondent.
TO GEORGE WILLIAM BAILEY late of
Sydney and Bowen Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Veronica May
Bailey has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying, for the dissolution
of her marriage on the grounds, of your deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twenty-third day of
August One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
nine and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition in this
suit may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-third day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
JOHN H. PEOPLES, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, .77-79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 837 of 1938.
BETWEEN GLADYS ANN McCULLAGH
•' (falsely called Gladys Ann Buchanan)
Petitioner
And FINLAY BLAIR BUCHANAN
Respondent.
TO FINLAY BLAIR BUCHANAN late of
Darlinghurst Sydney in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Gladys Ann
McCullagh (falsely called Buchanan) has com-
menced a suit .against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a decree that a
marriage celebrated between you and the
petitioner on the Third day of July One
thousand nine hundred .and thirty-four was
and is null and void AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Seventeenth
day of August One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-nine and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the
undersigned solicitor free of charge.
DATED this 22nd day of May One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
COLIN W. WOODWARD, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you pries
ior the original.
CROW’S NEST
FROM the Lane Cove-road at North
Sydney, now Pacific Highway,
down to the big stone storehouse
by the wharf at the head of Berry’s
Bay, and up to where the pleasant suburb
of Wollstonecraft is to-day, only eight
minutes by train from the middle of
Sydney, stretched the 600-acre estate
owned by Alexander Berry and Edward
n . ' A/r . ,
Wollstonecraft m Governor-Macquar.es
time. It had been named Crows Nest
by Wollstonecraft “on account,” as his
partner explains in his Reminiscences,
“of its elevated and commanding situa-
tion,” from which on a fine day Botany
Bay and the lllawarra ranges were
clearlv visible.
The last of the old grant has lately been
subdivided and sold, and where, the town
house of the pioneers of the Shoalhaven
stood amidst broad acres there are now
endless streets of suburban dwellings,
here and there interspersed with* busy
shopping centres,
To get in touch with the two Scots
medical men and pioneer traders and
agriculturists it is necessary te-day to
walk across to old St. Thomas’s Church-
yard, where, beneath a stone, pyramid
surrounded by cypresses, all that is left
of these two remarkable men moulders
in the vault Berry built to hold his wife,
himself and his brother-in-law.
Alexander Berry was one of the most
notable and useful of all the free settlers
who came to Port Jackson in the early
days. He was born in Scotland in 1781,
and, having qualified as a medico atEdin-
burgh, joined the East India Company’s
maritime service as a surgeon. But he
was always more of a trader than a
doctor.
His first arrival in N.S.W. was as the
owner of a shipload of supplies from the
Cape of Good Hope, where he had
earne d of semi-famine in the Australian
settlement as a result of the disastrous
floods of J 806 m the Hawkesbury Valley,
then the principal granary. For some
time he traded in th „ So J uth s and
re , urn ing to Europe in 1812 made the
acquaintance of Edward Wollstonecraft,
another medical man, afterwards to be-
come his partner, brother-in-law and life-
long friend.
it was in 1819 that Berry and Woll-
stonecraft decided to settle in this coun-
try. Wollstonecraft came first, and
secured from Governor Macquarie the
North Shore grant of 550 acres which
he named Crow’s Nest. Berry chartered
a s hj p and sold his cargo in Sydney at
a great profit. He returned-to England
and brought out another, as well as the
new Governor, Sir Thomas Brisbane, and
his staff. Soon afterwards the partners
obtained a grant of 10,000 acres in the
Shpalhaven district, where Berry settled
at Coolangatta.
For , he rest j his |i(e of near) 50
',,, . , ,
ye f rs ’ Berry devoted.himself to the de-
velopment of the rich lllawarra estate,
W^,Cl was ged by purchase to about
square miles. He took over the man-
agement of the- Sydney mercantile busi-
ness when Wollstonecraft died in 1832.
Appointed, to the old nominee Legislative
Council in 1829, he remained a member
until 1843, when he was nominated to
the new Council. Under responsible
government he was a member of the
Upper House from 1856 until 1861.
The last dozen years of his life were
devoted entirely to the Shoalhaven prop-
erties. He died at Crow’s Nest on Sep-
tember 17, 1873.
Alexander Berry is in good company
in that old churchyard —a mile distant
from its church —for in it are buried also
Macquarie’s Judge-Advocate Ellis Bent
and Major John Ovens, whom Brisbane
appointed Chief Engineer of the colony
in 1821. Between their graves and his lies
Commodore James Graham Good-
enough, close to where Conrad Martens
rests, whilst nearer still is the grave of
a great scholar, Professor Charles Bad-
ham. The two doctors can have no com-
plaints as to the company they keep in
that old place of tombstones.


THE NEARER THE MILL
THE BETTER THE PRICE!
V/ ★ The London Market offers
you definite advantages!
London is within 48 hours of the biggest mills in Europe.
You can consign your wool through your usual bank or agent, who
will arrange advances before shipment, and for proceeds to be
telegraphed from London within 24 hours of sale. Prices are usually
higher on the London market, and there is always spot demand '
THE ASSOCIATED LONDON
SELLING WOOL BROKERS
Balme & Thomas
Buxton, Ronald, Du Croz & Co.
Hughes, Willans, Irwell & Co.
Jacomb Hoare & Co.
Schwartze Buchanan & Co.
Windeler & Co.
\‘ Hu 7
p i
\ i •
1308.
There’s a great satisfaction in really knowing that you are getting value for
your money.
We are certain that we can satisfy you with this working Cossack.
Heavy double soles, full and half sizes, in Black or Brown. Price .... 27/6
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.’’
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
53 Castlerfeagh Street,
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY.’’
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Two Wool-rolling Styles.
“Dead Finish”: In N.S.W. and Vic-
torian sheds the wool-rolling table is
usually about 7ft. by 4ft., with a man
working on each side, or three men to
two tables —one working at the centre
of each. Pickers-up throw their fleeces
out from one end, and if the table is not
cleared dump the next one on the end
or on the floor.
The Queensland method of using a table
about the same length but a foot to 18in.
wider has much to recommend it. For
ten stands or more two tables are placed
end on end, and fleeces thrown across
the table —not lengthwise. Thus five
fleeces can be thrown out at the same
time.
A fleece that has to be placed on the
woolroom floor waiting for a table is
never picked up in the same manner for
throwing out as when brought off the
board. Also, it is never as clean, because
of the locks and fribby bits it picks up.
With the Queensland method, if a
fleece is picked up property, the neck is
immediately under the hands of the man
on the classer’s side, while the dirty
breeches are on the opposite side and
handy for skirting The few sweaty
pieces from under the arm and in the
flank can be easily reached and removed.
It all makes for a cleaner “get-up” of
the clip, and saves the classer pulling
fleeces about.
Footrot Treatment.
“J.R.D.”: As a result of the rains,
there is a lot of footrot in N.S.W. and
parts of Victoria.
Two distinct forms have appeared. The
bulk of cases are not true “black” rot.
Nevertheless, the same treatment is
required for all varieties.
Any sheep showing larqeness should be
kept apart in a hospital paddock, handy
to the homestead. Open the affected hoof
with secateurs or sharp knife, and remove
every vestige of decayed horn and tissue
to expose the seat of the infection. Clean
out all pockets of pus, and treat the foot
with bluestone or formalin solution.
Badly-affected sheep should be treated
twice a week, and all the “clean” sheep
in the paddock from which patients are
taken should be walked through blue-
stone or formalin solution.
In high-rainfall districts a foot bath is
needed. The length of the trough must
depend on the number of sheep to be
treated. To do a large-scale job it has
been necessary to construct a large pen
with a concrete floor, the sides raised
sufficiently to contain 4in.‘ of solution.
On small properties a hardwood trough
can be placed in an ordinary branding-
race. It should not be less than 10ft.
long, but the longer the trough the less
time taken in treatment.
Individual sheep may be treated after
paring by holding the'.foot in a fruit-tin
containing a strong bluestone solution,
say 31b. bluestone to one gallon of water.
Solution for trough use should be lib.
of bluestone per gallon of water ; but if
sheep cannot be allowed to stand in the
trough for at least five minutes, increase
strength to 21b. per gallon.
Use powdered bluestone —it is easier
to dissolve, The chief drawback to blue-
stone is that if the mixture is splashed
on the wool the stain left will not scour
out. Unless the greatest care is exercised
in putting sheep through, it is almost
impossible to avoid splashing or staining
the fleece.
A 10 p.c. solution of formalin is
equally effective and will not harm the
wool. Mix 8 fl. oz. formalin per gallon
of water, or for a foot bath one gallon
of formalin to 19 gallons of water.
For merinos, which carry wool low on
the leg, the trough will have to be filled
“Mum, I forgot to lock up the house.”
much more often than for crossbreds.
Forty merinos use up about a gallon of
mixture.
Where footrot has already broken out
on a property, it is advisable to put all
sheep through the trough until the danger
is over. The severity of the present out-
break is emphasised by reports of footrot
from properties which have not been
troubled with the disease for 50 years. --
Drenching Cattle.
“Kyamba”: Pneumonia following
drenching of cattle can be caused by
holding the head too high or turned too
much to one side, thus allowing fluid to
reach the lungs when coughing. Oily
drenches and those containing turpentine
or Epsom salt are most likely to cause
trouble. .
Never try to drench a half-conscious
cow, especially during milk apoplexy. In
cases of hoven, the accumulation of gases
causes accelerated respiration, obstructs
the free flow of fluids into the paunch
and diverts them into the windpipe. Even
in paralysis of the hindquarters I’ve found
fluid return from the paunch to gain
entrance to the trachea, especially if
pieces of chaff are in it.
Symptoms are severe coughing, diffi-
cult breathing and froth around lips. If
large quantities enter the lungs suffocation
will result. Often after severe coughing
the animal appears to be normal for a
few days, only to show symptoms of lung
trouble later, followed by loss of appetite
and a nasal discharge.
Treatment is usually unsatisfactory.
But try 2oz. powdered nitrate of potash
3dr. tincture of aconite 3oz powdered
liquonce root, and treacle. Smear
three or four times a day on the tongue
and inside the bps.
Victorian Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: The census of the acreage
of wheat varieties in Victoria for the
season 1938-39 reveals the reason for the
southern State’s weaker-flour-strength
and lower-baking-quality wheat compared
with the steady improvement in the
quality of N.S.W. f.a'.q.
Of the nine leading varieties, which
comprised 95 p.c. of the total of
3,007,000 acres sown, eight were of weak-
' flour class. The only medium-strong
type was the N. S. Wales variety
Dundee, which in four years has
advanced from 6480 acres to 319,290
acres, to third place in.popularity. First
and, second were Ghurka.( 1,436,646 acres)
and. Ranee (612,733 acres), two varieties
that are officially recommended in N. S.
Wales for the border districts of Western
Riverina, where, however, new crosses of
better flour quality are being listed to
take their place.
Free Gallipoli (252,798 acres), which
has been discarded in N.S.W. on account
of its very low flour strength, dropped to
fourth place. Four years ago Free Gal-
lipoli headed the list. It has some merit
as a biscuit-flour wheat.
Next in order are Bencubbin (97,194
acres), Sepoy (59,425 acres), Bobin
(35,300 acres), Rajah (34,225 acres) and
Nabawa (20,355 acres).
Ford, the. most popular and most pro-
ductive variety in N.S.W., has not found
favor in the south. Only 3150 acres were
sown. Even Federation, which has ijs
last stronghold in Victoria, was repre-
sented by 10,000 acres.
Strong Flour Wheats.
“Gluten”: Farmers in north-western
N. S. Wales may be shortly advised to
curtail their areas of Pusa 4 wheat.
This Indian variety is in the strong-flour
class, and is first favorite with millers for
blending purposes.
On account of its relatively light yield
it is suitable only for late sowing in a
few localities in the northern districts.
A move by millers to extend the official
recommendation of Pusa 4 to the north-
western plain zone failed because of the
superior yield capacity of Gular (also
of premium class) in that section.
Even at a premium of 6d. a bushel
Pusa 4 is probably an uneconomic pro-
position compared with more prolific
rivals. Millers are waking to the fact
also that, with the general uplift of quality
each year in N.S.W. wheat, they do not
require such high quality for blending.
Erosion.
“J. Want”: The subject of soil erosion
has given rise to a large, popular litera-
ture. Agricultural Departments and banks
issue special pamphlets telling how to
combat it. Soil contouring has become


THIS NAME
A
illar
Cater
9M
is you*
Guaro n,ee
When you see the name “Caterpillar” on a track-type tractor,
diesel engine or road machine, you can be sure that it is the
original of its type, and manufactured by the Caterpillar Tractor
Co., the oldest and largest builders of track-type tractors.
The name “Caterpillar” is registered all over the world to
identify the machines built by the company. It is the purchaser’s
warranty of a high quality product and the highest standards of
design, construction, materials and service.
34 years of track-type tractor building experience lie behind the
ut
t
%
\
name “Caterpillar.” And during those
34 years more tractors have been built
and sold by Caterpillar Tractor Co. and
its predecessor, Holt Manufacturing
Company, than all other makes of track-
type tractors combined .
Remember if its a“Caterpillar ”Product
it will display the name
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISTRIBUTORS
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty.,
Ltd.,
102-124 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane, S.l.
P.O. Box 21, South
Brisbane.
Victoria & Tasmania:
William Adams &
Company Limited,
521-523 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box No. 4304,
Melbourne, C.l.
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty.,
Ltd.,
Unwin's Bridge Road,
St. Peters. Sydney.
Showroom:
311 Castlereagh Street.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor
Company,
231-239 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 524 E.
Western Australia:
Wigmores Limited,
613 Wellington Street,
Perth.
Box 883, G.P.O.
ffuTfyttllef&rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in. a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
an art. One of the most recent books
dealing with the subject, The Rape of the
Earth, by G. V. White and R. O. Jacks
(Faber and Faber), says the erosion prob-
lem has “become a dominant factor in
national life.”
It quotes General Smuts as saying in
S. Africa:
Erosion is the biggest problem con-
fronting the country, bigger than any
politics.
The ultimate consequence of unchecked
soil erosion when it sweeps whole coun-
tries must be national extinction.
Erosion has, indeed, been one of the
most potent factors causing the downfall
of former civilisations and empires whose
ruined cities now lie amid barren wastes
that once were the world’s most fertile
lands. The deserts of North China, Persia,
Mesopotamia and North Africa tell the
same story.
They do. In the Chinese north-west
the fertile surface soil has completely
disappeared over thousands of square
miles, leaving a strange scarred terrain
torn into caverns and fissures hundreds
of feet deep and carved into fantastic
shapes of ruin. The surface soil has been
washed away to give their names to the
Yellow River and the Yellow Sea.
Mespot. can offer an even more telling
example. Babylon was the only city of
ancient times which could have compared
in size with any twentieth-century city.
It and Nineveh, to the north, could not
have survived without a rich tract of
adjacent agricultural land. A teeming
population filled the alluvial flats of the
Tigris and fhe Euphrates, from which
the water was carried for miles by giant
irrigation works. Gradually farming
spread to the hill countxy above. The
timber was cut down. The surface loos-
ened. The floods swept all fertile soil
out to sea or down to the lower plains,
where farming lands were destroyed and
covered with a baked and arid silt. To-
day the country which supported perhaps
10,000,000 people is an arid desert.
In North Africa, Persia, Egypt further
illustrations can be seen.
From Spain to Palestine there are no
forests left on the Mediterranean littoral,
the region is pronouncedly arid instead
of having the mild, humid character of
forest-clad land, and most of its formerly
bounteously rich topsoil is lying at the
bottom of the sea. That the Mediter-
ranean countries have not suffered com-
plete annihilation like the earlier empires
bordering on the deserts is due to the
comparative rapidity with which new soil
forms from the rock beneath. But soil
formation has not kept pace with erosion.
There has been another factor which
the book doesn’t mention—peasant farm-
ing. If the Mediterranean littoral had
been ploughed in large fields with broad
enclosures the northern side of the Medi-
terranean might show the same deserts.
It will be interesting to see what Southern
Asia Minor, now rich, will be like after a
few years of its present tractor farming.
Erosion happens quickly. Water drip-
ping off a barn roof 40 years ago started
a Georgian (U.S.A.) erosion spot which
finally engulfed 3000 acres in an area
which had been previously denuded of
timber. In the same neighborhood 40,000
acres have gone down stream in little
more than a generation.
In this useful book the whole subject
of erosion is reviewed. It is a devastating
picture. But it is also a useful one in
which constructive suggestions and a
description of normal anti-erosion tech-
nique are given.
Hints for the Farm.
“Poseidon”: When building the stock-
yard chock the rails on the inside of
the posts instead of mortising them into
the centre. It leaves no posts protruding
for a hack to knock his hip down on,
and it makes it easier to replace a broken
rail.
“Bluetongue”: Concretg 15in. piping
makes the best chute for an excavated
tank with a small catchment area.
Moulded in Bft. lengths and carefully
faced with planking it lasts a lifetime.
In common with most really good jobs,
it can’t be done cheaply. A good chute
may be made from corrugated iron,
bolted together and placed in position
in the same manner as the concrete one.
Painted or tarred, inside and out, it
should see about 10 years with any sort
of luck.
“Hortus”: To stack fodder on the
ground is to draw moisture and start
mustiness. Put in a floor of old timber,
raised a little off the ground. This allows
air-circulation. A low fence of galvan-
ised iron 4ft. outside the stack keeps out
mice. Or line the uprights of the floor
with the iron. Protect the stack-top with
corrugated iron, and let the sheets pro-
trude beyond the eaves.
“Bungaree”: Correct that injection of
carbon tet. into the bloodstream has the
same effect as administering the drench
by the mouth (B. 10/5/’39), but it is
hard to understand how “Kyamba”
found the former method easier. With
injection the dose must be put into the
jugular vein, and it takes practice and
knowledge to locate the vein and to
inject the dose correctly. Besides, each
sheep has to be caught, turned over and
held in position, the operation calling for
a number of catchers. An additional
expense is the hypodermic, and there is
always a danger of abscesses forming at
the seat of inoculation. Mouth-drench-
ing with a gun can be carried out
speedily. The sheep are run into a race
and the operator starts at one end and
goes straight through them without help.
“Mookau”: For the first quarter of
1939 exports of Australian meat to the
U.K. were 1,226,557 cwt., as compared
with 1,080,338 cwt. for the same period
last year. That increase can be main-
tained if the seasons remain good and
the quality right. Australia should be able
to send an appreciable quantity of beef
measuring up to the new Smithfield
“super grade.” It calls for a compact
and very heavily-fleshed bullock or heifer
carcass ; round, loin and chine well de-
veloped ; chuck, shoulder and plate thick
and heavily fleshed; short heck and
shins and fine bone. Outwardly the
carcass must be smooth and creamily
covered with fat, no waste at any point;
interior walls well covered, kidney, aitch
and other grouped fats firm and plenti-
ful but not excessive. Pearly white
cartilage terminations are called for in
the spinal system, and flesh must be
cherry or rosy red and firm in texture.
In other words, the primest of prime
baby beef which can be turned off as
a sideline on Australian coastal farms
not too far from abattoirs. It should
bring a fairly big price.
“Consul”: I’ll back one or two stations
along the n.-w. N.T. border to stand
against almost any in the Commonwealth
for local quality of export cattle when
the season is good. The reason is that
they invariably go in for well-bred bulls.
Alexandria in particular, but there are
several others, including Rocklands, which
for many years has stuck to Anthony
Hordern’s Milton Park Scotch blood. This
year the station will send away 5350
fats which are being “put on the road.”
Unfortunately, “on the road treatment”
is not the best for export steers, but, as
things are, it is inevitable. Rocklands
bought five bulls at last Sydney Show,
including some of the pick of the
Coonong and Sloan offerings.
“Alfalfa”: W. J. McSweeney, of the
Belubula flats, Canowindra (N.S.W.), has
gathered in his fourth R.A.S. champion-
ship for fodder conservation. After
hand-feeding 1500 sheep and 130 head
of large stock from August to March
and selling 2000 tons of lucerne hay
for £15,000, he still had nearly 2000 tons
of hay silage and grain on hand, suffi-
cient for the needs of 3700 sheep. Inten-
sively worked, the property of 760 acres
has 300 acres of established lucerne, and
200 acres each of wheat and oats have
been sown this year. March-sown oats
have recently been cut and stacked for
silage, which is something of a record.
“Bundalinga”: C. Bayliss, a wheat-
grower of Yeoval (N.S.W.), has been
breeding pigs for 20 years, and claims
that by selling his wheat as pork he clears
3s. 6d. a bushel. He markets 400 suckers
and baconers a year. Bayliss has sub-
divided several paddocks into small areas
for grazing, and grows lucerne and sub.
clover for that purpose. He weans pigs
at eight to ten weeks old, about three
weeks later than on the coast where
skirti-milk is available. Young pigs are
given crushed wheat on the ground just
before weaning. Six weeks before they
are sent to market the pigs are put into
smaller runs, and their wheat ration is
increased. According to the quantity of
green feed available and the state of the
market, they are sold either as suckers
or baconers.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Method of extracting nicotine for spray
use from locally-grown tobacco leaf? —3374.
Nicotine varies in tobacco. No guarantee
can be given as to its effectiveness as an
insect spray unless strength is known. The
following proportions have been suggested:
lib. of waste tobacco to 2\ gallons of water,
or lib. of waste tobacco to one gallon ot
water. The extract may be made by allowing
the tobacco to stay in the water from 24 to
48 hours, occasionally stirring it. The fluid can
then be drawn from the tobacco and the
tobacco pressed to obtain more extract.


Take this
NOW!
Ask yourself these questions.
Decide which question in each group is most applicable to you, and score the number of
points indicated.
T,\
1
(a) Are you subject to
severe backache?
(5 points )
(b) Does your back ache
now and again?
(10 points )
(c) Are you completely
free from backache?
(25 points )
2
(a) Are your joints
swollen or painful?
(5 points )
(b) Does damp weather
cause stiffness in
your joints?
(10 points )
(c) Are you free from
joint pains?
(25 points )
e
r
3
(a) Is Rheumatism caus-
ing you severe pain?
(5 points)
(b) Do you experience
mild attacks of
Rheumatism? t
(10 points)
(c) Are you entirely free
from Rheumatism?
(25 points)
4
(a) Have you experi-
enced definite signs
of Kidney trouble?
(5 points )
(b) Do you suspect that
your Kidneys are
weak? (io points )
(c) Are your Kidneys
strong and healthy?
(25 points )
Era
m
m
YOUR HEALTH
TEST SCORE:
Question 1
Question 2
Question 3
Question 4
TOTAL
If your score is 70 or
under you have failed in
this health test—your
Kidneys are apparently
out of order and need
immediate attention. We
strongly recommend that
you take a course of Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
is the leading Kidney
Tonic sold in Australia.
If you wish to try Gin Pills before purchasing
them from your Chemist, fill in the coupon below
and we will be glad to forward you a trial package
free of charge. Gin Pills are a natural Kidney
Tonic which do not contain any harsh or injurious
substances and are specially made to correct any
weakness or inflammation of the Kidneys. Don t
experiment with substitutes —get the genuine
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which have proved
successful for all Kidney Troubles for over 30
years. There is no better Kidney Remedy obtain-
able than Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
OR
MIDO
-o
ns
ss.
Jheldom “ ™ : - 2/7
GIN PILLS
FOR BACKACHE. RHEUMATISM. LUMBAGO, JOINT
PAINS, and all KIDNEY and BLADDER TROUBLES.
B 1/5.
The Sheldon Drug Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 201 D, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
I have failed in the health test, my score
being Please send me,
absolutely free of charge, a trial package of
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
NAME
Mr.
Mrs.
Miss
e
STREET
TOWN
STATE


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you —now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at (Id. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esq. •
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receivin'*-
Jffices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa -
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
tnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business!
SLIDE RULE COURSE
FOR BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL MEN
Modern executives
in every sphere
conserve mental
energy and en-
sure quicker,
more accurate calculations by the use of the slide
rule. For all types of accountancy, engineering and
other problems . . . multiplication, division, propor-
tions, square and cube roots. Our simple course
enables you to master the use of the slide rule quickly
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE with course.
Write for details to liingsford Smith Colleges, Dept,
14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
... The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
tt „ 7 The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
\oung man (24), N.S.W., certified shearing-
niachme expert and farm mechanic, with good
knowledge I.C. engines and blacksmithing (can
weld), wants work anywhere. Refs—3s2o.
Country lady, domesticated, seeks position as
companion in home (Queensland) or travelling;
motorist; can manage.—34B9.
Share-farmer for N.S.W. market garden.
Advertiser will supply land, seed, irrigation
plant, tools, horses, etc.; gardener to do all
work, produce and sell crops on half share.
Shack to live in, and 12 acres to be worked.
£lO worth of seed now planted and ready to
be transplanted, chiefly onions—3sos.
To buy badges or other souvenirs of the
Great War. Good prices for good articles.—
To exchange modern novels for Australian
b00k5.—3539.
English words to Strauss’s “Blue Danube”
waltz.—3s7l.
Information Sought.
How far would the sea have to fall for Aus-
tralia and Tasmania and Australia and Papua
to be reunited? —3s6B.
A fall in sea-level to the extent of about
200 ft. would reunite Tasmania and Australia,
and a fall of only about 100 ft. would reunite
Australia and Papua. The latter could also
result from a negative 100 ft. movement of
the ocean, such as probably occurred towards
the culmination of the latest ice-age; then the
sea-level in temperate find subtropical latitudes
was probably 100 ft. lower than at present,
owing to the locking-up of water to form the
great ice-sheets.
* * * *
Where was gold discovered in Queensland
prior to the opening of the Ridgelands field?
—3570.
In 1853 Samuel Stutchbury, the Government
Geologist of N. S. Wales, found gold near
Port Curtis at the Calliope—the first authenti-
cated discovery of gold in Queensland. Little
appears to have been done, however, until in
August, 1856, a shepherd on Canning Downs
brought in from Lord John’s Swamp Bdwt. of
gold. Gold was also found in that year at
Emu Creek on the way to Gympie. But it was
not until 1858 that payable gold was struck
at Canoona (near Rockhampton) by an enter-
prising Cornish miner named Chappie. The
Ridgelands field was opened in February, 1867.
* * * *
A few details concerning a poetess named
Emily Heron, who died in Sydney about 50
years ago ?—3576.
Emily Matilda Heron, second daughter of
knight W. M. Manning, was born in N. S.
Wales in 1845, and at an early age began to
write verse, also contributing miscellaneous
articles to newspapers over the pen-name
“Australie.” In 1873 she married Henry Heron,
a solicitor, and in 1877 published in London
her one volume of verse, The Balance of Pain.
She died at Sydney on August 25, 1890.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible for a kangaroo to have
twins? (2) Any record of any? —343s.
Although the occurrence of twins in kanga-
roos is unusual, as indicated by the lack of
records in natural history books, it is a scien-
tific fact that there is anatomical provision for
such an event, as indicated outwardly .by the
possession of four teats. The rarity of twins
would be influenced by the uncertainty of the
unaided journey to the pouch, as well as by the
possibility that only one of the teats might be
in a suitably receptive state. It is understood
that the birth of twin kangaroos has been
noted at Taronga and Koala Parks.
* * * *
(1) If a person in perfect physical condition
fell from an aeroplane at a height of 8000 ft.
wiould he be dead before he reached the
ground? (2) Will the person falling gain speed
all the way till he crashes, or is there a maxi-
mum rate of falling speed? —3366.
(1) No. (2) Experienced parachutists say
there is a limit to the velocity that can be
attained by a human body falling from a great
height, air resistance balancing gravitational
acceleration at about 200 m.p.h.
* * * *
(1) Is it true that the parents of Cleopatra
were close blood relations? (2) Is it accepted
by eugenists that where the parent stock is
healthy offspring from parents of close blood
relation do not deteriorate, but where defects
exist they become intensified in the progeny?—
3011. '
(1) Yes. The custom of intermarriage be-
tween close blood relations was the estab-
lished rule in the Ptolemy family. Thus, Cleo-
patra’s great-great-grandparents were full
brother and sister. Their child, Cleopatra
the Third, married Ptolemy the Ninth, her own
uncle—that is, the brother of both her parents.
The Cleopatra of Egyptian history was one of
five children of Ptolemy XIII. and Cleopatra V.
(Tryphama), who was most probably his own
sister. (2) In human beings, as with lower
animals, if any particular trait is common to
both parents, whether it is good or bad, it
will be reproduced in an intensified degree in
the offspring. Many studs consist of animals
of one family stock.
(1) Did Darwin say man sprang from
monkeys ? (2) If not, what did he say about
w^ere can his words be found? —•
(1) No; what Darwin said, in effect, was that
the human race derives from a hairy quad-
rumanous animal belonging to the great anthro-
poid group, and related to the progenitors of
the orang-outang, gorilla and chimpanzee. (2)
In his books Descent of Man and Origin of
Species.
* * * *
Origin of the Sealyham terrier ? For what
purpose was it bred and what are its chief
characteristics ? —3574.
It is a terrier of a breed developed from
crossings whose exact nature is unknown at
Sealyham, the Welsh estate of Capt. John
Tucker-Edwardes, about 1860. It was so bred
that its short legs, strong jaws and long supple
body would give it an advantage in tackling the
badger underground, but it is also used in
bolting the fox and the otter. Gameness is one
of its dominant characteristics. . The head is
long, and the skull wide between low-set ears;
the chest is well let down between the straight,
heavy-boned forelegs; the feet are equipped
for digging; the undercoat is dense and the top
coat hard and wiry. The color of the body
is usually all white; the head has lemon, tan
or brindle markings. The height is between
Bin. and 12in., and the weight from 161 b. to
221 b.
* * * *
Fares charged to assisted migrants to Aus-
tralia and amount of assistance jointly con-
tributed by British and Commonwealth Govern-
ments?—3s42.
Married persons and widows or widowers
accompanied by at least one child under 19
years (children at rate according to age) pay
£ll each towards fare and British and Com-
monwealth Governments jointly contribute £22;
married persons and widows or widowers with-
out ,at least one child under 19 years pay
£l6 10s. each (assistance £l6 10s.); other adults,
19 years and over, pay £l6 10s. each (assist-
ance £l6 10s.); juveniles, 17 and under 19
years, pay £ll each (assistance £22); juveniles,
12 and 17 years, pay £5 10s. each (assistance
£27 10s.); children under 12 years are free
(assistance £l6 10s.). Amounts quoted are in
sterling.
* * * *
(1) What is the law in the New Guinea Man-
dated Territory regarding the export of birds of
paradise? (2) Can their plumage be brought
into Australia ? (3) What was the law regard-
ing the birds when the territory was owned
by Germany? —33sl.
(1) Since 1921, the export of birds of para-
dise from the Territory has been prohibited,
except to a museum, zoological or acclimatisa-
tion society or other scientific institution. * (2)
Importation of the plumage of the birds of
paradise into Australia, apart from educational
purposes, has been prohibited since 1913. (3)
The German Administration permitted the hunt-
ing of birds of paradise by licensed persons on
a payment of 160 marks p.a. No limit was
imposed upon the number of birds which the
licensee might shoot, but he was required to
submit a return, setting out the number shot
and the methods employed in hunting. The
proceeds of the sale of skins had to be de-
voted to the planting pf coconuts. An export
duty of 20 marks was imposed for the feathers
of every bird.
* * * *
How are butterflies and moths preserved
under glass? —33B9.
The moth or butterfly is set on a setting-
board with outspread wings covered with strips
of transparent tissue and kept in this position
lor 10 to 14 days for the muscles to harden.
To keep out insects and mould mix together lib.
B creosote, lib. chloroform, 61b. naphthaline,
4| pints benzene; this may be put on the
bottom of the box or drawer. For details
relating to the preservation of insects see an
article in the “Australian Museum Magazine,”
Vol. IV, No. 5.
* * * *
Was Claude Duval the highwayman a real
person ? If so, a few particulars concerning
him ? —3554.
Born at Domfront, Normandy, in 1643, he
entered domestic service in Paris and came to
England at the time of the Restoration in
attendance on the Duke of Richmond. Soon
afterwards he became a highwayman, notorious
for the daring of his robberies no less than for
his gallantry to ladies. .Large rewards were
offered for his capture, and he was at one
time compelled to seek refuge in France. In
the end he was captured in London, and
hanged at Tyburn on January 21, 1670. His
body was buried in the centre aisle of Covent
Garden church. A full account of his adven-
tures, ascribed to William Pope, was reprinted
in the Harleian Miscellany, and Samuel
Butler published a satirical ode To the Happy
Memory of the Most Renowned Du Val.
* * * *
A.I.F. casualties in the various campaigns
and major battles in which it fought, also
duration of such campaigns? —3ss7.
German New Guinea (12/9/T4 to 6/12/T4)
six killed, three wounded; Gallipoli (25/4/T5
to 20/12/’ 15) 8587 killed, 19,367 wounded;
Northern France (25/3/T6 to 19/7/T6) 1624
killed, 4409 wounded; first Battle of the Somme
(1/7/T6 to 14/11/T6) 7487 killed, 23,277
wounded; first capture Hindenburg line
(15/1 / ’l6 to 30/5/T7) 8295 killed, 23,280
wounded; Northern France —Third Division
(27/11 /’ 16 to 6/6/ ’ 17) 944 killed, 4153 wounded;
Battle of Messines (7/6/T7 to 30/6/T7) 2298
killed, 6701 wounded; third Battle of Ypres
(1/7/’l7 to 30/10/T7) 10,107 killed, 30,612
wounded; Messines front (1/11/’l7 to
26/3/T8) 1512 killed, 4670 wounded; Battle
of the Lys—First Division (12/1 / ’lB to
3/8/T8) 1672 killed, 5311 wounded; fighting at
Dernancourt, Villers Bretonneux and Hamel
(27/3/T8 to 7/8 / ’18) 6088 killed, 17,856
wounded; third Battle of the Somme and
second capture of the Hindenburg line (8/8/’lB
to 6/10/’18) 8782 killed, 23,938 wounded;
Sinai, Palestine and Syria (11/4/ ’l6 to
30/10/’18) 1626 killed, 3200 wounded; Mesopo-
tamia, Russia, etc. (28/5/T5 to 11/11 /’18),
10 killed, 40 wounded.
* * * *
(1) Was a show held on Sydney Show-
ground between September and December,
1927 ? (2) If so, what class of show was it?
—3484.
(1) A show known as the Royal Spring Fair
was held by the R.A.S. at the Showground
from September 27 to October 1, 1927.
(2) Sections comprised horses, including saddle
and harness horses, ring events, trots, but not
stud classes, women’s industries, horticulture,
dogs, cats, citrus fruits, rice, junior farmers,
woodchopping and an inter-State band contest.
. *' * * *
(1) What is the compass of the pedal clavier
in concert organs such as that of Sydney Town
Hall? (2) In unit organs of cinema type?
(3) In electric ( Hammond) organs? (4) In a
given installation does the range remain always
the same or is it possible by means of stops
and lor couplers to extend it? —34ls.
(1) Usually CCC to F, 30 notes, or 2j octaves.
(2) Some modern organ compositions are
arranged for two extra notes, viz., F sharp
and G, therefore some pedal boards, particu-
larly on new concert and cinema organs,
are being built with 32 notes. (3) Hammond
electronic organs usually only have a short
pedal board, about \\ octaves. (4) It is usual
in all pedal organs that the 16ft. pitch should
be the foundation stop, but this is extended
(according to the size of the organ) to the
Bft. and 4ft. pitches principally, and sometimes
to 32ft. pitch. The Sydney Town Hall organ
has several stops of 32ft. pitch and one of
64ft., as well as many in the 16ft., Bft. and
4ft. pitches. Couplers also help to extend the
range and usefulness of the pedal organ.
* * * *
Ultimate scope of the Australian Institute of
Anatomy ? —3560.
It may be regarded as the first unit of a
National University of Australia, and has
already become the most important centre in
the Southern Hemisphere for the study of
comparative anatomy and its application to
human health and disease. Research work in
many branches of this subject is being carried
out, and an extensive collection of material
for the use of future generations is being
catalogued. The microscopic specimens of
Australian fauna number many thousands, and
are unique. They represent normal mammalian
tissues unaffected by disease or domestication,
and with these human tissues such as those
affected with cancer can be compared. The
building is used to a large extent for educa-
tional purposes. From 1931 to 1935 all the
University College lectures were given there.
Public lectures of an educational nature are
delivered in the lecture theatre, and many con-
ferences dealing with Commonwealth health
problems are held in the institute building. The
general public is admitted to the two great
Museums of Osteology and Applied Anatomy,
and large numbers take advantage of this con-
cession.
* * * *
(1) In ■ certain two-cylinder motor-cycle en-
gines the cylinders are set 45 degrees apart.
Wdl this particular setting of the cylinders re-
sult in the engine delivering only one-third of
the power it would have delivered had the
cylinders been placed 180 degrees apart?
(2) How does the magneto provide a spark
at the correct moment in this type of engine,
seeing that the . spark occurs at every half-
revolution of the armature? —3426.
(1) The power will be the same in each
case, but when the cylinders are diametrically
opposed the firing impulses are more evenly
divided and the action of the engine smoother.
(2) In one method the cams on the cam ring are
at the required distances apart, but when this is
done neither spark can take place when the
armature is in the maximum position. In the
case of one cylinder the spark will occur
before the armature is in its maximum posi-
tion and in the other case, after. Modern
magnetos are so efficient that it is possible to
obtain a satisfactory spark under these con-
ditions. A second method obtains the de-
sired result by a special form of magneto
armature and pole pieces.
Cast of “Pygmalion,” by Bernard Shaw,
when it was staged in Sydney in 1923 by the
Sydney Repertory Theatre Society? —3246.
A lady bystander (Mary Boyd), a gentleman
bystander (Roy Wilson), Clara Eynesford-Hill
(Mrs Phillip Brown), a bystander (Winchester
Ford), Mrs. Eynesford-Hill (Eleanor Ross),
Freddy Eynesford-Hill (Kenneth Webb), Eliza
Doolittle (Mrs. Pitt-Rivers), Professor Henry
Higgins (Herbert Millard), Colonel Pickering
(S. R Irving), a sarcastic bystander (Erna
a u In ! ) M , rS ', ?f, arse < Mrs - Cam Marina),
Alfred Doolittle (Vincent Doyle), Mrs. Higgins
(Mrs. Arthur Burke) and maid (Nell Joske).
Information Supplied.
3373. —Thomas Paine is generally accepted
as the author of the phrase “The world is
LS try; j, 0 do . good is m y religion” (B.
17/5/39). That is the form in which the
quotation appears in some radical publications
but what Paine wrote in his Rights of Man
is: “Independence is my happiness, and I
view things as they are, without regard to
place or person; my country is the world, and
my religion is to do good.” William Lloyd
Garrison, American anti-slavery leader, is
credited with a similar expression: “My country
is the world, my countrymen are all man-
kind.”—W.R.
Brief Answers.
G.H.M.N.: (1) No. (2) Tertiary era. (3)
Information not sufficient A.W.: (1) Lead-
ing newspapers of Pffiand are “Kurjer Warszaw-
ski,” 40 Krakowskie Przedmiescie, Warszawa,
and “Kurjer Codzienny,” Wielopole 1, Krakow.
(2) Best course would be to write direct to
the newspapers and inquire regarding their rates.
.. . .R.H.M.: £76 with stake J.D.: The
Lindsay and Scorfield drawings are a com-
bination of wash, pen and ink and Conte
crayon; the Frith drawing was done with a
Conte crayon M.M.K.: It is a bona-fide
organisation. League is constituted as stated
on its circular and has been in existence for a
long time J.L.A.: Clean well with hot
soapy water containing a good handful of
washing soda and rinse well. When dry, scrape
all the bare patches as smooth as possible.
Then apply several coats of good bath enamel,
procurable from any paint store. Allow to dry
thoroughly before use. When using, always put
some cold water in first, as no home treatment
withstands boiling water G.D.W.: Cannot
drop on exactly what you require. Try the
Swords Club, 77 McLachlan-avenue, Rush-
cutter Bay; also Walther and Stevenson, Ltd.,
395 George-street, Sydney H.P.R.: (1) Yes.
(2) Registrar-General’s Department, Sydney.
(3) This information is supplied upon applica-
tion for registration. (4) Yes. (5) Department
of Agriculture, Loftus-street, Sydney. Consult
the department before taking any steps in-
volving expenditure of time and capital
H.R.D.: The correct term to use is “to pol-
linate the flower to effect fertilisation of the
ovary to produce fruit” W.E.E.: (l)No. In
Melbourne case owner had appointed a mana-
geress to act for him. (2) Fidelity bond of
£6OO per individual, or £lOOO if a company,
must be lodged, together with application under
Real Estate Act, with Clerk of Petty Sessions
nearest to individual’s place of business, with
references from six houseowners in his district.
(3) When he is the intermediary between two
principals in any individaul transaction
W.R.8.: Stock inspectors are not appointed at
the present time in N. S. Wales unless they hold
the degree of Bachelor of Veterinary Science
at Sydney Uni. To become qualified in this
regard, one must matriculate as per the re-
quirements of the Uni. Senate and satisfactorily
complete a five years’ course... .L.M.M.: (1)
No record has been kept, but hundreds are
received every week. (2) No, it is opposed to
journalistic practice and could not be done
without permission of the contributors. (3)
Suggest that you write directly to the more
regular ones. Letters sent to them care of us
will be readdressed M.D.: Candidates for
employment as police cadets in N.S.W. are re-
quired to be over 16 and under 18, and of
such physical proportions as would lead to the
belief that on attaining the age of 21 they
will conform to the physical standards for ad-
mission to the police force proper. In addi-
tion, they must be of good deportment and
address, and their education must be at least
of intermediate certificate examination standard.
J.E.: There are about 166 flour mills in
Australia. Names and addresses are obtainable
from trade directories F.W.R.: Section 195
(1) of the W.A. Income Tax Assessment Act
(State) provides that the minimum additional tax
to be imposed for the late lodgment of the re-
turn is an amount equal to the tax assessed or
£l, whichever is the greater. In practice the mini-
mum tax is imposed, but remission is made
of such amounts as are considered warranted
by the taxpayer’s explanation for the late ren-
dition or non-rendition of the return W.L.:
The phrase is from Horace, and, translated,
reads: “May I thrive by future praise,” mean-
ing “May I enjoy the esteem of posterity”....
H.E.8.: Black River was the name given to a
mining locality in the vicinity of Woods Point,
Vic T.R.M.: M. Clifford (St. George)
scored most points (119) in N.S.W. Rugby
Union club matches last year; T. Kirk (Can-
terbury-Bankstown) topped the Rugby Leaguers
with 90. Both are full-backs.... Hughie: Since
the Union district scheme was launched in 1900,
Randwick was successful in 1930, 1934 and
1938... .J.C.: The only reference to the matter
in the rules is: “A player cannot raise his
own bid if all other players pass.” As a
matter of card principles no alteration of bid
should be permitted after other players have
signified their intention L.R.: The trouble
should be relieved by a course of bromides
or other mild sedatives given under medical
supervision.... G.H.W.: (1) Nothing been
done there yet except some clearing and road-
making. Scheme not expected to be completed
till 1942. (2) Country Roads Board is doing
roadmaking and S.E.C. the clearing. (3)
Power transmitted from Commission’s system
at Wangaratta. (4) and (5) No. (6) Yes—l62,ooo
volts transmission line A.A.: Growing Up,
by Deschweinitz (65.) or Guide to Virile Man-
hood, by Kenny (published by the Father and
Son movement, Y.M.C.A., 6d.). Both from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .G.L.: Write
to Institute of Industrial Psychology, 12
O’Connell-street, Sydney J.T.F.: (1) Glyco-
suria is not necessarily due to diabetes and is
frequently encountered in elderly, gouty, obese
or alcoholic subjects. It can be distinguished
from true diabetes only by careful tests.
(2) A transient glycosuria may be controlled
by strict regulation of the intake of carbo-
hydrate foods. (3) Yes, to prevent recurrence.
(4) There is no recognised diet chart. (5)
Best avoided... .D.L. (Maroubra): No dietetic
measures are necessary except the cutting down
to nothing of starchy and sugary foods. Petro-
leum emulsion three or four times a day is
useful in teaspoonful doses. Injections of
quassia (1 in 40 of water) should follow this
at night. Keep nails clean and cut short. A
little white precipitate ointment applied locally
will prevent itching R.L.: The condition
may be that known as rosacea, the cause of
which is frequently some long-continued diges-
tive upset. Cannot prescribe any course of
injections. An overhaul by a physician and
a dermatologist should settle your difficulty
C.P.: This sounds very like a long-continued
dermatitis or inflammation, perhaps due to
some irritant substance handled during work,
but it is impossible to be sure without an actual
inspection. Consult a surgeon, who may
arange for a visit to a skin specialist.


L
L
/
/
/
/
v.
A
.
f
r&ufimrAL
«
X'
. W5l
STO
DON'T DELAY
Change To-day
For Easier Starting,
Smoother Running
and absolute protec-
tion from the moment
the starter turns the
engine, there is but
one oil to "bear in
mind” this winter
Mobiloil "Arctic/'
The maker of your
car not only affirms
the need to Change
to a Winter Grade,
but has given his ap-
, proval of Mobiloil.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Australia)
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
LB • Scarcely amusing ..T.E.P.: Not quite
what we want... .8.M.8.: The cat is finding
. d , , „ •., rp • Nnt nnr
,ts way back all right . .D.B.P . Not our
type... .H.H.: It has its moments, and the
island’s unpoetic name isn t your fault, bu
even Wordsworth woyld have boggled at per-
sonifying Dunk... .A F.G.: We don t set
lyrics to music... .H.F.H.: So you think
“epitome” rhymes with foam ?. .W.E.H..
The verse, too, jolts in by fits and starts ....
E.A.F.: You’re rnore of a drill-sergeant than
a poet... .N.K., M.M., 8.T.L.V.: Try else-
where....L.L.P.: A dictionary might help you
anent “anent”... .8.N.D.: Keep at it, but
Edmund Blunden got more drama out of a
pike chasing a minnow than you do out of a
shark killing... .W.M.S.: Nature note noted....
R.K.: Not a bad boat J.R.H.: Nothing very
new in “Modern” R.R.K.: Neat but lazy.
. ...8.R.: Truly, a desperate attempt... .R.G.:
Not many “assthetic qualities” in that couplet
about the London girl and “her country lover
from the land of the Kangaroo” M.McC.:
It sounds sincere, but it’s only a statement
8.5. A.: At least you see the world through
very rosy spectacles... .T.L.: “Down Under”
sunk at the second page 0.N.E.: And
“Ships That Pass in the Night” didn’t pass,
. ...C.P.W.: You’ve been poaching in a liter-
ary graveyard 5.M.8.: You’re lucky to
get off with a warning... .R.P.A.: Too much
of it... .C.M.G.: Not bad for a 12-year-old.
. ...Q.L.: It’s jaundiced... .8.H.G.: A flapper
mag. should lap it up... .T.M.S.: “Seat in
the Park” still going begging... .G.C.P.: “The
Might of the Pen” lets your argument down,
L.D.F. : Not very interested in ghosts of
your, family ancestors... .L.8.F.: “Ticket
Money” isn’t... .H.P.R.: If you lost it you
wouldn’t be much poorer... .M.G.P.: “Up
the Spout” went down the drain... .J.8.R.:
“Would it be considered elsewhere?” Yes,
probably as a calculated insult J.T.L.:
Can only promise to read them... .L.C.W.:
“I’ve been trying to write a yarn for some time.”
You’re still trying... .N.E.P.: Out! ... .L.C.8.:
An “Idyll” in “seven fyttes” leaves us dumb-
founded... .V.R.E).: Very wary of “reality
under a thin veil of romance”.... K.L.M.:
When did you see a miner working like that?
. ...C.G.L.: No need to “anticipate rejection”
any longer....C.G.L: At least you’re enthusi-
astic... .H.T.A.: “I consider this the best
story I’ve ever written.” Well, that’s some-
thing... .8.T.8.: There’s some good stuff
in the middle... .P.D.L.: “Personally, I don’t
think much of it.” Ditto... .8.R.W.: Dodged
“The Issue”... .J.M.G.: “Could we come to
some definite arrangement?” Certainly, we
promise to reject every contribution remotely
resembling that one... .P.8.A.: Take it away,
•■■•B.L.D.: You’re improving; keep it up.
V.K.P.: But what happened to Clarissa
whgn Egred walked out her? ... .7 .R. 8.:
Slightest of the slight.. . .D.N.M.: You might
b e “b urs ti n g into the literary field,” but you’ve
struck a m j ghty poor paddock... .K.S.,
ML .N., P.C.T., J.W. and P.S.C.: Not here,
... .R.w.: Not interested in “Why Columbus
Done i t ”....F.C.: If you must dream of
racehorses, don’t, please, give us the old one
a bout waking before the protest... .K.A.D.:
Misses... .A.M.: N 0... .D.W.: Not for u 5....
HS: Nor is that... .G.E.McK.: Not “Too
G ood ” D.C.H.: It’s merely a variation on
a very o]d theme... .M.K.: Try a flapper
magazine... .N.H.T.8.: It’s in the initials —
]sj 0 fi o p e ; too bellowdramatic.
K
. /amt-, tm a nTic-nr.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
•
J.S.: Throws no new light on the inter-
national situation F.P.U The lass would
have been all the rage in the ’nineties... .8.R.:
We left Dad to his sticky doom in the swamp.
K.S.: The class of material that helps to
fill the w.p.b 1.M.: What little talent you
have is marred by scratchy linework... .P.D.:
Next time you’re passing Koala Park drop in
and see what they do look like... .D.D.: The
approach of winter invariably brings that
ancient to our doorstep... .5.8. C.: Belongs to
a children’s comic... .8.L.: You managed the
bricks in the hod, but made an awful mess
of the hod-carrier T.E.: “The Federal
Octopus” will not find shelter in our pages.
....D.W.: That’s no way to draw a noble
animal... .L.P.: Your generous shanty-keeper
deserved better treatment... .V.M.: Cross-eyed
janitor and oversize lady with the broom met
the same fate H.T.: A rapid count revealed
over 100 mistakes D.S.: Gag about the North
Pole might have passed if you could have drawn
(1) polar bear, (2) Arctic explorer and (3) a
p01e... .A.C.C.: Looks more like a heap of
broken bottles than anything else.., .8.T.:
Can quite believe that the drawings are original,
but the wheezes have a musty smell... .L. 8.:
Not this week’s worst, but very close to it....
8.A.: Empire Day cartoon appealed to our
patriotic sentiments, but otherwise left us cold,
. ...E.A.: Might earn an illuminated certificate
from a kiddies’ paper... .R.H.: Promising....
E.W.: Verbal dispute at the Golden Gate fell
on deaf ears... .A.G.D.: Not amused at the
spectacle of the hairy-legged curate perform-
ing a Highland fling on an ants’ nest....
J.D.W.: Bit late in the day with indignant
cartoon about the high price of potatoes.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Germany is buying wine from Bulgaria
—5,060,000 gallons in one deal, Penfolds
say. Australian exports to the U.K. last
year were only 3,500,000 gallons. With
the Maoriland market threatened with
extinction for at least six months an in-
crease in overseas sales has become a
necessity, and very probably the Ger-
mans would prefer Australian wine to
Bulgarian. But an attempt to work up a
German trade might be denounced from
editorial chairs and “national” radio
stations as Fascism.
* * $ *
To Ogilvie, the Tas. Premier, Chamber-
lain is “pro-Fascist,” and “in his hatred
of Russia” has “gone to the limit to help
Fascist countries.” But Litvinov —ah,
Litvinov!
I had a conversation in Russia with the
famous M. Litvinov, and as I was leaving
his room he said: “You will live to see the
day when Sydney and Melbourne will be
blown to pieces. When that day arrives
you will have only shanghais and alleys
with which to defend yourselves against
Japan.”
Still, Ogilvie is not the only wandering
Australian politician or near-politician
who let Litvinov have the loan of his leg.
s?. * * %
“Yezo”: Japan’s present position
closely resembles a much earlier phase
in her history. Once before she Western-
ised herself, at least in the art of war.
When Hideyoshi invaded Korea in 1592
his troops had firearms, obtained from
the Portuguese or made in Japan on the
model of the European muskets. Hide-
yoshi’s aims were supposed to include
the conquest of China and of the East
Indies. In those days the Japanese
entered into relations with Mexico, were
very active in Siam, the Philippines and
throughout the East Indies. They sent
an embassy to Europe headed by
Hazekura Tsineaga, who saw the Pope.
Hideyoshi’s plans for restoring order in
East Asia failed owing to the unexpected
resourcefulness of the Chinese and
Koreans, who used ironclads and won a
great naval battle in 1598, but the
“southern policy,” as it would be called
to-day, continued fairly active till the
Japanese Government, alarmed by the
progress of Christianity in Japan, shut
up the country in 1637.
* *
“S.A.”: General Evangeline Booth is
on the last lap of her run as General-
issima of the “Army,” and due to retire
in October, so the High Council meets
in London on August 15 to select her
successor. If another Booth is to be
chosen it will have to be Catherine
(Bramwell Booth’s daughter and Evan-
geline’s niece), but probably the mantle
will fall on a non-Booth.
* ❖ * #
Edward Bensley, lately dead in Eng-
land at 75, was a prof, of classics at
Adelaide from 1895 to 1905-6, when
Darnley Naylor moved over from
Melbourne to succeed him. It fell to
Bensley to prepare and deliver the
University “oration” when the royal
pair afterwards to be King George
and Queen Mary visited Adelaide
in 1901. And it was startling as
the first official and public use of
the modern style of pronouncing Latin.
“O vox, O prceclara vox,” began the
appeal; and when those to whom in all
their young lives it had rhymed with
“socks” heard in a high voice “O woce,”
they realised that a new thing had come
upon them,
“Colbun”: The acquisitive habits o 2
European dictators are annoying profes-
sional diplomats all over the world. Not
on account of risks of world disaster, but
because recent coups have delayed or
destroyed hopes of attaining the highest
and pleasantest jobs available in the
trade. Vienna was best of all, important
as a listening-in post and extremely
attractive for its social gaiety. The
Anschluss put it off the map in one hit.
Prague was nearly as good in both ways,
but the incorporation of Czechoslovakia
in the Reich, although not yet formally
recognised by Britain, cuts it out of the
future for ambitious lads looking for-
ward to a British Ministership. A re-
maining plum is the ambassadorship in
Bagdad, but that job is not likely to be
refilled. The Consul-wallahs chuckle be-
cause, for once, their jobs are one up on
the lordly diplomats.
* *
In 1932 Brazil took 19 p.c. of its im-
ports from Great Britain ; in 1938 it took
10 p.c. In 1932 Brazil took 9 p.c. of its
imports from Germany ; in 1938, 25 p.c.
The same swing of trade has happened
to a lesser degree in most South Ameri-
can countries. Germany, with its cen-
tral control of trade and currency
matters, has been able to make “bar-
gains” on a wholesale scale with these
countries, the arrangements amounting
practically to barter. British traders,
dubious about South American currency
difficulties (lately there have been “hopes”
of token payments on Brazilian bonds),
haven’t pushed their cart in these
regions as hard as they used to.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'D
MIND.
This competition will be continued until further notice. While it lasts two pages
will appear, and a third will be added from time to time.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
Birth-control has had its advocates on these pages. One of the awkward facts
they have ignored is that large families are often very happy families. For writing
a very human document on this phase of the subject, a Victorian is awarded the
£3 3s. and will get 2Jd. a line in addition.
Father of Ten
Last week my wife and I celebrated the
fiftieth anniversary of our wedding. As we
look back over that span of time several
milestones stand out. In 1890 our first
baby arrived, and, as neither my wife nor
I knew anything about birth-control,
babies continued to arrive until 1910,
when we had 10 healthy young Austra-
lians.
The struggle to keep them is still vivid
in my memory. Shearing, fencing, tank-
sinking and any other work I could get
were our only sources of income. There
was no baby bonus or child endowment,
no dole to help us over the rough patches
of life.
The magic feats my wife performed in
feeding and clothing us all on my meagre
earnings would put Dante to shame.
The war brought us real grief; our
eldest son lost his life on Gallipoli. A
year later the second son died in France.
Then only a month later our eldest
daughter was taken from us.
The end of the war brought us relief
from worry, and the struggle to live was
so much easier. In the late ’twenties the
last of our children married, and my
wife and I settled down to a life of com-
parative comfort.
Now in the evening of our lives we are
happy in the affection of our seven re-
maining children and our 37 grand-
children.
The point I wish to make is this: Had
my wife and I understood and practised
birth-control, these seven living children
of ours would never have been born, and
our 37 grandchildren would never have
been born. Apart from the fact that we
would have been condemned to a lonely
old age, the question arises : Had we the
right to deny these children the right to
come into the world? It is, it seems to
me, a crime to deny life. Despite the
hardships and the struggle to rear our
family my wife and I agree that it was
well worth while, and we are glad we
knew nothing of birth-control.
Perhaps we are just two old people
out of touch with modern moral stand-
ards. Perhaps we are no longer able to
think as clearly as we should. But of
this we are sure: We are both thankful
for all the children we brought into the
world, and thankful too for our 37 grand-
children. —C. O’G. (Vic.).
“C.O’G.” is Con O’Grady, Box 24,
Werrimull (Vic.); and he’s the winner.
Class Distinction
Why in a country which is supposed
to nurture the roots of democracy is it
so difficult to eliminate class distinction?
When university students indulge in
coarseness, and generally make crass
fools of themselves, the daily papers pass
it up as “ragging.” When Bill Smith
from the ’Loo gives way to a splenetic
outburst he brings a couple of quid at
the local wash-house. When Mrs. Hen-
rietta Macßlitheringham steals a few
pairs of stockings, that is kleptomania.
When Dario Kate “hoists” a frying-pan,
that is theft.
Evidences of social distinction are
abundant. Consider first-class carriages,
theatre boxes and the immunity from
“Smile, please!”
prosecution which fashionable hotels
enjoy.
To say that all these privileges are
attainable by the working man, provided
he can pay the price, is to add insult to
injury. By virtue of his economic posi-
tion he is as effectually barred from such
luxuries as though by law of the land. —
L. (N.S.W.).
Our Game Is Up
Doris Bridger (B. 3/5/’39) has seen
through us, and, though the heading to
this page states that the competition has
been so successful that it will be con-
tinued until further notice, it seems fool-
ish to carry it on in face of such pene-
trating criticism.
Doris has observed the male intellect,
seen how ramshackle its machinery is,
and listened with derision as it tries to
grind out a reasoned conclusion. She has
peeped behind the elaborate fapade of
intellectuality which we have erected for
our masculine self-esteem, and guffawed
at the miserable collection of stuffy, litter-
strewn burrows in which we house such
mental furniture as we possess.
So, with all due deference to the
Comptroller of Bulletin Competitions, I
suggest that the present one be aban-
doned and that there be substituted in-
stead “The Other Woman’s Mind.”
But fashions are already provided for
in the “Woman’s Mirror,” and I don’t
think The Bulletin would be content to
go on for very long with two blank
pages at the end of every issue.—Anither
(Q-). '
A Digger’s Grouch
I suppose that I am one of many ex-
soldiers who are fit and willing to bear
arms, but the conditions of service
detailed on the A.A.F. A. 102 offer me no
inducement to sign an “Honorable Obli-
gation” committing me to do duty in
any part of the Commonwealth.
The instructions tell me that I shall
not be issued with uniform or equipment,
nor will I receive any pay “for any
parades attended.” My military experi-
ence tells me that a soldier in civilian
clothes would get a rough spin from the
soldiers of an invading army. An en-
listed man so caught, even though he
was not bearing arms, could be taken as
a spy and shot after a perfunctory trial.
I don’t want a pretty uniform —those
days are gone for ever —but if I join I
want to be assured that there are uni-
form and boots —made to fit me —and
rifle with my number on it, together with
a few bandoliers full of cartridges, in
some near-by mobilisation centre before
I put my moniker on the pink form.
If the authorities would do that I
might excuse their refusal to pay for my
time.—l9l4 (N.S.W.).
Aerial Photographs
A Queensland conference of returned
soldiers has decided to ask the Com-
monwealth Government to investigate
reports that unauthorised photographs,
likely to be of use to an enemy, are being
taken by aeroplane passengers and to pre-
vent such photography. I can’t see why
any foreign Power need go to the trouble
and expense of sending an agent to Aus-
tralia to take aerial pictures when it can
get all it wants from some of our news-
papers.
On May 13 the Melbourne “Sun News-
Pictorial” published a two-page photo-
graph of Melbourne and surrounding dis-
tricts taken by its own air-pilot photo-
grapher with infra-red plates from a
height of 12,000 feet. The picture covered
what the “Sun News-Pictorial” itself de-
scribed as “a vast amount of territory,”
and although every landmark was clearly
discernible the “Sun” obliged by number-
ing and labelling such places as the
Spencer-street railway station, the Joli-
mont railway yards, St. Paul’s Cathedral,
the railway to Sandringham, St. Patrick’s
Cathedral, the Exhibition Buildings and
so on. The special air camera and plates
used penetrated even to the ocean beyond
Phillip Island, a distance of nearly 100
miles from the heart of the city.
“Never before has such a comprehen-
sive view of Melbourne and its southern
surroundings been obtained,” the “Sun”
proudly announced, and then, “Copies of
this photograph may be obtained from
the Sun Office, Melbourne, for 55., size
12in. by lOin.; or for 10s., size 15in. by
12in.” An enemy spy doesn’t seem to
have as hard a job as the mystery thrillers
make out. It’s just a question of sending
along the humble “dollar” and the “Sun
News-Pictorial” will cheerfully do the
rest—R.N. (N.S.W.).
Debating Clubs
I agree with “Skribisto” (B. 17/5/’39)
regarding the decline of debating, but
not with his sweeping assertion that the
younger generation “can’t or won’t think
about the many problems surrounding
them.” A good deal of the trouble rests
with the debating clubs themselves. Some
of the topics chosen for debate are hack-
neyed and intrinsically worthless; for
example, “Should women use cos-
metics?” and “Is woman a superior being
tp man?” Again, debaters often have to
speak against their own convictions; can
you imagine anything more uninterest-
ing and unprofitable than this? What
the world needs to-day is the courage to
carry thought to its logical conclusion,
and that necessitates being sincere in
every thought and utterance.
Therefore, in place of a debating club,
I suggest a discussion club guided by two
principles—every speaker must be (1)
courteous and (2) sincere. I have seen
such a club run with marked success.—
A. F. (Tas.).
Youth’s disgust with superfluous,
voluble politicians whose deeds fall short
of their words is largely responsible for
its lack of interest in public speaking.
Debating develops self-confidence, a
tolerant respect for what’s in the other
fellow’s mind, and a healthy interest in
national welfare; in fact, most of the
combined qualities that make a good
citizen. Why, then, is it not more actively
encouraged in schools?
It would be a wise move if the edu-
cation authorities instructed their teachers
in secondary schools to organise class
debates. Some schools already do this
and are proud of their debating teams.
I think more school debating would prove
of immense value in not only moulding
good citizens but also in helping to bring
forth future leaders. Peter Piper
(N.S.W.).
Restlessness-—and Progress
We often hear comments these days
about the world being in a state of un-
rest mentally and physically, and that
this means unhappiness and the slowing-
up of progress.
This restlessness is disturbing in many
ways, but is it not a healthy sign por-
tending real progress for the future?
Nations are quarrel-
ling with each other
and making demands
upon each other, but
amid all the quarrels
and contests there will
be born many noble
ideals that will live on.
Man will never ad-
vance while he adopts
an attitude of complete
contentment. Content-
ment is a beautiful
thing to contemplate in
certain aspects, but for
a nation or people to
be satisfied, and not to
strive to improve their
present condition, is the
surest way to self-
annihilation.
Rather than bemoan
the fact of the present-
day restlessness, we
should view it as a healthy sign. If we
• could do this we would find joy in living
and doing, and not think, as we some-
times do, that our efforts are rather futile
and meaningless.— Croma (Q.).
Why “Men” and “Females”?
Why are men men and women females?
Time and again I have noticed it, the
latest being in some official announce-
ment read by the shire clerk at the last
meeting of our shire council.
In some instances the term men is used
to cover all adults, but, if both sexes
have to be specified, why can’t they be
men and women?
If “females” must be used, to me the
men will be “males.” Mary, Mary
(N.S.W.).
Literary Bushrangers
Ned Kelly and others of his kidney
used to ply their trade along the coach
routes of Australia. Their modern
counterparts are to be found on the
Inky Way, bailing up everything from
lumbering “omnibus” impressions to
freelance efforts.
Of course scribblers have always
sneaked hairs and feathers from the other
fellow’s Pegasus, but the literary horse
thief goes the whole horse, so to speak,
with the saddle and bridle included. The
only thing he does not pinch is the vic-
tim’s good name. Instead, he signs his
own shameful moniker to the neatly-
typed, double-spaced manuscript.
During the past week I have discovered
the English originals of a humorous short
story, a sentimental novelette and a quasi-
scientific article which I had previously
read and admired in Australian publica-
tions. In each case only the names of
the characters, the name of the author
and the venue had been changed.
Some time ago a short-story competi-
tion was won by a verbatim copy from
an old English monthly.
Several of my own poems and articles
have been republished over strange sig-
natures, and recently a series of eight
articles was boiled down to make one.
There is no known cure short of lynch-
ing, but if this par. should meet the eye
of the culprits it will enable them to
guess some of the unprintable thoughts
that run through the other fellow’s mind
regarding them.— Fine Phrensy (S.A.).
“The Australian Novelist”
“Scribe” (B. 10/5/’39) has apparently
misunderstood the tenor of my article.
I did not say that the absence of any
special Australian literary motive was
strange, but that it was hard to under-
stand why so many Australian novels
were gloomy and even defeatist in tone,
although the average Australian, far from
being of such a nature, is cheerful and
well-balanced in mind, and has no doubt
of his capacity to hold his own at any-
thing with anybody.
Since my article was published a
review of Kylie Tennant’s latest book has
appeared on the Red Page. Judging by
the review one more has been added to


The Duke and the 8.8. C.
Although I have never had the
pleasure of hobnobbing with royalty —*
have never, as a matter of fact, even
set eyes upon a member of the present
royal house —I will enter into holts with
Norman Lindsay over his recent drawing
of the Duke of Windsor.
“Locked Out,” he calls the drawing,
and he depicts the Duke standing out-
side a locked medieval-type door. The
Duke has a dejected look on his face;
his body is slumped as if in the throes
of acute despondency; and altogether he
looks about as happy as a blackfellow
with toothache.
I say “Yeah?” to Norman Lindsay!
The Duke possesses far too much of
the Digger spirit to cave in before a
thinly-veiled insult from the 8.8. C. As
my old uncle used to say (an ex-Royal
Scottish Borderer): “The Prince of Wales
is man enough to tell a sergeant-major
to go to hell.” And I think that applies
to the 8.8. C., too.
If I were Norman Lindsay I would
depict the Duke thumbing his nose at
the 8.8. C. I might get into trouble over
it—might even lose my job—but at least
I would retain the satisfaction of know-
ing that I had depicted the real “Teddy.”
—R. Conquest (Q.).
The Farmer’s Daughter
Why do so many of the brightest and
best farmers’ daughters go to the city to
do nursing, office work and even domestic
duties? I have asked them, and they
reply with surprising unanimity that it is
not because they fear the hardships of
the country or that they have illusions
about the glamor of the city, but because
the young men of the farms are such
“hicks.”
That there is some justice in this accu-
sation is apparent to anyone who attends
a country social. Most of the girls are
as well dressed as their city sisters, are
bright conversationalists and have many
outside interests. Most of the farm lads
look as if they were aping the caricatures
of Dave. Their conversation is about
their work, which seems to hold all their
interest in life, and, though that might
make good farmers of them, it is time
they realised that the girls like a little
“glamor.” If they don’t realise that, the
country population will degenerate into
a peasant class in a couple of genera-
tions.
Young countrymen who have taken the
trouble to develop their minds and their
social qualities have no difficulty in per-
suading the best of the country girls, or
even city girls, to share a country life
with them. But the rest had better stop
blaming the girls and get busy on them-
selves. —E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
Tune in Again
The State Council for Physical Fitness
for Victoria —and I suppose that all the
other State Councils are out for a share
of the 100t —is asking for £50,000 annu-
ally to conduct its campaign, and the
Commonwealth has agreed to finance a
lectureship at Melbourne Uni. Presently
our newspapers will show us some pic-
tures of pretty girls in short pants doing
eurhythmies and a lot of our good money
will have gone down the drain.
These “campaigns” should be left to
the “big business” that is behind them,
and if this money must be spent it should
be given to research workers and
scientists.
Despite the P. F. Council’s efforts to
make us physically perfect I’ll take a
small bet that in 20 years’ time our den-
tists will still be unable or unwilling to
say why nearly every Australian over 30
years of age has a set of false teeth ; and
our doctors will continue to refuse to
warn us about that payable little vermi-
form appendix that every other Austra-
lian has to have removed.
But no, England is spending £500,000
on Physical Fitness, so we must spend
some money, too. — Hop In (N.S.W.).
“Let There Be Light”
Under the above caption “Burr” (B.
3/5/’39) suggests that a scale of fees
for marriages should be fixed by the
clergy and made public, and adds that
the church should not be amongst those
who consider a bridegroom an easy mark.
It is only fair to point out that the boot
is sometimes on the other foot.
The C. of E. padre in a country town
on the North Coast of N.S.W. tells this
story. He was approached by a bush
couple who wanted the knot tied with
all available trimmings. He gave them
the whole works, with banns, organist
and choir complete; and when signing
the register after the lengthy ceremony
the bridegroom asked, “What’s the
damage?” The parson named three
guineas as his fee, plus ten bob for the
organist, and the new Benedict pulled
out his fountain-pen and wrote a cheque
on the spot for the lot. When the
cheque was presented through the clerical
bank account it bounced back with the
answer “Payment stopped.” The padre
usually concludes the yarn by remark-
ing that it was apparently a case of
being married at leisure and repenting
in haste.— Pettifog (N.S.W.).
N.S.W. Meat Charges
Here’s something for the Sydney house-
wives to chew the cud over. Good trade
beef, the kind you pay 9d. to lid. for
over the butcher’s counter, was delivered
to Chopper and Co. by the Metropolitan
Meat Industry Commissioner at to
4d. a pound; lamb which separates you
from lid. to Is. Id. reached the butcher
at sd. to s|d.; and with heavy pork,
which cost the knight of the cleaver 7jd.
to Bd., you had to embrace the faith of
Islam, because it was beyond your reach
at Is. 2d. to Is. 4d. a pound.
Meanwhile our best chilled ox beef is
bringing 3|d. wholesale 12,000 miles
across the seas, and gets on to Londoners’
frying-pans at 6d. to 7d. a pound. In
cold-storage, for export, Australia held at
April 30 last the following: Crops 27,933,
fores 950, hinds 29,796, butts 2526,
rumps 222,9551 b. of pieces, and boneless
2,270,0811 b. There were 131,469 car-
casses and 61,1231 b. pieces of lamb and
8912 carcasses and sides of pork to keep
the teeth of our friends in Lunnon from
going rusty. —Bovis (N.S.W.).
Dear Sir or Madam?
Why do the makers of “hot-number”
records, and those whose job it is to
arrange broadcast programmes, hold such
a marked preference for the singer
with the border-line voice? Often it is
necessary to wait until the particulars
are announced to determine whether a
male or female is responsible—and even
then the name is no indication.
Surely this type of voice is not popular
with any except degenerates! From
close observation most people’s reaction
to it seems to vary from an acute disgust
to a violent homicidal tendency.
In the final analysis, the job of art —
even second-rate art —is to portray and
interpret life. It may know no boun-
daries, but it must recognise sex. Eunuchs
have long gone out of fashion, and
gland-grafted, plastic, laboratory-bred
neuters are still, thank goodness, things
of the future. Why anticipate them
vocally on the radio? —T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Sport or War?
It seems to me that sport, both amateur
and professional, is being carried to ridi-
culous lengths in the world. In Germany
the defeat of the boxer Max Schmeling
at the right hand of Joe Louis was made
the cause for national lamentations, a
kind of big-scale protest against the in-
glorious display given by a Nazi emis-
sary. Schmeling has been forbidden to
engage in further fights, but is kept in
America for political purposes.
In England, footballers are receiving
gland treatment to give them added, but
only temporary, powers. Thus football
becomes, not a test of human skill and
stamina, but merely a therapeutic experi-
ment, and the slogan is “May the best
doctor win.”
Here in Australia, two branches of
sport, football and racing, seem to have
degenerated into a rather sordid busi-
ness.
Illegal tactics are rife in both depart-
ments. What a section of the press de-
scribed as “ugly scenes” marked several
first-grade football matches recently.
Almost every week one reads of racing
adherents being “sent out” for breaches
of the rules.
Taking it altogether, sport as we see it
is far removed from the old Greek con-
cept of healthy physical competition, and
only a laurel wreath for the victor. Offer
a so-called “amateur” a laurel wreath for
winning and he would probably tell you
to go and hang yourself with it. Thedefi-
nition of sport is “fun or diversion.”
The term will hardly apply nowadays,
so a new one is indicated. I suggest
“war” as an alternative, for without a
doubt the martial element is more pro-
nounced in modern “fun and diversion”
than anything else.
If being knocked out in the “ugly
scenes” mentioned is fun and diversion I
think I will stick to my ludo. — William
Lynch (N.S.W.).
Air-mails and the Speck
Shortening the time it takes a ’plane
to fly to Australia is no doubt important
as a defence measure, but is not the rapid
handling of mail matter within Australia
also important and for the same reason?
A letter may reach Sydney in 10 days,
but it takes 17 days for it to be de-
livered in Tasmania. Why?
Carriage of mails from Tasmania to
Sydney and Melbourne is almost as slow
as in pre-flying days, yet there are daily
aerial services between each place. The
chief reason appears to be the few de-
liveries that are made. If a letter misses
the only afternoon delivery, as it often
does, it may be nearly 24 hours at the
post office.
In our country town the morning de-
livery does not reach us (half a mile
from P. 0.) before 10, and is often
much later, while the afternoon one is
usually at 2, but may be as early as
1.15. Nothing reaching this office after
12 noon will be delivered before 10
a.m. next day at the earliest.
It is this absurdly slow delivery of
letters that makes it necessary for banks
and many other businesspeople to have
boxes. In effect, the businessman pays
a class tax for the use of facilities that
in other countries are provided by the
ordinary prompt delivery of all mail.
V. D. (Tas.).
The Old School Tie
I was pleased to read the report of a
well-known Australian headmaster’s
speech in which he said he had no time
for jokes about the old school tie.
Neither have I, though I admit the
question is somewhat complicated by the
existence of two distinct and separate sets
of values —the temporal and the spiritual.
The value of a tradition is entirely
spiritual, and that’s why the vulgar mob
deny its existence. To the majority tradi-
tion is something outside their limited
experience, so they refuse to believe in
its existence. But tradition is a fact, as
all with a sense of history know.
Support of tradition, whether in blood,
in institution or in faith, is inescapable,
and often comes to a man’s rescue when it
is almost the only thing that is left to
him. It can, and has, come to a coun-
try’s rescue when it was about the only
thing left to it. I hope, therefore, to hear
no more from these anti-traditionalists
who, because they have no tradition
themselves and are quite unable to
appreciate its spiritual significance, seek
to deny its existence.
Gibes about the school tie come mostly,
I notice, from film fans who know no
other or higher form of worship than the
worship of a “star.” Which reminds me
that
There once was a fellow named Pete
Who was full of abnormal conceit:
It wasn’t his looks
Or his knowledge of books,
But that Garbo once trod on his feet.
—Pardon Me (N.S.W.).
Rifle Clubs
x eil ' u.V.R.” (B. 10/5/’39) it is not
true that rifle-club members “specialise
in a type of shooting which went out with
the Boer War.” Though methods have
not changed very much, high military
authorities the world over attach greater
importance to accurate rifle-shooting than
ever before.
British Army authorities scrapped the
old Manual of Musketry Training on
Jan. 1. The new manual provides for
training of army riflemen on lines which
closely follow those of the Australian
rifle-club organisation. Switzerland with
her 300,000 and South Africa with her
200,000 riflemen, trained on identical
lines to our own, are both conscious of
the importance and value of training thus
imparted.
“G.V.R.” has described fairly accu-
rately the methods of our riflemen in their
regular practice. No better methods have
been discovered. It is not true, however,
that many of our riflemen do not know
how to charge the magazine of a service
rifle. Possibly a raw recruit may not, but
since the operation is so ridiculously
simple the matter is not worth arguing
about.
“G.V.R.” and other interested persons
are invited to attend the concluding day’s
shooting at the annual N.R.A. prize meet-
ing at Anzac Range, Liverpool. He and
they will find that under the conditions
named by “G.V.R.” distance-judging,
snap-shooting, holding off for wind, en-
gaging indistinct targets, running to a
position, dropping and firing—the stand-
ard of efficiency shown by our riflemen
is truly amazing.
There is only one thing radically
wrong with our rifle clubs and their mem-
bers —they do not receive the support
and encouragement their national im-
portance deserves. —A. S. Spencer
(N.S.W.).
Training v. the Gift of the Gab
“S.T.S.” (B. 10/5/’39) quotes a specific
example of a man getting into private
financial difficulties yet who considers
himself capable of administering the
affairs of a State. His principal quali-
fication for political honors may be that
of ease of speech, as it is with so many
of our politicians.
Every branch of trade and profession
demands study, application and experi-
ence, and yet the Government of our
country, which calls for the widest appli-
cation of statesmanship, diplomacy, in-
ternational trade, economics and
sociology, needs no apprenticeship but
the gift of the gab.
Surely this is democracy’s greatest
weakness —that it does not seek out and
retain for the benefit of the country the
best brains available.
The ideal Government would comprise
the cream of each trade and profession—
one representative of each and each
member of such a Government would
have a full-time job and be remunerated
accordingly.
If I were dictator a conscription on
those lines would be my first job. I
know the Pinks and Reds would moan,
but that would be O.K.—it would help
me to identify them and put them to
work. — Tandy (Vic.).
Unemployed' Youth
To-day there are thousands of men
walking the countryside—homeless, wan-
dering ; at the same time there is a great
search for militia recruits. If we must
continue in this insane race for arma-
ments, if we must spend millions on
defence, if we must continue to build a
machine that if ever let loose would blast
the world apart, cannot we in Australia
at least make some effort to use this
military might for good?
We make a great cry about youth being
the hope of the world! to-day. We say
peace will come through the next genera-
tions ; yet what chance have these wan-
dering bagmen of ever being a force for
peace? Here is a good percentage of
our youth growing up without any real
aim in life; with nothing before them
except a battle for existence. The Gov-
ernment gives the magnificent sum of
7s. 6d. per week towards their upkeep —
many greyhound dogs get more than
7s. 6d. worth of meat each week!
Why cannot the Government evolve a
scheme to absorb all these youths into a
permanent army? It would provide them
with something decent in life, they would
have a chance of living instead of just
existing. They could be taught trades as
well as army manoeuvres, and eventually
become of very real value to the com-
munity.
At present they are a menace, not only
to themselves but to our country.—D. M.
Dadd (N.S.W.). •
Brighter Elections
The ordinary election campaign is
conducted on very unconvincing lines.
Two candidates are contesting a seat.
One makes a statement at Wire-
grass. His opponent a few nights
later says that he read that Mr.
Blank said in addressing his con-
stituents that black was white. He would
like to take this opportunity (cheers) of
disagreeing with Mr. Blank. His facts
were entirely wrong. He would like to
refer him to the statement of the Minis-
ter of Tripe that was published in the
Boolamon “Courier” wherein he said
that white was black.
And so the humbug goes on. The
poor voter tries hard to find out the
facts of many things and flounders along
mentally to the polling day, and then
finishes up voting some party ticket.
This is my solution: During the last
few weeks let each opposing candidate
meet in important centres on a common
platform with a well-known and im-
partial chairman. Let rules of debate
govern. Let pertinent questions be put
and answered on the spot, not only for
each man’s benefit but, more pertinently,
for the voters.
It would be a good night’s entertain-
ment. The voters would approximate
mentally somewhere near the truth of
contentious matters and the voters would
quickly appreciate the better man and
decide who would best grace the floors
of our Legislatures.
You would get the crowd —and some-
times the truth.— Embeus (N.S.W.).
the long list of Australian novels that
are sombre in tone.
Why should there be such a divorce
between the character of the Australian
and the tone of so much of his fiction?
“Cas’s” suggestion (B. 17/5/’39) that
the rarity of the Australian city novel is
due to the fact that the majority of Aus-
tralians live in cities or large towns, and,
therefore, bush life appears to them far
more romantic, may be right, but such
conditions are in therqselves no bar to
the popularity of novels dealing with city
life. In the U.S.A. the proportion of
urban to rural dwellers is about the
same as in Australia, yet the city novel
has long flourished.
DEN (N.S.W.).


A MIXED GRILL
“Vic”: I question whether Hitler was
very seriously perturbed about the
rumpus outside the Sydney German Con-
sulate on Anzac Day, but I’m sure he’d
be uneasy if he learned —which is a fact
—that No. 4 Bridge-street, the lofty nar-
row building in which the Consulate has
its offices, stands on what was originally
the site of a synagogue.
* * * *
“Avoca”: I can see that “Oxmead,”
“Ologist,” myself and scribblers in
general, radio playwrights, actors and
announcers, compositors and “correctors
of the press,” politicians and common
or garden talkers will have to do some-
thing about such names as Menzies and
Moses. There ought to be a law agin
’em! When it comes to writing or say-
ing the plurals of Menzies, Moses and
other names ending in “es” many of us
are liable to experience the same un-
certainty regarding their formation as in
the case of the possessive, and when the
correct “es” is added the same uncouth-
ness of appearance meets the eye and the
same uneuphoniousness in sound strikes
the ear. Yet “The Menzieses (or the
Moseses) were in strong force” is the
right way of writing or saying such a
sentence, and pen-pushers and jaw-
waggers must train themselves to write
and say it so. Perhaps a deputation could
be organised to ask the Prime Minister
to dock his name of the “s” and thereby
set an example that would, I hope, be
immediately followed by the betailing or
the renunciation of all similar names by
their owners. Then no one, from the
humblest to the highest, would have any
difficulty in writing the possessive or the
plural of Menzie or Mose.
“Toheroa”: A ruling on the addition
of the possessive ’s that Prof. Egerton,
sometime of Auckland University, used
to give to his English students refers to
syllables, and runs: “One, you must;
two, you may ; three, you mustn’t follow
the apostrophe with another s” Accord-
ing to this ruling, the new P.M.’s name
should be written possessively
“Menzies’.”
* *
“X.”: Clyde Fenton, the N.T.’s flying
doctor (B. 10/5/’39), was at Xavier and
Newman colleges, Melbourne. He won
armfuls of exhibitions and bursaries and
ended his medical course with every
indication of becoming a great specialist.
But he has a T. E. Lawrence streak in
his composition, and it would come out,
Fenton’s love of the unusual expressed
itself at his Alma Mater in such idiosyn-
crasies as living his day backwards. He
had dinner at breakfast time and then
went to bed and slept till nightfall. Then
he would get up and study until day-
break. Fenton was born at Warrnam-
bool in 1901 and got his pilot’s license
while M.O. to the R.A.A.F.
* * * *
“Den”: Conditions in “old colonial”
N.S.W. bore a decided*similarity to those
of ancient Rome (B. 5/4/’39). The “pure
merinos” corresponded to the Roman
senatorial and equestrian classes; the
emancipist was the counterpart of the
Roman freedman. In place of slaves there
were convicts. Landlords’ houses, with
their Italian hipped roofs and Doric- or
lonic-columned porches, were derived
from the country house of Ancient Rome,
per medium of Palladio and his English
followers. Even that invariable feature of
the Roman villa the olive tree was not
lacking. And Roman villa and N.S.W.
estate were alike virtually self-contained,
both as regards food and many of the
coarser forms of manufacture. Each had
its own carpenters, coopers, bricklayers
and other tradesmen.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Hugh D. Mclntosh, re-
cently reported to have failed to interest
London in fruit bars, was a giant spender
in his palmy days. When he was run-
ning the Tivoli in Melbourne he became
enamored of the art of the late Penleigh
Boyd, and commissioned him to fill a
huge space in Mac’s sitting-room with
any kind of painting that the artist
thought suitable. Boyd produced a vast
bush idyll in which nymphs and fauns
were tastefully mingled with gum-trees.
Hugh D. was delighted, and asked the
painter what he wanted. “What would
you think of a hundred and fifty
guineas?” tentatively murmured the
artist. “A hundred and fifty?” shouted
Mclntosh. “Well, you know,” timidly
retorted Boyd, “I put a lot of work into
it.” “Here,” bawled Mclntosh to his
secretary, “write a cheque for Mr. Boyd
for three hundred guineas, and be quick
about it. ’ The boxing-cnra-theatrical
Napoleon took the canvas to London,
and when he bought Broome Park in-
stalled it in a prominent position. It
realised £7 10s. at the auction of Broome
Park and its contents.
* * * *
1 Tovarish Pravda”: Fellow wage-
plugs of N.S.W., rise with me and heave
a hearty protest at these boodlers and
bourgeoisie who steal our thunder. It’s
about 15 years since we imported the
term United Front fresh from Moscow.
We spent years introducing the name
on platforms, howling it over radios,
sticking it up on walls and even stencil-
ling it on footpaths. And just as it was
beginning to have some effect, Sid Snow
and his All-for-Australiers linked up
with Parkhill’s Nats, and pinched the
“United” off of us, and we have to fall
back on terms like “Left Front,” “Rank
and File Movement” and such inexpres-
sive bits and pieces. We invented a
Youth Movement, too. It made head-
way enough to hold camps and Youth
Rallies and learn to sing “The Inter-
“ Don't care if you ARE the sergeant! Where's y’r license?”
nationale.” And blow me if there isn’t
a Youth Movement of the U.A.P. sitting
on the doorstep of its seniors, and ask-
ing in the very phrases which have long
been part of the Moscow Litany for
permission to “hold a Combined Youth
Rally in Sydney with the object of bring-
ing about a common rallying ground for
youth.”
m * , * *
“D.F.”: O. Henry did not know it,
but the story of Jimmy Valentine, the
reformed lock-picker who went back to
his old game to open a safe in an emer-
gency, had its original in old Sydney.
In 1791 William Frazer, the settlement’s
prize locksmith, whose illegal skill had
earned him transportation, was hastily
summoned to the hospital and asked to
open a lock of which the key had been
lost. Frazer looked at the lock, remarked
that it was a workman’s job, and asked
ten minutes to make an instrument to
“speak with it.” He went to his shop
without taking the lock, and in ten
minutes came back and opened it.. Gov-
ernor Phillip sent to England for a special
set of locks to put on the public stores.
He showed them to Frazer, and told him
that they could not be picked. Frazer
laughed, and asked for a crooked nail.
With this he opened the lot.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: I have a sneaking regard
for Ernest Rolls, who has resigned from
Australian and N.Z. Theatres, and against
whom Fullers have secured judgment for
£4768. Rolls’s first nights, especially
in the days when he produced leg-
shows at the Princess, Melbourne,
were extraordinary proceedings. Scene-
painters, carpenters, sceneshifters and
the rest of the backstage army were
as prominent features of the entertain-
ment as the actors, and partly on this
account and partly 'because of his lavish
habits the show frequently lasted until
midnight. Having, so to speak, tried his
opus out on the cat, Rolls would start
pruning. From the box-office point of
view, this method was faulty, inasmuch
as those critics who seem to go to a show
hoping it will be a bad one had plenty
to object to, and puzzled first-nighters
passed on their own opinions. But at
least Rolls kept things fluid, and if in
their final shape there have been better
productions in • Australia than “The
Women,” “Idiot’s Delight,” “A Waltz
Dream” and the London Casino Revue,
they haven’t been many.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: George English, Sydney’s
choirmaster-to-be, produced the first
opera broadcast in Australia. It was
“Faust,” and the venue was the A.B.C.
studio in Melbourne. In experiments at
rehearsals he found that two sections of
the brass iegs of a couple of music-stands
when clashed together admirably pro-
vided the necessary noises when Mephis-
topheles and Valentine start fighting. The
broadcast was announced, and went
splendidly until the scene where Valen-
tine and his supernatural rival start pin-
pricking one another. Looking roundj
English discovered that the two stands
were back in-their corner, carefully put
together. He fiercely beckoned a bands-
man to bring them across, and, seizing
them with both hands, shook them apart.
The bandsman supposed they had acci-
dentally fallen to pieces, and grabbing
them from the conductor started to re-
assemble them. English tried to wrest
them from him and once more dis-
member them. Concluding that the boss
had gone clean crazy, the bandsman
bolted, carrying the music-stands with
him. A puzzled audience of radio fans
probably came to the conclusion that the
duellists were fighting with pillows.
■? * * *
“C.Q.”: Contrary opinions about
Melba arise from misinterpretations
of . her actions. She was neither
more avid of nor more averse from
publicity than any other celebrated
individual, but being an unusual person
she got publicity whether she wanted it
or not. On one of her returns for a final
farewell, her steamer was held up outside
Fremantle. A cloud of expectant press-
men chartered a launch and went off to
interview her. Rushing up the gangway
they shouted to a seaman “Where’s
Melba?” “There she is,” said the sailor,
pointing to a small speck slowly receding
in. the direction of Fremantle. She had
gone ashore with a more enterprising
reporter in a rowboat. He gave her and
she gave him a magnificent story.
THE PROTECTOR
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
DURING the first fifty years of Aus-
tralia’s existence as a British com-
rnunity many remarkable men
visited this country, some as a
matter of duty, and many who were not
the least remarkable because they
couldn’t help it. Notable amongst the
latter was a Danish adventurer who had
for a brief period had an adventure in
kingship. He ended his picturesque career
in Tasmania about 1840, and has left
behind him in the British Museum and
the Mitchell Library at Sydney a good
deal of unpublished MS. relating to some
of its aspects.
Jorgen Jorgensen was born at Copen-
hagen in 1780, joined the British mer-
cantile marine as a boy, and eventually
came into this hemisphere by way of
South Africa in 1802 as one of the crew
of H.M.S. Lady Nelson—or says he did,
which is not quite the same thing, though
fairly likely. In 1804 he went a-sealing,
and returned to Europe in 1806. There
as a sailor of fortune he took service with
Napoleon, and had command of a small
privateer which was captured in the
Channel in 1808 by H.M. sloop Sappho,
On his return from Australia he had be-
come intimate with Sir Joseph Banks, and
though he was a prisoner of war Banks
was able to get him sent off to Iceland
with a cargo of provisions for its inhabi-
tants, whom the British blockade had
reduced to starvation. It was on his
second visit that he enjoyed his brief
experience of monarchy.
When the vessel he was in arrived in
Iceland, it was found that the Danish
Governor, Count Trampe, had forbidden
trade with England, so the Count was
deposed and Jorgensen installed as a sort
of autocrat of the island with the title
of “Protector.” Jorgensen claims to have
established trial by jury and a free repre-
sentative Government, halved the taxes,
increased civil service salaries, constructed
defence works, raised a small cavalry
force and hoisted “the ancient and inde-
pendent flag of Iceland”—a notable
record for a Government of three weeks,
But H.M.S.' Talbot came along, deposed
Jorgensen and took him back to Eng-
land, where he was given a year’s im-
prisonment for having broken his parole,
After his release he was employed in
the British secret service, and had many
adventures on the continent of Europe,
but became an inveterate gambler, got
into trouble for pawning things that
weren’t his, and was transported to
V.D.L. in 1826. He was employed for some
time as a surveyor by the V.D.L. Corn-
pany, and eventually became chief con-
stable at Oatlands, a job in which he did
very good work in dealing with blacks
and bushrangers.
In the “Hobart Town Almanac for
1835 appeared “A Shred of Auto-
biography” over Jorgensen’s name,
which is picturesque but not strictly
veracious. All his life he was something
of an Inky Wayfarer. In 1811 Hatchards
published his State of Christianity in
the Island of Otaheite, and in ’l7 he
brought out a volume of Travels
Through France and Germany. He also
wrote some pious tracts relating to the
evils of gambling, of which his own
bitter experience made him something
of an authority. During his career in
Tasmania he published, besides the auto-
biographical sketch mentioned, a sequel
to it in 1838 and Observations on
Funded System some time'before mat.
His “Rise, Progress and History ol tne
Van Diemen’s Land Company was puo-
lished as a pamphlet in London in lozv.


Mainly Mail-Order
AMAZING
CLIMBING TOMATO
e
NOTHING EVER LIKE IT
BEFORE! In a growing
period of A YEAR it climbs
to 20 feet on trellis or fence,
etc. Produces TWO BUSHELS
choice large red Tomatoes
PER PLANT. Being an “ALL-
SEASONS” Variety, it can be
sown NOW. 2/6 packet,
posted. „
Also AMAZING NEW 100 PER
CENT. “NON-ACID” PURE
WHITE HEALTH TOMATO! “White
Disease and Drought-proof! 2/6 packet
TIMBER KILLER! Kills largest trees
TO TOP, IN 15 DAYS’. 5/6 tin, posted
N S.W. SEED CO., 17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Beauty.’
, posted.
ROOTS'
7 e&t fat 1 Montk
m
anti PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible —
No wires—No batteries
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from pew
Sydney consulting room.'-,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Write for Booklet Suite 601 K, City Mutual
Building, cnr. Hunter & llligli Sts., Sydney ;
and at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Goods
Sent
C.O.D
desired
The “Ideal” Cigarette-making Machine and
Combination Tobacco Box. Usual Price, 6/C.
“Bulletin” Readers 3/9
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal sample ot
“Levysown” Quality Tobacco at 7/- lb.—
worth 10/- lb. —for Cigarette or Pipe.
“Zig-Zag” Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz,
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
f or j y JQ Honest Value, 30/-
C 1 I omr Tobacconist. Est. 38 Years.
•301 L.evy f George Street, Sydney.
STOPyour Rupture
m
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/ 33
says:—
“I order your appliances for my
patients because 1 consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved, Kousscl Appli-
ance you get greater security and
comfort. To prove this we offer
*l4 DAYS FREE TRIAL*
Send name and address for full details and
trial offeh. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 271. 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35 jf - only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post office,
for only 35/-. COMPLETE CORRES-
PONDENCE COURSE IS GIVEN FREE,
and we guarantee that you will be able
to play within seven days, otherwise we
will refund your money in full. This
offer cannot be repeated- Goods can be
sent C. 0.1). if you wish.
TALKERIES,
Q.V. Buildings, 451 George St., Sydney.
è
Blanket Bale comprising: 2
Cream Double-bed Blankets.
2 Heavy-quality Linen-finished
Double-bed Sheets, size 90 x
80. Guaranteed 5 years of
wear. 1 Continental-designed
Silk Interwoven Bedspread,
Double-bed size. 2 Handy-size
Coloured Bath Towels. 1 Large-
size Admiralty Bath Towel. 2
Super-quality Linen-finished
Pillow Cases (large size).
Forward Postal Notes, Money
Orders or Cheques to the value
SSL'JIACE STORES
SYDNEY
y
of ONLY 35/-
to secure this Super Bargain Bale.
MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT,
SALVAGE STORES, se s ?gSv ST
MUSHROOMS
art Now and Use
“Perfection”
100 per cent. Pure
Culture Spawn.
Enough to grow 20 sq.
ft. costs 4/6 (posted
anywhere). Sufficient
to grow 401bs. of
mushrooms. It is made
in Australia and is
developed under skilled
supervision.
Extracts from letters.
é
H A. POPE, Dee Why: “Gathered over 50lb.
from 20 sq. ft. Please repeat order.”
P. S. HUGHES, Collinswood, S.A.: “Amazed at
success of Perfection spawn.” ,
Send 2d. for Instruction Booklet and Price List to
,J. TAYNTON, SPAWN SPECIALIST,
81 Pitt Street. Sydney.
A NEW GIFT for the HOME!
English Sycamore Bread Board, with
colored edges, 5/6. Posted Free
for cash.
• Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free.
W.JNO. BAKER-
-3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BRIGGS&STRATTON
AIR-COOLED
4-CYCLE
SINGLE-CYLINDER
PETROL MOTORS.
i to 5 HORSEPOWER
From £l7/10/-
Agents all States.
Price List gladly
forwarded.
aMPLIOh (A/SIA) PTY. LIMITED
66 CLARENCE ST. SYDNEY.
THE HANOMAG DIESEL
w.
Uses cheap
fuel.
The most
e c onomical
tractor o n
the market.
DEMCO MACHINERY CO. Pty., Ltd.,
243 Cleveland St., 355 William St.,
Redfern, N.S.W. West Melbourne, Vie.
THE START OF AN
UGLY BALD PATCH
can be arrested by the timely help of
“TASSAN” Reg.
HOME TREATMENT.
Use it in your own home and
WATCH YOUR HAIR GROW!
Join the ranks of satisfied clients.
Send £l/2/- now for SIX MONTHS’ supply.
MISS DICKISON,
Sydney’s Only Baldness Specialist,
903 Commonwealth Savings Bank Building,
11 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Established 1913. ’Phone: 82253.
SEND YOUR
SKINS
to be
MADE UP
into Furs to Heilmans,
who specialise in this
class of work. Best
workmanship and reason-
able charges. Write for
styles and quotations or
visit our showrooms.
r
M. HEILMAN FURS S.,
Bth FLOOR, STATE BUILDING,
49 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
DOUBLE-BED GREY
BLANKETS
1000 ONLY—BO X 60
Product of a noted mill, and well
under present mill quotes soft,
woolly to handle, with colorful headings.
SALE PRICE, 6/6 each, Post
Free. 2 for 11/6, or 3 for 16/6,
Post Free.
FREE —With every 2 or 3 Blankets, 1
Large Beautifully Colored Bungalow
Cloth. Only at
STERNS STERNS
200 Z GEOItGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
THIS ONE WIRE
ELECTRIC FENCE
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY.ITD.
188 GEORGE STREET.,SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Parmak Electric i'encer
cuts fencing costs by 80 %
. . . holds horses, cattle,
pigs, sheep with one wire.
Harmless. Hundreds in
use. Money back if not
satisfied. Write for details.
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer, and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. & G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
'WINCHESTER
Boys’ and Girls’ Extension Frame
Skate, with Double Ball-bearing
Steel Rolls,
12/6 and 18/6 pair.
COWLES AND DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
j Artillery Timber Splitting Gun I
vt'lll"
Posfage: N.S'. W. 2/-, Vic.
and Q’land 3/6, Elsewhere
5/-. (Add exchange ).
95 per cent,
labour saving
over wedge
driving. Driven
into timber
without boring.
No shattering
of timber. Uses
blasting
powder and
fuse. Av. cost
2d. shot. Steel
Gun is 15in.
diam. 18in. long.
Price 25/-.
MALRIC CO., 161 River St., Earlwood, SYDNEY
BARGAINS IN
Military Surplus Stocks
JUST LANDED-ANOTHER 200 Pairs
MILITARY PACK SADDLE BAGS, brand-
new, made of the best English leather, size
27 x 17 inches. AVorth £7/10/-. TO
CLEAR, ONLY £2/15/- pair.
2000 Military Bayonet Sheath Knives, best
English Steel. Every knife stamped and
guaranteed. Honestly worth 35/-. TO
CLEAR at only 7/6 each or 2 for 14/-.
100 only Genuine Military B.S.A. Rifles,
310 calibre, single shot, brand-new condi-
tion, special sights, distance gauge and
extra sight. Original cost £7/10/-. NOW
only 25/-. Genuine Bargain.
HARRY MITCHELL,
Desk B, 348 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Est. 25 years.
“BIG SIX”
© © ©
w
JZ
BATTERY
ELECTRIC
FENCE
CHARGER
r
Most economical and efficient;
governs 25 miles of fencing,
works from a safe 6-volt Bat-
tery, and has several features
not found in any other make.
Start with the best, it costs no
more than the other kind.
Write for descriptive leaflet.
Single Wire Fence Co.,
189 CLARENCE ST,. SYDNEY.
YOUR RAZOR-
IS IT GIVING YOU COMPLETE
SATISFACTION?
If not you may trade in your old one
for the celebrated
ROLLS RAZOR
A very liberal allowance will be made
on blade, all types of safety and electric
razors irrespective of condition. Write
or call to-day.
F. S. HODGE
(late Hotel Australia ).
Hairdresser, Tobacconist and Rolls
Razor Specialist,
221 MACQUARIE ST., SYDNEY.
Opposite Sydney Hospital. ’Phone: 8W5287.
LEADERS IN TRANSPORT.
JACKSON & JUCHAU
Tariff Advisers,
Customs, Forwarding, Shipping
and Insurance Agents,
13 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 81234, 87442, 87443.
Melbourne Office:
Gloucester House, Market Street.
Branches and Agencies throughout
Australasia and Abroad.
THE
“GENUINE
KEMP”
The old favourite. With
narrow grip and 3in
hand-sewn kneepads.
mounted, £ 6/1 57-
SUPER QUALITY, with
hogskin seat and brass
mounts, £ 7 / 7 /-•
(Freight free in N.S.W.)
Write for free illustrated
Narrow Grip.
V'.
wmamm
l' '%
' S% %
catalogue. Ride in Comfort.
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
* ir 70 VVIISON ST XFAVTOWN
W. H. WILLIAMS FOR SAFER SADDLES
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week ;
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
e
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
188 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
gijhe Challenger
KEROSENE Bath-heater
Simple to work —cheap to
run. Merely turn on water
& light the burner for a hot
shower or bath. Write for
descriptive pamphlet—
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
o Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
AUSTRALIAN BARKERS & BITERS
By Robert Kaleski
The Standard Australian Book on Dogs. 256 Pages (illustrated).
Price, 2/2 (post free).
the bulletin newspaper CO. PTY.. jll!™
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON 31/5/’39 (see Page 46)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with
your “Wants” to the Service
Depa r tment, “The Bulletin”
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


am c
- Ytil. IV. 3*o- '* f ■%<«!> serrm t > <-rer>.
T f
.fNfi-5 V
~*l
n
•••' • \
G s' 1 WW* . >" ,
;', 1 VOS' 'OS's;' *?: \ -V-' ■<•
/ . V -A ..
CL4p|R.^r
iraW * -ft-fLt rt f C
■*& % } &
-** i, r
* f: : -y
aw
a\t
,*74/
v s r
N
#
f v^ V
i^ 9 .G v v .:•
x<& Lt RKAt)Y Vf
/ ts> ■ i . u, **' oi< :
T
GW
W
■zniipr f °b.nd ;/
Of &«,,. •
cm 1
e
m >
o
e
>
4
f%
mm&f w
lJ
ftf)
si
<W£S y
TG
.„.. ■ rv«i,
rSSiovakia Swallow
Hitler’s Sudden Co’ C)pf IfHlSlfl.
„ >* :a*
.
lit# 1
Once again the House of Gilbey" feels that, in view of
the prevailing flood of scare headlines and rumours, it is time to
strike a note of Optimism as we did in the black days of the
depression.
«>e ' g
$ Smi
A? Kg
Fear,Of 0 4^
<
■ri.
We forecast then that those forbidding clouds would soon roll by, and
backed our opinion by spending freely large amounts on the foundation
of our first big distillery in Australia.
We were right then; we feel that we are right now, and that it is foolish to
allow the even trend of our daily commercial and social lives to be un-
duly disturbed by forecasts of a general upheaval, which we firmly
believe is, if ever, a most unlikely occurrence.
So, let us cast off for once and all the growing tension of nervous un
certainty, so aptly expressed in the term "jitters." Let us earn well
and spend well, and so give practical expression to pride in our
British birthright and confidence in our
National security iBHBI and lasting Peace.
$
.
wm : '1
it 4
iffM* WM
. >». i&i
llci
SAY:
r a<?Tf&G
Iwpififm
II
mm •
01 LIIY’S
GIM 0
!■> MMKim c,,r ; - m
t
mWmM
i
v^-
0 >•*' -«•’
A -
cv VjRCEFUi ‘ spQl
is v
iM#
g ' v> mww WiM
m.ss a
*
