

.
-•
A
ffllt
*:
'M
W&.
ciaS
Kod2&
v#
ftlCH'
KODAK I’ILM is made in Australia—ail up-to-
the-minute product manufactured in accordance
with the latest discoveries of Kodak Research
Laboratories throughout the world.
FREE ! Kodak Film Booklet,
“Success with Your Pictures **
Name
Address . . .
can’t have
too many snaps!
It’s a world of colour —and a
world of action! You can
capture that colour and action
with a Cine-Kodak. 16mm.
models from £l5 ; Bmm. models
from £1111916. Write for
catalogue.
WITH 12 MODERN
FEATURES FOR BETTER
SNAPSHOTS.
Be sure to see the Kodak
Juniors—a fine series of
modern picture - makers,
featuring action front for
speed into picture-taking.
Prices from 39/9.
FOR CLOSE-UPS AS
WELL AS GENERAL
VIEWS.
Six-20 Brownies are as clever
as they look! Featuring extra
large viewfinders for easy
sighting and new Diway lens
for sharp pictures of every
subject.
Prices 19/6, 24/-.
SHINING,
ALL-MOULDED,
STREAMLINED!
Only 6/- for this novel, light,
compact picture-maker. It's
a real camera and carries the
Kodak name; makes pictures
2-tin. by lsiu. (A’.P.) on Xo.
V 127 Kodak Film.
Price 6/-.
Of all Kodak Dealers and KODAK (Australasia) PTY., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Penh, Hobart, Launceston. Toowoomba, Townsville,
Rockhampton. Cairns, Ballarat, Newcastle.
KODAK NEW ZEALAND. LIMITED, Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin. Christchurch.
The Bulletin
Limerick No. 11: The Prizewinners
Vol. 60.—N0. 3076.
Wednesday, January 25, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sy.dney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
Story
Writmg
at HOME
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free Booklet, explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin-
My Name
My Address
S.B. 339
The Red Page
PAINTED BY THE POISONER?
In the art gallery of the Mitchell Library, Sydney,
there hangs an oil painting of Sydney Harbor ascribed
to G. E. Peacock, a landscape painter of the early
days; by attributing it to the poisoner Wainewright,
who was transported to Hobart, Jonathan Curling in
Janus Weathercock (Nelson ; per Angus and Robert-
son) has probably started a first-class controversy.
Curling, in his biography of the poisoner, is
practically convinced that it is Wainewright’s;
the librarian at the Mitchell is equally certain that
it is not. The librarian believes that the background
is Peacock’s, the foreground the work of another hand
—but not Wainewright’s.
The evidence for Peacock consists of two litho-
graphs, one in the Mitchell and one in the Public
Gallery in Melbourne, on each of which is printed:
“The City and Harbor of Sydney, N.S.W., 1860. From
an early painting by Peacock, the property of Gideon
Scott Lang—the original has since been lost.” The
lithographs differ slightly from the painting now in
the Mitchell by having only one windmill instead of
two, and by the representation of Fort Denison as a
fort instead of as a flat rock. The theory is that the
lithographs were done at a much later date than the
painting and were altered to bring them up to date.
Possibly because of a misunderstanding of corre-
spondence on the subject, Curling says that the paint-
ing “bears no resemblance in style” to other Peacock
landscapes in the gallery. That is hardly correct; the
foreground, a violent green melodrama of rocks and
trees, is certainly unlike Peacock’s work; but the
Turneresque arrangement of water and sunset in the
background could easily be Peacock’s. The librarian
suggests that when the lithographs were done the
painting itself was “improved.” An examination of
the picture reveals grounds for this opinion.
A further point made by the librarian is that
Wainewright was a portrait-painter, Peacock a land-
scapist. Quite a number of Wainewright’s portraits
survive (Curling says that several are held by families
in Tasmania), but apparently no landscapes other
than the one in dispute are recorded. Since Waine-
wright was ten years in Tasmania and is said to have
been in Sydney only on a short visit, there should
surely be Tasmanian landscapes extant if his talents
did extend to that field.
Finally, the librarian, from correspondence with
the authorities in the Speck, doubts if Wainewright
ever visited Sydney. There is no official record of the
interlude on which Curling’s story rests.
For all that, Curling puts up a case so strong that
decision one way or the other is extremely difficult.
Mr. Charles Lang, of Sydney, the son of Gideon
Lang, related to him a convincing family story of
Gideon’s having brought Wainewright as an assigned
servant from Hobart to the mainland. If that hap-
pened, and if Wainewright had the talent, he might
well have painted the solitary landscape to please his
benefactor. Wainewright undoubtedly had a more or
less privileged position in Hobart, and in view of a
prolonged illness might have been allowed to make
the trip for convalescence.
One of Mr. Lang’s uncles pointed out to him the
place where Wainewright had sat to paint the picture.
Curling has his geography muddled here ; he says that
it was the spot in “Point Piper-road” now occupied by
St. Mark’s Church. St. Mark’s Church is in Darling
Point-road: but that is just a slip, and doesn’t affect
the validity of the Lang family tradition. Gideon
Lang, says Curling, is supposed to have transgressed
the law in some manner by allowing Wainewright to
paint the picture, and that is why he led inquirers to
believe it was Peacock’s work. He took the painting
to England, and Mr. Charles Lang, discovering it in an
aunt’s house, brought it back to Australia and lent
it first to the Sydney Public Library and then to the
Mitchell.
It is a pity that the Australian background in
Janus Weathercock is so flimsy. Even if —as it appears
—the book is addressed mainly to an English audience
because of Wainewright’s association with Lamb, the
extraordinary contrast between literary London and
early Hobart should have been as well worth stressing
as that between Wainewright the brilliant young man
of fashion and Wainewright the cold, monstrously
cruel poisoner.
The son of a Thomas Wainewright who was
either a chemist or a lawyer and was certainly a
nonentity, “Janus” inherited brilliance from his
mother, the daughter of Dr. Griffiths, founder and
editor of the “Monthly Review” —for whom, inciden-
tally, Goldsmith worked at starvation wages. At 19,
the young Wainewright entered the studio of a por-
trait-painter, and painted a portrait of Byron. Tiring
of painting, he had himself appointed an ensign in
the 16th Foot—and retired after a year with no ex-
perience of war, but with this vague justification for
delicately hinting in later years at a “commission in
the Guards.”
He began writing for the “London Magazine,”
bright, gossipy, deliberately fantastic stuff that won
him the acquaintance of Lamb, Clare, Thomas Hood,
Hazlitt and the rest of the wits or literary men of the
day.
It was at Wainewright’s house after he had mar-
ried that poor Clare, the Northamptonshire poet, was
insulted by a footman. All Wainewright’s brilliant
guests were waiting for the poet to arrive ; dinner was
begun without him ; the footman was told to go out
and see whether a gentleman in a green coat was wan-
dering timidly up and down the street. “Why, there’s
a countryman been sitting in the hall this past half-
hour,” said the footman. He hadn’t realised that
Clare, “a bumpkin in hobnailed boots,” could possibly
be one of the guests, and Clare, presumably, was too
modest to make a fuss.
For all his success, Wainewright was making no
fortune out of journalism, and yet to keep up his posi-
tion he was spending a fortune. That is the simple
origin of his crimes. His maternal grandfather, ob-
scurely vindictive, had left him only the income on
£5OOO out of a large estate. Wainewright forged the
signatures of his trustees to a power of attorney en-
abling him to draw £2OOO of the capital, and two years
later repeated the forgery to obtain the remaining
£3OOO. These comparatively venial forgeries to secure
his own money were the crimes for which years later
he was transported. He was never convicted of
poisoning.
Three years after the second forgery, the financial
problem was acute again. A maternal uncle, George
Griffiths, who had carried on the “Monthly Review,”
was living in the family home in the country. Waine-
wright was his heir. Six months after Wainewright
and his wife went to stay with him, Uncle George con-
veniently and agonisingly died of convulsive pains in
the stomach. But the estate had dwindled. Waine-
wright still needed money.
His mother-in-law and his wife’s two half-sisters
came to stay with him. Six days after the mother-in-
law had made a will leaving her tiny estate of £lOO
to Wainewright’s wife, the parent died suddenly in
the most agonising convulsions.
There follows the amazing story of the insuring
of Mrs. Wainewright’s younger half-sister, Helen, with
various companies for a total of £16,000. The policies
were all for two years, and Wainewright paid the
premiums ; Helen assigned some of the policies to
Wainewright, some to his wife, and within two months
of taking them out died in agony.
The only possible explanation of her actions in
the affair seems to be a family plot, in which she
knowingly participated: the family, it is suggested,
arranged to defraud the companies by going abroad
and staging a fake death ; pressure from creditors and
fear that the fake death might not satisfy the com-
panies made Wainewright decide on a real death —if,
indeed, he had not been duping the girl all along. Mrs.
Wainewright was almost certainly a party to the
murder.
Again Wainewright failed to secure the money
he wanted. The companies refused to pay out. Waine-
wright fled to France, and had the audacity to sue the
companies from his retreat. Open allegations of
murder were made against him by the Attorney-
General at the first hearing, and at a second hearing
he lost the case.
After a total of seven years of exile Wainewright
—in pursuit of a woman, it is said —returned to Eng-
land, was recognised and arrested for his forgeries.
Though later he was defiant, even boasting that he
had killed Helen “because her ankles were too thick,”
he was dazed and broken at first: —•
Sir Peter Laurie (who sat for the Lord Mayor) asked
the prisoner what he was.
Prisoner: I am nothing. I have been an independent
gentleman, and had considerable property, and I was
originally an officer in the 16th Foot.
In the Central Criminal Court he pleaded guilty
to two minor charges in connection with the forgeries,
and was sentenced to transportation for life. He had
expected merely a nominal penalty. After ten years
at the Rocky Hills Probation Station he died ; at the
end he was “obsessed with a hatred for humanity
and squandered his affection on the hospital cat.” He
seems to have been a model prisoner, but given to
outbursts of ferocity, sometimes real, sometimes his-
trionic.
As literary man and dandy, forger and poisoner
Wainewright fascinated many writers ; Dickens based
Hunted Down on his career, and used him in the
characters of Rigaud Blandois and Jonas Chuzzlewit;
Bulwer Lytton used him for Lucretia; Oscar Wilde
romanticised him in an essay, “Pen, Pencil and Poison.”
Curling’s study is complicated and says too little about
the latter part of Wainewright’s career, but it is at the
same time both careful and interesting.
A New One by Wells.
Apropos of Dolores (Cape: per Robertson and
Mullens, Melb.) is H. G. Wells’s latest. His principal
character, Stephen Wilbeck, is a publisher and
educationist, and the story is told in the first person.
Wilbeck falls in love with a pretty figure, marries
and has a daughter, and the moment another man
comes into the picture deserts both wife and daughter.
He then falls in love with the beautiful Dolores, an
idle, self-indulgent woman he meets on the Riviera.
She succeeds in tricking him into marriage, and for
13 years they live a cat-and-dog life which Wilbeck
only succeeds in making tolerable for himself by
running off to his publishing business every time she
humiliates him in public.
Then he remembers he has a daughter who should
now be 16, and might prove a solace. He visits his
former wife, who has married the man who ousted
him from her affections, and makes paternal advances
to the daughter under the guise of being her god-
father. She likes the attentions this man who is more
distinguished than her stepfather lavishes on her, and
he gets permission to take her to France.
But she turns out to be rather dull, owing, as
Wilbeck observes, to the bad way she has been edu-
cated, and he soon wants to be anywhere but in her
company. Unfortunately his current wife has become
insanely jealous and harbors monstrous suspicions
about his relations with his daughter. She proceeds
to make more public exhibitions of their marital
infelicity and Wilbeck longs to desert Dolores, just as
he has deserted everybody else to whom he has meant
anything.
One night he goes into her bedroom to say good-
night, and she frankly tells him she, who once loved
him so much, now hates him so intensely that she
will devote the rest of her life to ruining his. Then
she asks him to mix her her usual sleeping draught.
She is found dead in bed in the morning.
Wilbeck wonders whether, consciously or un-
consciously, he put the whole contents of the bottle
into the glass in which he mixed the sleeping draught
He remembers that he thought she would be dead in
the morning. But a problem that would obsess an-
other individual he dismisses very easily when he
sees another plum ready to be picked in a lovely
girl whom he happens momentarily to meet as the
result of a motor breakdown.
He misses with her, however, and the book closes
with Wilbeck speculating about the biology of dogs,
of human beings, of the future of humanity, of evo-
lution and a hundred other subjects ; and he concludes
that his unfortunate experiences are due to the fact
that if a man cannot agree with a woman it is
because they each belong to a different species.
But signs are apparent that some great change is
going to come about in the future; there is a “world
mind” which is groping towards something better.
He is going to play his part by returning to London
“to work hard, to work really hard, and to put things
into an altogether bolder and more definite shape.”
Unfortunately, he is “muddy-minded.” “It is the
common lot to be muddy-minded. Nevertheless, by
getting numbers of people to think as hard as they
can and state as clearly as they can, and then by
bringing their results together, gradually, steadily, a
clearing-up is possible.”
Like most of Wells’s books, Apropos of Dolores
is full of interesting half-truths and suggestions, for
Wells, like Dickens, is sensitive to the fact that the
world around him could be moulded into something
better. „ r .„ .
But how to do it is another matter. Wilbeck
thought he could bring about peace, happiness and
what not for humanity, but he could not even stop
Dolores nagging at him. Yet she was probably just
as good material as any other woman.
An Australian in Harbin.
Before she saw the Japanese troops march into
Harbin, Janet Mitchell, an Australian whose Spoils
of Opportunity has been published by Methuen, had
some experience of invasion—less grim but exciting
enough—in Sydney in the days of Lang. She was on
duty in the Government Savings Bank of New South
Wales when depositors swarmed in to withdraw their
savings before the doors closed.
Those two experiences are the highlights of a
book that is otherwise a quiet record of travel, public
service and work for the Institute of Pacific Relations.
The early chapters will have special interest for Mel-
bourne, where her family has a distinguished record.
Mary Mitchell, her sister, wrote A Warning to
Wantons, and “Chinese” Morrison was a cousin.
Miss Mitchell saw the bank debacle from the
inside. She had been appointed Thrift Service
Director under a scheme to encourage saving among
school-children and housewives, and to advise in the
economical running of households. Accepting the
position with no knowledge of banking, and in face
of warnings about “the almost incredible dilatoriness
and stupidities of Government departments” and the
“rivalry between Victoria and New South Wales —
one of the silliest, features of Australian life,” she took
a trip to America to learn how things were done, and
then came back and made the scheme a success.
There were families to be shown how to avoid liv-
ing at the rate of £ll a week when their income was
£7 55.; there was a housewife managing on £5 a week
asking to be shown how to save five shillings of it.
There was the Definite Object Savings Plan which 400
firms and 20,000 employees adopted, and under whLa
the deposits totalled £69,000. Then there was this: —
“The queue’s going right round the outside of the
building!”
“It was bad enough yesterday.”
“They’re going to open at half past nine.”
“Just look at the people!”
“What are we to tell people if they ask us if it’s all
right?”
“Go on telling them so.”
“If only someone would muzzle Mr. Lang”
A nightmare day with the bank packed tight with
anxious depositors, with women appealing to Miss
Mitchell to tell them if their money was safe; the
nerve-racking and uneasy job of reassuring them;
three o’clock, with several hundred people still in the
banking chamber ; the announcement by the manager,
“The bank has suspended payment as from four-
thirty to-day.”
Miss Mitchell, out of a job, went off to Shanghai
for the Institute of Pacific Relations —and found that
body more or less out of a job, too, because Japan
was walking into Manchuria. In Peiping when the
o Continued, on page 8.)


" TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ” the salt of business.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
4 ™
««**m**mm
ZSr
v *
/i
*.'■:* ■ y A
■t fw
% #s
* Cl #
21'- Felt Hats
Now 166
Men's smart high grade pure Fur Felt
hats with narrow or medium snap brims.
Neatly lined with quality satin. Ideal
for present wear. Steel, Slate, Fawn,
Brown and also a tony shade of light
Grey. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, ea. 21/-
SALE PRICE, each 16/6
7'6 WOOL UWEAR
Buy now for the cold weather months ahead . . . it's
a grand opportunity for you to save your money . . ,
you can buy three garments at this reduced price for less
than the ordinary price of two! Natural . . . lightweight.
Short sleeves . . . long underpants. 34 to 44 inch chests
or waists. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, per
garment 1 : L 7/6
SALE PRICE, each • 4/11
4'll
6'll WORK SHIRTS
For men who must do laborious work . these are the
shirts for service! Made of strong and durable material,
with double sewn seams throughout. Heather and Blue
shades. Ask for the "Bushman" shirt! 14£ to 19 in. necks.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, ea » 6/11
SALE PRICE, ea 6/6
66
• Men’s Mercery Ground Floor,
Georye Street. Frciyht paid to all
railway stations in N.S. W. and
Seaports in the Commonwealth.
%
m
27'6 CARDIGANS
Superior quality Cardigan Jackets. A typical ex-
ample of the genuine, generous savings to be made
at Anthony Horderns' Half Yearly Genuine Sale.
Woven with Patons' pure wool in fine or heavy
weaves. Fancy Jacquard designs on Grey, Blue or
Brown grounds. Size: Men's, O.S. and E.X.O.S.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices, each, 27/6, 30/-
SALE PRICE, each __ 17/6
176
"THE SENIOR STORE”
Hattf Ifearlij genuine
\
am
m
wmm
9 7 6 Flannelette ’JAMAS
Medium weight striped flannelette Pyjama Suits for men. Smart
designs. Obtainable in Small Men's, Medium and O.S. sizes.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, pair ...., 9/6
SALE PRICE, pair 7/6
76
Men’s Business
SHIRTS
Usually &6
now e,g
Men's Business shirts made in our
own workrooms from reliable
British poplin. Featuring V cased
fronts, double cuffs, and two de-
tached collars with each shirt,
fitted with supports. In Blue,
Grey and Fawn stripe designs.
Size 14 to 18 inch necks. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price, ea., 8/6
SALE PRICE, ea. 6/9
m
m
i
w
S'
2
*
//
//
zm
T*f*f
m
wm
m
///
n
%
/;•
88
i
/ a
m
mm
r
mm
. ..
aair:
yac


FERDINAND
FURIOSO
BY
PHIL DORTER
DRAWING BY SUCH.
HE Ed. looked at me round the crack in his
f spectacles. “Remember those miners and their
v y cat-and-dog racing business at Grumbledubblin
or somewhere?”
“Gumbadubbin,” I corrected him. “Yes, what
about ’em?”
“•Well, I think they’re up to something else now.
Look at this,” and he passed me an issue of the
Gumbadubbin “Express.”
I skipped through a couple of columns and read
a lot about matadors and picadors, and a heap of
praise for one Ferdinand Furioso.
“Seems they’ve taken to bullfighting,” I said.
“Yes,” said the Ed. “You’d better take a run up
there and give them the once-over. If you can’t con-
nect ’em with the Spanish war or something you
might make a case of cruelty to dumb animals.”
I T suited me, so I took out an advance on expenses,
* and once again 1 journeyed to Gumbadubbin, to find
the same red-headed chap leaning morosely over a
mug, talking to the same barman in the same pub.
“ ’Ullo,” he said. “You here again ; what is it
this time?”
I bought him a drink, downed one myself and
went to work. “I hear you’ve started bullfighting
now.”
He almost smiled through his gloom. “You’re
too late again,” he mourned. “It’s all over.”
I’d almost expected that, so I bought more
drinks.
“It was Lofty Morgan’s idea again,” he
began. “We were leanin’ over the rail of our
’ome-made racecourse sorrowin’ for the failure of
the cat-’n’-dog-racin’ business; Lofty wasn’t
smokin’, so I knew his brain was workin’.
“ ‘Barney,’ ’e murmured, ‘l’ve been thinkin’
about that picture we saw last week —the one with
the lions ’n’ tigers fightin’ each other to entertain
them Roman Emprers. If we altered the course
a bit we could use it for an arena ’n’ start the same
game ’ere.’
“ ‘Yair,’ I said. ‘ ’N’ ’oo in ’ell would come
within fifty miles of ’em with only a fence like this
to keep ’em caged in?’
“ ‘Not lions, Barney,’ ’e said, ‘but goats. There’s
thousands of ’em round ’ere doin’ nothin’ for their
livin’ except make nuisances of ’emselves.’
“That was the beginnin’ of an idea which the
town caught on to quicker than free beer. In a
fortnight the kero.-tin ’n’ mulga barriers ’ad been
moved out to form an arena, ’n’ in a month every
billygoat in the district ’ad been grabbed ’n’ yarded.
“We ’ad to savage ’em up a bit, but that was easy.
Just imagine ’ow an ol’ man billy’d feel after he’s
been locked up on his own for a month with nothin’
to think about except ’ow dreadful ’e smells. ’N’
then we used to tease ’em a bit when we groomed
’n’ fed ’em every day. They got so fierce that we
’ad to leg-rope ’n’ throw ’em before we could go
anywhere near ’em.
“Five weeks after Lofty’s brainstorm we ’eld the
first meetin’. It was a riot; the crowd paid a sprat
each admission and nearly tore the place down with
excitement when the old billies chased each other
round the ring or shaped up to each other with their
long shiny horns.
“The goafs sparred up like champions with upper-
cuts, hooks, thrusts ’n’ parries, ’n’ every now ’n’ again
they’d lay in a bit of dirt with their ’oofs. Some of
’em were skittled, ’n’ others got such a whale of a
thrashin’ that they began to clear out. It was great
while it lasted, but gradually the billies began to
eliminate each other, ’n’ it looked as if a few months
would see our stock of goats right out. Some of
them, too, got wise to the idea, ’n’ after rushin’ into
the ring they’d face each other for a while, ’n’ then
turn round ’n’ bleat at the crowd.
“The mob didn’t take that too well, ’n’ there
were other things they didn’t like either. Most of the
goats were pretty well known by now ’n’ it was
generally easy to tip the winners. The local bookie
shortened the odds till it wasn’t worth while makin’ a
bet. People began to find other things to interest ’em
on Saturday afternoons ’n’ Sundays.
“One billy, ’owever, was always an attraction —
Slap Murray’s big brown chap, Ferdinand. It was a
delight to watch ’im fight. Slap used to feed ’im
well, ’n’ after a few months Ferdinand used to
damn near kill ’imself fightin’ ’is own shadow. ’ls
yard ’ad to be reinforced, ’n’ every time ’e went into
the ring ’e skittled ’is opponent for good ’n’ all. The
crowd always rolled up to see Ferdinand fight, but
we couldn’t expect their enthusiasm for a single goat,
nor the goat for that matter, to last for ever. Lofty
did some pretty fast thinkin’.
“ ‘Barney,’ ’e said at last, ‘at this rate our in-
come’ll peter out in no time. We’ll ’ave to think of
somethin’ else, ’n’ think of it pretty quick.’
“It came to me over the sixth pot. ‘Why not
try bullfightin’?’ I asked ’im.
“ ’E slapped me so ’ard on the back that I nearly
ruined a couple of teeth on my glass. ‘You’re a
genius,’ ’e said.
“We collected some of the boys ’n’ ’eld a meetin’
at the back of the pub. They rushed the idea with
their ears back. Some of ’em ’oo ’ad owned goats
that’d been skittled or ’ad gone bush reckoned they’d
make pretty good bullfighters ; others who still owned
goats thought it’d be better to let their billies fight
human bein’s and save ’em from gettin’ killed. Goat-
owners, y’see, had somethin’ the same standin’ as
race’orse-owners in the city.
“After that everyone —men and goats —went into
strict trainin’. Since the billies weren’t to be killed
v/e didn’t peed toreadors, but all the youngsters in
the town wanted to be picadors. We picked a couple
of dozen ’n’ trained ’em on nannies, ’n’ finally got
half a dozen chaps for matadors ’n’ promised the
others we’d give ’em a chance later. Spike Mulligan
lost the seats of five pairs of pants while jumpin’
around with ’is brother’s man-eatin’ kangaroo-dog ;
Mike Walters used to get ’is missus to charge ’im
with a pitchfork, ’n’ Toni Spillotti got so bad that
’e used to whip out a handkerchief ’n’ dance about
like a ballet dancer every time anyone came near ’im.
“CTOON everythtin’ was set, ’n’ the crowd gathered
at the arena like they had when we first held
the fights. We’d advertised it well, ’n’ the ‘Express’
gave it a couple of columns. The local band rolled
along, too, ’n’ beefed out ‘The Toreador’s Song.’
“The bloke who played the trumpet sounded a
blast, a billy came careerin’ into the arena ’n’ the
kids went to work on ’im. Of course, they weren’t
allowed to ’urt the goat; they ’ad strict instructions
just to make ’im mad. They booed ’im, waved flags
’E was there all right, right
be ind ’im in fact, ’n ’e took
Toni square bang in the stern.
at ’im ’n’ they dodged about in ’n’ out of the ring
until that goat was mad enough to take on a man-
eatin’ tiger. ’E got up on ’is ’ind legs ’n’ bleated
at the mob as though ’e was goin’ to bash ’is way
through the barricades ’n’ take ’em all on. Then Spike
Mulligan waltzed into the arena wavin’ half a sheet.
“Well, you should have seen that billy go into
action. ’E bleated to ’igh ’eaven, sniffed the air a
bit, pawed the dust to get a good start, ’n’ charged.
Spike ’eld ’is ground until the last moment, then waved
’is sheet ’n’ leapt aside. Oswald careered past ’n
finished up bang against the wall. ’E shook ’is ’ead
’n’ came back for more, ’n’ this time Spike was a bit
late with ’is jump. Oswald took ’im full amidships
’n’ ’e slumped to the ground with a grunt you
could ’ear 'alf a mile away. The billy sniffed ’im
over once or twice, bleated to the crowd ’n’ ambled
off the arena through the door into ’is run.
“The crowd cheered Oswald so much I thought
their yellin’ would break the drought. ’N’ for each
succeedin’ event they yelled louder. Some of the
chaps lost ’n’ some of ’em won, but nobody minded
much providin’ it was a good fight. Then Lofty took
the centre of the ring.
“ ‘Ladies ’n’ gents,’ ’e yelled, ‘I ain’t sayin’ much,
except that I’m pleased you’re all enjoyin’ the show.
They’ll get better as we go on ’n’ learn more about
the game. ’N’ now the main event of the day—
Ferdinand versus Toni Spillotti.’
“The gate flew open, ’n’ two seconds later Fer-
dinand was breathin’ fire in the centre of the ring.
’E shook ’is ’ead, stamped ’is feet ’n’ screamed at the
mob. None of the youngsters were game to go near
’im. Every time one of them moved to jump into
the ring Ferdinand was facin’ that way, ready ’n’
waitin’. One youngster did manage to jump the fence,
but ’e was hauled out again, ’n’ Ferdinand was ’alf
way to ’im before ’is feet touched the ground.
“Then Toni sprang into the ring, jumpin’ about
like ’e was bristlin’ with corns. Ferdinand eyed ’im
off for a minute, then charged. ’E ’ad a magnificent
approach ; ’e’d run at an angle as though ’e was
goin’ to pass, then ’e’d swerve when ’e was twenty
feet away ’n’ come straight at you. But Toni was
good too, ’n’ with ’is first charge Ferdinand only ’it
a red rug with nothin’ be’ind it. ’E did the same
tlfing several times, ’n’ then slowed up to get ’is
bearin’s.
“Toni was puffin’ ’n’ pantin’ but ’e ’eld ’is ground,
waitin’ for the billy to charge again. Ferdinand put
’is ’ead down ’n’ moved more slowly, ’n’ this time ’e
came straight at Toni. Toni waited until Ferdinand
was twenty feet away, then stepped from behind his
rug, but the billy swerved too, ’n’ took Toni right
over the roast beef ’e’d ’ad for dinner. The little
bloke was tough, ’n’ ’e was on ’is feet again in a
brace of shakes ’n’ lookin’* for the goat. ’E was there
all right, right be’ind ’im, in fact, ’n’ ’e took Toni
square bang in the stern. Toni sailed some six feet
or more without touchin’ earth, ’n’ didn’t wait to
argue any more ; ’e streaked for the cover of the
barricades with the billy snortin’ close up in the rear,
’n’ as ’e cleared the six-feet fence Ferdinand gave
’im a helpin’ ’orn.
‘‘ CO the bullfightin’ went on from week to week,
Ferdinand’s fame growin’ ’n’ spreading all
the time. He became known as Ferdinand Furioso,
’n’ people came from the other towns round about
to see ’im fight ’n’ some to try fightin’ ’im. Our
matadors’ wages were paid by the fees other blokes
paid to fight ’im, ’n’ we took Slap Murray ’n’ Fer-
dinand into partnership.
“That goat was never beaten. One ’n’ all ’e took
on all comers, ’n’ one ’n’ all ’e licked ’em. ’E grew
more cunnin’ with each fight. ’E learned to charge
past the rug, pivot like a dancer ’n’ come back on
’is opponents before they ’ad time to see where
’e’d gone. ’E took ’em all ways —side, front ’n’
stern —’n’ ’e broke so many bones that the
local quack never let a day go by without
askin’ after Ferdinand’s ’ealth. /
“Of course, it was only natural that
a goat like that would ’ave a certain
amount of intelligence, ’n’ presently ’e
began to show it. ’E got that way
that Lofty, Slap ’n’ meself could
do anythin’ with ’im. But for all
the pettin’ we gave ’im ’e never
forgot that ’e ’ad to fight. Even


we couldn’t shake a handkerchief near ’im. As soon
as ’e saw a bit of rag wavin’ in the breeze ’e became a
flamin’ brown tornado ’n’ took everythin’ in ’is path.
“ ’ls energy was embarrassin’ at times, particerly
when we took ’im for ’is daily exercise. Once
’e charged a shop-window blind, ’n’ we ’ad to fork
out a fiver to pay for the glass that was be’ind it.
Another time ’e saw a small curtain wavin’ out the
window of the parson’s ’ouse ’n’ ’e went clean through
the window in one leap. Trouble was it was the
bathroom, ’n’ the parson came flyin’ out the door
wrapped in thought ’n’ nothin’ else ’n’ wavin’ a towel
’n’ screamin’ for ’elp. ’E ’n’ ’is towel perched half-
way up a gum till we managed to drag Ferdinand off.
“It was little things like that made Ferdinand’s
name for ’im. ’E even ’ad a public like one of them
film-stars, ’n’ people sent ’im presents in the way of
ribbons ’n’ rugs ’n’ what nots.
“But Ferdinand’s fame was the beginnin’ of the
end.
“I don’t mind admittin’ that Lofty, Slap ’n’ meself
were makin’ a pretty fair cop out of the business,
’n’ soon our ’cads began to swell a bit. Lofty started
the trouble. ‘Boys,’ ’e said, ‘we’re makin’ good money,
but I reckon we can do better.’
‘“’Ow?’ we asked.
“‘We’ll take Ferdinand on a trip round the fields
’n’ p’raps out to the coast ’n’ stage fights on the way.
Nothin’ like fresh ground ; ’n’, besides, we need a
'oliday ’n’ so does Ferdie.’
“That settled it, ’n’ we packed up ’n’ left in a
fortnight. The town gave us a great send-off ’n’ the
band played the train away. We went from town to
town ’n’ the dough simply poured in. Everyone from
six-year-old nippers to their grandfathers wanted to
fight that goat, ’n’ Ferdinand licked every single one
of ’em.
“At last we ’it the coast at the little port of
Throsby ’n’ were given a prince’s reception. We
staged a couple of fights, ’n’ the attendance at each
beat all previous records. Things looked so good
we reckoned we’d retire in a couple of years.
“Then one day when we were takin’ Ferdinand
for ’is daily stroll we passed the wharf where a lugger
was just castin’ off with ’er sails flappin’ ’n’ smackin’
in the breeze. Lofty ’n’ I ’ad done a bit of pearlin’
in our time, ’n’ we stood watchin’ ’n’ admirin’ the
boat without realisin’ that the goat was watchin’ too.
The flappin’ of those sails got ’im. Before we knew
what ’e was up to ’e’d let out one challengin’ bleat
V taken off along the wharf for all ’e was worth.
’E cleared the end of the wharf ’n’ was swimmin’
like blazes after the lugger before we’d tumbled to
the trouble.
“There wasn’t another boat in sight, so Lofty ’n’
1 just stood there watchin’, ’n’ the last we ever saw
of Ferdinand ’e was swimmin’ in great style after
the lugger as it vanished over the horizon.”
The red-headed man sighed and finished his beer.
1 drank with him in silent sympathy, then sud-
denly raised a point. “You say Lofty and yourself
stood watchin’. What about Slap?”
His grief was almost painful. “The last we ever
saw of Slap,” he said, “ ’e was swimmin’ like blazes
after Ferdinand Furioso.”
SPACE AND SMITH
BY H.C. McKAY.
“I lIS door locked! A notice on it! I’ll soon put
j I an end to that!” Reaching a bunch of keys
I | from a hook in her office, Miss Trapp,
manageress and owner of Daydream Flats,
set off for No. 4 on the third floor. Payment was
weekly, in advance. The defaulting tenant, P. X. Smith,
had not paid at the week-end.
Tackled at his flat door he spun such a specious
yarn of receiving a big cheque on Monday that, against
her better judgment, Miss Trapp agreed to wait. Mon-
day came. Smith’s door throughout the day bore a
sheet of paper inscribed “Out.” On Tuesday evening
Penberthy, a third-floor tenant in a civil service job,
came to Miss Trapp with a sorrowful story. Smith
had knocked him up at midnight on Monday, and by
desperate pleading had borrowed a pound, repayable
next day. Now, according to Penberthy, there was
no sign of life in Smith’s flat, and, worse, a mysterious
threat was pinned to the door.
When Miss Trapp and Penberthy reached No. 4,
they saw a square sheet of paper on the door, and
upon it in straggling block letters:
THIS DOOR MUST NOT BE OPENED.
ATTEMPTS TO FORCE MAY RESULT IN
INJURY OR DEATH.
“Stuff and rubbish!” growled Miss Trapp. “I’ll
open this door at once!” She selected a duplicate
key. But she did not fit it in the lock ; she merely
made dabs in the air with it.
After a few minutes Penberthy said impatiently,
“What the devil are you waving the key about for?”
“I can’t” began Miss Trapp ; then the key
seemed forced from her hand. She picked it up and
handed it to him. “Here, you try! ”
Penberthy found to his amazement that the door
seemed protected by an invisible barrier. A quick
thrust at the lock was followed by a quick thrust
back. He gave up the job of trying to fit the key; it
was hopeless.
“I see you are admiring my citadel,” said a voice.
The missing tenant, Smith, was speaking. He had
opened the door. He was a dark, lean-jawed man
of about thirty with a lined face, just now marked
by added lines of ironic amusement.
“Hand over last week’s rent and leave this flat,”
snapped Miss Trapp. “Pay up, or I’ll call the police.”
Smith laughed irritatingly. “I’m neither going nor
paying. I’m staying here rent-free for the rest of my
life.”
Angrily Miss Trappy made another move towards
the doorway. This time she was flung back so fiercely
that she crashed against the corridor wall.
“Pick her up, Penberthy,” said Smith with an-
other jeering laugh. “And thanks for the pound. You
won’t get it back, by the way. I’ve used it to stock
up this room with provisions, pro tem., while I make
arrangements for that thrilling struggle, P. X. Smith
versus The World.”
“The man’s gone mad,” whispered Penberthy as
he helped Miss Trapp to her feet. . “It’s no good stay-
ing here ; we can’t get in, he’s done something to the
door. Our best plan’s to call in the police.”
"F HEY went to the police station and reported the
* matter. The sergeant was incredulous concerning
the “mysterious barrier,” but sent a constable along
to size up the situation.
The limb of the law fared no better than his pre-
decessors. Finding that an invisible force barred his
approach, he made a quick rush, attempting to shoulder
the door. He was flung back so violently that he lay
for a moment stunned. The door then opened, reveal-
ing P. X. Smith, who gleefully surveyed the scene. The
policeman picked himself up and made a bull-rush at
Smith. This time he was hurled back so fiercely that
his skull crashed on the corridor wall, and he lay un-
conscious. Miss Trapp and Penberthy, now thoroughly
scared, dragged him down the corridor away from
Smith’s door. In a little while he came to. He was be-
wildered and enraged. “Assaulting police and dam-
aging uniform,” he muttered, brushing the dust off.
“This is a matter for the fire-brigade.”
Smith’s front room overlooked the street. A little
later a curious crowd gathered there as several fire-
brigade cars arrived and an extension ladder was run
up to Smith’s window. A fireman ascended, carrying
a hose which had been attached to the water main.
But the plan didn’t work. As the ladder
approached the window it was thrown up. Smith
appeared, carrying a megaphone. “This imbecile on
the ladder,” he roared, “is about to commit suicide. I
give him fair warning!”
The fireman’s reply was to signal for water. A
fierce jet sprang from the nozzle, reached about a foot
from the window, then reversed its direction. The
shock flung the fireman to the roadway with a frac-
tured skull.
“Lesson number one!” megaphoned Smith jubi-
lantly from above.
The officer in charge of the brigade immediately
ordered the hose to be directed upon Smith’s window
from below. The result was disastrous. A similar
rebound of water from an invisible barrier followed,
with an impact that wrenched the hose from the fire-
men’s grasp. It fell, twisted round and swept the crowd.
Smith then came to the window and harangued
the crowd per megaphone. “You may as well give up
at once all attempts to penetrate my stronghold,” began
his astounding address. “This flat is protected by a
barrier of negative gravitation. I am not going into
a scientific explanation ; I will simply tell you that I
have encircled the flat with a thin shell of space, in
which there is such a repulsive force that every moving
object meeting it has its direction reversed, retaining its
original speed.
“The discovery was a chance one, made during
experiments with chemical currents sent along a wire.
But the main point I wish to impress on you is that
lam a desperate man. I have been persecuted until I
can bear it no longer.
“With my last cash I rented this flat, stocked it
with provisions, encircled the walls with a wire and
switched on my chemical current. I now defy the
world. My discovery, of course, makes all weapons
obsolete. I could sell it to some great Power ; I refuse
to do so. Because of the humiliation forced on
me, I have determined to become dictator of the world
myself. Unless this wrong is righted, the nations must
come and beg for mercy at my feet.”
"T HIS crazy speech stupefied the crowd. It was
* reported later in the newspapers and roused a
diversity of opinion. University professors pooh-
poohed Smith’s explanation. There were no such
currents as “chemical” ones, they said, and negative
gravitation was a contradiction in terms. Still, the
fact remained that Smith by some means had repulsed
all efforts to extract him from Miss Trapp’s building,
and there were many extraordinary suggestions made
as to the best way to get the madman out.
The really rational plan was eventually proposed
by Miss Trapp herself. “I’m not going to be bam-
boozled by a mere weekly tenant,” the tight-lipped
spinster told the worried Chief of Police. “Just cut
his water-supply off. That’ll get the creature out, if
he doesn’t want to perish from thirst, in a couple of
days.”
The Police Chief adopted Miss Trapp’s suggestion
with a sigh of relief. The flat’s water-supply was cut
off, the building evacuated, a cordon of police thrown
round it, and the authorities awaited the result.
Smith came out sooner than they expected ; in fact,
he came out that night. About midnight he emerged
from the street door. He held in front of him a loop
of wire supported by a thick rod of glass, the ends of
the wire trailing behind him.
The police at once made a rush at the man, but
could not touch him. An invisible force emanating
from the wire hurled them back. Smith strolled across
the street to a grocer’s shop. He entered. The next
moment the baffled police heard the rushing sound of
containers being filled from water-taps.
The street water supply was cut off as soon as
possible, but this took some time ; Water Board em-
ployees had to be ’phoned and brought to the scene.
In the meantime Smith had entrenched himself in the
grocery store. He had now an ample supply of pro-
visions and of water. The lone rebel had stolen a
march on his antagonists once again.
Next morning Smith appeared at the grocery
door and made another of his remarkable speeches.
“1 don’t want to force matters,” he shouted through
his megaphone, “but my patience is wearing thin. You
can surely realise by now that in possessing the secret
of negative gravitation I hold all the cards in this con-
flict. I have chemicals to last a year and some miles
of wire. If you cut off the city water supply I’ll move,
protected by the current, to the nearest river. 1 can
seize all provisions I need on the way. Right my
wrong, and I’ll donate my discovery to the world in
the interests of peace. Refuse, and I’ll wreck civilisa-
tion. I’ll become World Dictator!”
PX. SMITH now became world news. The rebel-
• lion of the crazy inventor against society became
an international sensation. Cabled queries, advice
and suggestions of all kinds poured in on the
Federal Government, which had now taken over the
problem of the recalcitrant Smith. But again the only
practicable suggestion came from Miss Trapp —to
restore Smith’s water supply and poison it.
But the Government hesitated to do this. For
one thing Smith was obviously possessed of a secret
of international importance. It might perish with him.
It was rumored that cables from Hitler, Stalin and
Mussolini offering him incredible sums for his inven-
tion had been sent to Smith and intercepted by the
Government; but owing to strict censorship nothing
certain was known. It was established that an offer
to place Smith in a nominal position as Wireless
Adviser to the Government at a fabulous salary had
been made. Smith had rejected it, stating that this
was not the “social injustice” he had suffered.
A few days later, about the time Smith had
extended his solitary kingdom to the whole area of
King’s Cross (expelling the inhabitants), the Federal
Cabinet sitting in secret conclave, listened to an extra-
ordinary story related by Detective Gimblett.
Gimblett had painstakingly traced the man’s his-
tory from birth to the present day. He was a normal
child, had a happy life at home and school, and was
of an ingenious turn, his hobbies being electrical and
wireless experiments. His father died, leaving him a
small sum, with which Smith set up as a radio-trader.
Chain stores eventually squeezed him out, but this was
not the “last straw” so persistently harped on in his
speeches. What rankled in his mind was that he had
once been gaoled as a tramp. He had a hobby of
hiking in old clothes through country districts at
week-ends. At Terilda Siding he passed through the
railway yard at dusk, and the guard of a goods train,
mistaking him for a hobo sneaking from a truck,
pounced on him and handed him over to the police.
Despite his protests, Smith spent the night in gaol.
He was released next day, but had never forgotten
the matter. He bombarded the Terilda police, shire
council, stationmaster and leading residents with
demands for huge sums as compensation. These letters
grew wilder, more incoherent, and finally threatening.
Apparently Smith, already unbalanced by his money
troubles, ended by believing the Terilda gaoling a
persecution instigated by humanity at large.
As soon as the Federal Cabinet heard this story
the Prime Minister got in touch with P. X. Smith
at the wired border of his “kingdom,” and offered
him whatever reparation he cared to suggest. He
promised to dismiss all officials concerned, to make
public proclamation that Smith had been wrongfully
imprisoned, and to grant any sum of money he
demanded. Smith merely laughed derisively.
“The compensation I demand,” he shouted
through his megaphone, “is that the entire population
of Terilda must be strung up on poles around my
kingdom boundary by dawn to-morrow. Failing that,
1 shall enlist an army and proceed with my conquest
of the world!”
The deputation retired in dismay.
Cabinet then tried to carry out a scheme suggested
by the Chemical Defence Board —to fire into Smith’s
stronghold a bomb containing tear-gas. The velocity
of the missile, said the experts, would break through
Smith’s gravity barrier. Troops could rush through
the breach and seize Smith, who would be blinded
and unable to escape.
The plan was put into action. But when the
mortar was fired the bomb, like every other moving
(Continued on page 7.)


A Personable Young Gentleman
UOT OF THE
PAST
MR. AMBROSE.
J.H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
MR. THEODORE AMBROSE, master’s mate in
the Royal Navy, landed for the first time in
Sydney Cove from H.M.S. Alcestis on a
summer morning towards the beginning of
1832, and proceeded to Government House. A per-
sonable young man he was, neatly and well-dressed
in his best shoregoing rig—a beaver top-hat, blue
broadcloth tail-coat with brass buttons and light-
colored pantaloons strapped beneath shining
and it was evident to those who saw him make his
entry into the capital of New South Wales that the
youthful warrant-officer was under no illusions as to
the importance of being Mr. Ambrose.
There was nothing overbearing nor offensive to
the country or its people in his attitude, but only a
just appreciation of the fact that a penal settlement
such as he now found himself in had quite good reason
for congratulating itself upon his arrival. He bore
none of the unfortunate inhabitants of the place any
ill-will, but merely considered that the wind of mis-
fortune had been a little tempered to such shorn lambs
by the coming of Mr. Theodore Ambrose. Particu-
larly did he look forward to witnessing the gratifica-
tion with which his Excellency Lieutenant-General Sir
Richard Bourke, K.C.8., Captain-General and Gov-
ernor-in-Chief in and over his Majesty’s Territory of
New South Wales, would learn, from the document
he carried in his breast-pocket, what a red-letter day
in the history of the province the present sunny
January morning really was.
This sealed communication was a letter from Vis-
count Goderich, his Majesty’s Secretary of State for
the Colonies, introducing Mr. Ambrose to his Excel-
lency. Had the captain of the Alcestis known of its
existence, Mr. Ambrose had little doubt that even
that haughty potentate would have been moved to
insist upon lending him his gig in which to come
ashore. And that surly curmudgeon Mr. Knowles,
the master, his most immediate superior officer, would
have turned green with envy, instead of threatening
him with dire misfortune should he overstay his leave
by a single hour. These fellows, of course, did not
know how greatly honored they were by having him as
a shipmate. But it would not be very long before
they should know.
Graciously inquiring the way of several and
sundry persons whom he encountered in turn after
leaving the King’s Wharf —all of whom seemed suit-
ably impressed by his demeanor—Mr. Ambrose pres-
ently found himself at the guardroom beside the
entrance to Government House grounds. Here he
passed the sergeant of the guard—who had at first been
a little doubtful about admitting him —simply by men-
tioning that he was the bearer of a dispatch from the
Graciously inquiring the way
of several and sundry persons
whom he encountered —all of
whom seemed suitably im-
pressed by his demeanor.
Secretary of State for the Colonies to his Excellency
the Governor, and was requested to be so good as to
step up to the front door and inquire for the secre-
tary. That exalted official also succumbed to his lofty
but not disdainful manner, and the mention of Lord
Goderich’s name procured him admission to the secre-
tary’s office, whence before many minutes had elapsed
he was conducted into his Excellency’s presence.
morning, sir,” said the Governor. “1 under-
' S -J stand that you carry a communication addressed
to myself from Lord Goderich. You arrived in the
Alcestis yesterday, I presume, since that ship is the
only vessel to enter Port Jackson during the last fort-
night? May I inquire as to whom I am indebted for
the transportation hither of this letter?”
Mr. Ambrose took the letter from his bosom,
bowed to Sir Richard Bourke, and handed it to him
across the table.
“My name, your Excellency, is Theodore
Ambrose, and 1 have the honor to serve aboard His
Majesty’s ship Alcestis.”
“As a lieutenant, sir?”
“I —ah —your Excellency —I assist in the naviga-
tion department. I am master’s mate. But I think that
his Lordship’s letter will more effectually introduce me
to your Excellency.”
“Ah, yes,” said Sir Richard, taking up the letter,
which was marked “Private and Confidential, and
breaking the seals. “Pray, be seated, Mr. Ambrose.”
The Governor read the letter slowly, once or
twice raising his eyes from it to glance at the self-
assured young man seated with crossed legs against
the wall, a flicker of a smile on his fine features. When
he came to the end, he read it over again.
D owning-street,
September I, 1831.
My dear General, —The bearer, Mr. Theo-
dore Ambrose, is the most bumptious and self-
satisfied young ass whom it is possible to meet
with in a twelvemonth. Unfortunately, lam
greatly indebted to his father for a personal
service, rendered many years ago. I write “un-
fortunately” for the reason that I am about to
request a favor on his behalf from yourself
that I hesitate to burden you with, but the
obligation under which I lie towards Sir John
Ambrose makes it impossible that, when he
desires me to do so, I should refuse to ask it.
It has been arranged with the Admiralty that
whenever Mr. Ambrose desires to leave the
Royal Naval service he may do so, and Captain
Barron, of H.M.S. Alcestis, in which vessel he
proceeds to New South Wales, has instructions
to that effect. Sir John requests that his son
may be given some position under Government
in the Colony which he is wholly incompetent
to fill with credit to himself or advantage to the
Administration — that, in short, he may be made
to appear a fool, and undergo such amount of
public ridicule as may do something towards
eliminating an overwhelming self-sufficiency of
character which his father —a most worthy
gentleman —considers to be both deplorable and
insufferable. When this desired end is attained,
he will doubtless be glad to return home and
enter his father’s firm, which hitherto he has
scorned to do.
I leave it to you, my
dear General, to further
the good man’s desires in
the manner indicated
above, and, whilst apolo-
gising for so extraordinary
a communication, have
every hope that you will
not fail me. It is only be-
cause of my high regard
for Sir John Ambrose that
I make it. Trusting that
you will not consider my
request unduly eccentric,
and will fully comprehend
my reason for making it,
Believe me to be, my dear
General, your obliged ser-
vant in anticipation,
Goderich.
For a little while Sir Richard Bourke said nothing,
but sat at his writing-table, the letter in his hand, re-
garding with interest and curiosity his not unprepos-
sessing visitor. At last he spoke. “Oh, yes, Mr.
Ambrose, his Lordship introduces you to me quite
explicitly. And he writes of his high regard for your
father. But he does not inform me as to one or two
details I would be interested to know concerning
yourself. What, for instance, did you say was your
present rank in the navy?”
“Master’s mate, your Excellency.”
“I am a soldier, Mr. Ambrose, and not quite so
familiar with the gradations of rank in the sister
service as perhaps 1 should be. Might I ask if that
position is one which carries with it His Majesy’s
commission as an officer?”
“No, your Excellency —his Majesty’s warrant.
Commissions are sometimes granted to warrant-
officers, and, should I have chosen to remain in the
service, I have no doubt but that I might have aspired
to one.”
“Why—may I ask the question without seeming to
perpetrate an impertinence—why, Mr. Ambrose, did
you not enter the Royal Navy by the usual channels
open to young gentlemen whose parents are possessed
of such influence as Lord Goderich’s letter indicates
to be at the command of your father?”
“My father, your Excellency, would not hear of
any such thing. He is a brewer, and desired me to
become a brewer also. I wished to serve my country,
your Excellency, otherwise than by slaking my coun-
try’s thirst. I had no taste for making and selling
beer and ales. I desired something —ah —something
more important, your Excellency.”
“Yes—and what then?”
“I ran away from Rugby school, and entered the
navy as a boy-rating, your Excellency.”
“Oh, you did! And have worked your way
upward to your present position? Not an easy task,
I take it, Mr. Ambrose —nor always a pleasant one?”
“Well, no, your Excellency—not always. Not
very easy, perhaps —but most confoundedly interest-
ing, your Excellency.”
Sir Richard Bourke’s eyes twinkled a little as he
nodded a kindly approval of this simple statement.
Its straightforwardness appealed to him. Somehow,
he liked this' lad whom his friend Goderich had
described as “a bumptious and self-satisfied young
ass.” Surely, he could hardly be as bad as all that?
Many young men were bumptious, but all bumptious-
ness was not hopelessly asinine. He went on, smiling
a little as he spoke.
“And now you desire, as Lord Goderich informs
me, to leave the navy and obtain some post of re-
sponsibility under Government in this colony? Pray,
what sort of position do you aspire to —and, if I may
ask it, why do you prefer to serve his Majesty in a
penal colony rather than in the great service in which
you appear to have done exceptionally well by your
own unaided efforts? After all, this country is as yet
little more than a prison, though undoubtedly it has
a high destiny to look to as a province of the Empire.”
“The position, your Excellency, I would be pre-
pared to leave to your Excellency’s discretion. But it
seems to me that, in New South Wales, a man of any
spirit should have opportunities that do not present
themselves in the navy in peace-time. The wars are
over, sir. But this country has its way to make,
and one might be of some use, your Excellency, in
assisting it to make its way.”
Sir Richard nodded his appreciation as he rose
to his feet and held out his hand. “Ah, well, Mr.
Ambrose, we must think it over. You will hear from
me in a day or two. Do you return to your ship at
once?”
“Not until the day after to-morrow, your Excel-
lency. I have two days’ leave. 1 hope to make myself
a little acquainted with Sydney Town in the interval.’
“ ’Tis an interesting place, but there are things to
avoid here as to which, to a young gentleman of your
experience, Mr. Ambrose, it is not necessary to go into
detail. I will send for you in a few days’ time, when
I shall have fully considered the business. Good
morning, Mr. Ambrose.”
“Good morning, your Excellency.”
That same evening Captain Hugo Barron, R.N-
commanding H.M.S. Alcestis, dined alone at
Government House with his Excellency the Governor.
As might have been expected, some portion of the
conversation between the two gentlemen had to do
with the affairs of Mr. Theodore Ambrose, masters
mate of Captain Barron’s ship. It was Sir Richard


Closing January 31
“THE BULLETIN’S”
£lOO
SHORT STORY COMPETITION
Prizes are:
First £7O
Second £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not' more than 1 500 words.
object, rebounded from the invisible barrier. It
returned, at its original velocity, to the gun, and
exploded there. The gunners ran about, blinded and
yelling, victims of their own weapon.
NT EXT day the bounds of P. X. Smith’s “kingdom”
bore placards at regular intervals reading:
“TRAMPS, HOBOES AND UNEMPLOYED. Join
Smith’s Army for World Conquest! Dictator P: X.
Smith promises you free meals, board and luxury for
the rest of your life in return for your aid in his
coming campaign against the World’s Law, Order
and Authority. Protected by my gravitation barrier,
no bomb, bullet or bayonet can touch you. Our Army
will simply march forward-; the enemy will be killed
by its own guns. Underdogs! Seize the Chance
of a Lifetime! JOIN NOW!”
How many persons joined Smith’s “army” is not
known. The Federal authorities, as soon as they dis-
covered Smith was admitting recruits (of his own
choosing) though gaps momentarily opened in his
wire, cleared the boundary with a strong force of naval
ratings and police, but not before a certain number
of derelicts had gained entry. They were a tough crew,
and the self-proclaimed dictator soon realised his
folly. Their idea was that the free meals and luxury
should begin right away. Scorning Smith’s shouted
orders, they broke into and looted the King’s Cross
shops, hotels and restaurants. They decked themselves
in new suits left in the hastily abandoned flats. Soon
a drunken riot broke out.
Exactly how the catastrophe occurred that led
to Smith’s exit will never be known. One Domain
hobo, more sober than the rest, averred that P. X.
Smith had returned to Daydream Flats to safeguard
his gravitation machine. While leaning from his flat
window shouting frenzied orders, he overbalanced and
fell, directly over one of his negative gravity wires
in the street below. He rebounded from the wire
without touching it and sailed straight up into the
air. The drunken hoboes gazed stupidly as their
dictator rose rapidly upward and vanished from
sight.
None of them realised that P. X. Smith, hoisted
by his own petard, was swiftly travelling out into
space, nor, in any case, had anyone the knowledge of
how the force could be turned off. Protected by that
invisible barrier, the hobo army carried on its orgy
for six weeks. Then the chemicals gave out. This
was not discovered outside till a Federal guard
stumbled against the supposed “barrier” and fell
through. Police and military than poured into the
“kingdom,” arrested the revellers, and the hoboes’
mad carnival was over.
A party of scientists and technical experts rushed
to Daydream Flats to salvage P. X. Smith’s marvel
machine, but they were too late. When they arrived
at No. 4 on the third floor they found a confusion
of broken glass, spilt liquid, fumes and general wreck-
age, and in the midst of it Miss Trapp triumphantly
cracking the last remnants with a spanner.
As Smith alone possessed the secret of the
machine, and was already half-way to the moon, that
ended the matter. The scientists called Miss Trapp
harsh names, but she called them harsher. She has
since fumigated No. 4 and relet it to a radio crooner.
Miss Trapp is watching the fellow carefully, but so
far he pays his rent promptly on Fridays and shows
no signs of playing up or developing into a dictator.
Bourke who broached the subject as they sat over
their wine.
“This morning, my dear Captain Barron,” he
said, “I had the pleasure of receiving a visit from one
of your officers —or, rather, I should say, one of your
warrant-officers. A most interesting young man. He
handed me an introduction from Viscount Goderich,
the Secretary of State for the Colonies, my immediate
overlord as Governor of this Territory.”
“Ah, then, and who was that, General?’
“Mr. Ambrose, your master’s mate.”
“I don’t wonder that your Excellency should style
him ‘interesting.’ That same young man has occa-
sioned me very much interest. An insufferable young
puppy. One who would instruct his captain how to
command and navigate his ship. However, by the
blessing of Providence and the instructions conveyed
to me in writing by my Lords Commissioners of the
Admiralty, I rejoice to say that his career in the navy
is likely to come to an end here in Sydney.”
“So Lord Goderich has informed me in his letter.
But as your troubles with the young gentleman cease
here, mine begin. I have been requested by his Lord-
ship to find him employment, should he wish to termi-
nate his naval service.”
“Then, Sir Richard, I should appoint him Lieu-
tenant-Governor of, shall we say, some such depen-
dency of New South Wales as Montague Island, that
lump of granite down the coast to the southward.
He’s a trouble-maker, a sower of discord, a damnable
sea-lawyer, and the kind of position that would suit him
best would be an extremely isolated one. Your Excel-
lency may think my language a little strong, but I have
my feelings, and must confess that young Mr. Ambrose
has contrived to rub them the wrong way ever since
we commissioned at Portsmouth.”
“Dear me,” laughed the Governor, “as bad as
all that, is it! Pray, may I ask, is he inefficient?”
“Oh, by no means —he’s too infernally efficient.
By sheer merit he’s worked his way up in the service
to his present rating. He’s a good navigator, a most
painstaking young officer, and always his duties, whilst
in my ship, have invariably been carried out with the
very utmost diligence and discernment. I’ll tell you
what’s the matter with him. He’s never wrong. That’s
his trouble. There’s such a thing, my dear Governor,
as being too damned perfect.”
“Dear me! ’Tis a little discouraging to hear all
this. But I have decided on Mr. Ambrose’s employ-
ment. As a matter of fact, my choice is limited —there
are not many vacant jobs I could put him into at
present.”
“What d’ye mean to do with him, then, General?”
“He will receive an appointment as commandant
of one of the road-making camps on Sir Thomas
Mitchell’s new road across the Blue Mountains. There
he will have the superintendent of the convicts in the
chain-gangs to guide his steps aright, and there will
also be the subaltern officers in charge of the military
guard. But, above all, there will be Mr. Surveyor-
General Mitchell.
“Heaven help the bumptious youngster who rubs
Mitchell the wrong way! I assure you that our Sur-
veyor-General is eminently competent to deal with
Mr. Ambrose, or anyone else, for that matter —includ-
ing, I am almost forced to admit, the Governor of
this Territory. I think we may conclude that, in such
employment as I have chosen for him, Mr. Theodore
Ambrose will soon find himself in Queer Street should
he seek to assert himself too vigorously. And, after
all, that is what his father desires, and Lord Goderich,
too.”
“Why—how is that?”
“Well, you see, Sir John Ambrose is a wealthy
brewer you know, of course, the very excellent
Ambrosial Ales? He wished his son to go into the
family business, but the lad had other ideas. Now,
Sir John has requested Lord Goderich to ask me to
give him an appointment in some position in which
He was perfectly self-possessed;
but that was more than was the
Governor or Captain Barron.
he will make a fool of himself, so that, in utter dis-
gust, he will be glad to accept a position in the brewery,
with its ultimate reversion to himself. So that is
that. I think we can trust Major Mitchell. Well, what
is it, Barton?”
The butler had entered the room silently and
stood waiting an opportunity of communicating some-
thing to the Governor.
“If you please, your Excellency, there’s a gentle-
man in the hall who says he has something very im-
portant of which to inform your Excellency. I told
him your Excellency was at dinner, but he said that
he was certain you would wish to see him. He said,
your Excellency, to tell you that he was the person
who brought a letter to your Excellency from the
Secretary of State for the Colonies this morning.”
“Oh, by Jove, Captain Barron, this is amusing!
Your Mr. Ambrose. Talk of the devil, eh! Shall we
have him in?”
“Oh, by all means, if you wish it, General. I’m
quite agreeable.”
“Well, Barton, please to ask the gentleman to
join us.”
“Very good, your Excellency.”
CT O presently—unabashed and quite confident —enter
to his Excellency the Captain-General and Gover-
nor-in-Chief of New South Wales and his own com-
manding officer, Mr. Theodore Ambrose, master’s mate
of H.M.S. Alcestis and disturber of the peace of
Cabinet Ministers, Governors and post-captains. He
bowed politely to Sir Richard Bourke, and then to
Captain Barron.
“A chair for Mr. Ambrose, Barton,” said the
Governor, with a kindly smile and a humorous twinkle
in his eye. “A glass of wine, Mr. Ambrose? Pray,
sit down and join us. You are, of course, well
acquainted with Mr. Ambrose, Captain Barron?”
“Indeed, I am, your Excellency,” growled the
captain of H.M.S. Alcestis.
Mr. Ambrose bowed his thanks and seated him-
self at the foot of the table.
“Pray, may I ask what I can do for you, sir?”
asked the Governor. “You have something to say to
me, I infer, concerning the matter we were discussing
this morning. Be so good as to inform us. Captain
Barron is quite cognisant of the situation. What do
you wish to say, Mr. Ambrose?”
The master’s mate cleared his throat. “Only this,
your Excellency. This morning, after leaving Govern-
ment House, I inquired my way to the best hotel in
Sydney, and was directed to the Australian Inn. There,
your Excellency, upon calling for refreshment, I was
served with ale that was quite unfit for consumption.
I wished to say to your Excellency that, though I shall
be glad to take my discharge from the navy, I do not
now require any appointment under Government. It
is my intention, Sir Richard, to settle here, get into
communication with my father and become his agent
in the colony for Ambrosial Ales, which are, at least,
drinkable. I can see which way I may best serve the
interests of the colony, your Excellency. By joining
my father’s firm, I think.”
He was perfectly self-possessed; but that was
more than was the Governor or Captain Barron.
“Well, I’ll be damned!” growled the latter.
“Ha, ha, ha!” shouted Sir Richard, leaning back
in his chair and roaring with laughter. “Oh, ha,
ha, ha!”


conference was over, she met another wandering Aus-
tralian —W. H. Donald—and, fired by his enthusiasm,
set off on a journalistic quest to Harbin. It was a
dangerous and arduous journey, and the atmosphere
of Harbin she found “sinister and tragic.” Everyone,
under terrific strain, was waiting for the arrival of
the Japanese troops, but when they did march in, on
February 5, 1932, “it was a very orderly business”:
The Harbin Japanese had turned out in force,
waving flags and shouting “Banzai!” Several White
Russians in the crowd were equally demonstrative; I
saw two men rush forward and embrace a Japanese
officer. As for the Chinese, there were not many of them
about. It happened to be Chinese New Year’s Day
and the shops were all closed. The few that were
standing on the pavements looked at the Japanese indif-
ferently ; they were eager for the march to be over so
that they could visit Fuchiatien and celebrate the New
Year with carnival and fireworks.
The author is very fair in her comments on
the situation ; she leaves one in no doubt about the
seriousness of Chinese banditry, the challenge of the
“irritation tactics” ; she says the Japanese do feel
they have a “mission” in China (they kept pointing
out Britain and Egypt to her as a parallel), but at the
same time she discusses militarism, the “desperate
sense of insecurity” and the basic problem of eco-
nomics.
Miss Mitchell, who went from Manchuria to a
post at Manchester University, is never sensational ;
her life in remote Harbin, with the warfare and
banditry she encountered, might have been more
excitingly told, but it remains interesting, and in a
way impressive through its very matter-of-factness.
Readers' Union.
Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne, as Austra-
lian and Maoriland agents for the Readers’ Union,
send along a swag of its books, copies of its monthly,
“Readers’ News” and explanatory pamphlets for
inspection.
Bad authors can breathe again ; it isn’t dedicated
to their extermination—at any rate, not directly. It
is one of the readers’ organisations which now flourish
in England, providing their members with books at
considerably reduced rates. According to London
“Economist,” there are eight clubs of various sorts
and creeds thus operating in England, with as many
as 150,000 members among them. The Readers’
Union claims for itself a 30,000 membership.
It provides its members with a book a month at
cheap rates, choice being made from recent publish-
ings—of the past year or so —mostly books originally
published at high prices. Cost to members is 3s. 9d.
per copy, plus postage (about 6d. per copy), six months’
membership running out at 255. 6d.; 12 months, 51s.
Every year numbers of books are published which,
for some reason or other—it may have been a matter
of price, or their publication was overshadowed by
some important event —never achieved the success which
was their due. It is from these that the sponsors of
Readers’ Union —aided by the best critical reviews—•
make their choice.
The Union can’t be accused of being hidebound
in its selections. The 12 months’ batch to hand in-
cludes—the original Australian selling price in brackets
— Zaharoff, the Armaments King, by Robert Neumann
(165.); Katrina, by Sally Salminen ; Helsingfors Prize
novel (7s. 6d.); Arabia Felix, by Bertram Thomas,
with an introduction by T. E. Lawrence ; one of the
greatest journey books of recent years (225. 6d.);
Three Pasquier Chronicles, by Georges Duhamel;
outstanding French trilogy novel, comparable in
quality with The Forsyte Saga, though dealing dif-
ferently with a very different sort of family (11s.);
My Country and My People, by Lin Yutang ; explain-
ing China and the Chinese character ; widely acclaimed
at the time of its publication as one of the best books
about China ever written (17s. 6d.); Of Mice and
Men, by John Steinbeck ; a minor classic in fiction ;
tramps in U.S.A.; one of the finest brief novels ever
to come out of that country (65.); Metropolitan Man,
by Robert Sinclair ; the worst side of London, packed
tight with staggering information, presented by a
savage pen (165.); Country Tales, by H. E. Bates ; a
selection of his best by one of England’s best short-
story writers (specially compiled for the Union);
Footnotes to the Film, edited by Charles Davy ; pretty
well every aspect of filmdom described by a number
of experts (215.); Unfinished Journey, by Jack Jones ;
a notable work in autobiography (215.); Ends and
Means, by Aldous Huxley ; the January, 1939, choice ;
Huxley criticising the world at large (135.).
The Robertson and Mullens pamphlet mentions
that an original Australian member of the Union
would now have at a cost of 525. 6d. a shelf of 14
worth-while books which, bought at original selling
prices here, would have cost £lO ss.
Copies of the “Readers’ News” forwarded show it
to be a brightly-written, gossipy literary magazine of
up to 16 pages, each issue including a special article
written either by or about the author whose book is
the choice for that month. “Readers’ News” is free
each month to members. In one of the copies received
Jack Jones mentions that he is now engaged on The
Man David, a life of Lloyd George.
I know the background of the man. I have shared
platforms with him. I was politically conscious
in the constituency represented by Keir Hardie
when he and Mr. Lloyd George were Britain’s two
best-hated pro-Boers. I knew something of the daring
young politician who refused to allow himself to be
browbeaten into submission by the politically great of
that time. In the same spirit with which he faced and
overcame opposition during the years of the Boer War
I, a cottage-bred collier-boy, hope to face up to the
writing of his Life unassisted by him.
In another H. E. Bates discusses aspects of the short
story:
It seems to me that the short story, which I regard
as being not by any means the least of this generation’s
contributions to literature, stands a fair chance, as near
as matters, of being starved out of existence. In Eng-
land, at the moment, there is not one reputable magazine
devoted entirely to the short story, and the periodicals
which take any interest in it at all can be numbered
on the fingers of one hand. And outside one or two
periodicals the rates paid for short stories are pitiful.
Or there is some, personal information from Bates:
The MS. of my first book went round to nine pub-
lishers. From the tenth, Jonathan Cape, there came a
note addressing a certain “Dear Miss Bates,” accepting
the book and congratulating a young woman on her
remarkably insight into the lives of her fellow-females.
Reluctantly I disillusioned Cape, who invited me to
lunch in the early part of 1926. At that lunch, I met
Edward Garnett.
Garnett changed my whole life. He took me like a
lump of crude dough and for the next five years
pummelled and slapped and caressed and knocked me
into shape. From Garnett 1 learned to be not only an
objective writer but, as far as a writer can be, an
objective critic of my own work. It is a very good
thing for a writer to learn to be hard-hearted with him-
self. 1 learned that very early, thanks to Garnett.
From the author’s point of view the Union must
be one of the best of the organisations providing their
members with cheap books, because the books it
issues are all ones that have first been fairly mar-
keted and have either exhausted the demand for them
or have gone out of print. Thus to the author Union
selection means new sales, not merely double sales
at half-price, which is about all some book-club selec-
tion amounts to. Judged by the Union selections for-
warded by Robertson and Mullens, the reader, for his
part, gets a wide variety of books of merit —capital
value for his money.
Ship Against Sea.
In 1929 Richard Hughes published A High Wind
in Jamaica, a first novel and a provocative piece of
work which caused quite a stir but which was flawed by
its own exuberance. His talents overflowed the cup
he tried to stow them in, and the effort, if generous,
was chaotic.
After nine years his second novel, In Hazard
(Chatto and Windus), appears, and it is evident at
once that his gift has matured and undergone discip-
line. In Hazard, a week in the life of a ship, is a
compact book, precise and brilliant in its architecture,
its descriptions and its characterisation. It deals with
the eternal struggle of man against nature, isolated
and raised to the last degree. Its realism is that of a
man who knows his subject.
The cargo ship Archimedes, sailing from Norfolk
on the Atlantic Coast of America for the Far East
with a mixed cargo, was overtaken by a rogue hurri-
cane, out of season and unreported, in the region of
the West Indies. Archimedes was a crack ship, as well
found and seaworthy as her proud owners could make
her. For seven days of shrieking darkness she struggled
through the storm. Her funnel went, her engineroom
was flooded, the furnaces extinguished, the pumps
stopped, her wireless put out of commission, her lights
quenched.
Like a log in the sea she was more helpless than
a dismasted sailing ship, for her mechanical equip-
ment had superseded man-power, and man-power,
the only thing she had left, was no use to her.
Great waves “like maddened cathedrals” rushed
upon her. To re-cover a hatch required superhuman
courage and endurance. The storeroom was cut off,
the water tanks bashed in and the company grew light-
headed with hunger, thirst and strain. Through all
the turmoil and danger the men’s humanity survived
after the first shock. The third engineer still suffered
with his bunions, the old chief’s greatest grievance
was that his false teeth could not masticate the only
food available, a rock-hard ship’s biscuit.
Courage and fear worked upon them like strophe
and antistrophe. Each man, like the ship, was stripped
down to his barest self. Archimedes survived, to be
taken in tow at last and brought to port. Only one
man was lost, the old engineer, who fell asleep from
exhaustion when the danger was over and slipped into
the sea. Of them all he was the man who least wanted
to die.
The book is very finely written. All the descrip-
tions are sharp and sensitive. The splash of rain on
the surface of the water looked “as if the naked sea
were growing hair.”
Welsh Lament.
Rhys Davies’s new novel, Jubilee Blues (Heine-
mann), begins with a richly Rabelaisian description of
the funeral of Anglesey Jones, J.P., a fine old sinner,
pillar of the chapel and pride of the Bench. The bulk
of his fortune, after a magnificent tombstone, all white
marble angels and pink marble doves, had been erected
to his memory, went to missions, less three thousand
pounds to his servant Cassie, who had been more
than a daughter to him.
A scapegrace nephew, Prosser Jones, with won-
derful presence of mind snapped up the buxom
Cassie, and the three thousand pounds was diverted
to the purchase of a pub, the Jubilee, in a mining
district.
This was in the year 1925. The general strike of
1926 ruined the mining industry in Wales, and a black
tide of depression that could not be stemmed welled
up round the walls of the Jubilee. Prosser fought
hard times with grumbling, stealing from his own till,
stealing from Cassie’s secret hoard. The pinch brought
out all the latent antagonism between husband and
wife. They plotted against one another, and when the
final crash came Cassie took her two children and
returned to the country district where she had grown
up, to work on a farm. Prosser sank into the squalor
about him.
This is a dead cold finish in contrast to the note
of pagan liveliness on which the book begins ; but the
story of Prosser and Cassie, rich in individuality
though it is, is only a shower of sparks across a black
sky. The main theme is that of a dying world. The
Jubilee, named for Queen Victoria’s jubilee, was the
symbol of the good old times, days not of plenty
but of sufficiency and steady work.
. The warm life of the community centred in the
Jubilee ; its foundering was the quenching of a vital
spark. The men and women of the village are drawn
lovingly and with racy humor—the milkman who
wrote poetry (about the milk trade), the tailor who
drowned himself, the local Communist, the women
taking a genteel pint in the ladies’ bar, the colliers and
their sons. They are all sucked down into the black
mire of depression.
As it goes on the book gathers tragic force. There
is a rough fierceness about it that suits its theme.
Jubilee Blues is Welsh to the core. There is a trace
of ancient balladry in the speech of the people. Their
life is differently cadenced. For them a strike has some-
thing of the quality of a religious revival, and an odd
inconsequent poetry hangs about everything they do.
An English Family.
Elizabeth Cambridge’s Spring Always Comes
(Cape) is a charming book, all about the best people.
It reassures its readers that the world is essentially a
safe place, that England is still a land of peace and
plenty.
It is about a very nice family, the Russells.
Charles Russell was a minor poet of distinction and a
civil servant in a comfortable job when the war swept
him into the trenches. When he returned he gave up
both poetry and his job to enter the Church of Eng-
land. His wife, Hilda, with her weather eye on the
fleshpots, could not understand this quixotry, but fol-
lowed him loyally through slum parishes to the rural
backwater of Chidbury Noble. Here Charles, with
unostentatious saintliness, worked himself to death.
His son James and three daughters, Margaret, Cecily
and Jasmine, found themselves at grips with life.
James left Oxford and went to work at two
pounds a week as clerk in a timber merchant’s office,
but was shortly rewarded with a commercial sugar
plum. Margaret gave herself to social service and was,
with the utmost difficulty, persuaded to marry an exces-
sively eligible young man. Cecily became a good
influence in the lives of two little girls, daughters of
a millionaire, and Jasmine not only wrote a success-
ful book, but made a romantic match with a poor but
romantic young man.
Even Charles and Hilda are neatly wound up.
Charles found posthumous fame and understanding
in <& biography written by Jasmine and an old friend,
and Hilda was saved from boredom and futility by
good works. Spring came to everybody, and every-
body, being thoroughly nice, deserved it.
This is a novel under glass, faultlessly executed
in the English style. The author is never so happy as
when she is describing the English countryside:
The Chidbury Valley lay beside him to the right,
full of the mellow sunlight of autumn that was like
a visible golden stain. The church stood out on a
hillock, its pale stone, its triumphant flowering of
pinnacles making it look like a casket of ivory. Between
the blue sky and the green grass it had the alien
loveliness of an illumination, a song of praise expressed
in fifteenth-century idiom and left perfect for ever.
English Domestic Idyll.
The Squire, by Enid Bagnold (Heinemann), is very
different from what the title might suggest. The
Squire of the story is a woman living in an English
manor house in an idyllic and unchanging village.
Her husband is in India on business, and she is
in charge of the household, the four children, the
seven servants ; a little feminine world turning on its
own axis. During the husband’s absence the fifth
child is born. Its birth makes the gentle climax of the
book, brings its trivialities into touch with the main
stream of life, justifies them.
For the rest The Squire is static, a descriptive
piece, a series of portraits, beautifully executed and
set in the delicate aspic of tranquil daily living.
The children, Lucy, Jay, Boniface and Henry, are
altogether charming. They are lovingly drawn with
their odd little turns of character, their gleeful wicked-
nesses, their attack on living. Boniface, the difficult
one, is what a genius might be at seven, a baffled but
determined child, talking fluently to himself when
alone in the dark, but in company always stumbling
over the immensities of his ideas into angry silence:
Every development and conclusion in Boniface was
unheralded. He would not speak, he would not warn.
Only now and then, to The Squire, his face would light
up and his awkward magnificent words would totter out,
pompous, glittering, antique and biblical, past his
unsmiling lips and beneath his intent, fixed eyes.
The Squire, too, is full of character convincingly
portrayed. The other characters are not so happy, the
servants merely carefully varied stencils, the midwife
rather revoltingly good, the friend, Caroline, so obvi-
ously intended as a foil to The Squire, altogether too
flimsy. Where it deals with action the book is good,
but about a third of it is taken up with The Squire s
not very original reflections on life.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
The Man on the Spot: S. C. Mason (Geoffrey
Bles). West Coast of Africa. Native administration
problem eked out with a love interest. Conventional
characterisation. Good background.
Together We Go: Guy Pocock (Dent). Comedy
of shipboard life during a pleasure cruise in the Medi-
terranean.
General ... . .
The Self You Have to Live With: Winifred
Rhoades (Geoffrey Bles). A devotional work aimed at
helping chronic invalids to acquire resources of forti-
tude and philosophy.
The Ten-point Way to Health: the Rajah of
Aundh (Dent). Describes the Surya Namaskars
(otherwise Zoroastrian calisthenics). The exercises are
simple ; copious photographs make misunderstanding
impossible, and the claims made for them are breath-
taking.


/
(r
n
m
1)
1
w
5
m
f>uij ipurown
'penguin;
JumboJ morit
qive i|oii
ani| of mine'
You know what an appetite
elephants have —they want the
lion s share always.
But elephants never forget, they
say, so perhaps this big fellow
once tasted Penguin Ice Cream;
no wonder he's greedy!
No one can forget the full
flavored creaminess of this NEW
ice cream-it is a delicious, rich
food.
ICECREAM
N.S.W.FRESH FOOD L ICE CO LTD.
PRODUCT OF


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
- Lx*.
SF-'
*i*r>
Shakespeare’s Birthplace.
View of the house in Stratford-on-Avon where Shakespeare was born.
Although dating back to the sixteenth century the house is in a splendid state
of preservation and is much visited by tourists both from England and other
parts of the world.
¥P(fd mellcumeJSxmdJmiq/uei


POLICE CENSORSHIP.
“The Chief Secretary, Mr. Gollan, does not approve of the use of oaths, offensive expressions and Americanisms in plays presented in N.S.W. When informed that
‘bloody,’ to which he particularly objects, had been used by Shaw in ‘Pygmalion,’ Mr. Gollan replied that he had not noticed it.”
"Great Australian adjective, me foot! Any mention of it by any of you hussies and I’ll run yez in!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aws.). Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscriber* in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. 11s.
LEAVE IT TO THE R.A.A.F.!
When Sir Edward Ellington was brought to Australia,
Mr. Lyons explained that the visit was designed to
ensure more effective co-operation among Empire
defence services. It was not proposed to introduce a
substitute for the Salmond scheme, which scheme is
now 10 years old.
The Ellington report immediately appealed to Mr.
Lyons. In a form considered suitable for publication,
it was published on September 1. It was known that
the Air Board had written a defence, but for upwards
of four months, despite protests, the defence was sup-
pressed. It did not appear till last week, when it was
accompanied by comments offered by Mr. Lyons, and
by what he called “a plain and straightforward sum-
mary of the Government’s conclusions.” Parliament
is, of course, out of action —with “war thundering at
our gates,” it has been in recess for six weeks.
The R.A.A.F. now possesses almost half the
number of ’planes envisaged by Air Marshal Salmond.
Really up-to-date fighting and bombing machines it has
none, though 50 are coming from the U.S.A. Under
the Salmond scheme it was to “act in close co-opera-
tion with the navy and army to defend Australia
against raids on territory and on trade.” For this
has been substituted the Ellington policy, which has
for its object “the defeat, in co-operation with the navy
and army, of any Power which is threatening the in-
dependence of the country.” The Air Board points
out that this will involve a much larger field of opera-
tions, and hence a wider range of activities. In April
Mr. Lyons said he had no intention of throwing over
the Salmond scheme, but evidently he has now done so.
When the Ellington report was produced, the
Prime Minister immediately accepted the dictum that
an English officer should be sent out to run the
ignorant Australian force. Something occurred to
change his mind ; perhaps he read a speech of Sir
Kingsley Wood, the British Air Minister, or a sentence
quoted in the “United Services Review”:
Canada, Australia and New Zealand are co-operating
in training pilots for the Royal Air Force.
Perhaps he looked through the Air Force list and
discovered that Air Vice-Marshal Williams had had a
longer experience of air command in war and peace
than any other man in the King’s service. Actually,
Williams was one of the first four flying officers re-
cruited for Australian defence. He has been pro-
moted while in command through all the ranks from
group-captain ; he has a superlative fighting record,
and he has passed the Imperial Defence College and
Royal Air Force College courses,' which many higher-
up British officers have not.
Or perhaps Mr. Lyons and his advisers, always so
eager to import officers, suddenly became conscious of
the record of Air Commodore Goble. The P.M. could
have found an excuse for sending Williams to Eng-
land for a refresher course, as is now being done, in
view of the rapid development of aircraft and methods
since his last visit abroad ; but, in his absence, to pass
over Goble would have been a scandal.
Goble returned only last year from three years in
England. For part of the period he was Deputy
Director of Operations at the Air Ministry. From Sep-
tember, 1936, to May, 1938, he was in command
of the second-largest of Britain’s five bomber groups.
On his headquarters staff were an air commodore, two
wing-commanders—one, Gayford, was in command of
the Vickers-Wellesley long-distance record flight to
Australia —four squadron-leaders and some junior
officers. He controlled six R.A.F. stations, each a com-
plete local administrative unit, with nine officers and
two bomber squadrons, plus the City of Glasgow and
County of Warwick Territorial Squadrons. The Goble
command included more than twice as many first-line
machines, all of modern make and equipment, as our
Government could rake up by reckoning in third-rate
ten-year-olds, 54 staff and station administrative
officers, 212 commissioned squadron officers and a
force of men larger than the R.A.A.F. personnel.
On leaving, Goble was replaced by an R.A.F. perma-
nent officer with the rank of air vice-marshal —C. T.
Maclean, a Maorilander born.
The Government has seen the light, and Goble
has been named chief-of-staff during the two years’
absence of Williams, who will be given a senior
British command. The gap has been filled by appoint-
ing an Englishman, Air Commodore Russell, as
member of the R.A.A.F. control board.
Air Commodore Russell must be a capable officer,
but there are half a dozen R.A.A.F. men with fighting
records as good, wider experience and the same British
Staff College training. He became a wing-commander
in 1930, and group-captain in 1936, so his promo-
tion to air commodore is recent. He has been in
command of a two-squadron (torpedo bombers) school
of reconnaissance at Thorney Island. What exactly
he is to teach our famous Palestine reconnaissance
group and an acting chief-of-staff who made the first
flight round Australia, and who has expansive experi-
ence of survey work, it is difficult to know.
If it is to avoid accidents (Sir Edward Ellington
condemned the R.A.A.F. accident rate), there is irony
in the fact that his appointment has been followed by
a report of six R.A.F. accidents in one day, including
one in which his group-commander at Thorney, Air
Vice-Marshal Cave-Brown-Cave, was seriously injured.
In the controversy between the Air Board and Mr.
Lyons, the latter stands by Sir Edward Ellington, and
disagrees particularly with the Air Board’s contention
that the position in Australia differs from that in
Britain:
Units there have to be ready for war in the air
Units in this service are not called upon to be in the
same state of readiness
Technically, in spite of Mr. Lyons, that is true. In
Britain conditions call for readiness for instant action
—Cologne is an hour’s flight from London in a fast
fighter-bomber; Paris well under the hour; Buda-
pest and Rome are three hours away. In Australia,
there is at least the certainty of a few hours’ grace.
But the main point is that, if what the Prime
Minister says is true, the culprit is not the Air Board,
but the Ministry. Sir Edward Ellington stated that all
R.A.A.F. squadrons were below strength in both
officers and men, notably in flight-commanders—on
July 12 last the deficiency was 11 officers and 214 men.
Two out of five squadrons were 50 p.c. deficient
in personnel and 33 p.c. deficient in aircraft and
equipment. It is a matter of policy that strength
should be kept up, and for policy and provision of
funds the Ministry is responsible.
The board rightly says that it saw no object in
training pilots and allotting them to units which did
not have enough aircraft to continue their training.
And the visiting officer’s criticism that there is room
for improvement in advanced training “after the com-
pletion of the Point Cook course, and notably in the
training of service squadrons and especially arma-
ment training,” is answered in a manner which reflects
shockingly on the Government and on British manu-
facturers. The board says that, while some training can
be given with the limited number of aircraft available,
“advanced training in the application of flying to war
obviously cannot proceed without the necessary guns,
bomb sights, bomb racks and instruments, and of these
there was, and still is, a great shortage.” On July 1
orders for, among other essentials, 50 aircraft, 26
bomb sights and 508 bomb racks had not been de-
livered. The machine-gun shortage was 125, though Mr.
Lyons says that this was within the board’s control.
Lastly, the board declares that to institute the syb
labus of advanced training recommended by Sir
Edward Ellington would involve the use of 22 addi-
tional service machines, which would mean depriving
two squadrons, or nearly half the first-line defensive
force, of their aeroplanes and personnel.
There cannot be much wrong with the discipline
or efficiency of the R.A.A.F. When R.A.A.F. men
go to England they are immediately appointed to
senior positions of trust —Goble is a case in point.
During his term one of his British squadrons was
under the command of Squadron-Leader Hewitt,
R.A.A.F., and when the King went to France his
picked air escort was under the charge of a seconded
R.A.A.F. officer.
A British delegation is to discuss technical
development. The result should be a decision to
establish a real Australian air force with all-Australian
sources of supply, the constructional part of the pro-
gramme, at least, to be under non-political control.
A Sideshow at Warrandyte.
The track of the fire is picked up a few miles out of
Kangaroo Ground. Local theory is that a farmer
burning rubbish unwittingly began it; anyway, it ran
through grass and burnt one or two houses. Then it
became a top fire and grew to a raging torrent of flames.
It reached the right bank of the Yarra, and
immediately the left bank was burning. It leapt over
Warrandyte on the fiercest and hottest northerly in
local recollection. It wiped out most of the township
and the artists’ colony, sending the population in panic
down to the river. Then it tore through the orchards
towards Ringwood. One house after another, although
surrounded by green fruit-trees, burst into flames as if
by internal combustion, and disappeared as if by magic.
One side of the high road from Kangaroo Ground
is desolate ; the other is heavenly. The river makes
a huge hairpin bend under a steep bank which artists
have dotted with cottages and pleasant gardens over-
looking the water. On the other bank is a flat planted
with orchards, which merge into wooded hills again.
White-trunked gums step down to the water’s edge.
The artists selected this spot for obvious reasons,
preserving the bush right up to their doorsteps. For
reasons equally obvious but different, settlers have
left the undergrowth all around their homesteads. Logs
and stumps are still smouldering. Cars, trucks and
vans pass these latent torches without stopping. They
may start another fire, but what is the use of doing
anything about it when there are thousands of them?
But a motorist who has just passed through the ruins
of Warrandyte carefully puts out the cigarette butt he
would formerly have thrown through the window. A
cigarette butt will always be a memory of Warrandyte.
A constable with three days’ growth of beard on
his chin and his eyelids burnt off is filling in a motor-
registration form in the police station. Then he goes
off to superintend the removal of dead stock. As he
leaves a woman rides up with a sack of tannic acid
slung from her saddle. She wants to know if there
are any burnt horses or cows which can be saved by
spraying. “I would rather see a house burnt than a
horse,” she says. She is the proprietress of the riding
school, and has lost most of her own horses.
The hotel is full of firefighters and burnt-out
settlers, each eager to tell his own story but not in the
least anxious to listen to anybody else’s. They are
reacting against the strain of what the dailies called
their day of terror. “Miss X at the post office was a
little hero,” says one. “By cripes, she was!” says
another. Miss X clung to her switchboard putting calls
through for assistance while everybody else was fleeing
for the river. She picked up an East Malvern call
from a woman who wanted to know whether her
bungalow was still standing. When she was told that
it wasn’t the woman in East Malvern fainted ; but
the ’phone girl continued to take calls. She was
sobbing, but she mastered her fears—surely the highest
form of courage.
“A squad of city volunteers came along to where
we were watching a fire we had got under control.”
The speaker was a man who had lost his house, his
stock, his machinery and his orchard while he was
saving the properties of his neighbors. “We had
urgent business elsewhere and we told them to take
over. ‘Not on your life!’ they said. ‘This isn’t a
blazing fire. We came out to fight the blazes.’ ”
“They weren’t all like that,” retorts another.
“What about the little t.b. Digger from Brighton? He
was fighting at Healesville for three and a half days
without tucker, and then he went home. But when
the radio started talking about Warrandyte his wife
said, ‘lt’s no use, Bill —you won’t be able to sleep while
this is going on. You’d better go back.’ And back he
came. He showed me his tramway pass for a totally
incapacitated soldier. A fighter from the ground up!”
Here and there is an individual who is doing some
thinking, and the burden of his remarks is the negli-
gence of the Government. It had been warned months
before that fires were due and was asked for equip-
ment. Delegations pointed out that there was a
drought about every decade and a bad burn was
expected. Carver, the secretary of the Forests Com-
mission (“he does ten times as much work as the
average civil servant and, unlike the average civil
servant, isn’t afraid of annoying a Minister”), impor-
tuned the politicians when Parliament was in session.
He succeeded in getting a few hundreds where thou-
sands were needed. Then Parliament shelved the
matter. Local councils were as bad as the Govern-
ment. Hard-up cockies, who didn’t need to be told
what was going to happen to them, subscribed £3O to
£4O for equipment which, inadequate as it was,
prevented thousands of pounds’ worth of destruction.
“We had the men,” said a big pink-faced farmer.
“We had the knowledge. But we didn’t have the equip-
ment.” He was rocking with exhaustion after three
days and nights of fighting. “Canada,” • says another
blackened individual, “used to have the worst fires in
the world. Now they never have them. They divided
their forests into handy sections, cut real breaks across
them and ran roads along the breaks, and the patrols
keep tab of the tiniest blaze over hundreds of square
miles of forest.”
An ironic brigade lieutenant was the next speaker.
In 1926, he said, the bushfires confined themselves
decorously to the mountains, where the sufferers were
settlers and wages men. This year they approached
within 20 miles of Melbourne. Consequently that sec-
tion of the public which had had its sentiments rather
than its reason aroused by newspaper sensationalism
was enabled to enjoy the spectacle. It availed itself of
the opportunity in such numbers on the Sunday after
the fatal Friday that firefighters, relief men, Red Cross
workers and police found themselves engulfed by thou-
sands of cars packed with sightseers. The sightseers
jammed the main thoroughfare, occupied the bridge
which is the only communication between one-half of
the town and the other, ran their vehicles over the
hoses which were pumping water into the township out
of the river, ate up supplies, and even indulged in
sporadic looting of the flotsam and jetsam of some
burnt-out holdings.
A panic-stricken Government, conscious the
fact that it had shelved repeated warnings from people
who knew what was going to happen, broadcast
appeals for tourists to keep out of the vicinity. It lacked
the intelligence or courage to exercise the elementary
precaution of shutting off the invasion and letting
through only bona fide helpers, as would have been
done in the case of an ordinary fire in a city building.
“That’s only a minor example of the way Gov-
ernments have behaved since ’26,” said the brigade lieu-
tenant. He had founded two brigades on his own
initiative and had been fighting fires for three days
with a truck loaded with his own equipment. “And I
voted for the present mob,” he said.
He produced a letter he was sending to a daily:
We deeply appreciate the wonderful assistance given us
in our late troubles by the people of Melbourne. Both
financially and personally they have rallied to the aid of
this district and have been a tower of strength to us. But I
must put on record my dissatisfaction with a section of
the community. Brigades were hampered by thoughtless
people who came out for a party apparently. They
blocked the roads, got in the way of our men, and not
one of them thought of bringing a basket of sand-
wiches or a thermos of tea. Further, the men sent to
aid us should have been instructed to report to captains
of local brigades. Men unused to bush conditions with-
out the supervision of a bushman are worse than useless.
One band of helpers with more enthusiasm than sense
lit a firebreak behind one section of our brigade and
very nearly wiped them out.
Some of the volunteers, he added, grabbed bottles
of beer at the pub and told the barman to charge them
up to the Forests Commission. Others liked taking
orders so little that blows were exchanged by volun-
tary and bush fighters while the fires were blazing.
“But I’d just as soon be in a tough spot with some
of them as with the best of our own men.”
The brigade lieutenant will no doubt get his
letter printed if the daily isn’t afraid that its readers
are getting bored with bushfires and is not already off
on another racket. Compared with Noojee, the Buck-
land Valley, the Matlock Forest and other places,
Warrandyte, as the lieutenant remarked, was only a
sideshow, anyhow.
NAKHODA.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Proposed Intervention in Spoin.
British Conservatives have learned by long experi-
ence of Spaniards, with whom they have much in
common, that the only way to get on with them, and
retain their respect, and promote their best interests,
is to leave them alone, and, when they are engaged in a
civil war, to let them fight it out in their own way.
British Laborites and Liberals have never learned
this or they would never have demanded that their
country should side with the Spanish group which,
with Tarragona taken and Barcelona doomed, is
now obviously losing the civil war. French Left-
wingers have never learned it or they would not now
be clamoring for open intervention “to save the
Catalans,” the surreptitious passing of troops, arms
and supplies across the frontier having failed to stem
the Nationalist tide. Nor can Fascist Italians have
learned it if they believe, with the Stunt Press, that a
victorious Franco will place the Balearics at their dis-
posal and give corresponding concessions to the
Germans.
The French nation is universally admired, but it
has rarely been loved, and never for long. Its post-
war policy, which collapsed utterly last year, was
shaped by Poincard. An able lawyer and incorrupt-
ible patriot, Poincare carried in one small head all the
strength and weakness of the French character. While
he was in the ascendant, he was hated as much by his
foreign associates as by his enemies beyond the Rhine
or the Danube, and by President Wilson most of all.
Arrogance in dealing with even neighboring and
kindred nations and a strange incapacity to profit by the
lessons of history are marks of the Poincare spirit. It
existed long before Poincare and it survives him. It
may be said without exaggeration to have affected
the relations of the French with the Italians and the
Spaniards for four centuries. Many times during
those four centuries they have sent armies across the
Alps and the Pyrenees. Sometimes, according to their
own account, they arrived as liberators and sometimes
as conquerors. Always they had to quit, hated by
the inhabitants, even by those who had welcomed
them in the first place ; and this feeling exists still.
Just on 300 years ago a French army entered
Catalonia at the invitation of the Catalans. The
record says that “Catalonia was saved by the reaction
produced in it by the excesses of the French troops.”
In 1807 the French were back in Spain trying to carve
out a kingdom for Napoleon’s brother Joseph. That
effort lasted for six years, and the ghastly atrocities
committed on both sides are detailed by historians of
the period. In 1823 some of Napoleon’s generals and
many of his veterans were back again trying to put
down a popular insurrection for the Bourbons.
To people like the Spaniards a century is nothing.
They live in the past, and memories of the French
invasions are still vivid and bitter. In spite of all the
yarns about clouds of Moors and Italians, Franco’s
armies are predominantly Spanish, and could not hold
five-sixths of Spain, as they do, without the support of
a great body of the Spanish people. The French, for
their part, are doubtless still capable of waging mag-
nificent defensive campaigns, but their striking power
is very obviously limited.
The idea that they could put down Franco’s
armies regardless of his powerful friends, that an
invasion directed as to policy by Blum the Socialist
and Cachin the Communist would succeed where the
Napoleonic invasion failed, would be laughable if it
were not fraught with the possibility—at present
remote, since Daladier is following Chamberlain —of
tragedy for a war-worn world.
Italy and France.
What is at the root of this Franco-Italian quarrel on
which the tribe of Special Representatives and Diplo-
matic Correspondents has pounced so eagerly? Mr.
Lloyd George, no friend to Fascist policy, gives the
explanation, very vividly, in his War Memoirs and
his Truth About the Peace Treaties.
Because the French had stolen a march on them
in Tunis, the Italians joined the Triple Alliance, stipu-
lating, however, that they were in no circumstances to
be dragged into war with Britain. In their view, the
fact of Germany and Austria-Hungary being at war
with Britain set them free to make other arrangements,
and on April 26, 1915, their representative signed the
Treaty of London, which brought them into the war.
By that Treaty they were promised Unredeemed Italy
and the Southern Tyrol, which they got (neither is of
great economic value), and a lot of prizes and strategic
points which they didn’t get:
All the islands of the Adriatic, except five;
Northern Dalmatia;
In the event of the partition or partial partition of
Turkey, an equitable share in the region of Adalia;
Equitable compensation in Africa, particularly in the
shape of a favorable settlement of questions affecting
frontiers between Eritrea, Somaliland and Libya, if
Britain or France obtained an increase in their colonial
possessions in Africa.
Mr. Lloyd George is the witness. After the war, with
the French helping President Wilson, the Italians were
refused their Adriatic claims, and had to reconcile
themselves to the creation of a Yugoslav State, com-
posed in part of their ancient enemies the Croats, who
had fought against them —for 12 months on the soil
of Italy— to the last moment of the war. Pieces of
Turkey were likewise denied to them, though Syria and
Lebanon were awarded by mandate to France, and
Irak and Palestine to Britain. For the rest, “Italy was
entirely left out of the distribution of the German
overseas possessions.”
Their representatives demanded compensation under
Article 13 [of the Treaty of London]. I was prepared
to concede them British Somaliland and Jubaland, pro-
vided the French redeemed their part by similar con-
cessions.
Lord Milner, though resigned to the “consider-
able sacrifice” of Jubaland, “30,000 miles of good
country,” objected to parting with all British Somali-
land..
Even if the French gave up French Somaliland, a very
tiny strip of country compared with British Somaliland
(8000 sq. miles against our 68,000), we should be still
contributing out of all proportion. Offer them the
eastern portion of British Somaliland, about 30,000
square miles, which adjoins Italian Somaliland.
“Ultimately,” the former Prime Minister writes,
“we decided to hand over Jubaland.” Though, of
course, equally bound by the Treaty of London, the
French handed over nothing. Yet, according to the
Statesman’s Year-Book, they had in 1911 ceded 107,270
square miles of French Equatorial Africa — to Ger-
many. They took it back during the war, and it is still
part of their immense African empire.
Having kept its word, Britain is not directly inter-
ested in this revived colonial quarrel, nor do other
developments concern it or the Dominions, even it
the Italians and the French have found a “neutral”
battleground in Spain. British experience of that
country is that any nation which expects to establish
a suzerainty over the proud Spaniards, whatever its
claims to the gratitude of any Spanish faction, will be
rapidly disillusioned. Neighbors as they are, and ex-
posed as both would be to the certainty of dreadful
destruction, it is not at all likely that the French and
the Italians will go to war, about Spain or Corsica or
any part of Africa. But if they were mad enough to
go to war it would be the plain duty of the British
Empire to keep out of it, though a thousand editors
and radio commentators demanded intervention on the
side of France because France has backed still another
loser.
Cricket and "The Botchmann."
It might be true, as Sydney “Daily News” has sug-
gested, that the real reason for the curtailment of “The
Botchmann’s” radio “commentary” on foreign affairs
is that “he tells the public more than the craven
Federal Government thinks it ought to know” ; or, in
other words, that the Government doesn’t think it is
in the best interests of Australia to have irresponsible
and ill-informed babblers broadcasting provocative
stuff from national stations.
On the other hand, it may be true, as the A.B.C.
so piquantly asserts, that Australians would sooner
listen to cricket broadcasts than to “The Botchmann.”
Whichever is the case, it is true that on the morn-
ing the “Daily News” published its lament for “The
Botchmann” it failed to mention that Maoriland’s
Labor Prime Minister, Mr. Savage, had put off the air
a commentator on foreign affairs.
Other Sydney dailies reported it, however, and
quoted Mr. Savage as saying “There is always danger
of harm coming from statements made over the air
on international affairs.” The “Daily News” will have
to add Mr. Savage to its black-list. Prospects for both
cricket and peace will undoubtedly improve, however,
if commentators like “The Botchmann” are, as it were,
bowled out, and if foreign-affairs broadcasts are con-
fined to plain statements of facts as they appear to
men with impartial minds, trained in sifting truth
from falsehood.
The Battle of Maps.
“E.V.”: For all the years since commercial aviation
began, there have been complaints about the quality
of Australian maps.
P. G. Taylor crystallised them when he issued
a supplement to the finding of the Kyeema inquiry
committee. In that he emphasised that “safe air navi-
gation is based on dead reckoning, which is in turn
based on satisfactory maps or charts.” He recom-
mended the preparation of an air map for the whole
of Australia, on Mercator’s projection and on a con-
venient scale for pilotage, with an attached latitude
scale and color contours. Mr. Taylor says that there is
enough information available for a sufficient air map
without further survey work, and that the new maps
should pay particular attention to physical features
of inland Australia, which at present are not shown.
The committee mentioned that even radio towers
near aerodromes are not plotted on existing maps. Mr.
Taylor added that “many aerodromes are not clearly
marked.”
Time and again pilots, Australian and overseas,
have characterised Australian flying maps as worse
than useless. Two German army officers, Horst Pul-
kowski and Rudolph Jenett, who flew to Australia in
a tiny Arado 79, including a record hop of 3975 miles,
left with a poor opinion of Australian maps, and re-
marked pungently that the official strip maps “might
be useful if the course of them could be followed in
all circumstances.” The Surveyors’ Institutes raised
the general question of mapping at the Canberra
Science Congress.
But Minister Thorby can “see nothing wrong with
the maps” and “would not be surprised if they were
better than those of other countries.” Mr. Harrison,
his assistant, replying to the Germans, remarked that
strip maps “cannot guard against careless navigation.”
Pilots might reasonably add: “....or acts of God
which drive ’planes off their courses.” In Britain
India, the U.S.A. and Germany a pilot has
not only accurate, regularly-checked detail maps
of aviation scale, but also colored contour charts
with scales as intensified as a mile to the inch —in
Britain half a mile to the inch —from which the de-
tailed nature of the country below can be instantly
read.
However, before setting out for Singapore to see
somebody or other and to inspect this and that the
Minister agreed to increase the annual output of topo-
graphical maps to 20,000 square miles, to augment
Survey Corps personnel and to correlate their work
with that of the Air Force. What can be done quickly
for a little expenditure was shown by the excellent
charts of Central Australia produced by the Mackay
Expedition.
Why Not Jewsmania ?
From an old contributor, who says he is in dead
earnest: —
Apples, scenery, summer boarding-houses and sweeps are
Tasmania’s main industries. Without Canberra grants its
Government would go bung.
An opportunity exists to-day for all Tasmanians to become,
at one stroke, practical philanthropists and opulent as well.
To few individuals, let alone the entire population, has such
a chance ever been offered. Nor are the benefits of such a
golden opportunity limited to Tasmania only. Australia
could expect from it at least 200,000 new citizens, possessing
collectively a very large sum of ready money, and with no
language difficulties or minority-possibilities amongst them.
No migration scheme has ever offered anything like that, or,
on present appearance, ever will.
It is a perfectly simple matter. The world is seething
with indignation at the accounts of millions of the best
brains and most skilled artisans of Europe being cast forth
from the lands in which they were born, and doomed to
wander, homeless and dispatriated. The accounts lose nothing
from the fact that much of the world’s publicity-mechanism
of press, film and radio is controlled by members of the race
to which the dispossessed ones belong. So is much of the
world’s money.
Tasmania’s estimated population now is 235,540, its total
municipal capital values are around £5O millions, its actual
value, lock, stock and barrel, would be amply covered by
£lOO millions. Its State public debt is £26 millions. Inten-
sively developed it could support more than 10 times its
present population, in a fertile land with a world-famous
climate.
At £250 millions it would be a bargain on both sides.
Every Tasmanian would get capital value of his property m
cash, with, in addition, £lOO p.a. for five years to each indi-
vidual, irrespective of age, sex or financial condition. The
State debt would be wiped out, together with the ability to
incur any more, and a vast reservoir of ready money would be
created in Australia for new internal loans, particulaily
Defence. . .
The new population would rapidly develop Tasmania into
a condition of immense production. There are no Arabs to
cause trouble to the purchasers, and Australia would have no
grounds for fear of a Jewish Navy ravaging its shores.
To a race of financiers, £250 millions is a bagatelle, par-
ticularly as exchange would bring it down by a quarter.
Canberra certainly contains no race of financiers, and even
Canberra is struggling hard to land Australia in a national
insurance scheme that runs to nearly £9 millions more and
has none of the advantages that the Jewsmania arrangement
offers to both sides.
Reforming the Calendar.
“Pawang”: Australian scientists at Canberra have
for the first time decided to associate themselves with
overseas scientists in a reform of the calendar.
Julius Ctesar, whom Mr. H. G. Wells pronounces
inferior to Huey Long, made one of the most cele-
brated changes in the world register of days, weeks
and years. He corrected an accumulated error by
adding 67 days which had slipped into oblivion
because of the inadequate reckoning of a previous
sovereign, Numa. The turmoil the Roman world was
thrown into caused the year 46 b.c. to be known as the
“Year of Confusion.” In 1582 Pope Gregory XIII.
had to slip into the reckoning 10 days which had been
lost by the calculations of Caesar. The opposition that
arose was theological. Italy, Spain and Portugal fell
into line; France, the Catholic parts of Switzerland
and Germany soon followed ; but the Protestants in
the last-named countries stuck out till 1700. The
Gregorian or New Style was adopted in England in
1752, but Greek Orthodoxy in Russia hung on to the
old style.
The proposed new calendar will divide the year
into four quarters, so that the first day of each quarter
will fall on the same day of the week, days and dates
thus being stabilised. This will leave one day un-
accounted for, and it will be inserted without either
name or date between the end of one year and the
beginning of the next. In a leap year the extra day
will go in between June and July. Objections this
time are likely to be political.
In Mother India.
“Ex-J.P.” in reply:
Touching “El V.’s” contribution (B. 18 /1 / ’39) to the
heat controversy, I lived in India for two years. Sending the
wife to the hills is certainly a habit amongst the hurra sahibs
—those with incomes of £l5OO p.a. and upwards; in fact, the
Governor and all highly-paid civil servants move to the
hills. Less-highly-paid civilians and wives remain below.
It is true that you can start the day’s work “soon after
daylight,” since most of the official “work” is done in
one’s own bungalow. It consists in signing one s name to
innumerable forms. You can do this not only in open-
necked khaki shirt,” but in pyjamas. The “cooling arrange-
ments” comprise a punkah, pulled by a female skeleton for
the equivalent of 2RI. a day.
In most European households “light lunch usually
consists of four courses. Then the sahib puts in a few
hours’ sleep, and rises refreshed for the serious business,
of the day. This takes place at the club: programme, tennis
and whisky-drinking, the latter under more punkahs, pulled
by more female skeletons at 24d. a day. Dinner, under
another punkah, comes at 9 p.m. —or whenever the sahib
gets home- —and it ends when he has consumed about five
courses.
“Mitigation” for those who have to work (natives and
half-castes) means the lightest of meals, without liquor, and loin-
cloths Undoubtedly, we in Australia could do things more
sensibly in the summer, but I can’t see how we could copy
India Life in India is made easy for the official classes
because the bulk of the people never get a square meal.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.”: To the legs-and-lipstick press
and its readers there was something want-
ing in the bushfires. There were no
flappers in them. Though scores of
photographers scurried over the stricken
region, not one came away with a photo-
graph of a young female firefighter in
shorts or trunks and brassieres, or even
slacks. Noble things were done by
women: for example, a Digger’s wife
saved a small boy, at the cost of being
horribly burnt, by sheltering him with
her body; but she was his grandmother,
and she owns to 65. No, there was no
sex appeal about the fires. Except for
rare examples of beautiful devotion like
that grandmother’s, woman’s part in
them was distinctly subordinate and de-
pendent. The truth is that the sex re-
tains its primitive and wholly natural
fear of fire and slaughter. The Amazon
corps that figured in early flapper-press
reports of the wars in Abyssinia, Spain
and China would be quite as useless in
an emergency as were the carefully-made-
up young women in insufficient clothing
who didn’t organise in beautiful and won-
derful bands and put out the bushfires.
“C.R.”: One Vic. bushfire incident
out of a million. A returned soldier was
resting in the front room of his house
at Warrandyte when the rear took fire.
A gale was blowing and the town had
been enveloped in smoke all the morn-
ing. He put his family into the car
and started to drive to safety. The
car stalled with both sides of the
road blazing. The father got out and
tried to start the engine, when the car
burst into flames. He got his family out,
made for the river and saw his wife and
children safely installed on rocks in the
middle of the stream ; then he went back
and joined the ranks of the firefighters.
“One of my legs was burned,” he re-
marked afterwards casually. “Thank God,
though,” he added, “it wasn’t the wooden
one!”
“L.D.”: A blackened relief-worker
was beating out a fire which had demol-
“Cot a valu'ble package ’ere for Mrs. McTwiddle."
“Good-oh, Bill. ’And it to the assistant purser."
ished several properties in one of the
Vic. country districts, and was charging
down on the house of a week-ender from
the city. Suddenly he became aware of
a man in smart white flannels agitatedly
shouting at him. “This is my house,” he
screamed. “Have any more firefighters
arrived? For goodness sake, tell me.”
“Yes,” said the relief-worker grimly;
“there’s one more now.” “Where is he?”
bleated the property-owner, looking
round in bewilderment. “You, you use-
less cow!” was the retort.
“C.Q.”: Fate stacked the cards for
the three Greeks who perished in the
bushfires in Victoria. With a companion
of the same nationality they were shel-
tering in a pool with half a dozen Aus-
tralian mill hands. Despite the warnings
of their mates three of the Greeks
accepted the offer of a lift from a pass-
ing car which was making a dash for
safety. The car met a tree that had
fallen across the roadway, and all
the occupants perished. The fourth
Greek survived to be rescued. He had
been forcibly held back by the more
experienced Australians.
“C. Ma”: One of Victoria’s fire-
fighters was bitten by a snake. He
chopped the top of the bitten finger off
with a slasher and then promptly picked
up his beater again. He didn’t need any
serum.
“F.S.”: For the first time in the history
of bushfires in Victoria, art suffered.
Adrian Lawlor, the modernist painter,
lost upwards of 200 of his own paintings ;
Hal Waugh, the veteran landscape
painter, lost all his canvases', and so did
Henri Hoile. Their houses went with
their works in the fire that devastated
Warrandyte. Another loss was the house
and studio built by Penleigh Boyd, which
had been a rendezvous for artists annu-
ally for many years.
“Lyndo”: The politest man on record
turned up at a N.S.W. coastal week-end
resort when the bushfires were raging
and the mercury was leaping to a record.
A girl who had occasion to go to the
local post office decided against walking
the half-mile home, and hired the only
taxi in the township to take her there.
She had just settled herself inside when
a man rushed up and asked if the car
was going far. “May I ask you to hurry
back?” he added. “I’ve just received
word that my house at Newport is on
fire.” The girl jumped out, insisting,
though the man was reluctant to dispossess
her, that she could wait until the taxi
came back. It was half-an-hour before
it picked her up. “That bloke’s house
was on fire all right,” reported the driver.
“They’d stacked the furniture in the
garden, and it was on fire, too.”
*, * . * *
“Eureka”: The job of a Canberra
junior civil servant , was the filing of
letters about national insurance under
occupational headings. His best effort
to date is the enshrining of a letter from
a washerwoman in the archives devoted
to waterside workers.
* * * *
“T.C.”: Pessimists, is it? Was gazing
upon a lot Of lads, some not so laddish,
clad only in the shortest of shorties,
when old Bill came along and com-
mented, “The last of the free. Their
kids will be slaves.” Suggested that he
must have just come away from a radio
session. “No, it ain’t that,” he assured
me; “just them ultra-violet rays and
history. Ain’t the loincloth always been
the badge of slavery? What naked or
half-naked race ever mattered, and for
how lone?”
r * ' * *
“Sally”: Although we were all quite
ready to admit that the presence of Miss
Smith in the first-floor-front gave a
splendid tone to our residential, there
were times when we felt her immacu-
late conduct cramped our more carefree
style. When the news went round that
she was going as a missionary to China
we were distinctly relieved and clubbed
together to give her a worthy send-off.
The day after she sailed a stout, aggres-
sive woman with assault and battery in
her eye appeared on the front step de-
manding To see Miss Smith. “She’s gone
to China,” we chanted in chorus.
“China!” The stout lady looked some-
what mollified. “Well, I come down to
tell her to leave my daughter’s husband
alone, or she’d have me to deal with.
But I don’t see as she can do much harm
from China.” There was a stunned
silence, broken only by the sound of Miss
Smith crashing from her pedestal of
perfection. “Well, I’ll be getting along,”
said our visitor. “And if any of youse
see that Sirena Smith again you can tell
her I called.” There was a collective
sigh of disappointment. Our Miss Smith’s
name is Eliza.
* * » *
“Qwert Yuiop”: It’s pretty tough when
we have come to the stage of turning our
national coinage into double-headers.
Well, look at the new bobs if you don’t
believe it. One side bears the head of
King George VI., as a loyal British coin
should, the other the head of a merino
ram. It is a rotten portrait of the ram,
but, none the less, a depletion of the
noddle, bean or top-piece of a male sheep,
and for all sporting purposes just as good
a head as that of his Gracious Majesty.
There should be a demand for the new
currency by progressive citizens for toss-
ing purposes, if none for mere artistry of
design, but it seems rather overdoing a
flair for eccentricity.
* * * *
“Erua”: The tale of the young re-
porter who hadn’t read Wells’s works
(B. 18 /1 / ’39) recalls the case of a Maori-
land flapper-reporter who had to inter-
view a visiting actor. Proud as he was
of his acting the young man was in-
finitely prouder of the plays he had
written, and when he asked the damsel
if she had read them she realised the
interview was about to be a flop unless
she exhibited some knowledge of his
efforts. She decided on a bold line of
action. “Oh, rather,” said she enthusi-
astically; “I’ve acted in them, too. I
once played Ariel in your ‘As You Like
it.’ ” Luckily the mummer had a sense
0 f humor, and the interview thereafter
went merrily,
* * * *
„ s „. The absence f bathrooms ; s one
- f _ * t-. i; c u
of , the chief charms of English village
when one is doing a tourist gallop, but I
dldn 1 . ex P to be offered the same
attraction when looking for a permanent
residence at Sydney s Potts Point In
a modern building I was offered a flat
of a single room (for £2 12s. 6d. a week).
You pulled a bit of the wall away on
one side and found a “kitchen”; opened
a door into a sort of cupboard on the
other side and found a shower recess,
but no bath. What a slum the Cross and
Potts Point will be in a few years if
any more of that sort of thing is allowed!
THE KING HIT.
(After reading some instructions to lifesavers.)
When you leap in the water and manfully press
To the aid of some damsel or dame in distress,
Here’s a bit of sound counsel to keep in your
mind
If to struggle and clutch you should find her
inclined:
You have to be cruel, my son, to be kind,
So deal her, however it sticks in your craw,
A full-blooded punch on the point of the jaw.
Some girls, it is true, may desist and give in
To a milder collision of fist upon chin,
But clearly it isn’t too easy to tell
If the one you are after is that sort of belle
On the spur of the moment. So, doubts to
dispel,
The very best card from your hand you can
draw
Is a hefty k.o. on the point of the jaw.
All impulse to chivalry needs you must check
With a terror-crazed feminine grip on your neck.
For the sake of your subject—as well as your
own—
You must harden your masculine heart like a
stone,
And until the morrow excuses postpone,
While you loosen the hands that tenaciously
claw
With a stiffening jab on the point of the jaw.
Contrive for the nonce to entirely forget
That you’re pulling your weight in the waves
and the wet;
When white arms around you despairingly cling
Endeavor to feature yourself in the ring,
Take note of your distance and measure your
swing.
If you snatch her from death will it matter a
straw
That the process included a sock on the jaw?
You may be acquainted, or never have met,
But I’ll wager your wallop she’ll never forget,
For who ’mong Eve’s daughters could e’er
look askance
On the gallant who saved her from deadly mis-
chance,
And what started in peril may end in romance,
To demonstrate clearly, if anything can,
That we’ve something in common with primi-
tive man.
For many a maid in the red and the raw
Dim dawn of our species, when might was the
law,
Was won with a clip on the point of the jaw.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“You can steer after me, Prendergast — I've been Wanting to do this all
my life!”
“Ente Marid”: Oh, these bureau-
crats! One of them has decorated the
lifts in Sydney’s Commonwealth Bank
with a notice that gentlemen are re-
quested not to remove their hats. Was
in one the other morning with an all-
male company. First, a High Court
Judge, who glared at the instruction and
then firmly doffed his cady ; then some-
body whose headgear looked as if he
had souvenired it from Anthony Eden
took his off in such a hurry that he
dropped it. A nonchalant M.P. followed
suit—l dead-heated with him. There
remained only one compliant traveller.
There he stood in the corner, his legs
crossed, his foot tapping against the High
Court Judge’s bag, his whole face moving
in process of masticating some glutinous
comestible a fine, fruity sample of
telegraph boy, with his lid well and
firmly on the back of his coconut, obey-
ing the will of his masters, whoever else
might flout it.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Censorship isn’t always
Governmental. A Science Congress dele-
gate mentioned that his great-uncle in
the fifth degree, one Dyck, sailed with
Furneaux on Cook’s second great voyage,
and left a journal which was kicking
about amongst the family heirlooms for
a century and more. In the late
Victorian age it was burned on the
ground that it corrupted the morals of
the young, among whom it was very
popular. This recalls the fact that the
Argonaut Press proposes to publish the
unpruned and unexpurgated journals of
the Cook voyages. It has secured photo-
stats of the Cook log of the first, or
Botany Bay, voyage now in the National
Library, Canberra.
* * * *
“Dhas”: As an admirer of the march
of refanement, let me submit for in-
spection the slogan I saw in Sydney:
“The Oil without a Doubt about It.”
Surely, until gentility got to work upon
it, this was “The Dinkum Oil”? The
refining process is appropriate to the
petroleum industry, but I still think
“The Dinkum Oil” would have been a
much better caption.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Prof. Goddard, at the
Science Congress:
We are living in a time" period that finds
the civilised world, badly as it needs re-
organisation, threatened by a concatenation
of obsessions born of consuming anthro-
pocentrism that assumes the guise of a
sublimation in the minds of its creators
and followers, and consequently finds full
justification for the implementation of its
ideals under that emotional prejudice and
enslavement that invariably characterises
any form of anthropocentrism.
As Mark Twain would say, anthropo-
centrism is no slouch of a word to hurl
at the dictators.
* * * *
“Hamer”: H. R. McDuffie's reminis-
cences (B. 11/1/’39) touch upon both
memories and mysteries. For instance,
the disappearance of Henslow. He wrote
a few Bulletin stories and then created
“Henslow’s Annual,” which seemed
likely to become a fixture: then both
Henslow and “Annual” vanished. What
became of and who was Phil Fairleigh?
When I was young in the business I now
and then saw the sloping-shouldered
Phil darting from
office to office,
always in a hurry ;
but once he paused
with a gathering of
us to boast that he
had sold 27 stories
on end. He vanished
too, abruptly, to be
heard of no more. I
know what became
of some other sur-
viving old - timers.
Albert Dorrington,
as is well known,
sought a wider
field ; James Francis
Dwyer went to the
U.S.A. and now, so
they tell me. gets a
minimum of a thou-
sand dollars for a
story. Tal Ordell is
now the A. B. C.
story-teller. Harrison
Owen is in England ;
E. N. McCulloch
(“O. C. Cabot,” “R.
Mageddon” and
other pen-names)
can still be seen
around Sydney. Poet
Bernard Ingleby lives
at Sydney seaside
subbub Narrabeen,
troubled not by writ-
ing.
* *
“Captain Pintle”:
Bass Strait keeps up
its reputation as a marine graveyard.
During the last few months a fishing
ketch has foundered, the Lady Flinders
ran aground at Three Hummock Island, a
freighter was driven aground by a gale,
and the schooner Alma Doefel sustained
damage and narrowly missed foundering.
Since 1801 nearly 60 vessels have come
to their end on King Island. On March
14, 1835, the convict ship Neva struck
with 241 persons on board, 159 of them
women and 55 children. The 15 sur-
vivors were rescued a fortnight after.
Ten years later, the Cataraqui, an immi-
grant vessel with a total company of 408,
piled up early in the morning. Only nine
reached the beach alive. In 1854 the
Brahmin, Sydney to London, was lost
there with her captain and most of her
Lascar crew In 1874 the British Admiral
was lost on the rocky coast, and 79 out
of the 88 persons on board were drowned.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Why doesn’t the Com-
monwealth meteorological crowd check
the annual flood of misleading nonsense
about high temperatures at that or this
place by issuing discomfort-index figures?
I’ve been in most of Australia’s allegedly
hottest inland places, including Marble
Bar (W.A.) during one of its best dry-
bulb efforts, and all of them were more
bearable than Sydney often is at 90 or
so degrees, with sweltering, high humidity.
The relative amount of water vapor in
the air governs the situation, though,
where the body is covered, even by light
clothing, a “skin-shirt” climate is created
which may vary considerably from that
outside. Mere humidity figures are not
enough. The best interpretation of
climatic discomfort-production would
probably be the dew-point figure be-
tween skin and shirt of a person dressed
in average male summer clothing. Any-
how, the meteorologists should do some-
thing to atone for the mess they made
of the Canberra climate and Mr. H. G.
Wells’s temper.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Current
British lists of indispensable occupations,
not to be called up for military, or even
civilian, service in the event of war, read
strangely until one recollects that future
wars will not be matters for opposed
armies, but for whole nations. Even
then, while engineering, shipbuilding
and trades capable of being rapidly
diverted to munition-making are under-
standable enough, why should piano-
polishing, upholstering and medal-making
be included? Civil servants over 25,
railwaymen, busmen, public - utility
workers and all classes of workers on the
land will be needed to carry on adminis-
tration, essential civic services and food
production, but why bedstead-makers
should be indispensable on the home
front is rather a puzzle. In fact, it looks
as if, apart from regulars, future fighting
forces will consist mainly of hairdressers,
lawyers, barmen and commercial
travellers.
* + * *
“Pawang”: “Fashions may come and
go,” says “King’s Inns” (B. 18/1 /’39),
criticising my remarks on obscenity in
law, “but the prurient mind is a constant
factor.” Precisely ; and that is why the
law is in such a frightful muddle. If
to be prurient is to be unfashionable,
then Plato (“The Banquet”), Shakspeare,
(“Measure for Measure”), Shaw (“Mrs.
Warren’s Profession” and “Widowers’
Houses”) and every other writer who
has not subscribed to the stodgiest con-
ceptions of his contemporaries is as
prurient as the worst of them. Accord-
ing to “King’s Inns’ ” definition, Tess of
the D’Urbervilles was, in the eye of the
law, written by a prurient-minded
Thomas Hardy, and Red heap by a
prurient-minded Norman Lindsay. Well,
so it may be ; but it would be a dull
world if all the writers fulfilled the law’s
conception of pure-mindedness. Even the
lawyers would die of boredom.
* * * *
“Say 99”: I don’t suppose there’s a
physician on this planet who won’t feel
some relief and yet a queer twinge of
regret over the death, at 70, of Miss Mary
Mallon. She was “Typhoid Mary,” the
world’s most famous carrier. In 1904
she was given nasty looks when four
fellow-servants in a house where she
bossed the stove contracted typhoid. She
left; and then two people in her next
place were stricken down, one of them
dying. The list of her doings isn’t yet
complete, but she was followed round
certain parts of the U.S.A., where she left
typhoid and death in her trail. At one
time she was head cook in a maternity
hospital think of it!—and, with 25
nurses down with typhoid, Mary went
away. The health authorities grabbed
her, and she was isolated and housed at
the expense of the State. She held court
in a little cottage on North Brother
Island, glad to see everybody. And every-
body was glad to see this historic old
lady—until she brought in the afternoon
tea. Typhoid germs stick to cups and
fingers and scones ; so, with a few polite
coughs, Mary’s guests would depart. The
poor old cook died of a paralytic stroke.
“I heard you Were short of uniforms, so the old man said I could use his.”
THE HARD WORD.
It isn’t a genuine swear-word —I mean
There’s nothing about it profane or obscene,
Or wasn’t when first it was noted among
Exotic recruits to our national tongue.
Just a harmless intensive, derived from the
Dutch
(Our erudite Ifould has told us as much).
But seeing it never will lose, it appears,
Its grating effect upon sensitive ears,
As smacking too hard of the slum and the
alley,
Let’s soften it down into “blanky” or “bally.”
You could hardly impugn it on impious
grounds
Attached to expressions like “Zooks!” and
like “Zounds!”
Those thunderous oaths in the thinnest disguise
That passed as O.K. in our forefathers’ eyes.
It’s none of the harsh implications, forsooth,
Concealed in the popular expletive “ ’Strewth! ”
That would hardly occasion rebuke or reproof
Employed ’neath a curate’s respectable roof.
But why shock the austere or embitter the
cranky
With synonyms waiting like “bally” and
“blanky”?
Though Shaw and his school are inuring the age
To the sound of the word, once taboo, from
the stage;
Though modern dispensers of novels galore
Fight shy of the adjective-adverb no more,
Still, spirits less hardened than ours may revolt
And claim that it gives them a positive jolt.
Their tastes more refined it behoves us to
study
By giving a miss to the sinister “bl y,”
When we’ve ready to hand, with its meaning to
tally,
Those excellent substitutes “blanky” and
“bally.”
v.s.w.
PIPARDS.


mm
CRAVEN A
nevei varies- they be „
riwMfs smctteffUstr!
10 for 9d 20 for I'6
AfuMt
Bfes.
m
m
El 867
MADE
PREVENT
EXXE
THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Communists have lost another strike.
They lose every one they start, but their
latest fiasco at Port Kembla will leave
waterside workers and steelworkers broke
for a long time, while it gave a great
Australian industry a setback.
L. J. Hartnett, of General Motors-
Holden’s, has been saying that “there is
no reason why Australia should not take
its place among the big manufacturers
and exporters of commercial aircraft.”
There is no reason at all if Communist
narks can be kept out of the industry
and all other industries; and the Finns
have done it, with excellent results for
the Finns.
Of recent weeks both parties to the
war in China have administered shocks
to Britain and France. The Chinese plead
inability to “service” loans ; the Japanese
have come out with a plan for putting
China and Inner Mongolia, as well as
Manchuria, under Japanese control when
the war is over. To that London has
replied that “the British Government in-
tends to adhere to the Nine-Power
Treaty,” and similar communications
have been forwarded from Paris and
Washington. Tokio itself has received a
shock—the Americans propose to fortify
Guam. That and the Notes are much
more likely to produce sweet reasonable-
ness than the clumsy boycotts which
appeal to Communists and silly news-
papers.
Mr. Casey intimates that he is gratified
at the progress of the protected indus-
tries, and well he might be. All Aus-
tralians share this gratification, but, in
the case of family men, the pleasure is
alloyed when they consider the prices
they have to pay for necessaries and for
the pleasures they have a right to enjoy.
Nor can the sheepman be expected to
throw up his hat when he has to take
104 d. a pound for wool while balance
sheets suggest to him that some manu-
facturing concerns are making more
money than they know what to do with.
The Tariff Board has steadfastly urged
reduction of prices on manufacturers
who can afford it. The advice is sound,
and the national fiscal policy may suffer
if it goes unheeded.
From three quarters have come threats
of more taxes. From Canberra because
of defence, the Government having so
neglected this first duty that it is now
spending (and. that means wasting) furi-
ously in the effort to catch up; from
Sydney because of the Salary Grab and
many other forms of extravagance, and
from Melbourne because of the bush-
fires. As for the last, the Government
will get more from public subscriptions
and from the McComas estate than it
is ever likely to spend on bushfire-relief.
McComas —woolbroker, pastoralist, com-
pany director and Commonwealth Bank
Board member —was a millionaire before
the slump hit his many investments.
Even so, he cut up for £642,000 in Vic-
toria alone.
That odd Australian institution the
stopwork meeting has been justified at
last. The men at a Victorian sawmill
held a stopwork meeting and demanded
a dugout. The owner detailed 10 men
to excavate one. A fortnight later it
saved 21 men, women and children.
A strange revival of the bombings
which, 56 years ago, led to the passing
of the Explosives Act is troubling
Governments and local authorities in
Britain and Ireland. They began after
the internment of Irish Republican Army
leaders in Ulster. Though swift and
resolute action has averted damage to
power plants and the like in Britain, a
bomb exploded behind a Tralee hotel
in which Chamberlain’s only son was
staying went near to wrecking it, and
the concussion hurled a woman out of
her bed.
The Free Library people have been
promised annual subsidies by the N.S.W.
Stevens Government. Excellent; and, as
one good turn deserves another, they
should make it their business to see that
their patrons are well supplied with books
calculated to improve the mind.
A much-advertised professorial set was
snubbed at the Science Congress. Cop-
land, supported by Giblin, demanded
emergency measures to meet “the menace
to Australian security revealed in the
present international situation” (in Gib-
lin’s translation, “the threat of aggres-
sion from Germany, Italy and Japan”).
With 32 economists voting, the Dismal
Jeremiahs had only nine supporters. J. R.
Darling, of Geelong Grammar, proposed
MR. H.G. WELLS LOOKS AT THE WORLD AGAIN.
And sees war “more inevitable” because of “the presence of young men with nothing
to do, no outlook on life and no definite hope.” Peaceful America, he omitted to
mention, has 11,000,000 unemployed, peaceful Britain 2,000,000; Germany reports a labor
shortage.
a similar motion to the educationists. His
reference to “the gravity of the crisis”
was sharply countered by H. F. Benning,
of Sydney, who wanted to know what
“this crisis” was and where it hung out
—“all our information is colored by
propaganda.” So many dominies were of
the same mind that the Geelong man
retired saying “Bless my soul!”
Nowadays Bishop Burgmann rarely
mentions the U.S.S.R. in his speeches or
pastoral letters. Addressing the savants
at Canberra he expressed good Austra-
lian sentiments:
You have to go abroad to find Austra-
lians in really responsible positions. We
would be frightened of them here. They
might do something.
Still the Bishop must admit that our poli-
ticians don’t send abroad for —politicians.
Wise things and foolish things were
said at the Science Congress. H. G.
Wells blended folly with wit and wisdom
in a discourse on history when he placed
Huey Long, a mere “leather-lunged low-
brow,” above Caesar and Alexander “for
political creativeness.” And a great truth
issued from the mouth of a young dele-
gate: —
Make North Australia fit for white
women to live in and the problem of
North Australia will be solved.
The speaker was Madigan, the geologist,
of Adelaide University.
Before beginning his Advance on All
Fronts (it ended on the salary front),
Stevens, the N.S.W. Premier, said 1938-39
would yield a surplus of “approximately
£8000.” For the first six months revenue
failed by £5,083,300 to reach expendi-
ture, and Mair dolefully admits that
“Budget balance may not now be
achieved.” Mair is the trusting soul to
whom Stevens, hailed as a heaven-born
financier by the Stunt Press, handed over
the Treasury before hurrying away to
occupy the commanding position at Can-
berra which he didn’t get.
Compared with the figures for the first
half of 1937-38, N.S.W. State revenue is
down £426,100 and expenditure is up
£1,970,200. Things were shaping badly
two months ago, but this didn’t prevent
Mr. Stevens from moving for leave to
bring in his Salary Grab Bill and dating
the increases from July 1 “to keep faith
with the promise that I personally made
to my colleagues last June.” The
measure, which distributed another
£14,000 p.a. among Ministers and mem-
bers (each of the latter collected about
£6B in back pay), was introduced—by the
Minister of Justice! —on October 20 and
passed through all its stages in 16
minutes.
Westralian Labor is risking no seat
by transferring Troy to the London
office, for Mt. Magnet has been for Troy
and Labor for 35 years. It is one of a
dozen goldfields and northern electorates
which have been Labor pocket boroughs
for ever so long. With only 50 mem-
bers to be elected, this gives the party
an immense advantage ; and, in general,
the arrangement of electoral boundaries
is such that it could gain a majority of
seats with no more than two-fifths of
the votes. All the same, the Cockies and
Nats., who have had a more or less
cordial understanding for nearly a quar-
ter of a century, swear that Labor is
going to lose in March.
After 11 years N.S.W. has another
Assemblywoman, the widow of John
Quirk, elected as his successor in Bal-
main. A Lang Laborite, she beat two
local hairdressers who stood as Ind.
Labs., but her absolute majority was so
small as to suggest that, like Miss Pres-
ton-Stanley, Mrs. Cowan in Westralia,
Mrs. Longman in Queensland and
Peacock’s widow in Victoria, she may
have only one term. Of all the Assembly-
women, only Miss Holman, of Forrest
(W.A.), has figured in more than one
Parliament —she has represented Forrest
since 1925. Mrs. Cardell-Oliver, who
got in for Subiaco (W.A.) as a Nat. (Miss
Holman is Labor), goes up for re-election
next March, and a predecessor, Richard-
son, says he will move the vote of thanks
to the returning officer.
On November 9, 1936, Dunstan intro-
duced “a bill to provide for a reduction
of £30,000,000 in the loan liability of the
Victorian Government railways,” by
way of “placing the railway finances on
a proper footing.”
The Government is confident that it will
mark a New Era in Victorian railway his-
tory.
On August 3, 1938, the Premier
announced that during the year to June
30 the railways had gone another
£239,000 to the bad, explaining that if the
£30,000,000 had not been “written oft”
the deficit “would have amounted to
£638,000.” He predicted a deficit of
£182,000 for 1939. He has since
“amended” his prediction, and the
friendly “Age” says the deficit will reach
£1,000,000. The New Era has been in-
definitely postponed, and Clapp is ex-
pected to become Director-General of
Civil Aviation.
“Gone are the days when a section of
the English press was wont to refer to
the King of Rumania as ‘Carol the Cad’ ”
—beginning of an English correspon-
dent’s article. Nor is Carol’s pretty lady,
Madame Lupescu, ever mentioned now,
though for years she was held up to
execration as a red-haired Jewish tart.
Says Churchill, fawning where he once
fulminated:
The impression which King Carol created
in London was highly favorable; the
British public had the feeling that he was
a real man, a highly capable prince, facing
extraordinary difficulties with resource and
resolve.
Rumania was one of the 10 Powers cast
by Churchill for the part of encircling
Germany. If Carol and his Lulu have
to bolt, the old gentleman is sure to
demand another war.
Still moving in a mysterious way its
blunders to perform, the Sydney Govern-
ment reduced the Harbor Bridge toll
to travellers by tram and bus and to some
travellers by train, but not to others nor
to motorists. You can tram it from
Wynyard to North Sydney for 2d., but
by train, second-class, it costs 3d. Gov-
ernment owns —or owes for trams,
trains and buses.
The Office Antiquary again:
A hundred and twenty-seven years ago a
French army wrested Tarragona from the
Spanish nationalists of the period. On Jan.
16 Spanish nationalists, headed, “S. M. Herald”
acknowledges, by “the Fifth Navarre Division,”
wrested Tarragona from the faction that the
French are backing. Granny, condoling with
the French, allows that “the spectacle of their
near-neighbors being overborne by the sheer
weight of foreign-supplied Francoist armaments,
with savage Moors and Italian legionaries
assisting the slaughter, must be nauseating.” It
must be, especially as most of Negrin’s arma-
ments and many of his men are French. All
Europe knows that, but Granny won’t admit it.


DESPERATE MEASURES.
“The public can rely on the friendly co-operation of the police in an emergency.”


V
CHILDREN
WELCOME!
Not all hotels welcome children as
their guests. The Victoria, however,
has full facilities for their accomm-
odation, including creche under
charge of trained attendant. "Room
only” tariff: 4/- to 7/6 for singles,
8/- to 16/- for doubles. Write
for illustrated booklet to Dept. I.N.
VICTORIA
PALACE
215 LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Town Hall) MELBOURNE
nrnirr
■lf!
n 1!!;
•••*[
mil
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
WHAT WILL 1939 BRING?
POSITION IN MAORILAND
SURVEY OF SHARE AND OTHER
MARKET PROSPECTS
January Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. • • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund ..
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
£1.250,000
1,000,000
1,250,000
PERSONAL ITEM S
Another survivor of the Australian
Science Congress of fifty years ago has
come to light in the person of veteran
Sydney artist Julian Ashton. Francis
Anderson remembers sitting beside him
through a long dull session on the Fine
Arts. “I’m going,” said Julian at the end
of it. He did not come back.
After about 30 years as editor of Melb.
“Weekly Times,” George Mulchinock is
to retire. He came from England more
than 40 years ago, and worked on farms
and in the bush before he joined a
country newspaper. He was soon editing
small sheets in mining centres in boom
days of Maldon and Stawell. After
reporting and subbing on Melbourne
“Herald” he was offered the choice of two
jobs by J. E. Davidson, then editor of the
daily—chief of staff on “Herald” or editor
of the “Weekly Times.” Mulchinock took
the editorship. Frank Murphy, the
“Herald’s” present chief of staff, moves
into the “Weekly Times” chair.
Principal foe of pests and parasites
(in the agricultural sense) in N. S. Wales
is Robert Jackson Noble, M.Sc., Ph.D.,
B.Sc.Agr. Born at Five Dock (Sydney)
44 years ago, he had his education at
Sydney High School and Sydney and
Minneapolis Universities. He entered
the N. S. Wales Department of Agricul-
ture as a cadet in 1915, climbed to Prin-
cipal Assistant Biologist in 1925, and two
years later became head of the biology
branch. A list of his medals and his
associations with learned societies and
institutions would extend this paragraph
to inordinate length. Instead it may be
DR. R.J. NOBLE.
recorded that he lives at Lindfield and
is human enough to play golf.
W. H. Cooper, who recently took over
the management of the Sydney branch
of the Bank of Australasia, is an old
Bluecoat School boy. The Great War
found him in W.A., where he joined up.
A serious chest wound brought him
back before the end of hostilities, but not
before he had earned a commission. Sub-
sequently he managed the ’Asia at Bun-
bury (W.A.), did a spell in Vic. and an-
other as acting manager in Sydney. Dur-
ing recent years he has been inspector in
W.A. and manager of the Perth branch.
Ivor MacGillivray, dead in Adelaide'at
98, was the last of S.A.’s original Labor
stalwarts. A Scotch sailor lad, he was in
time for Bendigo goldmining, but
finally settled to work on the wharves
at Port Adelaide, where he stayed, be-
coming chairman and trustee of the local
Working Men’s Association for many
years, till in 1893 he entered Parliament.
It was his boast that in 25 years he
missed only two sittings. The war hit
him very hard. His only son was killed
on Gallipoli, and in 1918 disagreement
with his party over the conscription
question lost him an otherwise safe seat
and his career.
N. F. Spielvogel makes a correction
and supplies some information:
Anent a kindly-worded par. about myself
(B. 11/1/’39) 1 am falling over myself in my
haste to make a correction. I was born at 15
Armstrong-street, Ballarat (Vic.), in 1874.
True my father had the misfortune to begin
life in Galicia, but repudiated that nationality
when he became a naturalised Australian citizen
a year before I was born. And, by the way,
in reply to H. R. McDuffie (B. 11/l/’39),
my first par. in The Bulletin appeared in
1898 under the pen-name of “Eko.” Since
then I have written scores of pars., verses and
short stories as “Genung,” “Ato,” “Eko,”
“Ahaswer,” “Xsquare” and “N.F.S.”
Patrick Flannagan, 60 at the end, was
one of Adelaide’s best-known hotel-
keepers and sportsmen. He was presi-
dent of the L.V.A. of S.A., and then of
the whole Australian association; first
chairman of the Licensed Victuallers’
Racing Club of Adelaide and of Tatter-
sail’s Club, and one of the three members
of the Betting Board.
S.A. has been farewelling V. H. Ryan
after nearly 50 years in the public ser-
vice. The last 30 of them he has devoted
to the Tourist Bureau, which began as
an experiment, with himself and a boy
as staff, but has grown into a big concern
that insists to the outside world on the
many beauty-spots of a State not com-
monly credited with possessing them.
Ryan starts his “retirement” by under-
taking to run the distribution of fodder
and other relief for the many burnt-out
farmers of the State.
Ballarat’s oldest solicitor is Thomas
Mann, who celebrated his 93rd birthday
on January 17. A native of Parramatta
(N.S.W.), he was one of the first students
on the roll of Melbourne Grammar, of
which he was dux in 1861. He was ad-
mitted as a solicitor nearly 70 years
ago, and about the same time joined the
Southern Rifles (Prahran), obtaining a
commission in the Ballarat Rangers in
1873. In his younger days he made his
mark in cricket, football and rowing.
Otago Uni., Dunedin (M.L.), will
benefit shortly by the archaeological
activities of two Australians, W. J.
Beasley and John Nash. Beasley is a
Melbourne businessman who became
interested in Old Testament antiquities.
In 1933, at his own expense, he started
to delve into the buried pasts of the
Persian Gulf, Egypt, Syria and Palestine.
One day he read in the “Argus” that a
young archaeological student who had
been studying at Cambridge was on his
way back to Melbourne. He succeeded
in intercepting him, and the two pro-
ceeded to dig in the rich strata of Cyprus.
As a result, upwards of forty cases of
antiquities dating back to the time of
Moses have found their way to Aus-
tralasia. Beasley’s assistant is a son of
the Rev. C. H. Nash, head of the Melb.
Bible Institute.
H. C. A. Steele, who vanished in
Hobson’s Bay last week with his
chauffeur in a £lOOO speedboat, was
managing director of Steele and Co.,
furniture warehousemen, of Melbourne.
On the day in question, which was a
calm one, he set out to wave farewell
to his niece, who was going for a holiday
to Java. The liner never saw them, and
a search by boat and airplane failed to
discover anything. An unexpected wave
at 40 m.p.h., which was the craft’s top
speed, is the likeliest explanation. Steele,
in his young days at Melbourne Gram-
mar, was a leading athlete, and in 1909
won the school’s swimming champion-
ship.
A name likely to be received with
cheers wherever the younger generation
of marine engineers are gathered to-
gether is that of D. M. Gillies, whose
retirement as Superintending Engineer of
the U.S.S. Co. took effect at the end of
last year and was recognised last week
by a complimentary dinner and other
shivoos in Sydney. Gillies, who joined
the Union Co. in 1896, had 16 years at
sea. During the Great War he had
D.U. GILLIES.
charge of the reconditioning of troop-
ships on this side of the globe. Through-
out his years as boss of the Union
Co. engineers he has helped the younger
chaps in a thousand ways.
A man died in Wellington (M.L.) the
other day who had an unusual claim to
fame. As a medical student he won an
exhibition in science. He voluntarily re-
linquished it, and it was handed to an-
other student, who was thus able to go
abroad and study. Dr. S. J. McLaurin
was the man who gave up the scholar-
ship ; the youth who got it became Lord
Rutherford.
C. T. White, Queensland Government
Botanist, is the first to go to Kew, the
great English botanical research insti-
tution, under the new liaison system.
Principal duties will be to answer ques-
tions by Australian Governments and
institutions on botanical subjects. White
takes with him some thousands of speci-
mens of Australian plants for comparison
with the type specimens from early col-
lections made in Australia by British
and foreign investigators.
Edgar Allen, Superintendent of
Secondary Education for South Aus-
tralia, who is to go abroad this year at
the expense of the Carnegie Corporation
EDGAR ALLEN.
to enlarge his knowledge of schools and
schooling, was born at Murray Bridge
(S.A.) in 1881, grounded at Adelaide
High School and graduated at Adelaide
Uni. After a pedagogic career that in-
cluded a senior mastership at Adelaide
High, a term as senior maths, master at
the R.A.N. College and ten years as an
inspector of schools, he was appointed to
his present position. He still takes a
keen interest in swimming and rowing.
“X.S.”: Wedderburn, Vic., claims a
record which no other Australian town
can touch. The combined ages of its
four justices of the peace amount to 324.
James Craig, at 72, is the baby; H.
Gray is 75, Robert Steel 85. The chair-
man of the Bench, James Treble, is the
daddy. He is 92. There is an age limit
of 72 years in Victoria, but it was intro-
duced in 1935 and two of Wedderburn’s
justiciary missed it.
“J.S.”: Australia has sent a parly
of civil servants touring the world in
search of plants that thrive in arid con-
ditions. Albert Morris, of Broken Hill,
dead at 52 (B. 18/l/’39), could have told
them where to find what they want with-
out leaving Australia. He was an assayer
by profession, but made himself also an
authority on plants that grow in N.S.W.'s
dry far west, and he gained his knowledge
by searching at home in his spare time.
Hi 9 work at Broken Hill, after he had
turned the dusty hospital grounds into a
thriving forest by giving and planting
about 1000 trees of many varieties, all
raised from seed in his own garden
nursery, attracted the attention of Broken
Hill Prop., which had been trying to
make something grow at Whyalla, in
dry S.A. Morris made a success of
Whyalla, and was consulted by Port
Pirie (S.A.) Council about the tough
proposition of growing things on its
salty flats. Some years ago the Zinc
Corporation at Broken Hill put Morris
in charge of its scheme of vegetation
regeneration (suggested by himself), and
now, with the waste water from the Zinc
Corporation mine, a sandy desert has
been converted into a park, and the way
has been shown to save the town from
being buried like the cities of ancient
Egypt and Arabia. He formed the Barrier
Field Naturalists’ Club some 20 years
ago.


THE FINISHED PRODUCT.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Knit Tog”: Yes, the bush is chang-
ing. Attended a dance in an isolated Vic-
torian town (by “isolated” I mean
isolated —the nearest pub was 10 long
miles away). And did we foot it to the
strains of an accordion ’neath the gentle
glow of kerosene-lamps, while the swains
of the district, dressed in reach-me-
downs and flaring ties, made merry with
calico-clad maidens of the Great Out-
back? We did not. The orchestra of
five and the seductive blonde crooner
attached thereto dispensed the latest
swing-music. Nine-tenths of the lads
present wore dinner-suits and their part-
ners displayed evening gowns that would
have brought back memories of Gov-
ernment House balls if - had ever
attended one. And we drank claret cup
—claret cup, mind you! Go on the land,
young man, but take your jolly old
evening kit with you.
* * * *
“Narine Cubby”: Drought has re-
vived an ancient industry on the Con-
damine. The waterholes are dry to the
mud, and the locals have been combing
them for what the correspondents call
Murray cod and golden perch—formerly
known in Queensland as Moonie or
Condamine cod and yellowbellies. Time
was when every waterhole in the Con-
damine, the Paroo, the Warrego, the
Moonie and the Balonne was watched
eagerly by a horde of blacks as it
dwindled. First they cleaned out the
mussels. Then with eager shouts they
dragged boughs through the muddy
residue to make the fish rise, to be caught
and flung on the bank. The last stage
was when the fish were gone. Many a
careless bird, beaten by heat and thirst,
went down the craw of a swift-moving
and prehensile - fingered Kamilroi
through failing to make sure that the
drift log beside the last square foot of
water was a log.
* * * *
“Sherwood”: The Pilliga scrub area
(nor’-western N.S.W.) isn’t all sandy
waste, as most folk imagine. Within its
borders are to be found almost every
known geological formation existing in
Australia, though minerals are never in
payable quantities. But the most remark-
able feature is a number of mud springs,
differing not in appearance from others
of their kind, but with a hidden differ-
ence all the same. If a pine sapling is
placed end foremost in the spring, it
will immediately be sucked out of sight
as though, clutched and drawn by some
giant hand. Next day the sapling will be
found deposited outside the spring’s
radius of activity, but minus every par-
ticle of bark. Should an unlucky animal
fall into its clutches only the bones,
bleached white, will be thrown up.
* * * *
“Marsh”: After dispatching a very
lean fox curiosity impelled us to explore
his innards to learn what constituted his
menu. In all stages of digestion were
masses of grasshoppers. Foxes admittedly
account for many lambs, but if all the
brush-tail fraternity regale themselves on
’hoppers on the scale our victim did I’d
put it to the Council that they are worthy
of a vote of thanks. Anyway, in rabbit-
infested country I’ve never known of a
lamb falling a victim to a fox.
* * * *
“Wandi”: A bird that enjoys the
monopoly of at least two Australian wild-
flowers is the beautiful spinebill, a tame
and sprightly little chap whose notes are
sometimes heard in large private gardens.
On account of its long, slender bill,
slightly curved downward, it is vernacu-
larly known as the cobbler’s awl, and its
special preserves are the native fuchsia
and the honeyflower. These blooms are
long, narrow cylinders, too deep and too
small in diameter for other honeyeaters
to reach the nectar at the bottom. To
the spinebill, who is chiefly responsible
for their fertilisation, the extraction of the
sweets, and the insects attracted thereto,
is easy. Wherever those flowers grow
the spinebill is found.
* * * *
“Old Shooter”: No ’roo-shooter will
be without a good tracking dog if he pos-
“That ain't the knock-off whistle, mate."
sibly can lay hands on one. A reliable
tracker is particularly valuable in thick
country, where scores of high-grade pelts
are lost each season through mortally-
wounded marsupials travelling some dis-
tance before dying. And a good tracker
is not necessarily a dog of breed or a
picture in appearance. Some of the most
treasured trackers writer has known were
insignificant-looking mongs that most
dog-keepers would be ashamed to own.
The cherished “finder” of one profes-
sional Bananaland shooter was a fox-
terrier bitch. Though only a handful,
that intelligent little yapper could hold
the largest old-man ’roo ever brought to
ground by a bullet. Securing an earhold,
she’d drag down the exhausted marsupial,
holding him securely from a forward
position until her master rode up. If the
victim gave up the ghost or was dead
when found, she’d trot back to lead the
way to the kill.
* * * *
“O. I. Saye”: If “Ingeli’s” knowledge
of Malay (B. 28/12/’3B) equalled his
knowledge of natural history he would
know that it isn’t necessary to go either
to monkeys or baboons for throwers of
hand grenades. Thousands of orang-
outangs are to be found in Sydney or
Melbourne, and doubtless many of them
will be ready to throw grenades when the
necessity arises. In Malay orang-outang
means “man in debt” ; it is orang-otan
which means “wild man” or, better still,
“man of the forest.”
“Ingegoodye”: The centenary of the
discovery of Australia’s highest point will
be celebrated this year, or at least one
supposes so. As a matter of fact, the
Polish traveller Strzelecki was wrong
when in 1839 he took what he named
Mt. Kosciuszko (his own spelling) for
the highest point of the Snowy Range
west of Cooma. Another hummock a
mile away has since been found to be
higher, and the name has been shifted to
it, while the Count’s peak is called Mt.
Townshend. He wasn’t good at heights,
for he made his mountain 6500 feet above
sea level, or about 800 feet too low. Ac-
cording to his own description, the mis-
take should have been impossible. He
wrote: “Standing above the adjacent
mountains, which could neither detract
from its imposing aspect nor interrupt the
view, Mount Kosciuszko is one of those
few elevations the ascent of which, far
from disappointing the traveller, presents
him with all that can remunerate fatigue.”
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: Old man Cowbails, who
is an enthusiastic amateur photographer,
chanced to come across his youngest
daughter and the new hand engaged in a
spot of lovemaking. Curbing his wrath,
the old chap slipped back to the house
for his camera and took two snaps of
the billing-and-cooing act. He lost no
time in printing them and then cornered
the swain. “Here,” he roared, thrusting
the photos, at him, “have a look at these ;
what have you got to say for yourself,
you young hound?” The new hand
examined the snaps. “Cripes!” he said
admiringly. “Not bad, are they? If yer
havin’ any more printed”—indicating
one —“I’ll take ’alf a dozen of this one
and three of the other.”
* * * *
“Skull Creek”: About time our sun-
downers realised that their way of hump-
ing Matilda with the blanket roll slant-
ing across the back and the tucker-bag
hanging down over the shoulder is about
the worst method of carrying a load. The
shoulder-strap invariably works its way
on to the most tender part of the
shoulder ; if the tucker-bag is empty (it
mostly is) it flaps all over the place, to
the annoyance of the hungry wayfarer.
If full, it merely aids the s.s. in its fiendish
efforts to provoke new and better
shoulder-aches. It takes a quarter of an
hour for an expert to pack his gear and
roll his swag decently, and I’ve yet to
meet the traveller who doesn’t have to
unroll his srum at least once to put in
some forgotten articles. Anyone who has
had to break camp at night knows the
joys of trying to roll his bundle in the
dark, particularly if a sharp shower of
rain is enlivening the proceedings. The
haversack —I suppose we have to thank
the Yanks for it—is the only sensible
method of humping Matilda. The load
is evenly divided over the shoulders and
back ; it is easily packed, and it beats the
swag hollow when it comes to boarding
the rattler as she steams out of the siding.
* * * *
“Straight”: “S.W.K.” asks, in effect
(B. 28/12/’3B), how the inhabitants of
Marble Bar console themselves on a hot
day, seeing there’s no other place that
compares unfavorably with it. They don’t
try. Instead, they take pride in each new
indication of their exclusiveness. “As hot
as hell” has no meaning, since the only
resident to journey thither sent back
home for his overcoat. Debarred from
comparisons, they seek solace in memo-
ries. There was the time the Bar melted,
and the day, much hotter, when the beer
was too hot even for them to drink. But
a trace of awe still creeps into their voices
as they tell of the day a dog chased a
rabbit down the main street — and they
were both walking !
* * * *
“Atrax”: Experiments on zoo animals
have shown that the rhinoceros, is actively
anti-musical and will charge at once if
jazz is played at it. My explanation is
that its originally music-loving ancestors
became that way in their native Africa
through hearing the vile negro uproars
which degenerate whites have since
copied. Anyhow, it is never advisable to
take your pet rhino, to a concert, or even
a dance. Contrary to the popular idea,
snakes don’t care a continental for any
kind of music. Crocodiles are alleged to
shed tears of delight, but the deceitful and
voracious animals were probably trying
to lure some sentimental idiot into wiping
them off so that they could eat him. Seals
and sea-lions are real music-lovers, with
a distinct preference for Beethoven. Cows
also possess sound musical taste. Milk-
ing songs form the basis of many of the
most attractive melodies, and at the last
Smithfield (Eng.) cattle show the exhibits
gained weight under good music and lost
it under bad.
* * * *
“Wang”: When word was received
that the Governor intended paying a
visit to Billibilli, and that the job of
v welcoming him would fall on Dad as
shire president, there was great ex-
. citement in Dad’s home, particu-
\ larly among his womenfolk.
The question of proper de-
portment before the vice-
regal visitor gave them
mtich concern. “Will
I have to give a
curtsy to him,
Dad?” asked
Mary. Dad’s
eyes ' nearly
popped out of
hi s head with
anger and aston-
ishment. “What!”
h e roared.
“What the devil’s
wrong with you, askin’ such a question?
Ain’t you got any sense at all? Whatcher
think y’ goin’ to do —go up to him an’
say, ‘What ho, Alf’ —or whatever his
name is ‘how’s things shapin’ down
yer way?’ an’ make me look a ’airy
goat in front of the mob, an’ have ’im
pokin’ borak at yer fer havin’ no man-
ners? Dammit, girl, whatcher talkin’
about court’sy to him! You’ll give
him court’sy all right, or, by cripes,
you’ll know all about it after!”
* * * *
“Junee”: The old and useless poison-
cart was the first large-scale destroyer
of our native birds, The devilish work
is still being carried on by careless bran-
bait laying, denudation of timber on
farms, louts with guns and half-witted
landholders who permit them to roam at
will over their holdings. My property
(sou’-west N.S.W.) has areas of green
timber left, and the shooting of birds is
strictly forbidden. If others would only
do the same our native birds would
multiply to such an extent that grass-
hopper invasions as we know them now
would soon be things of the past.
* * * *
“Top-rail”: The old German wagon
can be included with the -bullock-dray on
the list of Australia’s vanishing vehicles.
Less than 20 years ago these big four-
wheelers, with their level floors and
railed sides, were common in s.-e. Q.
and on the Burnett and the Downs. 1
still see a few of them around the
Lockyer, West Moreton and Fassifern
districts all German strongholds
but in most parts of Bananaland they
have disappeared. August and Carl of
the rising generation use the latest
streamlined utilities to bring their pigs
and potatoes to market and drive to
tennis on Sunday afternoons.
AGAIN WEST.
Beneath the twilight skies
The swans are crying low,
Ere they take wing and rise,
And inland go.
Far haunts are calling them,
Wide marshes in the west,
And naught may stay or stem
Their airy quest.
When sinks yon crescent moon
And bats begin to flit,
Wild seas and low lagoon
A-wing they quit.
From waves that surge and seethe
From seas that surge and break,
With hill and plain beneath,
Their path they’ll take.
By timbered height and glen,
Green depths of oak and gum,
To weary camping men
Their cry shall come.
As on they sweep their course
Through realms where no wind stirs,
Heard shall they be by stray
Night wanderers.
Yet ere the morning wind,
Dew-wet, begins to blow,
Far marshes they shall find
And rest shall know.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


“Tim the Terror”: Shanter was work-
ing in a deep cutting on a Queensland
railway construction job, aware that
the huge foreman, who stood nearby,
was counting every shovel heaved into
the hoppers. It was about 160 deg. in the
sun, and the navvy, straightening up,
politely asked his nibs if he would con-
sent to move up the bank towards him.
After some manoeuvring Shanter had him
in position. Naturally curious, the
“trump” asked the reason. “Oh,” said
Shanter, “I just want to work in the
shade for a while.” A roar from the rest
of the gang drowned what the foreman
had to say.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Bush billy-tea
doesn’t get its flavor from twigs dropped
into it. That tang is bred into the billy
through years of coating with tannin and
caffeine. A billy isn’t a billy to any self-
respecting knight of the road until it
is as black inside as out. When it reaches
that stage where the original iron has
been assimilated into the wafer of tannin
and charcoal, it ceases to be a billy—
it] s a deity. Once saw an old-timer whose
billy had just been masticated by an
old-man goat weep tears of blood over
his loss, which was the more real since
the miscreant was beyond his vengeance
—it didn’t take a dozen steps from where
it got the dose. All told, there must
have been thousands of billycans carted
around the bush, but you never strike
an abandoned one. Probably, like old
soldiers, they simply fade away.
* * * *
“Kulkah”: Wild pigs, is it? In the
Peninsula country (N.Q.), especially in
the pastoral areas, they are regarded as
a much greater curse than Warrigal. On
Wakooka, about 130 miles north of
Cooktown, they have frequently killed
and eaten big healthy calves. Dingoes
are regarded comparatively as a blessing,
for they at least help to keep down
the pig population by killing off some
of the young. The hide forming the
shoulder shield on an old boar is often
an inch thick, and tough enough to
deflect a bullet. Shooting on the Annan,
I saw a big tusker disembowel a horse
and tree the rider. On the Mclvor a
boar wounded by a spear charged the
hunting nig. When the corpse was
found the hands and feet had been eaten.
Not only are the porkers a menace to
man and animal, but they also deprive
Binghi of his yam supply. Myall abos.
use palisades of stakes to protect them
from the porcine marauders.
* * * *
“Pisces”: Here’s a hint worth fol-
lowing for reef-fishing: Get a mud
bottom. That’s the possie for the big
fellows, from red emperors to gropers;
up—or down—to 14 fathoms is a handy
depth. Perhaps it is that the mud bottom
is the centre of some eddy of the currents.
That’s why sand isn’t swept over on top
of it. As it’s the centre of the circle
food is drawn in there and makes good
feeding for the fishr
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Only to-day a man
whose 30 years in the N.T. should have
taught him better wanted to bet me a
"This heat tez turrble, boay , an if un continues well have more of un!”
"You see, I cant get a nude to hold a pose like she does."
quid that the Territory buffaloes were
brought in by Malays, centuries ago.
Here’s the cold history. In 1825 Capt.
Maurice Barlow, Commandant at Mel-
ville Island, imported three from Timor.
They throve, but the cattle from Sydney
didn’t, so in December, 1827, he got
another 15, and 16 more in August,
1828, of which eight were sent to Raffles
Bay. Thus the Melville buffalo. The
Port Essington garrison of 1838 got more
Timor buffs., and by the time it was dis-
established in 1849 there were some
good-sized herds in the surrounding
country. The third stocking was an acci-
dent, when the barque Florence Stuart,
bringing buffaloes to Sydney to augment
the goldfields meat supply, got driven
ashore in Cambridge Gulf. Survivors
established themselves on the lower Ord
River, and spread up it. All have come
from these three sources, and these only.
* * * *
“Sandrat”: The new hand had asked
the cocky if he could sleep in till six
o’clock next morning, as he was going
to a dance that night and would be home
late. “Righto,” was the reply, “but don’t
let the other blokes see you lobbin’ to
work late or they’ll think you had a
half-holiday and they’ll be askin’ for one
too.”
* * * *
“Prad”: Australian lovers of the horse
should be interested in the experience of
a man who some 10 years ago put up the
remarkable feat of riding the
10,000 miles separating Buenos
Ayres from Washington (U.S.A.),
using two horses only. After an
interval of seven years he re-
cently dropped in on his whilom
equine friends, and to his delight
found that they showed every
evidence of recognition, although
one gee was more effusive than
the other. They responded to
gestures calling for simple tricks
which he had taught them during
the course of their long journey-
ings together. It would be in-
teresting to hear of similar in-
stances in the cases of Australian
horses. Dogs are generally cred-
ited with long memories, but it is
doubtful whether this is not the
exception rather than the rule;
the average tyke adopts a new
master with reluctance, but hav-
ing done so appears to forget (or
have no time for) the old one in
a disappointingly short space of
time. As for less domesticated
animals such as the elephant and
the camel, most of the stories
concerning their retentive memo-
ries have a hate motive behind
them.
“Turoar”: “Talkin’ erbout quoits,”
said Old Bob, “remines me uv ’ow me
an’ Tarry Tom won the iron quoit cham-
peenship down at Binnaloo pub on Noo
Year’s Day. Nobody gives me an’ Tarry
a ’ope, an’ Ihe s.p. bloke’s layin’ us tens.
Cripes, yer oughter seen ’em look when
we starts. We’re ringin’ the peg ev’ry
time. The mob reckins it unnatcheral,
an’ yanks us orf ter the bar ev’ry change
uv ends ter git us stonkered an’ spoil our
aim. Soon me an’ Tarry’s seein’ pegs
ev’rywhere, but it makes no diff’rince ;
our quoits keep ringin’ the pin with
reg’lar monoperly. In the end they ’aster
give us the sash, an’ the s.p. bloke nilly
broke ’is ’eart squarin’ up. What them
blokes didn’t know, though, is me an’
Tarry’s usin’ special quoits made outa
powerful magnitics. No matter where
we chucks ’em, the pull’s so strong they
’eads straight for the peg.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Leatherheads are daft and
dithered fowl at all times, but since the
recent hot spell one has been having
regular attacks of acute mania of the
most violent and omithocidal description.
It has developed a special derry on its
own former mob, who are obviously
afraid of it and clear out whenever it
shows up. Several times daily it lands
on the roof of a shed, screeching
violently, and proceeds to belt its silly
noddle against the hot iron ridging with
such earnestness that it has twice rolled
off, stunned, into the guttering. If any
bird passes during the performance it
pursues it with frantic yelling, and tries
to peck its tail, then suddenly loses all
interest in the chase and drops into a
tree for a nap. The screeches are quite
different from the usual call; and our
local doctor has diagnosed meningitis.
* * * *
“Lyndo”: Agree that birds seeking
grit will eat practically anything (B.
4/l/’39). I stayed on a farm where the
chooks were kept in a small yard behind
the wash-house, a piece of land long
denuded of surface stone. One day the
back of the copper-frame caved in. An
indignant farmer found the cement be-
tween the bricks was mostly missing.
Generations of fowls, grit-starved, had
pecked it out.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: The giant N.Q. saltwater
eel is not only hard to k. 0., but is
exceptionally intelligent. A seven-footer
got into my trap and made desperate
efforts to escape when he saw me at the
door of the “box.” His head and one-
third upper part slipped through the
mesh of the 15 gauge wire-netting all
right, but then a pronounced paunch
called a halt. He tried to back out, two-
thirds or so going through easily, then
the paunch blocked his road to freedom
once more. His desperate hurry was now
unnecessary, for, though I had the gaff
ready, the observer in me dominated the
fisherman. What now? I thought.
Promptly the reason for his rearguard
manoeuvre became plain. A bream
popped out of the eel’s mouth, then
another and a third —about 2|lb. weight
of bream in all—my bream. Following
this lightning slimming success he slipped
easily through the mesh, and I’ll swear
I saw derision in the creature’s eye as
he disappeared.
THE ANDY BLOKE.
When you’re living in the city and the roof
begins to leak,
You SOS a plumber, and when he comes —
next week —
He'll charge you ten and sixpence for “Ex-
amination made,”
Then state the fact, “The tiles are cracked;
and that’s another trade!”
But round about our homestead it’s a different
story, quite:
Suppose the windmill’s onkus or the pump’s
not working right,
A cowbail needs cementing or a chimney starts
to smoke—
For any task they simply ask for me, the
“ ’andy bloke.”
If the tractor’s “actin’ funny” or if Mum’s
machine sews crook;
If the heirloom cuckoo clock goes mad and
“coos” before the “cuck”;
If the car wants overhauling or the tip-dray
breaks a spoke,
It's safe to bet the job I’ll get, since I’m the
“’andy bloke”!
Who has to be a surgeon and a midwife, more
or less,
When Strawberry goes and “blows” herself or
Melba’s in distress?
Who acts the Florence Nightingale to jumbuck,
dawg or moke?
You’re right first time —it’s me, for I’m official
“ ’andy bloke.”
And I’m tippin’ when I snuff it and I reach
the Pearly Gate,
St. Pete will read my record, then he’ll up and
tell me straight:
“By rights 1 ought to send you down to frizzle
up in smoke,
But harps and wings are fragile things, so come
in, ‘ ’andy bloke’! ”
N.S.W.
B.A. KER.


ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST
If not you owe It to yourseff and
family to enquire about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees :: . Union
Insurance Society of Canton ltd*
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.Q m SYDNEY
- TELEPHONE: B 5294
ADAMS 1 (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per days Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O'CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET ■)
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* to Funds:
£ £ £ £
1926.. 4,080,629 1,755,060 350,363 1,975,206
Added to Investment Reserve, £7123.
1927.. 4,378,799 1,882,250 372,850 2,123,699
Added to Investment Reserve, £7226.
1928.. 4,930,596 2,075,058 414,361 2,441,177
Added to Investment Reserve, £7898.
1929.. 4,941,130 2,093,781 447,084 2,400,265
Added to Investment Reserve, £31,222.
1930.. 4,983,877 2,559,111 450,974 1,973,792
Added to Investment Reserve, £8299.
1931.. 4,755,450 3,317,599 400,804 1,037,047
Added to Investment Reserve, £7OOB.
1932.. 4,477,015 3,030,862 393,708 ) OQI
Trans. Invest. Res., £429,451 J
Added to Investment Reserve, £16,091.
1933.. 4,662,815 3,043,709 404,215 ) , nrl
Trans. Invest. Res., £153,145 )
Added to Investment Reserve, £14,615.
1934.. 4,902,114 2,857,242 437,039 1,607,833
Added to Investment Reserve, £15,161.
1935.. 5,018,296 2,924,349 474,689 1,619,258
Added to Investment Reserve, £8446.
1936.. 5,237,786 2,995,222 520,563 1,722,001
Added to Investment Reserve, £6981.
1937.. 5,605,733 3,126,050 568,675 1,911,008
To Staff fund, £15,000 .. ) , reo roo
1938.. 5,740,376 3,589,587 567,186 ) A ’*>&B,bUo
* Excluding income tax and rates.
This is one of Australia’s big-five mutual
life offices. The actuary makes an
annual overhaul of the business, and
bonuses are declared each year, but the
board still sticks to the old-fashioned
idea of sending out the valuation figures
triennially. Those for the three years to
the end of September, 1937, disclose a
thoroughly sound position, marked ex-
pansion of the business and the effects
of that expansion and of a gradually
receding rate of interest upon policy-
holders’ bonuses, which remain very
handsome.
During the three years in question the
co. issued 92,311 (up 34,827) new policies
assuring £33,679,225 (up £10,432,512),
and the business in force (£123,085,562,
including bonus additions, at Sept. 30,
1937) increased by £19,035,366 as against
£6,892,210 for the preceding triennium.
Net income aggregated £15,861,815, of
which claims took £9,045,621 and exes.
£1,563,927, leaving £5,252,267, which
was added to the assurance fund, making
it £42,794,134. Actual growth in the
fund was £4,943,127, owing to transfer
of £309,140 therefrom to the investment
fluctuation reserve at the previous valua-
tion. This reserve (now £1,335,000) be-
longs to policy-holders, and returns there-
from are available to supplement income
from the assurance fund (£44,158,325 at
Sept. 30 last).
Here are results of the last half-dozen
actuarial valuations in miniature: —-
Assurance Net Triennial Bonuses.
Sept., Fund. Liability. Surplus. Declared.
1922 £16,557,695 £14,882,160 £1,705,499 £1,455,499
1925 22,607,250 21,021,102 2,569,493 2,118,974
1928 29,147,330 28,011,304 3,431,655 3,013,518
1931 34,558.434 32,898,077 4.160.430 3,577,833
1934 37,851,007 36,469,354 3,423,419 3,053,074
1937 42,794,134 41,441,898 3,631,835 3,362,423
The latest surplus of £3,631,835 (up
£208,416) was used in this way:
Intermediate bonuses, 1935* . . . . £1,119,620
Intermediate bonuses, 1936* .. . . 1,142,501
Intermediate bonuses, 1937* . . . . 1,082,824
Intermediate bonuses paid on claims.. 17,478
Total bonuses .. .. .. .. £3,362,423
To investment fluctuation reserve .. 204,412
To staff superannuation fund .. . . 15,000
To carry forward . . . . . . . . 50,000
* On policies in force.
For the three years to the close of
accounts in 1936 the rate of bonus on
whole-of-life policies was steady at from
48s. p.c. on policies five years in force
to 68s. p.c. on those 30 years old or more.
The corresponding rates for 1937 were
38s. p.c. and 60s. p.c. respectively.
Commenting on the position the chair-
man says:—
If the present level of interest rates does
not rise, the rate of bonus additions of all
companies will tend to fall. But
policy-holders can view with equanimity
the comparatively small price they may pay
in somewhat reduced bonuses for the great
advantage they will derive as members of
the general community from the other
effects of cheap money. Looking back, it
can be seen that the very large bonuses
that all cos. found possible 10 years ago,
when Commonwealth Government credit, as
measured by its loans, was on a 6 p.c. to
7 p.c. interest basis, were a sign of the
then impending crisis, and that the smaller
bonuses which followed have indicated a
much healthier state of affairs.
Excepting a small amount of endowment
and reassurance contracts, the office
assumes its funds will turn in 3 p.c. net.
Actually the net return (gross interest,
etc., less taxation) fell from £5 6s. lid.
p.c. in 1930 to £3 18s. p.c. in 1932, rose
to £4 6s. sd. p.c. in 1934 and then
steadily eased to £4 3s. 3d. p.c. for 1938,
when the contraction was lid. p.c. The
mortality experience for the three years
covered by the latest valuation was only
53 p.c. of expectation as against 57, 55
and 58 p.c. for the three preceding trien-
niums. Assuming that consideration for
annuities cost 3 p.c., the balance of exes,
took 14.3 p.c. of the net premiums,
whereas 15.2 p.c. was allowed by the
actuafy.
Unless something very unexpected hap-
pens, it is unlikely that there will be
any further reduction in the co.’s rate
of bonuses to policy-holders. Indeed, the
trend of conditions generally suggests a
strengthening of interest rates, and there-
fore of the co.’s bonuses to policy-
holders, in the future.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, there was a contraction
of £674,508 in the amount of new busi-
ness put on the books; this owing to
international developments in Europe
and approaching elections in Maoriland,
both of which affected business toward
the close of accounts —the co. gathers
nearly half its premium income outside
Australia:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Policies . . 31,350 34.020 31.263
Amount . . £11,348,578 £12,193,321 £11,518,813
Av. per policy 362 361 368
First premiums 384,030 416,007 381,501
Renewals . . 3,166,036 3,377.397 3,568,106
Single premiums 33,788 46,806 21,451
Annuities . . 40,176 109,824 03,350
Interest, etc... 1,689,507 1,725,287 1,767,680
The amounts assured ranged from £26
to £60,000, the average per policy being
£368 as against £361 for the previous
term. Exes, took only 9.9 p.c. of the
year’s total income as against 10.1 p.c.
for the previous term.
The co.’s investment portfolio totals
£46,274,549, made up in this way:
1937 N r - 1938
p.c. p.c.
Freeholds .. ..£1,759,048 4.0 £1,780,142 3.8
Public securities . . 21,532,651 48.3 23,324,590 50.4
Mortgages.. .. 9,624,383 21.6 10,018,212 21.7
Foreclosures . . 404,208 0.9 325,034 0.7
Loans on policies.. 5,470,994 12.3 5,387.818 11.6
Other assets .. 5,748,825 12.9 5,438,753 11.8
Of the year’s growth of £1,791,939 in
public securities, about a million repre-
sented purchases of Australian Govern-
ment and public-body securities on the
London market, where the co. is obvi-
ously a staunch supporter of Australian
credit. Mortgages (up £393,829) are
mostly home-purchase loans protected by
life assurance. In addition the co. holds
a substantial interest in the Fourth Vic-
toria Building Society, through which
further substantial property investments
are made.
The introduction of national insurance,
postponed until May next, is not likely
to have much effect on this co.’s business,
which does not include any Industrial
contracts. Long-overdue Federal legis-
lation for the control of life assurance
is reported to be on the stocks at Can-
berra.
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 28,919 8 p.c. = 12,874 16,045 19,996
1929.. 20,985 8 „ „ 15,216 5,769 25,765
1930.. 17,889 8„ „ 16,496 1.393 27,158
1931.. 18,577 8 „ „ 16,998 1,579 28,737
1932.. 19,649 8„ „ 15,603 4,046 32,783
1933.. 16,898 6 „ „ 13,864 3,034 35,817
1934.. 21,598 6 „ „ 14,381 7,217 43,034
Staff fund, £l5OO 41,534
1935.. 23,314 51 p.c. = 14,766 8,548 50,082
Staff fund, £lOOO 49,082
1936.. 17,819 5i p.c. = 15,300 2,519 51,601
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. .. .. 51,101
1937.. 30,106 64 p.c. = 18,170 11,936 63,037
Staff fund, £lOOO 62,037
1938.. 21,320 6 p.c. = 17,587 3,733 65,770
Most of this co.’s shareholders are also
its clients, and they have fared better
than the dividend column in the table
suggests. The articles limit divs. to 7 p.c.
till at least 20 p.c. of commission charges
is rebated to consignors. During the
boom a run of 8 p.c. divs. was paid, and
rebates rose to 40 p.c. of wool, 30 p.c.
of fat stock and 20 p.c. of produce
commission charges. In 1932 no rebates
were made, but they were resumed in
the following year and have been
repeated since annually at the rate of
25 p.c. for wool and fat stock and
20 p.c. for store stock, properties and
produce. The amounts involved are
not disclosed.
Last term the co. put more sheep but
less wool and fewer cattle under the
hammer:
Year Wool Sold, Sheep and
June, Bales. Cattle. Lambs. Turnover.
1932.. 122,557 29,757 t 139,669 f £1,741.789
1933.. 118,084 36,0811 121,559 t 1,801,726
1934.. 82,556 40,5671 9r.1701 2,841,731
1935.. 136,249 34,6291 123,0951 2,757,074
1930.. 98,278 28,4791 82,8811 2,538,797
1937.. 118,355 35,1551 73,7461 3,775,028
'1938.. 109,626 34,3441 109,4921 3,170,570
t Brisbane and Rockhampton yards. 1 Brisbane yard.
The contraction of £605,058 in turnover
was mainly the result of a lower price
for wool, the Brisbane average being
11.98 d. per pound as against 16.51 d. and
13.93 d. for the two preceding terms. The
net result (down £8786) was 7.2 p.c. on
average capital, compared with 10.7,
6.7, 8.7, 9, 7.3, 8.8 and 8.7 p.c. back
to 1931. Half a point was chipped off
the div., reducing it to 6 p.c.
Shareholders welcomed the oppor-
tunity to put up £41,262 of new
capital:
IQqn TOOK 1 QQC
Paid capital. . £211,147 £272,407 £253,297 £324,569
Liabilities* . . 222,593 522,402 551,257 517,298
Freeholds and
leaseholds.. 111,937 199,721 200,572 202,561
Plant, etc. . . 11,281 31,328 34,936 35,297
Advances . . 353,389 528,906 550,296 527,615
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 787 101,579 134,845 166,529
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
The fresh capital was used mainly to
lighten the debt (down £33,959). But there
was still 265. 6d. of outside money at risk
in the business for every pound belong-
ing to shareholders when the books
closed. Obviously much depends upon
how much of the advances, etc., is against
broadacres and how much is self-
liquidating or readily realisable. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£176,846) was £42,962.
As for the current term, seasonal con-
ditions are satisfactory, and wool prices,
which continued to ease a trifle during
the Dec. half of 1938, have lately
strengthened a little, and so have pros-
pects of the 6 p.c. div. being repeated.
The scrip, covered by 245. in net
tangibles, is not listed.
O. Gilpin, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£> £> £>£,£,
1928. .113,189 7.000 174 p.c.= 71,645 34,544 23,368
1929.. 33,046 7,000 5 „ „ 22,775 3,271 26,639
1930.. 35,459 7,000 5 „ „ 26,555 1,904 28,543
1931.. 11,384 7,000 Nil 4,384 32,927
1932.. 13,482 7,000 24 p.c. =13,608 25,801
1933.. 39,223 7,000 6 „ „ 32,661 25,363
7 & 6 p.c.
1934.. 43,253 9,993 5 „ ~ 27,469 5,791 31,154
1935.. 50,666 18,910 6 „ „ 33,261 29,649
1936.. 73,282 19,000 10 ~ „ 55,435 28,496
1937.. 75,584 19,000 10 „ „ 55,561 1,023 29,519
1938.. 65,110 19,000 8 „ ~ 44,752 1,358 30,877
Paid capital is £859,400 in 100,000 A
7 p.c. and 200,000 B 6 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 559,400 ords. The public is in-
terested in the prefs., and the ords., or
all but a fraction of them, are held by
the chairman, O. Gilpin. Since the
close of accounts he has exercised his
option over 140,600 unissued ords., which
when fully paid, will lift the total on the
share register to £1,000,000. Also, at
the request of preference shareholders
and of others resident in the districts
in which the co. operates, the chairman
has decided to distribute 200,000 of his
holding of ords. at a premium of 2s. 6d.
each in February or March—one for
every two prefs. now held, and the re-
maining 50,000 will be available for
public subscription. Public interest in
the undertaking will thus be considerably
widened.
On the market the A and B prefs.,
which rank in the order stated for divs.’
and capital, are priced at 265. 6d. and
215., at which figures the returns are 5.3
p.c. and 5.7 p.c. respectively. Last year’s
net earnings nearly 3| times covered their
combined annual requirements. The
ords. at 225. 6d. yield 7.1 p.c. on an 8
p.c. div. basis, and there ought to be a
shilling or two profit in them at that
figure. Over the last decade, which
included the slump period, they re-
ceived an average of 5.7 p.c. as
against 17.5 p.c. for the three years
before that. Including the new issue of
140,600 ords. already referred to, the
net tangible backing is £lO 6s. 2d. As,
£4 13s. Id. Bs, and 20s. lid. ords.
The co., which is staffed almost from
top to bottom by women, runs a chain
of drapery stores scattered throughout
Vic., S. Aus., N. S. Wales and Tas.
When it took over the business in 1922
there were 50 units in the group; now
there are 94. The A and B pref. money
was gathered in 1926 and 1934 in order
to lighten the outside debt, which piled
up following expansion of the business
and the board’s policy of property pur-
chase—only two of the 94 branches are
now on leasehold property. While the
co.’s investments in bricks and mortar
have anchored goodwill and sidestepped
the problem of increasing rents, they
have also tended to slow down the rate
of net earning. Earnings, however, have
recovered with the improvement in con-
ditions generally, and are now at a very
satisfactory level. The drop of £10,474
in last year’s net result was due mainly
to a lift in wage rates and to an altera-
tion in the N. S. Wales industrial laws
which compelled the co. to employ more
men in its stores in that State. The
£65,110 of profit claimed was enough to
pay the pref. divs. and show 8.2 p.c. on
ord. capital as it stood at the close of
accounts, compared with 10.1, 9.7, 5.7,
6, 5.9, 1.1, 0.8, 6.1, 5.7 and 27.1 p.c.
back to 1928. The div. was lowered
from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c., and the £1358 that
remained lifted reserves only £30,877 in
excess of goodwill (£50,000); not much
of a prop for a million of capital.
Though the new ord. capital taken up
since the close of accounts will enable
the co. to reduce the interest-bearing
debt, costs are still on the up-grade, and
seem likely to continue so, for a while
at any rate. It is doubtful whether better
than 8 p.c. need be expected for the
current term.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
19'28. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Pref. capital. . £lOO,OOO £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital. . 420,705 554,350 559,400 559,400
Mortgage .. 25,251 88,310 74.592 79.369
Overdraft .. 98.117 23,817 39,531 155,380
Sundry creditors 65,305 21,149 19.964 28,676
Freeholds, etc. 132,681 429,101 464,139 484,261
Plant, etc. . . 31.912 186,087 181,721 185,228
Stocks .. 632,616 402,708 387.106 498.879
Book debts, etc. 7.182 4,922 4,772 2,114
During the year new buildings and ex-
tensions added £20,122 to freeholds, etc.,
and £3507 to plant. Outstanding feature
was the growth of £111,773 in stocks
(the most vulnerable point in the busi-
ness), to finance which the board went
{"Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


i v-" ■■■: :a
XSttMi
.:' : -a
JUk v#,<’ I g 4BB(i
| fe? -
V 4 **
iglli:
X . V *X
Jr
M'' „\'
Wm
m | ingP
■NMNNI' j AllgraKfw_.
■
*, >4». ; . '■' !
torn
W*' ■#; ; ■
J§ 11 P®*” f VJS -•. <*
m § m E iJJB
I kUI
I "
■>ii
awas:
S^ 1
|F™3|
: ' :
BP
* <<
11
J 3
J a
..^iiiii
jii
__ ,„ I * ..
,
®F4 V. v |D| ■■>" S* Mg
.w<* ,•„//A*', %
WmkL &.l v' r * £
lflsgffli|lflij|r \ tgMßßfet, Jk-^.
A '--> { %wW &> K-asfL/Jtr; ■* * y < , *■» §f '
kvla; ■ v^*
A
■ ■ 11 1 ■' ■ ""'
Ws<& yw< •>
.*p£|
. ifcj
■«; ■
'*v':
■-a;
I I
I •
* ? _J
mm
>»>
,*# ' •**
-
«<#»?
»aswl
PK&§5
a.
m
1
m
m
m
&
w
«c
NOISE
BOSS
MUSIC
VOICE
The
Sensational
... So you may
learn the thrills and
pleasures of
1939 CAR RADIO!
Here’s your big chance! Whether you are a
Ford owner or a prospective Ford purchaser
you are entitled to 7 days’ FREE TRIAL of
the most up-to-date and successful car radio
in Australia to-day . . . the TASMA AUTO
RADIO, designed especially for Ford cars
and approved and recommended by Ford
Motor Company of Australia Pty., Ltd. There
is no charge for installing the set for trial
and no obligation at any stage of the trial.
NO OBLIGATION ... NO INTERFERENCE WITH
MOTOR ... NO HOLES TO BE DRILLED!
The Tasma set will be installed in your car without
any holes being drilled. Neither the body, roof nor
engine of your Ford will be interfered with in any
way. You simply go along to your Ford Dealer and
ask him to have your car equipped with a Tasma . . .
the job is completed in one day.
The exclusive Klipon aerial (Stainless steel, telescopic
and practically invisible) clips neatly on to the centre
pillar of the windscreen. Immediately you tune this
radically different radio ... a set which requires no
spark-suppression or special batteries . . . you'll realise
that a new peak has been achieved in car-radio per-
formance. You’ll get a new and pleasant thrill when
you hear the smooth, clear performance of this ultra-
modern set. With a Tasma you are never out of
touch. Go and see your Ford dealer NOW!
NEW 4-DIMENSION NOISE FADER
Just a touch of a finger and background
noise fades out! Instant noise control V And
this is but one of the many exclusive Tasma
innovations which make this the most
sensational car radio of modern times. Go
and see your Ford dealer! Have your Car
Tasma equipped for 7 DAYS’ FREE
TRIAL!
Cash Price £25. Aerial and Installation extra.
A PRODUCT OF THOM & SMITH PTY.,
LTD., 29-39 BOTANY ROAD, MASCOT.
TASMA
FORD RADIO
DESIGNED EXCLUSIVELY FOR FORD CARS
AND APPROVED AND RECOMENDED BY THE
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (I ->
TA-6-9.


(
--- w 7 ~
fe_ OF
m
1894
WYALONG
1939
'S3
/<
ifliEf
i
19
4.
West Wyaiong, where the Bank of New South Wales
established a branch in a tent, was the centre of an ex-
tensive goldfield.
Here, as in many other parts of Australia, primary indus-
tries developed as gold mining declined. The West
Wyaiong district now supports a population of over
10,000, and is one of the principal sheep and wheat
areas in New South Wales.
To-day the West Wyaiong branch forms part of a
network of over 890 branches of the Bank through’
out Australasia. New branches are being
continually opened to serve pioneer areas.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
THE OLDEST AND LARGEST BANK IN AUSTRALASIA
3280.1939
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L, B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sidney.— Advt.
* * * *
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our latest General
Catalogue.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address: '
“Yelgab ” Melbourne.
Mining Notice.
LODE TIN MINE, 13 lodes 6ft. to 18ft. in
width, 50 ft. apart. Permanent water. Good,
sound proposition. Further particulars apply
JACK NEILL,
Shipton’s Flat, via Cooktown, Q.
h
3Wi
Established 1808.
Investments in Australasian Securities
Exceed £1,200,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY,-LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
to its bankers for an extra £115,849.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities by
£237,568, or £20,223 less than at the
previous balance, owing to the outlay
on fixed assets.
Orient Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
This co.’s ships, which go through the
Mediterranean and Suez Canal, handle a
large slice of the England-Australia
traffic. For the 12 months to June 30,
1938, the co.’s operating profit sprang
£79,549, reaching £430,560, thanks to the
popularity of the new 23,500-ton pas-
senger vessel Orcades, to Sydney’s sesqi-
centenary celebrations, and to the expen-
diture of £163,616 a year or so ago on
improvements to vessels in the tourist
trade and equipping some of the fleet for
carriage of chilled beef. After allowing
£281,409 (up £39,488) for depreciation,
the net result was £40,060 better at
£149,151, or enough to pay the pref. divs.
(£82,259) and show 6.4 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal as against 2.6 p.c. for the previous
term. The div. was kept at 5 p.c. That
leaves out of the reckoning a loss of
£35,533 on sale of investments and
£22,764 dropped from somewhere into the
underwriting account, raising it to
£552,614.
As with all other businesses, rising
costs are a problem. The Orcades carries
some 550 fewer passengers than the
Orama, a 20,000-tonner built in 1924,
used to. The Orama carried roughly one
steward to six passengers on her maiden
voyage; to-day, a full ship carries
approximately one steward to every three
passengers. Also, apart from a small
head tax on passengers, the Suez Canal
Co. does not differentiate between pas-
sengers and cargo—total space is the
measure. Last term canal charges on
the co.’s passenger space were equal to
13 p.c. of its gross revenue from pas-
sengers passing through the canal. For
off-season runs it is not unusual, the
chairman says, for canal charges on the
co.’s passenger space to become 20 p.c.
to 30 p.c. (in one ship last year it
amounted to 47| p.c.) of the gross
earnings from passengers for the
whole of the voyage of six weeks.
When the occasion arises, a cargo ship
can transit the canal in ballast at a
reduced charge, whereas the regular pas-
senger ship can never be in ballast in
respect of passengers. No harm would
be done if some concession were made to
passenger ships during their off-season
transits of the canal.
When the books closed, the fleet
(with one exception it has been com-
pletely replaced over the last 14 years),
together with premises, etc., figured at
£3,680,952. More or less liquids totalled
£2,035,200, of which £1,570,329 was in
Government and other securities, and
£168,254 cash. Outside liabilities
amounted to £804,830, leaving a surplus
of £1,230,370, up £44,378 over the twelve-
month.
Adelaide-controlled Norseman (W.A.)
expects to have its new plant running at
the end of the month. Capacity will then
be 15,000 tons monthly, or double exist-
ing throughput, and provision has been
made for a further increase of 3000-5000
tons a month at a later date. Of the
15,000 tons, 8000 tons (a 30 p.c. increase)
is to be drawn from the main mine, 5000
from the low-grade but easily-worked
Iron King, and 2000 will be treated for
the subsidiary, Norseman Developments.
Combined with proposed introduction of
mechanical haulage on No. 8 level, it
should all mean substantial reductions in
unit working costs. After charging
£10,408 for depreciation, £17,323 for
taxes and £5757 to p. and 1. for develop-
ment, and including £3633 surplus on
sale shares in the subsidiary, profit for
the year to Oct. 31 was £91,682, as against
£99,697 and £62,400 for the two preced-
ing periods. In addition, £12,964 was
spent on development and debited to
share-premium account, now exhausted.
In future development will be a direct
charge against earnings. Divs. ot 8U
p.c. (absorbing £80,000) compared
with 60 p.c. in the preceding period. On
its own account the co. treated 86,414
tons ore (practically unchanged), which
realised £249,877 (down £8643). Mill-
feed was drawn front the following
sources: —
Norseman — ,
Treated, Gold, Head Yield, Costs,
Tons Oz. Value. Ton. Ton.
1937.. 73 321 - 7.4 - 29/8.5
1938.. 22,715 6.86 6.17 30/0.5
Iron King — „
1937 13.191 3.1 13/6
1938.. 12,808 1,855 3.27 2.92 13/9
* Excluding development.
In addition, 23,088 tons of slimes (now
depleted) was treated for 32570 z. fine
gold. At Norseman proved and partly-
proved ore has gone up from 204,000
tons to 263,000 tons, but grade is Idwt.
down at 6jdwt.; Iron King reserves are
unchanged at 400,000 tons, 160,000 tons
proved, the lot bulking 2|dwt.-3dwt.
Little development was done on the latter
block, but results at the main mine were
encouraging, two new shoots being dug
up —the first, south of the shaft on No.
4 level, carrying above mine values ; the
second, north in the bottom workings.
Here the main lode and No. 1 southern
shoot are maintaining satisfactory widths
and values, and give promise of living to
greater depth.
* * * *
During the year Norseman treated
4007 tons ore, yielding 1442 fine ounces
gold, for Norseman Developments,
which is developing the Penneshaw and
Northern Star leases for production of
2000 tons monthly. After writing £4247
off for development, etc., the pup re-
corded a loss of £4362 for the period.
Costs ran to 575. lOd. a ton, excluding
development. Norseman holds 100,000
f.-p. 2s. 6d. shares in the Developments
co.
* * * *
Norseman Associated, a second off-
shoot of Norseman (W.A.), has been
launched to take over from the
parent 123 acres on the adjoining
Mt. Barker line of reef and an option
over the Norseman Extended leases of
156 acres. The parent gets 50,000 f.-p.
half-crown shares in the new float, plus
a similar number if the Extended option
is exercised, and 10,000 fully-paids go to
H. Mitchell. A public issue of 240,000
shares was quickly taken. Norseman
G.M. will mill for the new co. and also
provide technical assistance, etc., at a
nominal fee.
* * * *
“Future” dividends were spoken of by
chairman H. E. Thonemann at Granites
Development’s meeting. Profits from
the co.’s investments now amounted to
more than £2OO a week, he said. The
co. has had a venturesome and unprofit-
able career. It was formed to acquire
options from Granites Gold, N.L., at
The Granites, Centralia, which were
abandoned at the end of 1932. Six
months later a working option was
acquired over a show at Wiluna (W.A.),
which diamond-drilling proved to be
unsuitable. About the middle of 1934
another Wiluna property was tested and
turned down. Then the following
options were successively taken and
abandoned: A deep alluvial area at
Ballan (Vic.), areas at Cue, Mt. Magnet
and Yellowdine (W.A.), and something
in Fiji. Now the co. has an 85 p.c. hold-
ing in Glen Innes Dredging Co., operat-
ing near Glen Innes (N.S.W.), where
results have not yet come up to expec-
tations.
* * * *
Including £56,003 worth extracted last
year, the value of Paringa’s (W.A.) gold
output to date is £118,500 sterling. Ex-
penditure on plant and development totals
£200,479. Ore reserves are figured at
258,000 tons, gross value £525,000. Mine
costs are estimated at a shade under £1
sterling per ton. During the 12 months
to the end of August last, paid capital
was increased to £192,671 by the issue
of 668,478 new Is. shares at a premium
of 100 p.c. On February 17 next a i 0
p.c. div. will be sent out, 2\ p.c. of it
being a final for the year to the end of
August, 1938, and the other 1\ p.c. an
interim in respect of the current term.
* * * *
Kunanalling Gold, N.L., is to be
wound up at the request of shareholders,
who expect to rescue from 9d. to Is. a
share. The co. plugged along quietly
for two years on a small show (Blackett’s)
north of Coolgardie (W.A.), and took
out £28,000 worth of gold for an outlay
of about £26,000. Then it acquired the
Premier mine, in the same district, and
the two properties were worked together
for a time. A recent offer of a mine in
N.S.W. was withdrawn because the
owners managed to raise enough money
to work the property themselves.
* * * *
Westralian-controlled Yellowdine Gold
Options announces that, aided by the
State Government, it has liquidated all
other debts and is going ahead with an
overhaul of the plant and further de-
velopment. Gold won in 1938 was worth
£2821, and £197 was received on account
of public crushings. A recently-acquired
water right, adjoining the mine, is ex-
pected to lower costs by at least £BO a
month when a pumping plant, to cost
£3OO, is installed.
* * * *
Yankee-controlled Big Bell has added
the Mars goldmine, at Boogardie, to the
list of its Westralian interests. The show
adjoins Hill 50 block on the west, and
was one time equipped with a plant
which treated 8000 tons for about
25000 z. This wealth came from a big
ironstone lode.
* * * *
To prove more conveniently and
economically the downward continuation
of several gold-carriers, Edna May has
resolved to sink a new vertical shaft on
its Westcmia group (W.A.) at an esti-
mated cost of £13,000. Funds in hand
exceed £15,000.
* * * *
Production of De Bernales’s Westralian
gold group in 1938 was valued at
£1,432,916, an increase of £329,564 com-
pared with 1937. The bulk of this wealth
came from Gt. Boulder; other contribu-
tors were Yellowdine, Comet, Emu,
Riverina and Gladiator.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent,_ Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
flu
III!
L
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
"But why has the woman nothing to say?”
— “S.M.H.” Women’s Supplement.
What woman?
+ 4* +
“The really happy woman is the one who
can enjoy the simple things of life.”
— Women’s paper.
Especially if one of the simple things
is a well-to-do, indulgent husband.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A sailor, high up, clinging to one of the
ropes, threw a kiss to a girl on the wharf.”
—“ D.T
Tossed his good-bye.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The members of the cleaning staff were
treated like cattle.” —“Daily News.’’
“Scrub” cattle at that.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Prisons should be reformed,” says a church
journal.
Prisoners think they should be turned
inside out.
4< 4* 4> 4*
Keeping one down helps some people
to keep up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A diner in a Chicago restaurant who com-
plained about the food was taken into the
kitchen and beaten up.” —News item.
It must have been a tough joint.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Never stand behind a fractious horse.”
— Riding-school brochure.
Still, some people get a kick out of it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A woman seldom has much breadth in her
conversation.” — “Sun.”
But she makes up for it in length.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A woman told a Sydney Court that her
husband used to shadow-spar with the machines
in his boot-repairing shop.”
He was game to the last.
4* 4* 4* 4*
In nine cases out of ten when a hus-
band says to himself, “It’s a nuisance
going home to the wife,” the wife thinks
to herself, “It’s that nuisance coming
home to his wife.”
Exploration.
Extracts from the notebook of Pro-
fessor Noseybob, leader of the Noseybob
Expedition into the Dead Heart of Aus-
tralia:—
Wretched delay. Caught in traffic jam
of authors and explorers at Alice Springs.
Decided to take risk and leave goloshes,
gamp and overcoat behind.
Off at last! Desert littered with grim
reminders—rusting typewriters, bottle-
openers and cigar butts.
Had to turn camels adrift. Anything
that could do without a drink over 10
minutes was having bad effect on morale
of party.
Hooray! Wonderful discovery of four
skeletons seated at stone slab in ancient
cave. Dented shinbones prove that bridge
was played here centuries ago
Found remarkable heap of cracked
skulls in what looks like prehistoric
council chamber. Clear evidence that
unity conferences very old idea.
Deciphered strange writings in cave
as: “If any all up Deadlegs.” Appar-
ently refers to defeat of great warrior
Deadlegs.
Disaster! Whole outfit returning at
once. Impossible to find parking space
between authors and explorers in Dead
Heart!
D. McM.
•F *F *F *F
“Australians are the most airminded people
in the world.” — Aviation magazine.
They certainly appreciate a little
flutter.
•F *F *F *F
“Don't jump to the conclusion that English
surgeons are the successors of barbers.”
—“ World’s News.”
Barbers are usually a cut above them.
•F *F *F *F
“Puffed sleeves and short skirts will give
women a squarish appearance this season.”
—Fashion note.
Men, of course, will still look round.
•F *F *F *F
“Why condemn whirlwind courtships?”
— Women's paper.
Well, a whirlwind often precedes a
storm.
“Steer for the shore, Bert —I feel squalmish .”
Wisdom.
“Baldness is responsible to a great extent
for the number of baldheaded men in civilised
countries.”— Melbourne “Radio Times.”
It is audacious deductions such as
this that greatly accelerate human pro-
gress. It ranks with those other famous
discoveries, viz.: Alcohol is the main
cause of drunkenness; the only trouble
about fire is the heat; money is round,
but you’ve got to square up with it;
water is wet; newspapers don’t neces-
sarily contain news; radio was once
used to entertain people ; when a person
falls a great distance it isn’t the fall that
is fatal, it’s the sudden stop.
Melton.
+ + +
“Five out of every six people possess pleasant
natural singing ability,” declares singing teacher.
The others, of course, go on the
wireless.
•F *F *F *F
“Is it correct to make formal announcements
at informal parties?”
—Correspondent in -women’s paper.
Certainly. Just stand on the piano and
sing out: “Everyone put in—the grog’s
getting low!”
*F *F *F *F
“An American boxer, now in Australia,
started life as a blacksmith’s striker.”
Now he strikes for himself.
*F *F *F *F
“Fashion is just a merry-go-round.”
— Women’s paper.
The women sit pretty, but the hus-
bands have to face the music.
•F *F *F *F
Drink is a curse, still many people
swear by it.
*F *F *F *r
“Experiments on the mass of the hydrogen
atom had shown that—if it could be released
—there was enough energy in a tumbler of
water to take the liner Queen Mary across the
Atlantic Ocean at top speed.”— "S.M.H.”
Perhaps some of our politicians might
shake off their lethargy on as little as
five or six glasses.
“Sway your friends,” states advt.
Supposing they don’t dance?
*F *F *F *F
“The actor enjoys being laughed at.”
—"Sunday Sun.”
He takes it all in good parts.
Putting the Lid On.
“Anti-aircraft Defences. Territorials Can
Man.” —News headlines.
In this scientific age,
When sagacious chemists wage
Our wars, their methods seem a trifle
stern.
I can stand condensing milk.
Tinned sardines and all that ilk,
But to can a person gives me quite a
turn.
Certain men, one sometimes hears,
Are well preserved despite their years.
But l never dreamed we THUS con-
served our kin,
And we thinking people dread
What may happen should it spread;
If it does, no doubt we’ll all be in the
tin !
SOL.
Lost Illusion.
“Modern youth discovers the truth about
life and is dissatisfied—why?” —Film blurb.
Ah! Shed a tear for flaming youth
Who, stumbling on the bitter truth,
Finds life, by moderns understood,
Is never true to Hollywood.
LEON.
Lament.
O Martha, when you went away,
I missed you so, both night and day,
/ missed —though l am loath to tell —
My wallet and my watch as well.
PATON.
This Espionage Business.
1.
Spies fall into two categories: free-
lances and those who are employed by
Governments. The chief difference is
that, whereas the official spy who is
caught and put up against a wall is shot
only as a cipher, e.g., Fl 7, the freelance
is entitled to the privilege of being shot
in his own right as, say, Jim Johnson.
Freelancing is the simplest and, in
many ways, the most remunerative
method. There is none of the restrictive
regulations and red-tape that beset the
official spy. All the freelance has to do
is to get, by whatever means he deems
best, the blueprint of a new anti-tank
rifle or a naval gun, and then sell it to
the highest bidder. Certainly he may
have to hawk his plan from one
European capital to another and play
one nation off against the next, but if he
is a good bargainer it is worth it.
The problem of concealment of stolen
plans is not the least of a spy’s problems,
and for the freelance it is even more
acute than for the official secret-service
agent. The latter need *have no fear that
any other agent will pinch a plan from
him once he lifts it, as there is a rigid
code of honor in the business. But the
freelance spy is fair game for them all.
An example of what the freelance has
to put up with was the thoughtless adver-
tising campaign launched by the Hol-
lowed-Out-Walking-Sticks-For-Spies Mfg.
Co., Ltd., which unwittingly gave a
valuable clue to many Governments;
officialdom cleverly seized on it, so that
every freelance spy on the Continent
had to have his umbrella hollowed out
instead. Likewise, the action of the
False-Bottomed Attache Case Co. in
offering a £5O prize to the spy who
concealed most plans in its products
during a given period led to wholesale
arrests.
Should a freelance “lift” a valuable
plan he has it copied on very thin paper
so that, if he is caught, he can swallow
exhibit A. But sometimes there is not
sufficient time to allow him to do this,
so perforce he has to fold the blueprint
into the smallest possible size and push
it into his mouth as best he can. But
an element of risk creeps in here, not
necessarily leading to exposure.
There was the case of Serge
Mcßludworst, the famous international
spy, who succeeded, at great risk, in
snavelling the plan of an improved
bandolier strap that a certain foreign
Government would have paid a fabulous
sum to acquire. It being too precious to
keep in his pocket as he left the building,
he folded it up as tightly as he could and
popped it into his mouth. After all,
it was a simple matter to kid dumb if he
was questioned going out.
As he slunk along looking for a taxi
to get him to the nearest airport he heard
a cheerful voice say: “What ho, Serge,
old boy how’re tricks?” and simul-
taneously stopped a genial, if terrific,
slap on the back from an old friend.
Despite the long training he had taken
to govern his emotions, so essential in a
spy, it was with a ghastly grin that he
made a pretence of reciprocating the
salutation as, with one gulp, he felt
the plan disappear down his gullet, which
was not only badly scored by the sharp
edges of the hard paper, but became
permanently enlarged owing to the size
of the wad he had swallowed.
Not only are losses like this likely to
occur after a successful snaring of a plan,
but sometimes months of preparatory
work go for nothing. Sam Pelsnatcher’s
was a case in point. Endeavoring to get
the plan of a new noiseless bayonet, he
decided that the best method was to
cultivate the friendship of a confidential
tvpist who worked in the armament
factory.
Sam played the mushy
game to the limit, and
in three months he had
spent about £l5O of his
own money on orchids,
theatre tickets, taxis and
chocolates. But blandish-
ments and boodle were
apparently succeeding, for
she promised to get the
plan for him, though it
would cost him a Chin-
chilla coat.
Even at 200 guineas this
was cheap, for Sam knew
he could get £lO,OOO for
the plan, so he bought it
for her. When he went to
collect the plan next
night as arranged she
had disappeared and he
was naturally a bit narked when he
learned later that she had sold it to
another freelance spy, who had also been
taking her around, for £lOOO.
On another occasion Sam, knowing
that the Government of Afghanistan was
interested in a new submarine rifle, hit
on the plan of kidnapping and im-
personating the managing director of the
co. that was manufacturing it secretly.
He completely fooled the staff. Sitting
in the m.g.’s chair, he pressed a button
and boldly barked at the minion who
answered it:
“Plan X2lB—quick!” When he got it
he put it in the band of his top hat,
chartered a plane and flew to Afghanis-
tan. „
But the Afghan Government gave
him the horselaugh. It proved to be
plan X2l, which was the Martini-Henri
of the eighteen-eighties’ vintage. Evi-
dently the employee had mistaken his
order for “plan X2l—be quick!”
But little mistakes like these don’t dis-
hearten your true freelance spy; they
only goad him to greater efforts.
S.W.K.


■ nrs*r
f mtfr~ m
*
7-
Make the WENTWORTH
your Home while in Sydney
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with
in your own home. Although close to business and
social centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated
position away from trams, trains and other annoying
influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms, all with private bathrooms
—24-hour hot water service and telephones.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
SYDNEY
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
W. R. Carpenter at 41s. 9d.
The merits of the fully-paids in
this strong Islands-trading concern
are mentioned elsewhere, and the
scrip looks attractive.
TECHNICAL EDUCATION BY
CORRESPONDENCE.
The DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION offers
through the SYDNEY TECHNICAL COL-
LEGE the following courses by correspon-
dence:—
RURAL COURSES
Agriculture, Care of Animals, Wool Classing,
Station Bookkeeping, Diesel Engineering, Farm
Mechanics.
COMMERCIAL COURSES
Accountancy, Auditing, Bookkeeping, Busi-
ness Principles, Commercial Law, Commercial
Correspondence, Shorthand.
TRADE COURSES
Carpentry and Joinery, Building Construc-
tion, Electrical Trades, Composing, Sewer
Plumbing, Water Plumbing, Trades Drawing,
House Drainage.
CERTIFICATE COURSES
Health Inspection, Meat Inspection, Food
Inspection, Local Government Clerks.
MISECLLANEOUS COURSES
Ticket and Showcard Writing, Elementary
Art, Dressmaking, Millinery.
SECONDARY SUBJECTS (Intermediate and
leaving certificate standards).
OPEN TO ALL WHO CANNOT ATTEND
CENTRAL, BRANCH OR COUNTRY
TECHNICAL COLLEGES.
FEES:
Single subjects: 25/- per annum or 10/- per
term. Students under 21 years and receiv-
ing less than 30/- weekly pay half-fees.
SEND FOR SYLLABUS TO
Secretary, Correspondence Teaching Division,
Sydney Technical College, Ultimo.
A. W. HICKS,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager,
T. O. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
BRANDAUER5
m
%
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKANBA.UKB * CO. Ltd. BIBStUKOHAM. ENO
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Australia’s Economic Position
The white man’s burden has changed
from being whatever it used to be into
being the inflation bogey. Nothing is
more important in civilised living than
the cost of living, and inflation in living
costs always seems to be tailing us. The
old spinning-wheel is no longer to be
found in the parlor ; more likely there
is a wireless-set perched on the mantel-
piece that ornaments the recess housing
the flat’s radiator. There is no churn
in the kitchen, no cow or vegetables in
the backyard—if there is a backyard. So
the man who lives in the city—and in
Australia he represents nearly 50 p.c. of
all Australians —depends for his existence
not on the food and clothing he and his
family might in other days have produced
for themselves, but upon the wages he
gets as one of many laborers or special-
ists engaged in some enterprise that
manufactures or otherwise provides for
the wants of thousands.
His measure of comfort as an Aus-
tralian depends first of all upon whether
he has any kind of a regular job (9.2 p.c.
of Australian trade-unionists on Sept. .30
hadn’t employment), secondly upon what
wages he gets, and thirdly upon what
his wages will buy.
The third requisite, needless to say,
is very important, but it is. the one most
easily overlooked. Cost ofrliving and its
capacity to inflate under the strain of
pulling after increased wages and the
tugging of increased costs is (the burden
of this generation. Especially is this so
in countries such as Australia and the
U.S.A., where Nature is,. on the whole,
bountiful. Our troubles on this continent
have rarely arisen from natural or
national poverty, except perhaps during
particularly droughty years.
The Commonwealth and some of the
States possess an arbitration system that
regulates wages in accordance with the
cost of living. But though the Arbi-
tration Court can fix wage rates, it can-
not award jobs, especially if there are
no jobs available. Likewise, the manu-
facturer, though he may raise the prices
of his goods in sympathy with, or in
anticipation of, rises in wages and other
costs, can’t force people to buy them,
especially if a number of the people
have no jobs and no money.
Periodically the position arises where
lack of balance between wages and other
costs, prices and capital values induces
a setback to confidence, and causes un-
employment. Perhaps costs and prices
inside Australia are on the rise, as they
have been for some time now,
and perhaps prices for our land products
in the world’s markets have been falling—
also, unfortunately, in evidence for some
time now. Again, perhaps, the banks
notice that Government Treasurers,
businessmen and trade-union secretaries
are doing little or nothing to cope with
the situation. In such circumstances the
banks are justified in putting their foot
down on the granting of credit facilities,
even if it involves loss of confidence,
because if they delay such action the
lack of balance will grow more obvious,
and confidence will disappear of its own
accord, and go into seclusion for a
longer period than if preventive measures
had been taken earlier.
Australia has been moving towards
such a delicate position for some time.
It. hasn’t reached such a state yet, and
the present drift may possibly be
arrested. We . have been slipping more
slowly than most other countries —the
UiS.A., for instance, has had a second
r dose of real depression, and Great
Britain suffered something more than a
nominal fall in trade and employment.
France has been in trouble for' a long
while. The result of these countries’
difficulties has been a great falling-away
in world trade ; the 1938 trading figures
for Britain and the U.S.A. indicate the
extent. In that fall wool and wheat, of
national importance to us, have suffered
extensively.
The Bulletin has more than once
pointed out, however, that rising living
costs internally were more likely to do
us lasting injury than a fall in our ex-
port prices. There is already some evi-
dence of trade recovery overseas, with
possibilities of better prices for wool,
at least. But somehow or other the
Australian cost of living hasn’t been in
the slightest degree abashed by our fallen
export income up to date. One or two
items, perhaps (such as groceries and
building materials), have shown a
tendency to cease rising in price, but,
largely because of soaring meat, milk
and butter prices and a creeping-up in
home rentals, the cost of living towards
the end of 1938 was the highest for eight
years. Only last week it came out that
land valuations in a third of Sydney’s
metropolitan area had been lifted 6 p.c.;
the same day the N. S. Wales Treasurer
admitted that “indications were that
Budget balance might not be achieved by
June 30.” The accumulated Budget
deficits of Australia for the five years
1930-34, amounting to £67,538,000, are
still represented by nothing more than
a hole that size on the assets side of our
accounts, yet taxation, gross and per
head, is by far the highest on record.
Politicians have fully restored cuts in
their own salaries.
It is conditions such as these that our
more responsible leaders of finance and
industry have to contend with. It is such
things that the worker has to suffer. Gov-
ernments seem to be giving the vicious
wheel of inflation a ready turn at every
opportunity. The line of least resistance
suits them, and it suits inflation.
Fortunately, the administrators of pub-
lic finance are not allowed to run (or
ruin) Australia entirely. There are level
heads in the trading banks and the Com-
monwealth Bank—the latter periodically
comes into direct collision with loan-
hungry Treasurers, and has ' withstood
bluster and grovelling with equal success.
If it had not been for these curbing
hands it is certain that our figures would
be much more inflated than they are.
As it is, though living costs are the
highest in eight years, they are still below
the 1928 boom year, when our pound
was backed by gold.
The following shows, in tabular form,
the fall and rise of Australian and British
living costs from 1928 up to September
last. The comparison of Australian with
British figures is valuable only for its
showing-up of the relative falls and rises
in the two countries:
Cost of Living Index.
Australia. Britain.
(1) (2) (3)
1928 .. .. 1755 1675 1656
1932 .. .. 1391 1377 1436
1933 .. .. 1332 1335 1397
1936 .. .. 1461 1409 1467
1937 .. .. 1510 1448 1543
1938-
Mar 1534 1467 1560
June .. .. 1558 1482 1550
Sept 1589 1500 1560
(1) “Food and housing,” base year, 1911.
(2) “All items household expenditure,” base
year, 1911. (3) Base, July, 1914 (= 1000 in
index).
“All items of household expenditure” in
Australia are 10.4 p.c. below the 1928
level. But they are 12.3 p.c. higher than
in 1933. Money wages are back to near
boom levels; their increased buying
power hasn’t all been defeated By rising
living costs, but the supporters of the
Reddaway “prosperity” award must be
disappointed in its incidence. Between
the first quarter of 1936 and the middle
of 1938 money wages rose 9 p.c., real
wages only 3 p.c.; the difference was lost
in inflating costs.
Industrial Australia is much stronger
than it was 10 years ago. Our efficiency
has improved vastly over the decade,
most of us got some valuable (if un-
pleasant) experience out of the last de-
pression, and the cost of money has
been kept commendably low. But other
things are happening that shouldn’t be
allowed to happen, and there is proof
positive that our self-styled “financial
saviours” of five or six years ago have a
lot of trouble on their hands now that
they don’t know how to cope with. It
•imposes a terrific strain on our financial
equilibrium if rates, taxes and other costs
are raised when our national income, and
particularly the of our exports,
has fallen so heavily. The lead Aus-
tralia is getting in this regard from poli-
ticians is radically wrong.
The fully-paid shares in W. R. Car-
penter, offering in Sydney at 41s. 9d.’,
return £4 17s. 6d. per cent, on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, allowing for the portion of the
div. now accrued that will be payable in
March. The present return is quite good,
and the long-distance aspect of this thriv-
ing concern is excellent. The manage-
ment rarely misses anything that means
money-making in the western half of the
Pacific.
* * * *
The unaltered interim {l\ p.c.) of G. J.
Coles suggests an unchanged rate of dis-
tribution for the full year; a final of
10 p.c. made \l\ p.c. last term. At the
ruling market of 80s. for the shares the
yield is 4.4 p.c. All things considered it
isn’t overhigh.
* * * «
North Kalgurli’s working profit of
£263,474 Australian was £2630 lower
than for the preceding term, when a net
showing of £140,000 was made. Capital
expenditure was about the same. Ton-
nage treated was 133,000, virtually un-
changed. The higher price of gold is now
assisting earnings.
* * * *
Ormonoid Roofing and Asphalts, with
headquarters in Sydney and Melbourne,
transacts business with other States and
Maoriland through agencies. It is a
small concern (paid capital £35,000), but
in the past its earning-power has been
high in relation to its weight. Handed
over to the public for £26,000 (cash) in
June, 1938, the business has paid no div.
yet as a public concern, bpt in anticipa-
tion of something worth while the share-
market has run the scrip up from a
nominal premium to 265. A 10 p.c. dis-
tribution at least seems to be looked for;
15 p.c. may be a possibility. The small
capital of the co., though all in its favor
as a business enterprise, may eventually
restrict sharemarket interest in the stock.
,+* * +
Australian Glass, as a preliminary to
making a bonus issue, is going to split
up its bottle-making, food-processing,
hat-manufacturing, etc., branches, pass
them over to subsidiaries, and then
change its name to Australian Con-
solidated Industries, Ltd. The new name
will be more appropriate. Crown Crystal
Glass and Australian Window Glass are
already separate subsidiaries. Glass
shares are still around 110 s., cum hopes.
* * * *
Some Sydney trustee cos. appear to be
putting funds into Australian Gas shares
almost regardless of cost. Last week the
A shares sold at £7 12s. 6d., highest price
since 1937, when a shilling more per
share was bid. The scrip is worth nearly
20s. more than the lowest price taken at
an auction of new shares during the
September war scare.
* * * *
Tableland Tin’s No. 1 dredge has
started up at Mt. Garnet (Q.); last week
one shift only per day was, worked until
everything showed signs of running
smoothly.
* * * *
New. capital issues in Britain during
1938 were the smallest for six years.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Australian Cement . showed a profit of
£99,110 for the year to Nov. 30, up £15,260.
The div., lifted to 121 p.c., equalled that of
A.C.’s co-partner Kandos Cement in N. S.
Wales. It will be an odd circumstance if
Kandos doesn’t pay an interim at the rate of
121 p.c. p.a. in Sydney next month, even if
the rate declared last year did include 2J p.c.
earmarked as “bonus.” Kandos shares have
111 p.c. more earning-power behind them than
have A.C. counters.
Well-known gold stocks such as Mr. Morgan,
Emperor, New Occidental and Triton, rep-
resenting four different fields of operation, were
each to be had at around 10s. per share. Which
would you rather have at the price? Or would
you? Triton is the only one that hasn’t got
in more capital of recent years.
Yellow Cabs’s interim div. was 5 p.c.,
against. 4 p.c. last term, when the final was
8 p.c., making 12 p.c. for the year.
Myer ords. were weak again at 295. 3d.


Metropolitan Water, Sewerage
and Drainage Board, Sydney.
£1,000,000 LOAN
Interest 4fl p.a. Price of Issue par (£100)
REPAYABLE Ist FEBRUARY, 1949.
LOAN NOW OPEN.
CLOSES NOT LATER THAN ith FEBRUARY, 1939.
Guaranteed, by the Government of New South Wales.
Loan underwritten by Messrs. J. B. Were & Son,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne,
375 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney, and London.
The Loan is secured upon the income of the Board from whatever
source arising.
Applications for subscriptions and instalments will be accepted free of
exchange at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Canberra, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart, and through Members of
a recognised Australian Stock Exchange.
Interest will be payable and principal repayable at any of the above
Commonwealth Bank of Australia branches'
Prospectuses and application forms are obtainable at any of the Bank’s
branches and the Board s Head Office, 45 Reservoir Street, Sydney, and
branches.
Stock or debentures will be issued at the option of the applicant, deben-
tures in denominations of £lOO, £5OO or £lOOO, and Stock in multiples
of £lOO.
The minimum amount that may be applied for in the Loan is £lOO, and
amounts in excess of £lOO must be for multiples of £lOO.
Applications may be paid in accordance with the following options:—
Option I—ln full with application
Option 2—£10% with application
£30% by 31st March, 1939
£30% by Ist May, 1939
£30% by Ist June, 1939
or
Option 3—£10% with application
£90% by Ist June, 1939
The Loan is a trustee investment in New South Queensland and
Tasmania. Applications will be made for the listing of the Loan on the
principal Stock Exchanges in the Commonwealth.
The Board reserves the right to close the Loan at any earlier date
without notice and partially to allot subscription.
T. HAYNES UPTON, President.
W. O. C. DAY, Secretary.
Sydney.
"oEßmAtiy
for YOUR fElf
.......jsiß-
«#***?”■
KJEz.
sOsS
«*• . «
i»- n
a>
■"."A
rr
W
Tyrolean Chalet
BECAUSE
No country in Europe lias the same wealth
of varied natural beauty, such fascinating
contrasts between Past and Present, or a
like profusion of entertainment and recre-
ation to show her visitors. Austria and
Bavaria afford the finest winter sports facili-
ties there are. Rothenburg and‘Nuremberg
are the only flawless specimens of mediceval
cities yet extant. Dresden’s Zwinger gallery
contains master works from every school of
European painting. The history of Opera
would be a slender volume without the
contributions made by Vienna, Berlin,
Leipzig, Salzburg and Bayreuth. Modern
Germany is nationally addicted to every
form of sport, game and exercise. The
opportunities for engaging in them are,
accordingly, manifold but inexpensive.
The castles of the Rhine, the cities of the
Hansa League,-the Baltic coast resorts and
the majestic Alps in the South are, one and
all, linked up by a system of motor roads
which has no equal in any continent. There
arc spftt of every kind whose waters allevi-
ate and cure suffering humanity from all
over the world. The recluse will find peace
in the solitudes of the mountains. The
gregarious will find delight in watching the
ebb and flow of the human tide surging
past the cafe' tables on the gaily lighted
streets. Whatever your personal tastes
may be, they will find new gratification
and new stimulus in a German holiduy.
The Whitt Mont Inn
60% REDUCTION
IN RAIL FARES
40% TO 50% SAVING
BY PURCHASE OF
TRAVEL MARKS
for full information and descriptive matter apply i
GERMAN RAILWAYS INFORMATION BUREAU
19, REGENT STREET, LONDON, S.W.i. or recognised Travel Agencies
<-o*o
ss
i
_ LONDON'^®*'
?Und
m
r "r
T »n
'"*r
mwt
*'l*lo
+rr T
Oft,
• vX* y '
wl/j
Ist
>Hf
ig/G
IN
D?
*»
A *t
lan
GENUINE
LONDON
GIN CAN
ONLY
GOME FROM
LONDON
ENGLAND
where
Gordon's
Gin
IS DISTILLED
If mai| cost a
little more buf
it's WELL worth it!
StW 4
jupte ol
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
STSSSTSSSi C7/w Latyelt gin dUtiikU in th£ woUd
Trade Credits (Australasia), Ltd.
Confusion between this co., which has
a Canberra registration, and Trade
Credits, Ltd., of Sydney, has in the past
been sufficiently marked to call now for
a Government inquiry. Trade Credits
< Australasia), Ltd., which took over
Hamiltons (Australasia), Ltd., has gone
bung—it was hurriedly put into voluntary
liquidation just before Christmas because,
it was stated, “by reason of its liabilities,”
it couldn]t continue business. Trade
Credits, Ltd., in which T.C. (A’sia) holds
about 50,000 shares, is carrying on busi-
ness as usual, paying divs., and there is no
reason to suppose that it will do other-
wise so long as trading conditions
remain favorable, the management is
careful and its book-debts are good. It is
in the commercial discounting business,
and was reviewed on these pages in B.
30/11/’3B.
The Canberra Trade Credits co.
bought out Hamiltons (Australasia), Ltd.,
in July, 1937. Hamiltons had been
formed on Sept. 13, 1935, to take over
the share-selling business of Cranwells,
of which John Woolcott-Forbes used to
be managing director. Forbes was not
officially connected with Hamiltons.
Hamiltons, however, hawked a large
parcel of P. and G. Finance shares, as
well as scrip in Trade Credits, Ltd. (Syd-
ney), and on a paid capital disclosed
at £67,074 on Sept. 30, 1936, it claimed
earnings of £18,760 (22.3 p.c. on capital)
and paid a 15 p.c. div. These accounts
were reviewed in B. 16/12/’36. The
share-selling and share-swapping opera-
tions seemed to have been quite profit-
able—-to Hamiltons—for a time.
Following the amalgamation (or what-
ever it was) with the newly-registered
Canberra Trade Credits concern, capi-
tal had swelled to £233,579 at Sept. 30
last—five times the figure of two years
earlier. Old shareholders in Hamiltons
were in some cases canvassed and asked
to transfer to Trade Credits (A’sia).
Though share-hawking in N. S. Wales
has at last been stifled by overdue com-
pany law, in Victoria the operations of
Hamiltons-cw/n-Trade Credits were car-
ried on until a later date. Apparently,
however, the Victorian field of opera-
tions became unprofitable—low prices
and drought must have stiffened farmers’
resistance —and so the Canberra Trade
Credits co. has put up the shutters,
with over £190,000 of its £233*5/9
of capital represented by no more
than losses and goodwill. There
. £5l 247 in Trade Credits (Sydney)
‘hares valued at 20s. 9d. each, and
£ jq37() j n book debts and cash. Liabili-
ties tot £28,234. Taking the figures
1 face value? there is only three
Qr four shillings at best remaining to
re sent each 2 0s. of shareholders’
fu £ ds Notwithstanding this, Trade
£ red i ts (A’sia) had been paying 10 p.c.
divs. right up to the middle of 1938
wh was the reconstructed enterprise
called Trade Credits ( Australasia!
ever called trade Credits (Austraiasiaj,
Ltd.. The type ol people with whom
Hamiltons had been dealing were bound
be confused between the two Trade
£ redlts concerns, especially while the
divs - were at J be i ame
p.c. P- a - eac “- Now that those of Trade
C . redi,s (Australasia) have cut out, and
Iha ‘, c0 ,. 1s ,n liquidation, such people
must realise only too well that they are
d, " e h rem enterprises entirely,
„ T , ha la he affal F, s , ot Trade
Cr ? dlts . (A ? la) > L,d " necessitates a wide
P ubllC inquiry,
North Coast Steam (N.S.W.) has de-
dared an interim half-yearly div. of 41
p.c., the same as the final for 1937-38.
As it indicates a 9 p.c. p.a. basis for
the future, the investment market has
resumed interest in the shares, and last
week paid 435. to obtain a return of
4.3 p.c., allowing for the accrued div.,
which is payable to-day (25th). The co.
has a strong shipping connection with a
prosperous part of N. S. Wales—the
North Coast is a fertile dairying district
that has a “stabilised” market for butter,
its chief product,
* * * *
The bonus issue of Howards, in Bris-
bane, is at the worth-while rate of one
for three to those shareholders on the
list on Feb. 3. The shares, suggested
as an investment on these pages over a
long period at prices ranging from 325.
to 355., have lifted to 425., cum rights.
Paid capital will rise to £139,093 fol-
lowing the bonus; a 10 p.c. div. in the
future will call for £13,909, or about
half the sum revealed as net profit last
term. The new shares will have about
£2 of solid net assets behind them.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Results of Roosevelt.
[On the strength of his occasional high-sounding
pronouncements on international affairs, President Roose-
velt has even higher place in the Stunt Press Hall of
rame than Mr. Anthony Eden, whose star appears to be
momentarily in eclipse. It is a somewhat less splendid
picture of the President, his leadership and administra-
tion that is presented by Bruce Barton in the article
here condensed from “Reader’s Digest,” appearing
originally in “Collier’s.”]
He had been an extravagant Governor of New
York. But no one questioned his courage, nor his
genuine sympathy for the underdog. He burst upon
the nation like a shining knight with magic in his
voice and smile.
Franklin Roosevelt was pretty much all right on
March 4, 1933. Partaking of his faith and energy,
Congress leaped from one constructive act to another.
Securities moved up; business lifted its head ; people
began to go back to work. Though there is much to
question in those first three years, I believe that his-
tory will find even more to praise.
If he had chosen to use his second term to revise
and solidify the legislation of the first, most of his
troubles, and ours, would have been avoided. But
it is not in him to rest and modify and revise. This
is the common fault of reformers. History shows that
most of them have failed as administrators.
The U.S.A. has had now five and a half years of
new ideas, new experiments, new laws and an expen-
diture of 45 billions ; and what New Deal method is
really working well?
The agricultural programme? The Department
of Agriculture has to ask each session of Congress
for another huge appropriation.
Social Security? The ideal is universally ac-
claimed, but the huge reserve fund is a costly hoax.
The tax on payrolls is a business load contributing
definitely to further unemployment.
The Securities and Exchange Act, sound in prin-
ciple, has proved so rigid as to handicap new invest-
ment.
The business recovery in the United States, up to
the spring of 1937, was less, proportionately, than in
any of the other leading countries ; the decline since
March, 1937, has been sharper and more costly than
anywhere else.
The Administration entered office with an esti-
mated fifteen million out of work. After more than
five years of deficit and debt, the pump priming and
relief costs are at an all-time high ; and the unem-
ployed are still thirteen million.
Multiply the chaos of relief administration and
you have a picture of Washington; bureaus are piled
on bureaus ; departments overlap ; commissions pull in
opposite directions; dozens of agencies are sending
questionnaires to harassed businessmen, and issuing
conflicting instructions having the force of law. It
will take at least ten years for administration to catch
up with the legislation already enacted. Yet any sug-
gestion that the President might now give the country
a rest from more laws and devote some energy to
amending present statutes and making them work is
branded as Toryism.
We come now to a curious and very serious some-
thing that is wrong with Roosevelt. I refer to the pro-
cess of rationalisation that has gone on in his mind
in respect to the debt. Back in 1932, no man in
America denounced extravagant spending, high taxes
and debt more than did Franklin Roosevelt. Con-
sistently he held up the balanced Budget as an ideal
to be attained.
To-day the members of the little inner circle of the
New Deal dismiss the mounting debt with a wave of
the hand. They argue seriously that, since the expen-
ditures are for public works and the maintenance of
popular morale, the Administration has not been in
the red at all, but actually in the black.
When a nation begins to deceive itself about its
finances, when its rulers have managed to convince
themselves that a deficit is not a deficit, then look out.
Unless all history lies, we are in for trouble. Mr.
Roosevelt knows history. He should know how dan-
gerous is his present state of mind.
Judging by the record of six years, I believe Mr.
Roosevelt will be remembered as a sincere humani-
tarian, as a man of courage when the nation had
almost lost its courage, as the inaugurator of immense
reforms and the awakener of the national conscience.
Also as one who started many things and finished few ;
who, stepping out of the White House after eight
years of unremittent legislation, left to his successor
the herculean task of revising his reforms and making
them work ; and the even more challenging problem
of how to arouse a spirit of patriotism and self-sacrifice
sufficient to make people willing to tighten up their
belts and pull the country out of the financial bog into
which extravagant economics had plunged it.
No living man can ever conduct the office of the
Presidency in the way Franklin Roosevelt has
attempted to do it. There are something like 70
departments, bureaus and commissions whose officials
have the right and duty to report to the White House.
No chief executive of any business tries to deal directly
with more than a dozen subordinates.
The next President should return promptly to
Congress the powers taken from it under the plea of
“emergency” in 1933. And Congress should be held
responsible for the inception, as well as the passage,
of legislation. Our country can never reach its full
productive capacity if the brains and energies of its
citizens are subordinated to the shifting dictates of
ever-increasing bureaucracy. The bureaus and com-
missions should be curtailed, co-ordinated and simpli-
fied as Mr. Roosevelt in 1932 promised they would be.
In other words, the next President will have the
dull, thankless job of management. It will be his
difficult task to convince a people, gorged with
promises and experiments, that the only way to work
out a hard situation is by hard work.
DUiinitv in Ireland.
.
"National NonK
section, declares the situation in divided Ireland to be
"probably more serious than at any time since 1919.”
An apparently unbiased attempt to sum up on the
existing general differences between Noiti an ~
is contained in this condensed “Fortnightly Review
article by Harold C Brown.]
So far, nearly every step taken since the Free
State was established in 1922 has helped to strengthen
the border and increase the differences between people
of the two Irish States. When those States came into
being there were many links between North and South
in non-political organisations, in sporting and cultural
bodies. Steadily fhose links are being snapped.
A , . ® f
As things are, there is grave danger of two separate
nationalities being evolved. Racially the only blood
common to both northern and southern stocks is that
“ 'hcanctem Gael. In the South R-Easheen gy
diluted by Danish, Norman and English impregnations
In the North it has been reduce oan i p P
trtckte by two thousand years of intercourse with the
SCO s. No border was necessary to indicate the
existence of two distinct peop es in Ireland Their
essential differences of character and temperament,
however, did not prevent their working together on
many occasions in the past. Now that they are por-
tioned off, each section to go its own way pretty much
as it chooses, whatever they had in common as resi-
dents upon the? one island can only be preserved by
co-operation between the two States. But what co-
operation is possible between two peoples who have
no common political aim, no common religion and
whose interpretations of democratic government are as
different as, say, those of Mr. Chamberlain and Stalin?
The Japanese regard for the Mikado as the Son
of Heaven is no more remarkable than the Northern
Ireland regard for the King. In the South George VI.
is a foreign king, with no place in the Constitution and
no authority in the State. In Northern Ireland nearly
every house contains a Union Jack, which is flown
every time there is an excuse for doing so. If the
tricolor of Eire is flown as a republican banner there
it is liable to confiscation by the Royal Ulster Con-
stabulary, and it must be a very nice matter to decide
in which capacity the flag is being flown, though it
would be a safe enough guess that anyone flying the
tricolor in Northern Ireland would be a republican.
It may be removed before the police arrive. In Eire
the Union Jack may be flown at the risk of the flier.
The police there do not permit the flags of the British
Legion, which have a small Union Jack in the corner,
to be carried on the occasion of the Remembrance
Day parades. Decorative schemes may include the
flags of Mexico, Russia and Republican Spain, but the
flag of Great Britain is taboo.
To the Englishman who takes kings and flags more
or less for granted these Irish differences over such
things may seem rather childish, but people in Iceland
can be infuriated by a flag and enraged by a song.
The anthem of Eire, “A Soldier’s Song,” is a “rebel
ditty” in the North; “God Save the King” is a party
tune in the South.
However, the differences between northern and
southern States do not end with kings and flags and
anthems. There is the matter of the Gaelic language.
In Eire, Gaelic is a compulsory subject in the schools.
It occupies a status supposedly equal to, but actually
higher than, English. It must be used in the courts
if any of the parties to an action desires it. Examina-
tions of many varying kinds require a knowledge of it.
Entrance to the civil service or the teaching profession
is impossible without it. The street names are in Irish
as well as English, and notices in omnibuses, trains and
on railway platforms must be partly in Gaelic.
The “Ulster” attitude to the study of Gaelic is
that it is impracticable and wasteful of time. The
rising generation of southerners is Gaelic-speaking;
the rising generation of northerners is non-Gaelic
speaking.
The standards of living are different in North
and South. In the North prices are the same as in
England, and the range of goods obtainable is interest-
ing and extensive. In the South prices are high. As
a result of the tariff wall nearly every article in every-
day use, from typewriter ribbons to saucepans, costs
more than it does in Northern Ireland. Also there
is a somewhat limited range from which to select. The
southern workman is compensated for the higher prices
he has to pay by the higher wages he receives, but the
civil servant, clerk, policeman, journalist and shop-
girl have to struggle along on wages which are in many
cases slightly* lower than those ruling in the North.
For women, of course, the limited assortment of goods
on offer in Eire is as great a hardship as their high
prices.
The points of difference which have been men-
tioned are freely understood and freely discussed.
There are others, of which, probably, very little is
known in the North, and which are not popular sub-
jects of conversation in the South. There is, for
example, the censorship of books. The number of
books banned in the South must be some thousands,
and while many of them possess neither literary nor
artistic merit, so that there is no great loss to anyone
in their being banned, the censors have been respon-
sible for some palpable absurdities. The banning of
Bernard Shaw’s “Black Girl in Search of God” is one
of the best-known examples. Films are more drasti-
cally censored than in Britain. Divorce, in the absolute
sense, is not permitted by law in Eire. The importation
and sale of contraceptives is forbidden and the advo-
cacy of birth control is illegal. In the North there is
no censorship of books, there are no restrictions on
birth control, and at present a bill to make divorce
easier is under consideration.
These last examples are mentioned as indicating
the ways in which the two Irish States are leaving each
other. It is not suggested that they constitute any
great hindrance to ultimate unity, to achieve which is
not a matter of taking steps to remove a geographical
border, but of removing the far greater border that
exists between Irishmen’s hearts.
Both Sides in Palestine To-day.
[Here condensed from “World Review” are two
articles advancing different points of view on the thorny
problem of securing peace in Palestine. The first article,
giving a moderate Jewish point of view, is by Professor
Bentwich; the other is by H. St. J. Philby, famous
explorer of Arabia and friend of the Arab people. Both
writers are leading authorities.]
Jewish Viewpoint
In the 20 years of British Administration in
Palestine the Holy Land has been utterly transformed.
Its population has doubled from 700,000 to 1,400,000.
Its productive capacity has been multiplied many times
over, both in agriculture and in industrial output. The
export of citrus fruit, its principal product, has risen
from a million cases to 12,000,000 cases. The value
of imports has risen from £3,000,000 to £17,000,000 ;
exports from £1,000,000 to £4,500,000. The population
of Jerusalem has risen from 60,000 to 120,000, of
Haifa from 25,000 to 100,000 ; while Tel Aviv, v ich
in 1918 was a garden-suburb with some 2000 inhabi-
tants, has now over 150,000 Jewish citizens. The
Arabs have increased from 600,000 to 950,000.
It is apparent now to the British Government that
the proposal for partition of the country into three
States, an Arab, a Jewish and a Mandated State, was
a blunder. What was proposed as a means to peace
was, in fact, a provocation to more violent hostility.
Not partition, but perseverance, is now the maxim of
Government policy—perseverance to bring about
understanding and co-operation between Jews and
Arabs. To bring about understanding, Arabs and
Jews must be prepared to make concessions to each
other from their full demands for the respective
National Homes.
The most difficult issue is that of immigration, and
a middle way must be sought. Palestine has
absorbed since 1933 a larger number of German Jews
—as many as 45,000 —than any other single country.
Recently the Jewish Agency has put forward a pro-
gramme for absorbing immediately in the National
Home 100,000 refugees. Yet it seems necessary to
sever the problem of the refugees from the policy of
Palestine, if a basis of peace is to be found. An immi-
gration of 100,000 in a year would provoke the fren-
zied hostility of the Arabs. On the other hand, the
Arab leaders must recognise that the Jews who have
a right to enter the country are in Palestine as of right
and not on sufferance.
It is possible that at the present moment no broad
basis of understanding may be found. The passions
may still be too hot, and the outside Powers that are
exploiting the troubles in the Eastern Mediterranean
may do all they can to stoke them up. If, unhappily,
the British Government is rebuffed in its attempt, it
must carry on the administration as before, but with
this new resolution, to seek every possible means to
bring the two peoples together. It must persevere in
its policy of appeasement in Palestine as in its policy
of appeasement in Europe. The Jews will be prepared
to make their contribution for peace. The Arabs,
too, wearied of internecine feud and relieved from
the fear of the Jewish State, may realise that their well-
being and the progress of the whole Arab domain will
be furthered by Jewish settlement and Jewish co-
operation with them not only in Palestine, but in the
whole Arab region.
From the Arab Side
Will it be within the competence of the negotiat-
ing parties at the coming conferences to challenge the
juridical basis of the Mandate? This is a most impor-
tant and vital matter. Everybody knows that the Jews
The Soviet Way.
From London (Lettish) “Time and Tide":—
The tragic catalogue of executions in Russia
is continued day after day. The Russian papers
publish the dismal record as though executions
are among the commonplaces of Russian life
—as indeed they are.
Five officials of the Moldavian Republic,
one of the Union of Soviet Republics, have
been sentenced to death after the usual abject
confessions made in a sham trial. Such sen-
tences cover every conceivable and inconceiv-
able offence, from industrial sabotage to the
spreading of disease, and from Trotskyism to
allowing the animals in the zoological gardens
at Moscow to die of neglect.
Stalin seems to be exterminating not only
all rivals, but all potential rivals; that is to say,
anyone who has independence of judgment or
spirit. The charges are nearly always fantastic,
and are rarely supported by serious evidence.
The result is that the Soviet Union has lost
more than half of its senior officers and a vast
multitude of its elite in politics, engineering,
industrial management, and so on. This
destruction of mind and character is bound to
weaken Russia.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
82826.
:v
\
IMPORTED ZEBU LOOKS VERY SMART.
Especially when it is moulded on an extended square-toed last.
Apart from looks it has exceptional wearing qualities, being strong and tough.
Made with punched full golosh and full wide welt, and stocked in full and
half sizes. Brown, Price 37/6
Write for a Catalogue.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: ”ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
and the Arabs base fheir respective claims on certain
promises made to them by Great Britain and—in the
Je h V f Sh K Ca K e ~ aCtually en . shrined in the Mandate. But,
" 1 e J 5O k se^s . promises have been interpreted and
argue about in the most conflicting manner during
C i yea , rs ’ , attem P t has ever ye ![ been mad< :
eS a f , fML fotTheE-'
mining of just such d L these Will it be
within* the of litepartTZ to the
dispute to demand its submission to that Court on the
understanding that the Court's decision will be
accepted by a‘l parties as final?
,r„JLf;* ere 1S h °f« ihat a controversy which has
troubled three great peoples for nearly a generation
32 £r y for -er. If the verdict is unfavor-
fatLs „fss ~? bs lhey , can only blame the,r re ? re , sen -
f nn ag ? ,°J , " c “ m P et f' lc6 ; as negotiators.
HemneH as fu • BalfoUr , f
Sw™ " n m ml f nal ! ona ' law ’ both , En , Sl ? nd
/ n ?tr ? a V ,hey J h r%f r E a, a
Zke e Ar , abs and should 1,01 e ale
For sem MO? c ! v k r , H.h
British nS? hall lh m Gove , rn , ra,:nl ? nd ,ba
Jewreaf mifr ?ih®, h H he m prese T hf T
in the Jask of hvTnV
National Home in Palestine Thp tw nartip« hnvp nni
alwavs beenTn fulf m nnlirv £ £
always been in lull agieement as to policy, but they
have always been in the closest communication and
consultation That is verv imnnrtant Per vpar« mst thp
ODinions of the a rah v h«> n ionoreH Th
° p '"°" fhV aA b 1 , , d h - ! b 18 d ' T. h
challtE and denied r N„w '/fter nenE
aenemion of defibera?e excTustn the Amb woMd is
admitted to the council rhnmher An pmni tprmc with
will show themselves to be hard bargainers But thev
will demand nothine hm inctipp y
The comine conference let there he nr. mktnke
about iu wnTdecidc whethcr the toure of PaleSe is
to be determined on the h»«ic of justice or hv the
arbitrament'of’the sword The /r ibs ouite definitetv
do not want to fieht aeainct the hm thev win
fight if thev are forced to it in defence of
regard riahtlt l tuS? 1° i -u? [ u Y
fight will not Y be as hopeless a^some might 11 thfnk U
Some interesting statistics were recently published
bv the British Government re on rHi n« the onemtionc of
SeThreJf/Slf
It was claimed that hem kilie i hv
the Brifish forces du“g to “aS
mitted that 29 British 144 Tewc nnd AroKc
E killed by Ste rebels Th 7 Commissions reuort
states that there
British, Jews and the Arab population from January
to July, but the rebel casualties (doubtless manv fewer!
are not given. These figures, taken with the fact that
there are 20,000 British troops in the country while
the rebel organisation probably does not exceed 5000
men-at-arms at any given time, suggest that the Gov-
ernment is not having things all its own way.
It is not an exaggeration to say that, man for
man, the contending parties are pretty equally
matched, while the Government has the advantage of
aerial bombing and the rebels balance that with the
advantage of the terrain and the widespread sympathy
of the whole Arab population. In view of these con-
elusions no one but a born fire-eater can desire the
continuance of the war, which can only be ended by
the doing of justice.
Since partition offers no solution, what is the
alternative? There is one And that is to eo rieht
back to the beginning, to the very root of
the Mandate itself—and to uproot it. Our statesmen
are, however, probably incapable of such a big thing
They will stick to their botching and patching ud a
threadbare garment. And all I can suggest to them in
that case is that they will be drowned if they do not
stop the leak in their boat. Stop immigration and the
dangerous influx of the Jewish flood. Thev can then
think out what to do with the water already in the
hold. y
Rushing* the Air Servire«
I ' USI,in S me Air services.
Airways Ihfmeisures
with it, and the undesirable results, as described by the
aeronautical correspondent of London “Times” “Trade
and Engineering supplement.]
Over a period of five weeks in which most of the
Christmas mails were flowing, scarcely any passengers
were carried by Imperial Airways. Flying-boats and
land aircraft were full of mails only, and some pas-
sengers were unable even to find places on the French
and Dutch lines which compete with Imperial Airways
over a great part of the main routes.
During the five weeks before Christmas the mail
k— ™ughly doub.ed. InsLd of a
week which normally goes out of Southampton there
was about 40 tons. That would have meant dispatch-
>“8 and with a fleet of only
29 spread along 30,000 miles of routes, that was im-
™f b “ T 3
weekTe a fr ok in °h.H„t T CK P T
muted the aircraft to keep schedule. Arrangements
were made to hire aircraft Iron, other firms.
. ~ Tb ? weather made a further complication. Storms
in the Mediterranean and fog over England and France
10 upset schedules - Two of the Empire class
boa ! s pul ou ' of com tutsston--one at Lake Hab-
baniyah m a sandstorm and another atDarwin in a
h r mc ?, ne ' Notwithstanding the difficulties, the stream
o£ mai ' s '° Ne w Zealand, Australia, Africa and India
p f, oce , edad s . lead ' y r 'B ht up Christmas. Altogether
“ ' r S™?!' °r Vanous ~k mds were ,n use ’ for
SO T ° ,h f °r desl L ners , m ,he « ee i had been « l,ed
T* , ex^ a tanks 8< ?. tbat tbe y migbl fly non-stop from
London l ° Marseilles, and they were turned into mail
carriers after seven years of passenger flying.
The main ta „ k w _. (n th . ihe%
• . mall ] , SK a . s t 0 get the unusual loads to the
J unctl °n at Alexandria. There the relief began to
operate by the se P arat i° n of loads for the Africa and
i? 11 Au J' ralia rOUIeS ' bul unusuaily heavy loads fo '
H ° a B Kong and Australia made it necessary to send
scvera |oy in g-boats tully loaded right through to Singa-
Th,s led to an imme diate outcry in India. Indian
businessmen, accustomed to five mails a week from
home, were indignant that their interests should have
, been sac [ lb^ e d to the Christmas mails of the Austra-
,UU * J*s?. "T Zcala " dere ' »> "> ay likewise be pre-
SUf n ed /hat disappointed passengers who had hoped to
n “ ke ‘, as ' and P r fortable iourneys by '^ pcrial Air ‘
Way ? a °f} S - tbe Empire routes before Christmas have
n el °j- their sense of grievance or are any more favor-
ab,y dls P osed lo the company which had to decline
their fares for the sake ot the Christmas mails.
• he t . t 0 rush British commercial flying
into sltuat ions which ought to be reached by a gradual
progression is one of the least satisfactory aspects of
ts history. The tendency has been noticeable ever
sinCC ' 919 ,’ Whe " ?° mberS ’ left OVer from lhc war '
were hastd y turned into passenger aircraft and put
in, ° service between London and Paris ' “ has bc “
evident during ,he P ast year in the extension of the
fy in B- boat services through Australia.to Sydney before
WCrC any facilltles , for either . the flying-boats or
P ass A engei T at Dunvin, t h e chief port of entry by
fu Tl? ustralia * II ma y a PP ear a B a >n this year on
the A!‘ antlC . .
bhe pace 1S bemg f° rced m other ways. Anxiety
to s< iP eeze tbe ast dro P °L usefulness out of the com-
merc i a l aeroplane may go so far to discredit it that
y ears °f patient work will be needed to restore it to
f avor -
Deri»ivf>
c 117017,
the B ene ( al 'sed forecast put forward by Beverley
ankle 1 "’ it M can be added'ceSnfv ttaFthSe
need to be no doubt about the “alarums, ” at least ln
Britain an intensive recruiting and national service
campaigning is due, certain to provide plenty of material
Government side in Spain, Franco-Italian bickering and
the scrarr, ble for place inside Europe will all provide
rn° re scare stuff as the European winter passes. “S. M.
Eweek pointed theTa'y SShlte head'-’
lines: “Growing Crisis Over Spain” and “Anxiety in
Europe.”]
xr u* « i * , r .
j N ° I^ ian Ca " doabt that the . final struggle of the
democracies against the autocracies is approaching. It
is simply not credible that at the end of 1939 the
world could be the same as it is now. Either the
totalitarian States will have begun their retreat to a
m ° re Überal f °™ government or the democracies
wdl have been forced to adopt the methods if not the
actual spirit of totalitarianism.
It is not too much to say that in the coming year
the fate of personal liberty will be decided for a long
time. Will the decision be reached by war? I do
not think so. The risks of a general European war
in 1939 are far less than in 1938.
The German General Staff know that without Italy
on their side a successful war would be impossible,
On the other hand, they realise that with Italy as an
aIly ’ ex Posed as she would be to the Anglo-French
a possible attack from Turkey, Germany
to go to her aid That would cut across
,he Yetshfcoud" nmaffordt'S halygodownand
sue for a separate ne^
too-shone morale of the GeVman n .tinn Therefore
*e a p«ent"or
P<*«- Rome is the vulnerable point in the famous
axjs Thi is clea , v reco enised in Berlin
*Vthemtmimethf relendel economic forces
are at work. Herr Hitler has his famous mountain
retreat at Berchtesgaden, where he likes to listen to
the song of his thousands of nightingales. But the
music of the skies cannot shut out the harsh bolero of
the cities: "Costs Rising. Exports Falling. Gold
Dwindling. Output Lessening."
What will Hitler do in 1939? There is not a
nation in the world that would attack Germany, or
want to, yet she maintains the greatest armed strength
of. a « lime. She has no wealth but spends countless
millions to defend it. Then the inference is obvious,
Germany’s might is for attack. Why blink at the
trut h > But the truth is not so simnle as that German
[Z c I ,V P 1 u P U
arms are for threat of force rather than the use ot it.
It is a dangerously narrow margin, but nevertheless it
exists.
Final| y lhare » oaa f a «or that is constantly
ignored. Hitler loves Germany with a fanatical,
parentai, almost maternal, love. To characterise him
as a mere gangster or warmonger is to ignore one of
the most complex and remarkable characters of all
time. He missed his great opportunity after Munich,
when by benevolence and chivalry he could have
assumed the leadership of a new and peaceful Europe,
Perhaps if he had been alone or advised by men ol
morc virion he might have taken that courses
Will he try once more in 1939? I would not rule
out a dramatic and sincere move on his part for the
pacification of Europe.
In assisting him towards that choice President
Roosevelt may play a big part. America remained
silent when the September crisis was developing. She
left Mr. Chamberlain to represent alone the broken
front of the democracies. But when the German
Bcnius for s,upidi,y and cruel,y broUBhl abou ' ,hc las '
pogrom against the Jews, America was swept by a
revulsio " ,hal nolhin 8 could Tbc
of Mr. Roosevelt this year will be enormous and
probably decisive. At last Washington has learned
that humanity has no frontiers,
And France? The powers of recuperation in the
Republic on the Seine are unequalled in any other
country. From the dregs of her revolution she became
the greatest Power in Europe. From the disaster of
1870 she became the giant that withstood the German
onrush in 1914. From the corruption and disintegra-
tion of the last two years she will build a strong and
resolute nation again.
Then what of Russia? She remains the unknown
country, the imponderable equation. It was from her
that the curse of Communistic totalitarianism spread
over Europe until checked by Fascist totalitarianism.
As a ™ ilitary Power she threatens no one. In diplo-
macy her manners are exemplary. She can say with
honesty that she has broken no treaties for a long
time and threatened no neighbor. But is she waiting
infeCt Ear ° PC Z™ ° f to " day
have worn down the resistance ot that unhappy con-
tinent? The secret of Russia is still a mystery —
perhaps even to the prisoner in the Kremlin. Is
Russia a ? ati °S ° r a condition of mind? That is the
question tor 1939.
So we come to Great Britain and her Empire, on
whose troubles the sun never sets. Our responsibility
j s eno rmous. London is the heart of the Western
worldj and there is no question but that it has been
missing a beat now and then. If we rouse ourselves
to a g rea t and sustained effort then the heart will be
stronger than ever
' The re will be plenty of alarums and excursions
j n t h e next 12 months—and some of them pretty soon
—b u t j believe that when we sum up 12 months hence
we shall do so in a world that is happier, saner,
more prosperous and more peaceful than it has been
for a long time.


fds
f
dsf
df
DIESEL
is the
Power
of to-day!
The DIESEL has opened up
many good jobs for qualified
men. It is essential that the
driving, repair and servicing
of all STATIONARY
TRANSPORT, HIGH-SPEED
and LOW SPEED DIESELS
be in the hands of experts—
men who know the “whys”
and the “wherefores” of the
Diesel—men who can detect
faults and effect repairs
promptly SO BE PRE-
PARED !
B E
A
iesel
nqineer
Diesel Expert *
Our Chief Engineer will
show ijou the ivaif
a
FREE BOOK
IT TELLS YOU HOW YOU CAM
LEARN DIESEL ENGINEERING
[IN YOUR SPARE TIME AT HOME,..*
UIESEi
O °oT R
TB-oay
THE AUSTRALIAN TECHNICAL SCHOOLS, Assembly Hall, Jamiesson St., Sydney (established 1923),
are offering a COMPLETE DIESEL ENGINEERING Home Study Course of Training at reduced rates
under a very easy enrolment plan—Pay As You Learn! The Course is under the guidance of experienced
and highly qualified engineers. ■
The Job and the Pay
Many Students have written, thanking us for what we have done for them
Here are a few extracts from letters:—
(1) “I must thank you for helping me. Since getting my Diesel Certificate
my wages have been over £8 per week.”
(21 “It was your Diploma that placed me in a good position.”
(3) “I am pleased with the Course and recommend it to anyone wishing
to learn Engine-driving.”
(41 “I thank you for putting me where lam to-day. lam receiving
£6/6/- per week.”
(5) “I have a thorough knowledge of the Diesel engine, and am pleased
I chose your Diesel Engineering Course.”
(6) “Since gaining my diploma I have done well on mechanical work.
I am now in charge of twelve oil engines and three motor trucks.
TECHNICAL EDUCATION BY
CORRESPONDENCE
In all Electrical, Civil, Mechanical, and Mining Engineering
Subjects. Other worthwhile Correspondence Courses besides
Diesel Engineering include: —
• MOTOR CAR ENGINEERING.
• Municipal and Shire Engineering.
• Electrical Engineering.
• Overseer of Works (Municipal).
• Engine Drivers’ Exams, (state which).
• Electrical Wireman’s Exam.
• Institute of Engineers’ Exams.
• Practical Electricity (with free working outfit).
• Refrigeration Engineering.
• Oxy and Electric Welding
• Dynamo and Motor Management.
• Mechanical Draftsmanship.
• Building Construction and Architecture.
• Ticket and Showcard Writing.
©
Do Not Miss —
This Offer !
Each student is supplied with Instruction
Papers, Lessons and Blue Prints, and
Illustrated Text Reference Books. We are,
however, making an additional special
offer. You owe it to your future to get
the facts —Not To-morrow—but NOW!
One grateful student wrote, “It was a
lucky day for me when I chanced upon
your advertisement.”
POST THE COUPON and get the full
facts for yourself. This may also prove
to be the turning point in your life.
POST THIS COUPON ge?FREE BOOK
N.B.—Write the Name of the Course favoured
BENEATH Coupon f I
THE CHIEF ENGINEER, o „, J ~£’ c ' L '
AUSTRALIAN TECHNICAL SCHOOLS,
ASSEMBLY HALL, JAMIESS'ON STREET, SYDNEY.
Please send me (without obligation) your
me about your special offer of your COMPLETE DIESEL ENGINEER-
ING Home Study Course of Training and how I can quality.
Name
Occupation Age •••••••; -
Address
(Write Plainly.)
FROM CHINA TO PERU
Wool is down 5 p.c. to 1\ p.c. at the
London sales. This when it had started
to go up a bit in Australian capitals.
Sheepmen will have to consider whether
overseas selling hasn’t reached the point
where it does them more harm than
good.
* * * *
In Canada, as in Australia, farmers feel
that the substance of preference in the
British market has been sacrificed for
the shadow of Washington support in the
domain of foreign policy, and Dr.
Manion, who has succeeded Bennett as
leader of the Opposition, is most em-
phatic about it. He made the trade
agreement with the U.S.A. the subject of
a no-confidence motion and gave the two
Governments concerned this bullet to
chew.
All the Americans did during the Euro-
pean crisis was to heap abuse on Mr.
Chamberlain for bringing about peace.
The P.M. “sharply rebuked” him ; but
what else did they do?
* * * *
“Also R.A.N.”: S. S. Bonham-Carter,
recently gazetted rear-admiral, who
commanded the Sussex when here with
the Duke of Gloucester, is known
throughout the R.N. as “Bonham the
Bad,” to distinguish him from his cousin,
“Bonham the Good.” But he has reached
flag rank at the comparatively early age
of 50, while the allegedly more virtuous
Bonham-Carter has been retired as a
commander. Both were excellent com-
pany and prominent in service sport,
the Good at hockey and the Bad at
cricket. Latter first saw Australia as
second-in-command of the Delhi when
she toured the world with the Special
Service Squadron in 1924, and he made
many friends in Australia.
* * * *
Evans of the Broke, who recently re-
linquished The Nore command, has
probably had the most colorful career
of any n.o. of the century, not even
excepting Beatty; the latter was for-
tunate in that his seniority in 1914 auto-
matically assured him one of the high
commands. Evans, not long returned
from the Antarctic, where his exploits
earned him his step to commander, was
allotted a minor role in which his un-
orthodox method of laying the enemy
alongside attracted world notice. When
the Broke ordered “Boarders away,” it
was the first time the foeman had been
tackled in that way since Nelson’s days.
Among Evans’s links with Australasia
outside his visits to these waters on
Antarctic exploration are his command
of the R.A.N., 1929-31, and the fact
that he married a Maoriland girl, daugh-
ter of T. G. Russell, K.C., of Christ-
church.
* * * *
Street, the new Minister of Defence,
is sending Air-Vice-Marshal Williams to
Britain “for experience”; but at least
he isn’t giving the job to an unknown
from overseas. Goble, back from the
command of R.A.F. bomber groups, is to
be Chief of the Air Staff. Goble, as
Street puts it, “had a very distinguished
war record.” So had Williams.
* * * *
A writer in “Ken,” the mare’s-nest
magazine which had that “interview”
with the ex-Kaiser, has discovered that
“the Munich betrayal of democracy was
the climax of a scheme prepared four
years ago by the directors of the Bank of
England”;—
Montagu Collett Norman warned Cham-
berlain that under no circumstances was
he to permit Britain to join the Soviet
Union against Germany... .The British
Navy was won over to the bank’s pro-
German policy.... The Bank of England
• decided to buy France out of her Russian
commitment subject to the following con-
ditions —a gradual departure from the
Popular Front; a new Government, with
Daladier as Premier.
The discoverer is a Hungarian Jew. He
and “Ken” are well met. Birds of a
feather.
* * * *
Krafft Christian Tesdorpf, a war-time
German aviator, is now overseas man-
ager for India and Australia of the
Daimler-Benz Co. of Stuttgart. Originally
an officer in the German artillery, Tes-
dorpf transferred to the Flying Corps in
1915, and towards the end of the war
was in charge of a giant five-engined
’plane, with a crew of 10 and two tons
of bombs, which made raids over the
French coast. Tesdorpf brought with
him for use in Australia a £1250 3.2-litre
Mercedes car, similar in type to the one
used by Herr Hitler, but smaller —the
Fuhrer’s is a 7.7-litre car.
* * * #
Australia will gain a first-class amateur
batsman when Johnnie Human arrives in
Sydney to go into business. Human,
like Crawford, was a Repton boy, and
played himself into the Cambridge eleven.
He was here with the M.C.C. team
in 1935-36, when his breezy personality
and capacity for hard hitting soon made
him popular with cricket enthusiasts.
He married Mollie Walder, daughter of
knight Samuel Walder, M.L.C., alderman
and sometime Lord Mayor.
* * * »
Ray Whiting, whose drawings have
often decorated these pages, is off on a
novel expedition. After rusticating out-
side Melbourne for some years he has
found that he can live as cheaply aboard
a 8.1. liner as he can ashore. For £45
he can travel via Fremantle to Colombo
and Calcutta and back to Melbourne via
Singapore and Java, taking three months
to do the journey. He proposes to use
both his pen and his pencil, earning a
bit of pocket money into the bargain by
contributing to Australian journals, un-
less he lands a journalistic job in some
Asiatic seaport. Whiting was a play-
wright and producer for amateurs, and
then a professional busker with the
Bannerman co. and Gregan McMahon
until a clause in his father’s will, cutting
him off from the theatre, turned him
back to his original Muse—drawing.
* * * *
A clever French Jew, Andrd Maurois,
who wrote a biography of an abler
Anglicised Jew, noted that “the first
axiom of British policy” for Disraeli was
“the maintenance of free communications
with India and Australia.” Eden, in his
stiff-necked idealism, departed from this
essential policy. Chamberlain set his
heart on re-establishing it; and if he can
add a Franco-Italian agreement to the
Anglo-Italian agreement he will have
done the job, as far as lies within the
power of one Prime Minister and one
Government.
* * * *
“Ysbrantsz”: Norway’s annexation of
a slice of the Antarctic next to the Aus-
tralian section cauaed no surprise to
Douglas Mawson and others in Aus-
tralia interested in the frozen continent.
If the Norwegians were not exactly asked
to annex this area it was made very clear
to them that the Commonwealth would
welcome the step. The idea is that the
Norwegians will be good neighbors and
that in these days, when nothing on the
face of the globe can escape being
parcelled, the safest thing was to have
them get in before someone else. The
Commonwealth has bitten off as much
of Antarctica as it can manage.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: “Atom - smashing”—
which is newspaperese for transmutation
of elements by breaking up atomic nuclei
and recombining the proton and neutron
electric charges in new forms —is no
hobby for the poorly-endowed experi-
menter or institution. The newest type
of machine is the Lawrence Cyclotron.
One being built at Birmingham Univer-
sity has a magnet weighing 230 tons with
faces 6ft. across, and 40 tons of copper
tubing for the magnetising currents; also
a costly high-frequency generating sys-
tem, It is expected to yield a voltage of
over 15,000,000, and the cost has been
mainly borne by British manufacturing
interests. Sixteen such instruments of
various sizes are in operation in the
U.S.A., others in Cambridge, France,
Japan, Russia, Denmark and Canada.
Use? Among many others, the researches
offer the most hopeful prospect yet in
sight of a speedy and certain cure for
cancer. If any wealthy Australian cares
to provide Australia with its first Cyclo-
tron he will be spending money well and
wisely.
* * * *
The Prevention of Fraud (Anti-share-
pushing) Bill has been getting a contro-
versial passage in Britain. Opinion runs
to all points of the compass on the ques-
tion ; principal objection is that it will
place too much power in the hands of
bureaucrats. With D.O.R.A. still hang-
ing round 20 years after the Great War
finished, anything calculated to usurp the
rights and privileges of the subject by
assuming rather than proving that the
subject is “up to no good” is not un-
naturally looked on with suspicion. What-
ever the merits or otherwise of the anti-
share-pushing law in Britain, it is a fact
that most preventive legislation these
days is based on short-cut methods and is
couched in debatable language. Very
little time seems to be given to ponder-
ing on the fundamentals of the nuisance
being legislated against, and, though an
Act is composed of words which are the
result of English literary development,
little regard is given in bill-drafting
nowadays to two of the chief things in
the good writing of English —-simplicity
of words and clarity of meaning. The
British Companies Act of 1862 (on which
most of the original Australian law was
based), as prose, was a thing of beauty
alongside later enactments.


Statutory Notice to Next-of-kin.
RE LILY RUTH DAVIES (also known as
LILLY RUTH DAVIES), late of Sunday
Street, Sandgate, in the State of Queens-
land, deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that GEORGE
DAVIES or DAVIS and all persons claiming
to be next-of-kin of the abovenamed LILY
RUTH DAVIES, also known as LILLY RUTH
DAVIES, late of Sunday Street, Sandgate, in
the State of Queensland, deceased, who died
on or about the Sixteenth day of April, a.d.
1938, at Brisbane, in the said State, are hereby
required to forward proof of their relationship
to the PUBLIC CURATOR, Brisbane, on or
before the Thirty-first day of July, 1939. And
that after the expiration of the last-mentioned
date the Public Curator will proceed to dis-
tribute the assets of the said deceased amongst
the parties entitled thereto, having regard only
to the claims of which he shall then have had
notice.
DATED this Twentieth day of January, 1939.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator, Brisbane.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Brazandt is a good sprinter, and when
he can hit the front early he takes some
catching. He looked a bit above himself
at Canterbury on Saturday, but that did
not prevent his party from backing him
at fives, down to 7 to 2. The Flying
Handicap was the race, and Brazandt had
9st. 111 b. Coutts got him away smartly.
Royal Prince being next when they had
settled down. In the straight Bush Bee
made a dash at the leader, but the filly
lugged badly and got in the way of Royal
Prince. At the Leger, Bush Bee, then
almost level with Brazandt, made a dive
for the rails. Young Lappin stopped rid-
ing to straighten her, and Brazandt beat
her by half a length. June came home
strongly to run third ahead of Stuart M.
and Royal Prince.
Brazandt drops to 9st. in the Chal-
lenge Stakes. He will meet Bush Bee
(7st. 21b.) on 41b. better terms. How-
ever, the filly has a chance.
The Wellington-owned Bramol had
raced so well at Randwick and Moore-
field (he should have won the Peter
Moore Cup) that he was a natural favor-
ite for the Canterbury Handicap with
only five moderates to beat. He started
at 11 to 8. Ridden outside throughout,
Norman Smith’s gelding ran away from
the pacemaker, Jan Baz, and Constant in
the straight. Unafraid weakened from
the Leger, and Cid would not gallop.
Judge Dudley Smith was hooted by a
section of the crowd in the paddock when
he gave the Campsie Handicap to
Anpapejo and placed River Namoi and
Chicola; half-head, half-head. The
splendid finish was a compliment to han-
dicapper Jim Tanner, and there was no
warrant for the demonstration. Anpapejo,
thanks to McMenamin’s clever riding,
had got a break at the top of the straight,
and that decided it. Masterpiece, the
favorite, finished fourth ; he was squeezed
at the start and was forced off the track
at the home turn, so he deserves another
chance. Anpapejo, owned by Sydney
sportsman W. W. Ryan, went out at 7
to 2. He is a Queensland-bred three-
year-old, by The Buzzard-Autumn Wind.
Leif (Limond-Mislaid) outstayed five
opponents in the Park Stakes. Lappin
tried to steal the race on Officer, clearing
out half a mile from home, but his mount
is only a plodder, and Leif had him
beaten approaching the last furlong. Pro-
ceed was third.
Inspector Scott (4 to 1) and Blue Baron
(12 to 1) fought out an exciting finish in
the colts and geldings’ division of the
Two-year-old. Blue Baron made the
running, and when he slipped away at
the home turn he looked a winner. In-
spector Scott joined him a few strides
from the judge, but Blue Baron raised
another effort; there was no argument
against the judge’s award of a dead-heat.
Sir Regal was third. High Rank’s fourth
was a better effort; that youngster was
badly placed early. Binnia Hero, a smart-
looking Heroic colt and a stablemate of
Hamurah, was favorite. He was having
his first start, and he stood flat-footed at
the barrier.
Climax (9 to 4 on) won the fillies’ divi-
sion in a canter. She beat a poor lot, the
best of them being Magic Ring and
Panicle, who filled the places. Climax
was outclassed by Fly at Moorefield, and
Fly —who is owned by Richard Wootton
—must be fairly good.
Pinkenbah (2 to 1) recorded his sixth
win when he led throughout in the first
division of the Highweight, and, carrying
61b. less than Brazandt, he made the
same time, lmin. 13|sec. Astounding and
Some Boy were place-getters. Beau Ercil,
who is owned by Mandel, the bookmaker,
won the second division easily, at fours,
giving McMenamin his fourth success for
the day. The versatile rider from the
Riverina had seven mounts.
* * * *
Inspector Scott, who dead-heated at
Canterbury, is owned by Mrs. George
Edwards, wife of an actor who has done
well in the radio business. It was the
Inspector’s fifth start, and he is not much
of a horse. Still, he is a passable imita-
tion, just as Mr. George Edwards’s Dad
and Dave are passable imitations of the
lovable characters imagined, named and
placed in their good old Australian
setting—no connection with American
chewing-gum—by Arthur Hoey Davis
(Steele Rudd), and introduced in these
“We on 'y need a coupla crash helmets an we're set!"
pages quite 15 years before The Bulle-
tin ever heard of Mr. George Edwards.
* * * *
If any countryman has an untried
Rossendale doing nothing useful in a
paddock, he may hear of something to
his advantage by communicating with
a representative Sydney trainer. Recent
performances of Nebraska and Pinken-
bah have impressed the training brother-
hood profoundly. These Rossendales have
been very profitable to the parties who
brought them to Sydney, Nebraska
especially. She is a big mare, built for
heavy weather, and has proved herself
honest and game. Pinkenbah is not so
substantial, but is very smart.
♦ * * *
Seventeen-year-old Francis William
Kuhn rode his first and only winner at
Warwick Farm on December 10. Old-
timers straightway began comparing him
with his uncles, one of whom, L. Kuhn,
rode Dewey in the Caulfield Cup of 1899.
But within a month the youngster had
hanged himself in his own home. His
closest chum, giving evidence at the in-
quest, said the lad was not short
of money and had no other worry that
anyone knew of. The one proved fact
was that death was self-caused, and a
mystified coroner had to leave it at that.
* * * *
The successes of Pinkenbah and Beau
Ercil at Canterbury have set racegoers
recalling that Desolation ran fourth to
those horses in the Flying Handicap at
Victoria Park a fortnight ago—Pinken-
bah had 7st., Beau Ercil Bst., and
Desolation Bst. 71b. There was no
money for the Queensland horse, and
he was in the last bunch of a field of
12 most of the way, running from ninth
to fourth in the straight. The distance
was 6| furlongs (run in lmin. 19|sec.),
and Desolation likes them longer. His
best performances were achieved at
Ascot, Brisbane, last winter —first in the
National Plate, 10 furlongs, with Bst.
111 b. (Brown Lance, 9st. lib., was
second), and first in the Metropolitan
Handicap, 12 furlongs, with Bst. 71b., in
2min. 32£sec. (Spearbleu, 9st., was
second).* He is in the AJ.C. Anniver-
sary Handicap on Monday with Bst. 41b.
Desolation is a four-year-old bay
gelding by The Buzzard-Inclination. He
is now trained at Randwick by Frank
McGrath and has been given time to
accustom himself to change of air, water
and feed. This was not the case with
Cannoli. That horse was rushed down
from Brisbane to Sydney and given two
hard races —Holiday Handicap and Sum-
mer Cup within a week of arrival.
After that he was taken back looking
dreadfully poor.
* * * *
Racing at Caulfield on Saturday
brought disaster to punters. They led
off encouragingly by making Erua a 5-to-
-2 favorite for the Hawthorn Hurdle, but
after that four successive outsiders rolled
home. Vanitare scored at 25 to 1 (tote
div. for 55., £7 155.), El Bruno was a
15-to-l shot and Royal Jubilee figured at
tens, while Seasyce (25 to 1) gave the top
tote return of £lO 19s. 6d.
The most distressing failure was that
of Buzalong in the Anniversary Handi-
cap. Since his Caulfield Cup victory this
gelding has had four outings on Mel-
bourne courses. His close third to Beau-
stone and Donaster in the V.R.C. Bagot
Handicap suggested approach to cherry-
ripe condition ; hence a Saturday plunge.
Buzalong had every chance. Box did
not —or could not —copy the spring
tactics of Shean by taking Leftwich’s bay
to the front a long way from home. But
he kept close to the leaders, and, pre-
sented with a clear passage on the rails
after entering the straight, almost took
command with a furlong to go. But the
style in which Buzalong dropped back
into fourth place was as dramatic as his
forward rush.
On this form the Queenslander’s
autumn prospects cannot be regarded as
alluring. However, riding methods may
be a factor in the case. One cannot for-
get how Buzalong spreadeagled his Caul-
field Cup rivals over the final five fur-
longs.
Badger challenged criticism by en-
deavoring to win all the way on Donaster
with 9st. 61b. The chestnut is all grit, and
lost second place to Mate o’ Mine (6st.
111 b.) by a mere half-head. Favored by
last run, El Bruno smothered them both
with H lengths to spare.
El Bruno, formerly trained and partly
owned by Dick Bradfield, was having his
first run in the colors of Eddie O’Brien,
the bookmaker, whose luck with race-
horses is amazing. As much as 25 to 1
was laid against El Bruno. He is engaged
in the Launceston Cup and Hobart Cup,
but Keeping Watch may be the stable-
elect for those events.
Vauntry, winner of the Maribyrnong
Plate of 1931, was bought by P. B. Quin-
lan at the break up of F. W. Kitchen’s
racing stud in Melbourne. He won in
sprint company for Quinlan, who landed
the Newmarket Handicap that autumn
with Count Ito. In turn Count Ito and
Vauntry were sold for shipment to India,
where Vauntry is still racing. The Holi-
day Stakes at Caulfield fell to Vanitare,
the only son of Vauntry, who did no
regular stud duty.
......
Last Moonee Valley Cup day Vanitare
ran third to Aspire and Livingstone in a
juvenile event. He had an outing at the
V.R.C. spring meeting, but wasn’t pro-
duced again until Saturday, when long
odds went begging. Leading throughout,
Vanitare reached the judge a length in
advance of that smart filly Snow White,
with Tovaros (brother to Lochlee) a close
third.
As at Moonee Valley a week before,
Romany Chief (9 to 4, favorite) ruined
his chance by swerving round at the start.
It is to be hoped that the yearlings re-
cently bought by Archie Crofts in M.L.
have better barrier manners than Romany
Chief.
In the Rowena Welter, for steeplechase
riders, Royal Jubilee (Beau Fils-Divine
Lady) registered his fifth successive win.
Bureaucrat, the
favorite, was un-
sighted. Backed
down to 7 to 4,
Our Boy, from Lou
Robertson’s stable,
finished third to
Seasyce and Delvino
in the first division
of the Koakaribb
Trial, heads separat-
ing the place-getters.
Backers reduced
their losses slightly
when Montaza (9 to
4) won the second
division of the Koa-
karibb Trial. Ami-
able (also at 9 to 4)
succumbed by half
a head to Kanuri
(9 to 2) in the Too-
ron g a Handicap.
Honors rested with
the M.L. mare,
who conceded her
conqueror 191 b.
Amiable ran second
in the Oakl e i g h
Plate last year and
will take beating
next month.
“T.”: Several Perth bookmakers, among
them Dave Ireland, who has been a
leader of the Westralian Ring for quarter
of a century, have been fined for fielding
at Goodwood, a stipendiary holding that
the Perth racecourse of that name was
a “place” within the meaning of the
Act. The decision will go to appeal, but
Tommies in other capitals are uneasy.
State legislators doubtless meant to give
bookmakers full protection wherever they
are registered to ply their calling, but
do their lawmaking in such a slipshod
fashion.
* * « *
Manolive made his reappearance in
Tooronga Handicap at Caulfield. He was
ridden by an unfashionable jockey and
was not backed, but he ran well enough
to suggest that he will do better next
time. He finished fifth. His Perth
owner has hopes of collecting a King’s
Cup through the agency of the Manfred
horse, but Ajax may be in the way.
(i Continued on next page.)
FOR RANDWICK.
Challenge Stakes: Gold Rod;
next, Bush Bee. Tote: Brazandt.
Anniversary Handicap: Bristol;
next, Red Sails. Tote: Desolation.
Bondi Handicap: Mildura or
Loombah; next, Trimmer.
January Handicap: Braidwood
Boy; next, Highborn.
Paddington Handicap: Mildura
or Bramol; next, Aladdin.
Adrian Knox Stakes: Early Bird ;
next, Talkalot.
Phillip Handicap: Might Not;
next, Aladdin.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
William Reid Stakes: Ajax, if
started. Otherwise, Aurie’s Star,
with Pamelus next.
Caldermeade Handicap: Elm-
dale ; next, Mutable.
Warrook Highweight: Beau
Spear; next, Great Legend.


you can dependon
CHAMPIONS
for
SMOOTH MOTORING
The smooth and even pull of
your car’s engine can be kept at
its peak of efficiency only by pro-
viding strong hot sparks. Install
new Champions at regular in-
tervals. These improved
plugs reduce carbon for-
mation, and pay for them-
selves in fuel savings.
An Empire
Product—
made in
Windsor. Can.
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS.WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
Sheffield Shield Cricket
VICTORIA v. N.S.W.
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND, January 28, 30, 31 and February 1, 1939 -
7Tay Commences 11.30 a.m. . rhiidren l -
ADMISSION: Outer Ground—Adults, 1/6; Children, 6d. Grandstand Adults, / *
Half Price to all parts after 4 p.m. a _j.„ r
H. Heydon, Secretary, N.S.W. Cricket Association, 255 a George Street, syoney.
Under the Whip
Meetings at Warrnambool, in the
Western District of Victoria, do not now
rank so high in importance as they did in
the days when Joe Thompson and other
metropolitan bookmakers journeyed
there by coach to lay odds to practically
unlimited amounts; but there was a
good crowd at the fixture which opened
there on Wednesday.
Chief feature of the racing was the
Booval Steeple victory of Montargis
(Drake-Montmartre), who received the
groundwork of his jumping education
from the late Adam Skirving when Adam
trained for “S. A. Rawdon.” Rawdon,
a Melbourne newspaper magnate, bred
Montargis, and he must regret having
parted with such a hardy thoroughbred.
Montargis captured the Booval Steeple
for the third year in succession. He
also won a Grand Annual Steeple at
Warrnambool and ran third to Last End
and Seymour in the V.R.C. Grand
National of 1937. Starting a 7-to-4
favorite on Wednesday he beat his stable-
mate, Musical David, by four lengths.
R. Wilson, the Melbourne financier
who owns Montargis and Musical David,
has a partiality for jumpers. He was
represented in the Lady Bay Hurdle by
Frisco, about whom the best price
obtainable was 5 to 4. Frisco fell early
and the race went to Bottran, a 6-to-l
pop, who beat Valgoid by half a length.
Bottran (Blackwood-Brackish) belongs
to C. B. Palmer, of the V.R.C. com-
mittee, who lives in the neighborhood
of Warrnambool. In his youth Claude
Palmer was a noted amateur horseman,
and figured in local events, both on the
flat and over obstacles, in opposition to
A. J. Staughton and other men who be-
came prominent owners.
Valgoid was sired by Valiant (Valais-
Emita), as also was Reflection, winner
of the Welter Handicap at the nice odds
of sevens. This mare squeezed home by
a head from Con Rain, the hot favorite,
Burrabil, missing a place.
Sydney racegoers will remember
Valiant as having finished second to
Valicare in the Doncaster Handicap of
1926. Valiant then was the sole property
of F. E. Shillabeer, but later he raced
in the joint interests of Shillabeer and
S. E. Bailey, who did so well with
Shadow King as a Melbourne Cup
place-getter. On retiring from the turf
Valiant went into Bailey’s stud in the
Western District. His progeny have
been useful. Had he been mated with
more fashionably-bred mares Valiant
might have been as great a sire as Heroic,
another son of Valais. His blood cannot
be faulted ; the dam, Emita, was a sister
to Emir, who did Ernest Clarke such
great credit on the turf.
Local horses had the finish of the
Summer Handicap to themselves, Royal
Jubilee (5 to 4) scoring comfortably from
Orange Bitters and Wynfred. The last-
named is by Manfred from another Caul-
field Cup winner in Wynette.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Perth weeklies mention that
John Woolcott-Forbes, alias “The Bull-
fighter,” attended the Perth Cup and
beat the books for £3OO. They recog-
nised in him an old acquaintance, known
in his Westralian days as Louis Brandi.
According to the “Mirror,” he was a
colonial-experience Johnnie, engaged in
“various jobs on the Gascoyne or there-
abouts,” till “a relative crashed from a
club window in the city and he in-
herited £15,000.” Louis went through it
and “left a number of bookmakers
lamenting.” Revisiting Perth after he
had cleaned up in Sydney, “he paid
them all.” The information may be
useful to Sydney people who have helped
to carry Louis the Bullfighter and his
fortunes.
* * * *
W. J. Smith, of Australian Glass, who
has a stud farm at Scone (N.S.W.), was
one of the principal buyers at the Tren-
tham (M.L.) sales. He gave preference to
the progeny of Beau Pere, the imported
stallion he now owns, and in all he
bought a dozen yearlings for 4035
guineas. W. R. Kemball got 11 for 2545
guineas. Top price, 1450 guineas, was
"Frightfully sorry —I thought you Were the buoy!"
given by J. T. Jamieson for a chestnut
colt by imported Tiderace-My Own —he
will be trained at Randwick. Of recent
years M.L.-bred horses haven’t been
very successful in rich Australian two-
year-old races and Derbies, so Australian
buyers are no longer inclined to bid fancy
prices for them. In fact, Heroic, Wind-
bag and Manfred have taken the shine
out of English-bred sires standing in
M.L., though, of course, recent impor-
tations may show better results.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Stewart Flyweight Champion
At West Melbourne Stadium Jackie
Stewart (Bst.) relieved Colin Fitzjohn
(7st. 131 b.) of the Australian flyweight
title —not a very difficult job with one
who fights as wide open as the N. S.
Wales lad. Lately at Sydney Sports
Ground Fitzjohn beat a coming lad,
Dally Moran, but mainly because Moran,
having hit the canvas, bounced up again
instantly without taking advantage of
the count. Moran then got what he was
asking for. Fitzjohn proved easy for
the 19-year-old Victorian, the scrap being
stopped in the eighth, after Fitz had
been down half a dozen times.
Fitz is game, but he is not as good as
his father was —dad seconded him.
Stewart was looked after by his trainer,
Jimmy Duggan, who has a high opinion
of him—and Jimmy ought to know.
In Victoria at the beginning of the cen-
tury, the Duggans were a famous brood.
Tom became middleweight champion;
he settled in South Africa, as did brother
Harry, a heavyweight, who fought Mike
Williams there for the S. African title.
Nicky Duggan was a smart lightweight,
and Jimmy, as a boy, went 20 rounds
in Perth with Bob Greenshields, after-
wards lightweight champion when Aus-
tralia had such excellent boxers at the
weight as Frank Thorn, Hock Keys
(when past his prime he went 18 rounds
with Freddie Welsh), and Bob Turner.
In the main support, Alan Westbury
(lOst. 6|lb.), who hails from Newcastle
(N.S.W.), had a smashing win over the
Victorian welter champ., Terry Reilly
(lOst. s|lb.). Completely outfought and
badly weakened by heavy body rips,
Reilly went down just before the end
of the eighth to a solid right to the jaw.
His corner worked desperately on him,
but he was in no condition to face up
to Westbury’s charging attack when the
ninth opened, and the ref. stopped it in
the Newcastrian’s favor.
Miller at His Best
If he could be counted on to fight at
his top, Micky Miller would be one of
the generally somewhat doubtful Austra-
lian lot fit to go up against world class.
As it is, after the way he beat Sammy
Garcia at West Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday night, there is talk of matching
him with Joey Archibald for the world
featherweight title in Melbourne this year.
Micky beat Garcia very easily in their
12-rounder. He took the American’s
measure in the first round, and thereafter
clearly outboxed him. At times —es-
pecially in some of his Sydney fights—
Micky had given the impression that he
had lost interest in the game, and now
and then he fell into this offhand style
with Garcia. Even then Garcia could
scarcely put a glove on him.
Where Are the Australians?
Australians who are not very old can
remember when there were so many
Australian pugs of superior quality in
the U.S.A. and Britain that they had
to be matched with one another: Jack-
son v. Slavin, Hall v. Slavin, Fitzsim-
mons v. McCarthy, v. Hall, v. Creedon,
“Griffo” v. Tracey, and so on. Nowadays
there are so few native-born bruisers of
distinction in the country that knew
Foley and his men that week after week
importation is pitted against importation.
As a rule, such contests don’t amount to
much. Sabatino v. Stewart, at Sydney
Stadium, was an exception. It was at
once boxing at its swiftest, and tense,
hard, determined fighting.
A number of forces combined to make
it stirring. There was a huge crowd,
and if a fight is going to be good it
always gets added ginger from surround-
ing pandemonium. The smoke-heavy
air vibrated and the shell of a building
shook with the din whenever—as hap-
pened some time in every round —the
fighting worked up to a fierce, elemental,
toe-to-toe clash ; as a result the clashes
became all the harder and fiercer. Be-
tween these suddenly projected peaks in
each round, there was the ceaseless dis-
play of swift boxing and nice ringcraft,
with the always-present threat of a
knockout by Stewart keeping the ring
atmosphere tense.
' That was the general expectation.
Stewart, who, at list. s£lb., had a 41b.
advantage, not only looked much the
stronger physically, but there was the
moral strength on his side of having
quickly knocked out Syd Brown
in his only other Australian
engagement. Stewart’s physical
advantage may have been more
apparent than real; the muscles
bulging out all over him, plus
his evident inability to hook a
punch, seemed to indicate that
he may have been a bit muscle-
bound. Black as ebony, he cer-
tainly looked a splendid speci-
men of gymnasium perfection,
but he seemed stiff compared
with Sabatino’s lithe suppleness.
That Stewart was every bit
as strong as he looked he
proved by the complete extent
to which he recovered after
having been put down by a
powerful right to the count of
nine in the fourth round, and
been saved only by the bell
when rights to the jaw floored
him again. He was hanging sus-
pended in the ropes at his
corner when the round ended.
with the count at seven. He was still
vulnerable over the next four rounds,
and during these, as in the earlier rounds,
Sabatino built up such a margin of points
that nothing short of the knockout which
never came could possibly have defeated
him.
From the eighth onwards Stewart,
fighting coolly on a fairly square-on up-
right stance, became stronger and
stronger. A right crashing high on Saba-
tino’s weaving and bobbing head in an
early round—the third —had opened the
pale-sepia-hued Puerto Rican’s left eye,
and Stewart’s straight lefts made the eye
close. One of Stewart’s few slightly
hooked punches damaged the other eye,
so that Sabatino fought it out to the
finish under considerable disadvantage.
But superior boxing stood to him. Even
in the twelfth he was slipping Stewart’s
terrific right over his shoulder and fight-
ing back against Stewart’s ascendant
strength with every ounce of weight
his own diminishing strength and his
indomitable courage could still give to
his gloves.
They are to meet again.
In the main prelim, to the Sabatino-
Stewart scrap, A 1 Walker continued the
winning way that points him out clearly
as easily the best of the up-and-coming
bunch. This was his most important
engagement to date ; an eight-rounder.
He finished it off, as usual, in the second,
when Spike Simpkins went down to Als
devastating right, as he had already done
for nine in the first, and this time stayed
down. At list. 21b. —lib. his way—


bat toe rcav
groto youca again
9
rtomtHts
In the year 1300 Arnold de Villanova
wrote: “Man has become feeble, and there-
fore God has given him this Water of Life
[brandy] that he may grow young again.”
For more than 600 years good brandy has
been recognised for its health-building
values. For nearly two centuries
Hennessy's genuine Cognac Brandy has
been the accepted standard for perfection
all over the world.
Obtainable everywhere in Bottles,
Half Bottles, Quarter Bottles, at d
Eighth Bottles.
Joint Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
GOLLIN AND COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
HARBOTTLE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD.
ENNESSY’S
☆ ☆ ☆
BRANDY
TOURING
f*: •
■M.
i11..1 . /Sa
c«‘‘
*'tw
1
C »f?K
.
<r-.\
\N
. -,nK
’
\H
»/»»•
o**2
asr
W :
COSTS
LESS
with
SHELL
Speed makes less difference to petrol
consumption with Super Shell than
with any other spirit. No matter how
far or fast you’re going it will cost
LESS on Super Shell.
THE SHELL CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD. (Inc. in Great Britain) 5.39/5J'
Walker was turned out by his corner
looking in his best fighting trim to date.
He will beat better men than Spike.
Ins and Outs
Bradman has equalled C. B. Fry’s
record of six successive centuries in first-
class matches; he completed the job
by making 135 n.o. for S.A. v. N.S.W.
at Sydney. For a long time it appeared
that rain might deny him his opportunity
—and S.A. the points for a win ; for two
days there was no play. On the Wednes-
day when they did start he collected
113 like the master he is, with Bad-
cock (98) to keep him company most
of the time. S.A. closed with four down
for 349—103 ahead. N.S.W. (McCauley,
run out, 76 ; Grimmett two for 51) lost
five for 156. S.A. three points for a
first-innings win.
Fry in 1901 scored 106 v. Hants, 209 v.
Yorkshire, 149 v. Middlesex, 105 v.
Surrey, 140 v. Kent and 105 for Rest of
England v. Yorkshire. Bradman’s scores
this season are 118 for Australian XI v.
the Rest, 225 and 186 for S.A. v. Queens-
land, 107 v. Victoria, 143 and 135 n.o. v.
N.S.W.
* * * *
“Matu”: Grimmett, left out of a
very so-so Australian eleven because
he was “too old” or “not good enough”
or something, has taken most wickets
(26) and has the best average (19.46) in
this year’s Sheffield Shield matches.
Barnes and Chipperfield could do
nothing with him in the S.A. v. N.S.W.
match at Sydney, in which Clarrie bagged
6 for 104. In all Sheffield Shield cricket
he has taken 463 wickets at 25.24. It is
laughable now to reflect that for years
he couldn’t get a game for Victoria, and
that Mailey was preferred to him by the
Australian selectors.
* * * *
Vernon Ransford, not Don Bradman,
is to succeed the late Hugh Trumble as
secretary of the Melbourne Cricket Club
at £lOOO a year, “as from February 1.” A
daily describes him as one of the three
great Australian left-handers, the others
being Clem Hill and Warren Bardsley.
Nobody will question Hill’s place among
said three, but thousands would award
the other positions to Joe Darling and
Billy Bruce. However, Ransford was a
very fine batsman and outfield, and he
should be a success as secretary of the
club with which he has been identified
for so many of his 53 years. He has one
indispensable qualification—he is an ex-
cellent fellow.
* * * *
“Jamarie”: Hammond’s men began
excellently in the third Test against South
Africa at Durban. Paynter (243) and
Hammond (120) put on 242 for the third
wicket, Paynter bringing up his 1000 runs
for the tour. The innings was closed at
469 for four, and before stumps on the
second day Fames (four for 29) and
Wilkinson (two for 12) had outed the
home side for 103.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Unusual cricket situation in
a district match, Port Adelaide v. East
Torrens. (1) The ball, missed by the
batsman, cannoned back off the wicket-
keeper on to the stumps. (2) The bats-
man (then 91) heard, and saw, his stumps
down, and walked away, not doubting
he had been bowled. (3) As this took him
out of his ground, the ’keeper com-
pleted the wreck of the wicket —but had
not the ball in hand. (4) Exit the bats-
man in silence. (5) The umpires ex-
plained later that they had no power to
interfere if a man “retires,” and directed
the scorers to enter him as having done
so A new rule would seem equitable:
“If a batsman walks away from the
wicket, believing wrongfully that he has
been given out, the ball shall be dead,
and the umpires shall recall him.” And
why not? I have seen a man legally
run-out in similar circumstances (he was
caught off a bump ball), and, as it is a
mere chance whether his way to the
pavilion takes him out of his ground or
behind the wicket, that gamble seems
certainly unfair.
* * * *
“Statist”: Don’t think much of these
freak cricket records as a rule, but here’s
one that should be preserved. In a Sydney
City and Suburban competition one F. G.
Hales, ordinarily a wicketkeeper and no
youngster—he turns out for Gordon
Veterans—was given a chance with the
ball. He bowled one over and collected
six wickets without a run being scored.
The opposition totalled 15.
* * * *
“De Fando”: L. F. Giblin, director of
the Commonwealth Bank, made 11 runs
and bowled a wicked ball in the match
between the economics and statistics
section of the Canberra Science Congress
and the staff of the Census Bureau. He
could not do the hat trick, for one of
the rules of the game was that every
batsman must make at least one run
before he went out; the umpire was in-
structed to declare a no-ball if the bats-
man had not scored. Professor Gordon
Wood, of Melbourne, was clean bowled
twice before he got his one. Another
rule was that the batsman or bowler
might appeal for a drink at any time as
long as the keg of beer held out.
Miscellaneous.
Sailed by V. Lucas, the Queensland
boat Victor won the first heat of the
Australian 18-footers championship on
Sydney Harbor. Taree was second, and
other N.S.W. boats filled the next two
places. There are two more heats, one
to-morrow and the last on Sunday, with
eight boats entered—four from Queens-
land and four from Noo South. Points
to date are: Victor 255, Taree 127;
Queensland 273, N.S.W. 228.
“Jachris”: Indications are that the
“butterfly” stroke, a fantastic variation
of the breaststroke, will be cast into
that exterior darkness inhabited by
banned books and bodyline bowling.
The International Federation of Swim-
ming Associations is to be asked to
blackball it, and the Westralian body has
denounced it to the A.S.U. The Eng-
lish swimmer J. G. Davies, who won the
110-metre event at Sydney’s Empire
Games, putting up a new Australian
record in the process, used the butterfly.
* * * *
“1.H.”; “Wodgil’s” advice in The
Bulletin that Jewish refugees should
link themselves up with sporting clubs
seems to have fallen on fertile ground.
Already there are many applications in
Sydney for membership in football clubs.
There is reason for that. The Jewish
Athletic Club in Vienna had a football
team of such quality that it toured
Europe, shocked even the English Soccer
premiers, and went twice to the U.S.A.
to give exhibition matches.
* * * *
The Australians won the second motor-
cycle speedway Test at Sydney by 32
points to 22, making the count one-all.
They were three-lap contests, the barney
over laps having been decided as the
riders wished. Wilkinson, the Australian
captain, again notched full nine points.
For England Statham scored seven
points.
# * * *
A link with James Wylie, of Glasgow,
world’s draughts champion for nearly 30
years, was snapped by the death of Jacob
Hosken, of Hawthorn (Vic.). Hosken was
on the committee which welcomed Wylie
to Melbourne in 1887, and Wylie stayed
with Hosken during his sojourn in Vic-
toria. A surviving Australian link with
“the Herd Laddie” is William Houston,
of Blackburn, now aged 95. This veteran
has attended every Country v. City
draughts match which has been held in
Victoria.


COMING TO ENGLAND?
STAY IN THE HEART OF LONDON.
Choose wisely . . . the MAPLETON ... in
the midst of theatres and shops. 100 bed-
rooms, with bathroom and ’phone. Fully
licensed restaurant open till midnight. Special
terms for Overseas visitors. Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
O-CO-'W-
¥
•Bi
AT THE
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230 S
12 New Oversea Acts.
“BIG FUN SHOW OF 1939.”
The Talk of Town.
In the Flesh,
THE VOICE OF SNOW WHITE
(Adriana Caselotti).
O’DONNELL & BEAIR,
the Crazy Builders; and New Stars.
Musical.
SONG-POEMS and SONGS REQUIRED for
early publication. Known or unknown writers
invited submit original MSS. —PARAMOUNT,
LTD., Dept. CD, 9 Denmark Street, London.
W.C.2.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Mad Miss Manton.”
Barbara Stanwyck, Henry Fonda.
At Sydney Embassy, and all about a
clutch of sassiety lasses and their efforts
to clean up a couple of moider
mysteries.
Kicks off brightly with Miss Stanwyck
in small-cheild costume and airing her
poodles in the suburbs during the un-
godly hours of the dawn. Discovers
corpse in empty house and rushes for
police, but returns with them to find
body has faded. Cahps take it as another
of the escapades for which she is
famous, and lady has to find another
corpse to convince them that something
fishy is going on after all.
Mr. Fonda also wandering through the
piece as newspaper editor whose edi-
torials deplore the irresponsible hooli-
ganism of Miss Stanwyck and her
company of debutantes. He, however,
finds the lady has her points, and there-
upon becomes embroiled in the moiders
himself.
Moiders and their reason are vague,
and solution more so, but that doesn’t
matter a hoot provided Miss Stanwyck
can lead her bevy of beauties on scatter-
brained chases through the gloom of un-
inhabited buildings and generally worry
a conscientious copper pretty near into
his grave, while Mr. Fonda trails along
in the rear like a puzzled and offended
two-year-old pup.
Altogether a light and airy inanity,
and a break from serious business for
Miss Stanwyck and Fonda, who, al-
though they aren’t particularly strong
on comedy, can at least act, are not un-
likeable and seem to enjoy the outbreak
of craziness.
“The Sisters ”
Bette Davis, Anita Louise, Jane Bryan,
Errol Flynn.
The third domestic drama to be shown
at Sydney Century within the past few
months; neither better nor worse than
its predecessors.
The film essays to paint a broad
canvas dealing with three sisters of a
middle-class family in a small American
town at the beginning of this century.
Its main theme concerns their ventures
into matrimony and the varied results.
Miss Davis lights out with a reporter
whose inconsistencies and liking for his
cups nearly wreck the matrimonial ex-
periment. Miss Louise takes to the
money of a wealthy gent, nearly double
her age and discovers she might have
chosen better. The third lass splices her-
self to an hahnest young banker who
later threatens their home and happiness
by dallying with another lady of the
village.
That’s a fair amount for one film. It
needs sound players and excellent direct-
ing to hold the three stories on the same
level and weave them into the one
pattern. Directing is not up to its task,
and Miss Louise and Miss Bryan are
only lightweights who, although they give
momentary glimpses of sincere and
sympathetic portrayals, do not seem able
to convey any development of character.
In the light of those weaknesses the
full weight of the film falls on Miss
Davis. She is a very fine actress, and
for a while interest is held purely
through the merits of her performance.
Her part is good and she dominates the
story, making everything revolve around
her. She gives the film continuity, reason
and character, until it recedes even from
her grasp. When she loses control the
whole structure topples.
The main contributor to the film’s
and Miss Davis’s downfall is probably
Mr. Flynn. Whatever merits he may
possess as a Captain Blood or a Robin
Hood he isn’t an actor. He has an ex-
cellent part as a young man trying to
get the gist of a changing world, trying
to find what he wants from it and fail-
ing through his own shortcomings. An
intelligent actor —Montgomery, for in-
stance would have made it a
memorable performance and given Miss
Davis something to play up to. Mr.
Flynn makes of it such a lamentable
display that at times his reliance on Miss
Davis, as demanded by the story, be-
comes a pathetic histrionic fact.
With no other hindrances Miss Davis
might possibly have carried Mr. Flynn,
but the perversity with which the film-
smiths switch from her to the other two
sisters when she is doing nicely gradually
Donald Meek, Mischa Auer and Lionel Barrymore telling Edward Arnold “You
Can’t Take It With You," at Sydney Regent.
wears down her portrayal and tends to
establish her on the minor histrionic
level of Miss Louise and Miss Bryan.
Once that happens such capable sup-
porting actors as Donald Crisp, lan
Hunter and Alan Hale assert themselves
above the main players and the film
degenerates into a tedious, unconvincing
story through which wanders a maze of
conflicting characters.
“Service de Luxe.”
Constance Bennett, Charles Ruggles, Mischa
Auer, etc.
Three hearty critic’s cheers lately
uttered for the passing of the wildly
nonsensical American comedy would
seem to have been a little premature.
This Sydney State offering plunges right
back into the midst of them, or else it’s
a belated carryover.
It could almost pass as a burlesque on
its kind. The “service” of the title is
provided by a score or so feminine
livewires seated at telephones in their
cubicles, the business presided over by
Miss Bennett. Anything N’Yark’s
wealthy want to have done, from having
their poodles shampooed to having their
own weddings arranged for them, Service
de Luxe will look after. Taken as
burlesque it’s well enough done to pro-
vide a chuckle or two.
Complications set in when a crusty
old client enlists Service de Luxe to
sidetrack a yokel inventor whom he
learns is coming to town to interest him
in a new tractor. Miss Bennett under-
takes the job personally, scares off the
wrong person, and herself falls heavily
for the inventor. When, subsequently, she
learns who he is, Service de Luxe goes
into action to ensure that another wealthy
client will give the inventor a sym-
pathetic hearing. _ Inventor, of course,
thmks he is achieving success alone, and
is highly peeved when he finds out Miss
Bennett has been doing it all. So what
plot there is teeters on, with clinch by
the right parties to round it off.
All of which is of little importance
and —the parties being what they are —
of still less interest. What value the
film has as entertainment is in the non-
sense-comedy forced into that set-up.
This —fair to middling of its kind —in-
eludes Charles Ruggles as famous, and
wealthy, engineering genius who practises
elaborate cooking as a hobby, with
Mischa Auer in the role of his maestro,
Being the topnotch comedy actors they
are, both make all it’s possible to make
of these parts. They get their laughs,
Mischa especially striking an original
v *
note or two; but they’re poor parts
for such players.
Miss Bennett does her part well
enough; it’s of the same class as the
others. The male de luxe of the piece,
Vincent Price, is a truly noble specimen.
Six-feet-four if he’s a.n inch, he looks like
Hollywood’s answer to the lately-boomed
English product, Redgrave. Present
observer is no authority on how he’ll
appeal to the ladies, but if he’s also the
answer to the maiden’s prayer they must
be liking ’em just now tall, dark and
wooden.
“Brief Ecstasy ”
Paul Lukas.
Every man this day expects England
to do better than this support at Sydney
State.
Probably the outstanding difference be-
tween English and American productions
is a matter of tempo. Hollywood in-
sists on speed even at the sacrifice of
dramatic effect. Usually, therefore, with
Hollywood films so dominating in num-
bers, it is a refreshing change to turn
to the occasional English picture’s steadi-
ness, to say nothing of its comparative
quiet.
In this view, pictures like “Owd Bob”
and “The Challenge” are worth scores
of the general run of Hollywood films.
The virtue of steadiness of tempo can,
however, become a serious fault when
overdone, as it is—very badly—i n “Brief
Ecstasy.”
The filmsmiths’ excuse might be that
there wasn’t enough in the story to make
a full-length picture. It is a thin and
rather hackneyed story of marital
jealousy, with the long arm of coinci-
dence playing a leading part. After a
young man and a girl have fallen for
each other in London, the young chap
has to go to India. A cable he sends is
blown into some litter and never reaches
the girl, who then marries an older chap.
They get along very well till young chap
returns from India and goes to their
house as the husband’s guest. The rest
of the film has to do with the growing
jealousy of the husband, who has plenty
of cause for it, solution being found
through the young wife finding in her
husband the better man of the two.
Lukas is a good actor, but in this and
other recent appearances has had parts
altogether unworthy of his talents. The
girl is good-looking but somewhat cold.
There are neat patches in the film, but it
consists so largely of the characters
merely looking at each other or into
vacancy that it seems to drag on inter-
minably.
' “Next Time / Marry,"
Lucille Ball, James Ellison.
Support at Sydney Century, this deals
with the familiar figure of heiress who
had to marry good solid American
citizen to inherit her papa’s oof.
She cruises along in her luxurious
roadster and selects her spouse from a
road gang, weds him and immediately
sets about divorcing him —just like that.
Husband, however, prefers to do the
divorcing himself, and there ensues a
journey to Reno with wife locked in
caravan to make certain that she won’t
get there first, and mildly amusing Italian
count tailing up in the rear.
Film is fast and funny in spots ; Mr.
Ellison and Miss Ball are quite pleasant
people, and there is a dog that can act.
Newsreels.
Current bill at Sydney’s newsreel
theatres covers enough of the earth’s
surface and its inhabitants to be interest-
ing if not outstanding.
In home news bushfires figure promi-
nently ; a haziness in some of the scenes
is caused, according to Cinesound’s com-
mentator, by the film buckling under the
terrific heat.
A marathon swim from Manly to
Luna Park provided the swimmer with
refuge from the recent heat-wave, and is
claimed to be a record. Another record
depicted on the same bill, and one which
would probably have been more ap-
preciated during the recent scorching, is
that established by a German waiter who
managed the prodigous feat of carrying
55 steins of beer in the one trip.
Overseas events find M. Daladier
rushing off to Tunisia to assure several
hundred camels and their dusky riders
that France will take care of ’em. The
commentator’s assertion that these tribes-
men and their mounts constitute a most
formidable defence unit may be doubted.
What they might do is illustrated by
scenes of Arab outrages in Palestine,
and what might be done to them, by a
few shots of modern bombing ’planes in
Spain.
Pete Smith evidently doubts the
credulity of his audiences or his own
reputation for veracity by preceding a
discussion of archery with a signed
affidavit as to its authenticity. Mr.
Smith’s prodigy uses a bow which needs a
1751 b. pull, and which can send an arrow
465 yards. Among other things he
shoots an arrow through a three-inch
slab of pine, does the William Tell act,
and cuts a card edgeways.
A “March of Time” claims that 85
members of the old nobility with their
castles and land have fallen before Lloyd
George’s land tax and death duties. Five
peers are now working—mechanic, car
designer, banker, writer of a column of
sassiety gossip for a London newspaper
and overseer in a second-hand clearing
house.
According to the same film, while
England is thus paying for the last war,
France, with nationalised armament
production and compulsory training, is
placing 250,000 men in camp every year,
and spending billions of dollars on her


With thousands
of fastidious people this is
a daily habit
Dental authorities agree that a dirty,
stained denture is a constant menace to
health as it provides ideal conditions for
dangerous bacteria. Why not clean your
false teeth, and keep them clean, by the
method dentists are now recommending ?
This is the regular bath in ‘Steradent’
solution. ‘Steradent’ will make your
false teeth spotlessly clean, fresh and
natural-looking —and keep them that way.
Fill the cap of the tin with ‘Steradent’ and
pour the powder into a glass containing sufficient
warm water (not hot) to cover the dentures.
Stir well. Put in your dentures and leave them
while you dress or overnight. Take them out
and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
Stains disappear. Dull teeth gleam white
again. ‘Steradent’ penetrates into every crevice.
Your whole denture is purified. Your mouth
feels cool, smooth and refreshed. ‘Steradent’
is superior to anything 1 know of,’
writes one dentist. ‘I wish every-
one wearing dentures knew about
it,’ writes another.
‘Steradent’ is guaranteed harm-
less to dental materials. Sold by
all chemists. Price 2/-. Double
size 3/6.
TRIAL OFFER. Send 2d. in
stamps for trial supply to Reckitts
(Over Sea ) Ltd., Box 2515 88,
G.P.0., Sydney, and mention the
name of this paper.
ibrnfruTP
Steradent
(leans and sterilizes false teeth
SECOND
Sentence Competition
£5O Prizes
A second popular Sentence Competition,
with prize-money of £5O, is announced
on Page 41 (Radio page) of this issue.
It will close on February 8, and results
will be announced in The Bulletin of
February 15.
Results of the First Sentence Competi-
tion, which closes to-day (January 25),
will be announced in next week’s
Bulletin (February 1).
FROM FACTORY
Fresli • Fragran'
TOBACCO
.AT NEW LOW PRICES/
Smokers /
DO YOU WANT GOOD
VALUE AND QUALITY?
Then figure on these beautiful smoking blends
that give that extra satisfaction and coolness
which makes all the difference. Made from the
finest Empire-grown leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paj'ing
elsewhere. ORDER NOW! Direct from the
manufacturer to you.
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Postage paid in N.S.W. and Queensland.
6d. per pound extra to other States.
COMBINED GROW ERS’
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
12 COMMERCIAL RD„ VALLEY, BRISBANE.
Maginot line and other preparations for
the next war.
“Sharp Shooters,” at Sydney Embassy,
comprises the Ruritanian adventures of a
newsreel cameraman among boy-
kings, princes, assassinations and an orgy
of plots and counter-plots. Nobody hurt
except the assassins, and boy-king
accedes to throne and fulfilment of his
ambition to learn Amurrican as she is
spoke.
Melbourne Tiv.
Vaudeville patrons are getting a fair
return for a moderate investment at
Melbourne Tiv. this week.
Conspicuous on the bill are Borelli
and Mimi in a trapeze act which will
take a lot of beating. In fact, this paper
would lay the odds that it was un-
beatable if it didn’t know from past
experience that, if vaudevillean singers
haven’t improved in the last two
generations, acrobats of all sorts steadily
become more and more remarkable.
Ada Browne, a stout negress with an
unmelodious voice but unfailing good-
humor, is winning the hearts of the
white Australians present, and Radcliffe
and Rogers, of the same tinted race, are
tickling their funnybones. Jimmy
Hadreas’s tricky dancing also earns an
approving adjective. Transparent bell-
toppers are the latest feature of the
ballet.
Ballet in Retrospect.
Closing a “conversazione” at the Hotel
Australia, Sydney, on a happy note of
gloom, Arnold Haskell was pessimistic
about the future of ballet. Previously
he had suggested that the prospects for
the English ballet, now firmly entrenched
in London, were bright; but he was
afraid that its very popularity would kill
it as an art.
Under Diaghileff, he said, with pro-
duction leisurely and spasmodic, the
Ballet had had time to think; to create
new ballets, to create principles and to
live up to them. He implied that with
the present demand there might be a
danger of the ballet functioning as an
entertainment instead of an art until
repetition and hasty production destroyed
it. If Lichine was allowed the time to
create new works the situation might be
saved.
That, of course, is a matter for the
Ballet itself to worry about. And in
any case it applies much more urgently
to England than it does to Australia,
where, if the success of the present tour
is any indication, it will be a long time
before audiences become apathetic to-
wards its visits.
Among stage shows put on by profes-
sionals in Australia in 1938 the ballet
was the only one that had anything to
do with beauty, almost the only one that
had anything to do with art. Music
carried on its perpetual lonely battle, but
music (except perhaps with a Tibbett)
isn’t a stage show. Such plays as were
presented by overseas artists were nearly
all slick comedies, very pleasant after
dinner but not of the slightest import-
ance. The talkies that were worth see-
ing from this point of view could be
numbered on the fingers of one hand,
probably by a person suffering from
fisherman’s thumb.
The Ballet, except in a very few num-
bers, always succeeded in entertaining,
and occasionally achieved the higher
purpose of delighting. The performances
of Baronova in “Les Sylphides” and “Le
Lac des Cygnes” and of Riabouchinska
and Dolin in the “Bluebird” interlude
alone made the season worth while. With
a high degree of talent throughout the
company there were outcroppings of
brilliance in plenty; moments in
“Scheherezade,” in “Petrouchka,” whole
scenes in “Symphonie Fantastique,” and
the whole ballet of “Prot^e.”
In his Hotel Australia talk Dolin said
that Baronova’s dancing in “Swan Lake”
was “inspired”; it left that impression
on the audience, too. Of a different
order, but similarly touched with genius,
was Riabouchinska’s sparkling Colum-
bine in “Carnaval.”
It would be impossible for perform-
ances such as those to pall on the next
visit of the Ballet. “Prince Igor” wasn’t
a success; “Choreartium,” except for
one scene with Grigorieva, was dull;
“Le Coq d’Or” seemed muddled ; and
“Union Pacific,” with its laborious
modernity, was pretty heavy going. But
at the worst that meant only three or
four ballets that missed out of a reper-
toire of nearly 30; the ballets of beauty
and the exquisite ballets of light comedy
overwhelmed the few minutes of weak-
ness or tediousness.
The Covent Garden company has set
a high standard. It has not just been
a matter of seeing three great dancers
with a strong supporting company. The
music was good ; the co. brought out such
eminent choreographers as Fokine and
Lichine; the decor was lavish (the set-
ting of “Cendrillon” won’t be forgotten);
the costuming was sometimes remarkably
beautiful and almost invariably satisfac-
tory. The season has been an undoubted
success from the public’s point of view,
and attendances have surely been large
enough to encourage the box-office to
repeat the venture.
Archibald and Wynne Prizes.
The 1938 Archibald Prize com-
petition attracted 145 entries, of which
very few were of outstanding merit.
Prize went to Nora Heysen’s brightly
colored portrait of a Consular lady,
Mrs. Schuurman. It looks as though it
might be a good likeness, and some
tapestry in the background is cleverly
painted, but the judges’ reasons for pre-
ferring it are by no means obvious.
W. B. Mclnnes, Norman Carter and
Charles Wheeler exhibit work well up
to their usual standard. J. Quinn shows
a dashing portrait—the sort of oil that
looks like pastel—of Commonwealth
Treasurer Casey, and Norman Baker
puts in a self-portrait which is a model
of conscientiousness. Mary Edwards
puts a touch of fantasy into a similar
effort.
Excellent paintings which yet fall a
long way short as portraits are Lyall
Trindall’s picture of Rubery Bennett and
Hanke’s version of Percy Lindsay, both
only 5 p.c. alive. Hanke does better in
a portrait of a girl in a white coat.
Esther Paterson’s portrait of sister Betty
is a clinking character-study. Max
Meldrum paints the outside of Max
Meldrum. Joshua Smith’s portrait of
his mother is a good effort, but he has
won at least one prize with another
version of the lady already. Fred Leist’s
portraits are unrestful.
The 92 entries for the Wynne Prize
mostly suffer from commonplaceness, and
Syd Long’s “Approaching Storm” is an
easy winner. It has color, poetry and a
firm, graceful touch. Other exhibits
that catch the eye are Alfred Coffey’s
big sea-piece depicting Sydney Heads,
Will Rowell’s massively-painted “Mac-
Donnell Foothills” and Robert Jaskson’s
effective “Sunlit Crags.”
Sydney Playwrights.
In an effort to establish a link between
Australian playwrights and producing
organisations, Sydney repertorians have
formed a Playwrights’ Advisory Board.
The board invites playwrights to sub-
mit manuscripts of one-act or full-length
plays, and undertakes to read and criti-
cally analyse every one submitted. Those
considered worthy of production will be
circulated among Australian producing
bodies, and others will be returned, with
a criticism, to the authors.
The idea is to maintain a constant
supply of good plays, from which those
interested in play-producing will be able
to make selections to fit their bill. The
board is determined on the point that if
a play is worth producing it is worth
paying for, and will insist on a royalty
for every play that reaches the stage.
Otherwise the service will be free to
producing bodies. There will be, how-
ever, a reading fee of 2s. 6d. for full-
length and Is. for one-act plays, which
should be forwarded with the manu-
scripts. -Nobody is likely to quibble
about this modest charge. It is to cover
postage and suchlike expenses.
Doris Fitton, who for years has been
one of the few staunch defenders of
repertory, is secretary of the board ; her
address is 175 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ELEVENTH LIMERICKS.
The first prize of £2O in the eleventh
Limerick competition went to L. C.
Cameron, of the Repatriation Depart-
ment, Mary-street, Brisbane. The com-
plete Limerick, with his last line, reads:
A militia recruit had a craze
For manoeuvring in curious ways.
At “Form fours!” shouted tartly,
He’d somersault smartly,
Saying “That’s how it’s done in the
Greys!”
Another appropriate ejaculation took
the second prize of £lO. M. Ryan, Box
1561 E, G.P.0., Sydney, had a vision of
the recruit somersaulting and uttering
cries of patriotism in mid-air:
Giving three hearty British “Hoorays!”
. Fully a third of the competitors used
the rhyme “days,” and some excellent
suggestions about “rotating for days,”
“revolving for days” and so on were
crowded out because too many competi-
tors had the same idea. As it was, five
“days” rhymes were among the £1 prizes.
W. Truscott, of 111 Kilby-road, East
Kew, Melbourne, offered an entrancing
picture of the recruit fleeing from the
parade-ground for the lick of his life:
Then bolt, and be missing for days.
A. H. Smith, Box 364, Ingham (Q.),
made a particularly apt use of a popular
expression with
Then brightly exclaim “Happy Days!”
and T. A. Nicoll, of the Cambridge Hotel,
Wellington (M.L.), caught the old-sol-
dier note with
Then drawl at the sarge, “Spare me days!”
A. Thornton, of 4 John-street, Wool-
lahra (N.S.W.), submitted the unsettling
line
And remain topsy-turvy for days,
but Mrs. J. Woolrych, of 93 Stanley-
street, Townsville (N.Q.), returned to very
sound sense, with a hint of an old A.I.F.
practice, in
At “Dismiss!” he would vanish for days.
Exactly the opposite view of things
came from Mrs. M. E. Martin, of 745
Logan-road, Greenslopes, Brisbane, who
sent this pleasing portrait of vacancy of
mind or perhaps of a reprehensible liking
for parades:
At “Dismiss!” he would stand still and
gaze.
The notion of a bellow from the ser-
geant-major or a bark from the colonel
was popular. Miss M. Roberts, of Ket-
tering (Tas.), put it with ominous irony:
And pooh-pooh the colonel’s warm praise.
As well as in the rhymes about rotat-
ing, revolving or vanishing for days, there
was a happy note of lunacy in the sug-
gestion from Miss C. M. Jefferies, of
Clarence-road, Indooroopilly (Q.):
At “Fire!” set the barracks ablaze,
and a more obvious indication of the
originality of the recruit’s mind in
“Shoulder arms!’* made him kneel down
and graze,
from C. S. Anderson, of 62 Park-road
West, Woolloongabba (Q.).
The remaining £1 prizes went to Miss
F. Nicholson, 18 Gillman-street, Auburn
(Vic.).—
And then wander away in a daze.
E. G. White, Hackett Terrace, Charters
Towers (N.Q.):
And crawl off parade in a daze.
Mrs. P. G. Hood, Cooroy (Q.):
And whistle the latest of lays.
Rose Acheson, Harewood, Stuart-street,
Longueville (N.S.W.):
And at “Fire!” set his coat-tail ablaze.
D. J. Scanlon, P. 0., Blackall (Q.):
And disappear under your gaze.
J. V. Whyte, Pomona, via Wentworth
(N.S.W.):
And wander about in a maze.
Miss Harvey, 34 Yule-street, Dulwich
Hill (N.S.W.): —-
And go for his life from their gaze.
M. Stephenson, 353 Flinders-street,
Townsville (N.Q.):
But the rest of the week he’d just laze.
D. Budge, 3 Walnut-street, Carnegie
(Vic.):-
“I’ll get there all right, sir,” he says.
A. T. West, The Grange, via Bathurst
(N.S.W.):
He’ll not be shot sitting, he says.
L. Durbin, Donnybrook (W.A.):
At “Charge!” he’d just burst into blaze.


ds
(KEROSENE)
REFRIGERATOR
Works by Kerosene. Simple to Use.
We especially make the “Top Opening” Type
in preference to the upright models, as the
“Top Opening” ensures the COLD BEING
KEPT IN' during use. This ensures minimum
running cost and maximum efficiency.
Costs ljd. per day to run.
Five Cubic Feet Storage Capacity.
Price £29/10/-
f.o.b. Sydney.
This chest will do the same work as models
twice its price.
ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR
PTY., LTD.,
57 NORTH GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet. ,
mt
'•-•r
HSR
m
-
IUI
THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
'W *
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids. Qualified matron and staff.
Every possible comfort and convenience All single rooms. Ideal surroundings and
delightful atmosphere. Terms on application. Telephone 123 Spnngwood or
particulars from Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney. Phone: 84771.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Even the taximen on Saturday night
began to get worked up over the crowds
making for the H. G. Wells lecture at
the Town Hall. There were two queues,
one on each side of the steps, and
stretching down into the street, waiting
to buy unreserved seats. By 8.15 the
place was packed out. Down in the body
of the hall could be seen intellectuals like
Dr. Mackaness, present with wife, daugh-
ter and son-in-law ; and up in the gallery
Ida Leeson, of the Mitchell Library, was
an intent listener. Medical men were
there in numbers, among others the
Garnet Hallorans. In the front row
was a good-looking listener in silver-
foxes who proved to have nourished
the visitor on mangoes. But he
didn’t eat any on the platform. Dame
Mary Hughes, all black and white chif-
fons, was there, and husband William
Morris introduced the speaker, but with-
out any fireworks of his own.
The lecture was staggering as to length
and depth. It flowed on for an hour
or more, and preached no doctrine of
brave new worlds and “Lift up your
heart and sing!” The scientist told man
in cold intellectual terms where he was
heading unless he had a complete
change of head and heart (mostly head).
At the end Billy Hughes exhorted the
audience to sing “God Save the King!”
and then pray “God Save Us!” Ex-
citement ran high. People cheered
wildly ; and at the end the steps were
crowded with men and women, girls
and boys, waiting eagerly for H.G. to
come out of the hall. He might have
been a film star, so expectant was the
crowd.
This Letter, after a week’s survey,
draws its deductions of Mr. Wells
from a hundred and one little ways.
Hanging in his hotel bedroom is the
laurel wreath bestowed on him by the
Fellowship of Australian Writers. But
so far it has not usurped the place of
the famous bpret when he walks the city
ways. His light voice, singularly like
that of Carruthers in “The Drum,”
seems to spring from the chest and have
no connection with the diaphragm. If
he starts off by being a bit impatient with
interviewers, he immedately relents, and
hands out an over-draught of the milk
of human kindness. His wit is of the
mellow kind, and is always on tap. He
seemed surprised, over his farewell
whisky and soda at the P.E.N., to find
that few of his audience knew liis short
stories.
He started by asking the woman who
typed his Town Hall speech, “I hope you
are a first-class typist,” and after the
speech was over indicated her to a friend
of his, saying, “She wrote it.” The
girls on the switchboard of his hotel
adore him. On Saturday night in the
Australia he was told he was about to
be introduced to three women who had
been enthralled by his lecture. “Three,”
he said, with almost a sigh, “and I am
not a Mormon.” When last seen on
Saturday night he was talking to a group
of good-looking women in the Winter
Garden of the Australia, among them
Mrs. A. E. Grace, Mrs. McCathie and
the latter’s sister. Summed up, he is
knit of kindness and energy. And yet,
whether it is his 72 years or his intellect,
he has an air of detachment from his
earthly surroundings. He might be a
visitor to this globe from some other
planet —or maybe just an archbishop!
Mrs. M. Zahel is a pleasant-voiced
lady who drops into Sydney every two
years or so. Her home is Badu, an
island in Torres Strait. Here she is
Government teacher, superintendent, she
looks after the public health, is the
assistant coroner and officiates as regis-
trar —in short, embodying for the resi-
dents of this palmy and banana’d isle the
authorities on Thursday Island. Mrs.
Zahel brought with her two copies of
what is claimed to be the smallest daily
newspaper in the world, the Torres
Strait “Daily Pilot.” This is a single
sheet, and deals briefly with the affairs
of Australia and Europe.
It also has some local items, even
a classified ad. (if you can classify
one ad.) under “House to Let.” An
unusual and aboveboard point about
this is that the name of the former
tenant is given. The news section’s
opening paragraph deals with sub-
scriptions, and there’s quite a large ad.
for gin. Badu is the largest island be-
tween Cape York and New Guinea, and
harbors a native population of 500 and
about three white people. Dugong,
which Mrs. Zahel declares is delicious
and tastes like very young veal, provides
a meaty diet. Turtles, too, there are,
swimming all around, just begging for
ex-Lord Mayors and Guildhall serangs
to come and turn them into turtle soup.
Violet Roche’s breakfast party at the
Australia brought newspapermen and
-women, artists and publicity men to
greet Mrs. Zahel and to farewell Violet
Manning. Violet went off with mother
in the Jervis Bay, London their first
objective. The invitation to this 8.30 re-
past was sent out in verse—the hostess
turning poetess for the occasion. Re-
plies in verse were many and varied, and
the reading of them was done by Joe
Collins, who added unpolite footnotes.
He himself brought a scroll showing
himself in candy-striped pyjamas rushing
along with the family alarm-clock.
If there was —which this Letter doesn’t
suppose there can be—an original tilt
for a countess to give her tiara, then
the new Countess of Ranfurly would find
it out. As Hermione Llewellyn she had
a way with a hat that made it at once
dashing and captivating. During the
time she was in Australia as private
secretary to Lady Wakehurst, she made
many friends in every State. St. George’s
in Hanover-square blessed the vows.
Lord and Lady Ranfurly (he is as well
known in Australia as his bride, for he
was aide-de-camp to Lord Gowrie) will
make their home in London. Dorothy
Welding photograph.
Of course one’s mind should have
been intent on Chancellor Halse Rogers,
Professor Windeyer and Minister for
Health FitzSimons at the conferring of
the medical degrees last week. But in
spite of the rich color of faculty gowns
mellowed by the light from high
windows and the grey stone deeps of
the Great Hall, this Letter’s mind kept
wondering about the appendices and the
tonsils of those present. Were there
sufficient of these still resident in the
rows of human beings around to provide
a decent year’s income for the 92
graduates now having the accolade of
their profession laid upon them in such
courtly fashion?
This is a reproduction of a portrait
sketch of Nora Heysen by herself. Last
week Nora achieved the ambition of
every portrait painter in Australia by
winning the Archibald Prize. She is,
furthermore, the first woman to annex
the honor and the £4OO or £5OO (it fluc-
tuates a bit) that gilds it. The portrait is
that of Mrs. Elink Schuurman, wife of
the Consul-General for the Netherlands.
It is a three-quarter, sitting position, and
shows Mrs. Schuurman wearing a pale
jade-green embroidered coat with wide
sleeves. The color is deepened in the
jade of the ring.
The painter is a daughter of Hans
Heysen, of Adelaide, whose studies of
gum-trees and delicate still-lifes occur
in the art galleries throughout the land.
To her father and the School of Fine
Arts in Adelaide she owes her early train-
ing—Nora got her brush into action when
she was 13. She went to London, and
was abroad studying for three years. She
now lives in Sydney, and shares a flat at
Darling Point with a girl friend, a
sculptor. She has decided, though her
flower pieces have won much acclaim, to
make portrait painting her chief work.
By now the Ballet is in the last bars
of its swan song, and Larry Adler’s
harmonica is but a dream echo in the
Tivoli. Heavens, how that man can
play! Within the last week the ballet
programmes have been changed three
times. All the women are now raving
over Alexandra Denisova. Her legs
certainly twinkled and sparkled as the
princess in “The Hundred Kisses,” and
look quite capable of carrying her to
stardom. All in all “The Prodigal Son”
achieves the highest dramatic effect, and
Anton Dolin probably will be re-
membered as the wayward boy when
other memories get a bit blurred.
Admirable were Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s
currant-red velvets that cheered one
rainy first night. A red velvet cape worn
by Mrs. James Dickson is also among
things remembered. Margaret Adams
was among well-dressed first-nighters.
Helen Stewart was another. Subdued
excitement ran one evening through at
least two rows of the circle caused by
the rumor that there were two men
dressed as women in the stalls. But,
of course, the story was a non-starter.
The night, as usual, was all decor and
decorum.
One of the prettiest brides St. Mary’s
has blessed, Suzanne Rankin, was
squired up its aisle by father Archie
Rankin, of Newcastle, and walked down
it holding the arm of bridegroom Dr.
Robert Du Val. Her frock of white
marquisette swayed in soft fullness, and
the skirt was inlet with bands of fine
embroidery. White water-lilies and a
white tulle veil were the right touches
for this youthful bride. Floating frocks
of buttercup sheer and crinoline hats of
the same shade were worn by the three
bridesmaids—sister Margaret, Morna
Mackenzie and Dr. Patricia Kirton.
Reception was in the Bellevue Hill home
of the bride’s uncle, Telford Simpson.
Mrs. Archie Rankin’s ensemble was in
burgundy tones. ’Groom’s mother con-
trasted black and white.
Those Boy Scouts are hardy, all right.
Lord Hampton, Chief Commissioner,
didn’t turn a hair though he paddled
around on last week’s wettest day from
one party to another. The Royal Empire
Society’s salaam in his honor was the
meaty one of the day. It was a lunch in
the banquet hall of the Australia. Here
knight Mason Allard, the society’s act-
ing president, and his lady welcomed
the guest of honor, and he thereupon
stood by acknowledging the warm greet-
ings of the arriving lunchers. Black and
white was the Allard lady’s ensemble;
deep green was worn by knight Kelso
King’s wife, and black brightened by
white was the frock of Mrs. Horn. All
these sat inhaling the fragrance of the
pale pink roses on the official table.
These were a gladsome sight in the days
of flower scarcity after the heat-wave.
H. G. Wells, murmuring confidentially
after the Institute of Journalists’ lunch,
said that when he was in Canberra
(which, according to Librarian Bertie,
H.G. pronounced correctly “Canbra,” or
as near thereabouts as possible, while
most of us lazily drawl Canberra) he
comforted himself during the hot, arid
nights by lying in bed saying over and
over: “I am losing weight! I am losing
weight!” He probably dripped an ounce
or two at the luncheon, for the day was
steamy and the Blaxland Gallery was
thick with newspapermen and -women
and human beings. The last were guests.
If H.G. had thought at all on the
matter it must have seemed, looking
around the merry throng, that Sydney’s
population held an enormous proportion
of writers. Mr. Wells seems to have an
eye for passing events, for his greatest
worry seemed to be that in one of his
earliest works quoted in the press a re-
mark is made about never marrying a
beautiful woman. This, H.G. pointed out,
is apt to get him in wrong in a country
where “half the women are beautiful, and
the other half know they are.”
Percy Lindsay’s drawing of the man
leaping into the air, having just received
a block of stone on his toes, while an
unsympathetic foreman exclaims “Now
then, cut out that Anton Dolin stuff,” is
facing a long journey. It goes off to
Europe with Anton Dolin himself.
Oswald Cheeke bought the picture for
Dolin, who is still chuckling over it.
Anton and H. G. Wells were lunching
with Oswald at the Pacific last week.
To their delight the two celebrities went
unrecognised. There wasn’t the explosion
of one flashlight. Later on H.G. and
Oswald were Anton’s guests at the ballet.
Sharing the box with them was Mrs.
Jimmy Dixon. Still later Oswald and
H.G. finished up the day in a corner of
the Winter Garden of the Australia. Here
over coffee and eggs they yarned till
almost one in the morning. On Saturday
H.G. had lunch again at the Pacific, and
then his host and he made an afternoon
of it at the surf carnival.
The wines of Australia have won Mr.
Wells’s approval. Sipping a glass of
something golden at the P.E.N. dinner he
grew enthusiastic on our vintages. He
was in great form and wore a relaxed
air throughout the first part of the even-
ing. President Elliot Napier proposed the
guest’s health, making no great to-do
about it; and the second president of
the P.E.N. said in brief: “Thank you
all. I’ll talk to you later.” There wasn’t
a great roll-up to the dinner —so many
of the members are still on summer
vacation —but the women P.E.N.-ers who
were there wore their best frocks. Trains
were drawn at great length after Dora
Moore’s black-and-gold frock, and after
the heavenly-blue with which Ethel
Turner Curlewis honored the occasion.


Don't Suffer *
with Piles
NO need to suffer the tor-
menting irritation of itching
or bleeding piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at
once to use Doan's Ointment.
This special pile prescription is
healing and soothing. Even stub-
born cases which have resisted
other treatment quickly yield to
this preparation. Let Doan's
Ointment give you the relief you
so sorely need. Refuse all sub-
stitutes. Get Doan’s Ointment
to-day.
Doans Ointment
v
J
LONDON
THACKERAY HOTEL
OPPOSITE THE BRITISH MUSEUM GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.I
Centrally situated for sight-seeing, entertainments. and business. Hot and cold water,
telephones and free electric heating in all bedrooms. Numerous private bathrooms.
Spacious quiet public rooms.
Bedroom, Bath and Breakfast from 9/6 per night. Luncheon 2/6. Dinner 3/6.
Inclusive Terms and Illustrated Booklet, “LONDON OLD AND NEW,” on application.
Personal and Missing Friends.
JAMES, DENIS and PATRICK KAVANAGH,
formerly of Arklow County, Wicklow, Ireland.
Any person knowing the whereabouts of any
of the abovementioned persons or their children
is requested to communicate with the under-
signed.—W. B. GEDDES, Public Trustee, 14
Castlereagh Street, Sydney (Room 203).
WOULD any person knowing the whereabouts
of ARNOLD VICTOR NOSKE, alias De
Gorongosia, whose last known address was
Booleroo Centre, South Australia, kindly com-
municate with W. LIERSCH or H. ZANKER,
Box 7, Laura, South Australia, executors of the
estate of the late C. F. Noske?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2323 of 1938.
BETWEEN EMMA LILLIAN BAKER Peti-
tioner
And STEPHEN MORRIS BAKER Re-
spondent.
TO STEPHEN MORRIS BAKER of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMMA
LILLIAN BAKER has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted the Petitioner and with-
out any such cause or excuse left her con-
tinuously so deserted during three years and
upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the eighteenth day of
April One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
nine and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of January, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Deputy Registrar.
J. BIRNIE JACKSON, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Mercantile Mutual Building, 117 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Socially, Melbourne is becalmed,
practically the only activities being those
in connection with bushfire relief. At
this time of year, after Christmas and
rounding the corner for Easter, the
March race meetings and off with the
sales and on with the new autumn
fashions, comes a space of sitting back
and catching up with homely chores.
Even charities and club committees are
still in recess, the Brotherhood of St.
Lawrence being among the exceptions in
that its members are meeting this after-
noon (25th) for an at-home given by
Mrs. Ernest Poolman. This party was
planned and arranged before the tragedy
of the bushfires claimed everybody’s
attention. The Brotherhood, supporters
do not in any way wish to clash with
the various channels of bushfire relief.
When all help, a big job gets done,
surely if slowly. For the bushfire victims
financial and other aid is forthcoming
from rich and poor, adults and children ;
from those who give without missing
their donations; from others who
shortened their time off from their jobs
of work, or who cut the cream buns out
of their snack lunches for the saving of
odd sixpences. Women’s and girls’ clubs
are making clothes in their spare time ;
lads are doing carpentry; droves of
Scouts and schoolboys have given up
part of their holidays to help collect and
carry and sort garments for the various
relief committees.
A stroke of luck for the Red Cross
was the lending to the society of an acre
or so of garage next to its offices in
Latrobe-street. There from early morn-
ing till late at night from 30 to 80
voluntary helpers are sorting and pack-
ing clothes at long trestle tables. They
swallow quantities of fluff, the specks of
dust make them sneeze, their backs get
tired and their hands (and sometimes
their faces) are grubby (particularly if
their job is sorting shoes from an
enormous pile in one corner of the
floor). They are all glad of the oppor-
tunity to help, the only complaints heard
being against some of the donors of
clothes, who are mistaking the virtue of
giving for an opportunity to unload all
their old rubbish, for after the first few
days of the campaign the quality of goods,
originally first-rate, dropped several
degrees. Threadbare shoes, feetless stock-
ings and bedraggled lame evening coats
are not welcome. Most of them will
never be sent to the devastated areas,
and in the meantime they are occupying
valuable space.
Those who are assisting at relief
depots are learning .various things by
experience. For instance, a pair of
scissors is useful, so are an apron and a
tape measure, and a pair of old gloves
is a boon in the matter of sorting and
tying up shoes. It’s a considerable help
if all shoes given are firmly tied together,
the soles outward and the size marked
upon them. Shirts and collars also
present a problem regarding size among
the sorters. Even those who are mothers
of several sons can’t always guess the
size of a neck or the width of shoulders.
Those thoughtful people who legibly
mark shirts, etc., before sending them
off have blessings called upon their heads
by the helpers who open and sort their
parcels.
A few refugees have arrived in Mel-
bourne, and received vouchers for out-
fits from the Red Cross or other societies,
but the majority remain in the burnt-out
areas, their wish being to get back as
soon as possible to the site of their
destroyed homes. Those who have come
to town are of all types. Some are quiet
and nervous, and accept anything
suggested to them by the helper who
takes them round the room from table
to table loaded with garments. Others
are alive to the possibility of getting
things to fit well and of colors they are
lond of, household linen and warm
blankets for the coming winter. An in-
teresting point is that men are particular
about their ties, and finger several
dozen before making their choice. Some
women want “comfortable” shoes with
flat heels; others have an urge for light
soles, high heels and buckles.
From a skier’s point of view Mt.
Hotham has ceased to exist. The slopes
are still there, but their covering, instead
of being green and healthy scrub and
snow gums, is charcoal and ashes. The
chalets at Hotham and Mt. St. Bernard
are gone, and when winter comes the
snow in the vicinity will be desolate and
untrodden. The ski championships which
were to have been held from July 22 to
August 5 at Hotham will now take place
at Buller, where the chalet, even if it is
not enlarged before the snow falls, holds
30, and the ski club hut can put up a
dozen. In addition there is the chance
of another score or so getting bunks in
the club’s building at Cow Camp, which
it is hoped will be completed by that
time. C. W. Ward Ambler, who lost his
own ski-ing hut in the fires, is doing a
good deed for followers of his favorite
sport in putting up a hut for anyone
who might want to use it on the Alpine
tract above Harrietville.
Frances Bult (Broothorn photograph)
has recently become engaged to Dr.
Travis Vorrath, eldest son of Mr. and
Mrs. F. H. Vorrath. She is going abroad
before her marriage, and on February
27 will leave with her brother and their
parents, Mr. and Mrs. A. J. C. Bult, in
the Monterey for England via America.
As plans are at present the family will
return home in about six months’ time.
Frances has been to the U.S.A. before,
in 1932, as an Olympic swimmer. A
couple of years after her return from
the Olympic Games she gave up seri-
ous swimming and the training it entailed
and took up massage as a career. Since
completing her course she has, like many
other masseuses, devoted much of her
time to the treatment of infantile paraly-
sis cases, the little “polios” in Caulfield
After-Care Hospital being among the
patients she has grown particularly fond
of.
Among those who heard the roar of
the bushfires was Mrs. F. W. Thring,
up at Arden, near Toolangi (10 miles
from Healesville), which country property
she purchased recently from the widow
of C. J. Dennis. Fortunately Mrs.
Thring’s losses were only outhouses and
some damage to the garden. Arden has
its historical as well as its sentimental
associations. Originally it was a sawmill.
C. J. Dennis built the house and added
to it several times during his 20 years
of ownership. Some of the older rooms,
full of the whisperings of the gumtree
when the wind is strong, seem to be a
meeting place for The Bloke, Doreen
and the Glugs of Gosh. The garden is
planned for lawns, shrubs, flower beds
and a famous double pink flowering
cherry. It has all the water it needs
pumped up from the Yea River at its
feet.
Mrs. Thring likes to think that the
kookaburras and possums living in the
big trees are the descendants of those
that the poet Dennis knew and loved.
After the fire she found small possums
drinking out of the water race in broad
daylight. Mrs. Thring bought some
furniture from Mrs. Dennis; the rest
she was able to move without its being
missed from her home in Toorak-road.
Her latest hobby is tapestry, and she’s
busy making tapestry covers for a set
of cedar chairs for Arden.
In the Broothorn portrait is Mrs.
Charles Focken, a visitor from Dunedin,
whose husband, Dr. Focken, is lecturer
in physics at Otago University. He was
in Canberra for the Science Congress,
but Mrs. Focken, with her daughters
Sylvia and Rosemary, came straight
through from Sydney to Melbourne on
a visit to her mother-in-law, Mrs. E. E.
Focken, of Queen’s-road. Dr. and Mrs.
Focken and their children, who are aged
nine and seven respectively, return across
the Tasman in the Maunganui at the
end of the month.
While Mrs. H. McL. Duigan was hav-
ing morning-tea with the Gowries and
lunch with the Caseys and attending all
sorts of other Science Congress-Canberra
functions as the guest of Dr. and Mrs.
Arthur Wade, her daughter Cynthia was
cooking herself a still deeper brown on
Bondi beach and motoring down to Mel-
bourne through bushfires. She met fires
here and there all the way from Bris-
bane, where she spent a holiday with her
brother Denis and his wife and held her
sturdy, struggling ten-months-old godson
for his christening ceremony. His name
is Russell Edward Vaughan, and he’s
already referred to as “Rev.” The Russell
is after Qantas pilot Russell Tapp, the
Edward is a compliment to his mother’s
father, Edward Hill, and Vaughan’s a
Duigan family name.
The Edward Hills entertained a large
party for Christmas and New Year at
Southport (Q.), which Cynthia found a
very gay and friendly place. She went to
three cocktail parties before lunch on
Christmas Day. At one of them she was
pleased to meet a school friend she hadn’t
seen for years, Nancy Hicks, now Mrs.
Lance Giddings. Miss Duigan left Bris-
bane on New Year’s Day for Armidale,
encountering much hot weather and two
blowouts just to break the monotony.
Colonel Harold Cohen had bad news
on the day he sailed for England, for in
the morning his Caulfield Cup winner,
Northwind. dropped dead while exer-
cising on the track. The Colonel’s con-
solation is his very new granddaughter
Anne, whom he is soon to see. She was
born a couple of weeks ago at Oxford.
Mrs. Cohen went to England for the
arrival of the ail-important little
stranger, only child of Dr. and Mrs.
David Falk. Colonel and Mrs. Cohen
are expected back in Melbourne early in
April.
“The Women” held its hundredth per-
formance in Melbourne during its last
week here. Its success is interesting.
Before it opened there were doubts about
its “getting over,” but when the alleged
conventionality of Melbourne was put
to the test a sense of humor and good
theatre did the trick. Probably 50 p.c.
of the people in the audience came
back a second time, and those who could
afford it made a third visit. Mr. Gollan,
N. S. Wales’s Chief Secretary, is reported
to be in communication with Melbourne’s
women police. If their verdict is un-
favorable he might demand some altera-
tions in the script of “The Women” and
of “Idiot’s Delight” before these plays
are presented to the eagerly-waiting audi-
ences of Sydney.
The Vernon Ransford couple are hav-
ing pleasant things said to them on all
sides from those in the cricket world
and out of it about Mr. Ransford’s
appointment as secretary to the M.C.C.
Mrs. Ransford must be the perfect cricket
wife. She has followed the game for so
long, knows its finer points and can
discuss historic matches and players with
her husband. During her school days
at Tintern, where her own particular
sport was tennis —she was in the college
four —she often went to watch cricket
and saw her future husband, who was
then at Hawthorn College, play in
numerous matches. Just before her mar-
riage she went to England with her
parents and saw him bat for Australia
in the Tests of 1909. Mrs. Ransford’s
particular interests arc her home and
garden at Brighton.
ft takes a quality of nerve to get away
with a challenge like giving a penny tip
to a waiter at Menzies, but somebody
did last week and there were no ill feel-
ings and no bones were broken. For
the waiter had the last word ; he brought
along two boxes of matches.
The intrepid tipster was Jack Devany,
who with his wife is down in Melbourne
on leave from Salamaua, where he is
with Stephens Aviation, Ltd. He’s very
popular and is as well known as any
present-day identity in the Territory.
Both he and Mrs. Devany have heaps
of friends and relatives here, so that their
time will be well occupied until they leave
on January 31 in the Merkur for Bris-
bane, transhipping there into the Bulolo.
They arrived in Melbourne in the Nep-
tuna, having travelled in her up to
Hong Kong and Saigon. Hong Kong
impressed them as being very quiet. No
one talked about the war. Before her
marriage last year Mrs. Devany was a
nurse in the Salamaua hospital.
Perhaps the happiest delegate to the
Science Congress at Canberra was Mrs.
T. a’Beckett, of Melbourne. She has
worked for years on the pre-school care
of children, holding that if you can have
the child from two to six and train it
in the right way it will not depart from
it. Now the Federal Government is to
set up clinics for pre-school care, taking
100 children each in the six State capi-
tals. In pursuance of this plan the
Federal Government has brought from
U. Christine Heinig, an expert on
the subject, who has been telling the
Science Congress how bad scooters are
for the very young.


rr>
v. 'S
w
a
V
w t (
*
S
<<
K f*
1 t
it
i :'<& (‘
When Sheep
are losing condition
FEED MEGGITT’S AT ONCE
/
/
A
.O.R-
p a rr» tn '
att*
\b
or
Sr do
A
4
NET 100 LBS
WHEN PACKED
MANUFACTUREDBYME6OT
DELA Y COSTS MONEY
YOU will save money by feeding a small supplementary
ration of Meggitt’s Linseed-Balanced Sheep Nuts
NOW, before the deterioration of pastures has taken too
much toll of the stamina and condition of your sheep.
Delayed feeding means greater financial losses from
drought, because results are not so satisfactory, and in the
long run actually more feed is required. That is why early
feeding with Meggitt’s Linseed-Balanced Sheep Nuts will
save you money,
It Costs Only from sd. to lOd. Per Head Per Month
While there is rough feed available, 2-ounces, rising to 4-ounces, of
Meggitt’s Linseed-Balanced Sheep Nuts per head per day is sufficient
to maintain sheep in strong, healthy condition. These rations cost sd.
to lOd. per head per month. No other method of feeding can give
comparable results at such an extremely low cost.
This Balanced Sheep Nut Combines
1 — Laxative Properties.
The basis of Meggitt’s new Linseed-
Balanced Sheep Nut is pure Linseed Oil
Meal. It is to this ingredient the new nut
owes its beneficial action on the digestive
organs, preventing those digestive troubles
which so often lead to losses during
droughts and dry spells.
2 Protein Content.
This new nut has a high and uniform con-
tent of protein in easily-digested form,
supplying ample quantities of this nutrient
for maintenance and wool production.
Fed to ewes, it ensures a high- lambing
percentage and produces ample milk for
the rearing of healthy, well-grown lambs.
3 High Food Value.
All the ingredients of Meggitt’s new
Sheep Nuts are of the highest quality.
Carefully compounded, they form a
fodder which supplies the sheep’s every
need in the most economical way. Their
absolute purity ensures safety in feeding
under all conditions.
4 Unvarying Quality.
There can be no variation in the feeding
value of this new nut as absolute
uniformity is assured by the use of latest-
type machinery. Uniform feeding value
means, of course, uniformly good results.
For FREE Ration Advice Write to
Meggiit, Ltd., Box 1555 E, C.P.0., Sydney.
MEGGITT’S
LINSEED-BALANCED SHEEP NUTS
MEGGITT, LTD., HEAD OFFICE: 67 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Works: Parramatta, Melbourne, Adelaide.


Law and Judicial.
IN THE WILL AND ESTATE OF JOHN
WILLIAM FREMAN late of 116 Madeline
Street Carlton in the State of Victoria
Engineer deceased and in the Matter of
the Complete Combustion Syndicates:
In the Supreme Court of Victoria 1925
Number 952 EDWARD WILKINSON and
ors v. CHARLES MANCY and ors.
PURSUANT to the provisions of the Trus-
tee Act 1928 and to the order of His Honour
Mr. Justice Gavan Duffy made in the above
action on the 17th day of October 1938
NOTICE is hereby given that it is the intention
of Charles Mancy Edward Wilkinson John Bird
Louis Patrick Prunty and James Gorrie the
Trustees of the Will of the abovenamed de-
ceased on or after the 30th day of April 1939
to distribute such portion of the moneys and
interest thereon as is unexpended heretofore
held by the trustees on trust for the said
deceased and the members of the six several
syndicates (known as the Complete Combustion
Syndicates) on the trusts directed by the judg-
ment of his Honour Mr. Justice McArthur
made in the said action on the 28th day of
September 1926 among the persons holding
shares in or interested in the said six several
syndicates of whose claims the trustees shall
then have had notice And notice is further
given that notice and particulars of such claims
must be forwarded to the said trustees in care
of their solicitors MESSRS NEWMAN AND
WINGROVE The Trustees Chambers 401 Col-
lins Street Melbourne and that all persons
claiming to hold shares or be interested in any
of the said syndicates are required to prove
their claims by the said 30th day of April
1939 otherwise they will be excluded from any
such distribution.
DATED this 11th day of January 1939.
NEWMAN & WINGROVE, The Trustees
Chambers, 401 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the said trustees.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
ON SALE EVERY WEDNESDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 68-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Every month six to nine
patterns are given away free
for a penny stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
High Blood
Pressure...
THE TRUTH AT LAST
Kigrli Blood Pros sure, giddiness,
pounding 1 and trembling are now
being successfully treated in a new
way that is safe, natural and scien-
tific. Specialists bave now traced the
cause of Hypertension (High Blood
Pressure) to self-poisoning, i.e., a
clogged colon. As a result of inac-
tivity of the colon (large intestine)
fragments of food waste encrust on
the colon walls and there putrefy.
Virulent poisons, acids and lime salts
that should be evacuated seep into
the blood stream. Normal “alkaline
reserve” is overthrown and the
arteries undergo a fibrous change due
to deposits of lime salts and blood
impurities. They lose their elasticity,
become rigid and narrowed in
channel. The same amount of blood
has then to be “forced” through the
narrowed arteries. This places extra
effort on the heart which results in
the many alarming symptoms ex-
perienced by blood pressure sufferers
—such as headaches, shortness of
breath, giddiness, hot flushes, heart
pains, ear-ringing, trembling, un-
steadiness when walking, exhaustion
and puffiness.
To relieve high blood pressure you must re-
move the encrustations on the colon.
Normal bowl movements cannot do this
the walls of the colon become inactive.
Opening medicines only purge the lower
end of the colon. Drink warm water and
‘Coloseptic’ every morning. This simple
plan cleanses the colon, tones up the walls,
giving them back their power of normal
movement. ‘Coloseptic’ alkalinises the blood
and helps dissolve the lime salts and blood
impurities from the arterial walls. The
arteries then bcome soft and flexible per-
mitting the blood to circulate without in-
creased heart effort. ‘Coloseptic’ further
stimulates the action of the kidneys, skin
pores and lungs vital organs which
eliminate poisons from your system. Get
‘Coloseptic’ from your chemist to-day.
Individual size, 2/9; Economy size, 5/6.
FRBB SAMPLE
Send 3d. stamps for postage; a liberal Free
Trial Sample and interesting, intimate book
will be sent you. COLOSEPTIC (AUST.)
LTD., 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Storm Over Westralia
“D.”: While Eastern Australia was
having its heat-wave and its bushfires,
one of the most severe and far-reaching
cyclonic disturbances on record swept
across North Westralia. Striking at
Port Hedland, the storm passed inland.
It missed the Lower Murchison and West
Gascoyne, but drenched the eastern gold-
fields.
Port Hedland was isolated from the
outside world. Wireless masts and tele-
graph lines were blown or washed down
and houses went with the wind and.
waves. A hotel lost half its upper
deck, the native hospital was knocked
about and the flying doctor’s ’plane was
wrecked in its hangar. Damage, about
£lOO,OO O.
Marble Bar, 114 miles inland, “the
hottest place in Australia,” received
nearly six inches of rain, and the railway
from there to Port Hedland was dam-
aged to the extent of £4OOO. The Gov-
ernment wouldn’t mind if it had been
washed into the Indian Ocean.
Kalgoorlie-Boulder suffered a deluge.
Failure of the powerhouse left only two
mines working, and the Transcontinental
railway service was disorganised by land-
slides and washaways. Further north,
round Menzies, Lawlers and Cox’s Find,
half the country was under water.
Lawlers, which has an average annual
rainfall of seven inches, floundered in
18 inches in less than a fortnight.
In the Kalgoorlie district the water
turned over ground that had remained
undisturbed for years. Backyards, streets
and gutters have been specked for good
returns; one lucky fossicker picked up
a five-ounce slug, and an ounce slug was
found in Hannan-street.
Other gold has come with the rain.
The storm ended a long drought in the
nor’-west, and about two-thirds of
Westralia’s pastoral area should benefit.
Across miles and miles of hard, red, dusty
and stony country grass will grow for
the first time for years, grey and brown
mulga will show green again and sheep
will grow fat.
After several weeks of blistering nor’-
west heat I once saw a storm break a
three years’ drought. Sheep that had
been chewing mulga bark and twigs
straggled into waterholes; dogs that had
never known rain hid under houses;
children splashed about in newly-
formed lakes. Old-man kangaroos, gaunt
and starving, came to the waterholes and
could have been shot down in scores ;
they waited by the water until men
approached within a few yards.
And in the pubs pastoralist and miner
together got wetter than all the surround-
ing country as they farewelled Old Man
Drought and toasted the rain and pros-
perity.
Crash at Katherine
“Ailer-on”: The Guinea Airways con-
cern has a fine record of freedom from
accident, and it is a tragedy that, when
it was about to establish a trans-
continental all-daylight mail service with
the Kooranga, that machine, the fastest
in the Commonwealth, should have
crashed at Katherine (N.T.) with four
good men.
It was a Lockheed 14, a development
of the smaller type of Lockheed for two
years in use by the company in New
Guinea and Australia. Its top speed was
about 250 m.p.h. It had called at
Katherine on January 18, those aboard
being Jon Jukes, just appointed acting-
chief pilot, Ralph Clarke, who is be-
“Strychnine be damned—you've been usin' the home-brew!"
lieved to have been at the controls,
P E. Donegan, first officer, and Alec
McDonald, chief inspector of N.T. aero-
dromes.
In heavy rain the Kooranga rose from
the earth aerodrome at 7.50 a.m. It
cleared the fence; then one engine
seemed to lose revolutions. The machine
gave a quick lift, turned sharply, struck
some trees with the starboard wing and
hurtled into the deep and dangerous
river bed, which is within 300 yards of
the landing ground. The crew were
killed instantly as the Kooranga tele-
scoped. The smash was so complete
that there will be no salvage.
The machine carried 16,6891 b. —
nearly 10001 b. within its load maximum.
There was ample clearance at the aero-
drome for a safe take-off. Using 1200
h.p., the Lockheed 14 type needs about
1700 ft. to rise over 50ft. clear of the
ground, whereas the Katherine runway
is 2100 ft. long, and the timber is felled
back some chains. The total h.p. of the
two engines was roughly 1600.
Darwin had a special interest in the
ill-fated crew, and their loss was a blow
to all Australians interested in aviation.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Thorby is to bring
back from Singapore the dinkum oil
about the Base, the air mail, naval and
military defence, together with informa-
tion about tropical habits and architec-
ture which will be of great value to the
denizens of North Australia, Papua and
New Guinea. Hundreds of northerners
go to Asia every year—some of them
several times a year—though, of course,
without retinues; and yet it is necessary
to send a harassed Minister to find out for
them how to live in the tropics. I am
afraid he will discover that Singapore
conditions differ widely from North Aus-
tralian. In Asia comfort and pleasant
living depend on abundance of native
labor and some simple rules which were
well summarised by my young friend Mr.
Duck Shun, the larnpidgin boy poet, in
four short lines: —-
Weah plentee piecee white-clo—washee-washee;
Dlink plentee pahit —-soda sloshee-sloshee;
And plentee piecee insect squashee-squashee.
Maskee all other measures —boshee-boshee!
“Dick Tafone”: A holiday happening
at a South Queensland seaside town
sounds more like a Laurel and Hardy
effort than the sober fact that it was.
A man was knocked down by a car, and
in reply to sympathisers stated that he
was afraid his leg was broken. The
apologetic driver offered reparation, to
which the injured one replied that it
would cost him £4O if the limb was a
total loss. The driver, relieved at so
moderate a figure, said that he would
leave something as security. Returning
to his vehicle, he brought back a saxo-
phone valued at £5O. He then drove off
to an urgent appointment. The victim
coolly removed the damaged limb, which
was artificial, borrowed some nuts and
bolts and a length of fencing wire, and
in half an hour proceeded on his way
with the security under his arm.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: To the plain, thirsty
citizen the dead-marine trade means little
or nothing, yet it has romance and ad-
venture in it, as well as a tidy bit of
money. Every two months eight million
bottles, one for every man, woman and
child in Australia, are collected in
Sydney alone. Brisbane averages nearly
a million a month. Even Darwin returns
more than 100,000 every month to the
south for replacement of their gratifying
contents. A motor-lorry outfit that set out
from Cairns on a 2500-mile journey to
the Gulf country collected 120,000
empties at Georgetown, Croydon and
Normanton, and took them on to Burke-
town for shipment to Brisbane at a gross
return of £5OO. Coolgardie, when I saw
it last, was making more out of empty
bottles than out of goldmining. It only
needs a sufficiently ingenious economist,
and Australia will be able to drink itself
into a state of abounding prosperity.
* * * *
“J. Want”: Queensland has had its
share of heat. N. S. Wales put up a better
record during one day in the second
January week, when every centre except
a dozen coastal ones reported minimum
temperatures above 100 deg., with a State
maximum at Wilcannia of 118. But for
long-distance heat give me Thargo-
mindah (s.-w. Q.), which every day be-
tween December 15 and January 10 had
a maximum of at least 100, beating
Bourke, where it stood at 100 or over
for 23 days, by more than a neck. House-
wives have been feeling the pinch of the
weather for some time. Cabbages, which
on Dec. 6 sold in Brisbane markets for
3s. to ss. a chaffbag, were selling on
Jan. 7up to 18s. a bag; beans rose from
2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. a sugarbag to a range
from 10s. to £1 a bag, and other prices
have mainly doubled.
* * * *
“X.T.”: A police warning should be
heeded —sharks have been seen 61 miles
up the Brisbane River near Mt. Crosby.
Fresh water being scarce and the river
flow slowed down, salt water has made
its way inland, and with it the scavengers.
There are other rivers and creeks in
which the same thing must be happening.
* * * *
“Mutti Mutti”: Another old Queens-
land crossroads, Stonehenge, seems to
have come to the end of its tether now
that the coaches are gone and the car
and the aeroplane have come. It was
never a big place—a pub, a store or two,
perhaps at its peak 120 people in it —but
all Barcoo roads led to and from Stone-
henge. One slipped south, through
Jundah to Galway and Hammond Downs,
and then split east for Thargomindah
and Hungerford and Bourke, and west
through Mt. Howitt and across the
N.S.W. border by the Wompa gate,
alongside Currapundy
Swamp. Other offshoots
joined the Thomson track
to Welford, Milo, Bimerah,
Isisford, Blackall, Tambo
and Adavale via Listowel.
A northward coach route
ran up the Thomson 100
miles to Longreach. Still
another ran up Vergemont
Creek to Winton. Other
branches gave access by
various routes to the
Diamantina country,
Bedourie and Birdsville.
Soon the headquarters of
Barcoo Shire will be trans-
ferred to Jundah, further
south.
“Dungeness”: Bundaberg (Q.) is
chucking a chest these days. It has the
youngest Mayor in Queensland, and he
has started the first municipal physical
fitness movement in Australia, which cer-
tainly won’t be popular with most of his
riper compeers. Vance Palmer, Gladys
Moncrieff, Molly de Gunst, the two Tal-
lon brothers and Colin Stibe were born in
Bundaberg. Greater than all of them,
Squadron-Leader Herbert John Hinkler
made his first trip through the air, in a
home-made glider, from the sandhill at
the back of his mother’s house. Bunda-
berg has honored his memory with a
monument. An all-weather landing
ground would have appealed more to his
sense of fitness.


*OR Tttf
EMPIRE'S MILLIONS
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers 1
6AM
St. George’s House,
St. George’s Terrace,
Perth,
Western Australia.
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES &. CO., I
CHEMISTS, 1
319 George St., Sydney.
f
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Vertical Close-spaced 56mc.
Aerial.
As a compact but effective beam array
for experimental transmission on 56mc.,
the type known as the WBJK, popular-
ised by the American amateur John
Kraus, has proved particularly successful.
General communication on this band
shows that a vertically polarised system
is more convenient and probably more
effective than one horizontally polarised.
It is easier to erect and arrange for rota-
tion, which is essential in order to obtain
the full directive benefit. The diagram
shows a version using three sections, giv-
ing a gain somewhere around 6db bi-
directionally, and fed with a twisted pair
cable of the EOl variety. The essential
dimensions are shown. By stacking two
or three sections vertically the radiation
is confined to a flatter beam along the
earth’s surface, which may show a still
greater gain for general coverage.
Such an aerial system needs to be
rotated through 180 deg. only to take in
all directions, and will be found equally
advantageous for both reception and
transmission. If even greater compact-
ness is desired, the top section of the
array can be omitted, making it of two
sections, in which case the overall length,
including the quarter-wave stub section
at the bottom, will not exceed 20ft.
Twisted pair line is not the best method
of feeding, but is quite suitable where
the line length to transmitter or receiver
is reasonably short. Better for such ultra-
high-frequency purposes is the Belling
Lee 80-ohm cable. This cable, an Eng-
lish product, is quite different from twisted
pair. It consists of two parallel con-
ductors spaced about iin. in moulded
plastic material. Up to 200 watts of R.F.
can be fed through the line with safety.
If a spaced line is used with such an
array, the usual procedure of shorting
the stub and tapping on the line as for
lower frequencies will be adopted. This
calls for care in adjustment and extreme
accuracy in resonating the system to the
transmitter frequency. With a low-read-
ing thermocouple R.F. meter as a tem-
porary jumper, resonance at the desired
frequency is obtained by sliding this
along the stub until maximum reading is
obtained. If a meter of this type is not
available, a low-voltage bulb can be used.
The feeders should not be connected
directly to the stub during this adjust-
ment, but clipped on with a layer of in-
sulating tape between clips and wire in
order to provide a capacity feed.
The transmitter should be used with
fairly low power. Once the resonant
point is shown, a wire is soldered perma-
nently across the stub at this position.
Next connect the feeder line directly to
the stub and vary its position until stand-
ing waves for the whole line length are
at a minimum. Procedure for determin-
ing resonance with open-ended stub for
twisted pair feed is similar. Once the
resonant position is found with the meter
across the stub, the twisted pair line is
attached at this position.
Structural arrangement for such an
array can be a bamboo pole with three
cross arms. This makes for lightness and
small wind-resistance. Arrays of this type
have been thoroughly tested at experi-
mental stations VK2NO and VK2EM,
N.S.W., and found to provide the ideal
for general 56mc. coverage.
D. B. K.
A view of one of England’s best-known amateur radio stations, GSZJ, owned and operated by Kenneth Jowers, short-
wave editor of “Television and Short-wave World,” at Letchworth. The station is active on all amateur bands, but is
to be found mainly on 20 and 10 metres with telephony. More than 90 countries and 27 zones have been worked on
two-way ’phone. From left to right can be seen cathode-ray equipment, speech amplifier, low-power emergency equip-
ment, main transmitter using two 100TH’s in the final, 2.5- to 10-metres receiver, three-stage preselector, 12-valve 10- to
200-metres receiver, mixer panel, five-metre portable transceiver, and three-band exciter with 12 crystal frequencies.
Radio Comment.
From a captain of Signals : Your cor-
respondent “Fios” (B. 4/1 / ’39) obviously
has some knowledge of radio, but, though
I do not intend joining issue on his
remarks concerning the use of wireless
during the recent Port Stephens
manoeuvres —conditions are not always
suitable —preferring to leave that to those
who were concerned there, his closing
sentences call for comment. Constructive
criticism is always welcome, but his chit-
chat gets us nowhere. A word or two
concerning those “lamps.” In 1916,
when valves were first introduced on the
Western Front, they were regarded by
the higher command as a secret inven-
tion —never to be captured intact by the
enemy, and never to be referred to in
speech or Morse as valves. They
became known as “lamps,” and I expect
that the name has remained. Is there
anything wrong in that? Would “Fios”
condemn anyone for also referring to
valves as “tubes.” I don’t believe “Fios”
himself is in the Signal Service ; he should
be.
[Whether “Fios” is a member of militia
Signals or not is beside the point.
The use of the term “lamps” may have
been understandable, as explained by the
captain, in early war days, but is
hardly so nowadays. If it is expected that
radio valves (or American radio “tubes”)
shall remain known in Signals as lamps,
there ought to be something about it in
signal-training manuals. Regarding “con-
ditions not always being suitable” for
wireless communication, surely that is
merely a matter of intelligent use of cor-
rect frequency channels? Particularly
in scrub, higher frequencies will suffer
from absorption and “skip,” but if lower
frequencies cannot put a signal five miles
or so, even over an intervening moun-
tain, with power input to spare, then
either the equipment or the personnel is
at fault. —Ed.]
Amateur Chatter.
Conditions recently have been peculiar,
particularly on 14mc., where during the
early mornings Americans on ’phone
and CW can be heard strongly.
Attempts to attract attention, however,
have been unsuccessful, and it is de-
batable whether this is due to band con-
gestion or “one-way” signals. During
Sydney’s night of excessive heat pre-
ceding the record hot day, an eastern
Sydney station got in touch with a large
number of countries on ’phone between
midnight and 3 a.m. with unusual ease.
Very short skip has been in evidence in
daylight hours on 14mc., such stations
as VKs 2UC Lismore, 2VU Singleton,
and 2GM Inverell being very strong
in Sydney. Despite the temperature of 120
degrees in the operating room, the 56mc.
band was scanned for likely DX, with-
out success. VK2LZ in the Blue Moun-
tains now has a very strong 56mc. CW
and ’phone signal on the coast, and can
be heard calling DX at intervals. Using
a Hallicrafters SXI7 receiver, VK4LK
at Cloncurry (N.Q.) is on the watch for
possible 56mc. DX, as this receiver takes
in the band.
G6DT reports poor conditions from
England, and says that GBMX, who
was going great guns on 10 metres with
an extended double-zepp aerial, has not
been able to raise a thing for weeks.
G6DT considers that this particular
array is a “good conditions” system, par-
ticularly on 14mc. With the decline in
DX results on the higher frequencies, it
seems likely that 7mc. will shortly prp-
duce the DX results of a few years ago.
The difference will be the difficulty of
finding the DX in the cracks of world-
wide QRM. Rotatable aerial arrays for
that band will also present some real
difficulties. G6DT passes on a remote-
control tip worthy of note. He decided
at his London station to move the busi-
ness end of the transmitter to a garage
150 ft. from the house. It \vas essential
to retain the crystal unit in the house.
The problem of link coupling the first
frequency doubler (push-push 6A6) over
150 ft. of line to the second doubler
(6L6G), transmission frequency being at
7mc., was overcome by using Belling
Lee 80-ohm cable. A few reels of that
type of transmission line would be appre-
ciated by VKs.
The double Jones single-wire-feed
aerial recently erected at VK2NO is
justifying the trial, and those with space
clear of buildings below an existing
s.w.f. aerial should try the scheme. Dur-
ing a period when there were few Ameri-
cans on 14mc., a ’phone contact with
WSGOU elicited the information that
VK2NO was the first VK phone station
heard there for over a year. A good
example of the utility of the single-wire
matched-impedance aerial is VK4MF,
of Sarina (Q.). This station reaches out
in fine style with low power, and has a
remarkably strong and consistent signal
in Sydney day and night.
At the invitation of Alwyn Etter, radio
officer of the Port Montreal, the ship’s
installation was examined recently in
Sydney. The International Marine Com-
munication gear is a model of efficiency
and neatness, and an inspiration to the
amateur to remodel his station on similar
lines. Long- and short-wave transmitters
are crystal controlled, and the massive
variable-frequency crystal holders are a
work of art.
DX conditions should return to 7mc
with the gradual drift from the higher
frequencies. On the evening of 16/1/’is
at 6 p.m., GSFA was heard at R 5 on
C.W. through heavy static, and Ameri-
cans were strong and numerous The
writer considers the best antenna for this
band to be the humble twisted pair half-
wave. Losses in EOl at 7mc. are neg-
ligible for 100 ft. of length.
VK2NO.
Amateurs Make "All-
Continent" Record.
It is interesting, with many experi-
mental transmitters, to see how speedily
it is possible under suitable conditions to
work all continents (“W.A.C.” in amateur
parlance). Recently, a group of amateur
stations in widely-separated continents
established a new record by holding a
round-table “W.A.C.” This took place
on January 4 last, the stations partici-
pating being W4DLH, VU2CQ, AKSAR,
VK4JU, SUIAM and GSML. It took
lmin. 50sec. to flash the message around
the earth by relays. W4DLH started off
with the original transmission at 12.57
and 20 seconds G.M.T. After passing
from each station in the order given the
message was received back at the Ameri-
can starting point at 12.59 and 10 seconds
G.M.T.
Radio Amateur's Handbook
for 1939.
When in 1926 the American Radio
Relay League first published the hand-
book known among amateurs the world
over- as “Handy’s,” 5000 copies were
printed. With the 16th edition, just to
hand, that number has increased to
60,000 copies. There are 20 chapters, deal-
ing with elementary principles, circuit
terms, definitions and equations, vacuum
tubes, workshop practice, receiver design
and construction, transmitter design and
construction, keying methods, radio-
telephony, ultra-high-frequency receivers
and transmitters, antennas, power supply,
emergency and portable equipment, in-
struments and measurements, station
assembly, station operation, message
handling and league organisation.
The constructional chapters are full of
new ideas and methods covering the
application of modern valves and acces-
sories available to the Australian as well
as the American amateur. In the U.H.F.
section new superhet receivers and con-
verters are described, using the 1852-type
valves. Method of layout for such R.F.
stages is clearly indicated by illustration.
There is no aspect of modern radio engi-
neering that is not fully covered, and as
a textbook for the newcomer to radio


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
SECOND
SENTENCE COMPETITION
£5O Prizes
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes . . £1
Closing Date February 8.
There is no Entrance Charge.
For the Second Sentence Competition “The
Bulletin” is offering £5O, to be awarded as
stated above, for the Best Humorous Sentence
made up of words from the Aboriginalities
pages (pages 20 and 2 1 ) in the current issue
(January 25).
How to Compete.
Make up a sentence of not less than 12 and
not more than 20 words, using words from
pages 20 and 21 of this issue.
Write your sentence on the coupon below in
BLOCK letters, cut out the coupon and post
to reach
"Sentence Competition No. 2,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney ,
not later than February 8.
Rules.
1— Not more than one word from any one line to be used.
2 Each word must come from a later line than the one before
it (not necessarily the next line).
3 Compound, hyphenated and abbreviated words may be
used,
4 The sentence must be one that could conceivably be used
in ordinary conversation. It can be absurd, but gram-
matically it must make sense.
5 No limit to the number of entries, but every entry must be
filled in on a coupon.
6 The prizes will be awarded to the sentences considered
the most amusing, and the Editor’s decision is final.
7 Words may not be taken from the verses or joke blocks.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., is
eligible to compete. Otherwise this competition is open to all,
free of any entrance charge.
SPECIMEN SENTENCE.
(Words from Pages 20 and 21.)
The careless ’roo-shooter experiments with Dad,
and the old man, screeching twice, drops cement
into his rearguard.
SECOND SENTENCE COMPETITION.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
Sentence.
Results of the First Sentence Competition, which closes to-day
(January 25), will be announced in next week’s “Bulletin
(February 1). In the issue of the following week (February
8) a Third Sentence Competition will be announced.
The results of the Eleventh Limerick Competition are
announced on page 35 (Shows Page) of the present issue.
or the advanced experimenter this hand-
book is indispensable. Copy is from
McGill’s Newsagency, 183-185 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne. Price Bs., plus lOd.
postage.
Station VK6WZ. Westralia.
Pictured is the experimental station of
Harry Atkinson, VK6WZ, an active mem-
ber of the VK6 division of W.I.A. and a
contributor to this page. Location is
Victoria Park, Perth, and VK6WZ is to
be found on 7mc., 14mc. and 28mc. on
both C.W. and telephony. Seen from the
operating position the completed final
transmitter stage using an 807 is at the
left, with, below, the buffer-doubler stage.
Underneath that is the oscillator section
in an aluminium box.
VK6WZ says that “the queer-looking
object clamped to the side of the rack
alongside the final chassis is the absorp-
tion wavemeter, to give some idea of
keying and modulation, since pea-lamps
cannot be used in Belling Lee 80-ohm
cable. The large valves together on top
of the cabinet on the table are Osram
PX2s’s, still in use after years of service.
They are now used in a clickless keying
arrangement with success. When the sta-
tion is used for speech transmission these
valves are transferred to the modulator.”
The Reisz-type microphone can be seen
in the centre. The tuned R.F. receiver is
next on the right, followed by a small
Amplion speaker on plywood baffle. On
the extreme right is the Morse key. In
the middle foreground between the
Belden reel supporting the microphone
and the small portable-type meter is the
change-over switch. This is a P.M.G.
switchboard type, bristling with contacts,
and is used to switch receiver, crystal
oscillator and aerial. The portable multi-
range Ferranti meter plugs into the
various stages for grid, screen and plate
readings. The big Calstan meter is per-
manently in the plate circuit of the 807.
A new exciter unit, now under con-
struction, will replace the present oscil-
lator and buffer stages. VK6WZ keeps
schedules each day with SUIMW in
Cairo, Egypt. Moustapha Waly, who
operates the station, is a German-born
Egyptian and is sound engineer at film
studios in Cairo. He uses 450 watts to
a pair of old TelefUnken valves in Class-
B linear with very low level modulation,
and puts a very powerful signal into
Westralia with a two-section WBJK beam.
Aerial systems at VK6WZ vary, and
R.H.A. has a hankering after the very effi-
cient Belling Lee cable so readily obtain-
able in Perth. Judging by the signal
from VK6WZ in Eastern Australia, the
owner-operator gets the most from it.
D.B.K.
New Headquarters for B.B.C.
Excavation of the site upon which
Broadcasting House, London, will be ex-
tended is to begin immediately. The new
building will go 54ft. below pavement
level, lower than the vaults of the Bank
of England, and should be ready for
occupation by the end of 1940. Five
underground studios will be incorporated
in the extension, and in order to eliminate
all possible risk of extraneous noise each
will be constructed as a separate shell,
floated and isolated from the building
itself. There will be a general purposes
studio, 80ft. long, 54ft. wide and 30ft
high: three dramatic studios ; an effects
studio, and a number of rehearsal rooms.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid com
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) I have no technical experience, but the
receiver described B. 4/1 / ’39 takes my fancy.
Is it possible for me to build that set? (2)
If not, where in Victoria could l have it con-
structed ? —745.
(1) Such a receiver is far too advanced for
a beginner to attempt. It is advisable to experi-
ment with simple and small circuit arrange-
ments before tackling such a complex job. (2)
Several Melbourne radio houses would be able
to make the receiver up exactly as specified.
Try Kingsley Radio, 249 Spring-street, Mel-
bourne.
# * * *
(1) 1 have a four-valve Bandmaster model
675 M.E. receiver, using 6D6 R.F. amplifier,
6/47 converter. 6J57 second detector and first
audio, 42 pentode and 80 rectifier. Would the
receiver work satisfactorily from a six-volt car
battery and 135 volts of B battery if the 42
is changed for a 38 valve and a permag,
speaker is used? (2) I also have a six-valve
T.R.F. receiver, using standard coils. Valves
are 34 R.F., 32 second R.F., IMSG third R.F.,
Bill detector, 30 Class-B driver and 19 Class-
B output. Could I use A.V.C. in this receiver
with a \KIG duo-diode pentode? —746.
(1) The receiver could be remodelled for bat-
tery operation as suggested by exclusion of the
A.C. power-pack. Better to use the type 41 in
preference to the 38, as no alteration in socket
connections is then necessary. The 41 plugs
into the same socket as the 42, and the exist-
ing biasing arrangement may be suitable. (2)
Yes.


LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
- ♦*••• -*x‘ K :.4* *v<r
ytm
atmi* ’
.If -< .*5, , ' „ -
!Mjp
.. nnn 1
|P :
U&f*
mm
& < « i?, % •, v ;'\
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"IYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WI RE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Australian v. U.S.A. Wools.
• „ tu u r' * c
Peppin : The Golden Gate Expos,-
tion at San Francisco (Septembei -3-
k C-u ^£l is organising a woo
exhibition and inviting entries from all
parts of the world.
Fleece entries are divided into two
classes. The Breeds Class is confined to
stud flocks, and lists 40 breeds, seven of
them merino types, including every breed
known to Australia.
In the Market Division are 10 classes
defined according to spinning quality,
and ranging from 80’s or better to 36’s
and carpet wools. In the Stud Breeds
Division are separate merino classes for
each country. Class 2 covers Australian
merino. M.L. and Tasmanian merinos
are listed as separate classes.
The exhibition provides an opportunity
to impress America with the superiority
of Australian wool. But it is not only
a matter for individual breeders. The
Sheepbreeders’ Association should see
“Keep yr eye on 'er, Ma, an see she don't swallow any wire."
that Australia is represented both in
quantity and quality.
It is a pity that notice of the event was
not received earlier to enable fleeces to
be selected last year, as the opening date
(September) will preclude the entry of
most of the present season’s clean country
wools. Fleeces are transported to the
exhibition free, but they remain the prop-
erty of the exhibition.
The N.S.W. Graziers’ Association has
received a set of standard wool types
from U.S.A., and intending exhibitors
would do well to inspect them. The out-
standing feature of the U.S.A. types ,is
the absence of merino characteristics in
crossbred and comeback types —even
the 60’s differs from. Australian 60’s.
Actually in the U.S.A. spinning counts
are not used except with imported
wools. Under their classification every-
thing from 64’s to 80’s is called
“Fine,” 60’s to 58’s \ blood, 56’s
i blood, 50’s to 48’s j blood, 46’s
low 7 blood, 44’s common, 36’s, 40’s
braid. Nevertheless, the standard samples
have been typed according to fibre meas-
urement, and Bradford spinning counts
are given.
The U.S.A. 80’s would not be regarded
as much better than a 70’s here, while
the 64’s is finer and also shorter in length
than our type —more like a 66’s. Prin-
cipal features of the merino samples are
their lack of style, poor color and wasty
tip. If these may be taken as even aver-
age U.S.A. quality, Australia’s merino
wool exhibit should be outstanding. The
U.S.A. 60’s type has the short fuzzy char-
acteristics of the Downs breed, and it is
interesting to note that this class in the
schedule is for “58’s or 60’s combing.”
Most of the crossbred types are approxi-
mately one grade finer than local
standards.
As the bulk of Australian merino
entries will probably be medium wools,
something around a 66’s will stand the
best chance. However, all wools'will be
classed according to U.S.A. standards on
arrival—the reason, as printed in the
schedule: “Many growers of excellent
wools are not capable of classing or grad-
ing them”!
Wheat as Stock Feed.
“A.A.D.”: At present value, wheat is
the cheapest of concentrates available
as a drought feed or as a supplement.
In many districts in western Riverina
and. the Upper Hunter (N.S.W.) hand-
feeding of sheep and cattle is again
being resorted to, and “starving stopk
concession freights on fodder apply. The
charge is less than id. per bushel on
wheat, and the landed cost to the stock-
feeder is less than 2s. Compare this
wheat at, £3 10s. a ton with maize at
£lO 10s. (present value).
In the 1919-20 drought vast quantities
of reconditioned wheat from the war-
time Government stocks were sold for
stock feed at 2s. 9d. to 3s. a bushel on
rail when other fodders were at famine
prices. Sheepmen paid as much as
£lO a ton for jam melons! Last autumn
some 2,000,000 bushels of wheat at 3s.
to 3s. 3d. a bushel, ex country silos,
was used for starving sheep.
New W.A. Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: The W.A. Agricultural
Department, which gave N.S.W. growers
the flag-smut-resistant Nabawa wheat and
later an improvement in Bencubbin, has
again provided a new wheat —Bungulla,
a selection from Bencubbin (Gluyas x
Nabawa), produced at Merredin Research
station.
After five years’ trial, in which it
showed no variation in type or char-
acter, Bengulla is being distributed to
farmers for the coming sowing. Indis-
tinguishable from Bencubbin in appear-
ance and habit of growth, and equally
resistant to flag smut, it is heralded as
an early-maturing type suitable for dis-
tricts of low rainfall. The grain is of
standard soft white class.
In yield trials Bungulla has exceeded
all other varieties of similar maturity in
the West. The increased yield has been
most marked during years when drought
conditions prevailed.
Pasture on Sandy Soils.
“J. Want”: The C.S. and I.R. has
done considerable work in S. Australia
to decide the best method of-establishing
permanent pastures■ on' - the deep sandy
soils of the south-west.
It was found that lucerne, with'early
flowering sub. clover and Phalaris
tuberosa, sown with a. cover crop, would
give a rich pasture on land which had
been clear of timber -for several years.
Lucerne, of course, -is the basis for
pasture. It mixes all other types
of grass, and particularly* is suitable for
establishment with > the phalaris, -which
could not always stand up-to cereal and
Wimmera rye'competition.
Annual dressings pfflicwt. super, were
found payable, and added sulphate of
ammonia helped the cover crops, which,
though they affected .the. yield of seeded
grasses, seemed to have no effect on the
production of seeded legumes. Lucerne
and sub. clover gave better second-year
outputs when sown with light cereal
covers than when sown alone.
The way now looks open for the
treatment of the so-called “heath” areas
of S.A., once regarded as valueless. The
experiments seem to suggest that further
tests in other parts of Australia pn
similar land would be worth while. Be-
fore lucerne goes in, however, there
must be efficient inoculation.
Improving Grass Lands.
“Booraby”: Almost any pasture land
can be improved by using only native
plants. Carrying capacity depends on the
quality and nutritive properties of the
vegetation, not on quantity. The good
can be judged from the bad by observing
what stock eat down and do well on,
and what they pass by or eat only as a
last resort. Selection is the secret of
native pasture uses.
About one-third of indigenous grasses
are poor. They should be replaced with
other kinds that are relished by stock,
particularly those that have quick-fatten-
ing qualities. With judicious selection of
grasses for all seasons, with a sprinkling
of hardy shrubs, a small block will carry
a man a long way in bad times when
others on larger areas are experiencing
trouble and loss. The most important
perennials are those that are deep-rooted
and stand severe grazing.
Some quick-growing grasses —blady
grass, for instance —are relished when
young, but soon lose grazing value. Left
to age, they grow high and make bush-
fires. Others, such as Mitchell, are good
and fattening even when grey and dry.
Where these lasting grasses grow widely,
with intervals of succulent herbage and
shrubs, is rich grazing country.
The best grasses to encourage, accord-
ing to districts, are wallaby, kangaroo,
silver top, satin top, blue, sugar, coolah,
native oat, Mitchell, native couch (par-
ticularly for horses) and Australian wheat
grass. All these make good meadow hay,
and are improved by cultivation.
Soil Conservation.
“J.E.8.”: S. M. Artaud’s Goom-
bragana —1600 acres n.-w. of Corowa
(N.S.W.)—offers a fine example of what
can be done to combat erosion (B.
18/1 / ’39).
The land was rabbit-cleared by dig-
ging, and the granite-soil formation
showed plenty of gullies when work was
begun with a plough tractor drawn on
a long cable, to allow flexible hauling
on the broken country. The edges of
gullies were ploughed down, and the gul-
lies levelled. Slopes were contour-sur-
veyed, and two furrows were turned
downhill to form check banks. The in-
sides of the banks were without fall and
crossed the gully to the slopes on the
other side, making for the even creep of
water along the bank furrow and pro-
moting seepage.
r Its is a simple and sure system when
topped off with , the sowing of grass or
willow cuttings in the reclaimed gullies—
sometimes 2ft. 6in. deep.
_ A Grass Pest.
“Observer”: The S. American Para
grass, which formed the basis of Brice
Henry’s experiments in fattening chiller
steers-from the inland on coastal country
at Tully/CQ.), has become a pest in places
on the N.S.W. Northern Rivers.
In. damp positions in the sub-tropical
Richmorid-Tweed areas it makes prolific
growth of lush pastures. Recently, how-
ever*it has choked drainage channels and
the waterways of tributary creeks of the
(i Continued on page 44.)


TRY
lift
P?
m
z-i-
-sou
A
an gw
'w.
WO
>ew
*2
•v.
. *g ' «»«« gr-cgi» ti>«>N»N»
"* t 3 I *0 «1,-»<.«< »> t . w»«-v» l>*
**9.i»«)Wmi v>om ku «m« l» >**i
«Mm< VM, K»»« HU JZp?
««i li HM to. IW
Od
par
//
&
SAUCE
SEND FOR FREE COO
NAME
ADDRESS
LEA&PERRINS (aust)ltd 96 white ST LKCHHARDT,
3
'O
\
s
w


27ie~ifeuIEeZz/rt
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
; •• •;
■
soft®
plume
■m
giim
: : - ;: V: ; ‘ : ' ; ■ S
few&Sji i ' :
I
For Starting, Getaway, Power and Mileage
IT’S AUSTRALIA’S BEST PETROL
P 839
_
Tweed. Eradication experiments at Moo-
ball with various chemicals applied when
the grass was 3ft. to 4ft. high showed that
sodium chlorate at the rate of 4cwt to
scwt. per acre gave 90 to 95 p.c. kill
without soil sterilisation, the dead grass
being replaced by soft weeds. Dressings
of one to five tons salt and also borax
and salt had no effect.
p- . *
Pigs for Import.
“Pappamosca”: The Australian Meat
Board favors the development of bacon
rather than pork for export.
Australian bacon does not compete
with U.K. home-grown. Before we can
get and hold any fair proportion of the
market we will have to overcome the
conditions which led the board this year
to report that “seasonal conditions in the
latter half of 1937 militated against carry-
ing pigs t 0 baconer weight.” one of the
two vital factors in securing a market is
continuity of supply.
The board has included in its report
a fine set of pictures of model carcasses
They were shown in its pig competitions
last year> and it is a pity they ca P nnol be
printed in folder form an j circulated
generally. Or perhaps it would be better
to wait until the board has abandoned
ds pre sent method of grading pig meat
as “ G .A.Q.” and “F.A.Q.,” and adopted
three grades, as with beef and mutton,
and then photograph grade specimens,
At P rese nt export porkers are graded
90.71 p.c. G.A.Q., and 9.29 p.c. F.A.Q.,
while baconers run 97.8 p.c. G.A.Q. and
2.2 p.c. F.A.Q. S.A., W.A. and Tasmania
in 1937-38 ran 100 p.c. G.A.Q. for both
baconers and porkers. Seems to me too
good, even over 18,000 cwt. only, as also
do the 98.13 p.c. G.A.Q. of Queensland’s
66,331ewt. bacon and the 97.16 p.c.
G.A.Q. of Victoria’s 76,210 cwt. That is,
if the grade means anything as a brand
of quality.
There is a foreign supply of 5,370,000
bacon carcasses imported into the U.K.
which Australia might capture, but com-
petition with Denmark and other coun-
tries calls for the adoption of a stand-
ardised pig and standardised husbandry.
Some Danish pig points are of in-
terest :
Sows are allowed out at grass during
most of the gestation period. Often they
have only a fortnight in the pen before
farrowing. They are fed morning
and evening, and usually the farmer
thoroughly knows his animal, her con-
stitution and condition. Even where he
has a dozen breeders, each is rationed
specially according to her needs and
tastes. It costs nothing extra except a
little work. Oats and maize are the main
standbys—the maize coarse ground. We
might use some of our wheat and turn
some of our wheat land to oats with
one eye on pigs.
Danish breeders and fatteners get cod-
liver oil in small quantities, and there is
always plenty of lime and charcoal about
the pens and yards.
• up-to-date piggeries both
in U.K. and Denmark have creep-feeding
and -sleeping arrangements railed off
corners and sides, the sleeping quarters
bedded down with straw, the rails just
high enough to allow youngsters to get
underneath but too low to let sows fol-
low, and so arranged that piglets may lie


For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sidney
This amazing transfor-
mation was easily and
inexpensively achieved
vrith Masonite. This
room was an old
fashioned kitchen un-
attractive and incon-
venient.
/
o
m
I HH
!
if
»*»
'• ■ •> . V
*•**■ .«** :*s. '..m.
nil!
nm
• In this re-modelled kitchen, cupboards are of
Tempered Presdwood lacquered "refrigerator white",
the working surface and table top are of the same
non - splintering, easily - worked, grainless all - wood
board. Masonite Temprtile forms the easily washed
walls behind the working surfaces. The walls above
the cupboards and the ceiling of the kitchen are of
Masonite Presdwood.
Modernisation work it juit one of the many fields in
which Masonite can help you . We suggest you write for
details of the ** Wonder Board of a Thousand Uses”
C AN E-ITE
With sound-deadening,
white-ant-proof Cane-
ite, insulation and
decoration can be sim-
ultaneously achieved.
Cane-ite combines real
economy, with truly
remarkable insulation
qualities. Write for
samples.
[HE COLONIAL SUGAR
Sydney . . . Melbourne
REFINING COMPANY LTD. (Building Materials Division)
. . . Brisbane . . . Adelaide . . . Perth M 37-8
a
„s tVU*B®
IttA 1 6 .'„ nC POMI®
■*Qofo »OJ* Ap TO
&H® OH A®,
£TSO Je<tt OH®®
OIU
trgsS - ’ 5 ® 1
» en ec°r° m> * re so\c
U °u nt pri c « sl W>qh cS ' . -Ho* *"? nq but * r
* h * ,\ni h° s ' h ! Q r booV'et- qrn o
nis’ v,ri :, e "»v-« s s °
-" arKe Co*'* -
war
fr®
ctor
tfc
Hew South Wales;
Tractors & Machinery
Pty. Ltd.,
131-133 Palmer Street,
Sydney
Victoria:
K.L. Engines 4 Tractors
Pty. Ltd..
304-308 Spencer Street,
Melbourne
DISTRIBUTORS:—
South Australia:
Waymouth Motor Com*
pany Limited,
42 Waymouth Street
Adelaide
Queensland:
General Farm Machinery
Ltd.,
134 Albert Street,
Brisbane
Western Australia:
Kelly & Lewis (W.A.)
Pty. Ltd.,
William & Forbes Streets,
Perth
on the straw and suckle under the bar
without danger of being rolled on.
Weaners are bought much like day-old
chicks by many small men who do not
breed.
Cleanliness is rated highly. Animals
are bedded down with wheat or barley
straw and cleaned out every second day
to keep sties clean and animals healthy.
Hints for the Farm.
“Canbelego”: Cows will drink up to
55 gallons of water for every 10 gallons
of milk produced. Give them access to
water at least twice daily. If there is no
running water, use troughs, preferably of
concrete. Cows drinking and wading in
dams, lagoons and swamps get mud on
udders and teats, which leads to con-
tamination of the milk and lower-grade
cream.
“Purpur”: Now is the time to prepare
green crops for orchard manure. Crops
should be in by March to assure plenty
of growth before winter. Lupins and
purple vetch are good bets —better than
field peas, which are subject to epidemics.
They should be sown with icwt. to lcwt.
super, or with blood and bone. Plough-
ing under must be done before the end
of July.
“Ekib”: Boil potatoes before feeding
them to pigs, and don’t feed until the
pigs are 16 weeks old. About 41b. of
potatoes is equal to 11b. of maize or
wheat. At 16 weeks old, a third of the
grain ration may be replaced by potatoes,
increasing to two-thirds at 23 weeks old
—if prices are economical.
“Fruito”: Prunes must be dead ripe
when picked for preserving. Let them
fall, first smoothing off the ground with
a rake or harrow. Falls should be
gathered at once or there will be sun
damage. Late in the season shaking will
bring down the tail-end of the crop. Dip-
ping should be done in a solution of
11b. caustic soda to a minimum of 12
gallons of water. It is impossible to
judge exact proportions except by experi-
ment. The mixture should be kept boil-
ing in a deep tin, and the prunes dipped
in a wire basket for no more than five
seconds. Start experimenting with a weak
solution and gradually add caustic till
tested fruit after being in the air a second
or two after immersion shows a slight
cracking of the skin. Let the basket
reach the bottom of the dip, bring it
quickly to the surface with a side-way
flourish and at once spread out the fruit
on hessian on the drying racks, which
should be kept out of the sun. Trays
should be examined each day. When a
prune shows meat right to the pit with-
out free juice, the job is done.
“Ghanam”: In the past decade the
quantity of wool sold in Australia in the
Sept.-Dee. half of the season has ex-
ceeded 1938 figures only four times —in
1932, 1933, 1935 and 1936. The price
obtained has been lower only in five
years, four of them depression years. In
1936, a clip of only 30,000 bales more
sold for £27,521,000, against the latest
period’s £18,595,000.
“Ek Dum”: There is more ophthalmia
in sheep this year than in most seasons ;
also of yellow big head, a “photo-sensi-
tisation” disease due to sun effect on top
of eating off St. John’s wort and some
other plants. Trials are being made with
face pigments, but it is difficult to find
one permanent enough. Best to put
animals in the shade as soon as they
show symptoms and give them 4oz.
Epsom salts.
“Castlereagh”: The Coonabarabran
(N.S.W.) stock inspector reports mor-
tality of sheep which he attributes to
kurrajong-seed poisoning. It’s rare, but
confirms previous suspicions and results
of feeding tests at Glenfield (N.S.W.)
Research Station that at one stage of
growth there is poison in the sticky
substance covering the seed in the green
pods.
“Yarrunga”: Deputy-chairman of the
Australian Meat Board H. S. Henley,
of Bassett Downs, Cowra, scooped the
season’s honors in each of three export-
lamb competitions open to him. His
latest is first place in the A.M.B.’s (fourth
series) contest at Smithfield, in which the
Victorian, R. B. Mills and Son, and
South Australian T. Ridgway won second
and third awards. Recently Henley car-
ried off first and second in the Riverstone
Cup competition (judged in the pen at
Cowra and as dressed carcasses at Smith-
field). At Royal Easter Show, Bassett
Downs lambs won the championship and
the golden lamb trophy. All the win-
ning lambs were typical examples
of Southdown-Romney-merino crosses.
Nevertheless, in his large-scale fat-lamb
raising Henley adheres to the Dorset
Horn-Romney-merino as giving the best
commercial result.
“Lam”: Hoary cress is becoming a
nuisance in Riverina and other parts of
N.S.W. Flowers identify it easily, but
it does not blossom till the second year,
by which time it is deeply rooted. It
rosettes, and plants usually have a con-
necting root system. Towards spring it
grows about 18in. high on a straight stem,
with alternating leaves three inches long
and an inch wide all the way up. Early
feeding-down to prevent seeding is best
treatment. Sodium chlorate and arsenic
sprays are effective on heavy patches of
advanced growth.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
Is there any market for cascara beans ?
Approximate price f.o.b. Townsville ? —52038.
Your bean is probably Indian laburnum
(Cassia fistula), widely distributed in N. Queens-
land and known as cascara or “pudding pipe.”
The bark is sometimes used for tanning, while
the pulp obtained from the black pods is
utilised in medicine. There is no local market.
The true cascara sagrada (Rliamus pursliiana)
is worth about 31s. per cwt. in London.
* * * m
How can I make articles out of casein ?
And how make casein from milk? —S2o6o.
Methods are mostly patented trade secrets.
The cost of machinery, equipment and plant
rules the business out as a farm industry.
* * * #
Where can I get advice on, and bacteria to
assist in, growing sub. clover on the Darling
Downs ? —52076.
Suggest you communicate with W.A. Agri-
cultural Department, whose varieties are prob-
ably most suitable for experiment in your
region.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grim wade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 142 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the \V orld,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Prevent pyorrhoea
and gin zivitis with
C-IN-ONE
U DENTAL CREAM
“5-IN-ONE for Everyone ”
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Tutor, male, single, Blackfriars’ Correspon-
dence Course, exp. first to sixth grade, requires
position. Refs.—-2158.
Young man, with all-round knowledge of
station work, holds Diesel diploma, capable of
driving any make of car, lorry or tractor,
wants job on sheep station. —2169.
To buy small mixed business in large N.S.W.
country town capable of expansion. £2OO de-
posit.—2l93.
Words of verse containing the lines:
Not for a soul like thine,
A life of ease and joys of sense,
But duty more than crown or palm
Its own exceeding recompense.
—2054.
Words of verse containing the lines:
The scroll about your name;
It won’t be whether you won or lost,
But how you played the game.
—2126.
Information Sought.
Norman Lindsay’s front-page cartoon (B.
18/1/ ’39) showing a man, woman and child
retreating from a bushfire carries the caption
“Baffled, to Fight Better.” Will you furnish
source of quotation? —22o2.
In Robert Browning’s “Asolando”:
One who never turned his back, but marched breast
forward,
Never doubted clouds would break,
Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong
would triumph.
Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better,
sleep to wake.
* * * *
(1) Is No. 1, vol. I, of “Lone Hand” maga-
zine {May, 1907) of any value? (2) Is it diffi-
cult to procure? (3) What were the out-
standing items in that issue? —2l39.
(1) It is worth from 3s. 6d. to ss. (2) Yes.
(3) It contained articles by Frank Myers,
J. F. Archibald, Arthur A. D. Bayldon, Living-
ston Hopkins, J. D. Fitzgerald and Furnley
Maurice; stories by G. B. Lancaster, Henry
Fletcher, Henry Lawson, Milton Macgregor,
Helen Jerome, Louis Esson, Harold Mercer,
C. A. Jeffries and A. Conor-O’Brien; verse
by Edward Dyson, Arthur H. Adams, Victor
Daley, Hugh McCrae, Dowell O’Reilly and
Roderic Quinn; illustrations by Norman and
Lionel Lindsay, G. W. Lambert, D. H. Souter,
B. E. Minns and others. There were also
numerous other features.
* * * *
Some particulars regarding Mary Gaunt and
her work ? —2250.
Mary Gaunt was a daughter of the late
Judge Gaunt, of Melbourne, and was born at
Chiltern, Victoria. She was educated at Gre-
ville College, Ballarat, and Melbourne Uni.,
and contributed to Melbourne publications. In
1894 she married Hubert Lindsay Miller, who
died 1900; she is childless. At her husband’s
death she went to England and maintained Jver-
self by writing; travelled to East Africa, China,
Siberia and Saghalien (1913-14), Jamaica (1919),
returned 1921, and later lived in Italy. Publica-
tions : Dave’s Sweetheart, The Moving Finger,
Kirkham’s Find, Deadman’s, The Mummy
Moves, The Uncounted Cost, Alone in West
Africa, Every Man’s Desire, A Woman in
China, The Ends of the Earth, A Broken
Journey, A Wind from the Wilderness, The
Surrender, Where the Twain Meet, As the
Whirlwind Passeth, The Forbidden Town, Saul’s
Daughter, A Lawless Frontier, Joan of the
Pilchard, Reflection in Jamaica, Harmony,
Worlds Away, Strange Roads, and, with J. R.
Essex, The Arm of the Leopard, Fools Rush In
and The Silent Ones.
* * . * *
Have cats ever been known to cross-breed
with rabbits? —2016.
No authentic zoological records or specimens
exist which would support the idea of possible
hybridisation of cats and rabbits. It is notable
that the well-known instances of hybridisation,
such as between the horse and ass and the lion
and tiger, involve fairly closely-related species
of single orders of animals, whereas the flesh-
eating cat of the order Carnivora and gnawing
rabbit ( Rodentia ) represent distinct orders of
the mammalian class. Hybridisation of the
latter is a scientific impossibility, the reported
example probably arising from observation of
deformed kittens.
* * * *
(1) In moulding small figures in plaster of
Paris and Keen cement, what is the best kind of
gelatine to use for the mould, and how should
it be prepared? (2) What substance is used
to keep the two portions of mould from unit-
ing ? (3) How should the model be prepared
so that it will not adhere to the gelatine? (4)
How is the Keen cement prepared for the
moulding—is it simply mixed with water or is
some other substance added? —2003.
(1) A rough gelatine used in the plastering
trade, procurable from most paint stores, is the
cheapest and best for your purposes. It is
melted over gentle heat with the addition of a
little water. When purchasing, inquire on this
point from the seller, as gelatines are of vari-
able quality. (2) The mould is not made in
portions; the method is to oil a piece of board
and to build up on a cofferdam of plaster,
like a little fence round an area slightly larger
than that occupied by the model and slightly
higher. The model is then laid on the middle
of the enclosure and the melted gelatine is
poured slowly in over it until the model is com-
pletely covered and encased in gelatine, care
being taken that a sufficient depth covers the
upper parts of the model. It is then left to
set, and when quite firm the whole thing is
levered up and the encased model is worked
free of the surrounding plaster dam. A sharp
knife is then used to make an encircling cut on
the longest or most convenient axis of the
model, and the two halves are worked free.
The two halves are affixed with a little melted
gelatine, seccotine or any handy gum sub-
stance. This form of moulding is mostly used
for objects having only a face or one side,
so that the mould required is only a one-half
container. (3) The model is oiled with the same
oil which is used for greasing the table or
board on which the work is done; some
workers use soft soap. Linseed or olive oil
is satisfactory. (4) Water alone is used.
The addition of alum or borax to ordinary
plaster of Paris makes a very hard plaster when
dry. If you intend to do much of this work,
you should take lessons in the art or technical
department of your nearest technical school;
the subject is too complicated to explain in this
space, and a little practical demonstration will
save many mistakes and weeks of experiment-
ing. There are books on the subject.
* * * *
(1) What training is necessary for a dress-
designer? (2) Are there schools which teach
designing by a correspondence course? —2151.
(1) Know of no straightout method of study-
ing the subject. Government technical colleges
in the capitals have very good dressmaking
departments for students, and a course in one
of these should be a beginning. (2) The sub-
ject is not very suitable for a correspondence
course, ancf no such courses are known.
* * * *
(1) A widow, drawing old-age pension at the
rate of 21s. per fortnight, has property (which
she cannot live in owing to health reasons ) in-
come from which, less interest on mortgage,
being reason why full pension is not payable.
Property is now to be sold, giving widow an
equity of £l5O, which sum she is giving to a
son, plus £7O ( matured insurance policy), to
commence a retail business, in return for which
son will give her board and lodging. What
effect will this transaction have on the amount
of pension payable in future? (2) If widow
deposits £220 in the bank and has no income
or property (apart from interest on the £220),
what amount of pension can she draw? —2055.
The reduced rate of pension in this case is
not based upon income but upon the net capital
value of property in which the pensioner is not
residing. The Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act
provides that where a pensioner has property,
other than the home in which she permanently
resides, the rate of pension otherwise payable
shall be subject to a deduction of £1 for each
complete £lO by which the net capital value of
such accumulated property exceeds £5O. Trans-
fers of property or money without adequate
consideration are not recognised by the depart-
ment, and the value of assets so transferred is
maintained in the pension computation as
though still remaining in the possession of
pensioner. If the pensioner gives the proceeds
of the sale of her property to her son to
enable him to commence business, that sum
will still be maintained against her for pension
purposes. The case, however, would be sub-
ject to annual review, when reasonable deple-
tion would be allowed. If she deposits money
received in the bank the total value of her
bank account would be included in the pen-
sion computation. It cannot be definitely stated
to what extent her rate would be affected,
but she should notify the Invalid and Old-age
Pensions Office, Sydney, immediately the sale
has been effected and forward statement from
the solicitor who acted in the matter, and she
will then be advised as to her position. If the
widow’s sole property were £220 in bank the
pension payable would amount to £35 p.a. (275.
per fortnight).
* * * *
What flowers are included under the heading
of “everlastings,” and are they annuals or
perennials ? —2155.
The “everlasting” plants (annuals) are acro-
clinums (single and double; white and rose
flowers), gomphrenas or globe amaranth (orange
and purple flowers), helichrysums (white, rose,
crimson and pink flowers) and rhodanthe (pink
and white flowers). Statice, because the flowers
can be preserved, are also regarded as “ever-
lastings,” and are procurable in annual and
perennial varieties. The “everlastings” should
be sown in spring for the best results.
* * * *
(1) Would a metal vessel containing hydro-
gen gas under pressure float in the atmosphere ?
(2) Can this gas be compressed in safety? (3)
Would a vessel containing hydrogen at 50 lb.
per sq. in. have twice the lifting power of one
filled to a pressure of 25 1 b. per sq. in ? (4)
Where can this gas be purchased? —2l27.
(1) If the weight of the vessel, plus the
weight of the gas it contains, is greater than
the weight of the volume of air it displaces it
will not rise in the air. (2) Yes, with proper
care. It can even be liquefied at a low tem-
perature under the application of a great pres-
sure, but it forms a highly explosive mixture
with air. (3) The former vessel will have a
smaller lifting power, as it will weigh more.
The greater the pressure of gas in the vessel
the more will it weigh. (4) Commonwealth
Oxygen and Acetylene, Ltd., Wortley-street,
Balmain, Sydney.
* * * *
How can a marble statue discolored and mil-
dewed by weather be cleaned? —2045.
As marble is a soft stone, try gentle methods
first. A simple bath of warm soapy water con-
taining a teaspoon of cloudy ammonia to the
quart and a lightly-applied scrubbing brush is
the first treatment: rinse well with plenty of
clean water. If this does not effect a proper
cleaning, use a weak solution of oxalic acid,
one teaspoon to the pint of water, applied
with a rag or sponge on a stick: it is poisonous
and injurious to the hands. Do not allow
the acid to remain on the marble long; wash
down quickly with fresh water. Rubbing well
after this with chalk moistened with water
should restore the lustre. Sand may be applied
with the soap-and-water process if the marble
is much discolored, but it is a harsh abradant,
and its effect should be watched for scratches.
* * * *
(1) Type of speedometer fitted to the %-h.p.
1930 Singer Junior car? (2) Is this type fitted
to other makes of car? (3) Would another
type of speedometer fit the Singer car? (4)
Names of firms who might supply second-hand
Singer parts? —2134.
(1) The Jaeger, price £3, from Smith, Sons
and Rees Pty., Ltd., 30-32 Wentworth-avenue,
Sydney. (2) Yes, quite a number, including
the Sunbeam and Riley. (3) Do not know of
any. (4) Try any one of the firms of motor
wreckers mentioned in the red pages of the
Sydney or Melbourne telephone directory. New
parts are obtainable from Overland Sydney,
Ltd., 137-155 Palmer-street, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) What was John L. Sullivan’s last fight?
(2) How many rounds did his contest with
James J. Corbett go? (3) What was Sullivan’s
occupation before becoming a boxer? —1728.
(1) That with James J. Corbett at New
Orleans on September 7, 1892, although he
afterwards boxed with Tom Sharkey in a benefit
exhibition match at New York on August
31, 1896. (2) Corbett knocked Sullivan out
in 21 rounds. (3) He was a plumber.
* * * *
(1) Was American George Chip ever middle-
weight champion of the world? (2) If so, did
he still hold that championship when Les Darcy
defeated him at the Sydney Stadium in 1916?
—2lll.
(1) Yes. He won the world’s middleweight
championship by knocking out Frank Klaus
in five rounds at Pittsburg (U.S.A.) on De-
cember 23, 1913. (2) No. He had lost the
title to A 1 McCoy (who knocked him out in
half a round) at Brooklyn on April 7, 1914.
* • * * *
What was Bob Fitzsimmons’s weight when
he fought Jim Corbett for the world's heavy-
weight championship at Carson City, Nev., on
March 17, 1897?—2095.
As there is no limit to heavyweights, Corbett
and Fitzsimmons did not step on the scales
before they fought. Fitzsimmons gave his
weight as list. but W. W. Naughton
(who reported the contest for many news-
papers in the U.S.A. and elsewhere) figured
that Fitzsimmons weighed list. 81b.
* * *
(1) What were the marginal wins by Aus-
tralasia in Davis Cup finals? (2) Playing
area of a tennis court? (3) Can a tennis court
be laid down without permission? —2146.
(1) Australasia defeated British Isles by 3-2
in 1907, America by 3-2 in 1908, America by
5-0 in 1909, America by 5-0 in 1911, America
by 3-2 in 1914 and British Isles by 4-1 in 1919.
(2) Actual playing area of a tennis court is 78ft. x
36ft., but to allow playing space on side and
back lines at least 100 ft. x 50ft. should be pro-
vided. (3) Some municipal councils and shires
demand applications to erect tennis courts, and
in every case approval should be secured. This
is especially necessary if the courts are to be
used for playing at night, when the noise and
lights are likely to be protested against by
neighbors.
* * * *
Did Rose of Denmark ever win a Mel-
bourne Cup ? Particulars of races, if any, in
which it was placed? —l63o.
No; in 1863 she ran third, but her rider
failed to weigh in. The race was won by
Banker, a three-year-old bay colt owned and
trained by J. Harper, ridden by Chifney, carry-
ing sst. 41b., and starting at 8 to 1. He won
by H lengths. Musidora, with Bst. 51b., was
second, and Barwon, with 9st. 51b., was placed
third. In 1864 Rose of Denmark ran third,
carrying Bst. 31b. Lantern, a three-year-old
brown colt, owned by H. Fisher, trained by
W. Filgate, and ridden by S. Davis, won by
f-length at 100 to 6, carrying 6st. 31b. Poet,
with Bst. 21b., was second.
* * * *
(1) Results of the first Rugby Union matches
between N.S.W. and Queensland and N.S.W.
and M.L. ? (2) Who were the M.L. players
in the first N.S.W. match ? —1995.
(1) N.S.W. defeated Q. at Sydney in 1882 by
28 to 4 and 18 to 0; M.L. defeated N.S.W.
at Sydney in 1884 by 11 to 0, 21 to 2 and
16 to 0. (2) M.L. players in the first match
were Braddon (full-back), Ryan and Warbrick
(three-quarters), Taiaroa, Helmore and Roberts
(half-backs), Millton, Allan, Lecky, Robertson,
Webb, O’Connor, O’Donnell, Udy and Carter
(forwards).
In a lecent ct ickct match a batsman came on
the edge of the playing-field within the two
minutes allowed, but by walking slowly ex-
ceeded the limit before he reached the wicket
On appeal the umpire refused to take action
Was the umpire’s decision right? What is the
cricket law on the matter? —1917.
The umpire must have been satisfied that
the player was not unduly wasting time. Law
45 allows a maximum of two minutes between
each striker, but in the event of an incoming
batsman exceeding the period of two minutes
allowed under this law the umpire at the
bowler’s end shall, on the appeal of the oppos-
ing captain, declare such batsman out. The
umpire has the sole right to decide all cricket
matters during the progress of a match.
Brief Answers.
G. : The N.S.W. Family Endowment Act
requires that the applicant and children claimed
for shall have resided in N.S.W. during the
period of two years immediately preceding the
date of the application. A full endowment at
the rate of £l3 per annum for each child, less
one, under 14 is payable if the family income
during 12 months preceding the date of the
claim did not exceed the living wage. A par-
tial or no endowment is payable if the family
income exceeded the living wage... .W.J.A.:
Write District Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office,
Brisbane L.K.: In the international Associa-
tion (Soccer) football matches in the British
Isles in 1936-37 Wales defeated England two
goals to one, Scotland 2-1 and Ireland 4-1;
Scotland defeated Ireland 3-1 and England 3-1;
England defeated Ireland 3-1 P.C.M.:
Serious verse, light Society verse, ballads with
an outback flavor. See what is published
E. : (1) Very difficult for you to judge
of your progress without the help of
tuition, but you should improve by careful
study of books prescribed for all standards up
to that of the leaving certificate. You can get
valuable information by writing to the Edu-
cation Department (N.S.W.). (2) Best plan is
to read any standard English authors who
interest you and to practise writing yourself.
For fairly advanced students, Modern English
Usage (H. W. Fowler) and The Art and Craft
of Writing (J. W. Marriott) are useful
H.W.: Vegetable foods are, for the most part,
richer in potassium than those of animal origin.
Potassium is particularly abundant in wheat,
potatoes and peas F.G.8.: From Customs
Department, Circular Quay, Sydney... .5.M.8.:
Write Under-Secretary, Department of Agri-
culture, Sydney... .T. 8.; Full particulars from
Agricultural Departments, Sydney and Mel-
bourne... .A.S.; Hanged on March 26, 1900.
No suggestion of a miscarriage of justice has
since arisen... .J.A.: William Pett Ridge was
born 1864 at Chartham, near Canterbury, Eng-
land, and began writing in 1890. He is best known
as an exponent of Cockney humor, his books
including Mord Emly, ’Erb, The Wickamses,
Name of Garland, Thanks to Sanderson, The
Kennedy People and The Bustling Hours. He
died in 1930... .T.F.W.: (1) Yes. (2) You
might use moral or even financial influence
to induce her to consent, but consent is essen-
tial S.F.R.: Holystone is a kind of soft
sandstone, and would probably be useless on
cement, which, being harder, would wear it out
without results; being harder than wood it is
effective on wooden decking. Write to Boat
Suppliers, Ltd., 7 Barrack-street, Sydney, for
prices. Cement is best cleaned with a stiff
brush or broom, plenty of clean sand and a
little soap in hot water, rinsed down with
clean, cold water.... A.L.: Write to Cello-
phane Containers, 180 Elizabeth-street, Printers,
Ltd., Primrose-avenue, Rosebery, or Viscose
Products, Ltd., 27a Rosebery-avenue, Rosebery
(all Sydney), for a quotation. These firms
supply and print transparent containers....
F. : “Warrants of appointment” such as
that to which you refer are not a warrant to
use the Royal Arms. A warrant is “an
authorisation from the proper authority to a
person to do something which he has not
otherwise the right to do.” The crown is an
adjunct of the shield and should not be used
without a warrant to do so. Explain the cir-
cumstances fully to the association and ask for
advice as to future procedure... .W.S.: There
is usually ample work for able-bodied Aus-
tralians seeking employment as cane-cutters.
The harvesting season commences in Jiine.
Write to general secretary, Queensland Cane
Growers’ Council, A.M.P. Building, Queen-
street, Brisbane W.W.; Information as to
the average administrative costs of shires in
N. S. Wales may be obtained from the N.S.W.
Statistical Register J.M.D.: Write Secretary,
Western Pacific' High Commission, Suva, Fiji.
.... J.F.H.: (1) Write E. E. Luke, 65 Mooramie-
avenue, Kensington (N.S.W.). (2) Model Aero-
planes, Airships and Kites (2s. 4d., post free),
from Walther and Stevenson, 395 George-street,
Sydney H.8.H.: See Windmills, Wind
Motors: How to Build Them, obtainable from
Walther and Stevenson, 395 George-street,
Sydney P.A.A.: This material is considered
to need no preservatives beyond keeping it
clean, brushed free of grit and dust, and
dried before putting away. You don’t state pur-
pose for which it is being used, nor from what
particular kind of deterioration you wish to pre-
serve it; there may be special circumstances
to warrant some treatment E.H.D.; “Belle-
rive” is the nom de plume of Joe Tishler.
He has written little during recent years. When
last heard from he was residing in Melbourne.
A.R.D.: James Lindo Webb wrote for
The Bulletin for many years under the nom
de plume of “The Waif.” After leaving Aus-
tralia he was for some years British Vice-Consul
at Palma, Majorca, where he still resides
H. : Full particulars from the secretary,
Western Australian Drama Festivals (Inc.),
Second Floor, City Mutual Buildings, St.
George’s-terrace, Perth W.C.: Australian
author for the purpose of the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize means born or naturalised in
Australia, M.L. or the British South Pacific
Islands or a bona fide resident of any of these
places for the two years preceding the closing
date, June 6of each year A.W.: The line
“Hope springs eternal in the human breast”
is from Pope’s “Essay on Man.”


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
TRAVEL MADE HIM
CONSTIPATED
Keeps Him “On His Toes”
“I am a commercial traveller,” writes a
correspondent, “and due to endless travelling
by train I find that I become constipated if
I do not keep myself well purged. Kruschen
Salts is the only thing that will do this effec-
tively and not interfere with my work. I take
a large dose of Kruschen every Saturday night,
and on Sunday, when I have no work to do,
the Salts act on me. On week-days I take
a small dose on rising. It is necessary that 1
be ‘on my toes’ all through the day, and this
is the only way that ft possibly can be done.
I have tried other laxatives and they have
proven to be either unreliable or harsh in their
action.”—V.L.
Kruschen Salts is Nature’s recipe for main-
taining a condition of internal cleanliness.
The six salts in Kruschen stimulate your in-
ternal organs to smooth, regular action. Your
inside is thus kept clear of those impurities
which, when allowed to accumulate, lower the
whole tone of the system.
NEW/
THE
"Porthed
Somerset"
Poley
Saddle
£l5/3/9
(Mounted).
The seat is
of hogskin and
the flaps of best
qual. kip.
N.S.W. Rail Freight Paid for Cash
with Order.
WALTHER*. STEVEMSOM
39S CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
• •
m
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
£R
and
STILL
a
/ LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 68-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 166 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES! Bennett 16 Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SIDNEY.
Moody & Company, 16 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elpbinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the stag personally.
S.V.: Try a daily F.W.0.: Leave that
sort of thing alone... .A.E.: Would need to be
very, very good R.P.: No loot for “The Pave-
ment Pirate” G.F.S.: What there is of it
isn’t bad....H.H.: Not even of “Sentimental
Value” A.McC.: Very little to it....
A.V.D.: None of those... .J.A.McC.: Sincere,
but not for us V.E.H.: An idea, but why
do it that way?... .H.J.L.: Both need better
handling... .M.E.: “Neighbors” still fighting it
out on the way home... .N.L.: “Finance”
won’t... .M. 8.: Too stiff... .L.0.J.: Not up,
but come again J.M.0.: Now write about
something cheery L.D.: Leave it to A. C.
Headley V.F.: “Tragedy at Old Thomo”
put us off our beer R.M.: Horrible
A. : Something there, but you’ll have to
make a better job of it... .A.St.J.T.: “Blind
Archer” missed... .J.M.T.: Nothing for
“Salvage”... .G.M.: “Climate” oppressive....
B. Liked the elaborate title page....
A.C.W.: Amateurish R.C.: “No Wedding
Bells” or cheque H.K.W.: “The Body in
the Feed Box” sent us right off our forage.
P.R.T.: Your reasoning doesn’t hold water.
A.L.: Not qujte T.E.P.: Doesn’t get
there, but would like to see some more....
L M.: Nothing there A.H.: Been done a
hundred times K. 8.: Tighten it up, alter the
finish and it elsewhere... .J.C.L.M.:
“Wimmen! Huh!” Huh! A.E.8.: Eleventh
“Interlude” to arrive this year... .L.V.A.:
“Renunciation” renounced G.H.: Doesn’t
make a yarn... .E. 8.: Suggest you lose it....
M.H.: Bellerdrammer G.1.L.: Sending that
mysterious woman back to her suspected cot-
tage W.J.McK.: “Exploded Theories” just
spluttered out... .T.G.C.: Could bear a few
more in that line A.S.W.: Don’t do it
again J.R.W.S.: Burst “Bubbles” with a
feather V.H.: Air Force derring-do a little
out of date... .E.W.: Makeshift... .L.M.:
Barely a chuckle... .J.G.: Afraid that won’t
go far towards raising the hundred quid
W.M.R.: “Old Comrades” will soon be with
you again J.D.: Too long for what’s in it.
M. 8.: Touch it up and try another address.
—N.A.M.M.: Poor stuff... .V.L.8.: Chink
who_ sneaked through the “Customs armor”
won’t sneak through ours... .G.O’C.: “Acci-
dents Will Happen.” Presume that’s one of
them E.G.W.: So “Success Puts Up Its
Flag.” Well, you’ve certainly pulled it down
again... .S.T.: Not quite up.... A.5.8.: “Pro-
posal of Marriage” not accepted E. 0.:
Read some of Gavin Casey’s yarns P.C.:
“Revenge in Rhythm” is punishment all right.
H.S.R.: Vague... .L.D.: Nice cheery bit
of work... .E.L.M.: “Think” is right P.R.:
“The Fairy” doesn’t quite come true... .T.G.G.:
Not far away G.V.A.: Doesn’t go over
W.M.S.: Not up... .G.F.P.: Stodgy... .G. A.:
Not here.... D.H.C.: Nothing new in it
E.A.P.: Don’t like it M.P.: Obvious
R.E.: Idea all right; handling makes it melo-
drama T.W.H.: No C.M.: Close
C.H.: Welcomed the hard-riding station book-
keeper who married the squatter’s daughter as an
old, old friend... .L.F.: Just misses... .E.J.G.:
They were held for consideration J.H.S.:
Asking questions isn’t writing verse W.L.:
Just a moan... .T.O’D.: Send it to the girl.
. ...R.G.C.: And perhaps you’d better send
that to Mr. Hughes... .A.J.M.: Another good
new year resolution would be not to rhyme
“dawn” and “foresworn” V.G.: Try again
after you’ve seen Voronoff.... R.D.: No, but
you’ve some good lines M.R.D’O: Time’s
on your side W.D.: Admire the spirit, de-
plore the verse H.E.8.: Heavy L.F.:
When did you ever hear a miner say “a-press-
ing” and “a-tightening”? M.S.: “Too Hot”
is not so hot... .W.J.G.: “You can do any-
thing you like except reply that it is resting
gracefully in the w.p.b.” It is resting elegantly
in the w.p.b G.E.W.: Try a woman's
paper H.C.C.: They walk on very flat feet.
. ...J.W.W.: Some feeling, anyhow J.D.:
Likewise... .A.E.M.: “Tracks” arc as far away
as their setting; other still misses S.E.S.:
“The Fire Burns Low”: so low, in fact, it’s
gone out... .A.S.W.: Begins all right, but why
end it that way? ... .G.E.M.: Fades 0ut....
C.A.8.: Not that one... .J.K.E.: Reads like a
tract... .K. 8.: Off our beat... .N.A.D.: Thin.
. ...A.A.H.: Yours, too.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.M.: The heavy shadows mar its appear-
ance W. 8.: You cannot expect to progress
far without lessons F.T.L.: The jest is an
old friend and the sketch lacks animation
W.C.H.: We agree with you. It is no master-
piece. .. .P.N.: Old gent, chasing train has been
sent back for repairs P.T.: Caricatures too
dull and photographic G.F.: That grained
surface board is not suitable for fine penwork.
E.J.: Depressing 8.R.: It got some-
where near the mark. Needs a little more
polish W.T.G.: You’ve yet to learn how
to draw a hand... .S.S.: The late B. E. Minns
illustrated that wheeze many moons ag0....
A.A.J.: The last time we saw that chap peer-
ing into the pouch of a kangaroo he was a
Customs inspector... .N.H.: Gag about crow
and golf ball is much too obscure... .G.R.:
You appear to place lines on paper without any
previous thought... .S.W.: Leave Cousin Jack
characters to Oswald Pryor... .J.D.N.: Pre-
pared to consider original jokes without draw-
ings and to pay 7s. 6d. each for those that are
accepted... .K.W.: About as lively as an Egyp-
tian mummy.... R.L.: It gave us a good laugh
—35 years ag0....H.C.: Couldn’t you spend
your spare time working out jigsaw puzzles?
. ...W.R.C.: Where did you see a draught-
horse that shape?... .E.F.: Received large
drawing of man reading Bulletin at the North
Pole, but, though we found it flattering, it’s
not publishable... .H.0’8.: You’re a wild, un-
tamed draughtsman and a dreary humorist
F.C.: Not the kind that causes us to dip into
the cashbox....M.G.: Cartoon crude; idea
hackneyed C.C.: Your lumpy, badly-shaped
mermaids will not adorn our pages E.S.J.:
No use turning in grimy, tattered drawings of
that description L.L.: An ungainly bunch.
“T.”: Felix Frankfurter, whom Roose-
velt has placed on the Supreme Court
Bench (B. 18/1/ ’39), was a protege of
Justice Brandeis, a more famous Jew.
Brandeis was head of the U.S. Zionist
organisation, and when the boundaries
of the Palestine mandate were being
discussed at their Peace Conference he
addressed a cablegram to that show de-
manding far more than it proposed to
give. The cablegram was couched in
terms so arroganf and sprinkled with
BertholL was’ delega ‘ e '
Berthollet, was provoked into saying
that Louis Dembitz Brandeis was too
big for his boots. Lloyd George, who
mentions the incident in his \ Truth About
the Peace Treaties, says Berthollet ex-
pressed what every other delegate
thought.
tt . * * * *
“Cinna”: The obvious retort to
“Phono’s” defence of the “dawn-morn”
mis-rhyme (B. 7/12/’3B) is that it is im-
possible to yoke up the words unless
you either pronounce “dawn” as “dorn”
or “morn” as “mawn,” which is why it
is stigmatised as a Cockney rhyme. I
can hardly conceive that “Phono” is
serious when he “defies anyone to pro-
nounce the w in ‘dawn’ or to avoid the
effect of an r in it.” If his ear is deaf
to the difference “daw” and
“door,” if he regards “maw” and “more”
as indistinguishable vocal sounds, he is
past arguing with and merely deserves
sympathy. Also, I suggest that it is un-
fair to call Pope a slipshod rhymer,
Many of his rhymes may sound a bit
unorthodox to-day, but it should be re
membered that the pronunciation of
many English words undergoes a change
with the centuries. No modern versifier
would accent the second syllable in
“contemplate” as Shakspeare (I think)
did, or make three syllables of “colonel,”
following Milton. And when Pope
wrote:
Here, thou, great Anna! whoqa three realms
obey,
Dost sometimes counsel take-and some-
• Imes ea >
“{
“obedience”) in those days or “tea” was
««. ~9 ’ 3
'* * * *
“Devilfish”: History repeats itself with
the skinning out of the whales at Shark
gay (W.A.) by American vessels, which
have killed over 2000 in three years
When Eyre made his journey round the
Bight to Albany in 1841 it was reckoned
that there were 300 American and French
(mostly American) whaling vessels work-
ing on the southern and western coasts
of Australia. Ogle, in his account of the
first 10 years of the Swan River colony,
says: “Most of the knowledge of the
inlets on our coast we owe to American
whalers.” American visits began much
earlier; the New York vessel Union was
sealing at King George’s Sound in 1803.
It was about that time that the crew of
the Union built the 35-ton schooner
Independence at American Bay, Kan-
garoo Island, S.A. There were rumors
a century ago that the Americans in-
tended to occupy some point on the west
coast of Australia. Long afterwards, in
1869, an American skipper did hoist the
Stars and Stripes at the Lacepede Islands,
but nothing came of it.


JENOLAN CAVES
“Nature s Masterpiece ”
Across the Blue Mountains
V
mm
■
'M
■
m
a
sr
-
m
,
■■
w
m
'
m
Carlotta Arch.
By shallow rivers to whose falls
Melodious birds sing madrigals.
—Marlowe.
Booklet—“ALL ABOUT JENOLAN CAVES"—post free.
N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau
Challis House, 8 Martin Place, Sydney. Telephone: 8W4471
KM
A
A
What is a
Good Investment?
TWO things, states the man of experience,
should be demanded of a good investment
—''Undoubted security, combined with a reason-
able and assured regular return on capital
invested.''
Wise investors, large or small, appreciate that
these essentials apply to fixed deposits with the
Rural Bank.
It is simple and convenient to invest money on
fixed deposit with the Rural Bank in amounts
from £5 and upwards and thereby earn interest
at current banking rates.
All inquiries concerning fixed deposits or the
opening of cheque accounts are attended to
personally by experienced officers of the Bank.
ILuhjal Rank.
OF * NEW*
U
©
TH * WALES
The Rural Bank is YOUR bank—
Serving you—Serving the State.
The Alum Mountain
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT.
NEW SOUTH WALES has at least
two geographical and geological
features more or less peculiar to
the State —one the so-called Burn-
ing Mountain at Wingen in- the Upper
Hunter ranges, and the other at Bulah-
delah, 40 miles north of Port Stephens,
where there is a rocky ridge locally
known as the Alum Mountain.
The first is a very ancient combustion
of tilted coal measures of the Greta
series—they probably took fire not far
off 500 years before the beginnings of
Christianity. The other is a huge deposit
of alunite on the left bank of the Upper
Myall River. This mineral is only found
elsewhere in Australia at Carrickalinga
Head, about 40 miles south of Adelaide,
and at Warnertown, near Port Pirie. But
the deposit at Bulahdelah is probably
the most remarkable to be found any-
where in the world.
Many years ago the writer set out
from Port Stephens to have a look at
what he expected to be a heap of some-
thing like washing-soda, table-salt or
loaf-sugar—the kind of hill it would be
more comfortable to climb at night
rather than on a sunny day, when tinted
glasses might be needed to protect the
eyes against the blinding dazzle of a
sparkling pile of shining mineral. He
was a bit disappointed. However, the
journey thither was a pilgrimage of de-
light that altogether compensated for
what he didn’t find. He went by motor-
boat from Port Stephens along the
reaches of the Myall River through some
of the loveliest forest and mountain
scenery he has ever looked at.
A little way up the Lower Myall the
beauties of the boat-voyage begin. The
narrow, sluggish stream winding between
low-lying banks flows through dense
forests of swamp-oak, tea-tree and
eucalyptus, across occasional breaks in
which the densely-timbered foothills of
the ranges and the blue mountains them-
selves that form the valley of the Myall
become visible across wide swampy areas
and grassy plains. You navigate an
arcade of tall trees that sometimes almost
shut out the sky, between low, fern-clad
banks on which flowering shrubs grow
in amongst the trees, scenting the day
with aromatic perfume.
Crossing shallow lakes, you come into
the long reaches of the upper river,
reflecting every branch and leaf and twig
of the forest giants overhanging the
shores. At last you float below the
shadow of the Alum Mountain. It does
not sparkle or dazzle, but is only a rocky,
forested hill, uncommonly like any other
mountain anywhere else. Nevertheless,
it is a unique sort of range, and this is
what a former geologist of the N.S.W.
Mines Department had to say about it.
“The township of Bulahdelah is built
on beds belonging to the Upper Marine
series of the Permo-Carboniferous
System. About three-quarters of a mile
east of the village a narrow mountain
range occurs, with a maximum height
of 900 feet, composed almost entirely
of the mineral alunite of greater or less
purity. The central escarpment is appar-
ently formed of a steep anticline. The
presence of rhyolites is recorded, also
masses of dykes off volcanic glass
(obsidian), and it is probable that the
rhyolites are interbedded with the Permo-
Carboniferous rocks, and were outpoured
as contemporaneous lava sheets... .The
bulk of the material forming the range
is recorded as being too impure for
commercial purposes, but there is evi-
dence of the occurrence of large deposits
of high-grade mineral.”
From the top of the mountain extends
a most glorious view, taking in the
western end of Port Stephens, where the
Karuah River discharges itself into the
big harbor, the two Myall Lakes, and
rolling miles of forests and ranges ex-
tending north and south. Over eastward
a wide segment of blue sea shines in the
sunlight, and to the west a line of indigo
ranges meets the sky. The beauty of the
wild panorama absorbs all your emotions
and enthusiasms. It is possible to for-
give the Alum Mountain for its lack of
sparkle.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Derrot”: The Japanese haven’t much
to learn of Western ways and psychology.
I’d expect them to be familiar with such
associations as ham and eggs, corned beef
and carrots, roast beef and Yorkshire
pudding, and even boiled mutton and
capers, but I needed 30 seconds to get
my breath when, attached to a fishing-
line I bought (all Japanese nowadays), I
found a neat fish-shaped bottle-opener. I
still don’t know whether to be grateful
or insulted.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: I too am prepared to back
the statement of “Ek Dum” (B. 14/12/ ’3B)
that Jack Hamilton, the Queensland
athlete, “weighed not more than 15st.”
I knew the “Doctor” for 40 years. If
at his fattest Hamilton ever reached
12st., writer is surprised to hear it.
As for “the drink,” in my experience
of him Hamilton never touched the stuff
that biteth like an income-tax official,
and writer was a fellow-member of the
Johnsonian Club.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Now that the films are
said, or alleged, to be on the decline,
Melbourne entrepreneurs are turning to
legit. It is confidently hoped that the
crowds will come pouring back from the
70 cinema theatres as they poured away
from the 11 flesh-and-blood theatres
which Melbourne rejoiced in 15 years
agone. But they won’t if producers insist
on the five- to 20-minute interval, of
which there are invariably two, with, as
often as not, a dozen lengthy waits
between scenes. The films have accus-
tomed the public to an entertainment
which flows like a resistless tide, and it
doesn’t know what to do with itself in
the theatre intervals. I suggest that the
amusers set up sideshows in their foyers,
as is done at the Folies Bergeres. These
Parisian titbits are diverse in the degree
of their fruitiness, and paterfamilias can
go in first to see if a spectacle is safe for
his family. The charge for admission is
additional to the cost of a seat, but is
within reach of all but the leanest
pockets. The talent displayed is often
remarkable.
“S.T.S.”: Bordertown, just inside S.A.,
and midway on the Melbourne to
Adelaide flight, marked a great day
in its history by combining old needs
and new in a water-tower that is also a
beacon for ’planes. Placed on a hill,
and itself 100 ft. high, the tower draws
good water from a 585 ft. bore, at 17,000
gallons an hour estimated. The light’ in-
stalled by the Commonwealth, is 1500
candlepower and automatic, even switch-
ing on a red light in the town’s electric
supply station whenever it goes wrong
itself.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The Manchester case of
damages being asked for vicarious
shock (B. 4/1/’39) is not the first.
In 1886 a farmer named Poultas sued
the Vic. Railways Commissioners for
damages on account of the illness
of his wife, which he attributed to
the shock she received when he drove
her in a buggy over a level crossing, the
tail of his vehicle being hotly pursued by
one of the Commission’s trains. The
buggy just won the race, but the plaintiff
lost his case. Nevertheless, it was
thought sufficiently debatable to be
fought through the Victorian courts and
to be referred to the Privy Council.
* * * *
“F.S.”: How much has real appreciation
of music got to do with the popular
enthusiasm for imported celebrities which
packs the concert halls? Tossy Spiva-
kovsky is a case in point. At the age of
10 he was the rage of Europe as a child
prodigy of the violin. His playing began
to be recorded by the gramophone people
before he was 14. At 18 he was first
violin in the Berlin Philharmonic, a job
he resigned to go on a series of successful
solo concert tours. He came to Aus-
tralia in 1933, and everywhere his spare
figure and dark, poetic face got the usual
grand reception accorded visiting virtuosi.
Then he decided to remain in Melbourne
for the A.B.C. Now that his address is
the Melbourne Conservatorium his
chances of packing the Town Hall for
an extended season would seem to most
connoisseurs as remote as his doing it
once was a sure thing. Yet he is probably
a better violinist now than he was in
1933. He is a bare 31.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
A South Australian wins this week’s first prize of £3 3s. (plus space rates,
2Jd. per line) for a pithy defence of law-enforcement.
Every week there is a prize of £3 35., in addition to A.J.A. rates—paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
another prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
The People and the Law
“The Welfare of the People Is the
Supreme Law.” Missouri’s motto ex-
presses a very desirable fact. Does our
attitude to our law-enforcement bodies
assist the realisation of that phrase?
The convicted offender against some
minor enactment is often the object of
sympathy, sometimes lionised in his own
circle; those responsible for his detection
and punishment more often ridiculed and
despised. Penalties inflicted are very
often pulled to pieces; they are either
too heavy or too light.
No system of law-enforcement can
function efficiently without the support
of the people—the people appoint such
bodies, and are probably the only em-
ployers who do not support their em-
ployees’ work.
What was the offence? Did it inter-
fere with the welfare of the people?
What would be the result if this par-
ticular offence was written off the
Statutes? Did not the Court have the
full facts before it? The defendant had
the right to place his case before the
Court. Was not the finding the result
of years of experience and speciali-
sation?
Law-enforcement will never be effective
until the public gives it full support, and
that will not be forthcoming until the
public has been educated—educated to
realise that the laws are made for the
well-being of the people. R. W.
Gregory (S.A.).
Gregory the winner. His address is
58 Graves-street, Kadina, S.A.
Lifesaving Instruction
In the par. under the above heading
(B. 4/l/’39) the writer is not fair to the
N.S.W. Education Department. Speaking
from over a quarter of a century’s ex
perience, I can say that resuscitation of
the apparently drowned was taught in
our schools as far back as 30 years ago.
It was one of many lessons in first aid.
Not only that particular procedure was
given attention to, but (in country schools
at least) the pupils were well grounded
in what to do in cases of snakebite, and
in the treatment of minor injuries and
simple fractures. —E. J. G. (N.S.W.).
The Men for Those Jobs
An employed person is a contented
person—mentally. He may be dissatis-
fied with his working conditions, but that
is human nature the world over. He is
free from the mental strain of wonder-
ing how he is to provide for himself
and family in the future, whether his
children will be equipped physically and
mentally when their turn comes to face
a life of work.
Contrast this outlook with that of the
unemployed or sustenance worker. What
can the future hold for such? His mental
worry reacts in his attitude towards
society, even in his bearing in his home;
nerves are frayed and irritable, children
are reared in an atmosphere of mental
strain which seriously retards their
chances in life.
There is much work of a reproductive
and national character yet to be done,
and we have the labor and a lot of the
raw material for the job. When will our
Parliamentarians, advisory councils, etc.,
do other than talk of the need for a high-
way from east to west, a single-gauge
railway from Perth to the eastern State
capitals, all-weather landing-grounds at
principal aerodromes and other such
necessary works which the man in the
street knows must be done in the inter-
ests of defence and commerce?
Once the unemployed man found him-
self actively engaged, even if only on
pick-and-shovel work, much of his mental
discontent would vanish, and we would
be on the way to achieving national
fitness in the best of all possible ways—
by work. —A. J. S. (W.A.)
National Fitness
I understand there is a national-fitness
campaign going on at the moment.
Might I inquire what is the purpose of
this fitness? Fitness for what?
If the campaign is intended to pro-
duce physical excellence only, what use
will the machinery of fitness be without
proper directional control to guide it?
A fit body is, after all, but an A 1
machine, and, lacking proper control, is
a positive nuisance. Are these folk to
be made fitter also to (I) exercise an
intelligent vote ; (2) to exercise a wiser
discretion in the matter of occupation
of leisure ; (3) to withstand the morally
debilitating influences of modern mass
"And tell 'em to get a Wriggle on."
suggestion? And, if not, of what use
will all this fitness be?
Further, is there to*'be any national
effort towards making the vast army
of unemployed better fitted to take
a place in our national life? How can
they remain fit on the minimum sub-
sistence level? And what steps are being
taken to provide working-class children
with their proper nutritional require-
ments?
As a matter of fact, the average Aus-
tralian already possesses a fairly good
physique—generally speaking. But what
is wanted is a national campaign dedi-
cated to the purpose of filling up the
vast empty spaces in the mind of the
average Australian. — Anti-Bunk (Vic.).
Lifesavers
Australia has just completed a record
holiday season —record crowds, record
weather, but, alas! a record list of
fatalities. But for the efforts of life-
savers and ambulance workers the death
roll would have been considerably
higher.
Are the people properly grateful for
these free services? Take the case of the
lifesavers. Voluntarily, and in most cases
without wage or reward, they risk their
lives to protect the public. Yet what a
niggardly response greets their appeals
for financial aid! One Queensland club,
safeguarding a holiday crowd estimated
at over 60,000 and boasting a record of
86 rescues over the period, managed on
one day to gather a whole 2s. 3d. by
the sale of raffle tickets. Financial help
must be given these men so that, instead
of being compelled to assume the de-
grading role of part-time beggars, they
may devote all their time and energy
to their chosen job. The same holds
true for the ambulance.
I suggest that, as this is a national
matter, the Commonwealth Government
should help. The money need not come
from present revenue. A special stamp
issue would meet the case. Attractively
colored, with artistic scenes illustrating
the work of these bodies, they would
command a ready sale here, and in these
days of a wo rid-wide philatelic boom
they would be eagerly snapped up by
overseas collectors, thus bringing thou-
sands of pounds into the country. To
avoid any loss of revenue a surcharge of
id. could be added, and ito prevent
undue penalisation of business firms the
sale of the issue could be limited to,
say, a fortnight.— lron Bark (Q.).
Clothes and Scientists
Scientists meeting at Canberra dressed
in conventional male attire during the
heat-wave is surely evidence of an un-
scientific state of mind. Science having
accomplished such marvels in our time,
its protagonists might now turn their
genius to the invention of a suitable dress
for men —dignified, yet light, airy and
comfortable without adding to the
family’s laundry bill.
The intellectual progress of woman
has marched parallel with her gradual
emancipation from clothes that fettered.
Great-grandmamma sat upright on the
edge of her chair not because she felt
comfortable that way but from necessity ;
her mind also was encased in whalebone.
Let Australians discard their starched
collars and heavy coats for something
really hygienic; the resultant gain in
health and mental energy will surely
astonish the world and might well lead
to another renaissance.—l. X. L. (Tas.).
Education by Wireless
The radio fascinates children at an
early age, and their receptive minds can
grasp what is being said even before
they can read.
Realising this, the education authorities
should conduct bright, instructive sessions
to help lighten the teacher’s burden later
on. Suitable historical plays, telling
them something of their land and its
proud heritage, could be broadcast; and
the rudiments of the three R’s could
also be included, and would be especially
appreciated by outback kiddies.
They could also be informed of their
correct moral conduct, the danger of
playing in traffic-ridden streets, the
foolishness of picking up with strangers,
or any other pitfalls they are likely to
encounter. — Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Musical Indigestion
The Elizabethan visitor was expected
to take part in difficult part-music at
sight. His 1939 descendant need only
know the stations on the radio with the
right “snappy” music to be an equal
social success. In our own time we have
seen the family piano give way to the
gramophone, and the gramophone yield
tc the radio. The easier music has be-
come the more it has been abused. Even
winding up a gramophone and changing
needles made us feel we were doing
something for our entertainment.
I have been in homes where the gramo-
phone and its slowly acquired collection
of favorite disks have been looked upon
with a reverence never accorded a radio.
Who would think of playing the gramo-
phone from early morning to late at
night? Radio, which is at one and the
same time killing the gramophone and
relying on it for its best artists, is not
doing what some claim —changing us
from a nation of musical dabblers into a
nation of enlightened and critical
listeners. Instead it’s making music in
the home too easy and too common.
We’re suffering from musical indi-
gestion.—R. H. A. (W.A.).
Bicycles for Defence
I was astonished to read the remarks
of “Pedaller” in B. 4/1 /’39 in respect of
motor-cycles.
I am sure your correspondent will be
interested to know that there has been,
and there still is, room for motor-cycles
in the several units of the Australian
Corps of Signals located in Sydney. For
months they have been fairly screaming
for men with machines to enlist, and it
is a wonder that he has not seen some-
thing of this subject in the daily press.
There is also the Ist Machine Gun Regi-
ment in Sydney, which has been in a
similar predicament and, I believe, still
wants men. “P.” would do well to call
at the Engineers’ Depot, Moore Park
Road, Paddington (N.S.W.), or the head-
quarters of the Machine Gun Regiment,
where, I am sure, he would learn some-
thing to his personal advantage, as well
as rendering a national service by en-
listing with his machine.
As far as pushbikes are concerned, the
infantry battalions all require these in
their field operations. F. U. J. T.
(N.S.W.).
Waste of Good Material
One of the tragedies of the outback
is the waste of talent entailed in putting
children with a marked bent for study
to work as soon as they leave school.
I have known youngsters in isolated
townships in the Far North and elsewhere
whose intelligence and eagerness for
knowledge were extraordinary, but who
had to buckle to and help make a living
for the family, droving, mining and what
not, as soon as they were able to. After
a few years of this, intellectual curiosity
is dulled, and they may settle down to
the humdrum life of the bush as a matter
of course. Often enough, however, they
become misfits, more or less, restless and
discontented.
But for a crushing combination of
adverse circumstances impecuniosity,
unsuitable environment, lack of en-
couragement —they might have become
far more useful members of society.—
C. A. B. (N.Q.).
Young Australia
Sometimes when I walk abroad on a
Saturday night I meet Roy (12) and
Frank (11). They share a beat, selling
newspapers at the corner of Spencer and
Collins streets. They sell papers after
school every day, and on Saturday they
are selling until about 11.30 p.m. Their
profit, selling on commission, is about
five bob a week, so they tell me.
They have both heard of Hitler and
Mussolini, but are not quite sure who
they are. In fact, Frank is particularly
hazy about Mussolini, for, when pressed,
he said he thought it was the name of
some kind of food that “Dagoes” eat. But
Roy knows better than that. Neither
had any knowledge of Mr. Roosevelt,
though Roy hazarded a guess that he
was a German flier. Both knew of Don
Bradman, and both thought that Henry
Lawson was a jockey. They are not sure
where Lawson races, but fancied that he
won the Melbourne Cup on Phar Lap.
They think Melbourne is the capital of
Australia, and when I asked for the capi-
tal of Germany Roy said “Hitler,” and
Frank said “Don’t be barmy. It’s
Munich.”
When I asked them who or what Mr.
Lyons was, Roy said he was a mission l
ary connected with the Boy Scouts, but
Frank said he was a preacher of some
sort, but wasn’t quite sure where he
preached or what he preached about.
They had both heard of Robinson
Crusoe, and both agreed that he was
a bushranger who used to rob the rich
to help the poor.
They knew everything knowable about
movie actors, and were able to identify


Mae West, Wallace Beery, Mickey
Rooney, Mickey Mouse and Popeye
very, very clearly. But they both fancied
that Florence Nightingale, Joan of Arc
and Gandhi were also connected with
the movies. In fact, Frank thought that
Gandhi was “the bloke wot invented
Popeye.” Roy thinks “the Pope” is
the name of a new dance, and Frank
doesn’t know what to think about it.
Both agree, however, that General Booth
defeated Nelson at the Battle of
Waterloo. _ .
Their philosophic outlook is similar
—both are convinced that the best thing
in life is to have “a good time.” They
agree that they would like to go on the
movies “better ’n’ anythin’ ” —in fact,
they would like to be like Mickey
Rooney. He is their hero! — Freelance
(Vic.). '
Now One for His Nob
Don’t we get tired of mud-slinging at
women who don’t marry! Has there
been a war or have I only dreamed it !
Haven’t 1 read somewhere of the thou-
sands of women in excess of men? If
every eligible man married there would
still be spinsters—yet there are still a
number of selfish men who refuse to do
their duty to their country! I can confi-
dently say there is only about 1 per cent,
of women who genuinely don’t want to
marry, but many more don't feel in-
clined to jeopardise present happiness for
almost certain unhappiness.
Why should a woman or girl who has
kept her mental, moral and physical well-
being rush when a man beckons, a man
probably who has “sown his wild oats”
(always excusable in a man)\ One who
has wrecked what physique he did have
or one who hasn’t the mentality he was
born with. These days we don’t have to
look for a man to support us or as an
escape from a monotonous life or a
parent’s home. Life can be made too
interesting for marriage to mean nothing
but that’
In these days of loose living and easy
divorce a girl is a fool to take on matri-
mony unless she can see the other party
is also going to do his best to make it a
success. A happy marriage is the best
thing in life, but an unhappy one is tor-
ture, as so many women have found out.
Many a wife can’t even depend on her
husband’s faithfulness, much less on hav-
ing anything left over from his gambling
and drinking to support her and their
children. And then his temper! A miser-
able atmosphere for children to be
brought up in. The worth-while man
has no difficulty in finding a mate. — One
Who Won’t (Tas.).
Federation
One wonders what earthly use Federa-
tion has been to Australia. When I
dropped my voting paper into the ballot-
box in 1900 I had visions of a vast
united family of Australians with one
collective mind, one national aspiration.
I had visions of a huge citizen army, a
worth-while navy, a Government of six
educated men —one each representing his
State. I saw gold-laced cocked hats and
embroidered uniforms hanging in Uncle
Pop’s shops marked down at under half-
price and less. _ I saw palatial guber-
natorial residences being turned into fac-
tories and charitable institutions. I saw
everything that was parochial sink be-
hind the trees like the setting sun.
What a nightmare I’ve had! Seven
Governments instead of one ; two income
taxes instead of one ; an army that any
one of the State’s volunteer forces could
bust right open in one round ; a navy
that engages the naice folk of Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane in a battle of
cocktails and dancing at Cup and Exhibi-
tion times. Yes, we’ve got all these
things.
The firm of Toby Barton, Sam
Griffith and Co. sold us a pup—a sore-
eyed one at that! —Queenslander
(N.S.W.).
Music-writing Needs Stimulus
Splendid incentive to Australian writers
is given by papers such as The Bulletin.
Perhaps the music trade, in conjunction
with the A.8.C., might do something
equally big for our rising music-com-
posers. Has Tin-Pan Alley all the brains?
We should have an export trade —in the
popular music line at least. —W. H. Cox
(Vic.).
Crocodile Tears
At frequent intervals over the air
comes the avowed regret of the Minister
for Post and Telegraphs that his. depart-
ment finds it necessary to employ wire-
less-license inspectors, and his very deep
regret that 19,000-odd listeners have been
prosecuted for neglecting to take out a
listener’s license.
In the same announcement listeners are
warned that the department may in future
confiscate unlicensed wireless sets, the
attention of sellers of sets on terms being
drawn particularly to this statement, and
advice tendered to them to see that buyers
of sets on terms also get their listener's
license.
All this is very unnecessary. If radio
sets were put on the same footing as
revolvers (i.e., it being obligatory on the
buyer to produce a license) the job is
done.
As names and addresses are endorsed
on the license, a check of delinquents can
be made each year, and the army of
license inspectors put to reproductive
work.
Unfortunately, this suggestion is just a
commonsense one, and isn’t likely to
appeal to the Minister or his staff. — Burr
(Q-).
Where Angels Fear to Tread
Yes, the League is dead, but that’s
hardly surprising if you recall the re-
marks made by its originator, President
Wilson, at Versailles. He said that
Christ had a theory for saving the human
race but had not been able to devise
a practical scheme to carry it out. He
(the President), however, had now made
good the deficiency. That’s rather tall
talking even when coming from a
country that breeds tall talkers. The
last man who tried to help God out
was the Kaiser, and his plans went awry.
Wilson himself died a premature death
from disillusionment, while ironically
enough the one League of Nations whose
members might have done, and may even
yet do, the trick were individually repre-
sented at that conference for the first time
in history. I refer to the British Com-
monwealth of Nations, and include
America. International politics seem to
indicate a coalition in that direction be-
fore long—a little late for our impatient
neighbor, perhaps, but taking shape in
spite of false starts. — Richard Phillips
(Vic.).
Burrinjuck Dam
What a wonderful country that can
stand it! Nearly two million pounds
(every sane man believes it will be more
than two million pounds) is estimated as
necessary to replace or repair or recon-
dition Burrinjuck dam. Obviously some-
one has blundered ; but of the cause of
the blunder or even of the blunder itself
hardly a word.
Can’t we know whether it is proved
that cement concrete is an unsatisfactory
material or whether it is satisfactory
and was used in an incompetent or
unskilled way? It looks as if the material
is at fault; otherwise why the recom-
mendation of “inspection galleries”? And
if the material is not proved reliable
in all circumstances and conditions,
then the “nearly two millions” may be
wasted. — Mudgee (N.S.W.).
Military Service
As a Digger and the father of potential
Diggers, I am keenly interested in Billy
Hughes’s campaign to raise the militia
strength to 70,000, but I see several holes
in the principles being followed. For a
start some pressure, legislative or other-
wise, should first be brought to bear on
employers, for one of the things most
strongly holding young men back is the
knowledge that employers are too eager
for profits to look with a kindly eye on
time off for training. In my town this
is common. One tradesman sacked his
assistant because he decided to go into
camp with his unit at Newcastle at the
time when Britain had issued the fleet
mobilisation order. Another promising
youngster, as keen as mustard, was forced
to resign from his battalion because of
the stumbling-blocks put in his way by
his boss. Others, to my knowledge, and
all good men, could not attend drill be-
cause profits come first and drill would
need rearranging staff matters at the
office.
Why not spend the money and energy
required for a volunteer army on a perma-
nent one, at basic-wage rates, with careers
ahead for the competent and ambitious?
A rough estimate gives me a sum for
the annual wage-sheet that is not so stag-
gering in view of the urgency that is said
to exist. That would overcome the
objection of youngsters to giving their
leisure, and eventually their lives and
health, for the protection of their coun-
try, which is at present not even giving
them a job, and the nucleus of officers
for universal service in case of war would
be better than the militia, which has that
nucleus as its chief object.
Or, to go the whole hog, why not
have compulsory universal training, with
a law against any employer preventing
his men from drilling? That would also
overcome the objection of many young-
sters to doing someone else’s military
work for him. — Emmer Emmer (N.S.W.).
News
The news in the average newspaper
matters more than the animadversions of
its leader-writers and critics. The pro-
vision of news is a newspaper’s first func-
tion, and it is to the news that the aver-
age man and woman turn first.
Unfortunately, however, to many Aus-
tralian newspapers news that sells is of
more importance than news that matters.
Consequently, we have “battleship-sized”
headlines with the most trivial news-
matter underneath, and events of world
importance compete for space with silly
accounts of the love troubles of overpaid
film stars.
It is not to be wondered at then that
the average Australian takes even the
most authentic news with the proverbial
pinch of salt. Can you blame him? —
R. Conquest (Q.).
“Society” in the Press
Aldous Huxley once wrote that the
amount of space devoted by the press to
the doings of “society” is a fair indi-
cation of a country’s social snobbery.
If this is true, then Australia must be
one of the world’s leaders in this despic-
able class.
Day after day the newspapers feature
the affairs of “society” people and
“society” generally, the qualifications for
admission to which are the possession of
sufficient money to be able to live with-
out working and enough energy to shake
cocktails.
Mr. and Mrs. X are shown in their
new speed launch which cost more than
the basic wage for a year. Would it not
be better to keep these things from the
public? —a poor public, more than 50
per cent, of which find it difficult to pro-
vide the necessary finance to spend a
day at one of the beaches.
Here is a picture of Mrs. Z, leaving the
church after her wedding to Mr. Z, wear-
ing a hand-made veil which has been in
the family for a hundred years.
Why is that news?
Mr. and Mrs. Poor, wearing clothes,
perhaps, that were bought by means of
cash orders, are never featured, but they
are starting a new life that will be a long
struggle, and when the struggle is ended
they will have done as much good for
the country as Mr. and Mrs. Z. Com-
pare the glamorous description of a
dinner held at one of our leading hotels,
the distinguished guests, who often are
only on the ladder of success because
their grandparents started at the bottom,
the lavish table appointments and the
meaningless speeches made afterwards,
with the charity meal given to the
veterans in some industrial suburb. The
former is eulogised as the acme of at-
tainment, while the latter is given the
same atmosphere as that of a curiosity.
Just imagine a man who has worked,
and hard at that, for over half a cen-
tury (work which, although he did not like
it, he was forced to do) being featured
with the same status as a pig born with
five legs!—W. H. Webber (N.S.W.).
Going On the Land
Rex Roylance’s criticism (B. 4/1/’39)
of my attempted solution of Jackeroo s
problem contains strange inaccuracies.
The equipment he specifies as necessary
on a hill block will cost four times
“£300.” In this district—Apollo Bay,
one of the most favored in Australia
abandoned farms can be had for nominal
sums. In many parts of Gippsland the
same conditions hold. “Ben Boyd ’ (B.
28/42/’3B) confirms this as for the
N.S.W. South Coast.
There are knowledge, sincerity and 28
years’ happy experience as a working
dairy-farmer on a once-“abandoned hill
block” behind my advice. I have nothing
to alter, though obviously, it would be
pleasant to draw a little cash from the
editor by elaborating my necessarily
condensed arguments into a few columns
of space.
My critic’s last lines, r. wherein he
claims that a farm-hand can bank £5OO
out of his wages in three years, are a
joke, and have-occasioned more derisive
merriment amongst our local farm-hands
than anything seen in print since Christ-
mas, 1937.—G. F. Young (Vic.).
The Craftsman
An unfortunate feature of our “pro-
gress” has been the disappearance of the
craftsman. He finds the demand for his
work, diminishing annually. Machine-
made articles, by virtue of their cheap-
ness, can outsell his wares. When with
the bookbinding trade I learnt the old
craft methods of binding in styles beauti-
ful and lasting. Examination of book
stores reveals no good bindings, only an
increasing sale for volumes slapped into
shoddy, meretricious covers neither
artistic nor durable. The same would
prove true of other crafts.
It is to be hoped that the modern
craft movement in the schools will find
favor, for there I see a means of keeping
the creative spirit alive G F S
(N.S.W.).
Taxes Without Compensation
In Queensland to-day two of the
biggest bugbears of the outback man
on the land are local-authority rates and
motor-car taxes. A selector who leases
land from the Government rarely com-
plains about the rent charges on the
land. The spear-point of his grievance
is directed in ten cases out of ten to the
high local-authority rates. Shire Councils
are necessary, no doubt, for the good
and progress of all communities; but
need they be such expensive necessities?
Motor-car taxes, which seem to be
on the up-grade, are ever a sore point
with the “little man” on the land. To
him a car is a necessity. If he got his
worth out of the tax he pays— i.e,, if the
money he pays in taxes would eventually
go towards improving his roads —there
would be some compensation. But he
knows that Main Roads Board's activities
will hardly extend to his outback
selection, and he must go on getting his
innards shaken up in his old “rattle-
trap,” the possession of which is an ever-
increasing liability. The fellow in the
city who sails around on bitumen roads
has little to complain about car-taxes in
comparison with his brother in the bush,
half of whose car-life is spent under-
neath his “Liz” trying to remedy damage
caused by the potholes and bumps that
make up his roads. — Suzanne (Q.).
Defence
Australia's coastline is unfortunately
so long that the combined British and
French fleets could not adequately de-
fend it from invasion ; in the circum-
stances, for Australia to expend huge
sums on battleships is both futile and
wasteful.
Our main object should be to make
a potential invader’s task so expensive to
him in loss of warships, supply- and
troopships, as well as men, by submarine
and torpedo attack, as well as Air Force
operations, that he would fail to maintain
a landing.
Twelve million pounds for a single
battleship! It’s a lot of money to lock up
in a steel box which might conceivably
be sunk within a month of hostilities
breaking out; but that amount expended
on submarines, destroyers and fighting
’planes would go a long way in this par-
ticular method of defence. If invasion is
held up by those means, even for a short
while, this would help the Singapore base
fleet (projected), with its battle-cruisers,
to cut through the enemy’s line of com-
munications in the rear, and the attack-
ing force would find itself in an unenvi-
able position.
Submarine and destroyer bases should
be dotted around our coasts in strategic
positions as fast as funds and opportu-
nity permit, the northern and eastern
coasts’ requirements being attended to
first, for an enemy would be just as likely
to attack from the east as from the north.
The west and south can be safely left
until the coasts already mentioned arc
secured, as distance from his base is a
vital factor to the attacking force and is
to Australia’s advantage.
Whereas a battleship takes years to
build, small naval vessels, such as sub-
marines and destroyers, are compara-
tively easily and quickly procurable.
Large merchant liners, with a little
ingenuity and forethought, could, pro-
vided they had any pretensions to speed,
be convertible into aircraft carriers in
war-time. Secret reserves of fuel-oil
should be established immediately, as
replenishments would be unobtainable
until after a successful naval action
favorable to our side, while addi-
tional roadmaking to facilitate .troop
movements in the north and the unifi-
cation of railway gauges are matters oi
major importance. —S. Tarr (Solomon
Islands).
A Bit Hard on the Ears
The wireless is a useful thing, am.
friendship a thing to be cherished; yet
so many people abuse both. When
visitors arrive in a good many homes
the wireless is turned on full blast, ana
one is expected to carry on a conversa-
tion and listen-in at the same time. I f <■’
strain on both ear and voice is awful-
to say nothing about nerves, yet one is
expected to carry on to be polite.
If everyone would refuse to talk wane
the radio was on our little visits, m our
part of the world, anyway, would he
much more enjoyable. —G. S. (N.Q.).


FROM “MAMA’S BOY” TO
SUPER-STRONG MAN!!
Once a 7 Stone Weakling
Now a 13 Stone Husky ! !
The True Life Story of Edward Zello
pDWARD ZELLO came into the world a puny weakling, just
managing to struggle through boyhood; and in boyhood was as
brittle as a china doll. While the other boys played football and
cricket, Zello had to sit and read books. His mother was ever
watchful lest her darling Edward should exert himself and drop dead.
Now read on how Zello made a ladder out of his cross and changed
from a mannikin to a super-strong man.
J7DWARD ZELLO came info the world as
a puny baby. The day he was born
the undertakers listed him as a Class A
prospect, and the tombstone dealers began
to sharpen their chisels and watch for the
death notices of the local paper. He lived,
but when he grew to boyhood he was too
weak to attend school. He was a “mama's
boy,” with the courage of a mouse and the
strength of a tailor’s dummy.
The other children of that wild bush
country could fight any time they just
thrived on it ; but young Zello was glad
to be alive. Barred even from school, he
had a private tutor in an ex-Cambridge
athlete, and, unbeknown to Zello's parents,
this athlete gradually started Zello on a
very light system of calisthenics.
As time went on, Zello showed a very
slow, but perceptible, improvement in
health; these calisthenics had put Zello on
the right track. He then sought an educa-
tion in the green fields of Nature. He
studied his own case and learnt of Nature’s
secrets and applied them to his own body.
Gradually his cheeks became tinted and
his blood was enriched with he-man
vitality. Now Zello was a youth to be
admired and feared.
He became a “mountain of muscle," and
was master of any youth in that rugged
bush country. He became a weight-lifter,
wrestler and boxer, and wrestled a draw
with Hackenschmidt, “The Russian Lion,”
and he held his own in the squared ring
with such leather-pushers as Andy Walsh,
Jim Handler, and many others.
PERFECTED A SYSTEM
I MYSELF was no exception as a youth. 1
was very weak and small of stature.
Then 1 admired the feats of strength shown
by athletes in lifting great weights, etc.,
and from that time onwards I determined to
develop a healthy body and great muscular
development. 1 studied anatomy, and began
to devise a system of strength-giving and
body-building, similar to Zello’s. Slowly
but surely I perfected this system, and now
1 can honestly claim that it will do every-
thing 1 claim for it. That is, to give
glorious, lasting health, and develop
muscles like steel. And now you!
MAKE THIS TEST TO-NIGHT
Before you hop into bed to-night, try
this: Strip down to your birthday suit and
stand in front of your mirror. Look your-
self over. What do you see? A fine
upstanding specimen of a MAN, splendidly
proportioned, superbly muscled, glowing
with health and vitality? Or do you see
a flabby, sickly sort of fellow, with sunken
chest, bloodless-looking flesh, scrawny
arms, neck and legs)
WHAT I CAN DO FOR YOU
IN JUST 30 DAYS
In the first 30 days I guarantee to add
one whole inch of real live muscle on each
of your arms, and two whole inches of
rippling strength across you r chest. I’ll
take the kinks out of your back, strengthen f
and broaden your shoulders, give you a
wrist of steel, and a fighting, powerful
personality that just wells youth, vigour and
vitality all over. I’ve done it for hun-
dreds, and I can do it for you. If I don't
—it costs you nothing— not one penny.
Post this coupon for this Special Offer
NOW.
Great Distribution of
Muscular Courses !
you can test this famous Course yourself—try this remarkable
system in your own home—under any condition you like—and if it
doesn t add inches to your chest, broaden your shoulders, develop your
arms, legs, neck and back within 30 days it COSTS YOU NOTHING!
But you must hurry; this offer may never be repeated. It places you
under no obligation whatsoever; all you have to do is send the coupon NOW for
particulars.
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. L., 107 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Rush Coupon Along!
30 Days AMAZING TRIAL Offer'
By A. J. BRITON
m
K
LIMITED OFFER
ONLY
HURRY COUPON
INTO POST !
EXTRA SPECIAL OFFER!
Test this wonderful method yourself
TRY THE BRITON METHOD IN YOUR
OWN HOME FOR 30 DAYS—NO RESULTS
—NO COST! THIS WONDERFUL OFFER
EXPIRES SHORTLY!
SENDnoMONEY
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. L.,
107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 25/'l"/’39.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
dsfds
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
rH g WORU>
A BOOK BARGAIN!
G. B. LANCASTER'S
The World
Is Yours”
a
P*
XZ** 1 '- . A Thrilling
\ Tale of
i The Yukon
A 6/6 NOVEL FOR
1'6
Post Free
&
0°,
40®
X"
# S ' .••
N° VV1
to \** S 1$>*
C vO e^ v O’
e'i


V-:
uHZ
n
0*
m
d
■M
w
HNERVESSg
and most Constitutional Disorders are
CAUSED BY MINERAL STARVATION
AND DEPRESSED
FEELING-
Thousands of women are blessing Bidomak to-day, who once were going about
“nervy,” listless, tired, run down, “jittery,” never feeling really well, but always
half sick. These nervous disorders robbed them of popularity because even a
beautiful face and figure can’t make up for “jumpiness,” irritability or lack of
“pep.” The best thing to do is to take Bidomak, as thousands are doing,
Bidomak will put roses in your cheeks, a sparkle in your eyes, give you new life,
energy, vitality . . . POPULARITY ... all the things that make life worth
while. Bidomak is offered to you under a definite guarantee to do you good or
cost you nothing.
This amazing guarantee is
given by the discoverer of
Bidomak because he is posi-
tive that if you take it as
directed you must obtain real
benefit. He has ihe whole of
modern medical science on
his side when he asserts that
90% of human ailments
result from “mineral starva-
tion.” This lack of vital
mineral elements from our
food supply causes a great
list of deficiency disorders,
including all nerve troubles,
malnutrition, nervous
dyspepsia, ancemia, head-
aches, lowered vitality,
and many other common
illnesses.
Good Health Depends
On Minerals
1 he most important health-
giving minerals are iron, lime,
potash, sodium and phos-
phorus. These vital minerals
are all present in Bidomak,
and made available for easy
assimilation in accordance
with formulae developed by
the most advanced scientific
work on nutrition. A course
of Bidomak strengthens the
liver, pancreas and stomach
so that we make better use
of our ordinary food supply.
It builds nerve strength and
vigorous, buoyant muscles.
It recharges the arteries with
a fresh supply of living, red
blood corpuscles and with
oxygen, too, for the purpose
of burning up the body’s
wastes.
Bidomak is Safe and
Pleasant to Take
There is not one single substance
contained in Bidomak which is not
present in a perfectly healthy human
body. Bidomak contains no bitter,
dangerous narcotic drugs nor opiates.
Scientific
Control
f
sdf
ds
Attached to
the Labora-
tories of the
Douglas
Drug Com-
pany are
three fully
quali fi e d
chemists
and a Doctor
of Medicine
who gradu-
ated at the Universities of Edin-
burgh and Glasgow.
¥
for a large bottle all
chemists and stores.
Zealand,
3/6.
Start To-day on a Course of
BIDOMAK
THE TONIC OF THE CENTU W-for Nerves. Brarn and that Depressed Feeling
