

Life
Assurance
The safe
investment and
the family’s
safeguard.
Use it for your
own peace of
mind and the
security of
your Family.
:|S <
- !!
■mm
; - m „ * m£|
-
:
- ;
■
,- ;*;■-:
:!T
smmm
¥■■ ;. -. v . v:::.: ; i
1
:
ym
*'-Z V
.
m
. .
-
m
, •*' <4l
- j -.'
Wx, ■
*
War Risk
Full risk is
carried on
pre-war
Policyholders in
their Country’s
Service either at
home or abroad
without extra
Premium.
HEAD OFFICE..
CORNER HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
&/>e
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
assurance society ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1879
An Insurance Society which belongs to its Policyholders
and
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia
Assets Exceed £10,000,000
REPRESENTATIVES REQUIRED.
WM. BENNETT , Managing Director.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61. —No. 3140.
Wednesday, April 17, 1940.
Crime and Punishment
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Ttory Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, yovr New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write f'.T Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 340
The Red Page
WELLS'S NEW WORLD.
In 1866 when the infant son of a pro-
fessional cricketer was squalling in
Bromley, Kent, there was war between
Prussia and Austria and Italy. Three
years later there was the Franco-Prussian
War. H. G. Wells was too young to
have taken much interest in those con-
flagrations, but he was probably sitting
up and taking notice by the time Russia
and Turkey got to grips in 1877.
Since then —not counting the unceas-
ing procession of riots, minor revolutions
and border wars all over the world —he
has seen: Turkey v. Greece ; U.S.A. v.
Spain; the Boer War; the Russo-
Japanese War; Italy v. Turkey; the
Great War ; the little wars that followed
it; the rise of Bolshevism, Nazism and
Fascism ; the series of invasions by the
“Have-nots,” and the present war. If he
likes to look ahead a little way he can
see the seeds of future wars already
sprouting. Nevertheless, he still believes
that a world State, to be brought gradu-
ally into being by “men of goodwill,” is
possible in the near future, and The
New World Order (Seeker and War-
burg ; Angus and Robertson), more opti-
mistic than The Fate • of Homo Sapiens,
is a plea to these good-natured persons
to start planning the new world now.
Wells’s attitude to the present conflict
is curiously contradictory. Anyone be-
lieving as he does that the guarantee to
Poland was not a test of German faith
and of German belligerence but simply
a diplomatic blunder should surely be
advocating the immediate stopping of
the war. Instead of that, Wells wants
the war to go on, and believes that a
patched-up peace would never last. He
is a savage critic of Mr. Chamberlain,
without realising that Chamberlain’s only
“crime” was to try the method of dis-
cussion and appeasement that Wells’s
men of goodwill would have to adopt.
Is his hostility to Chamberlain merely the
notorious resentment of a prophet for
his rivals? His pointless railing at the
Government for evacuating the women
and children from London seems much
less like political criticism than personal
irritation at the disruption of the bus
timetables. His suggestion that the un-
employed should be used to tidy up the
“still slovenly countryside”—presumably
they’re to weed out the heather and trim
the gorse —looks merely comic, but it
may be significant.
The principal theme of The New
World Order is that the war is a sign of
the collapse of our social and economic
order. The day of the sovereign State
is over ; capitalism has failed ; the world,
if the whole of human life is not to fall
into chaos, must move towards a world
State and a collectivist economy; and,
because the war has brought affairs to a
crisis and has set men thinking, there is
now a “revolutionary situation” of which
men of goodwill should take advantage.
Wells points out that not a single revo-
lution in history has brought lasting
good, because they have been based on
the myth of a “right-minded proletariat”
or because they have not been conducted
by people like Mr. Wells.
The reorganisation of the world is
first to be effected by a “movement,”
arising naturally out of the widespread
recognition that benevolent reconstruc-
tion is necessary. The Revolution, free
from “the exasperating dogmatism of the
orthodox Marxist,” is to be a bloodless
affair, establishing:
Outright world socialism, scientifically
planned and directed; a sustained insistence
upon law, law based on a fuller, more
jealously conceived restatement of the
personal Rights of Man; the completest
[s/c] freedom of speech, criticism and
publication and a sedulous expansion of
the educational organisation to the ever-
growing demands of the new order.
Germany is to be disarmed but not
split up ; it may choose its own form of
government presumably it may even
retain the person whom Wells, in an un-
controllable outburst of goodwill, de-
scribed to Australians as a certifiable
lunatic. The Soviet is to be good again.
The English and the Yanks are to under-
stand each other better. There is to be
no international police force (page 105),
but (page 151) “some sort of inter-
national force to patrol a treaty-bound
world” i.e., an inter-
national police force. “Union
Now” and “Federation,” he
says, don’t go far enough.
The New World Order is
not to be regarded as Utopian; “I have
set down nothing that is not strictly
reasonable and practicable.” Which is
true enough, provided you can perform
the act of faith necessary for belief in
men of goodwill, noble savages and the
charms of a tidy countryside.
A Stack of Novels.
No matter how naively Elgin Grose-
close sermonises, nor with what merci-
less minuteness Christopher Morley
psycho-analyses, nor how vague and tired
in construction is H. M. Tomlinson’s
The Day Before (Heinemann ; Moore’s
Bookshop), you can’t quite pick out Pat-
ricia Wentworth’s new detective story as
the best of four new novels, for Grose-
close has dug up some interesting his-
tory, Morley has produced a brilliant
study in character, and The Day Before
is a neat satire on the press. And all
that Miss Wentworth has done is to hash
up some more incredible sleuths and
crooks to satisfy the tired businessman's
inhibited hunting instinct.
Nevertheless, her Rolling Stone has
one of the qualities of good fiction that
the others lack: it tells a compelling
story. It doesn’t matter that her investi-
gator, Peter Talbot, is no more a living
character than the smiling young man in
an advertisement for braces, nor that he
has to act throughout like a complete
idiot to let himself fall into the clutches
of the picture thieves; nor that the
villainess, Maud Millicent Simpson, who
can disguise herself as anything from a
dear old lady to an india-rubber croco-
dile, is not the sort of person you meet
at the knitting circle or anywhere else ;
nor that you know they won’t murder
Peter Talbot’s girl because he’s got f o
marry her at the end ; nor that no mur-
derer does the dirty deed by putting the
murderees on a cliff in the hope that it
will collapse. Also, the villain is a bit
too easy to spot, but it’s still a story
that holds your attention—once you’ve
started on the darn thing— to the last
page.
To justify the method of Kitty Foyle
(Angus and Robertson) Christopher
Morley quotes Saintsbury:
All the requirements of the novelist are
subsidiary to this, that he shall in his
pages show us the result of the workings
of the heart and brain, of the body, soul,
and the spirit of actual or possible human
beings.
If you apply either that test or the test
of pure storytelling to Elgin Groseclose’s
Ararat (Harrap) it is shown not to be a
novel at all. It has neither an authentic
character nor a gripping story. Nor is it,
in fact, intended to be a novel, but a
sermon in the form of fiction, a parable.
The theme, obviously with a moral for
the victims of the Nazis, is the survival
of oppressed peoples. The oppressors—
rather tactlessly—are the Turks; the
Armenians are the oppressed. It is, on
the whole, a readable book, because
Groseclose has a fund of special geo-
graphical and historical knowledge, so
that, even if you can’t believe in his
Armenians or his Texas-cowboy-turned-
missionary or his Russian officer who
ends up in charge of a village of orphan
children, you can accept his facts about
persecution, massacre and the pitiful
refugees.
Ararat has the makings of a magnifi-
cent novel. Opening with a massacre by
the Turks of all male Armenians over
the age of 14, Groseclose describes the
fears of the survivors in the cowboy’s
mission ; their flight to Russia and their
attempt to found a village; the Revolu-
tion and the hopes of the Armenians
under Allied protection ; a Turkish in-
vasion and the community in flight again.
He has the imagination to build up a
dramatic final scene when the Turks,
pursuing the cowboy and his Russian
pardner and their tribe of Armenian
youngsters, are caught in a flooded gorge
while the refugees climb to safety on the
slopes of Ararat, but the drama is
peopled with dummies. The philosophy
behind it —the young hopefuls coming to
rest like the Ark on Ararat—belongs to
a Sunday school.
Tomlinson’s novel is a much more
sophisticated performance, scoring in
character and satire, but pallid as a story.
The Day Before is the period before the
Great War, and the story is intended to
be a survey of the whole social scene
before the outbreak; bright, cynical,
tired journalists doing the surveying..
First Tomlinson tilts at the newspaper
attitude to murder ; then there’s an
earnest journalist getting nowhere with
sob-stories about strikers’ wives and
families, and a bright journalist writing
successfully harrowing stories about
them without ever leaving his Fleet-
street pub ; then there’s a trip with the
Navy, satire on the enthusiasm of naval
men for their new weapons, a hint of
approaching disaster; then a visit to
Ireland to comment humorously on the
Irish Question and also to witness the
launching of a big liner and to make
sardonic remarks about Progress; the
Coronation of George V, and a comic
account of the procession by a journalist
who saw no more than the rumps of the
horses of the police—the suggestion that
that was an accurate measure of the
public interest in royalty; then the
sinking of the Titanic, described with
all the brilliance of Tomlinson on any-
thing related to the sea —an omen of
the general shipwreck to follow.
Tomlinson deliberately refrains from
emphasising the tragic side of his story,
because he wants to make a statement
about little people going about their
little affairs while great events were
looming, but he understates too much.
His writing is infected with the tiredness
of his characters. They are lazy, trivial,
amusing people and this is a lazy, trivial,
amusing book. The great events are
somewhere in space beyond the last page.
Morley’s Kitty Foyle is the best of
the bunch. He has followed Saintsbury’s
advice faithfully: Kitty Foyle, the
Yankee girl who tells the story of her
rough old boozing father, her childhood
in near-poverty, her boarding-school life,
her love affair with a sprig of Philadel-
phia nobility and its unhappy sequel, is
a vital character, completely convincing.
Its best-selling success in America may
be due to its mild “toughness,” but it’s
a fine piece of portraiture. The love
story, a tragedy, is told with great skill.
If it fails, it does so only because it’s
such a complete success. Here are all the
workings of the heart and brain, of the
body and soul and the spirit of Kitty
Foyle from childhood to partnership in
a cosmetic business, told racily, realis-
tically, with many wisecracks; but
whether or not that’s as interesting as
what happened to Peter Talbot on the
cliff at midnight depends on whether
one’s taste is for the Modern Girl or
Murder.
Waltzing Arnold Haskell.
From one point of view Arnold Has-
kell’s statement about abo. art in Waltz-
ing Matilda (A. and C. Black, Ltd.;
Angus and Robertson) —“The aboriginal
may be the most primitive human on
earth, but the Miros, Massons and Klees
could be proud if they produced work
half as decorative or significant”—is a
great compliment to Binghi. Haskell
seems to have meant it as such. But,
from another viewpoint, what a superbly
savage criticism it is of Messrs. Miro,
Masson and Klee, who, apparently, can’t
produce anything as “significant” as the
childish scrawls of the abo.
Except for oddments such as that, there
is not a great deal to interest Australians
in Waltzing Matilda, though English
readers should find it a pleasant and
informative guidebook. The ballet-critic-
author humps his bluey (mainly in com-
fortable trains) from Fremantle to Syd-
ney, observes the scenery, digs up some
history, wanders about the parks, sees
some station life, sits in the lounge of
the Hotel Australia and meets “every-
body,” and pays Australia the sort of
compliments that—in peace-time—might
attract wealthy tourists. Nothing he says,
except that unfortunate remark about
the Hotel Australia, hasn’t been said
many times before, but some of his
criticisms are the sort that will stand
endless repetition:
The result [of the climate] is a truly
magnificent physique and a mind inclined
to be indolent. He grumbles about poli-
tics but does nothing. If voting were not
compulsory he would not turn up at the
polls at all. As it is, he is supremely in-
different to politics, with the result that he
is usually represented by professional poli-
ticians who do not in the slightest degree
express his way of thinking. Hence the
wowser, who has a say altogether out of
proportion to his numbers. The wowser
is a busybody, and consequently energetic
by nature. I cannot believe that the absurd
drink regulations express the will of the
people.
He gives a sketchy survey of art and
literature, with a judicious attack on the
imitation Leftists and some high praise
of Australian artists. “If art is a symp-
tom, and surely it is the only symptom,
Australia excels by her triumphant
sanity.” Reviewing newspapers, he
praises the Melbourne dailies, notes that
the very make-up of “S.M.H.” clears it
of “any suspicion of frivolity,” and says
of Sydney “D.T.” that it is “brilliant,
erratic, out for scoops at all costs, tech-
nically well presented.” He finds that
The Bulletin is “a force in expressing
the national way of thinking” ; it “does
not only speak for the cities but for all
Australia.”
The Road to Nowhere.
The important difference between the
adventures related in John H. MacCallum
Scott’s Eastern Journey (Gifford ; Angus
and Robertson) and those in Edward
Wassermann’s Velvet Voyaging (Bodley
Head) is that Mr. Scott (sorry, Mr. Was-
sermann) was the one who broke out into
a rash at Sourabaya:
Mr first thought on arriving at Soura-
baya was to find a doctor. Two days
before I had developed a rash on my
arms and legs that seemed like poison
ivy. The doctor here told me that as it
was on those parts of my body exposed to
the air (where my shorts and shirts ended)
it must be some insect bite, and gave me
a thick paste to rub on. In the tropics
it is extremely easy to get skin ailments.
Another strange fact is that cuts and
wounds take infinitely longer to heal.
Another strange fact is that both these
travellers, searching for the “colorful”
East, saw practically the same celebrated
tourist spots and made virtually iden-
tical comments on them. Temples,
dances, natives in quaint costumes, native
children without pants, night clubs,
hotels, the burning ghats in India and
the “boy” who nearly bursts into tears
when you have to say good-bye to him.
Mr Wassermann (sorry, Mr. Scott) is
the one who saw the Taj Mahal by
moonlight. Mr. Scott (dammit! Mr.
Wassermann) saw the Angkor Wat by
moonlight. Both books are full of in-
formation about bric-a-brac, bugs and
food. Mr. Wassermann ate the weirder
messes, but Mr. Scott has the greater
descriptive ability.
Eastern Journey reaches the Khyber
Pass, Velvet Voyaging China and Japan.
Both are amiable travel diaries of strik-
ing unoriginality.
It Takes All Kinds: Louis Bromfield
(Cassell). It takes about six months to
read it, but it’s worth while, for Bromfield
can write and there are nine stories —
three of novel length—in this omnibus.
A.R.P. and Emergency Pictorial:
Printed by Halstead Press, Ltd., Sydney,
for Alan Brooksbank. “How to deal
with phosphorus bombs and pellets”
and other A.R.P. instructions, with some
hints about bushfires to bring it nearer
home. Perhaps Australians aren’t likely
to be interested in such a monthly until
there’s a demonstrable danger of air-
raids.
The Great Australian Paradox: John
K. Ewers (Carroll’s, Ltd., Perth).
Pamphlet reprint of a speech by the
president of the W.A. section of the
Fellowship of Australian Writers. “Short
stories from England and America may
be bought for £9 10s. a dozen, novels
for serialisation for £7 10s. to £15.” An
attack on syndication, State Governments
and political lethargy, woven into a plea
for more vigorous Australianism in
letters and politics.
Peat Fires: Violet Ethel Cook (John
Sands Pty., Ltd., Sydney). Fiona loves
Shane, Padriac and Margule in turn;
cuddles in the cave, bloody death, and
a baby. A narrative in loose vers libre.
Stalin: Boris Souvarine (Angus and
Robertson). Favorably reviewed on the
Red Page (B. 27/12 / ’39), this big book
exposing Stalin’s dictatorship has been
published locally at fifteen shillings.
World in Arms: R. Ernest Dupuy
(Cassell; Moore’s Bookshop). The
author’s a major in Uncle Sam’s nootral
army. Military statistics and a strategical
survey, showing the armed strength of
all nations in September, 1939.
Sculpture Inside and Out: Malvina
Hoffman (Allen and Unwin). Pictorially
a representative “anthology” of sculpture
through the ages, with chapters examin-
ing theories related to sculpture and
dealing also with the practical side. The
author aims to interest the general pub-
lic and be of use to the serious student.
The writing aimed at the g.p. seems a
trifle naive, but any art student will find
practical help as well as interest in the
lavish illustrations and the chapters on
anatomy, drawing and modelling, carving,
garden and architectural sculpture, re-
liefs and medals, bronze and terracotta
work.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the wisdom of Anthony Horderns \
"THE SENIOR STORE”
USEFUL AND INSTRUCTIVE BOOKS FOR EVERYONE
HOUSEKEEPING • PETS • HOTHERCRAFT
FIRST AID • CHESS • DANCING • GAMES
: : or ;
> 1y
\ f||
S | |
**
13/6 ORIGINAL CZECHOSLOVAKIAN POTTERY
BOOK ENDS NOW SPECIALLY REDUCED
These beautifully moulded Book Ends are highly glazed in
attractive colourings suitable for modern decorative schemes.
Several shapes including dainty Fawn, Donkeys and Toucans.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, per pair, 13/6.
SALE PRICE --------
4/n
• Books Ends — Second Floor —Delivered free only within our delivery area .
HANDSOME BOOK CASES
111!
m
OAK BOOK CASE
A useful addition to
any home. Selected
oak book cases, sound-
ly constructed and
finished a dark oak
colour. Made with
double leadlight doors
and fitted with adjust-
able shelves. Anthony
Horderns'
PRICE
£9/17/6
EASY TERMS—DEPOSIT 19/9
6 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF
£l/10/4
WALNUT
BOOK CASE
Beautifully figured and
full polished selected
Walnut Book Case with
double glass doors.
Fitted with three ad-
justable shelves and
shaped pediment top.
At Anthony Horderns',
PRICE
£9/17/6
EASY TERMS—DEPOSIT 19/9
6 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF
£l/10/4
Ell
t i
w
OAK BOOK CASE
Two tone finish Oak
bookcase with open
shelves at left hand
end. Interior on right
hand side is fitted with
moveable shelves. At
Anthony Horderns',
PRICE
£5/io/-
EASY TERMS—DEPOSIT 11/-
6 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF
16/11
• Furniture—Third Floor. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
MY BEST GAMES OF CHESS, 1924-
1937. By Alekhine. A complete guide.
Price 21/-. Postage 6d.
MANNERS AND RULES OF GOOD
SOCIETY. The acknowledged
authority on etiquette. Price 5/9.
Postage sd.
HOW TO WORK WITH TOOLS AND
WOOD. For the home workshop. At
Anthony Horderns', Price 5/-. Post-
age sd.
GOLDFISH CULTURE FOR
AMATEURS. By Hodge and Derham.
How to breed and rear goldfish in
aquaria and ponds. At Anthony
Horderns', Price 8/6. Postage 4d.
HEALTH COCKTAILS. By P. M.
Koonin. How to make fruit and vege-
table drinks. At Anthony Horderns',
Price 2/-. Postage 2d.
POPULAR DOG KEEPING. By Maxtee.
Training, rearing and common ail-
ments. At Anthony Horderns', Price
3/3. Postage 2d.
FIRST AID TO THE INIURED. The
authorised textbook of the St. John
Ambulance Association. At Anthony
Horderns', Price 3/-. Postage 3d.
POULTRY FARMING IN NEW SOUTH
WALES. By J. Hadlington. A prac-
tical handbook issued by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. At Anthony
Horderns', Price 4/-. Postage 3d.
MOTHERCRAFT. By M. Truby King.
An up-to-date exposition of the Truby
King System of Mother and Child
Welfare. At Anthony Horderns', Price
3/6. Postage sd.
DR. COPELAND'S HOME MEDICAL
BOOK. Tells you what to do in cases
of accidents. At Anthony Horderns',
Price 4/11. Postage 9d.
MISS FUTTER'S AUSTRALIAN HOME
COOKERY. 245 pages of recipes.
Price 2/-. Postage 2d.
ELECTRICAL ASSOCIATION for
Women COOKERY BOOK and Elec-
trical Guide by Mrs. F. V. McKenzie.
Gives correct temperatures for all
recipes. At Anthony Horderns', Price
2/6. Postage sd.
LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S LETTER
WRITER. A guide to correspondence
for all occasions. At Anthony
Horderns', Price 2/6. Postage 3d.
HOUSEPAINTING METHODS. By
Vanderwalker. Industrial painting on
steel, iron, cement, brick and wood
surfaces. At Anthony Horderns', Price
13/6. Postage sd.
A, B, C OF REFRIGERATION. By
Trafton Mason. Principles of refrig-
erating. At Anthony Horderns', Price
3/6. Postage 2d.
POPULAR MECHANICS CONCRETE
HANDBOOK. A book for amateurs
as well as contractors. At Anthony
Horderns', Price 5/6. Postage sd.
LADY HACKETT'S HOUSEHOLD
GUIDE. Thousands of recipes and
hundreds of household hints. At
Anthony Horderns', Price 15/-. Post-
age 1/3.
THE BOOK OF GARDEN IMPROVE-
MENTS. By W. Brett. How to lay out
your garden. At Anthony Horderns ,
Price 7/6. Postage 1/-.
BALLROOM DANCING. By A. Moore.
All the latest dances and how to
learn them. At Anthony Horderns',
Price 8/3. Postage 6d.
A BOOK OF GAMES FOR YOUNG
AND OLD. Games and competitions
for parties, etc. At Anthony Horderns',
Price 1/-. Postage 2d.
THE STRAND PROBLEMS BOOK. By
Williams and Savage. An anthology
of perplexities and tantalizers. At
Anthony Horderns', Price 3/3. Post-
age 4d.
HOW TO RUN A LATHE. The care
and operation of a back geared
screw cutting precision lathe. At
Anthony Horderns', Price 2/6. Post-
age 3d.
PRACTICAL OXY - ACETYLENE
WELDING. By R. Granjon, P. Rosem-
berg and A. Desgranges. At Anthony
Horderns', Price 4/6. Postage 3d.
MECHANICAL WORLD YEAR BOOK
1940. Reference book for engineers,
rules, tables, data, etc. At Anthony
Horderns', Price 2/10. Postage 4d.
ENQUIRE WITHIN UPON EVERY-
THING. An enlarged and revised
edition of the most famous book of
domestic reference in the English
language. At Anthony Horderns,
Price 4/6. Postage Bd.
FOWLER'S MECHANICS AND
MACHINISTS' POCKET BOOK, 1940.
Practical rules for fitters, turners, mill-
wrights, etc. At Anthony Horderns',
Price 3/9. Postage 3d.
Postage as quoted.
Books-Second Floor-Delivered free only within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


OUT OF THE
PAST
THE BERRIMA MURDER
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
THE Sydney “Herald,” at that time a bi-weekly
coming out on Mondays and Thursdays, very
well printed on good paper and edited with Jhe
maximum of gentility and respectability, pub-
lished the following in its issue of May 8, 1837:
“Murder. —ln this day’s ‘Herald’ will be
found the report of a trial for murder, which
is only worthy of particular remark in so far
as it illustrates the tendency of the transporta-
tion system. It was a cold-blooded, determined
murder — but, really, we are surprised that the
‘System’ does not give rise to many such. The
unfortunate soldier was, it seems, some time
ago placed as a guard over an ironed gang, of
which the murderer was one; and for no other
reason, that was developed at the trial, than
that the deceased preferred a complaint against
the culprit, and that he was flogged, the conse-
quence was his life was taken away when oppor-
tunity served. The murderer protested his inno-
cence in the most violent manner, even after
■ sentence was passed upon him ; but of his guilt
no man would have a doubt after hearing the
evidence. It has seldom fallen to our lot to
witness a more- determined and reckless crimi-
nal in the dock. He told the Judge plainly that
he did not care for death ; as, when the mind
was made up to it, it was no more than blowing
out the light of a candle-! He is to be executed
this morning.”
IT was a brutal, drunken, ferocious murder, and it
happened down near Berrima, where the iron gangs
were constructing Major Mitchell’s main road to the
southern parts of the colony.
Before Mr. Justice Burton and a military jury in
the criminal sittings of the Supreme Court on Friday,
May 5, 1837, John McCaffery, John Jones and John
Moore were indicted for “the wilful murder of Thomas
O’Brien, a private of the 50th Regiment, on the high-
way near Berrima, on the 19th of February, by strik-
ing him on the head, face, neck and body with sticks,
so that he then and there instantly died.”
The kind of jury before which the three men
were tried for their lives was a survival of procedure
from the earliest days of settlement. In New South
Wales such trials had always taken place before a
jury of officers until Governor Bourke’s time —the
period with which the beginning of this story is con-
cerned—when he passed an Act giving the accused
the choice of a civil or military court. But it was not
until Sir George Gipps took over the government
that military juries were altogether abolished. Messrs.
McCaffery, Jones and Moore had no doubt chosen
to be tried by a Judge and seven officers because
their very astute counsel, Mr. Richard Windeyer,
didn’t like the idea of a jury of free men sitting in
judgment upon his convict clients.
Private James Hayes, of the 50th, told the Court
how he had been at Atkinson’s Inn —a famous early
southern roadside hostelry—on the afternoon of Feb-
ruary 19. The tavern was situated a couple of miles
from the Berrima Stockade, on the site of the subse-
quent gaol, where the convicts of the iron gang em-
ployed on the road were shut up at night. Somehow,
although he was on guard and should not have been
away from the guardroom, he had gone away from
the Stockade with another private named Tom O’Brien.
At the inn they found their old friends Jones,
McCaffery and Moore, who had all formerly assisted
Sir Thomas Mitchell in his road-making;, and Jones
invited his one-time guardians to come in for a drink.
After a while, and a good many rounds of drinks,
ex-roadmaker Jones remembered something disagree-
able.
“D’ye mind, Tom,” he said to O’Brien, “how ye
got me th’ Bot’ny Bay dozen of twenty-five lashes
that time?”
“Sure I mind it very well,” replied the soldier
genially.
“Well,” said Jones magnanimously “there’s no
animosity between you and me?”
“Not th’ laste,” replied Tom, with equal generosity.
This was all very nice and alcoholically genial,
but a subsequent witness testified as to Mr. Jones’s
muttered remark that he was going to make the bloody
leatherneck’s head bleed as his back had done.
They drank on and on in enthusiastic good-
fellowship until Tom O’Brien got very elevated indeed,
and was all for taking off his red coat and fighting
anyone in the company. There was a good deal of
noise, and Mrs. Atkinson came into the taproom.
She promptly shoved O’Brien outside, and locked the
door against him. A few minutes afterwards the three
accused went out, too, and were absent about twenty
minutes. Then they returned, and thp rum began to
flow freely again.
Private Hayes, after half an hour or so more of
boozing, said he felt inclined to go back to barracks.
He had staggered along for about fifty yards when he
was suddenly shocked into sobriety by tripping over
Tom O’Brien’s gory and naked corpse. He lay in the
dusty roadway with his jacket rolled up under his
head, and was an extremely unpleasant sight. He had
been beaten to death. Horribly scared, Private Hayes
ran all the way to the Stockade and reported the
murder to the sergeant of the guard. That night the
three accused were arrested by the military and con-
fined in the guardroom.
There was much other evidence which generally
confirmed Hayes’s testimony. In the end, the jury
acquitted McCaffery and Moore and found Jones
guilty. Sir William Burton thereupon sentenced him
to death. It was Friday afternoon, and he would
hang outside Sydney Gaol on Monday morning.
That is the plain, unvarnished story of what hap-
pened to “Convict John Jones, No. 1728, Middlesex
Sessions, per Lady Dysart, 14 years,” and why his
career came to be terminated in Essex-street on
Gallows Hill in the forenoon of Monday, May 8,
1837. The rest of the tale is concerned with another
John Jones, quite a different sort of man, who had
also come to Sydney aboard the convict transport
Lady Dysart in the year 1830. In no way save that
of his name did he resemble the unpleasant person
who had so brutally murdered at Berrima Private
O’Brien of H.M. 50th Regiment, but to the end of
his days he always remembered his namesake with
gratitude, and regarded the Berrima murder as the
most fortunate circumstance that had affected his
career. So piously grateful was he, indeed, that on
May 8, 1857, the twentieth anniversary of the execu-
tion in Essex-street, he caused to be set up at the
head of a nameless mound in the Sandhills Cemetery
at Sydney, where the Central Railway station now
stands, a tombstone to the murderer’s memory. Though
it is wholly inaccurate and misleading, the inscription
on it was the testimony of a grateful heart to the
memory of a man who had done its proprietor a re-
markably good service:— ■
Here Lies,
In the Hope of Resurrettion,
JOHN JONES,
Late of Tremadoc, North Wales,
Obiit May the Bth, 1837.
To be strictly accurate, the fourth line should have
read “Late of Seven Dials, London,” but the grateful
tombstone donor was not in a position to be strictly
accurate. He had been compelled to make the best
of circumstance, and there can be no manner of doubt
that he did so.
ON the voyage of the Lady Dysart,
seven years before, the two Joneses
had been known to the Surgeon-Super-
intendent, the master of the transport and
the military guard a,s “Jones the Good
and “Jones the Bad.” Sometimes, un-
fortunately, “Jones the Good” had been
caused to suffer minor punishments and
deprivations owing to the cunning sinful-
ness of “Jones the Bad.” So when the
latter was finally obliterated by the
Sheriff of New South Wales, “Jones the
Good” immediately recognised that there
was an excellent and poetically just chance of changing
his identity by ceasing to be any sort of a Jones at
all, and becoming plain John Smith without a convict
record. He therefore appointed himself a member of
the Smith family, failed to return from his daily labor
to Hyde Park Barracks and its evening muster at the
end of the day on May 8, ’37, provided himself with
a skilfully-forged pass, and journeyed over the Blue
Mountains to Bathurst in the optimistic hope that his
own identity had been lost when “Jones the Bad” was
destroyed upon the gallows.
It was a bold conception, and by a rare kind of
good luck worked out as “Jones the Good” desired.
The confusion of the two John Joneses per Lady
Dysart continued, and the new John Smith remained
quite untroubled by his past, and was able to begin
a fresh and successful career. For fourteen years John
Smith lived industriously and soberly in the Bathurst
district, saving money, and when the gold discoveries
came in 1851 was well established as a carrier, with
several horse- and bullock-teams that brought him a
substantial income. This was doubled and trebled
and quadrupled when the gold rushes set in, and half
a dozen years afterwards he had become a substan-
tial storekeeper, with branches of his business flourish-
ing in five different centres on the western goldfields.
The poor runaway convict from Hyde Park Barracks
had become a man of substance and influence in the
community.
In 1860, when he was getting on in years, John
Smith retired from active business and came to live in
Sydney. By this time he owned sheep stations as well
as stores, and a couple of western coaching lines were
his also. Henry Parkes or John Robertson appointed
him to the Legislative Council in the same year, so
that he became “the Hon. John Smith,” and was quite
comfortably convinced in his own mind that by this
time no one survived in Australia who could possibly
remember him as John Jones the Good, or that he had
ever enjoyed a free passage to this country aboard
the convict transport Lady Dysart. He settled down,
in the fine house he built on Kirribilli Point, to spend
his latter years in peace and comfort and the pleasing
contemplation of his own prosperity, as well earned
and well deserved as it was solid and abiding. And
then with hideous suddenness came disillusion and
imminent catastrophe. Also, the Goodness of God.
ONE sunny afternoon the Hon. John Smith had
crossed from Sydney Cove by the puffing, tail-
funnelled steam ferry, with its open deck and accom-
modation for carts and horses, and landed at Milson’s
Point about four o’clock. Since the day was warm he
decided that a draught of cool beer would do him
some good, and walked up the hill to Dinds’ Hotel, a
couple of hundred yards from the waterside. He
nodded to genial Mr. Dinds, smoking on the verandah
of the big cottage that housed the inn, and went inside,
(Continued on next page.)
“We Want your bridal suite for a fortnight."


turning into the darkened bar-parlor beside the tap-
room and ringing the little handbell that awaited cus-
tomers on the beer-stained deal table in the middle of
the apartment.
On the other side of the table sat an immense
man with three chins who toyed with a half-emptied
pewter and stared searchingly across at John Smith.
Mr. Smith sat down in the only other chair, ordered
his beer when the barman came to answer the tinkling
bell, and wondered why the big stout man across the
table scanned him so particularly, striving to remem-
ber whether he had ever met the fellow before any-
where. Presently the other reached across the table
a fat red hand, and mechanically Mr. Smith met it
with his own. He must know this person, then, but for
the life of him couldn’t recall any previous meeting
with him.
“Name o’ Abraham Ditchfield, better known as
Old Abe, o’ the Crown an’ Rose public-’ouse in
Surry ’llls —an’ you’ll be Mister Smith, the Honer-
able John Smith, M.L.C., of Tremadoc ’Ouse, down
’ere on Kirribilli? Ain’t that so, Mister Smith?”
Mr. Smith took his beer from the barman, swal-
lowed a draught of it, placed the pot upon the table,
and regarded his chance companion wonderingly.
“Yes,” he said presently, “I am John Smith,
indeed. At your service, sir, and to command. But I
cannot recall having ever before met you, Mr. Ditch-
field. No, indeed!”
“You ain’t, Mr. Smith—you ain’t ever before.
But now you ’as I don’t think you’ll be forgettin’ of
me. That you won’t, mister.”
“Indeed, sir! Well, maybe not, perhaps. Your
figure, sir—’tis not easily forgotten. No, indeed. I’ll
not forget you, Mr, Ditchfield. Indeed, no! ”
“I called arter dinner at Tremadoc ’Ouse, Mr.
Smith, in ’opes o’ seein’ ye —but they tole me you
was acrost the water. Would be a-comin’ back be
the steam ferry this arternoon, an’ mostly called in at
Dinds’ ’Otel on the way ’ome. So I come an’ waited,
and ’ere you are, sir—’ere you are, as large as life,
an’ seemin’ well an’ ’earty. Wot’ll ye take, Honer-
able John Jones —I mean Smith, o’ course,” he cor-
rected himself.
Mr. Smith started and peered through his spec-
tacles at the huge gross man opposite. “You wished
to see me then, sir?” he asked, a little distantly. He
didn’t like this stout stranger who seemed to know
more about him than most people did nowadays. “You
had some business to discuss with me.”
“I’ve a story to tell ye, John Jones.”
‘My name, sir, is Smith.”
“Oh, well, we won’t argue, mister. But I ’as me
own notion abart y’r moniker, same, I suppose, as
you ’as yours. But w’en I tell you I was, jest forty
year ago it is, a hable-bodied seaman aboard the
Lady Dysart, transport, an’ that we carried two John
Joneses to Sydney ’ere in eighteen-thirty, you’ll recker-
nise I knows wot I’m a-talkin’ of.”
Mr. Smith’s face had turned a sickly white, and
his right hand gripped the silver knob of his malacca-
cane tightly as with the other he removed his top-hat
and laid it crown downward on the table. He took
out a red silk handkerchief and mopped his bald
head. When he spoke, it was with a trace of ner-
vousness which he vainly tried to control. A broad
grin spread across the other man’s fat, red features.
A rather evil, greedy grin, thought Mr. Smith.
“Well, sir—well, Mr. Ditchfield —what then, sir
—what then?”
“Two John Joneses there was aboard the Lady
Dysart, sir. ‘Jones the Good’ an’ ‘Jones the Bad.’
You was ‘Jones the Good.’ I was present w’en ‘Jones
the Bad’ died —a sudden, chokin, neck-breakin’ death
’e ’ad, outside old Sydney Gaol. Ho, ho, ho —I was
werry much present —werry much! For I was then a
Sheriff’s hofficer, Mr. Jon —I means Smith. I was
the cove as stretched ’is neck, Mr. Smith—the ’ang-
man. An’ I buried ’im, sir. But ’tis not ’im the tomb-
stone says is a-lyin’ in Devonshire-street burial-ground.
Not ‘Jones the Bad,’ but ‘Jones the Good.’ So I made
hinquiries, sir, an’ wot I found hout was this. ‘Jones
the Good’ ain’t buried in the Sand’ills, sir—’e’s buried
underneath the weskit o’ the Honerable John Smith,
M.L.C., o’ Tremadoc ’Ouse, Kirribilli Point, North
Shore. That’s how it is, Mr. Smith. I knows the
Honerable’s a convict wot never finished ’is stretch.
That’s wot I knows, sir.”
“Well, then, what d’ye want of me, sir?”
“One ’undred guineas, sir.”
Mr. Smith rose to his feet, and pointed his fore-
finger at the big fat man. “And what you’ll get,
indeed, my man, is a policeman. Indeed, yes!”
And then an astounding thing happened. The
big man’s vast stomach heaved as he struggled to rise.
His red face went a purplish color. He gasped and
groaned, and then bent forward, face downward, over
the rough table. The Hon. John Smith, M.L.C., gazed
at him in amazement for a good two minutes. Then
he stretched out his hand and felt the fat man’s plump
red wrist.
“I believe,” he whispered to himself —“I believe
he’s dead. Oh, the goodness of God —the goodness
of God! Mr. Dinds,” he shouted towards the
verandah. “Help!’’
THE SHACK
By JOHN BENNETT.
BRANCH landed in town about dusk. He was
tired, dusty and hungry. “Where’s a good
place to doss?” he asked the first man he saw,
a chap in flannel shirt and dungarees.
“Well,” said Dungarees uncertainly, “most of the
tramps find a camp somewhere down on the beach.”
Branch gritted his thanks. He didn’t appreciate
being called a tramp, although he hadn’t a cracker to
call his own and his boots were thin underneath and
his trousers thinner still at the knees and rear. He
made his way down to the beach, but somehow or
other, he got off the right pad and ended up in the
middle of a big clump of lantana. It stood twenty
feet high, and in the middle was a clearing where the
mould from the leaf lay thick and rich. Branch
decided to bed down there for the night.
In the morning he was awakened by the swoosh
of sea-waves running in under a bank and sucking
out again. His clump of lantana stood on the edge
of an old sandbank, and the tide came up almost to
what he visualised as his front door. That was when
the idea to build came to him, thinking of the sea at
his front door.
He bathed in the sea that morning and went up
town afterwards. It was just about six. A few people
were about. The rock in the harbor lay half in
shadow and half in light as the sun peered over it,
and the waves that were in the light danced cheer-
fully. Those in the shadow looked bleak.
A “traveller” crawled out from under the church
as Branch passed it. “Cripes,” he said to Branch,
“that’s a bloody cold spot.”
“Know this place?” asked Branch.
“Yeah, I was here once before. There’s a bloke
up the street with a cafe. He’ll give yer a feed fer
washin’ up fer him.”
There was a big foreigner behind the counter
when Branch walked in. “I’m broke,” Branch told
him. “Broke and hungry.”
“What you want me to do?” asked the Dago.
“Give me a feed,” explained Branch as simply as
he could.
“And how you pay?”
“Got dirty dishes, haven’t
you?”
The Dago understood. After
the feed Branch felt better. When
he’d finished washing up he said
to the Dago, “Look here. I’ll be
about for a while. How about
meals and a few bob a week to
wash up for you?”
“How much money?”
“Enough for tobacco. That’ll
do,” promised Branch.
The bargain was struck. Twice
a day Branch was to eat and twice
a day he was to wash up. In be-
tween times, he went to work on
the shack on the seashore.
I—l E got some cement-bags from
1 1 a near-by quarry and from
the harbor works going on out in
the bay, and a few sheets of iron
turned up from here and there.
He managed to get his hands on to
a few condemned sleepers, and he
dragged them to the shack one at
a time on a pair of wheels and an
axle he picked up in a rubbish
dump. With them he laid a hard-
wood floor in the bigger of the
two rooms.
In the mornings he used to
swim. And in between washing up
and housebuilding he swam again
and basked in the sun. He didn’t
get the idea of fishing in the creek
that emptied into the bay just
beyond his strip of beach until he
saw a kid with a handline one
Sunday morning dragging in some
fine flathead. So Branch put it
to the Dago. He’d get his own meals and take a few
more bob.
After that Branch bought his own bread and
meat and cheese and fished in the creek when the
pantry was empty. It wasn’t long before he got the
idea of growing a few greens to go with the meat.
Green leaves poked their way above ground in
a few days and Branch found a new interest in tend-
ing them. He resigned washing dishes and took to
his garden and his handline at the creek. He didn’t
buy meat now, save when he cracked a job or two in
What do you think I'd look like eating that stuff?"
“A bull seal , if I may say so , sir."
the town or swapped a few of the greens with old Sol
the grocer.
And all this time Branch built up the shack. He
made furniture for it from boxes and saplings and
odd bits of timber. He even made blinds for the
window he put in facing the sea.
Sometimes, of course, he didn’t do so well. There
was the time he ran out of everything after he’d blued
the few bob he got for trimming a hedge. He sat
with his handline on the bank of the creek from sun-
set to sunrise without landing a fish. In the morning
as the sun rose he could see out in the bay a fishing
boat into which the men were yanking fish after fish.
It was nine before he got a fish on the bank. Then
it was a catfish. But, all in all, he could have done
a sight worse. He had a home, a few bob and seldom
went without meals for more than 24 hours, which
was a big improvement on the past.
Other huts sprang up along the bay shore. But
none of them was like Branch’s. None of them was
as good.
A sleeper boat from China slipped into the pier
one afternoon. Branch was down on the wharf watch-
ing the loading and hoping for a job of work. He’d
picked up a few bob about once a month that way
before.
A big Swede came up to him, “Looking for work,
buddy.”
“I don’t mind it,” Branch explained it exactly.
“A seaman went overboard. There’s a job in
his place.”
Branch looked back at the shack in the clump
of lantanas. “I wouldn’t go to sea,” he said.
After the ship had sailed, he started to think over
the incident. He thought he saw why he had refused
the job. Next day he went and saw the sleeper-
cutters at the pub up the town.
“Ever done constant work before?” asked the
foreman of the gang when Branch said he wanted a
full-time job.
“Not for more than a day at a time,” admitted
Branch.
“It’s tough work.”
Branch shrugged his shoulders. He took a lot of
chiacking on the job about his shack. Still, he didn’t
think it important enough to explain that shack was
something mighty important to him, that it was prop-
erty, that it made him like other men, settled and
steady.
When he hit town again after the first spell in
the sleeper camp, Branch made his way down to the
beach. But the shack had gone. Somebody had
stolen every trace of it, even the sleeper floorings.
Branch was inclined to sentimentalise over the fact
at first. Then he realised that it saved him from pay-
ing to have the old shack pulled down to make room
for the slap-up ten-room place he was going to build
there.
OLD Branch is the biggest man in town now. He
owns sawmills all up the coast and has a small fleet
of river boats. Some day it will probably come to me.
I’m his only grandson. But I guess he’ll make it a
condition that I live in the house that stands where
the shack did in the patch of lantana by the beach.
And I reckon I’ll be pretty proud to do so, though
they do say the creek is lousy for fishing with a hand-
line these days.


ROYAL
PURPLE, PARA
tfctd cf'late melloumcM midJxmr/uet
SOHO SQUARE.
The district of Soho is regarded by some as the “French and Spanish” quarter of London. This is true only in part. Of old time
Soho was a fashionable section, but as society moved westward it changed, not by any means for the better, socially. When Shaftesbury
Avenue was driven through from Piccadilly Circus to Oxford Street, Soho witnessed a further social change, this time for the better, as
it assumed a definite commercial character, though the restaurants (mostly French, with a spattering of Italian and Spanish) remained,
with national characteristics, at least in the food and drink lines. These still flourish, as do night clubs and other establishments wherein
youth can have its fling. Soho Square, the “breathing lung” of the congested locality, has been modernised and its value hygienically
increased. Stately business establishments have taken the place of sites once occupied by members of the nobility. In another sense
Soho Square was famous. At No. 32 the Linnean Society, founded in 1788 for the promotion of Zoology and Botany, established
headquarters. Close on a half a century ago the beautiful Roman Catholic Church of St. Patrick, with its Campanile, was erected,
replacing another edifice in another part of the district, dedicated to the same Saint, chiefly by the exertions of its then rector, the late Dean
Langton Vere.' But Soho Square is emphatically not the Soho of popular imagination. To the visitor and the average Londoner, it is
conceived as a sort of Montmartre, Luxembourg and Quartier Latin of Paris combined, though how, or in what precise form and manner,
is not quite easy to determine. For all that it is historically rich, and though “surface changes” have altered it beyond recognition of
earlier days, it yet presents a side of London life not to be discovered to a like degree in other parts of the great metropolis.


BUT THESE FELLOWS ALWAYS COME TO A STICKY FINISH.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man,'’
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HtAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd..
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 7 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
CRIME AND PUNISHMENT.
The clamor for “action” which proceeded from so
many quarters has been satisfied at last. It can no
longer be said by citizens of the great nootral Republic
that it is “a phony war.” Since Monday, April 8,
they have been getting a high entertainment value for
the money they are making out of it.
On that day the Allies announced that they had
laid mines in Norwegian territorial waters. The
number and situation of the minefields were given in
an official statement —one was at the southern end of
the West Fiord, below Narvik, the port from which
Swedish iron ore was shipped to Germany; a second
was off Bud, south of Kristiansund, and a third off
Stadtland, at the entrance to the North Fiord.
Answering in advance the objection that the mine-
laying was a breach of Norwegian neutrality, the
Allies pointed out that the enemy had not respected
that neutrality. “While repeatedly sinking Norwegian
shipping”—a Norwegian steamer carrying coal from
Swansea to Oslo was, in fact, torpedoed without warn-
ing on April 5, and sunk with all her officers and nine
members of the crew, what time their stony-hearted
destroyers looked on —the Germans “continued to
demand from the Norwegian Government the fullest
use of territorial waters for their own commerce.”
Norway has even felt obliged to provide armed
escort in these waters for German ships, although
unable to take effective action against German brutality
on the high seas of which her own vessels have been
victims.
Whereas the Allies had “not destroyed a single neutral
ship or taken a single neutral life,” the enemy had
sunk 150 neutral ships and taken nearly 1000 neutral
lives. Not only did he claim to be entitled to destroy
any neutral ship bound for a British port, but he had
sunk neutral trawlers and fishing boats and machine-
gunned their crews ; he had even, in “repeated cases,”
sent to the bottom neutral ships travelling between
neutral ports. International law had “always recog-
nised the right of a belligerent to take appropriate
action when the enemy has systematically resorted to
illegal practices” ; in such circumstances, action ordi-
narily unlawful became lawful; so Germany’s per-
sistent violation of international law made the mine-
laying lawful.
News of the Anglo-French action was conveyed
to the Norwegian Foreign Minister at six o’clock in
the morning. In the Storting at Oslo that day he
inveighed against what he called “this severe violation
of our neutrality” and declared that his country would
not surrender its “trade pact with Germany.” After
a Cabinet meeting which lasted three hours, the Gov-
ernment issued an elaborate protest against “this
obvious breach of international law and against the
violation of Norwegian sovereignty and neutrality with
force,” declaring that it had “strictly adhered to the
rules of neutrality,” had “kept Norwegian waters open
for all legitimate sea traffic,” and had on March 11
entered into an agreement by virtue of which the
British Government consented to Norwegian goods,
“even those regarded as contraband,” being sold and
transmitted to Germany. The statement closed with a
“demand” that “the mines be immediately removed
and the guarding warships withdrawn.”
Before a day passed events had made this atti-
tude obsolete.
Without in either case declaring war, Germans
suddenly invaded Norway and Denmark. Transported
by road, air and sea they crossed the frontiers at many
points, so swiftly, so fully armed, equipped and sup-
plied and in such numbers as to show that each in-
vasion had been planned in every detail long before.
Save for a few brave souls who died fighting rather
than submit to the crime against their country, the
Danes offered no resistance. Although they had a
national-service law, it was virtually allowed to pass
into desuetude years ago, pacifism—enthusiastically
approved of and recommended as an example by
British pacifists of the League of Nations Union breed
—being adopted instead. Reliance was also placed on
a ten years’ non-aggression pact with Germany, signed
only 10 months ago and quoted by Hitler as evidence
of his pacific sentiments and the confidence reposed in
them after Mr. Roosevelt had challenged him to give
a public guarantee he would not wage a war of
aggression on any of the countries named by the Presi-
dent, Denmark among them. Bitter must have been
the Danes’ reflections when they turned over in their
minds this latest example of Nazi perfidy and per-
jury ; and when they read a German Note declaring
that “the Reich does not intend to touch their terri-
torial integrity and political independence,” a Ribben-
trop lie to the effect that “the Fiihrer has saved
Northern Europe from the ravages of war and Scan-
dinavia from annihilation,” and a proclamation of
their own Cabinet accepting the terms of the German
Note and acknowledging German “protection” under
protest. And no Danish patriot could have held his
head high when he remembered that in 1864 the little
kingdom, unaided, stood up to the united armies of
Prussia and Austria until numbers prevailed.
The Norwegians did not surrender. Though
Oslo, their capital, was taken on the first day and
surprise landings were made in southern and western
ports, sturdy gunners manning coastal batteries took
a heavy toll of warships covering some of the land-
ings. In Oslo Fiord, the Bliicher, a new 10,000-ton
cruiser, was mauled so badly by a battery of 1 l-inchers
that she floundered into a minefield and sank. The
same fate befel the Karlsruhe, a 6000-ton cruiser, in
the Skager-Rack while landings at Kristiansand were in
progress. The enemy had to admit the loss of these
cruisers, but claimed that most of the crews were
saved.
In the meantime German warships had appeared
at Bergen, Trondhjem and Narvik, and the landing
parties were speedily reinforced by means of troop-
carriers. In Narvik Fiord were two old coast-defence
ships which were torpedoed and sunk, hundreds of
brave seamen going down with them. British destroyers
blockading the West Fiord reported six German
destroyers, store-ships and a munition ship in Narvik
Fiord ; if they didn’t come down from Murmansk,
which belongs to the treacherous Stalin, they or some
of them must have started from Germany while the
British were laying their minefields or even before.
There were only five destroyers in the British flotilla,
and the admiral left it to Captain Warburton Lee, its
commander, to attack at once or wait until ample rein-
forcements arrived. Captain Warburton Lee gave the
order to attack.
There followed a magnificent fight in which the
British flotilla had not only to encounter “six destroyers
of the latest and largest type,” but shore batteries and
army guns mounted on high ground. One, the Hunter,
was sunk ; another, the Hardy, had to be beached ;
a third, the Hotspur, suffered serious damage. But
they and their sister ships did their job, and when the
action ended one German destroyer was under water,
three, heavily hit, were burning, six store-ships and a
munition ship had been destroyed and the fate of the
surviving craft was sealed.
On Saturday the twice-reconstructed battleship
Warspite, previously unlucky, and another destroyer
flotilla, preceded by minesweepers, went into Narvik
Fiord, silenced the shore batteries and smashed the
destroyers. There were more, it transpired, than at
first reported ; anyway, Warspite and party accounted
for seven without much loss to themselves, three
destroyers being damaged.
These exploits were part of a series of dashing
British operations which extended from the Orkneys
to the Baltic. The destroyer Zulu caught a U-boat
off the Orkneys and sank it. The battle-cruiser
Renown, built in 1914, and since reconstructed, en-
gaged the battleship Scharnhorst, of the 1938 vintage,
and a new 10,000-ton cruiser of the Admiral Hipper
class, and had silenced the Scharnhorst when the
cruiser threw a smoke screen round her. It was misty
and stormy weather, and both got away. And though
the destroyer Glowworm fell a victim to superior
forces in the North Sea, as a result of leaving the line
to pick up a seaman who had been swept overboard,
submarines operating in the Skager-Rack and the
Kattegat got among enemy transport and supply-ships
and caused the surviving craft to scatter. And a
wonderful belt of minefields reaching from the tip of
Holland almost to Lithuania was laid.
Wherever they went, British warships had to
encounter wave after wave of aircraft. On April 9,
when portion of the Grand Fleet was cruising “about
the level of Bergen,” the attacks were “continuous,”
and the enemy got a destroyer, the Gurkha, but she
took hours to sink and nearly all her crew were
rescued. “Five diving attacks” on the cruiser Aurora,
which the Gurkha was escorting, were abortive, and
though “one very heavy bomb” hit the flagship
Rodney “her very strong deck armor resisted the im-
pact successfully.” This experience and the failure
of repeated raids on Scapa Flow suggest that the
British battle fleet is in no danger of being wiped
out or seriously reduced in strength, though the enemy
has clung to the hope that his air power would over-
come our sea power. In combats over Norway and
adjacent seas, the Fleet Air Arm and the R.A.F. use-
fully co-operated with the ships of the Grand Fleet.
Except for an Admiralty denial of a German
report that battleships and cruisers had been severely
damaged by air action, and for an account of the
Narvik fight given in the House of Commons by Mr.
Chamberlain, there was no British official news for
two days. During that period, newspaper colorists
and radio romancers ran riot. Extravagant expecta-
tions were raised by their stories (“Bergen and Trond-
hjem have been recaptured,” “the British have sum-
moned Oslo to surrender,” and so on), and they were
not allayed by a Churchillian narrative of events, in
which the styles of the morning-paper leader and the
evening-paper special article were unhappily blended.
There have been other exaggerations. The crime
against Scandinavia is foul, but it would be folly not
to realise that it has given the criminal great material
gains—Danish foodstuffs, oil, gold, shipbuilding yards
and a great machine-gun plant, and Norwegian ship-
ping, timber and pulp—to our detriment; that it has
placed him in possession of strong military positions,
that if he can hold the Narvik railway Britain will
ge* no iron ore from Sweden —and it has be . ea
getting more than Germany; that the Danish
example may be followed by other threatened
neutrals; that Moscow is not to be trusted
a yard, and that the tone of the controlled Italian
press, though the attitude of Government is still
correct, has become disquieting. On the credit side is
the work of the Royal Navy and Air Force, which in-
spires not only pride but confidence, and engenders
the belief that the British Army will show the same
dash and efficiency when its time comes. Moreover,
our cause has gained in moral strength and dignity,
and our race is never more formidable than when
its imagination and chivalrousness are touched by
the spectacle of a barbarously invaded people striking
valiant blows in its own defence, as the Spaniards did
in 1808 and the Norwegians have done already.
Mr. Curtin Plays Safe.
Mr. Curtin’s broadcast for overseas consumption was
a model of political discretion carefully wrapped up
in the cleanest current platitudes and cliches. On the
one hand, it was full of pious aspiration ; on the
other, it committed the A.L.P. and Mr. Curtin as
leader to do precisely nothing. As to the war issue,
it could not have been more correct in the piety of
its principles; as to the war effort, it left Australian
Labor standing where it has stood since the war
started —with one foot on a cloud and the other on a
column of hot air.
In the Corio by-election campaign Mr. Curtin had
the caution to refer to the war situation as one
“which cannot be regarded as static,” and develop-
ments now shaping up may shortly enforce an ac-
ceptance of the stark realities. Mars is a levelling
marksman. But for the present Mr. Curtin and Aus-
tralian Labor as he represents it are still away up in
Cloudland.
The one statement in the broadcast with any
positive meaning was not for overseas but wholly
for local consumption, and even it Mr. Curtin, play-
ing safe, cancelled out in another place. He declared
the A.L.P. to be “on the side of Great Britain and
France, and it follows that we are against Germany
and Germany’s allies and associates.” That was a
smack at the Communists and their fellow-travellers
joined in such business as the pro-Soviet gas and
decisions of the N. S. Wales Labor Easter Confer-
ence, getting rid of the taint of which is Mr. Curtin’s
most pressing job. Elsewhere Mr. Curtin was care-
fully insisting that “the Commonwealth Government
had no right to interfere with any political opinion in
Australia” —not even subversive and seditious political
opinion expressed as part of a Communist campaign to
sabotage the national war effort!
Mr. Curtin and Australian Labor as he represents
it are still opposed to national service and to the send-
ing of Australian forces to fight overseas —though,
being characteristically careful, he made no mention of
this in his overseas broadcast. There was never a
more Gilbertian paradox than this attitude of Labor
as Mr. Curtin represents it. Said Mr. Curtin, broad-
casting overseas: “Our opposition to the aggressors
will be unwavering to the very end, and until the vic-
tory is won.” The same phrase which he used to
cement this pious profession of purpose to the Allied
war effort —“inflexibly and unequivocally”—he has
used to define his and the A.L.P.’s opposition to
national service.
Never has there been a greater sham than the claim
that compulsory military training is democratic. Un-
like education, which is aimed at enabling the indi-
vidual to live a fuller life, compulsory military training
is directed at training a special age group to become
efficient and make coerced sacrifices for the rest of the
nation.
Thus Mr. Curtin from Cloudland last November,
when national service was reintroduced. Under the
pressure of political fear, caused by the N. S. Wales
Easter Conference performance, Mr. Curtin has re-
affirmed—in phrases, if nothing else—how “inflexibly
and unequivocally” he and the A.L.P. are with Britain
and and opposed to aggressors “to the very
end.” But “inflexible and unequivocal” opposition to
national service remains his and A.L.P. policy, though
the ground on which the other main line of their ex-
pressed war-effort policy is based—their opposition to
the sending of Australian forces overseas—is that it is
still not known what the eventual line-up of the nations
will be.
Thus Mr. Curtin, representing the A.L P seeks
to have it both ways. On the Communist' issue he
seeks to dissociate the party he leads from a perform-
ance that has angered the country and would be a
fatal load for Labor in a general election, but he
wants to pose himself and the party as the only true
defenders of democratic liberties. These liberties have
already been curtailed by compulsion of the war as
Mr. Curtin is well aware. They will almost certainly
have to be curtailed still more if Communist activities
lead to more serious interference with the war effort
What Mr. Curtin would appear to be seeing to is that ali
the odium that naturally attaches to such necessary
curtailment will rest on the Government while Mr
Curtin and his party, out of power, can go on posin*
as the champions of liberty and freedom It is the
same with the war effort. Mr. Curtin and his party
out of power, can go on opposing national service on
the singular ground given by Mr. Curtin, and at the
same time opposing the dispatch of Australian forces
overseas, on the ground that every man may vet be
needed here. J 3
.. A ll . 0 ! this may be good politics, though even as
politics it is unlikely to catch Australians, with the in-
creasing pressure of the war enforcing a more and
more realistic appreciation of what all-in war even
with the present line-up, can mean. Good politics or
not, it is all too vague and indefinite to be good Aus-
tralmn Labor policy, and too shiftily evasive to be
good Australianism with Australia involved in a war
that may become a struggle for existence.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Not Nearly Good Enough.
For two days of the most momentous week of the
war only scraps of official news were vouchsafed to
a nation that was hungering for precise and trust-
worthy accounts of what had happened and was
happening. It has to support a so-called Ministry of
Information, but from that concern —though the
Minister was pleased to launch a sore-headed attack
on Mr. Curtin on the score of remarks made as a
guest speaker—there came nothing. The Government,
like the public, was obliged to depend on newspaper
reports, many of which were wild and some utterly false.
The whole Empire had to await the pleasure of
Mr. Churchill. That gentleman, when he did con-
descend to enlighten it, was not at all explicit on points
such as the German naval losses (“four cruisers,”
unnamed, “a number of destroyers and some
U-boats”), though copious about subjects on which
he is not a recognised authority—war strategy, for
instance —and oracular, prophetic and provocative,
according to his custom. In manner and matter his
speech left very much to be desired. An untimely
and unfortunate reference to the situation in the
Mediterranean (“We have enough ships to maintain
the control of the Mediterranean while carrying out
our operations in the North Sea”) infuriated the
Italians.
The Australian Government has a right to be kept
informed of the progress of events, and a duty to keep
the nation informed. What is more, Australia should
be consulted about and take its share in responsibility
for war policy. Decisions which vitally concern the
Dominions and may determine their fate should not
be arrived at before their Prime Ministers have been
given a proper opportunity to discuss the pros and
cons with the representatives of Britain and France.
There is an urgent need for the resuscitation of
the Imperial War Cabinet, and Mr. Menzies or who-
ever may succeed him should be present at all its
deliberations. Also the Dominions should be con-
tinuously represented on the Supreme War Council
by at least one Prime Minister who will make it his
business to confer with the others. Australians who
feel that the Dominion point of view is not receiving
due consideration would be glad to see Mr. Mackenzie
King take a seat on the Supreme War Council, for a
start.
Caught Short.
Reporting on the 1938-39 operations, which resulted
in a very much understated shortage of £1,171,500,
the Boss of the N.S.W. Government railways referred
to “the coal strike, which began on September 9
and continued till October 24,” and indulged in a
complacent comparison:
The N.S.W. Railways, owing to their more favorable
position in respect of coal stocks, were not compelled
to curtail passenger services to the same extent as did
Queensland and South Australia. The ordinary pas-
senger services were maintained, the only alterations
made affecting steam-operated passenger services for
race meetings, country shows and other events of a
like nature, including employees’ picnic:.
There will be no complacent comparisons in the
next annual report. The March-April coal strike
found “the position in respect of coal stocks” so
much less “favorable” that reduction of passenger ser-
vices began in the third week of the strike. In the
fourth week schedules were cut to ribbons, not only in
the Railway Department but in the Tramway Depart-
ment, and all classes of customers suffered: dwellers
in the suburbs, country people, inter-State travellers,
even politicians off to Canberra. They and a multi-
tude of other people going on long journeys had to
sit up all night because sleepers had been cut out.
As for freight, “the position” was so bad that busi-
ness people and others had to assemble 300 motor-
lorries to do a job on which the department with the
chronic “shortage” had fallen down. To admit of
this reinforcement the penal clauses of the transport
strangulation measures had to be waived, and the
petrol position was, of course, made worse.
While all this was going on, and while the public
subjected to so much inconvenience was listening to
dark forebodings of a general stoppage of railway
services if the strike lasted six weeks, the South Aus-
tralian Government was letting industrial concerns
have the use of 15,000 tons of coal to keep the wheels
moving. Its Railway Department had laid in so much
coal that, at the average rate of consumption, it had
over seven months’ supplies in stock when the strike
broke out. The Adelaide Tramway Trust, for its part,
could keep going for about seven months. Yet all
their coal is brought from New South Wales, and
because of that it is nearly double the price that the
N.S.W. Railway and Tramway Departments pay for
coal delivered from pits within 70 or 80 miles of
Sydney. For 194,200 tons of coal consumed in 1938-
39, the S.A. Railway Department paid 265. 7d. per ton.
The N.S.W. department has four power stations
which supply “outside bodies” as well as the electric
railways and tramways. That makes the neglect to
lay in ample stocks more flagrant.
Yet nothing will happen to the Boss. Transport
Bosses are exempt from criticism in the alleged Par-
liament, being there regarded as laws to themselves.
And at the end of last year the railway gentleman
was reappointed for five years at £5OOO p.a., though
he has turned 63, and though the retiring age for his
subordinates and for men in departments still under
a measure of Parliamentary control is 65.
Norway and Its People.
‘Ek Dum” paints a northern springtime:
A sturdy race these Norsemen. They take pride in their
kinship with the Scots —“blown-away Norwegians” they call
them. They are much like the Scots.
Here we think little of the seasons. The merging of them
is almost imperceptible. In Norway, life runs in cycles
dictated by the elements. Summer is a time of almost
endless daylight. Then winter clamps down into almost
perpetual darkness in the further north, the midnight dimly
lighted by an angry-looking sun. Parts of the country are
almost wholly snowed in. The great shipping fleets of the
little nation nose carefully between the ice floes. Their
captains shudder on their bridges and mutter their favorite
expression: “Who wouldn’t sell a farm and go to sea.
Comes the great festival of New Year s Eve—feasting
and drinking, boards groaning with reindeer meat, with the
snow-game of the north, with endless fish dishes. Thousands
of skaals are drunk in aquavit washed down with beer.
For the really stern part of the battle with winter,
Norway girds herself with books and music and with religion,
which is a very vital thing to a large section of the popula-
tion. It is a domestic period. A Norwegian summary says:
“In summer the Norwegians fish and make love; in winter
there is no fishing.” Every Norwegian takes out his last
reserve of clothes, and the daintiest flapper of the tuither
north walks abroad with the gait of a diver in full uniform.
The North becomes grimmer every week.
Then spring breaks. The minds of the people seem to
open like the sky and the countryside. Easter is the turning
point. Brilliant sunshine beats down on the snow. Up at
Finsen, girls bare their shoulders to it. The mountains
resound to the hiss of skis. Tourists pour in. The rich
violets of the seasons of twilight give way to the artificial
colorings of the brilliantly-painted towns and the gay,
elaborate reds of girls’ dresses. The fogs clear out of the
fiords. Goat-calls are heard in the mountains; all the new
music which has germinated in the winter bursts out in
the theatres and homes of Oslo.
Norway produces more tuneful music per square inch
than any other country in the world, and it is all imbued
with the spirit of Norway and the Norwegians.
They sing not of “de-own Mexico way, but of
“When we sail away from Norway.” They celebrate every
event, every hero and even their athletes in songs which
ring round the world. When Sonja Henie became the world’s
champion skater, even the dance bands of New York played
“Sonia.” When Australia’s Hubert Wilkins mooted his sub-
marine expedition across the Pole, every Oslo music hall
rang with the strains of
Wilkins bought a little boat;
He called her Naughtibus,
with its lively descriptive chorus which told of Hubert pushing
sternly on for 50 years to victory. “Solveig’s Song” from
“Peer Gynt” becomes part of Norwegian life. It is more than
a song. It is the epitome of Norwegian seasonal change.
From Easter until Norway’s National Day on May 17,
the whole nation is relaxed and on holiday, recovering from
the months of darkness. No better time could be found to
attack the Norwegians than then; a time when they are off
their guard—the only time of year when they can afford to
be off their guard. But their holiday closes on the National
Day, after which they settle down to dig in against the stern-
ness of the next winter. On that day the great song is the
national anthem —Bjornson’s “Ja, vi elsker dette landet” —
“Yes, we love this land.” It is the only national anthem in
the world which is great and fervid poetry written by a
great national poet. In it there is no vaunting of Norwegian
might, but a passionate love of the land with its “tusind
hjem” —its thousand harbors.
The Norwegians are probably the most cosmopolitan
people in the world, because the bulk of their town inhabitants
have been or are sailors. Every little Norwegian port is
full of gnarled old men who know the seven seas. The
average young Norwegian clerk knows more than one
language. You can speak English anywhere and be under-
stood. There is a tolerance in Norway of other peoples’
viewpoints not met elsewhere. Every man is free to express
his opinion.
But under the tolerance, under the hatred and scorn
which they have for war, they are naturally a fighting people,
large-fisted and as grim as their winter when roused. Like
the Highlanders they have had to be. If they were not
made up of 50 per cent, determination and 50 per cent,
humor there would be no Norweigian kingdom.
No More "True Confessions."
Under the new import control regulations the stream
of literary tripe that has been pouring into Australia
is blocked. On the list of banned publications are
several trade and technical journals, and it is question-
able whether they should be there ; but for the most
part the ban has been applied to productions that
outraged the feelings of every Australian concerned
for the intellectual welfare of the country.
“G 8 and His Battle Aces” will no longer fill young
Australia’s vision with corpses and blood. The heroes
of “Thrilling Ranch Stories” have gone to the last
round-up. And there is to be an end to the spectacle
of popeyed flappers gorging their little selves on “True
Confessions” and other more or less salacious love
pulps, 26 of which, apparently, were finding ready
sale in Australia. Smutty magazines are also on the
Canberra index. Including three illustrated atrocities,
a total of 186 publications is barred.
None of these was essential to the cultural
development of Australia. All but a very small pro-
portion were food for morons. The wonder is that
no Australian Government —and a Government has
its duty towards the country’s cultural development—
could be found to wipe them out until it was realised
that the enormous sale they enjoyed here was an
important factor in a war-time scheme to conserve
exchange.
Certain home and fashion journals, periodicals
of an informative and literary character and many
technical magazines will be allowed in “by subscrip-
tion when imported in single copies through the post.”
Licenses are to be freely issued for religious, learned,
scientific and technical, and current-opinion publica-
tions, and restricted licenses will apply to a few
fashion-pattern productions.
The ban on printed and pictorial offal, nearly all
American, was greeted with shouts of joy by Australian
writers and artists, and with less demonstrative (though
not less real) enthusiasm by teachers, clergymen and
parents who had viewed the dreadful collection with
horror. What they have to realise is that the ban is
a war measure dictated by the need for conserving
dollar exchange. As soon as the war is ended the
purveyors of tripe, gangster stuff and filth will want
to get back into a profitable market.
Kaßgoorlie Gives a Lead.
The Kalgoorlie “Miner” published a three-column
report of the meeting at which the miners of the Kal-
goorlie-Boulder section of the A.W.U. indignantly
dissociated themselves from the pro-Soviet intrigue
to which the N. S. Wales A.L.P. Conference sur-
rendered. The report should be studied by all Com-
monwealth members, for it shows the real feeling of
the great majority of Australian unionists about the
war, while revealing that Communists have been able
to worm their way into and achieve office in the great-
est union in the Commonwealth, and the one most
conspicuous for Australian sentiment.
in other parts of Australia, especially Sydney,
Brisbane and Adelaide, Communists have availed them-
selves of accommodating machinery, and of the apathy
and inertia of the rank and file, to impose their dis-
loyal resolutions on organisations which would con-
temptuously reject them if honest votes were taken.
A.W.U. rules and practice forbid these dodges, so
goldfield members of the old union had to be fore-
warned of what was afoot. They were informed that
at the next ordinary general meeting they would deal
with a motion, of which the required notice had been
given, “that this section of the A.W.U. declares its
opposition to the war, also to compulsory military
training, and that we demand that Australia in no
way be involved in a war against the Soviet Union.”
There followed the greatest roll-up for years. So
many miners attended that the meeting, which had
been fixed for a hall that holds 150, had to be trans-
ferred to the Town Hall. In keeping with the A.W.U.’s
splendid Great War record, returned soldiers were
numerous. Labor members Smith, M.L.A. (Brown-
hill-Ivanhoe), Leahy (Hannans) and Williams (South
Province) were present, and Mr. Williams, who was
an anti-conscriptionist in 1916-17, swung into action
right away.
He moved that the notice of motion should be
struck off the business paper and the union records. “I
don’t think the motion is worth discussion, and there-
fore I won’t discuss it,” said the Labor M.L.C. “I
think we are all good British and Australian subjects.
None of us wants war, but we don’t want to be under
German or Russian rule.” “I opposed the notice of
motion being handed in at the previous meeting and
published.” Thus the seconder, Mr. Paul. “It was a
shameful and disgusting thing to come from the
A.W.U.” “One of the vilest, dirtiest, most venomous
and rotten things ever foisted on the workers of these
goldfields,” thundered A Voice.
The author of the motion admitted that he had
given notice of it at “a small meeting.” He was
defending it on the ground that “they are doing the
same thing in England,” when A Voice countered,
“If this gentleman were in Europe he would be shot.”
There were hearty Australian hoots for Russia, and
another pro-Soviet speaker was howled down. Then
the resolution erasing the notice of motion from the
business paper and the records was carried “by about
380 votes to 16.”
Thereupon the secretary, a certain Mr. Finlay,
worked up a little domestic tragedy on his own account.
He complained that his mail had been “tampered with
by the censor.” “It is because you are a Communist,”
Williams, M.L.C., said ; “and so are your mates.” “I
move that we endorse the action of the secretary in
protesting to the P.M.G. against such a Fascist attack
on freedom,” a Finlay sympathiser chipped in. He
was greeted with “derisive laughter,” and another sym-
pathiser was asked “Why the hell don’t you go to
Russia?” Condemnation of the “Fascist attack on
freedom” was rejected in favor of an amendment ask-
ing Green, M.H.R., to make all necessary inquiries,
and proceedings closed with the appointment of an
anti-Red disputes committee, the secretary and a
trustee of that body having been dismissed at a meet-
ing held “in camera” without their knowledge and in
defiance of a union rule.
More will be heard of the charge that the branch
secretary is a Communist. Under the A.W.U. con-
stitution no Communist can hold office. Donald
Macdonell’s union can be trusted to do what is neces-
sary, but the intolerable insolence of Communists calls
for a wider and stronger prohibition, which should be
made part and parcel of all arbitration laws.
"Reorganising 11 Macquarie-street.
Macquarie-street, Sydney, is a thoroughfare given
over on one side to doctors’ consulting rooms, clubs
and apartments, and, on the other, to Government
buildings and a hospital. It has no slums which need
wiping out, like the dreadful districts which huddle in
parts of Sydney. But it has some historic buildings
—those in which the first Australian Constitution,
much of the scheme for founding the Commonwealth,
the civil-court system and the modern Australian
medical system were born. Used properly, most of
them have value as national monuments, as standards
of comparison which show the country’s growth and
as sights for tourists.
It is now proposed by a Government which has
to finance a public debt of about £370,000,000 and
massive annual deficits —£3,000,000 or so last year and
£2,000,000 or so this year —to spend £3,000,000 (and
the rest), spread over 15 years, on the “reorganisation”
of Macquarie-street. Sydney Hospital is to be moved
to an area in which, in 15 years, it will be surrounded
by flat buildings.- By dint of closing a useful street
and taking over old Darlinghurst gaol, it will occupy
nine acres of valuable city land. The proposal is
denounced by doctors, who want the hospital where
it is.
Parliament House, the old Mint and the old
Macquarie-street barracks —now used as courts —are,
if the Government has its way, to be pulled down.
The street itself is to be widened 20 feet, and King-
street is to be driven through to the Domain. A
“magnificent city square” is planned.
There are to be new tiers of Government offices
on expensive sites, a grand new building for a “Parlia-
ment” which may not exist in a few years, and new
courts. Meanwhile the slums will remain, and country
water supply and fodder conservation will be neglected
along the usual lines.
If Wentworth, Parkes and Barton could get on
with the present Parliament House, the present sorry
crowd should be able to manage with it until the
present sorry crowd is voted out of existence.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS."
“Well get in all right. This stunt always Works.”
“P. Gall”: Advised by a court official
that a juryman had winked twice at the
accused, a Sydney Judge promptly dis-
charged the 12 good men and true, and
the case was remanded. Sonah, no
doubt, was justified, but an experience
of my own suggests that he might also
have jumped to a wrong conclusion. At
a party I found a buxom wench tipping
me the wink from behind her escort’s
shoulder. Being most cautious in these
matters, I watched her for verification,
and, sure enough, next time her eyes
caught mine the left fluttered, this time
twice. There being no opportunity to get
through the blockade established by her
swain, I left, but with certain plans in
view. Three days later I spotted the
object of my intentions on the street,
breasted up and did my stuff—to be met
by a blank stare from a pair of blue eyes,
the left of which fluttered in a manner
that signified an uncontrollable nervous
disability. Since then young ladies who
wish to make my acquaintance have to
put it in writing.
s ** * *
i- r* e an . n H a ' re P° rt °n Syd-
ney Catholic schools it is stated that “sub-
versive elements in the form of certain
radio programmes, motion pictures and
children’s sections in newspapers and
periodicals” are having “an adverse in-
fluence in the matter of correct speech,
grammar and spelling” ; and it is a true
bill. If there are sceptics, let them co-
sider the conversation and spelling of
our engaging young barbarians, particu-
larly office-boys and -girls, and their
doubts will disappear. But restriction of the
first count of the indictment to “certain
radio programmes” seems overgenerous.
Substitution of “all” for “certain”
would not be excessive. National stations
should set an example, but they don’t.
In the monologues of a university pro-
fessor “aerial” becomes “airial” ; and I
have never heard “rhythm” pronounced
correctly —it is invariably “rhythum.”
Someone unwisely suggested that national
stations should give us readings of the
classics in verse. I tremble to think what
they would do with “Kubla Khan”:
And oh! that deep row-mantic chazzum
which slanted
Deown the green hill athwawt a cedarun
covah.
And a lovely line from one of Daniel’s
sonnets would assuredly become
With dahk fawgetting of my ca-ah retuhn.
Most of us misuse our r’s, but national
stations are notable offenders. And
they pronounce “romance,” not as Kip-
ling and Shelley pronounced it, but in
the fashion of Hollywood illiterates.
“T.”: I hate stupid redundancies, and
it annoys me to see so many newspaper
references to “the British Admiralty.”
There is only one Admiralty that need
concern us —“Board of Admiralty” really.
The American counterpart is the Depart-
ment of the Navy. France has a Minis-
try of Marine, and so have the Italians
and the Japanese.
*** . *
Hamer : There is sometimes a streak
of humor in “visitors’ book” inscriptions.
At Sydney Art Gallery a humble-looking
visitor, after taking in the strain imposed
on the alphabet by a party of scientists
in Sydney for a conference, signed him-
self Bill Blank, 8.8.8.8.8.8. Wffiat 5
all those Bs in aid of?” asked the atten-
dant. “Best Bugle Blower of the Ballarat
Brass Band,” he was told.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Though my blood is
true-blue British down to the last cor-
puscle, there is something about patriot-
ism in entertainment that gives me one
horrible pain in the neck. I don’t like
pert chorus girls got up as soldiers or
sailors, I don’t like females who do
peculiar symbolic dances with the Union
Jack, I don’t like smarmy baritones sing-
ing “Roll Out the Barrel,” I object to
newsreel commentators hoeing into Hit-
ler in shrill, hysterical voices, I object to
“Adolf in Blunderland” on the radio
and finally and fiercely I object to the
close of the “Let’s Be Intimate” revue at
Sydney Minerva—the spectacle of Britan-
nia on a pedestal and the intoning of
“Land of Hope and Glory.” Too often
these stunts are used to let a dud show
creep out in a burst of patriotic enthusi-
asm. I am reminded of the dim days
when Maoriland’s Mr. Coates and Mr.
Forbes, still in power but beginning to
become unpopular, came back from
George V’s jubilee and addressed a
public meeting in Wellington Town Hall,
They’d come back with a meat agree-
ment, but the crowd was there to heckle
them for taking a holiday at the public
expense. After one or two vain attempts
to talk about meat, Mr. Forbes gave up
the struggle and confined himself to a
loyal address on the jubilee. Mr. Coates
valiantly endeavored to talk about meat
for a while, until there was such a frenzy
of interjections that the broadcast of the
meeting was cut off. When he was on
• , c .
the air again a couple of minutes latei,
Mr. Coates, too, was talking rapidly and
nervously about George V.
**“ * *
“S V” * The war havina rut off sun-
,• ,7 V : 2? ■
plies from Russia, a Melbourne artist
went out to the abattoirs to see if he
could get bristles for brushes from under
the chins of pigs and thus start a new
Australian industry. The foreman showed
him round. A chute was discharging
defunct pigs at high speed into an enor-
mous vat full of boiling water, out of
„
which a giant was fishing them with a
gigantic rake and tossing them on to an
endless belt. The belt conveyed them into
a whirling maelstrom of knives which
caressed at liphtnincr sneed everv inch nf
caressed at ligntning speed every inch or
their anatomy. Then they were dis-
charged into another vat completely de-
nuded of everything but their skins. “If
finri 0r,,, u r ; r fi Ql . ,L ara » -j
you can find any bristles there, said the
foreman, you can have them ! The
artist went away discouraged. But does
anybody know where such bristles are
travelling on the hoof in this country?
If he did he would be a godsend to the
painting fraternity,
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Schneevoigt has been tak-
ing his orchestrions round Melbourne’s
suburbs, and the other night he provided
Coburg with a spectacle not yet vouch-
safec j j 0 t b e austere concerffioers of the
metropolis. He started hfs band off
j n t b e conventional fashion in Mendel-
ssohn’s incidental music to “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream ” In a repeat
performance of the scherzo he laid down
his baton and took a seat amonest the
audience But of course, SchnSvoigt
doesn’t take Australian orchestras very
seriously. He continues to be puzzled by
the A.B.C.’s policy of putting its orches-
tras under a succession of imported tern-
porary conductors instead of employing
one competent musician and giving him
the time necessary to build up a really
fine band.
......
“Lao-dah”: The other evening at
Melb. Town Hall, being somewhat
nettled at having been told by a new
“Herald” critic that he had besmirched a
Beethoven symphony, Prof. Schneevoigt
suddenly rapped his orchestra into
silence, turned to the house and said:
“Ees Mr. Neville Cardus present?” Mr.
Cardus promptly stood up. “Pleese, Mr.
Cardus,” said the conductor, “since you
tink I do it wrong, take now baton
and feenish the movement for me. Mr.
Cardus promptly leapt upon the rostrum,
seized the baton from the hands of the
professor and brought the performance
to a masterly conclusion. No, this didn t
happen. I only dreamt it. But it is a
pity it did not happen. Schneevoigt and
Cardus can’t both be right.
* :fc *
“J.H.M.A.” reminisces:
The other afternoon I stood behind old and
unfinished Fort Phillip overlooking central Port
Jackson, where the local Observatory has housed
its telescopes since the days when Charles Fitz-
roy was Governor-General of the Australian
colonies, and watched vibrating men with
pneumatic drills tearing up the foundations of
The Rocks.
The Rocks was Sydney’s first residential
suburb. It was fated to become the stamping-
ground of the most notorious of the
larrikin pushes of the eighteen-eighties and
thereabout. Electric trams are to run
round a terminal loop under the southern
approaches to the Harbor Bridge, under the old
military hospital where the Girls’ High School
educates its pretty flappers, and under the
ancient Moreton Bay figs that make an elevated
oasis in the wilderness of bricks and mortar
and twisting streets forming the hinterland of
Jack the Miller’s Point and the peninsula that
divides the waters of Sydney Cove and Cockle
Bay. The latter arm of Our Beautiful was
grudgingly renamed Darling Harbor after the
most unpopular Governor N.S.W. ever had.
It was strange to look down into the cutting
at the sweating rock-splitters making an inferno
of noise with their “machine-gun” drills as they
tore out the heart of the Hawkesbury sandstone,
and to recall the other fellows who first pierced
the ridge of The Rocks between the Cove and
its western neighbor a century ago. A Public
Works man explained in some detail the allow-
ances made by the department for the dread
silicosis liable to afflict the rock-chopper, and
I wondered what the overseers of the ironed-
gangs who hewed out the Argyle Cut, a few
chains northward, would have thought about
it all. They didn’t have to bother about indus-
trial awards and silicosis. Their main concern
lay in keeping their jobs by making their
“canaries” live up to theirs, and the only
awards they had to trouble about were those
of the Superintendent of Convicts, which were
duly paid on flogging mornings in the back
courtyard of Hyde Park Barracks with the
cat-o’-nine-tails.
I mentioned this to the P.W.D. man. He
reminded me that working for Government was
quite a different thing in these days. “Times
have changed,” he said. “It’s the bosses who
get tied up now.”
$ * H= *
“Spokeshave”: If the appeal for
Chinese war funds in Melbourne has
done nothing else it has at least provided
a new technique for coaxing coin for
foreign causes out of Australian pockets.
After the usual speeches, a suave little
Chinese gentleman stood up and asked
for contributions to the cause in amounts
not lower than a tenner. The plates went
round and three or four notes fluttered
on to the platform. Then he asked for
fivers and got half a dozen. The process
was repeated with regard to pound notes
and half-pound notes, and finally he
made an appeal for florins. Having
counted the offering he expressed his
pleasure and the prospective joy of the
Chinese nation, and the congregation got
ready to take its departure. The suave
Celestial got up once more. “And now,
ladies and gentlemen,” he said, “we will
take up the collection.”
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Lines which might have
been written by an American on Sunday
of last week:
I left Warnemiinde and Germany with a sense
of little ease,
because of the trees in Germany, because of
the wounded trees
that muttered together sullenly in a dark, con-
spiring crowd,
and when the wind went among them sullenly
cried aloud —
but the small first tree of Denmark was a verse
(I knew) that had strayed,
a little apart from the others, out of a
serenade,
and out of the carriage window I suddenly
saw (I swear!)
how over the lower branches of my fir-tree
there leaped a hare.
O little fir-tree of Denmark I passed you by,
but I guessed
what star of an unborn Christmas waited
against your breast —
somewhere the glass-balls are waiting, and the
unlit candles glisten
somewhere, and somewhere the children unborn
are singing! Oh! listen!
All this as the train swept onwards I dreamed,
I saw, I heard,
till out of the deep of the forest as the night
came down, a bird,
an unseen bird in the forest, sang like the
light of a star
clean through the stenls of the fir-trees where
no twigs or branches are,
He sang, as he had been singing this thousand
years, again
the tale of the fir, and the water, and the
quiet heart of the Dane;
the fir, and the glass-cool water, and the night-
sun-haunted sky,
and how we come with the morning, and how
with the night we die.
Actually, they were written nearly 20
years ago by Humbert Woolfe, the
English poet and public servant, who died
recently—of overwork perhaps. He had
prepared a wonderful dilution-of-laboi
plan for the Government carrying on
the war against a “dark, conspiring
crowd.”
A DEFICIT IN HUSBANDS.
“Statistics just released show that females out-
number males by 1,631,000 in the population
(41,215,000) of England and Wales.”
A million and a half more Eves than Adams!
How poor a chance, despite Dan Cupid’s
aids,
What slender prospect of becoming madams,
It heralds for innumerable maids
Fated to live unmated and possess
Their souls perforce in single blessedness.
The hand that rocks the cradle (well one
knows) is
The one that rules the world, but yet the
stock
And hoary proverb clearly presupposes
A cradle for each willing hand to rock —
A pleasant hope that promptly gets the axe
When Jills so heavily outnumber Jacks.
The contemplation vexes and perplexes
Of such an insufficiency of males,
So sheer a disproportion between sexes
In merrie England and melodious Wales.
What deficits in suitors it denotes
And what a surplusage of petticoats!
Can’t bright-eyed Science, drawing upon talents
Such as our rude forefathers never knew,
Do something to redress the cockeyed balance
Which Nature leaves so palpably askew,
And give each her, however coy or prim,
At least a chance of clicking with a him?
A million and a half (or something over)
Potential brides who needs must go unwed
Between the Cheviots and the Straits of Dover,
Alternatively, Hull and Holyhead!
The problem seems of difficulties full.
I wonder if you’ll ever solve it, Bull.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sneakers”: It was George-street,
Sydney, and a Friday night. The blonde
paused to gaze into a window, where-
upon the bluejacket, on leave, went
into action. “Don’ think I’m bold,” he
said winningly, “but I’m looking for
someone to tell me troubles to.” “Well,
why pick on me?” asked the blonde,
rejoining her husband and baby on the
kerb. “I’ve got enough of my own.”
Whereupon the Navy drew off, trying
desperately to camouflage itself, or some-
thing.
* * * *
“P.S.”: It has long been a national
belief in Australia that men leading lonely
lives in the outback develop the habit of
talking to themselves to an extreme. As
a one-time claypan coper I admit the
impeachment; but I’ve never seen the
amount of solitary conversation outback
in ten years than you can see in the city
in a week. I first discovered it when I
saw an elderly chap’s whiskers working
violently, since when I’ve kept a watch ;
and never a day passes but I catch some
cityite in the act. Difference between
them and the bushman is that the latter
mostly speaks to himself or his horse
aloud, whereas the city man conducts
his solo conversation in silence, or, at
best, a half-mutter. Further observation
has convinced me that the best time to
see a city man in action is when he
leaves another who has got the best of
him in argument, debate or deal.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A motor-lorry driver who
not only ran over a boy but vanished
from the scene of the fatality with the
vehicle the boy was riding got off with-
out a stain on his character in Mel-
bourne recently. He declared that the first
thing he knew about the accident was
when he arrived at his destination and
found a bicycle hanging to his radiator.
He had to learn how it got there from
the police who were searching for him.
* * *
“Strict Veg.”: The Eight Hours (now
Labor) Day procession in Melbourne has
become stiff with archaisms, anachro-
nisms, vestigial appendices, incongruities,
contradictions and antiquities. It was
headed by the original tattered Eight-
Hours banner, which was once a demand
for more leisure but for donkey’s years
has merely been a platitudinous asser-
“The boys'll be safe as 'ouses. ’Ere comes the convoy."
tion of existing conditions. Dr. Maloney,
M.H.R.—affectionately known as the
Little Doctor to workers and capitalists
alike—headed the parade, and in deference
to his 86 years was accommodated in a
motor-car. One division of the labor
army bore a banner with the slogan “War
Is Waged for Warmongers’ Profits,” and
docilely followed a glittering Rolls-Royce
which held a party of trade-union leaders.
A tank labelled “Nazism” was depicted
crushing civilisation in the vicinity of a
skeleton wearing a tin hat labelled
“Oppose Conscription.” The striking
coalminers, possibly because they have
become a liability rather than an asset
to the Rolls-roistering Trades Hall hier-
archy, were relegated to a humble posi-
tion in the tail of the dragon. Bands
played that inspiring revolutionary hymn
“Roll Out the Barrel.” Finally, a soldier
in uniform trudged along bearing a
banner with the slogan “War Means
Widows ”
# *
*
Carramba : Government departmen
in S.A. were recently circularised to e
effect that there must be immediate
curtailment, wherever practicable, of the
use of paper and stationery. Foolscap
forms must not be used when quarto
would do as well, and typed letters shoul
be singly spaced instead of double. And
of course you ve guessed it the circular,
brief enough to go on a sheet of note-
paper, was on a foolscap form and
double spaced.
* * * *
“C.R.”: “In the dust beneath the cooli-
bahs on the banks of Cooper’s Creek lie
the bones of Robert O’Hara Burke,”
quoth the “Argus” in a recent article,
“and on the Innamincka run near by is
the grave of William John King.” If
so, there must have been some body-
snatching. King was found by Howitt
and eventually reached Melbourne. He
subsequently went back and returned with
the bones of the two leaders, which were
interred in the Melbourne General Ceme-
tery. Melbourne gave Burke and Wills
a public funeral, which was duly reported
in the “Argus.”
* * . * „ A %
Si Anu : Archbishop Head, of Mel-
bourne, is the first to foreshadow a
change brought about by Mars whic
would shake the Anglican Church to its
foundations. At a meeting of deacon-
esses he remarked that he was getting so
many requests for army chaplains that
if the war continued for three or four
years woman might have to take man s
place in the pulpit. If the revolution
arrives here is one who will rent a pew
where the preacher is young and pretty.
* * , *, * ~ .
Odd Pint : ? see by the papers that
Australian officials in New York have
launched a campaign stressing the attrac-
tions °f Australian bush life for Ameri-
can tour j sts now denied the fleshpots of
g uro p e The “Christian Science Monitor”
cret jif e( i with welcoming a report
at a prominent N.S.W. station owner
. g turn j n g property into a “dude
ranc ij» Waal, I kinda doubt whether
back-country has much to offer
the yanks in that line. Moreover,
a man j s scarcely likely to leave
a country f u q 0 f suc h things to
travel 6000 Qr 8000 miles tQ stay at one
j n another country. Australia’s best
magnets for tourists are those parts of
Australia which few Australians have
seen, such as the Barrier Reef, the head-
waters of the Murray, the Queensland
jungle country and South Westralia. Our
ordinary outback scene of sheep, sand
and burrs makes its appeal only to those
born to it.
“Come along , my dear — it's time We Were pushing off home.”
“Hamfat”: It was in 1840 that Syd-
ney acquired Isaac Nathan, whom
historian-librarian C. H. Bertie has
termed Australia’s first composer. Isaac
was a picturesque character. He was
trained as a rabbi, but music drew him.
He wrote successful light operas (some
vestiges of “Sweethearts and Wives”
still crop up), set Byron’s “Hebrew
Melodies” to music,
and was a man of
fashion who fought
duels, thrashed a
lordling in public,
and got into debt
through carrying out
a confidential mis-
sion (about a worn-
out love affair) for
William IV. who died
before he could
make good the ex-
pense. Nathan bolted
to Australia; but
though “Land of
Sunshine and Wattle”
was amongst his
many compositions
he spent most of his
time composing peti-
tions to enable him
to return to Eng-
land. Whether first
composer or not
he was indubitably Australia’s first
tram-accident victim. Sydney’s first tram,
a horse-drawn caravan which ran on
rails, stretched him out at the intersec-
tion of Pitt-street and Market-street.
Nathan left descendants (he married in
Australia) who have long drifted away
from the congregation of Israel.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Chief Commissioner Harris
has received the largest sum of conscience
money in the history of the Victorian
Railways. The donors knew that the
amount was more than they owed, and
appended a request for the Commissioner
to send the surplus to any charity he
cared to nominate. The figure was £l2l
Is. 6d., and was voluntarily subscribed
by soldiers who held up traffic and did
some damage at Spencer-street station,
Melbourne, when returning from leave
to Puckapunyal. Nine-tenths of the
excitement was good-humored, the men
pulling the communication-cords and,
when the trains stopped, sitting in front
of the engines and boiling billies.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Unless one is a balleto-
mane, the most characteristic emotion
conjured up by the Russian ballet is ap-
prehension lest something ridiculous may
happen which will bring down in ruins
the feeling that one is looking at some-
thing extraordinarily profound and signi-
ficant. At His Majesty’s, Melbourne, the
other evening David Lichine emerged out
of the sea on two paper horses as the
sea god, and after cavorting with sundry
damsels on the foreshore disappeared off-
stage. Then he suddenly materialised
from nowhere, and took a magnificent
header back into the ocean. Being in
the front benches, I had my sensations
interfered with by the sound of a dis-
tinct thud and a crackling of straw as
he hit an invisible mattress. I missed
the hiss of the pound of rice thrown on
to the stage when the hero dives to the
rescue of the heroine in melodrama.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Several recent cases in Mel-
bourne reveal the absurdity of the law
regarding street meetings. Haranguing
the public from the sidewalk is an offence
if your activity obstructs the traffic un-
duly, and “unduly” can mean a major
disturbance or two women with prams
crowded to the roadway. A valid objec-
tion to street speaking is that it either
flatters the prejudices of listeners, which
is superfluous, or violates them, which is
useless. You might as well argue with a
tiger as argue with a person the moment
you have lost his sympathy.
“S.G.M.”: Corns., is it? I heard one
address a luncheon-hour club of adver-
tising men. He completely captured their
sympathy, although his doctrine was
terrifyingly revolutionary. It turned out
that they all thought there would be
more advertising men than ever under
Sovietism, and he was careful not to
disillusion them.
* * * *
“I Remember”: The Thyssen gentle-
man who is now an exile from Nazi Ger-
many is a son of August Thyssen, who
said in 1918 he had been promised a free
grant of 30,000 acres in Australia and a
loan of £150,000 at 3 per cent, to develop
it. He added that the promise had been
made by the Chancellor and confirmed
by the Emperor (Wilhelm II), and was
to be made good when the British Empire
had been defeated.
THE GENTLE ART.
For lying hard none ever will acquire a
Record that’s likely to so long survive
As that of Ananias and Sapphira
(See Acts of the Apostles, chapter five).
In lighter vein and more romantic diction,
A “baron named Munchausen made the sky
His dizzy limit for embroidered fiction,
And left a name that will not lightly die.
Then there was Louis Rougemont, he who
staggered
The world with tales anent this land of ours
That set one thinking about Rider Haggard
And might have taxed Jules Verne’s inventive
powers.
Stout liars are a tribe we’ll ne’er go short on;
In every age and clime they’ll find a nook,
From Perkin Warbeck down to Arthur Orton,
From wicked Titus Oates to Doctor Cook.
To underrate their art would be ungracious,
Yet grave historians yet the palm may hand,
As bigger figures in the realm mendacious,
To ° Goebbels and the German High
Command. 1
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


m
m
50
9 D
10
for
for
20 for I'6
100 for 7^6
For greater
smoking enjogment
CRAVEN A'
Vcw/!
Jill
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
/
POLITICAL POINTS
The Federal Labor executive, meet-
ing in Sydney, rejected the Sydney
A.L.P.’s “Hands Off Russia” resolution,
ordering that the outrage be wiped off
the books. But it left the “Hands Off
Russia” crowd in control of the State
organisation, a motion that it should
itself “select a new State executive” being
defeated, though Curtin supported it.
And that means more trouble in large
quantities. An immediate result is the
appearance of a Centre group, which im-
partially condemns Lang, the “Hands Off
Russia” gang, McKell for not standing up
to it, and the Federal A.L.P. for not
settling its hash.
People are asking pointedly whether
the Empire must go without news of
naval operations until the limelighting
First Lord can get to the Commons, tell
the tidings and bask in the cheers.
How to Beat Germany, by a Recog-
nised Authority:
Opposition at home to the repressive
measures of reactionary Governments will
be the best guarantee of the ultimate
triumph of peace and freedom over war
and Fascism.
Resist encroachments. on free speech in
the Sydney Domain!
The Recognised Authority is Sydney
“Daily News.”
Striking fettlers on the Sydney-Broken
Hill railway have decided to go back to
work when work is available —which it
won’t be for a fortnight or so.
An application for deregistration of
the A.R.U. put the fear of God in the
hearts of the Red bosses. The strike
lasted 89 days, and the “snake-charmers”
got nothing out of it but the curses of
regular travellers on the line. They are
now cursing the Red bosses.
Mere proceedings for the deregistra-
tion of the A.R.U. ended the Ivanhoe-
Barrier fettlers’ strike. Yet they were
introduced very late in the piece, and
then the judgment on the application
for deregistration was adjourned for a
fortnight, though in granting the ad-
journment Chief Judge Beeby pronounced
a plain warning. The same procedure
might be tried in the case of the Miners'
Federation. There is no more fight in
the Red bosses of that concern than
there is in the Red bosses of the A.R.U.,
though, as with those punctured wind-
bags, the word is always on their lips
and the nibs of their fountain-pens.
For the fettlers’ strike A.R.U. Reds
blamed a Drake-Brockman award and
attacked the Judge in their paper. For
the coalies’ strike, which the A.R.U. has
supported with funds and sympathy
strikes, Miners’ Fed. Reds blame a
Beeby-Piper reversal of part of a Drake-
Brockman award, and extol Drake-
Brockman, attacking Beeby and Piper.
There is neither consistency nor courage
in these Moscowmaniacs.
Ex-Speaker Burke (N.S.W.) is given to
making explosive speeches which are
sometimes pertinent. “Yesterday,” he said
in the Macquarie-street talking-shop on
Thursday, “we were called upon to con-
sider the transfer of a gun club’s license.
Today it is the licensing of potato-growers.
This when one of the greatest naval
battles in the world’s history is being
fought.” Then Parliament went on to
the next business —the third reading of
the Swine Branding Bill.
Nothing ever restrains the Stunt Press
from laying down the law on foreign
politics and war strategy, but it can be
ultra-cautious on matters where a modi-
cum of knowledge is required. After
the seizure of Denmark, Sydney “D.T.”
ventured to remark that “Britain may
need more Australian butter.” Con-
sidering that annual exports of Danish
butter to Britain are worth £12,000,000
sterling, “may” is priceless.
After arguing the point for years Mel-
bourne’s Tramways Board decided to re-
place the antiquated cable tram in
Bourke-street with two-decker buses run
on petrol. One of the monsters had a
trial spin, and cable-tram employees held
a valedictory “smoker.” Then Canberra
“suggested” that the petrol chariots
should be stored away until after the war,
petrol being a scarce and necessary de-
fence commodity. So citizens will con-
tinue to rumble along in the antiquated
vehicles and cling on around the corners.
In view of the appalling number of
accidents on Victorian roads—worse
than ever this year—it was sug-
gested that traffic-control lights should
“Turrable! Turrable! Waal, I guess I’ll jest have to maintain my unflinching
determination to do nuttin’.”
be installed at dangerous intersections
in Melbourne and suburbs. In reply
Bailey, the Chief Secretary, blithered
that if people wanted them they would
have to pay more taxes. This from a
member of the Government that found
£20,000 for an unwanted election
“fought” on a childish issue seven months
before an election was due, and which
is paying an additional salary to Cain,
M.L.A., for leading the third party!
Delightful extract from the last annual
report of the N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment :
Close co-operation with the press is
maintained, resulting in a notable reduction
in uninformed criticism of the department.
The departmental view that letters written
in disparagement of the railways should be
submitted to the department before publi-
cation, so that the statements may be
verified and unmerited criticism answered,
has been accepted by most of the respon-
sible newspapers.
So the thousands of customers who have
been cursing the department since it was
caught short of coal can go on cursing.
Williams, the Westralian Labor M.L.C.,
to the A.W.U. goldminers who rejected
an against-the-war and pro-Soviet resolu-
tion by nearly 25 to 1:
What was done in New South Wales
has thrown the Labor party back for 25
years. If the union does not throw out this
motion we will go down to shame, the
same as the New South Wales party. The
coalminers’ strike is the “scabbiest” thing
put over the Labor party for years.
If there are any objectors among Wil-
liams’s constituents they can show their
displeasure on ballot-papers. He goes up
for re-election next month.
“We are putting into operation Article
16 of the League Covenant, which
declares sanctions on belligerent nations.”
A Waterside Workers’ Federation boss
had the face to say that in “justification”
of the Port Kembla waterfront boycott
of pig-iron for Japan; and a much-
advertised bishop and even a former
Governor-General were taken in. The
gentleman didn’t resort to the same “argu-
ment” when the loading of the flour-ship
was held up in Sydney, but he hissed
savagely that “the Government,” which
had threatened to retaliate by extending
the licensing system to Sydney, “would
be better occupied in settling the coal
strike,” and that he could “understand
the men’s reluctance to accept that class
of work.” After that, his tail must have
gone down, like the Bear’s.
It was reserved for Anthony Eden,
of all people, to make the most felicitous
reference to Maoriland’s late P.M. In
a broadcast speech, delivered when they
had pressed down the lids on Savage’s
sightless eyes, Tony quoted what Mick
had said when the war came:
With gratitude for the past and con-
fidence in the future, we range ourselves
without fear beside Britain. Where she
goes, we go. Where she stands, we stand.
We are only a small and young nation, but
we march with a union of hearts and souls
to a common destiny.
Those words should be engraved on the
monument.
In the course of a few years Forgan
Smith has made three trips abroad in the
interests of the Queensland sugar indus-
try. Superfluous as State Premiers have
become, it doesn’t seem right that one
of the six should do so much travelling
on behalf of a particular industry, and
that not the most important.
Saying that “the Government,” now
led by Peter Fraser, is run by “industrial
chiefs” and can’t be trusted to nationalise
banking, Barnard, the Maoriland Speaker,
has followed Lee out of the Labor party.
He said he would not resign the Speaker-
ship or his seat; the Government will
no doubt return to the subject when
Parliament meets. Meanwhile, it has put
a stopper on the political broadcasts of
Scrymgeour, the reverend radio boss, who
must have backed the horse that lost.
“ ‘Gone With the Wind’ will not be
shown except at increased admission
prices at least for one year.” So it is
advertised in Sydney, and the explana-
tion given is that it was necessary to
import several copies of the film in-
stead of one from which several copies
could be made here. Some people hold
that entertainment which has to be
bought is a necessary commodity in war-
time, and that the Prices Control Com-
missioner should be as concerned about
increased admission prices as about other
increases.
With the news of good rain in the wheat-
belt, N.S.W. farmers got a further lift
from a price rise of 2|d. a bushel, the
first since December. Australian Wheat
Board rates now are 4s. for bulk and
4s. 3d. for bagged, on rail Sydney. Men-
zies and Cameron join in the rejoicings—
they won’t now have to find millions
in wheat subsidies.
Alongside a two-column picture of
Stalin cheek-by-jowl with two ladies from
Soviet Asia, the Communist “Tribune”
published a rhapsody on the N.S.W. South
Coast, styling it “the Red Belt of the Blue
Pacific.” “Down the glorious scenic
coastal roads,” from Scarborough to Wol-
longong and farther south, Corns., it
seems, are to be found everywhere. “This
area’s” favorite term for an opponent is
“scab” when it isn’t “b.b.,” and it is
never happier than when it is “telling
any enemy of the working class that his
room is preferred to his company,” point-
ing the moral with “a boycott.” Even
A.L.P. branches are more “militant” on
the South Coast than elsewhere. In a
“Daily News” list of branches which
voted on the notorious “Stop the War”
and “Hands Off Russia” resolution,
Wollongong and Corrimal figure as “en-
dorsing” it, the latter “unanimously.”
Young, Leeton, Guildford and Phillip
branches and Lang and Lakemba elec-
torate councils denounced it.
Said a Sydney Domain spouter,
shrewder than most of his tribe, “Ah,
you always want a revolution after a
bad day at the races.” Certainly the
crazes for gambling and Red strikes have
no distant connection. On the “mili-
tant” N.S.W. South Coast, even since
the coalies swarmed out of the pits,
there have been dog races at Wollongong
on Monday, horseraces at Kembla
Grange on Tuesday, more dog races at
Dapto on Thursday and, a little further
afield, still more at Bowral on Saturday
afternoon and Moss Vale on Saturday
night. For those who like their racing
mixed, there are the horses in Sydney
on Saturday and the hounds on Saturday
night, and in between the strikers have
been fed with broadcasts of race meet-
ings in other States, by A.B.C. as well
as commercial stations.
In districts suffering from “industrial
unrest” total suppression of all forms of
racing for the period of the “unrest”
should be part of the treatment. And
racing broadcasts should be restricted to
one day a week for the period of the
war. These measures are amply war-
ranted by the national emergency, and
should be enforced by national-emer-
gency regulations. And thousands of
workers’ wives would welcome them.


GIFTS FOR A RAINY DAY.
“For the Fuhrer’s 51st birthday the people have been asked to give practical presents of brass, copper, iron, etc."


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. • • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 270 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
exchange business transacted.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
INVESTMENT ASPECTS OF THE WAR
HOW IS AUSTRALIA FARING?
FACTS, FIGURES AND COMMENT ON THE
MONTH’S FINANCIAL HAPPENINGS
April Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ptv.. Ltd., 252 Oeorare Street. Sydney, and all States.
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6% per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
(Incorporated in New Zealand),
19-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
J. Harrison, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
PERSONAL ITEMS
H. D. Arnott, who succeeds Squad-
ron-leader Norman Mulroney as presi-
dent and chairman of the Royal Aero
Club of N.S.W., has been flying since
the Aero Club showed him how in 1927,
and has been a committeeman since 1929.
He is an associate of the Royal Aero-
nautical Society and can also write LL.B.
after his name. Just now he is enthusias-
tically concerned with the training of
R.A.A.F. cadets under the Empire Air
H.D. ARNOTT.
Scheme, which looks as if it would be
the Aero Club’s chief war-time function.
He plays golf when he gets time, but
doesn’t get time.
Two sons of baronet Rupert Clarke,
the second of the line, are taking part
in the war. Third baronet Rupert W.
J. Clarke left Oxford to join the force
intended for Finland, and his brother,
Ernest Edward Clarke, 19, is on naval
service. They are sons of the Countess
of Bective, who arrived at Adelaide
Government House from England
recently to join her second husband,
Lord Bective, A.D.C. to Governor Bar-
clay-Harvey.
Under Dr. Cecil Kellaway at the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in Mel-
bourne is a young Australian scientist
certain of whose investigations are world-
famous. He is Dr. F. M. Burnet, a
graduate of Melbourne Uni., whose close
pursuit of the influenza germ has been
followed for some years with interest by
similar research workers in other coun-
tries. Burnet first made his mark in
1937 by his researches into infantile
paralysis during the Victorian outbreak
that year. He won the Burfitt Prize
and medal of the Royal Society of
N.S.W. for his work in Australian
laboratories, and he shared the honors
of the Cilento medal for his in-
vestigations into tropical fevers, the wog
of which is named after him.
Bearing the unusual name of Harrie
(after his mine-manager father), Prof. H.
S. W. Massey (B. 3/ 4/’4O) turns 32 next
month. An infant prodigy who more
than lived up to expectations, he began
his schooling at five. At nine he passed
merit and junior Government scholar-
ship exams, with papers so outstanding
that he was awarded a senior Govern-
ment scholarship, and his tenth birthday
him at Melbourne Uni. High
School. More studious than athletic, he
did not qualify for the Rhodes award,
but cleaned up enough travelling scholar-
ships to take him the rounds of the Con-
tinental universities. His return three
years ago to spend a day with the old
school friends in the hill settlement of
Hoddle’s Creek (Vic.) indicated that he
hadn’t forgotten his bush origin.
One of the Commonwealth members
in khaki is S.A.’s youngest Senator,
lawyer Keith Cameron Wilson. He is a
bombardier in the 49th Battery, 13th
Field Brigade.
Brisbane’s Dean W. E. C. Barrett has
been catching it hot from the lasses of
the village. Addressing the Mothers’
Union, he drew a gloomy picture of the
deplorable moral effects of the Patriotic
Fund’s “Miss A.1.F.” competition on
girls who took part in it. According to
the reverend gentleman, they were
“almost” put up for auction, and it would
require somebody of tremendous balance
to take the enticing prizes, free gifts and
holiday at a hotel in Sydney and remain
the same. Now he is being snowed
under with indignant feminine inquiries
as to his precise reasons for considering
that a week or two in Sydney will lead
a good girl astray.
By the death at. 45 of George Hamp-
den Nicholls, Sydney loses its tallest
policeman (he was 6ft. 6iin.), and the
corner of George-street and Martin-
place is robbed of an imposing figure
who was known affectionately to all
motorists as “Tiny.” Constable Nicholls
was born at Windsor,
and had been in the
force since 1921. He
was a first -grade
cricketer in his younger
days.
Dead at 82, Luther
Robert Scammell, a
dominant figure in
S.A.’s chemical indus-
try. His father —also
Luther—sat in S.A.’s
first Parliament. The
son went to England as
a young man to study
pharmacy, and in 1889
became joint proprietor
with his brother of the
firm of F. H. Faulding.
At one period of his
life he strove to make
Kangaroo Island Aus-
tralia’s scented isle by
raising rosemary and
lavender there. In 1921
he published a small
book of essays, Stub-
born Facts, and was
always a few paces
ahead of his time. He
introduced the first X-
ray machine to Aus-
tralia 47 years ago, and
was probably the oldest
member of the Chemi-
cal Society, of which he
was a Fellow.
Major Walter Tasman Conder, given
permission by Judge Lukin in the Bank-
ruptcy Court to serve again in the A.1.F.,
has been in the public eye off and on
ever since the last war, after which
he was made governor of Pentridge.
Sundry reforms and the bit of gaiety he
introduced into that grim institution came
under criticism in the political arena. A
born organiser, he was subsequently ap-
pointed by the City Council to make an
epoch-making affair of the centenary of
Victoria. Then he was made g.m. of the
Broadcasting Commission, and hence a
cockshy for its errors. Later he became
associated with a circus, expecting to get
£15,000 a year out of it, but in 1939 his
estate was sequestrated by a creditor,
and liabilities were shown at £3177 15s.
and assets at £2 10s. Amateur boxing is
the major’s major passion.
Another of the West’s old pressmen
has passed on at Fremantle: “Billy”
Clare, aged 78. He founded the Southern
Cross “Pioneer” and the Coolgardie
“Miner,” and his luxuriant moustache
and flowing hair were Bayley-street deco-
rations. Billy had first-rate assistants
—“Dryblower” Murphy, “Smiler” Hales,
Kingswell (afterwards of the Rand)
and Jack Drayton and he made
plenty of money in Coolgardie and
spent it royally. Later he ran papers
and printeries in Bunbury (for Newton
Moore, then Premier and afterwards
Agent-General, major-general and mem-
ber of the House of Commons) and Fre-
mantle. A fine old figure, Clare took
good fortune and bad with equal philo-
sophy.
Bertrand James Waterhouse, who will
open the memorial exhibition of Elioth
Gruner’s works at the N.S.W. Art Gal-
lery this afternoon, was born in Leeds.
He is president of the Board of Archi-
tects of N.S.W., president of the Board
of Trustees of the National Art Gallery,
president of the Society of arts and
Crafts, member of the Advisory Council
of Sydney Technical College, and deputy-
chairman of the National Planning Com-
mittee, Canberra. He was also deputy-
chairman of the Macquarie-street Plan-
ning Committee, and was one of the
assessors in the Law Courts competition.
Any activity connected with the advance-
ment of art and architecture or town-
planning receives his interest, help and
encouragement. His own collection of
pictures, drawings and etchings embraces
work by most of Australia’s worth-while
B.J. WATERHOUSE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
artists, gathered together over a period
of 25 years. Waterhouse is repre-
sented in the National Gallery by a
number of pencil drawings and also at
the Teachers’ College, Armidale. He is
a member of the Painter-Etchers’ Society,
and exhibits annually. Scattered in the
highways and byways round Sydney are
many examples of his domestic architec-
ture, and the Y.W.C.A. building in Syd-
ney (a competition winner) is a g
example of his larger work.
J. J. Dedman, who is making his first
appearance at Canberra, speaks ' ?
Scots. He was studying in the Lan °
Cakes to be an engineer when the 191 -
war broke out. He served right throug
it, and for two years afterwards, with e
British Army ; then he became a '
farmer in Upper Goulburn and lert l .
for the Forestry Department. He is
the seventh man to represent Corio smc>.
1901.
Robert George Peake, general manager
of the S.A. Harbors Board, who is
R. G. PEAKE.
to retire in the near future, was born at
Naracoorte, S.A., 64 years ago, and has
been a civil servant most of his life.
Starting with the Railways Department
he was transferred to Harbors as Port
Superintendent at Wallaroo in 1914, be-
came accountant in 1921, secretary three
years later and general manager in 1935.
Dr. Maloney, the “Little Doctor,” who
celebrated his 86th birthday last week,
must be the doyen of all Parliamen-
tarians. He started as M.L.A. for West
Melbourne in 1889, resigned to enter
Federal politics in 1904, and has repre-
sented Melbourne ever since. He likes
making presents better than receiving
them, so he refused a party in his honor
by the Centenary Club and gave a cow
to one of his favorite kindergartens in-
stead.
Died last week in Sydney, at 75, Dr.
A. E. Mills, a Macquarie-street specialist
and a graduate of Sydney Uni., who
was the Uni.’s first Professor of Medi-
cine, occupying the chair from 1920 to
1929. He had been lecturer in medicine
since 1910. He was appointed Deputy
Chancellor of the Uni. in 1937, but did
not seek re-election after his first term.
Dr. Mills retired from active practice
two or three years ago. Among other
official positions he had been principal
medical officer of the Ladies’ Methodist
College.
News comes from London of the re-
tirement through ill-health of Captain
L. V. James, well known to many Aus-
tralians. He served his apprenticeship
in sail, and entered the Orient service in
1908, after gaining his master’s certificate,
as fourth officer of the Ormuz. In 1915
he took command of the ex-German
Derfflinger, renamed Huntsgreen, which
was present at both the Gaba Tepe and
Suvla Bay landings, was pressed into
service as a temporary hospital ship
and was the last transport to leave
Suvla Bay, carrying 6000 men. A
D.S.C. rewarded Captain James’s good
war service. In 1921 he took command
of the Osterley, and since then has com-
manded the Ormuz, Orvieto, Ormonde.
Otranto and Orama.


NO THANKS
rjn**' h ‘‘ w "
ted Car*"
WiCJU
m
«
i
>~s
/f-J
HTTTTTI
coy
mmrni/imm*'
E
fife \ an"
Jo
'tWv
3^qlass
r&\
f ’"Y,
will
fcA
//^
H. B. Armstrong, well-known Mel-
bourne cartoonist, gives us this im-
pression of his favourite phrase,
“No thanks. I'd rather have a Red
i Capstan."
Time for a
■ psta r:
they’re blended better
into, b°- 20 for r-
ALSO FLAT AND ROUND FIFTIES AND HUNDREDS
Capstan Special Mild Red Packs
Capstan Medium Blue Packs
Capstan Full Strength .. Brown Packs
/fa-
CAPSTANS
621 E-4-40


ABORIGINALITIES
ẃ
frying-pan. So the storm, when it came,
broke with unexpected suddenness. As
Irish moodily carted his tent and belong-
ings back to the old site someone ap-
proached Harry for an explanation.
“Matter!” he snorted. “I’ve had enough
of him. Every blanky time he has a
drink he rinses his mug out of my water-
bag!”
* * * *
“J.D.”: A pet cockatoo at Oakleigh
(Vic.) has had his crowded hour. He
broke loose, and his dangling chain struck
high-tension wires. There was a dazzling
display of fireworks that set his feathers
alight. Struggling free, he next tumbled
into a paddock of dry grass and starved
a fire, but was rescued by his
owner. He is still alive, hasn’t a feather
to fly with, and report says is a lot less
cocky than formerly.
* * * *
“Onioner”: Asa respected inhabitant
of the district, I rise to correct the claim
(B. 10/4/’4O) that Wattle Creek got its
name because of the wattles flanking the
road that became a creek in wet weather.
The real reason for the name is the slogan
of friendship which the district uses on
Saturday afternoons: “Waale y’ have?”
* * * *
“Centre”: If there’s anything tougher
or better able to resist drought than
prickly-pear I’d like to see it. With no
sign of grass anywhere, the blackthorn,
honeysuckle, blackberry and briar dead,
and many of the trees leafless and dying
where' they stand, I came across several
vivid green and succulent clumps of pear
apparently quite unaffected by the
drought. They were flourishing just
where fragments of the pest had been
left when the creek came down in flood
a few years ago, and were all of 30ft.
“Better ’ urry, mister; you ain't got long t' finish it."
above the creekbed that is at present
bone-dry. It’s all grubbed up now and
lying on top of a pile of dead bush wood
waiting till it’s safe for me to apply a
firestick. I’m satisfied that it won’t die
until it is burnt.
* * * *
“James W.”: Bang goes the idea that
honey-eaters have that long, narrow bill
so that they can dive it down into flowers
with deep cups to swipe the nectar. Any-
way, those here in far N.Q. don’t per-
form that way when after “sugar-bag.”
They hang on to the stem of the flo ver,
and in goes the beak, like a mossie’s
proboscis into a human pelt, through the
base of the petals just above the calyx.
Incidentally, the operation spells finis for
the flower within a few hours. The
needle-billed fraternity have settled hun-
dreds of hibiscus, canna and petunia
blossoms in what I used to call my
garden.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: When the kindhearted
ladies of the Goodwill Guild in a N.Q.
town were told about the miserable liv-
ing conditions at the abo. camp they
appointed a visiting committee of three
to see what could be done for the poor
creatures. Old King Peter deputed Lucy,
a good-looking young lubra who had
lost several successive jobs as a domestic
and therefore knew the ways of white
missus, to show them round. After they
had viewed the dirt, dogs, sore eyes and
unwashed piccaninnies, Lucy led them
with pride to her own bark gunyah and
invited them in. The bank-manager’s
wife, who was first to enter, broke off
polite remarks about its cleanliness and
order to stare at a large photograph of
her own husband tacxed above Lucy’s
bed. As her astonished gaze travelled
round the hut it fell on the pictured
visages of most of the town’s leading
male citizens. Surprised gasps from
behind her conveyed similar marital
recognitions from the other ladies. Why
are those photographs here?” she in-
qutred frostily. White missus like look
picture white man, answered Lucy with
a grin. “Me all same white missus that
way.” “But,” asked the doctor’s wife
in a small, awed voice, “where did you
get them?” “Pick ’em up ’long rubbish
’eap. That p’otograp’er man chuck ’em
away when he snutum shop b’long ’im
lars’ week.” After a whispered consul-
tation amongst her visitors Lucy gladly
accepted an offer of five bob for her
entire art collection, and three relieved
ladies hurried home to burn it before
the lying tongue of scandal could get in
any dirty work.
* ~ . * n . x * * ,
Mats Mate . Big Mat, very big anc
very strong, distrusted the unattached
female in ensely. He had no fear of the
married type, believing in his innocent
heart that having a man of their own
none of them would even dream of cast-
mg a net for another. Consequently he
accepted the interest of married women
as being in the normal course of events —
until the little overseer, mad with jeal-
ousy, tried to spear Mat with a crow-
bar. The revelation almost bowled the
big fellow over, but he recovered quickly,
seized that overseer, dumped him in the
woolpress and fastened a lid on it. Then
he went to the house, collected the over-
seer’s wife and dumped her in with her
husband. “There,” he said, “now you
two can tell each other all about it while
little Matty rolls his bluey and hits out
for the Monaro.”
“No. 1 Bench”: Jarrah is credited with
being one of the most durable of
timbers, but I know of no other that
suffers so much from iron-sickness. There
seems to be some acid in the wood that is
dead nuts on nails, bolts or any iron
fastener. Unpainted and exposed to the
weather, pickets fall from fences inside
a few years. And not only is the nail
corroded away to a mere thread, but the
wood also will be eaten out into a
sizable hole, making it impossible to nail
again in the same spot, as can usually
be done with other timbers. A boat built
of jarrah with iron fastenings lasts only
a year or two. Fastened with wooden
dowels or copper it lasts the best part
of a century. Railway differ the
same way. The wood throughout re-
mains sound, but the iron dogspike plays
the devil with it. But don’t whisper any-
thing of this in W.A., where jarrah is
worshipfully assumed to be the world-
beater in long fife.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Is the nervous
organism of imported animals more sen-
sitive than that of our native fauna?
The hare, rabbit, cat, dog, pig, etc., emit
terrified squeals when scared or wounded,
while in the same circumstances our
native animals take all that is coming to
them without a murmur. There are a
few exceptions. The dingo fights his last
fight in silence, but he occasionally looses
off a long, loud, despairing howl as he
gives up the ghost, and the possum some-
times emits an agonised squeal when in
extremis. I always regarded the kangaroo
rat as being absolutely dumb under tor-
ment until I saw an old gin trying to dis-
lodge one from a hollow log by prod-
ding it with the business end of her yam-
stick. At every prod the animal raised
a shrill protest; but when it broke cover
among a pack of nondescript mongs it
met its end without a sound. The native
cat dies fighting like seven dumb devils,
and the kangaroo, wallaby, wombat and
lesser animals make no outcry, whether
the end comes by gunshot wound or the
fangs of the hunter’s dogs,
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Anchored over a
15-fathom reef ten miles offshore in the
o p en p a cific north of Cape Moreton
(S Q) we had a strange visi tor. It was
f all wn malc mlld . crab , swimming
a . * c ’ Inv _
stiongly just under the sur ac
in § a course straignt out to sea
passed within a few feet of the boat m
calm, clear water, and was quite unmis-
takable as to species. Sand-crabs are
common enough at this season over off-
shore reefs, but neither I nor a half-
dozen experienced fisher blokes to whom
I mentioned it had ever seen or heard of
a mud-crab doing an ocean cruise under
its own power. It is holiday season for
the meaty chaps who are such excellent
company at supper and fine mates to a
bottle of beer, and he may have just been
t ak j n g a pleasure trip before family
duties begin again Fm afraid , though,
j ba j. b j s p roS p ec t s 0 f safe return were
ttabJy small as we sighted a 12ft.
tiger _ shark on much the same course
shortl after They , ike crabSj too.
J
, , „ VT t
Gravelsnalcher : No, Wes ra lan
gum won’t burn to a good sound char-
coal (B. 27/3/’40); and if it did it would
be useless for gas-producers. An even
greater curse than ash in that game is
coal-tar content, and of all timbers likely
to produce charcoal red-gum is the worst
in that respect. But let not “G. Roper”
stigmatise the tree as utterly worthless,
The gum which precludes its use as a
timber is one of the finest tanning agents
in the bush.
* * * *
Sylvest . The farrier sergeant was
argumentat.ve. I say it can tbe done,
T^ e on *V wa ? a s^oe can nailed on
is t° e t° front. Try putting them on
reverse way and the horse will kick them
off inside half a mile.” ‘ But, argued
the outback bloke, “I’ve heard of bush-
rangers doing it.” The f.-s. snorted,
“You’ve been reading Scott’s Kenilworth,
where Waylen Smith does the trick for
some bloke that was being pursued, so
they’d think he was galloping the oppo-
site way. But thats only fiction. I say
it just can tbe done. Now, Aboliars,
what’s the verdict?
* * * *
“Raorut”: Elegant Edgar, down in
Melbourne and cashed up after a season’s
wheat-lumping in the Wimmera, met a
i ass whose good looks smote his suscep-
tible heart. When he discovered that
her old man was something in the city
an d his private address Toorak, Edgar
had visions of spending the rest of his
life in luxury. He confided that he
was a big squatter enjoying his annual
vacation, and talked easily of his thou-
sands of hand-picked merinos. To
drive home the impression, he hired a
flash-looking car by the day and,
describing the vehicle as one of the half-
dozen that crammed his garages up in
the bush, took the girl touring. Every-
thing went well, the girl was favorably
disposed, and at last came the invitation
to come out and meet the family. Re-
splendent in a hired dinner-suit, Edgar
drove to the Toorak address in his hired
car and received an effusive welcome
from the young woman and her mother,
Then Dad came on the scene. As
Edgar said afterwards, it was the dirtiest
bit of luck in the world that, of all the
motor-firms in Melbourne he could hire
a car from, he must go and pick on the
one of which the girl’s old man was
the boss.
GOANESE AND GYP.
ẅ
w
E.J. BRADY.


“Nice Work, Joe!”
“Turoar”: “Me an’ Tarry Tom wus
drivin’ down frum Broken ’lll ter Wil-
cannia in Tarry’s oF bus one time,” said
Old Bob. “It’s terrible ’ot, an’ we comes
ter a place wot’s got a lota sand, erbout
four ’undred cats and three ’ouses —
luckily one’s a pub. Nex’ mornin’ we
comes out an’ finds the battery o’ the car’s
as flat as the palm uv yer ’and. ‘ ’Ere’s a
go,’ says Tarry. ‘No ’lectric plants, no
’orses ter give us a start, an’ we can’t push
the bus because it’s level goin’ and in
sand.’ We’re wonderin’ wot we c’n do
when Tarry spots the cats. ‘We’re set,’
’e says, an’ starts roundin’ ’em up. We
ties ’em ’ead ter tail all in a line. It’s
a job, f’r them cats fight an’ scratch
like ’ell; but at last we manages it, an’
Tarry takes the first one an’ ties ’is front
paws ter the terminuses uv the battery.
After that I goes back ter the end uv
the line, grabs the last cat an’ strain
back fer all I’m worth ter keep ’em still.
Then Tarry strokes their back the wrong
way, degeneratin’ ’lectricity, see? D’y’
know, after arfer-nour or so the battery’s
chocker-block with juice an’ the injin
ticks over the first touch uv the starter.
But a coupla days after we reads in
the paper that the place wus ’arf
derstroyed by a mysterious ’lectric phe-
nominal. We remembers then we fer-
got ter untie them cats before we driv
erway.”
* * * *
“Mei”: Helpful experts (B. 20 /3 / ’40)?
The official entomologist to whom my
neighbor appealed to seek the reason for
the withering of young shoots on an
English mulberry replied: “After careful
examination of the twigs forwarded, we
have come to the conclusion that the tree
is undergoing a process of fatality.” The
process continued, too, until it became
very fatal.
“Cowana”: If “Mulyan” (B. 20/ 3 / ’4O)
wishes to see really large deposits of
kopi he should visit the Coolgardie
(W.A.) goldfields. Out in practically
every direction one will come upon
seemingly endless ridges of it, the thin
crust breaking beneath the feet and
letting the foot sink into the powder
underneath. Many bushmen think of
it as a compound of magnesia, but
actually it is a calcite —calcium sulphate.
Limestone is calcium carbonate. Burn
kopi to about half the heat necessary to
render lime and you have plaster of
Paris. It is a wonder more use is not
made of such abundance. One W.A.
mill does produce a fair quantity, supply-
ing most local requirements in plaster
board, but at the average store imported
plaster of Paris sells at threepence the
pound.
JfC
“Old-timer”: Two of Echuca’s (Vic.)
most disreputable citizens were Pericoota
Peter and old Stinkpot. Peter had a pie-
bald shack of tin and bag down on the
river, botted round the town most of the
week and collected his pension on Thurs-
days. Stinkpot, a goat of ancient vintage,
eked out a precarious existence on the
rubbish-heaps, and, like Peter, survived
all attempts at removal. In time the
two became mates, and the goat came to
regard Peter’s camp as home. As Peter’s
olfactory sense had long since deterio-
rated, they got along well, and the goat
eventually learned to appreciate the vir-
tues of cheap pinkie, beer and other
gems of fermentation. It became a Sun-
day pastime on that part of the Murray
to visit the camp in the hope of seeing
the pair well blithered. Peter would sing
cracked songs, and the goat would
blunder round butting at things that
weren’t there. It is said they frequently
fought while in their cups, and it is cer-
tain that the goat, smell and all, took to
hanging round the pubs with the same
object as its human partner. One night
the paddle-steamer Pearl, with barge, tied
up below Peter’s camp, and about mid-
night Peter rolled home, dragging Stink-
pot on a rope. How it happened none
ever knew, but the following night, when
steamer and barge were well on their
way to Swan Hill, the barge steersman
nearly fell in the river as a wild-eyed goat
and a yabbermg man emerged from the
hold, gave a startled look round and
plunged overboard. Odd tales mean-
dered round the billabongs of a man
and goat at Thule, at Barham, on the
Wakool, and even Nyah way, but the
shack at Echuca never saw them more.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I wonder what the
old-time ’roo-shooters would think of
the fellow I met near Yerranderie
(NS.W.). He wore a silk shirt, white
breeches, leggings and a “bring-’em-
back-alive” helmet. “Potting a few
bunnies?” I asked, admiring his very
new rifle, which was equipped with every
“Every time I park here some fool chalks all over the wheels. This'll fix him, Johnson."
gadget known to science, barring a
mariner’s compass. “Bunnies nothin’,”
he drawled in approved Hollywood
accent. “Kangas!” “Getting any?” I
queried, surprised to hear that ’roos
were in the locality. “Plenty,” was the
smug reply. On my return journey I
turned a bend just as he was taking a
careful aim at something in the bush,
I “froze” while he had his shot. The
soldier-bird flew away!
“Mutt”: “There ain’t
much doubt about some
of the blokes you meet
on the track bein’
nutty,” remarked Old
Bill. “Once I’m camped
by the Murray when a
walkin’ scarecrow-look-
in’ bloke blew up to me
fire an’ wanted a drink
of tea. As it ’appened,
I was usin’ me billy fer
mixin’ a damper, so I
invites the snoozer to
cool off until it’s cooked
an’ ’ave a feed. This
suited ’im, an’ ’e
squatted on ’is swag
watchin’ me breadmak-
in\ Soon’s I finished
me dough I gets me
camp oven, to find it
’alf-full of fat that
didn’t smell too good,
so I nachrally turns it
over to me dog. I ’ad
a smoke while ’e
cleaned it up, an’ then
grabs me billy to dump
the dough into the pan,
when the stranger yells,
‘ ’Old ’ard, cobber, yer
mong’s been lickin’ out
that oven.’ ‘That’s all
right. I give it ’im,’ I
answers friendly like ;
‘that dog’d never pinch
anything,’ an’ carries
on with me cookin’. When I ’as
me oven nicely set in a bed of ’ot
coals I looks up to see the bloke ’ad dis-
appeared. Wonderin’ where ’e’d gone,
I glanced around, an’ was surprised to
see ’im makin’ off along the river. I
wasn’t worried none about ’im nickin’
off, but, cripes, it kinda ’urt me feelin s
to think the big mug wouldn’t stay an’
’ave a bit of tucker.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: The numerous species of
birds which get their food under water
go about the job in a variety of ways.
The big gannets dive, sometimes from
100 ft. or more, at fish swimming below
the surface, and grab the prey with a
powerful serrated beak. They have a
special bony plate in front of the skull
to take the heavy impact with the water.
Shags submerge from the surface and
chase fish by using their broad webbed
feet as a frog does ; they can go down
at least ten fathoms. Penguins employ
their flipperlike wings as paddles when
submerged, their feet as rudders when
going ahead or as brakes when they want
to stop. Darters swim much slower than
shags, approach the prey unobtrusively
and then shoot out a long neck to grab
it. None of the three Australian grebes
has webbed feet, although they are
highly specialised divers and swimmers
—fleshy lobes on the toes do the same
job. In only one feature do the really
efficient divers agree —none of them is
any good at walking.
* V * *
“Nor’-west”: It was because of a
woman, of course. But young Jumbar,
otherwise Tommy, fresh from a droving
trip, hadn’t reckoned on old Boolgum’s
spear arm still being so strong. 800 -
gum, instead of acting like a sport and
a gentleman, had been animated by that
hate so often felt by the elderly with a
young wife towards the youthful male
interloper. So the spear, instead of merely
inflicting a flesh wound, had gone right
through Tommy’s chest. Old Damunda
and Weroe, medicine men, set about the
matter of extraction. It being glass-
tipped and barbed, the only chance was
to draw the spear right through. So,
while Damunda sawed at the tough shaft
with relays of broken bottle, Weroe went
to the river bank for clay. Presently
he returned with two sizable well-
kneaded balls. Around the ends where
the spear shaft protruded from both sides
of Tommy’s torso this clay was moulded.
Then, while Weroe held it close,
Damunda, with a foot against the
patient’s back, deftly performed the ex-
traction, his assistant instantly pinching
the clay together over the holes left as
the shaft passed. Hardly a drop of
blood, no air permitted to enter the
wound. Leaving the clay in the place,
the medicoes then laid on plates of dry
bark, followed by sheet paper bark, the
whole bound round with hair string,
Tommy stood it all with hardly a blink.
A week and he was walking. Two weeks
and the bandages were taken off from a
wound that would have put most white
men in the grave,
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: The foulest water
when exposed to sunlight gradually be-
comes pure, but water lying in the dark-
ness of a mine becomes increasingly foul.
Once assisted the coroner in clearing
up a double fatality. Starting on tribute
in a Boulder mine, Old Sam and Joe
decided that a winze they had partly
sunk 10 years previously would be the
ideal point from which to work a lode
which ran through their block. Inspected,
the winze proved half-full of water. So
they decided that it would be easier to
“rise” the thirty feet from the level
below than bail out. For weeks with
hammer and drill they slowly worked
upwards, the stone from their shots
crashing down to the lower level. “She
can’t be too far through now,” Old Sam
remarked one shift, tapping the rock
overhead and judging its thickness by
the sound. “Another couple of cuts and
we’ll bust her open.” Charging the cut
they were on, the pair lit fuses and
scrambled down to the level, there to
await the explosions. Six hours later
they were found dead, lying in a tew
inches of water. P. r °w n ® d * N °’ § ass , d \
Old Sam had misjudged ; that cut
torn the bottom out of the winze over-
head, releasing the water in one T
cascade. From this water as i P
volumes of gases had been released, the
accumulated of nH l " nr) _ d
g ust , lt; had fi , lled . * evel L.®
Sam s and Joe s mining days for e
** * .
“J. Bull”: We were trying to run a
mob of cattle into the yards, and a roan
bullock with a huge pair of spreading,
sharp-pointed horns was charging a
comers. The news going by mulga wilt
to the blacks’ camp down at the creek,
they all came up to watch the fun, and,
dodging round on foot, were more
nuisance than half a dozen cranky bullocks,
At last, the cattle in the yards, drafting
began. Old Bungeye started to help,
shrieking with joy when Roanie went tor
a jackeroo and then put the boss on o
the top rail of the fence. From his peren
the boss reviled Bungeye, telling him to
scoot. As Bungeye turned to obey some-
body yelled “Look out behind! The
abo. wheeled and found Roanie coming
straight at him. He yelled and left for
the fence at several ms.p.h., but the
animal beat him to it. It charged just
as Bungeye got his toot on the bottom
rail. The force or its rush drove the
bullocks widespread horns into the rail
on each side of the terrified black. As
the frightened bullock struggled to unpin
himself Bungeye wriggled out of his
prison, went up the fence like a goanna
with a dog after it, and went bush. Our
neighbor 80 miles away rang next day
to tell us he’d seen Bungeye still going.


sB®
V'
I
M s v X V
s*
'mmi
: '' i
M
V
SSft?
L J
~•■"••••
Magnet for all Classes of Men
It affects men in all walks of life. Lawyers leave their
books, sailors their ships, farmers their ploughs all
convinced they will strike it rich. Whether they found
gold or not, this country owes much to the pioneering
efforts of the gold-diggers and prospectors. Prospered
cities now stand as monuments to their courage and
strength. The National Bank has for over eighty year
assisted this progressive movement, making its servicess
and facilities available in mining centres, purchasing or
making advances against gold, and, in other ways pro-
viding a full financial service. Today that service is
offered to the public through 446 offices and branches
spread throughout Australia*
NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL » iREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (Vice-Chairman) ;
Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. ; James Kidd; rl olin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shß-w.y.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. 74 P-c. Ord. serves, serves.
1929. .215,040 73,714 5 p.c. =91,675* 49,651 2-20,662
1930.. 76,430 75,000 Nil 1,430 222,092
1931.. 18,071 Nil Nil 18,071 240,163
1932.. 2,203 Nil Nil 2,203 242,366
1933.. 70,359 Nil Nil 70,359 312,725
1934. .120,774 37,500 Nil 83,274 395,999
1935.. 80,009 65,143 Nil 14,866 410,865
Loss on sale shares Southern Blue
Metal, £43,500 367,365
Patents disclosed, £57,651 .. .. 309,714
Loss. 5.8 p.c.
1930.. 29,734 58,125 Nil 221,855
Added patents, £974 .. .. .. 220,881
Profit.
1937.. 145,379 58,125 Nil 87,254 308,135
Added patents, £968 .. .. •• 307,167
1938.. 213,884 58,125 Nil 155,759 462,926
29 p.c.
1939.. 353,504 290,624 Nil 62,880 525,806
*Declared but not paid.
This is Australia’s second-biggest iron-
and-steel undertaking, with B.H.P. in con-
trol —750,000 B.H.P. ords. were ex-
changed for the 2,700,000 A.I. and S.
ords. in 1935 —and it has proved a wel-
come addition to the Empire’s heavy in-
dustries, too. With the change in con-
trol came a programme of plant expan-
sion designed to overtake the local pro-
duction lag in iron and steel which fol-
lowed on the heels of slump. Toward
the end of 1938 the lag had been over-
taken, and the industry was faced with a
position where production looked like
soon overtaking consumption. The long-
headed management, however, realising
Australia’s natural advantages as an iron-
and-steel producer, had planned to de-
velop an export market, and a lot of
attention was given to an assault upon
costs.
Furthermore, the co. was meeting with
no small measure of success, when,
toward the middle of 1939, some of its
growing volume of steel exports to Asia
had to be diverted to Britain and other
Empire countries; this owing to the
growth in Europe’s steel-appetite, on ac-
count of armament programmes. As Sep-
tember and war with Germany ap-
proached, the British demand increased,
and today the big plants at Newcastle
and Kembla are important contributors
to the defence needs of Britain and other
Empire countries, as well as the source of
Australia’s iron and steel supplies for
armament and other purposes. During
the first eight months of 1939-40
£3,961,566-worth of Australian iron and
steel was exported—£2,B7B,4l9 higher
than for the same period of 1938-39.
The coal strike is now affecting the posi-
tion both at Kembla and Newcastle.
The ingot capacity of the Kembla
works is about 500,000 tons p.a. —and
still expanding—as against over 800,000
tons p.a. at Newcastle ; and a hive of
associated industries is clustering round
the A.I. and S. plant, while an indus-
trial city is springing up where there was
but a handful of houses a decade ago.
Australia has much for which to thank
those who built up and controlled its
iron-and-steel industry, and good reason
to feel proud of their achievements.
Last term the co. began to get more
into its stride. The sharp spring of
£139,620 in declared net earnings reflects
increased efficiency and productive capa-
city, following heavy expenditure on
plant and equipment. The fifth open-
hearth furnace began production in
March, 1939, and the sixth commenced
to turn out steel at the beginning of
1940. A hot-metal mixer of 1200 tons
capacity, one of the largest of its kind
in the world, is being installed, and should
further increase the efficiency of the
open-hearth section. Extensions and im-
provements were also made to the various
steel mills in order to keep abreast of
the larger outturn of the primary units of
production. Another addition to plant
which helped to reduce costs further was
the installation of a 12,500 kw. generat-
ing set, which began to supply cheaper
current to the recently-acquired Bulli
and Mt. Keira collieries, as well as to the
steelworks, in April, 1939.
The £353,504 of profit claimed was
sufficient to pay the prefs. 5.8 p.c. (re-
duced from 1\ p.c. under the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act) and show 6.2
p.c. on the £4,700,007 of ord. capital.
That was after allowing £550,772 (up
£278,682) for depreciation, and setting
aside an unspecified amount for taxa-
tion and other contingencies. Actually
the prefs. got 29 p.c. (five years’ divs. at
5.8 p.c.), thus giving them a clean slate
to the beginning of May, 1940. Pros-
pects of restoration of the full pref. con-
tract rate p.c.) are encouraging,
though the board may decide to
strengthen the finances still further before
increasing the distribution to share-
holders. The possibilities of an ord. div.
have, of course, enhanced the attrac-
tiveness of B.H.P.’s scrip.
The market prices the prefs. at 295., or
Is. 3d. more than a year ago, despite pay-
ment of all arrears meantime. At the
current figure the return is a satisfac-
tory 4 p.c. on a 5.8 p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible backing is £6 4s. 6d.
The rapid expansion of the business is
further reflected in the growth of
£248,636 in debtors’ balances and of
£124,252 in stocks:
1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. £3,700,007 £5,700,007 £5,700,007
Sundry creditors. 649,937* 2,993,510* 2,983,951*
Fixed assets . . 3,794,371 7,755,597 7,552,120
Shares in other cos. 391,809 386,498 386,498
Stocks .. .. 269,009 642,305 766,557
Book debts .. 317,722 384,165 632,801
Investments, cash, etc. 16,692 . 16,943 1,961
* Includes ord. div. ( £91,675) declared but not paid.
On fixed assets £3477 more was written
off than was spent, and £9559 was snipped
off the outside debt. When the books
closed, outside liabilities, which include
a substantial amount coming to 8.H.P.,
exceeded more or less liquids by
£1,582,632, or £367,465 less than at the
previous balance.
Woolworths, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.)
1932. . 62,407 7500 17$ p.c. =29,363 25,544 18,406
1933.. 68,845 7500 224 „ ~ 37,752 23,593 41,999
Trans, to Staff Provident, £2OOO .. 39,999
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord.
10 p.c. 7 p.c. 25 p.c.
1934.. 85,552 7500 4,579 41,947 31,526 71,525
Assets written up and £253,183 I
of bonus scrip distributed. Un- I q SSI
explained addition reserves, £16,088; | ,8&i
added goodwill, £77,732. j
124 p.c.
1935. .100,418 7500 7,000 52,740 33,172 43,053
To staff fund, £lOOO 42,053
Share premiums, £30,000 .. .. 72,053
174 p.c.
1936. .147,550 7500 11,862 73,844 ( r , ... „ q 7
Staff fund and charities, £4OOO j i >
Assets written up and unexplained
additions to reserves, £455,583 .. 577,980
Reserves capitalised, £421,969 .. 156,011
124 p.c.
1937. .172,341 7500 14,000 105,492 „. Q IQa
Staff fund and charities, £3OOO j 198,d0
Share premiums, £126,591 .. .. 324,951
15 p.c.
1938. .217,717 7500 14,000 137,562 o 7s nnR
Staff fund and charities, £5500 j ’ W8 ’ lub
Reserves capitalised, £185,667 . ■ 192,439
Insurance, etc., reserve disappears,
£7500 . . 184,939
174 p.c.
1939. .271,693 7500 14,000 194,950 ) , n IQ9
Staff fund and charities, £5OOO ( au >^ 4d
1940. .272,922 7500 14,000 194,950 ) oaR
To charities, £5OOO .. _ j 61,472 286,604
t Excluding depreciation reserve, £207,239 at
31/l/’4O.
So rapid and profitable has been the
development of well-run variety chain-
stores like Woolworths that the N. S.
Wales Government appointed a Royal
Commissioner to inquire into their
methods of trading, etc. After investi-
gations spread over a couple of years,
he found, among other things, that “The
success of the variety chains in N. S.
Wales which have been a success is due
not to any improper practices, but to
brains, organisation, competence and fair
dealing, all of which have won the con-
fidence of a very large section of the
purchasing public.”
An undesirable aspect of the position,
however —and it concerns not only chain-
stores but many other businesses, too —
is the increasing employment of juniors
whose services are dispensed with before
they become entitled to a senior’s wage.
This calamitous state of affairs needs
investigation with a view to appropriate
remedies being provided. But at the
moment the national effort is bent on
other than internal social problems, so
the matter is likely to be shelved till after
the war.
One of the pillars upon which success-
ful chain-store trading rests is quick cash
sales (capital is turned over five or six
times a year), which means, among other
things, shrewd buying if mark-downs are
to be kept at a minimum. Most lines
are cleared, the bill paid and profit
pocketed all within time allowed unde?
ordinary trade credit, thus keeping ca
tal investment in the chief earning ass '- t
(stock) relatively low, and reducing tne
risk of loss from price fluctuations, while
small personal service helps to keep over-
head down. Profits depend largely upon
the volume of turnover, which, of course,
can’t go on expanding indefinitely. Plans
are already in hand, however, to increase
the number of links in the chain to IUU.
Also, in hard times —and there are indi-
cations that they may lie ahead- many
who used to pass by turn and go into the
chain shops, as experience during the
slump showed.
In 1928, when the public became in-
terested, Woolworths had a paid capital
of £63,264; now the figure is £1,388,999
in 75,000 £1 10 p.c. and 200,000 £1 7 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 4,455,996 ords. of ss.
each. Of the £1,113,999 of ord. capital
no less than £944,712 (approx. 17s. in
the £) is bonus scrip, handed out since
1930. Over the same period, cash issues
brought with them £199,977 of share pre-
miums ; but that hasn’t taken much of
the gilt off the gingerbread.
At last balancing dates the capital
accounts of subsidiaries aggregated
£1,499,121, making paid capital of the
entire organisation £2,888,120, for all
but a fraction of which highly-profitable
employment has been found during the
last decade.
Last term the parent’s net earnings
were figured £1229 better at £272,922 —
enough to satisfy the prefs. and show a
juicy 22.5 p.c. on ord. capital. That was
after adding £16,160 net to the deprecia-
tion reserve (£207,239) and setting aside
£44,000 (up £12,000) for the taxgatherer.
After allowing for £49,899 (same as for
previous term) tax-free divs. received
from the Maoriland subsidiary, the taxa-
tion allowance was equal to 4s. of each
pound of profit claimed, and is likely to
be much more before many years have
passed. For this and other reasons, the
past cannot be taken as a reliable guide to
the future so far as benefits are con-
cerned. The div. was kept at 17Jr p.c.,
and looks like remaining there for the
current term.
The market, with one eye on the past,
prices the ords. at 20s. 6d., at which
figure the return is 4.2 p.c. on a \l\ p.c.
div. basis. At 375. and 255. 3d. the
first and second prefs. yield 5.4 p.c. and
5.5 p.c. respectively. The net tangible
cover on the parent’s own figures is £22
6s. lOd. firsts, £8 os. Id. seconds and
6s. 3d. ords.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1929. 1937. 1939. 1940.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital. . 93,764 1,118,938 1,388,999 1,388,999
Liabilities .. 127,525 306,062 105,767 316,798
Freeholds, etc. 51,667 417,585 36,175 36.717
Leaseholds .. 6,095 87,016 77,733 82,506
Plant . . 37,196 239,571 205,854 282,531
Shares other
cos., etc. . . 9,450 847,326 1,126,263 1,266.263
Stocks .. 100,551 349,439 315,433 465,024
Debtors .. 4,159 *64,359 *365.110 *344,625
Cash.. .. 929 4,749 54,605 6,479
* Includes advances to associated cos.—-£58,291,
1937 ; £348,014, 1939 ; £317,321, 1940.
Outstanding movements last term were
the additions of £140,000 to shares in
subsidiaries (apparently in the Vic. off-
shoot), of £149,591 to stocks and of
£76,677 to plant. Excluding sharehold-
ings, the more or less liquid surplus
(£499,330) was £130,051 lighter than at
the previous balance.
The subsidiaries are excellent profit-
earners, too:
Last
Profit,
Parent’s P.c. Ord.
Paid Ord. Ord. Div.,
Capital. Holding. Capital. P.c.
Woolworths (N.Z.) . .6J2.608J J 311^72 lg Q „ 0
Woolworths (Vic.) ..200,007* I 200>007 45,0
Woolworths (W.A.) . . 94,890* ) .
20,000 f \ 47,023 32.6 22. a
Woolworths (Q’ld) ..175,566* 175,564
Woolworths (S*.A.) . . 25,000* 25,000
A/sian Chain Stores.. I,ooo* 1,000
Woolworths Prop. .. 12,500*7 ....
593,394 ) 1J ’ oUU +
* Ord. t Pref. J 250,000 £1 shares paid to Is.
After setting aside an extra £87,680 for
taxation (£237,414) and allowing some-
thing for depreciation, the aggregate net
profit of that lot at their last balancing
dates was £20,381 stronger at £277,203.
That was sufficient to pay the pref. divs.
(£29,502) and show 24 p.c. on their
aggregate capitals, excluding £21,829 of
6 p.c. preferred ord. money paid in


WORLD FAMOUS TRAINS
USE EXIDE BATTERIES
■i
.
ills
.
IMPF
I
/ ■
'V ' .
Smmm
THE PRIDE OF GREAT BRITAIN
L.M.S. "CORONATION SCOT'
■
■
.
v
t
if®
-
i::
VICTORIAN RAILWAyS
NEW SOUTH WALES
"silver crry comet"
£
r HE L.M.S. "Coronation Scot," which attained
a speed of 114 mile-s per hour on her trials, and
represented the pride of British Railways at
the New York World's Fair, the New South
Wales "Silver City Comet" and the Victorian
Railways all use Exide Batteries for essential
services. Lighting, heating, cooking and air-
conditioning are effected through the medium
of "Exide," and on "Exide" depends fhe comfort
and safety of millions of passengers. Similarly
other great commercial institutions and organi-
sations of world-wide importance place implicit
faith in Exide Batteries, inspiring you in your
selection of "Exide" for your car, motor-cycle,
radio or house-lighting set.
ŵ


ẁ
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney ,_
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.’
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
IX. Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL..
Follow the hundreds who have
invested small and large sums in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write tor a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V*V, 0.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 85294
advance ; and there was a lot of fresh
capital gathered during the year that had
not developed full earning capacity.
Jelapang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Equipped with a modern electric-
propelled bucket-dredge with a capacity
r , onnnnn 11 .u- xt 1
of 1,800,000 c.y. annually, this Malayan
venture under Anglo-Oriental control is
capable of attractive results given favor-
able quota conditions. But, with nominal
assessment only 404 tons t.o. p.a., output
restriction falls heavily upon the co. ;
digging average-grade wash, for example,
present 65 p.c. F.M.S. quota would
permit working only 38 p.c. full time.
At Dec. 31 measured dredging reserves
were just under 20,000,000 c.y., averag-
ing 0.851 b. t.o. So working to capacity an
11-year life is indicated; under the
current quota the figure is more like 28
years. Though clay is present in parts,
the wash presents few dredging difficul-
ties, being mostly soft ground, while
plenty of water is available.
Last term the free Malayan domestic
quota averaged 51.1 p.c. of assessment,
compared with 37.3 p.c. in ’3B, but the
dredge worked only months. Thanks
to quota purchases from associated cos.,
though, actual ore sales appear to have
amounted to 365 (up 146) tons, for which
the net realisation was £33 13s. 2d. a
ton more:
Dec, Revenue. Exes.*
j £49,330 £28,789 £20,541 3/4 Nil Nil
” r T ' > GB , !39 k 2 et ltv67 ne 3 V 5,62^ 4 ?5Ai 4/- £24,000
1937.. { To bucket-line renewal, £2OOO.
1938.. 25 C ,890 ff 21, m £ 3,°986 0 ’-/8 i/- 6,000
1039.. 55,092 36,673 18,419 3/1 2/- 12,000
* Includes depreciation, etc.: 1936, £1648 ; 1937,
£7625 ; 1938, £5OOO ; 1939, £15,000.
After allowing £15,000, as against £5OOO,
for depreciation and depletion and
adding £1192 net to renewals account,
the net result lifted £14,433 to £18,419
sterling. Two-thirds was distributed in
a 2s. div., leaving a further Is. Id. a
share to strengthen finances, and making
the year’s actual retained earnings
£22,611.
The dredge was idle from 1930-36 ;
in three of the four operating periods
since average returns have been appreci-
ably above mine average:
1937 1938 1939
£ ubic yards dug .. 1,305,000 i, 030,000 482, 000
Recovery t. 0., tons 441.4 419.3 206.8
Av. per c.y„ 1b... 0.72 0.91 0.96
workin|’costs c.y.', 75-3 l6 '° 76-18
t pence .. ..’ 3.39 3.97 4.28
realisation, £147/7/3 £lle/16/ _ £l5O/9 , 2
Singapore average
lhc ton £236 { 9/1 £lBo ' s ' n £233/3/8
Eernaps the outstanding feature there is
Ngh metallic.content of the oxide—
a^ sa Y 1S considered the usual
! t u p ° r * % rst 4 uarte . r curreat
t h '• as f l° w ' grade
P • ’ n .c S 000 c.y. aver-
fiB 8 C H ’. I P r i^f rC n’ 7 J|u Wever ’ tbe
& a back to 0.751 b.
. J e l a P an g has 120,000 pound shares on
lssue ’ b ° r which the market pays 425.,
as 365. a year ago and 50s. 9d.
during December s soaring quotas. At
F* ec ;.^\ 3° ]re or
stg., and the debt to £5337.
reSerVCS
£28,360, were in at £117,250.
*
~. c ,
With dredging leserves of 113,000,000
c ave f a gtng 0.531 b- approx. 47,700,000
c OG going 0.61 b., is in the eastern sector,
and 65,277,000, averaging 0.471 b., in the
western—Berjuntai has one of the longest
potential lives among Asian tin-dredgers
on the basis °. f P re f nt equipment. Work-
mg to capacity, the whole area would
take years to work out. A nominal
assessment of 857 tons annually, how-
ever, will permit the CO. to Work less
than jq m time Qn the current
65 p.c, domestic quota, assuming aver-
age 0.531 b. ground was being dug. For
its first complete operating year the co.
shows a profit of £42,625 after tabbing
£3673 for renewals, etc.; £15,000 is
earmarked for depreciation and depie-
tion, £9313 to rub intangibles from the
accounts and £17,000 went out in a six-
penny dividend. Dredge turnover was
2.886,000 c.y., handled at an average cost
of 2.46 d., and production 554| tons t.o ,
an average recovery of 0.431 b. Capital
of £170,000 (76 p.c. owned by London
Tin Corp.) is in ss. shares, for which
the market pays 13s. 3d. At Dec. 31
there were more or less liquids amounting
to £32,661 and £2951 in the way of debt.
* * * *
Like the adjoining Wiluna, Moonlight
Wiluna’s prospects at depth are unfavor-
able. Consulting-engineer Binns, who
also gave a bleak report on Wiluna,
states that all known shears have been
thoroughly tested by diamond-drilling
from the surface and outside the main
workings, and that in no case have re-
sults been sufficiently encouraging to
warrant development work being under-
taken. The fading-out of structural fea-
tures favorable to ore deposition and the
alteration of physical characteristics of
the ore and country at depth are very
similar to those which occurred in
Wiluna. The only deep exploration that
Binns recommends is to open up the
1230 ft. level by driving in both direc-
tions at least to the projected limits of
the downward extension of the ore-
shoots. Should this bring no favorable
developments, further deep exploratory
work, he thinks, would be unwarranted.
Ore reserves are estimated at 353,800
tons, averaging 5.33dwt. a ton, equal to
three years’ supply at the present rate of
treatment. A year ago reserves were
433,900 tons of 4.45dwt. average.
The property is operated by Gold Fields
Australian Development, Ltd., and is
controlled by the same crowd as Wiluna.
* * * *
Completion of North Kalgurli’s new
treatment plant on Croesus Prop, block is
in sight. A year ago chairman Whitfield
said that when in operation this plant
should materially swell revenue, the
whole of which now comes from the
treatment of ore at the North Kalgurli-
Boulder Perseverance jointly-owned mill
on the Perseverance mine. Whitfield
also said in discussing the future of the
North Kalgurli group that it was only
just commencing. He didn’t know what
the group would look like in 50 years’
time, but shareholders could regard pros-
pects with confidence. For 1939 co.
paid an interim dividend of Is. some
months ago, and will pay a final, prob-
ably another shilling, at the annual meet-
ing, usually in June.
* * * *
Accounts of South Kalgurli, the Fimis-
ton tW.A.) producer, for the year to
March 31 will show reduced earnings
when they come to hand. From treat-
ment of 118,794 (up 3709) short tons of
ore, a working surplus of £A52,783 is
indicated, after paying for development.
A better price for the yellow metal helped
to offset a lower-grade of millings, but
there were cost-increases that became
particularly severe after September. For
the first half of the year monthly outgo
averaged £18,870, excluding development;
for the second the figure was £21,380,
and the surplus declined from £A33,470
to £19,313. With the dimming of pros-
pects in the main leases, though a sub-
stantial body of ore still awaits extrac-
tion here, the board’s annual report on
development in the Hainault block will
be keenly awah~d.
* * * *
Westralian Mines Department’s latest
reports indicate that prospectors on the
various goldfields continue to get an
occasional rich turn-up. On the North
Coolgardie area one recently got 20oz.
from four tons, another 30oz. from 12
tons, and a third 20oz. from 22 tons.
In districts near Coolgardie 340 z. was
extracted from 13 tons, 360 z. from seven
tons and lOoz. from a hundredweight of
stone. At Gabanintha, on the Murchison
field, 1590 z. was obtained from 70 tons.
Other battlers are earning big money
from the re-treatment of old residues.
* * * *
B.H.P. has taken up two additional
24-acre blocks north of its Hannan’s
North mine, at the north end of the
Kalgoorlie field. These two blocks were
prospected in the early days, but no deep
mining was done. B.H.P. has done well
in a small way out of the Hannan’s
North. At present monthly production
is about 1400 oz.
Kalgoorlie Enterprise Mines, Boulder
Perseverance’s next-door neighbor and a
customer of the Perseverance treatment
plant, paw a dividend of 9.6 d. a
share in Australian currency on April 8.
Kalgoorlie Enterprise Gold Mines holds
92.5 p.c. of K.E. Mines, Ltd., shares,
Boulder Perseverance holds 70.5 p.c. of
the capital of K.E. Gold Mines, Ltd.,
and a South African concern, Nigel Van
Ryn Reefs, owns the remaining 29.5 p.c.
*** * ’
Greenbushes, Westralia’s only remain-
ing tinfield, has staged a modest revival.
Two cos. are operating there. One has a
bucket-dredge and the other a high-pres-
sure nozzle pump on a 45ft. face. Other
concerns are stated to be negotiating
for the purchase of neighboring proper-
ties. Greenbushes is credited with a pro-
duction extending over 40 years of over
£1,000,000. It hasn’t produced much in
recent times.
* * * *
Freney Oil (W.A.) reported the other
day that the obstruction in the bore had
been successfully cemented, that drilling
had been resumed and that no further
trouble was anticipated. The announce-
ment, however, failed to revive a coma-
tose market. It is now nearly 18 years
since the co. first searched for oil. It
still has hopes of finding a pool.
* * * *
Latest N.S.W. Mines Department pub-
lication is “Coal Resources of the
Southern Portion of the Maitland-Cess-
nock-Greta Coal District,” by Leo J.
Jones, Government Geologist. The geo-
logy of the Hunter River coal districts
was studied in detail by the late Pro-
fessor Edgeworth David. Mr. Jones’s
work supplements Professor David’s
detailed report, made over 30 years
ago when this portion of the field
was unproven. The area dealt with
embraces an area of approximately 250
square miles, including the whole of the
southern portion of the Greta coal meas-
ures which lie at depths at which they
can be economically mined. There are a
comprehensive account of the history and
geology of the field and a detailed de-
scription of both the Upper or Main
Greta seam and the Lower or Homeville
seam compiled from the evidence
afforded by surface outcrops, diamond-
drill borings and colliery workings. Pro-
fusely illustrated by maps and sections,
and accompanied by a colored geological
map and geological sections on a scale
half a mile to an inch, the publication
sells at 9s.
* * * *
The higher price of metals has called
fresh attention in S.A. to the once-famous
old copper-mines at Burra, Kapunda,
Moonta and Wallaroo. Walter Duncan,
David Gordon, and other prominent
politicians have pressed on the Govern-
ment a suggestion by Kapunda people
that there is more copper still in the
ground there than the million pounds’
worth that was long ago taken out of it.
Premier Playford promised that Govern-
ment Geologist Keith Ward would look
into the matter, but latest report is that
the Mines Department is against the
expenditure of taxpayers’ money on
Moonta, at any rate.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.J.8.: Think it would be throwing good
money after bad—on the present outlook, at
any rate N.T.: May prove wiser to await
further clarification of the position by
the Dominion Government. So far there is
no open market for the shares. The offer
you have been made for the scrip is definite;
the ultimate return by way of divs., etc., is
very indefinite Small Investor: Not likely
to prove a very remunerative investment under
present conditions. Chief source of income
is expenditure on water-supply schemes, etc.,
by public bodies. This has already been
severely curtailed since outbreak of hostilities,
and is likely to be still more so before long!
R.McR.: Gold Mines of Australia, c/o
L. Edwards, 360 Collins-street, Melbourne;
Lake View and Star, Fimiston (W.A.); Big
Bell, Big Bell (W.A.).


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
111
fill!
'III ! lIH
if
ill'll
.111
Kill
111
111
m
.
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per nijht.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 f 4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
•F *F *F
“Dental Corps To Go Abroad.” — Headline.
Then this is going to be a war of
nerves.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The mistake so many amateurs make is to
attack the centre of a spot and work round
and round in a circle.” — Hints on dry cleaning.
Whereas old hand’s down it in one
gulp.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“This war as yet has produced no great
martial tune.” — Article.
Still, we can always fall back on “The
Wedding March.”
•F 4* 4* 4*
“Private wins £lO,OOO in a bet.” — “Sun.”
He’ll have no difficulty in standing at
ease now.
4> 4* 4* 4*
“German tailors are now making suits out
of paper.”— News item.
Goebbels will find himself wrapped up
in his work.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Teacher Sentenced. Forged Cheque.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
There’s a black mark on his slate, and
they’re keeping him in.
4* 4 1 4* 4“
“Flies in Beer.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
These would be the ones that some
men drink with.
* *F 4* 4* 4*
“But,” said our typist, hearing us talk
of the Norwegian affair, “I always
thought fiords came from America!”
4> 4> 4* 4*
Salvation.
He was seated alone, bowed down
with melancholy, when suddenly he heard
the good news. At first he couldn’t be-
lieve it—it seemed too good to be true.
Then, as he finally realised its actuality,
he leapt up. There was still something
to live for! True, he was still penniless,
but for the moment he could scorn his
poverty.
He had just heard the magic words:
“Drinks on the house!”
T. W. N.
On the Bounce.
“Germany is reported to have discovered a
substitute for iron. Made from coal and lime,
it is claimed to have greater elasticity and is
practically immune from wear and tear.”
Have no fear, the secret is in the
archives of the Footscray police station,
where it was lodged after I had demon-
strated the substance to the Federal
Government.
I had dropped on to the secret acci-
dentally while working a furnace at the
boiling-down plant. I’d shoved some
mallee roots and wattle logs in the fire,
which had a limestone hob. Bill came
up with a quart of beer then, and one
thing led to another, so that it was several
hours before I got back to the fire. It
was out, but a black lump lay in the
firebox. I tried to break it with a sledge
hammer, but the hammer bounced back.
Feeling that I had something, I took
the lump to a mate who works a steam-
hammer. We put that hammer flat out,
and it simply bounced off that lump like
insults off a politician’s hide. I then
put my mate under the hammer in order
to keep the secret inviolate, and retired
o the bush, whence, after a year’s con-
;entrated effort, I emerged with the
finished product. The Defence Ministry
was at once interested. A small vessel
was sheathed in my product, which I d
called Niggerhead, and she was towed
to sea as a target.
I remember my pride as the cruiser s
broadside let go ; and my astonishment
as several big shells arrived from no-
where and burst aboard us. Staggering
from the shambles, I slowly realised the
truth: the shells, striking the Nigger-
head, had been hurled back by the elas-
ticity. I’d mixed too much wattle-gum
in the formula.
Federal authorities are looking for me,
most eagerly, but I prefer to remain in
smoke. I have a new plan. It is to
armor a fleet with my Niggerhead and
send it against the German forts in the
North Sea. Fritz shoots at the ships, and
the ships—well, you know what hap-
pened at the demonstration. It ought io
be a big thing. A letter to “X.Y., Mel-
bourne ‘Agegus,’ ” will bring you advice
as to where to apply for dollar shares,
fully paid up.
MB.
“'Ere, ’and me that damn axe!"
“Sugar industry in New Guinea. New com-
pany may also grow tea.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Here’s a chance for some hybridiser to
cause a stir by crossing the plants and
producing ready-sugared tea.
4> 4* 4* 4*
“Workmen now wear gloves when painting
telephone-boxes red.”
Next thing society women will be going
nude so that they won’t spoil their
dresses!
4 1 4* 4>
Vegetarians are among the sanest
people in the world; they seldom go
off their nuts.
4< 4 1 4* 4*
When a man’s daughter begins to spoon
seriously he may soon have to fork out
for her wedding.
When a motorist goes flat out he often
leaves a pedestrian the same way.
•i* 4* V
Even for punters who get the good oil
things don’t always run smoothly.
4* 4* 4*
“New York menaced by man who lights fires
when drunk.”
Likes to see the whole town lit up as
well.
+ 4* 4*
“Clerk Was Ace Salesman.”
But he tried to finesse a trick with the
little queen in the boss’s office, and the
trump came down with a slam.
***
Some women don’t know what they
can do till they cry.
Picking and Pecking.
“Bachelors are indifferent by nature;
spinsters pick and choose by habit.”
— Women’s paper.
She picks refined, if sober, clothes,
And picks the saints from sinners.
She picks the garden’s fairest rose
And maybe, too, some winners.
She picks the parlor’s softest chair
And husbands for her nieces.
She picks the color of her hair
And picks her f riends to pieces !
P.O.M.C.
No Justification.
“He told her to go and have a bath and then
punched her about the face.”
—Witness in assault case.
He patently was wild with wrath,
And maybe with the flowing cup;
Still, e’en if she required a bath,
He had no right to clean her up!
T.W.N.
Reprisal.
Sweetly he sleeps , my husband there,
His cheek to the carpet prest;
Sleeping because I found a hair —
Not mine—on his lounge-suit vest!
THE WIFE.
"They Also Serve..."
ẃ
capable of even holding his own against
Goebbels as an unmitigated liar.
I was pretty raw when I lobbed into
a job at the Hotel Sumptuous. At dinner
that night I was assigned to a table
occupied by a masterful-looking dame
with a large bosom and a small husband.
She informed me frostily they would
have dinner ala carte, and demanded a
menu. As I wiped one on my trousers
seat and handed it over I remarked that
as the pub didn’t run to a horse I’d
wheel the grub in on a tray if she didn’t
like me carrying it in.
The nastiness that this friendly state-
ment gave rise to became increasingly
evident with each course, and it didn’t
improve when I brought in a cuspidor
instead of a savory. The culmination
came when we started to argue about the
bill.
Now, I had as an aid to memory
jotted down in pencil on my shirt-cuff
the various items she had ordered with
the names I knew them by. Unfortunately
these had been swamped by a wave of
gravy caused- when I tripped over a
saucepan of custard in the kitchen, ren-
dering my notes illegible. I was there-
fore compelled to go through each course
seriatim. Pulling a chair up to the table
as the dame was starting to unleash some
catty backchat about the other near-
socialites round about, I licked my pencil
and said politely:
“We’ll make your bill up now, missus,
if you can knock off magging for a bit.
Lemme see now; you kicked off with
oyster soup, two ; that’s two and a kick,
and”
The shock she got at my temerity was
obviously great, but not so great as her
desire to air her French.
“I ordered potage huitre !” she shrilled.
“You might’ve,” I replied, “but you
got oyster soup. It’s no use you trying
to put over a roughie on me like that.”
“You —you creature!” she stormed.
“I tell you I not only ordered but was
served with potage huitre.”
“Now look here, mum,” I said, keep-
ing a close rein on my temper, “are you
calling me a liar? I ought to damn well
know it was oyster soup or not —I tasted
it while I was bringing it in. And
what’s this on my boiled shirt? Why,
here’s a bit of the shell grit! Now
who’s the liar?”
At this her husband rose nervously
from his chair and started off with “Er,
my dear, let me handle” when I
interrupted him.
“You keep your bib out of this,
Horace, or you might
get a boot in the
grummet!”
The uproar
brought the man-
ager. With him the
customer was
always right, so I
kicked the chair
from under my ver-
bal combatant,
sloshed the manager
in the eye as com-
pensation for lost
pay and feed, and
left.
But the incident
taught me many
lessons, the chief of
which was that a
waiter should always
have his meal be-
fore the customers
start to come in,
otherwise he may
slip.
Now, I am not
one to take an initial
setback to heart.
Fired with a deter-
mination to get back in the game and
get among the big tips, I went into
intensive training. I took courses of
French, psychology, tactics, etiquette,
juggling and hand-springing, and ballet
dancing. I also put in two hours a day
on the Sandow Developer and indulged
in sprint and marathon running and the
heel-and-toe stuff.
At the Hotel Bizarre, at which I com-
menced as fourth under-waiter, I was
an immediate success. For diners who
were weak on etiquette I would tactfully
suggest the soup whose stains would not
clash with either tie or frock, or the
correct time to blow their cigarette or
cigar smoke over their fellow-diners. I
learned to judge to a nicety, too, by the
poco rallentando of the long-drawn
“s-r-r-r-rps” that my clients across the
other side of the dining-hall were on the
last of their soup ingurgitations, and that
it was time to bring in the poisson.
Later, when the hotel became so popu-
lar, I introduced the roller-skate service-
in the peak hours. It was nothing for
me to sail out of the kitchen at 35 m.p.h.
with four plates of soup up each arm
and pull up instantly at a table and not
a drop spilled.
Only once at that hotel was I involved
in a contretemps, though there were, I
contend, extenuating circs. Skating out
with the soup one night, I failed to notice
the umbrella some idiot had sticking out
from under his chair. I saved seven
plates, but the eighth—it was mulliga-
tawny—went down the back of a septua-
genarian b.y.t. Luckily the soup wasn’t
too hot, so I gallantly dived my hand
down the back of her backless gown
to save her sitting on the bits of celery
and carrot; but madam unreasonably
swiped me across the chin and demanded
to see the manager.
I bowed and retired. Half a minute
later a suavely apologising manager was
mollifying the diner, assuring her that
no charge would be made for the entire
party’s dinner. That she failed to recog-
nise either voice or disguise was, I think,
a tribute to my mastery of acting and
make-up, two others which I had fortu-
nately added to my repertoire of accom-
plishments.
BO.


THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED
FOUNDED 1886.
ANOTHER RECORD YEAR.
The M.L.C. renders its annual account of services for
the year 1939.
In recording the deaths during the year of the holders of
6344 policies, it offers its sympathy to their families.
It paid £755,118 in death benefits and £1,187,823 to
living policyholders.
Since it was founded it has paid £38,855,548 to policy-
holders and beneficiaries.
Its New Business was a record —in the Ordinary Branch
£8,388,171, and in the Industrial Branch £4,596,793.
The total business in force now stands at £89,309,883 —
a substantial gain during the year—the number of policies
in force being 688,421.
Its income for the year was £4,586,646 —an increase, of
£288,682.
It holds in stewardship assets exceeding £30,000,000,
and increasing at the rate of about £l ,500,000 per annum.
TRUSTEES:
Managing Trustee: JOHN DONALDSON, A.I.A.
Rt. Hon. W. A. WATT, P.C., Melbourne. J. H. ASHTON, Sydney.
Sir GEORGE JULIUS, K. 8., B.Sc., 8.E., Sydney.
Hon. F. W. EGGLESTON, Melbourne. J. S. WILSON, F.1.A., Melbourne.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
ARTHUR EEDY, C.8.E., The Hon. Sir JOHN B. PEDEN,
Managing Director. K.C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Sir HENRY Y. BRADDON,
F. LEVERRIER, K.C., 8.A., B.Sc. K.8.E., M.L.C.
A. G. COPELAND.
The M.L.C. Building,
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, M. C. ALDER, A.1.A.,
SYDNEY. General Secretary.
B RANDAL) ERA
m
m
6<T.V
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUER * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GFORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Interest Rates and Shares
The reducing return available from
Commonwealth loans —the average was
below £3 ss. per cent, last week —may
have a decided effect on the market
price of sound investment shares once
the public mind becomes satisfied that
the financial authorities are capable of
maintaining cheap money rates for the
duration of the war.
Evidence of the influence of low in-
terest rates on Consols has already been
seen in the borrowing operations of
the more important semi-Gove'rnment
bodies. At the outbreak of war a Syd-
ney Water Board loan offering 4i p.c.
went off at half-cock. Later the same
body was rushed when it offered a
£4 7s. 6d. per cent, loan, while in
March a Melbourne Board of Works
issue carrying £3 17s. 6d. per cent, was
oversubscribed, and the State Savings
Bank of Victoria has announced a con-
version issue carrying the same rate.
The Board of Works loan opened
hesitantly, but as the defence loan filled
and the market for existing Consols con-
tinued to stiffen there was such keen
support in the later stages that full sub-
scription was announced four days
before the advertised closing date. Since
then the bond yield has fallen from £3 10s.
per cent, to below £3 ss. per cent., and,
though the credit of all public bodies
isn’t so favorably regarded as that of
the Melbourne board, this lowering
of the borrowing rate must apply to
most of them that is, where they
are permitted by the Treasury to borrow
at all.
The trading banks also have reduced
their deposit rates by a quarter of one
per cent., and the financial side of the
National Emergency regulations is aimed
at cheapening money, though restricting
the uses to which capital may be put.
Companies, for instance, are prohibited
from offering shares to a value exceed-
ing £2500 without special consent. New
regulations aim to prohibit the renewal
of mortgages at higher than existing
rates, and new loans in excess of £5OOO
cannot be raised without official
sanction. Interest rates on all classes
of loans are being supervised and in
most cases severely limited.
All this seems to point to the prob-
ability that Australia is “tuning-in to
Britain” on its “3 p.c. war” policy. The
yield on Consols didn’t stop falling at
£3 ss. per cent. ; it was still diving vigor-
ously last week. For some time it was
the market’s policy to regard the
Treasury’s “market rigging” with a
critical eye, the idea being not to bank
on the Treasury’s powers to too great
an extent. Now the Treasury’s “market
management” is treated with more re-
spect, an interest rate of £3 ss. per cent,
being almost inconceivable in the eyes
of most market followers as recently
as four months ago.
But there the position is; a short-
term loan has already been marketed at
£3 7s. 6d. per cent., and the average
yield is now below £3 ss. per cent.
Though many supporters of Consols
may be content to sell out soon, believ-
ing that 3 per cent, will be the limit of
the Commonwealth’s endeavors in the
direction of interest-reduction —a quan-
tity of speculators’ stock thus coming
on to the market —having shown its
powers to be no mean thing, the Treasury
may have little difficulty in maintaining
a 3 p.c. borrowing rate provided seasons
and prices keep satisfactory, costs keep
stable and the war doesn’t involve us
in unanticipated waste.
With interest rates on bonds, mort-
gages and debentures noticeably reduced,
a firming in the market for good prefer-
ence shares isn’t an unlikely possibility
in the near future. The influence may
also spread to the sounder types of ord.
shares, especially when the war-tax bogey
takes definite shape. It is clear that
excess profits are to be taxed substan-
tially, and this should give special interest
to pref. shares, which have first call on
a co.’s net earnings, but the ord.-share
market isn’t entirely without its attrac-
tions. In any case, the investor for
income purposes will be searching the
share lists for yields above 3 p.c., and
this will inevitably lead him among the
ord. stocks—which, for long-term holding
purposes, have shown themselves to be
the best investment of all.
The Prices Commissioner has done
good work in keeping any great inflation
out of prices so far, and the cost of living
hasn’t run away. Taken together with
the low interest level, it suggests a con-
dition of stability, even if of a com-
pulsory nature, that isn’t objectionable.
Though it has its artificial aspects, the
National Emergency financial manage-
ment obviously isn’t a factor to be sneered
at, and, though we must prepare for the
deep inroads of the taxgatherer into in-
vestors’ and others’ pockets, provided this
stability is maintained industry should
be all the better off.
It would not be just, of course, to
allow industry to make excessive profits
out of the war. But even if profits and
divs. are no more than maintained, the
ord. shares concerned should, in inves-
tors’ eyes, automatically appreciate from
an income point of view. That isn’t to
say that there should be unbounded
optimism about the future of ord. shares.
Far from it. But in the mixed outlook
ahead of us the effect of lower interest
rates on the market must be considered
important, and something that may, per-
haps, be .regarded as a partial offset to
the additional taxation that is close ahead
of us.
The Treasury having taken much pains
to lower the cost of borrowing, it could
not be expected to stand idly by if
efforts to raise war loans were in danger
of being frustrated by a sharemarket
boom. Still, it is far better to have a
pleasant atmosphere about a Stock Ex-
change than a dreary one, and a firm
market for industrial shares would not
be objected to, especially as, unless the
difference in, yields is very great, many
people prefer Consols to shares of any
kind.
Business seems to be rather slack in
the cities at the moment, and a cautious
spending policy is indicated by the record
deposit figures of the savings banks. But
turnover generally is holding up reason-
ably well, and it should be better as soon
as the disgraceful coal stoppage is over.
Building activity is down, certainly, but
so far it hasn’t crashed. The import
restrictions are helping some trades along,
apparently more than the same restric-
tions are hindering others.
On April 9 (Tuesday of last week)
sterling flopped to 3.23| dollars in the
New York unofficial market at one stage.
Sir John Simon explained in the House
of Commons that this unofficial rate was
“in no way a sign of financial weakness
or difficulties.” He described it as a
natural result of the recently introduced
regulation providing that exports of tin,
rubber and other commodities to the
U.S.A. must be paid for in dollars or
in sterling obtained from the authorised
dealers in exchange for dollars —at 4.03
dollars to the £.
* * * *
Among the spectacular recoveries of
’Change during the week that preceded
Germany’s invasion of Denmark and
Norway was the scrip of G. J. Coles.
Down to 695. not long ago, on Tuesday
of last week there were sales at 725. 6d.
The upward movement was peculiar
among chain-store shares; Woolworth
ords. were quiet at 20s. 9d. On Thurs-
day Coles scrip stood at 71s. 3d.
* Hs * #
Broken Hill Prop, shares rose steadily
from about 455. to 495. 3d.; then early
last week they fell sharply. On Tuesday
there was a drop to 475. 6d. in Sydney,
a slight rally following. The strong re-
covery previous to the slide was prompted
by rumors of a 10 p.c. div. being paid
in May on the bonus-increased capital.
Australian Iron and Steel has cleared the
way for ord. divs. by discharging its pref.
arrears, but in other directions the imme-
diate outlook isn’t quite as clear,
especially as regards the coal strike and
the probability of increased war-time
taxation. B.H.P.’s div. rate isn’t likely
to be announced until early in May.
On Wednesday, following news of the
extension of German “protection to
Denmark and parts of Norway, B.H.P.
shares dropped as low as 465. 9d.,
the same day recovering to 475. 9d.
They slackened again later. The
index of industrial shares fell from 130.65
at the close of ’Change on Tuesday to
128.90 on Wednesday afternoon. An
index of 34 representative shares came
down from 124.40 to 122.81. The entire
market was affected by the smoky atmo-
sphere around Norway, though sugar
scrip strengthened on the day, and in
Sydney and Melbourne a few other minor
rises were recorded.
....
Australian Gas scrip, under a cloud
following talk of price-raising difficulties,
also suffered from the depressing in-
fluence of the coal strike, and the A
shares slumped down to £6 ss. Other
notable falls were in Tooth’s, British
Tobacco and Kandos Cement. But
at this stage declines were
general than sharp, the only stock sold
heavily being B.H.P. On Thursday a
rallying took place in many issues, but
again turnover was small. Distraction
caused by the great naval and aerial
battles off Norway, and the astonishingly
inaccurate nature of the news, gave an
air of uncertainty to the market
generally, except in the bonds section,
where the recent war loan issue was
selling at a premium of 20s. and the
average yield on Consols again de-
clined.
* * * *
A marked revival in the spirit of Aus-
tralian ’Changes occurred over a short
period that continued until Monday of
last week. From the low level of 126.96
established on April 1 the Sydney index
of industrial shares rose to 130.65 on
April 9. On Tuesday of last week there
was a quietening in ’Change activity fol-
lowing talk in Canberra that an extra
£20,000,000 in taxation was to be raised
in 1940-41, with the possibility of the
“extra” being £30,000,000. This page
has stressed the importance of the taxa-
tion aspect of investments for some time.
Though another defence loan appears to
be not far off, during 1939-40 the Com-
monwealth may have to depend on tem-
porary loans to some extent to finance
its 70-odd-million defence Budget. In
1940-41 a defence outlay of £67,000,000
is at this juncture proposed. A “carry-
over” of £7,000,000 from the current
year is included in the proposal, so that
the figure drops to £60,000,000, provided
the £7,000,000 carryover actually exists
at June 30 next. During this first year
of war we have had the assistance of
special bank credits to help us, as well
as a buoyant Customs revenue. In 1940-
41 we cannot rely to anything like the
same extent on this assistance. Therefore,
although last week the average yield on
Consols had been brought to below £3 ss.
per cent, by Loan Council “manage-
ment,” it isn’t likely that borrowing and
existing taxation will look after our
defence programme in 1940-41. Excess-
profits tax and similar taxes may be ex-
pected to be availed of extensively to
fill the gap. Taxes on the “middle” in-
comes are expected to be substantially
increased, for a start. But, if an equit-
able course is to be pursued by the Gov-
ernment, excess-profits tax will be a big
source of revenue, and this will mean
that industrial concerns apparently bene-
fiting from the war will have to con-
tribute heavily.
* * * *
The axe fell on hundreds of American
periodicals, comics, etc., last week, when
a complete ban came into force on most
of them and a licensing system on others.
Conservation of dollar exchange is the
reason. Gordon and Gotch, principal
Australian importer of magazines, has
had an affected market for its shares
almost since the outbreak of war, the
scrip declining from a 1939 “high” of
575. 6d. to 395. 6d. recently. Last week
it kept fairly steady at 425. 6d.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!, PAID UP • • £1,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITA! 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
BULLETIN OF COMMONWEALTH ROLLING
|°) MILLS PTY. LTD., PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
htrM
M
p?
'k
9
m <%***/
yu^tka^;
slut cMf 1
The enameller's art finds its practical as well
as its most beautiful expression in perfect
bonding to strong, properly-prepared iron. That
is why the beauty of a range or stove is
far more than skin deep. Porcelain enamel
finish is as good as the sheet it conceals...
and it doesn't take long for this fact to be-
come apparent to purchasers. Once a product
leaves your hands, it starts to tell its own
story (and yours). If you compromise on
the quality of the iron base, all the glossing-
over in the world won't hide the fact that
you could have given your customers a
better deal. And, that's no way to increase
profits! Possibly you are already using the
ideal sheet for your job. Possibly you'd like to
be SURE that the product you sell is as good
as it can be within the cost limits you have
imposed. We'd like to have a chat with you on
these points because we have a lot of informa-
tion which, we feel, will be of help.
I
m
y
o
v ■ >
SI
■
:
9s|l . : : ■■ SB.
. ‘ ■
To ensure uniformity of gauge
the temperature of each steel
sheet is checked before it en-
ters the hot-roll mill. The
temperature is measured by
looking through a Pyrometer
which determines the degrees
of heat by the colour of the
metal.
Manufacturers who use or propose to use Steel Sheets are invited
to submit their problems to our technicians for helpful advice.
D.
Y .
(THE ARMCO-LySAGHT ORGANISATION)
KEMBLA
ROAD, PORT KEMBLA
Australians must acknowledge that in
financing our share of the war we sh .1
be called on to make real sacrifices. The
£70,000,000 we are spending in 1939-40,
and the similar huge amounts we may
have to lay out in later periods, represent,
from a standard-of-living viewpoint, waste.
Actually, of course, liberty and indepen-
dence aren’t waste ; they are more valu-
able than many of us realise. But there
the position is: We are spending per-
haps hundreds of millions of pounds that
won’t raise our standard of living one
iota. We are spending it to defend a
standard we already possess. That is what
will hurt many unthinking persons. But,
when all is said and done, on dozens of
occasions Australians have gone on
strike and lost weeks’, perhaps months’,
wages in a far worse cause. Here is a
case where the British people as a whole
are fighting for their principles and their
economic existence. Already, of course,
the Reds, who did their best to talk us
into war in die beginning, are now trying
to cause disturbances amongst ourselves.
They will be the first to try to whip up
feeling against any proposal to spread
the burden of war’s cost over the whole
people. But the war is real, our expen-
diture is real and the burden must be
real. We have a vast problem on our
hands, and if our standard of living is
to be maintained the only way of doing
it will be through working harder or
longer, because an increasing portion of
our ordinary labor will be on behalf of
the nation and the Empire.
* * * *
One of the political problems of this
age is the horrible ignorance about
money. This ignorance flourishes most
gorgeously amongst State Premiers and
Treasurers. It is propagated and fos-
tered by Reds. Money, like a Govern-
ment, is largely represented by the people
—or it should be. The wealth of a coun-
try may be measured in pounds’ worth,
but that is merely for uniformity and
convenience ; wealth exists principally in
the ability of a people to turn their
country’s raw materials into food, com-
modities, etc., and —now —into armaments
and munitions. Money merely repre-
sents the organisation of a people’s ability
to produce things. Thus, basically, taxa-
tion will aim at drawing-off the required
amount of production for war purposes
instead of domestic use. Unless our
production increases beyond ordinary re-
quirements, we shall have less of some
things for our ordinary comforts and
pleasures. That is the inevitable result of
heavy taxation raised with the object of
covering expenditure on services that do
not add to the comfort, well-being or
trade-facilities of a country.' The expen-
diture is nevertheless necessary, just the
same as it is necessary after an earth-
quake in Japan, India or Turkey.
Defence, however, is provision before-
hand, and therefore isn’t so obviously a
necessity in the eyes of the shortsighted.
Borrowing won’t overcome the neces-
sity for national contributions for
defence. In fact, borrowing to defer
the incidence of some of the contribu-
tions can do so only to a limited extent.
When borrowing is overdone an addi-
tional taxing medium comes into opera-
tion —inflation. Inflation produces eco-
nomic revolution and, eventually, unem-
ployment and social unrest. Taxation
tends to draw revenue from those who
can best afford it. Overborrowing,
though seemingly the “easy” way, has a
crushing aftermath that principally affects
the working-classes.
* * * *
Statistics released last week in Sydney
showed that the increase in average retail
prices since the outbreak of war
amounted to very little. Footwear prices
have risen rather noticeably (12 p.c.), but
groceries have fallen. Meat and dairy
produce have risen.
* * * *
Because of higher rubber and cotton
prices, another rise of p.c. has been
permitted in manufacturers’ prices of
tyres and tubes. A total rise of 15 p.c.
has taken place since the outbreak of
war. The latest increase in the wholesale
price will be borne by distributors for
the present, a lift in retail prices being
deferred.
* * * *
In times like the present, when un-
certainty exists in some people’s minds
about the future, stocks that have proved
trustworthy in the past and which may
still be bought to show a satisfactory
yield are most attractive from the aver-
age investor’s viewpoint. Brewery scrip is
good; outstanding just now is Castlemaine
Perkins in Brisbane. Tooth’s, in Sydney,
could be bought into at a reduced price
last week, and Carlton, in Melbourne,
is a particularly attractive stock. The
small investor is often timid ; but, if it is
his intention to buy at all, in uncertain
times, when prices on ’Change are weak,
is the time for him to take his courage
in both hands and invest in good stocks.
There is a possibility that a number of
industrial stocks on ’Change which have
been run up to higher-than-usual prices
since war broke out may experience a
setback later on, depending upon how
realisations compare with anticipations ;
but where a person is desirous of putting
money into income-producing securities
almost immediately he should not over-
look breweries, Cumberland Paper ords.
at 31s. 6d., Adelaide Steam at 325. 6d.,
Kandos Cement at 285., some of the
better-class retailers, and B.H.P. fully-
paids when available in the vicinity of
455. This page likes Adelaide Steam and
Cumberland Paper particularly at present
prices.
* * * *
Three of the steadiest stocks in the
market over the past couple of months
have been Yarra Falls, Felt and Textiles
and Bradford Cotton. Yarra Falls shares
are at 425., yielding 4.8 p.c. ; this is
one of the best textile investments in the
Commonwealth. Felt and Textiles ords.
at 38s. return £5 ss. per cent. After
some rather wide movements over a period
of 12 months the shares have stabilised
near their present level following the re-
vival in all textile scrip after war started,
though Feltex, the co.’s chief line, is in
the furnishing rather than the clothing
class. Bradford Cotton has expanded re-
markably over the past 12 or 18 months,
and its scrip was not long ago cum
rights to a new share issue. Ex rights,
the old ords. have steadied down at 375.
following the drop in the div. to 10 p.c.
p.a.; the yield is 5.4 p.c. The business
is strongly established.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WAR, NOW, TO A FINISH.
P n article here condensed from London
Observer ' J. L. Garvin examines the alternatives of
now fighting this war out to a finish, with the defeat
of Germany, or accepting any Nazi-inspired peace.
He argues that it is a matter of now or never for
Britain and the Empire.]
We must face German realities. The Nazi leaders
fight for their own lives as well as for the triumph of
their Third Reich. Britain and France have to win the
defensive fight for their lives before they can begin
to attain war-aims or ensure peace-aims. The Ger-
man people are in hand. They will remain so until
the shadow of approaching defeat falls upon Hitler-
ism as darkly as it fell upon Kaiserism.
Most of the mature generation in Germany are
dull and disgruntled but enduring. Most of the
younger generation are vehement. The mighty machine
of German organisation—with 30 million Slav helots
subsidiary—is larger than in the last war and driven
at higher pressure. The Nazis have not in the least
abandoned their visions of victory. Victory by hook
or by crook —“so oder so,” as Hitler says. As from
the beginning of their sway, they are possessed and
obsessed by the idea that they have means of striking
at Britain such as Napoleon never knew. They rely
on their production of U-boats and aircraft; and
upon the effect of these in conjunction. They think
that -in addition to the development of their home
supplies under autarchy with annexations—the in-
crease of their economic resources by military power,
diplomatic squeeze and Soviet help will enable them
in the long run to frustrate the maritime blockade.
On the eve of Mr. Sumner Welles’s visit to Berlin
the whole orchestra of German propaganda blared
out that the inflexible object of Nazi war is the de-
struction of the British Empire. This professed ob-
jective, were it indeed inflexible, would have at least
the merit of excluding false peace and bringing home
to the Western democracies that they have first to win
the extreme fight for their own lives before they can
begin to win the fight for anything else. Britain
could only be laid low and the Empire brought to an
end by one means —the knockout blow by over-
whelming air-attack on the island-bases of the sea-
power which sustains our lives at home and holds the
Empire together. That is now excluded by the counter-
power of our air-strength and the formidable develop-
ment of our ground defences.
The Allies demand guarantees for restitution,
freedom and security. The Nazis demand the domina-
tion of Europe by force. As yet they can conceive
nothing else. What is the use of paltering with this
soul of the truth? Whether in domestic or external
affairs, success by the super-organisation of force has
been the quintessence of Hitlerism. How can they
change it?
The first stipulation of Nazi peace is that instead
of restitution they should be left in possession of their
prey. In Poland they are working for all they are
worth to make restitution physically impossible. They
are uprooting the Polish people from the oldest prov-
inces of that race and replacing them by German
settlement. By somewhat different means they seek
to establish permanent German domination over
Czechs and Slovaks. For the sake of a false peace at
the expense of the stultified Western democracies they
would be willing to establish for Poles, Czechs and
Slovaks several restricted States nominally self-govern-
ing. These would be nothing but helpless Rump
States subject to the Hitlerite empire.
Another specific stipulation in the minimum terms
of Nazi peace is that the Western Powers should
renounce all influence in Eastern Europe. Hitler’s
virtual suzerainty would have to be recognised by
them over all that region up to the line of agreement
with Moscow. The Nazi-Soviet pact provides for a
demarcation of spheres and a partition of influence.
The line runs from the Arctic to the /Egean. Any
such further and vast extension of Hitlerite suzerainty
would mean German domination over Europe as a
whole and could mean nothing else.
If the Allies failed now against the present size
°f the Third Reich what could they do in the future
against its greater magnitude? Nothing. Their con-
fession of failure would be final. Nor could the unity
of Britain and France survive a false peace with this
aggrandisement of the enemy. Hitler’s aim of divid-
ing them would be won. Their security would be
destroyed by this war which was undertaken to restore
it. British and French colonial territory would have
to be ceded. Hitler’s Reich would emerge with the
gains and status of a colossal conqueror.
There is a final consideration. It concerns every-
thing else and overshadows the whole subject. What
of disarmament? Upon that depend altogether the
political and economic ideals of the free societies and
every hope of a better civilisation. Then, what of
disarmament? How are you to get it?
In anything like present conditions, as between
the belligerents, a false peace would have to proclaim
its name from the outset. Because the negotiations
for it would have to begin by recognising the Nazi
system, which is based both in domestic and external
policy on force, to which autarchy in economics cor-
responds not only by logic but by necessity. We hope
that President Roosevelt and Secretary Cordell Hull
will consider this. It concerns the foundation of their
thoughts for the world’s future, including America’s.
Negotiations begun by doing obeisance to Hitler
—for it would be nothing else after all that has been
said and sworn by the Allies—would be protracted on
purpose. His own huge machine would remain intact.
The Allies would be at variance ; and each of them
would be split to pieces within itself. The great war-
effort of the two united democracies once stopped and
disintegrated could not be resumed. Who could dis-
arm the Nazis? They would be more likely to dis-
arm the Allies. Their air-terrorism, the worst curse
of the whole complex of evils they have created,
would remain suspended over our lives. This would
be the immeasurable calamity and disgrace of “Nazi
Peace.”
The right way is the hard way. We never ought
to have entered this war unless we were set to fight
on and fight out until the conditions of a just and last-
ing settlement are assured. That is to say that we
are in it to win or die. Otherwise, we should be
fools as well as flinchers. Those who think that we
are capable of being either “know not the stomach
of this people.” Remember that we fight for the
deliverance of our souls as well as for the physical
security of our free lives. It is now or never with us
to go on and go through with absolute courage and
constancy.
Fighting for a Principle.
{From a "Contemporary Review” article by Norman Angell.)
The Finns fought on an issue of great simplicity.
They did not take up arms against Russia because she
had violated a principle, but because she had violated
their soil. They had either to fight instantly and resist
this direct attack, or accent the end of their nation
and their chosen way of life. To the directness and
“Daily Mirror,” London.
“TELL YOUR FORTUNE, CAROL?”
simplicity of the issue the Finns owed much of their
magnificent morale.
The issue on which we fight is wider, more uni-
versal, but certainly not as simple. We did not take
up arms because our soil was invaded, but that of a
State on the other side of Europe. We defend a cer-
tain principle, not because we ourselves have already
been the victims of its violation, but because others
have been ; and because for the moment we believe
that only by the vindication of the principle itself can
our own independence be defended. We were not
directly attacked ; nor was France. Germany was not
asking anything directly of us. Germany desired
keenly that we should stay out of her disputes with
others (as she desired us to in 1914); insisted that she
had no quarrel with us, that we had no concern in
her quarrel with a third party, Poland.
We insisted that we had supreme concern: that
the preservation of the principle violated in the case
of Poland was indispensable to our own freedom and
security. Again and again in politics certain concrete
ends can only be secured by defending certain abstract
principles. If a foreign Power were suddenly to in-
vade and annex some intrinsically unimportant morsel
of British territory—the Seychelles Islands, say—and
command us to accept this modification of the status
quo forthwith, we should fight to the death to resist
the aggression. For if we did not, if we proceeded to
be “realist” and argue that, after all, the islands were
not worth a war, that they were pretty nearly value-
less and foreigners might as well have them —if we so
argued after sudden and forcible seizure of British
territory, the world would know that the rapid dis-
integration of the British Empire had begun. Our
“realism” would destroy us. Unless we were pre-
pared to defend the abstract thing, the principle of
the integrity of our soil, we should very rapidly be
unable to defend the concrete thing, our soil.
We see readily enough this relation between the
defence of a principle and the security of the con-
crete thing for which it stands, in the case of our own
territorial integrity. But do we see as clearly the rela-
tion between defence of the principle of the terri-
torial integrity of others and our own defence? Do
we really feel that if we are to defend ourselves we
must defend others, that defence of what Lord Hali-
fax has called the principle of freedom, even when
others are the victim of its violation, is indispensable
to our own freedom?
Yet it is clear that, if we have no deep feeling on
that issue, our morale can have no such basis as that
which turned the Finns into supermen. We fight in
the first instance for Poles and Czechs, not ourselves ;
and, since we are fighting Germany only 20 years after
having completely defeated her before, we g
the knowledge that mere victory of itseif achieves
nothing permanent; that only ifvictorycanbethe
means of making a political reality of the P rin JL
Lord Halifax enunciates can the next be more
permanent than the last. Only if we have the Passion
of conviction that the principle expressed tor the
moment in the freedom of Poles and Czechs is in-
dispensable to the world’s freedom and our own can
we sustain a morale equivalent to that which was
shown by Finland.
Scandinavian Outlook.
[ln view of what has now happened the items here
condensed are curiously prophetic in parts; they were
written before Germany struck out at Scandinavia.
The first is condensed from the “Nineteenth Century. J
Catastrophe has fallen upon Northern Europe, but
Scandinavian unity is non-existent and even co-opera-
tion is weak. For co-operation to have been effective
against the aggressor States, Scandinavia should have
been welded together as a whole by treaties of nuli-
tary assistance. Is it likely that Russia would
have attacked Finland if it had known that the attack
would have meant war against all the Scandinavian
States? Is it even likely that the arch-destroyer oi
small nations, Nazi Germany, would embark on the
conquest of all Scandinavian States, one after the
other, or all together, if they stood united? Den-
mark could not of course be defended
against Germany. But there are many
reasons, not least economic, why Ger-
many would not have attacked Den-
mark any more than the other Scandi-
navian States if they had all partici-
pated in common military action to
defend themselves from Russia.
In the history of the Scandinavian
States there has been more discord than
unity, but since the nineteenth century
at least the desire for unity has persisted.
In the past few years the growth of Nazi
Pan-Germanism, with its threats to the
neighboring smaller States, and of Rus-
sian Communist neo-Imperialism, which
is hardly less predatory, gave a renewed
impulse to the fashioning of Scandinavian
unity, though this is something yet to be
attained.
The present Swedish Government is
obsessed by the fear of invasion by Ger-
many, or by joint Russian and German
action against the peninsula. It therefore
practised “passive” rather than “active”
neutrality towards Finland, and its policy
of stopping short of military intervention
was probably endorsed by the majority of
the Swedish public.
Though Swedish people have no
quarrel with the Russian people, the
average Swede despises the Russians for
their lack of civilisation and believes that
Bolshevism will bring the Swedish level down to the
Russian. The Swedes have little but admiration for the
material achievements of the Germans, and if they did
not fear them as strongly as they do they would rather
like the Germans. German influences were always
strong, and Nazidom has not destroyed them. The
ties between the two countries are close, the peoples
are in many respects not dissimilar. But the Swedes
are terribly apprehensive of the Nazi war machine and
the reckless and unscrupulous means employed by the
German dictatorship. Moreover, there is a wide-
spread resigned and helpless “defeatist” spirit in
Sweden.
* * * * *
{From an article by H. C. Bailey in London “Daily-
Telegraph.”)
At the eleventh hour the neutral States now see
that all that can be purchased by submission is the
privilege of postponing resistance till other States
which might have aided them have been put out of
action by their default, the dubious boon of being
devoured a little later unless Britain and France, whose
endeavors in the Crusade for freedom they have im-
peded, achieve victory before their territories are ruined.
Few are the neutral countries strong enough to
maintain their security in isolation. What would be
the future of Italy if Nazi and Soviet arms overran
Europe? She knows well enough. The isolation of
the United States would not isolate her from the
danger of a European continent closed to her trade
and under the dominion of tyranny which has avowed
no limit in the world to its ambitions.
The one hope for mankind is the power of the
alliance of France and Britain. Their success is cer-
tain, however long the conflict. But those who would
save their welfare from its injuries must rally to their
own defence. That was the lesson of Finland. There
are signs that it is being learnt. The Government of
Sweden bears a heavy responsibility for the terms of
peace which Russia was enabled to enforce on Fin-
land. The Swedish Prime Minister, M. Guenther, later
discovered that the position of his country had
“become generally worse than it was before the Russo-
Finnish conflict.”
His excuse for the policy which thus left Sweden
open to aggression was that if his country had given
military aid or allowed Britain and France to send
such aid the Swedes would have been forced “to play
the role of counters in the game of the Great Powers.”
He will not confess what he must know, that the stake
in the game was Sweden’s own integrity. That has been
imperilled in submission to fears and threats.
There was a hope of stopping further aggression
in Scandinavia if those who guide its policy had under-
stood that the war into which Hitler has plunged


Europe is not, as M. Guenther would still represent it,
a conflict between “Great Powers,” but a struggle of
wrong against right. To Britain and France, Nazism,
wiih Bolshevism secured as its second, flung down the
challenge that no small State should be free and inde-
pendent, that every country in Europe and ultimately
all the world should own the supremacy and pay
tribute to the godless, soulless tyranny of Hitler and
Stalin. This is not the rhetoric of Allied propaganda,
it is a plain statement of the aims which the Fiihrer
has announced again and again and are still brayed
forth on the voices of his underlings.
The hard truth that those who would be safe
against such peril must act for their own safety is
soaking into the consciousness of mankind.
Late comes the recognition that Hitlerism has
declared war on all the world, and in such a war there
can be no neutrality. Who stands if freedom fall?
Freedom everywhere is threatened. The war in the
North, on the Western Front, in the air and on the
sea is one. It is a Crusade for liberty, for civilisation
and for national life against barbarism.
German “Invincibility.”
[lt suited Germany to create the legend that the
German Army was not defeated in the last war —a
legend that has been widely accepted outside Germany
as well. The legend is here exploded by Major-Gen.
Sir John Humphrey Davidson in a London “Times”
letter.]
German propaganda has lied systematically
regarding the reasons for Germany’s collapse in 1918.
Facts and figures which are incontrovertible prove
beyond doubt that the German Army was beaten
to its knees by British troops.
On August 8, 1918, the British Fourth Army
attacked and drove the Germans back 10 miles, cap-
turing 21,850 prisoners and 400 guns. The First,
Third and Fourth British Armies continued the attack
from south of the Somme to north of Arras, cap-
turing a further 53,100 prisoners and 470 guns. In
these battles of Peronne and Bapaume, the energy
and determined thrust of the British soldiers, coupled
with the carefully co-ordinated action of the armies
and the highly-efficient co-operation of all arms, suc-
ceeded in overthrowing the German forces opposed
to them, and started the “rot” which, later, spread to
the whole German Army.
In September the First, Third and Fourth British
Armies, with the Second Army co-operating in the
north opposite Ypres, continued the attack, capturing
53,050 prisoners and 580 guns. Pressing forward again
in October, Courtrai and Cambrai were captured,
together with 39,000 prisoners and 900 guns. Mean-
while the Germans were hurriedly retreating from the
wide gap between the Second Army in the north and
the First, Third and Fourth Armies in the south, thus
liberating the towns of Lille, Roubaix, Douai and
many others.
The morale of the German Army was completely
broken, and in the early days of November its retreat
was turned into a disorganised rout. It had lost to
the Allies, from August to November, nearly 400,000
prisoners and over 6000 guns. There is no parallel
for such a defeat on such a scale and so complete in
the whole of military history. If Germany wishes to
boast, she can boast of sustaining a record defeat, and
no words of her professional liars can distort that
fact.
The British troops of today should be told of
these achievements and should realise that the “invin-
cibility of the German Army” is nothing but an empty
boast of a lying bully.
Rumanian Prospects.
[Last week, following on the German thrust to the
North, Sir Nevile Henderson, the British Ambassador
in Berlin just before the war, predicted an early German
attack on Rumania, and Soviet troops were reported to
be massing in the Odessa region. At the time the article
here condensed was written, there was, of course, no
positive sign of such an attack. The writer is the
military correspondent of the “Times.”]
Some people are convinced that Germany will “go
and take the Rumanian oil” to supply her wants. It
may be so, but it would not be a simple affair.
Supposing she captured the wells intact, she would
find herself in possession of an output of not much
more than 6,000,000 tons. Could she hope to do so?
In 1916 the wells were demolished, perhaps less effec-
tively than would be possible today, with the result
that the Germans extracted only something like
500,000 tons from them in 1917 and double as much
in 1918. It seems probable that trade, coupled with
the various forms of pressure and bullying in which
Germany is so proficient, would pay best today. That,
indeed, is the best safeguard for Rumania, as she
doubtless knows.
From the military point of view, too, the opera-
tion is far from easy. Germany cannot approach
Rumania directly. An approach through Hungary
would be faced by the great horseshoe of the Car-
pathians and Transylvanian Alps, at the south-eastern
foot of which the oilfield of Ploesti is situated. The
alternative would be by way of that part of Poland
now in Russian occupation through the gap between
the Dniester and the Carpathians. This line of ad-
vance, followed by the Lwow-Bucharest railway, has
the advantages that it avoids the Carpathians and runs
parallel to the course of two great rivers which formed
powerful barriers to operations in the last war, the
Siret and the Prut. Those are, however, its only ad-
vantages. Ploesti is 300 miles by road from the Polish
frontier, and the railway communications between
Germany and Lwow, which would presumably be
used as an advanced base, are not first-class. In short,
as an isolated venture, against an army of the strength
of the Rumanian, this does not appear practicable.
Before deciding whether or not it would be an
isolated venture, one has to glance first at the situation
of the “have-nots” of South-eastern Europe, Bulgaria
and Hungary, remembering that Rumania is the rich-
est of the “haves.” Bulgaria has pledged herself to
postpone a settlement of her Dobrudja claims, and in
any case would not venture to move. Hungary has
said in effect that she would not seek to recover
Transylvania unless Rumania had already suffered a
decisive defeat —not a very reassuring statement in
Rumanian ears. The case of Russia is more impor-
tant. Russia might decide to gratify her old desire for
the return of Bessarabia if a German partnership
offered the chance of easing an extremely difficult
military operation, the passage of the Dniester. Two
operations, either of which alone would tax the re-
spective Russian and German forces to the utmost,
might be relatively easy if launched simultaneously
or with a short interval between them.
The situation appears, however, less attractive if
it be taken into account that the Dardanelles and Bos-
phorus would automatically be opened to the Allied
fleets, and, if necessary, to their armies; also that the
Black Sea ports of Batum and Tuapse form the ter-
mini of the pipelines from Russia’s Caspian oilfields,
that Batum itself lies only a few miles from the Turk-
ish frontier, and that Baku, the centre of the oil in-
dustry on the Caspian, lies closer to the nearest point
on French Syrian territory than is Berlin to the East
Anglian coast. The strong Franco-British forces now
assembled in Syria, Palestine, and Egypt form a
strategic reserve far better placed than when a similar
British reserve assembled in Egypt after the Gallipoli
campaign. They extend from the Nile valley almost
to the foot of the Taurus, where they are in touch
with the forces of a friendly Turkey, the ports and
railways of Syria and Palestine are at their disposal,
“Daily Mail," London.
“AND THEN THERE WERE SIX.”
(With one more gone and another attacked since this cartoon was drawn.)
their petrol is brought straight to their depots by
pipeline, and the Mediterranean is not now infested
with hostile submarines. On the other hand, they
retain the main advantage of the old Imperial strategic
reserve, because the Suez Canal is there to bring them
the produce of the East and of Australasia, and so, if
necessary, render them to a considerable extent inde-
pendent of supplies from France and Great Britain.
To the economic difficulties of a German seizure
of the Rumanian oilfield is thus added a strategic
threat which might not greatly influence or affect
German projects, but which could hardly fail to weigh
heavily with Russia should she be inclined to aid Ger-
many in the venture. Without passive Russian aid the
operation would be virtually impossible; without
active Russian aid it would be difficult and risky in the
extreme.
The Position of Small Neutrals.
(Condensed from a “Contemporary iseview article by
Emile Cammaerts.)
The political regime adopted by the small Euro-
pean States which remained neutral enjoyed a greater
prestige in the nineteenth century than it does today,
because, after the Napoleonic wars, neutrality was
acknowledged as the necessary complement of the bal-
ance of power. The political system in Europe de-
pended on the relative strength of the large States and
on the non-interference of the small States. Peace
was maintained, on several occasions, because the
aggressive Power realised that war involved too many
risks, especially as long as Great Britain acted as
arbiter between the parties. Any breach of neutrality
was discouraged, since it disturbed the balance.
How is it that this regime which was so much
in favor up to the end of the last century is now
looked upon by many people as a mere device to shirk
political and moral responsibilities? The main reason
is the substitution, in 1919, of a general international
organisation for power-politics, and of the League of
Nations for the balance of power.
For 20 years we have ceased to think in terms
of Real Politik, and have fixed our attention on the
Covenant, its sanctions, its regional pacts and its col-
lective security. The failure of these new systems is
too recent to allow us to readjust our judgment to the
present state of affairs, which is a return to the nine-
teenth century policy, an attempt to restore the bal-
ance which has been seriously upset by recent develop-
ments. Neutrality is no longer considered by the
general public as a natural guarantee of indepen-
dence and security for the small European States, but
as an abnormal regime which is no longer justified by
modern circumstances. Disappointed at the break-up
of the new system, people are reluctant to acknowledge
again the old system.
Neutrality is not only imposed upon the small
European democracies by the position which they
occupy on the map, but also by the attitude of a great
majority of their citizens who have followed the dis-
integration of the European situation with increasing
disappointment and anxiety. The British public has
not been sufficiently informed of the reaction which
followed the failure of the League to check aggression,
the estrangement of Italy from the Stresa front, the
conclusion of the Franco-Soviet Pact, the collapse of
Locarno and the conflict over the Spanish civil war.
After each of these crises the smaller nations
realised more and more clearly that their hopes of find-
ing security in the League or in regional pacts within
the League were illusory. The cleavage between the
Axis and the Entente split Europe once more into two
rival groups and brought it back to the pre-1914
position. The failure of every step taken to further
economic collaboration, combined with increasing
political and ideological hostility, brought the catas-
trophe nearer and nearer. The small Powers did not
wait for it to return to neutrality. Singly and jointly,
they repeatedly declared during these critical years that
they no longer considered themselves bound by the
sanctionist clauses of the Covenant. They insisted
more and more on preserving their complete freedom,
pointing out that they could not be expected to take
military action against one of their neighbors in a
divided Europe.
These initiatives were not taken against the
League, which the small nations had done their best
to support in all its activities. They simply acknow-
ledged the fait accompli, the return to power-politics,
and the obvious fact that so-
called “collective security” can
bring about security only if it
is truly collective.
The small Western Euro-
pean States were not born yes-
terday. Some of them are as
old as France and England,
and possess deeply-ingrained
traditions. They know from
experience that they cannot
afford to become their big
neighbors’ enemies. They
know also that it is almost as
dangerous for them to become
their associates. As long as
power-politics remain what
they were, and what they have
become again since the break-
up of the League, these nations
cannot hope to preserve their
independence, which is the con-
dition of their existence, unless
they avoid at one and the
same time the Scylla of hos-
tility and the Charybdis of
alliance. That is what neu-
trality means to them. It is
not, as often supposed, a pain-
ful necessity enforced upon
small countries too weak or too
timid to join in the struggle. It is the deliberate choice
of their neople, the inevitable reaction of the failure
of Versailles.
A Bread Famine in Moscow.
[This revealing vignette of living conditions inside
the “workers’ paradise” was, as its writer explains,
prevented from appearing earlier by Soviet censorship.
It is from a Manchester “Guardian” article by a
correspondent lately in Moscow.]
The shortage of certain food staples, which
became chronic in December in Moscow, took on a
serious aspect during the first 10 days of January,
when the supply of bread to the shops almost ceased.
The censorship on messages to the foreign press went
into action ruthlessly to prevent any inkling of the
situation from leaking out abroad.
Bread is traditionally the staff of life for the
mass of Russians, and under the Soviet regime it is
more so than ever, for it is the only relatively cheap
food. The disappearance of bread brought out queues
of such length as had not been seen in Moscow since
the days of the 1933 famine. It was depressing to
see the lines of drab, ill-clad people, largely older
women, standing passively for many hours in tem-
peratures as low as 20 degrees below zero Fahrenheit.
Some of the women fell to the ground and lay there,
apparently overcome by the cold.
By January 12 bread could again be purchased
with no more than the customary effort in Moscow.
The shortage of other foodstuffs was showing a ten-
dency, however, to become worse, and the people
appeared suspicious that the reappearance of bread
was not permanent and were buying heavily of bread
at the time I left Moscow.
The food situation, particularly the fear of a
bread shortage, gave the people of Moscow something
to worry about even more than the scarcity of cloth-
ing articles, which had steadily grown more acute
throughout 1939. Whole sections of the Mostorg
department store have had completely empty shelves,
especially the clothing and textiles sections. There
were no queues because there was nothing- to queue up
for. Even the “commission shops” (State second-hand
shops) were less well-stocked than for years. The
people had long believed that they went without in
order that the army might have the first call, and
foreign quarters in Moscow felt it would come as a
shock to them to learn that the troops in Finland were
inadequately garbed for the winter. Nevertheless, it
was reported in Moscow that appeals had been made
to the public to give up warm articles of clothing for
the Red Army, even though, however many roubles
one might possess, that public does not know where
to obtain for itself such articles.


SPORTING
NOTION
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
It is a long time since racegoers ex-
perienced such an unpleasant day at
Randwick as on Saturday. Rain fell
throughout the afternoon, very heavily at
times, and a general comment was:
“It’s a pity the breaking of the drought
did not hold off for another day.” it
was unfortunate for City Tattersall’s
Club that it did not, as the attendance
was only 15,000, against last year’s
29,000. The paddock, however, suffered
less than the leger and flat. The tote
turnover was £lB,lOB, a considerable
drop from the £32,272 of last autumn.
The going was much too heavy for all
the afternoon’s form to be correct, but
the racing was instructive, as it gave
backers an excellent idea of horses worth
supporting in future on a soft track.
The Hurdle Race was easy for Locks-
lea, who jumped with less effort than
any of the other three runners, and
after lobbing along in last place for a
long way was a winner a half-mile from
home.
•••••*
The Youthful Stakes gave trainer J.
Pike a change of luck. Status led into
the straight, and a furlong from home
Black Banter was the only one from
whom she appeared to have anything to
fear. Then Victorine unwound such a
good finishing run wide on the outside
that she beat Status in the last stride.
Black Banter, who was only a neck away,
ran really well, and promises to be a fair
advertisement for his sire, Silverburn.
Valparella and Duke Cullen were promi-
nent throughout, but St. Andrew and
Loyal Lad, though well in the betting,
never raised the hopes of their backers.
They, as well as some of the others,
were all abroad in the heavy going.
Up to the straight entrance Penthides
and Radical appeared like making a
match of the December Stakes. How-
ever, Radical swung out, carrying Pen-
thides with him, and this gave Anne a
clear run on the inside. Penthides fought
on gamely, but Anne, with her advan-
tage in weight, was able to shake him
off near the winning-post. Radical was
an indifferent third, and of those behind
the placed horses Forward did most to
put his prospects of winning a race in
the near future in a favorable light.
Benburb had every chance, but was
not good enough. Hamurah showed a
little improvement on her latest efforts,
and on a dry track it may not be long
before she is worth attention.
Until the field reached the home turn
it was almost impossible to distinguish
the horses in the Trial Stakes, the rain
blotting them out, but at that stage Con-
sonance led from Gallop, while others
fairly placed were Avant Tout, Tinker
Bell and Bestop. Then Consonance
cleared away, but, though a furlong from
home there seemed little chance of any-
thing overhauling her, she had to be
ridden out to win by a length from Willie
Green, who failed badly at the end of a
race of similar distance at Kensington
the previous Wednesday. Evidently he
liked the mud. It was not so with the
favorite, Thunderclap, who, starting wide
out, never got near the front in the first
half-mile, and ran sixth or seventh. In
getting third, Discipline finished better
than Peter Pan’s sister Tinker Bell, who
headed the unplaced division.
Feminist and Plutus shared favoritism
for City Tattersall’s Cup, but a long way
from home it was apparent the former
would have nothing to do with the finish.
Santa led at the three furlongs, but,
though Billposter headed him after, there
was nothing between them over the final
furlong, a dead-heat resulting. Plutus,
fourth at the turn, plugged along to the
end to gain third place, followed by
Cable Boy, who, as usual, was one of
the whippers-in along the back. Early
Bird and Highborn did well for nine fur-
longs, but, though one of the leading
division for a long way, Dashing Cavalier
dropped out before turning for home.
The fact of the time being 2.30, against
the course record of 2.18, gives a fair
idea of the condition of the track, and
on firm going the form is likely to be
upset. It was Santa’s best race since he
ran second to his stable-companion
Bringa in the Summer Cup. His joints
subsequently gave a deal of trouble, and
Saturday’s soft track was to his liking.
Asnazu finished brilliantly to win the
first division of the Club Welter after
Nubian Prince and Aureus had led into
the straight. Although Asnazu had pre-
viously won at Randwick this was the
best effort of his career, and, in addi-
tion to improving as a stayer with age,
he is evidently thoroughly suited by
slushy going. Dainty Revenue’s show-
ing was good enough to make him worth
following, and Silver Joan is returning
to form. Opportunist did not shape
nearly as well as when he won at Can-
terbury the previous week, and Sign On
has done so much racing recently that a
short let-up might be to his advantage.
Tel Asur gave a glimpse of his two-
year-old form when he ran third in
Opportunist’s race at Canterbury, and
the week’s interval did so much for him
that from the home turn he made a one-
horse race of the second division of the
Club Welter. He fairly revelled in the
going, and over the final furlong it was
merely a question of what he could make
his winning margin if ridden out. As a
two-year-old he won four races, the last
being with 9st. at Randwick. He gave
D. Munro his second win of the after-
noon, and his fifth for the week in the
metropolitan area. It is easy to praise
success, but Munro never rode better
than during the past few weeks.
After commencing indifferently Bonny
Loch ran second, but was too decisively
beaten for the form to be of particular
account. Old Dermid came home
strongly .in third place, with Royal
Routine and Rathlin nearest him. Poli-
tesse, who was hurdled off, lost several
lengths at barrier-rise, but showed so
much pace that she was fourth into the
straight. She died away before reaching
the winning-post, which, in the circum-
stances, was not surprising. Heavily-
backed horses in Rex and Duke Caledon
were disappointing. The latter stopped
badly after being second into the straight,
but as he is looking really well he may
shortly do better.
* * * *
“Just as good as ever” was trainer
R. Sinclair’s declared opinion of Aurie’s
Star after the latter had carried 10 stone
to a brilliant win in the Ascot (Vic.) £5OO
Eclipse Handicap on Saturday. And that
is high praise, considering that Aurie’s
Star is rising eight years old and his wins
include a Newmarket and two Oakleigh
Plates.
• ••••♦
The old Stardrift gelding is a sprinting
marvel, and, although with age he can
be ridden with more restraint, he has
lost none of his dash. Failures at Ascot
at his only two previous attempts at this
track caused many punters to look past
him for the winner, but Aurie’s Star,
after following the pace early, dashed
to the front rounding the turn, and won
as he liked from Kaolin and Birdplay.
Both minor-place getters had every chance,
but the favorite, Kanuri, was unlucky.
Interference near the half-mile cost him
several lengths, and although he might
not have beaten the winner in any cir-
cumstances he did well enough in finish-
ing a close fourth to indicate that with
ordinary luck he would have made a
race of it.
• • • • • •
Aurie’s Star, who began his racing
career in South Australia, where he :s
owned by G. W. Badman, will have his
next race in that State. He leaves for
Adelaide this week to undergo the final
stages of his preparation for the Good-
wood Handicap, to be run over six fur-
longs on May 4, and there is every pros-
pect of his improving on his third with
9.5 in the corresponding race two years
ago. Consequent on Saturday’s win, he
has been rehandicapped, his weight going
up to 10.0 from 9.10, but it will take
something out of the box to beat him.
It is practically certain that he will be
ridden again by Arthur Dewhurst, who
understands the horse perfectly. Hopes
were entertained that French Gem, who
races in the same interests as Aurie’s Star,
would shape well enough in the Belhaven
Handicap on Saturday to enhance her
chance in the Adelaide Cup, but French
Gem was never a possibility, and beat
only one horse home.
. . . . . .
Trainer Jack Fryer has had his runs
of “ins” and “outs” since his 100-to-l
win with Wotan in the Melbourne Cup
of 1936, but the “breaks” are coming
his way again. He landed a double with
Home Secretary and Pantoon at Men-
tone last week, and although Manurere,
who disappointed him on that course,
failed again on Saturday, Pantoon car-
ried on the good work in the £5OO Bel-
haven Handicap. Penalised only 31b. for
his Mentone win, Pantoon was the
medium of good support, and did not
give his backers much anxiety. He had
the race won some distance from home,
and, only behind Rambler and Gay In-
vader entering the straight, won decisively
from Rambler and Lanarus.
A five-year-old by Musketoon-Panette,
Pantoon gave a lot of promise earlier in
his career, but he began to develop a
temperament during his three-year-old
and, after he had attempted to
savage a horse in a race at Williamstown,
Fryer decided to have him gelded. He
has won several races since, and seems
to be tractable enough now. Pantoon
was ridden a well-judged race by Nor-
man Creighton, who is riding with the
confidence born of success. It does not
seem so very long ago that Creighton,
because of limited opportunities, branched
out as a hurdle rider, but owners and
trainers who overlooked him at that time
are eager to obtain his services these
days. Creighton, incidentally, is a son-
in-law of Fryer.
Followers of “Bill” Burke’s stable
experienced an expensive day. Burke
expected to win a double with Havers
and Dignitary, but Havers, starting second
favorite at 4 to 1, was beaten out of a
place in the first division of the Kil-
morey Trial Handicap, and Dignitary,
backed from 4- to 1 to favoritism at
5 to 2 for the Belhaven Handicap,
finished fourth also. In the past Digni-
tary had shown his best form at Ascot,
where the “horses for courses” theory
works out correctly more often than not,
but little excuse was possible for him on
Saturday. Unless he shows improved
form shortly his connections might be
tempted to try him over jumps, a pro-
cedure that was indicated last year when
he was entered for the Grand National
Hurdle. He is no stranger to hurdles
on the training tracks. Burke can look
forward to an early win with Skylass,
who had her first race for several months
in the second Kilmorey Trial division.
Skylass was neglected in the betting, but
came from a good way back to finish
fourth to All Talk, and will be all the
better for the race.
Circus performer and horse-breaker are
roles that have been filled by J. Porter,
who piloted Deniker to success in the
first Kilmorey Trial division. Porter
was apprenticed in 1924 to Gus K-en-
nedy, has ridden winners in several States
and is equally at home over hurdles am
on the flat. His versatility is reflected
in the fact that little more than an horn
before his winning ride on Denike r ne
rode Dargals in the Carlisle Trial Hurdle.
Although never actually losing touch with
the racing game, his return to the Mel-
bourne metropolitan area after a long
absence had many people guessing as to
his identity on Saturday, and perhaps
that is one reason why Deniker, a winner
in maiden company at Ascot two starts
earlier, was allowed to go out at 10 to 1.
Deniker, a six-year-old gelding by
Albanian from Hoepangyou, was always
well placed, and, taking charge rounding
the turn, hung on to win from Aladdin s
Lamp and Manurere. More opportuni-
ties should now come the way of Porter,
who has a sideline in the breaking-in of
yearlings at Caulfield.
Having only his second race in the
interests of his new owner, W. Filer, All
Talk, who was bought privately several
weeks ago, easily beat Parilla and Nad-
buck in the second Kilmorey Trial divi-
sion. Parilla, who had a string of coun-
try and provincial wins to his credit, at-
tempted to lead throughout, but seven
furlongs, plus 9.3, was beyond him, and
he was no match for the winner at the
finish. All Talk, a five-year-old gelding
by Heroic from Gabblegash, gave good
promise earlier in his career, but did
not train on as expected. Judged on
Saturday’s performance, however, he will
win in better company before he is much
older. Like the winner, Nadbuck is
owned by Filer, but is in a different
stable.
Earl Marshal, who gave first-class
promise earlier in the season, dis-
appointed in his Randwick engagements
this autumn, but he returned home to
beat the hotpot, Tranquil Star, in the
Tankerville Handicap. Tranquil Star,
a winner at Flemington at her previous
start, was generally considered to have
a mortgage on the race, but Earl Mar-
shal, who had galloped well since his
return, was backed from sevens down
to fives, and, challenging the favorite
about a furlong from home, wore her
down, to win by a neck. Earl Marshal
deserved the win, as he had been one of
the unluckiest juveniles in training. In
minor-place money he had more than
returned his purchase price of 325
guineas before Saturday’s win, but big
money had been lost on him in bets.
Owned by Miss P. Belsom and trained
by Steve Murphy, he is by Lord Para-
mount from Alike, and represents the
first winner by his young Blandford sire.
Form pointed to the Grafton Welter
Handicap ending a run of bad luck for
Lalmoni, whose three previous races had
yielded as many seconds. At Mentone
three days earlier, she had finished second
to Pantoon, and the latter’s win in the
Belhaven Handicap emphasised the value
of the form. Lalmoni was backed accord-
ingly, shortening from 3 to 1 to 9 to 4, and,
making a fast forward move from the
three furlongs, she won running right away
from Pine Peak and Silver Reign. Feature
of the betting was a plunge on High
Commissioner, who started at 11 to 2
after 10 to 1 had been laid. High Com-
missioner gave his backers a good sight
for their money, leading clearly from the
half-mile to the home turn, but he showed
no fight when challenged, and dropped
back sixth at the finish.
A handful of spectators in the flat
voiced their disapproval of the judge’s
verdict when the 12-to-l chance Dolphin
was declared winner from the 5-to-2
favorite, Woomelang, in the Carlisle Trial
Hurdle, but they were talking through
their pockets. Woomelang should have
won, and did look any odds-on when he
took the second-last hurdle with a lead of
10 lengths, but, probably owing to weari-
ness, he blundered badly at the last, lost
ground in making a good recovery,
veered out under pressure nearing the
finish, and was beaten half a neck. His
blunder at the last jump cost him the
race. Highland March was only a head
away third, and this chap, who will be
all the better for the experience, should
be worth keeping in mind.
if * * *
As was generally contended, Mosaic
was open to be rehandicapped for the
Canterbury Cup, and received the maxi-
mum extra poundage of 101 b. As that
sends him up to only 9.10 he is still
well in unless the A.J.C. handicapper
was wide of the mark in his City Tatter-
sail’s Gold Cup weights. In that Mosaic
had 10.7, the minimum being 6.7. Con-
sequently, as compared with Tatt.’s Cup,
he has a decided pull over many of his
possible opponents. For instance, he
has to concede Feminist 191 b. against the
251 b. that the handicapper put between
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(By “PILOT.")
Progressive Stakes: Thunderclap,
1 ; Miss Heroic, 2 ; Aristocrat, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Manlock, 1 ;
St. Andrew, 2 ; Sylvienne, 3.
Flying Handicap: Anne, 1 ;
Scarlet Circle, 2 ; Knight Folly, 3.
Canterbury Park Cup: St. Con-
stant, 1 ; Mosaic, 2 ; Feminist, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Politesse,
1 ; Aureus, 2 ; Grancitia, 3.
Ashbury Handicap: Plutus, 1 ;
Tel Asur, 2 ; Highborn, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
By “SENTRY."
Mia Mia Hurdle: Exmoor, 1 ;
Glowing, 2 ; Terka, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Black
Legend, 1 ; Earl Marshal, 2;
Chatasan, 3.
Armillan Steeplechase: Bright-
ello, 1; Nimshi, 2; Gold Glare, 3.
Essendon Handicap: Ortelle’s
Star, 1 ; Zonda, 2 ; Rose Princess, 3.
Kinross Handicap: Kaolin, 1 ;
Kanuri, 2 ; Red Morn, 3.
Yuroke Welter Handicap: Dia-
phane, 1 ; Denis Girl, 2 ; Strategy, 3.


w
The Gold Medal for Serge teas awarded
to the Crusader Mill at the great Inter-
national Cloth Exhibition at Roubaix ,
France .
Ask your tailor for it!
(Ytj SERGE SUIT is more useful—for more
occasions than any suit in your
wardrobe. Whether for business or social
wear, daytime or evening, you are always
quite correct in a serge. And, when the suit
is made of GOLD MEDAL SERGE you will
be wearing a cloth that is the equal of any-
thing in the world.
GOLD MEDAL SERGE is made from Aus-
tralian Pure Merino —the finest wool the
world produces. The cloth is the strongest
weave and dyed with the famous Crusader
Fadeless Indigo Dye.
GOLD MEDAL SERGE is a CRUSADER CLOTH-
MONARCH Quality. The name is branded in gold
upon every three yards of cloth. ... The price for
a suit of GOLD MEDAL SERGE is usually from
£7/7/- to £lO/10/-. Differences in price are de-
termined by superior cut, workmanship and trim-
mings.
CRUSADER CLOTH is available also
in Grey Mixtures; Plain and Fancy
Greys; Navy, Black, Brown and Royal
Fancy Suitings; Tropical Suitings and
Dress Suitings.
ill
m
I
(frusaaet*
Ofrusafter Cloth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
them in last week’s handicap, and Bill-
poster 281 b. against 391 b.
I am writing too early in the week
to have definite knowledge as to whether
Mosaic is sure to start, but if he does
it is certain he will be prominent in the
betting. The fact that he has been
running at longer distances than 11 fur-
longs, and that, notwithstanding Canter-
bury has been improved, it is not as
good for a stayer as Randwick, will be
counted against him, but he is not lack-
ing in dash, and the long run home will
help. Last season he won at six fur-
longs at Rosebery, and at a mile at
Moorefield ; while his wins this season
include a 9|-furlongs race, the W. S.
Cox Plate, at Moonee Valley.
St. Constant has been penalised 51b.,
but, as he recently won with 9.3 —mini-
mum 7.0 —at a mile and a quarter at
Randwick, an additional furlong should
not trouble him at Canterbury. He is
now a rather slow beginner, but that
may help him to run out the 11 furlongs.
Santa seems sure to shape well again,
though he will be meeting St. Constant
on the same terms in the A.J.C. Final
Handicap, in which he ran nowhere, and
Billposter 31b. worse than in City Tatt.’s
Gold Cup. The handicapper must be
of opinion that the extra furlong favors
Santa more than Billposter.
* * * *
If Ajax is to run again in a handicap
perhaps the Epsom will be chosen. The
weights for the Doncaster suggested that
in future important handicaps the handi-
capper was less likely to consider the
heavyweights than the lightweights. This
may mean that Ajax will get a weight
likely to tempt his owners to start him
in it in preference to the mile and a
half Spring Stakes the same afternoon.
Ajax’s weight in the last Doncaster was
9.13, which was only a pound more than
was allotted him in the last Caulfield Cup.
f ♦
Canterbury made a good start in prize-
money at its first non-proprietary meet-
ing, and owners are wondering whether
Rosehill, at its first meeting under similar
conditions next month, will attempt to
rival it. However, with circumstances
different, that would be too much to
expect, but Rosehill, if its next couple
of fixtures are satisfactory, is unlikely
to lag. The trouble now is that clubs
greatly dependent upon a train service
must suffer while the strike lasts. Some
country clubs are already adversely
affected, and it is bound to be the same
with others.
* * * *
The V.R.C. handicapper, J. H. Davis,
was at the A.J.C. autumn meeting, look-
ing so well that his sudden death in Mel-
bourne last week was a shock for his
many Sydney friends. In his earlier days
he owned and trained, winning the 1893
Newmarket with Fortunatus. When the
stipendiary stewards system was adopted
in Victoria in 1912 he was one of the
first three appointed. On the death of
Dr. Lang he became V.R.C. handicapper
in 1924.
* * * *
Old Rowley did not appreciate the heavy
going in City Tatt.’s Cup at Randwick
on Saturday. He was always one of
the rear division, and the run took so
much out of him that J. Scully is sending
him to Richmond for a six weeks’ holi-
day.
* * * *
Red Relish’s form at the Wagga Gold
Cup meeting warrants a trial for him in
either Sydney or Melbourne. He won
the Cup in the excellent time of 2.4 2-5
for the mile and a quarter and, in beat-
ing him a head in the Town Plate on the
second day, Glenfino made a course
record for the mile of 1.38. Red Relish
is by imported Cottingham from Berry
Sauce, by Richmond Main from Crosse
Berry, by Martagon.
* * * *
Spear Vale, brother to Spear Chief,
may not prove quite as good as the latter,
but he is evidently a useful colt, and will
be quite ready for the coming big meet-
ings in Brisbane. He won a mile and
a quarter handicap at Ascot (Brisbane)
on Saturday, and he will be a tough
opponent for Katanga in the Q.T.C. St.
Leger. Last year that race was won
by Seven Fifty, now in the same stable
as Katanga. Since coming to Sydney
Seven Fifty has not struck anything
approaching his Queensland form. How-
ever, as he is only four years old there
is plenty of time for him to do so.
* * * *
The other day it amused me to hear
a regular racegoer twitting another on
having purchased a couple of yearlings.
“What, haven’t you learnt your lesson
yet?” he queried. To which his friend
replied, “Well, if some of us didn’t buy
and race horses, you fellows who don’t,
though you could afford to, would not
know where to look for information.”
It is rather a pity that so many men
who think nothing of putting a “fiver
or a “tenner” on a race do not indulge
in ownership. Possibly they consider
that it entails a deal of worry as well
as some expense, and that it is easier
and cheaper to glean information from
owners and trainers.
* * * *
Among them the A.J.C., Warwick
Farm, Tattersall’s and City Tattersall’s
have put on 11 hurdle races at Randwick
this season, the prize-money totalling
£3875. Twice there were 10 starters,
those being the largest fields, while there
were only three runners for the £3OO
given by the A.J.C. on January 27, and
four for City Tatt.’s £325 last Saturday.
The 11 races gave 80 runners, an average
below that for mid-week races of lower
value. At different times, over a long
period, I have heard a lot concerning the
non-encouragement of hurdling in
Sydney, but, though the A.J.C. has done
a lot in that direction, there has never
been marked response by owners. I
am not among those who would like to
see hurdling dropped at Randwick, but
it is not difficult to understand many
taking that view.
* 5jC *
Of last week’s Trial Stakes second
division runners at Kensington none im-
pressed me more than The Tattler as
likely to be worth following in middle-
distance races at mid-week meetings. A
long way from the leaders starting along
the back he then made such a well-sus-
tained run that he was first into the
straight, and was four or five lengths
ahead of the second horse at the winning-
post. His time for the mile was 1.43,
against Sleight of Hand’s 1.434 in the
first division of the Trial. The recoid
for this class of race at Kensington
is 1.424 by Not So Bad and Pimm’s.
As The Tattler is by Baralong from
Radiant Dawn, by All Black from
Golden Dawn, by Flavius, he has an ex-
cellent pedigree.
* * * *
Seven two-year-old races have been
run at Randwick during the last three
weeks, and Roxburgh was the only sire
credited with more than one win, Rox-
ford scoring twice for him. The latter
cost 150 guineas, while the highest-priced
winner as a yearling was Tidal Wave
(by Tiderace) at 1450 guineas. Session
(by Marconigram) was not sold at auc-
tion, nor was John (by John Buchan).
Lucrative (by Balkan Star) made 450
guineas at auction, and Victorine (by
Melfort), bought for 110 guineas by
W. J. Smith, is now held on lease by
“A. H. Serghes.” When you think of the
number that brought 400 guineas or over
in Melbourne or Sydney last year, and
have yet to return a penny of their cost,
it is impossible to get away from the
fact that luck as well as judgment is
necessary in the purchase of yearlings.
* * * *
Chatham had a winner at Ascot (Bris-
bane) on Saturday, Chatting taking the
Two-year-old Handicap in 1.04 for the
five furlongs. As it was a course record
Chatting must be a galloper above the
average. She is out of Dashing (Heroic-
Queen Gossip, by Comedy King), and
therefore a half-sister to Dashing Cava-
lier. Bred at the Kia-ora stud, she was
sold as a yearling for 220 guineas.
* * * *
E. McMenamin resumed riding at
Randwick last week, but his solitary
mount, Bramol, could not gallop in the
mud in the Club Welter, and beat only
Gilltown. From now to the end of the
season it will be a great struggle between
Cook and McMenamin for the jockey
premiership. Cook had five mounts on
Saturday, but his luck was not in, a third
being his best for the afternoon. Munro’s
weight restricts his opportunities, and dis-
poses of his chance of getting to the top.
He had to declare a pound over for Tel
Asur, whose handicap weight in the
second division of the Club Welter
was 8.5.
* * * *
P. Miller recently imported another
stallion from England, and, not to be
left behind, H, S. Thompsop has added
Golden Sovereign to his stud. He is a
five-year-old horse by Monarch from
Fleche-d’Or, by Teddy from Persistent,
by Spearmint. Raced by Sir Abe Bailey
in England, Golden Sovereign showed
excellent form. It is stated that his cost
to his Australian buyer by the time he
is landed in Australia will be £3BOO.
When geldings were barred from
classic races in Sydney and Melbourne
it was thought it would lead to increased
demand for Derby winners for stud pur-
poses. However, it has not had that
effect, our breeders still turning to Eng-
land when they want stallions. There-
fore our Derbies and St. Legers might as
well again be thrown open to geldings.
Better a gelding should occasionally win
a Derby than adhere to procedure that
increases the number of indifferent stal-
lions.
* * * *
An A.J.C. Derby has not been won by
a filly since Picture in 1898, and it would
be safe to bet that the coming season
does not see the end of that long losing
sequence. After her V.R.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes win, it seemed possible that
Trueness might develop into a stayer,
but, going on subsequent form, it would
seem doubtful whether she will prove,
tough enough to stand a severe mile and
a half. Furious made a good bid for
an A.J.C. Derby, being narrowly de-
feated by Cupidon, and then won the
Victoria Derby. A couple of years later
another filly, Frances Tressady, was also
successful, but since then they have not
even furnished a second. While there
seems little likelihood of any N.S.W.
filly winning the coming A.J.C. or Vic-
toria Derby, Victoria is no better off.
* * * *
It is many years since there was a race
at two and a half miles in Australia, but
there was one of that distance at Santa
Anita on February 23. It was won by
a four-year-old named Big Ed (son of
Bright Knight), who, with 8.2, did the
distance in 4.22, which was 2|sec. better
than the previous American best. The
world’s record is 4.16 3-5, put up by
Golden Myth in the Ascot Gold Cup of
1922.
* * * *
Peter Pan did good service for F.
McGrath, and that trainer is hopefully
looking forward to three yearlings he has
in his stable by that sire turning out
well. Two are chestnut colts from
Neon (Gilt Edge-Lightsome) and The
Darter (Heroic-Soaring) respectively,
and the other a brown filly from


Parfait Amour (sister to Amounis).
Lightsome, dam of Neon, is a sister
to Gloaming. The other yearling in
McGrath’s stable is a colt by El
Cacique from Crystal Wedding. It can be
said for Peter Pan that he is one of the
greatest racehorses Australia has pro-
duced —well ahead of most English im-
portations in that respect —and breeding
is not against his success as a sire.
* * * *
As Phar Lap’s name occurs in it the
following paragraph from an American
paper of last month will be of interest
to Australians:
Owner Neil S. McCarthy recently received
an extortion letter demanding 5000 dollars.
The writer said he had poisoned darts
which he shot into horses (including Phar
Lap) that had caused him losses. He was
down 20,000 dollars on the McCarthy
horses, but would settle for 5000 dollars,
quit his operations, and surrender his three
needle guns and the formula for his poison.
McCarthy turned the letter over to the
police, and a man who posed as a doctor,
and had two or three aliases', was arrested
in McCarthy’s office. Bail for him was
set at 25,000 dollars, but it is not stated
whether anyone came to his rescue.
sH * *
Alf Foley, who died last week, owned
and trained in Sydney many years, and
was a man not carried away by success
nor inclined to despondency when things
did not turn out as he anticipated. He
was a good judge, never falling into the
error of regarding his geese as swans —a
rather common mistake with some
trainers. Good winners prepared by him
included Chere Amie, Berthier, Virtu.
Giru and Handsome.
* * * *
The Maoriland two-year-old Night-
beam, recently purchased by F. W.
Hughes from Mrs. W. D. Graham for
1500gns. and a winning contingency, has
an excellent record. Trained by E.
George, he has started nine times for
four wins, the latest being the Great
Northern Champagne Stakes, six fur-
longs, at Auckland last month. He beat
10 others, and was going away from
them at the finish.
Phaleron, who was second, ran again
at the meeting, but, though unplaced,
the fact that he was weighted at 9.9
(minimum 7.0) gives an idea of Night-
beam’s rating in his own country. The
latter is by Night Raid from Lady Bur-
leigh, by Paladin from Tormentor, by
Martian, and was sold as a yearling for
325gns. Nightbeam’s Sydney engage-
ments include the A.J.C. Derby and St.
Leger, but he is not in the Hobartville
Stakes.
* * * *
Mildura, The Squire and Waireka have
been nominated for the Q.T.C. (Bris-
bane) meeting next month, and unless
the handicapper is too severe the prob-
abilities are they will go north. Mildura
has already shown he is suited by Ascot.
Last year he won the Cleveland and
Moreton Handicaps, carrying 7.13 in the
latter, and cutting out the mile and a
quarter in 2.3. The King’s Plate will
give him an opportunity of proving
whether he is up to Queensland weight-
for-age standard. A year ago his ex-
stable-companion Spear Chief ran away
with that race. Mildura met with a
slight mishap after winning the Epsom,
but is quite himself again.
Waireka was third with 7.5 in the
Stradbroke Handicap last autumn. She
was less than a neck behind the winner,
Bahwing ; but the following month, with
7.8, finished a long way back in the
Doomben Newmarket. The Squire won
a welter at Doomben, and was fourth
in the Cup. Katanga and Seven Fifty are
others nominated for the Q.T.C. meeting.
* * * *
If night trotting is the crying, need in
Sydney that some of its supporters allege,
by all means let us have it —but without
betting. That would quickly enlighten
us as to whether there was a real demand
for it by the public apart from being the
medium for a bet. I am afraid, however,
that in such circumstances night trotting
would have a short life. So would most
racing. What with a couple of horse
meetings at least in the metropolitan area
each week, provincial meetings within
easy reach of Sydney, an occasional trot-
ting fixture and dogs at night once a
week, our speculative needs would appear
to be already well catered for without
Parliament being called upon to assist
in increasing them. Patriotic motives
also figure in the plea for night trotting,
whereat you cannot help smiling.
* * # Sii
Some time ago I read where an Eng-
lish breeding expert who contributes to
a London paper took 300 to 1 about a
youngster for the 1942 English Derby
immediately after it was foaled. For a
mixture of egotism and optimism that
was hard to beat. I forget the breeding
of the youngster he selected, but it was
not the Bahram-Myrobella colt, who,
according to Peter Burrell, director of
the National Stud in Kildare, will be the
1942 Derby winner. Bahram, who was
unbeaten, won about £35,000 in stakes,
and Myrobella £16,000. The colt will,
like most others bred at, the National
Stud, go to auction. Discussing him,
Burrell said: “If the war wasn’t on he
would fetch at least £14,000,” adding,
1 He’s just like his dam in one way.
When the other yearlings go rushing
around he waits until they’ve gone a
way off before, he chases ’em and over-
takes em.” Lord Lonsdale has first call
on leasing any of the horses bred at the
National Stud.
* * * sfc
Most English trainers have fewer
horses in their stables this year than
last. J. Jarvis, for one, had a team of
nearly 70 at the commencement of last
season, but this time his total is 40, of
which 25 are two-year-olds.
* * * *
Up to the end of February there was
still doubt as to where the substitute
races for the English Derby and Oaks
would be run. The Jockey Club stewards
decided they should take place on New-
bury, but if that course was not avail-
able Newmarket would be chosen. New-
bury as the venue met with general ap-
proval. It is a first-class track, and one
thing certain is that most horses would
find it far less trying than Epsom, which
gives more variety in galloping ground
at a mile and a half than any other
course in England. Races of note already
abandoned in England this season in-
“ Bonzer, boy , but it Was a false start.”
elude the Great Metropolitan (Epsom)
Chester Cup and Ascot Stakes.
* * * *
J. P. Hornung, a notable English
sportsman, died last month. He won
many important races, and gave £35,000
for Papyrus for stud purposes, though I
think he also raced him. At the
time the Indian owner Galstaun was
exploiting selling races in England as a
betting medium, Hornung was so
annoyed with such procedure that after
Corporal (one of Galstaun’s platers) had
won a race he bid up to 2650gns. to
get that horse. At the time regret was
expressed that he had not permitted
Galstaun to retain Corporal at a slightly
lower bid, which would have represented
considerably more than its value.
* * * *
The well-known English writer Mey-
rick Good says that, in his opinion,
racing systems are not worth the paper
on which they are written, but adds
there have been times in which the
systematic backing of jockeys’ mounts
has administered severe blows to book-
makers. He credits Tod Sloan with
having given the Ring harder knocks
than any other jockey. He quotes R.
Wootton as having wo.n more money
by backing a jockey’s mounts than any-
one else in his time. Wootton principally
wagered on the mounts of his late son
Frank, whose best year in England was
in 1911, when he won 187 races of the
747 in which he rode.
* * * *
Possibly owing to unfavorable weather
causing so many meetings to be aban-
doned in England in December and
January there were tremendous entries
for some of the remaining fixtures, not-
withstanding the prize-money was on
the lean side. At Worcester in February
nominations were so numerous that a
couple of steeplechases had to be divided,
and there were 56 entrants for a selling
hurdle race. The largest amount for
any of the eight races was £lOO, and
entrance fees totalled £717 against £650
in stakes. One can almost hear share-
holders in Sydney clubs ejaculating:
“Why can’t that sort of thing happen
to us?”
* * * *
Before the Santa Anita Handicap was
run America’s champion, Seabiscuit,
proved he was back to form. On Feb.
24 he won the San Antonio Handicap,
with 8.12, from his stable-companion
Kayak II (9.2) and 11 others. He ran the
8i furlongs in 1.42 2-5 —equal to about
1.36 for the mile —and, coupled with
Kayak II on the tote, paid about 7 to 4.
A week later Seabiscuit (9.4) won the
Santa Anita Handicap, beating Kayak II
(9.3) two lengths. A protest on behalf
of the third horse, Whichee, was dis-
missed. C. S. Howard’s pair were
favorites at 10 to 7 on, and according
to many of the spectators Kayak II
could have beaten Seabiscuit if the
owner had not declared to win with the
latter. Many good judges took a differ-
ent view. Seabiscuit ran the mile and
a quarter in 2.1 1-5, which equalled
Discovery’s record of 1935 at Arling-
ton, but the latter carried 9.9. First
money in the Santa Anita Handicap
was £A21,637, and 76,000 saw the race.
J. Pollard rode Seabiscuit, and after
that horse was beaten in his first two
races at Santa Anita some of the critics
said the horse had no chance of doing
a “come back” because of the jockey.
Last year Pollard had a leg broken in
a fall, and when he resumed last autumn
, , , , , , .
he rode with a steel brace strapped to
the broken bone. Pollard was referred
to as an old and broken-down jockey,
but at the finish he was able to laugh
~, , •
at those who condemned him. Sea-
biscuit, who is seven years old, was the
world’s greatest money-winner after the
Ha, ! dic fP'
$437,730 (approximately £A109,432).
••••••
Another rich stake at Santa Anita
was the Derby,- run at nine furlongs.
-m. J , , . J?
The result was a complete upset, the
winner being a Californian-bred gelding
named Sweepida, a 32-to-l chance on
the tote Up woo nt, nrdinarv tipt*-
tne tote tie was an ordinary per-
former at two years, and this season
had run a second and two thirds prior
to the Derby, which carried £A 10,962
for first, £2500 for second, £1250 for
third and £625 for fourth. Sweepida
was ridden by R. Neves, who, at Tan-
foran three years ago, was picked up
unconscious after a fall in a race, and,
according to American papers, was be-
lieved to have been killed. So far from
that being the case he was riding again
two days later, and won two of five
races in which he had mounts.
* * * *
In addition to the Santa Anita Handi-
cap, another very valuable race was run
in America on March 2. This was The
Widener, 1£ mile, at Healeah Park
(*/»m*v.v Florid?). Many St''no S (7.11),
who started at 7 to 2 in a field of 16,
won by a length in 1.3. First money was
£A 13,000, second £2OOO, and the dead-
heaters for third received £750 each. At
the same meeting- the Flamingo Stakes
(formerly the Florida Derby) was won
by the gelding Woof Woof, who cut out
the nine furlongs in 1.50 1-5. I was
nearly forgetting to mention that the
trainer of The Widener winner received
a bonus of £A1250 from the club. Aus-
tralian trainers would be highly pleased if
our leading clubs did something similar
in connection with important races.
Races at four miles are decidedly u -
usual, but one was run at Agua Caliente
on Feb. 18. There were nine starters,
with a prize for the leader at the enc f
of each lap. A different horse led at
the end of each of the first three laps,
but Jne Eaton, who was not one of
won the race by three and a half lengths
in 7.22 2-5, an average of slightly over
1.50 to the mile. The value of the race
was £A625.
* * * *
In weighing up the prospects of tote
betting in the State of New York some
critics expressed the opinion that the low-
est daily average would be £A 125,000,
and might reach £A 150,000. It is im-
probable they will be wide of the mark,
seeing that betting is said to be heavier
at New York’s principal meetings than
a* Santa Anita, where the turnover for
the first 36 days of the recent meeting
averaged £A 145,000 daily.
* * ¥ *
E. Britt has been making himself as
popular with Bombay punters as has
D. Munro with those who follow racing
in Sydney. On March 9 he scored three
wins, and on March 16 three wins and
a dead-heat, each of his mounts on the
latter day being favorite. At Calcutta
the same afternoon Peacock won three
races, but the English jockey Ermer
headed the Calcutta list for the season,
scoring 17 wins. W. Sibbritt was well in
front up to February 4, when an acci-
dent put him out of action for the re-
mainder of the season. Britt adds to the
several Australian jockeys who have had
pleasant financial experience in
India.
* * *
Women owners of racehorses
are increasing in Sydney, though
it will be a long time before as
many race in Australia as in Eng-
land. The difference in population
would naturally have bearing on
that. However, 15 wese repre-
sented by runners at the recent
Rosebery meeting and 10 had
runners on Canterbury Park’s
opening day. Canterbury, by the
way, now has a strong ladies’
membership.
Prize-money for hurdling and steeple-
chasing is on the up-grade in Ireland.
Last year the amount given for that class
of sport was £38,891, of which £4900
came from the Government grant. In
1938 stakes totalled £30,560. Attendances
greatly increased in 1939, as did the num-
ber of horses competing.
* * * *
J. A. Estes, editor of the “Blood-
horse” (Lexington), has a profound con-
tempt for breeding systems and theories.
“Some of these experts,” he writes, “have
gone on record that they can predict
racing class, distance preference, track
condition preference, and durability by
simply considering coat color.” He then
continues:
But this is the way systems are built.
You make a few elastic generalisations,
cite a few examples, drag in a few
authorities (scientific authorities are recom-
mended), and complicate matters enough
t" insure that vour followers don’t quite
follow you. When you have them sold
on the system, they begin to realise that
they don’t quite understand it, and they
need expert guidance—which you gladly
furnish.
Nonsense is all right to start a system
with, but it must be wrapped in verbiage
which gives the student an impression of
profundity and solidity. Perhaps with a
little more attention to rhetoric some of
the latest additions to breeding theorists
would be able to construct a first-class
system. I recommend that they study
closely the methods of Bruce Lowe and his
prophet, William Allison, who from
utterly nonsensical principles constructed
a system that rocked the world of
thoroughbred breeding. What Allison
could do can surely be done again.
* * * *
There has been a move to put on races
for women riders in Ireland, but it has
met with so much opposition that
nothing is likely to come of it. It was
contended that a race for women on a
six-event programme would reduce it to
five from a speculative standpoint, as
few, if any, backers would wish to bet
on it. Perhaps the public would become
accustomed to them. At one time in
Svdney we used to hear a lot of growling
about apprentices’ races, but that has died
away to some extent. Backers are aware
that, apart from about 10 at the head of
the list, licensed jockeys are really no
better than many apprentices. Of course
it might be different with women
amateur riders, but Irish bettors could
be relied upon to discover quickly those
which were best worth following.
* * * *
Dog-racing is not popular at present in
some American States. The Massachusetts
State Racing Commission recently turned
down the applications of the three organi-
sations that operate the dog tracks on
account of the scandalous conditions
that existed in the game in that State.
O’Hare, who controlled the Dighton


mm
ii"
fin
A^/
\tfAV
o»
tel*
*va
The
1
»s
r*S*
»»»r
#/
kouqhfc
W*»'*ZZ
tha®
SUSPEND Buick’s 800-odd-pound engine by chains
in still air run it and only the whirling fan
blades give any visible evidence that it’s in operation.
Not a shake, not a shudder, not a quiver!
Suspend the works of a watch by a thread even a lady’s
fine wrist watch and the naked eye can see it move! Ounce
for ounce it’s rougher than the giant Dynaflash Straight Eight
engine that bullets your Buick along with such effortless ease.
For each individual, 100-plus horsepower Valve-in-Head
Engine is balanced, after assembly, by Buick’s exclusive Micro-
poising process; smoothing its velocity to velvet bringing it
to a point 8 to 16 times closer to sheer perfection than ever
before attained in any car engine.
In addition to Buick’s miracle smoothness, you get a bigger,
solider, time-defying chassis . . . the cushioned ride of BuiCoil
Springing on all four wheels plus Independent Front Wheel
Suspension . . . the luxury of Buick’s richly-furnished Body
by Holden together with a whole host of new improvements
that makes Buick, this year, its unbeatable best.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN ’S LIMITED
Buick ft* 1940
Buy on the Convenient, Confidential Q. M. A. C. Payment Plan
Buy from your local
BUICK DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Buick Dealers throughout Australia
602
>
>1
J
|^4j
Give a Turn to the Wheels
of AUSTRALIAN Industry
Australia can make a most import-
ant contribution to the successful
conduct of the Empire’s war by
keeping the wheels of industry
turning. Encourage the use of
Australian products. By buying
Olympic Tyres you get the finest
tyre value obtainable and you do
a real service to Australia. Olympic
Tyres are made by
an all-Australian
Co mpa n y, em-
ploying Australian
men and Aus-
tralian money.
Choose
r s
OLYMPIC Tyres are
made by Australians
in Australia, and not
one penny of wages
or dividends goes
overseas
V.
OLYMPIC
TYRES
At all leading garages and tyre
dealers.
Olympic Tyre Distributors
PTY., LTD.,
Cnr. Crown & Stanley Sts., Sydney
track, and also had race-track in-
terests, was shot dead a little while ago
by some of his “dog” enemies, and that
did not give the sport an uplift. Nor did
the failure of some stockholders, a poli-
tical group, to file proper income-tax
returns. The result of that was to cause
the Grand Jury to make a few indict-
ments.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Tod Morgan (9.12|) looked unlucky
to lose against “Clever Henry” Burdette
(9.11 J) at West Melbourne. Burdette did
most of the things that aren’t done, from
hitting and holding to butting, and,
technically, he should have lost. It
looked, though, that otherwise he was
the better man on the night. When he
fought clean he gave Tod a torrid time.
Tod fought one of his gallant battles,
taking heavy punishment about the face
but fighting all the way.
* * * *
Mickey Miller was due to defend his
Australian bantam title against George
Smedley at Leichhardt when this
Bulletin went to the printer. Last week
Miller gave only a moderate exhibition
against the moderate pocket-size negro
A 1 Brown at Rushcutter Bay. When he
exerted himself Mickey looked a good
thing, but this was so seldom that he
won only about four rounds of the
dozen, and he mightn’t have won that
many if he hadn’t rattled A 1 with a
hearty low punch in the ninth.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Turning a
Brisbane street corner I almost ran into
a bronzed, black-eyed man who swung
along with the light walk of the lifelong
athlete. “Paddy Basto!” said the faith-
ful old memory, abolishing half a cen-
tury in a flash. Indeed, it was the dean
of Australian referees, almost as supple
and active as when he boxed an exhibition
bout with Fitzsimmons at Mick Nathan’s
Apollo Hall in Bourke-street, Melbourne,
or when he refereed the fight in which
Bill Doherty, after taking an unholy past-
ing for 12 rounds, rebounded off the rope
and knocked Felix cold with a left hook
to the jaw. Paddy’s decisions over 50
years total nearly 20,000. One of his
few regrets is that he never saw Darcy,
by reason of absence in W.A.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
o Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
In a recent article on the stance I
stressed the importance of the position
of the feet. This time I propose to
discuss the feet again, dealing with
the movements involved during the play-
ing of a shot. Sound footwork gives a
player something on which to base his
swing and a chance to build up his game
on a good foundation.
There seem to be many things that a
golfer has to remember if he is to become
reasonably good at the game, but he
should spare more than a little atten-
tion for footwork. In keeping with the
swing the feet should during the back-
and downswing have a minimum of move-
ment, being kept as firm as possible. It
will be seen that sound golfers have less
foot action than more erratic players.
Of the two feet, the left is the principal
one, for on it depends to a great ex-
tent the backswing. This foot can spoil
a player’s “wind-up” by either moving
too quickly or not fast enough. If the
left foot is free and loose, allowing the
body and hips a fuller turn, it contributes
to overswinging.
In my early days the left foot caused
me a great deal of trouble, while the
right foot frequently was an offender
also. Of the many players I have seen,
Henry Cotton appealed most as having
the soundest and simplest footwork. A
feature of his play was that the inside
of the left foot never leaves the ground
during the backswing. As he has a com-
pact and restricted swing, his foot action
is much less than that of most other
players.
The average golfer’s trouble comes
mostly from allowing the sole of the
left foot to leave the ground. This
causes the body to be thrown off balance,
control is lost, and it commences a body-
swing that is difficult to eliminate. When
a player goes up on his toes he rarely
manages to return the foot to its original
position, throwing the swing out of its
usual groove and making the ball fly
off at wild angles.
While some golfers thrive on others’
mistakes, one must, to play consistently,
have his feet under control. Photo-
graphs of old-time golfers show them well
up on their left toe at the top of the
backswing—much more awkward-look-
ing than modern players. But it must
be remembered that in those days a long
drive was 190 yards, and their chance
of error was much smaller with the ball
travelling 100 yards less than it does to-
day. With long hitters approaching the
300-yard mark, the slightest error is
greatly accentuated compared with a 200-
yard hit, for the further a slice or hook
travels the more off the line it goes.
• ••••«
Every leading golfer has his own par-
ticular style of footwork. H. W. Hattersley
is a good example. The long-hitting
Sydney amateur has sound action. Of
all the outstanding players he has the
least foot movement. Aiding his style
of play with a fairly short backswing,
it will be noticed that at the top of the
backswing the left heel is only just raised
off the ground, leaving two-thirds of
the sole gripping the ground. While such
a minimum of action may not suit other
golfers, it shows what can be done.
My left foot has moved slightly more
than this by the time the club has reached
the horizontal. I concentrate upon the
inside o£ the foot gripping the ground
when such a position has been reached.
On commencing the downswing the foot
immediately returns to its normal posi-
tion and is ready to take the weight-
transference. The left knee should bend
in toward the right, gradually bringing
with it the rolling-in of the foot as the
backswing progresses. In other words,
the foot is more eased from the ground
than lifted. Some of the great golfers,
particularly Bobby Jones, rise on to their
toes at impact with the ball, but 90 per
cent, of the champions have a firm grip
of the ground.
The right foot plays a much lesser part
in the swing than the left. While both
feet have the weight equally distributed
at the address, a good portion of one’s
weight is transferred over on to the right
foot during. the backswing, which
straightens the leg, bracing it gradually
during the process. Coming down to the
ball, the right side slowly relaxes in
toward the left, and at impact the right
heel begins to leave the ground, rolling
inward to start with before coming right
off the turf, the only contact then being
with the toes.
• • •
Most golfers with poor foot action are
inclined to overdo the raising of the
left foot from the ground on the back-
swing ; this was a mistake of mine in
the past which gave me a body-sway
resulting in bouts of hooking as well as
never being able to use the straighter-
faced clubs. While there is a medium
in most things, the left foot cannot be
left on the ground going back, nor must
it be raised too much. The ideal is to
have the feeling that the inside of that
foot is gripping the ground. The right
foot usually takes care of itself. Some-
times, however, it rises a little too early,
coming off the ground before the im-
pact.
Miscellaneous
“S.T.S.”: Bradman’s aggregate of 738
runs and average of 105 were both easily
the best in Adelaide club cricket. Waite,
who has learned a lot from the English
tour, had a double in bowling—most
wickets 49, best average 16.1. The war
possibly had something to do with the
club premiership going to West Torrens,
the side which has Hamence and the
Ridings brothers; for, with Pellew re-
enlisting, and so not carrying on as
captain-coach of the Colts, Grimmett
took over that job, and Bradman’s Ken-
sington lot missed him greatly. It is West
Torrens’s fifth premiership in eight
seasons, and the Walsh Cup becomes
West’s outright.
For West Torrens R. A. Hamence
scored 581 runs, averaging 72. Though
he began this season with a timely 99
against Victoria, the young man’s Shef-
field Shield feats were not quite so good
as expected.
* * * *
Rain prevented play on what was to
have been the last day of the Sydney
club premiership matches. Bill O’Reilly's
team, St. George, remained on top, with
Petersham, which claims Barnes and
Pepper, runners-up. All three were
country born and reared; and so, of
course, were McCabe and Bradman.
* * * *
Fitzroy, after a fluctuating V.C.A. final
with Melbourne, took the honors. The
match was determined on the first innings,
and Fitzroy won by seven runs; 231
to 224. ’Roy was on the road to out-
right success when the game ended; its
second innings produced 225, and Mel-
bourne lost 8 for 149. C. Ruddell (76)
and Sievers (3 for 25) were Fitzroy’s
best men.
* * * *
Passed on in Adelaide at 83 Joe Sharp,
a great old-time oarsman who for years
was secretary to S.A. Rowing Association.
He was nearly half a century with the
Harris Scarfe Co., played against Vic.
in S.A.’s first inter-State football match,
and was a singer in Adelaide Orpheus
Society.


ŵ
a
Modernise your home or shop. Enjoy
the comforts and conveniences that
make life worth living.
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING PLANTS
0
M.V. PETROL ENGINE
Sweet running vertical type that gives
lasting service and cuts power costs to
a minimum. Instant all-weather start-
ing. Totally enclosed. Dust and grit
cannot enter the working parts and
cause unnecessary wear. The accu-
rately balanced crankshaft eliminates
all vibration, stress and strain. Obtain-
able in 2 4 and 3 h.p.
M.V. DIESEL ENGINE
will give you reliable horsepower for all
purposes, because fully balanced crank-
shaft reduces vibration and ensures
smooth running at all speeds. All parts
are totally enclosed, dustproof and oil-
tight. The cyclonic Turbulence Head en-
sures complete combustion and lower fuel
consumption. Obtainable in 4 h.p.,
6 h.p., and 8 h.p. models.
ẁ
FILL IN THIS COUPON NOW—Cut out and Post.
Please give me full particulars of (1) Lighting Plants to operate
lights, (2) Petrol Engines, (3) Diesel Engines, without obligation.
Name
Address
Phone: FL5214 (6 lines)
Telegrams: “Virtue,” Sydney.
ẃ
ft ni
mi
n
1-25 PALMER,ST,, SYDNEY,.BOX 15848, O.P,
ALSO AT BRISBANE AND BONG REACH. QUEENSLAND.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS: 44 BRIDGE STREET (Opp. Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.).
JOHNSON IRON HORSE
GENERATOR
ẅ
Electric Light For
Your Home Costs
Only 1/- Per Week*
* Electricity for Lighting
* Power for RADIO
* Power for Battery Charging
* 300 Watts • 12 Volts
Lights 12-25 Watt Globes. Don’t be any longer without
the boon of today’s civilisation —Electric tight, which is now
available to everyone with this low-priced dependable generator.
Charging operates immediately the electric starting button is
pressed, and by turning a knob the output is controlled from
nothing to 300 watts. Electric Light (with the Johnson
Generator) costs you less than the messy, dangerous, old-
fashioned lamps—you can use three lights for 3| hours every
night at a cost of approximately 1/- per week.
Here are some important features: 300 watts —12 volts—
lights 12-25 watt globes—electric starting—full-range control
—special built-in generator powered by a Johnson Iron Horse
four-cycle petrol engine—automatic cut-out disconnects when
not running—quiet operation—minimum vibration —shielded
ignition—suction carburettor.
m
■Ji
HOME
i/mm
wireless
With Batteries,
£46/5/-.
Approx, cost per
Point for material
only 12/6. Ship-
ping weight, 1001 b.
Write for illus-
trated leaflet giving
complete details.
Cash Price
(Not including batteries),
£37/10/-
NOCK t KIRBY Ltd.,
417-421, also 188-194 A, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lie Empire’s staying
power will be best
assisted by keeping
production going . . .
In some of its aspects, the present war is in
market! contrast to its predecessor. Far greater
importance, for example, attaches to the organisation
and maintenance of resources such as food and raw
materials, which while not directly of military
character nevertheless are the backbone of
military power.
So it is that Australia’s capacity for effective
participation in war has been greatly increased. In
addition to manpower and armaments, her great
primary production will aid in greater measure to
stiffen the Empire’s sinews of war.
That is why the many forms of co-operation
extended by the Rural Bank to the man on the land
represent nothing less than national service. Your
support of the Bank increases that capacity for
service, helps Australia’s “contribution to victory,”
and bestows the advantages of efficient banking
facilities.
A cheque account may be opened at any Branch
of the Rural Bank. Interest-bearing fixed deposits
are also accepted.
Rural Bank
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE; MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS


u
The memory
of a pleasant,
well - cooked
meal lingers.
Diners at the
HOIEL PLAZA
WYNYARD
are served with a smile . . . pleasant
waitresses, expert service, and your
Grill, or Chicken, or Fish cooked
to a turn.
And speaking of Fish, we recommend
this week: —
Whole Bream 1 Boiled or Fried.
Whole Whiting I Served with our
Fillets of Flathead [daily Business
Barge Garfish ) Bunch for 1/3
'i Courses, Etc.
Delicious freshly-caught Fish is
served with every meal at the
leading House for FISH MEALS.
w
WYNYARD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“Everything Happens at Night”
Sydney Regent is back to its old form
with a tiptop bill. First half includes a
smartly-paced crime opus, an excellent
Disney Silly Symphony, and a topnotch
stage display by five contortionists, acro-
bats, athletes or what-you-will, compar-
able with the best seen for a couple of
years, including tumbler pigeons and the
monks, at Taronga.
Main item is a Sonja Henie confection
with the little lady as stunning and
dimpled as ever. There’s a not un-
pleasant froth of a yarn about two news-
hounds chasing a fugitive from the wicked
Gestapo all over a couple of Alps to get
his views on troubles in Yurrup, but
finding that his daughter Sonja is a sight
more interesting than furrun affairs.
There’s only one lashing of Sonja’s skat-
ing, and an excellent one it is. She
chases herself around the pillars of a
frozen ballroom and skims and glides
over the open patches with more grace
and agility than the dragon-fly hovering
over the creek-pools in the back paddock.
jp * * *
“He Married His Wife”
The ingredients for a tophole comedy
are in this Sydney Century offering—
divorcee laying for her ex-husband for
another stretch of matrimony with him,
while he is blissfully trying to marry her
off to an oil-hunter from Persia to release
him from forking out alimony every
month. It’s funny enough, but it’s not
the rib-buster that players like Cary
Grant and Irene Dunne could have
made it. Joel McCrae, Lyle Talbot and
Nancy Kelly, filling the main parts, are
not strong in comedy; Mary Boland,
Roland Young and Cesar Romero pro-
vide guffaws when opportunity offers.
Support, “Years Without Days,” has
John Garfield as a lag who has a day out
of clink on parole, and takes the blame
for a murder committed by his girl-
friend. Pat O’Brien as warden, Garfield
and Anne Sheridan turn in quietly
dramatic portrayals a good deal better
than any of them has offered for some
time.
* * * *
“Vigil in the Night”
A sentimental film of a sentimental
story by A. J. Cronin. Showing at Sydney
Plaza, it’s about a nurse who takes the
blame for her sister’s mistake, starts at
another hospital and is thrown out for
knocking back the advances of one of
the directors, returns to redeem herself by
courage, nobleness and devotion to duty.
There’s a ’andsome young doctor in
the piece and a pompous old fleshpot
who won’t part up with any oof to fit the
hospital out with modern equipment until
his own cheild is saved from an untimely
finish by the courage, nobleness and
devotion to duty of a nurse. War breaks
out at the finish, Mr. Chamberlain makes
a speech and everyone goes back to work
with fresh bursts of courage, nobleness
and devotion to duty.
Carole Lombard is the nurse, Brian
Aherne the doctor; both are much more
entertaining when they’re being funny.
* * * #
“Return at Dawn”
Not 3 complete success, but an interest-
ing picture, this is a French attempt to
screen a Vicki Baum novel.
A stationmaster in a small town out-
side Budapest gets two of his heart’s
desires —Anita, a simple village maiden,
to wife, and the inclusion of his station
as a stopping-place for the Budapest ex-
press, which has hitherto sped past with
sublime indifference. The first occasion
on which the express stops there is a gala
day in the village, and Anita catches
sight of a handsome young man at a
carriage window and dreams about him.
Next day she receives a telegram saying
that a rich aunt has died in Buda and
has left her a fortune. She goes to col-
lect it by the 6 a.m. train, with the
resolute intention of returning by the
6.12 that evening. In Budapest she runs
against the rich young squire, who
implores her not to return too hastily
but enjoy the delights of the city. Before
she gets back to the quiet life again her
lively experiences include being regis-
tered at a posh pubbery as the wife of
a member of an international ring of
thieves, and being arrested.
The story is too full of improbable
situations, but Danielle Darrieux gives a
fi ne study of the conflicting urges mt e
b r east of the village wife, and e res
tbe actin § cen .
‘ * „
A Penny Dreadful Film m
The British film ‘ Clouds Oyer Europe,
which has had a popular hearing
iu on ® place and another in Aus-
tralia, is present writer s idea of a firs -
r ate > tiptop, up-to-the-mmute P e ouy
dreadful. But there is a difference. Tie
penny dreadfuls of the present commen-
fte 00 s p«Sr, «?e gory and
splendid, they really cost a penny
and £ didn , t think them drea dful. They
written by miserable hacks in
“Keep that fool still!"
Grub-street or the Bowery for a pittance,
were printed on poor paper and execrably
illustrated. But, since words are only
symbols for associations, and every boy
has in his imagination the wherewithal to
interpret their simple message, they
were just as satisfying as “Clouds Over
Europe,” which probably cost more to
produce than all the penny dreadfuls
that were ever printed.
The literary gods of this commentator’s
youth could conjure up a picture in a
single sentence with a minimum of effort
and an infinitesimal amount of ink and
paper. To perform a similar feat the
film producers require great stretches of
actual country, real aerodromes, ships,
cities, telephone exchanges, bomb ex-
plosions and enough machinery to supply
two British navies.
Their characters have to be paid, not
only when they are working, but when
they are sleeping ; and months before the
filmgoer has a perception about them
they have been drawing their salaries and
even signing long contracts, like Clark
Gable, who has recently been offered
£l7OO a week to entertain us.
The characters in the penny dreadful
didn’t have to be paid at all, could be
taken on and sacked at a moment’s
notice, could make no claims under
workers’ compensation or widows’ en-
dowment and never got into the divorce
courts to create scandals for their em-
ployers.
In “Clouds Over Europe” nobody has
to use his imagination, and it certainly
can’t be said to weave over its audience
the spell of the old-time penny dreadful.
But it is full of modern gadgets—and few
can deny the fascination of modern gad-
gets—and it is a demonstration of sinful
man’s power over his physical environ-
ment, even if it is a reflection on his
intelligence.
* * * *
Newsreels
A very decent and moving account by
Cinesound of the late M. J. Savages
funeral in Maoriland is the best item
offering on current State and Newsluxe
bills ; the worst is a stretch of film show-
ing a batch of Hollywood wenches done
out in various furs and trailing on leashes
behind them the live animals represent-
ing each fur. The young women, drag-
ging unconcernedly on the leashes, are
half-strangling the animals, while a fox
and a squirrel and a couple of other
poor brutes are swung along right off the
ground for most of the time.
The fine work the Navy has been do-
ing over the past few days gives point
to a depiction of manoeuvres off Malta.
* * * *
“Rio,” at Sydney Capitol, has Basil
Rathbone as French financier sent to a
penal colony on a tropic island. He
leaves bewchus wife behind him and is
obsessed with the idea of escaping and
returning to her. While Rathbone is in
view the film is good ; while his wife
monopolises the scene it’s dreadful- she
goes from Paris to Rio to be near him or
something and there bawls out her heart
in sentimental ditties in a night club.
Sigrid Gurie is the lady, and the only
thing more distressing than her singing
is her acting.
* * * *
“Little Old New York,” going the
rounds, is the kind of thing which
Hollywood does remarkably well. It’s
a not very serious version of the history
of Robert Fulton, one of the earliest
investigators into the possibilities of
driving boats by steam instead of by
sail. As the film has it, Fulton (Richard
Greene) returned to America from Eng-
land, dug in at a harborside pub run
by a seductive young landlady (Alice
Faye), fell heavily for the daughter
(Brenda Joyce) of his patron (Henry
Stephenson) and detailed a rough young
shipbuilder (Fred Mac Murray) to build
the boat for him. All sorts of trials and
vicissitudes beset him before the boat
paddles its way down the harbor. Film
is colorful and well-paced, and with a
good line of comedy; Greene hasn’t
amounted to much since he made his
first appearance, but he hasn’t lost any
ground either.
STAGE AND CONCERT
The Gregan McMahon Players’ latest
offering at Melbourne King’s is Paul
Osborn’s fantasy, “On Borrowed Time.”
Norman Tucker is admirable in the
main role, which depends on the actor’s
ability to reconcile ideas on life and
time with such situations as the one in
which he shoots an insane asylum official
through the stomach in order to convince
him (the asylum official) that he (the
asylum official) can’t be killed. The
play—all on the same eccentric lines —
was right into McMahon’s hands. In
a small-boy part Frank Hahn made a
first appearance without faltering.
H: * * #
“Graduation Ball,” which Col. de Basil
put on at Melb. Majesty’s last week, has
little to differentiate it from preceding
opuses with the Viennese romantic touch.
There is some dancing by Stepanova,
Leskova and Riabouchinska which is
extremely lovely, and there is a highly
amusing dance-step competition between
Denisova and Moulin, two well-nourished
ladies who yet succeed in looking as light
as thistledown.
“Le Coq d’Or” is Pushkin’s well-
known fairy story spoiled, but Ria-
bouchinska as the Golden Cockerel more
than makes up for the damage done.
* * * *
In his second Melbourne Town Hall
concert Prof. Schneevoigt conducted his
team through Wagner, Berlioz, Sibelius
and Liszt. Soloist Eric Landerer made
a showy job of the Liszt E Minor
Concerto.
* # * *
A full house attended Prof. Schnee-
voigt’s Finnish relief concert, on the
same lines as his Sydney effort in the
same cause, composers being all fellow-
countrymen. Much lovelier music has
been seldom heard.
4: * *
The Great North China Troupe of
acrobats and equilibrists is the major
attraction of a strong bill at Melbourne
Tivoli. A neater, cleaner turn hasn’t
been seen in that playhouse for a long
time. One of them sits on seven chairs.
Knight James Barrett holds the record
for this kind of feat, but he sits on a
different chair every night of the week ;
the Celestial equilibrist sits on his all
at once. Ann Suter, the Original Girl
from Dixie, is back again with her
faculties unimpaired. She goes down
well, and there is more of her to go down
than there was 10 years ago. Syd Beck
is the leading comedian.
Artbursts.
Twenty or so members of the Aus-
tralian Academy of Art are represented
in a show in aid of the Red Cross at the
Sedon Galleries, Melbourne. E. Buck-
master, Longstaff, Heysen, Septimus
Power, James Quinn and others all send
typical examples. Harry B. Harrison
sends a pleasant landscape, “The White
Gum.” Modernist Arnold Shore re-
lapses into orthodoxy for the occasion
in a still-life of roses.
* * * *
Some of Roy Parkinson’s drawings of
the Russian ballet, showing in the ornate
foyer of His Majesty’s, Melbourne, look
like swift glimpses of something moving
pinned rapidly down on paper, but the
majority are far too pretentious and
painstaking to pass as impressions.
Where he attempts to say a little he gives
an effect of movement. Where he tries
much he achieves less than nothing.
* *- * *
Every artist worth his salt is an ex-
perimenter, and Phyl Waterhouse, Arthur
Read and Charles Bush, showing their
wares at Riddell’s Galleries, Melbourne,
are three products of the National Gal-
lery school who are obviously trying to
do something. But they are confronted
with the possibility, if they climb out
of one pit, of falling into another. Mr.
Read is flirting with varous forms of
expressionism, and his friends are
glancing in the same direction. Few of
their attempts merit exhibition more
than the average pupil’s, and Mr. Bush’s
“Sussannah and the Elders,” in which a
typically academic female nude is turned
into a subject picture by the device of
giving her the background of a bush
and painting a few old men’s heads
behind it, is the least successful. Some
loosening up on the tradition is shown
in some of the landscapes.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
m
■x V
i %
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S^ringwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do noth-
ing about them. Nature may be warning you
that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
in the blood, causing nagging backaches,
rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffiness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning show there is something wrong with
your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day--the remedy
that will make you well and keep you weU.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There is one man in Sydney who has
spent the last two or three months on
a labor of love. The man is Will Ashton ;
the work, arranging the Elioth Gruner
Memorial Exhibition in the National
Gallery. Sydney has probably never
seen such an effectively arranged show
of one artist’s work. Will Ashton, Direc-
tor of the National Gallery and a painter
himself, must have given long thought
to this hanging of large canvas and small
canvas, and the result is a breath-taking
panorama of the beauty of Australia.
For Gruner, whose forebears were
Norwegian, whose childhood was spent
in Maoriland, travelled north and south,
east and west of this . land for his in-
spiration. By Will’s permission, and
some of the time in his company, this
Letter drifted about the exhibition last
Thursday.
The show is to be opened by B. J.
Waterhouse this afternoon, and as the
visitor enters the doorway he will see
at the far end of the room the exquisite
beauty of the Canberra landscape painted
for Miss Eadith Walker. This was so
admired by the Duke of Gloucester that
Parliamentary powers had it reproduced
as the cover of the menu of the official
dinner given to H.R.H. Opposite the
melting blues and greens of “The Tweed
Valley” hangs the lyrical “Spring Frost.”
This is a glimpse of the Emu Plains
country. Wal Taylor, who drifted up
from the academy show in the Education
Buildings, remembered that Gruner had
told him that the cold of the mornings
was so sharp that his numb fingers could
scarcely hold the brushes.
Mr. White, of Exeter, who owned this
large painting, has, since Gruner’s death,
presented it to the gallery. Did you
know the painter’s home? That little
cottage that hung to a cliffside garden
at Waverley? If you did you will recog-
nise some of the interiors. You will
recognise the table and the chairs and
an old French vase.
There’s a bit of the Kendall country
painted from Kendall’s cottage. On the
left as you go in the door is a small
gem of the Yass district. That is Wal
Taylor’s. There’s a still-life owned by
Gordon Esling. It shows a dinner table
in a cafe. Gruner sketched that one
night in Paris. There’s a shimmering
blue bit of Mosman called “Dream
Bay.” There’s the still-life, porcelain
jar and a corner of a painting that usually
hangs above the mantel in the Bill
Buckles’ home. Here’s a jacaranda tree
with the light behind it; there are some
New England poplars ; there’s the Skillion,
at Terrigal. Everywhere is beauty, and
B. J. Waterhouse will make you free
of it at three o’clock this afternoon.
This Letter’s friend Hugh McCrae sent
a gift of his newest book of poems. This
is bound like gladsome autumn in russet-
brown, and has a tiny golden piping
figure on its front cover. Inside there
is a drawing of Hugh by daughter Mahdi.
Among the sweets of this book are old
delights: “Mimshi-Maiden” and some of
the songs from “Ship of Heaven.” Say
these lines to yourself in between the
shrapnel screams, the bursting of bombs,
the pounding of guns that are the world’s
three-times-a-day radio broadcasts. They
will make you dream you are in Arcady •
Little fishes
Have their wishes:
Shadows kiss their fellow-shadows.
Ponies shake and leap for pleasure,
Turning over
In the clover,
Fat and full of summer treasure.
A Bulletin man asked this Letter last
week: “What sort of audience do the
Gilbert and Sullivan operas get?” After
pondering, the answer is: “Not so fluffy
or so apparently a gilt-edged one as ballet
and grand opera, but a tremendously
intelligent, twinkling and, you might say,
well-established professional class.” Lots
of the men in the audience look like
lawyers. Gilbert has just the sort of
white-is-black and black-is-white twist to
his ideas that would tickle learned
counsel. Lots of bright girls and boys
go to these shows. Front-rankers when
brains were given out you can tell by
their quick bursts of laughter. Music-
lovers go, too, because, by and large,
where are you to find music more
melodic, more emotion-stirring, as fitting
to the mood and word as hand to glove
as that of Arthur Sullivan?
Once you have heard Cynthia Parsons
talk air travel nothing will satisfy you
but to rush off and book a passage to
somewhere through space. If the budget
won’t let you do that you’ll go around
sneaking all available booklets and
pamphlets about ’plane and flying-ship.
Cynthia’s voice was well known to radio
listeners in Adelaide and Melbourne be-
fore she evolved for herself her present
job of torch-bearer to dwellers in dark-
ness who still prosaically travel by land
or sea. In the course of her duties she
talks miles of words to clubs, women’s,
men’s, boys’, girls’. She talks to sor-
optomists, Masons, English-Speaking
Unionists, Rotarians, or to any gathering
of the human race desirous of hearing
about flying from the ground upwards.
She will take you a tour of Mascot
and show you the accommodation for
travellers: weighing-in rooms (not you,
madame, your luggage), dining-rooms,
and so on. Then you can get a close-up
of the hangars. Mechanics will tell you
about screws and bolts. You can see
the meats being carved for lunch on the
airliners, and arranged in containers. In
short, there is no mystery left, and you
feel that Polly as well as Peter can fly
away without any timorous tremors.
Cynthia now works for Air Lines of
Australia and Australian National Air-
ways, but she has just engaged herself
to Dr. George J. Whitfield, of Dutton
Park, Brisbane. Cynthia’s parents are
the Langdon Parsons, of Halton Gar-
dens, Adelaide. Falk photograph.
The Women Pioneers twice last week
entertained vice-regals. The first Gover-
nor’s lady to drop in was Lady Muriel
Barclay-Harvey. One of her ancestors is
William Cox, a miniature of whom hangs
in the clubroom. Our own Lady Wake-
hurst went along about morning-tea time
last Thursday and unveiled the portraits
of Queen Elizabeth and Queen Mary
which had been sent from London by
Mrs. Hope Johnston. Mrs. Hope John-
ston, a Pioneers’ vice-president, sent with
the pictures a message from Queen
Elizabeth that should she visit us again
she will be glad to go to the clubrooms
and see the signed portrait of herself
on its walls. Queen Mary also signed
her picture, and the two portraits are
framed in gold leaf, the frames topped
by a crimson cushion supporting a
crown.
There was quite a rally of the mem-
bers, who all admired (as what woman
of taste wouldn’t?) the yellow Breton
sailor on Lady Wakehurst’s dark head.
President of the society Mrs. Wentworth
Grayson was smart in a dark sapphire
bolero suit and high-crowned sapphire
hat. The society’s former president, Mrs.
W. A. Lingham, and its founder, Carlotta
Doyle, were in the company.
Set in the turmoil of Darlinghurst is
the island of peace called the Hospice
for the Dying. That the gentle work of
the ministrants to life’s weary and worn
may continue, a steadfast committee
works throughout the year. Last week
the Wentworth ballroom was gay with
music and fashion and chatter that the
institution in Darlinghurst might retain
its atmosphere of waiting calm. Six mem-
bers of the Metropolitan Fire Brigade
band were the afternoon’s musicians,
while graceful girls displayed autumn
fashions, and three hundred women dis-
cussed them in animated fashion. Clever
and popular Josephine Marks organised
the success. During the afternoon six
of the hospice nurses sold sweets.
High Commissioner for the United
Kingdom Geoffrey Whiskard and his wife
held a smoke-oh, so to speak, right in the
midst of the naval battle off Norway.
Cocktails were served in the Gloucester
room of the Australia, where the Whis-
kards were staying during their Sydney
visit, and more than 100 guests, including
the Consul-General for Sweden, C. O.
De Dardel, and his wife, were present.
Lady Whiskard’s black-and-white check
taffetas were sashed in mulberry. The
Consul-General for Greece and his good-
looking wife, black velvet her frock, were
there; so were China’s Consul-General
and his wife. Consul-General for France
Jean Tremoulet was an important; so
was America’s Consul-General T. M.
Wilson. Canada’s Trade Commissioner
Moore Cosgrave and Mrs. Cosgrave
were others at a party that was sifted
over with Consuls.
Sydney journalists forsook the pen for
the ballroom last Saturday. The thir-
teenth of the month, and it a stormy
night, did not deter them. In their
hundreds they trekked out to Grace
Brothers’ Auditorium and were merry
and glad. One lady would have won
Winston Churchill’s approval. She went
as a rabbit. But she didn’t run away.
Nobody wanted her to. Mollie Dye and
Mrs. R. M. Coghlan were the secretaries
for this twelfth yearly flutter of the
city’s writers. President of the com-
mittee was K. Hardy. He was a Mexican
bandit, Mrs. Hardy a dainty pantaletted
early-Victorian. J. C. James was one of
the night’s hosts. An effective lady of the
harem was Mrs. J. E. Davenport—green
and gold her color scheme. Deep blue
net besprinkled with sequins and
appliqued with silver stars turned Mrs.
C. C. Faulkner into “Night.” Maori
chief Toheroa was an added good taste
to the saucy night.
Pretty Kath Menzies is one of the
band of bright girls whose days and
evenings are spent raising money for
the Lord Mayor’s Fund. Under the
leadership of Sheila Tonkin they will
organise anything from a cocktail party
to a coconut shy for the cause. Last
week’s effort was a night at Luna Park.
Here the workers sold balloons, hostessed
a skittle alley, and ushered to a ghost
train. The next big thing on the list
is a mannequin parade, and the crescendo
of the month’s effort will be the ‘'Holly-
wood” premiere of “Gone With the
Wind.” (Norton Trevaire photograph.)
For this the fierce arc lights will beat
upon the fafade of the St. James. One set
of vice-regals, if not both sets, will pace
the red carpet into the theatre; radio
pussonalities will be as thick as petals
on a dahlia. Altogether April 30 is worth
noting on your calendar. Incidentally,
Nancy Burleigh is the curly-headed,
smart-as-paint publicity officer, and
Beatrice McGirr, who takes to learning
as easily as a water-lily blooms on a
lagoon (she’s an M.A. and a third-year law-
student), one of the up-and-coming group.
In downpours of rain Morna Mac-
kenzie became Mrs. Phil Ashton. By
this time everybody has read that Morna
is a Glasgow girl who came to Australia
as secretary to Lady Wakehurst. There-
fore the wedding was a vice-regal pro-
duction, and the first act was at All
Saints’ Church, Sutton Forest, the second
at the Governor’s residence, Hill View.
The Ashton marrieds and their family
connections were among the wedding
guests. Morna’s cousin Frances Balfour
(her mother was well known in Dunedin,
Maoriland) was one of the bridesmaids.
The Hon. Henrietta Loder also ’maided.
Bride wore white satin, a sherbet of
tulle veiling and lovely pearls, and looked
as bright as a spring flower. The ivory
velvet frocks (a suggestion of the medieval
about them) of the bridesmaids were
pictorial, and in their hair they wore
knots of gardenias tied with ivory veive
ribbons. Lady Wakehurst’s green trocx
had a matching jacket, its cuffs fur-edged.
Her hat, small and erect, was brown.
To enable ex-servicemen to brighten
up their medals for the Anzac Day march
the Returned Soldiers’ League advises
that ribbons are available at a very
nominal cost. Address, Wingello House,
Sydney.
Jessica Lee, back in Sydney after five
years in London, tells that the last person
she said good-bye to before she sailed
for the Southern Cross was Sister M.
Anthony, a sister of Oscar Asche. She
is one of a small religious community
whose convent is on Tyburn Hill of
martyr history.
The Welsh Choir provides a melodic
interlude in “The Corn Is Green,” the
Independents’ show which opened last
Saturday. Mary Hosking did one of her
best acting jobs as Miss Moffatt, the
founder of the tiny school, in the midst
of a coalmining centre, whose boys “at
12 go into the mines and in a week are
old men.” Sumner Locke Elliott as
Morgan Evans, her brilliant find, has
acquired a Welsh accent. It is authentic,
because Dick Parry, of Welsh descent,
coached him.
Margaret Preston’s Sunday-afternoon
parties are becoming famous. Since she
and her husband (his smile would be his
fortune in Hollywood) have made Nellie
Stewart’s old home, near Bradley’s Head,
theirs, the spot has become a meeting-
place for the arts. Last Sunday one
guest of honor (and he took away one
of Margaret’s woodcuts to prove it) was
Douglas Barry, who has just won the
Fletcher Watson prize for landscape.
This Letter, also voted a guest of
honor, is now the richer by one of Mar-
garet’s exquisite bits of work. Only
fair to point out that in this case win-
ning the prize was like getting a verdict
from a packed jury. The room was filled
with old friends.
An Australian (Mrs. Sterling Levis) in
the midst of war’s alarums and excursions
drops a note that is as peaceful as a
basket of primroses:
We flew to the Scilly Islands today,
from Penzance, to see the daffodils, which
are really lovely. On Easter Saturday we
went to the London Philharmonic concert
in the Queen’s Hall. Conductor was Sir
Thomas Beecham. Joan Hammond sang
an aria from Handel’s “Alcinia.” Old
teachers Dino Borgioli and Spencer Thomas
were in the audience. I heard Molly
de Gunst as Elvira at the Sadler’s Wells
production of “Don Giovanni.”
London is unperturbed in spite of the
war. Theatres and cinemas have practically
all opened again. Even the blackout
does not worry us very much. The crocuses
in Hyde Park are gorgeous. They were
the gift of the Dutch Government to
mark the coronation. White, purple,
orange, striped—a dazzling display. The
London florists’ shops are waves of tulips,
hyacinths and azaleas. In the country
lanes banks are spangled with primroses.
I am doing some work at a canteen —the
King George and Queen Elizabeth Victoria
League Club for Overseas Service Men —
bed, bath and breakfast for 2s. 6d. The
club was formerly the College Hall of the
London University and the residential
quarters for women students. Sometimes
we have as many as 400 soldiers for
breakfast or dinner —and the washing up!
But I’m glad of the chance to help.
Miles [doctor son] has passed his first
examination in eye work. He is studying
at Moorfields, and is very interested.
The Sydney R.S.P.C.A. on May 2 will
open its annual campaign for funds
throughout N.S.W. The society doesn’t
aim so much to punish offenders after
the cruelty as to prevent the inhumane
treatment of dumb friends, which would
be more frequent but for the existence
of this vigilant organisation. The object
of the “Be Kind to Animals Week”
(May 2 to 8) is to secure more new
friends, particularly children, for the
dumb creatures who serve brother man
so faithfully.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
w SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 377 of 1939.
BETWEEN FLORENCE VICTORIA GOD-
WIN Petitioner
And CEDRIC CECIL GODWIN Re-
spondent.
TO CEDRIC CECIL GODWIN late of Tyring-
ham.
NOTICE that the said FLORENCE
VICTORIA GODWIN has commenced a suit
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
ot marriage on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the twenty-eighth day of June next
and in the event of you not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free
ot charge.
DATED this twenty-ninth day of March,
One thousand nine hundred and forty
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
MACKENZIE & BIDDULPH. sSfotS'for
the Petitioner, Bradley Street, Guyra; by their
Agents, Biddulph & Salenger, Solicitors, Sel-
borne Chambers, 174 Phillip Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 505 of 1940.
BETWEEN JAMES STEPHEN BARHAM
Petitioner
And CLARICE AMY BARHAM Re-
spondent.
TO CLARICE AMY BARHAM late of 14
Corrimal Street Wollongong.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JAMES
STEPHEN BARHAM has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Third day of * July One thousand
nine hundred and forty and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit will be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of April, One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
RUSSELL & McLELLAND, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 116 Crown Street, Wollongong;
by their Agents, Barker & Jones, 39 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 376 of 1940.
BETWEEN EVA JANE McPHERSON
Petitioner
And DONALD GEORGE McPHERSON
Respondent.
TO DONALD GEORGE McPHERSON late
of Canley Vale.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EVA JANE
McPHERSON has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Fifth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and forty and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of April, One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
OSBORNE M. ALLEN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
O JOHN JOSHUA MANN formerly of
Longreach in the State of Queensland but
whose present whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
ommenced against you in the Supreme Court
f Queensland at Brisbane in the State of
>ueensland by writ of summons numbered 161
f 1940 by ANNIE ESTHER MARGARET
IANN your wife in which she claims a dis-
alution of her marriage with you and by her
etition filed herein she alleges that in or
bout the month of June One thousand nine
undred and thirty-one you without cause de-
nted her and have continuously so deserted
er for five years and upwards AND IT HAS
EEN ORDERED that service of the said writ
nd petition on you be effected by the publi-
ation of this notice once in “The Bulletin”
nee in “The Telegraph” and once in “The
,ongreach Leader” newspapers published in
vdney in the State of New South Wales and
risbane and Longreach in the State of Queens-
ind respectively and by filing and sticking up
copy of this Notice in the Registry of the
aid Court.
IF YOU DESIRE TO DEFEND this action
ou must within thirty days after the per-
armance of the last of the said acts enter an
ppearance at the said Registry and in default
f such appearance judgment may be entered
gainst you.
DATED this Eleventh dav of April, 1940.
J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
JOHN H. FEATHER, Solicitor, National
Mutual Life Building, 293 Queen Street, Bris-
Melbourne
Chatter
Tableaux vivants with embellishments
took place on the Grong Grong front
for the French Red Cross. The idea
of the tableaux was a good one, and
there was nothing lacking in the spectacle
of production —the dais in the ballroom,
a large gilded picture frame, a “glass”
of gauze to soften the light within the
frame, attention to detail regarding
posture and costume of the models, etc.
For each tableau the curtains were
drawn aside by two young ouvreuses in
maidenly white, Marick de Collongues
and Tony Salmon, Tony so sunburned
that she’s like a Tahitian.
The only thing wrong with the tableaux
was that one did not see enough of
them. Whereas the lightning few seconds
given to each was all too short, the
discourse that followed on the history
of each picture in the professorial tones
of Dr. A. C. Taylor was far too long.
Mile. Liliane Gay should have been
soloist for the British and French anthems,
but was done out of her innings, for the
general public joined in and practically
swamped her. Madame Cockerton made
a rapid opening speech in French, sud-
denly pulled herself up, covered with
blushes, and started all over again in
English. Sir Winston and Lady Dugan
sat with Madame Crivelli, a grande
dame in black, Mrs. Tom Smith, in
striped tarlatan, and this city’s No. 1
pair of good scouts, the Lord Mayor and
his helpmate.
Other parts of the house were also
crowded. In the billiard-room ex-tourists
who have trotted through Monte Carlo
aired their knowledge of betting on the
dozens, the odds and evens, etc., around
the activities of two amateur croupiers
with correct accents, assisted by a third,
Harold Brockhoff, who can’t speak
French but knows how they do things
in a casino. For a while the profits of
the bank ( i.e ., the French Red Cross)
were interfered with by Mrs. Gil Ward,
whose system was in working order.
Don Watson, a young man with a use-
ful loud voice, filled the bookie’s bag
over his shoulder with bank takings from
the housie-housie. A fragile frock
which withstood the shuttling backwards
and forwards of a busy committee-
woman was Grace Faill’s mushroom
tulle. Catherine Neylon ventured into
the crowd in a silver lame crinoline.
Celia Weigall was in a fluffy garment
of black net.
Another batch of students was invested
with the orders of learning at Saturday’s
University Commencement. Oratorically,
Vice-Chancellor Medley excelled himself.
The honorary degree of Doctor of Laws
was conferred upon Dr. Charles Jose
Burchell, who has arts and law degrees
from the Dalhousie University, and who
is High Commissioner for Canada in
Australia. In his oration the Commis-
sioner got his own back, for his speech
had been cut down at the luncheon. In
the Wilson Hall he spoke at great length
to many more hundred people. The over-
flow from the hall was, as usual, under
the Moreton Bay fig-tree, and afterwards
everybody made tracks for tea in the
Union House, where the learned people
were gay as parakeets in their colored
hoods.
Among the bright-reds, greens and
purples the pale-pink of Professor R.
Douglas Wright was a decided change.
This popular young prof., who is succes-
sor in Physiology to Professor Osborne,
has a nickname “Panzi,” which he likes
quite well. In spite of the pastel-pink, he
sports academically, it has nothing to do
with flowers but derives from zoology—
see chimpanzee.
Among high honors conferred that
day was that of Doctor of Letters for
Alfred Hart, whose Shakspearean thesis
had to be sent to England, for no one
in the Commonwealth would presume to
compete with this learned man on his
favorite subject. Two girls who did par-
ticularly well were Airlie Smith, who
topped the law school, and Gertrude
Robinov, now M.Sc. Both are very young
to have achieved such high honors.
The Victoria League’s aftemoon-cwm-
evening party at Menzies in aid of
League war work and service achieved
the maximum amount of success with the
minimum of propaganda. The League,
which is staunchly British to its back-
bone, must have worked quietly back-
stage, for the publicity by radio and
printed word was practically nil. In the
afternoon there was an overflow of 12
bridge tables, and in the evening the floor
was crowded for dancing, when the sea-
faring element brightened things consider-
ably with its uniforms and profuse
growth of beards. One, worn by a pay-
master. was black edged with grey and
shaped like a shovel —its like has not been
seen since the days of the prophets.
Those who came to the dance had to
pass through the hands of pirates in their
pirates’ cave. They lurked at the en-
trance, wore dangly earrings, high boots,
gaudy hankies and other splashes of the
colors pirates liked in the days before
the trappings of romance were mechan-
ised by modern progress. Their booty
w’as in treasure-chests, and cbuld be had
for a shilling a plunge. Any allegiance
necessary on the part of the piratical
maidens was paid to Mrs. A. A. Taylor
and Mrs. Cairns Harper. Mrs. Marchant
Penfold was on duty from midday till
early morn, wearing for the second ses-
sion a gown of geranium broderie
Anglaise. Vaire Wilkinson’s black crino-
line was worth its allotment of space in
the crowd —her affable papa, Major
Wilkinson, was the tactful collector
of tickets, or their price, at the
door. Mrs. lan Macdonald was noticed
with her orchids worn at the difficult
angle of just over the eyebrow. Virginia
Russell was youth personified in her
gown of blue. Rosemary Lyon, in a
paler shade of satin, had an attentive sea-
roving escort. Hersey Brookes, who was
with John Langley, wore silver foxes.
Herewith a Broothorn photograph of
Mrs. Bill Cantelo —Jennie Adams until
she kept an appointment at the Little-
john Memorial Chapel last week. The
bride was in ice-blue Angora and navy
accessories, with a shoulder load of
orchids and lily-of-the-valley as her only
bit of glamor. Her sister Noela attended
in mushroom-pink with snatches of
Havana-brown. Afterwards a few very
special friends were invited to drink a
health or two at the home of the bride’s
parents. The ’groom, Lieut. W. S. Can-
telo, R.A.E., Second A.1.F., is the son
of the late William Cantelo and of Mrs.
Loftus Moran. Vernon Jones was there
to produce the ring at the right moment
for the Rev. Irving Davidson. Jennie
and Bill only recently fixed the date of
their wedding, but they have been en-
gaged since last year.
After the war knighteries and dameries
will be handed around on plates to the
wealthy people whose good works have
been most effectively publicised. But
what of those people whose lives are
frugal anyhow, and who must practise
self-denial if they feel an urge to be war-
minded? From the point of view of
the artists, the problem is a big one, but
they can always hope that the wealthy,
after the war, will want to slather them-
selves in culture and so buy a picture or
two. In the meantime, the artists are
continuing to give their pictures away in
the cause of charity, and the Australian
Academy of Art is running an art union
for the Red Cross. There are 21 prizes,
all pictures by “arrived” men and women,
and the tickets, which are ss. each, can
be obtained from Robertson and Mullins
and a whole host of artists and their
friends. Closing date is May 8. Cr.
Coles, who opened the show of the 21 at
the Sedon Galleries, spoke to the crowns
of hats. Everyone seemed to be gazing
vacantly at the floor or else pouring over
the leaves of the catalogues. But Cr.
Coles is a kingpin for tact; if his listeners
reminded him of ostriches he didn’t
say so.
A block and a bit away from the
Academicians, who are showing their
art-union prizes at the Sedon Galleries,
is the show of a triumvirate of youth -
Phyl Waterhouse, Arthur Read and
Charles Bush, who have hung their pic-
tures upon the walls of Riddell’s gal-
leries. Phyl, who is the feminine element
among the three, wore a snood and all-
black on the opening afternoon. She
and her confreres were students together
at the Gallery. This show is their first,
and their canvases are moderately-sizecl
and -priced. Friends rallied round them
on the first day, so that the stairs were
far too narrow. If Ron Riddell doesn’t
widen them some day two plump people
will get stuck. Such a pantomime hap-
pened recently on Myer’s escalator, with
results that made the girls in the store
ashamed of their own sex. The two
women customers came out in their
primitive colors ; they shrieked the place
down, and one gave the other a black
eye.
Tenaciously the ballet audiences
clapped their kid-gloved hands after
“Graduation Ball.” The curtain ran up
and down, but the crowd wanted Lichine
all alone, and wasn’t happy until it
got him. The appeal of this ballet is
the appeal of youth, its freshness and
its mirth. The dresses don’t matter
much, but the funny little pantalettes
worn by the schoolgirls of Vienna, their
bantam plaits and the puffed-out bantam-
rooster chests of the young cadets bring
a smile to the most solemn mouth.
In the first-night audience were the
Chinese Vice-Consul and Madame Tsao,
who might have stepped off a picture
postcard in her beautiful blue-grey robe
and sapphire ear pendants. Mrs. Lloyd
Brind appeared as of yore with plaits
wound round her head. Mrs. Geoff
Cohen was all set to go out walking with
Eskimos in her furred and hooded cape.
Dr. Mick Healy was there receiving some
education in the fine arts from his wife
and young daughter Helen. Eileen Ward
wrapped herself in plenitudinous furs,
as did Mrs. Thomson Tait. Pam Faulk-
ner wore stripes of many colors and
diagonal persuasion. Alice Walsh, a
visitor from Perth, had similar ideas for
her little tunic, but her stripes were per-
pendicular. Alice’s equally handsome
sister, Mrs. Kevin Sullivan, of Deloraine,
Tasmania, wore a full-length tailored
evening coat of misty-blue woollen faille.
Tennis-player of great promise Conme
Coate, who is the youngest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Coate, of Lakes
Entrance, has become engaged to lim
Wilson, youngest son of the late Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Wilson, of Muir-street, Haw-
thorn. Connie’s tennis career commenced
at school when she was a member of
the C. of E. G.G.S. team. For some time
she has been on the verge of getting into
championship tennis, but her opportunity
came only recently, when she was in-
cluded in the women’s team which visited
Adelaide and returned victorious. She
also won the 1938 Victorian hardcourt
championship. Fiance Jim doesn’t go
in for tennis in a big way, so is content
that his bride-to-be, whose photograph
is by Broothorn, should reap all the
laurels in that direction.
The cavaliers of old who rode for
days and nights to present roses to ladies
languishing in towers have nothing on
Lady Gowrie. For the sake of a rose,
or rather Rose Day, in Garden Week,
she came all the way from Canberra and
left again on the same day for her re-
turn journey. The roses were next door
to the goldfish, but the latter didn’t seem
to be suffering from a feeling of in-
feriority. The Mexican lungfish had
by then become used to their small
showcase, had ceased skulking nervously
behind rocks and gave horticulturists
and others a chance of seeing how lungs
look when worn outside bodies. The
aquarium’s owner explained that in time
of drought the lungs shrivel off and the
fish, already provided with four legs,
adapt themselves to life on land. But
they can’t change their minds and
anatomies a second time. Once land-
lubbers they remain thus, even though
there comes a flood like the one that
floated Noah’s Ark.
The Defence Department has at last
made up its mind about requisitioning
Adelaide’s open spaces. The Show-
grounds will be freed for the September
show; but, instead of Morphettville
(S.A. Jockey Club) being in military
occupation meanwhile, it is to be Vic-
toria Park (Adelaide Racing Club and
part of the city’s parklands). The A.R.C.
will be able to hold its three-days Birth-
day Cup meeting in June, but its two-
days Grand National meeting in August
will have to be moved to Morphettville.


BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
THE SERVICE MAN
Putting the Blitz in Blitzkrieg.
“Ek Dum”: After months of stale-
mate, the Germans have given the world
its first taste of Blitzkrieg since the dash
into Poland, and have had a solid taste
of it in return.
They may have been driven to invade
Scandinavia by the exigencies of the
blockade, tightened as it was when the
British mined Norwegian waters, but the
job was not done on the spur of the
moment. It must have been organised
in detail for months.
Since the spring began to break, there
had been cabled bits of news about
preparations—flat-boats concentrated in
Baltic harbors; increased pressure on the
Scandinavians, and so on. This intelli-
gence was connected with Moscow’s
sudden abandonment of the now-almost-
forgotten Finnish Soviet Government
and its peace with Finland, and with
the disclosure of how far the Allies had
been prepared to go in helping Finland
and how far the Scandinavian peoples
had gone in that direction.
The ice broke in the Baltic. German
ships began to concentrate in Norwegian
ports, particularly Narvik, the iron-ore
port. They were ostensibly there for
private commerce, but they must have
been filled with arms and armed men.
Units of the German fleet sneaked north-
ward through Norwegian waters. A
strong force of German destroyers made
Narvik. On Monday the Admiralty
knew that they were there, and that they
had been reinforced by at least one heavy
ship and cruisers, acting as a screen out-
side the haven.
Overnight the R.N. had laid three
minefields in Norwegian waters.
Meanwhile, all was ready in Germany.
The whole civil aviation fleet had been
mobilised—a job which must have taken
weeks. A double row of minefields was
laid across the waters between Denmark
and Norway to provide a lane for troop-
ships. The Grand Fleet, which had been
at Scapa Flow for five weeks, began to
move.
In the darkness of Tuesday morning-
war exploded into being all the way from
the Holstein border to Narvik along a
thousand miles of Scandinavian seacoast.
Along most of it a storm raged, hamper-
ing naval operations.
Mechanised German troops moved
swiftly into Denmark from the south.
Other forces landed from cruisers in the
ports of the inner Danish islands; an-
other, at Copenhagen, the capital. Den-
mark is a little kingdom—no bigger than
the Northern Territory’s Alexandria and
Brunette stations put together, and as
flat. Called a farming country, it is really
a huge organised milk, pork and egg
factory, which imports much of its raw
materials and converts them into pro-
duce for sale to other countries.
In this case, there was no resistance.
The Danes live mentally in the world of
Hans Andersen. Though their ancestors
resisted the British in 1807, and the
Prussians and Austrians in 1864, they
gave in without a fight.
Meanwhile, Norway had been attacked
at every strategic point. German war-
ships appeared in Oslo Fiord, at Bergen,
Trondhjem, Narvik and elsewhere. Two,
the Bliicher and the Karlsruhe, fine modern
cruisers, were sunk, Norwegian coastal
guns doing most of the work. But Oslo,
the capital, was seized so quickly, and Nor-
way so little expected the assault by land,
that the Government escaped to Elverum
behind a guard of only 15 men. Ger-
man forces were poured towards the in-
vaded country in civil air machines;
troopships set out from Kiel through the
Skager-Rack minefield lane.
Subsequent events were as stirring as
any in naval history—and for that matter
completely without precedent. A series
of combats —sea, air and land—raged over
a thousand miles during a heavy storm.
It was characterised by amazing events.
It was reported that the 26,000-ton
battle-cruiser Gneisenau had been sunk
by land batteries in Oslo Fiord, but this
was not confirmed. However, her sister-
ship, the Scharnhorst, was caught in the
North Sea near Narvik by Renown and
other vessels. Renown is the 32,000-
tonner on which Edward of Wales and
the present King visited Australia. Her
“Now, madam, which IS your husband?”
15in. guns opened fire at 18,000 yards in
mountainous seas which were breaking
over her turrets and bridge, while steam-
ing at 24 knots. The Scharnhorst was
hit for’ard, and her fore-turrets appar-
ently put out of action. Renown was
hit by shells which did not burst. The
Germans (there was a cruiser as well) fled
and were lost in the mist.
Meanwhile, a line of British destroyers
rocketed into Narvik Fiord under the
noses of newly-installed German land
batteries —or Norwegian batteries taken
over by the Germans more likely—and
of a superior destroyer force. They
wrecked several supply ships, sank one
of the destroyers, damaged others, and
departed, leaving a couple of their
number behind.
Four days later another destroyer
flotilla, accompanied by the battleship
Warspite, forced a passage into the fiord
and sank seven destroyers, getting three
in “an inlet behind the town of Narvik.”
All at the cost of three destroyers dam-
aged.
In the meantime there were nearly 2000
British and German ’planes in the air. They
were not choicey in their objectives. The
Rodney, one of two of Britain’s greatest
battleships—they are the only 16in.-gun
.ships in Europe—was bombed without
suffering more than trifling damage. A
destroyer of the Tribal class was wrecked
by aerial bombs.
But the Navy went on with its job in
a battle in which the casualties stretched
from the Orkneys, near which a German
U-boat was sunk, to the Skager-Rack,
where a force pierced the minefields and
German transports and cruisers were
bowled over. At the week-end, tremen-
dous as were the difficulties' and the
perils, our men had laid mines in the
North Sea, covering Denmark; in the
Skager-Rack and the Kattegat, between
Denmark and Norway, and in the Baltic,
between Sweden and Germany, to a point
near Lithuania A marvellous piece of
work which may have momentous results.
“T.”: The sad fate of Denmark recalls
the British seizure of the Danish fleet in
1807. Canning, then Foreign Secretary,
had learned of the secret articles of the
Treaty of Tilsit, one of which was that
Napoleon and the Czar Alexander had
arranged to summon Denmark (also
Sweden, Portugal and Austria) to shut
its ports against England and hand over
its warships to the French; and he de-
cided to get in first. So on August 12
an English envoy (Jackson) arrived in
Copenhagen with a demand for the
delivery of the fleet and a notification
that 27 sail of the line, commanded by
Gambier, and transports conveying 27,000
soldiers, under Cathcart and Welling-
ton, were waiting in the Sound for an
answer. The answer came in the form
of a proclamation ordering the seizure
of all British ships and property ; and
the troops, landed on Zealand, invested
Copenhagen while the squadron cleared
for action. Copenhagen was bombarded
for four days, bomb vessels being used
as well as the, big ships. Part of it went
up in flames, and on September 8 the
Danes surrendered their warships, fleet
stores and arsenal.
* * * *
From an A.I.F. sergeant—abroad:
This' country was a surprise to me. I had
the erroneous impression, gathered probably
from hearing of the last war, when a lot of
the operations were in the Sinai desert, that
it was a more or less forsaken place, full
of dust and flies. Nothing could be more
wrong. Every morning, as I come out of our
tent, I can look on as beautiful a picture as
I have ever seen. Neatly laid-out fields of
every shade of green, interspersed with
ploughed-up squares of brown, gradually fad-
ing into the grey and blue of the distant
mountains. There are orchards, particularly
orange groves, everywhere.
Spent a day’s leave at Tel-Aviv, the city
which the Jews have built adjoining Jaffa —
the latter, being Arab, is out of bounds to
troops. Being so new, there are no dilapi-
dated hovels or slums. The buildings are
mostly of stone, in the Eastern style of archi-
tecture, without verandahs, and include enor-
mous blocks of flats, like those at King’s
Cross and Bondi. The population seems to
be practically all Jewish; one hears a strange
mixture of tongues, but English, though
broken, is spoken everywhere. There are no
big general stores, and the drinking is done
in cafes, the hotels being apparently all private
residential ones.
Every night we can hear the jackals howling,
but I have never seen one in the daytime. The
little Arab villages are strictly out of bounds,
clusters of uninviting mud-and-straw huts. The
women do most of the work —our boys were
amazed to see them walking around with
great pitchers of water balanced on their heads,
many with babies under their arms as well,
while their menfolk looked on. We haven’t,
of course, much contact with the Arabs—
itinerant hawkers who used to come to the
camp for the first few days selling oranges
and grapefruit (beautiful ones, too) for five
a penny come no more, and most of
the workmen who are putting the finishing
touches to the camp are Jews. Even these
include a few women, who wear trousers and
swing mauls and shovels on the roads with
the men.
* * * *
“8.P.”: The Yanks, who have nothing
much to fear while the goldurned Br’ish
Navy is still afloat, have been finding out
that gas and germs as instruments of
war are costly and have little destructive
value. According to their figures it takes
about eight tons of gas-producing
materials to kill one soldier, which just
about puts it out on the economic score,
and they assert it is practically useless
against modern defences. As for germs,
Uncle Sam’s experts claim they would
be equally dangerous to the side that
turned them loose. They further remark
that of 70,000 American casualties in
France only 1400 could be attributed to
gas and that the alleged after-effects of
gassing have been greatly exaggerated.
Those wheezy Diggers who got a gutful
of the stuff might not agree with the
U.S. experts ; still, I know one ex-Digger
who, commenting on the damn
ness of the A.R.P. mob in Sydney, re-
marked that if Fritz “would P rom J?*
to use gas I’ll go an’ have ano &
meself! ” _
Around the Army.
XXIII.
The Corps Bakery.
With brawny arms a-flailing, with on rgy
unfailing , , ,
O’er swelling hills of dough the a
stoops; t . ,
And when he bakes an odd ’un that isr
wholly sodden
He earns the gratitude of all the troops.
He needs no docs, or nurses , for pungen ,
classic curses ,
Are the only things slung at him : that
is when . ,
The warriors are finding there’s string ana
bag and binding
In the loaf that has to do eleven men.
Because the corps bakery is in no
imminent danger of stopping a five-nine
or a whizzbang let it not be supposed that
discipline ever slackens. On the contrary,
to see the bakers in white overalls, snowy
caps pulled over their tin hats, fall in
smartly and march into the bakehouse
with rifles at the slope, and complete with
bayonet and ammunition, is something to
make any brasshat swell with pride. Not
even a sudden break-through by the
enemy would catch the Bakery Corps
napping.
Nor is the actual process of preparing
and baking allowed to become a slapdash
affair in which each man is allowed to
mix his dough as he thinks best or put
his batch in the oven and withdraw it
according to his own judgment. No
civvy-life stuff like that for army bakers!
Marched into the bakehouse
by the corporal, the bakers mark
time, dress by the right, number
off and then shuffle off smartly
in line until each man is oppo-
site his mixing table. One step
forward, and they are brought
to a halt with the right foot an
inch from the left seam of the
unopened bag of flour that the
orderlies have put down. Hav-
ing effected this preliminary
manoeuvre, the corporal hands
the parade over to the sergeant,
who takes the mixing in hand.
“Squ-a-ad, cha-hern! F-i-x
bayonets! Now then, Adams,
you’re slow this morning. Did
we wake you up a day too early?
And take that grin off your face.
Now, gr-o-o-und—wait, can’t you, for the
order gr-o-und arms! Now, no one
raise his head till he gets the word.
Squa-a-d, cha-hern! Gas ma-asks, fix!
You there, third from the left, fix doesn’t
mean fumble with your case. You’d be
gassed before you came out of your
trance. As you were, all of you. Now,
gas masks, fix! That’s better. One step
forward, march!
“Now, bags of flour, open! What are
you trying to open yours with, Blair —a
shoehorn? Now, on the table, empty!”
—and so it goes on.
One of the things that stick in the ser-
geant’s gizzard is that he can’t get the
preliminary mixing done to a series of
smart orders. In this phase of the work
each man has to take his own time. But
once the water is mixed with the flour the
turning over and punching of the dough
is done by numbers. When the actual
baking is in process each baker stands
smartly to attention in front of his oven.
At a word of command they all open up,
insert a straw from a millet broom into
the nearest loaf, again standing stiffly to
attention as the sergeant comes by and
runs his finger along the straw to test if
the bread is to the right degree of sodden-
ness.
The only fly in the dough of otherwise
congenial work is when the C.O. comes
in for inspection, when every man must
drop his dough and present arms.
Scraping or sandpapering the dough off
the butt of the rifle is a job they perform
in their leisure hours.
Sometimes, after the day’s bread has
been baked —no baker would think of
enlisting for the corps unless he were first
assured that the law against night baking
would not be contravened the dough-
bangers gather around to watch with
curious eyes a unit going up on its way
to the line. The arguments among them
as to whether the weapons being carried
are trench mortars, machine-guns or anti-
tank rifles helps to offset the natural
boredom of their life.
There is an erroneous belief held by
the rest of the army that the Bakery
Corps never suffer casualties. Haven't
they heard of the member of the unit
who came home shot one night, went to
sleep on the yeast supply and broke a
rib when he was squashed against the
ceiling?
S.W.K.


With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES &. CO,,
CHEMISTS.
319 George St., Sydney.
ŵ
HISTORY OF AUSTRALI A N MONEY
m
MONEY FROM MEXICO
The world-wide circulation of the Spanish dollar, minted in
Mexico since 1535, gave it pride of place among the many
types of coin which had a limited circulation in New South
Wales in its early days. When Governor Macquarie imported
40,000 of these coins in 1813 to remedy the currency
deficiency, he reduced the incentive to send them abroad by
making each dollar into two coins, and giving them together
a greater value than the original coin. He gave the "holey
dollar’’ the value of the silver content of the unmutilated coin
(55.), and the centre-piece or "dump”, a value of Is. 3d.
In subsequent years, sharp falls in the world price of silver
entailed the revaluation of the coins in Australia. This
introduced confusion into commercial transactions, to over-
come which the Bank of New South Wales advocated the
substitution of English currency, which was then more
stable because its gold backing had been restored. In 1826
this important reform was introduced. In taking its stand
on this issue the Bank acted in "support of its first aim
and reason —stable money”, upon which the orderly conduct
and progress of industry and commerce so largely depend.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
SS4H.
THE FLYING COLUMN
Infantry from the Clouds.
“D.8.K.”: When the Germans in-
vaded Poland their air force went
into action in every sphere of its
activity. Dive-bombers shot up rail-
ways, making targets of locomotives
with shell-cannon; high- and low-
level bombing was practised wiih deacuy
effect, and parachute troops armed with
machine-guns and light artillery were
dropped behind the Polish lines.
With the invasion of Norway came
long-distance transport of large bodies
of troops and the carrying of military
objectives by the passengers. For the
most part, the big Junkers 90, a four-
engined civil ’plane, was used ; it holds
about 40 men with full equipment, light
arms and light artillery. Thousands of
soldiers thus carried descended out of
the blue on Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger,
Trondhjem and other ports, and, tueve
being little or no opposition (at first),
rapidly got the upper hand.
The R.A.F. and the Fleet Air Arm
were not idle. They swung into action
briskly in support of units of the Royal
Navy, taking the risk of being out-
numbered almost everywhere. Fleet Air
Arm ’planes attacked two cruisers cover-
ing landings in Bergen Fiord, scoring
direct hits and causing heavy damage.
They made a second attack on one
cruiser, and, returning again, saw only
vast quantities of oil floating on the
water. Torpedo - carrying machines
tackled shipping at Trondhjem, and,
though one failed to return, the initial
results of the new form of attack were
encouraging.
And Scapa Flow had to endure more
raids. They were singularly unsuccessful,
and the Scapa A.A. guns accounted for
eight of the bombers. In the Channel
Hurricanes ran across Dorniers and got
two. In France French fighters shot
down a Heinkel and a Dornier.
While looking for surface craft and
engaged in laying mines on an un-
precedented scale, ships of the Royal
Navy had to encounter many attacks
from the air. A direct hit was scored
on the battleship Rodney with a
heavy-calibre bomb, but the damage
was superficial, the bomb being deflected
by the heavy armor of the superstructure.
But destroyers and light cruisers cannot
be expected to stand up to half a ton of
h.e. exploding in one spot, and the
destroyer Gurkha was sunk by a bomb
off Bergen. According to one account,
it took 30 Dorniers to settle her, and
she held on for hours.
At the week-end units of the R.A.F.
and the Air Fleet Arm were covering
the west Norwegian coastline, noting
positions and descriptions of such sea-
craft as have so far escaped naval atten-
tion, and dropping bombs where targets
presented themselves.
The British used troop-carrying ’planes
long before the Germans did, and in the
dispatch of Anglo - French troops to
Norway troop-carrying ’planes will no
doubt be employed.
Science of Air-bombing.
“D.8.K.”: In 1914 you heaved small
bombs over the side by hand and trusted
to luck. So precise is the method today
that a delay of a fraction of a second
by the bomb-aimer, after sighting his
target, may mean the difference between
hitting a military objective and inflicting
unintended damage on a near-by area.
The bomber has been likened to the
long-range gun The analogy is not very
close, because of a difference in factors.
Once a shell leaves a gun human con-
trol ceases, whereas the bomb remains
under control until the aircraft is close
to the target. The effect of explosion
can be immediately observed, and a
second attack can be made on that target
or perhaps another.
Since it has not to be designed to with-
stand a propulsive charge a bomb carries
a much larger proportion of explosive
than a shell. There are bombs weighing
30001 b., containing four times as much
explosive as the largest shell. The possi
bilities of a direct hit with such a missile
need no emphasis.
Modern bombing takes one of three
forms: (1) high-level or precision bomb-
ing, (2) low-level bombing, (3) dive-bomb-
ing. The kind of attack depends on such
things as ground opposition, nature of
target, degree of penetration required,
weather, type of bomb employed. High-
level bombing may be carried out from
a height of six miles, where A.A. guns
and barrage balloons are no longer a
menace, but under such conditions the
attack is of a hit-or-miss nature. Accu-
racy demands lesser height. Clouds can
be used to hide approach, but generally
a clear run is required. To allow for for-
ward travel the bomb is released some
distance from the target, according to the
speed and height of the bomber. That
distance may be several miles. Drift has
also to be reckoned with.
A modern development of high-level
bombing is the “pattern” attack. Here a
number of bombs are aimed at various
points round the centre of a target, rather
like a bunch of pellets from a shotgun.
Low-level bombing is a method designed
to ensure accuracy whilst minimising the
risk from A.A. fire. It has been employed
by R.A.F. and German bombers, particu-
larly over naval objectives, where moored
ships have been the targets. The fast,
medium-sized bomber of the Blenheim
and Heinkel 111 types, which are not
suited for dive-bombing, can best be used
for this work.
Dive-bombing aims at attaining a
greater accuracy than bombing from high
altitudes, and at presenting a more diffi-
cult target to the ground defences. It
may be the “high” or “low” dive variety.
In a high dive the bomb is generally
released between 2000 and 1500 feet
above the target. A low-dive attack may
start at about 2000 feet and continue to
as low as 200 feet before the release
and pull-out.
Dive-bombing was used largely by the
Nazis in their first surprise attack on
Poland, following tactics worked out in
the Spanish rehearsal. Roads, railways,
columns of troops, headquarters, aero-
dromes, telephone exchanges and similar
nerve centres miles beyond the fight-
ing area were attacked, resulting in
paralysis of communications. Special air-
craft, "strong enough to withstand the great
stresses of the dive and pull-out, have
been developed for dive-bombing. They
are usually fitted with some form of air
brake to control the speed of the dive.
A typical German example is the Ju 87A.
The Blackburn Skua is a first-class British
’plane designed for dive-bombing as well
as fighting.
“Kay”: Australians, as well as Maori-
landers, are making a fine showing in
the air war. Flying-Officer Clisby, of
Adelaide, is a Hurricane pilot, with a
bag of three enemy ’planes to his credit.
A sergeant-pilot cadet in the R.A.A.F.,
Clisby, like many other young service
fliers, was sent to England for R.A.F.
experience before the war. A Sydney
man who is known to have taken part in
the Sylt raid is Pilot-Officer Bob Wawn,
of Bronte. A year or so ago Bob de-
lighted in stunting at week-ends, causing
many a heart to skip a beat by throw-
ing his Hornet Moth about. We old
buffers growled horribly about these
daring youngsters at the time, but all is
now forgiven.
* * * *
“Querex”: The U.S. Navy has placed
an order for a flying-boat capable of
hopping non-stop from U.S.A. to Japan
and back with a load of 30 tons. The
Glenn Martin Co. is making the job,
which will weigh 84 tons. Wing span is
to be 230 f t; range, 12,000 miles; speed,
300 m.p.h. Engines will develop 9000 h.p.
* * * *
“Civicus IV”: What would have been
front-page news in peace-time was
tucked away in an odd corner of my morn-
ing paper —the arrival of the I.A. flying-
boat Corsair on its first service flight to
Sydney since it was yanked out of a
swamp in the Belgian Congo last Janu-
ary. A little over a year ago the machine
made a forced landing on the Dangu
River, and was badly holed. It rested
in shallow water while a big team of
natives built a dam in order to provide
sufficient depth of water for a take-off.
In July last the attempt was made, but
the Corsair struck a rock and suffered
sufficient damage to end the attempt.
After more work she managed to get
clear in January.
« * * *
“Chatelleraut”: One of the latest
American warplanes is the Airacobra. It
has a tricycle undercarriage and is hailed
as a deadly weapon. England’s leading
aero journal is not particularly enthusi-
astic. It mentions that the Airacobra is
reputed to be armed with a 37mm.
cannon and four machine-guns, and to
have a speed of about 405 m.p.h. high
up. Although probably delightful to fly,
it has little except novelty to recommend
it as a fighting aeroplane.”
# * * *
“Arenas”: The rapid increases in pro-
duction of aircraft and in front-line
strength make it necessary to expand the
radio communication system, so the
R.A.F. is recruiting radio mechanics,
those familiar with television apparatus
preferred. There is a trade test, but no
knowledge of the Morse code is needed.
Most of the men are wanted for home
service, but the Air Ministry announce-
ment says a certain number will be sent
to many parts of the world. It is an
example that Australia may follow.
The Air War Day by Day.
April 8: Two German bombers shot
down and a third seen to dive sea-
wards, damaged, during a raid on
Scapa Flow. Berlin claim that several
naval vessels were hit denied.
April 9: Germans invade Denmark and
Norway, transporting a division to the
latter country by troop-carriers. R.A.F.
and Fleet Air Arm ’planes attack war-
ships in Bergen Fiord, scoring
direct hits; all return safe. German
bombers attack Allied naval forces;
direct hits on four British battleships,
two heavy cruisers, two light cruisers
and two auxiliaries claimed by Berlin.
Admiralty states that two cruisers suf-
fered minor damage, being hit by bomb
splinters.
April 10-14: Two Heinkel bombers shot
down off north-east coast of England
by R.A.F. Hurricane fighters. Raiders
attack Scapa Flow at night; six shot
down. Hurricanes get three raiders
attacking a convoy. Two R.A.F. fighters
dispose of two German bombers about
to land at Bergen; on return flight
they damage another. Aerodrome at
Stavanger repeatedly attacked by
R.A.F. ’planes; and petrol-supply
dump seen to burst into fire. One
Vickers Wellesley lost; enemy fighter
brought down by wounded rear
gunner. British bombers attack war-
ships and transports over Danish and
Norwegian waters, losing eight ’planes ;
enemy admits loss of five. Two German
reconnaissance ’planes shot down by
French over Western Front.


yes
IT'S
/5
DEGREES
WARMER since V
WE INSULATED
cANE-iTEy
l
n
il
sfl
3
Wke*iMntefi&m&J
Will Yob be Warm and Cosy?
THE house that is insulated with Cane-
ite defies heat and cold alike. Mill-
ions of tiny air cells ensure snug warmth
in winter, refreshing coolness in summer.
What is more, Cane-ite deadens external
noises . . . makes every room an oasis of
peace. Remember . . . Cane-ite is the
white-ant-proofed insulation which not
only adds to the STRUCTURAL strength of
the building but makes it possible for you
to DECORATE as you insulate. Cane-ite
is made in three thicknesses—in boards
up to 12 feet long. It can be easily and
inexpensively installed and lends itself to
attractive modern treatments.
Cane-ite is now being produced in Australia.
STRUCTURAL INSULATION
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide . Brisbane . Perth
ẁ
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Storms, Rains and Floods
“Norther”: On top of its coal-strike
troubles, Bananaland has had cyclonic
storms, rains and floods since before
Easter, and at that festive season Rock-
hampton was the centre of a pretty big
lake, with its racecourse and other areas
under 6ft. of water.
The parched south (which is get-
ting rain now) has expressed astonish-
ment at the weather vagaries; on the
sugar coast we’ve been too busy to be
astonished about anything since the
latest cyclone hit Home Hill.
Only rough estimates of the damage
are possible, but Inkerman mill lost 2000
tons of sugar; coal and other materials
have vanished; road, rail, postal and
telegraphic systems are in chaos ; trains
are (or were) marooned in various parts
about Bowen and Proserpine ; the rail-
ways refused consignments for unreach-
able places; efforts to get through to
Ayr from Townsville failed ; landslides
blocked roads and rails around Mackay,
and cut off mountain settlers on Eungella.
As I write, heavy rain is still falling up
and down the coast.
Known deaths total five. A miner got
his family into two trees on the Bowen
River. The flood uprooted the one he
and his daughter were in, and his son
(aged nine) jumped after them in a vain
effort at rescue. All three were lost. At
Home Hill there were two deaths, one
from shock. A big span of the Burde-
kin River bridge appears to be gone.
Up the Pioneer the water was 35ft. deep
at Mirani, and Cattle Creek effortlessly
dropped a traffic bridge across the rail-
way at Gargett.
Most serious effect is felt by cane-
farmers. Early estimates set down cane
losses as equal to from 50,000 to 60,000
tons of sugar. Damage in Ayr district
alone is put at £1,500,000, and heaven
knows what the total will be.
As for the rain, Bowen had nearly
17in. in 48 hours, Prosperpine 15in,,
Sarina 13|in. and Mt. McConnell 13in.
Nowhere do falls appear to have been
under 9in. All this water has still 'o
get away, and, though the disturbance is
passing, the coast has plenty of trouble
ahead of it for the next few weeks.
“Lid”: Canberra has at last decided on
a new wharf for Darwin, to cost £150,000
to £170,000. The present antiquated
abomination, though sound enough
structurally, has been cursed by all ship-
owners, shippers and consignees. It is
a right-angled affair with a turntable
over which engines cannot pass ; con-
sequently trucks must be taken by hand
to the ship’s side, where only five can
be accommodated at a time, and then
returned to the turntable by hand before
they can be sent to the sheds. The Payne
Committee found the wharf “in good
order,” but laid stress on “the delays
to shipping, and the excessive cost of
handling, due to the bad design.”
“Bisser”: While suburban Brisbane
was dividing its time between the war
news and reports from the cyclone area
of the north coast, it nearly lost
Pinkenba, where large cracks appeared in
the road and a crater about 50yds. long
and 30ft. deep opened up. Officialdom
hurriedly assured everybody there was no
danger of Pluto or Cerberus bobbing up—
it was merely a case of the crown of
the sewer having collapsed. Officialdom
blamed “treacherous ground” for the
fault, though the subject of the sound-
ness or otherwise of the sewer has been
debated by commissions and authorities
ever since it was put down about 25 years
ago. The collapsed structure is the city’s
main sewer, and extension of sewerage
services in recent years has increased the
pressure on it The time for patching
is past; unless the thing is overhauled
and reconstructed Brisbane is in for
trouble.
# * * *
“Daly W.' ! : Judge Wells, who might
well become known throughout the N.T.
as “Sudden” Wells, dismissed a jury and
adjourned a murder trial until June be-
cause of the primitive accommodation
with which the jury was provided to
spend the night. Minister Foil is “sur-
prised” at “Sudden’s” action, says reno-
vation plans for Darwin’s courthouse
have been abandoned owing to the war,
and adds that other Commonwealth ser-
vants are suffering inconvenience with-
out complaint. Perhaps they haven’t been
asked to crowd in a 2-X-4 room and
spend the night on camp stretchers, under
bush mosquito-nets, with a kero.-bucket
of water, while they discuss the fate of
the accused.
* * * *
“Scat”: Another “special committee”
is to be sent to the N.T. doctor,
accountant and public-service inspector
this time. They are to report straight
to Thorby, the Minister of Health, on
“medical, hospital and other health ser-
vices in the outback.” The flying doctors
and the A.I.M. could tell Mr. Thorby
more than his “committee” could find
out in a year.
* * * *
“M. E. Rino”: So they’ve found
“rustlers” in Queensland (B. 10/4/’40)!
The daily-paper reporter who used the
word was doubtless drawing on his
knowledge of American Wild West cow-
boy yarns. But in the American sheep
industry the rustler was a sort of over-
seer on the ranch, and the term carried
prestige. Cattle thieves were called
rustlers probably because the old Ameri-
can cattleman detested sheep and
shepherds.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The proprietary of a
N.Q. paper will have qualms about libel-
possibilities if it happens to notice what
its comps, have made it say about Mrs.
Timleck of Canada. The lady inherited
a fourth share in the £120,000 estate of
a bachelor lawyer — he had left i
women of the Dominion who pro
most children between 1926 and 193 .
She scored a family of 16 m a •
correspondent’s interview m ,
with Mr. Timleck, who seemed to oe
bearing up bravely, referred to his wir,
and the comp.’s rendering of „ h ££
tian names was “Lucy 9 lice. Th n
lady’s moniker strayed into an accoun
on another page of water-shortage in c.
Cornish village. There she appeared as
Lucky Alice.
* * * *
“S.A.” sees Hitler in action:
The union (sanitary section) was strike , so
the military had to attend to the sanitary •
As we were walking by the Tree of
ledge they appeared in impressive formation:
first a dispatch cyclist blowing a bugle; then
a military truck full of soldiers and black-
boys, who were to do the work; next a
sanitary wagon marked “N.T.M.S. Darwin,
soldiers driving it; then another truck with
armed guards. When the procession passed
the Tree of Knowledge loungers held fingers
to noses and soldiers looked embarrassed. Sud-
denly the union car containing the _ secretary
of the strike committee hove in sight, fol-
lowed by a utility branded “N.A.W.U.,” from
which Hitler, Darwin’s stray dachshund, barked
excitedly. Hitler fights any and every dog in
the town, but his pet aversion is Squeezie, and
Squeezie was riding in the military truck. There
was instant and mutual recognition; both
hounds leaped out; the procession halted, and
everyone surged round making bets. It was
a grand fight, and in the 22nd minute Hitler
triumphed. Then the procession moved on, and
I collected, having laid a pound to four bob
on Hitler.
* * * *
“W.W.W.”: Dead, at 75, William
Atherton, of Chillagoe and Nychum
stations, on the upper reaches of the
Mitchell (N.Q.). Member of a historic
Australian family founded by Edmund
Atherton, a Lancashire yeoman, who
came out in 1844, William inherited the
two properties, and ran them for 53
years. When copper was discovered on
the Chillagoe holding in 1888, there was
never any talk of resuming the property
or forcing him off the run by other
methods. William Atherton had a great
heart, and his hospitality was renowned.
For 15 years he was a member of the
Cairns Harbor Board, and he was chair-
man of the Shire Council since its incep-
tion. Surviving younger brothers are Jack
Atherton, of Brisbane, and Ernest Ather-
ton, of Cairns, who was Minister of
Mines; and there are a widow and three
daughters, all married.
* * * *
“Colbun”: When Bluey came back to
his N.Q. home town on final leave the
goodness of the time had by all wal
such that he started on the return jour-
ney two days later than he should have
done. As the effects of the farewell wore
off dire visions of a.w.l. punishment filled
his aching head. A night’s sleep in the
train brought inspiration, andj at the
next meal-stop Blue hopped across to a
chemist and invested part of his remain?
ing funds in the largest and most fear-
some bottle of cough mixture obtainable;
Opening it, he took a cautious sip, spat
it out with a grimace and poured part
of the contents out of the carriage
window. A few hours later a bent and
coughing Bluey reported himself and
was asked why he was late. “ ’Ad the
most orful influenzer, sir,” he wheezed in
a hoarse whisper. “Can’t talk above a
whisper, sir. Here’s the med’eine I bin
takin’ for it.” The officer glanced at the
uninviting bottle. “Better see the
he said. “Anyway you’re entitled td
three days extra on account of the
floods.” “Blimey!” roared the disgusted
warrior in full resonance, “I never knoo!
Wasted a ’ole blanky day an’ a dollar
an’ a ’arf too on this flamin’ muck!”


Macmillan’s New Books
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
(Overseas Library)
THE PROVINCIAL LADY IN
WAR-TIME
E. M. Delafield
The “Provincial Lady” stumbles on every
problem that has beset us and every question
that has worried us since War began. Sharing
them again in her company, the bad tempers
that arise from war-time restrictions melt into
a continuous chuckle.
UNFINISHED VICTORY
Arthur Bryant
A famous historian tells in a vivid narrative
the story of the German defeat in 1918 and
of our ultimate failure to turn victory into
a lasting peace.
TESTAMENT OF FRIENDSHIP
Vera Brittain
“Winifred Holtby stands out in its pages
intensely alive, gifted, and courageously happy.
The picture is vivid and convincing.”
—“The Spectator.”
ECONOMIC WARFARE
Paul Einzig (7s. 6d.)
“An excellent and readable account oi the
problems of the State and the individual.”
—“Yorkshire Observer.”
To be obtained from all booksellers and
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON, W.C.2.
something TO BE PROUD OF!
TCDim/ta
J v TH€-P£flf€CT
STOCK W-HI-P-
-HANDLES PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
No. 14 —16-plait handle, 6ft. x 12-
plait thong: 38/-
No. 15—16-plait handle, 7ft. x 12-
plait thong- 39/6
No. 16—16-plait handle, Bft. x 12-
plait thong 43/-
Etc.
KINGFISHER
STATION
STOCK WHIRS-
'KANGAROO RIGHT THRQO
AND
>STEEL LINED HANDLES.
No. B—lo-plait handle, 7ft. x 10-
plait thong 31/6
No. 8a —10-plait handle, Bft. x 10-
plait thong 33/-
Postage 1/3 each.
ALTHER & STEVENSON "£:
CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
L
t
fts
1
No. 55 Nickel Set
contains Razor, three
blades, and Valet strop
in a hinged container.
All in a highly-
polished nickel-plated
'case, velvet lined, 12/-
VALE T
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
Stropped in a few seconds
*■^3
«*/>■
Cleaned in a few seconds
To a young man the choice of
a razor is important. He must
be well-equipped in the eyes
of critical contemporaries.
That is the reason why Valet
makes such an ideal gift. He’ll
be proud of its efficiency, its
unique self-stropping action,
and its truly British workman-
ship . . . and year by year he
will be increasingly glad of
its economy. Buy him a Valet.
Managing Agents for Australia
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD. 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily lubmitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally
GL.B.: Say it in prose... .GJ.W.: That
idea’s pot whiskers down to its b00t5....
TI D - Opens promisingly... .0.V.: A halt-
hip march . .M.G.: No place for that sort of
mgmarui... T ...
moralising.... J.8.D.: Irreproachable politics
in execrable verse... .W.M.: A miss this time,
K.S.J.: Idea good; treatment weak
H.M.C.: Cheer up H.MacF.: They can’t
make mud-pies here... .G. 8.: Try a women’s
paper.... L.B.: Not far 0ff.... J.G.M.: Just
another bit of good advice C. 8.: Hardy’s
poem hasn’t altered. “The Creeper,” though
it’s reminiscent of Robert Frost, might do if
pruned a bit more... .T.L.S.: The rolling-pin
is juvenile 8.D.: Description isn’t enough,
D.A.O.: “Color” fades in the second
stanza M.E.G.: Not funny A.W.T.: It
has its moments E.M.D.: Pretty, but trite,
G.M.T.: Judging by poem about British
lion smacking his mighty jaws we are not
likely to be interested in “a good poem entitled
‘Hitler’” P.F.S.: No fairies, please
G.C.G.: Embers of Burns... .H.J.W.: “Oh,
Judge, don’t send my boy to the gallows!”
Hang it a 11!... .J.McK.: Might make a par.
G.N.T.: “Beyond the Pale” is more than
that.... S.D.L.: Its unwise to introduce ten
characters within the first hundred words
C.J.W.: Plot’s all right, and so is the scene,
but characters don’t come to life... .G.F.L.:
“Pride of Wilgandra” missed at the first hurdle,
G.C.: “The lruth About Our Neighbors
only back-fence gossip.. . .G.H.McF.: It
wasn’t any picnic writing this.” Nor reading
it G. 8.: There’s room for a good deal ol
improvement H.R.C.: Dump your brain-
child” on some one else’s doorstep... .F.V.W.:
It would make a hyena cry... .R.L.E.: Its an
old idea, but a more logical finish might get
it through C.D.P.: Du 11... .8.E.: It falls
down on the first premise.. . .J.T.C.: Reading
and plenty of hard work might get you some-
where C.J.: There might be some pars,
among them.,.. L.R.: Nobody laughed....
C. : Give “My Ma-in-law” to her....
D. : Away with your swaggies who “speak
with a cultured accent, erroneously termed
‘Oxford’” C.8.C.: We left at the seventh
murder C.G.O’N.: One-third of that length
would be adequate for what’s in it... .5.K.8.:
“Autumn Days” is much the same as a score
or so of similar essays received within the last
week... .G.E.C.: A short story written in
to be better than g00d... -B.F.S :
Tbe Adventures of a Modern Don Juan are
neither adventures nor modern F.L.S.. O.
Henry beat yQU tQ that j dea ... .D.J.T.: In-
teresting, but not a yarn; try a daily....
8.D.5.: No.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P. 8.: Might suit the children’s supplement of
a Sunday newspaper A.F.G.: You’ve a clean
line but you’re weak on anatomy N.K.:
Can’t see you appearing in print this side of
1945 at the earliest... .J. 8.: Drunk who mis-
took a hairbrush for a hand mirror has been
going the rounds ever since these appliances
were invented H.C.T.: Same old Dad, same
old fix... .G.D.: You appear to have used a pint
of ink to a drawing—all to no purpose
W.N.: The nine are going home... .E. 8.: That
boat struck a reef at 252 George-street
m.L. : Tried hard to raise a smile but couldn’t.
M.M.G.: Take more pains over future
work... .L.N.: What are the two clothesprops
talking about? T.T.: The small boy and
>b j s guinea pigs were hustled off the premises,
. ...G.A.: You made a horrible mess of the
wash drawing... .C.E.: Do drawings in Indian
on white paper and attach gags to draw-
jngs _ .. .J.A.A.: About as cheerful as a wet
Sunday afternoon in a cemetery... .B.B.: It is
a i ong time since we saw a four-wheeler cab,
but we can SW ear it didn’t look like that....
jjq : The rum-drinking sergeant was deprived
b j s stripes... .M.C.: A few years at an art
school should improve your work considerably.
. ...A.T.: Similar television gag made an
appearance in an American magazine recently,
. .e.N.G. : Not in love with the barmaid with
the triple chin... .F.T.M.: The youngster shows
promise. Have him taught... .L.M.8.: It
arrived on a muggy day and didn’t improve
our temper J.S.: An artist who can’t draw
even a flagpole had better retire from the game.
. ...G.C.D.: It made its departure unhonored
and unsung W.K.: What made you think
that we were in the market for that class of
material?
A MIXED GRILL
“0.T.”: The g.m. and a director of
one of the two big milk concerns warned
Sydney that if milk-rationed supplies
were drawn from outside the board zone
there might be a butter shortage
next winter. Do they make next winter’s
butter from this autumn’s milk?
* $ * *
“P.”: The Full High Court, dismissing
the appeal by Frank McGuinness, editor
of Melbourne “Truth,” against a £l5 fine
imposed on him for refusing to divulge
the source of information used in a series
of articles on matters vitally concerning
Victoria, held that, in respect of privilege,
it has been found necessary to make
exceptions in favor of State secrets, confi-
dences between counsel and client, doctor
and patient, priest and penitent, but no
one has previously entertained a claim that
Courts should not be allowed to know
what a journalist has discovered.
The claim has long been “entertained”
by newspapermen, and if the McGuin-
ness case is to be a precedent sources of
information now open to Australian
newspapers are likely to dry up. Which
will not entirely benefit either the law
or the public.
One Hogben, his gibe:
The main difference between the press
critic and the professor is that the former
is paid to tell lies in an amusing manner
while the latter is overpaid for being
unprintably dull.
Hogben is a professor.
* * * *
“Pigge”: The revived interest in
marine fibre in S.A., mentioned in B
20/3/’4O, has resulted in plans for f
survey in which Dr. W. Ternent Cooke
chem. lecturer at the Adelaide ’Varsity,
will take part. According to enthusiasts,
the S.A. deposits are estimated to contain
4,600,000 tons of fibre, which at a market
value of £23 a ton represents £105,800,000
—more than Broken Hill has been worth.
Of course, there’s a certain —or uncer-
tain—amount of imagination in that esti-
mate. Melbourne woollen mills have
manufactured fibres for cornsacks, hand-
bags and women’s coats from samples of
the stuff mixed with wool.
* * t- *
“F.S.”: When Count Tamburini, the
Papal painter, visited Australia for the
Eucharistic Congress in 1928, he was
taken to the Victorian Nat. Gallery and
shown Tintoretto’s portrait of the Doge
Pietro Loredano, for which the Felton
Bequest paid £14,000. “Very fine,” he
said. “I know the original.” The stag-
gered guide said: “Where is it?” “In
the collection of J. Ross Delafield, of
New York,” replied the count. “This is
what is called a studio copy.” A Gallery
director subsequently aspersed the value
of the picture on this evidence of its un-
authenticity ; but on such a ground prob-
ably a good half of the world’s master-
pieces would have to be devalued. It
was the custom of all leading painters to
get their apprentice pupils to make pre-
parations for them. The master then put
in the finishing touches. Moreover, when
a patron admired a picture in the master’s
studio and bought it, the master often got
a pupil to make a copy which he finished,
and the patron got the copy, not the
original. Some Australian painters follow
the same practice. It is not dishonest, nor
does it affect the artistic worth of the
picture. There is only one individual
who could apply the final touches.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: When the Americans
started to use Wake Island as a
mid-Pacific base for the air jour-
ney from ’Frisco to Manila the
first thing they did was to build a
hotel. And as there was no soil on
the island they sent a graduate from
California University to build a hydro-
ponicum. In three months he had pro-
duced his first radish. Then he
harvested 691 b. of prime tomatoes in
six weeks. He expects soon to harvest
301 b. a week, and has experimented with
30 varieties of other vegetables. The
new science may prove as epoch-
making as Cook’s discoveries with regard
to scurvy. I have been stationed in
several British outposts i.n the tropics
where fresh vegetables were practically
unobtainable. We empire-builders sat
down nightly to a poor imitation by a
Chinese cook of a London Savoy din-
ner served out of tins, and boils, car-
buncles, skin diseases, dyspepsia and
other evidences of a lowered physical
resistance were so common that the com-
pany I served gave us a special allow-
ance for the privilege of eating ourselves
to death in the service of our country.
In some places fresh food in cold storage
from Australia altered the situation so
profoundly that the allowance was
abolished.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General. Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches a ™
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, a J s °. le P.,' ~ t , •
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and tile \
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general bank in., business.
_ ac«£e^TSTawb“o U s men anovwmen
rove, t20.000.000 spent yearly on .n Aul-
*•«% Oppc*•«-£aSKSK. A W, he™S
Saev"bSiness career. (You need-not be able to
S drawlrSuccessful students from It to over 50 years
X Sde man, lending adverting erecvt.ves. Oot.
, »a C nd1; 9 ™«e«“n public examieabone Comple.^
J>i^^i^dlvtdua?p^. , ta'i"t C ultlonT. Claeses start Feb.. June.
*»» k ' "" -
;^^«^£g*w?^£SSSS»
f 36 Grosveaor SU Syoa*% — 4 ** fc *- u * k u
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
ẃ
aware of any very recent textbook, but such
books have been published. You might write
to the Law Book Cos. of Australasia, 140
Phillip-street, Sydney.
* * * *
My father under his will left me, his
daughter, two cottages from which 1 receive
rent. lam about to be married. Will my
marriage in any way affect my ownership of
the cottages and my right to the rents ? —6768.
No, under the N. S. Wales Married Women’s
Property Act a married woman is capable of
holding, acquiring or disposing of any real
(land) or personal property as her separate
estate. Her husband cannot exercise any
control over it, nor is it liable to his debts,
and her earnings in any ■ occupation, or her
savings, apart from her husband, are her own
and not in any way subject to his control.
¥ . * * *
1 1 am an old-age pensioner, but through, sick-
ness and a bit of bad luck in the family have
drifted into debt. Can my old-age pension
be seized or garnisheed or taken from me’?
—6779.
No. The pension is absolutely inalienable,
by way of sale, assignment, charge, execution,
insolvency or otherwise. It cannot be levied
upon for payment of a debt nor can it be
pledged as security for a loan.
* ¥ * ¥
Is it in order for. the chairman of a society
to vote on a matter before it and, in the event
of the voting being equal, to give also a
casting vote? —679o.
There is no settled practice, but the usual
course, as in municipal or shire councils
where the mayor presides as Chairman of Com-
mittee, is for him to vote on the resolution
with his fellow-councillors or -aldermen and,
should the voting be equal, to give a casting
vote.
¥ * *
Best vegetables to grow to be distilled into
power alcohol? —6583.
According to C.S. and I.R. Bulletin 33, the
most economic vegetables for power alcohol
production are cassava, sweet potatoes and
yams. Sugar beets and potatoes are worth
about the, same to the distiller.
* * * *
What qualifications are necessary to obtain
a position as an engineer on a ship? Is there
any difference in the qualifications for a
steamer or a motor-vessel, and where does one
make application to, the Marine Institute or
to the shipping lines ? —6689.
It is necessary before appointment to a
position as marine erigineer to have served an
apprenticeship of five years under indentures
in an approved engineering, workshop. On
satisfactory completion of this term applica-
tion may be made to a shipping company for
a position as junior/ engineer. After serving
18 months on board ship -as a junior watch-
keeping engineer, the applicant is, qualified to
sit for a second-class Board of Trade certificate
examination. When this certificate has been
obtained, it is necessary to serve a further 18
months at sea as a senior watchkeeping
engineer before sitting for a first-class certifi-
cate. Having obtained a first-class certificate
for a steam vessel, the applicant may then
secure a position as watchkeeping engineer on
a Diesel-engine vessel, and on completing six
months’ service in this capacity he is entitled
to sit for a Board of Trade motor endorsement
of his certificate. On passing this examination
he will hold a first-class steam and motor
certificate. In the case of a junior commenc-
ing on a motor vessel, the order would be
reversed and he would pass the second- and
first-class examination for that, service and sub-
sequently sit for the. steam endorsement of his
certificate. Before joining a vessel on the Aus-
tralian coast, it , would be necessary for the
applicant to become-a member of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Marine and Power
Engineers. /
* * * *
Being a keen reader of The Bulletin’s
Radio News .section .prior to its disappearance,
l would like to know if there is any likelihood
of the section being recontinued? —6756.
Yes, when the war is over.
* ¥ * *
(1) How is the general direction of the flow
of water and air on the earth’s surface explained
in the case of. (a)., ocean currents and (b)
general wind distribution ? (2) Why does
water generally run out of a bathtub in a
clockwise , direction ?— 6765.
(1) The general direction of flow of water
and air on the earth’s surface can be explained
by reference to Ferrel’s Law. Ferrel (1817-91)
, enunciated the 'following principle: “If a body
moves in any direction on the earth’s surface,
there is a ’deflecting force arising from the
earth’s rotation, which deflects it to the right
in the Northern Hemisphere and to the left
in the Southern Hemisphere.” A moving body
has a tendency to keep on in a straight line,
but the movement of the earth drags it from
its course. The principle stated applies mostly
to fluids (including air and water), (a) In the
case' of ocean currents, the earth’s rotation
acts upon the .moving water, so as to’give it a
continual deflection to the left in the Southern
Hemisphere, producing anticlockwise whirls;
in the Northern Hemisphere clockwise whirls.
( b ) The effect of Ferrel’s Law on the general
wind distribution is similar. If the earth were
stationary air would flow due north and south
from the Equator towards the poles. The belt
of westerly winds which appears in both hemi-
spheres beyond latitude 40 degrees is the
result of deflection of this air, to the left in
the Southern Hemisphere and to the right in
the Northern Hemisphere. Thus, the returning
air from the poles to the Equator appears as
the south-east trades and the north-east trades
respectively. (In referring to direction left or
right, it is assumed that the observer is stand-
ing at the Equator and facing the pole con-
cerned.) (2) In the bathtub problem, there is
a force continually acting on the water towards
the central outlet; the force due to Ferrel’s
Law tending to drag it always to tne left.
These. forces produce a continuous resultant
force which gives clockwise movement around
the central vortex; and this clockwise, move-
ment is rotational as a result of the applica-
tion of another force called the centripetal
reaction.
* * * *
(1) What kind of cement preparation is best
for an upright bag wall? (2) Recipe for a
mixture of whiting and fat to make a water-
proof paint ? —6531.
(1) If cement and water are mixed together
to the consistency of cream and applied as a
paint, the cement will set and convert the
bagging into a fairly stiff wall lining. Care
should be taken to keep the cement and water
well mixed at all times, and also to see that
the material is used within an hour of mixing,
and that the bag walls are kept damp for two
or three days after painting. (2) The mixture
of whiting and fat is sometimes used as a
cold water paint, the purpose of the fat being
to bind the whiting so that it will not chalk.
The binding properties of the fat, however, are
soon lost because of oxidation, and the whiting
will then chalk off rapidly. The material to
use for the purposes referred to in question
(1) is. a properly milled cement base paint.
* * * =4=
■ Names and addresses of member companies
of the Australian Cement Manufacturers’ Asso-
ciation ? —6716.
N.S.W.:. Commonwealth Portland Cos., 4
O’Connell-street; Kandos Cement Cos., 341
George-street; Standard Portland Cement Cos.,
58 Margaret-street; Sulphide Corporation, 37
Pitt-street; Southern Portland Cement, Ltd.,
58 Margaret-street —all Sydney. Queensland:
Queensland Cement and Lime Cos., Darra.
S.A.: Adelaide Cement C 0.,. 12 Brookman
Buildings, Grenfell-street; and S.A. Portland
Cement Cos., 10 Bowman Buildings, King Wil-
liam-street —both . Adelaide. Tas.: Goliath
Portland Cement Cos., Railton. Vic.: Aus-
tralian Cement, Ltd., Temple Court, 422 Col-
lins-street, Melbourne.
* * * *
When to gather poppy blooms and the best
method to make them last as table decora-
tions ? —6684.
Gather when the blooms are only half-
expanded, and before the heat of the day.
Immediately the flowers are cut, place the
stems in a bowl of boiling water for a couple
of minutes; be careful to see that the steam
does not get to the 1 blooms. A large basin or
bowl is most suitable for this purpose, so
that the flower heads may be well out of the
-way-of-the rising steam. When transferring
them to the vase of cold water, remember that
the scalded portion of the stem is not to be
cut off. Another method is to burn the ends
of the stems, but the boiling water will be
found simpler, quicker and more satisfactory.
* ' * * *
Can Cupressus sempervirens {pencil pine )
trees be pruned? If so, correct age and time
of year ? My trees are about 10 ft. to lift,
high and three years old. —6396.
.It is not customary to prune these trees
unless grown for hedges or for small wind-
breaks. If grown as single trees pruning has
the general effect of destroying their real beauty
and results, very often, in an unnatural shape.
For example, if the leading shoot is cut then
the tree becomes dwarfed or sends up several
irregular shoots. ■ If the lateral branches are
.pruned back the result is not always satis-
factory. It is better to plant a type which gives
the desired effect in, a natural way; in other
words, if a narrow-growing type is wanted, then
the variety exhibiting this character should be
planted; the effect should not be gained by
pruning. At the same time, if y9u actually
desire to prune your trees, it is quite possible
to do so, and the trees will stand a consider-
able amount of such pruning. The pruning
should be carried out preferably during the
winter or early spring. When grown as hedges,
of course, the trees may be pruned almost at
any time.
$ * * *
A few particulars concerning Ronald James
McKenzie, Maoriland painter ? —6703.
He was born in Petone, and while filling a
position at the National Bank of New Zealand
attended landscape classes on Saturdays under
A. F. Nicoll. On leaving the bank he joined
the Canterbury College School of Art as clerk
and student, soon becoming a part-time
teacher. He painted landscapes ,in oils and
iwater-colors, and executed decorative panels
for the Dunedin exhibition. About 15 years
ago he left Maoriland and travelled in Europe,
finally settling in New York, where he is work-
ing at present.
* * * *
: (1) What training should be done for {a)
440 yds., (b) 880yds., (c) -one mile, running? (2)
How long should one train before competition ?
(3) Name of a book containing training hints?
—6351.
It' is impossible adequately to outline a com-
prehensive training schedule in a few lines.
Suggest you obtain one. or more of the follow-
ing publications: How to Succeed (9d.);
Webster arid Hey’s Athletic Training for Men
and Boys - (7s. 6d.); Lowe and Porritt’s Ath-
letics (12s. 6d.). An excellent Australian book
is C. •W. Grant’s Athletes in the Making
(ss. 6d.), obtainable from the author, c/o
Amateur Sports Club, 343 Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.
Does Anybody Know?
How to construct a kerosene-burning re-
frigerator? —6796.
Of a treaty between the Government of
U.S.A. and the Bey of Tunis, to the effect
that the U.S.A. would pay him an annual
tribute of 500 barrels of gunpowder on the
condition that his pirate ships should not
attack American vessels? —6760.
Brief Answers.
J.P.: There are no islands off the Queens-
land coast open for lease at present. i e
vacant ones have been, or are being, reserved
for National Park purposes, and it is not pro-
posed to make any of them available for settJe-
ment or lease... .J.R.E.: Experience ° ~.t ie
kind indicated is applied in Engineer, Artillery
Survey or Railway Survey units. Information
on the qualifications and opportunities for en-
listment may be obtained in detail at any
recruiting, centre... .R.S.: The parasite o
woolly aphid was' introduced and established
in N.S.W. 15 years ago. It is now widel>
established in all apple-growing districts ; and
while the woolly aphid does occasionally get
a little out of hand, it has always been found
that the parasite eventually again brings it
under control. For this reason the N.S.W.
Agriculture Department has decided that no
good purpose can be served by introducing
batches of the parasite into areas where it is
already established, and no further distributicms
are to be made.... A. 8.: (1) The following
publications are available from the Government
Printing Office, Canberra: The Constitution
Acts, 2s. 3d.; Knowles’s Constitution, 15s. 9a.,
and 1929 Report of the Royal Commission on
Constitution, 10s. 6d. (2) Query relating to
the population of the cane districts of Queens-
land has been referred to the Statisticians
Department, Canberra... .H.E.G.: If the
device to which you refer is novel, it will form
quite proper subject matter.for a patent. Sug-
gest , that you write to one of the firms of
patent attorneys • whose advts. appear m this
issue M.J.M.: Sarafand is not included in
the international lists of post and telegraph
offices. The town bearing the nearest
approach to the postmark in question is
Sarafend, of Syria, lat. 33.27 N., long. 25.19 E.
. ...E.J.F.: John Charles Thomas, the bari-
tone, was born at Meyersdale (U.S.A.) in
1891, and is white. He first studied at the
Peabody Conservatory, Baltimore, and in 1914
sang in Gilbert and Sullivan operettas in
New York. In 1924 he made his operatic
debut in Washington, and in 1934 appeared
at the Metropolitan Opera, New York. He
has also sung at Covent Garden, London,
Berlin and Vienna... .E. 8.: Make loz. pans
green, bran and loz. treacle into a crumbly
mass by adding a little water. Roll into small
pellets and place these around the haunts of
the pests. As this is a poisonous bait, care
should be taken to keep it away from children
and pets... .H.D.C.: 1939 Nobel Prize
winners were: Physics, Prof. E.. O. Lawrence;
Chemistry, Prof. A. F. J. Butenandt and Prof.
L. Ruzicka; Medicine or Physiology, Prof. G.
Domagk; Literature, F. E. Sillanpaa. ...
R.V.W.: See The Penguin Political Dictionary,
compiled by Walter Theimer.. .. W.M.: (1)
Birthrates —France, 15; .Great Britain, 15.3;
Germany, 19; Russia, 42.7. (2) Deathrates—
France, 15.3; Germany, 11.8; Great Britain,
12.3; Russia, 18.8. Figures in * both cases are
for 1936 J.8.P.: (1) Australian Great War
(1914-18) casualties totalled 60,456 deaths and
154,722 wounded. (2) No record... .J.S.K.:
Write Chief Librarian, Brisbane Public Library.
C.R.M.: Write American Trade Com-
missioner, 14 Spring-street, Sydney. .. . M.L.:
See The Australian Authors and Artists’ Hand-
book (35.), obtainable from leading booksellers.
W.V.: (1) £2 2s. per column ■of 1100
words. (2) Prefer manuscripts to be typed, but
will read legible handwritten copy W.T.:
He is looking at a portrait of his 50n....
R.M.8.: Canvass the various shipping c 05.....
J.S.: Write Federal Arbitration Court, Darling-
hurst, Sydney... .J.R.8.: Write Under-
secretary, Dept, of Health, Macquarie-street,
Sydney... .L.G.8.C.: The umpire’s • decision
was correct E.L.D.: Cannot recommend
any particular one. A number advertise regu-
larly in the “Personal and Missing Friends”
column of the “Sydney Morning Herald”
L.R.: Young Man with a Horn, by Dorothy
Baker D.J.W.: (1) Both paragraphs were
written by another contributor. (2) Name and
address of a contributor cannot be given with-
out permission... .F.R.: They are generally
believed to have been clumsy forgeries
P.R.T.: Immerse in tan liquors made from
wattle bark or extracts. Tanning will not
make a weak net strong, but it helps to pre-
serve nets R.H.C.: Scrape and wash to
remove fats. Paint on the flesh side with a
solution containing Hoz. of formalin and Hoz.
sodium bicarbonate per gallon of water. Give
three coats at intervals of 24 hours, then wash.
. ...H.J.: If the policy formed part of the
estate and such estate has been legally distri-
buted by the administrator, that is an end to
the matter. Cannot see, in the contingency
you suggest; that the testator, presumed to be
dead, would have to reimburse the assurance
company J.S.M.G.: In the circumstances
stated the prospect of recovering the money is
certainly remote. You might, after consider-
able expenditure in legal fees, succeed in punish-
ing him, but that would be no compensation
for the monetary loss R.W.T.: He must
not interfere with the natural flow of the
water so as to divert it from his own ground
to the ground occupied by his neighbour
E.D.V.: (1) Not unless the obligation, or con-
tract, was to supply an unlimited number of
the medallions at the same price as those
originally sold. (2) If the original negatives
were supplied solely to copy from, the prop-
erty in them being retained by you, the firm
is legally bound to restore them to you. (3)
It is a common-law principle, not a statutory
provision C.M.: The council, under the
Local Government Act, has ample power to
deal with the matter. It may require premises
to be made proof against rats and be kept
free from them, also be kept free from
offensive matter. It may control and regulate
the erection of stables on premises within the
shire or municipal area. You should write
to the council or see the Inspector of Nuisances.
R.W.T.: The statistical and other infor-
mation you require would involve research,
compilation and the expenditure of consider-
able time, and could be supplied by the
authorities only in the exercise of their discre-
tion. It is doubtful whether they would take
the trouble.


lysaghts
PRoor
■UHtart
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every RoU of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
mtm#
gseui*^
■ ■**
■m •3sk^;
ms
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ẅ
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Classing Critics Needed.
“Graz”: Three and a half years ago
the M.O.L. page expressed the need to
inspect wool in store and inform growers
on how to improve the get-up of their
clips.
The Woolgrowers’ Council has at last
realised this need, but has suggested that
brokers should supply the criticism,
most helpful of which is that which
points out our faults.
The broker gaining a reputation for
offering the most favorable comments —
and therefore the least useful —would
get clients at the expense of those pro-
viding more honest and helpful criticism,
for such is human nature.
Most brokers refund to growers 20
per cent, of the commission charged.
Why not have all brokers weigh-in with
a similar amount to pay independent
experts thoroughly conversant with grow-
ing and selling conditions to examine
clips in store and forward their advices
direct to growers?
Autumn Lambing Troubles.
“Granova”: Outlook for autumn
lambing in the Riverina is serious, and
unless more rain falls soon many valu-
able ewes and lambs will be lost.
Ewes in good condition in paddocks
where there is plenty of clover seed or
oats on the ground will get through lamb-
ing fairly well if preparturient toxaemia
can be avoided.
Exercise is essential, and it will help if
the ewes have to travel a fair distance
to water. A watch needs to be kept for
lambs left behind. Provide plenty of
salt and bonemeal at handy spots. Most
lambing troubles have to be avoided by
good management during gestation. When
lambing time comes the ewes must have
strength and condition to meet a big
strain on their constitutions, but must
not be grossly fat.
When rain falls the danger of lambing
sickness will be over, but handfeeding
will be v necessary. If lambing is still in
progress scatter short oaten hay about
the paddocks, leaving it in sheaves or
bales, and build a V-shaped rack of large
mesh netting, hung about a foot from
the ground. Fill it with hay, and the
sheep will learn to pull out a straw at a
time and eat it, thereby avoiding waste.
When the lambs are big the ewes can
be fed on oats, which will be necessary
to maintain the milk supply. To feed
ewes with tiny lambs on grain ©is to
invite them to leave their lambs. It pays
to use timber troughs for feeding grain,
as they eliminate waste and prevent the
sheep ingesting sand.
Wheaten stubble paddocks should be
sown to oats for grazing, as, if the rains
are late, natural grasses will not make
much growth before spring. Sow the
oats in the straw with a disk fitted with
a seedbox. Burning the stubble destroys
clover seed and depletes the soil of
humus, thereby lowering fertility and in-
viting soil erosion.
Fluke and Worms.
“J.R.D.”: Drench sheep in fluke coun-
try now. All fluke in the sheep should
be got rid of before winter sets in. One
drenching will account for mature fluke
only, so the sheep must be drenched
again—preferably a month later—to clean
up those that were too small or at first
inaccessible.
Opinions differ on the relative merits
of single and double strength carb. tet.,
but preference for single strength is
usually based on cost. Actually, carb.
tet. is cheap.
Double strength c.t. of highest quality
should cost no more than 13s. to 15s.
per gallon landed on the property.
Single strength is under 2s. per gal.
less, but with the standard 5-c.c. dose
there are 900 doses in a gallon. The
cost of d.s. therefore works out at a
fraction of a penny per dose, or at the
prices quoted 100 grown sheep can be
dosed for from Is. sd. to 2s.
Single strength c.t., though effective
against mature fluke, has little or no
effect against other internal parasites.
Double strength settles fluke, and is highly
efficient against the large stomach worm,
most widespread and prolific of all sheep
worms.
The use of double strength is there-
fore more economical because of its
“Mind if I use your 'phone, sir?"
w j der effect and its elimination of extra
muster ing and drenching,
The { stomach worm is usually
mQst dangerous after wa rm wet weathei.
Th h f his has bee n a dry summer,
with( £ t severe outbreaks in N.S.W.,
danger exists where rain has fallen dur-
. fe recent weeks . Ewes due to lamb
in % utumn should have been drenched
before lambing> as one of the
chief sources from which the young lamb
worm-infested is the ewe.
Though she »“* have a light t
f tj f large sto mach worm, the
pasting we|l over a million
worm e * gs in P her droppings per day, so
the lamb cannot fail to pick up a load of
parasites at a most critical period of its
.... . , . , .
There is risk in using carbon ~
it is very small if usual piecau ions atw
observed.
Sheep should not be drenched in cold,
wet weather. In high fluky country
where the winter is long and severe,
drenching should be finished in April.
Except under special circumstances sheep
should carry on without further drench-
ing until September.
Actual cause of carbon tet. poisoning
is still a mystery. Sheep of the same
age but from adjoining paddocks have
been drenched on the same day from
the same tin. Losses have occurred in
one paddock yet not in the other.
Deaths from c.t. poisoning occur several
days after drenching. When sheep die
in the yards immediately after dosing
the cause is suffocation. Careless drench-
ing and tilting the animal’s head too
much send the liquid down the windpipe.
It is dangerous to drench with carb.
tet. sheep that are being handfed on
protein-rich concentrates —sheep nuts,
meatmeal, bloodmeal or grain. Cut
down the protein ration for a week be-
fore drenching. Sheep should not be
starved before or after receiving carb.
tet., and they should not be driven hard
nor bustled about immediately after the
dose.
On country short of lime and phos-
phorus a dicalcic lick should be made
available.
Wheat, Winter and War.
“Ben C.”: Rain came just in time to
moisten the ground in south-east wheat
areas, where growers had been anxious
concerning seeding for next crop. More
rain is needed, but the position has im-
proved. Indications point to a reduced
area of fallow. Sowing is going ahead
in north-west N.S.W., where there is a
reduction of properly-worked area.
On present indications Australia will
not harvest anything like the amount of
wheat she got last year, numerous factors
being responsible, the two most impor-
tant being a reduction of acreage and
uncertain weather up to date.
Mice are still in incipient plague pro-
portions and there may be a sudden in-
crease. If they cannot get at the stored
wheat they will certainly attack the seed
in the ground. Nobody seems to be
making any effort to control them.
In Europe effects of the terrific winter
are being noted. Oats and barley are
being planted on areas where winter
wheat failed. Predictions for the Euro-
pean crop range from moderate to much
below average, a Hungarian estimate of
a drop of 36,000,000 bushels being cited
as an example. Though wheat predic-
tion at such an early stage is almost as
risky as picking Cup winners in June,
such a winter is bound to have its effect.
A survey by the Rome International
Institute of Agriculture reveals bigger
surpluses in U.S.A., Canada and Aus-
tralia. It estimates that world stocks by
August will be so great as to meet all
normal import requirements for 1940-41
and a quarter of 1941-42 without includ-
ing surpluses from the 1940-41 crop.
Not an encouraging forecast this for
Australian growers. Still, many things
can happen in the current year. Three
of the four most important European
countries are at war, and at present it
seems largely to be a competition to
decide who can capture the most trade,
make the most munitions and create the
most industries. If they keep that up it
means a call for more and more food,
which will eat large holes in wheat sur-
pluses. As Australia, like Canada, is
fighting on the side of the Allies, it is
reasonable to assume that with Canada
she will get preference over neutrals for
wheat. Our difficulty at the moment is
shipping, and, despite the Townsend
report and the pressing need for vessels,
the Federal Government has not yet
stated its intentions. f
There is need for the more farsighted
growers to make their voices heard re-
garding Australia’s future wheat policy.
Evidently the Australian Wheat Board
has nothing to offer with regard to future
prices, disposal or increased home con-
sumption, and it’s about time some effort
was made to get an idea of what lies
ahead There’s been a lot of talk about
war plans, munition plans, finance plans
e< c -> but nobody seems to worry about
the country s second-greatest pnmary
industry.
Charcoal Burning,
“P. Gas”: Underground kilns eventu-
ally mean long hauls of wood or scoop-
ing out fresh kilns closer to the fuel,
Overground kiln-s are satisfactory, and
save such bother. Two 9in. 14ft. logs are
placed parallel on the ground about a
foot apart in line with the prevailing
wind. Midway between the logs a stake
is driven into the ground and kindling
bark and wood placed at the base of it.
Short pieces of wood laid across the
logs form a horizontal flue,
The stack is then built against the
stake, first using short pieces of wood


For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
“CARBOX” is an Australian product for Australian conditions.
“CARBOX” embodies only the finest materials in its ingredients, providing not
only a surehealer of the highest quality, but a superlative cleansing ointment,
and has well earned its place as the farmers’ friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX": —
HORSES.—For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE. —For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, milk fever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP.—For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
marking, etc.
PIGS. —For lice and scale, sore mouth, body Wash, etc.
DOGS. —For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses, cracked
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
“CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites—lt Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, and tins
Full particulars obtainable from:—
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributors:
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Houses in All States. When writing mention “The Bulletin.”
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’ Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations „ 15
Sheep bought „ 20
Wire netting „ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
What Value!
THIS ATTRACTIVE
HOUSE SHOE FOR
ONLY
iin
w
Obtainable
ONLY FROM ABBEY’S
One of the best shoe values we have
ever offered the country woman. Made
in Black Nevis Calf with soft, padded
leather sole and broad heel. Light,
soft and cosy, yet designed to give long,
hard wear. Price only 13/11, and
obtainable in full sizes only, so order
TODAY while stocks last.
Kote: You can order by mail from Abbey's
with every confidence. A record of thousands
of shoes sent all over Australia and to all
parts of the British Empire proves that Abbey
Shoes give service and satisfaction. Use the
coupon below if it is more convenient.
ABBEY
316 George St., Sydney. SHOES
224 Pitt St., Sydney.
Abbey Shoes,
316 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me 1 pair of your Black Nevis
Calf House Shoes at 13/11. I enclose
remittance for this amount. My size is
(Enclose tracing of stockinged
foot if possible.)
NAME
(In Block Letters)
ADDRESS
(In Block Letters)
Tick here if you would also like a
copy of our catalogue of orthopaedic model.'.
Sent FREE. A 14—1620
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM —APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It Automatic O' erliow— Does Not
Require Emptying—-Over 1150 Sold—Shell Co., 66 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/16/- f.o.b. Sydney.
Plus 10/- crating when necessary.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sy r dney%
Write Desk B for Illustrated Pamphlet.
7 years’ guarantee against corrosion while in use.
ŵ
•v
and keeping them nearly upright. Longer
lengths are used as the kiln gets bigger.
When it is about 12ft. in diameter about
7ft. sticks will be used. A kiln of this
size will burn about 36 bags of charcoal.
The tighter the wood is packed the
better. Keep spaces filled with small
pieces. Before covering the kiln, the
base of it should be ringed with short,
junky sticks laid flat to allow an air
draught on the surface. The heap is
then thatched with straw, grass or bush
leaves to prevent the outer covering of
earth, which should be at least 9in. thick,
mixing with the charcoal.
To light the kiln a firestick is shoved
up between the logs. If it does not
blaze make a vent at the apex. When
the wood is well alight seal all vents,
and any cracks opening during burning,
with earth. Burning takes about 10
hours.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bundalinga”: Spell a horse suffering
from sweat boils, and foment the
shoulders. When the boils come to a
head, open them with a sharp, well-
sterilised knife and discharge the con-
tents. Then apply a weak solution of
Condy’s crystals in water, or a table-
spoonful of salt in two quarts of water.
Get the shoulders well healed before the
horse is worked again, and soak them in
salt and water twice a day to harden
them. A new and well-fitting collar
will prevent more trouble.
“Goulburn”: Don’t use cloths for
cleaning or drying dairy utensils. They
too easily become a source of infection.
Wash utensils first in cold water, then
with hot water and washing soda. Boil
or steam to sterilise thoroughly and dry
quickly. Soaking in boiling water for
at least three minutes is effective. Scrub-
bing brushes should be thoroughly clean,
and should be scalded after use. Direct
sunlight both dries and sterilises.
“Yeno Ham”: Milk of 20 cows
yielding 1000 gallons of milk each
per year contains the equivalent
of approximately 11201 b. of nitrogen,
3801 b. of phosphoric acid, 3401 b.
of potash and 20001 b. of lime. Mineral
matter amounts to 4j p.c. of a cow’s
entire weight. A newly-born calf
weighing 801 b. contains 3|lb. of vital
minerals, all of which come from its
dam. During heavy milk production
it is impossible for a cow to get enough
minerals from pastures which are not
topdressed. If she be not given con-
centrates rich in minerals, she must draw
on her body reserves, first on minerals
in the bone and then on those in the
blood.
“Billo”: Ringbarking should be done
during winter, when tree growth is at its
minimum. Suckering will not take place
until spring, and a percentage of the
timber will die without suckering. Where
sucker growth is not vigorous it pays
to leave suckering until two winters
later as, besides representing a consider-
able saving in wages, the timber dies
more quickly when well-established
suckers are knocked off. Frilling timber
and pouring in a poison appears to be
uneconomic, as suckers grow from below
ground and are hard to knock out. One
point in favor of this method, however,
is that above the frill the tree dies within
a few days of poisoning.
Outback Occupations.
No. XIV.
Valeting Pigs (2).
To be a successful pig-raiser it is neces-
sary to know something about the general
build and conformation of the animals. At
least, this is the assurance of pig experts.
The best place to find a pig expert is in
the Department of Agriculture, at the
local show or at the monthly pig sales.
These men are easily recognised by their
suave look and their extreme nervous-
ness when they find themselves alone
with a pig.
Some agricultural journals have jour-
nalists who are described as pig experts,
but should you be a mixed farmer and
run sheep and cows, grow wheat, maize
and asparagus you will find, on calling
at the office of the journal, that the same
man is also a sheep, cow, wheat, maize
and asparagus expert. This discovery
will set you furiously thinking why such
a man should be content with the lousy
pay and lousier conditions of his calling
when he could go on the land with all
that expert knowledge and make a for-
tune. Well, some agricultural journalists
have tried it, but when they found the
asparagus running about the paddocks
and bleating, while maize-cobs grew on
wheat stalks and horses bolted from the
unusual spectacle of a Jersey’s head look-
ing out of a comeback fleece that
switched a zebralike tail, they returned
to the less-disturbing practice of journal-
ism. Which was, perhaps, just as well
for the great primary industries of Aus-
tralia.
In one other place are pig experts
likely to be found. In cafes and hotel
dining-rooms, where, the waitresses will
tell you, they make a daily study of the
habits and appetites of pigs.
There are five leading varieties of pig:
Berkshire, Tamworth, Canadian Berk.,
Large White and Middle White. Why
there is no Little White is beyond an
ordinary pig expert, for it is obvious
that, if a Little White is one-third the
size of a Large White, then a man could
feed three times as many L.Ws. as Large
Ws. on the same amount of food. What
good this would be doesn’t matter, but
it does prove that we can work out an
economical problem if we have to.
The Berkshire has two short legs in
front and two short legs behind. Be-
tween them lies the pig, with the head
projecting beyond the front portion and
hanging slightly. Its color depends on
the kind of mud in which it is found.
It is superior for pig meat to any other
breed.
Tamworths are constructed on similar
lines to the Berks, and have the same
color characteristics. They are superior
to any other breed.
Canadian Berks., peculiarly enough,
are situated between two sets of legs as
are the Tammies and ordinary Berks.,
from which latter they can be distin-
guished by the slightly more guttural tone
of their conversation when tete-a-tete
with their fellows. They are better than
any other breed.
Large and Middle Whites have four
legs each, frequently have as many as
25 to 30 separate and distinct hairs on
their backs, and from their pink skin
came the inspiration for that well-known
slogan “Now I’m Schoolgirl Complexion
All Over.” Of course, they are superior
to any other breed, though which is
superior to the other remains a moot
point.
Far too many people assume pigs to
be unclean animals. Apparently this idea
was sponsored by the Jews, who were
advised by their Jehovah not to eat the
flesh of animals which had cloven hooves
but did not chew the cud. Thus a Jew
could eat a piece of cow or join a Scotch
birthday party in an attack on a haggis
but could not eat pig and remain a good
Jew, though nobody has ever declared
that pigs who eat Jews should be excom-
municated, which suggests bias.
The pig, as any expert will agree, is
not a dirty animal. Given the opportu-
nity it will stay clean. But it is a heavy
animal, and it likes to root and it loves
water. So if you place the pig in a small
pen with an earth floor over which water
is allowed to spill the pig, aware of your
lack of understanding and being unable
to speak English, just makes mudpies all
over the place in its effort to convey to
you its disgust with the general living
conditions and sanitation of its fl a -
But net off a portion of your back
verandah and put your pig in there. Hose
it down every day and spray well wit .
anti-fly dope, keep the yard broom going,
and place fresh straw in the pen every
45 minutes, and see what happens. Ihe
pig will probably die, but it will die
clean.
“Pigs,” wrote an enthusiast recently,
“will do me. A wheatgrower, I began
with them as a sideline. In no time 1
found that if I were to be successful with
the pigs there would be no time foi
wheatgrowing, so I gave up wheatgrow-
ing. Thus I was relieved of worrying
about wheat prices, cost of bags, fertiliser
and fuel, and hadn’t to face the fevers
of harvest. As my pigs increased my
wife complained of their detestable in-
quisitiveness and the displacement of the
balmy airs of the west by something else,
and finally she left me. So did her loaf-
ing brother, who’d been with us nine
years. They took with them what fowls
the pigs had left, thus relieving me of
their interminable cackling and crowing.
Now, of an evening, I can sit on my
verandah and see pigs rooting, squealing
and grunting in all directions ; no insur-
ance canvassers or agents ever
bother me; taxation officials dare not
face my porkers; there is no woman's
voice in all the land. I have achieved
the perfect and final peace. Too right,
pigs’ll do me!”
What more need be said?
STOP PRESS.
Hitler is trying to persuade Dr. Schacht,
former president of the Reichsbank, to give
up pig-breeding and take over the .man-
agement of Germany’s economic activities
in south-eastern Europe.
We warn Dr. Schacht that baconers are
much more trustworthy than Balkaners.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2|d. per line. , .
“Make parenthood glamorous” is the theme of the contribution, salted with irony,
for which double rates are paid this week. The writer, a lady, lives in Subiaco. W.A.
“Glamorise” Parenthood
I would suggest another approach to
the problem of the falling birthrate, to
be considered as supplementary to the
businesslike proposition of “AR” (B.
20 / 3/’4O). Make parenthood “glamor-
ous.”
Not so long ago—perhaps it was when
the royal Kents were looming on Aus-
tralia’s horizon —the society columns of
the flapper press made christening parties
fashionable news, and their picture pages
were reminiscent of the religious paint-
ings of the Renaissance. There were
many photographs—beautifully posed- -
of mother and child. Smart young society
matrons were shown gazing soulfully at
“Anthony, aged six weeks,” or “Eliza-
beth, aged three months.” It wrought
a change of heart in our Younger Set
a rung or two lower on the social ladder
—and we ecstatically confided to our
bosom friends that we’d “gone all mater-
nal and decided to have a baby after all.”
We women are slavish copyists of the
manners and customs of our “betters.
Suburbia has its cocktail parties, and lines
up at the cosmetic bar in fashionable
shops to have its C.Q. (color quotient)
assessed, extracting from its slim pay en-
velope the wherewithal to meet the
damage. But motherhood hasn’t entered
into our scheme of things. Surround it
with “glamor” and the birthrate will take
that so-much-needed upward curve. •
Kitty Miaow (W.A.).
Marriage and Divorce
I sat in a crowded medical waiting-
room for 30 minutes. The main topic
of conversation among the women was
“me nerves” or “me neurasthenia.” Later
they discussed gas bills, light bills and
housekeeping. Each of those women
had all the labor-saving devices that
banish drudgery in the approved modern
way. Is this a new hazard in matrimony?
Banishing drudgery seems an easy way
of encouraging boredom, and if bore-
dom leads to “me nerves” I for one do
not blame any man who finally seeks
relief in the divorce court.
I mentioned it to the doctor later. He
said: “We used to prescribe children as
an antidote for boredom. Dressing the
baby and washing its clothes was a whole-
time job once. Washing machines and
electric irons cheated us there.” My rosy
dream of vacuum cleaners and other do-
it-easy gadgets began to fade. “Mar-
riage should be a dovetailing of mental,
spiritual and physical companionship,”
the doctor added. “Many women don’t
understand the meaning of the words
mental companionship; they ignore the
spiritual and evade the physical; add a
few electrical servants, and there you
have divorce.”
A check-up on my friends proved that
he was right.— Mrs. B. M. (N.S.W.).
I agree with “W.L.” (B. 27/3/’4O) —
divorce laws are too stringent. If they
were made easier the birthrate would rise
considerably.
Many a woman who follows a
career fears to embark on married life
lest she clash with her husband. Several
such women, if divorce were procurable
without disgrace, would marry, and would
be willing to keep their own children
in the event of their marriage being un-
successful. It is a disgrace for a well-
to-do woman to keep her own child—
“she is no good or her husband would
be keeping it for her”—yet if she adopts
one and works to keep it nothing but
praise is given.— Unholy One (S.A.).
“W.L.” has the right idea. Why
shouldn’t divorce laws conform with
those of some other countries?
Here one must commit the cardinal sin,
and provide the sordid press with sale-
able material and fill lawyers’ pockets.
Why can’t divorce cases be heard in
camera? Two persons are married
quietly by Church or registrar; why not
dissolution in the same way, instead of
a life parade for a morbid-minded public?
—2oth Century (Q.).
Germany Will Be Defeated
My mind assures me that a certain
moral order runs through the history
of the world. My limited knowledge of
history also assures me that Nazi Ger-
many can’t impose her iron rule on
Europe without first of all falsifying that
moral order.
Hitler has already done that falsifying.
His schemes constitute a direct challenge
to the man-made laws of order and com-
mon decency, but they are also a chal-
lenge to the spiritual faith of the civilised
world. ,
Consequently, although Germany s
organisation of 10 years has given her
a material strength that will require
great Allied endurance to overthrow, the
result of this war is certain, and the
deciding force will be the unreckoned
moral force of the civilised world.
Some of the most vital battles in
British history were won when, out-
numbered and outgunned, the “thin red
line” advanced to victory. We won be-
cause we fought clean, and never once
have we intentionally falsified the moral
order of the world. — Zend-Avesta (Q.).
Demands for “Action”
Do the authors of all the current
appeals for greater activity in our war
efforts realise that spectacular moves are
always the easiest to make but seldom
the most productive of desirable results?
As a nation we are, perhaps, too adven-
turous. Certainly we are always ready to
take a chance. But the present situation
is not one where chances should be taken.
It is essential that we recognise imme-
diately any gamble with our national and
individual freedom and brand it with its
proper title. Far better a five years’ war
with a certainty of success than a light-
ning six months’ effort with an even
chance of defeat.
One of the greatest dangers at this
moment is that our Governments, by
public pressure, will be forced to adopt
a course of action which is opposed to
the dictates of reason and caution.
Despite Communist and totalitarian
sneers to the contrary, we, the people of
the democracies, do rule our Govern-
ments, and the men we have appointed
to guide the nation through this mad
turmoil have access to information which
it would be absurd to make public. Con-
sequently it is inevitable that they will
make some decisions that are difficult to
understand, but because these decisions
are flavored with restraint we should be
reassured rather than perturbed.
Let us take care that by constant, and
often ill-advised, criticism we do not
create in the minds of our Governments
a sense of despair or fatalism. Because
that leads to rashness, and rashness leads
to disaster. —T. L. W. (Vic.).
Anglo-French Accord
There appears to be a growing realisa-
tion within Britain and France that if
their interests coincide in war they must
equally coincide in peace. Hence we
read that English and French directors
and leaders of education are aiming at
collaboration in the development of a
healthy mutual understanding of the
language and customs of each. British
plans include extension of French
language classes, appointment of visiting
lecturers to schools and training col-
leges, a large-scale exchange of teachers
and pupils, and exhibitions of French
arts and handicrafts in Britain.
Already 600,000 British schoolchildren
are learning French.
If the thing succeeds it will be one
of the most significant results of the
war and will be a step toward that
international accord in which lies the
only hope for universal peace.
“Community of action in all spheres”
may not be regarded with complaisance
by other nations, which may be asking
themselves what this will mean for
them after an Allied victory over Ger-
many. The answer is that singleness of
action by any nation has not brought
peace to the world, and for Europe
especially there must be hope in the
determination of two powerful nations
to work together when both fully realise
the futility and wastefulness of war and
both appreciate the necessity for letting
the other fellow pursue his legitimate
business, unhampered by threats, block-
ades or forced alliances.
The pity of it is that it took another
war to bring about this Anglo-French
awakening. Had it emerged after the
last war and developed since, it is un-
likely that Hitler or anybody else would
have felt like bucking the combination.
It is possible that Germany and Italy
might have been convinced of the
necessity for joining in with the others.
For Australia, particularly, the
achievement of such accord in Europe
is a ray of hope, for, aside from the
necessity for assisting in the present con-
flict, this country could scarcely hope
for much if it is to be continually
wasting men and effort in European
wars. That it must do so long as
Britain remains a European Power and
so long as the nations of Europe con-
tinue to live apart behind barriers of
bayonets instead of together within a
universal wall of understanding.
Idealism may have no place in a clash
of ideologies, but if mankind has no
ideals then it has no future and the
British and French are wasting time
with their talk of community of action.
—M.M. (N.S.W.).
War “Workers”
A well-known w.w. had ordered a
uniform for a certain date. When it
didn’t arrive, she drove into the city,
collected it and carried it home.
Fitting it on she found that the buttons
were not quite in place, and she had to
be on “duty” within the hour. Did she
despair? No, she sat down and with
her own hands altered the position of
those buttons, dressed and drove to her
appointment all within the allotted hour.
Can it be said that the old pioneering
spirit is dead when such resourcefulness
still lives?
“P.0.M.C.” is right about the lime-
light angle. The ordinary woman hasn’t
a look-in. She either washes dishes or
stays behind the scenes doing the dirty
work while fashionable dames swamp
the social columns.
The average woman hasn’t a hope of
getting into the front line of patriotic
work —that takes social prestige. The
ladies who dress up in uniforms and
swagger about the landscape are careful
of the company they keep. You’ve got
to be “retained” to get in. The heart-
burnings, yearnings and intrigue would
stagger an Eastern Court.
As “P.0.M.C.” says, there’s plenty to
do amongst the poor in our cities. But
there’s no limelight in fighting for milk
for Australian children, nor in altering
social and economic conditions that are
condemning young Australians to disease
and poverty. It’s so frightfully dull and
the common people are so ungrateful.—
Karenina (N.S.W.).
Finance from Stamps
Why not let stamp collectors help to
pay for our war effort? The Govern-
ment has shown a marked hesitancy in
making special issues of postage stamps,
although such issues, if chosen wisely,
would be in great demand, both here and
overseas. It has been said that several
small countries keep out of debt be-
cause of the ready sale which their fre-
quent issues of postage stamps enjoy,
and, although that may be neither pos-
sible nor desirable where Australia is
concerned, the Federal Government could
not be blamed for taking advantage of
the keenness of philatelists.
Even if the profit were small the tax-
payer would welcome any relief from
the burden which he realises he would
have to carry.
One golden opportunity for a special
stamp issue—the arrival of the A.I.F. in
Palestine —has been lost. The Postal
Department could have had the stamps
printed and ready for sale the day the
troops arrived, and bales of them would
have been sold in a few hours. There
will be other opportunities, and it is to be
hoped that the Government will have
sufficient business acumen to cash in on
them.— Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Mass Colonisation
Those who are concerned with the
problem of filling up the vast empty
spaces of Australia could do worse than
look at a London “Daily Telegraph”
correspondent’s account of Italy’s scheme
of mass colonisation in Libya. The
story is told in a book called Fourth
Shore, and the correspondent went to
Libya with 20,000 Italian colonists who
were conveyed there in a fleet of ships
in the autumn of 1938.
Everything, from the plots of land
allotted to the settlers on arrival, the
choosing of the individuals to take part,
and all the problems connected there-
with, was worked out in a masterly
manner, which contrasts oddly with our
own haphazard methods of colonisation.
One might compare, for instance, the
deforestation apparently inevitably asso-
ciated with our own methods of coloni-
sation with the care exhibited by the
Italians in systematically planting soil-
binding trees —Australian trees.
The Italians apparently thought of
everything, even to providing the
colonists with nine new churches, massive
edifices which dominated the village in
the tradition of Italy. And, let it be
added, the authorities have forbidden
proselyfism by Christian missionaries in
the new colony.— Ave C/Esar (N.S.W.).
Dairy-farming and Drought
The Bulletin (3/4/’4O) charges N. S.
Wales dairy-farmers with not providing
adequate fodder reserves to meet the
recent drought. Let me point out that
the farmers have had to draw upon their
reserves for the last five abnormally dry
years. Moreover, dams have gone dry,
subterranean resources have not been re-
plenished and there have been unpre-
cedented failings in springs and soaks.
The farmer needs capital to improve
his pastures, introduce new and better
blood into his herd and pay his farm-
hands a decent wage. A Government
grant would be a better alternative to a
rise in the price of milk, to enable the
farmer to increase his income by capital
expenditure on the things before-
mentioned and also perhaps, by the in-
stallation of machinery, to do away with
some of his labor, which is scarce and
hard to hire.
The farmer receives Is. a gallon for his
milk. The consumer has to pay 2s. 4d. or
2s. Bd. It is thereby implied that the cost
of receiving, treating and distributing is
greater than the cost of production, which
seems ridiculous. I think it would be
found that the companies’ and vendors’
margin of profit on the average is con-
siderably greater than the producers’. The
cost of distribution could be immediately
reduced by the introduction of once-a-
day delivery, now that almost every
household has a cooler of some descrip-
tion.
As for the Milk Board, the public has
to thank it for a product of a much
higher standard than that it was pre-
viously receiving.— Mac (N.S.W.).
Milk Board Responsibility
There is another angle to the ration-
ing of milk in Sydney (B. 3/4/’4O).
Everyone who knew conditions in the
milk zone was aware that there would
be a shortage of milk sooner or later.
Apparently the Milk Board alone was
in the dark. There was no need for any
rationing arrangements should have
been completed weeks ago to supplement
milk-zone supplies when the inevitable
shortage occurred, but the board did
nothing and it said nothing to indicate
that the shortage was likely to be so
severe.
The Water Board, on the other hand,
warned householders for months that
restrictions were likely if good rain did
not fall. Relieving a water shortage is
not so simple as relieving a milk
shortage.
When every newspaper in Sydney
attacked the Milk Board for its muddling,
public opinion was being aired. The
Government, however, evidently intends
to let the board muddle along.—Two
Strand (N.S.W.).
Winter Distress
In another month or so we shall be
in the middle of winter. If the recent
experiences of the other side of the
world are any guide, it is likely to be
a particularly hard and bitter one.
Already stores, big and little, are an-
nouncing their stocks of winter clothing
and medical authorities are getting in
with warnings of whooping cough, influ-
enza and the like. But, so far, no one
has suggested anything for the preven-
tion or, at least, the alleviation of that
annual epidemic, distress by reason of
poverty and unemployment.
There is no reason for anyone in
this country, even in time of war, to go
hungry and ill-clothed. We have a ple-
thora of charities to prove we are not
unmindful of suffering, ranging from
Lord Mayors’ funds, the many church
organisations, hospital and other auxili-
aries to the blanket funds of the smallest
town. But, despite these efforts, a sor-
rowful amount of distress still prevails
during winter.
The trouble is that the present system
of charitable relief is a net with too wide


a mesh. The Lord Mayors’ funds are
cumbersome affairs, far removed from
actual contact with the objects of
charity, ■ while church organisations are
often too concerned with soul-saving.
Consequently, many cases, genuinely
deserving of help, are missed.
I suggest the establishment, under
Government supervision and support, of
numerous soup-kitchens where those in
need, no matter what their faith, morals
or political bias, can be assured of at
least one square meal a day. What if
a few leadswingers do take the oppor-
tunity to get a free meal? It is better
that they should get away with it than
that genuine cases be permitted to suffer
unnoticed. Further, allied to the soup-
kitchens, there should be depots whose
function is to supply warm clothing and
solid footgear. Since the change of
style in military uniforms there must be
tons of good material lying idle. This
unused material could easily be distri-
buted among the poverty-stricken with
no loss to the country.
At any rate, there should be more
provision made for children. That there
are hungry, shivering youngsters in Aus-
tralia, one of the great food-producers
of the world, is a blot on our name. In
an age of slogans, I put forward this
one: “No more cold and starving
children!” It lacks polish, but I would
like to see it blazoned forth in the
brightest of neon lights in every city
of the land.— Kingsman (Vic.).
Hard-hit Musicians
In these days of patriotic and charity
concerts do we ever pause to consider
the financial position of those who give
their services free?
Teachers of music, singing and elocu-
tion are hit harder in depression and war-
time than most other people. One has
only to read the advertisements, such as
“Violin, Is. a lesson, visit anywhere,” or
“Piano, 9d. a lesson, books provided,
homes visited,” to understand. Often
these teachers can add to their names
music degrees of which anyone might
be proud.
During the last war, being concerned in
a series of concerts for charity, I realised
how hard hit musicians and other culture
teachers are at such times. One group
who gave a magnificent concert hadn’t a
tram fare among them. We arranged
transport to and from the hall and gave
them supper.
All such committees should remember
that if they can’t pay the musicians (and
after all any laborer is worthy of his hire)
at least they can save the artist all out-of-
pocket expenses. —Entertainer (S.A.).
One of my neighbors, with imposing
musical degrees, is a teacher of the violin.
He has a cultured mind, a charming
manner and a spotless character. He has
also a wife and family. Through the
years of depression his list of pupils
dwindled till it has almost reached van-
ishing point, and he tries to keep the dole
from the door by cutting down exes, to
zero.
In the same period we have been enter-
tained regularly every week by a street
musician whose repertoire consists of
three tunes badly played on a battered
cornet. The soloist knocks boldly at every
door, and evidently collects sufficient to
ensure weekly encores. I have seen him,
with his wife and kids, in good seats at
the talkies, consuming chocolates and
ices.
There is supposed to be a moral in this,
though I’m blowed if I know what it is.
Should we teach our musicians only
three tunes and send them out to beg
their bread, or should we present them
with a suit of bullock hide instead of a
cap and gown when they can play some-
thing really difficult?
Worldly success seems to depend not
so much on the quality of the brain as
on the thickness of the skin. — Gutts-
mayer (S.A.).
Opera in English
“Signor Verdi” (B. 1/4/’4O) strikes the
right note about translations, but his
enthusiasm is worthy of a better cause.
What is really wanted is that operas and
songs already translated shall be sung
in English that can be understood.
At present it is often impossible to
tell what even an English ballad is all
about, and when a more classy solo is
sung it matters little whether the words
are Russian or Chinese. Articulation
and sentiment are sacrificed to “pro-
duction,” vibrato and scoops. A high
note is striven for with a cry, and with
no language but a cry. A clear middle-
range vowel sound is either beneath the
dignity or beyond the ability of most
vocalists. Recently I heard “The Last
Rose of Summer” rendered as if it were
an excerpt from “The Mad Scene.”
The melody was recognisable, but the
words were just a series of unrelated
sounds.
Good, honest comedians depend for
their living on clear enunciation, and
prove that words can be wedded to music
without losing their identity. They don’t
put on dog, they keep within their range,
and they don’t overwork the vox-humanct
stop. Perhaps that is why even high-
brows relax and look happy during a
funny turn. Surely it can’t be on account
of the lowbrow humor.
“Lend to the words of the poet the
music of ,your voice.” Cauliflower
Ear (S.A.).
The trouble with rendering opera in
English is that the folks who attend
might then be able to understand what
all the noise was about, and that would
be fatal. One can tolerate people shriek-
ing in a foreign tongue, but to hear them
shrieking in English would settle it. It
is sound commercial sense on the part
of opera promoters to stick to opera in
a foreign tongue. — Amelia Jenks
(N.S.W.).
“Three Deaths”
Why is it that no provision is made
for watering stock at major railway sid-
ings? Sheep and cattle are sometimes
without water for long periods on end.
Some weeks ago I brought cattle down
from a town on the Darling River. They
were overcrowded in the trucks, and
they went 45 hours without water. There
were three deaths.
Why can’t the railways provide yards
with a permanent supply of water laid
on to troughs?
If stock that have a train journey
of over 24 hours’ duration were taken
out at the end of that period and watered
would it not be more humane and ensure
their arriving in good condition?
Better an hour extra tacked on to the
journey for this than half an hour to
take out dead stock. — Bluey (N.S.W.).
Cotton Bounty
It seems strange that the Federal Gov-
ernment should hesitate to grant an ex-
tension of the bounty On raw cotton pro-
duced in Australia. Australian spinners
this year estimate their requirements to
be nearly 60,000 bales, and owing to the
Government’s hesitation to extend the
bounty late planting was the result and
a decrease in production is expected.
We are trying to reduce imports from
other countries. Cotton is a vital commo-
dity, much more so now the country
is at war, and production should be
encouraged.— Youngster (Q.).
For the Defence
In identifying the reading of character
in handwriting with slot-machine fortune-
telling, chain letters and astrology,
S. Kribble’s tilt at the credulous (B.
27/ 3/ ’4O) missed much of its point.
It is futile to scoff at serious attempts
at character delineation from handwrit-
ing. Handwriting is a most individual
creation, a personal portrait, a psycholo-
gical graph of one’s emotional life. It
is many other “give-away” things besides.
“As a man writeth....” is an axiom.
The late J. M. Barrie was more than
humorous when he said that one’s name
was the most important piece of writ-
ing in the world. He might have added
that a man’s signature is the most faith-
ful and frank autobiography he could
write.
Daily all of us make fairly accurate
intuitive and objective judgments of char-
acter from voice tones and inflections,
mannerisms, gait and the little affecta-
tions of the people around us. Decep-
tion may play a part in some instances,
but when the moving finger writes we
reveal most things to the skilled
graphologist. Handwriting is as inti-
mate as soap.
It is surely not mere whim that causes
shrewd businessmen to seek character
analysis and aptitudes from the hand-
writing of job applicants. I have taken
a purely private interest in handwriting
for some years. The hobby has revealed
traits in acquaintances which would not
be disclosed in ordinary association, but
which have been confirmed by manner-
isms and symbolism in handwriting to-
gether with a later check-up on the
writers’ careers and reactions to situations
and personal crises.
S. Kribble and those who have not
considered the psychological approach to
handwriting, with all its apparently
absurd conclusions drawn from what
seems slight evidential clues, I would
refer to the whole psycho-analytic system
which Freud built up from slender
evidence. His Psycho-pathology of Every-
day Life is crammed with brilliant con-
clusions drawn from trivial occurrences.
Even slips of the pen are there shown to
have meaning. The uninitiated would
overlook these errors in the same way
that they would see nothing revealing in
any handwriting. —C. Halbert (Vic.).
Quail
According to Melbourne “Age” re-
ports, approximately 423,681 quail were
slaughtered in Victoria on the opening
day of the season. Scarcely any of the
thousands of gunmen failed to obtain
limit bags of 30, while in one paddock,
at Stewarton, near Benalla, over 400 birds
were bagged. Yet, according to “Orin-
lus,” the Nature Notes writer of the
“Age,” it has been proved that quail
are “one of the most valuable birds a
farmer could have on his property.”
It is true that seeds may figure more
prominently than insects in the quail’s
crop contents in the autumn, when the
open season gives some opportunity for
investigating their diet, but there has
been a noticeable lack of accurate seed
identification.
Investigations into the crop contents of
quail carried out some years ago in
N. S. Wales demonstrated conclusively
that quail are of inestimable value in
eating weed seeds and insects. Conse-
quently the N. S. Wales Chief Secretary
was asked, on the unanimous vote of the
Farmers and Settlers’ Association, to pro-
tect quail absolutely for five years. In
the resultant dust-up over the matter
between sporting and rural interests,
sport again triumphed.
Those who accuse quail of being crop
destroyers could gain, from a study of
the details of the N. S. Wales inquiry,
unanswerable reasons for the protection
of quail in proportion to the grass-
hoppers, caterpillars and destructive
larvae devoured by them in springtime. —•
G. S. M. (Vic.).
“The Tourist Menace”
E. Carol is on the right track when
he draws attention to the “tourist
menace” (B. 3/4/’4O). Money expended
on two “tourist” roads in the district
would have provided Bundanoon
(N.S.W.) with a water supply. The
roads were constructed under the direc-
tion of Mr. Spooner when that gentle-
man was a Minister. Water for the
guest-houses at Bundanoon was carted
from Moss Vale at a cost of £lOO a
week this summer.
One dairy-farmer on the South Coast
lost £4OO in three months because he
had to cart water for his stock, and
hundreds of others in the same district
were suffering from the water shortage.
Yet money spent on “tourist” and
“scenic” roads would have dammed the
Shoalhaven River and given the South
Coast a water supply sufficient for all
needs at all times. Money was wasted
on unemployment “relief” that, if spent
wisely, would have been giving a return
even this early.—M. T. Boppy (N.S.W.).
Corporal Punishment
I should like to explain to “Pawang”
(B. 3/4/’4O) that it was not the regu-
lations on corporal punishment that
caused the pother among Victorian
teachers, but the way in which the busi-
ness was spread over two columns by
the dailies. As is the fashion among
newshounds, they seized on a notice in
the “Government Gazette” relating to
very slightly amended conditions of c.p.,
interviewed a few teachers and young-
sters, and with a couple of columns of
blurb gave the public a much over-
emphasised display of a thing that is
rapidly disappearing from schools.
What annoys teachers most, though, is
that they did not bother to examine
any of the conditions that may cause dis-
cipline to become a worry—classes of
60 or more under the care of one harassed
schoolie, the exploitation of student
teachers (apprentices on less than two
pounds a week) for a number of years
and the unattractive conditions of entry
to the service. Chief Inspector Ellwood
complained recently that the department
was practically forced to take all the
men who offered. As far as a teacher is
concerned discipline is largely a matter
of personality, so this means that, with
no choice, people are accepted who find
later that they can secure discipline only
with artificial aids.
At any rate, why not allow the young-
sters to have a say in the matter? With
a class of 63 in a city school I found
this impossible, but when I took over a
rural school of two dozen I called a con-
ference, and we decided that we could
manage without c.p., so the strap was
scrapped. Unfortunately a fire was lit
in the school grounds a few weeks later
and spread to an adjoining farm owned
by a farmer who was a good friend to
the nippers in many ways. No damage
was done, but on my suggestion he with-
drew his patronage. Another confer-
ence and c.p. was introduced for named
offences, including arson, hat
and the black list were entirely tneir
—Kid whacker (Vic.).
Let’s Be Cheerful
A sense of humor is important most
people take life too seriously.
How different is our day if, when go g
to work, we receive from a stranger
cheerful salutation, accompanied wi
smile! .
The conflagration in Europe does n
mean that we are to move about wi
gloomy countenances. A situation
rarely so uninviting that there is not a
bright side to it. Cannot we learn any-
thing frpm the man who, when he saW a
dead dog lying in the street, remarke ,
“What beautiful teeth!”?
For ages the Church has been trying
to preach people out of their sms.
only the preachers would try humor.
In the pugilistic ring the ma_n that is
cool, calm and collected will generally
be acclaimed the winner. A visit to a
hospital would put many of us healthy
ones to shame. Just as the cheerful
patient will ultimately win through, so
too will the cheerful nation. Daly
(S.A.).
Albertan
The sooner every country in the world
is totally bankrupt the better. Then their
respective Governments might be pre-
pared to consider a revision and/or heav-
ing overboard of the present futile and
vicious monetary system. But perhaps
Governments prefer world-wide unem-
ployment, mass-starvation and wholesale
slaughter. At any rate, with the excep-
tion of the Albertan and Maoriland Gov-
ernments, none of them so far has had
the guts to try anything different.
Dinkum Demo. (W.A.).
Rubbish
Have you seen our harbor? Have
you seen our gardens? You have? Ah,
but wait till you see our garbage carts!
As 1 write a formidable line-up of
garbage-tins decorates the Darlinghurst
street. The hats of the bins are worn at
drunken angles, pushed up by vegetable
peelings, old boots and assorted junk.
Suddenly there is excitement in the west,
and with a flurry of dignity and flies the
rubbish truck skids to a standstill, and
the circus begins.
Strong men carry the stronger bins
to “depots” on various corners and cram
the contents into big square bag wrap-
pers. These full packages are tossed up
to brawny fellows in the back of the
truck, which comes slowly and im-
portantly by. The brawny chaps soon
throw the emptied wrappers back to the
men on the street. But up there in the
truck hell has been let loose. The men
tramp about in the swelling heap of
muck, squashing potato-peelings under-
neath slimy lettuce-leaves, deftly snatch-
ing a label off a condensed-milk tin, and
-thoughtfully picking up a torn book from
beneath a pile of fish-heads.
For half an hour after the truck has
moved on, the memory lingers. Wouldn’t
it be great if the garbage truck were per-
manently covered over and all rubbish
were shot down chutes from outside? —
Elm (N.S.W.).
Wisdom
Writers in The Bulletin have been
advocating examinations of politicians.
This would probably help to a certain
extent, but education is not the only
asset required by politicians. It is neces-
sary for statisticians, clerks, etc., but the
men who handle the destiny of a nation
require something much more than that,
something that no amount of study will
give nor money will buy—wisdom.
Adam Lindsay Gordon expresses what
I mean:
Lost labor! vairi bookworms have sat in
The halls of dull pedants who teach
Strange tongues, the dead lore of the Latin,
The scroll that is godlike and Greek;
Have wasted life’s springtide in learning
Things long ago learnt all in vain.
They are slow, very slow, in discerning
That booklore and wisdom are twain.
—Neil Nicklason (Tas.).
Next, Please!
Isn’t there any law compelling dentists
to have trained nurses in attendance in-
stead of 17-year-olds who do as they’re
told, but don’t know what they’re doing,
and who leave inside six weeks, to be
replaced by others equally untrained?
Their main task seems to be to answer
the doorbell, remove dead flowers, polish
mirrors, drag a bib around the patient’s
neck and restrain wild-eyed people in
the waiting-room from tearing the maga-
zines.
Nobody wants to have his hand held at
the dentist’s, but one does feel entitled
to the maximum of professional atten-
tion.—E. (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
READY FOR ACTION
Here’s a Watch for fflffljffla the Man of War-
This Cyprus De Luxe 15 Jewel Precision Watch
in Stainless Steel comes to you at £5/10/-
Wiitnproof, Dustproof, Shockproof.
DIAMOND Yj m ft 112 MARKETS!
g. WATCH SYDNEY -
■SPECIALISTS 3 QPP. DAYIDJONES
The DUNLEAVY DIAGRAM
(BEG.)
Write
for
FREE
BOOK
A framework
to simplify
ami improve
boxing, with
directions. Acts
as a self-.
instructor.
-JACK i
DUNLEAVr, f
Box 1791 K, [
•P. 0., Sydney.!
I
Write
for
FREE
BOOK
SUPER DUAL WAVE
RADIOS! From £l2/12/-
Every set guaranteed by RELIANCE.
SPECIAL FEATURES include Neo-
scopic Station Tuning, Automatic
Volume Control (A.V.C.), Latest
Triode-type Valves, Low and High
Frequency Tone Control, Ball-
bearing l)ial Operation for Smooth,
Accurate Tuning, Magnavox Speaker.
Terms as low as 'i/9 weekly.
(Terms allowed metropolitan area only.)
RELIANCE RADIO PTY., LTD.,
It Barrack Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 86981.
First window on right from George St. (nr. G.P.0.).
ẁ
ẃ
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
J. P. TALTY
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4Jin, knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 4'Jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OP RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons',
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
. 6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
New batteries at half usual cost ... Buy your
batteries direct from the manufacturers and
save approximately half. All types of wet
batteries for cars, trucks, radios, motor
cycles, theatres and house lighting. “Marshall”
batteries carry the full guarantee of this
leading factory. There is no better battery
made. Write for wholesale catalogue to
The Marshall Battery
Mfg. Co.
42 HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY.
STOP™* Rupture
ẅ
Worries/
One leading Doctor on S/11/’3B
says:—
“I order your appliances for my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
->l4 DAYS FREE TRIAL-
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
O)
ILW
O
/
hi
N
£ j
on
r~:0
«r.
/&)*?
'She's very sloiO settling today, Ponsonby."
w
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are
still going strong.
Has no equ a 1
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MARKER CO..
Jabez St., Marrickville,
“W. ’Phone: LM4794
W.NCH£ST£R
SKATES
15/—2O/-
'with steel rolls
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
: -V-.
•vm
81
I
■
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
ma d e absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
STOP
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
BRIGGS&STRATTON
Air-cooled 4-cycle
SINGEE-C VEINDER
PETROL MOTORS.
i to 5 HORSEPOWER
From £lB/17/6.
Also Petrol Electric
Generators from £25.
Agents all States.
Illustrated Bulletin with
prices gladly forwarded.
/
AfciPUON (A/SIA) PTY. LIMITED
'" SB2 Kent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
TO PREVENT INFLUENZA
CARRY IN VOUR
THE LENITIVE INHALER is always
ready for use—instantly relieves throat
and nasal troubles, clears the head like
magic, cures catarrhal headache. It will
surely ward off influenza infection and
save you from colds and coughs. Pre-
vention is better than cure; always carry
it with you and use it whenever you
feel the slightest irritation in throat or
nose. Easy and pleasant to use. Only
1/6, with full directions and Six Months’
Refills, post paid. Money back if it
fails. Try it at our expense.
IT MAY SAVE YOUR LIFE.
THE UNION COMPANY,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ŵ
ẁ
GREENMORE ELECTRIC BOASTER
ẃ
57/6
Stores, or direct from
Plug in just like
your Iron.
It roasts, toasts,
grills, makes your
scones and boils on
top. Oven size
llin. wide, Sin.
deep, 6in. higl> —
very low running
cost. Richly
enamelled mottled
Green, Blue or
Cream. , Complete
with flex and plug.
From all Good
the Manufacturers:
GREENMORE PRODUCTS,
11 Stewart St., Richmond, Victoria.
1940 RADIOS
40 per cent, op retail prices and Free Home
Trial in districts where we have no agents.
To make you as confident as we are that
“Century” Radios have no superior in per-
formance or appearance, we make this
astounding offer. Your money returned with-
out question after leisurely trial if not satis-
fied. “Century” battery or plug-in sets
bring direct to your home the great cities
of -the world, at all hours of the day or
night. Be first with the war-news and latest
entertainment. Write now for our new
catalogue of 1940 Century modern models.
CENTURY RADIO MFG. CO.
15 DIXON STREET, SYDNEY.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of T)r.
L. Barrere is the result of -10
years’ practice and improve-
rnents. Stupendous success
of pew method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE I.ITERATURE.
ẅ
acts
LIKE THE HfUID
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2U), 35 I>ITT ST., SYDNEY.
Lip ■ Perfect
English
The 54 Common Errors
The method is habit-forming. Each error
is considered separately and the pupil very
soon speaks correctly without hesitation or
self-consciousness. He is shown, too, how to
find the proper pitch of his voice and how
to improve intonation, resonance and accent.
The Course is taught by post and includes
adequate tests, criticism and comment. Par-
ticulars from E. H. VVelford, 396 Flinders
•Lane, Melbourne.
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, I/.1.8.5.T.j
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney,
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar*
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
161 CAS'TLF/RKAGH STREET, SYDNEY
LAMBS SAVED
ẅ
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
LIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord-
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.e, efficient —
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no Setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t Judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY & CO.,
Daroux Eniaseulators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
17141*40 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss.
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department. “The Bulletin "
Office, Sydney or Melbourne


'#
*Ss»
Be
am
y/\t®
\ e ss
Set
vice
setv>« ;- *,„<«
V^\te' eS . . eS y \ c e
e\eP
iViot'e
Set''' 0 ®
to SW'P S
He*
f\V l
Gu' nca
\K»t
03
aca s
Aess
t\o9
Se
Setv
\ce
Ct 3
It
SeW
ce
s *
P*
ctut
9 T
am
S etv
y/\t«
\tf\t
Vess
\e* s
l^ano
Rese
,tln9
tot
at
cVa
Bt
o a
St a'
Ac **"f.U' oKa
oti s
fVv
P*
sV-
-7
#4-rS/
V
IVIRII.ESS
# 4r/o*AL
