

CORRECT EASY ADJUSTMENT
INCORPORATED WITH POCKET
mm.
-
Mlv
m
\
m
-
wm
- ■''
W*<
m
'
« ’
M
SI
m
m
\ A* '
IS*
ittt
FOR SPORTS AND EVERYDAY WEAR
<?
UEGD
„ ■ ' '• '
A.
»
Self-supporting —NO ELASTIC
jf Perfect waist fitting
jf No puckering—guaranteed
if Comfort and ease... for every need
TO GOLFERS
Reduce your golf handicap by reducing
your waist handicap —
Wear BREKS
NO ELASTIC to pucker or perish
Procurable at all progressive stores. Anv difficulty in
this direction should be referred to
BOX 1617 8.8., G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W., or
BOX 262, G.P.0., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3126.
Wednesday,. January 10, 1940.
Hitler’s Peace Aims
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post- as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
BanavrrtjS
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pv Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 140
The Red Page
A CHINESE NOVEL.
Respected reader, the plainly inordi-
nate length of the Chinese novel Chin
P’ing Mei, published in an English trans-
lation by honorable The Bodley Head at
the insulting price for any work of fiction
of 255. net —say 30s. Australian —might
easily have been worse, since the transla-
tion by Bernard Miall is from a German
abridged version.
As it is, it flows gracefully over some
850-odd pages, including, among other
remarkable points of interest, by far the
longest anticlimax ever written outside
the rather extensive addenda to the
diverting anecdote that saved Schehera-
zade’s bold little neck, which addenda it
resembles in other ways as well.
A point of considerable difference
between it and the Arabian Nights tales
is the absence of any magical aids and
accompaniments to vary the episodes of
amorous dalliance of which both largely
consist. Arthur Waley, in a learned in-
troduction, tells what is known, legendary
and approximately historical, of the
novel. In the legendary account it figures
as an instrument of a superbly Oriental
vengeance. The Wangs and the Yens
having inherited a vendetta from their
ancestors, Wang Shih-cheng, in a mere
few weeks, wrote a novel of some
1600 pages, weaving into it (in the por-
trayal of Hsi-men Ch'ing, the hero of
the book) a pitiless satire of the private
life of Yen Shi-fan. Evidently having
less trust in the deadly efficacy of the
printed word than have modern censors,
he made his job thorough by rubbing a
grain or two of poison into the corner of
each page, so that the detestable Yen, in
the course of licking his finger and turn-
ing over the pages, would absorb just
enough poison by the time he had
finished the book to put an end to his
worthless earthly career.
The historical account is, as always,
more prosaic. It traces out the novel’s
rather precarious existence over the cen-
turies. The legend would account for the
length—it may have required the 1600
pages to poison Yen—and for the nature
of the contents, these being mostly of a
kind likely to appeal to the licentious
Yen’s literary taste ; for that matter, they
may also mainly account for the survival
of the novel, if not also for its transla-
tion, first into the German and now into
English. It may, of course, have literary
qualities in the original which have not
carried through in translating ; but in this
English version it has few of the quali-
ties of great fiction, and could not be
compared with a War or Peace or any
other big novel in which the substance
justifies the length.
On its own lower plane it has con-
siderable merit. Though the translation
is on conventional lines and seeks to
retain the flowery Oriental idiom rather
than impose modern slang on it, which
some translators nowadays consider very
effective, and though the author breaks
frequently into typical Chinese poetry
(also conventionally translated), it is a
remarkably modern novel in characters,
setting and general ingredients. The
seamy side of life in a Chinese town is
fairly clearly depicted, the numerous
characters are not at all badly drawn, oc-
casionally the scene is enlarged to repre-
sent a good area of China of the day,
there are glimpses of excellent landscape,
and there is fair humor of phrase as well
as of situation. It adds up to an amusing
satirical novel, made of very spicy
ingredients.
As a satire directed at the legendary
Yen, however, it might well have been a
waste of effort, unless Yen had a thinner
skin than is usually worn by libertines.
His supposed counterpart, the novel’s
hero, might have struck Yen as quite a
creditable character. Certainly he cor-
rupts about half the women of the town
and all the justice, but that seems to be
satire directed, not at the corrupter, but
at justice as China then knew it —maybe
still knows it —and at women. Both the
women and the magistrates in the story
are very easily corrupted. For the rest,
the hero has a chemist’s shop which keeps
him well lined with silver for his
licentious living, and for 616 of its pages
the novel describes his wining and his
amorous affairs, till he dies, exhausted, at
the full age of 44.
The novel presents exactly the same
view of women as pervades the Arabian
Nights. Nevertheless, its
women come more clearly
alive than do the men ; and
there are a lot of them —
the hero had six official
wives apart from his other
attachments. In the long run the women
are as much trouble to the author as
they are easy to his hero. Having killed
off that hero, he still has the women to
dispose of, which taxes his ingenuity for
upwards of 200 more pages, all of this
anticlimax.
More Rothenstein.
William Rothenstein’s latest offering of
recollections, Since Fifty (Faber and
Faber), covers the period 1922-38, fitting
in between the two wars, and reading
like an honor roll of Britain’s Old Guard
of Art and Literature, so many of these
who were the artist-author’s sitters and
personal friends or acquaintances—Kip-
ling, Hardy, Yeats, T. E. Lawrence,
Chesterton and A. E. Housman, among
the writers —having survived the first war
to finish before the next.
Most of the three dozen fine illustra-
tions are heads of the lately outstanding
literary figures, and the literary race was
never more kindly treated. That is true
of his comments also. He is without
malice. He can touch off a character por-
trayal none the worse for that.
He writes of George Moore: “It was
because George Moore realised that he
could have neither the respect with which
Hardy was surrounded nor the honors
offered him that he made his silly and
ill-natured attacks,” and it can be
accepted as a statement of fact. He did
not like the old Moore (who did?), but
he can still be as generous as a critical
sense and his personal knowledge will
allow:
How ineffectively George Moore repro-
duces the conversation of his friends!
With the exception of Edmund Gosse, they
serve as mere foils to his own divagations.
Who would suppose Walter de la Mare,
reading his part in the Conversations in
Edbury Street, to be an enchanting talker?
Moore’s character drawing of his
painter friends, apart from his reporting,
is good; of Steer and Tonks, excellent.
But of all Moore’s portraits none is so
complete as his own. I wonder, reading
his books, whether he knew how fully
he displays himself and his confused sense
of values, his capacity for truth and
untruth, his companionability and his cad-
dishness, his silliness and again his unex-
pected simplicity and engaging charm. His
self-portraiture, at least, stands as a
supreme tribute to his artistic integrity.
Another to be debited with “silliness”
is T. E. Lawrence, though by Max Beer-
bohm, not Rothenstein. “What a strange
thing,” Beerbohm wrote, “to be a super-
eminent genius and hero, as Lawrence
was, plus such streaks of sheer silliness.”
It was Lawrence’s disparagement of the
Odyssey that most raised Beerbohm’s ire,
and Beerbohm more than matched Law-
rence’s comment on the classic with his
own comment on Lawrence’s translation:
“1 have read various extracts from that
translation —read them with gasps. And
I would rather not have been that trans-
lator than have driven the Turks out of
Arabia.” It should be added that Law-
rence made the translation because he
was well paid to do it, and for that
reason alone, being Lawrence, would
have done it against the grain. How-
ever, that does not wipe out his rather
loud disparagement of the original, nor
his translation of it, either, for that
matter. Still, the vital spark that lights
up all his writing makes his letters stand
out alive among Rothenstein’s bag of
such literary small game. Lawrence says
of his own writing:—-
I don’t think much of it. My style is a
made-up thing, very thickly encrusted with
what seemed to me the titbits and clever
wheezes of established authors. So, for
book-learned people, threading it con-
stantly, but not too sharply, tickles their
literary memory, by half-reminding them
of half-forgotten pleasures. There isn’t
any good, or permanence, in such a deri-
vative effort.
Rothenstein found that T. E. Lawrence
could on occasion “show a hardness,
against himself as against others”:
On me he made the impression of a
thwarted nature, a great spirit in doubt as
to his aim and purpose Perhaps he
shirked the immense effort required to
produce great literature. Action had called
on the whole man; to action he had given
all his resources, mental and physical, to
the point of exhaustion.
Another writer who had something to
say above trivialities in his letters to
Rothenstein was Frederic Manning, who
wrote Her Privates We. Rothenstein
speaks of Manning’s “finely critical
letters” on art and literature; in another
sphere, he singled out Neville Chamber-
lain in 1931 as one of the “two men I
have some confidence in” ; the other was
Lord Reading. Also, in a postscript to
one of his letters that same year, he
wrote:
Our real error is in admitting equality
with other nations: that is the fallacy
behind all internationalism. France’s
insistence on maintaining security by
armaments is one of the reasons for the
flow of gold there. America refuses to be
drawn into any international commitments.
Her intervention in the discussion of the
Manchurian problem by the League is
exceptional, momentary, and not disinter-
ested. We also should free ourselves and
seek a purely national policy. A true equi-
librium is brought about by every nation
developing its utmost: weakness leads only
to dissolution and chaos.
A chance acquaintance of Rothenstein’s
might come in here with some appropri-
ateness —not to Manning’s personality,
but to his subject-matter. This was a
dandy, with mauve shirt and tie, and
clothes almost matching, and a bracelet
on his wrist. Rothenstein encountered
this vision aboard a yacht when visiting
Italy, and “was shocked to think that
this charming lightweight, with his easy-
going attitude to life, should have been
an instrument in bringing about the
tragedy of the World War.” He had met
Count Berchtold, the Austrian Minister
who launched the ultimatum upon Serbia
in 1914.
Other political figures met in his pages
include Baldwin and, very frequently,
Ramsay MacDonald. He is extraordi-
narily merciful to both of them. In one
place he describes MacDonald visiting
Italy and being seen off at the station
by Mussolini.
As Ramsay, having said farewell to Musso-
lini, was climbing up to his compartment,
the band struck up the English National
Anthem, and he had to remain, with one
foot on the platform and the other on the
running-board, while the band played “God
Save the King” three times in succession,
until Mussolini, furious, signed them to
stop.
Rothenstein has a nice hand for touch-
ing in such backgrounds for all his writ-
ten portraits. As another example, Shaw
in Japan:—
In Japan he went to see a Japanese play,
but found it difficult to keep his attention
on the players with the audience chattering
throughout; in addition attendants with hot
towels were in constant demand, and towels
were sent hurtling through the air to every
part of the theatre.
Among other appearances, G.B.S.
figures in Rothenstein’s listing of the
great talkers he has heard, along with
Whistler, Oscar Wilde, Henry James,
George Moore, Yeats, James Stevens and
Ralph Hodgson. All of them, he men-
tions, “have been monologists. It is right
they should be so. When a fine talker
is in the mood he is worth listening to:
there is a kind of creative talk which
should not be interrupted.” He gives the
gist of one notable outbreak of talk by
Yeats, the poet embroidering and im-
proving upon history as he warmed to his
subject, and a good historian present,
feeling his mind being more and more
outraged, trying vainly to break in on
the flow. It is an unusual picture of
Yeats, but no less so than Rothenstein’s
drawing of him among the book’s illus-
trations: this may be Yeats, but if it
is other portraits alleged to be of him
must be of somebody else.
One final quotation, touching on his
main interests, literature and art and
their makers:
We may look to get from Germany or
Russia a powerful and cruel art like that
of the Assyrians, glorifying the power of
the Dictator, advertising the remorseless
treatment to be meted out to his enemies.
If ever the Fascist party should come
into power in England, I imagine Wynd-
ham Lewis as the chief State artist; as
Poet Laureate, Ezra Pound.
On this its literary personal side the
book is exceptionally good. Because
Rothenstein isn’t much interested in the
present literary lights, it misses being
anything like a survey of- the cultural life
of its period, though he makes plenty of
pointed comment on the contemporary
art. Briefly, his finding on Art is that it
has become very largely a lost art.
An Englishman in U.S.A.
C. V. R. Thompson went to Gahd’s
Own Country to represent London
“Daily Express,” and on the same day
met the President and his first gangster
—that is, Thompson’s first. Roosevelt,
he thinks, “has something of the actor
in him, and responds immediately to the
tonic of applause.” The gangster,
Ahearn, opened a speakeasy when Pro-
hibition came in: “His principal cus-
tomers immediately were the legislators
who as a body had passed the Eighteenth
Amendment.”
Thompson took a penthouse on top of
a skyscraper. His being thus elevated
may have conditioned his outlook on his
adopted country, or maybe an English-
man there has to hit back in self-
defence ; anyway, he takes a lofty view
of it in I Lost My English Accent
(Nicholson and Watson, per Angus and
Robertson). The book is journalism,
and a lightweight, but a most agreeable
time-killer.
Broadway in the daytime sadly dis-
appointed him. “The movies are to
blame ; they are to blame for a lot of
disappointments in New York; it all
looks so much better in the movies.” In
the night Broadway is a lady; by day
“even her people are commonplace.
Everyone who doesn’t look like a pick-
pocket looks like a plainclothes detective
looking for a pickpocket.”
Concerning the Stork Club:
Celebrities came. Sometimes Ernest
Hemingway, the author, was there, belying
the title of his most famous book, Fare-
well to Arms, by threatening to get in a
fight with someone.
Among the yachters, American pat-
tern :
Mrs. Joseph Davies, wife of the American
Ambassador to Russia at that time, was
represented by a four-master thirteen
times larger than the Mayflower that
grape nuts had earned for her. It was so
large that columnist Westbrook Pegler once
said that its lifeboats carried lifeboats.
The vessel was under power throughout
the fortnight, because it was so much
trouble to hoist the sails. But one after-
noon a guest, looking up from the deck,
said whimsically that the Sea Cloud must
look very beautiful with the sails set. Mrs.
Davies sent for somebody, and that some-
body blew a whistle. In a split second
seventy-two men appeared from the vessel’s
innards and shinnied up the rigging. In
five minutes the sails were set. But it took
those seventy-two men nearly an hour to
bring the sails in again.
Somewhat more delicate operations:
The day nurse was always complaining
because she had to prepare a new “nose
case” for surgery. The early summer was
the season for nose cases. They were
mostly girls of the Jewish faith. They
were willing to suffer the tortures of plas-
tic surgery in order to lose the hook in
their noses. They did not mind that the
upper part of their faces was black and
blue after the operation, or that they had
to breathe through their open mouths for
a week or so. They did not mind, because
they could enter the hospital as Miss
Rebecca Feldman and leave it as Miss
Patricia O’Brien.
Thompson retells familiar stories, such
as that of the Hauptmann trial, but he
has his own journalistic slant on them.
His ground for refusing to believe that
Hauptmann was guilty might have been
borrowed from Sherlock Holmes. Haupt-
mann was a German peasant and a car-
penter ; German peasants are renowned
for their slow, plodding thoroughness,
and, apart from that, not even the worst
of carpenters could have built the ladder
used for the kidnapping.
However, Hauptmann went to the
chair.
Mrs. Hauptmann was sitting knitting in
her hotel room when the news came. She
had hoped to the last. But she knew
immediately when the photographers burst
open the door and took her picture.
“God, why did you do that to me?” she
cried. They took her picture again. Hiding
her eyes from the exploding flashlights
the widow of Bruno Richard Hauptmann
ran into the bathroom and locked the
door.
“Leave me alone!” she screamed from
her sanctuary. “We’ve got to get some
more pictures,” cried the photographers.
Mrs. Hauptmann refused to come out, so
they went downstairs to borrow the pass-
key. They opened the bathroom door and
took pictures until Mrs. Hauptmann col-
lapsed. They took a last picture of that,
and then left her to her grief.
American justice had been done . . .
Australian Art Annual, 1939 (Ure
Smith, Ltd.). Edited and with an intro-
duction by Sydney Ure Smith, the finely-
produced annual is in book form, cloth-
bound. Various writers survey the year’s
art in each of the six States; there are
71 plates representing a selection of the
best work of the year, with a few selec-
tions of other choice work from national
gallery collections, and also reports on
art society, gallery and club activities,
possessions and so forth. An admirable
publication, which deserves to become
permanent.
Readers' Union Books. The Union,
because it displays a.n honest interest
in literature, outside all ideological and
suchlike specious considerations, leaves
Left Book Clubs and Book of the Month
shows standing at the starting post. It
makes its choice from highly-rated books
published over the past year or two,
and it chooses soundly for its members.
Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne, are
Australian agents. Recent Union addi-
tions include T. H. White’s The Sword
in the Stone; Orientations, by Ronald
Storrs; and Lin Yutang’s The Impor-
tance of Living.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Always
'THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
m
We would emphasise that
the quality of all merchan-
dise offered during this Sale
is in every instance of our
usual high grades. The prices
only have been altered. If
a personal visit is impossible,
mail your order with com-
plete confidence —we guar-
antee satisfaction.
'j/afy t/earfy (jetuune
k
suns UUIHPAd 9/6
British and the best. These
Pyjama Suits have been made in
our own workrooms of British
Ceylonette, an excellent wearing
English fabric with smart stripes.
Small, medium and OS. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price 9/6
SALE PRICE - 7/6
7'6
7 6 BusHmnn shirts
British material and Australian
workmanship combine to make
the "Bushman" Work Shirt one of
the best. Made in our own work-
rooms. Full comfortable cut.
Heather and Blue shades. Size
14£ to 19 inches.
6'n
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price
SALE PRICE
7/6
6/11
8
/ \ -
7 \
7 6 SUmmER U’UJERR
Have all the changes of Under-
wear you want. Summer has been
late coming, and our Half Yearly
Sale makes it possible for you to
buy natural wool and cotton gar-
ments at a genuine saving. Light
to medium weight, Undershirts
5i
with short sleeves—Underpants to ankle. Size
34 to 44 inch chest or waist. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price, 7/6. SALE PRICE, garment, 5/11
• Men’s Mercery Ground Floor
George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S. W■ and sea-
ports in the Commonwealth.
19 6,22 ; 6 Smart Cardigans
Save on these for the future—all wool
fancy Cardigans, V neck, latest jacquard
or check designs on Grey, Grey-Blue,
Fawn or Brown. Men s, OS., and Ex. OS.
Regular Prices 19/6, 22/6
SALE PRICE 12/6
126
1
WHILE I LIVE I'Ll GROW I
.
19/6 FUR FELT HRTS
Hiah qrade Fur Felt Hats. Snap
brim styles. 2* and 2| brims
Satin linings. Light Grey, Mid
Grey, Steel, Slate and Fawn.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price,
each 19 / 6
SALE PRICE I 15/6
156
HORDERN & SONS LTD., SYDNEY. BOX 2712 C, G.P.O. ’PHONE M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT
ANTHONY


FIELDS OF COTTON
BY FRANK DALBY DAVISON
IT was Sunday afternoon, and
there was a cockies’ meeting at
the fifty-two-mile peg. As we
rode by the back road over
White Horse Hill we could see
them distantly, down in the broad valley, clus-
tered where the rails of the new line ended, like a
small swarm of bees. Others were on their way ;
over to our right, the Nuttalls’ buckboard-r-with a
brown and a grey in the traces —coming in along the
Five-mile Creek road ; beyond the winding channel
of the railway clearing, Charlie Chesney’s sulky
—his bright chestnut in the shafts and a couple
of neighbors squeezed in with him on the seat—com-
ing from the direction of the Old Fattening Paddock ;
a solitary horseman cantering in along the Mount
Springsure road.
By the time we'arrived, Tom Howell, Dick Slade
and I, there were from a hundred and twenty to a
hundred and thirty men squatting on their heels,
sprawling on the grass or perched on convenient heaps
of railway-construction material; men with beards,
men without beards, men with hair growing out of
their ears or with whiskers sticking up out of the
fronts of their shirts ; men who looked as if they
had just come from the paddocks, men in a fresh
change of working clothes —and mayhap a best hat
as a mark of respect to the day and the company —
young fellows whose cord trousers and concertina
leggings proclaimed their readiness to straddle a rough
horse; everywhere, strong brown faces and large
brown hands.
Around us were scattered a variety of conveyances
and saddlehacks. There were only half a dozen
women present, and these were in a little group on
the outskirts. This was a masculine occasion. A man
was going to talk on a matter involving our living. We
would listen ; then we would go home and tell our
womenfolk what he had had to say ; then we would
talk about it among ourselves, and the women would
have their bit to say, but this preliminary muster was
an essentially male affair. That’s how things were
done among us.
Harry Griffith, who was beginning to take the
lead in matters of collective interest, was mounting
an ironbark stump. “Gentlemen —or ladies and gentle-
men, I should say —you all know what we’re here for ;
to hear the Gover’ment expert tell us all about cotton.
The Gover’ment’s very anxious to get cotton going in
Queensl’nd, and has sent the Gover’ment expert along
to tell us all about it. He came up on yesterd’y’s train
and I put him up for the night. He’s been telling me
all about it, and if what he says is true —and I don’t
see why it shouldn’t be —there’s money in cotton. I
feel, therefore, that I can extend to the Gover’ment
expert a very hearty welcome on behalf of those
present.” Hear-hears and handclaps and “Well done,
Harry!” as Harry descended from the stump and the
Government expert took his place.
At the time the Queensland Agricultural De-
partment had a considerable number of specialists
touring rural districts, lecturing on everything from
cheese-making to pleuro-pneumonia. They didn’t look
quite like farmers, nor yet quite like professors. They
looked like schoolteachers who had dabbled very in-
terestedly—but perhaps not very successfully—in agri-
culture. They mostly had a grip of their subjects. Our
business was to relate their broad theorising to our
special conditions.
The present representative wore a new dustcoat,
a battered felt hat, and was one day behind with his
shaving. He had a large pale face, fat pale hands and
spoke very well. We were to some extent familiar
with his subject as a result of leaders and articles in
the press—even the Wilgatown “Bugle” had been dis-
coursing learnedly on cotton. In the person of its lec-
turer the department was paying us the courtesy of
intimate discussion.
It appeared that cotton was necessary to Queens-
land, to Australia, in fact; and the public was pre-
pared to pay a bounty above the world market value,
a guaranteed price. We listened with proper respect
and good feeling while he talked of the national im-
portance of establishing cotton-growing, with a quick-
ening of the practical mind when he went into the
details of the guaranteed price, and with a proper
measure of doubt when he went on to tell of the
great ease with which cotton could be grown.
The great thing to remember, he told us, was
that there was no boll weevil in Australia. In America
the great curse of cotton-growing was the boll weevil.
It consumed about a third of the crop, and preventive
measures were costly. In Australia we would be quite
free from the boll weevil.
Here he was interrupted by a voice, as much
philosophically reflective as interjectional: “Well, I’ll
bet we have some other thing!” This sent a
chuckle through the assembly, which the expert met
with a tolerant smile, treating it as evidence of the
traditional scepticism of our race. With a downward-
stabbing forefinger, he went on to explain that cotton
had a very deep taproot, and was a marvellous drought
resister. By the nature of its growth it was an ideal
dry-farming crop. In fact, it didn’t like too much
water ; badly-drained soil, or surface water standing
about, would drown it; but give it plenty of depth
for that long searching taproot, and it would grow
practically anywhere. If we were willing to try
cotton, the public was willing to provide the seed,
gratis.
The man was good on his subject; had his
answers off pat; was patient with irrelevant ques-
tions ; saw everything in terms of hard work and
reasonable returns. Harry Griffith’s brief speech of
thanks was warmly applauded.
AND so began our great cotton-growing experiment.
It seemed no time at all before, meeting people
on the road, you would be asked, not “How’s your
grass?” or “How’s your water?” but “How’s your
cotton?” Still, a good deal had to happen before that
came about. For a start we were doubtful. We feared
a catch. No man wanted to be the mug ; and least of
all to be caught alone in being a mug. Meeting chaps,
you’d ask, “Going in for cotton?” The answer mostly
would be, “Aw, I dunno. I might scratch a bit in.
What do you think about it?” Then came the news
that Harry Griffith was going to put in forty acres.
Forty acres! We’d been thinking in terms of eight or
ten acres. But then Griff always did go in for big
“She's takin' the baby for a walk again."
licks. He had a small black-soil
plain on his place; also he had a
gang plough and other implements,
brought from an earlier farming
venture. Even now he was cutting
and carting posts for fencing his forty acres. There
they were, for anyone to see, lying along the line
where they would set up. The news decided
us. Guaranteed prices. Free seed. A man would
look a fool in a few months’ time if everyone was joy-
ously carting bales of highly-profitable cotton to the
railway and he had none at all.
On practically every selection on the settlement
men went over their ground, choosing a piece they
could get under plough with a minimum of labor.
Those without a patch of plain had to consider light-
ness of timber as against suitability of soil. Strange
was the way everyone encouraged everyone else. I
heard Harry Griffith deprecating his plain. The soil
was heavy. He was just bunging the seed in on the
off chance. Maybe it would prove to do best on the
timbered country. He wished he could get around to
clearing a few acres of that red, sandy, cypress-pine
country at the back of his place.
Looking around from the top of any hill, any
day, a dozen smudges of smoke rising from the trees
would mark where men were at work, preparing land
for tillage. Calling on business at any settler’s home,
those days, the women would tell you that the men
were at work over on the box flat, or up on the iron-
bark ridge, clearing for cotton planting, grubbing,
felling, cutting up, rolling logs together, shaking the
fires down.
Those with a little open country put in the most,
and had their fences up before the rest had their few
acres ready for the roughest sort of ploughing ; but
everyone had something on the go. Most of us went
into cotton culture on knowledge acquired by word of
mouth, but a few of the more studious became deeply
versed in the subject, turning the pages of free pam-
phlets with knit brows and horny thumbs. The pictures
of cotton bushes in the pamphlets were very encourag-
ing.
Near neighbors co-operated on a see-you-right
basis ; a week’s work clearing for seven or eight dray-
loads of sandalwood fence posts. “To save you buying
a plough the first year, give my people a hand with
the milking, and snig in some firewood, and I’ll
plough your land.” The Rufignacs let their forest-
devil pass from hand to hand as soon as they were
finished with it; Paddy Shaugnessy, who had easy
going in the matter of clearing, made a heavy set of
wooden harrows that broke down the clods on several
cotton patches besides his own.
Not many people invested in new machinery ;
they couldn’t afford to, most of them ; and in any
case it was best to make do with what they had —eked
out with borrowing—for the first year; until they saw
how things were going. But a few bought ploughs,
harrows or cultivators. Very nice the new implements
looked when they arrived at the railhead, with their
bright blue and red paint, the shiny parts gleaming
dully under the factory grease. They were full of the
suggestion of things moving forward, of the earth re-
warding labor. People had a look at them, discussed
their suitability as to type and kind, tried the feel
of the handles, or just looked on, drawing on a
judicial pipe.
What was very noticeable was the way faith
developed out of toil. You made a tentative start,
but presently your back was bent to it. Working single-
handed, I had to limit myself to about four acres. Like
the rest, with me the work of improving the selection,
or special ventures, like cotton, had to be worked-
in between morning and evening routine farm work,
which provided the living.
I had a long narrow strip of creek-flat timbered
with large but sparse box and gum and very few sap-
lings. I ring-fired the big stuff—cut a trench round
the butts, filled it with small wood and set it alight.
It kills the tree, roots and all, in two or three weeks.
It sounds easy, but you know how it is ; after the big,
quick, showy job is done, comes the cleaning up.
There were more stumps than I thought at first, more
fallen timber lying in the tall grass ; those saplings
were tough ; roots that had to be grubbed seemed to
run just beneath the surface for a mile before they
dived down out of way of the plough, and for every
inch of’the mile they seemed to be fastened to the
ground with invisible chains.
Then the cattle tracks cutting into the otherwise
unscaleable creek bank had to be blocked off; the
fence posts had to be carted further than I had
reckoned on; it hadn’t rained for some time and the
ground was hard, so, in digging the postholes, I had
to punch with the spud-bar right from the surface.
Besides being heavy and sweaty, the days were amaz-
ingly short; even though I schemed to get an early
start it would be no time —and very little done to show
for it, it seemed —before the western sun would be
squinting at me through the top branches of the trees.
Perhaps when I saw how the job was dragging I
should have shortened it in a little; but you know
how it is when you’ve set your mind on carrying out
a certain job ; you’ll do it —or bust your guts trying.
I’m telling of what happened on my place because
I know a lot about it; also because it’s a small indi-
vidual story that was being repeated with variations
all over the settlement at that time. Doing heavy
work and cracking on pace at the same time takes it


out of a man. I knocked off most evenings shaking a
bit in the legs. Turning on the pillow at dawn was
like being brought back unwillingly from the dead ;
and getting around for the first half-hour was like
limbering-up a corpse.
Tom Howells, my nearest neighbor, was pretty
much in my position, so when it came to getting the
crop in we pooled our resources. I had a couple of
heavy horses and he had a plough —a light orchard
plough that he’d picked up for a few bob somewhere,
and was holding against the time he’d be able to make
a garden and plant a few fruit trees. It wasn’t much
of a tool for bursting the virgin sod, but we braced
her with a piece of timber and a twitched-up wire
under the drawbar, and away we went.
The horses weren’t used to ploughing. Boxer, on
the offside, would walk anywhere but in the furrow,
so we switched them over; but Blossom was worse.
There were a surprising lot of stumps just under the
ground, and when we hit one strange things happened
to Tom’s little plough. We made a joke of it at first,
but I remember, toward the last up on Tom’s place,
when we struck two stumps in the length of one
furrow and the drawbar tried to turn over and look
at us, Tom stood and told the crows what he thought
of cotton in language that nearly set the stump ablaze.
The horses —only grass-fed—were on the lean side
before we finished. We were lucky in the planting ;
got the seed in just before the rain fell, the last of it
in cloudy darkness, with the first big drops spattering
on our backs.
COTTON is a pretty crop ; the first leaves, green
pairs, flat to the moist dark soil, in rows following
the rise and fall of the ground. Passing along the
road it was nice to see, near and distant, by valley
and hill, those hopeful patches of brown earth, striped
with hopeful green. The fall of rain was pretty
general, so everyone got a good start. Then, presently,
things didn’t look so well.
What we needed was a good soaking fall when
the cotton was well up, about a month after the first
showing. Only some of us got it; the western side
of the settlement. The people over there were above
themselves with satisfaction. “That side of the settle-
ment always did catch more rain, being closer to the
range.” The usual tale. Then, when our cotton was
about a foot high and turning yellow with heat and
dryness, we caught a thunderstorm that they missed.
That carried us on for a while, but presently we were
all needing rain.
The western side of the settlement gave out first.
We began hearing, with sinking hearts, that the
Butterses, the Kennedys, the Montgomerys, the
Schneiders, the McClures, had given up cultivating
their cotton ; they had turned their cattle into it. “The
district isn’t suited for cotton.” The westernsiders
were very emphatic about that. Having themselves
abandoned hope, they had now developed a vested
interest in counsels of defeat. We easternsiders kept
hoping for a while —but the cotton withered and
failed. When we wanted rain it didn’t come. That
was all! Our seasons were too chancy.
The only people who did any good with cotton
were the Durwards —George and Wally—who fluked
both falls of rain, and Mr. Donohue, a gentle old
hatter who had burrowed his way into the big belah
scrubs. Going from the main settlement to his modest
couple of acres, protected from heat and drying winds
by the pent walls of tall scrub, was like going from
a bakehouse into a greenhouse. For the rest, people
picked cotton only from moist patches, in a gully or
at the foot of a hill.
My four acres yielded about a square chain of
real cotton bushes. Near the centre was a depression,
a sort of gilgai, that I’d almost neglected to plough.
You’d have thought anything planted there would
have drowned in the first rain. I had turned it over
only for love of seeing the fat black earth curl over
the bright mouldboard. In it the cotton bushes grew
six feet high and as wide as the spread of your two
arms ; lovely symmetrical bushes, with stiff, gleaming
red-brown trunks and branches and broad dark leaves ;
then the large creamy-yellow flowers, followed by the
little green bolls, like peas, swelling to the size of
walnuts, to be burst at last into a carved claw by a
snowflake, incredibly soft, large and white, fluffing
between the woody segments of the dead boll.
I didn’t pick them ; there wouldn’t have been the
tight filling of a sugarbag. But I often passed that
way just to see them ; each a miracle of white soft-
ness ; blossom of a blossom. I left them, while the
leaves withered and they dropped softly to the ground.
WE saw through the game a few weeks after the
end of the cotton season. It turned that one
special part of Queensland —the Dawson Valley—was
best suited to cotton. The farmers there did very well
out of the crop ; and thither went the ginning mills,
the brokers’ agents, everyone who had anything to
gain from cotton in bulk. The whole of the State
had been used as a vast experimental plot.
Truckings were light—to borrow a common
phrase from the newspaper market reports —from our
railhead. They graded down from the Durwards’
plum-pudding bales, which we eyed curiously, to an
odd bag or two. After the Durwards’ lot had gone
the stationmaster’s voice grew laconic when anyone
said that he wanted some cotton weighed into the
freight shed. I recall seeing Mat Gollan —a very hard-
working man —deliver his lot to the station ; a single,
tightly-stuffed chaffbag, which he carried on his back
from his springcart to the goods shed. As he passed
us he looked at us sideways, made a comical face
and said round his pipestem, “Me cotton crop!”
It was no use saying “Try again” ; the climato-
logical records of the district read against us ; so
cotton as a subject of discourse dwindled among us.
The last I heard of it was at another cockies’ meeting,
a small informal one. . t
Three or four of us had anticipated the arrival
°f the up-train by half an hour and were squatted,
talking, at a short distance from the back of the sta-
tion. Little Tommy Ingleby, who had an accommo-
dating spirit, had said, “Well, I s’pose we’ll have to try
sumpin else!” Diek Nethersole was not so easily
weaned from his dreams of cotton. He was ike a
chap who can’t make up his mind that the girl who
has turned him down really means it. With his hands
““nded before him and fingers wriggling, he was
saying. It might be all right, you know, if a rnan
had a few acres of good sandy loam, about six feet
deep, with a good clay subsoil. If he turned his land
over early in the year and kept it worked and
Just then we heard the tread of a horse near at
hand. Larry Brideson from over by the Washpool,
had ridden up unheard, against the breeze ; and the
breeze had carried our words to him, as you could
tell by the look in his eye. Larry was an y
moved with his feet close to the ground, as if he
was on roller-skates ; he had an imperious eye a high-
bridged nose and a mouth as straight as the crack
under a door He dismounted, skated across to us and
took a seat. Not talking about cotton still, are you?
he rasped out He withered us with his eye as he took
a half-smoked cigarette from behind his ear and
put it between his lips. “Fer Gawd's sake!”
THE CIRCUS WHALE
BY WILL LAWSON
IN a thin cry in the wind, the lookout’s voice came
down to the deck from the foremast hoops of the
American whaleship Ann Alexander, “810-o-o-ow!
... Ah, blow! . . . and again!”
The second mate and a boatsteerer were in the
after hoops.
“Where away, Johnny?” the second shouted.
“Two points abaft our beam. There again. A
lone whale.” His voice rose a note as he added, “It’s
the Spotted Bull.”
The mate, on the poop with the captain, hailed
the hoops, “Where away, mister?”
The second told him and added, “Johnny reckons
he’s the Spotted Bull.”
“Hell! ” the mate swore and looked at the skipper,
a thin New Bedford shipmaster with a goatee beard
and a moustache.
“Johnny says it’s the Spotted Bull,” the mate
told him.
The Spotted Bull was notorious off the stormy
South-west Cape of Tasmania in the fifties of last
century. Many a ship had tried to kill him and had
lost boats and men in the attempts. The Spotted Bull
crushed boats with ease, his teeth of solid ivory, as
big as a man’s fist, cutting through wood like paper.
He was sixty feet long, a ferocious fighter, cunning as
a shark and quick. Unless in the mood for a fight,
few skippers bothered to go after him now.
Captain Turton, cruising in January of 1852 in the
Ann Alexander, had met up with the Spotted Bull
before. Now he tugged at his beard and spat thought-
fully over the rail while the mate waited on his verdict.
“Get your boats out, mister,” he said at length.
“Lower three boats. I’ve got a notion to settle the
argument with Mister Spotted Bull. Let her come
to,” he told the helmsman. “Haul up the clews of
your mainsail, mister. Square the foreyards.”
The Ann Alexander was a six-boat ship and car-
ried a big crew. From wooden davits the boats were
swung out and lowered ; men jumped into them and
seized the short paddles which were used in Yankee
ships till the lug-sail could be set. While this was
being done the mate said, “I thought you w-as goin’
to leave that bull alone.”
“Yes, but I got a hunch now to get that fish and
skin and stuff him to sell to a circus or a museum.”
“Skin him? You can’t skin a whale. His skin
ain’t skin, just short-fibred hide.”
“I’ve been reading about that whale,” the captain
went on. “And from what I read he ain’t a whale at
all.”
“What in tarnation is he then?”
“A whale shark I reckon—like a whale in his
looks and ways and just as big, but madder and quicker
and fiercer. I reckon he’d be worth ten thousand
dollars.”
UNDER sail the three boats approached the whale,
which was moving along lazily and spouting with
the regularity of sperm whales, soft clouds of white
vapor rising in tuftlike shapes above his gigantic
head. As they got closer the boats’ crews could see
the yellow spots on his brown-grey body.
The whale was enormous. As he rose from
sounding, his huge head and his body rode high in the
water. Then with a flourish his tail hit the water
with a thunderous report and he went down again.
“Flukes,” Johnny the lookout shouted. “He’ll
come up over there.” He pointed to a place a cable s
length eastward. The boatsteerer, who was also har-
pooner, stood up in the bows with his iron ready.
When the whale rose, the mate’s boat was there,
with the other two not far away. The boat kept
behind the whale, for whales cannot see behind them.
The sail was lowered and the paddles, scarcely rippling
the water, sent the boat slowly within harpooning dis-
tance. The Spotted Bull seemed oblivious of all else
in the world but himself.
“Hit him! ” the mate said suddenly.
The harpooner threw the iron unerringly. It
struck the whale in the side and sank deep into the
blubber. Like a startled quail the whale leaped for-
ward.
“Look out!” the mate warned the men in the
bows at the line. As he shouted, he ran forward, while
the boatsteerer came aft, to lay the boat alongside
the whale while the mate lanced him. The bowman
was pouring water on the smoking woodwork where
the line screamed out as the whale sounded deeply.
If the line jammed, the boat would follow to the
depths, unless an axe was used quickly.
Suddenly the line stopped running out. The
whale was on the surface far ahead of them and had
turned to face his attackers. The boat danced idly on
the water ; then the mate called, “Paddle, all hands ;
we’ve got to get him.”
“He’s coming at us,” a man shouted. “Jehosha-
phat! Look at his jaws.”
Straight towards them came the whale, charging
at full speed; then suddenly he sank.
“Gone!” a man said.
“Gone be damned,” the mate shouted. “Back
water, all.”
It was too late. Under the boat a shadow showed
where the whale was rising, his huge jaws wide open.
He had turned on his back, as whales do in attacking.
The thin lower jaw came over the boat like a sword,
while the huge upper jaw and head were below.
“Overboard, all hands,” the mate ordered. “This
ain’t a fish —it’s a fiend, blast him.”
The crew tumbled overboard anyhow. As they
came to the surface they heard the crunching of
timber. The Spotted Bull was raging and lashing
among the broken timbers like a mad thing.
But the whalers were far from beaten. The
second mate’s boat came up and gathered them in,
then swung round in a wide circle to get a good angle
of approach for another attack on the whale. Pres-
ently they got near enough, and another harpoon sank
deep into his blubber. Like a tiger he turned now,
sounded, then stopped, when less than the box-line had
run out.
“He’s sogging,” the mate said. “Be ready when
he comes up.”
The boat was turned end-on ready. Suddenly
the whale rose upright, “bottling,” his eyes roving
round him. Having sighted the boat he sank again.
Then he came to the surface again, fifty feet way,
and dashed at the boat, hitting it on the side. Over it
went, spilling everyone into the water, while the bull
tore on towards the ship. The third mate’s boat
picked up the other crews, and began to make for the
ship. Long narrow flags were flying from the Ann
Alexander’s maintop, signalling them to return. As
they looked the men saw the ship heel dangerously,
then right herself.
“I reckon he’s gone mad,” the mate exclaimed.
“Remember how the Essex was sunk when a whale
hit her bow-on and started every butt in her.
Arriving alongside the mate ran up on deck to
meet the captain.
“Leave the boats there,” the captain ordered.
“We may want them. That whale’s hit us amidships
and started a leak in the blubber room. Wish I’d left
the tarnation brute alone. Here he comes again. If
he hits us head-on, it’s good-night.”
But the whale swerved off to the port side,
sounded and came up a hundred yards away. There
he lay ominous and threatening. Suddenly he came
rushing through the water at top speed. Two hundred
tons of whale, with a head armored by two feet of
bone and gristle, hit the ship amidships again. She
reeled under the impact, till her mainyard was near
the water. From under the chains came a sound of
breaking timber—softwood weakened by age. The
men below in the blubber room came running up
shouting. “The Bull’s in the blubber room, clean in-
side, and half the Pacific. She’s done, sir.”
“All hands into the boats,” the captain shouted.
“Get all the stores and water you can and your duds ;
she’ll live awhile yet.”
But in ten minutes the ship sank, the gaping hole
left by the whale when he backed out, letting in thou-
sands of gallons of water. Sixty men were adrift on
the Pacific in three boats, but luckily the whale did
not molest them. Five days later, a sister ship, the
May Alexander, of Nantucket, picked them up.
THREE years later the Rebecca, working out of
Sydney, killed a bull whale which had peculiar
yellow spots. He had two harpoons in him branded
“Ann Alex,” and in his bruised armored head were
splinters of softwood such as that in the Ann Alex-
ander. No doubt he was the Spotted Bull.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
/f%it lUm-cf'tohe melleumeJA mulJmiq/ud
THE BULL AND BUSH.
London possesses one peculiarity, not unpleasing by any means, which other towns lack, in that a popular song may confer fame on
some hitherto obscure tavern. On that splendid “northern lung of London,” Hampstead Heath, an example of this is to be found
in the Bull and Bush, modernised out of previous recognition, all remaining of the old building being the two small sphinxes which
occupy the ends of the facade. Its prior claim to notoriety was that Hogarth lived for a time there in the days it was a farm. Though
almost half a century has elapsed since the tuneful music-hall ditty “The Old Bull and Bush” was a prime favorite with those who
patronised the essentially British form of amusement known as the music hall, where they “sang lustilly” the rollicking chorus, the
melody, if not the words, of the song is still familiar wherever the flag of the Empire flies. No longer can London boast of the
music halls, which were at their prime during the closing years of Victoria’s reign and during much of that of King Edward VII. The
cinema and the cabaret have, for the time being at least, occupied their place. Still, it is open to question whether the visitor to London
derives as much real enjoyment from either as his or her parents did when they spent an evening at “one of the halls.” The music
hall, with its free-and-easy air, catchy songs and opportunities for joining in choruses that lacked nothing in heartiness, may be a
thing of the past, but its resurrection cannot be placed among the “impossibles.” No one going to Hampstead Heath should fail to
this o/d-new tavern, the name of which conjures up days when we took our amusement more heartily, perhaps, than now.


FAMILY REUNION.
“Same to you, Dad. Now lead us to those fellows who’re looking for fight.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
HITLER'S PEACE AIMS.
Cables have always treated Hitler’s speeches with
contempt. Barest extracts have been given, usually
served up in the ratio of one inch of extract to a
column of comment, mostly anonymous and mislead-
ing. As a result, Australia has been singularly mis-
informed on what kind of policy programme the
German leader was presenting to his people ; on what
grounds the Germans are asked to face up to the
present state of war; what sort of peace settlement
their Fiihrer considers acceptable.
From such information, if ever given to them,
cable readers might be able to make deductions of
considerable importance to themselves —in a leading
place among these, to what extent the Germans might
be expected to support their leader, and fight and
suffer privation, now that the run of bloodless con-
quest has been brought to a halt. Instead, there is a
cultivated delusion that an early collapse can be con-
fidently expected in Germany ; that, therefore, this war
can be won without fighting. The Germans might col-
lapse without fighting, but if they do it will be an
extraordinary reversal for their race. There is cer-
tainly little ground for such wishful belief in the
Germans’ acceptance of the policy programme —the
war and peace aims—that Hitler laid before them when
asking them, with Poland disposed of, to turn to the
threat massing on their western border, and elsewhere.
Cables then reported that Hitler was suing for
peace, and asking for a conference. They gave also,
copiously, the excellent enough reasons for turning
down his advances. They gave, however, practically
nothing of Hitler’s actual speech, though as a whole
it was of considerable general interest, and in some of
its details of peculiar interest to Australia. Hitler,
flushed with the victory in Poland, made an outright
demand for the return of the German colonies, and
more. He could see no cause or reason for any
further revision of the Versailles Treaty,
apart from the demand for adequate colonial possessions
justly due to the Reich —namely, in the first instance,
for a return of the German colonies.
He added that the demand was based “not only
on Germany’s historical legal claim to the German
colonies, but above all on her elementary right to a
share of the world’s resources of raw materials” ;
that “the demand has not the character of an ulti-
matum, nor is it a demand which is backed by force,
but a demand based on political justice and economic
commonsense.” Therefore, if Britain and Australia
had been agreeable to Hitler’s peace proposals they
must have been agreeable also to discussing the return
of New Guinea, despite Japan’s considerable advance
south, or irrespective of whether Japan intended to
retain or return its ex-German possessions. How-
ever, it would be a popular line of appeal with the
German people, the bulk of whom are convinced that
they were robbed of their colonies.
Also, the bulk of them could hardly do anything
else but heartily endorse their leader’s other pro-
fessed peace aims, since these, on an examination of
the full text of the speech, turn out to be as good as
identical with those which the Germans may have
gathered from leaflets and broadcasts are the aims of
the other side, too. It is hard to believe Hitler is not
merely talking with his tongue in his cheek, or indulg-
ing in irony at his own expense, when he speaks of a
way having to be found “to regulate aerial warfare,
the use of poison gas, of submarines, etc.,” but it is
certain that his people would have no such opinion
of his speech: they would accept it as made in all
good faith, and would applaud as heartily as the same
sentiments are applauded here. Until there is better
evidence for anything other than a fervent national
trust and belief in Hitler than the say-so of American
journalists, it might be safest to accept that Germans
see nothing incongruous in their leader standing up
and talking about the need for regulating the use of
submarines —an almost peculiarly German war instru-
ment, its inhuman use wholly German —or the aerial
bombardment of civilians or the use of poison gas,
which the Germans introduced.
Other of Hitler’s professed peace aims might well
have been read by Germans in the scattered leaflets
or heard in broadcasts, such as that for the reorgani-
sation of world economics:
The demand for a real revival of international
economic life coupled with an extension of trade and
commerce presupposes well-ordered internal economic
systems; in other words, ordered production within the
individual States. In order to facilitate the exchange
of the goods thus produced, however, markets must be
reorganised and a final currency regulation arrived at
so that the obstacles in the way of unrestricted trade
can be gradually removed.
Mr. Chamberlain, too, numbers among his peace
aims “a Europe in which trade flows freely.” Hitler
made that the second of his three peace aims—he
placed first his outright demand for the return of the
colonies. His third aim is the essence of a thousand
speeches made in Britain, France, South Africa, Aus-
tralia and Maoriland since the war started: — (
The most important condition for a real revival of
economic life in and outside of Europe is the establish-
ment of an unconditionally guaranteed peace and of a
sense of security on the part of the individual nations.
This security will not only be rendered possible by the
final sanctioning of the European status, but above all
by the reduction of armaments to a reasonable and
economically tolerable level.
From that he went on to lay down as “an essential
part of this necessary sense of security” a definition of
“the legitimate use and application of certain modern
arms,” and from that to his reference to aerial bomb-
ing, poison gas and submarines.
Hitler has broken his word and his agreements too
often to suit his own purpose for them to have any
further value, but it would be as well to remember
that he is still implicitly believed in his own country.
Nobody else may believe it for a minute, but what
has here been given from his speech is what the bulk
of Germans believe to be his honest peace aims. The
war is represented to them as having been vengefully
and maliciously imposed on them by the Allies, in
order to crush rivalry in influence and trade, and this
they believe also. Since they have been able to swallow
their practical alliance with the formerly utterly con-
demned Soviet, they are evidently capable of swal-
lowing anything. The important conclusion to be
drawn in countries at war with them is that, as a
result of what they believe, they are likely to go on
fighting while there is any fight left in them. They
have a great capacity for fighting, but the fight was
knocked out of them in 1918, and what was done then
can be done again.
Contrary to ingenious report, Hitler has not
deluded the Germans with any hope of a short war.
In this same speech he forecast the possible length of
the war as anything from three or four to eight years.
As to its possible line of development, he declared that
the “continuation of the present state of affairs in the
West is unthinkable ; each day will soon demand in-
creasing sacrifices.” He was “confident of victory,”
but he qualified that with doubts scarcely calculated
to buoy up false hopes among his hearers. For one
thing, he saw at the end of it all “a frontier between
Germany and France, but along it, instead of flourish-
ing towns, there will be ruins and endless graveyards.”
He further said: —•
Destiny will decide who is right. One thing only
is certain. In the course of world history there have
never been two victors, but very often only losers.
That is not the language of a leader who had any
doubts about the support of his people, and it might
be safely, and profitably, read for the present that no
sound reason for such doubts exists. Facing such
realities now might obviate painful disillusionment
later on. They are grim enough realities which Hitler
asks his Germans to face.
Witless Waste.
The fatuousness of the Sydney Government seems to
have no limit. On the recommendation of one of
those commissions which swarm in N.S.W. it is guaran-
teeing film-company overdrafts to the extent of 60
per cent, of the cost of films to be turned or churned
out. One of the beneficiaries, which modestly calls
itself Famous Feature Films, is “stated to have about
2500 feet already made, and will expedite the filming
of the rest of the scenes.” Another, Argosy Films,
“expects to have casting completed by the end of this
month, after which production will begin.” Of a
third, “it is understood that the scenario has been
selected and the casting completed, and that the first
scenes will be taken next week.”
So in each instance the Government is, as it were,
backing a horse not yet foaled for a race not yet on
the calendar, and the longer the race is delayed the
more it will lay out. It is staking so much already at
absurd odds that it can’t get its money back even
if it should be on a winner. And, going on pedigree
and performance, that prospect is remote. Successful
Australian films were produced in the days of the
silents, but production of talking films has had an
unfortunate history. Though clever people have
appeared in most of them, and the photography is
nearly always excellent, the usual impression left is
that they were made by imbeciles for imbeciles. Their
harshest critic among newspapers is the journalistic
mouthpiece of the Government which has given the
60-per-cent, guarantees—“approximately £52,000” is
its calculation of what they will run to.
According to Premier Mair, “the guarantees have
been granted under Section 13a of the Cinematograph
Films Act, which was passed at the end of 1938.” That
was the year in which the taxpayers were assured that
there would be a surplus of nearly £BOOO, and in which,
on the strength of the “surplus,” salaries of members
and Ministers were raised by nearly £25,000 p.a., the
measure being passed three weeks after the introduc-
tion of the Budget and dated back four months. At
the end of the financial year, after a lot of frantic
calculations, it was admitted that there had been a
deficit of £2,400,000 or so (the Auditor-General
reckons it at £2,895,200, and says it brought the accu-
mulated deficiency to £33,539,100), and it came out that
another £1,000,000 had been borrowed from the
Superannuation Board for current expenditure, and
that £12,000,000 of loan money had also been played
up by the Government and by “semi-Government
authorities.” There followed the imposition of clumsy
and punitive taxes, designed to bring in another
£4,000,000, and the confession that even recourse to
plunder by Act of Parliament would leave revenue
over £1,500,000 short of expenditure. Actually, for
the first five months of the current year expenditure
exceeded revenue by £5,697,000.
And now this guilty and inept Government is
guaranteeing the overdrafts of film producers. Though
it bragged a lot of what it was going to do for the
public-library movement, and passed a Libraries Act
with a great parade of virtue, a vague promise of
£lO,OOO for libraries is all that can be extracted
from it; but it can find £52,000 (and probably a
lot more) for the production of masterpieces like “Ants
in His Pants.” And it will doubtless proceed to other
examples of witless waste, financed by loans and by
legalised robbery, unless the people arrest it in its
crazy career and vote it and the Parliament which
sanctions its crackbrained performances out of
existence.
Revolutions.
I wish some crisp and competent modern writer would
debunk the first French Revolution. Sentimental and
romantic ideas, formed in youth, of that misreported
and overrated episode in the history of the race have
certainly contributed to the spread of Communism,
and to that world-wide middle-class credulity which
was so cunningly exploited by Stalin, Litvinov,
Dimitrov, Molotov and their pals until Stalin chose
to drop the part of the Great Revolutionary for that
of the old Russian imperialist.
Taine did a good debunking job, but I suppose
the modern reader, fed on syndicated stuff and
snippets, would consider him too dry. However,
Taine collected facts which the romantic historians
and novelists ignore, facts which have all been
paralleled in the massacres and sufferings of the Mos-
cow business, for in technique and development revo-
lutions are very much alike.
Because it is run by stony-hearted doctrinaires
and duffers, Red Russia has had two frightful famines,
in which people died like flies. While the butchers
and blunderers of the French Revolution were per-
forming, France had one in which a million perished.
This preventable loss of life was increased by the
breakdown of medical, hospital and charitable services,
and by the general irreligion, immorality and in-
humanity :
Public worship and education die or languish for
lack of sustenance; the State, which has no money
for itself, has none for them. And, what is worse,
it hinders private parties from taking them in charge.
In ten years the number of foundlings increased from
22,000 to 62,000. From 3000 to 4000 beggars are
enumerated in each department and about 300,000 in
all France.
Two millions of Frenchmen have marched under the
national flag and 800,000 have died under it; among
the survivors, how many cripples, how many with one
arm and with wooden legs!
All Frenchmen have eaten dog-bread for three years,
and often have not had enough of that to live on;
over a million have died of starvation and poverty ;
all the well-to-do have been ruined and have lived in
constant fear of the guillotine; 400,000 have wasted
away in prison. Of the survivors, how many shattered
constitutions, how many bodies and brains disordered
by an excess of suffering and anxiety, by physical and
moral wear and tear!
This was the appalling situation that confronted
Napoleon when he became First Consul. He restored
order and efficiency, but the price he exacted was
terrible. When Europe had risen against him and he
was trying to fight it with boys, he said to Metternich
“I have grown up on the battlefield, and a man like
me does not care a for the lives of a million
men.” Wrote Taine:
Between 1804 and 1815 he has had slaughtered
1,700,000 Frenchmen born within the boundaries of
ancient France, to which must be added 2,000,000 men
born outside these limits and slain for him under the title
of allies or slain by him under the title of enemies. All
that the Gauls have gained by entrusting their public
welfare to him is two invasions; all that he bequeaths to
them as a reward for their devotion, after this prodigious
waste of blood, is a France shorn of fifteen departments,
deprived of the left bank of the Rhine, despoiled of
the north-east angle by which it completed its boundaries
and fortified its most vulnerable points, thrown back
within the frontiers of 1789, alone, diminished in the
midst of its aggrandised neighbors.
And future historians may say that the war of 1914-18
and the present war are results of the revolutionary
famine, mass massacres and civil wars, of the foreign
wars of the Revolution and the Empire, and of the
revolutionary land “settlements,” with which Napoleon
did not interfere, and which ushered in birth-control.
Before the Revolution the population of France prob-
ably equalled that of what is now “Greater” Germany,
and was certainly 2'{ times that of the United King-
dom. Now it is 3,000,000 less than that of the U.K.,
and there are nearly twice as many Germans as
French.
Taine allows that Napoleon’s “sharp eyes, at a
very early period, saw through the flourish of theory
and the parade of phrases” which makers of revolu-
tions go in for always and everywhere ; “they detected
the real foundation of the Revolution, namely the
sovereignty of unbridled passions and the conquest
of the majority by the minority.” Being the realist
and genius he was, Napoleon “transformed his 10-year
consulate into a consulate for life and then into an
empire ; that is to say into a permanent legal full and
perfect dictatorship.”
In this way the nation is handed over to the
absolutism of a man who, being a man, cannot fail
to think of his own interest before all others. It remains
to be seen how far and for how long a time this interest,
as he comprehends it or imagines it, will accord with the
interests of the public. It is a terrible risk, but
inevitable.
There is no escape from anarchy except through
despotism, with the chance of encountering in one
man at first a savior and then a destroyer, with the
certainty of henceforth belonging to an unknown will,
fashioned by genius and good sense or by imagination
and egoism; in a soul fiery and disturbed by the
temptations of absolute power, by success and universal
adulation; in a despot responsible to no one but him-
self ; in a conqueror condemned by the impulses of
conquest to regard himself and the world under a light
growing falser and falser.
How true of Hitler’s Germany and Stalin’s Russia as
well as Napoleon’s France!
TUART.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Colonial Spirit.
The appointment of Air Marshal Charles Burnett as
Chief of Air Staff, R.A.A.F., is one more effect of
the Tune-in-to-Britain policy. A British lieutenant-
general is head of the C.M.F. because, out of the
veterans of Anzac, Pozieres, Villers-Bret., Mont St.
Quentin and Megiddo, the Government was unable
to find a man capable of taking charge of our own
military affairs.
The naval position is slightly better. In the R.A.N.
an attempt is made to place temporary command at
least in the hands of Australians born, even though
they are part and parcel of the R.N. The present
rear-admiral commanding is a native of N. S. Wales,
though an R.N. officer on loan for two years. At the
same time, the command is never in the hands of a
man whose interests are permanently identified with
the Commonwealth. And, 27 years after the inception
of a major naval policy in the Commonwealth, we
are only beginning to produce officers of the rank of
captain. This is not because of lack of brilliance in
the R.A.N., but because naval policy has slavishly
wedded us to the slow promotion methods of the
Royal Navy.
In the R.N. these methods are justified, because
the R.N. is a thing apart, with special conditions and
traditions and special methods. The R.N. draws its
officers and a large proportion of its men from special
classes. At the same time, R.N. precedent itself in-
validates our own. The R.N. always pushes on a
good man. The present commander-in-chief of the
Grand Fleet, Admiral Charles Forbes, was still only a
commander in 1916.
The changes in the R.A.A.F. are in line with those
in the other services and throw some light on the
P.M.’s vague promise that our fighting units overseas
will preserve their identity “as far as possible.” Air
Vice-Marshal Goble relinquishes his position as Chief
of Staff, without waiting for his successor to arrive.
Mr. Menzies says that Air Vice-Marshal Goble ex-
plained to him that his desire to resign was due to
personal considerations and not to any differences with
the Government. Still, when Lieutenant-Colonel
White, M.H.R., said that the Government had ignored
the Chief of Staff so far that he found the position un-
bearable, nobody contradicted him. Till the new C.-
in-C. arrives, the supply member of the Air Board,
Air Commodore W. H. Anderson, will act as head of
the R.A.A.F.
The rearrangement involves the return to Aus-
tralia of Air Vice-Marshal Williams, who commanded
the R.A.A.F. from its inception till the beginning of
this year, in the subordinate position of Air Member
for Personnel, and the return to England of Air Com-
modore Russell.
There is no arguing against the ability and experi-
ence of Sir Charles Burnett. A Scot, 58 years old, he
served in S. Africa and in the Great War (mainly in
the Middle East); he has been Director of Opera-
tions at the Air Ministry ; he commanded the R.A.F. in
Irak for two years, and he is now an R.A.F. inspector-
general. As an adviser or official link between Britain
and Australia he would be a valuable acquisition. But
there is nothing in his record to suggest that he has
qualifications for Australian command superior to
those of half a dozen younger Australians in the senior
ranks of the R.A.A.F. and of the R.A.F., men who
have splendid fighting records and long experience of
handling Australian airmen, plus the added advantage
of overseas experience in responsible positions.
These appointments are blows to the national
pride of a country with a population of just on
7,000,000 and a noble military history.
■
Second A.I.F. Marches.
“Buck P.”: The Second Australian Imperial Force won
its first big victory last Thursday, when it invested
Sydney. That city downed tools, typewriters and tax
forms, surged forth into its streets and parks,
thronged its windows and climbed its tall buildings
to watch the khaki stream pour by.
The march was timed to leave the site of the old
War Museum at 1.30. By noon family parties were
already digging in at the top of Martin-place, along
Macquarie-street, and on the fringes of Hyde Park.
Itinerant musicians and flag-sellers, most of them with
the old Digger badge furbished up, kept the swelling
knots of waiting people entertained.
By the time the head of the columns had entered
Martin-place you couldn’t have bought a pair of boots
or paid a bill in any central Sydney shop or office.
A veteran of Jack Abbott’s “gentle war” and myself
dived into a pub for a quick one but found the bar
deserted. Recalled from his outpost at a door, a bar-
man gave us a black look, grumpily pulled a couple
and hurried off without waiting to be paid.
The troops came by in sixes, every face browned
by camp life, every body trained and fit. Those with
memories of the first A.I.F. saw the old Diggers rein-
carnated. The Boer War veteran nudged me and said
“Cripes, there’s good stuff there.”
“What’s going to happen if all the country’s best
youngsters are taken away?” asked the man whose
elbow was in my left ear.
“The women’ll run it,” declared the 8.W.V., add-
ing, “Look at ’em all round.” Three-quarters of the
crowd were women.
But the Second A.I.F. wasn’t worrying about that.
It was taking a great city by storm, and its pride stood
forth in its bearing and the cut of its jib. The B.W.V.
fell silent. I looked round. His eyes were full of
tears. Was it for lost youth? Old mates? Youngsters
going to strange battlefields? He caught my look.
“Damn’ cheap tobacco,” he mumbled, looking gravely
at his home-made cigarette ; “stings y’r eyes.”
By this time half the brown-faced men and their
glinting bayonets had passed. Young girls broke from
the crowd and hurried off to search for other vantage
points. There were none. All along the route the
watchers were never less than five deep, and stragglers
roamed the deserted back areas vainly.
Beads of sweat, glistened on the marching men.
Some held their heads gaily ; others marched with a
grim, straight look. Most of them were very young ;
all had the cast of countenance that will mark them
out wherever they go.
As the sound of their passing died away and the
crowds broke, a faint sound came down the light
summer wind. It seemed very like what you’d hear if
shades stood up on Gallipoli, in Palestine and Syria, in
France and Flanders, and, peering across the Middle
Sea and the Indian Ocean and down past the Spice
Isles, saw something which brought a cheer to ghostly
throats.
Outlaw Communism!
Russian-alliance editors were at it again last week
taking Communists under their protection, and U.A.P.
politicians gave them dutiful support. The cry of the
editors and politicians was that Communists were silly
fellows, but harmless. Let them go on flying their
hammer-and-sickle flag. Let them beef out their
Soviet sentiments in public parks. As a minority they
were entitled to say what they wanted to say, and in
the exercise of this prescriptive right they should be
protected by the police —that was what the police were
for. The grand old tradition of free speech must be
preserved. And so on.
While the sentimental chorus was at its height a
discordant voice was heard to this effect:
The Communist party, which stabbed Poland in the
back and tried to strangle Finnish liberty in the darkness
of the Arctic night, should be torn from Australian
soil root, branch and seed.
Membership of the party, advocacy of its cause
or distribution of its literature should be construed as
allegiance to a foreign Power which is at war with
nations friendly to us, and should be treated accordingly.
The Commonwealth Parliament was soft enough
to pass a special Conscientious Objectors Act
to absolve Communists from defending a country they
itch to betray. I sincerely trust that resolute Common-
wealth Government action will bring atonement for its
blunder by relieving both troops and people of any
further worry about the Communist party.
The voice was that of A. G. Cameron, leader of
the Country party. There followed the Dies Com-
mittee’s report to Congress that “the Communist party
of the United States is a foreign conspiracy masked as
a political party,” and President Roosevelt’s warning
to his people that the “tactics” of “apologists for
foreign aggressors” who are “trying European tricks
on us, trying to set our people fighting among them-
selves,” must be “combated as we would combat the
plague.” And the sentimental chorus suddenly ceased.
“The Communist party of the United States is a
foreign conspiracy masked as a political party.” And
what is the “Australian Communist party”? Consider
part of the “programmatic declaration” it issued in
1931, shortly after the return from Moscow of its
present chairman, Sharkey, now very voluble on the
subject of “the ramshackle British Empire” and that
“puppet State of world imperialism,” Finland:
We will expel all governors and other representatives
of British finance capital, withdraw from the British
Empire and establish in Australia a workers’ and farmers’
republic, with a soviet form of government led by the
workers —the dictatorship of the proletariat We will
establish a firm political and economic alliance with the
Union of Socialist Soviet Republics.
In the Australian Communist Party Training
Manual “arming the revolution” is mentioned as one
of the objectives. And one of the party rules (10) says
that the party is “affiliated with the Communist Inter-
national” and that “resolutions of the International
congresses shall be considered and acted upon by the
supreme authority of the Communist party of Aus-
tralia.”
The general secretary of the Communist Inter-
national is Dimitrov the Bulgar. In a pamphlet
printed in Australia after the New Year’s Eve meeting
in Sydney Domain at which the police heard “nothing
provocative said,” Dimitrov the Bulgar writes that “the
imperialists of Great Britain and France, having taken
the path to war, do not want to leave it.”
So Dimitrov the Bulgar urges the Australian
workers to wage “an irreconcilable, courageous struggle
against the imperialist war, a struggle with the culprits
and agents of this war, primarily in their own country,
a struggle to end this predatory war.” He urges them
further “to be inspired by the example of Lenin and
Stalin, which in 1914-18 showed the proletariat the
true way out of war and secured a victory for social-
ism over one-sixth of the globe.”
The Finns outlawed Communism long before the
war ; and events have shown how wise their rulers
were. France has had to outlaw Communism since
the war, though it meant imprisoning scores of mayors
and Deputies, and branding others as deserters and
traitors. France and Britain are now giving substan-
tial help to Finland. Australia is contributing to the
Finnish Red Cross. It may be necessary to declare
war on the headquarters of the “foreign conspiracy,”
in which case Communists now at large in Australia
will join other enemies behind the bars. Their case
indeed calls for intelligent and active anticipation of
what may have to come. There is no real fight in
these windbags. They have been emboldened to work
up their strikes and mob demonstrations against
neutrals and their boycott of the National Register and
to threaten the sabotaging of Australia’s war effort
because hitherto they have been encountered with kid
gloves, even to the extent of placing the royal mail
at their service for the carriage of printed poison as
registered newspapers.
The Achievement of Finland.
“The defeat of great armies of invaders always gives
me the greatest satisfaction in reading history from
the time of Xerxes downwards:” So wrote Charles
James Fox. Except in the U.S.S.R. and among the
baffled brotherhood of foreign Communists, people
the world over have followed with the greatest satis-
faction the course of Finland’s Campaign against the
invading hordes of Reds. Even in Germany great
numbers of elderly people must have read with secret
exultation of the blows inflicted by the soldiers of
Mannerheim and Wallenius, outnumbered at every
point, and of the impotence of the Red Air Force to
crush the spirit of the defenders by bombing their
cities and towns.
At the beginning of the sixth week of the cam-
paign that was to have been a military promenade,
the invaders had not captured one important town or
position. On the contrary they had been defeated,
with substantial losses of men and machines, at Kian-
tajavi, 50 miles north of Lake Ladoga, at Suomussalmi,
200 miles further north, and at Salla, north of the
“waistline.” Still further north, employing T. E. Law-
rence tactics, Finnish patrols have repeatedly cut the
Murmansk-Leningrad railway, that railway which
the usual American reporter —in this case a lady doctor
—pronounced one of the engineering wonders of the
world.
Can the Finns hold out? It seemed impossible six
weeks ago, but they have proved themselves such
intelligent and dauntless fighters and have such able
generals that anything now seems possible. to them.
Moreover, assistance is arriving at last. Their tiny air
force has obviously received substantial reinforce-
ments, and raids on the Baltic islands of Dago and
Oesel, which the Estonians were overawed into sur-
rendering to the Reds, were led by Italians. A Paris
report says that 400 American ’planes with American
pilots will reach Finland this month. Britain and
France are committed to help as much as they can,
and, though stories as to the German attitude are con-
flicting, one account suggests the possibility of German
acquiescence. Prisoners taken by the Finns are poorly
clad, half-starved and thankful to be out of it. Lenin-
grad itself admits that Russian officers have deserted.
There may be nothing in the stories of food riots, but
a speedy and thorough victory is necessary to the
existence of the Stalin regime, which must have made
millions of secret enemies. Bluff and blah will no
longer avail.
Wasting a Great Sympathy.
“Mat’s Mate” dips his pen into vinegar:
There was a time when city people believed the inland to
be a great warm place of healthy, hard-working people
possessed of extraordinary hospitality and addicted to going
about with grins on their faces, collecting in towns on Saturday
nights to buy weekly supplies and swap the local news, getting
together to help a neighbor over a bad patch, producing strong
youngsters who were snapped up by city football clubs, taking
their fun in such strenuous sports as wood-chopping, buck-
jump riding, wrestling (not the commercial kind), dancing till
dawn and then travelling 20 miles to yoke up the team for
a day’s work, and so on.
It’s all wrong. The back country is full of starving
wheatgrowers, struggling mothers, thin and undernourished
and disease-stricken children, hopeless men fighting a losing
battle against all sorts of enemies from blowfly to bad beer,
grasshoppers, bushfires, droughts, sandy blight, gastroenteritis,
footrot, cattle-tick, bad debts and housemaid’s knee. This
and much more. All, all has been revealed in the city press.
For years now it has painted such a picture of the country
that few city folk would venture beyond the Blue Mountains,
Bacchus Marsh or Gawler.
Sydney, being the biggest city and having more people
to protect, leads the way in this tearing aside of the veil.
Let a handful of kids with sandy blight and malformed legs
be brought to the seaside for a change and the papers are
full of it. We read of poor little Bob from west of Booberoi
who exclaims loudly at sight of the Bridge, or Millie from
Milparinka is shown hugging a doll while the caption tells a
heart-rending tale of poor little outback children s sufferings,
of which Millie is a norful example.
A bunch of western settlements is short of a doctor or
two. Harrowing tales come out under black headlines of
struggling mothers trying to keep the home while the husband,
having run a nail in his foot,, must travel miles and miles for
medical attention. No doctor, one article hints, could
possibly put up with the bad roads, terrible lack of social
life and poor remuneration of these places the inference
being that the people are too poverty-stricken to pay medical
fees.
And in the hearts of the city people springs up a Great
Sympathy, and earnest citizens write letters to the same papers
urging all sorts of things from providing each town with a
refugee doctor to closing up the back country altogether.
But the Great Sympathy comes up against a Great
Difficulty. These unfortunate outbackers, no doubt blinded
by the dust in their eyes, will not believe that generally they
have one foot in the grave. Obstinately they stick to the
peculiar notion that life in their district would give life in
the city a 10-on start and a licking. Perverse creatures, they
believe that their general standard of health is very high-
some even believe that the reason why doctors can t be got
for some districts is because the people are so darned healthy
that all a doctor can expect in the way of revenue are
confinements and/or odd accidents.
They believe, too, that a grassfire or a dry spell is all
part of the game and that if man goes on the land he can’t
expect to be a lotus-eater. And at night, when the cool is
on the fallow and the wild swans sound their bugles as they
pass above, these strange fellows have been known to gaze
thoughtfully over the silent land and reflect that, though no
nearly-naked maidens recline on the bank of the tank and
no trams go grinding past the front gate, still it isn’t too bad,
and a man is his own boss, and working for yourself beats
working for a boss hollow.
They come to the city occasionally. But the poor weak
fellows tire quickly of tramping along hard pavements, their
untutored minds fail to appreciate the thrill of fighting for a
place in a crowd to watch a dogman hauled up and down
or men dig up a road, or to get in early to see the world’s
sweetheart, Merlie Kemple, in “De Goil in de Winegar Woiks.”
They are shown the Bridge which so excites young
Booberoi, and the underground railway, and the new Water
Board offices, and, instead of admiring praise, all such things
get is a wry look as the wild man from the bush thinks of the
public money they cost and what some of that money would
have done if spent in his district. Obviously there is some-
thing wrong with a man who thinks the Government should
spend money on the savage wastes he chooses to live in.
Never fear, our politicians will guard us against such hayseed
ideas.
After a few days these sunburned, capable-looking fellows
reveal their ill-health by expressing an incomprehensible desire
to go home. Home! Back amongst the flies and sand and
fires and grasshoppers and wild animals and gum-trees and
things! Fancy wanting to leave Pitt-street or The Block or
Manly or St. Kilda for that !
A Great Sympathy is wasted upon such people. Let us
leave them to their own devices.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Tovarish”: Our Sydney Domain
choir, with clenched fists held high, had
just finished sternly intoning the low,
growling tune of “The Internationale.”
A phalanx of sweating police and an
outer fringe of soldiers and several
thousands of well-nourished sightseers
had been adjured to
Arise, ye starvelings, from your slumbers!
Arise, ye criminals of want!
They had been told to use their own
right hands to shiver the chains of
“Sorry, but I've GOT to get back to Work today."
hatred, greed and fear, and to make
the thieves disgorge their booty, because
they had too long fed the raven apd
been the vulture’s prey. Then the chair-
man raised an impressive hand for
silence. A well-aimed tomato hit him
fairly ip the middle of a well-opened
countenance. The crowd laughed. A
woman’s voice behind me said: “Well,
if anybody can laugh at that they can
laugh at anything.” “Just boyish fun,”
said somebody. “Boyish fun!” said the
female voice, becoming shrill. “Throw-
ing tomatoes round like that at the price
they are! Boyish fun, indeed!”
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: Visiting Yanks have
frequently told us that our cities lack
gaiety and we don’t know how to enjoy
ourselves. New Year celebrations in
New York were the gayest since the de-
pression. Pubs and night clubs stayed
open all night, and were crowded despite
that all drinks were up. Yelling, horn-
blowing crowds in Times Square made
Sydney’s King’s Cross gathering look
like a Sunday-school concert. And there
were 292 deaths by accident, 40 suicides
and 28 murders. Thanks, Yank, I’ll
take Sydney if you don’t mind.
* * * *
“Resartus”: According to the
“5.M.H.,” Sydney tailors are raising
their perennial cry that the men of the
city won’t “dress sensibly” in summer.
Instead of pongee silk or featherweight
twill two-piece suits and panama hats,
they stick to full-weight tweed clobber
with waistcoats, and to the felt hat that
is practically the trademark of the Aus-
tralian. I think the tailors, if they do
indulge in vain imaginings about seasonal
and seasonable attire, are barking up the
wrong tree in blaming their clients for
conservatism. Their quarrel is with the
vagaries of the Sydney climate. Here’s
what’s liable to happen: On a bright
summer’s morn, ’neath cloudless skies,
you step forth in a natty two-piece suit
of cream tussore silk, and board your
suburban train. On arrival at Wynyard
or Central you find the skies as black as
ink, rain sloshing down like Niagara,
and the streets swirling rivers. You
arrive at office or shop looking, and feel-
ing, like a sewer rat caught in an over-
flow. There’s worse to come. About 11
a.m. temperature drops from 85 to 70
under the influence of a southerly, and
you go out for lunch garbed in a thick
tweed overcoat, shivering nevertheless
and thinking long thoughts of pneumonia
and kidney trouble. On the way back
from lunch you’re sorry about the over-
coat, for the sun has come out again and
the wind has dropped. Next day you
swelter in good old tweed.
* * * *
“The Nark”: The Unity Freeman-
Mitford girl is in the news again.
This lass seems to go abroad to make
friends and influence people, and come
home to infuriate the British populace.
Latest escapade was to get herself
wounded —some said a bullet did it —and
she reached England after being conveyed
from Germany in a special ambulance
train. Her father, an English peer, is
quoted as saying, “I am not ashamed of
anything my daughter has done in Ger-
many.” Maybe not, but he’d please a
lot of people if he made the young
woman do the cooking and washing-up
in the ancestral home instead of gadding
about and interfering in international
affairs.
* * * *
“Det”: Christmas contributions to my
well-being are generally a fat head, an
empty pocket, 50 useless cards and sundry
articles of apparel which I would dread
being even buried in. December 24,
1939, brought me something worth
while a letter from an honest man.
“Dear he wrote, “this morning
I received your gift—a somewhat old-
fashioned tie you must admit—and I’m
rather sorry to say that I find it a little
gaudy and that the color clashes with the
rest of my clothes. It was jolly decent
of you to think of me, however, and I
will certainly find a use for the tie along
with other odd articles I keep for fishing
trips and the like. I’m not the least un-
grateful—though I do think you might
have chosen a more agreeable pattern—
and I’d like the opportunity to drop in
for supper sometime and thank you per-
sonally. Thanks also for your good
wishes. I quite appreciate them, even
though they can be of no actual benefit
to me. Now, I have a few more im-
portant things to do than write to people,
so, if you’ll excuse me” I’d like to
write something in the same line to the
aunt who knitted me a yellow-and-purple
sweater, but the old lady has passed 80
and has pots of coin.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The worst accident in
a tragic festive season in Victoria hap-
pened in the centre of Melbourne, when
a taxicab mounted a footpath in Collins-
street and charged a crowd of hurrying
pedestrians. Six persons were hurt and
three seriously injured, others were nearly
flung through the windows of the shops
adjacent, and the smashing of a verandah
post nearly brought the verandah down
on top of the melee. It recalls the case
of a Melbourne woman who was driving
her husband’s automobile for the first
time. She pressed the accelerator instead
of the brake, and charged a safety zone
packed with people.
* * * *
“Fine Cut”: The typical Australian,
wandering along the beach at Wollon-
gong (N.S.W.), found a blue-and-white
enamelled tin bearing German words
awash on the sand. Unable to open it
at once, he resorted to the cruder sort
of Australian tin-opener—an axe. The
resultant explosion put him in hospital.
The tin contained a depth-finding appa-
ratus, which is lowered to the sea-bottom
and explodes on contact, the explosion
being registered on deck and the depth
calculated by time elapsed. Another was
found further north at Stanwell Park,
and military authorities have issued the
usual warning. They will now be snowed
under with all sorts of flotsam from sar-
dine- to treacle-tins. But before the
usual smarty could write a stirring article
proving how Von Luckner dropped them
when he was spying along the coast and
tearing up telephone books it came out
that the Customs, sick of keeping the
things in bond for years, had ordered
them to be dumped at sea. It will be
little comfort to the injured man that
the department has blithely announced
its astonishment that the “bombs”
drifted ashore. What did it think they
would do?
* * * *
“S.V.”: Some hobbies are not alto-
gether useless. A lawyer in a Victorian
Maflee township has an obsession for
figures, and he has indulged it by tabu-
lating the arrival and departure times of
every train in Victoria. His immense
table gives a co-ordinated picture which
the Railway Commissioners find so in-
structive that they spend half a day
with him when they pass, through his
township on their tours of inspection.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: I note that film actress
Ruby Keeler has been granted a divorce
in filmland’s Holy City from A 1 Jolson,
the screen’s first and worst crooner.
Grounds were that he gave her an “in-
feriority complex” by calling her stoopid.
This is apparently the New Psychology
working in America. Mrs. Jolson doesn’t
seem to have been stupid, whatever the
condition of her complexes. The settle-
ment gives her £lO3 a week for life out
of Al’s modest earnings, and she won’t
be obliged to listen to his dull low moan-
ing. The first time I heard it was at the
first showing of the first of all talkies in
Melbourne, at the Athenaeum. A 1
wriggled and shook in the throes of
mother love, poured inky waves of
treacle over the heads of the astonished
audience and ushered in a new era of
public entertainment. His extraordinary
performance seemed to me to be the
(Edipus complex incarnate, but perhaps
he was only acting.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne “Herald” cele-
brated the hundredth anniversary of
its birth last week with a special issue in
which were recorded the wonderful pro-
gress made by the journal and its stead-
fast adhesion to the principles of its
founder. He was George Cavanagh,
who came from Sydney after editing for
four years Australia’s first newspaper, the
Sydney “Gazette.” Cavanagh was a great
fighter, and wherever he was there were
ructions. His vitriolic attacks on vested
interests in the Harbor City landed him
in numerous libel actions. He attacked
the redoubtable Wentworth, and had to
climb down, but subsequently came back
with a writ for £5OO, Wentworth having
described him as a “disgraced and dis-
credited menial.” Cavanagh started the
“Herald” when the Port Phillip colony
was ready to provide a good audience
for a trenchant pen. The community was
suffering from the depression that fol-
lowed the Napoleonic wars, and was
convinced that its troubles were entirely
due to the Government in N. S. Wales.
There was a Gagging Act which enabled
a Judge to declare a libel to be seditious,
and if an individual was twice con-
victed of sedition banishment was
the possible penalty. The Separation
movement was regarded as seditious, and
Cavanagh naturally became its spokes-
man. Those were stirring days, and there
is no question that the “Herald” was in
the van of intransigent journalism then.
If you had told Cavanagh that his paper
was a respectable conservative sheet he
would have laughed at you. If you told
a “Herald” man today that his paper
is a bold, brave, desperate fighter for
unpopular causes he would think you
were laughing at him.
* * * *
“Shorus”: When a Sunday-school in
one of Sydney’s more mixed suburbs
found itself short of teachers the parson
pressed his young daughter into the good
work and gave her a class of lads, among
them a youthful Celestial. The girl ably
expounded the doctrine of universal love,
and was pleased to note the young
Chinese taking an intense interest in her
teachings. “You love evlybody?” he
asked incredulously. “Yes, John, I love
everybody,” was the earnest reply. “You
love me?” next queried John in further
bewilderment. “Er —yes, I love you,”
murmured the youthful teacher. Then
John, to the delight of the class, came to
the point. “What day you mally me?”
he inquired.
* * * *
“R. E. Ject”: Sydney’s “Daily News,”
which has had a chequered career and
is now struggling to maintain itself as a
Labor paper amid the battle-smoke of
the war between Labor factions in N. S.
Wales, has earned a pat on the back from
that section of the Australian public in-
terested either practically or sentimentally
in Australian literature. Announcing
a series of short stories by Australian
writers —to be paid for at union rates—
it cites the case of a writer of ten Aus-
tralian novels who was recently evicted
from his home for debt, and puts for-
ward the suggestion that as the authori-
ties established a film quota it should
not be difficult for them to apply one
compelling periodicals publishing fiction
to use at least 50 per cent, of Australian
matter. First of the stories was by Kylie
Tennant, whose Tiburon won the S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize in 1935.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The melancholy list of
Christmas drownings in Victoria raises
the question as to how often accidents are
innocent, psychologically speaking. I
know one family which has lost three of
its members by drowning at holiday
seasons. A doctor informs me that
he has long observed that members of
the same family have an extraordinary
predilection for the same kind of acci-
dent. He has sewed up the wounds of
father, mother, two sons and two
daughters, and in each case the slipping
of a tool was responsible for the trouble.
In another the father ran into a tree in
his motor-car, and a few weeks later his
son ran into his father’s motor-car on his
motor-cycle. I know another family whose
members break limbs with such persist-
ency that one might imagine that they got
pleasure out of doing it. Another family
goes in for the relatively harmless sport
of breaking crockery. The amount that
is smashed in this household would ruin
a less affluent father, and he heartily de-
plores the family habit. But he has it just
as badly as his children, and when he
breaks a bit of delf he invariably says
“The wretched thing fell out of my hand”
—not “I dropped it!” And so do the
others.
SECOND A.I.F.
God speed and shield you, who sail away
In war’s grim drama your part to play
With handfast hearts aglow!
God shield you ever, anear or afar,
Ashore or a-sea, wherever you are
And whithersoe’er you go!
There are ringing cheers, as your way you
take,
To dull the pain of hearts that ache,
To lighten the tears that fall,
For such as you are the measure and gauge
Of the store we set by our heritage
When the homeland bugles call.
You go to stress, in the Empire’s need,
The lesson plain for all eyes to read,
The tale for all tongues to tell,
That the wide domains of our race that run
To the uttermost ends of earth are one
And indivisible.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Captain Pintle”: An outstanding item
in the sea-grouch between engine-room
and bridge arises from the damn’ stupidity
—beg pardon, I mean consistent firmness
—with which engineers regard propeller
speeds as superior to astronomical obser-
vation for determining the daily run.
While the T.S.S. Nameless was making
her long run down the easting the chief
engineer made a daily protest to the
skipper against the scandalous under-
statements of sea-mileage, and daily did
the Old Man express his views as to
where the chief ought to be in this world
and the next. Entering their first Aus-
tralian port the skipper was checking off
a signal hoist from the land in the Inter-
national Code when the chief clambered
up the bridge-ladder. “Whit are yon
flags sayin’, Skupper?” he inquired. The
Old Man chuckled. “Just telling us,
Chief, that your ruddy engines got here
a week ahead of us! ”
* * * *
“T.”: In his impish way, The Bulle-
tin’s John Dailey used to marvel at the
number of young lawyers of his acquaint-
ance who were unable to attend the last
war. If he were with us today he would
be gratified at the large proportion of
young lawyers in the Second A.1.F.; and,
as one who defended many Diggers
charged with breaches of military law, he
would be delighted with the achievement
of a Westralian who enlisted when he was
about to become a practitioner of an
honorable court. Together with some
of his camp-mates the briefthumper-in-
training got into a spot of bother while
they were on city leave, and all were lum-
bered. His case was taken first, and he
listened to the police evidence in polite
silence. “Now, soldier, have you any-
thing to say for yourself?” the magistrate
asked. “Only this, your Worship,” he
replied softly—“that for a conviction to
be obtained it is necessary to prove that
the alleged offence was committed in a
public place. This, I submit, the police
have failed to do.” The Beak looked at
him hard, and then turned up the Act.
“You’re right,” he said. “Dismissed.
Call the next case.” “If the Court
pleases,” the freed one continued, “I
“ Promotion , me foot! Prendy's become a daddy."
should like to appear for the other de-
fendants as amicus curice —they’re all
strangers and unacquainted with such
proceedings.” “Go on, then,” the Beak
said, now smiling broadly; “and I will
anticipate you, sergeant —there will be
no adjournment for production of
further evidence.” Only in one case was
a fine imposed, and it was so small that
the boys didn’t have to ask for time or
suggest that the friendly dispenser of
justice should throw in a couple of bob.
* * * *
“Visitor”: The Pioneer Garden, just
behind Government House in Adelaide,
is to have a sundial thought to be really
unique, invented by Dodwell, the Govern-
ment Astronomer. It violates all the old
rules, being placed on a sloping base
and having all its surfaces concave. Low
walls on east and west take turns in
throwing the shadow, another in the
middle separating a.m. from p.m. ; and
wavy lines will —it is claimed—deal with
the changes in the respective months.
* * * *
“Strict Veg”: There was a vast, striv-
ing crowd at Luna Park, St. Kilda (Vic.),
on New Year’s Eve, and a venerable old
gentleman thought the time was ripe to
inform the multitude that they were
wasting their time in wishing each other
a happy 1940. The year, said he, would
be one of upheavals, catastrophes, fright-
ful epidemics, famines and revolutions,
culminating in the rising of all the dead
from the grave, the sorting out of the
good from the wicked and the establish-
ment of God’s kingdom on earth, when
all the righteous would live for ever and
the bad would go to eternal oblivion.
Kings and princes, empires and prin-
cipalities would be involved in the uni-
versal ruin, and would be succeeded by
the benign rule of the millennium. The
old gentleman had been preaching his
doctrine for half a century without inter-
ference, and he probably didn’t know
there was a war on. Unfortunately, only
fragments of his discourse penetrated to
the consciousness of his audience, and
they jumped to the conclusion that he
was making an attack on the cause of
the Allies. There was a surging rush,
and the whiskered prophet of universal
happiness disappeared from sight.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Gone are the days when
Australian beer was contemptuously re-
garded as she-oak or shypoo, mere
colonial muck. In .1938-39 389,946
gallons of it was sold for export to
overseas destinations, and added £77,098
to the national income. England itself
took 950 gallons for £173, and M.L.,
which brews a mighty beer of its own,
paid £7636 for 33,844 gallons. Fiji did
better with 64,711 gallons for £14,523,
but in proportion to .population New
Guinea topped the score with 129,475
“’E ain't so lit'r'y as Adolf, but 'e's funnier."
gallons costing it £26,707. India’s tropic
thirst absorbed 17,218 gallons, price
£3330. Victorian beer sold much the
best, 229,599 gallons fetching £46,535 ;
N.S.W. followed with 104,697 gallons at
£25,209, and Tassie ran third amongst
States with 3366 gallons for £648.
* * * *
“D.E.”: “Hitler’s New Year message
is nothing but the defiant demand of an
armed bandit to be left to the enjoyment
of his loot until he is ready to rob and
slay again.” Juicy sentence from a bitter-
end leader. I turned
to the Women’s Sup-
plement and read an
informative article on
“The High Cost of
Being Entertained —
You Must Spend
Money to Be Beauti-
ful.” Peter, evidently
of military age but
not in khaki, invites
Susan to Prino’s, and
it will cost him £3 15s.
The taxi “will tick up
some five shillings” ;
there are “cocktails to
be quaffed” and “if
she is the type that
demands a Side-car or a House Special”
they will be 2s. each. Then “oysters
at 2s. 6d. the half-dozen [!],
asparagus at 3s. 6d. each; sparkling
hock, and bang goes 12s. 6d.” ; then a
liqueur with the coffee —“creme-de-
menthe for Susan (Is. 6d.) and a Napoleon
brandy for Peter (35.)” ; then “fruit cup
(4s. 6d.); final tip to the waiter and a
few shillings for the homeward taxi.” But
the night costs Susan £4 Bs. For a start,
“no self-respecting girl could face the
world at Prino’s without being coiffeured
to the last curl” ; and self-respecting girls
have other requirements:
Shampoo and set, ss. 6d.; a “friction”
as well, 3s. 6d; manicure, 35.; pedicure,
“in the interests of toeless sandals,” ss. 6d.;
face massage, £1 Is.; professional make-
up, ss. 6d.; corsage posy, of “pinkish”
orchids, 10s.; perfume, 13s. 6d.; bath salts
“to match,” ss.
And so that two vain young mugs may
amuse themselves —or avert boredom —
for a few hours at a flash joint, double
the basic wage goes west. And this in
the fifth month of the war. Women s
Supplements convey anything but the
bitter-end spirit. Very few of their
heroes are ever seen in uniform, and
very few of their heroines seem to do
anything more laborious than taking their
pekes to be shampooed and hanging
round beaches.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Not only Australian news-
papers, uni. profs, and radio commen-
tators have had their legs pulled by Stalin.
A few months before the present shindy
the Society for the Promotion of Cultural
Relations requested the trustees of the
National Gallery in Melbourne to lend
their walls for the purposes of a display
of photographed Soviet culture. The
crux of the exhibition was an immense
photo, of Stalin, with the hammer and
sickle crossed in triumph above him. The
trustees granted the request, presumably
thinking that photographs of bombing
’planes, Red soldiers in gas masks, war-
ships and suchlike panoply were examples
of modern culture. The people who pro-
tested — The Bulletin critic included—
were told that they were a lot of in-
tolerant conservatives, or words to that
effect. I wonder how the trustees would
receive a similar request now.
* * * *
“F.S.”: It is a far cry from Ruskin
to Melbourne’s South Yarra post office,
but it was the eminent English critic who
was the inspiration for the carvings of
Australian flora and fauna which make
that edifice stand out amid the drab
architecture the P.M.G.’s department
generally spreads over the land. In 1893
a young architect in the Victorian
P.W.D., an admirer of Ruskin’s writings,
was commissioned to design the post
office. He had a sculptor pal, and he
arranged for a deputation of stonemasons
to ask for work, the trade being then very
slack. The Minister sent along an order
for as much stonemasonry to be put into
Government buildings as possible, and
the young architect and his friend let
themselves go. They searched the bush, the
Zoo and every other indigenous source
for models, and put into their design
every typical Australian thing, including
a snake. There were Parliamentary pro-
tests about wicked extravagance, but the
young architect was able to prove that
the South Yarra p.o. was the cheapest
in the State in proportion to its size. The
architect was A. J. Macdonald, now in
his late seventies. He was an associate
of Burley Griffin in the designing of Can-
berra. Hood, the sculptor, got £5O for
his part of the South Yarra job.
THE NEW POETRY.
I get no thrill from most of what
By ultra-modern bards is writ,
Presumably because I’ve not
Been educated up to it.
To savor it in vain I try;
It leaves me with an aching bean
Asking myself bewilderedly:
But what the blazes does it mean?
It makes me fear when I was young
I was inadequately taught
And never learned my mother tongue
As diligently as I thought.
Why else, when page on page I’ve scanned
Of poesy with attention keen,
Should I dejectedly demand:
Bat what the dickens does it mean?
The words are mostly in the die.,
Though somewhat hard to find at times;
The rhymes, though often strained and sick,
Admittedly resemble rhymes.
There seem no bounds to metre set,
But freaks like these I’d not resent
Or cavil at if I could get
A glimmering of what was meant.
They mystify a simple bloke,
They leave him baffled, worn and wan,
These frogs that all so harshly croak
Upon our modern Helicon.
Time and again I face the task
Some profit from their song to glean,
Only despairingly to ask:
But what the devil does it mean?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


CRAVENA
are kinder . .
to the throat
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
;
IB
mm
mi.
m
m, m
4
10 for 9° 50 for 3/9
20 for F 6 100 for 7 ( 6
m
m
mm
2819
POLITICAL POINTS
A Briton leads the Australian army and
a Briton is to lead the R.A.A.F. This,
21 years after the conclusion of a war in
which Australian soldiers and airmen
won deathless glory, and in which an
army greater in numbers than any led by
Marlborough or Wellington was com-
manded in the field by an Australian
native. These politicians won’t let
colonialism die.
Leslie Hore-Belisha, who has effected
salutary changes in the British Army,
notably in the interests Of rankers, is
out of the Ministry, and Oliver Stanley,
who was President of the Board of
Trade, is Secretary for War. Chamber-
lain wanted Hore-Belisha to accept the
inferior post; he refused, and Sir Andrew
Duncan goes to the Board of Trade,
while Sir John Reith, who made his
name with 8.8. C., becomes Minister
of Information in place of Lord Mac-
millan, also Stellenbosched. The sack
in the fifth month of the war is a rotten
return for Hore-Belisha’s services, but
he is young enough to come back.
The worst feature of Hore-Belisha’s
fall is that it increases Churchill’s influ-
ence in Cabinet and in the conduct of the
war. Anyone might have guessed that
trouble would follow Churchill’s resump-
tion of his 1914 habit of rushing over
to France and hanging round G.H.Q.
When he did this recently he posed for
a newspaper photograph, sitting in an
easy chair with Gort bending over him
deferentially. When Hore-Belisha arrived
at G.H.Q. there was no hobnobbing or
camera work. Churchill’s hostility to
Hore-Befisha was shown in the Sandys
affair —Sandys is the bitter old word-
spinner’s son-in-law.
Whatever may be said of Thorby’s
invasion of the Sydney Domain to inves-
tigate the Communist-soldier rumpus, he
at least was game to go there and see
things for himself. Premier Mair got
his information at second hand. He
called for a police report.
According to the Stunt Press, Hitler
revealed all his secrets and plans to “Dr.
Hermann Rauschning, former Nazi
President of the Danzig Senate,” and
these alleged confidences have been pub-
lished by the yard. On December 30
this appeared:
“The religions are all alike,” said Hitler.
“They have no future That will not pre-
vent me from tearing up Christianity, root
and branch, and annihilating it in Ger-
many.”
Then came Hitler’s message to his
troops:
For the ensuing year we want to ask
the Almighty, Who in the past year so
clearly took us under His protection, to
vouchsafe again His blessings.
Flat blasphemy, or merely the Hitlerian
way of calling Doctor Rauschning a
liar?
On a kite flown from Canberra the
words “higher income and sales taxes,
higher excise and customs duties, higher
postal, telephone and radio license
charges” were written. All this means
higher living costs, which must be fol-
lowed by higher wages, which will in-
crease living costs and so cause wages
to rise, thus raising living costs and
Another title has been found for the
esteemed George Fitz Patrick, of Sydney.
George was called the Speck Govern-
ment’s “Publicity Agent” in Sydney, then
its “Public Relations Officer.” Now it
seems he is “Public Relations Consultant
on the Mainland for the Government of
Tasmania”; and after saying that this
weather you need a Cascade beer.
Mr. W. J. (“Knockout”) Smith, of
Australian Glass (now A.C.1.), is off to
the U.S.A. to have a look at “at least
two car-manufacturing plants owned by
companies which, it is understood, are
going out of business.”
Both, it is understood, would be willing
to dispose of their plant and machinery
at a satisfactory price. They can bo
bought outright, complete with blueprints,
gauges, tools and patterns.
So that is what Australia is going to
get for a five years’ monopoly, plus
bounty (£1,500,000), plus Government
contracts, if Parliament stands it. The
indications are that Parliament won’t
stand it.
There are N.S.W. towns without
libraries, but none without a .cinema
theatre. The Sydney Government said
it was going to alter the library situation
and had passed a bill to prove it. The
bill remains in its pigeonhole, un-
THE RED BOIL.
“Premier Mair, cheered on by the Sydney daily papers, refuses to take ‘repressive
measures’ against Communists.”
“There is no harm in that boil —no harm whatever. Anyway, I wouldn’t think of
lancing it.”
proclaimed, the Government having no
money for libraries. But it is providing
£53,000 in film-co. guarantees to keep
up the supply of mush to cinema theatres.
As anticipated, the alleged National
Travel Association is sending a manager
to India to replace the manager who has
been appointed Australian Trade Com-
missioner ; and the Trade Commissioner
is to have an Assistant. Each job will be
a charge on the taxpayer, and not one
can be justified, but the manager will
have more of a sinecure than the com-
missioner or the assistant. As an
argument for continuance of its Com-
monwealth subsidy, now £15,000, the
“National” Travel Association predicted
a war-time rush of American trippers to
Australia. Where are they?
It looks bad to see full-page Patriotic
Fund ads. in a Sydney Sunday paper.
The Red Cross has never been known
to resort to this method of appealing for
funds; and the Red Cross raised
£3,600,000 in the six States during the last
war.
“The Soviet Government, embodied in
the formidable figure of Stalin, has barred
off for ever all Nazi dreams of an ad-
vance to the East, and is disputing Ger-
man control of the . Baltic.” Thus
Churchill in mid-November; and the Stunt
Press dutifully followed him. Now we
read that “the earlier belief —notably en-
couraged by Mr. Churchill —that Russia
is working to Germany’s disadvantage
is discarded in many quarters.” The
Manchester “Guardian” goes further.
The wishful thinking that regarded
Russia as Germany’s enemy has now been
abandoned. By invading Finland the Red
Army makes itself the vanguard of Ger-
many’s advance towards the North Atlantic.
All the sacrifice is by Russia.
In short, Churchill and the Stunt Press
were wrong again.
At the end of September, 1938, Stevens
promised a surplus of £7785 for the cur-
rent financial year. In October, same year,
he gaye notice of the bill increasing the
pay of Ministers and members by roughly
£25,000 p.a., starting from July 1,
When the surplus was lost in a pro-
digious deficit and the Spooner rumpus
occurred it came out that Stevens had
borrowed a million from the State Super-
annuation Board. The board reports
that the million “was placed on fixed
deposit at the Treasury in various
amounts from September 21, 1938, to
January 13, 1939.” So Stevens’s Govern-
ment was in difficulties when the surplus
was predicted and the salary grant perpe-
trated. Good-bye, Stevens, and don’t
come back!
The £1,000,000 with which the N.S.W.
Superannuation Board accommodated
Stevens when that exploded financier was
breaking his neck to get into the Com-
monwealth Ministry was part of the pro-
ceeds of sales of Commonwealth stock.
The transaction having been criticised by
subscribers, the board quotes Section 6
of the Act by way of justifying it, and
mentions that the Auditor-General allows
that it is “invested with statutory dis-
cretion in making investments An
examination of the manner in which a
statutory discretion is exercised is outside
the jurisdiction of an auditor.” Then it
should be within the jurisdiction of the
public’s financial watchdog.
Several days before the gift of £52,000
to three film companies was announced,
it was given out that “gazettal of the
N.S.W. Libraries Act” might be expected
“early in the New Year,” and that this
would be “the first step towards the in-
troduction of the most modern library
system in the world.”
Cost to the Government of the scheme
in the first year is estimated at £lO,OOO.
Ten thousand for libraries, fifty-two
thousand for films. That’s culture.
A sharp rise in Staff Salaries is a
feature of A.B.C. reports. In 1937-38
Staff Salaries absorbed £37,744; in
1938-39, £42,076. And “Artists, Orches-
tras, Dance Bands, Military Band, Lec-
turers, Announcers, Accompanists, Pro-
ducers and Programme Officers” are not
on the staff. Parliament should devote
at least one sitting to a dissection of
A.B.C. accounts, especially as the stop-
gap P.M.G., Harrison, seems to consider
his duty nobly done when he has said
“Yes, Mr. Moses” ; but beyond growling
occasionally at A.B.C.’s exercise of its
too-vast powers Parliament doesn’t
bother.
De Valera is having
serious trouble with the
I.R.A. That organisation
is no laughing matter any-
where, but its raid on the
ammunition magazine in
Phoenix Park, Dublin, had
elements of broad farce.
It seems to have been
accomplished with the
greatest of ease, and be-
fore Dublin woke up 30
tons of ammunition had
been removed in lorries.
There is no mention of the
Dublin Waterside Union
having been employed to
do the loading, but it
would take a fair-sized
gang some time to load 30
tons if the stuff were all
stacked up in readiness.
Sydney’s Water Board,
which is spending
£3,000,000 p.a. of loan
money “to relieve unem-
ployment” or to relieve the
Sydney Government of
unemployed, has moved
into its new palace in
Pitt-street. The monu-
ment to the glory of
bureaucracy towers to
heaven in marble, steel and
concrete, and only Heaven
knows what it cost. Meantime, both in
city and country, the sick receive atten-
tion in dilapidated hospitals whose
finances are in so deplorable a condition
that a compulsory levy on incomes is
threatened.
Some of the world broadcasts on the
Australian attitude to the war and the
enemy have been very good, those of
Curtin and Walter Murdoch especially.
“Because the German Government em-
ployed armed force and invaded another
country,” Curtin said, “the Australian
Labor party declares that Germany
plunged the peoples into war” ; therefore
“the Australian Labor party, indeed the
whole Australian nation, is inflexibly and
unequivocally on the side of Britain and
France.” Unanswerable, and so is this:
The Australian Labor Party and the
Australian people neither desire nor seek
to interfere with the people of Germany
in their form of government or the policies
their Government operates in Germany.
Let the Churchills and Wickham Steeds
say what they please, Australia is not in
this war to impose any particular form
of government or any particular dynasty
on the enemy. As Curtin said well, “all
we desire is to put an end to the power
of armed might, merely because it is
armed might, to get its way in the
world.”


PALS.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . • • • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 270 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE DUBIOUS BOOM IN SHARES.
WAR-TIME ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
AND THEIR EFFECTS.
FACTS, FIGURES AND COMMENT ON THE
MONTH’S FINANCIAL HAPPENINGS.
January Issue on Sale Friday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all St«to«
MELBOURNE'S
test J4ote(
rreai
Stay at this great hotel in
the heart of Melbourne,
near shops anti theatres,
convenient to trams and
trains. Boom-only tariffs:
Singles, 5/- to 7/3;
Doubles, 8/- to 16/-.
VICTORM
PUMICE
215 Little Collins Street,
(Next Town Hall), Melb.
PERSONAL ITEMS
That picturesque figure King O’Malley,
who was a foundation member of the
Federal Parliament, helped to found the
Commonwealth Bank, moved the motion
which subsequently secured the land on
which Canberra is built and represented
S.A. and the Speck successively and
rhetorically in various Parliaments, is, at
84, still as good copy for newspaper
men as in his great fighting days.
On- the stickiest, if not the hottest, day
for many years in Melbourne, he came
out of his retirement to take, of all
things, a Turkish bath.
“Hamfat”: Steve A. Fitzgerald (the
second name was “Australia” and it
stamped him, for he was a sturdy fighter
for things Australian, the Australian
theatre amongst them) was a stage
veteran who wasn’t a bit stagy. He
made a success of life in all its de-
partments, and achieved a fair measure
of material prosperity. S.A. was the
father of four actor sons, one of whom,
Jim Gerald, might rank as Australia’s
leading stage comedian; another, Max
Clifton, a dashing juvenile of the
pre-war melodrama days, duplicated
his stage gallantry in real action in
the war and won a captaincy, some
honors and wounds that killed him. Steve
was 80 when he died; his theatrical
memories went back to the days of the
gold diggings.
Dr. Alick Benson, dead in Adelaide
after long illness, was born in S.A. and
trained in medicine at London and Brus-
sels. But racing was his great hobby.
Chairman of Port Adelaide R.C. for 25
years, he helped it to work up a position
in which it could rival and occasionally
give a lead to S.A. Jockey Club and
Adelaide R.C. He died on the eve of
the Port’s principal meeting at Christ-
mas, and the jockeys wore black arm-
bands to his memory.
Padre S. G. Drummond, of Manly
(N.S.W.), is known to thousands of
youngsters in the far west of the State as
the good fairy whose wand has wafted
them to the delights of surfing and castle-
building on Manly’s beaches. As a
Methodist minister on an out-west station
DRUMMOND, OF THE “FAR WEST”
SCHEME.
Mr. Drummond thought out the project
which has been in operation for 15 years
ana *vhieh now fully occupies its founder.
Christmas Day and the eighty-third
birthday of Joseph Levi, Melbourne
philanthropist, fell together, and as the
oldest honorary treasurer in the Southern
Hemisphere J.L. came in for a host of
congratulations. He has functioned in
that position for Royal Melbourne Hos-
pital for a quarter of a century, and
almost equals the record of James Bar-
rett for sitting on committees. The Lord
Mayor’s Fund, the Metropolitan Hos-
pitals’ Association, the Eye and Ear Hos-
pital and Jewish organisations have come
in for his services as a committeeman
and his cheques as a contributor to their
charitable funds.
Add to the list of cricketers who have
turned singer tenor Lawrence Power,
back tc sing with his Italian wife,
Annunciata Garrotto, under the A.B.C.
aegis. Fifteen years ago Power won a
“Sun” aria competition at that breeding-
ground of singers Ballarat. Thus he
missed by a
hair’s - breadth
devoting his life
to cricket, for
he had just been
selected to play
in Shield cricket
against Sou t n
Australia. He
went for singing
experience to
Italy, sang
through the
opera season in
which he met
his wife, then
toured Near
Asia, China and
Japan, and fin-
ished with a 37-
we e k engage-
me n t at the
New York Hip-
podrome. For a
while he sported
an Italian mon-
iker, so possibly
the A.B.C. en-
gaged him
under a mis-
apprehension.
Charles E.
Rigby, of the
Melbourne legal
FRANCIS ANDERSON.
(Modelled by Frith.)
firm of Rigby and Fielding, will
have to find time between his business
activity, his skilful handling of the organ
and his work as a lay canon of St. Paul’s
to consider the progress of broadcasting
in Australia. He is the new vice-chair-
man of the A.B.C. Three times Mayor
of Hawthorn, and president for five years
of the Melbourne Municipal Association,
he takes a keen and active interest in the
city’s musical life. *
Frank Neil, managing director of the
Tivoli Theatre circuit, killed in a motor-
ing smash at South Melbourne on the
last day of 1939, was one of the strangest
actors and one of the best organisers in
the Australian theatrical business. In
the days when, backed by Ben Fuller, he
was running “Up in Mabel’s Room’’ and
similar American confections at the old
Palace, he used to do his own billposting
as well as manage, produce and take
leading roles. Although he didn’t regard
himself seriously as an actor his in-
consequential manner captivated audi-
ences. He took over Melbourne Tivoli
when that concern, badly holed by the
talkies, was on the point of sinking,
and in a couple of years restored it to
its former prestige. When he was not
smoking a contemplative cigar in the
entrance in Bourke-street he was flying
between Melbourne, London and New
York whipping up overseas talent. Neil
was the biggest employer of Australian
histrions and vaudevilleans left in the
business. He was 50.
Nobody has done more for Australian
bird and animal life than David Fleay,
curator of the Colin MacKenzie Sanctu-
ary at Healesville (Vic.). The 70 cages
he once maintained at Hawthorn for
breeding Australian marsupials in cap-
tivity were locally famous. He designed
the Australian section of the Melbourne
Zoo, and, having done as much as he
wanted to do in that way, set out to
show at the Healesville Sanctuary how
animals could be preserved in their
natural habitat. Ballarat-born, he started
out as a schoolmaster, but a scholarship
passport to Melbourne Uni. set him on
the path of scientific zoology. He suc-
ceeds Donald Macdonald as Nature
scribe on the “Argus.”
“El V.”: Francis Anderson, Scottish,
formerly Dean of the Faculty of Arts
and professor of logic and mental
philosophy at Sydney University, is one
of the few teachers of his subject who
are real philosophers, one of the few
knights who can be gently mirthful
about knighthood and one of the few
professors who do not feel that they
are chunks off the Omniscient. He is
about the same size as W. M. Hughes,
but looks as if he had been nourished
on good porridge instead of leeks. Frith’s
interpretation of his very efficient hear-
ing apparatus is a compliment to his
awareness of all that goes on around him
rather than a conservative portrayal of
physical facts, but his model reproduces
accurately the faintly Puckish air which
invests the professor even in his most
serious moments. Anderson is a good
lecturer, incisive in speech and fearless
in expression, though the radiation of a
perennial inner sweetness salves the pain
of any wounds he inflicts on the con-
sciousness of his hearers without impair-
ing the penetration of his shafts. Results
have shown him a successful teacher —a
round dozen of his old students hold
professorships at great Scottish, Aus-
tralian and American universities. And,
at 81, he is proving strenuously that he
is not too old for hard work and young
enough to believe in the future and to be
a prophet of almost lost causes —he is a
spearhead of Polish relief and other war-
time movements and president of the
League of Nations Union.
HIGH COMMISSIONER BURCHALL.
Charles J. Burchall, who comes to Syd-
ney as Canada’s High Commissioner to
Australia, is a well-travelled lawyer, hail-
ing from Halifax. He’s a K.C. and a
great authority on shipping law. His
favorite sport is curling—a sort of bowls
on ice—and he was glad to hear that
Sydney could sport a curling club and
an artificial-frozen lake on which the
game can be played.
“Ek D.” surveys British Cabinet
changes:
Regarded by most Englishmen as the driv-
ing force behind British rearmament, Leslie
Hore-Belisha leaves the War Office in an
atmosphere of alarm and mystery. Around
50 in age, and 16 years in the Commons, he
is one of the few leading politicians who have
suffered no check to their reputations. He
laid the foundations of a political career, like
the late Lord Birkenhead, as president of the
Oxford U.D.S. The son of a city financial
man and of the daughter of a Kentish vicar, he
adopted the first half of his name in compli-
ment to his stepfather, who is civil-service
head of the Pensions Department. Leslie
H.-B. came to politics in 1923 as M.P. for
Devonport, a young man fresh from the
University, with service as a major in the
Wessex Regiment during the World War
behind him, and with a fluent knowledge of
French and German —part of his student days
had been spent at the Sorbonne and Heidel-
berg. During the 1926 general strike, when
in his late mid-twenties, he established his
right to a position in the first flight of
British orators, and many people marked him
down then as a future Prime Minister. His
first office was as Parliamentary Secretary to
the Board of Trade during the depressiem,
but his name was made as an organiser during
his three years as Minister for Transport
(1934-37), a preliminary to his elevation, in
place of Duff-Cooper, to the War Office, where
his entry was immediately evident in sweeping
changes, including the appointment of Vis-
count Gort to military control of Army
organisation and the general cleaning-up of
cobwebs and speeding up of processes. His
successor, Oliver Stanley, comes of one of the
great dynastic families of England, which
derived its modern force from that Earl of
Derby, thrice Prime Minister, enemy of*
slavery and youthful contemporary of Glad-
stone, whom Lytton marked as “frank,
haughty, rash —the Rupert of Debate” and
who also moved O’Connell to quote Canning
when he showed his strength by seceding
from the Cabinet over the Irish Temporalities
Bill with several well-born companions:
Still down tby steep, romantic Ashbourne, glides
The Derby dilly, carrying six insides.
The latest elevated descendant, a son of the
17th Earl, owner of racehorses, War Secretary
in the last war and implementer of the
Derby recruiting scheme, is an able enough
young man, but only a pale shadow of his
ancestor. He could not be visioned as refer-
ring to a Government as “marked with all
that timidity, that want of dexterity which
led to the failure of the unpractised shop-
lifter,” as did the Rupert of the family on one
occasion.


SMOKE-OH!
“One man a minute; A.I.F. X-ray.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Does this imply that soldiers are easily
seen through?
'l* »P *P
“She was every inch a lady.”— Extract, story.
Even in backyard rows she wouldn’t
say “Me blasted foot!”
»P *P »P *P
“Shoes will keep much longer if they are
not worn every day.”— Women’s paper.
Every second day go to work bare-
foot ; it will narrow your expenditure,
broaden your feet, and encourage the
boss to give you the boot.
•i*
“Boat used to take bride to her wedding.”
It may also be useful in getting the
bridegroom off the rocks.
•P *P *p *p
“Anzac Buffet —Hyde Park Plan.”
—“S.M.H.” heading.
Communists are not in favor of the
A.I.F. buffet in the Domain.
*l* *l* *l*
“The British forces got turkey and Christ-
mas pudding, together with soup, Brussels
sprouts, mine-pies, nuts, fruit and beer.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Evidently the mine-pies replaced the
crackers.
»P *P *P *P
“Write as you speak.”— Writers’ guide.
But what if you stutter?
•F *l* *p •1*
“No man need spend more than a couple
of pounds per annum on socks.”
— Women’s paper.
The Taxation Department will sock
him for more than that.
•P *P *P *P
Objective Gained.
The terrain was fairly open, a few
low bushes being the only growth other
than grass. Across these the tank rolled,
its clanking and booming shocking the
morning air and putting a few birds to
flight. The crew kept an anxious watch
on the west, from which direction they
expected any moment the flash and roar
that would herald the storm. Onward
rumbled the tank, slewing this way and
that, guided by expert hands, nearer and
nearer its objective. Then —just as a burst
of flame shot out of the west, followed
by the heavy roar of the explosion—the
men got it to the stand, wired it down,
and connected the down-pipe in time
to catch the first water from the roof.
Wellshot.
“The Irish language has seven words for
water.” — “World’s News.”
But when Murphy’s asked to choose a
drink he can’t think of one of them.
“The Commonwealth Government is anxious
to find out which kind of foreigner Australian
girls prefer to marry—if any.”
And echo —so far as every dinkum
Australian spinster over the age of 45 is
concerned —answers, “Any! ”
“Many a young housewife is in tears during
her first day in the kitchen.”- — Women’s paper.
Especially if she peels onions.
4*
“What has become of the merchant who
used to give his customer a cigar when he
paid his account in full?” — “D.T.”
And what’s become of the customer
who pays his account in full?
“ Right-ho , Johnson . this one comes out of next month's pay!"
“A machine-gun has last word.” t
—“Sunday Sun.
You’ve got to hand it the belt.
•F * *
“ln the days of Shakspeare there was no
thought of the slimming craze.” “B-F
No? How about Hamlet’s
this too, too solid flesh would melt”?
•F * * *
No politician is a profit in his own
country.
.j,
"Be your own bo S s.”-,4<i«.
n . a- u „
But divorces aren t so easy to obtain.
* * * *
“Boxer Discovers a Goldmine.” — Heading,
Must have bought a pub.
“Gov'mint do be askin' for trombone players for Second A.I.F.,
Mawther.”
public— videlicet, Messrs. Swizzlebott and
Bangslather—promises to prove exceed-
ing swift when it traverses our thorough-
fares. Its shape has been ingeniously de-
signed with the object of deflecting any
agitated air which it might encounter
when in motion, and which otherwise
would retard its greatest efficiency of
propulsion. At the rear of this power-
driven carriage (the combustion engine
possesses eight cylinders) is a spacious
compartment in which the owner and his
family (if any) may deposit his (or their,
as the case may be) travelling impedi-
menta. Over each wheel is a curved piece
of steel, portion of the general super-
structure, which acts as a guard against
the indiscriminate throwing up of any
“On the night that he was admitted to the
club he became so intoxicated that he was
unable to go home.” — Short story.
He was obviously made a full member.
•f* •b
“There are various ways of getting rid of
nagging pains.”— Medical journal.
The most popular being divorce.
He who laughs last sits in the back row
of the theatre.
•I* d* 4*
Verbiage on the Loose.
“Three local companies will produce four
moving pictures in N.S.W. under a Govern-
ment guarantee.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Had our very dignified senior con-
temporary not mentioned that these
pictures were to be of the moving variety
the public might very likely have gained
the idea that they were to be films. With
her passion for the archaic and redundant
in words, we may now look forward to
the old girl hailing one of the 1940 model
cars in a strain something like this:
“The very latest in horseless buggies,
which has for nomenclature the rather
startling title of Studebuford Straight
Eight Champion, has but lately arrived
from the United States of America,
formerly one of Great Britain’s colonies.
“This four-wheeled vehicle, which is
now open to the scrutiny of the citizenry
at the structure set aside for its display
by the business house which has been
entrusted with the vending of it to the
mire which may happen to be on the
highway over which the conveyance
passes.
“The warning noise which the manipu-
lator may issue for the guidance of other
horseless-buggy manipulators who may
coincidentally be utilising the roadway,
and/or any foot travellers whom the
manipulator may consider in his judg-
ment to be in grave danger of being
thrust down by his vehicle, is operated
by a device located in the centre of the
circular guiding handle, which is itself
placed in a position midway between the
forward seat and the front outlook win-
dow, and contiguous to the right-hand
window.
“The boards which form an intermedi-
ate stepping platform between the floor
of the vehicle and the ground, and which
run parallel along both sides of it (the
vehicle), have superimposed on them a
caoutchouc composition which is in color
a dark black. Stout buffers protect the
horseless buggy front and rear.” Given
an open go in that style, Granny’s motor-
men could fill half an issue.
And we might expect the talkie critic
to come to light with something after
the nature of: —
“At the Splendiferous house of amuse-
ment there is at present being thrown
upon a square white sheet four times
daily a kaleidoscopic projection yclept
‘The Boneheads,’ a play that depicteth Mr.
Stanley Laurel and Mr. Oliver Hardy,
each a wight of a right good humor
who jesteth and generally disporteth in
merrie fashion. Oddsfish! But the
rotund mime hath a pretty wit, and when
haply he and his roguishly playful but
more tenuous fellow-amuser caper
in frolicsome gambol in concert, there
is to be descried amongst the audience a
tendency to unexampled ribaldry. Gad-
zooks! But few would fail to swear by
their halidomes that ne’er have such
mummery, masquing, jocosity, quirks and
heyday been seen previously on any
cinematograph.”
And, of course, the police roundsman
will turn in something like this:
“On Wodenesday, atte the Quartyr
Sessyons, one Arbuthnot (Spike)
Stonkrum, a scurvye knayve, wasse
charged withe havinge slitte the gizzarde
of hys womman duringe a taverne
brawle. Constable Twert deponede
thatte he herde sowndes of angyr to
issue from the sayde taverne. He coud
tarrye no longer ande enterrde to fynde
owte quhat causeth itte. He coud se
the prissonyr slycinge the ladye withe
hys razore blayde. The Judgye, in pas-
singe syntynce of fyve years in the
donjon keep, sayde itte wasse a gode
thynge for the prissonyr that hys razore
blayde hadde beene blunte, ottherwyse
he myghte hayve hadde to fayce a murdyr
charge.”
80.
Appropriate.
“In choosing a present for a lady a man
should select something suitable to her per-
sonality.”—Women’s paper.
Now what shall I give to my lady fair?
A jewel ? A costly hat ?
Ah, no ! I think I will choose a fur,
For that’s a more suitable gift for her —
She’s such a confounded cat!
T. W. N.
Handy.
“A study which the police seem to have
neglected is that of palmistry:” —“Sunday Sun.’
They’ve got their hands so full of crime,
On fingerprints and clues they dwell;
Then, when they knuckle down to work,
They have to nail the crook as well.
E.
Putting in the Boot.
“Alleged Fight with Feet.”
—Newspaper heading.
“Might seem silly,” said Dan the
Dabster, “t’ see a cove goin’ his own
plates o’ meat, but there’s times when
it’s justified. Down Swan ’lll way once
I’m ’oppin’ inter an apple orchard when
the grower sneaks up on me with a
scatter-gun. ‘Feet,’ I yells, ‘do y’r juty! ’
But the dirty cows let me down an’ the
cocky lets me ’ave a charge o’ saltpetre.
Then there wus the time I’m sleepin’ in
a empty ’ouse down near Adelong an’
wakes up in the middle of the night t’
see a shaft o’ moonlight outlinin’ a
’and on the foot o’ the bunk. Cripes,
it give me a shock. But I reaches down
quiet, grabs one o’ me bluchers, an'
hurls it fast an’ true. Next minute I’m
dancin’ round cursin’ me foot what I’d
took t’ be a ’and.
“But what about me mate, Dusty Bob!
He’s got a pair o’ trampers like ’ams,
an’, though ’e treats ’em well, what must
they do but go an’ grow soft corns all
over themselves. Nearly drove ol’ Bob
mad, it did. But ’e fixed ’em. Yair, he
comes across a footrot bath on a sheep
station an’ empties a tin o’ formalin in
an’ starts marchin’ back and forth
through it. He’d been on the pinkie an’
didn’t feel anythin’. Pretty soon he’s
walkin’ on his shins and all them soft
corns is gone. ’Course, they carts him
orf t’ a norspital an’ ampertates. But
will them feet let Bob alone! No blanky
fear! They ’aunt him, that’s what. On
damp nights he can still feel them corns,
though there ain’t any feet there. Yair,
I reckon a man’s feet need a good
floggin’ now an’ again.”
M8.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Old Harry, who had a
small selection and about 300 head of
sheep on the boundary of the big station,
was pretty short of cash one year and
came to an arrangement whereby Harry’s
wool would go into the siding on the
station lorries at a very small rate for
carting. This problem settled, Harry then
succeeded in obtaining credit for enough
woolpacks to hold his clip. Then he did
a bit of hard thinking on ways and means
of getting the sheep shorn, having only
blades. It was August and fairly warm,
and word passed among the shearers at
the big station that old Harry had a
barrel or two of home-brew at his selec-
tion. On the Saturday afternoon a few
drifted across. The word was good, and
on the Sunday morning almost all the
mob went to Harry’s. By midday they
were skiting about their shingling ability.
Old Harry sneered at them. “Anyone,”
he declared, “could put up tallies with
machines. With the tongs now” One
thing led to another, Harry produced half
a dozen pairs of tongs and some sheep,
and the boozed and half-boozed began to
prove their claims. The sheep suffered a
bit* but the arguments were settled, and
as the sun went down and the hilarious
mob struggled back to the station Old
Harry rigged his one-man press and
began baling his clip.
♦ > * *
“Wester”: Once again a herd of kids
from far-western N.S.W. has invaded
Sydney for a spell at the seaside, and
once again city newspapers are trotting
out the old stuff about “the big dam”
when some tow-headed youth from back
o’ Cobar views the harbor. It’s about
time these newshounds stopped having
their legs pulled by innocent-eyed de-
scendants of the greatest leg-pullers in
the world—outback Australians. As one
of Henry Lawson’s characters remarked
after being sadly taken down, “These
damned bushmen have too much time to
think”—a remark that should be remem-
bered the next time young Dan from the
Darling crinkles up shrewd eyes and plays
up to a leading question with “Cripes, if
we had all this water up our way there’d
be a flood!”
* * * *
“Ethno”: It must always have been
something of a drawback to the Aus-
tralian black that his female ranked only
second- and third-rate as a hair-producer.
Few races have depended so much on
the product of the human scalp for manu-
facturable raw material. Body-belts,
strings, bags, shoelaces hair from the
feminine head was put to a hundred
uses. But it was only poor, short stuff
at the best. What might not the abo.
have woven had his women carried the
glorious long tresses of the Caucasian!
In our past history Caucasian women
did many things with their hair. The
best bow-strings, for instance, came from
a woman’s head. What more gracious
gift could a damsel proffer her beloved
than a sufficiency of strands to string his
collection of bows? But it remained
for a modern Australian woman to show
what could really be done with hair in
a crisis. Stranded on an island 200 miles
east of Albany, Jack Temby and his
bride found water but no food. Yet
food was there in plenty—birds of the
air, fish in the sea. A search of their
wrecked cruiser disclosed a few stray
fishhooks but no lines. But there were
feminine hair and deft ditto fingers. Soon
a line was produced, so strong that few
fish could break it. Snares also were
plaited, and poultry added to the pot. By
the time relief arrived the pair of
Crusoes had almost decided to make the
island a permanent residence.
* * * *
“Sandy”: While helping to shift a
dump of bagged seed-wheat I was
puzzled to find in every crevice between
sacks a tiny pelt turned inside out as
neatly as a glove. More and more were
found as the dump became smaller, but
not until we had finished did the ex-
planation come. Beneath the boards
supporting the dump were ratholes and
mouse pelts in abundance. The larger
“Catch! Dispatches !”
rodents had found the mice welcome
intruders, and had added meat to a grain
diet.
* * * *
“Naturala”: That carp which fed on
the biscuit without spilling a crumb (B.
13/12/’39) wasn’t alone in the aquatic
world as a tidy diner. It’s a treat to
watch a blue swimming-crab handling its
tucker ; a human couldn’t be neater with
a knife and fork. Catching a small fish,
Bluey nips the body into nice short
lengths with its scissors-like claws, then
with the next set of legs, or nippers, if
you like, passes each section daintily into
its mouth. It’s this crustacean idea of
nipping off.neat little pieces which leads
so frequently to lost fishing-lines in crab-
infested waters —just Bluey nipping the
gut, or even linen, in halves with the
idea of testing its edibility.
* * * *
“Nuthouse Ned”: As a simple seeker
after knowledge, may I inquire of the
Council just the correct modus operandi
for the measuring of those 300ft.-400ft.
forest giants (B. 13/12/’39)? My mate,
Goanna Jack, proudly proclaims his pro-
fession as an ascertainer of the altitude
of tall treetops, and he never ceases to
lament his entirely unjust separation from
his team of trained goannas. His method,
he explains, was to fasten one end of
the tape-measure to the go.’s tail and
start him upwards; when the go. reached
the top of the tree it naturally was
measured. “But,” I argued, in my woolly-
nut style, “what if he stops half-way?”
But Goanna had a system to counter
such a hiatus ; modelled on the rocket-
plane of the future was a string of
Chinese crackers attached to the go.’s
tail and fired by an arrangement of time-
fuses. There was no weak toleration of
strike or go-slow about Goanna's
methods. But there was a possible weak-
ness, he admitted; encouraged by the
detonating bangers, the go. was liable
not only to top the tree but also to start
down the other side. By just such a
semi-accident Goanna’s favorite go. had
once unwound the tape to over 600 ft.;
and as Jack would persist in standing by
his figures—well, that’s how some of
these tail-tree tales have got about.
* * * *
“Stepnick”: Have often wondered by
what alchemy Australian trees obtain the
perfumed oils with which so many of
them are laden. Sandalwood is the most
famous, and if you don’t know the wood
itself or its perfume while burning, the
crimson coal is unique and unmistakable.
Quandong (western), mulga, myall, gidya
are all hard and oily, though not par-
ticularly perfumed, opinion on the last-
named being divided. N.Q. forests, though
mostly soft, have a few hard and, inciden-
tally, oily timbers. Jittar, or jitteah, the
best known, leaves a black, shiny coat-
ing on the billy, but it can’t be beaten
as a kindler, with lignum a good second.
Sarsaparilla is readily distinguished by
the smell of the bark, identical with that
of an advertised flyspray. Recently I
witnessed the most convincing display of
natural pyrotechnics. A turpentine was
just toppling over, and as the heart
fractured out poured the liquid. One of
the boys applied a match, and it imme-
diately burst into flame, deep red, with
a black, heavy smoke.
* * * *
“Coral”: The custom among N.T.
abos. differs from that of thpir N.S.W.
brothers regarding the disposal of de-
parted warriors (B. 6/12/’39). I’ve seen
those at Malay Bay put the cadaver on
a stiff sheet of stringybark and cover it
with another; then the lot is balanced
on branches of a suitable tree, never
closer than 10ft. to 12ft. from the ground.
If the honored one has been a great
fighter all the young bucks gather under
the corpse with the idea of catching on
their bodies any grease that may fall
from “the pfeller topside” ; it is rubbed
well into their skins, and thus they be-
come endowed with the departed war-
rior’s skill and strength. Nor must the
“boys” wash the stuff off—that would
vitiate the good work.
* * * *
“J.M.C.”: “I remember one year we
started a big shed with only half a
board,” said Old Bill. “Shearers were
scarcer than hairs in a Chink’s beard, so
they send to Sydney for a draft of
learners. About a dozen turned up by
next mail —all sorts and sizes. The bloke
who draws the stand next to me reckons
he’s been a barber’s improver. When
he starts he gets his first sheep out on
the board and sits it up for about five
minutes without touching it with his
machine. The boss eyes him for a while
and then comes up. ‘What’s the trouble ;
won’t that machine cut?’ ‘Oh, no, sir.
The machine is quite all right. I just
wanted to find out whether you preferred
them long or short!”’
* * * *
“Bughouse”: Those two Westralians
who cleared 200 acres of stumps with a
few gallons of kerosene (B. 6/12/’39) —
pah! Did “D. Dee” ever hear of Wild
Whiskers Wilkins and his Trained Ter-
mites? Being of a scientific mind and
having read about Darwinism and Men-
delism producing super-wheat, superphos-
phate, etc., W.W.W. decided to have a
go at producing the super-termite. Every-
one around Billymugurup thought him
mad, but before long he evolved a ter-
mite with jaws that would stop at nothing
short of concrete. His first big contract
was clearing a million acres of stumps
for old Spudgrass. Half-way through,
W.W.W. got swelled head and decided to
buck the tree-felling game proper. By
the use of a girdle of tar he had his best
workers trained to go straight through a
tree, bringing it down as neat as though
fallen by a saw. But he forgot about the
Timber-hewers’ Union. When it linked
up with the Clearers’ Association the
Trades Hall declared W.W.W.’s termites
“black,” for they couldn’t be induced to
work only an eight-hour day. It settled
W.W.W. all right. He’s still preparing his
case for the Privy Council to show that
white-ants can’t possibly be black. Mean-
while his now undisciplined cohorts have
cleaned up Spudgrass’s million acres and
started on his buildings and fences. Any-
one who can divert them to more useful
labor is assured of a prosperous future.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: Struck a pig-farm the
other day; over the gate was the name
“Jerusalem Park.”
*-* * *
“Wang”: “One payday,” Dan said, “a
mob of us from the railway-construction
job wus in the pub when a young
feller comes in an’ orders a pot. He
hasn’t got half of it down when a big
hard-bitten bloke shows hisself at the
door, lookin’ round. Then he spots the
young chap an’ makes a rush at him.
‘Hah! There y’ are!’ he ses, nasty like.
‘Boozin’ instead of payin’ what y’ owe.
You come out here with me!’ The
young chap follers him like a lamb, an’ a
little later comes back, lookin’ mis’rable.
‘What’s the matter, son?’ I ask him.
‘Well,’ he ses, nearly bawlin’, ‘y’ seen that
bloke what just come an’ pulled me out?
Well, I borrered ten quid from him six
munce ago. The mean cow must’ve found
out where I wus workin’ an’ waited till
I wus finished an’ paid orf, an’ then he
come down on me fer it, an’ got it, too,
damn him!’ ‘The lousy hound,’ I ses.
‘How much did he get outa yer?’ ‘Just
on eight quid, all I had,’ he ses, almost
sobbin’. Be this time the rest of the
chaps wus lis’enin’, an’ the end of it wus
the hat went round. Everyone, even
Bung, chucked in, an’ the pore little coot
went out with over a fiver. Next day’s
a holiday, an’ I bike over t’ some friends
what lived in a township 15 miles away.
It wus a blazin’ hot day, an’ when I
bowls inter the pub there’s two blokes
in there, both drunk an’ singin’. It’s me
pore little friend of the day before an’
the mean cow that had took his hard-
earned dough from him. I left without
finishin’ me drink ; the beer tasted crook,
lis’enin’ t’ them pair of spielers singin’
‘The More We Are T’gether the Happier
We’ll Be.’ ”
* * * *
“Grvllus”: The new parson was en-
joying his afternoon tea when “Mrs.
Dobbs,” our cat, dropped in. With that
keen intelligence which felines display in
all matters affecting their interests, she
made for the guest, realising that the best
was his portion. The good man didn’t
notice her till she made her first vamp-
move by rubbing her head against his
leg with loud purring. The result was
startling—he sprang up, capsized his cup
over her, dashed across the room and
stood panting in the doorway, pale and
trembling. “Sorry,” he gasped. “Horror
of cats —silly of me.” We hunted “Mrs.
D.” out, and he told us of his lifelong
struggle to overcome a cat-antipathy
which had nothing to explain it. He is
one of a distinguished company —
Napoleon, Lord Roberts, Boswell and
Kipling all had it. So has Hilaire Belloc ;
he has written of cats: “All they do is
venomous, and all they think is evil.”
Why? Possibly some atavistic reaction
which bridges the ages back to the sabre-
toothed tiger and cave-dwelling ances-
tors?
THE GRAPES ARE RIPE.
I'm just a bloke who’s knockin’ round—you’ll
find me anywhere,
From March right through to Christmas Day,
from Adelaide to Ayr.
I got no fixed address, y’ see, except beneath
me ’at,
An’ don’t care much what work I do —or if I
work, at that.
But when the summer’s on the turn, an’
February shines,
You’ll find me at Mildura snatchin’ grapes
among the vines.
I like the frosty mornin’s workin’ fallow for
the wheat;
The smell of healthy soil when diggin’ spuds at
Burrumbeet;
I like me bit o’ barberin’ when shearin’ comes
around;
I’m partial to some trappin’ if there’s bunnies
on the ground;
But nothin’ else can hold me when the autumn’s
makin’ signs—
You'll find me at Mildura snatchin’ grapes
among the vines.
1 know it’s hot an’ dusty an’ y’ ’ave t’ stir
y’r pins
T’ keep the dipper goin’ an’ the lorry filled
\yith tins;
An’ sugar from the bunches brings the flies
aroun’ in droves —
Y’ ’ave t’ clear the cloud away t’ see the other
coves —
An’ though the river pools are cool an’ waitin’
f’r me lines,
You’ll find me at Mildura snatchin’ grapes
among the vines.
There’s somethin’ in a pickin’ mob no other
mob has got—
A dinkum sort o’ mateship theirs that doesn’t
care a jot.
All glad t’ feel the Murray sun an' sniff the
Murray air,
An’ fill theirselves with fruit an’ beer, an’ shed
all grief an’ care.
An’ so, with girls from biscuit works an’ fellows
from the mines,
You'll find me at Mildura snatchin’ grapes
among the vines.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Arev”: Bill and Jim had been mates
for six months. They shared their hut,
ate from the one candle-box and sat on
corresponding petrol-cases. The two
worked a small claim at Dead Man’s
Gully, and once a week either Bill or
Jim went to the township to collect the
papers, stores and mail. In all their time
together there never had been a letter for
either of them, but one day when Jim
called he was given a letter, in a woman’s
handwriting, for Bill. Jim, agog with
excitement, hurried campwards, meditat-
ing upon his mate’s prospective joy. He
felt almost as enthusiastic as if the mis-
sive were for himself. Bill was waiting
outside the hut when Jim appeared. “A
letter for you,” the latter announced. Bill
thrust the letter into his pocket and went
on smoking. Jim unpacked the provi-
sions and prepared tea, leaving Bill out-
side to read undisturbed. During the
meal Jim could keep silent no longer. “I
see y’ got a letter,” he said. Bill grunted.
The meal went on. “Good news, I
hope,” Jim said. Bill arose, took a penny
from his pocket. “Heads or tails?” he
said. “Er—heads,” said Jim in wonder.
Bill tossed. “You win,” he said. “I’ll
pack up and clear.” “W-why?” said
Jim. Sadly Bill eyed his mate. “I’m off
on me own, where nobody’ll be prying
into me affairs.”
* * * *
“Bohemian”: A Maoriland backblocks
schoolteacher was putting a class through
the analysis of “The Burial of Sir John
Moore.” He asked whal the poet meant
by the two lines:
We buried him deeply at dead of night,
The sods with our bayonets turning.
The ensuing silence was broken by a
young cow-fancier. “Please, sir, the
British soldiers were turning over some
Frenchmen with their bayonets,” he said.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Cinnabar Smith
with a small party had been sent to the
wild nor’-west by a southern syndicate
and instructed to prospect an area where
he had found traces of gold before. The
party had just settled down to work
when the rainy season set in, and the
work became so difficult and camp life
so uncomfortable that, in order to placate
his discontented followers, Cinnabar
wired south describing the adverse
weather conditions and requesting an in-
crease of 25 per cent, in wages. This
was conceded without demur. The
weather grew steadily worse, and the men
were on the brink of mutiny, so the
harassed leader wired for a further in-
crease of 25 per cent. Came the indig-
nant reply: “Wire reason for extortion-
ate demand.” Cinnabar’s retort was
prompt and to the point: “When water
up to bowyangs and crocs. Bft. long, 25
per cent, fair enough. Water now up to
belt, and crocs. 15ft. long. Wire accept-
ance increase, or send representative take
over outfit.” They wired.
* * * *
“Bufo”: That enterprising creature the
white-ant certainly does manage to reach
some unexpected places. During recon-
struction of the Sandgate pier near Bris-
bane they were found to have done seri-
ous damage at the outer end, nearly
400 yards from shore. A few years ago
the derrick post on a Brisbane lighter
snapped off below the deck during a
lift —it was riddled with white-ants still
at work. At Darwin telegraph wires in
a lead-sheathed cable went out of action
—white-ants had gnawed through the
thick lead sheathing and eaten away the
insulating material. Timbers in the
tank-tower of a lofty Brisbane building
over 150 ft. above ground-level have had
to be replaced—white-ants once more.
Props and timbering in Charters Towers
(N.Q.) mines over 2000 ft. below ground
have been attacked by them. At Croy-
don (N.Q.) the irreligious termite even
devoured the underworks of a pulpit,
thereby causing an archdeacon to vanish
suddenly from the sight of his astonished
congregation.
“Pawang”: Melbourne’s Zoological
Board recently received a letter from a
woman who claimed that, like Dr.
Doolittle, she knew the language of
animals and was prepared to interview
each of the animals in turn and-report
“Well, is THIS the one ?”
board comp i aintSj thoughts
id th mi ht have with regard
tre itment in captivity, with
. , lefcrence t 0 the baby babo o n
was bereaved o£ its mother an d
has been put under the cure of a Capuchin
monkcy . The board dismissed the letter
with a aontem pt it didn’t deserve, for she
spoke of the animals’ “feelings,” and
if- one of the leading lad,, of the
Ci^^mp
and all the animal will do is tremble.
Another individual who did not know
Anomer muiviuu<u,
the feeling of the horse but was
frightened G f fi, would convey his fear
q£ b * kicked tQ pieces? and be kicked
tQ * es Personal i y i have no feeling
fof animals> so j have an immense respect
for those people who have. I was once
bequea t bed two canaries, one of which
was completely paralysed and both of
which werc “without song,” to quoie
ong of Qur poets In d i sgust \ gave
tbgm away to a mo re sympathetic friend,
and - n & couple 0 f weeks the paralysed
feird was hopping a b o ut on its perch
and both were singing hke angels. The
ZoQ Board m i g ht know how he per-
formed this m j rac le ; I don’t. If some-
b(. CQuld make the Zoo Board's charges
look j ess pitifully depressed and unhappy
hg would be a bene fit to the community,
* * * *
m Ninet y.two years ago
•, m ,, c tpn, hird the nntornis
Maonla y Y ’ believed to
(native name is lakahe) was believed to
be like the ttbneLMHmgmM
vals the strange bird a PP ear f d ’.“
“d°C in
Taranaki, and four_Hve specimens have
oeen found since. Two are now nthe
Butish Museum,
museum and the last and best in me
Dunedin museum. The notornis is of
striking plumage and smaller than a
Like many o • • § ~
birds, it has been sacrificed to the whiC
man s introduction of stoats, cats, weasels
and other amma s P
years have elapsed sin believe
bird s last a ppearance, but many be
it still lives in some untrodden haunts,
**. * .
“Si Anu”: I nominate to second place
after the Portuguese man-o’-war, which
killed a child in Queensland recently,
the balong api, or fire jellyfish, of
Bornean waters. It floats like long
streams of hair just below the surface of
the water, and justifies its name when a
person finds himself swimming through
it. There is only one antidote known —
a bottle of whisky, applied externally and
internally in equal proportions. But,
though the pain is intense, it is not on
record as ever having killed an adult. It
sometimes kills a native child by para-
lysing the stomach. But in that case the
victim sinks and his death is actually by
drowning.
“The 0.D.”: A Sydney lover of wild
life, named Jewell, has bought 2000 acres
on the Colo, a tributary of the Hawkes-
bury, and intends to turn it into a sanc-
tuary. There is plenty of bird and animal
life, platypuses have been seen and koalas
reported. The land will be strongly
fenced and protected by firebreaks. The
natural food supply will be augmented,
and pea-rifle-wielders and dog-leaders will
receive short shrift. There are bluegums,
too, and it was a sawmill threat to them
that largely influenced this good Aus-
tralian in his decision.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: An unsociable and pugna-
cious little fowl is the king quail, to
be found near the dry margins of
swamps. In its undamaged garb it is a
handsome bird, but it is such a terror
to fight that it is often in disrepair. It
is identical with the midget used in China
as a fighting cock, its natural combative-
ness and bulldog tenacity giving it a high
value. Duck-shooters sometimes come
upon a pair tearing into one another like
little gamecocks, and it is not uncom-
mon to find bedraggled birds on swampy
flats with sore heads and bunged eyes.
Cats belonging to houses that are near
swampy paddocks often bring home
battle-scarred birds. Apparently they
are easy prey for the feline bushranger
after an all-in go with a rival.
* * * *
“E.S.”: Nearly any intelligent dog will
bring back a stick that is thrown, but
Larry the Sundowner had one that would
find sticks when ordered. Being afflicted
with a chronic tired feeling, Larry did
not like hunting about for firewood after
humping his swag into camp. At night
he was afraid of snakes. So he trained
Brumby to perform that duty. He con-
sidered it a fair thing, anyhow, that
Brumby should do something more for
his tucker besides merely keep him com-
pany. Lazy Larry couldn’t tolerate a
lazy dog. It was only necessary to say
“Now, then —firewood!” and Brumby
fetched sticks till he had piled up
enough for the night. Larry had
to get the backlogs, but Brumby
tackled one occasionally. After
whining round it, pawing and biting
it for a while, he would bark for
his master to come and give a hand.
When I met Larry in the Burnett
(Q.) district he was looking for
straps and dog-chains to make har-
ness so that Brumby would be able
to haul the back-logs into camp.
“Gryllus”: Many observers have
studied the flight of birds, but their
method of progress when on the ground
is quite as interesting and characteristic.
The precise, erect gait of a magpie sug-
gests an athletic young parson in a hurry.
Jacky Kookaburra has a sailor’s roll, pos-
sibly derived from his kingfisher family
connections. The quick mincing step of
most wild pigeons suggests a precise old
maid hurrying by so that the neighbors
will not see what she has in her shopping-
bag. Ravens walk with the swashbuckling
stride of the aggressive, bloodthirsty
rascals that they are. Crows, on whose
innocent heads the raven’s worst vil-
lainies are so often and so wrongly
visited, have a much more sedate and dig-
nified gait. Once noticed, it distinguishes
them clearly from their criminal cousins.
Willie Wagtail is as jaunty a dancer on
his feet as he is in the air. The most im-
pressive of all bird gaits is the long,
stately stride of a jabiru stork across a
river shallow.
* * *
“Cypress”: Recent symposium by the
Council on outsizes in vegetation has
touched only on heights attained. What
of the girth of forest giants? Thickest
ever known in Australia was Victoria’s
“King Edward VII.” mountain ash, which
was destroyed by a bushfire in 1918 ; it
had a circumference at the ground of
112 ft. and was 80ft. in girth 10ft. from the
ground. Sicily, however, claims to knock
all opposition bandy with a big chestnut
growing at the foot of Mount Etna ; its
circumference at the base is 190 ft. Its
nearest rival is a plane-tree (sycamore)
near the Bosporus with a ground circum-
ference of 157 ft. Mexico has the next
thickest —a cypress 126 ft. in circumfer-
ence at the base. Five feet from the
ground it has a girth of 108 ft.
“Either you let us cut your beard off or you resign."
CHOICE OF MEATS.
The traveller who scorns to tread
The beaten path, but has instead
A zest for wandering far outback
Where speargrass grows beside the track
And red as fire is road and dust,
In time inevitably must
Be asked, when dining table d’hote:
“Wot’ll it be —galah or goat?”
Where mutton isn’t to be had
And beef is “Off, because it’s bad”;
Where rabbit isn’t classed as meat
(Some would as soon a dingo eat);
Where veal and pork are quite unknown,
And fowl has from the menu flown —
On this bill he’ll be asked to vote:
“Wot’ll it be —galah or goat?”
Goat and galah! Two forms of flesh
That have one single virtue: “fresh.”
Stinker and talker, stewed or grilled,
The pangs of hunger oft have stilled.
But only Back o’ Far Beyond
Will sharpened appetites respond
When this is heard from brazen throat:
“Wot’ll it be —galah or goat?”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


OuttNOU
4o
If you were suddenly empowered by a deceased
friend’s will to manage bis estate, wbat would
you do?
On the other hand, what would your friend do
if you placed him in a similar position?
These and other perplexing problems are avoided
by the appointment of The Trustees Executors &
Agency Company Ltd. as Executor or Co-
Executor. The Company has had over 61 years
experience of estate administration and offers
undoubted security for the performance of its
duties.
Full information will be afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
ron
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Lid.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
401 COL,LINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £1)61,115
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Lieut.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood. D. Stuart Murray. John Ford.vce.
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. I). Stewart. R. T. Ililder.
N.S.W. Manager: J, IV. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS’
*
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 11
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
f or two years
tree of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/0
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit I and i blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 261,516 Hi p.c.= 145,034 61,938 1,394,607
1929.. 435,752 135 „ ~ 177,265 111,624 1,541,470
1930.. 183,543 185 .. ~241,724 58,354 1,424,935
1931.. 101,130 74 „ ~103,210 29,810 1,393,045
1932.. 88,511 24 „ „ 38,750 43,913 1,398,893
1933.. 96,687 24 „ „ 38,750 47,400 1,409,430
1934.. 38,972 24 „ „ 38,750 32,480 1,377,172
1935.. 127,751 Nil 61,672 1,443,251
1936.. 263,958 5 p.c. = 77,500 76,759 1,553,130
1937.. 420,404 15 „ „ 232,500 76,472 1,664,562
1938.. 224,149 124,, „ 193,750 73,556 1,621,405
1939.. 252,393 7*,, „ 116,250 91,186 1,666,362
It has been an outstanding achievement.
With the end of its high-grade ore in
sight—that was about 11 years ago —
the co. had to find a way of profitably
treating low-grade stuff, or before long
go out of the copper-mining business.
The hardest nut to crack was costs,
which, however, yielded to the quicken-
ing of throughput and the improvement
of recoveries, following changes in mining
and metallurgical methods, including the
introduction of large-scale mechanised
opencut operations and improvements
and extensions to plant. Eleven years ago
the co. treated 127,425 tons ore assaying
5.88 p.c. copper. During the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, 1,085,933
(up 53,805) tons, assaying only 1.34 p.c.
copper, was treated for nearly as much
profit, despite a substantially lower price
for the metal. Of the 1,085,933 tons,
891,878 tons, assaying 1.09 p.c. copper,
came from the West Lyell opencut,
where the stuff is handled by electric
power shovels and 12-ton motor trucks.
Technical achievements compare as
follows:
1925. 1931. 1938. 1939.
Ore treated
(tens) . . 127,425 283,262 1,032,128 1,085,933
Assay copper,
P-e 5.88 3.50 1.48 1.34
Blister produced
(tons) . . 7,126 10,115 12,766 13,392
Contents: —
Copper (tons) 7,060 10,033 12,676 13,298
Silver (oz.) 121.456 155,976 71,293 67,886
Gold (0z.).. 2.360 3,834 7,619 7,689
Notwithstanding the drop in the assay
value of the ore, an extra 622 tons of
fine copper was produced last term.
Metal recoveries were slightly lower
(88.37 p.c. copper as against 89.32 p.c.
in 1938), owing to more oxidised material
being received from the opencuts. The
ratio of concentration improved from
19.4 to 1 to-20.4 to 1 ; the figure was
16.4 to 1 in 1937.
It was the lift in output and better
price for the metal that put the spring in
earnings. For the 11 months to the end
of August last, when the London Metal
Exchange closed, the sterling average for
electrolytic was £49 ss. 7d. (= £A6I 125.)
as against £44 17s. sd. (= £AS6 Is. 9d.)
and £6O Bs. 3d. (= £A7S 10s. 4d.) for
the two preceding full terms.
After allowing for the value of precious
metals and pyrites, the all-in cost of
producing and realising a ton of copper
was £53 6s. 5d., compared with
£52 ss. 3d., £47 12s. and £42 14s. lOd.
for the three preceding years. The rise
in costs has been due to higher wages
and shorter hours, factors over which the
management has no control.
Gross earnings from mining, railway
traffic, etc. (the co. owns the line from
Strahan to Queenstown), were £80,403
better at £927,116. Dividends turned in
£83,692 (down £2261) from the follow-
ing investments:
Shares Fully
Company— Paid to £l.
Coin’wealth Fertilisers and Chemicals:
311,174 7 p.c. Piefs. ) fto7 431
596,257 ords. ..j " “ B
Cuming Smith, and Mt. Lyell Farmers’
Fertilisers . . . . .. .. 450,000
Australian Fertilizers . . . . . . 93.750
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers . . . . 27,150
Metal Manufactures:
49.204 7 p.c. cum. par. prefs. j 2(j2 423
For the year to June 30 Commonwealth
Fertilisers (paid capital £2,598,354 in
896,904 prefs. and 1,701,450 ords.) netted
£86,724 (down £3380), and the ords.,
which got 1 p.c. in 1938, were passed by.
Australian Fertilizers netted £36,751 (up
£1138) and paid 6 p.c. (£23,757).
After allowing for taxation (£37,601,
up £18,318), prospecting, development
and depreciation (£91,186, up £17,630,
shown -as written off in the introductory
table) and minor reserve adjustments,
Lyell’s net earnings were £10,614 better
at £161,207, or 10.4 p.c. on the £1,550,000
of capital—s. 4 p.c. from investments and
the balance from mining—compared with
9.7, 22.1, 12, 4.2, 0.4 and 3.1 p.c. back
to 1933. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing the cost of removing West Lyell over-
burden (566,381 tons last term as against
229,031 in 1938), which has been capi-
talised and now shown separately at
£24,500. The div. was dropped from
12| p.c. to p.c., and a further Is. a
share has been sent out since the close
of accounts.
Ore reserves were calculated as fol-
lows:
,—Average Assay— N
Cop- Sil-
Ore, per, ver, Gold,
Tons. P.c. Oz. Oz.
North Lyell . . .. 111,000 4.00 0.50 0.015
Lyell Comstock . . 473,000 2.25 0.20 0.020
Royal Tharsis . . 2,250,000 2.00 0.10 0.020
West Lyell—
No. 1 ore-body . . 4.225,000 1.50 0.10 0.015
No. 2 ore-body . . 3,063,000 1.00 0.10 0.010
Crown Lyell.. .. 136,000 1.75 0.25 0.015
Lyell Tharsis . . 200,000 1.50 0.25 0.015
Total—l 939 .. 10,458,000 1.52 0.11 0.015
1938 .. 11.146,000 1.52 0.11 0.015
1937 . . 9,894,000 1.69 0.13 0.016
1936 . . 8.825,000 1.90 0.14 0.016
1935 . . 7,593,000 2.05 0.17 0.020
Despite extractions, the total was only
688,000 tons less than at the previous
balance, thanks to developments in the
Lyell Comstock. At last year’s rate of
throughput there is about 10 years’ work
for the mill measured up, with prospects
of more pay-ore being disclosed.
As for the current term, the local price
of copper produced in Australia has been
“pegged” under price-control regulations
at £63 17s. 6d. per ton —£2 ss. 6d. more
than the equivalent sterling average for
the 11 months to the end of August last.
Any surplus metal for export the British
Government will take at approximately
the price fixed for Australian sales. The
decision of Metal Manufactures and
Cable Makers’ Association, England, to
put up a jointly-owned plant at Port
Kembla (N.S.W.) for manufacture of
rubber-insulated cable, subject to the
granting of adequate tariff protection,
should increase demand for the red
metal. Also, the construction of a new
ore-pass to transfer material from the
surface to the North Lyell tunnel should
help to offset the effects of rising costs.
Subject to costs, a better showing than
last term can be expected.
During 1939 the price of the pound
shares fluctuated between 335. 9d. and
235. 3d. in the market. At 295. 9d., the
figure last week-end, the return is 5.1
p.c. on a p.c. div. basis, with prospects.
United Provisions, Ltd.
r- *—Dividends ■s To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.
1928.. 123,466 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 100,854 22,612 628
1929.. 112,094 8 ~ 8 „ 112,000 94 722
1930.. 102,964 8 „ 7 ~ 102,500 464 1186
1931.. 36,205 8 „ Nil 36,000 205 1391
1932.. 35,611 8 „ Nil 36,000 1002
1933.. 22,090 5 „ Nil 22,500 592
1934.. 35,652 8 „ Nil 36,000 244
Transferred from taxation reserve, £830.. 1074
1935.. 67,812 11* p.c. 2 p.c. 68,500 386
1930.. 55,326 8 „ 2 ~ 55,000 326 712
1937.. 36,087 8 „ Nil 36,000 87 799
Tax refund, £467 .. .. .. .. 1266
1938.. 70,853 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 6,353 7619
1939.. 57,021 8 „ 3 „ 64,500 140
* Including 3 p.c. arrears.
This is the holding co. which welded
the interests of J. C. Hutton and Foggitt,
Jones in 1927. The business, which
embraces the curing of hams and bacon,
manufacture of smallgoods and canned
foods, etc., is the largest of its kind in
Australasia. The two operating cos. con-
trol 10 factories scattered throughout the
Commonwealth and three in Maoriland,
and there are warehouses in all the im-
portant commercial centres in both coun-
tries. Further, an export trade has been
built up with Southern and Eastern Asia,
Dutch East Indies, Pacific Islands and
Britain.
At the start it looked like an 8 p.c.
proposition. But five of the last nine
years have been dry ones for the ords.,
whose average dividend for this period
has been 1.1 p.c. The trouble lay mainly
in destructive competition, which has
taken the form of not only cutting sell-
ing prices to the bone, but of bidding
up for pigs and other raw-material sup-
plies, prices for which are affected by
seasonal conditions and competition from
exporters.
The profit shown in the table is that
disclosed in the holding co.’s accounts.
For 1939 the net result for the entire
organisation, including all subsidiaries, is
shown a few pounds higher than the
holding co. claims at £57,490. The slip in
last term’s net earnings was due mainly to
drought conditions in many parts of Aus-
tralia, mounting costs in Maoriland,
where the business, which paid the parent
£6OOO in divs. in ’3B, showed a small loss
(£232), and to a heavier allowance for
taxation (£24,000, up £7500). The £57,021
of profit claimed was sufficient to pay 8
p.c. on the parent’s £450,000 of pref. capi-
tal and show 2.2 p.c. on the £950,000 on
the ord. register, compared with 3.6, nil
and 2 p.c. for the three preceding terms.
However, the outlook appears to be
brighter than it has been for some time.
War has disturbed the countries from
which certain Asian centres obtain their
supplies of provisions, and the co. is now
participating in the transferred demand
from these centres. The British Govern-
ment has decided to buy surplus Austra-
lian pork—the co. has built up a sub-
stantial export trade in this commodity—
at per pound, first quality, which
ought to mean elimination of the risk of
loss from price fluctuations in this con-
nection. In Tasmania the co. is erecting
works alongside its bacon factory, near
Launceston, for the processing of sheep
and lambs, and steps are being taken to
amalgamate the distributing side of the
two businesses in Queensland. Appear-
ances are, therefore, that the co. should
be able to make a much better showing
than it did last term, despite the con-
tinued upward trend of costs.
During 1939, the price of the pound
ords., covered by 10s. in net tangibles,
fluctuated between 9s. lid. and 6s. lOd.
in the market. At Bs, Bd., the price
last week-end, the return is 6.7 p.c. on a
3 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 225. 6d.
yield 7.1 p.c. They are backed by 41s. in
net tangibles.
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures for the entire organisation:
COMBINED BALANCE SHEET.
Liabilities.
Paid capital £1,400,000
Reserves . . 164,875
Overd raft,
etc. .. 60,034
Creditors . . . 144,413
Tax provision 29,358
Final divs... 46,500
£1,845,180
Assets.
Freeholds .". £395,909
Plant, etc. .. 158,204
Stock.. .. 371,801
Debtors . . 236,021
Cash, etc. .. 37,344
Suspense A/c 4,094
Intangibles* ... 641,807
£1,845,180
* Difference between book and par values .of inter-
company shareholdings.
Stocks, debtors’ balances and cash, etc.,
exceeded outside liabilities by £440,719.
So, subject to stocks and debtors’ bal-
ances being worth their book value, there
is nothing to worry about in the finances.
Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. (Adelaide)
t Dividends
Prefs. To Re— Re-
June, Profit. 74 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 47,496 22,500,6 J p.c.=19,500 5,496 25,092
1930.. 21,450 22,500 Nil 24,042
1931.. 321 Nil Nil 321 24,363
1932.. 1,692 Nil Nil 1,692 26,055
4 p.c.
1933.. 9,833 20,594* Nil 15,294
1934.. 12,807 25,594* Nil 2,507
Deficit.
1935.. 13,057 25,594* -Nil 10,030
1936.. 19,863 25,594* Nil 15,761
44 p.c.
1937.. 23,607 13,500 lj p.c.= 3.750 6,357 9,404
5 p.c.
1938.. 23,910 15,000 2J ~,,7.500 1,410 7,994
1939.. 22,971 15,000 24 ~,,7,500 471 7,523
*4 p.c. from l/12/’32 plus £13,594 towards arrears.
With a fixed wool price for the dura-
tion of the war, earnings will now depend
chiefly on seasonal conditions and the
course of costs and taxation. As to
seasons, immediate outlook is highly
promising, with ample summer feed and
water assured, while an estimated im-
provement from 10.3 to 11.8 bushels per
acre in the State’s wheat yield is expected
to produce an expansion of one and a
quarter million bushels in the harvest,
for which better prices are indicated.
An amalgamation in 1919 of Cheadle,
Crase and Co. and Bennett and Fisher,
the co. has done good work in the assist-
ance afforded clients ; but returns have
never been in keeping with the quality


GLADSTONE'S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
open Hie throttle to
ADVENTURE
m
Step aboard a train and the signals wink a welcome to adventure. Up the Sierras with
gold diggin’s near the roadbed . . . whisking through the storied Rockies into old
Cheyenne . . . roaring down to a sleepy Indian village on the Santa Fe Trail or over
the straightaways of the mesa . . . passing the romantic Black Hills of South Dakota
and then leveling out across the Great Plains. Speed that beats a bud in mg
smoothness that equals it. America offers her magnificent geography; her railways, a
20th Century mode of discovery. Thrills ... not to be imagined till you ve ridden these
singing rails on your trans-continental wonder tour!
Even your quieter moods are catered to by a com-
plete understanding of your comfort. Luxurious
lounge and observation cars invite glorious relaxa-
tion. A variety of Pullman accommodations offers
perfect inducements to sleep, while the dining
service is a pleasant conspiracy to tempt your ap-
petite. Weather is never less than as you want it
air-conditioned. An alert train-staff including
valet, barber, ladies’ maid—sets an entirely new
standard of personal attention. Generous stopover
privileges at no extra cost and frequent schedules
enable you to explore America’s scenic empire with
the utmost ease and freedom —and with moderate
fares which reflect a pleasing economy.
It is an almost unbelievable juggling of time, dis-
tance and temperatures that opens this glamorous
route to you with the pull of an engine throttle.
Your brilliant introduction to this fascinating
travelway begins aboard your MATSON liner,
Mariposa or Monterey . . . gliding through the
South Seas to New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa Hawaii
. . . arriving in California after 18 matchless days
at sea!
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAU
For full details of your travelways ahead,
write us for free, illustrated literature •
ķ
Matson Lino
The Oceanic
• Steamship Company.
(Incorporated in U. S. A. Limited Liability)
Prudential Bldg., Martin Place Sydney Phone BW-4901
of the service offered. For the nine
years to the close of accounts in 1929
the ords. averaged 7.4 p.c. Then slump
froze some of the advances, and in all
but the last three years since the ords.
have gone without. Meantime pref. pay-
ments had got behind £54,375. This was
cleared by four annual payments of
£13,594, while the div. was reduced from
1\ p.c. to 4 p.c., with the right to an
extra 1 p.c. when the ords. get up to
5 p.c., plus the further right to advance
with the ords. beyond that figure to the
original contract rate and to share in
future bonus issues, if any.
The co. has some 18 branches in
South Aus., mainly in the south-
eastern portion of the State. For
the period covered by the latest
accounts wool at the Adelaide auctions
fetched on the average £ll 15s. lOd. a
bale, as against £l4 14s. 4d. for 1937-38 ;
but there was expansion in the number
of bales put under the hammer from
273,056 to 325,854, and, with assistance
from the livestock, skins and machinery
sections of the business, Bennett and
Fisher’s gross earnings moved up £549
to £101,830. That was after making
unspecified provision for bad and doubt-
ful debts and other contingencies.
Including £4794 for depreciation, exes.
(£78,859) took all the increase and £939
besides, leaving the net result that much
lower at £22,971. After handing the
prefs. 5 p.c. and repeating the p.c.
ord. div. it left £7523 of the ord. capital
unrepresented by tangibles in the books,
disregarding goodwill (£27,000) as an
asset.
Balance-sheet figures aren’t particularly
informative:
1928. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Sundry creditors 380,068 234,607 • 268,589 282,786
Freeholds, plant,
stock, etc... 114,113 109,054 109,078 109,943
Advances & bills 904,429 705,764 747,607 762,873
Investments and
cash . . 18,37.3 20,458 19,811 19,698
To accommodate clients to the extent
of a further £15,266, the co. itself went
outside for an additional £14,197. Obvi-
ously, much depends on what propor-
tion of these advances is against broad
acres and what proportion is readily
self-liquidating, information which is
not ascertainable from the published
figures. The low earning power of the
assets suggests that the co. is still nursing
old accounts. When the books closed,
advances, investments and cash exceeded
the debt by £499,785.
The £600,000 of capital is in 150,000
A and a like number of B prefs., and
300,000 ords. The market speculates in
the ords. at Bs. (10s. a year ago), while
buyers offer 15s. Bd. for the As and 15s.
for the Bs after sales below those quotes.
On the basis of last term’s divs. the re-
turn at these figures is 6.2 p.c. ords.,
6.4 p.c. As and 6.6 p.c. Bs. The book
value of the net tangible cover is re-
spectively 19s. 6d., £3 18s. lid. and
£2 18s. lid.
Hampton Court, Ltd.
Dividends N To Re- Re-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, sefves.*
£ £ £
1937.. 7049 6.9 p.c. 5 p.c. 7093 1240
Intangibles disappear, £3OOB . . 4248
1938.. 8533 6.9 p.c. 5.5 p.c. 7593 940 5188
1939.. 9334 6.9 ~ 7 „ 9093 241 5429
* Excluding depreciation reserve, now £35,000.
The co. owns the fashionable Hampton
Court flats at Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Slump brought a two years’ interruption
of ord. divs., and they have been kept
within moderate limits since. Acquisition
of a liquor license half-way through the
’3B term, however, has lately put some
starch into earnings, last term’s net result
(up £BOl, after provision of £lOOO for de-
preciation) being the best since 1928,
despite “a number of adverse circum-
stances.”
While the ords. got 7 p.c., the prefs.
were again handed only their minimum
statutory 6.975 p.c., the distribution call-
ing for practically all disclosed earnings.
Visibly it left the free support for capital
at only £5429, but much depends on what
has been charged for renewals, etc., be-
fore striking profits. Depreciation reserve
(now £35,000) showed an unexplained lift
of £3OOO, with which reappraisement of
property following a rise in land values
appears connected.
All but £4725 of the debt is represented
by mortgages:
1937 1938 1939.
Paid capital .. .. £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Liabilities . . . . 81,342 89,492 89,250
Freeholds . . . . 170,173 178,766 181,795
Furnishings and instal-
lations .. .. 68,316 72,973 74,274
Liquids . . . . 3,093 3,941 3,607
Fixed assets are in at “cost or valuation,”
and, despite writing up, unimproved
values are still “substantially below”
those assumed for rating purposes.
The upward trend of costs, including
taxation, is scarcely conducive to main-
tenance of earnings under present war
conditions, but the board reckons it is
better equipped than ever to face any
business recession. The pound
ords. (100,000 in a paid capital of
£130,000), seldom traded, were last dealt
in at 20s. 9d. and the nominally 9 p.c.
prefs. at 21s. The latter are covered
about 4j times as to both divs. and
capital.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 11,376 121 p.c. = 9,375 2,001 48,430
Reserves capitalised, £12,500 .. 35,930
Premiums on new shares, £6O .. 35,990
1929.. 10,437 10 p.c. = 7,710 2,727 38,717
1930.. 3,106 Nil 3,106 41,823
1931.. 3,640 4 p.c. = 4,000 41,463
1932.. 6,728 5 „ „ 5,000 1,728 43,191
1933.. 7,072 6 „ ~ 6,000 1,072 44,263
1934.. 9,311 7 „ „ 7,000 2,311 46,574
1935.. 10,256 8 ~ „ 8,000 2,256 48.830
1936.. 11,525 9 ~ „ 9,000 2,525 51,355
Premiums on shares, £6250 .. 57,605
1937.. 13,091 10 p.c. = 10.000 3,091 60,696
Loss sale factory, £4OOO .. .. 56,696
1938.. 15,162 10 p.c. = 12,500 2,662 59,358
Premiums on shares, £6250 .. 65,608
1939.. 15,795 10 p.c. = 12,500 3,295 68,903
This co. specialises in the manufacture
of all kinds of commercial stationery
and office requisites. Factories have been
set up at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
and Perth (the last-mentioned operated
by a subsidiary), there are distributing
branches at Adelaide, Hobart and Broken
Hill, and close association exists with
the Lamson organisation in the U.S.A.
and Europe.
Last term expansion of the business
was more marked than the growth in
net earnings suggests. Demand for the
co.’s dockets and other requisites sent
gross earnings on trade account (£71,622)
up £11,495. Exes. (£57,553, including
£7128 for depreciation—visibly no allow-
ance is made for taxation) took all but
£307 of the increase. An extra £2BO
was received in divs, (£1680) from the
Westralian subsidiary, and rents turned
(Continued on next page.)


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
( Incorporated, in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwp.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
f; E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddom K.8.E., H.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
Security ensured by
“spread” of investment . . .
Your purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES secures a “spread” of investment over 20
leading Companies listed on the Stock Exchange. You also
obtain a yield of around 5 % per annum, and your investment
is safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: UNION INSURANCE
SOCIETY OF CANTON LTD.
Booklet No. 1 gives full details. Your copy posted free on request
to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
PATENTS. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
LET
f ATLAS )
CARRY THE
l BURDEN j
W
s 3
P .
Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
. ber, 1939, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1940, subject
to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds for
every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents for any
goods or property within the Sydney Fire
Distrct, and every other Fire District in the
State of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in
respect of which premiums are paid to an
insurance company not registered in the State,
are hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales returns showing the amount
of such premiums paid by them in respect of
the said property to such insurance companies
during the year 1939.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1940, sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default. «
Note. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the time
such property was in any Fire District under
the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
in £46, making the net result £633 better
at £15,795, or 12.6 p.c. on the old capital
as against 12.1, 12.7, 11.5, 10.2, 9.3, 7.1,
6.7 and 3.6 p.c. back to 1931. The div.
was kept at 8 p.c., and a 2 p.c. bonus was
again added, making 10 p.c. for the
year. Only interest at the rate of 5 p.c.
p.a. was paid on the £25,000 of fresh
capital, which brought with it £6250 of
share premiums, gathered during the
year.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1932. 1935 1938 1939.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £125,000 £150,000
Liabilities* .. 9,740 13,287 43,158 20,787
Premises . . 41,875 42,233 59,287 05,047
Plant, etc. . . 39,65 G 44,447 55,567 01,516
Stock.. .. 31,861 39,202 64,935 61,804
Book debts . . 19,861 24,687 40,929 48,400
Cash & sundries 12,184 4,423 897 1.138
Shares, etc. . . 17,500 21,125 25,401 21,165
* Including unspecified provision for taxation and
insurance.
The new share and premium money
and more besides were used mainly to
lighten the outside debt (down £22,371),
further extend premises and plant (to-
gether up £11,709) and carry an extra
£7531 of debtors’ balances. Including
shares in other cos., etc., the year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£111,840) was £22,836.
The Westralian subsidiary netted £3671
for 11 months to the end of September,
which was at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.
on its £40,000 of capital.
At 345. 6d. (355. lOd. a year ago ex
rights) the pound shares, covered by
295. 2d. in net tangibles, return 5.8 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. It is a satisfac-
tory yield, all things considered.
Brisbane Council Loan
Brisbane City Council is after £250,000
in 4| p.c. 10-year inscribed stock or de-
bentures at par. Underwritten by J. B.
Were and Son, Melbourne, the loan is
a trustee security in Queensland and Tas-
mania, and is secured upon the revenues
of the council and further backed as to
both principal and interest by the Queens-
land Government. Interest is pay-
able half-yearly, free of exchange, and
a sinking fund of 1 p.c. p.a. will be estab-
lished towards redemption.
Brisbane Council has more extensive
functions than any other public body in
the Commonwealth. Apart from con-
ducting all municipal activities in the
metropolitan area, it also controls
water and sewerage, tramways and other
public utilities, including a large elec-
tricity undertaking. Revenue for 1938-
39 came to £3,711,771, of which interest
on existing indebtedness took £1,007,683,
while an income of £4,102,842 is budgeted
for in the current term. The council has
unlimited rating powers in the area it con-
trols, where unimproved capital values
at June 30 amounted to £21,118,550.
Sinking funds equal to 19.7 p.c. of exist-
ing relative indebtedness have so far been
accumulated.
The loan makes special appeal to in-
stitutional investors, especially those
handling non-taxable funds, while the
return offered compares favorably with
that obtained from comparable securities
in the market and even more so com-
pared with the yield from Consols.
Queensland taxation is assessable on in-
come from the loan, but the northern
Government has waived its right to make
tax deductions at the source.
For the Prattens’ Maoriland gold ven-
tures, 1939 closed on an encouraging
note. Progressive returns to the end of
December:
Treated, Gold, Working
Period. C.y. Oz. Surplus.
Arahura . . 5 months 1,709,000 • 5,011 £31,007
Barry town.. 9 months 1,579,000 7,242 37,853
Kanieri .. 9 months 2,104,000 11,203 00,936
Over the last two months Barrytown
has cleared £12,750 on operating account,
results more in keeping with those origi-
nally expected, and looks like soon mak-
ing an appearance on the div. list. De-
spite reduced running time, Arahura’s
latest monthly profit was the best yet at
£8665. The dredge appears to be out
of the low-grade ground it was started
up in, recoveries reaching 2.4 gr., as
against I.4gr. for the preceding four
months. The higher yield conforms with
results from Kanieri, which owns a simi-
lar-grade property.
* * * *
Westralia’s goldmining industry ex-
panded in 1939. To offset a decrease of
452,000 tons of ore, positive and prob-
able, in Wiluna, all but one of the big
mines on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile,
as well as large producers on other fields,
substantially increased their reserves,
while some put up their outputs. On
the Golden Mile, Lake View and Star
kept its ore supplies six years ahead of
the mill despite the extraction of 700,000
tons, and it netted £426,459, compared
with £482,031 for the previous 12 months.
Development on this property proved
that the known gold deposits continue to
go down, and outstanding features of
exploratory work were exposures of pay-
able ore in various workings. Gt.
Boulder completed extensions to its treat-
ment plant, which is now probably the
finest in the West, and opened up several
new and continuations of old gold-
carriers. Helped by the increased price
of gold, revenue and profit during the
latter part of the year were the highest
in the co.’s history. Ore reserves were
increased by 151,298 tons to 1,213,496
tons. North Kalgurli reported consider-
able increases in ore reserves and began
the erection of a 6000-ton-a-month treat-
ment plant on its second string—Croesus
Proprietary. Boulder Perseverance
bulged its ore reserves to 400,000 tons
averaging 7dwt., and Kalgoorlie Enter-
prise (next door), in which Perseverance
holds a controlling interest, increased its
supplies, broken, proved and probable,
to 438,900 tons. Revived Paringa added
110,024 tons to its reserves, making the
total 397,056 tons. Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie, a comparative newcomer with
a group of old mines as its assets, in-
creased its supplies from 332,000 tons to
670,000 tons, and, pleased with results
from development here and there, de-
cided to enlarge its treatment plant.
Sons of Gwalia, at Leonora, recorded
persistence of good values at greater
depth. Reserves are still six years ahead
of the treatment plant. Mines on other
fields which revealed continued progress
were the Yankee-controlled Big Bell, and
Norseman, Central Norseman, Youanmi,
Mt. Magnet, Yellowdine, Comet, Gladia-
tor, Emu, Tindals and Hill 50. Big
Bell is now milling between 30,000
and 40,000 tons a month. Norseman
handles six times as much ore as it used
to, and reports from the other producers
mentioned forecast bigger tonnages and
increased gold output.
* * * *
Suitable new mines being hard to get
in the West just now, goldmining co.
promoters are looking for something with
a creditable past and, at the present high
price of the metal, payable future. One
show, the Great Victoria, which yielded
a fair quantity of gold from a laterite
deposit near Southern Cross and was then
abandoned, has been acquired by a no-
liability Adelaide co., which is advised
that development has shown an extension
of old gold-carriers that in existing
circumstances should be capable of pro-
fitable treatment. One hundred ihou-
sand 2s. shares have been privately taken
up and paid for, the promoter has been
given a 12 months’ option on 30,000 at
2s. 6d. each, and 700,000 are held in
reserve. No shares are offered to the
public, and none are being given away.
Purchase consideration is £2500 —£100
has been paid and £2400 is payable 12
months hence.
* * * *
Partly reflecting taxation remissions
as a result of Dominion relief, and partly
the higher sterling price of the metal,
gold scrip is attracting increasing sup-
port in London, where a half-dozen
Westralian shows being recommended
are Boulder Perseverance, G.M. of Kal-
goorlie, Gt. Boulder, Lake View and
Star, North Kalgurli and Sons of Gwalia.
Certainly all are in the front rank ; but,
being British registered, the incidence of
U.K. taxes, present and potential, includ-
ing the excess profits tax, needs to be
taken into the reckoning by Australian
investors.
* * * *
Cairns’s (N.Q.) nearest goldmine, the
Talisman, is still shading all other
shows as the best bet on the Mt. Peter
goldfield. A prospecting winze has lately
disclosed 2ft. of ore which is expected
to average around 2oz. It has been a
steady producer of high-grade ore over
the last 10 years. Mountain View has
hit the Talisman reef, and has sunk 50ft.
on it. The J.M.J. reef on the same field
is reported to be showing sft. of lOdwt.
ore, but outside this prospecting is on
the scratchy side.
* * * *
The old Hodgkinson (N.Q.) has cried
“Wolf!” so often that the reopening of
the Tyrconnel and General Grant, two
of its most prolific producers, will not
create much movement till treatment
returns are to hand. E. H. T. Plant,
the leading mining figure on Charters
Towers during its golden age in the
’nineties, started the old Tyrconnel, which
has produced some 50,0000 z. of gold,
averaging around an ounce per ton. The
new company, Hodgkinson Gold Pro-
prietary, Ltd., is chiefly backed by N.Q.
businessmen, who hope to resuscitate
goldmining in the Cairns hinterland. In
the 'eighties the Hodgkinson had a great
run on shoots averaging 3oz. to 4oz. a ton,
but high values don’t seem to go down.
* * * *
Trekelano, at present a giant among
minnows on the Cloncurry (N.Q.)
copperfields, is opening out on further
prospecting at the 800 ft. level. On the
south side the level has been extended
to 120 ft. on 2ft. of ore averaging 10 p.c.
copper. The north-side level, which has
been driven 50ft., is now showing a seam
of ore to be opened up in the near future.
Recently Trekelano shipped 1172 tons
for 138 tons copper and 930 z. fine gold.
Another |dwt. of gold per ton, and it
could qualify for the copper-gold class.
* * * *
The main item of interest on the
Lolworth field (N.Q.) is that the Mons
Meg is holding its values going down.
The bottom level at 200 ft. is showing
lOdwt. stuff. This is a good omen
for the pipes in greisen that first brought
outside interest to the field. Mons Meg
crushed 101 tons during November for
60oz. of gold and 2030 z. of silver. In
the Midas the last 30 tons yielded 250 z.
gold. Apart from these shows the rest
of the field is having a quiet spell.
* * * *
The low-grade Summerhill tinmine in
the Oakey Creek section of the far-
northern tinfields of N.Q. is averaging
a shade over 1 p.c. black tin. Egretz and
party cleaned up 200 tons ore on Christ-
mas Eve for 2\ tons at the Brownville
battery. The battery dams are full, as
the wet season has so far been a good
one. Summerhill is working a big
chlorite lode without defined walls, the
tinstone following a series of well-defined
heads and joints.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
X.Y.Z.: Only consider them as a long-term
spec. They’re not attractive.. . .W.J.P.: Ap-
parently their offer conforms with the usual
practice. A policy nine years in force would
not have a high surrender value. Remember,
the £lOO assured might have become payable
had you died after only one premium had been
paid; many policies have become claims in
such or similar circumstances. For life assur-
ance to be really remunerative the policy must
be kept in force until death, or, in the case of
endowments, until maturity date Investor:
Have been unable to obtain balance sheet, but
still trying... .H. 8.: Don’t like propositions of
the kind. They are a spec, for people who can
afford to 105 e... .C.S.Q.: Don’t know much
about this co., but it belongs to a speculative
class. If any profits are to come, they are
still a long way off. No market for the bonds.
... .G.C.R. : A spec, of the longwinded type.
Salesmen have been promising fat profits from
the timber for the past 10 or 15 years; none
are yet in sight. Continue paying only as a
pure gamble J.H.W. (M.L.): Can’t trace co.
in either Sydney or Melbourne.


MAKE YOUR MONEY EARN MORE
YOU CAN OBTAIN
DEBENTURES OR INSCRIBED STOCK.
o
o
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTIONS £5O.
GUARANTEED UNCONDITIONALLY BY THE QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT
by investing in the
BRISBANE CITY COUNCIL
LOAN OF £250,000
A. Cumulative Sinking Fund of £/ per cent, per annum will be provided towards the redemption of the Loan
Interest payable half-yearly, Free of Exchange
on Ist August and Ist February in each year
vtwJflP
Sinking Fund: £l % p.a.
Issued at Par. . . .Currency: 10 Years.
SECURITY FOR THE LOAN IS UNQUESTIONABLE
'T’HE Brisbane City Council has authority over the largest
municipality in the British Empire, with an area of 385
square miles and a population of 325,000.
The Council conducts all municipal activities in the Metropolitan
area of Brisbane, combining the functions normally carried out
by city and suburban councils in other centres.
In addition, it is clothed with the responsibility for the develop-
ment and management of the Water and Sewerage, Tramways
and other public utility services, and conducts a large Electricity
undertaking.
No matter what form of control were in force, the development
of Brisbane must continue, thus furnishing ever-increasing
security for the Council’s indebtedness.
The Council, in the exercise of its widespread powers, serves
75,333 premises and 320,165 persons with water.
Gives sewerage services to 33,248 premises and 149,616
persons, and aims to extend these amenities to the whole popu-
lation.
Carries over 91,000,000 passengers yearly on its tramways.
Sells over 71,000,000 units annually through its electricity
supply undertaking
The Council thus has more extensive functions than those of any
other public body in Australia.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING.
Application will be made for the listing of the Loan on the
Stock Exchanges of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane,
Perth and Hobart.
ALLOTMENTS TO BE MADE DAILY.
Allotments will be made daily in order of priority of receipt
of applications.
Apart from the Government guarantee, the strongest security
is provided for principal and interest of the loan.
The Council has unlimited rating powers over properties in the
Metropolitan area of Brisbane with an unimproved capital value
of £21,118,551 at 30th June, 1939.
It also derives substantial revenue from its public utility services,
such as Water and Sewerage, Tramways and Electricity Supply.
The interest charge on existing indebtedness for the
year ended 30th June, 1939, was £1,007,683
Total Revenue from all sources in 1938-39 was . . £3,711,771
Revenue from all sources for 1939-40 is estimated
£4,102,842
LOAN INDEBTEDNESS AND SINKING FUNDS.
The Council now has fixed and floating assets with a value
(after providing for depreciation) of £1 7,070,374.
In addition, it has carried out extensive municipal works such
as the construction of roads and bridges, street improvements,
drainage, etc., the expenditure on which is never capitalised.
During the last 1 0 years, expenditure from loan funds on these
works has totalled £2,000,000.
GROSS LOAN INDEBTEDNESS at 30th June, 1939, was
£21,687,053, of which Loans subject to half-yearly repayments
of Principal totalled £6,737,778, leaving subject to Sinking
Funds an amount of £14,949,2 75.
TOTAL SINKING FUNDS at 30th June, 1939, were
£2,940,235. Equal to 19.7% of the relative indebtedness.
The Sinking Funds are administered by an independent statutory
authority, the Trustees of the City Debt Redemption Fund, and
the Council has regularly and' promptly met all Sinking Fund
obligations.
Queensland Taxation is assessable on income from the loan, BUT THE QUEENS-
LAND GOVERNMENT HAS WAIVED THE RIGHT TO MAKE TAXATION
DEDUCTIONS AT THE SOURCE.
APPLICATIONS FOR THE LOAN should be lodged with any office of the
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
(Banker for the Issue)
OR THROUGH ANY RECOGNISED STOCK BROKER.
The minimum amount of the Loan that may be applied for and allotted is £5O in
Debentures or Inscribed Stock.
Subscriptions may be paid either in full on application or by deposit of 10 per cent,
on application and the balance either in full or by instalments over three months.
SUBSCRIPTION LIST NOW OPEN
Loan Underwritten by
J. B. WERE & SON, Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Lodge Your Application Without Delay.
This Loan is
AN
IDEAL INVESTMENT
for
Private Investors.
Trustees of Estates.
Managers of Non-Taxable Funds, such
as Provident and Superannuation Funds.
Parents Desiring to Provide for
Children’s Education or for Marriage
Dowries.
Those desiring to Endow Religious
and Charitable Institutions.
All who seek a gilt-edged Investment,
backed by Government Guarantee, in
the securities of a Highly Progressive
Public Body providing essential public
utility services.
This Loan is a Trustee Investment in Queensland and Tasmania


TRAVELLING
IN AUSTRALIA
It is often dangerous to carry much cash and
frequently inconvenient to remit money to
meet your requirements en route. Business
men and holiday-makers can avoid these
difficulties by using Bank of New South
Wales Travellers' Cheques. They can be
readily cashed at banks, and at hotels,
garages, stores, and travel agencies.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
532 A
ueur
Sit
Although delicately sweet-
ened with heather honey,
Drambuie leaves a delight-
fully dry, aromatic flavour
on the tongue. It is much
used in fashionable circles
of London, New York and
elsewhere in the making of
cocktails.
Nearly 200 years have elapsed sine
first distilled in the Isle of Skye,
presented by Prince Charlie to
Strathaird as a reward for his ser-
vices in enabling the Prince to
evade his pursuers. The secret
recipe has been jealously guarded
and the liqueur has been made by
successive generations of the
same family to this day.
Agents:
MCLAUGHLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.,
185 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
e Drambuie was
The recipe was
Mackinnon of
k
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Fear or Optimism?
The 128.69 touched last week in the
.Sydney index of prices for 34 shares was
the highest since March, 1938. The 135.28
notched in the industrial group is a record
that goes back more than two years. It
is hard to analyse the motive which
prompts investors to pay stiff prices for
some classes of shares just now —the
buoyancy definitely belongs to classes,
importing, retail, furniture and building
concerns being dull—when it is remem-
bered that the suggestion of war a few
months back flooded the sharemarkets
with selling orders at cut prices. Now
that war is over four months with us,
the suggestion is that realisation is not
nearly so bad as anticipation.
To return to our analysis of the market
mind, however, an all-important ques-
tion arises: Is the sharemarket paying
higher prices because it is afraid or be-
cause it is optimistic? Is it afraid that
the obvious protection against monetary
inflation is equities and equity shares, or
is it simply optimistic about the effect
of better prices for wool and other
primary products and the war-time expan- .
sion that is already noticeable in some
of our factories? One guess only seems
to be necessary: All the signs suggest
that 90 p.c. of present sharemarket buoy-
ancy arises from optimism, not fear. It
is no use talking the inflation theory to
the average Australian. To buy a thing
because something bad is going to happen
is not natural in this bountiful country.
Europe may be blockaded during a war
and food may soar to famine prices ; but
the Australian’s experience is that money
is generally scarcer than food. The
dumping of fruit, vegetables, milk, etc.,
that periodically occurs illustrates the
point. And so he now buys shares to
make more money—not to protect his
capital.
That, at least, seemed to be the under-
lying principle behind the rising share
prices seen last week. It is true that
while prices were depressed before the
outbreak of war those investors who
bought what the panicky people were
almost throwing away were the shrewd
type who took full account of what war-
time inflation might bring. War or no
war, B.H.P. shares at 50s. to 555. were
good buying ; so were A.C.I. shares, cum
rights, at 28s. 3d. The Bulletin’s firm
advice during those trying periods was
always to hold, perhaps to buy, but
never to sell. The enemies within our
own shores —rising costs and taxes,
extravagant Government expenditure—
were named as the real aggressors against
share values. In the event of war, shares
bought soundly represented a line of
protection against war’s waste.
Money is coming into the country
quickly now. The banks are feeling much
happier. But soon the real drain of our
war expenditure will be felt. Millions
of money are being spent, some of it
wasted.
What will be the effect of the first war
loan on the finances of the country?
Will the banks be asked to take much
of it if the public doesn’t,
thus tightening -up other
avenues of credit-granting?
Will the incidence of war
taxation be so heavy that
profits before and after atten-
tion will look like only dis-
tant relations? Australia,
because of distance from
Europe, may look like com-
ing out of this war lightly.
But if the Empire shares the
burden in proportion to
population, and if each one
of the people plays his part,
financially and otherwise, we
must make up our minds to
get used to lighter pockets.
Much will depend on Gov-
ernment financial policy. Are
we to have truth and stability or humbug
and manipulation? P. C. Spender comes
out strongly for facing facts and paying
as we go:
The simple fact is that defence must be
paid for now with men and materials. No
manipulation can alter the burden. All
that can be done is to change its incidence.
Credit expansion overdone is one of the
easiest ways of doing this, but the results
are very different from what its advocates
believe. While wage- and salary-earners
suffer and savings are whittled away, those
engaged in trade inevitably profit from the
war, and the large investor protects. and
increases his wealth by holding equities the
value of which will rise as the purchasing-
power of money declines. Not only is it
unjust in its incidence, but it brings reper-
cussions which are harmful to the whole
. economic life of the community. For
every undue expansion we shall untimately
pay the price.
If we do pay as we go, if we share the
cost equitably, and if we don’t try to
disguise the waste of war by inflating
costs and currency, then we may avoid
the short-lived boom and the longer-
lived slump that a hazy economic policy
is bound to bring about. Which leads
us to the belief that there is something
unhealthy and undesirable about the
speculation now evident in high Stock
Exchange quotations.
The heavy going that characterised the
entry of 1940—the breweries must have
done extraordinarily well —left no hang-
over that was evident on the share-
market’s opening a day or so later.
Broken Hill Prop, opened at 795. 6d. on
Monday and touched 81s. before the
close of ’Change ; on Tuesday as much
as 82s. was paid—a speculator’s price.
A.C.1., to which a motor-car-manufac-
turing monopoly has been promised,
mounted to 395. 6d. All cos. with the
war-time limelight focused on them stiff-
ened further. Bradford Cotton rose to
50s. —another speculator’s price—and
Carpet Manufacturers was up ; so were
Stirling Henry, Davies Coop, Bond’s In-
dustries ords. and Sydney Cotton Mills.
“Ahoy, there! Leave me enough for a tram fare!”
Electro. Zinc was in hearty form with
a rise of Is. 3d. on ’Change’s opening
day in Sydney, and there was a more
timid upward movement in Barrier
stocks. W. R. Carpenter shares rose
sharply by 3s. (to 465.). With a defence
loan to be announced any day, the bond
market was firmer on the opening.
Holeproof Hosiery recovered to 245. in
Melbourne, highest price for some time.
The co. appears to be holding its own, in
spite of the difficulty of importing raw
silk. Accounts closed on Dec. 31. Yarra
Falls shares firmed to 41s. 3d. once more,
this big woollen textile concern being
an obvious pick among the investors
looking for something that might at least
hold its own during this war. British
Tobacco ords. moved up to 50s: 6d.,
higher than any .price recorded in 1939,
though in 1938 51s. 3d. was touched.
G. J. Coles ords. at 745. 3d. were the
strongest for some time, and brewery
scrip was generally firm. Colonial Sugar
shares went to £5O.
On announcement of an interim div.
of 6 .p.c. p.a. Port Jackson Steam shares
lifted from 13s. lOd. to 14s. 6d. In the
last full term 8 p.c. went out, but condi-
tions were such in the Manly ferry busi-
ness that the sharemarket was more re-
lieved than otherwise when the drop in
the interim turned out to be no more
than 2 p.c. p.a. The shares were as high
as 17s. 3d. and as low as 12s. lOd. in 1939.
* # 4s
Mt. Kasi, on Fiji’s other isle, put
through 39,534 tons for 86020 z. fine gold
during 1939. Millings were up by 1114
tons, recoveries by 2730 z., and revenue
totalled just under £79,000 (Aust.). The
grade of ore, though low, keeps remark-
ably even, the average recovery for 1939
being 4.35dwt., exclusive of slags, which
compares with 4.34dwt. in 1938. For
the last two months of 1939, how-
ever, the average yield was 4.56dwt.;
this improvement, taken together with
the Fiji Government’s forbearance
so far in not grabbing any of the
extra gold-price premium, appears to
have encouraged the market into bid-
ding up to over ss. for the 3s. shares.
They dropped as low as 2s. Bd. in 1939.
Accounts for the year may be along in
March or April. There are possibilities of
a div. this time. But the main matter of
interest is how ore reserves stand. There
was about four years’ average-grade ore
ahead of the mill last balance day ; the
value of the scrip will largely depend on
what additions are being made. Good
stuff was showing below No. 4 level
a year ago.
* * * *
Customs and excise brought in
£26,185,000 for the first half of 1939-40.
That is a lift of £1,768,000 on the corre-
sponding figure for 1938-39, and
£2,904,000 up on the revised Budget esti-
mate. December collections, however,
were £369,990 below those for the same
month of 1938, so that the effect of war-
time restrictions on imports may show
up more prominently in the second half
of this year.


m
&i\d
STILL
PQJ
'\LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Joseph Lucas (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., 627-639 AVellington
Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 58-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elpliinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
“Astounded at ‘Caterpillar’s 9
Tank Sinking Performance
Wm
iilli : .
i*
'
■iti
m
£
§§M
sssss
8,000 YARDS OF DIRT MOVED ON 320 GALLONS OF DIESEL FUEL'
say Messrs. Nowlands Bros, of
U. Elver, Curlewis.
The "Caterpillar” D 2 seen working in the tank above gave this remarkable performance.
The total fuel, lubricating oil and grease bill was £lB/0/0. The job included £ mile
of drains and 600 cubic yards of silt tank.
You already know that "Caterpillar” has set new low records in the cost of cultivation
and harvesting. The evidence, given above, shows how versatile it is in doing different
jobs about the station at a low cost never approached hitherto.
CATERPILLAR
TRACK-TYPE
TRACTORS
Victoria & Tasmania:
William Adams & Co. Ltd,
521 Collins St., Melbourne.
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd.
102 Melbourne St., Brisbane
Hew South Wales:
Waugh & Josephsort Pty. Ltd.
Unwin's Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company
231 Flinders St., Adelaide.
West Australia:
Wigmore's Limited
613 Wellington St.,
Perth.
Mail this coupon to-day
Address to your nearest State Distributor as above.
Please send me, without obligation, literature showing how I can cut my
costs with a “Caterpillar" Diesel.
NAME ' ;
ADDRESS
8.5.39
iii|§P
?<■ :%• " l V
is?ssssSii«?;
mm
>■■/ vT\
Broken Hill Prop, shares at last week’s
record price of 81s. 6d.-82s. had a heavy
turnover, especially on Wednesday, when
3000 were sold in Melbourne and 1250
in Sydney. That is big business. Thurs-
day’s market wasn’t so active, but
the price held to 81s. 6d. B.H.P.’s out-
put of steel for its last monthly period
was down compared with the record es-
tablished the preceding month ; the order
for 40,000 tons of steel for Britain has
now been completed. At 82s. a share the
B.H.P. undertaking is valued at
£28,500,000. Last disclosed earnings were
£1,431,513. On the chairman’s announce-
ment last Friday that the increase in
nominal capital was not to be taken
as an indication of an immediate capital
issue, the market weakened.
An index of export prices that takes
in about 85 p.c. of the total value of
Australian exports of merchandise and
silver and gold production shows a rise
of from 630 in April and May, 1939,
to 774 in November. The big rise, of
course, began with the outbreak of war.
November's 774 in the index compares
with 656 in November, 1938. The 1939
figure benefited particularly by a recov-
ery in the price of wheat, and that for
December should be even better. Most
prices for our exports are now fixed in
terms of contracts with Britain. Wheat
is still free.
* * * *
Between July 1 and the end of
October, 1939, Australia produced
1,288,995 cwt. of butter, compared with
1,141,505 cwt. and 980,900 cwt. in the
corresponding period of the two preced-
ing years. During the 1939 period
661,591 cwt. was shipped overseas, com-
pared with 535,73 3cwt. during the same
four months of 1938.
Britain has bought Australia’s butter
surplus from Nov. 13, 1939, to June 30,
1940, at the following prices:
Australian
Sterling, Currency,
per cwt. per cwt.
s. d. s. d.
Choicest .. 109 9 137 Of
First grade .. 108 6 135 7f
Second grade .. 104 11 131 if
Pastry .... 102 0 127 6
The rates are f.o.b. Australian ports.
* * * *
Sterling maintained its improved posi-
tion only for a while in New York last
week. After firming to 3.96 dollars to the
£ it dropped to 3.93. At this level gold
was worth £8 18s. sterling.
***:(!
Westinghouse Rosebery, Ltd., the co.
which showed a loss of £28,567 for the
year to April 30 last, is in trouble again.
The loss was partly attributed to prohibi-
tion of certain refrigerator parts coming
into Australia and to the booking of
more orders generally than the co. could
handle. Early in the current term import
of parts was again possible, and the work-
shops were brought to a more efficient
basis ; hopes were held of a return to
profits before long. Difficulties have
again arisen since the outbreak of war,
however, and the importing of Westing-
house refrigerator parts is prohibited
once more. So negotiations are proceed-
in £ f° r an amalgamation with “an es-
tablished Australian manufacturer of re-
frigerators and general electrical equip-
ment. In spite of the difficulties encoun-
tered, a small profit was earned over the
last six months, the directors state.
* * He *
Production of crude oil began at Glen
Davis, in the Capertee Valley (N.S.W.),
last week. It is hoped that the extraction
of petrol will start in March.
* * * *
The interim ord. distribution of the
Commercial Bank of Australia is un-
changed at 3 1-3 p.c. Last term a final
of 3f p.c. made 7 1-12 p.c. for the year.
* * * *
Geneva figures show that only in the
U.S.A. and Canada has employment in-
creased since the outbreak of war. Belli-
gerent countries have all gone backward,
and so have most neutrals. There may
be a change for the better in Britain soon,
however, though much of the labor effort
would be toward feeding the hungry
maw of war’s waste, and not necessarily
towards expanding trade connections,
though after the shock of the first few
months of hostilities wears off there may
be a gradual restoration of order in trade
December employment figures in Aus-
tralia may show improvement. Factory
activity has certainly picked up smartly,
though building tends to be quieter.
* * * «
Gold shares had an active market last
week in Melbourne. Among Bendigo
stocks, Deborah rose sharply by 2s. 6d.
to 485., Central Nell Gwynne mounted
Is. 6d. to 555., Central Deborah Is. 9d.
to 6s. 3d. in two days, while New Chum
Syncline, North Deborah and South Vir-
ginia were all active. Wattle Gully
wasn’t traded in during Thursday or Fri-
day, but North Wattle Gully moved up
to ss. 3d., and Chewton changed hands
at a rather lower price of 6s. A 1 Con-
solidated was dealt in extensively at
19s. 3d., and Cocks Eldorado had turn-
over at 12s. Cocks Pioneer, which has
had troubles ever since sluicing com-
menced, moved up from Bs. 6d. to 9s.
Maxwell ran up from 7s. 9d. to Bs. 10d.,
then steadied at Bs. 6d. Morning Star, at
Wood’s Point, lifted from ss. 9d. to
6s. 3d. Victoria Dredging gained Is. 6d.,
selling fairly extensively at 41s. 6d. Stocks
operating in other parts of Australasia
popular in Melbourne also showed ac-
tivity. Loloma (Fiji) firmed to 30s. 6d.,
though Emperor came back slightly from
the 14s. 6d. recently touched. Mt. Morgan
continued to change hands at Bs. Bd.,
while Golden Plateau, also in Queens-
land, was steady at 11s. 6d. There has
been a big recovery in this stock follow-
ing improved mine developments. West-
ralian issues remained dull, perhaps on
account of London connections. Aus-
tralian brokers and operators can’t exer-
cise the same influence over London-
listed stocks as in the case of purely
Australian shows, especially those of
State interest only.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
AFTER-WAR PLANS.
[Though the war is yet to be fought, and its devel-
opments are utterly unpredictable, after-war plans to
ensure lasting peace are easily the outstanding topic
being discussed in practically all publications in Britain,
with all manner of views, from the permanent
subjection of the German nation to an all-in “federa-
tion” embracing every nation on earth. It appears to
be accepted that Britain cannot return to its former
policy of isolation—the policy the U.S.A. holds to.
The development of the war may change all this.]
For “Federal Union”
(From the December Special War Number of the
“Round Table")
Consider to what an extraordinary pass mankind
has come. In a speech delivered on October 5, 1937,
President Roosevelt stated the simple fact that only
a small fraction of humanity—he put it at 10 per cent.
—wanted war, and all the rest did not. And yet, in
flat defiance of the interests and wishes of at least
nine men and women in every ten, the war has come.
There are some who say that to talk of a “new
order’’ is to foster perilous illusions. “War will come,
whatever we do, from generation to generation. If that
means the doom of civilisation, then civilisation is
doomed.” Such opinions are not to be argued with.
To hold them is to despair of human reason and
human will. Conceivably mankind may fail to save its
soul alive, but at least it is bound to try.
Others maintain that to talk of war aims now
distracts us from our immediate task of winning the
war. Is it not enough, they ask, to know that we are
fighting to defend ourselves and all we care for? No ;
not quite enough to inspire the maximum effort that
is needed. The men who fight and the women who
wait must feel not only that their own safety and
freedom are in question, but that another effort will
be made, more wholehearted than the last and more
patiently thought out, to dispel from the children’s
lives the shadow that has darkened their parents’. The
discussion of the peace settlement, it is true, must be
provisional. We cannot forecast the situation in which
it will be made, and we must not forget, as we are
sometimes tempted to do, that it is not only we who
will make it. It will be the work of our allies also
in the first place ; in its final form it ought to be the
work of the whole civilised world.
First, the Nazi regime must be overthrown. This
war is one of a series of German wars ; it is the second
German war with Britain, the third with France.
There must not be another if we can help it. Ger-
many must be made incapabale of challenging the
rule of law and liberty again, for as far ahead as we
can see.
The tenacity of the Prussian tradition from the
days of Frederick the Great is sometimes overlooked.
It is not only the making of five wars in 80 years:
it is the ready ear accorded for more time than that
to a long series of militaristic writers and teachers. Is
’ there something in the German make-up that cannot
be brought into harmony with the spirit of the
Western world? Or is it only the accidents of German
history that are to blame? Are the Germans so diffi-
cult to live with only because they are politically
immature? There is a liberal tradition, too, in Ger-
many, though it has always been weaker than its foe.
Twice liberal Governments have been established, for
the separate States some 90 years ago, for the whole
of the Reich the other day ; and, though they did not
live long, it is something that they lived at all. Those
liberal forces, moreover, have been driven into a far
more open breach with Nazism than they were with
Prussianism.
No thoughtful man will dare to prophesy what sort
of ideas will dominate the German mind when the war
is over or 10 or 20 years later. But on this question
as on others uncertainty is no excuse for doing nothing.
Plainly we must do what we can to make it possible
for Germans, especially young Germans, to conceive
their national destiny in terms of international co-
operation rather than of conflict. “It is no part of
our policy,” Mr. Chamberlain has said, “to exclude
from her rightful place in Europe a Germany which
will live in amity and' confidence with other nations.”
The peace must be a just peace. It must do jus-
tice not only to the Germans’ victims, to the Czechs
and the Poles, but to the Germans themselves. That
means a peace which, if circumstances permit, can be
negotiated with a liberal German Government; a
peace which a fair-minded German admits in his
heart to be fair, so fair that it cannot be successfully
caricatured as a “second Versailles.” Secondly—and
this is even more important —it must be a peace which
at least the great majority of the neutral peoples can
approve. For it will need more for its maintenance
than the strength and resolution of those peoples who
are now fighting for freedom. It will be essentially
related to the wider settlement which alone can make
freedom safe ; and no such settlement is conceivable
without the co-operation of all the freedom-loving
peoples of the world. “We believe”—to continue the
passage quoted from Mr. Chamberlain’s speech—“that
no effective remedy can be found for the world’s ills
that does not take account of the just claims and needs
of all countries, and, whenever the time may come to
draw the lines of a new peace settlement, his Majesty’s
Government would feel that the future would hold
little hope unless such a settlement could be reached
through the method of negotiation and agreement.”
It is at this point —when the discussion of the
“after-war” goes beyond the narrower questions at
issue between the combatants to the question of a
wider settlement in which all the countries of the
world are concerned —that we pass from common
ground to controversy, the same controversy which,
started by the same dilemma 20 years ago, has raged
ever since, with its storm centre at Geneva, and has
now been whipped up again by the renewal of war.
For most of the disputants the ultimate objective is
the same. Most of them believe that the common
concerns of a shrinking world will some day be con-
trolled by a common authority, and accept the fact
that the only final alternative to war is law. It is to
be hoped that the rival schools may merge their differ-
ences and unite in working out the concrete details
both of a federal plan and of the co-operative system
which is to prepare the way for it, and, if all goes well,
to be transformed into it. But it must be clearly under-
stood that it will be a transformation. That is the
point where clarity and frankness are most necessary.
The failure of the League was largely due to the
number of its supporters who did not fully realise
what it required of its members. Idealists supposed
that it would give them perpetual peace without their
being ready and willing to fight for it. Materialists
regarded it as a convenient contrivance for enabling
us to follow our own old path to our own old ends
under the shelter of collective security. There must
be more realism, more honesty about federal union.
It must not be cried up as anew and easy method of
escape from the facts that weigh us down. It must be
made crystal clear that it demands much more of
nations than the League, that there is indeed a trans-
formation in passing from the one system to the
other. Under the League a nation restricted its
national sovereignty to the extent that it bound itself
to act with other nations in certain ways in certain cir-
cumstances. In a federal union a nation’s sovereignty
will not be restricted in the field of federal affairs:
it will disappear: it will be merged in anew inter-
national sovereignty.
It is with the determination to win the “after-war”
tomorrow that we brace ourselves to win the war
—Boston “Transcript,” U.S.A.
“By nature I’m an artist.”
today. We do not know how long it will last or how
much suffering it will inflict, but that we shall endure
to the end there can be no question. Never before has
a war been fought on so great an issue. It is for
much more than our peace, our safety, our prosperity,
that we are fighting: it is difficult indeed to realise
how much more. Mankind is at a crisis of its destiny.
It has long been recognised that the material power
given to men by modern science was in danger of out-
stripping their moral power to use it right. That
danger has materialised in Germany with terrible
results. In the last resort we are fighting to save the
human civilisation which we have been so long and
slowly trying to build up from suffering the same
inhuman fate.*
# * * *
“Federation,” Plus Socialist State
(From a “New Statesman” article.)
What we see today is a world in which no moral
relationship exists between State and State, in which
those who have the power take what they can or hold
on to what they possess. It is only too likely that in
such a world war should become endemic. It may
go on indefinitely now in many parts of the world,
now in one part, now in another. It may wipe out
most of what science and civilisation have brought of
social betterment and communal happiness. If that
destruction is not to be world-wide, sane men must
get together to consider what they can build, how
they can hold on to what is valuable in the present
while discarding what can no longer be defended
either by argument or by military power.
Such a survey of the situation leads immediately
to realisation that the totalitarian regimes have had so
much success because they have been ruthless and
dynamic, while the old regimes have been timid and
conservative. The totalitarian Powers have under-
stood that it is an age when economic organisation
must be centrally planned and extended over a wide
area; they calculated that the comparatively mild
and unorganised control of Empires, based on inter-
national finance, would be easy to destroy. Here they
underestimated the strength of the national forces
against them. But their challenge to the civilisation
of the West represents more than a military threat.
It is a challenge to the soul of each person in the
countries that claim to be democratic. It places those
who watch and understand this historical process
through which the world is passing in an almost
intolerable dilemma.
They have watched the truths of Socialism
accepted and finally perverted in Russia and adapted
to their own foul purposes by the Nazis ; they watch
their own Governments for years refusing to take the
steps necessary for the organisation of a modern
State. They must be opponents of the totalitarian
regimes because these regimes deny to the individual
the most elementary rights, and repudiate those values
which alone justify the State’s coercive power. They
find themselves ranged willy-nilly behind Governments
whose shortsighted selfishness and lack of imagination
have brought them to this pass. They know that, what-
ever happens in the war, the system of nineteenth-
century capitalism is doomed ; they know, too, that,
if their Governments could see it, there is a way of
organising the world through the instrument of Federa-
tion. It is possible to combine the freedom of the
cultural group, which is the heart of a nation, with
the advantages of large-scale economic organisation,
which must be the basis of the modern Socialist State.
Without a constructive peace aim, the war is a
meaningless slaughter; by neglecting such an aim
(hedged round with all the safeguards that honesty
now makes necessary) we are neglecting one of the
most potent weapons at our disposal. However it
should be put, the Germans, and all the other peoples
who hate the war and ask questions in the blackout
or the trenches, will demand a world in which the
national State does not periodically demand their
death. Mr. Chamberlain spoke the other day of a
better world to come. In this life or the next? Can
we hope from Mr. Chamberlain a dynamic to counter
the barbarism of the Nazis?
* v 4: #
“Dominions Should Be Represented”
(Viscount Esher, in London “Daily Telegraph.”)
We have been promised by the Government a
new world, and there is a widespread feeling among
the public, not at all confined to the Labor party,
that something could be done about exploring the
foundations on which such a world should be built.
Many of us remember the mental and moral
confusion at Versailles after the last war. It was not
only the pride of the victors or the conflict of national
interests that was responsible for the mistakes made.
It was the necessity for quick decisions upon very
complicated problems called for by a world aching
for peace. All that has been said or written about
what happened at Versailles proves that there was no
time to think, and that if there had been the atmo-
sphere was not congenial for thought.
The Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs,
in the House of Commons, deprecated the Govern-
ment being asked to define any precise peace aims. I
do not think public opinion is asking for, or would
expect to be given, any such thing. But there is a
demand for expert thinking, and I would suggest that
the Government should satisfy that demand by the
appointment of a strong committee to investigate
certain definite problems, expert information upon
which would be invaluable to any Peace Conference
that may, perhaps suddenly, be called upon to produce
the new world.
In its terms of reference such a committee might
be asked to examine:
1. Disarmament.
2. The application of the ideas of the Van Zeeland
report, and the possibility of accommodating them to
the Ottawa Agreements.
3. The causes of the failure of the League of
Nations, with a view to the possibility of creating a
more satisfactory international authority.
The committee to which these problems were
referred would naturally contain representatives of
the Foreign Office, the military, naval and air services,
and the Board of Trade. But I would suggest that the
Dominions, France and Poland should also be repre-
sented.
In addition, I think it would be useful if the
Institute of International Affairs and the societies with
bees in their bonnets, the League of Nations Union,
the New Commonwealth and Federal Union, were
given representation on the committee. And it might
be presided over by an independent chairman with
no bee in his bonnet, such as Lord Willingdon, who,
I think it will be agreed, wears with a good grace the
most bee-less bonnet in England.
The conclusions of such a committee would
naturally be secret, but there is no obvious necessity
for keeping secret the setting-up of it. On the con-
trary, the country and the world at large would receive
the necessary impression that, although we have no
intention at this stage of drawing up the peace terms,
the best brains of the country are being concentrated
on the difficult and important problems that surround
the production of a new world.
The Soviet and the Finns.
[The Soviet-Nazi pact at once produced confusion
on the Left in Britain;' the Red invasion of Finland
turned that into a rout. A few —among them the
inevitable professor (Laski) —were still trying to “explain”
the Soviet’s acts when the last air mail to hand left
England, but, apart from these, the condemnation of
the formerly over-boosted Soviet has been general, those
joining in including (as in Australia) former ardent
Parlor Pink admirers.]
The flagrant contradiction between Stalin’s present
aggression and his former pretensions clears away the
incubus of wishful thoughts. No Power has so con-
sistently demanded resistance to aggression ; no Power
has so much insisted on a precise definition of aggres-
sion. In 1933, for instance, M. Litvinov proposed
on behalf of the U.S.S.R. a definition which included
among other “proofs” of aggression “the invasion
by its armed forces of the territory of another State
without declaration of war.” The definition then
ruled out as a justification for an aggressive action
any plea “of a political, strategical or economic
nature, such as” that the victim had been responsible
for frontier incidents or set up any particular economic
or social system. All this play with law and morality
Stalin has abandoned. The U.S.S.R., in a word, has
joined the group of Powers looking round for possible


prey. Ideologies are at a discount. The struggle at
the moment is most accurately seen as a joint chal-
lenge to the old civilised and conservative Empires
by totalitarian Powers which care nothing for the
old order or the moral system which supported it;
they may differ in ihe systems they wish to substitute.
—“Daily Mirror,” London.
FINLAND’S CHRISTMAS CARD—BY STALIN.
but agree in the joyous prospect of destroying estab-
lished power with fire and bayonet and trampling
into the dust the tradition of liberty, law and morality.
—‘‘New Statesman.”
* * ie * *
Stalin, after all, was Hitler’s master before he
was his disciple. The method of disposing of indi-
vidual opponents by “purge” was invented in Russia
long before Hitler applied it to his own early asso-
ciates ; and why should one responsible for the judicial
murder of so many thousands of his own countrymen
hesitate to imitate his imitator in the massacre of a
neighboring people, especially when he outnumbers
them by more than fifty to one?
If there is any matter for surprise it is to be
found in the slavish fidelity with which Stalin follows
Hitler’s technique. There is the same pose as the
champion of an oppressed section among the nation
to be destroyed, the same manufacture of frontier
“incidents,” the same press campaign of vitriolic abuse,
the same charges of “intolerable provocation” of
Brobdingnag by Lilliput; and these are followed by
the same unilateral denunciation of treaty, the same
undeclared war, and the same ruthless slaughter of
defenceless civilians. — ‘‘Times.”
* * « * *
Lenin, who at that time was already playing a
prominent part in the Russian revolutionary move-
ment, gave wholehearted support to the Finns and
their demands for relief from Czar-imposed Russian
oppression. He published many articles calling on
Russian workers to support the Finnish patriots in
their struggle. When in 1901 the Finns sent a peti-
tion signed by over half a million to the Czar Russian
workers rose in active support. In an article in the
“Iskra”—the first official organ of Russian Marxists
—Lenin called the Finnish petition “the voice of the
people” and of the whole Finnish nation. “Although
only half a million Finns signed the document,” wrote
Lenin, “the whole of progressive Russia must asso-
ciate itself with the demands of the Finnish people.”
Over many years the demand for freedom and
independence for the Finns figured prominently in
all Lenin’s writings. Every appeal or manifesto Lenin
issued during the Great War contained references to
Russian oppression in Finland. He was, indeed, the
champion of Finnish independence, and certainly
never dreamt that his successor would violate it “in
the name of Lenin.” — A correspondent in Manchester
‘‘Guardian.”
*
Even against the sombre background of recent
history Russia’s crime against Finland stands out with
a peculiar blackness. Cruelty may not become more
cruel by being associated with hypocrisy, but it is
rendered more odious. For consider what Russia’s
pretences and pretensions have been. She purported
to be the great proletarian Power, the believer in free-
dom and the friend of small nationalities.
What nonsense it all makes of the pro-Soviet
propaganda as conducted for years past! What sur-
vives of the “Left’s” assumption that Russia in spite
of her despotic institutions is a force on the side of
freedom? It was scandal enough that the local Com-
munist body, after urging for years that Great Britain
ought to fight the dictators at any price, should after
the war began swing round to denounce the war and
lick the hand at Moscow that threatened to withhold
its payments. Will it go on licking it now that Fin-
nish blood drips from it?
Alike on the trade-union and on the co-operative
side Finland has been in the forefront of Labor pro-
gress—indeed, its co-operative movement was per head
of population perhaps the greatest in the world. Those
have been real advances of the working class —very
different from the dictatorship which in Russia usurps
that class’s name only to keep the mass of its mem-
bers poor, hungry, shivering, terrorised and enslaved.
But the contrast was part of Finland’s offence. It
was not the guns of the small Republic that Stalin
feared within 20 miles of Leningrad. It was the fact
that at that short distance from the Russian ex-capital
there existed conditions of plenty, freedom and happi-
ness which put the pinched and squalid misery of
totalitarianism to shame. — ‘‘Sunday Times.”
* * * * *
In the attack on Finland by Soviet Russia we
have seen something which may prove a turning-point
in history. For years we have discussed the riddle
of Russia, the mystery of the Kremlin, the great new
social experiment of Communism. We have thought
in headlines and have not gone much deeper than
that. Rich and successful writers like Wells and Shaw
have paid lip-service to the splendors of the new order
in Russia, where the human mind and the
human body are equally enslaved. Oxford dons,
smoking their pipes and sipping their glass of
port in regulated and scholastic security, have
expounded the Russian Revolution as the be-
ginning of freedom. Even Tories have seen in
the non-aggression of Russian militarism a
sincere desire on the part of Moscow to main-
tain peace and to infringe on the sovereignty of
no other nation.
What fools we have been! How contempt-
ibly we have compromised with conscience and
allowed expediency to shut our eyes to the
truth. How could a social system which was
founded on the mass murder of three million
innocent people, the maintenance of a secret
police, the crushing of free speech and the de-
liberate starving of vast districts be anything
but vile? At last Stalin has saved us from any
further necessity for self-deception. When he
sent his bombers to kill the workers and the
women of Helsinki he ended for ever the pre-
tence that Russian Communism is anything but
an unprincipled Oriental despotism. — Beverley
Baxter, M.P.; ‘‘Sunday Graphic.”
* * A *
Has the criminal cunning of the adversary
seeking to destroy Finland not overreached
itself by establishing a sham Government? It
would seem that the struggle now becomes de
jure a civil war by the legitimate Government
against rebels, and that other countries can give aid to
that Government while still observing technical neu-
trality towards Russia. — Frank Fox; “Times” letter.
* * * V *
A few years ago I sat on a pile of timber in the
Red Square, Moscow, and tried to visualise what the
Russian Communist revolution would mean in history.
I had just looked down on the dead face of Lenin—
so beautifully staged in his Red Square mausoleum.
I had been meeting U.S.S.R. Commissars, factory
managers and town Soviet leaders. I asked myself
what it all meant.
Violent revolution had placed the Bolshevists in
power, it had dispossessed landlords and capitalists
and defied the bourgeois world. It was big, this Com-
munist revolution. Yet I could not feel in that coun-
try the spirit of the Commune, the triumph of mind
over matter, or the liberation of the human spirit
from those artificial controls and restrictions which
it is the purpose of Socialism to achieve in its struggle
for the mastery of man over material things.
I apprehended that in this dictatorship some of
the traditions of Czardom lived. The suppression of
political parties. The suppression of free thought and
of political expression. The rigid control of the press.
The “secret police.” The persecution of the unortho-
dox in politics and of orthodoxy in religion. My
worst fears have come true. The principles of Peter
the Great rather than the principles of Lenin have
triumphed in the mind of Stalin.
As for the “British” Communist party, which
alone among political parties defends the Soviet aggres-
sion against Finland, let us recognise it for what it is.
Its accountability is to a foreign dictatorship and
not to its own members or to the British people. It
is a political instrument controlled from abroad. If
it had any sense of decency it would withdraw from
the Communist International in disgust. Or liquidate
itself. But it has no principles, no decency. Not even
the decency to die. — Mr. Herbert Morrison, M.P.
(Lab.), in London ‘‘Daily Mirror.”
An American’s Tribute to Britain.
[ln a final article in London “Daily Telegraph” the
German-born American writer Oswald Garrison Villard
paid the tribute to Britain in war-time here given in
extracts from his article The writer’s earlier articles,
representative articles from which
were given in last week’s “Un-
cabled Additions,” have been
published in book form in
London by Constable.]
To come back to the fresh,
clean air of England after Ger-
many is to enter a new, a whole-
some, a free world ; is to experi-
ence an exaltation of the spirit.
Here men can smile even
under the strain of a terrible war.
Here they look you straight in the
eyes with nothing to conceal or
apologise for.
Here they talk to you about
their hopes, their fears, their
aspirations, their desires, without
looking behind them to see if they
are being overheard. Here they
criticise their Government, if they
so wish, and close no doors for
fear of a Gestapo. Here they
have a still free, if not unfettered,
press, and here they tell you that,
much as they hate the war and all
that pertains to it, this is a job to
be done as best it may.
No cant, no self-laudation,
no self-pity, no whining. Just a
manly, straightforward, clear-
eyed facing the future with the
same magnificent cool courage,
the same astounding determina-
tion, that amazed me at the out-
break of the struggle.
I have not found a man or a
woman enthusiastic for the war —
no more than in Germany ; and,
thank heaven, I have found none
who have professed admiration
for it as war. I have encountered many who
hate the whole institution, dread the outcome of it
all, and feel that the blunders of their own Govern-
ments in the past have helped to bring it on. But 1
have met none who did not admit the complete, the
essential justice of the Allied cause, whether they
believed in war methods or not.
The serious dissensions of 1914 are nowhere in
evidence ; it is as nearly a united front as it could
possibly be, granting the existence of conscientious
objection to war; and that united front, without
heroics or self-adulation, is still calmly saying that
this war must be won if Europe is to be saved, if it
is to be a place of habitation of freemen.
I shall take back to America an unforgettable
picture of blackouts and sandbags, of trenches scar-
ring the beautiful parks, and of balloons on guard.
The majesty of London at night in a darkness un-
paralleled since the days of Shakspeare will always
live with me, for then the mystery of the greatest
of capitals is at its height.
Men and women may sit behind drawn curtains
fearing perhaps to go about; the city broods over
them in awe-inspiring beauty. Look down upon it
from a height and it is all the world —dotted by
will-o’-the-wisp lights that betray a bus, a car.
Destroy this city? Well may the Germans pause,
for this that looms so sombre and so vast is not
England’s alone. This is the heritage of all who say
that men shall be free. For him who lays violent
hands upon it there will be forgiveness never.
Aspects of Irish Neutrality.
(Condensed from an article by the “Round Table’s”
Irish correspondent in the December Special War
Number.)
The policy of neutrality was not challenged by
anyone during the Dail debate on its adoption, but
Mr. James Dillon, the deputy leader of the Fine Gael
party, who was the first Opposition speaker, said
Ireland’s neutrality should not be taken as meaning
that the Irish were indifferent to the issue of the con-
flict. He believed the vast majority of the Irish
people placed their sympathy on the side of Poland,
France and Great Britain against Berlin and Moscow,
and he thought it right that it should be placed on
record.
During the Senate debate some speakers expressed
regret that the Irish people had not a different con-
ception of where their interests lay, but agreed that
the state of public opinion made any other policy im-
possible. Even the “Irish Times,” which is definitely
pro-British in sentiment, admitted that in all the cir-
cumstances it was the only policy the Government
could pursue. But there are, of course, many people
in Ireland who, however much they may wish loyally
to accept the Government’s decision, cannot be neutral
in thought. The great majority of these feel that their
own interests, economic, political and spiritual, are so
indissolubly bound up with those of Great Britain
and France that, if those Powers were to go down
before the onslaught of Hitlerism, the future of Ireland
and indeed of European civilisation itself would be
dark indeed.
Others, whilst hating Hitlerism, cannot forget
the dismemberment of Czechoslovakia in which Poland
joined, and feel that the present war is only one more
move in the game of power politics from which Ireland
—“Het Volk,” Amsterdam.
MARK: “I once raged against the subjugation of Poland. But you bring
new slavery to that land.”


has everything to lose and nothing to gain. They
cannot see why they should participate in this war
any more than Belgium, Holland, Switzerland or the
Scandinavian countries, all of whom represent the
best kind of democratic community.
Another point of view is held by people like
Professor James Hogan, who holds the Chair of His-
tory at University College, Cork, and is an authority
on the Soviet regime. In a letter to the press, imme-
diately after the commencement of the war, he said
that the triumph of Germany and Russia would mean
the end of Christian Europe and the inauguration
of a world in which there would be no room for
those values which redeem the life of man from the
life of the beast. At the same time he can only,
somewhat illogically, advise that, whilst in no way
countenancing Germany’s conduct, Ireland should wait
and see.
Another point of view was voiced by Cardinal
Macßory, the Catholic Primate of Ireland, in a speech
at Derry. He said that it was the duty of all sincere
Christians to pray fervently that the conflict might
be speedily ended and be followed by a just peace.
There seemed, he said, to be more hope of a just
peace now than if the war were fought to a finish ;
for then, whichever side won, it would probably be a
victors’ peace sowing the seeds of future wars. More-
over, no Christian could contemplate calmly the pros-
pect of Christians slaughtering one another for three
or four years and thus smoothing the way for the
spread of Russian Communism. He hoped and
prayed no section of Irishmen would do anything
in the critical times before us to endanger the peace
of this country and involve us perhaps in fratricidal
strife.
There remains, of course, the irreconcilable
minority whose hatred of England blinds them to all
other considerations and who would, if they could,
assist Germany. For the moment these people can
only feed their animosity on German broadcasts.
Mr. de Valera, speaking in the Dail on September 29,
described the situation fairly accurately when he said
that you could divide the people here into two large
classes, namely, the great bulk of the population, who,
whatever may be their individual views as to its merits,
desire that this country should not be involved in the
war, and those who feel so strongly about the issues
at stake that they wish to involve us on one side or
the other. If propaganda were allowed here, Mr.
De Valera foresees that each element in this latter
section would seek to drag the rest into the conflict.
For this reason the Government has enforced a press
censorship which under present conditions is certainly
essential. So far it has not been abused.
Those who may be inclined to gibe at Ireland’s
neutrality would do well to remember the thousands
of Irishmen serving with the British forces. For
example, nearly one-fifth of those lost in H.M.S.
Courageous bore Irish names.
U.S.A. Enjoying the War.
[Condensed from a London “Spectator article by
E. Sinclair Hertell, New York. The depiction of
Americans enjoying the war as if it were some sort of
show may indicate the effects of Hollywood on the
American public mind. In other respects it might be
as well to read the article with some reservation, remem-
bering reports in like vein that once led many to believe
Uncle Sam was straining to take “action” in the cause
of democracy.]
America is enjoying the war —on the stage, the
cinema, the radio and, above all, in the newspapers,
some of which in the largest cities are carrying so
much foreign news that the city news staffs have had
to be reduced because there isn’t enough room for their
stories.
Never before in the history of this country have
its newspapers printed such things about the head of
a State as they print about Hitler, Goring and
Goebbels. And the readers of these papers just lap it
up. Any of the Nazis shown in newsreels in cinemas
draw instant boos and hisses, and that peculiarly
American indication of derision, the Bronx cheer.
Allied figures draw long and hearty cheers and hand-
clapping.
The stage has made its anti-Nazi contribution in
skits in revues, and what is at present the most suc-
cessful drama on Broadway—“ Margin for Error” —
is all about a German Consul in an American city.
The Consul is a thief, a liar, a blackmailer, a double-
crosser and about everything else that savors of un-
pleasantness. The Mayor, having found it necessary
to provide police protection for the Consulate, appoints
a Jewish policeman, who turns out to be the hero of
the play. The playwright is Clare Boothe, wife of the
editor of “Time,” “Life” and “Fortune” magazines,
and the author of “The Women,” which ran in London
last autumn. The German chargt d’affaires in Wash-
ington protested, when the play was tried out in the
capital, that it was “derogatory” to the Reich. Secre-
tary of State Hull didn’t do anything about it, and
the play now draws packed houses in New York.
The radios are being tuned in as they have never
been for the frequent news reports. Although these
reports (not by commentators but by straight news
reporters) are supposed to be impartial, there is no
escaping the very evident inflections of the voices,
which clearly show a pro-Allied sympathy. The com-
mentators, of course, are allowed to put their own
interpretation on the news, and they are the ones who
are giving the Nazi officials over here the headaches,
for they never let slip a chance to get a hit at the
Nazis. The interesting thing about all this is that
there is no Government control over the radio, and
there is no means of making the broadcasting partial
to one side or the other. It just happens that, like
most other Americans, the broadcasters and the com-
mentators are all very pro-Ally.
American newspapers are overwhelmingly pro-
Ally both in their news and editorial columns, though
the latter stress the thought that the U.S.A. must keep
out of actual participation in the war. Incidentally,
in a recent Gallup poll regarding the reliability of
information received from abroad, less than 10 per
cent, of the persons polled had any faith whatever in
the Nazi propaganda machine, while a large majority
had complete faith in the truthfulness of the news sent
out from England.
Newspaper columnists are having a heyday
letting themselves go against the Nazis, and especially
against one whom General Hugh Johnson, a leading
columnist, calls “Sourpuss Adolf.”
No reference to American reaction to the war
would be complete without some remarks on the com-
plete liquidation of any respect that had previously
existed for the Soviet Union. For the past decade all
the Liberals and the Parlor Pinks have been extolling
the Soviet Union as a great Democracy. Indeed, if
some of the writings and utterances of these people
were true, American Democracy was actually far
—“Daily Express,” London.
THE FUHRER: “The war is over! He'll Hitler! Now back in the bottle!”
GENIE: “Ah, but I’m Dictator now!”
inferior to the Soviet brand. With the Communazi
front all these people have been confounded. The
news-stand sales of the “Daily Worker,” New York’s
Communist sheet, have dropped amazingly, and
Liberal organisations which have strung along with
the Communists even in only a loose sort of way have
been quietly retreating to a more safe position.
The papers, as I have said before, stress the fact
that Americans want to keep out of war. Any Ameri-
can citizen you might meet on the street and question
would give the same answer. But, oddly enough, he
would follow it up, in a large majority of instances,
with the observation that he doesn’t think we can
stay out, especially if it drags out very long.
South Africa’s Part.
[Colonel Deneys Reitz, South Africa’s Minister for
Native Affairs, fought against Britain in the Boer War,
went into voluntary exile rather than live under British
rule, returned to his country when it was given self-
government, is now one of the warmest supporters of the
British Commonwealth, and was lately South Africa’s
representative at the discussions between British and
Dominion Ministers to co-ordinate the Empire war effort.
His explanation of South Africa’s part in the war is here
given from a London “Sunday Times” interview.]
“More and more South Africa is preparing whole-
heartedly to take her full and proper part in the
present struggle.
“General Hertzog is a great and deservedly re-
spected figure in South Africa. We who have fol-
lowed him and worked with him for so many years
regret that on this occasion he decided on a course so
divorced from the feeling of the majority of his
fellow-citizens. It is only a minority for whom he
speaks now, but I venture to think that many even
of those have followed him mainly out of personal
loyalty and not because in their hearts they disagree
with the standpoint of the rest of us.
“How could we remain neutral? Europe is 6000
miles away from South Africa, and the war might
have seemed remote enough when that neutrality
resolution was introduced. But what has happened
since should have convinced the most determined
isolationist.
“Just what part South Africa and South Africans
will take in the common effort must depend on how
the war develops. Our Government is pledged not to
send forces overseas, but we are building up our air
force and army as rapidly as we can, and, as the
Deputy Adjutant-General to the defence force an-
nounced the other day, if the war is confined to
Europe, if no danger threatens the Union and Britain
is in need of further men from the Dominions, it is
incredible that South Africans who wish to volunteer
for service overseas would be held in their country
against their will.
“At first sight this might appear to indicate
limited participation, but there are three factors to
which I would like to draw attention. The first is
that we help the common purpose by undertaking com-
plete responsibility, apart from that borne by the
Royal Navy, for our own defence. We are a small
nation of little more than 2,000,000 with a large
country and 8,000,000 natives in our charge and a
huge coastline. Our own defence is our first con-
sideration.
“Secondly, South Africa is situated on what is,
next to the Mediterranean, the most important Empire
route. On that route South Africa stands guard
against any or all comers. We have undertaken our-
selves the defence of Simonstown, a supremely impor-
tant base for the navy.
“Thirdly, there are other Empire territories to
the north of us —the Rhodesias, Tanganyika, Uganda
and the rest —more thinly populated than ourselves,
less able to defend themselves. To the defence equally
of these South Africa is pledged to her last man and
her last gun should the war ever come to Africa.
“There, I suggest, are no mean responsibilities,
and no small contribution to the effort of the
Commonwealth.”
“No War in Berlin.”
(From an article in Manchester “Guardian.’ )
“On my way to the centre of the city,” writes a
correspondent of the “Deutsche Allgemeine Zeitung,”
“it occurred to me to hunt
for signs of the war” (in
Berlin). He found that
there is “scarcely any” sign
of the war to be seen. The
first real sign was a lot of
schoolboys on their way to
afternoon instead of morn-
ing classes. The second was
near the Town Hall:
A fish and poultry
shop had a curious placard
in its window —simply the
figures 850-1200 in big
type. Only the initiated
knows what this means:
“Fish may be bought to-
day by customers numbers
850 to 1200.” No pur-
chase certificates are
needed, of course, for
fish, and in order to be
as fair as possible to
everyone the retailers have
arranged their own ration-
ing. The customer regis-
ters and is given a num-
ber. When his number is
“up” he can buy. The
system was found to work
well, and has been
adopted all over Berlin.
Otherwise the windows are full of all sorts of
goods. “The clothing card has, indeed, worked so
well that it has effaced itself. It has prevented a run
on the shops, and so everything is still to be had.
Around the Leipzigerstrasse the sausages are piled as
high as at any time for years past, and the confec-
tioners show at least five sorts of cakes: what is there
here to suggest war?” Almost the only things that
suggest it everywhere are the limewashed kerbstones
at the crossings and, of course, the sand protections.
And in the course of 11 weeks of war these pro-
tections have been given almost a pleasant exterior.
The rough makeshift of the first weeks has given place
to something of temporary permanence. Instead of
sandbags we now see everywhere in the centre solid
wood cases, filled with sand and carefully covered with
cardboard, and the Berliner’s sense of fitness has found
expression in giving all of them a uniform coat of paint,
so that they no longer seem a disfigurement.
Of course there are fewer motor-cars, though
traffic control is by no means superfluous. “The big,
elegant’ cars have vanished, and the woman at the
wheel has become a rarity. The soldier at the wheel,
on the other hand, is much in evidence.” There are
many soldiers, of course, in Berlin, “but no one could
say that they dominate the scene.” Theatre and cinema
and concert announcements are as usual.
Dancing cabarets have increased in number. The
dweller in Lichtenberg or Neukolln or Steglitz need
no longer go west or into the centre for a variety
programme; these things and dancing are no longer
confined to the “pleasure quarters”; pleasure-going
Berlin has been decentralised, and with the advantage
that it is easier to get home. For Berlin goes out almost
as much as in the past. As early as last Monday the
big placards of the State theatres had across the
announcement for Saturday (“Hamlet” at the Staatliches
Schauspielhaus) the green slip “Sold out.” You must
hurry to book if you want to go to something special in
ten days’ time. Yet there are more theatres open in
Berlin than for years past.
Another side of this idyllic picture of “normal”
life is the severity of the German profiteering and
rationing laws. This is illustrated by the trial of
Martha Krause as reported in the Berlin “Borsen
Zeitung.” She had sold goods without the use of
rationing cards. In his closing speech the public prose-
cutor declared that he only refrained from demanding
the death penalty because the prisoner had no previous
convictions. She was sentenced to 10 years penal
servitude.
The woman’s method was interesting:
She was a former market-stall keeper who persuaded
two butchers to let her have quantities of meat and
sausages without the use of the prescribed purchase
cards. These she sold to friends at much above the
fixed price. On October 27 she received a huge basket
containing of meat, sausages, ham and bacon,
but this was found by the police. She had also been
trafficking in butter, which she sold at an excess price
of sd. a pound. She also bought textiles of all sorts
wherever she could get them, posing as a trader, she
set to work to pile up a stock of fabrics, and she sold
men’s and women’s jackets, pullovers, nightshirts and
underclothing at a good profit.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
It was certainly a special occasion, but
the attendance at Moorefield must have
been heartening to Sydney’s other pro-
prietary and debenture clubs. If the
same standard of patronage is main-
tained, owners should have no prize-
money grievances this year. Inclusive of
the value of the Cup trophy, Saturday’s
distribution came to £l9OO, and other
metropolitan clubs, if they wish to
retain their hold on owners and public,
cannot afford to lag far in the rear. As
for provincial clubs, their prize-money,
as a whole, scarcely warrants their exist-
ence. Owners have to look to the bet-
ting-ring to make the winning of almost
any race profitable. A strong wind
assisted to make things rather unpleasant
at Moorefield, and towards the close of
the afternoon it was not surprising that
some parts of the track became rather
dusty.
After winning the Denman Handicap
on Sedunum, D. Munro was regretful
that a prior engagement prevented him
from riding the chestnut in Tattersall’s
Cup. M. McCarten took the mount, and
it was reported he was not quite satis-
fied after the race, being of opinion that
he was unlucky not to have won, and in
some measure blamed himself. The dis-
tance and course were different, but
Sedunum was seen to greater advantage
in the Peter Moore Cup on Saturday —in
fact, improved upon any previous effort.
Nearly last after going half a mile, and
many lengths from the leaders, Sedunum
travelled at a great rate over the final
three furlongs, and in the last few strides
took the race away from The Squire,
who appeared an almost certain winner
when he disposed of his stable-companion
Marengo half-way down the straight.
Marengo blundered slightly at the start,
and, hard ridden in the first part to get
a position, had sufficient weight to anchor
him at the finish, though when he settled
the pacemaker, Petruchio, as soon as the
straight was entered, his prospects looked
particularly bright.
Grey Derby, though slow to get going,
finished fourth, but I think he now has
sufficient weight to make wins difficult
for him. Petruchio outpaced Diamond
Wedding after going a couple of furlongs.
He had a useful lead starting up the hill,
but, though it was thought the downhill
run to the winning post would help him,
he has not improved as a stayer since
last season.
Allunga, looking above himself, did
sufficiently well to show that he is not a
back number, and Sigh will win again
before long. Bramol was the particular
disappointment of the race. After being
prominent for half a mile, he finished
a long way back. A kick he received
while at the barrier had a lot to do
with his collapse.
G. P. Nailon had the pleasure of win-
ning two races at Moorefield. The sur-
prising part in connection with Radio
Queen’s win in the Three- and Four-
year-old Handicap was the liberal price
going against her. She drifted from
fours to sixes, notwithstanding her Rand-
wick win earlier in the week. Last
Chance was backed as if he could not
lose, but, though first into the straight,
he had no chance against Radio Queen in
the run home. Blackie Miller ran up to
his previous form, while of the unplaced
lot Starbine may be most worth keeping
in mind, though at a shorter distance than
a mile.
Form pointed to Nailon’s other winner,
Rosy Morn. At her previous start, when
in receipt of only 21b., she beat Many
Ways at Randwick, and the latter won
subsequently at that track. Rosy Morn
did not commence well, but, after being
sixth going up the hill,, she was second
into the straight, and won comfortably
from Opal (Koomeela-Star Gem), one
of F. W. Hughes’s big team. Kenthelda,
who showed pace, is a half-sister, by
Foxlight, to Defaulter, and cost W. A.
Smith 500gns.
Possibly influenced by Mark Twain’s
win, Celebration’s chance was highly
rated by trainer W- Booth, but she never
got in it; and, though Dark Rose was
fourth, she at no stage really threatened
danger. Lady Neith, who was third, is
by Pentheus, and is a granddaughter of
that good mare Neith, who won a Chal-
lenge Stakes, six furlongs, with 10.5, and
also a Cumberland Plate, then two miles,
beating Trafalgar. Rosy Morn is by Mei-
fort from speedy Emily Rose.
W. Booth, who recently recovered from
a severe illness, could not have had a
better tonic than Mark Twain’s win in
the colts and geldings’ division of the
Moorefield Juvenile Handicap. Phalaran
was supposed to be unbeatable, but had
no chance against Mark Twain from the
time the latter headed Cape Amber at
the end of the first furlong. Mark Twain
is by Hall Mark from Eulclare (Treclare-
Eulacre), who lost a Gimcrack Stakes
on protest. When offered at the year-
ling sales Mark Twain failed to find a
buyer. He has grown considerably in
the last few months, and, though scarcely
as thick as he promised, is a shapely
youngster.
Air Link, who ran third and looked
susceptible of improvement in condition,
is a nice type of colt by Marconigram.
His breeding on the maternal side is good
enough for anything. He is out of Sweet
Maggie, by Magpie from Sweet Lady,
winner of a Gimcrack Stakes and Mari-
byrnong Plate. B. Payten is training him
for Mrs. C. H. Hicks. Cape Amber,
who has pace, is a half-brother to Santa
and Pen Name.
In the Moorefield Handicap Sidcup
went to the front going up the hill and
defeated Miss Linbul, who gained ground
in the straight, by a head, with Korimako
a length further away. The last-named
had 51b. allowance for an apprentice
rider, but she would have fared better
without that supposed advantage. It
looked as if she should have won. Bel
Oiseau gave his backers a poor run, but
Climax, afer being one of the leading
division throughout, was fourth. It
should not be long before she picks up
a race. She was ridden by an apprentice
so small that it would not have been
surprising if the strong wind that pre-
vailed had blown him off, but he shaped
rather well.
Tolerant, favorite for the first division
of the Flying Welter Handicap, was slow
in finding his legs ; and, though Merry
Smile led into the straight from Table
Talk and Marie Bruce, she tired before
reaching the judge’s box. The winner
turned up in nine-year-old stallion Fern-
acre, who had to go out fairly wide at
the turn, but then came in, squeezing
some of the other runners. Goldspur ran
on strongly to get second, and, though
Forward did not display the dash ex-
pected, he managed to run third. Of
the unplaced lot Tolerant is bound to
improve, but Table Talk is as likely as
anything behind the first three to win
shortly.
Good Morning cost F. W. Hughes 800
guineas as a yearling, but she has been
a satisfactory purchase. Winner of four
races last season, she added to her credit
account in the second division of the
Flying Welter. She finished strongly to
settle Braeman in the last few strides.
Though deposed later by Diogenes, she
was the early favorite, and that was not
due to special newspaper mention.
Evidently her work must have- pleased
other trainers as well as her own. The
Kite, Macduff and Mantilla showed form
good enough to cause them to be worth
keeping in mind for mid-week or pro-
vincial meetings. Diogenes missed the
jump-out, and then, with the luck of the
race against him going up the hill, never
raised the hopes of his backers.
* * * *
An urgent professional call almost pre-
vented Dr. C. N. Raphael from seeing his
55-guinea filly Madame Coue win the
Seafield Handicap at Moonee Valley on
Saturday. The case over, however, Dr.
Raphael dashed to the course and arrived
in time to see the start of the race.
The doctor’s filly took up a good
position early, chased the pacemaker,
Lerida, until she ran past the latter when
fairly on the way for home, and went on
to win from Partoer and Juma. Madame
Coue had won at Mentone a week earlier,
and this Cinderella of the 1939 Mel-
bourne yearling sales is now a splendid
bargain. She has earned the brief rest
which was prescribed for her after Satur-
day’s race, and Dr. Raphael hopes that
her form when she returns to racing will
be good enough to warrant starts against
the best of her age in the V.R.C. Sires’
Produce and Ascot Vale Stakes.
Hardest-worked juvenile in Melbourne
this season is Partoer, who was having
her twelfth race within three months
when she ran second. Backers who sent her
out favorite considered her unlucky to be
beaten, basing their contentions on the
fact that this usually smart beginner
dropped a long way out of her ground
early. She might have been unlucky, but
before the race I thought she looked a bit
tied up in front, and that may have ac-
counted for her tardy beginning. What-
ever her future, the Portofino-Trench filly
has already much more than repaid the
100 guineas paid for her by owner-trainer
F. W. Ehrhorn. Three wins, a second
and a third have returned £770 in prize-
money alone.
Bargain lots in Madame Coue and Par-
toer finished ahead of Juma in the Sea-
field Handicap, but it might not be long
before Juma (Gay Lothario-Donna
Celesta) shows that he is worth the 1150
guineas paid for him by G. L. Scott. His
race on Saturday was his first, and he
battled on well in third place after being
similarly placed at the turn. Juma is the
third foal of Donna Celesta, a sister to
those erstwhile good stayers Donaster
and Mira Donna.
Backers who criticised Harold Skid-
more’s handling of hot favorite French
Legion after the latter had been defeated
by Winterset in the Moonee Valley Cum-
berland Handicap were talking through
their pockets. The track was not to the
French horse’s liking, and, he declined to
stretch out properly in the early stages.
He made a fast forward move from the
half-mile, and momentarily looked like
pulling his supporters through when only
behind Winterset and Contact rounding
the home turn, but he ran unkindly all
the way down the straight. Veering in
repeatedly, French Legion had to be
continually checked and straightened
up. French Legion is still green, and
with more experience is likely to de-
velop into a good stayer. Winterset led
throughout the Cumberland Handicap,
and his improved stamina in running the
mile and a quarter right out was due in
a large measure to the tactics adopted by
rider R. Bailey. Bailey rode him a wait-
ing race in front, and the manner in
which he slowed the field down was re-
flected in the fact that Winterset’s time,
2.7 i, was half a second slower than that
recorded by Cythorn in winning the
Glenbervie Trial Handicap.
Followers of the powerful Lou Robert-
son stable lost heavily at Moonee Valley.
Muraille, second favorite for the Banyule
Handicap, finished a poor sixth without
ever looking really dangerous ; Our Boy,
second favorite for the Cumberland Han-
dicap, was a poor fourth in a field of six ;
and Marcius, equal third favorite for the
Glenbervie Trial, only added to his recent
failures. Robertson also saddled Prairie
Flower, who eased from sixes to 12 to 1,
for the Dunalister Handicap, and fin-
ished seventh. Biggest disappointment of
the lot was Our Boy, generally considered
to be the chief danger to French Legion.
Our Boy was never going like a winner,
and perhaps it will not be long before he
is given another trial over hurdles.
Scotch College has no greater bar-
racker than “T. Ennis.” An Old Scotch
Collegian himself, he paid 275 guineas
for a Beau Fils—Spinilly colt at the 1938
yearling sales in Melbourne, named him
Old Scotch, and registered the collegiate
colors. The colt won his first race when
he led most of the way in the Banyule
Handicap at Moonee Valley, and, his
ability to get a mile having been doubted,
his success was a good result for ring-
men. Previously he had stopped at the
end of six furlongs. Starting price, how-
ever, may have been less than 12 to 1 had
the general public known the method
adopted by trainer Steve Masters in an
attempt to improve the colt’s solidity.
Masters placed him in the “bull ring” at
Flemington, and Old Scotch jumped
about 120 hurdles during the fortnight
before Saturday’s race. Owner “Ennis”
is not a big bettor —he races for the fun
of it —but he admits that win and place
bets yielded him a profit of £BO for an
outlay of £lO.
Wangaratta trainer H. F. Hoysted
makes few unsuccessful trips to Mel-
bourne with his horses. Cythorn re-
turned to Melbourne last Friday, ran
away with the Glenbervie Trial Handicap
on the same track the following day, and
went back to Wangaratta on Sunday.
Cythorn was always favorite, and rider
A. Breasley, who has been criticised at
times for cutting things too finely, took
no risks with him. He shot Cythorn to
the front about two furlongs from home,
and, not letting up on him, cleared away
to win very easily from Bureaucrat and
Companion. A six-year-old gelding by
Spelthorne-Cybelus, Cythorn’s last seven
races have yielded four wins, a second
and two thirds.
F. Bullock saddled his second winner
since his return to Australia when his
imported grey gelding Silver Collar beat
Green Thorne and Gilt in the Coburg
Welter Handicap, in which riding was
restricted to steeplechase jockeys. Silver
Collar had shown glimpses of form in
small country races, and several weeks
ago had a race won at Woodend when
he struck the running rail and dislodged
his rider, but, in a field of 11, four horses
were backed ahead of him on Saturday.
Always well placed, he hit the front near
the three furlongs and was not after-
wards headed. Silver Collar, who is by
Colorado Kid-Silver Mount, won two
two-year-old selling races in England.
He is one of several horses imported from
England by Bullock some months ago.
Two wins and a second in four races
since her return from a spell is the record
of Magic Circle, one of the most im-
proved sprinters in training in Melbourne.
Trained by Wally O’Dwyer for his father,
Ned, Magic Circle was backed from
sevens down to fives for the Dunalister
Handicap at Moonee Valley, and, moving
up to share the lead with Harmonic Law
rounding the home turn, won a close
finish from Kanuri and Con Naru. Chats-
bury’s form provided the key to the solid
support for Magic Circle. The latter
beat Chatsbury on protest for second
money at Mentone recently, and Chats-
bury won the Standish Handicap at his
next start. Magic Circle, however, may
have been lucky to defeat Con Naru, who
was hemmed in on the rails in the
straight, and did not receive a clear run
until too late.
Success by apprentices has been one
of the most pleasing recent features of
Melbourne racing. With very few excep-
tions, the standard of horsemanship in
Melbourne is not as high as could be de-
sired, and it is satisfactory to know that
we have a crop of promising lads com-
ing along. Three of their number, N.
Powell, T. Griffiths and W. Williamson,
won half the programme between them
at Moonee Valley, Griffiths, who had the
winning mount on Madame Coue, re-
cording his fifth metropolitan win in
eight days.
* * * *
According to those most interested in
Ajax’s future, all is well with him, and in
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(To be held at RANDWICK)
By “PILOT.”
Maiden Handicap: Ever True, 1 ;
Aznazu, 2 ; Ashment, 3.
Nursery Handicap (colts and geld-
ings): Our Barney, 1 ; Mark Twain
2 ; Welcome News, 3.
Nursery Handicap (fillies): Rosy
Morn, 1 ; Dawn Mary, 2 ; Celebra-
tion, 3.
Sefton Handicap: Ctesar, 1 ;
Anne, 2 ; Jazbeau, 3.
Farm Encourage Handicap:
Freckles, 1 ; Busy Biddy, 2 ; Bona
Fide, 3.
Warwick January Handicap:
Mildura, 1 ; Korimako, 2; Will
Rogers, 3.
Berala Handicap: Overbold, 1 ;
Sign On, 2 ; Spear Arrow, 3.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
By “SENTRY.”
Normanby Trial Hurdles: Frisco,
1 ; Mamburdi, 2 ; Kong, 3.
Effingham Handicap: Happiness,
1 ; Miss Jemima, 2 ; Nocturne, 3.
Anglesey Trial Handicap: Scarlet
Toi, 1 ; Kerfils, 2 ; High Falutin, 3.
Chesterfield Handicap: Ramdin,
1 ; Kanuri, 2 ; Con Naru, 3.
Inverness Handicap: Elanage, 1 ;
Morvren, 2; Prince Sion, 3.
Welter Handicap: Pine Peak, 1 ;
Saki, 2 ; Owen Roe, 3.


mm
mm
:
v*.r
:
I V
i-S'-S
ik
i
m
*WL
SOLTINE CLOTH is made only from Pure
£ Australian Wool.
SOLTINE CLOTH keeps the wearer cool through-
-0 out the Summer.
SOLTINE CLOTH, having more “twist” in its
Q fine worsted yarn than other cloths, will not
crease or crush.
SOLTINE
CLOTH
RE6D.
BORN
SHORN
WOVEN AND WORN IN AUSTRALIA.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
the autumn they expect him to show him-
self as good as in the past. On the other
hand, various keen watchers at Caulfield
are not so optimistic. Well, the ques-
tion should soon be settled. As the
Futurity Stakes is run next month, and a
race for Ajax will be necessary before
then, a fair amount of fast work must
enter into his track doings during the
next two weeks. It is to be hoped he
comes through satisfactorily, but when
once a horse that has done a fair amount
of racing has had to forgo engagements
owing to leg troubles he is generally in
danger of again going amiss when sub-
jected to winding-up gallops. On the
strength of strong work “as good as
ever” has been said of some horses, but
the little extra asked of them towards
the finish of a preparation proved more
than they could stand.
* * * *
Challenge Stakes and Anniversary
Handicap weights were issued this week,
and, as was to be expected, Gold Rod
heads the list in the former. He is not
overburdened with 9.9, but it is doubtful
whether he will have time to reach his
best in a little over a fortnight. Of the
trio from G. Price’s stable my preference
is for Waireka, though, with the Adrian
Knox Stakes in view on the second day,
her owner may not regard a run in such
a hard race as the Challenge advisable.
Hamurah is coming on, and Brazandt
will be in better trim than when he ran
recently at Kensington. Trimmer, too,
should be better than at his last start.
As racing will be necessary for High
Caste before he competes at Caulfield,
he may be one of the field, and 61b. over
weight-for-age leaves him with a chance.
Caesar, fifth in the Carrington with 8.13,
is bound to shape well with a pound
less ; but he does not appeal more than
Petruchio, who has 31b. more than he
carried in that race.
Denis may commence too slowly, and
though Bradford has been dropped 41b.,
as compared with the Carrington, his
form in that was so indifferent that he
can scarcely be recommended. Jaz-
beau and Tolerant read better than any
of the others near the bottom of the
list, but at this stage Waireka, Petruchio
and Caesar are the trio appealing most
to me.
In the Anniversary Handicap Allunga
has 31b. more than when he dead-heated
with Edible last year, and that may be
sufficient to stop him. Binnia Hero has
101 b. more than in Tattersall’s Cup, and
Own Folk is down lib. Although the
latter was well beaten in that race, his
close third with 8.0 in the Summer Cup
must be remembered in his favor. A
soft track would help him, and there is
generally a chance of that about the end
of this month.
Mildura won at a mile and a quarter
in fast time in Brisbane, and an extra
quarter-mile may not be beyond him in
a field that does not promise to be par-
ticularly strong. Kurrawid is fairly in,
as are Santa and Bringa. The last-named
has only 51b. more than when he won
the Summer Cup, and he was running on
in Tattersall’s Cup, in which he finished
sixth. His stable companion, Will
Rogers, is again looking well, and he
has shown form over a distance at Rand-
wick.
Sidcup’s win at Moorefield was not
exactly impressive, but Old Rowley is
sure to run better than in Tattersall’s
Cup. Those I expect to do well are
Kurrawid, Bringa, Mildura, Own Folk
and Old Rowley.
* * * *
Early Bird, at 5 to 4 on, won last
season’s Adrian Knox Stakes from
Diamond Wedding, Talkalot and six
others. This year the field may be
scarcely as large, though that may depend
upon how Waireka acquits herself in
races in which she may run prior to final
acceptance, which is at 9 p.m. after the
first day of the Anniversary meeting.
There are unlikely to be any Melbourne
visitors, and though up to seven furlongs
Waireka proved herself superior to any
of her probable opponents last season,
it cannot yet be regarded as absolutely
certain she will see out a mile. When she
ran in the New Year’s Gift, she was pal-
pably in need of racing, but though she
died away at the finish she evidenced re-
tention of her two-year-old pace by being
one of the leading division entering the
straight. Since then she has worked well.
Presumably Anne and Climax will be
among Waireka’s opponents, and both are
likely to see out the mile.
* * * *
Owing to holiday arrangements for the
New Year shutting me out, I did not
have an opportunity of discussing Tatter-
sail’s Cup running in last week’s issue
of The Bulletin. Comment is now
somewhat belated, but still Binnia Hero’s
win is well worth touching upon. He
was hampered when Loombah dropped
back approaching the turn, and then,
with a good finishing run, outstayed
Malagigi, who looked a winner half-
way down the straight.
Sedunum met Binnia Hero 61b. worse
than in the Denman Handicap, run at
a quarter-mile shorter the previous
Saturday. As Sedunum, in third place,
was less than three-quarters of a length
away in the Cup, form and figures
worked out well. The general opinion
was that the mile and a half would
trouble Sedunum, but he proved himself
a better stayer than previously supposed.
It was a surprise to see the hurdler
Winning Post a good fourth, while Santa
was probably a bit knocked out by his
Summer Cup run, and could not come
on after leading into the straight with
Rodborough.
When Beau Vite showed good form
in Sydney before the A.J.C. Derby, his
owner, R. Stewart, was looking forward
to his meeting with Beaulivre in the
Great Northern Derby at Ellerslie
(Auckland). At that time he gave his
colt a reasonable chance of defeating
Beaulivre, but his faith in Beau Vite
weakened to some extent after his
failures at Randwick and Flemington.
Beau Vite must have freshened up after
his return home, as he not only de-
feated Beaulivre in the Derby but, in
doing 2.32, equalled the course record
for a mile and a half. In winning the
Racing Club Handicap from Catalogue
and De Friend the same afternoon
Royal Appellant took 2.33 3-5.
Subsequent to the Derby Beau Vite
proved there was nothing fluky in his
win in that race, as he led Beaulivre all
the way in the Clifford Plate, \\ miles.
If Beaulivre had beaten Beau Vite at
Ellerslie it is very unlikely the latter
would have visited Australia in the
autumn. Now we may again see him,
though there is little time in which to
give him a let-up, and he has been in
continuous training for several months.
* * * *
Marengo has not been a lucky horse
for Miss “Lorna Doone.” He won a
race for her at his first start this season,
but his four runs since have returned
two seconds and two thirds. His earnings
have covered the expense of racing him
this season, but each minor placing is send-
ing him up sufficiently to make further
success for him increasingly difficult.
Marengo weakened at the end of the
Peter Moore Cup, but, as he has won at
a mile, there may still be hope for him
as a stayer. His sire, Harinero, is a
brother to Trigo (English Derby and
St. Leger winner), and won up to two
and a quarter miles; while his dam,
Truest, is a Treclare mare, and won at
eleven furlongs. Breeding and perform-
ances of his sire and dam should there-
fore make Harinero a staying possibility.
* * * *
There was keen bidding for Respira-
tor’s two-year-old half-brother, O Raklo,
by Lo Zingaro, when he was offered
at auction last week. Although nomi-
nated by W. Devon for his future
engagements O Raklo was sold on the
joint account of that owner and J. T.
Jamieson, his trainer. Both wanted him,
and Devon had to go to 1050gns. to
secure the chestnut, whose appearance
suggests that if he does make his mark
as a racehorse it will be as a stayer. W.
McGee is to prepare O Raklo, who, if
he turns out as well as Jamieson antici-
pates, should be a prize packet for any
trainer.
* * * *
A Foxbridge colt in Fearless Fox won
at Randwick recently, and that sire got
an even better advertisement when his
son Lou Rosa, a gelding, won the Great
Northern Foal Stakes of £lOOO, at the
Auckland Cup meeting. Lou Rosa was
not greatly fancied, notwithstanding that
at his previous start he beat a big field
at the Waikato meeting.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Blitzkrieg
Army, Navy and Air Force turned out
in fighting formation at Sydney Stadium,
their war aims confined to the grand
champion finals. Zero hour was the same
as that at which the estaminets used to
close, and Trooper S. Ball (Army) im-
mediately opened hostilities by advanc-
ing into no-man’s-land at the double
and planting a magnificent right-hand
salute flush on Ordinary-Seaman Russell’s
port jawbone. Seaman Russell sub-
merged, but at once rose to the surface
and caught Trooper Ball amidships with
an inverted howitzer attack. Trooper
Ball responded with a torpedo barrage—
it’s a strange war, all right—eventually
sinking the Navy in the third hopover
with a couple of well-placed shots in the
tops’ls. Trooper Ball, bantam champ.
The Navy was afloat again in the next
offensive, once more against the Army.
This time the opening hopover was
purely a war of nerves, but in the next
foray Ordinary-Seaman Jones resorted
to boarding tactics, grappling with Cor-
poral Ross, flinging him back against the
Siegfried in repeated assaults, and there
peppering him with ball and grapeshot
to such purpose as to belie completely
the theory that the offensive must always
fail against modern defences. The Army,
weakened by repeated assaults, confined
its activities to desultory sniping, but the
Navy’s armorplating was too heavy.
Ordinary-Seaman Jones, featherweight
champ.
The troops seen going into the line
for the next offensive looked so much
alike from present war correspondent’s
observation-post that each of them might
have thought he was about to light him-
self. However, it turned out a war that
would have satisfied even United States
radio listeners; in fact, they fought like


SAVE MONEY
ITS
P
THRIFTY
INSTALL
TO
NEW
CHAMPIONS
llt!!£ ;■ '
M
m
m
m
* i\
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring
MORE SPEED
Learn a lesson from the race
drivers. They choose Champions,
the spark plugs with the
proven ability to give every
engine the strong hot sparks
that bring out its best speed,
power and fuel economy. In
racing and in every-day driv-
ing, Champions are winners!
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
brothers. This was the first engagement
in which the Air Force took part, and it
would have done Mr. Curtin’s heart good
to see how completely it obliterated the
Army. Sergeant Cooper began hostili-
ties with an archie attack which aston-
ished every anti-aircraft gunner present
by placing its first shot neatly on Air-
craftsman Keeling’s fuselage. The Air
Force responded with heavy bursts from
both wings, a specially heavy burst from
the right putting the Army into a nose-
dive. The Army counter-attacked in good
style, but the next hopover saw it again
crash, this time out of control. Air-
craftsman Keeling, lightweight champ.
In the next engagement Aircraftsman
Aitcheson displayed, at the start, an obvi-
ous superiority of strategy and a broad
grin. He looked like a veteran unscathed
from long experience up the line pulling
the leg of a raw recruit. Private Shoe-
bridge, however, is “Blue” to his cobbers
(as they vociferously made clear), and he
was not so thatched merely to keep his
head warm. He has what goes with it.
After looking certain to be carted off to
the casualty-clearing station during the
first hopover, he came out fresh from
his brief rest to plug through the next,
began to straighten out his dented sector
in the third, and in the fourth and final
threw up such a barrage of hand-grenades
that the Air Force wilted. No snailkrieg
about this particular war. Private Shoe-
bridge, junior welter champ.
From here onwards, Army, Navy and
Air Force were respectively sending their
heavier tanks, battlecraft and bombers
over the top, and what with the increas-
ing tonnage and the consequent deteriora-
tion in manoeuvrability the war steadily
slowed down. Aircraftsman Osborne
kept Cook Lewin, of the Navy, outside
effective range per medium of his very
long-distance guns, one of which he had
mounted in each wing. Aircraftsman
Osborne, welter champ.
Gunner “Jock” Gray (Army) entered
on the next engagement employing tac-
tics suggestive of service in the forces
of Generalissimo Kui Kong Young. For
the first couple of hopovers these looked
like bringing victory, but in the third
Leading-Aircraftsman Sleeth zoomed in
past the Gunner’s right-flank barrage and
forced him to make a pancake landing
with an aerial torpedo that got home in
the vicinity of his cookhouse. Aircrafts-
man Sleeth, middleweight champ.
In the next offensive Aircraftsman Beil
allegedly committed the only atrocity of
the entire war. It is believed, on the
authority of a report circulating from
unofficial sources, that Aircraftsman Bell
attempted a low-altitude record. With
the assistance of auxiliary naval craft,
Ordinary-Seaman Douglas limped into
port, what time the O.C. general hostili-
ties conveyed to the offending side the
world’s moral disapproval of this alleged
breach of international law and the count
reverberated round the bleachers. How-
ever, it could not have been very damag-
ing, as the Seaman came out for the final
hopover full of fight. Even so, the Air
Force won the engagement. Aircrafts-
man Bell, light-heavy champ.
As was right and proper, the war
ended with the Navy supreme. Leading
Stoker Hill came out to engage Aircrafts-
man Lister, leading with everything the
stokehold had given him, and that was
plenty. Good-night Fritz if he’s ever rash
enough to carry an engagement to close
quarters with the Leading Stoker! Within
three-quarters of a minute all that re-
mained of the Air Force was a crumpled
heap of wreckage. Leading Stoker Hill,
heavyweight champ.
Hostilities over, Leading Plenipoten-
tiary Norman Nock entered armed with
trophies and made a peace settlement
completely satisfactory to all surviving
participants.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
There has never yet been a great golfer
who has not had some minor fault in
his play. Bobby Jones, Hagen, Sarazen
and Henry Cotton have all suffered from
little errors ; but the difference between
these players and ordinary club golfers
is that they don’t keep on making the
mistakes. Minor faults, that can be easily
removed often spoil a lot of enjoyment
in the average player’s game ; the worry
they cause frequently leads to more seri-
ous errors.
A golfer’s style is like a set of finger-
prints no two styles are identical,
although they may appear similar until
close study is made. Every player has
his own peculiarities and faults, which all
go to make up his style. Being a member
of four clubs and having a different part-
ner nearly every time, I have noticed how
each of them plays his game. Usually
they are middle-markers playing for fun,
as well as trying to improve to a single-
figure mark. Many of them make their
play more difficult by minor faults that
tend to cause inaccuracy. A fifteen-handi-
capper who steadily lost many strokes
on the greens through his putting in-
variably placed his putter on the green
not quite on the line he intended the
ball to travel. Consequently the ball
finished off the line from the approach
putt, and he generally missed the next.
His fault originated through not having
the sole of the club on the turf, and
having the toe of the club off the ground.
Thus the putter blade was not being
stroked smoothly through the heel
caught in the turf, turning the blade off
the line. This error is committed by
many golfers who don’t watch their short
shots closely enough.
Sometimes in chipping, especially when
using a lofted club, the clubhead is not
placed correctly to the ball. One well-
known Sydney amateur had the fault of
stiffening his wrists just before taking
his club away on the backswing, and,
instead of having the hands relaxed and
held slightly down, they were held in a
straight, rigid line of club, wrists and
arms. Apart from appearing awkward
and stiff, this style took a great deal of
smoothness from the player’s game be-
fore he recognised his mistake.
Another common fault among handi-
cap players is the placing of their feet
so that their aim is not towards the
intended object. Although they may hit
the shot perfectly, the ball will miss its
mark. In late years the closed stance
has removed much of this difficulty,
as both feet are more easily placed,
but the average golfer unconsciously
puts his feet down off the line and
is then forced to swing out of his
usual groove to hit the ball on the line.
I play the ball from a spot which is level
with the left heel, and it is therefore
easy to find my usual mark.
• ••••*
The bunker shot, normally difficult, is
made much harder by many players who
attempt to “nip” the ball out cleanly off
the top of the sand instead of safely
exploding it on to the green. Very few
of the best players even try the clean
chip, Walter Hagen and Harry Williams
being the only two who consistently chip
the ball out with confidence.
While most golfers have clubs to siiit
them, many struggle along with kits con-
taining sticks which don’t ease their
troubles. Upright swingers trying to use
clubs flat in the lie, and vice versa, are
frequently seen on the links. The club-
sole must lie flat on the ground, other-
wise the face will be turned on to the
ball too suddenly at impact, resulting in a
slightly smothered shot. One of Victoria’s
best amateurs, H. R. (“Dick”) Payne, is a
vastly-improved hitter of the ball in the
last twelve months owing to his having
eliminated a tiny dip in towards the ball
with his head and shoulders on the back-
swing. This small fault made him half-
hit a lot of his shots during the open
championship meeting in 1938 at Adel-
aide, but last year in Melbourne he was
hitting in a very much sounder manner.
.••••*
Most golfers who have had their games
analysed thoroughly have found similar
errors. The placing of the ball in relation
to the feet is where many fail. The ten-
dency is to play the ball too much off
the back foot rather than the left foot.
The older style was more in the middle
of the feet, but lately the fashion is to
have the ball towards the front foot,
enabling the player to get more behind
the shot.
While it is comparatively easy to pick
out these faults and write about them,
the player is unable to find them for
himself unless he has a movie taken of
his swing. I have found the latter of
great assistance with my own swing;
but it would be far more economical for
handicap players to pay an occasional
visit to the professional, who can in a
few minutes tell him what is wrong. Any-
one on the lookout for them has a better
chance of picking faults out. Occasional
experiments have proved to me that if
a player can diagnose his own troubles
he makes quick progress, but if he is
not much good at analysing his play a
visit to a professional is a good invest-
ment.
* * * *
McSpaden, an American pro., won
the Philippines “open” with rounds of
69, 71, 73 and 74; Norman von Nida
(302) finished eighth. Williams (307)
headed the amateurs.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT "
(Formerly of the “Referee.”)
Bradman’s duck at Brisbane on Satur-
day gave rise to more talk and banter
among cricketers than many of his big
centuries. He was caught by Dixon off
Stackpoole at mid-on in trying to drive
one wide of that position. Dixon had to
go very low for the ball. When he held
it the crowd could hardly believe that
Bradman was out first ball.
Stackpoole played with Toombul and
the Colts last season, taking 20 wickets
at 17.30. For the match at Brisbane he
was selected only because fast-bowler
Ellis was unfit; the young fellow was
holiday-making in Adelaide when the
news came through. That he is of the
right stuff was shown by his flying back
to Brisbane, otherwise he could never
have been on deck to start the match on
Saturday.
Stackpoole is not very fast, and does
not deliver “high over,” like Ellis. But
he bowls more at the wicket and keeps a
better length than some of the real speed
merchants. His 4 for 37 on the first day
against S.A. (6 for 164) was a feat he will
remember when his whiskers are grey.
Christ turned on a highlight .when he
followed a skied ball by Waite off Stack-
poole. He was at mid-on and nailed the
catch half-way out to the fence —it
brought down the house. Waite is hav-
ing a rare run with the bat: 137, 67,
64, 46, 42 not out, 28 not out and 13.
Some of these were very timely at-the-
pinch efforts. The South Australian
innings was finished before lunch on
Monday—for 230; Stackpoole took two
more wickets (six for 72). At “tea” on
Monday Queensland had lost four for
120. Shortly afterwards they were all out
for 133.
In first-class cricket Bradman has been
dismissed without scoring 11 times. The
distinction has thrice fallen to Queens-
land bowlers. In N.S.W.’s first innings
against the Bananaland men at Sydney in
1928, Don went in with six wickets down
for 467 to join Kippax (who carried his
bat out for 315). He saw Kippy push
one to short mid-on for a single. It
looked easy and he tried it, only to miss
a straight one —bowled by Gough.
Don’s second duck against Queens-
land was more sensational. Playing on
the B.C.G. at Woolloongabba, Eddie Gil-
bert started at astounding pace. “Faster
than Larwood ever was,” they said. Don
ducked one or two and then Waterson
at short-stop held a snick. Wendell Bill
had fallen in the same manner, and two
were out for nil.
• ••••*
In three ducks against England Brad-
man was bowled first ball by Bowes in
Melbourne, caught off Voce first bail in
Brisbane and caught second ball off Voce
in Sydney, the last two on bad wickets.
Moral: Get him first or second ball —if
you can.
♦ * *
Three Victorians have made Shield cen-
turies this season —all newchums, Tam-
blyn 107, Miller 108 and Beames 104. A
bright sign for Victorian cricket. Hassett,
star of the side, has yet to do the trick.
This model of batting consistency has
made 92, 89, 83, 66, 57, 33 and 5.
Young Victorians are also taking
honors with the ball. Ring’s 23 wickets
cost 24 runs apiece—moderate compared
with Fleetwood-Smith’s 45 per wicket and
Sievers’s 38. Barry-Scott is second to
Ring with 15 wickets at 29. This pair
are training along the lines that lead to
Test selection.
* * * *
Bradman’s 267 piloted South Aus. to
a record against Victoria. It is the first
time S.A. ever went in successfully
against an opening total of 400 set by the
Vies. If Don could have managed that
Brisbane duck a week earlier in Mel-
bourne, how different the Shield table
might now appear. At the end of the
match South Aus. had 18 points, Vic-
toria 11 and N.S.W. 10, with Queensland
nil.
**. * *
The win by Bradman’s men in Mel-
bourne did not bring any more glory to
seasoned warriors of the ball. Grimmett’s
four wickets cost 214, Ward’s four cost
200 and Waite got one for 128. Honors
went to the new pair, Klose taking 5 for
85 and Burton 6 for 143. This and the
success of Stackpoole in Brisbane sug-
gest that further trials of new blood in
bowling might strike hidden riches.
* * * *
Bill O’Reilly holds a lonely position at
the head of Shield averages this season.
He has taken most wickets at smallest
average cost —34 at 12.09. These figures
have the scent of some of Charlie
Turner’s peak seasons. The old cham-
pion in 1886-87, in opposition to the
English team, captured 52 wickets at the
phenomenally low cost of 6.80 runs each.
England won the only two Tests that
season by 126 and 71 runs, despite Tur-
ner’s 8 for 68 and 9 for 93. In the follow-
ing year, his crop of wickets reached
106 —a number never approached by any
other Australian in one season.
* * * *
Walter David Loveridge, who died in
Brisbane on Saturday, aged 72, captained
Sydney Juniors when they gave Stoddart’s
team a surprise in 1894. Victor Trumper,
then 17, played a gem of an innings for
67 and M. A. Noble a remarkable one
for 152 not out, and the Juniors closed
at 9 for 442. Loveridge kept wickets for
and captained N. S. Wales against
Queensland in 1902. He captained Central
Cumberland when it won the Sydney
premiership in 1899-1900. In the late
’eighties he was in the Sydney Univer-
sity team with Tom Garrett and Sammy
Jones. In public life he held various
posts, including chairmanship of Sydney
Harbor Trust, A splendid type of all-
round Australian.
* * * *
M. Cohen, to make his first appearance
in big cricket for N.S.W. against S.A.,
is Paddington’s best all-rounder. For
Paddington he has scored 481 runs at
54 and taken 22 wickets at 18 runs
apiece in club cricket this season. A
very keen trier with a mentality for
cricket. Is secretary to his club and also
member of the N.S.W. Association.
Young Biddulph, of Manly, known pre-
viously as a distance-swimmer only, came
from behind to beat Kendall for the
N.S.W. 110yds. title —by a touch. Time
was good—lmin. I.6sec. The Queens-
lander Fleming (he’s in the A.I.F. and
short of training) was third. Biddulph
the same night easily held his 440yds.
championship, beating Noel Ryan and a
newcomer, Valentin ; time, smin. o.4sec.


ram
/
\
a
j
r-*r
V./
. s .
/ V
fit**
ESS
1
1
in?***
T
/
m
Th
vt TJST.
r
S'
IK
ffl
1
JJ
?
|g!|r%w>
a
..■ii-AH
ms
7a
%
Si
i:.N
m;;-v-
JS#' ,ii*'
lliis^
Sir
•a*!' -
KEEP THE FLAG FLYING
with the real Australian drink that
builds comradeship and good health.
Tooheys
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Pkilp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Agents:
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.


OIUTV
ĸ
AT THI —-
TIVOLI
k
AFTERNOONS ONLY:
Pantomime “CIN DERELLA.”
EVENINGS: VARIETY REVUE.
Will Mahoney an<l Stars at Both Shows.
.
AFTERNOONS ONLY:
Pantomime “MOTHER GOOSE.”
EVENINGS: VARIETY REVUE.
Salaoi’s Puppets & Stars at Both Shows
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“Mr. Smith Goes to Washington”
In this opus, which had its Australian
premiere at Melbourne Majestic, Frank
Capra had a golden opportunity for
making an outstanding picture. He
makes Mr. Smith a naive, simple, inno-
cent sort of creature like the Idiot of
Dostoievsky. He sends him to Washing-
ton as the unwitting “stooge” of the
scoundrelly boss who controls the
machine which tyrannises over the State
from which Mr. Smith comes. The boss
jumps to the conclusion that the innocent
fool will do what he is told and won’t
give any trouble.
But in Mr. Smith’s breast burns a
simple faith in the Declaration of In-
dependence, in government of the people,
for the people, by the people, and the
first thing he does is to go up to the
Capitol and commune for five hours
with the statue of Abraham Lincoln, in-
cidentally a very bad one. He takes his
place in the Senate, the youngest mem-
ber in it, and then Mr. Capra proceeds
to show how his simple sincerity makes
havoc of the plans of rascally legislators,
how it embarrasses all the sold-out people
and how in the end it clears out the
money-changers from the Temple.
Up to this point Mr. Capra is as
sincere as his hero. But he is not a
“great” movie producer for nothing. Here
the inevitable goil intrudes into the situa-
tion. She is Mr. Smith’s bored and blase
secretary who takes Washington’s black-
guardism for granted and expects the new
Senator to be just another scoundrel.
After a few days of Mr. Smith’s enthu-
siasm for truth, honesty and freedom,
however, she becomes a Boadicea fighting
for the liberties of the American people.
The proceedings in the Senate then
become farce comedy. Mr. Smith brings
in a bill instructing the Government to
buy a piece of land in his State for the
purposes of a national boys’ camp, and it
turns out that he has accidentally selected
the area where his employer, the machine
boss, wants a dam erected from which he
will make an enormous profit. The gang
then throw him over, forge documents
to show that the land belongs to Mr.
Smith, there is a Senate inquiry and he
is sentenced to expulsion. He is given
the floor to make a final speech, and,
according to the quaint custom of the
American Legislature, he can keep it for
so long as he can stand and go on talk-
ing. He establishes a new record by
speaking continuously for 23 \ hours ;
then he faints: but he has blocked the
wicked boss’s bill, and his heroic be-
havior so affects a fellow-Senator that
he rushes into the chamber and makes
a dramatic confession of the whole black-
guardly business,, Mr. Smith becomes a
national hero and gets the goil, and Mr.
Capra fades out to a sentimental finish,
having allowed himself to contradict com-
pletely his own argument.
The film has its admirable moments.
The photography is excellent, in the hands
of James Stewart Mr. Smith frequently
becomes an appealing figure, the sub-
sidiary characters are extraordinarily
well acted, and some of the scenes of
American lawmakers at work are so like
Canberra that they can be taken for
truth. But unreality broods over the rest
of it.
* * * *
“Ants in His Pants”
Cinesound’s latest gift to the nation
is not its best work by any means, chief
fault being one that has hindered several
earlier productions—disjointedness and a
tendency to cram too much into the film.
There’s no reason why comedy, villainy,
songandance and the thread of a plot
shouldn’t be the components of a good
filmplay, but they should be blended to-
gether to run in perfect accord and carry
the whole set-up with them.
In “Ants in His Pants” each ingredient
seems to remain a separate part, each
seems to butt in on the other and be
played out to its utmost length, and,
consequently, each seems a too-obvious
artifice to pad the film out to a respect-
able running-time. It gives the impres-
sion °f awkward and laborious building
up of plotj with time every now anc i
again for the players to show what else
Will Mahoney, an energetic customer
with a genuine bent for comedy, occasion-
ally lifts the mirthful content of the film
tQ a hilarious pitch> But, though a
r [b-buster on the stage, he is one of
those vaudevilleans who lose a good deal
0 f their punch when playing to an
unfeeling camera instead of to a re-
sponsive audience. In pure fallabout
—some too plainly faked—he has some
good moments, and the best laugh of
the film comes from his caricature of
Ri chard lauber. . ■ ...
Holding the piece together is a boiling
up of plots, incidents and whatnots that
Hollywood has already worked to a
s t a ndstill. Will Mahoney and Sydney
wheeler are a couple of troupers battling
f or enG ugh cash to repair the voice of
Dorothy Dunkley doesn’t listen to Pat McDonald abusing John Wood, while
Erna Living ducks off with the coffee tray in “Quiet Wedding,” at Sydney
Minerva.
child songster Jean Hatton. Mr. Mahoney
undertakes to raise the dough by facing
a man-eating pug for a stake of £5OO.
The Alec Kellaway-Mahoney stoush is
the best bit of buffoonery in the film.
Miss Hatton’s warbling is a pleasant
addition, and Shirley Ann Richards,
Wheeler, Evie Hayes and Kellaway turn
in f.a.q. work, their main limitations
being those of the film and not of their
own ability.
* IK * *
“Susannah of the Mounties”
Maybe this commentator’s judgment
has been worn down by successive on-
slaughts from Hollywood, but in viewing
this latest Shirley Temple offering at
Sydney Plaza it seems that there might
be something in the lass after all—cer-
tainly on this showing she’s the least
objectionable of cheild stars seen over
the past twelve months or so. In a
simple, straightforward way she can act,
and there’s evidence abundant that she
has had the intelligence to profit from
her already considerable experience.
What she has to do, of course, is not
her fault, and it’s a mark up to her that
she does at least make it into something
approaching entertainment. The main line
of it has to do with Miss Temple’s
adoption by a bunch of mounties after
her kin have been sawed up by Injuns.
The ensuing sentimentalism is occasion-
ally interrupted by spasmodic stoush with
Injuns, culminating in the abduction of
the boss mountie and his rescue from a
toasting at the stake by—well, by whom
else could it be?
Randolph Scott, the mountie, very
pretty and all that; likewise Margaret
Lockwood as his main preoccupation.
* * * *
Amateur Movies
John S. Burgess went to Hanuabada,
loaded his camera with color-film and
aimed it at a native settlement and tribal
dance. It brought down the Australian
Amateur Cine Society’s Jacobs Cup.
Mr. Burgess captured the color, the
rhythm and the intensity of the dance,
avoided the trite shots of ship and sea
which disfigured others, and produced a
neat little film that, aided by better
focusing in spots and a voice, might
have passed for a professional travelogue.
John L. Phillips’s “Tasmanian Inter-
lude” achieved second place. Pictorial
record of a tour of the Speck, it gave an
impression of general wetness, and in-
cluded some outstanding shots of molten
copper at Mt. Lyell.
“One Hour, One Night,” produced by
Dr. M. W. Ginsberg, montage effects by
Dr. M. W. Ginsberg, scenario by Dr.
M.W.G., adapted for the screen by
Ginsberg, M.D., was an interesting third-
prize winner. Cast comprised feet,
hands, legs, motor-wheels, doorknobs and
sundry other items which, judiciously
used, told of a doctor called out to
deliver an infant.
“Caravanning,” by Frank Brooks, ran
fourth.
STAGE AND CONCERT
An English Comedy
A wedding had been arranged between
Janet Royd and Dallas Chaytor. Janet’s
mother was one of those .fussing, rush-
ing, upsetting obtuse women who gener-
ally make life a purgatory for everyone
around them at such times, and fre-
quently call attention to the fact that
nobody does anything, and if they have
to put up with much more they’ll go
mad.
By the time the wedding eve is reached
Janet is so badgered, strung-up and tired
with all the preparation that she is in a
state of suppressed hysterics. This con-
dition is not helped by the French dress-
maker, Madame Mirelle, who assumes
that she is the central figure and her
“creations” the sole excuse for the wed-
ding. Asinine remarks of the type usually
made to a bride-to-be by her intimates
and the positively lewd interest of Flor-
ence Bute, a married old nark whose
daughter is to be bridesmaid, finally
reduce Janet to a state delicately balanced
between horror of the local interest in
the yet-unrumpled marriage bed, a frantic
longing to be left alone, and the inevit-
able doubt as to whether she really loves
Chaytor after all.
Chaytor’s attempts to soothe her only
exacerbate them both, for his temper
frays under the constant peek-a-booing
and the impossibility of having a minute
alone with the girl, and he finishes up
by passing her one. This she regards
as an inauspicious omen for the wedding,
and the romance looks like crashing.
All through this Janet’s mother goes
blindly on, rushing hither and yon;
Janet’s brother Denys wanders in and
out making drily humorous remarks ; her
married sister Marcia arrives in a state
of nervous frustration and early preg-
nancy ; the factotum, Bella, keeps remind-
ing everybody of the absence of sufficient
cauliflower to go round, and douching
everybody with commonsense; Janet’s
father preserves his taciturnity, and keeps
a cold eye on what the whole thing is
to cost; and younger brother John
arrives with Flower Lisle, a sort of post-
impressionist maiden who insists that she
is not like other people, makes inverted
love to Denys and spouts vague verse.
A soothing influence is the arrival of
Aunt Mary Jarrow, who has been emulat-
ing Rosita Forbes, and who urges the
lovers to get away alone for a few
minutes and straighten things out. She
even plans an alibi for Janet.
Off they go, and make a visit of in-
spection to the flat that is to be their
home. Here Janet, suddenly realising
that Dallas is the right man, persuades
him to stay the night, and thus removes
the innocence that was so easily hurt by
the intentional and unintentional barbs
of the family. She can now face the
wedding with equanimity, and, after being
found out and forgiven by almost every-
body except her mother, goes happily to
the altar.
Those are the general ingredients of
“Quiet Wedding,” a neat comedy by
Esther McCracken, produced by Frq,d J.
Blackman as Sydney Minerva’s first 1940
offering.
It gave John Wood, the young Aus-
tralian who has returned after six years
in Hollywood and London, an opportu-
nity to show how much he has improved.
Slightly stiff at first as Dallas Chaytor,
he was soon living the part admirably.
Miss Pat McDonald gave a fine perform-
ance in the difficult job of the bride-to-
be. With few exceptions, support was
also tiptop.
* * * *
Ballet
In the quartet of ballets which made
up Colonel de Basil’s second offering
at Sydney’s Theatre Royal Momus
started the good work by putting Mel-
pomene to rout in the gay “Carnaval.”
Disjointed these scenes from the “Corn-
media d’ll Arte” may be, but they com-
bine to make a delightful vehicle for
Schumann’s music. Through Fokine’s
intricate choreographic patterns moved
the central figures of Columbine and
Harlequin, the former role danced with
a feather-light gracefulness by Tatiana
Riabouchinska. Yura Lazovski, her
partner in the revels, seemed in imminent
danger of jumping out of his skin. As
good a Pierrot as ever lugubriously
flapped long sleeves and sank in despair
at his futility was Edouard Borovansky.
Nina Verchinina and Sono Osata daintily
abetted as Chiarina and Estrella in the
confounding of Pantalon.
“Paganini,” repeated, is likely to prove
one of the most popular in the repertoire,
with its fantastic symbolism, the mad
swirl of movement, the sheer power of
the second and third scenes and the
full-blooded music. Dimitri Rostoff was
the more-than-half insane fiddler to the
life.
Few ballerinas could wish for a more
exquisite background to a dream-dance
than Weber’s “Invitation to the Waltz,”
and Tamara Toumanova invested the
fragile loveliness of that morsel “The
Spectre of the Rose” with charm and
distinction. Serge Lifar was an agile
Spirit.
“The Good-humored Ladies,” jolly
and vivacious, rounded off a well-
balanced programme. Scarlatti’s music
is not particularly distinguished, yet it
fits this merry scheme smoothly enough.
A big cast engagingly interpreted this
comedy of the infelicity of Venetian
lovers.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
■ —-hue
twit
s?r »m
(Mr
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S'pringwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
BRIGHTON COLLEGE
THE CRESCENT, MANLY
DAY AND BOARDING SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
Fully Registered under the New South Wales Bursary Act.
Situated on the Western Heights of Manly,
overlooking the Harbour.
Principal: Miss A. I. CHOKER. 8.A.,
Adelaide, Honours Certificate, Teachers’
Training Institute. South Australia.
The Principal is assisted by a Staff of Uni-
versity graduates and trained and experienced
teachers.
Special Attention paid to Boarders.
Curriculum Kindergarten to Leaving
Honours.
The Kindergarten (for both boys and girls)
is under the direction of a certificated
Kindergarten Mistress.
Visiting Specialists give lessons in Music,
Elocution, Art and Dressmaking.
Illustrated Prospectus on Application.
During Vacation ring JA3961. Principal at home by appointment
22, 1940. Telephone: XU3193.
from January
A WOMANS
LETTER
The grand old lady of Macquarie-
street, Queen Victoria, gazed on the
passing of six thousand of the Second
A.I.F. last Thursday. Some of their
forebears had fought for her in the
South African war, when Cecil Rhodes
and such Empire-makers had given her
flag another country to fly over. Many
of their fathers had fought for her
grandson and his throne in the 1914
war. Now these young men were to
fight, maybe die, for the causes which
her great-grandson holds just. Through
the haze of midday heat and sun the old
lady looked at the product of this
youngest Dominion, and probably felt
inclined to wave her crown in the breeze
and cry Hurrah!
“Hurrah!” “Good luck, Digger,” and
“Coo-ee” were cried by the girls and
the women, the men and the children
along Elizabeth-street. Around St.
James’s-road and into Macquarie-street,
where the verandahs of Parliament
House were crowded, the cries echoed,
the small Union Jacks and the Aus-
tralian flags were waved, and the cries
surged up to the open window where
this Letter watched. There was pride
in them, and sadness. The boronia-
brown army marched with a splendid
precision, with straight back and steady
eye. Never-ending they seemed, their
bayonets flashing in the sun as they
took the rising curve that swung them
into Macquarie-street. Across the sun-
baked Hyde Park, the towers of St.
Mary’s sent a blessing, to which the
green bronze spire of St. James’s uttered
fervent “Amen!”
Half a million people lined the streets
to view the procession. Thousands
watched from balcony and window.
There were the Mounted Police and the
Police Band. “That’s Brigadier Allen,”
somebody cried, “leading the march.”
There were the black berets of the
mechanised units. Some of the daunt-
less lads, previous to their camp life, had
known no more than the life of the
outback, the life of a country town.
Sun-tanned and of a splendid physique
were the young men of this army.
Down Martin-place, past the Ceno-
taph, this Second A.I.F. strode with its
easy swing. At the Town Hall, dressed
in khaki with the touches that make it
the full service dress of his military
rank, Lord Gowrie took the salute. With
him was Lord Wakehurst, and near by
Lt.-General Blarney, head of the Second
A.I.F. In the company, too, were Lt.-
General Sturdee, Admiral Crace and
William Morris Hughes. There were
bands playing “The Siegfried Line”;
there were girls, in their bright summer
frocks, like a hail of confetti over Hyde
Park. Sydney, in short, with pride and
with tears welcomed Australia’s soldiers!
“Quiet Wedding,” at the Minerva, was
given a crowded and gay reception last
Thursday. The domestic comedy is full
of spirited homely touches, and John
Wood as the about-to-be bridegroom
and Pat McDonald as the balky bride,
hag-ridden by cargoes of butterdishes and
cut-glass vases, stimulated their audience
to the point of cheers. Neutral Bay (John
Wood’s home) regards John as the link
between its water frontage and London's
stage and film world, and Neutral Bay
citizens were solid in the circle and stalls.
John’s father, though, a bit nervous,
thought he wouldn’t go into the per-
formance, but stood outside the theatre
to watch the arriving crowds.
What a man of resource was Frank
Bradley as the father of the bride! When
small cousin grumbled that spectators at
the wedding would laugh when she knelt
down, because her bridesmaid’s shoes
still showed the price “12s. 6d. crossed
out and Bs. 9d. marked in,” kindly Frank
Bradley Royd takes the shoes away. He
returns with them, saying “I’ve rubbed
out the 12s. 6d. and put a three before
the eight.” Nan Taylor, of stage and radio
fame, was there with John Wood’s young
£ousin, Hazel Smith. Marjorie Gordon,
of “Under Your Hat,” glittered in silver
and white. Princess Radziwill’s tulle and
satin glowed like a prize fuchsia. Hilda
Scurr was there; so were the Grant
Coopers, the pretty Salenger girls and
graceful Margaret Dovey. A great fan-
shaped vase of pink gladioli at the top
of the stairs caught the gaze.
Ballet first nights have been changed
from Saturday to Friday. This is better
for stagehands and performers, since with
Saturday change of programme there had
to be complete change of scenery be-
tween matinee and evening. How the
audience will react to the change is still
to be proved. The Royal was as packed
last Friday as on any first night, but the
audience was not so gala in dress. Per-
haps by contrast the deep, rich blue of
Tatiana Riabouchinska’s many-frilled
frock in “Carnaval” and the rose-red with
its rich embroideries in which Tamara
Grigorieva showed her thistledown sor-
row as one of “The Good-humored
Ladies” glowed the more ardently.
Frangipanni was in the air (not hair).
It was worn by Mrs. E. H. Salenger on
her deep-blue laces, and by Faith Mac-
arthur Onslow on her black moire.
Graceful was the sweeping length
of Mrs. Volterra’s blue velvet cape.
Ground-long, too, was Mrs. C. V.
Walker’s cape of black marquisette.
It glittered with diamente. Mrs.
Byron Wrigley’s printed cottons were
attractive. Gloria Moore-Cosgrave fol-
lowed the cape vogue. Cape and frock
were violet in tone. Next Friday the
new “Cimarosiana” will be the awaited
dance.
Here is Mrs. Casey, wife of the Minis-
ter. Mrs. Casey drives a car, flies a
’plane, likes a bit of fishing, and in addi-
tion, or above all, is an artist. She is a
clever hostess, likes entertaining and is a
great reader. Photograph by Falk.
The Roystone Daveys have a cottage
at Collaroy and a flat at Franconia, in
Macleay-street. Mrs. Davey spent the
Christmas holidays shuttling back and
forth between the two. When she was
at Franconia she wondered how the
garden at Collaroy (it’s reported to have
a prize blooming) was getting on ; and
when she was at Collaroy the telephone
lured her back citywards for bridge
parties and the Ballet.
If there is a special heaven for the
generous to Art, Howard Hinton will
have a high throne and a halo set
in place by the Blessed Damozel. The
Teachers’ College at Armidale had its
Christmas stocking filled to bursting-
point by this trustee of the National
Gallery. The December gifts to the New
England seat of learning numbered 73
oil-paintings and water-colors.
There are works by Syd Long, F.
McComas, Griiner, Hopwood, Percy
Leason, John D. Moore, Fullwood, Frank
Mahony, Norman, Lionel and Daryl
Lindsay, Arthur Murch, Hanke, Joshua
Smith, Gladys Owen, Woodward Smith,
Buckmaster, Howard Ashton, Adrien
Feint, Viola Quaife and Dattilo Rubbo,
and four paintings by Hungarian artists.
This brings the total number of pictures
given by H.H. to over 600.
Handsome Matron Kellett, of Sydney
Hospital, who served through the 1914-
18 war, and has decorations to prove it,
made a well-turned speech at the dinner
to the nurses of the A.I.F. This was a
farewell party, its hostesses being the
Council of the Australian Trained
Nurses’ Association. At first it had been
feared that not many of the departing
ones could be present, but as they had
all been assembled at Liverpool camp
in the afternoon for inspection by Lady
Gowrie, about 50 of the contingent
turned up smiling at the reception in
the Carlton. Notable of the evening was
Matron Fall, who goes abroad with the
nurses of the Second A.I.F. Other im-
portants were Principal Matron Kearey
and Matron Machin, of the Royal North
Shore Hospital.
Mrs. Charles Regan, of Tamworth,
gathered a bunch of women friends
about her for a dinner party last week.
Mrs. Swinburn Johnston was the guest
of honor. Daughter Mary helped her
mother entertain. The dinner party was
in the Macquarie Club, and the evening
was rounded off under the bright lights
of one of the city’s cafes.
Already the lyric soprano of Annun-
ciata Garrotto is becoming popular with
A.B.C. listeners. With her husband,
Lawrence Power, operatic tenor, formerly
of Adelaide, Annunciata has come from
America to sing in the national stations’
summer season of opera. This picture
shows the soprano dressed for her part in
“Traviata.”
All last week country tennis girls were
on their toes at Rushcutter Bay. The
N.S.W. lawn-tennis carnival got well
under way in the early days of 1940, and
the courts were a shimmering rainbow
of color with the golds and greens, the
pinks and blues worn by the girls. Still,
when all is said and done, the all-white
outfit is hard to beat. For some reason
undiluted white didn’t seem so popular
among the girls this year. The five mem-
bers of the Taree team were at once
called “the Quins” because of their
identical white frocks, complete with
printed cotton boleros gaily yellow,
green and white. Katherine Body, repre-
senting Quirindi for the seventh year,
wore a bright smile above dazzling white.
Enid Pont represented Maitland in blue,
socks and all. The three Ashford sisters
kept the Muswellbrook banner high.
Betty O’Brien and Hazel Heather were
players who held their own.
Learning and wisdom and the sim-
plicity that comes from the wedding of
these two were the essence of Grammar’s
headmaster H. S. Dettmann, who died
on New Year’s morning. He was one of
the most learned and lovable men of his
calling. He had a wit that could be
caustic, but was almost always kindly.
English and the classics were H. S.
Dettmann’s particular meat and drink.
He went to Oxford on a travel-
ling scholarship, and he returned to Aus-
tralia just a few days before the
death of his father, Major John
Dettmann, well-known inspector of
schools. His own daughter Denise,
who had specialised at the University in
all the subjects in which H.S. had shone,
also went to Oxford on a travelling
scholarship, and returned to Sydney a
few days before her father died. Both
Adelaide and Auckland Universities were
for a period the richer for H. S. Dett-
mann’s knowledge. Simplicity marked
his passing. Only the laurel wreath from
the school lay on his coffin. One son
has taken up law, another is in the
M.L.C., daughter Dixie is married to
Dr. Bruce Lovell, and Denise is just back
from Oxford. Mrs. Dettmann survives
her husband.
Dr. Geoffrey Mutton, whose father is
master of Broughton House, The King’s
School, Parramatta, married his Dr.
Sylvia Taylor last week. St. Mark’s at
Darling Point welcomed the bride, whose
posy was secure in a filigree-silver posy-
holder which had belonged to her grand-
mother. The bride, who is a Manly girl,
wore all the trimmings of ivory satin,
tulle and pearls, and she had three attend-
ants, their soft marquisette frocks in
delicate shades of blue. Dr. Geoffrey
and Dr. Sylvia were fellow-students at
Sydney University. Dr. Sylvia has also
represented Sydney Uni. at hockey, tennis
and swimming. The wedding reception
at Elizabeth Bay House had as many
doctors adorning it as a Christmas ham
has cloves.
A note from Professor Francis Ander-
son, chairman of the executive committee
of the Polish Relief Fund, answers the
question so often asked: How is relief
distributed to the scattered people of that
devastated land? The scholar’s letter
says: “All gifts in money and kind are
distributed through the relief committees
set up by the British Government, and
subscribers may rest assured that their
contributions will reach the sufferers for
whom they are intended. A thousand
pounds from Australia and many cases
of clothing have already been distributed
to Polish refugees in Rumania, Hungary,
Yugoslavia and Bulgaria, and to Polish
soldiers bravely fighting in France.”
Timed for February, the very thought
of whose fervid days makes us mop the
brow, is Annette Kellerman’s “Marine
Fantasy” which is to aid Prince Alfred’s.
This will be a night entertainment, and
will be partly in and partly above the
Olympic Pool. Groups of girls from
all the beach-fronted towns will take
part. Manly, Coogee and Bondi girls
are already being fitted up as mermaids
and other denizens of the deep. It
would seem, looking into Mrs. Bruce
Prior’s sewing-room at Mosman, that all
the printed materials* the transparent
tissue, in town had been bought up.
The tissue will alternately be seawood
and dripping water. The stage part is
being rehearsed nightly in one of the
big offices in town ; the swimming turns
are rehearsed in Mrs. Patrick’s and Mrs.
A. C. Godhard’s swimming pools.
Talking to an ex-A.I.F. man the
other day, this Letter lifted the veil on
the mystery as to what happened to the
army biscuit in the 1914-1918 struggle.
“We’d be in the dugout there, sitting
around a bit of a fire, and the quarter-
master very likely’d come around and
say ‘Want any biscuit?’ ‘Yes.’ ‘Right,’
he’d say, and empty out a whack of it.
When he’d gone, one of the fellows
would chuck a handful of the biscuit
on the fire, and it would burn up a treat.
It was no good to eat, too hard for the
teeth. But it made a bonzer fire!”
Handy for the knitter of socks who
just wants something to refer to occasion-
ally, and very helpful indeed to, the
novice in the art, is the booklet Comfort
Sock Pattern. This is small enough to
go into an evening bag, and Hilda
Weigall is responsible for getting the
instructions out in such a concise form.
Proceeds from the sale go to the Girls’
Realm Guild and the Day Nurseries.
In Paris and London the theatre is
so much a part of life that even the
threat of air-raids can’t keep it under.
In Paris the opera has returned to its
own home. There was a gala opening,
with Gounod’s “Faust” as the opus and
the President of the Republic the poten-
tate in the audience. The only difference
a newly-arrived-from-overseas tells, is
that everything in Paris shuts down at
eleven. In London people refuse to stay
home at night; and there were six new
shows scheduled to start. The Cafe Royal
and such places are packed. And every
man and woman sallying forth carries a
torch as well as a gas mask. Sydney,
with no blackouts and comparatively no
terrors, gets along with three flesh-and-
blood shows those at the Royal, the
Minerva and the Tivoli.
All attenders at the private views of
the big art shows knew Suzanne Crooks-
ton, of Camden, and her lovely hair.
Suzanne became the wife of Lieut. Errol
Williams in the chapel of Christ’s Col-
lege, Christchurch (Maoriland), recently.


FLUSH OUT
15 MILES OF
KIDNEY TUBES
Win Back Pep . . . Vigor . . . Vim
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 MILES of tiny tubes or filters
which help to purify the blood and keep you
healthy.
If you have trouble with too frequent blad-
der passages with scanty amount causing
burning and discomfort, the 15 MILES of
kidney tubes need flushing out. This danger
signal may be the beginning of nagging back-
aches, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, get-
ting up nights, lumbago, swollen feet and
ankles, pufliness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait. Ask
your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE KID-
NEY PILLS . . . used successfully the world
over by mil Pons of people. They give quick
relief and will help to flush out the 15 MILES
of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
SYDNSY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHJOL FOR GIRLS
★
Forbes Street, Darlinghurst,
RIVER ROAD, GREENWICH,
AND MOSS VALE
Day and Boarding School
For Girls of All Ages from Sub Primary to Leaving
Certificate Honours.
The schools are ideally situated, excellent cuisine,
qualified mistresses, good examination results. The
school of Moss Vale is in 382 acres, with special
facilities for hockey, tennis and riding.
Apply to Headmistress at Schools
@5?
mm
8 .
I.
KITCHING’S
SPECIALISTS IN TRAVEL GOODS
AND FANCY LEATHER GOODS.
LADIES’ KIT BAGS IN ALL COLOURS
Morocco and Calf Leathers.
Fitte'd with Secure Lock.
10in. and 12in. Price 37/6
C. E. KITCHING PTY., LTD.,
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Station).
Tel.: 8W7133.
Melbourne
Chatter
On the ebb tide of the holidays
Melbourne staggered through a week of
hot weather which culminated in a gale
and a rainstorm. Enthusiasm for work
was entirely absent; the citizens of this
town moved about doing no more than
necessary to keep body and soul together
and the wolf from the door. They
meditated over their sunburn, demanding
sympathy for the painful fiery red stage
and showing a sort of morbid pride at
the peeling and scratching that followed.
As there is so little business doing at
this time of the year many firms let a
number of their employees go off on
extended leave.
In the realms of trading depletion of
stocks was noticed. Everywhere there
was the same answer: “When the fac-
tories get going again we’ll have new
supplies of what you want.” Silk stock-
ings are an example o£ how fast the
turnover must be. Many women took
back Christmas presents in hosiery to
change them for different sizes or colors ;
or, if they had the necessary number of
shillings, to match them with another
pair. Very often they were asked to
return in a few days, so low had stocks
fallen.
The sales have arrived, and strange
but true is the fact that the general
public has money in its purse for bar-
gains. For the Christmas trade was excel-
lent, war or no war. Living is going up.
Taxes are going up, but the people seem
to be spending more money than ever.
The art of drinking must make a differ-
ence in expenditure, for it wasn’t
so many, many years ago that a
bottle of gin in an average home
was something special, like a 10s.
cummerbund, or a cigar, or a whiff out
of a one-ounce guinea bottle of perfume.
In those days, if bottled beer appeared
on the table for dinner the family thought
it was doing things nicely, but today half
a dozen bottles go nowhere if a few
friends drop in.
RegarHing the general standby, sherry,
its consumption must be enormous, for
even the least expensive brands make a
hole in the incomes of young people and
those earning only moderate salaries. It
would be interesting if some picturesque-
minded statistician would do some illus-
trations of what a Christmas and New
Year season drink bill looks like in bar-
rels, row upon row, in rivers, in a dock
to float the Queen Mary, etc. Drink
has arrived just as surely as have
refrigerators and modern cars. There
seems as little chance of the next genera-
tion getting its parties merry on ginger-
pop as there is of player pianos super-
seding radio.
When Gwen Terry and Rohan Deakin
Rivett announced their engagement last
July they little thought that they would
be married in six months’ time. Rohan
was at Balliol, Oxford, doing Modern
Greats, and Gwen was half-way through
an arts course at Melbourne University.
But Fate in the form of the war inter-
vened. Rohan came home with his work
unfinished, and it is unlikely that Gwen
will give herself the problem of which
lectures to choose when the University
opens in March. Last week she wore
a white satin gown and her mother’s
Limerick lace veil when her father, Eric
Terry, escorted her up the aisle of St.
John’s C. of E., Camberwell.
Her attendants were her sister, Mrs.
Alan Gilchrist, and Elsie Robinson, and
the ’groom was supported by his cousin,
Alfred Brookes, as best man, and Colin
McCutcheon as groomsman thus an
aroma of University learning hovered
oyer the heads of the bridal group. Mrs.
Gilchrist is an M.A., and Colin Mc-
Cutcheon an LL.B., and the best man
and the bridesmaid are still pursuing
their studies at our seat of learning. The
’groom, who no doubt inherits his gift
of oratory from his father, David Rivett,
and his grandfather, Alfred Deakin, made
a first-class speech to the handful of
guests after the ceremony at the home of
the bride’s parents, who had given a large
cocktail party in honor of the wedding
a few days previously. A flat in Park-
ville will be the first home of the newly-
married pair.
Merle Christie, well known for the
last eighteen months for her work with
the Victorian Society for Crippled Chil-
dren and previously for her association
with the C.W.A., was married recently
to Louis Nichterlein, of Ringwood,
eldest son of the Rev. and Mrs.
O. Nichterlein, of Adelaide. The
couple have known each other since
the time when Louis was studying law
at the University. On her wedding day
the bride wore pearl-white moire and a
Honiton lace veil over tulle and was
attended by a friend of schooldays at
Fintona, Mrs. Leonard Chinn, of Sale.
Her gown of delphinium-blue sheer was
worn with an inconsequent little head-
piece of tulle. Alan Ralton was best
man.
After their couple of weeks’ honey-
moon the newly-wedded pair will live in
Ringwood if they can find a house to suit
them in the district. The bride, who is
the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. D.
Christie, of Mont Albert, will not slip
out of the line of vision of her disabled
little pupils. Until Easter at least she
hopes to carry on her occupational
therapy work. Among her other talents
is music. She studied at the Conser-
vatorium after leaving school.
An engagement that is causing general
approval is that of popular Margaret
Brookes (Broothorn photograph) and
Major John B. Colquhoun. Margaret
is the elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Harold Brookes, of Flinthill, Woodend,
and her fiance is a well-known orthopaedic
medico. He has enlisted with the
A.A.M.C., and when he leaves for ser-
vice abroad will be missed by friends and
patients alike, particularly the children
of the Orthopaedic Hospital at Frankston.
He served in the last war in the machine-
gun corps, is a Scotsman from Inverness-
shire and still retains a trace of the moors
and heather in his accent.
The marriage will take place on Feb-
ruary 3 in the little Anglican church at
Woodend, St. Mary’s, a bluestone build-
ing of charm and antiquity. Eighty years
ago dewy-eyed young brides swept their
crinolines over its threshold. Margaret
will wear traditional all-white bridal
attire, and her ’maids, sister Liberty and
Sheila Mackay, of Sydney, will also be
in white. The bride, too, will go abroad,
for as the chances are that her husband
will be sent to some Base Hospital she
is hopeful of making a temporary home
for herself near by. In this decision she
is following the example of her parents,
for in 1915 Mrs. Harold Brookes accom-
panied her husband overseas when he left
to join up for service in England, having
been unsuccessful in an endeavor to
enlist in his own country.
Maidie Flint and David Victor Hyams
chose St. James’s Old Cathedral for their
marriage and a journey in their own
car to Sydney and the Blue Mountains
for their honeymoon —no doubt they
were glad to leave Victoria behind them,
the State’s send-off being a heat-wave,
a gale of dust and eventually a severe
storm. They have bought a house in
Camberwell where Maidie’s piano occu-
pies pride of place among the furniture.
She achieved a Mus. Bac. a few years
ago, and is well known for her two-
piano recitals with Peg Barry and for her
singing in University revues. Her hus-
band admits that he doesn’t know very
much about music, but is willing to
learn.
Herewith an Antoine picture of Pat
Newbigin, who was married last week
to Colin Gordon. For the afternoon
.wedding in St. John’s, Toorak, which was
followed by a small reception at her
parents’ home in Burwood, the bride
wore a long-sleeved gown of white crepe
and veil of tulle with gardenia attach-
ments. The home of the newly-married
couple will be in Sydney.
The C. V. Kellway couple and their
family of three are back in Melbourne
after living for four years in America and
eight years previously in Canberra. Mr.
Kellway was Assistant Trade Commis-
sioner in New York, and he and his wife
made many friends during his term of
office. They will also be missed by the
Australian Society of New York, which
Mrs. Kellway was instrumental in in-
augurating only last August.. Twenty
people were present at the initial meeting
at the Waldorf-Astoria. They in their
turn put out “feelers” for Australians,
and there were 150 present at the suc-
cessful gathering on December 13. But
in the meantime Mr. Kellway had re-
ceived news of his transfer, and by that
date was already on the high seas. News
came by radio of the success of the
function which the Kellways celebrated
in their turn at the captain’s cocktail
party.
Their home in New York was on
Staten Island, a house with a garden an
hour’s journey from the heart of the
city which is now occupied by the Percy
Leason menage. Mrs. Kellway says that
Leason is doing freelance work, and she
believes that with his double advantages
of talent and a pleasant manner he will
be successful.
Mrs. Kellway is much impressed by
the growth of Melbourne, the increased
beauty of its surroundings and the pro-
fusion of its gardens, but she has an
unfavorable comment to make on the
unhygienic clothes worn in last week’s
heat-wave by the policemen, the men
of the A.I.F. and the majority of men
in the street. In New York she says the
policemen wear blue cotton shirts in
summer and no coats, and the rest of the
male sex dresses with equal common-
sense. Of the Kellway family of three,
the elder boy will be admitted soon to
Duntroon and his younger brother and
sister will go to school.
Welcome arrivals at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. H. C. Nankervis in Burnie-
street, Toorak, for the New Year and
for the immediate future at least are
daughters Betty (who is Mrs. Harold
Baker) and Topsy, who has been away
enjoying country life for some time past.
Since she left Sydney seven years ago for
her marriage in Shanghai to an officer
of the Eastern Extension Co. Mrs. Baker
has lived in that cosmopolitan Eastern
city, also in Foochow, Hong Kong and
Penang. Additions to her travels have
been visits to Japan and a recent holi-
day with her husband in the U.S.A. and
Britain. While they were in England
Mr. and Mrs. Baker journeyed whenever
the spirit moved them by car along any
country road that beckoned. They
enjoyed an interlude of golf at beautiful
Selsden Park, Surrey, and were in Lon-
don for Pat Wheatley’s marriage to a
Scotsman, Eric Prain. Mr. Baker gave
the bride away.
They made the most of a tour through
France just before the war broke out,
but plans for visiting other European
countries had to be scrapped. The war
was also responsible for Mrs. Baker’s
visit to Australia. Her husband was
being sent to Port Sudan, and at that
time she couldn’t get official sanction
to accompany him —though she’s hope-
ful of joining him there in August.
According to his letters there are many
worse places in the world than Port
Sudan, although there is only one tree
on the golf course and the greens are
made of sand.
Thelma Besant has treated her stock-
in-trade with imagination on the New
Year cards she sent to her friends from
South Africa. Her job of work is in
the beautification business, and she was
sent to the Union to put her firm’s
products on the map early in 1939. On
the cards even the wild animals of the
Darkest Continent have succumbed to
the “be beautiful” bait. A lion is having
his smug face dusted with “flesh powder”
by a damsel who looks like Thelma ; a
gloating leopard is in a bath of freckle
remover; a monkey is persevering with
face massage, and the head of a hippo, is
visible above a reducing machine. Father
Christmas is teaching the elephant to “up,
down, bend, touch toes.” A giraffe is
swallowing something out of a bottle
alleged to make the thin and shapeless
desirably plump. Miss Besant is usually
in Johannesburg at No. 1 Manners Man-
sions. She finds the country interesting,
is kept busy and has had the experience
of several trips to Durban, Cape Town
and Lourenfo Marques.
Dr. Sydney Sunderland and his wife
are being offered welcome-home greeting
with their New Year wishes. Dr. Sunder-
land, who is still under 30, will take up
his appointment to the Chair of Anatomy
at Melbourne University. He has been
abroad, engaged in research. His wife,
who was Gwen Johnston, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Johnston, of East
Malvern, is an LL.B. She left for Eng-
land to be married just a year ago.
Barretts (of the A. O. Barrett clan)
converged from all directions towards
Lobethal, S.A., recently for the car races.
A. O. Barrett himself went over from
Melbourne, accompanying sons Alf and
Julian, travelling in two cars and a truck
to carry Alf’s racing car. Cousin Arsdale
Haney (who has lived long enough in
the U.S.A. to have an excuse for an
accent) and Alan Ashton were also in
the party. Bob Barrett, Lord Mayor of
Adelaide, also forgathered at the races
with yet more brothers Rod from
Melbourne and Lance from Perth. Lance
came on to Melbourne with the main
body of the clan, for by that time Julian
had made for home by ’plane to keep
an appointment with the Defence De-
partment. Paul Whitehead and Colin
Anderson were also picked up now and
again on the way over and back. Colin
drove Tim Joshua’s car in the race.
Bathurst is the next red-letter mark on
the racing calendar.


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimental radio.
The Annual Subscription is tlic Aus-
tralian equivalent of 3 dollars 50 cents
American, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office. 352 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from T’.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on (he bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All
6PM Perth ...
6AM Northam. .
6KG Kalgoorlie
Through
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
THE SERVICE MAN
Sydney to the New A.I.F.
“E.H.M.”: The troops came in by
train from Ingleburn. They paraded with
rifle and drab harness and gleaming
bayonet, forming up in columns of six.
Units interspersed with bands, they
marched off over a route.
The people had begun to gather at
noon. By 1.30 traffic and trade were at
a standstill. And, looking down the empty
roadways, they were by that time fenced
in completely with packed tiers of almost
silent onlookers, fringed on the street
sides by rows of brightly-dressed children.
On the Town Hall steps was a splash
of color. The Governor-General, Lord
Gowrie, veteran of many wars —he won
his V.C. in Egypt 40 years ago—the tall
figure of Lord Wakehurst, a very young-
looking soldier in the last war, and the
greatest peace-time gathering yet seen of
generals who had led the last A.I.F. in
some of the sternest battles of world his-
tory —Blarney, the commander of the
Second A.I.F.; Mackay, who commands
the second division; Cox, who com-
manded the 1st A.L.H. in Palestine (tallest
and oldest of all); Richardson, of the
Cavalry; Bennett, Heane, Cannan,
Lloyd, Herring, a company whose
names dot Australian history ; with
a naval and air-force uniform here
and there among them.
The sound of drums and brass
came up the street; then a lead-
ing police detail on magnificent
bay horses ridden with spirit; then
a stocky figure in a plain
Uniform marching squarely
in the middle of the tram-
lines and behind six giants
stepping it out —Brigadier
Allen and his staff. Then
came the police band and
finally the columns of the brigade, the
black-bereted tank and mobile transport
columns, the armored car and Bren-gun
men, unarmed, footing it easily, and,
last, the swinging and glinting bayonets.
There was none of the pomp of Euro-
pean marches. The ranks were accoutred
for war. The new uniforms have not the
style of the old. On tall men, especially
officers, they are ungainly. There was no
color, no battalion patches even, among
them, save a flag here and there handed
out from the crowd and stuck rakishly in
a tunic belt; and the march lacked, for
the most part, the swing imparted by the
long stride and puttied leg of the old
A.I.F. The new march is an easy gait,
more like the old 30in. Roman step than
the stiff-kneed progress of modern armies.
It is not unlike the gait of the Australian
abo. —knees loose, body carried well for-
ward and in balance, a short pace and an
easy motion.
March these men could, even though
the music was too sparse and most of
the bands trained for old-style parades of
the longer gait. It was a sight to see
them, eyes right, go past the Cenotaph.
And they came swinging up to the salut-
ing base like veterans who had won
battles rather than like recruits, some of
whom had never handled a service rifle
or trod a parade ground two months ago.
Most of them looked very young ; all
looked cool. Their columns were steady,
their bayonets lay in level lines, their
officers seemed all to be giants, and it was
not uncommon for rank after rank of
men nearly or past the six-foot mark to
pass together.
Came a unit which was behind its own
band. The band struck up “The Sieg-
fried Line” as a quickstep. The pace of
the marching shortened and quickened as
the men picked up the time of the kettle-
drums. They went by in a sort of unified
whirlwind which took the breath away
and made the eyes of the old generals
who watched gleam with pleasure and
excitement.
Reds started to fling leaflets from a
high rooftop. They fluttered idly down
among the ranks and the crowds, and
some fell among the generals, who let
them lie. The crowds were at the moment
too busy waving and cheering to give
them much heed.
Altogether it was a great march and a
great day. Great in every sense —above
all, as an exhibition of young Australian
manhood and its stamina, of its mental
level and adaptability ; as an assurance
that in foreign lands, among the picked
“NECKTIE?"
troops of numerically greater nations,
Australians will stand out among the elite,
as they did in 1915-1918.
National Trainees.
“X.T.”: Australians had their first
taste of national service during the war
when the call for men born between
July 1, 1918, and June 30, 1919, began
after the New Year. Registration forms,
also, are being issued to men born be-
tween July 1, 1919, and June 30, 1920, as
a preliminary to their being called up.
The call applies to unmarried men
and widowers without dependants only,
and they will be divided medically into
two classes those over sft. 4in. in
height and more than 33in. in chest
measurement, fit for active service in
the field ; and those of at least sft. 2in.
and 32in., fit for duties other than
active service with field formations.
Each command will arrange its own
camps to which these men will be sent,
and those not actually called for ser-
vice within the specified ages must
register during January and February
and be ready to serve during the finan-
cial year 1940-41.
Camps will begin this month, but
every man taken for service will be
given at least 14 days’ notice. The lads
will be in camp for 11 weeks with
ordinary militia units, and wherever
possible they are being allotted to units
in districts where they live.
Judging by the types of recruit offer-
ing in the eastern capitals and indus-
trial areas, the minimum measurement
clauses are something of a farce. The
call-up in the Sydney and adjacent areas
showed that on an average the recruits
were up to the A.I.F. standard.
The call-up is being made alphabeti-
cally at area offices, and the flow every-
where from the first was larger than
anticipated. Preachers of the doctrine
that national training and service mean
slavery would have had a thin time
among the fine rows of young lads who
presented themselves, and if there is
any real leaven of conscientious objec-
tors within the age limits affected, they
must have stayed quietly at home, save
for an odd one here and there.
Among the 7000 who presented them-
selves within the first two days of enrol-
ment, medical rejections amounted to
not more than per cent. Man-power
boards are making a few exceptions in
cases of hardships to employers or in-
dividuals. The estimate of numbers
made before the call was below
actuality.
The only pity is that the call is
limited to youngsters. Class I of those
liable under the Defence Act includes
all single men or widowers without
dependants between 18 and 34. A
sprinkling of the older men of the class
would greatly strengthen the new militia
bodies which will have to be created
to absorb the fresh trainees. And men
past their student ages are in a better
position usually to make a sacrifice of
time than lads passing through the uni-
versities or just learning to earn their
livelihoods.
In fact, the Government would not
do wrong if it stressed the liability of
the whole male population to be called
up. Over the wide range it would be
possible to make the selection of an
adequate force with least dislocation to
industry and the future life of the
country.
“Ek D.”: The new war is already
making new war slang. “Tin hat” has
gone out of fashion in the 8.E.F.; they
wear “battle bowlers” now, and those
short gaiters are “anklets.” London
regiments are the “Blime Boys.” Search-
lights are “Paul Prys,” a balloon barrage
a “rat-trap,” and a balloon winch the
“sewing-machine.” The Bren gun is a
“cash and carry.” The complete battle
dress is (or was) a “Belisha.”
$ Jf« *
“Zedo”: Britain, with compulsory
enlistment, is getting along faster with
the building of an army than in the last
war. At the outbreak in 1914 effectives
numbered 127,000 regulars, 200,000 re-
serves and 263,000 Territorials. The
Kitchener and Derby schemes exhausted
voluntary enlistment or brought it to a
point where it was too slow, so a con-
scription measure was introduced in
January, 1916. By May, 1916, when the
Act was amended to include all able-
bodied men, married or single, it was
estimated that voluntary enlistment had
reached 5,041,000 for all forces. A
British call-up of 2,000,000 men this
week brings the total British under arms
to over 3,000,000. The Germans are
going to have something much more
formidable to tackle than the “contemp-
tible little army” which held so many
of them up at the beginning of the real
fighting in 1914.
* * * *
“Tynesider”: North Sea trawlermen,
now unhappily thrust into the news by
Jerry’s latest strafes, used to have another
long-standing grievance against Jei;ry.
During my father’s fishing-fleet days the
German boats had fishing rights in the
Firth of Forth, one of the richest, as
well as safest, of fishing grounds, while
Scottish and English boats were forbidden
to poach on the German rights. I don't
suppose this unaccountable privilege sur-
vived the 1914-18 war.
Around the Army.
IX.
THE M.O.
On the slightest complaint that you’re
making
He’ll suspect that a symptom you’re
faking,
And with blows that are hefty your
stomach and back he’ll be pound-
ing ;
Despite all his civvy-life teachings
And orthodox medicine preachings,
His faith in a pill or some jalap is
simply astounding.
There is no more cheerful man in the
army than a unit’s medical officer,
especially when he is taking sick parade.
Even if he has been on the ran-tan the
night before he always turns up perkily,
for he knows all the answers to a hang-
over, and can always stow away a good
breakfast. This puts him in that jovial
frame of mind which makes his giving
the once-over to the halt, the sick and
the leadswingers such a pleasurable occu-
pation, to him if not to those who seek
his ministrations.
Moreover, he always seeks to invest
with the same gladsome outlook any
patient whose ailments, real or fancied,
have rendered woeful. Thus, should a
swaddie hobble in to him doubled up
with stomach pains, he is greeted with
“Well, well, young fellow-me-lad, and
what’s wrong with you ? You don’t
look too bad. Been going the ‘point-
blank’ a bit too much last night, eh?”
“No, doc. I don’t know what it is.
Me guts seem as if they’re all twisted
up somehow, and they’re giving me gyp.”
“H’m! Where do you feel the pain?”
The sufferer miserably points to his
midriff.
“Where —here?” says the M.O. jovi-
ally. And, seemingly with the intention of
pushing the swaddie’s navel through to
his backbone just to test its resiliency, he
jabs a hard, bony thumb into the place
indicated, and, looking surprised at the
agonised “Oo!” wrung from his patient,
says, “Oh! That’s nothing at all. You’ve
probably been eating something that dis-
agreed with you. Four Number Nines
and light duty for the day. Next, corp.”
The man who, despite this excellent
treatment, has the hardihood to turn up
on sick parade again next day must
expect the stare which the M.O. naturally
gives him.
“Well, what’s wrong today, Jackson?”
“Blime! These pills damn’ near killed
me, doc., and me gutsache’s worse than
ever.”
“Impossible! They simply must have
fixed it. Still, a good clearing-out won’t
do you any harm. Three ounces of castor
oil and light duty.”
If he comes back again after that—
well, there must be something wrong with
him. There is still something that the
M.O. can try on him —whitehouse ; the
only reason he hasn’t ordered it so far
is that it doesn’t go with Number Nines
and oil.
A man might be able to get away with
stomach-ache, backache and even syno-
vitis, but to parade with shivering and
a temperature is to invite immediately the
deepest suspicion. The M.O. adopts a
bantering tone when he strikes such a
case.
“Feverish, eh? H’m! I suppose this
will unfortunately prevent your going
on guard or doing fatigue duty today,
eh? Hard luck, when, no doubt, you
were keenly looking forward to it. Well,
well! Now, open your mouth wide and
let’s see what’s causing it.”
A keen observer would note the M.O.’s
distended and quivering nostrils as he
does some silent sniffing while pretending
to look down the feverish one’s throttle.
But if he doesn’t catch a whiff of cordite
he doesn’t admit he’s baffled. Chewing
soap can also make the temperature soar.
So, offhandedly, he asks his patient to
rinse his mouth out, for any soap care-
lessly left round the teeth will then give
off a lather. Should this also yield a
negative result, he will regretfully be
forced to conclude that the fever is
genuine, and will order the owner into
hospital for observation.
S. W. K.


TONE QUALITY
mars
radio enjoyment
The brilliance and tone fidelity of
to-day's radio programmes may be
completely marred by worn-out
valves.
Studio realism, broadcast by mod-
ern stations, can be reproduced in
your home only when the valves in
your radio function efficiently.
To secure the full pleasure of listen-
ing, ....
Sealed fo
or your protection
RADIOTRQN
VALVES
THE FLYING COLUMN
Uncabled Details.
The censorship of news introduced on
the outbreak of war has as one of its
objects the concealing from the enemy
of details which, if made known imme-
diately, might convey information to his
advantage. A result is that cable sources
get only the bare essentials. Interesting
particulars of several actions are given
in that excellent paper the “Aeroplane.”
In some cases enemy accounts are drawn
upon. For example:
A spirited account of the pursuit of a
Bristol Blenheim reconnaissance aeroplane
by a German fighter near Emden was written
by the fighter pilot. The Blenheim tried
to escape by hedge-hopping, but was set on
fire and forced to alight with the under-
carriage retracted. The crew of three
escaped practically uninjured and waved
congratulations to the German. He wrote:
“The British crew gave such a brilliant per-
formance that they earned the respect of
every German pilot.”
A Bristol Blenheim was captured intact
after a forced landing during a recon-
naisance flight. The Blenheim was flown
and examined by German pilots and
technicians, who waxed enthusiastic
about its capabilities. Fortunately, the
Blenheim has not the latest type of
power-operated gun-turret, which, the
Germans sadly lack on their bombers.
In the attack on a British convoy of
merchant ships on October 21 twelve
Heinkel Hells two-motor float sea-
planes approached the convoy in a loose
V formation at about 7000 ft. They
dropped bombs on the convoy, which
was steaming in two parallel lines. The
formation was broken by anti-aircraft
fire from escorting cruisers which sent
radio calls for help to fighters on the
land, 30 miles away. Six Hawker Hurri-
canes, arriving within a few minutes,
“Come, come , Fortescue; there's a time and place for everything!"
attacked the Heinkel seaplanes in-
dividually and shot down three. Two
of the Hells’s turned over on hitting
the sea; the other managed to make a
reasonably good landing. A fourth
Heinkel was pounced upon a little later
by a flight of three Supermarine Spit-
fires. Hit, it disappeared into a cloud
and almost certainly crashed. None of
the ships in the convoy or escort was
hit and no British fighters suffered
casualties.
The Hells’s, which have no protection
underneath, prdved easy meat for the
eight-gun fighters. The Hells is de-
signed as a torpedo bomber. They might
have been more successful had they made
a low attack with their designed weapon.
The Heinkel Hell IK bomber forced
down on Lammermoor Hill, east of
Dalkeith, Scotland, after a running fight
had two aft gunners killed by machine-
gun bullets; the pilot was wounded, the
navigator unhurt. The pilot must have
extended his wheels before he hit the
ground, because, although the machine
went through a stone wall, he taxied for
more than a mile in an effort to take
off. The Hell IK was of the latest type
with 1050-h.p. Junkers Jumo motors.
Neutral correspondents in Berlin attri-
buted to “indiscreet (members of the
Government” warnings that attacks on
British ports, convoys and aircraft fac-
tories were “impending on a large scale.”
Landings by parachute troops were also
threatened. The fact is that a hundred
Junkers JuB9’s could not land more than
6000 men at the most, and such a force
would be mopped up in an hour or two.
As for isolated attacks in land aero-
planes, the Germans have to fly 500
miles across the open sea, probably to
be tackled off the coasts by British
fighters; if not shot down, they have
to return perhaps semi-crippled over the
same long stretch of water. German
rubber dinghies, copied from the original
“H.M.S. Inflations,” have saved several
crews from death by drowning.
Royal Air Force Losses.
A Royal Air Force casualty list —
the sixteenth —issued on 2/1/’4O con-
tains 66 names, among them those of
an Australian and a Maorilander. Five
airmen were killed in action ; seven pre-
viously reported missing are now listed
as killed in action ; so is one “previously
missing, believed killed” ; 14 are “miss-
ing, believed killed in action,” 17 are
missing, 13 were killed on active ser-
vice, eight died on active service, and
one was wounded in action.
The classifications are thus explained:
“Killed in action” means, of course, in
actual combat with the enemy. Crashes
and other accidents account for those
reported “killed on active service.” Thus
far in the detailed lists published in the
“Aeroplane” this section has always been
the largest. It was the same in the 1914-
18 war. Then more embryo flying men
were killed in training crashes than in
combat. Such casualties may refer to
men killed accidentally in Britain or
France.
Where men are reported missing there
is always some element of hope that
they may be safe, even as prisoners of
war. Death on active service refers to
death from other causes than enemy
action or service accidents.
The Air Force, the Navy, the mer-
chant navy and the fishing fleet are
thus far taking the knocks in this war,
though the Army is itching to go into
action.
Australians and Maorilanders con-
tinue to score in the air fighting. The
Short Sunderland Squadron crews, put
straightway into service, brought down
their first German ’plane within a few
days. Two Maorilanders were added to
the roll of the decorated on New Year’s
day—K. N. Gray, of Christchurch, and
Frank Hugh Long, of Masterton, who
were awarded D.F.Cs. Pilot and navi-
gator, they made a reconnaissance over
Germany in November through a snow-
storm and heavy A.A. fire. They hung
on till the upper surface of one wing and
half the other wing of their machine
were stripped of fabric, a wing-flap
jammed and their wireless went phut.
Then they brought the machine miles
home through the darkness.
* * ♦ #
The latest R.A.F. promotion list in-
cludes a number of Antipodeans. Group-
Captain F. H. H. Maynard, of Waiuku
(M.L.), becomes an air-commodore —the
military equivalent is brigadier. Wing-
Commanders A. C. Collier, of Randwick
(N.S.W.), H. B. Russell, of Hastings
(M.L.), and J. R. Cassidy, from the
Darling Downs (Q.), become group-
captains, and Flight-Lieutenant Bandidt,
of Ipswich (Q.), who learned to fly at
Point Cook and went to England in 1933,
a squadron-leader. J. R. Cassidy was
Queensland’s Rhodes scholar the year
before the last war broke out. Given
command of a British cavalry squad, he
transferred to a “Q” boat as wireless
officer, was on Gallipoli and one of the
last men to leave, after he had fired the
stores at Suvla. He graduated through
experience as a wireless instructor in
Palestine to a job as R.A.F. wireless in-
structor, and became chief signal officer
of the R.A.F. Fighter Command on the
outbreak of war. A remarkable career
for a man who, as a protege of New
Guinea’s William MacGregor, went to
Oxford to study scientific agriculture.
* * * *
“Querex”: Model aviation is dazzling
thousands of youngsters from whose
ranks will come service and commercial
pilots and technicians of the future. The
petrol-engined model has reached a re-
markable stage of development, and
many experimenters are now turning
their experience to radio control of such
models. A Birmingham enthusiast has
built a high-wing model of 9ft. span,
with a 9-c.c. two-stroke engine, which,
with radio gear, weighs less than 91b.
A three-valve set operates, through a sen-
sitive relay, a solenoid arrangement for
moving the rudder. In U.S.A. somewhat
larger radio-controlled high-wing models
have been used as anti-aircraft targets
by the Army Air Corps.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Suburban London has
solved the problem of how to be com-
fortable though air-raided. It clears out
the parlor, brings in the Anderson
A.R.P. shelter, boards up the windows,
fills in the rest of the room with sand-
bags, and there
you are. No ugly
steel contraption
spoils the look of
the garden, you
don’t have to rush
outside at night or
in wet weather to
reach it, there’s
no mud or damp-
ness, and you can
fit it out with
rugs, easy-chairs
and a card-table.
Candles and a
spirit - stove are
kept ready in case
the raid puts the
power-station out
of commission,
also some tinned
tucker and the
materials for a
•nice ’ot cup o’
tea whenever you
feel like it. And
a pick to dig your
way out should a
bomb bring the
house down.
Meanwhile it is
just the thing for
a game of cards of an evening without
risk of fines for showing lights.
* * * *
“Aileron”: There will be room for
2000 fitters, 250 cooks and large num-
bers of air mechanics and flight riggers
in the R.A.A.F. before next June.
Trained fitters will be accepted up to 45
years; men with partial training will
undergo an eight months’ course, from
18 to 35. All mechanics and riggers will
be given special training, and a school
is being opened for cooks.
* * * *
“Stringer”: Forty-eight Messerschmitt
Me 109 fighters were supplied to the
Swiss—bartered for cheese. In a deal
for another batch of Melo9’s the Nazis
demanded the cheese before they would
deliver the aeroplanes. It is not revealed
how many Swiss cheeses go to make up
one Messerschmitt.
* * * *
“Ailo”: That air scrap over the Firth
of Forth on October 16 had its humor-
ous side. Two pupils from a training
school, flying a Tiger Moth, strayed into
it. Set upon by a Nazi, they had the
presence of mind to pull up the nose,
kick hard on the rudder and hope that
Fate would be kind. It was; they spun
to safety.
* * * *
“Aileron”: What mugs we are messing
around with Empire Air schemes and
so forth when we could send for Lieuten-
ant Agureyev, of the glorious Red Air
Force! There is no record of the loot
as a fighter, but he is a copious writer
for the Soviet-conscious press. In
a “Soviets Today” article, obviously
written before August, he tells this
ignorant Commonwealth what would
happen if Germany went to war with
the U.S.S.R. Two Commissars, “com-
manders of an aviation unit,” receive
orders:—
Commander North-western Aviation unit,
take off at 2.45 a.m. Destroy enemy war
industry centres, namely Konigsberg and
Kiel. Deal special blow on enemy air
bases at Swinemunde, Sellin and
Holtenau Southern unit: Air bases
to be destroyed at Dresden, Frankfurt
and Essen; concentrate on Essen
Points for immediate destruction by West-
ern unit: Berlin, Magdeburg and Hano-
ver.
And so off goes Commander Lakin with
six gallant squadrons behind him and
begins his deadly work from 30,000 ft.
(“No need for smoke screens, as the
shells cannot reach such a height”). By
dawn, a couple of hours later, having
destroyed the German Air Force, all its
bases, and all the leading German
munition works, the brave fellow is over
what should be the vast Krupp works
at Essen. But all he can see is a “dark
spot” and a shattered railway line.
“Well, there is nothing we can do here,”
says the pilot; “our boys have been here
already! ” The Finns have had the
glorious Red Air Force at ’em for
six weeks. They must be lucky.
The Air War Day by Day.
Dec. 29: Two Nazi seaplanes bombed
and machine-gunned a British trawler.
No damage or casualties.
Jan. 1: Two Heinkels over the Shetlands.
One destroyed by A.A. fire after dive-
bombing a warship without success;
the other shot down into the sea in
flames.
Jan. 2: Three R.A.F. bombers engaged
with 12 Messerschmitt fighters near
German coast. One bomber shot
down and a second missing. Surviving
R.A.F. pilot saw one Messerschmitt
down in flames, and two were driven
down with probable loss. Germans
deny any losses.
Jan. 4: R.A.F. reconnaisance ’plane
engaged by enemy fighters and driven
down in Belgian territory. ’Plane
landed in flames; crew rescued.
French air patrols reconnoitred 250
miles inside Germany. Fighters brought
down two Germans near the front.
Jan. 5: R.A.F. reconnaisance ’planes over
Germany. No casualties.


ķ
ĸ
k
St. Stanislaus’ College
Bathurst
A Catholic school for boys in the bracing
climate of Bathurst.
Complete Secondary Course.
Conducted by Vincentian Fathers.
Apply to THE PRESIDENT.
Telephone: Bathurst 39.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting the
Australian equivalent of 3 American dollars
through “The Bulletin” Office, 252 George
Street, S’ydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The A.A.M.S’s Year
“Mataranka”: Though the N.S.W.
flying-doctor services are having a hard
time with their Broken Hill branch, the
Queensland service of the A.A.M.S.,
which provides free medical treatment
and transport from Cloncurry through-
out the northern outback, is going ahead.
In the last three months 150 people
have been attended and 10,000 miles
flown by doctors and ambulances ; and a
new base at Charleville (s.-w. Q.) is
planned.
The subsidiary radio service has been
just as busy. The characteristic call of
“over to you” rings round 52 pedal trans-
ceiver stations connected with Cloncurry,
but this service is not free. The P.M.G.
collects 2s. a call, half of which. is re-
mitted to the A.A.M.S.
for upkeep, the remainder
collared and put into
revenue. From Sept. 11
till the end of November,
3169 calls were regis-
tered.
The A.A.M.S. does not
growl, but it seems miser-
able to tax an institution
which gives so much for
a service which was born
of its initiative because
the Government had
failed in its duty to
lonely settlers.
Meanwhile the
A.A.M.S. is in need of
funds. There surely
should be some means of
putting it permanently on
its feet throughout Aus-
tralia without the need of
constant appeals to public
generosity.
“Q.C.R.”: Babinda wins the palm for
1939 as the wettest spot in the Com-
monwealth. Its record was 262.45 inches
of rain. Tully came next with 207.76
inches. The pity is that most of the water
runs to waste instead of being carried
to the interior and stored for use in areas
where 15 inches is considered bountiful.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Darwin’s greatest thrill since
the red-flag riots was the arrival of
Marios’ circus from W.A., circuses being
as rare there as buffaloes in Bondi. The
circus owners did not share in the thrill
because the Administration power-house
proved unequal to the job of lighting the
tent. A dynamo had to be bought.
* * * *
“Zedo”: One Queensland girl is hav-
ing a thoroughly happy New Year —
Mercy Griffin, from Rockhampton, who
has taken her B.A. degree at the Univer-
sity with six merits. Miss Griffin is 20
and was blind, but has regained her
sight so far that she can see shadows.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: Coolangatta Shire (Q.) had
the most unwelcome Christmas visitor in
its history when a 100-ton whale turned
up on Bilinga Beach—dead. At first
the newcomer was a decided attraction,
and over 10,000 sightseers viewed him
before his 12,000 cubic feet of meat and
blubber began to make itself really felt.
Faced with the depopulation of the
Coolangatta district, at a time when it
is usually most populous, the city fathers,
when last heard of, were vigorously
cheering on a gang of laborers who,
fortified and disinfected with rum, had
been towing half-ton bits of whale to
a burial ground. It takes some burial
ground to accommodate a 100-ton whale
—in terms of actual flesh and blood it is
equal to 1454 11-stone politicians.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: After months of negotia-
tion, Brisbane’s City Council is going on
the market for £250,000 at per cent.
The loan is secured on municipal revenue,
guaranteed by the State Government and
underwritten by J. B. Were. The coun-
cil sapiently remarks that “no more
attractive interest is likely to be offered
in the near future on any investment with
equivalent security.”
“ It's back t ’ front, Ma. Look where y’ve got the chin-strap .”
“Fi. fa.”: Nearly 90 p.c. of offenders
before Queensland Courts in 1938-39
were under 30, 80 p.c. between 17 and
30. Most convictions of persons over 30
were for embezzlement or sex offences.
The majority of really brutal and cold-
blooded murders were committed by lads
under 21 ; the most shocking of all, that
of a pregnant woman who lay in wounded
agony for hours waiting to warn her
husband against a like fate, was the work
of a boy of 16. Nine boys of from 10
to 16 were arrested for a series of
organised robberies in Brisbane. A
bandit of 16 held up two women on
Grey-street Bridge. Total losses through
crime for the year were at least £30,000
in jewellery, tools, clothing and money,
and little of it was recovered. The year’s
biggest bank robbery yielded £1287, the
biggest jewellery steal £l2OO. Both
robbers are still untraced. It seems high
time for a thorough overhaul of the
State’s anti-crime system.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: George Marchant, that
big, tall, modest soft-drink manufacturer,
has added to his many benefactions a
gift of £lOOO and five acres of valu-
able land in a Brisbane suburb as a
nucleus from which to build a home for
unemployable invalid returned Diggers.
Marchant gave £41,000 to help found the
temperance Hotel Canberra in Brisbane,
and he has given largely to the Sweden-
borgian church, of which he is a member.
His total benefactions amount to over
£lOO,OOO. He is now 81. When he came
from England in 1874 his sole capital
was a few shillings.
* * * *
“Roper”: Some Arnhem Land blacks
celebrated Christmas in the good old abo.
style. Members of two tribes, generally
friendly, were on their way to enjoy the
seasonal handout at Goulburn Island
Methodist Mission when an argument
started. It was settled in the normal
tribal way. One youngster threw a spear
at another with more effect than spears
are generally thrown in these affrays.
The thrower is now in Fanny Bay learn-
ing something of the curious code of
the white pfeller, who has charged him
with murder, a crime of which he never
heard in his young life. And in Fanny
Bay he will languish until the Supreme
Court has dealt with him. It would be
better if these tribal affairs could be
handled on the spot. Punishment meted
out in Darwin is no deterrent. In fact,
if the culprit is sentenced, the tribes wilj
not understand that he has been punished
at all but rather feel that some distinction
has been conferred on him by the Gov-
ernment in the shape of free rations and
accommodation. That is, if they remem-
ber him and his doings at all after a few
weeks.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The first wholly-
aboriginal self-governing community in
Queensland, if not in Australia, is in
being on the Gregory River, 80 miles
south of Burketown in the Gulf country.
Unlike Cowal Creek on Cape York,
where the initiative came from Torres
Strait islanders of Papuan descent, a
more advanced race, the Gregory camp
is entirely an abo. enterprise. Numbering
about 100 and located on an ideal site,
the blacks there get ample supplies of
fish from the river and grow their own
fruit and vegetables in the river flats.
Younger men and women work in
season on Gulf stations, and they have
already bought and installed an oil-
engine, windmill, pumping plant and
several large tanks. Their only other
connection with white pfeller is through
occasional visits from the Burketown
police to see that they are not interfered
with.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: Have never struck any
actual cases to support the once-popular
belief that loss of sight and facial dis-
tortion may result from sleeping directly
under the rays of the full moon, but have
heard of a couple, and have also found
records of others in W.A. history. Lieu-
tenant Helpman, cartographer of Shark
Bay and the vicinity back in the ’so’s,
records in his diary how a sailor, one
Smith, was smitten by loss of sight owing
to sleeping on the beach of Dirk Hartog
Island careless of the brilliantly-full
moon overhead. Another record comes
from the party of convicts cutting the
first road from Perth to King George’s
Sound. Here the Government doctor
definitely diagnosed moon-blindness,
prescribing slices of liver from a
freshly-killed kangaroo. Again, in
early Coolgardie days, when sleeping
out was commoner than sleeping inside,
a couple of cases were reported, though
here the medicos were in doubt, con-
sidering that possibly the temporary loss
of sight and facial distortion might have
derived from a mild paralytic stroke.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Here’s another item that
“Quareef” (B. 15/11/’39) can add to the
credit side of the Afghan’s ledger. Back
in ’94 Hall and party were out prospecting
the country north of what is now Laver-
ton, W.A. It was midwinter, and bitterly
cold. Young Bill Rutter wasn’t feeling
any too well; so, while the rest of the
party pushed on, he was left at Cosmo
Newbury (merely a name in the desert)
along with a ’Ghan, who also had to
look after seven camels, sick from eating
poison-weed. Two weeks passed and
Hall returned. Rutter was dead-
pneumonia. The ’Ghan had nursed him,
had made poultices of boiled pigweed, the
best he could do, and now kept watch
over his body. So the alien showed the
white men that he had been faithful to
his trust. Imagine the terrible loneliness
of that last week, hundreds of miles in
the desert, with no certainty that the main
party would ever return. He might easily
have taken a couple of camels and set
off back for Coolgardie. Rutter’s grave
may still be seen at far-out Cosmo New-
bury ; an iron railing around a small
headstone. “Sacred to the Memory of
W. Rutter. Died 9/7/’94.” Possibly the
loneliest marked grave in Australia.
* * * *
“Rus”: Mexican military brasshats a
few years ago were forced to proscribe
yo-yo because of the game’s demoralis-
ing effect on the troops. The Torres
Straits archipelago saw a parallel inter-
dict applied when Binghi’s addiction to
the newly-arrived game of marbles caused
official headaches. At the height of the
craze every village inhabitant, from pot-
bellied youngster to drooling old man,
commenced a marathon marble contest,
commencing at dawn and continuing far
into the night by the glare of coconut-
leaf torches. Meanwhile, Binghi’s interest
in his normal pursuit of skin-diving for
pearl and trochus shell was as dead as the
dodo. It was not until “clear water”
(the tidal phase when the water con-
ditions are ideal for shell seeking) passed
unexploited by the natives that the ban
was slapped on.
* * * *
“B.”: With nightmarish memories of a
visit to a Philippine leper colony, I take
off my hat to four young nuns, members
of the Australian Missionary Order, who
are to devote the rest of their lives to
nursing Queensland abo. lepers. After
training at Peel Island lazaret, they will
accompany 50 black parents to a new
State leper colony at Fantome Island
(N.Q.). Transfer of these abos. leaves 26
white lepers at Peel Island.


Educational.
TECHNICAL EDUCATION BY
CORRESPONDENCE.
The DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
offers through the SYDNEY TECHNICAL
COLLEGE the following courses by corre-
spondence :
ENGINEERING COURSES.
Motor Mechanics, Fitting and Machining,
Engineering Trades Drawing, Engine Driving,
Boiler Attendants, Diesel Engine Operation,
Suction (Producer) Gas, Electric and Oxy
Welding.
TRADE COURSES.
Electrical Trades (Electrician’s License), Car-
pentry and Joinery, Building.
PRINTING COURSES.
Composing, Printers’ English and Arithmetic,
Linotype Operation.
SANITATION COURSES.
Sewer Plumbing, Water Plumbing, House
Drainage.
RURAL COURSES.
Agriculture, Care of Animals, Wool Classing,
Station Bookkeeping, Farm Science, Farm
Arithmetic, Farm Mechanics.
COMMERCIAL AND SECRETARIAL
COURSES.
Accountancy, Auditing, Commercial Law,
Bookkeeping, Business Principles, Shorthand
and Typewriting, Commercial Correspondence.
ART COURSES.
Ticket and Showcard Writing, Dressmaker’s
Art, Elementary Art.
HOME HANDICRAFTS COURSES.
Dressmaking and Millinery.
CERTIFICATE COURSES.
Health, Meat, and Food Inspection, Local
Government and Shire Clerks.
PUBLIC EXAMINATION COURSES.
Nurses’ Entrance, Police Entrance, Telephonists
and Intermediate Certificate.
SECONDARY COURSES.
English, Mathematics and Mechanics (to
Leaving Certificate Standard).
OPEN TO ALL WHO CANNOT PER-
SONALLY ATTEND EVENING CLASSES
AT SYDNEY OR COUNTRY TECHNICAL
COLLEGES.
FEES.
255. a year or 10s. a term: Single subjects.
Half fees to students under 21 years and
receiving less than 30s. weekly.
P. D. RIDDELL,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
MAIL COUPON FOR SYLLABUS.
TO The Secretary, Correspondence Teaching
Division, Sydney Technical Colege, Ultimo.
Please send me, without obligation, full details
of the correspondence
course.
Name:
Address :
B
k
THE
No. 150
DEEP
SEATED
KEMP
STYLE
SADDLE
£B/8/-
(Complete)
It has Kemp pads,
deep seat, good long
kip flaps and short
panel with leather
points. Hogskin seat.
N.S.W. rail freight on Saddles paid for
cash with order.
Write for Saddlery Catalog.
[WALTHER * STEVEMSOH ITS:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
11l 111
ao
mm
%
O
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
Monthly sailings across the Pacific to
CANADA U.S.A. EUROPE
via
NEW ZEALAND AND SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
by R.M.S. "Aorangi" and R.M.S. "Niagara"
*Uidit the lf]ew Zealand (Centennial (Exhibition !
NOVEMBER, 1939 TO APRIL, 1940
Only 2j Days from Sydney by the Luxury Liner
“A W A T E A”
14,000 TONS 23 KNOTS
SPEED AND SAFETY SERVICE GAIETY
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY 59 WILLIAM ST., MELBOURNE
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman): Orwell Phillips;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES THROUGHOUT
New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
P. 8.5.: Your Muse suffers from stringhalt.
T.P.: “Ode to a Beautiful Oleander” is too
sickly a growth K.M.: Prune your exhu-
berance a little and you yet may score
L.McG., T.S., S.W.B. and M.C.: All attempt-
ing “Hymns of Hate,” and all falling down
badly J.N.: “Vague Verses” describes them
perfectly L.T.: Save them for your friends’
autograph albums C.S.T.: You may be an
experienced fisherman, but you’re not a yarn-
spinner L.F.R.: You’re getting further away
from us with each effort... .G.D.8.: It’s been
said before A.8.R.: Scrap that copy, but
hang on to the idea... .H.R.C.: One of these
days some indiscriminating person will publish
one of those and you’ll never live it down
H.R.D.: All right until the last page... .F.V.1.:
We didn’t book “Reserved Seat”... .L.R.P.:
Overseas contingents have enough trials in front
of them without being subjected to “An Address
to the Troops” 8.R.1.: It’s a wide
F.R.8.: But your villain didn’t have a black
moustache... .H.T.8.: Not for us; have for-
warded it as requested... .J.T.8.: “Recipe for
Living” an indigestible dish T.8.D.: “Pork
and Beans” ditto... .K.F.E.: “It’s a fanciful
fabrication.” Very C.P.: A few laughs, but
it’s spasmodic and amateurish... .F.T.S.: “A
Ghost of the Past” should haunt you for
years D.W.L.: It’s not the first plot that
was ever thought of, but it’s pretty close to
it T.8.W.: Doesn’t make a yarn
D.L.T.: You’d do better if you paid more
attention to your markets... .8.R.A.: An
obvious first effort, but keep at it... .C.R.C.:
You’ll need more weight to hit whatever you’re
driving at... .F.S.W.: Others are doing it
better P.P.: It’s not very sporting to spring
that on us right after the New Year... .K.R.E.:
“I don’t know why I write.” We can’t help
you either... .C.L.T.: The idea needs much
better handling... .R.8.A.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G. 8.: You managed the moustache but made
a hash of the rest of the face... .R.N.L.:
There is a lot more to the game than you
appear to think W.W.: From what grave-
yard are you resurrecting those gags?....
F.M.: We admired the lamp-post but not the
loafer leaning against it C. 8.: That jest
arrived in Australia with Captain C00k....
A.G.P.: Don’t want your picture of Hitler
poised on a springboard... .A.L.: Try us with
something fresh E.T.: Parson’s boy with a
peashooter is an old friend... .J. 8.: Neatly
done, but much too photographic for our
liking N.T.: The gag belongs to the nursery;
the sketch is hopeless D.C.: No admission
for the gent, with the crop of carbuncles
T.W.: Send them to a journal that advocates
that particular policy... .P.H.: Couldn’t fathom
the gag about the dingo; anyhow, the draw-
ing was awful M.C.: Not in the market for
slavish imitations of that type... .D.F.: Much
as we dislike our mother-in-law we wouldn’t
print that gag.... N.T.: Progress is not
startling, but you are getting nearer to pub-
lication standard J.G.M.: No desire to
exhibit your rogues’ gallery in our pages.
THE ROSSES OF COCOS
(BY “SI ANU.”)
SYDNEY CLUNIES ROSS, Gover-
nor of Cocos atoll, would fulfil any
flapper’s conception of a Louis
Becke island hero. He maintains
a practically absolute dominion over 1400
natives of Malay, Javanese, Bubinese and
Zulu ancestry whom time has fused into
a type peculiar to Cocos; and he carries
an immense sheath knife. The local legend,
assiduously propagated by the Governor
himself, is that once he has drawn his
weapon he never sheathes it until it has
drunk the blood of some individual; but
the fact is that there has been no major
crime on the islands for as long as the
oldest inhabitant can remember.
It was not always so. The original
founder, John Ross, started off his joint
reign 110 years ago with a civil war be-
tween himself and his fellow-dictator
Hare. He afterwards fought a war of
emancipation on behalf of his own fol-
lowers, who were freemen, against Hare’s
men, whom that extraordinary adven-
turer had tricked into signing away their
freedom.
Hare and John Ross agreed to share the
atoll between them, and arrived almost
simultaneously in two schooners in 1827.
Ross was a hardheaded Scotchman who
went to Cocos for strictly business reasons.
Hare was escaping from Dutch and
British justice, having been concerned in
a shady colonising project in Borneo.
Ross started to turn his part of the
island paradise into a commercial enter-
prise. He moulded his nondescript band
of natives into agriculturists, craftsmen
and boatbuilders. Hare turned his into
sycophants and court functionaries. He
had his royal court, his royal orchestra
and his royal harem, a vast number of
native women whom he called his “fiddle
faddle.”
Hare had more women than he knew
what to do with. On Ross’s island there
was a serious shortage. Consequently
marriage by capture became the major
industry of the atoll. Hare’s slaves gradu-
ally deserted to Ross’s dominions, and
Hare finally retired, defeated, to die in
Singapore amidst his fiddle faddle, worn
out by drugs, drink and dissipation. Ross
maintained his independent State for an-
other 20 years, varying his commercial
activities by philosophic writings. One
was a criticism of Darwin, who visited
the atoll in 1836 ; another, an immense
two-volume treatise on the principles of
Malthus, which he contradicted on
theological grounds while his own natives
were confirming them with such solid
biological data that the little archipelago
was frequently threatened with a popu-
lation problem. Ross had a covert ad-
miration for the picturesque Hare which
was quite contrary to his Scotch education.
When Ross decided to annex Cocos he
hutted his family on the atoll and left
them there while he went off to Batavia
to make final arrangements for their life-
long sojourn on an irregular sandpatch
1000 miles from anywhere and six feet
above the level of the Indian Ocean.
They were tough pioneers in those days,
but even Ross did not know that periodi-
cal cyclones sweep the Indian Ocean
clean over the atoll and blow everything
on it to perdition. There has been a
cyclone almost every decade in Cocos
history, when the inhabitants stand knee-
deep in the ocean and visible land is non-
existent.
Ross primus and the present incumbent
got their wives in similarly romantic cir-
cumstances. Ross primus, on a visit to
London, was scooting from a pressgang,
and darted into an open doorway. He
found himself in a sitting-room and in the
presence of an old lady and her pretty
daughter, Elizabeth Dymoke. They fell
in love on the spot, married and had
children.
The present Governor also married in
London. He walked’ into the Selfridge’s
of the day, looked around him, spotted
a girl behind a counter and fell in love
with her at first sight. She returned his
affection, became the Governor’s lady
and bore him many children. Other
members of the dynasty married into the
island aristocracy.
The second Ross espoused Sepia
Dupong, a Malay lady. She was reputed
to be of royal Solo blood. She was cer-
tainly a woman of character, as also was
the wife of the third Governor, another
native lady, who taught the female sub-
jects of her husband homecrafts and in-
dustries while the Governor taught the
men boatbuilding. He sailed his island-
built schooner to England in the
’eighties, got an A 1 certificate for her at
Lloyd’s, put his numerous progeny to
schools in London and returned. His
vessel was stolen by the shipwrecked
crew of an Italian barque, also stolen,
who were never heard of afterwards.
In 1857 H.M.S. Juno arrived at Cocos,
thinking it was a group it had been
ordered to annex in the Andamans. The
atoll was declared a British possession,
and the darling wish of the first founder
was realised when the Dutch flag was
hauled down on his schooner and the
British ensign hoisted. In 1888 Ross ter-
tius became imperialistically-minded and
attempted to extend his dominions to
Christmas Island, 600 miles nearer Java.
He thought of it as another Cocos, and
started to plant coconuts, until some-
body discovered it was composed entirely
of guano. Ross had the mortification of
seeing it taken over by a company, which
replaced his Cocos natives with Chinese
coolies kept in order by Sikh policemen.
He returned to Cocos, whose history,
except for occasional attempted revolu-
tions by shipwrecked mariners, the re-
current cyclones and the visit of the
Emden, has been prosperous and peace-
ful, if strenuous. The cable company
turned it into a telegraphic central for
Australia, Africa and Java, and now it
appears to be predestined to become the
aerial Clapham Junction of the Indian
Ocean.
Most of the members of the Ross
family have been educated in Maoriland,
Australia and England, and many of
those who have not returned to the atoll
have attained to distinction elsewhere.
None of the hereditary rulers has fallen
below the standard set by the founder.
The Guba’s crew have recently testified
to the contentment of the natives, the
efficiency of their workshops and the ex-
cellence of their boatbuilding. One of
the wisest provisions of the present Gov-
ernor is that a native who leaves the
islands goes to perpetual exile lest his
return should bring scourges from which
the atoll is free.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Coins have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
S'ILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUEEDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
Genera!. Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE - 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
Our Service Department
readers^* S set apart £or tb e service of Bulletin
on The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or To Let notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, used to typing
authors’ MSS., seeks work; neat and accurate,
moderate fees. —5819.
Healthy man, N.S.W'., good education, wants
job as caretaker or library assistant; holds lift-
driver’s certificate. —5829.
To buy clean copies of Chunuma and All
About, by Elizabeth and Mary Durack.—sßlo.
Whereabouts of old Bulletin contributor
"Gregor” and “Morobe.” Believed to be in
Queensland. —5803.
Information Sought.
(1) What was the quotation the King used
in his Christmas Day Empire broadcast, the
origin of which was unknown to English men
of letters? (2) Who was the author of the
lines ? —5826.
(1) “I said to the man who stood at the
gate of the year, Give me fight .that I may
tread safely into the unknown. And he
replied, Go out into the darkness and put
your hand into the hand of God. That shall
be to you better than fight and safer than a
known way.” (2) The fines were written by a
Miss M- L. Haskins, novelist and poet, as an
introduction to a volume of verse called The
Desert, privately printed and circulated many
years ago. The King probably saw them
quoted in a letter written by a Mrs. J. C. M.
Allen published in the London “Times” of
September 7, 1939.
* * * *
/ am engaged to a lady but do not desire
any religious ceremony in connection with our
marriage. To this my fiancee agrees, but her
parents insist that there can be no valid and
binding marriage without the religious cere-
mony. How does-it stand ? —5842.
The essential to a valid marriage in law
is the agreement between the parties. That
point in ihe marriage ceremony, civil or
religious, at which in the presence of at least
two witnesses the man takes the woman to be
his wife and the woman takes the man to be
her husband ‘ constitutes* the legal marriage.
The law requires a preliminary declaration,
also a subsequent registration; but without
the agreement before witnesses no marriage
is constituted. Either man or woman can
withdraw before such agreement is declared.
* * * *
(1) Can a shopkeeper legally refuse to sell
an article at the price shown in the shop win-
dow even if a mistake obviously . has been
made? (2) If a customer picks up a Is. article
from a bin of 6d. articles on the counter can
the shopkeeper refuse to sell it for 6d. 2—5808.
(1) If the article is marked at a specific
price on or attached to it the shopkeeper must
sell at that price and abide by his mistake. (2)
If the article, without bearing a specific price
marked on or attached to it, becomes, by a
mistake for which the shopkeeper is not respon-
sible, mingled with a number of articles priced
generally at a lower sum, the would-be buyer
cannot avail himself of the mistake.
* * * *
Some details concerning David Low, the
cartoonist ? —5852.
Son of David Brown Low and his wife, Jane
Caroline Flanagan, he was born at Dunedin
(M.L.) on April 7, 1891, and was educated at
the Boys’ High School, Christchurch. He became
a political cartoonist on the Christchurch
“Spectator” at an early age, and in 1911 joined
the staff of The Bulletin. He remained with
The Bulletin until 1919, when he crossed to
London to draw for the “Star.” Since 1927
he has contributed principally to the “Evening
Standard,” London. He has published nearly
20 books, mainly of his sketches, the first in
1908.
* * * *'
(1) To whom did Uruguay belong before it
became a republic, and when did it declare its
independence ? What are (2) the area, (3) popu-
lation and (4) principal towns in Uruguay?
(5) Chief religion in the country? (6) Naval
strength ? —5857.
(1) Formerly a part of the Spanish vice-
royalty of Rio de la Plata, and subsequently
a province of Brazil, it declared its indepen-
dence on August 25, 1825, which was recog-
nised by the treaty between Argentina, Brazil
and Uruguay signed at Rio de Janeiro on
August 27, 1828. (2) 72,153 square miles. (3)
2,093,331 at January 1, 1938. (4) Montevideo
City (the capital) 682,664, Paysandu 31,000,'
Salto 30,000, and Mercedes 24,000. (5) Roman
Catholic. (6) The fleet consists of the torpedo
gunboat Uruguay, 1150 tons;, the surveying
vessel Miranda, of 500 tons, built in Spain in
1930; three patrol vessels of 150 tons built in
Italy in 1935, and a few craft of less impor-
tance.
* * * m
What is choke damp? —sß33.
The miner's term for carbon dioxide. In
ordinary circumstances it may be found in
recesses or badly-ventilated places in the
mine, but is formed in huge quantity
when an explosion of coal-gas mixed with
air occurs, owing to the combination of the
carbon of the gas and the oxygen of the air.
When formed in this way it is known as after-
damp. When the atmosphere is charged with a
large amount of carbon dioxide, symptoms
of suffocation occur through deficient oxidation
of the blood.
My wife recently lost a valuable diamond ring
which she is anxious to recover. She is pre-
pared to give the finder a substantial reward on
delivery and suggests, since she has certain sus-
picions about the matter, that an advertisement
she is drawing up might contain some indication
that no questions would be asked if the ring
were quietly handed over. Would it be right
to do this ?—5705.
No. The Crimes Act (N.S.W.) makes specific
provision with regard to advertising rewards for
the return of property stolen or lost. Any per-
son using words in such an advertisement in-
dicating that a reward would be given if the
property were returned and no questions would
be asked or inquiry made lays himself or her-
self open to a fine of £50.
* * # *
(1) What is the process used in manufactur-
ing charcoal ? (2) Is it necessary to have a
special class of timber ? (3) Any textbooks on
the matter 7—5615.
(1) Forest charcoal is produced in the forest,
generally, using rather primitive kilns; retort
charcoal is produced in special factories. A
great deal of charcoal is produced without any
special plant by simply piling the wood in
conical heaps of billets from 12ft. to 15ft.
high and. 10ft. to 50ft. in diameter, the largest
billets being placed in the centre of the pile.
The heap is covered with turf or clay and
holes are made at the side for the admission
of air. Burning is then started round the sides
and at the top. (2) Any form of waste wood is
suitable, provided that it is not too small or too
large. (3) Fuller details of this method, as well as
of methods employing small metal kilns, are
given in a photolithographed booklet on pro-
ducer gas vehicles issued by the Defence
Department. A copy of this booklet may be
obtained free by writing to the Director of
Mechanisation, Army Headquarters, Melbourne.
* - * * *
(1) Are new primary industries likely to be
created in N.S.W. or Queensland owing to war
conditions ? (2) What existing primary indus-
tries are likely to be benefited?— 5565.
(1) In the southern portion of N. S. Wales
and in Vic. there are possibilities of the estab-
lishment of flax plantations and in the irriga-
tion areas the production of linseed. On the
N.S.W. North Coast ginger will in all proba-
bility be given a trial, likewise ramie. (2) All
primary industries, with perhaps the exception
of fruitgrowing, should benefit from the
present situation, more particularly those con-
cerned in the production of fat lambs and
butter.
* * * *
Was it at The King’s School, Parramatta
(A.S.fF.), that the first school cadet corps in
Australia was established? —5830.
No. George F. Macarthur, a son of Hanni-
bal Macarthur, who was a nephew of John
Macarthur, formed the first cadet corps at a
school he established. He had been educated
at I he King’s' School, and was ordained an
Anglican priest in 1849. In 1852 he was ap-
pointed to St. Mark’s, Darling Point, and there
, opened a collegiate school which did so well
that he resigned the parish six years later and
took his school to Macquarie Fields. Ten
years later he accepted an invitation to become
head of The King’s School, which had been
closed for four years, and during the 17 years
of his service built The King’s up to the posi-
tion it has held ever since.
* ■ ■» * * * 1
Do mahogany trees grow in the Australian
limber country ?— 5823.
Not , the. mahogany of the Old World. Aus-
tralian mahogany trees are all eucalypts, and
got the name from early settlers who saw in
the wood some resemblance to the mahogany
of the-old countries. The likeness is only
in color, the Australian timber being much
heavier, closer-grained, harder and more
durable.- Jarrah and karri, red, swamp a'nd
white mahogany are the species. AH are
splendid hardwoods and are used for general
purposes—bridges, railway trucks, platforms
and other structures requiring hard, strong
and durable timber.
* * * *
What 20 municipalities in N.S.W., outside the
Sydney metropolitan area, have the largest
populations? —5831.
Greater Newcastle 115,660, Broken Hill
28,100, Wollongong 16,800, Goulburn 15,360,
Cessnock -14,460, Lithgow 13,510, Lismore
13,010, East and West Maitland 12,680, Wagga
_ Wagga 12,630, Albury 11,500, Bathurst 11,050,
Tamworth 10,840, Orange 10,310, Grafton
and South Grafton 10,190, Fairfield 9870,
Ulawarra North 8820, Dubbo 8680, Cabra-
matta and Canley Vale 7250, Armidale 7150,
and Katoomba 6990. Figures are as at Decem-
ber 31, 1938.
* * * *
Who was Beatrice Cenci? —5840.
An Italian girl, born in 1577, whose fame
rests on the tragic and sordid character of her
family history. She was the child of Francesco
Cenci, a wealthy, passionate man, who proved
a dissolute liver and a harsh father, and of
Lucrezia, his second wife. She was involved
in a plot to murder her father, who was assassi-
nated while he slept, and after torture and con-
fession was beheaded with her mother in 1599.
Shelley’s magnificent tragedy, The Cenci, is
historically inaccurate, but has nevertheless
made Beatrice one of the most heroic and
tragical of women. Modern research has
brought to light evidence that she had an
illegitimate child by one of her father’s stew-
ards.
(1) At what ages are women accepted for the
Women’s Auxiliary Air Force in England?
(2) What are their duties? (3) Do they wear
a uniform ? —5847.
(1) Between the ages of 18 and 43. Women
with previous war experience are accepted up
to 50. (2) Motor transport drivers, clerks,
telephone and teleprinter operators, fabric
workers, upholsterers, photographers, tracers
and draughtswomen, cooks, mess orderlies and
equipment officers. (3) Yes, Air Force blue
tunic and skirt and blue peaked cap.
* * * *
What occupation does Cecil Walker, the
cyclist, follow; his age, dates of his first
appearance in a race, first appearance as a
professional, and first appearance in a six-day
race? —s722.
Cecil Walker resides in Melbourne, where he
conducts a cycle and sports store, and was born
April 22, 1898. His first race, a five-mile
road race with the Marrickville (Sydney)
Amateur Bicycle Club, was in September, 1914.
His first professional appearance was in a six-
day race run at the Sydney Sports Ground,
Christmas, 1919.
* * * *
What is butyric acid and how is it prepared?
—5820.
It is a volatile fatty acid occurring in butter-
fat, in parsnip and other vegetable oils, and in
the perspiration of animals. It is an oily,
colorless liquid with an unpleasant smell,
solidifies at minus 19deg. Cent., boils at
162.3 deg. Cent., and has a specific gravity
of .974. It is miscible with water
and alcohol, and forms salts called butyrates.
It may be prepared by adding putrid cheese to
sugar or starch mixed with water, the cheese
introducing the bacillus by whose agency the
acid is formed. Chalk is usually added to
bring off the acid in the form of the calcium
salt. ,
* * * *
To . whom are widows’ pensions paid in
N.S.W., and what is the amount payable?
—5855.
Widows’ pensions are payable to widows with
dependent children and to destitute widows
over'so years of age. Widows without depen-
dent children, left unprovided for, may receive
pension for six months from date of husband’s
death. An applicant must have been domiciled
in N. S. Wales at husband’s death and resi-
dent in the State for three years, at date of
application. The maximum pension is 20s. per
week, with additional 10s. for each child under
14. Claims are renewable annually.
* * * *
In N. S. Wales where a husband dies with-
out leaving a will how is his estate disposed
of and who pays the debts ' that may be due ?
—5844.
If he leaves a wife and children the, wife
takes one third of the estate, the remainder
being divisible among the children,- share and
share alike. If there are no: children she takes
the whole.- All debts are paid out of the
estate.
'* * * *
1 / am about to take out a life policy of
insurance and am advised to make it a “pro-
bate”. policy. What are the advantages in law
, of such a policy ? —5850.
The advantages of such a policy are not so
much “advantages in law” as advantages to the
executors of the estate into whose hands, such
estate will pass on the death of the testator.
It may ’be of very real assistance •to them
in finding cash for probate duties, which under
recent legislation have been very. materially
increased. Without cash in hand the executors
may, have to.place securities on the market at
a sacrifice, or.raise a loan at high interest,-to
meet the probate duty, whereas with a “probate
policy” they may. collect the amount due
under the insurance as soon as probate'has
been granted. An ordinary fife policy becomes
payable only after the duty has 1 been paid.
. The cost of the ordinary and the probate policy
is the same.
* * * *
I have for some years past been' drawing
alimony from my divorced husband in N.S.W.
He is now getting old and is in ill-health.
Should he die, where would l stand' with
regard to my alimony ? —5836.
There are practically, two kinds of alimony:
' one where the divorced husband is the owner
of property and the alimony may be made a
charge against it; and the other where,, as in
the majority of cases, the diyorced husband
is not the owner of property, and accordingly
an order is made for the payment out of his
earnings of a weekly or’monthly sum for the
maintenance of his one-time wife. In the one
case; the alimony lasts; while the property
endures; in the other it ends with the death
of the one-time husband.
*** . *
What is the law in N.S.W. with regard to
nuisances? A neighbor of ours has recently
erected a workshop against the dividing fence
between us and so close to our house that the
racket he, makes pretty: well all'day and some-
times at night is telling on my wife’s nerves
and , is a serious discomfort to us all. Can’t
we stop him ? —5821.
Generally - speaking nuisances where neigh-
bors are concerned are determined by the
excess of the injury or annoyance beyond what
may be considered ' reasonable,’ taking into
account the circumstances of time and place,
the quantity of annoyance and the relationship
of the properties to one another, .such as close
proximity and so on. For example, it has
been held that a stable built, up'next a neigh-
bor’s wall and interfering with* his comfort by
reason of the noise made by the horses—thus
depriving him of the use and enjoyment of his
honie —was a nuisance. Before taking action
write to the neighbor-and tell him that unless
the noise is abated you will have to take action
at law.
* ,* * *
Method of preventing flies spotting plaster
ceilings? —sßlß. •
A regular spraying (once or twice a week)
with one of the well-known insect-sprays will
reduce the pest to a minimum. Mixing the
color or wash used for the ceiling with water
embittered with quassia is a deterrent, but the
only certain method is to keep flies out of the
room.
Brief Answers.
S.A.: Write C. M. Cutcliffe, general sec-
retary, League of N.S.W. Wheelmen, Box
3308 PP, G.P.0., Sydney W.D.C.: Get in
touch with the Taxpayers’ Association of
N.S.W., 11c Castlereagh-street, Sydney
J.F.S.: Information not available at present
time... .P.J.H.: You should in the first place
approach the landlord and see if he will allow
you time in which to find a place for the stock.
When a tenant holds over after his tenancy has
been ended by a legal notice to quit the land-
lord may give notice that he will apply before
Justices to recover possession of the property,
and written notice of this application will be
served on the tenant. Should the tenant fail
to appear before the Justices they may issue
a warrant to a constable to enter the premises
by force, if necessary, and restore possession to
the landlord... .H.E.S.: (1) and (2) Not aware
of the existence of a “Co-Masonic Club,” but
there is an organisation which styles itself “Co-
s It is in no way connected with
Masonry as practised under the United Grand
Lodge of N.S.W. and other Grand Lodges of
the world. (3) A Theosophical body. (4)
Masonic lodgds are absolutely prohibited from
admitting women as members G.J.: The
grandfather clock is approximately 130 years
. old. Its value if in order and case in good
condition (preferably mahogany) would be
between 30 and 40 guineas. Advertising is
desirable.. ..C.M.G.: In 1940-41... .M.M.: (1)
On the receipt of a certificate from the medical
officer of a public hospital for the insane that
any person confined therein as an insane person
is of sound mind, or may with safety be dis-
charged to the care of a relative or friend
of the person confined, any justice of the
peace may order the discharge of such person.
The relatives or friends should apply to the
hospital authorities to be given the custody of
the person in question. (2) When making a will
the testator must, to ensure its validity, be
of sound disposing mind. (3) It is not true
that in Australian mental hospitals patients
are herded together in the manner described.
. ...H.W.M.: (1) Does not deteriorate any
more or keep any longer when so treated.
(2) Drums should be kept under cover away
from moisture... .E. 8.: (1) A qualification for
invalid pension is permanent incapacity for
work. In addition to the incapacity being
permanent it must be total. A claim should
be made on the prescribed forms, which may
be obtained at any post office. (2) Inquiries
concerning war or service pensions should be
directed to the Deputy Commissioner, Repat-
riation Department, Chalmers-street, Sydney.
.... A.N.M.: Write Australian Aerial Medical
■Services, Union Bank Chambers, Queen-street,
Brisbane... .G.S.: At the present time the market
in Australia for manganese ore is limited.
Try Frank Hambridge and Minerals, Ltd.,
both Sydney. You might also communicate
with the steelworks at Newcastle, as they are
in the market at the moment for this ore. On
the basis of a grade assaying 50 p.c. Mn and
■ minimum 70 p.c. Mno2, the price today is
about £4 per ton delivered in Sydney in lump
form... .G.AiO’K.: Apparently there is no
interchangeability on the wheels of the 1928
model. Westcott, Hazell and Cos., Sydney,
■ could build up steel wheels, and this firm would
be pleased to quote if required... .S.T.W.:
Consult the Registrar of Births, Deaths and
Marriages, corner of Help-street and Pacific
■ Highway, Chatswood, N.S.W., or call at the
Registrar - General’s Dept., Sydney R.Z.:
• (1) Cannot say. Would want to know from
what language the words are taken. (2) The
pronunciation of English surnames depends
entirely on the taste and fancy of the possessor,
also long-established custom. Doubtful about
“Askew.” It might be “Askew.” But “Carews”
; have been known who preferred to be called
“Careys.” (3) The Latin “v” was pro-
nounced like the English one when those
consulted went to school, but many modern
scholars prefer to sound it like our
“w.” (4) (a) Terra Regins, (b) Terra
Australis.. . .W;G.: Shred |lb. beeswax, put it
' into a jar with i pint of pure (not synthetic)
turpentine and stand the jar in hot water so
that both can be stirred together till creamy.
Fumes are inflammable. Use sparingly; apply
with fluffless rag T.Q.: Write Curator,
Technological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney.
. ...D.M.: See The Australian Authors and
Artists’ Handbook (35.), obtainable from most
booksellers... .M.C.: For the purpose of the
1933 census dwellings located near a township
in a country district were not stated as being
in that township if they were distant more than
one mile from the post office or other central
building in the township If the locality in
such case had no definite name it was shown
as being “near” the neighboring township....
8.D.: Bunbury 5140, Geraldton 4984, Mt. Mag-
net 414, Donnybrook 493, Katanning 2409,
Wagin 1245, Narrogin 2466, Albany 4076,
Pingelly 766, York 1636, Northam 4817, and
Boulder 5808. Figures are as at 1933 census.
....G.C.H.: (1) In most cases he is paid on
a royalty basis. (2) It is advisable to reserve
all rights, including cinema, except Australian
book rights. (3) Typed manuscripts are preferred.
(4) Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-
street, and New Century Press, 3 York-street
North —both Sydney E.J.R.: N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Dept., Sydney, will forward leaflet
“Drying of Figs” on application... .A.L.:
Write Board of Social Study and Training,
5 Hamilton-street, Sydney... .J.W.O’C.: Write
P. J. Carroll, Deputy Registrar of Co-opera-
tive Societies, Registry of Co-operative Societies,
61 Hunter-street, Sydney... .C.R.C.: Write
Corps of Commissionaires (N.S.W.), Endeavour
House, Macquarie-place, Sydney....R. McQ.:
McCormick’s best Sheffield Shield bowling
effort was 9 wickets for 40 in the second
innings, Vic. v. S.A., at Adelaide, 1936-37.
A.B.: Get in touch with Mr. A. Cooke,
Department of Public Works, Bridge-street,
Sydney... .A.F.T.: (1) The nine islands in
Port Jackson are Shark, Clark, Garden, Fort
Denison (Pinchgut), Cockatoo, Goat, Spectacle,
Schnapper and Rodd. (2) “The Raven,” by
Edgar Allan Poe... .D.L.T.: Write Under-
secretary, Dept, of Defence, Melbourne....
H. 8.: Rudolf Hess was born in 1894, and
served as airman in 1914-18. He became
private secretary to Hitler in 1925.


HITS
LYS
ft
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m
sWf^SsSi
«k-:
k*%&
•, .y
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fat Lambs and Quality.
“Ghanam”: The British Breeds Society
is out to emphasise the point long stressed
on the M.O.L. page—that “a higher
standard of quality and more evenness
of type should be the main objectives of
lamb-raisers.” It says that an initial step,
imperative in view of the rapid expan-
sion in production, must be “a deter-
mined attempt to eliminate inferior
rams.”
This could be achieved by prohibiting
by legislation the use of all sires unless
they come from registered flocks.
Legislation should not be necessary,
and it would be difficult to operate.
Licensing would provide a better measure
of control, and the ewe under Australian
conditions is as much a problem as the
ram. With a permanent demand for
wool, and with Australian merino wool
superior, the tendency is always to breed
away from mutton types, and the lamb
industry will always have to depend for
its mothers on the crossbred.
The position will not be stabilised until
suitable districts specialise in ewe-breed-
ing with meat in view. The districts
best adapted are the edges of the mixed-
farming belts, where grain is available
and pastures can be improved to heavy
carrying point.
New Sheep-fly Dressing.
‘Ovisi”: The C.S. and I.R. has
been trying for a non-irritating sheep-
fly dressing: a glycerine-diboric acid
dressing is recommended. It is an emul-
sion, “C.8.E.” (pot. hydroxide, 4.1 p.c. ;
boric acid, 10.05 p.c. ; oil of camphor,
13.2 p.c.; oleic acid, 2.5 p.c.; water to
complete 100 p.c.).
Irritation tests were carried out with
15 sheep under a year old. Three of the
animals developed scab on the areas
treated. Nine were unmarked by the
treatment, and the remaining three only
slightly. As some of the sheep had been
fairly strongly struck, there was no real
evidence, however, that the dressing had
caused the injury.
The new dressing is at least as effec-
tive as the old glycerine-diboric. It is
simpler to apply and has better wool
penetration. No surviving maggots were
found on areas dressed, and all adult
flies coming in contact with the emulsion
are killed at once. No damage is done to
the wool, which remains unmatted after
treatment.
01. abietis, eucalyptus and camphor
oils were found non-irritant in moderate
quantities, but all are severe irritants
undiluted.
A Lesson from Rhodesia.
“Mcokau”: S. Africa is doing all in its.
power to advance the beef industry, and
if Queensland does not hurry in adopt-
ing modern methods its meatmen may
be in for a thin time within a decade
or so, with S’African competition added
to the S. American.
The Rhodes Matopo estates in
Rhodesia, which are in about the same
latitude as N. Queensland but at a dif-
ferent elevation, have introduced scien-
tific feeding. They use the best types of
breeding stock, graze the animals during
the summer months and see the winter
through with protein concentrates and
leguminous hays according to a calcu-
lated growth curve. The objective is a
6001 b. carcass, and experiments have been
made in the economy of turning cattle
off at this weight for market at several
stages from \\ to five years. The most
economical age in terms of production
cost is 3| years.
In the Transvaal a special committee
has been at work on the nutritional value
of Rhodes grass. It has been working
on several experimental grazing plots with
Aberdeen Angus steers in an endeavor
to use the herbage to the best advantage
and at the same time secure a hay crop.
Seven acres of Rhodes provided seven
steers with grazing for 221 days, and
“Me sheilah reckons she'll turn me down if I get
freckled."
added 2221 b. weight per steer. Further
experiments are in progress with Rhodes
and concentrates.
This sort of experiment in Queensland
is in its infancy, and, as the C.S. and I.R.
has recently pointed out, stock and their
owners are completely at the mercy of
climate and natural grasses. This makes
for unevenness of growth. The weaner
finds itself pitched on to a diet in which
there are brief periods of fatted plenty
and long ones of leanness. It is almost
impossible to fatten scientifically under
such conditions.
The C.S. and I.R. suggests introducing
high-producing grasses with a long grow-
ing season, combined with a suitable
legume. A great deal of the country
does not lend itself to this treatment, but
all Northern Australia needs a legume
which would adapt itself to conditions.
It would have to be a perennial or a
self-regenerator like sub. clover.
The C.S. and I.R. has had several
plants under observation. The trifolio
(Stylosanthes guyannensis) from Brazil
has been found to make 6in. of growth
and hold its leaf throughout the year,
and it has shown an inclination to mix
in natural pastures and even to compete
with bunch spear grass. Mature plants
have a 16 per cent, protein content. An-
other possibility is a S. American peren-
nial peanut which is rich in protein.
Maibomia discolor, a popular content of
Brazilian pastures, is being tried out also.
It grows to shrub but does not lose its
leaves, and, apart from grazing, makes
a useful hay. Pigeon pea, largely used
in Hawaii for fattening, is under experi-
ment: it grows to Bft., flowers in autumn
and winter, and has a heavy pod crop
in spring. Soy beans are worth consider-
ing, and there is still room for test of
the Westralian strains of sub. clover in
some districts.
There should be a chance of develop-
ing local plants. Townsville lucerne
seems a possibility.
It may not be sound
as it is, but hybrid-
ised and improved it
might be just the
thing.
The aim should be
primarily hay de-
velopment rather
than grazing. Where
an abundance of
hay can be grown
under natural con-
ditions, drought loses
half its terrors.
Subdivide.
“R.N.”: Without
subdivision fences
stock management is
not efficient, and
very often the carry-
ing capacity of large
areas is much below
what it should be,
even under natural
pasture, because
there is little oppor-
tunity to rest part
of the land and
allow pastures to
seed.
Where there are
normal rainfall and
a good cover of
natural grass, a 1000-
acre paddock now
carrying a sheep to
the acre might be
made carry double,
if subdivided into
(say) five 200-acre
paddocks. Of course, .
few paddocks of that
area would permit
of equal subdivision
—a paddock is not
uniformly grassed
and there will be
variations in soil and
drainage. Still a little careful study will
show the landholder the best way to
fence.
Water supply may present a problem,
but the provision of an extra tank or two
would be more than justified. There are
few parts of Australia free from the
threat of a dry spell, and smaller pad-
docks with more tanks could easily
change many properties from mediocre
producers to good ones.
Dinner for Dennis.
“Pappamosca”: Maoriland’s Agricul-
tural Department points out that high-
quality feeds —skim, grain and meals —
give best results when served with 40 per
cent, of roots or grazing. Thus a rational
feed combination would be made up of
500 gals, milk, 1001 b. meal and 4001 b. of
roots. This should produce 1601 b. carcass
meat —one heavy baconer.
One acre of roots or greenstuff for
pig feed should be grown for every 10
to 20 cows kept, according to land qual-
ity. Then buy lcwt. of meal for every
cow kept, and keep one sow for every
eight cows.
If meatmeal is not used, every young
pig should have 2oz. of animal fat every
day. Don’t waste the household drip-
ping surplus. Pigs also should have,
besides greens, loz. per day of mineral
mixture —say four parts carbonate of
lime to one part of salt.
All changes from one ration to an-
other should be made carefully and
gradually. Also, watch weights from
week to week. An average youngster
at three weeks will weigh 121 b. The next
fortnight should add "81b. At two months
351 b. is reasonable, at three months 601 b.,
at four months 901 b., at six months
1601 b. But by judicious feeding it is
possible to speed the race to maturity
by a month.
Publicise the Scientist.
“Bungaree”: Research has been suc-
cessful in discovering means of preventing
anthrax, tetanus, black disease in sheep,
blackleg in sheep and cattle, pulpy
kidney, liver fluke, worm parasites and
numerous other sources of loss to the
grazier. But sheep, cattle and horses still
die in hundreds from diseases for which
there is a remedy. There are many
reasons. The chief one is ignorance,
sometimes traceable to farmers’ supersti-
tious distrust of the man with the micro-
scope ; but the research side is largely to
blame for its inability to place its dis-
coveries before the stockbreeder in lan-
guage he can understand, and for its poor
publicity methods generally.
The work and findings of the C.S. and
I.R. and Government departmental ex-
perts should be made available to country
newspapers in well-written, simply-
worded articles. Qualified lecturers
might be appointed to tour the country
and conduct courses on veterinary sub-
jects. Practical demonstrations and dis-
cussions will do more to bring scientist
and grazier together than any other
means.
Practically all stock diseases may be
prevented, but many cannot be cured.
Stockmen often won’t drench sheep so
long as they appear to be doing well.
When feed dries off and stock begin to
fall away or show signs of worminess, it
is too late to hold the advantages supplied
by Nature.
What percentage of breeders realise
the value and use of vaccines for the
prevention of stock diseases? How many
wait until sheep start to die before they
make up their minds to inoculate? How
many know what type of worms is. in?
festing their sheep and whether the
drench they are using wilLhave any effect?
Thousands of sheep die every year be-*
cause they were not drenched, were
drenched too late or were given the
wrong drench. The C.S. and I.R. has
published recommendations for the con-
trol of parasites in sheep with a list of
approved drenches ; the ingredients are
simple and may be obtained at reasonable
cost, but how many graziers have seen
them?
Wheat Restriction.
“0.T.”: The Premiers will, of course,
be invited to Canberra (or Melbourne)
to discuss wheat-acreage restriction. Mr.
Dunstan has already said that he won’t
have it, and Nock, M.H.R., himself a
grower, is with him. According to
(The Man on the Land continued on
page 40.)


REGULATION
OFFICERS’ BOOT
A high-legged Military Cossack for the
use of mounted Officers.
Made in best grade Brown Calf and
Leather lined throughout, with stout
soles.
The leg of this boot is specially
cut to fit any type of legging. A
Stocked in full sizes.
50'
ķ
Boots are sent to all parts of Australia and the British Empire.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations „ 15
Sheep bought ~ 20
Wire netting „ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
.THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St.. Sydney
ffie'ffe'a'Ileiz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Commonwealth
Gov’ment Action
“BETTER-THAN-EVER”
Empire Tobacco, devel-
oped by tbe Common-
wealth and State Gov-
ernments, makes our
Tobacco BETTER
THAN EVER.
Empire grown Tobacco is better
than ever because of the new
agricultural and scientific methods
developed by our Governments,
which have helped the Farmers
grow finer, better Tobacco.
WE ARE THE
MANUFACTURERS
Order your Tobacco
DIRECT FROM US
at practically half the price you pay
elsewhere.
With orders over £ I in all lines a
Briar or Cherry wood Pipe, Tobacco
Pouch, Cigarette Lighter or Holder
is included.
PIPE TOBACCO AND FINE CUT.
Per lb.
First crop, mild .. .. .. 6/3
All British, mild .. .. .. 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium .. .. 6/3
Old Peter, medium .. .. .. 6/3
Cavendish, strong .. .. 6/3
Beecli Nut, medium . . .. .. 6/9
Africa, mellow and mild . . .. 6/9
Soliders’ Own, mild .. 7/3
Normandie, medium .. .. 7/9
Winning Post, medium .. .. 8/-
Tliree Bells, strong 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium . . .. . . 8/-
Eatakia, in pipe only .. .. 10/-
White Lodge, medium .. 10/-
White Bodge, light 11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark .. 8/6
Cahills, medium .. .. 10/9
Union Leader, medium • .. 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium .. 11/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only . . 8/-
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only .. 6/-
PLUG TOBACCOS
“Clinker,” plug mild .. 7/6
“Skipper,” medium 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong .. .. .. 7/6
“Three Sailors” 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks . . 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug 6/6
Zig Zag Papers. 5 Packets for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.WL
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
Combined Growers,
COMMERCIAL RD„ VALLEY, BRISBANE.
N.S.W. Director of Agriculture Mc-
Donald, farmers recognise the necessity
for restriction, though the Agricultural
Bureau states that “effective restriction
would require international co-operation
among wheat-exporting countries an
enormous task at present.”
Under its National Security Act Can-
berra can control production without
State aid or interference, but is hardly
likely to adopt drastic measures.
There is a good deal to be said for
both sides. If the Commonwealth has
to go on finding the money for wheat
it is certainly entitled to put a limit
on the quantity. The matter of storage
also comes into it. Unless the shipping
position improves greatly, or the war
ends, Australia will find itself taking off
the 1940-1 harvest with much of its
present storage space already holding
grain.
On the other hand, Nature is the
supreme controller, and next year may
find the world short of wheat. It is
certain that, if the war goes on, Britain,
and France, too, will be anxious for grain.
At the same time Canada faces a glut with
an official estimate of 479,000,000 bushels,
This, plus the carryover from last year,
means an exportable surplus of about
450,000,000 bushels. A large part of
the Canadian new crop has been paid
for, a big amount of bank funds is tied
up in wheat, Canada’s storage space is
jammed with grain from coast to coast,
and there is a cry for shipping.
It is being suggested that the Aus-
tralian subsidy should be limited to the
first 3000 bushels, thus ensuring a margin
for the small grower, and encouraging
the larger grower to go in for voluntary
acreage-restriction by increasing his
stock. The suggestion has points.
If restriction is to be, an early an-
nouncement is wanted. Growers can
hardly be expected to receive with good
grace an order to cut down after they
have made all preparations for sowing.
Even now in short-fallow districts the
ploughs are at work.
It is doubtful if Australia uses as much
wheat as Australia could. There is scope
for the grain as a fodder reserve in the
sheep country, as part of a mixed ration
for all stock, and possibly in the field
of industrial chemistry. A country whose
flocks and herds are periodically deci-
mated by droughts should be able to
use more of its surplus grain.
The Value of Hay.
“J. Want”: Few farmers understand
the reasons for the excellence of hay as
a fodder. Fresh grass is nearly always
three parts water ; hay is rarely more
than 20 per cent, water if properly made,
and it supplies bulk as well as nourish-
ment. A fair average analysis of good
hay is: Proteins about 16 per cent., carbo-
hydrates and fat around 60 per cent., ash
over 7 per cent, and the remainder water.
To secure the best hay it is essential
to have a balance of ingredients. This
counts both in palatability and feed value.
In all pasture hays there should be
clover.
Hay must be cut at the right time —
when grasses are flowering. If mowing
is left till seeding is well advanced, the
resources of the grass have been strained
to produce the seed and the leaves have
not the same solidity either of structure
or chemical content. Cut before flower-
ing, the output per acre is less, even
though feed value may be higher. The
main grass in the ration is the chief thing
to watch. Clovers are not affected so
much in content by progression through
flowering and seeding.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.”: Overuse of the rasp, mutilation
of the frog, cutting the bars, paring the
sole and stubbing the toe in shoeing can
cripple a horse. The outside of • the
hoof is specially built to protect the
foot beneath it. If it’s rasped through
anywhere, the more tender parts are
left open. The rasp should not be used
above the clinches, and very lightly
below. A shock-absorber provided by
Nature, the frog should be left alone. The.
bars which keep the feet in shape should
not be touched at all. The sole, put there
to protect tenderer parts, should not need
paring except on very rare occasions
and then only under expert supervision.
Stubbing the toe will eventually result
in malformation.
“Green P.”: Yields from green peas
can be increased by using super.—about
2cwt. an acre. On light sandy soil
sulphate of ammonia and super, have
stepped up yields, the mixture being
about four of super, to one, put on at
about 2|cwt. an acre. On light coastal
soils the rate could be increased, this
being a matter for experiment. Don’t
let the fertiliser touch the seed.
“Endo”: The Commonwealth might
well ask itself why, in Australia, maize
production has declined substantially
since before the last war —in N.S.W.
from 6,000,000 to 3,500,000 bushels odd
—so that the output even in maize-grow-
ing States is not much more than H
bushels per head of population. In
U.S.A., for all States, the output is more
than 20 bushels per head. The blame is
usually laid here on the disappearance of
the horse. In U.S.A. the horse has dis-
appeared to an even greater extent. But
over there two factors operate which do
not operate here. The Yankees realise
the value of maize for producing human
foods and industrial by-products, and
they have a huge beef-cattle feeding in-
dustry which we have not, but should
have.
“A. Polio”: A quick look over the
wheat on the southern slopes of N.S.W.
showed that late spring rains induced a
pretty heavy stem rust, and yield has cer-
tainly been affected. Rainfall was above
normal practically throughout the year,
and root-rot diseases helped smut to take
toll. Ford, because of its ability to resist
such conditions, won first four places in
the R.A.S. contest, champion crop being
grown by W. D. Ferguson at Yerong
Creek. It is doubtful if any of the com-
peting crops would have qualified in a
normal season.
“B. U. Colick”: Perennial rye is found
all over the world in the best pastures.
It needs good soil for quick results.
Italian rye and red clover mixture will
last a couple of years under careful graz-
ing. It can be fed off heavily, and makes
an ideal hay. There is a place in pas-
tures for cocksfoot, which is hardier
than perennial rye, and will grow well
on land the fertility of which might not
support the rye.
“Wundi”: N. S. Wales Agricultural
Department estimates that 5,220,000
acres 335,000 more than last year —
will be harvested for grain this season.
Over half the increase is in wheat and
nearly all the balance in oats. For hay,
over 1,000,000 acres will be harvested,
but there will be a decrease of 64,000
acres in fed-off green fodder. Potato
and banana areas also show a decline.
The total area under all crops, including
green fodder, will be about 7,050,000
acres. The forecast for the 1939-40
wheat yield is 66,000,000 bushels, a 20
p.c. increase since 1937-38, and wheaten
hay should provide a bumper crop. For
the year just finished the output for the
State was 612,000 tons, an increase of
262,000 tons.
“Sandpatch”: Before I came to the
Western Riverina I regarded Phalaris
tuberosa as suitable only for the coast
or highlands, where the rainfall was
comparatively regular and well distri-
buted. But two years at Moulamein have
altered those views. Some years back
a local storekeeper planted a patch of
u few square yards to provide his cow
with a green pick. Last year’s rainfall
was under 7in., and this year’s has not
exceeded 20in., but P. tuberosa is every-
where round Moulamein, particularly in
gardens where the soil has been well
worked. In fact, in my own garden it
is a regular pest. Its seeding has been
extraordinarily prolific and its growth
vigorous. If it will grow here with no
attention, and on heavy black soil which
sets like cement after a week’s dry
weather, it ought to be worth trying
in other western parts of N.S.W. I con-
clude that the viability of seed grown in
western districts is much higher than in
that grown on the coast.
“Wester”: Menindie has blossomed
into the veges. garden of western
N.S.W. Men driven out of Broken Hill
by bad times a few years ago started
growing on the Darling, and found that
liberal- topdressings of river sand, aided
by irrigation, gave splendid crops.
Tomatoes are most favored, but recently
some splendid onions have been grown.
Menindie veges. are now being sold as
far afield as Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4£d. per line;
all others at 2ld. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited.
The double pay goes to a South Australian for saying well things that can
scarcely be said too often.
Australian First
One of the many forms of patriotism
in which Australians are lacking is pride
in our own flora. Twelve months ago an
American on a visit to Adelaide, being
told “Wait till you see the almond-blos-
som,” replied, “I can see that when I
get to the Mediterranean. While I’m
here I want to see something of your
own.”
His host, amazed by the novelty of
anyone wishing to see anything Aus-
tralian in Australia, spent a few days
driving the visitor through the hills.
There his guest was as lyric in praise of
the flora as he was silent in the city
and suburbs, where there were only one
or two native trees that had escaped the
axe of the beautifier, an occasional street
of kurrajongs or a wattle heaping its
beauty above a backyard.
The Adelaide man has since thought
over the American’s ideas and realised
the beauty of Australian trees, shrubs,
creepers, perennials and annuals. As
rapidly as possible he is transforming his
suburban garden into a plot of indigen-
ous loveliness. At the same time, he is
discovering how much more at home he
feels when surrounded by trees and plants
that, like himself, belong to the country.
If Governments, district councils and
private individuals followed his example
and surrounded themselves with native
beauty Australia would be a far lovelier
place.— Eucalyptoides (S.A.).
“Eucalyptoides” is I. M. Mudie, of
Vauxhall-street, Erindale, S.A.
The Home Front
On Christmas and New Year’s Days
the press published full reports of
Donnybrooks on Sydney Domain in
which Communists, reinforced by police,
fought boys of the Second A.I.F. The
poor, persecuted followers of Stalin
were subjected to a ruthless bombard-
ment of overripe tomatoes and other
interjections; their beloved flag was
desecrated; their platform was the scene
of an unseemly brawl; and they were
saved only by the long arm of the bom>
geois law.
These apostles of Stalin ask only for
equality and fraternity, but they are
cruelly denied these moderate demands.
May I suggest a plan by which their
aspirations could be realised?
A royal commission consisting of
Poles, Finns and Hungarians who have
had practical experience of Soviet methods
should be appointed to organise labor
camps in which the idealists could be
protected. Sleeping accommodation,
sanitary arrangements, work, menu and
wages should all be based on similar
institutions in Russia, and a few knouts
could be imported for the enforcement
of benign discipline.
Qualification for the privilege of in-
ternment in these Utopias of equality
and fraternity would be a sworn
allegiance to the Hammer and Sickle
and a publicly avowed hatred of our
democratic institutions. After a period
of probation the internees could be fur-
nished with free passages to Leningrad,
where they might live happily ever after.
Friends, Aussies, countrymen, let us
give these comrades what they are
asking for!—J. W. (S.A.).
The utterances attributed to Commu-
nist speakers must bewilder those who
have national interests at heart.
The rigid censorship of our radio,
press and films contrasts forcibly with
the freedom allowed such unpatriotic
statements.
Spain has been tried in the melting-
pot and has given its answer to Com-
munistic terrorism. France has defi-
nitely awakened to its peril. The great
democracy of the United States is realis-
ing that it, too, stands in danger from
the enemy within the gates. England
has not struck yet, but we may be sure
she is keeping a watchful eye and a stern
one on anyone even suspected of stirring
up revolution in the country. Whither
Australia?
Patriotic speeches, of which history
records many an epic, were the means
freedom and security had for their
deliverance from the common foe.
Doing something is nobler still. —M. B.
(N.S.W.).
Finland
Modern Finland, which Stalin is try-
ing to reduce to ashes, might well be
numbered among the most enlightened
of modern nations. It did not confine
consideration for its artists to statues
after they were dead, or to exiguous pen-
sions in their old age, but provided them,
while in the vigor of their working life,
with suitable quarters at a third of the
price they would pay elsewhere.
Finland was also a pattern of intelli-
gent municipal arrangement and social
co-operation. The aged, the orphaned,
the poor, the sick in mind and body, the
workingman and his children were all
cared for with scrupulous attention. Hel-
singfors, the capital, had no slums. In
its streets no motor sounded a horn, no
steamer whistles were to be heard, no
factory sirens hooted, no bicycle rang
its bell. There, not only was the din of
an ordinary city eliminated, but the
number of motor accidents was reduced
to a minimum as a result of noise abate-
ment.
The only cleavage that existed in Fin-
land was linguistic, not racial. In every
other respect the Finns were firm be-
lievers in the principle of co-operation.
Co-operative shops were to be found
from one end of the country to the other,
and the entire social fabric was per-
meated with co-operative societies. This
system applied to agricultural produc-
tion, manufacturing, wholesale and retail
buying and selling, and even extended
to the utilisation of water power.
The Finns have been distinguished in
literature, painting and music. As
athletes they have a record second to
none of any nation in Europe. Finland
is the foremost wrestling country in the
world. In 1912, at the Olympic Games
at Stockholm, Finland obtained more
points in wrestling than all the other
nations put together. In 1920 Finland
won second place at the Games. In
1924 she was again second. In fact,
modern Finland has achieved a distinc-
tion in athleticism comparable only to
that of the Greeks in the fifth century
B.C.
And this is the country which Stalin,
with his peaceful endeavors, is trying to
convert to Sovietised brotherhood. —
Fenoman (N.S.W.)
A Tribute
I take off my hat to the late Captain
Hans Langsdorff. The man .was serv-
ing his country, and there was no
evidence that he was using any but
strictly scrupulous methods. When he
got into a spot of bother with three
British cruisers he headed for neutral
waters.
Then he faced three alternatives —to
fight, to stay or to scuttle the ship. If
he fought, his ship with its complement
of 1000 men would have gone to the
bottom. Either of the remaining courses
meant that at least the men would be
saved.
The old idea of dying just for the sake
of it doesn’t appeal to me, and I see
something heroic about a man who will
defy naval tradition and sacrifice or risk
his personal honor to save a thousand
boys from a premature death.
Mr. Churchill made some scornful
remarks about the captain’s refusal to
follow the “honorable course of fighting
to the death,” which is putting an un-
pleasant fact into nice words. Captain
Langsdorff realised that a thousand
lives are worth more than abstrac-
tions. It meant the end .of him, but he
stuck to his principles.— -Taurus (Vic.).
The Real Reason
While “W.C.C.” (B. 27/12/’39) is cor-
rect in ascribing war to national desires
for territorial aggrandisement, it is an
exaggeration to say that that is the fun-
damental cause.
If the nation that acquired wide
dominions profited proportionately, we
might accept the statement. But
we find no such thing. In fact, we often
find the reverse —Russia, for all its size,
knows any amount of hunger, misery
and utter poverty; the small Scandi-
navian countries have no poverty to
speak of ; Norway has no navy that mat-
ters, yet she does a great carrying trade.
We have been taught to believe that
the greed for colonies is the cause of
war, but they have proved so useless
economically that their increase serves
no seemingly rational purpose. How
embarrassing they are can be gathered
from the fact that even homeland and
dominion raise tariff walls against each
other.
No, there isn’t one single cause of
war, and Norman Angell hit the nail
rather effectively on the head when he
declared, “The present author has never
taken the ground that all international
action can be explained in the terms of
one narrow motive.”
To isolate one cause and concentrate
on that would be about as effective as
stopping prehistoric man from eating raw
flesh. That didn’t change him. But
other things did. Nor will one argu-
ment end war. But many will, and,
heaven only knows, there are enough
causes for millions of arguments. — Benn
(Q-).
Hate
Our supposed leaders and newspapers
tell us we have no hate in this war, that
it would be undignified to descend to
such a thing; and that we should not
hate the German people—they are kind
at heart, and only their leaders are at
fault.
I’d like to know how we are to sup-
press our hate. That sort of stuff about
leaders being solely responsible doesn’t
touch the outer edge of what passes for
my intelligence. If the people did not
follow, then the leaders could not
lead. If our papers print only one-
tenth of the truth, the German people
are in this up to the neck. And, apart
from everything else, I can’t understand
an all-in fight to the finish being ended
satisfactorily without a good modicum
of hate.
Some time ago there appeared in “Un-
cabled Additions” an article, “When Ger-
many Dictated Peace.” It dealt with
the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. That was
a feather cushion compared with what
would happen to us if we were on the
other side of the ledger at the finish.
Give me a good and honest hate. A
man knows where he stands then. So,
too, does the other party. If anyone
thinks the Germans are being deluded by
our professions of love for them, an
intensive study of “Uncabled Additions”
is advocated. — Splodger (Q.).
Refugees
As an average and, therefore, tolerant
Briton I am all for giving refugees a fair
go, but not positions of vital responsi-
bility and executive power. I cannot see
how men and women so recently up-
rooted from the homeland of generations
can suddenly readjust their loyalties to
give us full and unfettered service. Pas-
sive acceptance of their changed lot, and
of us as new controllers of their destiny,
is a most reasonable expectation for
them.
Any refugee over 40 will, for instance,
have been on active and mostly willing
service against us in the 1914-18 war.
Hitlerism in its violent anti-Semitic form
arose about 1936, so refugees given sanc-
tuary here have had, at most, only four
years in which to assume new loyalties.
Many have had only 12 to 18 months,
five of which have been taken up with a
war impelled by the very line of national
thought for which the 44-year-olds fought
furiously in 1914-18. Can we expect sin-
cerity from such a lightning readjustment,
or can we believe in any loyalty that can
be so easily switched?
Let refugees be accepted tolerantly and
generously on the understanding that they
will quietly absorb themselves into our
system, our mentality and our loyalties.
A generation or so later they may be
fitted for responsibility, trust and leader-
ship.
The most we can expect from these ill-
used and, no doubt, vengeful people is
benevolent neutrality—and one does not
take a neutral into inner counsels and
give him the key of the frontier. — Toler-
ance (N.S.W.).
Foreigners in N.Q.
North Queensland presents a problem
with regard to the foreign population. At
present, the retail fruit and vegetable
trade is in the hands of Chinese, and
Italians and others are rapidly obtaining
control of the sugargrowing industry.
The war further aggravates the position,
and in one town Italians are already
boasting of the good jobs they will get
when the young Australians go to war.
These unnaturalised foreigners enjoy
the benefits of Australian citizenship
without sharing the responsibilities. There
is no reason why they shouldn’t be made
to fight for Australia, or, in case of ob-
jections against arming them, why can’t
they constitute labor battalions?
Whites are desperately needed here in
the north as it is. If something is not
done about this matter North Queens-
land will become a complete foreign
settlement—in some towns already the
British stock is completely outnumbered.
—J. N. P. (Q.).
The secret of the Italians’ success in
N.Q. lies, not in their “living on the
smell of an oil rag” but in co-operation
and hard work. It is a common thing
for an Italian gang of canecutters to
contribute enough say £lOO each to
enable one of its members to pay a
deposit on a farm. Next year the same
thing may be repeated with another of
the gang, and so on. This without any
security except a pair of horny hands.
How many Britishers would do it? —-
C. A. B. (Q.).
Secondary Industries
“Horseface’s” hope that Australia will
be able to maintain a greatly increased
population by the development of
secondary industries alone (B. 20/12/’39)
is vain. It could only do so if a
large proportion of the output were
marketed abroad, and there is no like-
lihood of that happening. Australian
manufacturers’ costs are too high to
enable them to build up a profitable ex-
port trade except in certain special
lines —in competition with those of
countries whose workmen are as efficient
as ours and are content with lower money
wages.
The home market must always be the
mainstay of most Australian secondary
industries, and unless there is a steady
increase in the number of Australians
engaged in agricultural and other primary
callings there can be only a limited
amount of further industrial growth.
But what if only 21 p.c. of Aus-
tralia is even fair farming country? This
area embraces several hundred thousand
square miles and is capable of carrying,
at a good standard of living, a farming
population several times greater than the
present one.
There may not be much room for a
big advance in wheatgrowing, wool
production and dairying, but these are'
far from being the only primary in-
dustries that could be profitably de-
veloped. Australia imports the bulk of
its requirements in many agricultural
lines that could be produced here. Fish-
ing, too, offers great possibilities. That
alone could be made the basis of im-
portant secondary industries. D. A.
(N.S.W.).
Motor-engine Monopoly
The latest brilliant idea to emerge
from the national misfortune at Can-
berra is that the manufacture of essen-
tial motor engines and chassis should be
commenced at once, and that A.C.I. be
given a monopoly for at least five years.
Australians must realise what “at least
five years” will mean, and must see that
a monopoly granted in this manner will
mean nothing more or less to the car-
purchaser than increased costs when the
Government raises the already high duty
on imported chassis to protect Australian
industries against dumping by foreign
competitors.
The idea is bad enough, but the pro-
posed enforcement of the monopoly by
means of the National Security Act
would not be tolerated or suggested if
Parliament were not in recess.. — Hergit
(Vic.).
Cavemen, 1940
All right, “Timothy Tywire” (B.
20/12/’39), “we can’t even see or hear
as far as Jacky the blackfellow can”
when we have no “devices of modern
science.” What does that prove? Cer-
tainly nothing about the forthcoming
vengeance of Mother Nature upon her
children who have invented machines as
remarkable as themselves. The fact re-
mains that, with the things our manner
of living has brought us, we can see and
hear further than the black. That in
itself should be the end of the argu-
ment.
Maybe we haven’t made a very suc-
cessful job of our progress, and, admit-
tedly, science has outstripped philosophy.
Perhaps we do need another great teacher
like Christ or Buddha. But you can’t
condemn science for that. In any case,
even “T.T.” would probably choose be-
tween changing our own outlooks and


scrapping machinery in favor of the
former proposition.
But let our fencing friend ask himself
if his black colleagues have a Shakspeare,
a Shaw, a Milton, a Shelley, a Flecker
or a Dante ; a Michelangelo, a Leonardo
da Vinci, a Rubens or a Goya; a Bach,
a Beethoven, a Sibelius or a Strauss; a
Cedric Hardwicke, a Forbes Robertson
or a Bernhardt; an Einstein or a James
Jeans. If “T.T.” wants to throw civil-
isation down the drain he must eschew
everything these men wrote or did be-
cause they are products and outward
symbols of the civilisation he renounces.
—Benn (Q.).
Estimated age of the earth is two thou-
sand million years; of mankind, forty
thousand years —a few seconds in com-
parison with eternity. Yet we have
developed from bearskin kilts and tusk-
studded clubs to radio-steered ’planes and
false teeth, from taking a wife by the
hair after killing her guardian to buying
her with a marriage settlement, from eat-
ing the heart of the vanquished in battle
to sending a wreath to the funeral of
those whom we have beaten.
Wuff Wuff of the Big Rocks wiped
out his enemy in scores while we do it
in millions, but instead of civilisation
being wiped out by every successive war
mankind gains tremendously after it has
licked its wounds. Take wireless, ’planes,
land transport, plastic surgery, agricul-
ture organisation and the nursing services
as a few examples of the many develop-
ments which received their impetus
through war.
This war is already solving Australia’s
petrol problem by providing for substi-
tute fuels —an indication of other bene-
fits which will come afterwards. And, if
it is possible to judge by tactics, both
sides in the conflict have realised from
the first shot that mass destruction of
human life will not get them very far.
From this it is not such a huge step to
realising that war is a game for mugs.
Only forty thousand years since the
cavemen, and look at the long way we
have travelled towards a real civilisation
in spite of the sounding brass of poli-
ticians! “Timothy,” with the rest of us,
is inclined to live too much in the present.
—Horseface (N.S.W.).
Domestic Mathematics
Watching schoolgirls either rejoicing
or worrying over the results of their
recent annual examinations in arithmetic,
algebra and geometry, I was struck by
the futility of it all. Once girls leave
school they find the adult world coldly
indifferent to their prowess in such sub-
jects, and after they marry they them-
selves often wish that their energy, en-
thusiasm and time had been directed into
more useful channels.
Mathematics for girls certainly needs
revision. Questions, apart from calcula-
tions of tradesmen’s accounts and balanc-
ing of domestic budgets, should be some-
thing like this:
Compile the cost of a satisfactory weekly
menu for a man, his wife and four chil-
dren living on the basic wage, making
allowances for rent, insurance, clothing
and entertainment.
A married man with two children earns
£7 10s. weekly. He gets a salary cut
of £2. On which normal expenses should
economy be practised?
Is it more important for a wife, eager
to bank portion of her husband’s wages,
to wait until she can manage big sums
or to put away small amounts regularly?
Will a man become richer by paying
rent or buying a house on time-payment?
Show figures and balance to prove your
point.
Should small leakages in domestic funds
be watched?
Those and problems along similar lines
would be of more help to most girls
than many of the ridiculous brain-teasers
they are given now. They would save
many a home from financial upheavals.
—P. Radwon (Vic.).
Wages and Profits
No economist is needed to explain
why the cost of living rises out of all
proportion to each basic-wage increase
(B. 27/12/*39). Increase in wages re-
sults in increased production costs as
well as increased charges for transport
and selling. Even with these increases
it might not be so difficult if it were not
for the increase in profits.
Most business houses work on a per-
centage basis as far as profits are con-
cerned. If an article costs £1 and the
usual profit is 25 p.c., then the cost to
the consumer is 255. If the wage in-
crease results in the cost of the article
advancing to 225., the vendor still adds
the 25 p.c. profit, so that the cost to the
consumer becomes 275. 6d. The con-
sumer is thus paying 25 p.c. extra on
the wage increase.
If an article passes through three or
four hands, each of which wants his
profit, it means that the consumer must
pay the cost of the wage increase plus
the profit on it to each of the handlers.
The protection of the workers by a
fixed minimum wage may be excellent
in theory, but it is doubtful whether
it actually solves any problems. It is
not the wage a workman receives that
matters ; it is what he can buy with it.
—Neconomist (N.S.W.).
The Price of Beer
Why should beer be Is. 2d. in the city
and from Is. 9d. to 2s. 6d. everywhere in
the country? Country Bungs tell us that
it is the extra freight, but is that item,
especially to North Coast towns, lOd. per
bottle, or roughly £4O per ton on sea-
borne traffic of 300-400 miles? The best
of Melbourne brews can be carted all
the way to Cairns and sold for Is. 6d. per
bottle.
In Dirranbandi (Q.), where beer was
3s. per bottle, or 2s. 9d. by the dozen, I
once ordered a case through a wool firm
in Brisbane. It cost, landed, after paying
rail freight on 416 miles, Is. per
bottle.
In a blazing western summer, nothing
is more appetising than a glass of iced
lager with one’s midday meal. But at
2s. per bottle it is beyond the reach of
the average family budget. Yet over
£5,000,000 is leaving the Commonwealth
yearly to pay for tea. A proportion of
that would remain here if bottled ale were
more reasonable in price and contained
less alcohol. — Sandpatch (N.5.W.)..
Save the Winegrowers
There has been much muddle-headed
thinking about the viticultural industry in
Australia, and “E.O.S.’s” letter (B.
20/12/’39) on the subject is very mislead-
ing.
Liquor-control legislation has not dis-
criminated against Australian wine, and
there is no duty on it. The well-to-do
may sip delicious claret, hock, sauterne
and even champagne with their dinner
without contributing a penny to excise
revenue, while the navvy who treats him-
self to a bottle of beer for Christmas is
taxed 4d. If the affluent drink heavy, for-
tified wines they contribute only Is. 3d.
per gallon to excise against 2s. which
beer-drinkers pay.
The bounty on approved wine ex-
ported is Is. per gallon, which is so
generous that growers have been encour-
aged to increase greatly the area under
vines. The grape-growing industry is
heading for devastating overproduction
under this not so negligible assistance
from the Federal Government.
“E.O.S.’s” grower who failed to re-
ceive £2O per acre for his grapes must
have produced less than five tons of poor-
quality fruit. The duty on all the spirit
produced from five tons of good-quality
grapes if used for the fortification of wine
would be less than £5O. If the same
material were converted into brandy the
duty would be not more than £2O0 —
against £4OO mentioned by “E.O.S.”—
P. O. P. (S.A.).
“Petermac’s” par. (B. 6/12/’39) would
carry added emphasis if there were any
really light Australian wines. I’ve
sampled pretty well every kind and brand
made and, to date, have not found one
that a thirsty man can really drink with-
out getting the deuce of a head.
There is nothing here to compare in
low alcohol content with French vin
rouge or vin blanc or the light wines of
Italy. I’m not disputing the excellence
of our Australian wines. Most of them
are equal to anything imported, but they
are stimulants and not thirst-quenchers.
So, as most of us cannot afford to get
even partly sozzled, we slake our thirst
with tea of very inferior quality, to the
economic detriment of the Common-
wealth. — Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
State Governors
Fie on the writer in B. 6/12/’39 who
states that State Governors are unneces-
sary! If we did not have them who
would arrange for an occasional ball for
the deadheads? Who would smack the
top of a stone and say “I declare this
stone well and truly laid”? Who would
assist Cup horses to run better for his
presence? Who would attend the school
speech-day where he got the old school
tie? Who would attend a meeting of
Cabinet and do what he is told? And
who would “open” halls and shows with
the tiresome “I now have pleasure in
declaring this show open”?— Xten-
SIONIST (W.A.).
State Parliaments
Have eastern-States advocates of
abolition of State Parliaments ever con-
sidered that Westralia, S.A. and the Terri-
tory have a very different climate and
contain more than half the land area jn
the Commonwealth?
As the centre of government is in the
eastern States, the “dry” States would
be “out of sight, out of mind.” The
distance from the western seaboard to
Canberra would mean that representa-
tives would have to spend nearly as much
time in travelling as in legislating, con-
sequently losing touch with their electors.
As, I presume, the representatives
would be elected on a population
basis, the “dry” States would be at
a further disadvantage. Even on matters
of purely domestic policy the “wet”
States would have the right of veto by
force of numbers.
There should be two regional Parlia-
ments and the Commonwealth concern,
so why abolish a system that might
be modified to comply with all require-
ments?
In 8.-13/12/’39 there was an article
in favor of one Parliament, using Great
Britain, M.L. and S. Africa as examples.
As these three land areas are together
less than our continent, it is equivalent
to saying that what is adequate' food
for an ant will be adequate for a mas-
todon.—M. S. Crompton (S.A.).
Why Call Them “Dr.”?
“W.P.T.’s” objections to calling medi-
cal men “Doctor” (B. 27/12/’39) seem
trifling to me.
In the case of sudden illness or acci-
dent “doctor” automatically flashes
through the mind. It is essential that
a medical man have some title to dis-
tinguish him from other folk in order
to locate him easily or notify him, so
why quibble about his present one? —
Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Cost of Spectacles
As a suitable pair of spectacles should
give good service for about two years,
they are not such an expensive item as
“Eureka” (B. 20/12/’39) implies. Prices
naturally vary with the quality of lenses
and mountings used; but the majority
of optometrists absolutely refuse to
handle cheap spectacle ware because of
the inefficiency of the lenses and the risk
of disease to the skin from the use of
such frames.
“Eureka’s” statements about the cost
of spectacles cannot go unchallenged.
In most cases, lenses are expensive, and
good-quality frames and mountings
equally so. Fifteen shillings, as suggested
by “E.,” is absurd, even for cheap glasses.
Let the individual who cares so little
for his most precious faculty that he will
seek the cheapest services available go
his own way. But there are no “cheap”
eyes, and that cheap glasses are obtain-
able is something to be deplored.—
Optometrist (N.S.W.).
Adjusters
A friend of mine lost, through acci-
dent and fire, a nearly-new two-ton truck
loaded with goods worth nearly £2OO
which were his own property and un-
insured. The claims adjuster listened to
his account of the accident and then
sneered, “A very plausible tale —just the
sort of story I’d like to be able to put
up if I were making a claim myself.” The
immediate services of a lawyer fixed that
adjuster.
In a second case a man insured his
wheat crop against damage by hail, and
within a week a hailstorm had beaten
most of it into the ground. The adjuster
argued that the damage had been caused
by wind and rain, and that the insurance
company was not liable. The farmer
replied that if his claim was not met he
would see that this particular insurance
company never wrote another penny-
worth of business in his district. His
claim was met in full.
At a third argument the adjuster tried
to make out that the insured crop had
not been a good one, that its owner had
lit it deliberately when he saw fire
coming across the paddocks, and that a
shed which had also been burned could
not have caught fire from sparks carried
on the wind. He argued for an hour be-
fore admitting the claim. Then, to add
insult to injury, the next issue of the local
paper carried an advertisement —“On
Friday last a grass fire entered Mr.
So-and-so’s wheat crop and destroyed it.
On the following Tuesday our representa-
tive handed to him our cheque for £3OO
in settlement of his claim in full. Insure
your crop with the Blank Company.”
Before sending this article to The
Bulletin I talked to an insurance
company manager. “I don’t doubt the
truth of what you say,” he said. “But
please be fair. We pass claims over to
these adjusters because any dispute in
which the name of an insurance com-
pany is mentioned is very bad for our
business. Some claims fairly stink with
suspicious circumstances, and we find
arson the most difficult of all crimes to
prove. Also, when a disputed case goes
to court the average jury is liable to base
its verdict on the ground that, as in-
surance companies have plenty of money,
it won’t hurt them to meet the claim.”
But the evil remains, and something
should be done about it. A possible cure
could be found in making the adjuster
request the claimant to get a lawyer
when there is any dispute, the adjuster
to pay for the solicitor’s services if the
clairn is met in full and the claimant to
pay if it is not. — Tompion (S.A.).
Brighter Books
I wanted a book as a Christmas present
and, duly patriotic, I sought an Australian
one. I wanted something light and joyous,
something in keeping with the festive
season, but it was not to be had among
Australian volumes. The nearest I came
was Plaque with Laurel, by M. Barnard
Eldershaw.
Looking at the subject of Australian
literature squarely, isn’t it too prone to
concentrate on the grim tones of life
rather than the lighter, joyous notes?
Australia, even in this time of world
stress, needs to laugh as well as to cry.
She needs diversion in flights of imagery
as well as keyed-up muscles and showing
of teeth. She needs some levity to coun-
teract the sobs that will come after the
convulsion of this new war.
Australian literary aspirants would do
well to cultivate a lighter touch in pref-
erence to delving all the time into sordid
realism. As long as they concentrate on
that they will be always far away from
the goal.—S. C. W. (Q.).
Christmas, Now and Then
A journalist writes of Christmas 100
years ago and says it may cheer us to
look back and see that the world is a
better place, in some ways, at least.
He tells of the auctioneering of men,
their wives and families as laborers. “And
on Christmas Day itself everyone went
to church, morning, afternoon and even-
ing, and between prayers ate heavily of
hot beef, turkey, plum pudding and mince
pies, and drank deeply. One hundred and
thirteen persons were arrested in the
evening for drunkenness in Central
London.”
I wonder how much more cheering it
is to turn to the dailies of Boxing Day,
1939, and read headlines telling of the
world’s greatest air battle, 7000 Russians
killed, hit-and-run motorist kills girl, four
soldiers dead in road smash. Further on
are pictures of what “the bad old men
and women of 1839” would have de-
scribed as naked women and accounts of
holiday merrymakers. t
Let it be recorded for the folk of 2039
that in 1939 everyone did not go to
church once, let alone “morning, after-
noon and evening,” although they “ate
heavily and drank deeply.”—P. G. K.
(Q.).
Slogans
The land is full of them, one of the
most recent bejing “Carry on as usual.”
That from a'ri eminent politician who
very soon afterwards decided on fresh
and additional taxation.
Let me propose a few slogans in the
hope that they might materialise:
1. A tax on politicians that propose addi-
tional taxation.
2. A tax on strikes and strikers.
3. A tax on employers who go in for lock-
outs.
4. A tax on starting-price betting-shops.
5. A tax on political promises which are not
kept.
6. A tax on habitual drunks.
7. A tax on unnecessary Parliamentary
verbosity.
8. A tax on useless racehorses.
When these have been brought into
force I have another eight equally good
ones up my sleeve. — Excelsior (W.A.).
Out-of-date Posters
Sydney is littered with posters, cards
and signs that have long fulfilled what-
ever usefulness they had. Recently I saw
a notice about a meeting that appealed
to me. Then, looking closer to ascer-
tain the date of the event, I found it to
be June 26. Another look showed me
that it was June 26, 1938!
From the balcony of a shop in a side
street flap the torn remnants of a canvas
sign urging electors to vote for a certain
candidate. The election is long over,
and, actually, that candidate is dead. The
worst of all such examples is that of a
poster still hanging in a suburban post
office. You are urged to-“ Enlist Now,”
but the call is for the 1914-18 affair.
Old signs are not decorative, and are
apt to be confusing. There should be a
by-law insisting that people who display
signs and posters only receive permission
to do so for the period of their useful-
ness, and must at the end of that time
see that they are removed or pay a fee
into a city cleansing department which
will undertake the removal.—H. M.
(N.S.W.).


'im.
'
GREENMORE ELECTRIC ROASTER
API) BY ELECTRICAL AUTHORITIES.
A BOON FOR THE
mm
r
57/6
SUMMER.
Convenient, Econo-
mical, just plug in.
Will do the entire
cooking for a small
family. It toasts,
roasts, gtills, bakes
your scones, etc.
Finished mottled
cream, green or
blue.
When ordering
state voltage re-
quired.
From all Good
Stores, or direct from the Manufacturers:
GREENMORE PRODUCTS,
11 Stewart St., Richmond, Victoria.
DEAF
ĸ
The World’s Smallest Effective
Hearing Aid —
The VIBRAPHONE
No Cords. No Batteries.
30 DAYS’ HOME TRIAL
WRITE OR CALL FOR BOOKLET
NATHAN HEARING AIDS
Suite 6018, City Mutual
Blcig.j cnr. Hunter and
Blig-h Sts.j Sydney.
BRIGGS&STRATTON
Air-cooled 4-cycle I
SINGEE-CAEINDER
PETROL MOTORS.
£ to 5 HORSEPOWER
From £lB/17/6.
Also Petrol Electric
Generators from £25.
Agents all States.
Illustrated Bulletin with
prices gladly forwarded.
k
AMPLIOK (A/SIA) pty
582 Kent St.,
PAGE’
STOVES
Famous throughout Victoria since 1907.
The patent adjustable grate in “PAGE”
stoves may be adjusted into three posi-
tions for (1) baking, (2) grilling, or (S)
boiling and frying.
Write to-day for a free illustrated cata-
logue of these wonder cookers to
Page Manufacturing Co.,
Gheringhap Street, Geelong, Yictoria.
USE LESS FUEL
STOPvoußßupfure
fwm
Worries!
One leading Doctor on 3/11/’SB
says:—.
“I order your appliances for my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
comfort. To prove this we offer
*l4 DAYS FREE TRIAL*
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27). 84 Pitt Street. Sydney.
ME^ OR,s Wh EASE
Pass Examinations.
Grip Business Facts.
Speak Without Notes.
Master Lodge Ritual.
Make your brain accurate, creative,
dynamic. Handle men and affairs.
Reconstruct yourself for efficiency
with the Leeds Method.
Booklet Free. Write
Rev. W. Rowlands, 12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Melbourne.
■
1
•VwSfl
m
P A
;, K $
: < r
;T v
>*>*> » _ -
mm
mma
p 1
"C
“5/ie musf ke leaking, Alice.”
THE
HANOI
PUMPLESS
IRON,
Price,
DEMON
KEROSENE
STOVES.
a
KRONOS INCANDESCENT BURNERS
for Glass Bowl Lamps, Crude Oil Bath
Heaters. The latest invention. Write
for catalogue.
J. W. SANDS, 387 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
MAKE YOUR OWN SOFT DRINKS
Much better and far cheaper
than any you can buy. A
full gallon of the nicest and
most refreshing cordial for
the price of one “deep
sinker.” Jwt delicious for
the hot days. It sparkles
like champagne. Better for'
your health than any bottled
drink. Splendid for the
ķ
family and highly appreci-
ated by your visitors. Less trouble than
making' a' pot 0/ tea. A trial will surely
please. Obtainable in various nice flavors:
lime, raspberry, lemon, orange. Nine Pence
per Packet, or Three Packets for 2/-, carriage
paid, with full directions.
The Union Manufacturing & Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 37/6 only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
161 CASTXEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
THE IMPROVED
ASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
ĸ
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
vm
m
m
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves; 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
DEAF?
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
B. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney,
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
ACTS
LIKE THE HfUID
The latest invention of Dr-
L. Barrere is the result ot *o
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. Yoii
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27C), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
S
7~i
r-
r—l
This MODERN DESIGN 15-jevvel Swiss
TITUS Gent’s (or Eady’s) Wristlet Watch.
It has RADIUM dial, polished chrome and
stainless steel case and carries written
guarantee. DON’T SEND MONEY—pay
only 50/- on delivery (in Gold-filled Case,
SO/-). Write for particulars of other models.
LENNOX ADVERTISING SERVICE,
Grace Building, 77 York Street, SYDNEY.
WNCtUSUR
SKATES
13/6—lB/6
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
LAMBS SAVED
k
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Sale—and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback —fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or —
A. H. BAY & CO.,
Daroux Emascnlators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
GENUINE “G.B.D.’
Silver-mounted London-made Briar
To You, 8/6.
Usually, 15/6.
Send (id. in Stamps for liberal sample of
“Levysown” Quality Tobacco at 7/- lb.—
worth 10/- lb.—for Cigarette or Pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe contained in its
own case for 17/6; Honest Value, 30/-.
SOL LEVY
Tobacconist, Est. 39 Yrs.
713 George St., Sydney.
Goods sent 0.0. D. if desired.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
POST
SLIP
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
101II’40 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department, ‘ The Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


WELL PAID JOBS
FOR DIESEL
OPERATORS
m
BIG CHANGE
OVER TO DIESEL
MORE OPERATORS WANTED.
To-day is the Diesel Age!
There has been a pronounced swing to Diesel
engines during the past few years.
With many truck manufacturers the bulk of
their output is now Diesel, while more and
more Diesel-powered buses are being placed
in service every month. Because of its greater
economy, moreover, a large number of mines
and power plants are changing over to Diesel.
As a result of the overseas position it is
expected that the number of power users
changing to Diesel will be greatly increased
in the immediate future because Diesel fuel
is safer, easier to transport in time of war
and more economical.
Instruction in Diesel for
mechanised military units
In war-time as in peace-time it’s the skilled men
who get the best pay. Specialists in the army get
far more pay and enjoy far better conditions than
unskilled men. The fact that Diesel engines play a
big part in the mechanised armies of to-day is just
another reason why you should qualify as a Diesel
operator.
. . Trained by the Diesel Engineering College
Read These Typical Examples : —
FILE No. 34a. OBTAINED POSITION 28/3/’39. WAGES £7 PER WEEK.
Formerly earning £4/5/- per week. Commenced training June, 1938. Received Diesel Engineering
College Diploma February, 1939. Obtained above position 28/3/’39.
FILE No. 35a. OBTAINED POSITION 5/6/’39. SALARY £3O PER MONTH
AND KEEP. Completely trained by the Diesel Engineering College. Appointed Diesel 2nd
Engineer, Island Vessel, 5/6/’39.
FILE No. 36a. OBTAINED POSITION 29/6/’39. SALARY £9 PER WEEK.
As Diesel salesman. Had no former engineering knowledge. Completely trained by the Diesel
Engineering College.
k
Gan Qualify As a
Diesel Operator In Your
Spare Time At Home
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering and you don’t need any high educational
standard. The Diesel Engineering College course teaches you the whole subject, covering both
transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and stationary Diesel (mining and other power plants).
The course has been prepared with the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the
Diploma awarded you on completion is recognised by employers all over Australia. Post the
coupon below and full details will be sent you by return.
The Diesel Engineering College MAKES
LEARNING EASY NO TEXTBOOKS
This College does not sell you a pile of textbooks and leave you to wade through them, nor does it
fill you up with a lot of complicated mathematics. It teaches you just what you need to Know to
operate and service Diesel engines efficiently. As soon as you enrol, practical coaches take
you in hand. You are guided step by step with the aid of easily-followed instruction papers and
diagrams. Everything is made clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly you become familiar
with the workings of the Diesel. Many students have qualified for positions in as short a period
as four months. The fees are low and payments easy.
THE D.E.C.TEACHES DIESEL ONLY
All the Efforts of the Diesel Engineering College are devoted to Diesel Students
A wonderful future lies ahead in Diesel engineering for ambitious men who get in early with the proper training.
But you must be properly trained. The success of Diesel Engineering College students at Government examinations
tells its own story of the thoroughness of training at this College. As the Diesel Engineering College maintains
branches at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth students are assured that they will obtain individual attention
wherever they live.
f
O, *«ItNS,NIS
Those who get in early reach
the top first. Tear off and post
this coupon now for the free
booklet describing the Diesel
Engineering College course. There is no obli-
gation, so don’t put it off! The best intentions
in the world are useless if you don’t ACT!
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
B.* ib/i/’4C.
ADDRESS
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
A3NQAS
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE
PERTH
