

ose and
ormance
A LITTLE more than twenty-five
years ago —on June 2, 1915 —The
Broken Hill Proprietary’s Newcastle Steel
Works was officially opened. The enter-
prise was established with a definite
purpose— —to manufacture quality iron and
steel for the needs of Australian industry
and thereby supply at reasonable prices
the essential materials for the develop-
ment of the Commonwealth.
From the outset, unwavering determi-
nation and confidence in the Australian
workers’ ability to master the difficulties
of steel production were maintained. This
was backed by a courageous policy of
plant modernisation and extension, which
has culminated in Australia possessing
one of the world’s most efficient iron and
steel works.
Purpose has been backed by perform-
ance, the Newcastle Steel Works to-day
supplying great tonnages of the iron and
steel so vital to the nation’s development
and defence.
; /
■-!
ffitSiii
i -
■;
Above is shown molten steel being teemed
from a huge ladle into ingot moulds
at the B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works.
è
The Broken Hill Proprietary Go. Ltd.
Iron and Stool Masters, Colliery Proprietors,
Mine and Ship Cwners .
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Iron and Steel Works: NEWCASTLE, N, 5. W.
Iron Ore Working*.: Iron Knob, S.A. .Limestone Deposits: Devon port, Tasmania.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin, Vol. 61.—N0. 3170.
Wednesday, November 13, 1940.
Europe, as Winter Comes
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Ofhce, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoe


e
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship • Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, us
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B, 140
The Red Page
FIVE NOVELS.
T he first on the list is Monica Dickens’s
Mariana (Michael Joseph), which is worth
mentioning only for one reason —to pin
Compton Mackenzie to the wall along-
side Hugh Walpole as specimen No. 2
of the literary uncle. For of Monic
Dickens’s One Pair of Hands (a mild
amusing, girlish account of her adven
tures as a cook-general) Compton Mac
kenzie wrote that it had “the sam
exuberant vitality” as the works of he
great-grandfather, Charles Dickens.
Recalling that bit of nonsense, th
blurb of Mariana goes on to say “Now
Miss Dickens has written her first nove
-and we do not think her great-granc
father would be disappointed.” Marian
opens with a picture of a young wit
who, alone in a country cottage, hears tha
the warship on which her husband
serving has been sunk. “Bingo,” sh
says, “something ghastly has happened.
Bingo is not amused, and the heroine hei
self takes the bad news with about
much drama as if she had cut her finger.
She and Bingo retire for the night, and
while they are waiting for whatever new
the morning will bring,. Miss Dicken
presents the young lady’s purple past
This consists of two engagements, one to
an Englishman who jilts her and callously
embraces a blonde, the other to a French
man who, without seriously endangerinj
her, affects her so interestingly on page
225 that “thrills ran up and down he
spine.” When the morning breaks the
young person learns that her husband
wasn’t drowned, and the novel concludes
with the joyous sentence “Bingo sneezec
and his nails rattled on the linoleum as he
shook himself all over the floor.”
Bingo, it might be explained, is no
another young man, but a terrier. It’s
not a bad little magazine-story, but Sam
Weller would have eaten Bingo at one
gulp.
The second novel, Roy Connolly’s
Southern Saga (Grayson, Ltd.), though it
is a far more solid performance, has
something of the same flavor. His hero-
ine, Georgiana, a Sydney girl of good
family who is on her way to the bush
out of Brisbane with her pioneering hus-
band, spends nearly all her time com-
plaining bitterly. She has married for love,
so that she has no right to start com-
plaining for six months, or a year, or
20 years, or anyhow not ‘for six weeks,
but (understandably, because she’s sea-
sick) she moans on the boat, she moans
when she sees Brisbane, she moans on
the bullock cart gping through the bush,
she moans when she sees the bark hut
she’s going to live in.
Mr. Connolly explains it by saying she
was so self-centred that she never listened
to her Stephen’s descriptions of the bush
in their courting days: she’s vain, spoiled,
utterly egotistic. But the explanation isn’t
convincing: it’s far more probable that
she’d be regarding the whole trip as a
glorious lark; disillusion would come
later. If she doesn’t enjoy it, there’s
something 'wrong with the honeymoon,
not the scenery. Had she been portrayed
as a cold type, Georgiana might pass. But
later on she’s to have a most passionate
moment with a handsome policeman-
villain: so she’s incredible.
The trouble is that, writing about
Victorian characters, the author has
interpreted them in terms of Victorian
fiction. All writers of historical novels
must have to face the problem of to
what extent they’re going to allow their
style and approach to be influenced by
their subject. Except in his natural
descriptions, Mr. Connolly has surren-
dered to his period, and the novel might
just as well have been written by one of
the elegant authors of Georgiana’s day.
When the villain cuts the cackle he “saves
from unwise prolongation this flirtatious
badinage.”
For Australian readers, the chief dis-
advantage is, of course, that Southern
Saga is just “the Australian novel” all
over again. Bush, blacks,
convicts, sheep, the deter-
mined young pioneer, the
girl who can’t bear the
bush, the reconciliation
at the end. It seems to be aimed at
overseas public, for it pauses to expla
that the emu is “flightless,” and the
are long historical asides, old stuff
Australians, but probably acceptable sti
in England. Purely as a romance it
readable; it is well constructed, there
plenty of adventure and a lot of carefu
work has gone to make it historical
accurate. If Miss Dickens gets hold of :
thrills will certainly run up and dow
her spine like small, cold animals whe
the villain rides off from the squatter’
“not unaware of the fine picture he pr
sented, having seen three heads in cur
papers peeping indiscreetly out of a win
dow!”
Mr. Connolly does know his Australi
Louis Bromfield, who is next on the li
with Night in Bombay (Cassell; Angi
and Robertson), probably imagines tha
a willy-willy is a small, web-footed mam
mal that lays eggs. One Stitch Trollope
who is dragged into his Bomba
menagerie for no particular reason, is th
daughter of “an Australian lumberjack.
“Having been brought up in the Aus
tralian Bush,” observes this eminen
American, “Mrs. Trollope had encoun
tered in her time a good many unsavor
characters.”
Stitch is a bad lot. She floats abou
the story always in trouble, borrowin
money, getting into debt, stealing th
jewels of the bouncing blonde. Finall
she hangs herself. It is high time sh
did kick the bucket, for Bromfield sug
gests that her old man was a convict—
“ ‘My father,’ she said with fierceness
her voice, ‘went to Australia because h
had to’ ” —which would make the poo
girl about 144 years old.
Although the “unsavory characters’
were too good to ignore, it’s a minor point
for Stitch doesn’t matter to the story
It’s all about the bounding blonde, Caro
Halma, who, on the urgings of an Indian
mystic and social reformer, has an affai
with an American near-saint, to cure him
of his repressions. He takes to the cure
like a Bombay duck to water, and ends
by marrying the lady. Also strewn abou
the battlefield are an amiable nobod}
called Bill, who was once married to
Carol; a baroness who owns a.chain of
high-class brothels; a languorous lady
and a, number of the sort of Hindus
whom this unsavory Australian would
describe as babus, but who may, cor-
rectly, be chota-pegs or even punkah-
wallahs. One of them, anyhow, is Mr
Botlivala, who, in the dim past, was Mr
Bottle-wallah. The scene, like the story
is colorful:
Jelly and Joey, in all their finery and
garlands, were now advancing with a tipsy
semblance of majesty down the gangplank,
and at sight of them the waiting flower-
garden on the pier below shivered,
trembled in the heat and became suddenly
a scene of brilliant animation. The scarlet
and gold Sikhs drew themselves up like
brilliant red lilies; the black servants in
azure and silver threw themselves into
the dust.... They were welcoming home
from the gambling Casinos and the race-
courses their lord and master, their father
and mother, the king of kings—the slightly
tipsy Maharajah of Jellapore.
Night in Bombay is good entertain-
ment ; nothing more. Bromfield seems to
realise that himself by letting the story
dwindle into nothingness in the last chap-
ter. Most of his characters arrive at
Bombay on a ship; most of them are
eventually deported on another ship, sail-
ing cheerfully out of memory. As Somer-
set Maugham often does, and the novelists
who write about novelists at Capri, he
writes about drifters ; and his story, not
rooted in any earth, any stable culture,
drifts away with them. Bromfield’s
natives, the people who really matter in
Bombay, are no more than “small, dark
insects” attracted to the light of the
blonde.
Gene Fowler, in Illusion in Java (Dent;
Moore’s Bookshop) overcomes this
problem of the writer who wants to deal
with foreign countries. Instead of writing
about the disillusions of globetrotters,
as one would expect from his title, he
has taken the trouble to absorb some-
thing of the spirit and the history of the
natives, and evolves a fantasy which—
if nothing of its sort ever happened under
the sun—gives a very clear impression
of the charm the traveller finds in the
Indies. No “small dark insects” for
Fowler:
Ajoks wore a moon-shaped grass hat,
but otherwise was naked except for a loin-
cloth- A reaping-hook was thrust into the
folds of his cotton garment. The rain-
drops ran down the channels of Ajoks’s
loins and seemed to tickle him immensely.
“Oho! Oho!” he cried. “I am a
weaver-bird.”
Fowler’s Onward Trolley, depending
on whether or not one likes the great
American parish-pump philosopher, was
very funny or goldurned boring. This
one is unquestionably funny. To buy
rice to celebrate the father’s return from
gaol, Ajoks’s mother pawned the bonan,
the. musical instrument that is the chief
pride of the shiftless father and son:
Sita offered a comment: “The old man
wears thick dust, like a gourd long hung
from a rafter. His shanks are thinner than
they were, I think.”
Paru, without looking at his wife or son,
asked eventually: “Where is the bonan?”
Sita feared that the many weeks in the
tannery had set a mark on a once-gay
nature. “Did the dust from the tan-bark
dry up the insides?”
Paru ignored the wife’s solicitude.
“Where,” he asked, more severely than
before, “is the bonan?”
“Good father,” said Ajoks, “let me
pour a basin of cool water to bathe your
feet.”
“No basi'n,” said Paru tonelessly. “A
father rode much of the way in a bullock
cart.”
Fowler’s theme is the venerable one
of the awakening and maturing of the
artist through love, grief and contact
with the shocks of the great world. Ajoks
goes a-wandering with his bull, has an
affair with an exotic lady in a palace,
is pursued and persecuted, becomes a
great musician, and then, coming home
to his native village, learns the last lesson
of humility. It is fascinatingly told, with
witch-doctors and misers, volcanoes and
earthquakes all adding to its out-of-the-
way atmosphere.
Last on the list, and the only one with
any lasting quality, is The Pool of
Vishnu (Cape), by L. H. Myers, another
book about India, and another fantasy,
but as far removed from either Brom-
field’s or Fowler’s effort as is the moon
from green cheese. Continuing the theme
and characters of The Root and the
Flower, Myers presents the intrigues,
battles and love affairs of a group of
high-born Hindus until he has worked
out his proposition that all men are
fundamentally men-of-goodwill, and that
when there are full confession and frank
discussion there is a chance of some im-
provement in the tangled affairs of
humanity.
His thesis is worked out with complete
intellectual honesty. No matter how
much his wise-man, the Guru, persuades
the lovers or politicians of the truth of
his philosophy, they are continually slip-
ping back into their normal suspicions,
feuds, and posturings. “A terrible purity
of intention is demanded of man,” says
the Guru; and Myers doesn’t pretend
that his characters can always maintain
that purity of intention. But he clings
to his faith:
“No! ” returned the Guru in a voice that
had become stern. “There is no greatness
at the end of your road—only despair.
Spirit, which must stream through the indi-
vidual man, if he is to preserve a sane and
living soul, must stream through society as
well. Every civilisation, every culture that
has ever existed has owed its life to this.
When the stream tarries the body-politic
stiffens into a prison-house; forms and in-
stitutions become manacles, and the State
turns into a monstrous slave-driver.
Demoniac forces have taken control. With
the leaders there is only a semblance of
leadership. As a monster the State moves
on to its ruinous destiny. The leaders will
tell you that they are acting under
Divine inspiration, or that they are obeying
inexorable laws; and always they will
dangle before the multitude the vulgar
emblems of an impossible glory. But there
is death in their hearts. Spirit is waiting
in the market-place—waiting for the re-
awakened and re-awakening man.”
Myers, of course, has his eye on Hitler.
He is one of the few sermonising novelists
worth reading. His concept (not “non-
attachment” but its obverse, sympathy
and understanding) is more clearly stated
than Huxley’s usually is in his novels;
his prose is excellent; his method —the
mixture of action and metaphysics—re-
sembles Charles Morgan’s and in com-
mand of it he is only just Morgan’s in-
ferior. All his figures are vehicles for
working out his philosophy, and some of
them are colorless. His men-of-action,
swashbuckling Hari, who postures even
in prison, and Akbar, his occasionally-
benevolent dictator, are fully satisfying,
however; and the love affair between
Mohan and Damayanti in her apple-green
sari (“dark insects”!) is, besides being an
illustration of the difficulties that beset
the best-intentioned lovers, beautifully
told.
Sea Heroes.
When his ship was crushed like a nut
down in the Antarctic in October, 1915,
Shackelton, with five of his crew, made
an extraordinary voyage in stormy seas
to the island of South Georgia. To
reach one of the whaling settlements on
the island they still had to do a 30-mile
trek over a 5000 ft. ridge. Three of them,
Shackelton and two of the fittest of the
men. somehow struggled across ; then,
relates J. G. Lockhart in The Sea, Our
Heritage (Bles), when any one of the
three would start off to tell the story, he
would tell it as if there had been no
three but four men in the party, an
would try to place the other one.
Most of Lockhart’s picturesqu
chapters—well written for this sort
book-deal with heroic British Nav
exploits, 1914-18, including the Corone
tragedy, which one or two people wit
long memories recalled after Daka
From Lockhart’s.account: — .
To send a ship [Ganopus] which could
neither chase nor fight nor .even run away
successfully as a reinforcement to enable
Admiral Cradock to meet the enemy on
equal terms was a blunder which no amount
of explanation can justify. There was,
of course, a saving clause in the Admiralty’s
instructions to Cradock. He was. to go
and look for the enemy “as soon as you
have superior force”; but it was perfectly
clear Whitehall believed he would have that
superior force when Canopus appeared on
the scene. Cradock was a high-spirited
officer who would never have allowed the
slightest suspicion that he was shirking a
fight. He did, however, drop some fairly
broad hints. He asked when Defence
would join him.... The Admiralty replied:
“Defence to remain on east coast [of
America], This will leave sufficient force
on each side.” Mr. Churchill has stated
that this telegram never reached Cradock
... .but Paymaster-Commander Lloyd
Hirst, who was handling all the messages,
is nearly certain that it arrived and was
sent on to the flagship. Whether it did or
not, it shows the misconception in the
minds of the First Lord and his advisers;
by assessing the strength of the two squad-
rons at their nominal value, they had
worked out a pretty little sum which gave
an entirely wrong answer.
The result was that Good Hope and
Monmouth were sunk, and not a man
saved, and the rest of the British attacker
were routed. Lockhart parries on the
tale to include the British revenge: :
On the day before the news of Coronel
reached London, that astonishing old sailor
Lord Fisher entered the Admiralty as First
Sea Lord. He was not a man to hesitate
or to try half measures. He did at once
what should have been done six weeks
earlier. He detached two battle-cruisers,
Invincible and Inflexible, from the Grand
Fleet and sent them off to South
America....
where, of course, they shortly correctec
the colossal blunder of Coronel. Lock
hart does not pursue the tale through the
Churchill-Fisher quarrel, and leaves out
the colorful opinions subsequently ex-
pressed by Lord Fisher on Mr. Churchill
but he makes his own opinion on Corone
clear enough.
Another of his chapters deals gener-
ally with the “Q”-ship activities against
submarines in the last war. “Although
the danger was great, there was never
any lack of volunteers,” the element of
sport about “Q”-ship work being irre-
sistible. So was its entertainment value.
“The most attractive qualities of a hunt
and of amateur theatricals were com-
bined.” The theatricals entered into it
with the lowering of a decoy boat when
a sub. had attacked, the boat party
jointly playing the part of Panic.
The acting of the “panic” party was
developed into a fine art. The boat would
be lowered anyhow, the men would tumble
into it helter-skelter and pull away from
the doomed ship with the clumsiness of
trippers on an outing at Southend. Vari-
ous embellishments were introduced. In
the early days of the war, before masters
, were forbidden to take their wives to sea
with them, one “Q”-ship used to produce
a personable “lady”; while Gordon Camp-
bell had a stuffed parrot which must always
be rescued at the last moment and appear
prominently in one of the boats.
If the acting was sufficiently convinc-
ing, the U-boat would come up close ;
down would go the gun-masks, and, with
a little luck, down also the sub.
This War and Christian Ethics (Black-
well). A dozen British churchmen dis-
cuss the title problem, with particular
reference to pacifism, under such chapter-
heads as “The Theology of Pacifism,”
“The Conditions of a Just War,” “The
Ethics of Reprisals,” “A Christian Peace
—ls It Possible?” All are erudite, serious,
interesting and wordy. Discussing “Cen-
sorship and Propaganda,” one asks:
“How, for instance, can there be any
meaning in the words ‘Beer is Best’?”
Most of the thought, however, has a
Christian quality.
The Bedside Esquire (Angus and
Robertson). Hemingway, Steinbeck,
Thorne Smith, Havelock Ellis, Ben Hecht,
Andre Maurois, Dreiser, Westbrook
Pegler, Sean O’Faolain —just about every-
one, in fact, except for Walt Whitman
and President Roosevelt —in about as
bright an omnibus as you could get. All
up-to-the-minute, smart and “tough” in
the manner of American magazine
writers.
The Floor of Heaven : Sylvia Chatfield
Bates (Harrap). Satisfying piece of very
earnest fiction, staging the ancient tri-
angle in a primitive American coast set-
ting. Starts with the sentence “Indefin-
able autumn was. in the sunlight falling
long across Speedwell,” which probably
accounts for the blurbist’s “lyric quality,”
but the author writes easily and freely
when she gets to grips with her people.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —plain facts, open dealing
• THE SENIOR STORE'
w,
9
wm
mm
V
0
n
K
2
■■■<*: .
***»¥&**
* oS Vl^ c '
fco*
vV-
w
A®
As
t» e
ft
tW°
Co
ot
F°
*>*• £***>
*9
c o^
Ae Lpa
V* e *
VAC^
**";>■*
*
a< c
lS cs
**?J* '° tZ*
• 064 V 5 * tee* v t° 4U
• ?,C ~c'* "%»«« *4 *°' 4C
9 tC fc,o^°
A c °
to s *
o t o' 6
• Y ,^e*
• _c ***' r \uV' yC
# G' ySV t e **°
® tVvel
to
\.
W' C,XV
.G^
SV^,
:>v£
, «••. iv>2? ii » ,e ?!" s<>
. „ «<;. <i-T£
t aSy uW s 'lr-*»c6 r \C®
SlSok
p \ s ® o< l &°*
»\so
-' -S-S^v#
C» X ' ** * e *' Yto* detnS ’ jS^* - ' ,- - *- r '°
i ' ,k ' J " 1 i V v\ ,N** * a sl'e
■ ;^koo^
\D.' tOSi Z &?
*• f*A X *
* fcOO*
Vv3'
M
«s» •":;«. *»*
\V „ot »°- %s a c °
_ 4 A>- _ b°° l A kbe te
‘\, frA' a* 4 l »ec©* ft< °
c^'^r
i* . < ' y
4*
SO*' 6 'Xv *‘°(o«
w®
St^con^^
to a^ e .!r
p tti i
*«T Vva xX S
, tn ?
•^:^ fl
G<V' ant
G e °
rt*
r-^° r :
rflP°
A R'
a*
\>
o^\°^ S
O>N


LAST DAY AT SEA
By OLAF RUHEN.
è
in charge at the tiny branch bank, except for the bi-
weekly visits of the manager, and Mary, who was just
Mary. And then there was Red, big and strong, and
no more than a fisherman who owned his own little
launch. And what it was that Mary saw in him would
be more difficult to tell.
For the purposes of this story it is possible to
cut the detail and say that Red and Mary had arrived
at the point where the future became more momen-
tous than the present, a point at which Mary dis-
covered that Red was capable of greater things than
fishing, and started out to do something about it.
For the depression had made him a fisherman, and
she had decided that what he should have been was
a stock-and-station agent. Red concurred. He had
been trained for that; had worked in the office, with
half a lifetime spent on the farm as further solid
backing for the avocation. And Mary knew of an
opening, was related to the right man, and eventually
spoke to him with happy results.
At the time this story really begins Red knew
his application to have been successful, his future
to be assured and his prospective bride to be that
Mary who had done so much for him. His financial
status needs explanation.
While a fisherman owns a sufficient equity in
his own boat all doors are open to him. He may
buy this and that without putting his hand in his
pocket; If he is a good fisherman the merchant will
willingly fill his pocket with crisp banknotes, and
demand, apart from his signature, no more than
the right to handle all his catch. And Red, being
ambitious, had lately invested in trawling gear on
which he still owed money. So right away he had
a heavy debit note to meet, and a raft of new expenses
to incur, and no buyer for the launch.
His last week or two he was lucky. The trawl
fish came in, and the market was good, He made
money, and the last Friday before his engagement
by the station agency saw him setting out hours
before the dawn, with a song in his heart. He was
clear now. Today’s catch was pocket-money, and
today his last day at sea. He’d miss it he supposed,
but there are better things than fishing. “And I’ve
seen too much of fishermen’s wives,” he told the
kittiwake that perched precariously on the cabin-
top, running jerkily back and forth, two or three
steps with each roll of the boat. “Waiting at the
wharf if the old man’s late. Scared to death every
time there’s a blow. It’s a hell of a life, a fisher-
man’s wife.” The jingle occupied his mind while he
took the Mollymawk out over the bar, knotting the
cod-end meanwhile, and seeing to the odds and ends
of preparation.
UT beyond the headland that sheltered the harbor
entrance there was a heavy sea running, and by
the time fie got to the grounds, half an hour away, he
knew that it was making. There was a launch on the
grounds, and far behind him on his wake he could
see a pair of tiny masts bobbing and dipping in
unison. He threw the trawl overboard, and, circling
to clear his propeller, sent the gear to the bottom.
The Orion, ahead of him, plugged into the
southerly. Three cables to the eastward the Flying
Fish was setting her gear. He watched as it went
away clean. No trouble on a day like this. The
wire trawl warps tightened spasmodically from the
Molly’s davits, to fall easily in long bights to the
deck on the next trough. The staccato double bark
of the engine slowed and raced in unison. A hand
on the warps, Red sat by his tiller, trying to feel
and gauge the effect on the trawl 60
fathoms away and 12 deep. Half an
hour, and he turned to the eastward,
with the sea abeam, changing the Molly-
mawk’s pitch to a frantic roll.
The warps showed a more even pull,
though, with the new direction. That
meant more fish, though the altered
course might mean more trouble with
the gear. Away ahead of him the Orion
acted on his judgment, and took a
parallel course. The ground was shorter
that way, more awkward. The Flying
Fish carried on to the end of the ground
three miles away, and was out of sight
before she also turned.
An hour and a half, and Red made a
three-quarter circle into the nor’ard,
where the wind would hold him off his
net while he reeled it inboard. Up it
came. Then there was the laborious
handling of the thirty-yard-long net, the
winch for the final lift, and the thun-
derous crash as the cod-end line released
the freight into the cockpit. Knotting
the line again in haste he made a calcu-
lation of the catch. Two cases of flats
and half a box of ling and such. Say
thirty bob a case, less thirty bob for “exes.” It would
do. Four tows and he had his pocket-money.
When his gear was down he looked to see the
Orion, but she was hull down, and from the sway
of her masts she was travelling free. She had given
it best and gone home. Spring Jackson wasn’t too
happy about fishing on Fridays, anyhow.
The sea was still making, and twice the Molly-
mawk shipped one over her starboard beam, where
the weight of the gear slowed her roll. After he
put the trawl down for the third time he marked the
Flying Fish, quarter of a mile to port, and hidden
by every intervening wave. A tiny figure jumped to
its cabin-top, holding by the mast. A hand was held
high ; a hand he could not have seen but for the
black beret it clutched. Bob Dawson wanted to talk.
Red slipped a lanyard over his tiller and took up
a similar position. The black beret waved about,
almost aimlessly—the sign talk of the fisherman. It
said, “This jump-up’s too big. We’re going home
when we get this tow in. Our trawl was split with
the first tow and we lost time. There’s a lot of weed
at the south end. We only got a case and a half of
flats, and a case of round fish. Jump-up’s making.
Come on in.”
Red replied non-committally, giving his tally, five
and two. The information was important though—
particularly that about the weed.
The next haul was in. A case only, with two
cases of round fish. The jump was making her ride
too high off the sea-floor. Red tightened his headline
by six inches, and sent her down again, still following
in the trough of the waves. He ran out an extra
fifteen fathoms of warp. The Molly’s three knots
dropped to two and a half, but the warps were steadier.
The Flying Fish had picked up and gone.
J T’S not an easy job between hauls. Stand knee-
* aeep in slippery fish, sliding with the freight back
and forth along the fishpond, gutting and washing
and casing ; keeping an eye on the tiller, lending a hand
to the pump, an ear cocked to the steady “ker-lump”
of the engine. When the flywheel begins to pick up
bilge-water, drop everything and pump. When the
South Head peeps out beyond Barney’s Point, take
a turn out of her. Watch the spot where the flagpole
at the Light is in line with Johnston’s cowbyre and
the red roof shows in the bay. (There’s a 200-pound
anchor there, dropped by some sailing ship, that has
accounted for a hundred trawls.) Watch the weather,
watch all lashings, cock an eye aloft occasionally.
Tighten that fall, lash those fish cases or they’ll ram
through the lining of the thwart. Keep an eye on
the warps and watch the depth markings. And in
the meantime keep your feet, and get the fish gutted
and take the spray and the green water all as one.
When the last tow was in—the three cases
justified the extra warps—Red made everything
fast. Trawldoors were lashed, the tackle fall hooked
under the coamings, the trawl thrown on the cockpit
floor over the squirming, flapping flats. He tapped
the petrol tank —not enough. So he oiled the idling
engine, set it slow ahead, and climbed out on top
of the cabin hatch with an extra tin and a filler.
This was a tricky job, but all part of the day’s work.
One foot against the inch-and-a-half-high toe-rail, one
hand holding the tiller, one hand the tin ; balancing
body and burden with a nicety that equalised the
vagaries of the launch.
Red looked up, watching in friendliness a little
penguin as it danced and skipped its way to the
coast. The look was his un-
doing. A sudden jerk sent his
foot into space, and himself
after it. Dropping tin and
filler he clutched, and his
hand grabbed the toe-rail as his head went under.
Grabbed, and slipped along with the impetus of the
boat. His fingers slid into one of the little scuppers,
and held. His body swayed out astern. His other
hand came up to help the first.
For what seemed ages he hung. His feet, encased
in gumboots, dragged at his armpits. Nor could
he rid himself of the boots. He cursed the size of
his feet. Tens he took, and you couldn’t buy boots
a couple of sizes larger than that like you should,
not without a devil of a lot of trouble. If only the
launch were stopped. His hand slipped further aft.
He was opposite the cockpit now —further back was
the propeller, and a mix-up with a screw could be
nasty.
His face was strained and aching—he was curi-
ously conscious of the ache in his jaws. He made
a supreme effort to lift one foot to the gunwale.
He could not do it. He glanced aft, and saw the
chain and the brown net of his trawl where it left
the otter-board on his after davit and ran over into
the cockpit. If he could get his foot in that, or ——
Suddenly excited, he reached inboard with his hand
as far as he could and grabbed a fistful of the loose
net where it was heaped up on top of the fish inside.
He had it, and pulled it out. More and more, until
a big bight drifted alongside him in the water. Soon
he felt the net tug and move past him of its own
accord. The engine slowed, stuttered, stopped. The
net stopped rushing out. The scheme had worked.
The net had found the propeller, and the chain had
jammed it.
The rest was easy. But it took him an hour to
clear the screw, idling the engine; running astern
three or four revolutions, ahead one, astern one, until
at last each bight of the chain had been cleared, each
tangle of net cut with the knife lashed to a boat
hook.
L_J ARBOR waters, as always, set his freed mind
* 1 straying. Himself against the sea once more, and
once more he had won. For the last time. He didn’t
like that, but well
He frowned when he reached the wharf. Mary
was there waiting. She looked bright, chatting with
Kit, who was keeping her company.
“Fisherman’s - wife.” It would have been all
right in a way ; fishermen’s daughters thought it fair
enough, he supposed, but she must have been worried
to have been there. He lifted a greeting hand, and
found his moorings.
“Oh, Red, what a lot of fish! All the boats are
in long ago. You’re all wet.”
“I usually am-,” he said, and smiled, busying
himself about the boat.
“You can do all that tomorrow, Red. Anyway,
it doesn’t matter now.”
“Tomorrow I’ve a trawl to mend.”
“But, Red, you don’t want it. And you said
no one else did.”
“I want it for Sunday. And Monday and all
the rest of the week, with luck. I’m not taking the
agent’s job, Mary.”
He listened to all the arguments.
“I guess I’m just lazy,” he said finally. “I want
to keep fishing, that’s all.” '
“But it gets you nowhere,” Mary said, puzzled.
“That’s where I want to get, perhaps,” he said,
and smiled.
DOTH of them laugh about that romance nowadays.
Mary’s laugh is perhaps a little strained, which
is a ridiculous, albeit unconscious, admission for the
wife of a coming banker.
“All right; a quid for your ration tickets and two bob for the bike. Take it or leave it !”


GIVE US
THIS DAY
By DOUGLAS STEWART.
PRECISELY at half past ten on Saturday morn-
ing there was a sharp rat-tat-tat on the door,
and old Dan Brewster, blinking at the crisp
winter sunshine, manoeuvred from the cottage
with the aid of his heavy stick.
“Right on time again, sonny,” Mrs. Brewster con-
gratulated the small boy who had called for her
husband.
The boy made no reply. He wished Mrs. Brew-
ster would call him by his name. “Sonny”! Some
years younger than her husband, she was burdened
with all the cares of the household, and her energy
and her acidity of temper increased together as Dan’s
senility deepened. She filled her black dress comfort-
ably, the boy noted ; her hair was reassuringly grey,
but her voice, even when she meant to be amiable,
was sour as green gooseberries.
“Sure you’ve got the money?” Mrs. Brewster
asked her husband.
The old man, also disdaining an answer, unfolded
his left hand and showed her the sixpenny piece
clenched firmly in the thick of his palm.
In a movement which, if it had not been so
laborious, could have been described as three con-
vulsive leaps, he turned his back on his wife and
faced the gate. The boy had already opened it and,
balancing first on one foot and then the other, stood
waiting for him to negotiate the twenty long yards of
the path. Although he was still inwardly shining with
the consciousness of virtue, and trebly proud at hav-
ing for the third Saturday in succession embarked
upon his self-imposed task of “helping Mr. Brewster,”
the boy was beginning to find the old man’s astound-
ing sluggishness a greater mortification than he had
bargained for. It had been suggested to the Wolf
Cubs that they should really try to observe their rule
of “one good deed a day,” and the notion, once they
grasped its meaning, became a game to be played
every bit as seriously as their normal diversions of
shooting sparrows with shanghais or baiting the
Chinese greengrocer. But Mr. Brewster’s snail-like
pace, though still a matter for wonder and never con-
sciously criticised, was making saintliness a martyr-
dom.
Mr. Brewster reached the gate and leaned heavily
against the white post. He was breathing deeply.
Beads of perspiration dewed his forehead and he
mopped them with his handkerchief. His features, nor-
mally ruddy, were flushed, and his eyes —of that fragile,
thrush-egg blue peculiar to old age —seemed to pro-
trude a little. Against his inclination, he found him-
self moving on so that the boy could close the gate.
As his stick rose, quavered and descended, and
his squat body, supported like the globe on the Atlas
of his stumpy legs, struggled towards his next resting-
place at the corner of the street, he was aware of the
vague irritation he would feel if bothered by a fly.
The boy was making him hurry—if the term could
be applied to the infinitesimal increase of pace of
which he was capable. Mr. Brewster was so old that
the processes of his thought, like the movements of
his limbs, had all but atrophied. Unless his routine
was disturbed, he hardly thought at all. When it was
wet, he sat by the fire and felt miserable or took to his
bed and lost heart altogether. When it was fine, he
felt the dim contentment of a lizard basking on a
rock or of an old dog forgetting its paralysed hind-
quarters as it sleeps in the sun outside its kennel.
Always on these fine mornings, as the clock on the
mantelpiece chimed the half-hour after ten, Mrs. Brew-
ster handed him sixpence and he set sail on the wild
sea of the mile to town and back. The convention
was that he went to buy the bread ; he was making
himself useful. The small boy’s first appearance three
Saturdays ago and his offer to “save him the trip to
town” had been a shock to the old man. Tears of
rage and vexation welled up in his eyes and he
stumped his stick on the floor. Mrs. Brewster knew
what was going on in that ancient brain, and the
boy’s good deed was limited to keeping the old man
company. -
Dan had grown accustomed to the boy now and,
despite the uneasiness caused by his energy, would
have missed his companionship.
“How old are you, Mr. Brewster?” the boy asked
him as they paused at the corner for breath.
“Eh?” said Mr. Brewster absently.
He was past the age at which he could be troubled
to answer the questions of a small boy, should the
question happen to penetrate , the fog of his mentality.
It was only in his faint sense of discomfort, indeed,
that he recognised his companion as belonging to the
same species. For the most part, he accepted the
phenomenon of the boy at his side as he would have
accepted a dog at his heels.
The boy did not repeat the question. After the
fiasco of their first journey together, when remark
after remark had dropped to the ground like a stunned
“Well, they didn't stop last time.”
bird from the blank wall of Mr. Brewster’s somno-
lence, he had practically given up the effort of mak-
ing conversation. He, too, in the depths of his mind,
was aware that the mountain of towered
between them made communication impossible. Mr.
Brewster was not a man like his father, who, though
peculiar, inhabited the same universe. He was some-
thing fabulous, like an elephant at the circus.
The impulse to run ahead was strong. The old
man’s sluggishness seemed to put his own limbs under
a constraint against which both his body and mind
continually 'fretted. He would quicken his pace a
little, setting Mr. Brewster an example, but the old
man’s feet shuffled steadily on, inch by titanic inch.
When the pair came to the corrugated-iron fence on
the corner before the first of the shops, the boy darted
to the end, back and up to the end of it again, running
his fingers along the corrugations and setting up a
pleasant clamor. He waited for Mr. Brewster to
catch up with him.
All the townspeople knew old Dan and said good
morning. Sometimes he made no acknowledgment,
sometimes he moved his head sketching a nod. The
greetings pleased him, as did the sun’s warmth and the
stir of the town. In the sight of the shopkeepers
standing at their doorways, the sprinkling of house-
wives laden with parcels, the occasional cars passing
along the road, there was just the atmosphere of
animation without bustle that was the breath of life
to him. The pretty girl in the baker’s said “Good
morning, Mr. Brewster. Come for the bread?” and
that, too, was pleasing. He always knew that she was
pretty and he always knew what she would say. All
was right with his world. This day he had had his
daily bread.
He gave the girl his sixpence, tucked the bread
under his arm and began the trek home. Just at
twelve, when lunch was ready—the mile-long odyssey
having occupied an hour and a half —Mr. Brewster
hoisted himself up his own doorstep and handed his
wife the bread.
BY the following Saturday the boy’s enthusiasm for
this rather futile pilgrimage had considerably
diminished, and on his way to the Brewsters’ cottage
he resented the obligation he had undertaken. But
it had been a week of wet weather and the boy’s
services were of real value. He took the sixpence
Mrs. Brewster proffered and ran off to buy the bread.
Old Dan sat by the fire and felt miserable. It was
years since he had read a book or even a newspaper ;
his conversation with his wife was reduced to a
minimum of grunts and sighs and signs; he lay back
in his rocking-chair, moving almost imperceptibly,
dozing or opening his eyes to stare vacantly at the
pendulum swinging to and fro in the glass belly of
the clock. Tick-tock, tick-tock, the clock repeated
endlessly. Mrs. Brewster bustled about in the kitchen.
In less than quarter of an hour the boy was back
with the bread. He stQod at the doorway panting
and glowing, with his wet hair like water-weeds over
his forehead. He had run all the way to town. He
wore virtue like a banner. Not only had he done his
good deed, but he had performed it at unheard-of
speed. Obscurely, he felt victorious, as if he had won
a race.
He presented himself at the door on his next
visit with confidence. He was the “man about the
place,” useful, efficient. He did not feel this time
that Mrs. Brewster was sour, and it was true that her
attitude towards him had changed, for he was no
longer a suspicious character like other small boys;
on wet days he would save her the tramp to town.
Moreover, though Dan was determined to go for the
bread this morning, he was not well. He had had to
take to his bed a week ago, and always when he
surrendered to the aches and pains the weather brought
him she felt alarmed. He looked as if he would
never get up again. It was quite different from his
dozing by the fire.
Mr. Brewster was on his feet, waiting for the
bread money, but without thinking what she was
doing she handed the sixpence to the boy. “There
you are, sonny. Half a loaf of French.”
Old Dan acquiesced. He was shaky from his week
in bed, a little frightened. He insisted on his trip
to town, but he was too tired to care who carried
the money. He had forgotten that it had ever been
a matter worth quarrelling about. He was slower than
ever as he labored to the gate, and he leaned against
the post for a long time, looking back at the house
as if undecided whether to continue the journey.
The boy found a tin lying on the path and played
football with it along the street. Tired of kicking
it straight ahead of him, he invented a game of
dribbling it across Mr. Brewster’s path, ducking
behind the old man and kicking it back across his
feet.
Mr. Brewster was only mildly perturbed, for he
was used to the boy’s ways by now. He mellowed in
the sunshine and found himself thoroughly enjoying
his escape from the dark cottage and the fussy woman.
As if he were seeing them for the first time he took
notice of the palings and hedges ; of the vegetable
gardens lying fallow for the winter, where the roots
of couch-grass and convolvulus lay whitening in the
sun and where the frost still silvered the shady side of
the upturned clods. He listened to the singing
of the Drummonds’ canaries and goldfinches, and re-
membered that some Assyrians lived in the dilapidated
cottage next door.
The boy, too, was drinking in the life of the
morning. It made him restless. Mr. Brewster would
never get to town. He found a thin sheet of ice in
the gutter and cracked it with his toe so that the
muddy water broke through.
“I’ll get the bread, Mr. Brewster,” he cried with
genuine compassion mingled with his impatience, and
before the old man had time to think about it he
was running towards the village at top speed, as if
racing against some invisible antagonist.
Mr. Brewster continued his creaking pilgrimage
unaffected. Small boys had a habit of disappearing.
The lad’s abrupt departure was no more a matter for
remark than his game with the tin.
When the old man had struggled as far as the
corrugated-iron fence and could see the first shop
and the cars passing on the main road, the boy came
panting back to him. “Here’s the bread, Mr. Brewster.
I’ve got the bread for you! ” He looked up with that
almost angelic smile that sometimes lights a boy’s
face, waiting for some word of commendation.
Mr. Brewster looked at the bread under the boy’s
arm and at the eager young face. It took him some
time to realise that'this was his bread, that the boy
had been to town and back again. Confused emotions
began to stir in him. He looked at the ancient willow
tree, stripped to bare twigs by the winter, behind the
first shop not more than fifty yards away. He
shuffled a step or two forward, then paused irresolutely.
That was his bread under the arm of that boy there.
He had nothing to’ go to town for; he ought to go
home.
As images of the happy street, the people saying
good morning and the smiling girl in the baker’s
crystallised in his mind, a tear slowly gathered in each
of his fragile blue eyes. He gazed back along the
street which he had negotiated with such pains, and
then looked towards the shops again. The boy stared
in amazement as the two tears brimmed over the
naked red rims of his eyelids and trickled down his
cheeks. Mr. Brewster lifted his stick an inch or two
in a gust of anger. Then he felt immensely weak and
his back ached. He stretched out a trembling hand
for the bread. Tucking the loaf under his arm, he
turned away from the willow tree and the shop and,
moving so slowly that each step seemed to take a
century, began the long road home.


9
ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
■
■
\ &s£ t .
111
Pfe..
■Hh
3m. m
mmm
m m
■ 1
m i
H
■»?' ■
■I
:
mr iawc'w
I
r*
ilftiwlii
■;
'■ :-:jf
* - , ' y'ji
, ‘ ' ■-
*1 7 •
OLD ROWLEY
By THE BUZZARD—SYCEONELLE. Aged.
WINNER OF THE MELBOURNE CUP, 1940
MR. J. A. SCULLY, Owner-trainer
Jockey, A. KNOX
Weight, 7st. 121 b
Time, 3min. 26sec,


The Bulletin
Vol. 61. —No. 3170.
Wednesday, November 13, 1940.
THE SMALL-GAME HUNTER.
“You’d better look out, you obstreperous brute! There’s a big-game hunter I can hail.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months. £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America. 2d. per copy. To all other places. 4d.
EUROPE, AS WINTER COMES.
What war fought with all present weapons and
devices means is already bitterly enough known in
suffering Europe ; it is certain to be known more
bitterly still in practically all countries there before
the now looming winter is over, unless by some
arrangement it should be possible to call the war
off. The probability may be that the sad Continent
will get through this winter without starvation of
large bodies of people producirig pestilence and
disease, or widespread rioting with frenzied slaughter ;
but the possibilities of such developments are there,
almost too terrible to think about.
The best that the most favorable report can say
is that “there is enough food to go round to avert
starvation, if it is properly shared out.” By all report
this is a very doubtful proviso, but with it allowed
there will, according to Mr. Hugh Dalton, Britain’s
Minister of Economic Warfare, “be no famine in
Europe as a whole this winter.” In making that
pronouncement Mr. Dalton was defending Britain’s
use of blockade, countering representations, both from
the countries fearful of famine and from American
interests bent on relief work, that food should be
allowed through under strict supervision with guaran-
tees. The whole problem, in fact, is almost inextric-
ably tangled up with politics, with military strategy,
with the general conduct and compulsions of the war.
It bristles with difficulties ; the case for each side is
very strong.
From the British point of view, Britain’s case
seems practically unanswerable. With the Navy there
to enforce it, the blockade has been a major instru-
ment of Britain’s strategy since the war started. At
first imposed on Germany alone, it has been extended
under the compulsion of events until now it operates
against almost the entire Continent, except for
restricted imports, based on national requirements,
allowed to Spain and Portugal, with, of course, general
import freedom allowed to Greece as a fighting ally.
France, Poland, Belgium, Holland are as close trapped
as Germany. By all reports, the Germans ruthlessly
plundered those and other countries; as Britain must
see it, there is no reason to believe that the Germans
will not still further plunder them, or would not grab
anything that was allowed to pass through the
blockade.
All the countries where the suffering is likely to
be most tragic, except unoccupied France, are under
German control; therefore, in Britain’s outlook on
the war, they are part of Germany. Their labor and
factories, industrial and agricultural industries are
forced to work towards strengthening the German
power. Every ounce of food that Britain let through
would therefore be so much that Germany would
not have to supply in order to sustain that large
contribution to its fighting strength. If the country
has enough to live and work on —though hardly any
of them have, taking all essential kinds of food —
Germany could obviously profit without touching the
actual goods let through ; it could simply take their
equivalent from the country’s own production.
If Germany were prepared to give guarantees
to touch neither the food let through nor its equiva-
lent from the country’s own production, there would
remain two serious difficulties in this one aspect of
the problem alone: (1) Britain would still be feeding
the country to enable it to produce for Germany;
(2) one reason why Britain entered this war was, on
Mr. Chamberlain’s declaration, that it had become
utterly impossible to trust the German word; cer-
tainly nothing has happened since to induce anyone
but a simpleton to believe that the German word
could be trusted on such a vital matter as this.
Britain therefore states bluntly that there is enough
food to go round if it is properly shared out; that if
there are victims they will be German-made victims ;
that it is not possible to find any satisfactory and
watertight system of guarantees against food imports
into any part of enslaved Europe finding their way
directly or indirectly into the bellies of the Nazis;
that, even if such guarantees could be discovered,
Britain, in simple fairness to its own people and to
the general cause for which it is fighting, would still
have to insist first on the return to the plundered
countries of all that had been taken from them before
any relaxing of the blockade could be considered.
Britain itself is a blockaded country, as far as
Germany’s utterly ruthless sea warfare is able to
blockade it. Shipping losses such as occurred last
month could not go on without making Britain’s posi-
tion extremely dangerous. As it js, it seems certain
that Britain must suffer cruelly this winter. The
bombing will continue, with, apart from direct kill-
ings, sickness and disease also a direct consequence.
Ports may be smashed ; if further demands on the
Navy continue to grow elsewhere, there may be
heavier and heavier destruction of shipping. Britain
has to face all this and more, and is not squealing. It
accepts the German thesis that this is total war, and
insists that, therefore, it must continue to impose
rigid blockade as a major, if not now the most im-
portant, instrument of ultimate success in such war-
fare.
Mr. Dalton gave a summing-up on Britain’s case
which to his hearers in Britain could not help but
seem the last word:
Night after night German airmen scatter bombs,
many of them indiscriminately, over London and other
parts of our country. They return, after killing and
maiming our women and children, to enjoy excellent
breakfasts in the Air Force messes in occupied France,
Belgium and Holland. They feed on food stolen from
the French, the Belgians and the Dutch. Why should
we put more food in for them to steal ? Why should
we, fighting for our lives and still exercising command
of the sea routes, be expected to provide better meals
for these Nazis?
The case on the other side does not compete
with the British case in logical reasoning; but it
makes, nevertheless, a powerful emotional appeal.
It is being strongly urged all the time in America,
and not only by Mr. Hoover. Organisations working
to secure relief for Norway, Holland, Belgium and
Poland, Quaker organisations working in and for
France, and various other public bodies and many
individual citizens are there pressing representations
on their Government and Britain’s for the partial
lifting of the blockade on humanitarian grounds. The
Quaker organisation has given out that, while it feeds
some thousands of French children now, it knows of
3,000,000 who need food very badly. In the women’s
camps at Gurs, Vernet and St. Cyprien typhoid fever
has been raging. The state of the country generally
is deteriorating, and unless felief is arranged there
will be outbreaks of other epidemics this winter. The
situation in unoccupied France is desperate, with not
fewer than 5,000,000 refugees to be fed in addition
to the normal population, and importation of food
from Northern France cut off.
Organisations pressing for relief of the various
other afflicted countries have jointly stated that “We
can say flatly that there is no source of supply in
Europe from which these occupied nations can ade-
quately prevent famine during the forthcoming
winter, and if there is not to be starvation and
disease on a wholesale scale, it must be prevented
by overseas supplies.” They point out that the short-
age affects the children worst: “They must have fats
and milk ; otherwise they become stunted or die whole-
sale.” A joint statement asks bitterly:
Has humanity sunk so low that tens of millions
of innocent women and children are to die in order to
create human cesspools?
To the British retort that such victims will obvi-
ously be German-made victims they have no reply.
They do not care who is responsible; they insist
that, unless relief is given, there will be widespread
famine with unspeakable results. Whether there will
be famine of this acute kind, or whether, as other
observers declare, the position will be one of “stringent
shortages,” the months ahead will determine.
One warning thought should probably be kept
in mind. A hope, if not an expectation, behind the
British case for continuing the blockade is that in
time the sufferers will rise against their real oppres-
sors, the Germans. That is by no means certain.
Germany has control of all means of propaganda in
the afflicted countries, and naturally is doing its utmost
to put the blame for starvation on the British block-
ade. Revolts there may be in time if the war and
the blockade continue, but what direction the explosion
of feeling in the suffering countries —including France
—will take is no matter for easy optimism.
A Man Who Was Right.
“When Masaryk goes west Benes won’t last long—
nor Czechoslovakia either.” Sir lan Hamilton said
that about 14 years before Professor Roberts, of
Sydney University, “S. M. Herald” and A.8.C., went
to Central Europe and discovered that Czechoslovakia
was “enormously wealthy and strong,” that the Little
Entente was salted with perpetuity, that France and
Russia, as well as being tremendously powerful, were
devoted to one another and to us, and that the pros-
pect of Germany recovering any of “the lost lands”
had “never been worse.”
In lectures to the members of the British Legion,
published in book form in 1923, the wise old Scottish
soldier said other penetrating and prescient things.
He warned his Legionaries that the foreign outlook of
the Italians was colored by Machiavellian traditions:
“to any Italian statesman the word ‘alliance’ is honey-
combed with mental reservations ; ally or no ally an
Italian Government must play off one country
against another.” Poland he described as “this
wayward, restless, martial nation, placed exactly
like a carefully-adjusted filbert between the enormous
Russia-Prussia nutcracker.” For other creations
of the Versailles period, much applauded by
politicians and editors and. in later years, by radio
commentators, Australia’s old friend had as little use.
Always a friend of the Russians, though not of the
new Russian imperialism which has duped so many
Reds and Pinks the world over, he saw no future for
the little Baltic States except as parts of Russia, or
for the Balkan States as enlarged by the men of
Versailles. Hence these striking passages:
The life of Estonia lies in a small deposit of shale
oil and in the port of Reval. Reval is the doorway to
Petrograd, but what is the good of a port without
support? The mouth has no backside... .Estonia will
confederate with Russia.
The same thing applies to Riga as to Reval. It
has no hinterland. Latvia must get back to Russia
and take England with her.
Was it wise to create Lithuania? If war comes
again, what purse, what bayonets, the bodies of what
sons, of what mothers, are going to make good those
flimsy paper bulwarks against the great steam-roller?
Yugoslavia is the most composite, fluid State on
earth. How can those peasant Serbs hold, control,
assimilate or carry on with Dalmatia, Croatia, Slovenia,
Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina on their hands?
The Yugoslavs are threatened on all sides. The Italian
menace is very great.
I have inspected Rumanian troops, who look what
they are—rather washed-out descendants of Trajan’s
Sixth Legion. They have terribly mismanaged Tran-
sylvania. If they mean to hold the Dobruchtscha they
must work in with Bulgaria; if they do not they will
Jose the use of the Danube. As for Bessarabia, their
one chance of keeping it lies in the fact that the Soviet
does not care to bring in at present a mass of people
who are completely under the thumb of their priests.
If Rumania values her life, let her make it up with
Bulgaria.
I am sorry for the Greeks. They were really enthusi-
astic, really sympathetic, at the time of the Dardanelles,
and until the Italians came in; then they cooled down
at once. They are frightfully clever, but they were used
up and then let down by Mr. Lloyd George. The
worst of it is they can’t possibly hold on for long
to Salonika. It is not a place that can be held by a
poor nation. If ever the chance arises, I think we should
try and compensate the poor Greeks. When all is said
and done, they are the only Balkan State which cares
two pins about us.
Of France Sir lan spoke when the French were
backing the Turks against the Greeks, the British hav-
ing unavailingly backed the Greeks against the Turks;
and he spoke with bitterness:
Only yesterday, so to say, the French formed that
great nation of friends who had sworn fealty to us
over the bones of our dead. To us, “the French”
meant “the paladins who never let down a pal”
We were philo-French to our fingertips till, suddenly,
like a bombshell —Chanak! God Almighty, our friends!
Five hundred Lancashire lads left in the lurch on the
continent of Asia, abandoned by their allies at the very
spot that was to have kept them united for ever —
that fatal spot!
With the substitution of a few words it might have
have been said at any time these last five months ; and
these words also might have been spoken in 1935 and
afterwards:
The French character does not stand success....
The French see things in bright sunlight, with sharp,
clean-cut edges to them; live things are rarely like
that. With all their sparkle and quickness the French
are not really profound as psychologists.... Their exact
and positive minds are powerful but short-range instru-
ments. They act very much on certain fixed theories....
and, absorbed in their own plans, they close their eyes
tight to the plans of others....
Since that affair at Chanak the French have rather
dropped the epithet “perfidious” in making reference to
the fog-swathed inhabitants of Albion. They prefer, just
at present, to call us insular. But things are not always
what they seem, and it is not the Channel so much as
the insularity of France which separates Dover from
Calais. There are none so insular as those who would
put the whole world into their own pint pot.
If there is one subject on which they are cocksure it
is upon their diagnosis of the German. “Kick the fellow
and he comes to heel. Kick him again and he will
lick your boots.” Napoleon kicked the Germans until
he manufactured a certain Bliicher. M. Poincare —who
knows? —may give one kick too many.
All through our British Empire was to allow itself to
become a slave to the French Higher Direction, which
perverted our unrivalled amphibious power from its
historic functions, and, in all that profusion with which
one man spends another man’s fortune, flung English
lives and English gold into bottomless pits like Festubert,
Loos and Passchendaele.
Not a Wellington, not a Marlborough, not a Nelson
but a Pitt was and still is the crying need of the hour.
Someone to stand out against un-English methods of all
sorts, whether in the art of war or in the method of
debt-collecting. The French style, of all others, is, to us,
always a misfit.
That split in the altar of Franco-British friendship
is structural. Let’s be free! Nature never intended us
to be intimate; she meant us to be independent.
I agree that we ought to strike while the iron is
hot and try to get a live League of Nations, instead of
the present elaborately organised dud. Something
will have to be done, and that quickly, or else we shall
soon find ourselves at the same old bloody game again..
We have no true League of Nations now; and for
that reason I refuse at least 50 times a year to stand on
their platform. The League of Nations has become a
mere instrument of French policy... .run strictly on
French lines. We shall never be able to organise an
effective League of Nations in Europe until we are free
to pursue a real English policy, unhampered by inimical
allies.
Perhaps “inimical” is too strong, but I don’t think
so.... Where the essential aims of policy are different;
where our idea of handling subject races is to make
them develop on their own lines, and when the French
idea is to conscript them and transform them into
robots; where the whole conceptions of the individual
citizens regarding law, love, liberty, are at cross pur-
poses, then a combine must mean stalemate or else
that one of the parties is dragged along as a deadweight
by the other. Do let us cease to be a deadweight!
Do let us cease to be “benevolent” or, if we are, do
let us quickly fix up a benevolent but definite split!
What insight and what foresight! Unfortunately
the politicians and editors and professors paid no
attention to this Highland seer. Like Lord —not Pro-
fessor —-Roberts, Sir lan “pleaded in the marketplace
—pleaded, and was not heard.”


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Third Term.
An American cartoonist depicted the opening of the
Presidential election campaign as the start of a foot-
race between Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Wendell
Lewis Willkie, both handicapped by chain-and-ball
attachments. Mr. Roosevelt’s was labelled Third-
Term Bogey, Business Antagonism and Party Dissen-
sion; Mr. Willkie’s, Inexperience, Political Fence-
hopping and Public Utilities Background.
As the campaign developed two of these handi-
caps rose in importance over the rest as likely to affect
the result and as the main propaganda planks on the
two sides: against Mr. Roosevelt, the third-term
bogey ; against Mr. Willkie, political fence-hopping.
In the result, the third-term bogey —hitherto insuper-
able—was laid. Mr. Roosevelt secured a sweeping vic-
tory, winning in 38 of the 48 States, with 449 votes
in the Electoral College, to Mr. Willkie’s 10 States,
with 82 electoral votes.
The most optimistic of Mr. Roosevelt’s supporters
did not expect anything like such an overwhelming
victory. Straw-vote surveys in advance showed their
man leading, but only narrowly. Important news-
papers had come out strongly for Mr. Willkie, some
breaking from previously unbroken Democratic
policy. The influential New York “Times,” which
supported Mr. Roosevelt for the Presidency in 1932
and again in 1936, gave Mr. Willkie its fullest support.
Papers like the Cleveland “Plain Dealer” broke from
a lifetime of tradition to support Mr. Willkie. The
“Saturday Evening Post” had for years assailed Mr.
Roosevelt’s foreign policy as a lead to war.
The result may not have been a repetition of
recent Australian resentment of dictation by news-
papers ; it was clearly a significant endorsement of Mr.
Roosevelt’s foreign policy. Supporters of Mr. Willkie
gave a lot of effort towards fostering the belief that
there was practically no difference between the foreign
policies of the candidates. In this, Mr. Willkie’s “poli-
tical fence-hopping” was a decisive handicap. Until he
was surprisingly chosen as Republican candidate he
had been known as a Democrat.
Mr. Willkie gave further exhibitions of fence-
hopping during the campaigning. He made a grudging
pronouncement on the transfer of 50 American
destroyers to Britain in exchange for defence bases,
a deal which, since all its details became known, has
impressed Americans as one of the most favorable to
their country that any President had ever made. Mr.
Willkie also rendered difficult the job of proving his
foreign policy identical with Mr. Roosevelt’s by sup-
porting in the course of his campaign the return to
the Senate of Senator Hiram Johnson, who had con-
sistently fought Mr. Roosevelt on foreign policy,
voting last November against amending the Neutrality
Act to permit the then Allies to buy war materials in
the U.S.A., and recently voting against the Con-
scription Act.
These and other instances may or may not have
been a fair indication of Mr. Willkie’s fpreign policy,
but they left it cloudy and doubtful. With Mr. Roose-
velt Americans at least knew exactly where they stood
as far as the war in its present shape goes. He had
stuck steadfastly to his policy of giving “all aid short
of war” to Britain ; he had declared that “Whatever
happens we won’t send troops abroad.” As to
domestic policy, his New Deal programme, while parts
of it may have earned enshrinement in the Valhalla of
Wild Cats, at least demonstrated recognition of, and
determination to try to rectify, inequalities of social
conditions, an endeavor that had won for him the sup-
port and gratitude of the general mass of Americans.
Against that, Mr. Willkie stood unequivocally for
big business, for the managers of production, for
private enterprise ; telling the workers generally that
these too were employees, and that “You will never
get what you ought to get as long as you have a Gov-
ernment which intimidates the managers of produc-
tion and which prevents production from going to its
best and biggest.”
But the return of Mr. Roosevelt is probably most
accurately to be accepted as an endorsement of
foreign rather than of domestic policy. It means for
certain continued material support for Britain; this
has already been important; it will be increasingly
important and probably decisive. Nor can it be taken
that Mr. Roosevelt has finally indicated the limit of
American participation in the war. He has done so as
far as the war at present stands, and the non-
interventionist attitude is still very strong in his
country. But the ultimate shape of the war is known
to nobody ; as they have done up to now —amazingly
at times—events will enforce decisions henceforth.
Arthur Neville Chamberlain.
A victim of the war he strove to avert, worn out by the
agony of it and pursued to his deathbed by the sneers
and snarls of enemies, at home and abroad, Mr. Cham-
berlain is no more. A noble tribute to his memory
came from an Australian, Mr. Curtin:
His supreme purpose was to spare the world from
the barbarism of a major war. To this task he gave
his reputation; indeed, he gave his all. History will
vindicate him. To fail in the highest purpose is better
than never to have essayed it. His work in averting
war at Munich gave us the time, the means and the
confidence which will enable us to win.
To that there is little to be added. In the true
tradition of British foreign policy, Mr. Chamberlain
kept us out of the Spanish dogfight when fools were
clamoring for intervention. He refused to let a parcel
of Czechs commit the Empire to a war for which it
w as tragically unready, and on which—as in the case
°f Spain—it would have been divided. He refused to
buy the “support” of Stalin with the independence and
liberties of Finland and the Baltic States. Stalin would
have betrayed him, and he was betrayed by Hitler ;
but at Munich, as Mr. Menzies says, he gained for us
“more than a year of uninterrupted preparation”
which was not wasted. Moreover, after the betrayal
of March, 1939, the Empire closed its ranks, and it
entered the war with a clear conscience and clean hands.
“I knew Mr. Chamberlain well,” said Australia’s
Old Man Eloquent. “He was a man of high public
spirit, great ability, untiring industry and intense
patriotism. He gave his life to his country. He was a
brave spirit, and typical of all that is best in England.
“His memory should be revered by Australians,” said
the Australian Prime Minister. These words and
those of Mr. Curtin will be remembered when the
sneers and snarls of enemies are forgotten.
Cameron.
“Hamish McMartin” summarises his career:
Now that Archie Galbraith Cameron has—temporarily—
retired to kilts, it may not be untimely to analyse his
political career as an awful example to aspiring politicians.
Cameron went to the last war as a private. Returning after
more than three years’ service, he established himself on a
farm, joined the A.M.F., working up to a commission,
and cultivated his bent for politics.. Wooroora put him inf o
the S.A. Assembly, and he was holding the seat in a firm
clutch when in 1934 Malcolm Duncan Cameron—no relation-
retired, in failing health, from the Barker Federal seat. Archie
Galbraith Cameron won it with a majority of nearly 20,000
over the Labor man.
Immediately he arrived in Canberra he began to speak
his mind about Communists and Russia and Jock Garden.
At that time Russia was the Hope of the World to Left
Wing Labor and to every gullible “intellectual” in the
Commonwealth; so Cameron was recognised as a Dangerous
Man. He also spoke his mind about high finance and parish-
pump politics, and, several political and newspaper heads
coming within the ambit of his blows, they developed lumps.
However, Lyons, as well as Earle Page, recognised his
honesty and capacity, and in three years or so he was an
assistant Minister; in four years or so, Postmaster-General;
in five years or so, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for
Commerce and the Navy, as well as leader of the Country
party. In that capacity he became a target for a new outbreak
of press and Communist abuse. It was his own fault that
he was a target. He had strange ideas, such as that the war
was all-important, that the Communist party was a national
enemy and that infantilism was the trouble with the most
boisterous section of the flapper press. Also, on May 9,
1939, he had made a speech on foreign affairs in which he
opposed the overtures to Moscow (“where can be the identity
of objective between a country that is anti-Communist and
one that is Communist?”) and the guarantees to Poland and
Rumania (“where are those geographical and strategical con-
siderations which would render it possible for us and for
Rumania and Poland mutually to aid each other?”). Rumania,
he recalled, was “conquered by a reserve division of Germans
in about six weeks; Rumania is a reed on which neither Great
Britain nor this country can afford to lean.”
He was out of office then. As a Minister he became
known in the Inner Circles as a nark. He travelled by train
instead of by car or ’plane. He often went about without a
private secretary —one of his colleagues had three. He saw
everybody who wanted to see him. He answered letters by
return majl. And he made no secret of his hostility to the
bureaux which were growing up by the dozen inside the Gov-
ernment departments. Moreover, he refused to accede to
parochial demands from members of his own party.
Thus, by degrees, he came to be described by the flapper
press as everything from a “muddlepate” to a Fascist. The
Communist and more extreme Labor press called him a Nazi.
Yet he was the only Minister, and almost the only member,
who was game to come out and demand a Commonwealth
election at a time when scores of members were toying
with the idea that it would be pleasant to have the life of
Parliament extended. His electors and the electors of S.A.
seemed to agree with his viewpoint, judging by the election
results—Wakefield was regained for his Ministry, and in
Barker he beat two old opponents together by over 10,000
votes. But he struck trouble in his own party, which was so
divided on parish-pump issues that it could not elect either
a deputy leader or a leader, and succeeded only in choosing
a deputy when one candidate withdrew.
The most determined .figure in the Country party and one
of the ablest men in the House, he could have stirred up
all sorts of trouble had he been that way inclined. Instead,
he chose to retire from the Agrarians with dignity and without
recrimination, and to renew a request for military employment.
This he had made in June, when he was Deputy Prime
Minister. He is now a major on home service—that was his
rank in the A.M.F. two years ago—and he modestly hopes to
join the A.I.F. if the A.I.F. will have him again.
But he still has a “bad press.” One rag sneered that
below his uniform he wore elastic-side boots. There is
nothing wrong with elastic-sides —Lincoln wore them. But
the trouble with Cameron is that he wears them at the
wrong end. If he had worn an elastic political conscience
and had been ready to truckle to the flapper press, particu-
larly the section that truckles to Friends of the Soviet and the
like, he might have worn horseshoes without generating any-
thing but admiration in the leader columns. Even his
brusqueness and straight talking would have been forgiven
if it had been directed in “popular” channels.
However, the man is still only 46. He may yet be a
“popular” hero. Stranger things have happened in the fickle
atmosphere of public life.
Mission from Thailand.
Making nonsense of a lot of sensational press stuff,
Thailand has sent to the Commonwealth a mission
“entrusted with the important task of cementing still
more strongly the friendly relations between Thailand
and Australia.” The mission is headed by the Minister
for Justice, Captain Luang Dhamrong Navasva-sti.
It is singular that Australians as a people know
so little about Thailand, seeing that it is closer to Aus-
tralia than Japan or China. Some Australians know
the country; Australians have edited the Bangkok
“Times,” and Australian surveyors and miners have
been active there. As Buddhists the Thailanders have
never been an aggressive people, though others have
not been forbearing towards them. Their country is
full of minerals, is fertilised by great rivers, has a
copious rainfall and abundant timber. The population
is about 15,000,000 and has increased rapidly.
Thailanders are mechanically minded, much more
so than other Orientals, and have adapted themselves
to Western ideas without destroying their pride in their
own history or institutions. Their ancient monarchy
was constitutionalised with little fuss in 1932, and in
1939 they officially abandoned the name of Siam, by
which it had been called for centuries, in favor of
an older one —Thailand means “Free Land.” In re-
forming their Constitution, they adopted a system of
gradual change: the King for 10 years chose half the
Legislative Assembly, the other half being elected by
popular vote. A year or two ago full popular elec-
tion came into force, and all men and women over 20
years old have the vote.
The country is governed cheaply. It manages on
a revenue of about £12,000,000 sterling per annum
and its national debt a year or two ago was under
£8,000,000 sterling. It has a useful army based on
compulsory military training, a very efficient little air
force and a navy of light craft—mostly modern vessels.
Commercially, Thailand is largely self-contained
and its trade balance is normally well on the right
side. Its resources, however, are scarcely scratched
and it has a great future. Thailanders, like Australians,
are friendly folk, and now that the hand of friendship
has been held out there is plenty of room for the
development of commercial and social relationships.
A "Stabilisation" Scheme.
All going well, it will begin in 1941-42. The
guaranteed price for bagged wheat is to be 3s. 6d. a
bushel f.o.r. ports, with a 140-million-bushel limit.
Growers are to be licensed. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment is to establish a compensating fund between
years of high and low prices ; the Australian Wheat
Board will remain, and an additional board, with the
Wheat Board chairman as its chairman, is to assist
the Minister of Commerce to administer the plan.
Out of realisations above the guaranteed price the
first 2d. a bushel is to go to growers and the next 2d.
into the compensating fund ; any balance is to be
shared between growers and fund.
Under the licenses they are to take out, growers
will sow only the acreage authorised each year by
the Government, market all grain through the A.W.8.,
cut for hay any acreage authorised and supply returns
as required to enable the Government to investigate
production costs. Meanwhile efforts will be made to
remove growers from doubtful areas and to diversify
production where possible.
Nothing is said as to the duration of the plan,
though presumably it will go on, in war and peace, until
the alchemy of time and change brings wheat back to
the sphere of strong demand and high prices. There
doesn’t seem to be any practical alternative to it,
though why on earth the Wheat Board has to be bol-
stered with another board is one of those maddening
mysteries with which the political landscape is littered.
A Milk Monopoly?
A kite has been sneaked into the drought-stricken
Sydney sky. It is being flown to test public reaction
to a suggestion that Dairy Farmers and Fresh Food
and Ice be allowed to become one monopoly.
Asked a plain question, the Milk Board chairman,
Mr. Nesbitt, gave an evasive answer:
Let us assume that the report is accurate and one
of the two companies is absorbed. The board would
have to be satisfied that the remaining company, or the
new organisation, possessed the plant and appliances to
provide an efficient service.
Seeing that a single monopoly would possess all
the “plant and appliances” now possessed by the two,
which apparently satisfy the board, Mr. Nesbitt’s
answer can be taken for what it is worth —nothing
more than an indication that the Milk Board is ready
to accept the amalgamation.
But a far worse answer was given by the Premier —
worse because it brings nearer the placing of the entire
city’s milk distribution under a single control. Mr.
Mair had “not been informed officially that the com-
panies are discussing amalgamation; but I believe
that both producer and consumer would benefit from
such a move.”
I believe that, instead of increasing the cost of
distributing milk, an amalgamation might bring about
a decrease because certain overlapping would be obvi-
ated. It might lead to the producer obtaining more for
his milk and the consumer paying less.
Strange words from a Premier who has seen several
costly Government inquiries into the city milk business
and has heard Royal Commissioners repeatedly declare
that milk is too dear. He must be aware that Sydney’s
milk system is little short of a scandal, and he must be
an optimist indeed if he does not think that a single
monopoly in control of milk would be a law unto
itself with regard to prices and methods of distribu-
tion.
More Millions for Melbourne.
“Pawang” : Cr. Connelly, of Melbourne, has come out
with a grandiose scheme for preparing his city to
withstand the shocks of peace. Included in his pro-
posals are tunnels for relieving traffic congestion ;
removal of bottlenecks; bridges galore; industrial
zoning of all suburbs ; parks and gardens in three
directions ; a new town hall, with provision for the
parking of cars ; a municipal orchestra, promenade
concerts, and so forth and so on.
The scheipe is to cost a mere £30,000,000 of loan
money, and the spending of it is to occupy 30 years,
the usual bait being held out that the returned soldier
will come in for most of the alleged benefits.
The Connelly plan was received with the usual
conventional shouts of approval from interested parties,
and somebody went one better by suggesting that the
city should be rebuilt to accommodate a population
of 3,000,000.
Abstractly considered, there is not a point in the
scheme which isn’t a good thing from the point of
view of Melbourne, if Melbourne is considered inde-
pendently of its environment, as a city created for the
sake of a city. Unfortunately Melbourne already
happens to be one of the world’s most frightful
examples of a bloated city. It contains more than half
the population of a State in which none of the country
industries which are supposed to keep it is in a flourish-
ing condition and some are on the rocks. So for the
scheme to succeed without ruining the country there
would have to be a population increase that would
bring the State up to the level of, say, Sweden or the
Netherlands, where three-million cities are conspicu-
ous by their absence.
But the City Council has to be considered in
terms of its history, and its history doesn’t engender
high hopes of grandiose schemes or even very little
schemes being brought to fruition.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Tuart”: Romance is still refusing to
take a proud and sad farewell of the
Sultan of Johore, that rare old cinnamon
sport who long ago flashed his diamond-
studded teeth in these parts. Last month
a Hun bomb bereft him of Lydia, his
current lady friend. The Sultan gathered
the reporters about him and announced
that his hearth was desolate and his heart
broken. But that experienced organ was
soon in thorough working order again,
and last week its owner blithely paced
into a London registrar’s office with a
special license and another armful of
charms, a Rumanian—not a red-haired
thrill like Carol the Cad’s partner, but a
brunette, 42 years younger than her lord.
When Johore was in this country he en-
gaged two very nice Australian girls as
additions to what he called his “office
staff.” Full of romantic notions of
Oriental life the unsuspecting young
women set forth, only to be met at
Singapore by a grimly polite British
official, who explained that it would be
impossible for them to proceed further
and presented them with tickets for the
next boat bound for Australia. British
officials never interfere with the sportive
Asian potentate when he restricts his
attentions to the sort of white woman
who obviously knows her way about,
but there are limits to what they will
stand from sultans.
* * * *
“Wester”: A Westralian undertaker
had a caller who said he had come to
make arrangements for a funeral. The
customer went into details and appeared
to be so intent on the subject that the
undertaker was moved to ask him whose
funeral he wished to arrange. “Mine,”
came the astonishing reply. A little later
the undertaker learned that his careful
elient had shot himself and had, before
the act, placed instructions regarding his
funeral and the disposal of his estate
beside his body.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: A.8.C., judging by its
propaganda, still clings to the belief that
great executants require costly instru-
ments before they can give a good per-
formance. Some years ago a chemist and
a carpenter were motoring along the Dan-
denong-road, Melbourne, on a Sunday
afternoon, when they overtook a foreign-
looking gent, walking. They offered him
a lift, and it turned out to be Szigeti.
Very proud of their acquisition, they
tootled him along to their suburb. The
pair shared a room over the shop of the
chemist, and somewhat nervously they
suggested that the eminent virtuoso should
stop for tea. After tea the chemist men-
tioned that they had a gramophone and
some of Szigeti’s own recordings—would
he like to hear them? “No, I wouldn’t,”
said Szigeti, “but I’ll play for you if you
like. Have you a violin in the house?”
“Oh, .you couldn’t play on ours, Mr. 5.,”
said the chemist in horror. “It cost only
£3.” “Any violin will do me,” said
Szigeti; and he not only played to them
all the evening, but stayed with them for
the week-end, and the following Sunday
came along to visit them with his Stradi-
varius. The hostesses of Toorak would
have given a leg to have Szigeti play in
their drawing-rooms for 20 minutes, and
if the local council had known he was
playing in Ormond they would have
wanted to bore him with a civic recep-
tion.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide, taking a long view,
has given notice that its chief cemetery
will be closed at the end of the year 2032.
The burial-ground was the first cut —and
a big one —made out of the city’s park
lands, and is still known simply as “West
Terrace.” It has been extended since, but
public opinion is against any further
alienation of the people’s priceless play-
grounds, and, as it should be full by
2032, the usual 99 years’ lease of a grave
will be steadily shortened.
* * * *
“Philp”: The slimming craze which
has been enforced upon most publications
by paper restrictions has spread to Syd-
ney’s telephone directory, and this year’s
issue is but a slim damsel compared with
the stout volume of last year. There are
now four columns to the page instead of
“Where have you been , George? Weve been looking all over the place for you !”
three, the main section has been reduced
from 512 pages to 328 pages, and the
classified section at the back has come
down from 176 to 140 pages. The type
is smaller, there are about 120 lines to
the column instead of 100, and stores
which last year took up anything from half
to three-quarters of a column are all
reduced to a few lines. Apart from the
tiny print there seems to be nothing
against the new edition, though to some
it may be a little disconcerting to find they
live at ThePinesl47DobbsPtßdDobbsPt
or somewhere.
* * * *
“Snarker”: When humanity is regather-
ing its scattered wits, men will begin to
think of those who saved them from dis-
aster or brought them some great boon
in the nineteen-forties. They will erect
memorials to mark their appreciation
and to see that the memory of the brave,
the clever and the humane will never
die. That will be the time when, it may
be imagined, the whole world will be
eager to share in erecting in some central
place a memorial to the greatest man of
all. I’m putting forward my nomination
now —on behalf of the fellow who in-
vented the gadget that permits one to
switch off the wireless. To this unknown
benefactor, mankind probably owes what
little sanity it has been able to hang on
to in the past few months.
* * * *
“Oran”: People who aim at divorce by
collusion have to tread warily at all times
or feel the wrath of the King’s Proctor,
an official of deep mystery to most folk.
A fed-up couple decided to part, and the
lady, according to plan, walked out of
the residential they inhabited announcing
loudly that she would never return. The
case duly came to court, and all was
going well when the petitioning husband
arose to have his say. He gave details
of the lady’s shortcomings and the scenes
that had led up to her departure. “And
I’ve never seen a sign of her,” he con-
eluded, “since I carried her suitcase down
to the taxi she went off in.” That settled
it. His infuriated lawyer retired, and the
Bench threw the case out on the ground
that a man who speeds a deserting wife
even as a courtesy hasn’t a case in law.
. . . . . .
“Uramao”: In matrimonial misfits it
isn’t always the woman who pays, as was
disclosed in a M.L; city. Numerous dis-
agreements led to a decision on the part
of both husband and wife to separate
legally. The pair met at a lawyer’s office,
and an agreement was drawn up. The
husband agreed to a weekly allowance
which the wife approved. She undertook
no longer to pledge his credit for any-
thing on condition that he paid all her
debts up to date. This he agreed to.
They went their separate ways in peace
till the husband received a few days later
several thumping accounts for goods his
wife had obtained. Furious, he went to
the shopkeepers, to find that his spouse,
with rare foresight, had made heavy pur-
chases the day before the agreement was
signed.
* * * *
“Chink”: What has become of the
most ancient relic of the contact of white
men with Australia: that is, the in-
scribed plate left by Dirck Hartog on
the coast of Westralia in 1616? Dis-
cussing recently (B. 30/10/’4O) the Dutch
impact on this country, J. H. M. Abbott
says that another Dutchman, Vlamingh,
removed the plate in 1696 and took it
to Batavia, “but replaced it with another
on which the old inscription was recorded
together with one of his own, and this
plate is now in the museum in Amster-
dam.” There is some ambiguity here.
Certainly the plate which Vlamingh left
is not in Holland ; it was “pinched” by
the Frenchman Freycinet in 1817 and
taken to Paris, where it disappeared. But
if by “this plate” J.H.M.A. means the
original Dirck Hartog relic, he is correct,
for that 324-year-old link with Australia
was in the State Museum at Amsterdam
as lately as two years ago, when I saw
it there. A battered bit of sheet metal,
circular and some 20in. in diameter, it
was given a conspicuous position in a
glass case, where it proclaimed proudly
its association with “de Westkust van
Australie.” Two months previously, when
Holland was sharing the Munich-time
jitters, the old plate had been buried be-
neath ground, together with Rembrandt’s
“Night Watch,” De Ruyter’s huge Bible,
and other museum pieces relict of
Holland’s Great Century. I proposed to
the museum people that they should let
me have the plate for an Australian
museum, either as a gift or on loan, but,
naturally enough, there was nothing
doing.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne business-
man rang up a friend. “Have you got
thirty bob?” “Y-e-s!” “Well, send
around a cheque and I’ll send you a
water-color picture. An artist as broke
as a bandicoot has just been in my office,
and in order to get rid of him I let him
leave a dozen.” “What is it like?” asked
the friend. “Rotten. But you can give
it to your girl. She won’t know the dif-
ference.” A few days later the business-
man met his acquaintance’s girl friend
and asked her how she liked the picture,
That was just too bad, for it had been
sent to a rival lady,
* . , * * , * „
P bd Anthus : Recent Bulletin
yarns about Lord Lamington remind
me that a fear of reptiles was not
the only natural-history inhibition that
fingered with him. I met the old boy on
shipboard last year when he was en route
to Aden and asked him a few questions
about Queensland in general and the
National Park in particular—the National
Park of the Macpherson Range that
bears his name. His replies were vague ;
he had reached the failing stage both
physically and mentally. Only one out-
door event remained clear in his memory,
and that was not a sight, but a sound —
the cry of a koala which he had
“I wish I had not killed that bear,” the
old man murmured, more to himself
than to me. “Its dying moans have
haunted me for forty years!”
**. * *
“Tuart”: Westralians are well repie-
sented on Sydney newspaper staffs, but
that doesn’t prevent Great Dailies from
taking liberties with Westralian geog-
raphy. Witness the case of the Norseman
night watchman who took his family out
i n a car and shot the lot, rounding off
the gruesome job by blowing his head off.
One paper made it appear that Norse-
man is part of Kalgoorlie instead of being
at least 150 miles away. Another carried
the headline “3 Die in Desert Shooting.”
The neighborhood may be arid, but it is
no desert. Norseman has been a town-
ship for at least 45 years, and for quite
half that period it has had a railway. In
1902 or thereabouts The Bulletin pub-
lished some lines in which Norseman was
mentioned:
Through old Coolgardie the tramp of horsemen,
Clink of hobble and click of shoe,
Riding down to the bush by Norseman,
Riding in from the reefs of Cue.
Brave hearts and stout, ride out, ride out!
There is gold where the bull-oaks grow.
The writer was Dorrie Doolette, son of
the old South Australian who was then
chairman of directors of the Great
Boulder. He wrote very good verse, but
abandoned the art when, a few years
later, he and his mate found gold where
the bull-oaks (or the salmon-gum and gim-
let) grow, and called the place Bullfinch.
Those on the ground floor did famously,
but shareholders still curse the Bullfinch
aviary.
* * * *
“Atrax”: I’ve often wondered why
some astrologer-figure-juggler doesn't
start something in the prophesying line
with the number nine. There are nine
Muses. Should one of their votaries dress
up to the nines envious friends talk
about it nineteen to the dozen, and make
a nine days’ wonder of it. Posses-
sion is nine points of the law.
Also nine tailors are said to make
a man, but one Number 9 army-issue pill
will play ninepins with the lot, even if
each of them is like a cat with nine lives.
And one over the eight is also nine. I’ll
drop down to the corner pub and attend
to it.
THE RULING PASSION.
“At Pentridge Gaol, Melbourne, prisoners were
released into the exercise yard, as usual, to listen
to the running of the Cup.”
Pent in those gloomy wails, unlucky wretches,
Cut off from cakes and ale, from smokes and
gins,
They do their bits of time and serve their
“stretches”
To expiate their individual sins.
Confined, they see receding in the distance
The joys of liberty, and all implied
In the amenities that give existence
The great proportion of its charms—outside.
So scant their relaxations, surely none
Will grudge them hearing how the Cup was
won.
Although the old penology was tougher
Than ours, transgressors still must purge their
crimes,
Paying for what they did by what they suffer
Ev’n in these humanitarian times.
Leg-irons and hominy are off the menu;
The cat-o’-ninetails seldom has a job;
The vilest thug need hardly fear a venue
With any modern Ketch or Nosey Bob.
Truly a great improvement on the dark
Doings whereof we read in Marcus Clarke.
Firm we must be with these, our erring
brothers,
Condemned for laying predatory paws
Upon the rightful property of others,
Or graver breaches of their country’s laws.
But once a year need Justice be offended
Or rigid discipline be hurt a jot
If this so rare indulgence be extended
To mitigate the harshness of their lot?
How keen the thrill, how trivial the cost,
Of learning how the Cup was won and lost!
They never hear the cheerful radio blowing
The tidings forth that elsewhere it conveys;
They’ve little notion how the war is going,
What Menzies thinks or Winston Churchill
says.
But for one crowded hour, the curtain risen,
The truth of that old axiom they gauge.
How walls of stone don’t always make a prison
Or bars of iron constitute a cage,
What time, with ears a-cock and chins well up,
They listen to the running of the Cup.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ê
that he should give the medals to the
nation. So Isaacson rushed up to the
National Museum, interviewed the chair-
man of trustees, signed a deed on a piece
of notepaper and was out in the street
five minutes later with a weight off his
soul. He can now go and gloat over his
beloved baubles whenever he wants to.
“Were chasin' a Dago, cooky! Engine-room Wants every kettle o' steam you've got!"
“Bohemian’s” claim (B.
6/11/ ’4O) that in the consumption of
beer Maoriland leads the world takes in
too much territory, Maorilanders drink
more beer than Aussies (annual consump-
tion figures: Australia 8.2ga1., M.L.
8.6ga1.), but the U.K., with 33.1ga1., out-
distances both Dominions.
# * * *
“S.T.S.”: Surely this robust new song
“There’ll Always Be an England” lets itself
down badly at the finish by the patronis-
ing note “If England means as much to
you as England means to me.” To which
the only logical answer would seem to
be, “Yes, damn you! Who are you to
think you have the monopoly of patriot-
ism?” Instead of which we all join in,
more or less tunefully, each one claiming
to be sound and no Fifth Columnist, but
professing some doubt about all the rest
of the choir. Yet probably the swinging
tune will carry it to success, just as with
Kipling’s “Recessional,” which we all
enjoy while completely defying its ex-
pressed meaning of humble apology for
having swanked and forgotten our Maker.
The old aspiration to write the nation’s
ballads can be amended nowadays to
“Let me write the ballad tunes —and the
words won’t matter.”
* * * *
“S. Piel”: Nothing that the gangsters of
prohibition days or the writers of the
lurid magazines published in U.S.A. ever
did or imagined approaches the hideous
truth of the latest criminal racket now
being exposed in the American courts.
Brooklyn District Attorney O’Dwyer has
uncovered a crime net that extended over
the whole country on somewhat similar
lines to those followed by a big national
business organisation. It controlled
almost every gangster and racket in the
country, allotted “protected” territories
and divided the U.S.A. into zones, each
under the control of a leader and his
staff. Anybody who tried to “buck” the
racket met a sudden end. Killing was
done at contract rates, and the police are
beginning to find the bodies of missing
men in all sorts of places, from concrete
blocks to river bottoms, most of them
people who tried to “cross” the monopoly
or knew too much. Murders by the score
are now being charged against the gang,
for whom the American press has coined
the term “Murder Inc.” Arrest of one
Abe Reles and his breakdown under a
police “grilling” led to the disclosures.
As is usual in these things, the surnames
of the people charged and convicted are
significant—Reles, Maione, Abbandando,
Strauss, Goldstein, Feinstein (strangled)
and Anastasia.
* * * *
“Lid”: I had wondered from what well
of knowledge the flapper press draws
some of its war news until a “Special
Representative in the Western Desert”
prefaced one of his dispatches with:
I have discovered more about what is
going on from the Greek waiter at my
hotel than from the military authorities.
I suspect that there is a great truth un-
consciously embedded in that remark.
* * * #
“V. Cluse”: Our suburb’s tame drunk
had picked up a mate and was taking him
home to tea. They left the bus at the
right stop and dithered along, talking to
each other and occasionally pausing
while the host peered in at some gate in
an endeavor to locate his house. Thus
they passed up one side of the street and
down the other without finding the haven
they sought. At this stage the guest be-
came slightly querulous. “Don’t believe
y’ know where y’are,” he said. Our
drunk leaned on him, surveyed the street
and murmured “Y’ mi’ be ri’ (hie). Y’
mi’ be ri’. Shtill, I don’t think y’are,
shee?” They were still pondering when
“Can I borrow it for the Week-end, boss, to dig some spuds?"
a small boy came along. “Hey, sonny,”
called the host, “do I live ’ere, do I?”
The boy gave them a doubtful grin and
moved past at a wide margin without
replying. “There y’are,” said our drunk,
grabbing his mate affectionately; “told
y’ I wash ri’, didn’t I? Boy’sh shilent,
ain’t he, an’ shilence givesh conshent,
don’t it?” Whereupon they both sat
down on the kerb and waited for what-
ever Fate might bring.
* * * *
“C.Q.”; A Melbourne woman recently
went to a Collins-street medico with a
sty in her eye, and told him that she
feared she was going blind in the other.
“Madam,” said the doctor after a critical
examination, “you’ve been blind in that
other eye for years.”
* * *
“L.E.8.”: As Wingen, 10 miles beyond
Scone (N.S.W.), is approached “The
Stone Woman of Wingen” becomes
visible. The spur of a mountain range
known as Salisbury Crag terminates in a
bold, bluff headland, about 700 ft. above
the level of the valley which it commands,
the profile assuming the form qf a woman
of enormous dimensions sitting with her
back against the cliff, her head just sepa-
rated from the top and her feet hidden
among the trees which grow up to the
bottom of the cliff. On her knee there
is resting an open book. She is not
reading, but instead is gazing for ever
with a steadfast, unchanging look down
the beautiful valley of the Hunter. From
where the feet of the stone woman rest
among the towering trees that grow round
the base of Salisbury Crag to the summit
of her head must be about 500 ft., so that
if she were to stand up straight some day
she would be about 800 ft. high. If the
proper point of view be chosen the pose
of the figure is perfect.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Thumbs up as an outward
expression of the will to conquer goes
back to the earliest days of man’s re-
corded history. Neanderthal cave artists
depicted the hunter sticking up a thumb
in triumph when he returned
successful from the chase, and
his gratified fellow-lodgers re-
sponded in similar fashion to
the prospect of a replenished
tucker supply. In Egyptian
and Assyrian bas-reliefs the conquer-
ing monarch often has a thumb held
up alongside his sword hilt as the
captives are brought before the throne.
Incidentally, his warriors are shown
“cocking snooks” at the defeated foe as
a gesture of contempt, quite on modern
schoolboy lines. The audiences at
gladiatorial shows in ancient Rome put
up their thumbs when they considered
that the life of a good loser should be
spared in consideration of the dinkum
scrap he had put up. Tacitus tells how
Gaulish chiefs confirmed a treaty by
pricking their thumbs, tying them to-
gether and sucking the mingled blood.
In ancient Scotland a bargain was bound
by the two parties licking their thumbs
and putting them together, thus saving
string. The typical parvenu of caricature
hooks his thumbs into the armholes of his
redundant waistcoat to show his
superiority. It all arises from realisation
of the fact that the prehensile power
which the opposed thumb gives to the
hand is man’s outstanding physical ad-
vantage over all other animals in that it
enables him to use hand tools and
weapons. Particularly weapons.


10 for 9 D
20 for 16
50 for 3'9
100 for T 6
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
For greater
smoking enjogment
CRAVE NA
jfal tier#
f
m.
■
m
an
POLITICAL POINTS
“Mr. Roosevelt’s resounding victory is
a blow to the Totalitarian Powers, equal
in severity to a great defeat in battle.”
Thus a Great Daily in a leader; and
everyone but the Totalitarian Powers will
hope it is true. But it came as an appal-
ling anti-climax to read on another page
that “in September the U.S.A. exported
only 284 aircraft, of which 136 went to
Britain, 68 to Canada and one to Aus-
tralia.” The U.S.A. will have to do a
lot better than that.
Curtin was an absentee from the Ad-
visory War Council meetings held last
Thursday and Friday. He sent an apology
instead, having gone to Perth for “a
spell,” intending to tarry at Kalgoorlie
and do some by-election speaking on his
way back to Melbourne. His explanation
is that he thought Menzies was going to
Kalgoorlie, and that when he himself sug-
gested that neither should go the P.M.
was non-committal.
It seems that both Menzies and Curtin
promised to speak for the party candi-
dates in the Kalgoorlie by-election. Lee,
the U.A.P. man, relieved the P.M. from
an obligation into- which he should never
have entered ; whether Curtin was held
to nis obligation or not he made the long
journey to an electorate that is presum-
ably held to be doubtful, though it
shouldn’t be. Yet the Advisory Council
whose meetings he missed was his special
creation ; and, after all, there is a war on.
The toast was “Percy Spender” in
A.I.F. camps yesterday, for, at his in-
stance, wet canteens have very belatedly
arrived. Beer is the only alcoholic liquor
permitted, at 4|d. a lOoz. glass and every
man limited to two for the duration of
one visit to the canteen. So the old Aus-
tralian invitation of “Comeanaveadrink” is
likely to give place to a modern version
“Whataboutacoupler? ”
Sydney “D.T.’s” last sneer at Cham-
berlain, then a dying man:
He flew three times to see Hitler, but
he did not fly once, nor send his Foreign
Minister, to see Stalin, a potential ally.
The British people, if not Mr. Chamber-
lain, were shocked to hear in August, 1939,
that Russia had decided to abandon talks
with Britain and France and to substitute
co-operation with Nazi Germany.
It answered itself, as it were, by report-
ing in the same issue that Chamberlain
was no more, and that “the potential
ally” was sending Molotov to Berlin “to
continue and deepen the friendly rela-
tions between Germany and Russia and
engage in a current exchange of views.”
Farewelling Chamberlain, “S. M.
Herald” was unable to rise above its dis-
like of him.
Mr. Chamberlain will be remembered
best for the work in municipal reforms
which he was able to carry out in happier
days.
No ; he will be remembered best for his
tremendous efforts to prevent the war,
which gave the Empire a precious year of
preparation and united it when Hitler
played false and when the war came.
There has been another outbreak of
stoppages among unionists engaged on
war projects. Men working under un-
familiar conditions are apt to develop
grievances, and Commonwealth arbitra-
tion machinery works dashed slow,
though N.S.W. has Industrial Commis-
sioners to spare. Moreover, Communists
are busy again—their most mischievous
publication is appearing surreptitiously.
But when every allowance is made, the
fact remains that the thing has gone too
far. If the national Government is to
govern it will have to put a stop to con-
stantly-recurring industrial strife even if
somebody gets hurt.
Cigarettes and beers are to be shorter
as a result of increased excise duties.
Dealers in these wares who tried to rush
the bonds beforehand found the places
closed against them. Which was just
as well, as experience shows that had
they got the stuff out it would still have
been sold in the shortened measures.
The Sydney Government is being
assaulted from all sides on its decision to
stop local-government elections. It is to
meet again next month and then adjourn
until March, 1941. Who’d want to bet
that it won’t spring a suggestion to aban-
don the State election that will be about
due then?
Delegates from seven Mallee branches
of Dunstan’s Country party, meeting at
Hopetoun, carried a motion of no confi-
dence in Dunstan. One, referring to
“I am the hardest man in Germany, perhaps for centuries.”
— Hitler, in his latest speech.
“Allez-oops.”
the Commonwealth elections, sourly
declared that the Premier had been “up
to his old tricks,” and quoted with
morose approval Argyle’s description of
his lieutenant and successor, “Dunstan
the wrecker.” The worst of it is that this
critic is a member of the almighty central
council which pulled Dunstan out of the
Argyle Government and then put him
where he is.
Lind, Dunstan’s deputy, on the Mallee
revolt against that worthy:
It is rather amazing that the attack on
the Premier should come from a part of
the State which has received enormous
benefits from the present Government.
It is still more amazing that a Minister
of the Crown should suppose that ex-
penditure of public money in a given
quarter should buy tongue-tied support.
Menzies got home heavily on Forgan
Smith when that gentleman demanded
that the national Parliament should meet
more frequently and sit longer. He
acidly remarked that the critic’s own con-
cern has “sat only eight weeks in 18
months.” The fact is that the Smith
shop is about to shut up again after
having been open for business three days
a week since August 20. It has had three
(3) August-November sessions since
August, 1938. “Business” begins at 10.30
a.m., and often ends round 4 p.m.; and
members don’t fast in the meantime.
Nowadays so little interest is taken in
State politics, even by State politicians,
that there was scarcely a murmur in
October when Sinclair, the N.S.W. Minis-
ter of Lands, became a director of the
“ ’Wales.” Weeks elapsed before a Labor
M.L.A. raised the question of divided
loyalties; then Sinclair resigned—as
Minister, not as bank director.
Premier Mair has admitted that Sinclair
consulted him about the bank appoint-
ment, “and I strongly advised him to
accept it.” So did Bruxner, Mair’s
deputy, “because I felt that it would be a
tremendous advantage to all engaged in
rural pursuits to have such a sympathetic
and experienced
man on the board
of one of the
greatest financial
institutions in Aus-
tralia, though I
knew it might mean
Mr. Sinclair’s de-
parture from the
Cabinet.” Most
people will agree
that a “ ’Wales”
directorship is a
more important job
than that of a pro-
vincial Minister,
but it is comic to
find another pro-
vincial Minister
admitting it.
Sydney’s oldest
daily has had the
hysterics again, this
time because the
Minister for Educa-
tion has terminated
classes in English
for Central Euro-
peans. The paper
gave the thing all
the importance of
a first-class inter-
national crisis, and
dragged in a
bishop, a professor
and an ex-“out-
standing candidate”
to support its view
that the classes
should be main-
tained. Plain Aus-
tralians can’t quite
make out what all
the fuss is about. If
refugees want to
learn English and are prepared to pay
to do so, there are plenty of people who
would teach them privately for small fees.
The Sydney Government must be kick-
ing itself for postponing the local-govern-
ment elections. Hitting back, a confer-
ence of local-govqrnment delegates en-
thusiastically carried a motion for the
abolition of State Parliaments. By its
crass shortsightedness, the Sydney Gov-
ernment will leave these dangerous fel-
lows in power for at least another year.
If Sydney thought it was going to get
away with its £30,000,000 Snowy River
water scheme it was deceiving itself. Mel-
bourne has a £30,000,000 scheme* too ; it
originated in the brain of Cr. Connelly,
who visualises a Melbourne with a popu-
lation of 3,000,000 in 30 years and “ten
sub-capitals.” But if Melbourne is to
have a population of 3,000,000 in 30
years’ time, who is going to live in the
ten sub-capitals?
Melbourne’s population rose from
991,934 in 1933 (census figures) to an esti-
mate of 1,046,750 in 1939. Other in-
creases in the six-year period were: Bal-
larat, 1179; Bendigo, 1019; Geelong,
1227 ; Mildura, 583 ; Warrnambool, 244 ;
Ararat, 96; Hamilton, 204; Horsham,
308 ; Sale, 138 ; Wonthaggi, 1017. Lesser
townships managed to retain their popu-
lations or actually lost ground. Geelong,
with 40,450 people, comes next to Mel-
bourne. If it can maintain its present
rate of increase it can look forward to
having 46,585 people when Melbourne
achieves its 3,000,000. How on earth
Geelong can ever hope to win another
football premiership baffles the imagi-
nation.
The Lib.-C.P. alliance in S.A. permits
Federal members who subscribe to it to
choose their own Ministerial groups at
Canberra, so Cameron was within his
rights in leaving the Agrarians to their
own muddled devices. He “found the
call for unity unheard or unheeded by
some,” he said, adding mordantly that
“a parish-pump-handle is not a weapon
of war and I cannot suffer it to be thrust
in my hand.” He has undertaken “to
give the utmost support to the Govern-
ment in its war effort,” and has mean-
while resumed his position as major in
the A.M.F., intending to join the A.I.F.
when recruiting starts again. But his
proper place is in an Imperial War
Cabinet and on the War Council, in the
latter case with advisers from the A.1.F.,
the R.A.N. and the R.A.A.F.
In proportion to electoral population,
the U.S. Democrats always get their
greatest majorities in South Caro-
lina. The cables gave Roosevelt a lead
of 61,000 in that State, but the counting
must have been incomplete ; in 1932 he
scored 102,347 to 1978, and in 1936
113,791 to 1646.
South Carolina has never forgotten
that “Sherman’s army swept through the
State, consuming and destroying and leav-
ing the capital in ruins,” and that for
years afterwards it was under Carpet Bag
and negro rule. Even in 1873 a visitor
found 101 negroes in the House and only
23 whites; and the coons had a free bar
in which “expensive cigars, wines,
whiskies and brandies,” and even cham-
pagne, were served. In four years they
spent over $200,000 on furniture, in-
cluding “$650 mirrors, $6O chairs, $6OO
clocks and $6O spittoons,” and “plush
velvet tete-d-tetes, featherbeds, sus-
penders, ladies’ hoods, bonnets, chemises,
gold watches, garters, perfumes, ‘palpita-
tors’ and a metallic coffin” were bought as
“legislative supplies.” In six years the
public debt was increased by $14,000,000.
Negroes are still five or six to one in
South Carolina, but they are not “en-
couraged” to vote.
Encouraged by a snarl in the leader
column, a Sydney “Herald” correspon-
dent had the gall to say that the Latham
mission to Tokyo “is symptomatic of
something which is inconsistent with Aus-
tralia’s loyalty in the war against Euro-
pean aggression.”
If Australia’s Far Eastern policy is a
native product, then, in the light of current
events, there appears to be room for im-
provement.
Presumably the implication is that British
foreign policy had been so brilliantly
successful—-in Rumania especially—that it
is an impertinence for Australia to send
its Chief Justice to Japan. Still, he can't
do a bit of harm there, either to Aus-
tralia or to Britain, and he might do a
lot of good.
The U.S.A. is the paradise of the
lawyer-politician. In Congress last year
68 p.c. of the Senators and 55 p.c. of
the Representatives were lawyers. The
President himself went through the
Columbia Law School and was admitted
to the Bar —in 1907 —but going to vote
on November 5 he gave his calling as
“farmer.”


THE TROUBLED HEART.
“Are they roight, them fellers who tell me the war is no consam of mine?”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
20 Investments in One!
Your purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES secures a “spread” of investment over 20
leading Australian Companies listed on the Stock Exchange.
You also obtain a yield, at present prices, of around 5 % per
annum, and your investment is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 gives full details. Your copy posted free on request
to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.v.
\0
\*1 6
o' I ''
; c es
fa' 1 '
Se''
inS
S' 11 .
C<*
w
Next Town Hall - Little Collins Street
PERSONAL ITEMS
Roland Wilson, who is to be the first
Secretary of the Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Labor and National Service, is
Tasmanian-born, was the Speck’s Rhodes
scholar in 1925, and for the last four
years has been Commonwealth Statis-
tician. He’s a Doctor of Philosophy
(Oxford) and has won all sorts of honors
in economics—he was for a while
Economic Adviser to the Commonwealth
Treasury. He’s 36, plays tennis and golf,
and also makes carpentry a hobby.
Herewith the modest features of
Captain Allan Lansley, D.S.C., formerly
of the merchant marine and during the
last war commander of one of the small
vessels of Admiral “Teddy” Evans’s
Dover patrol. His D.S.C. came to him
CAPTAIN LANSLEY.
for the singular feat of bringing home
his ship after most of the fo’c’sle had
been blown off her by a mine in rough
weather. In recent years Captain Lansley
has been marine surveyor to the Maori-
land Government. He is an authority on
safety methods of cargo handling. A
system of stress finding for ship and
wharf tackle which he invented earned
the “hearty congratulations” of the
Honorable Company of Master Mariners
and of the British Board of Trade and an
award of the Royal Society of Arts.
Long remembered by many old boys
of Riverview, Sydney, will be Father
H. J. McArdle, who has passed over at
52. As a pupil at the school he made his
name as a footballer, and in 1914 he
returned as a master to pass on his foot-
ball lore to a younger generation. He
stayed from 1914 to 1918, took another
appointment, and went back again to
Riverview in 1938. Recently he had been
attached to the observatory there as
photographer.
E. A. Cornish, who has gained the rather
unusual Master of Science degree at
Adelaide Uni., is a Melbourne graduate
in Agricultural Science who found an
inside job at the Urrbrae (S.A.) Agri-
cultural Research Institute. He is now
an expert in statistics, and the thesis
which has won him the M.Sc. had the
highly technical title “Analysis of Quasi-
factorial Designs.”
“Schnorrer”: Barney Woolf, of
Sydney, whose real name was Hyams,
has died full of years. He contributed
to the gaiety of nations in the long, long
ago by an advertisement that set forth
that “Mr. and Mrs. B. Woolf have left
off clothing of every description, and
may be seen at their place of business,
Bathurst-street, at any time.” Old
Barney had many good points and,
although a hard bargainer, was a square-
dealer. He built up a big trade in send-
ing what Australians regarded as worn
clothes to England for sale there ; and
that was at a time when most trade of
the sort was in the reverse direction.
Another Antarctic expedition is
planned by knight Douglas Mawson,
Adelaide Uni.’s Geology Professor, as
soon as the war situation permits. He
envisages the permanent occupation of
Antarctica and hopes Australian uni-
versities will assist with personnel. Maw-
son first became acquainted with the
South Polar regions in 1907 as a member
of Shackleton’s expedition ; later he led
the Australasian Antarctic Expedition,
1911-14, and the British, Australian and
M.L. Expedition, 1929-31. Born at Brad-
ford (Yorks), he’s the author of The Home
of the Blizzard, and is now in his 59th
year.
Sydney University’s new Professor of
Obstetrics, Dr. Bruce Toomba Mayes, is
a native of Toowoomba (Q.) and gradu-
ated from Sydney with first-class honors
and the Windeyer prize for obstetrics in
1927. While r.m.o. at the Royal Hospital
for Women he was awarded the Walter
and Eliza Hall travelling research fellow-
ship in the same science, and in London
became assistant to the obstetric unit of
University College Hospital. A year
later, 1930, he was in a similar post at
Frankfurt-am-Main; in 1931 he became
resident obstetric tutor at his old hospital
in Sydney, and later he went to Brisbane
as lecturer and senior visiting obstetrician
at the Women’s Hospital. He has done
much research, writ-
ten for scientific jour-
nals, is a fellow of
both the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons,
Edinburgh, and the
Royal Australasian
College of Surgeons,
and a member of the
Royal College 'of
Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists, Lon-
don.
Passed over at Dun-
edin (M.L.) at 75,
Percy Rolfe Sargood,
warehouseman and
manufacturer. He was
born in Melbourne
and learnt his pot-
hooks at Scotch Col-
lege ; then he started
an apprenticeship to
the business his
grandfather had
founded. His father,
F. T. Sargood, was a
Victorian Minister of
Defence and a 1901
Senator. After a term
in London for ex-
perience, P. Sargood
was sent to M.L. to
take charge of the
concern’s Christ-
church and Dunedin
houses. Two years
later he became a
partner. He was one
of the best-known and most active
public men in the Dominion for a quarter
of a century. He presented Dunedin
with its art gallery, was prominent in the
Empire Migration, Boy Scout and Cancer
Research movements and established a
trust fund for the benefit of returned
soldiers. His only son died on Gallipoli.
Maoriland Anglicans, who import most
of their bishops from Blighty, made an
exception in the case of P. W. Stephenson,
who goes to the see of Nelson. The new
bishop was born in Victoria 52 years ago,
graduated at Melb. Uni., and spent 10
years in India and four years in Canada
before returning to Australia in 1928.
He has since been Federal secretary of
the Church Missionary Society, head-
master of Trinity Grammar School,
Sydney, and (for the last two years) Aus-
tralian secretary of the British and
Foreign Bible Society. The call found
him in Sydney. He married a Bendigo
girl in 1913.
Captain Sir Arthur Rostron, just dead
in London, was the man who rushed his
ship, the Carpathia, to the rescue of the
Titanic when that 45,000-ton liner struck
an iceberg 28 years ago. Later he com-
manded the Mauretania and the Beren-
garia. There was another hero of the
Titanic disaster who deserves to be re-
membered. When the horde of passen-
gers was rushing the boats one old man
came up on deck, looked at the melee
and then went quietly into the saloon,
sat down and waited for death to come.
His wife, an old lady, went and sat down
beside him. He was W. T. Stead.
“El V.” introduces a political heir:
If Joseph Palmer Abbott, who won New
England at the Federal elections from his
fellow-C.P. man Vic Thompson, doesn’t make
his mark in politics it will not be for want
of tradition. His father—Joseph Palmer Abbott,
K.C.M.G. —went into the N. S. Wales Assembly
exactly 60 years ago, held more than one port-
folio, and was Mr. Speaker throughout the
Naughty Nineties. His uncle—W.E. —who
duplicated another part of his career by being
president of the Federal Graziers’ Council,
sat in the same House for a term. His brother
Macartney Abbott sat for the same seat for
five years, and after a long interval graduated
to the Senate. Another brother, J. H. M. Abbott,
is the arch interpreter in fiction of early Aus-
tralia, The Bulletin’s most prolific story-
writer and its best caligraphist. Frith’s victim
deserted the family school to go to Armidale,
and passed through Sydney University in the
years immediately before the war when the
faculties were full of erudition. He served as
a captain with the Royal Field Artillery and
J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.
(Modelled by Frith.)
with the A.1.F., winning an M.C. His interests
range from the Graziers’ Association —he has
been N.S.W. and Federal president, and sits
on the Commonwealth Wool Board —to ecclesi-
astical affairs expresed in a trusteeship of New-
castle diocesan property. His recreation is eco-
nomics, in which he revels —he was a member
of the Royal Commission on Banking, 1935-37.
In stature he is about the size of a btevens
Budget, in temperament equable and good-
humored, but determined. And he is a good
speaker, as honest and open as his physiog-
nomy, and a certain bet for the Ministry
so soon as he has had- a little Parliamentary
experience.
John Grant Duncan-Hughes, Wake-
field’s new M.H.R., is no stranger to
Federal politics. He has sat in
both Houses—as M.H.R. for Boothby,
1927-28, and as a S.A. Senator
from 1931 to 1937. Born at Water-
vale, S.A., 58 years ago, he studied
J. G. DUNCAN-HUGHES, M.H.R.
law at Adelaide and Cambridge Unis.,
practised as a barrister in Adelaide from
1909 to 1914 and served in the 1914-18
war from 1915 to 1919, rising to rank of
acting major. He was A.D.C. to
Governor-General Munro-Ferguson, and
was attached to the staff of Edward P.
when H.R.H. toured Australia.
Maoriland’s latest baronet is a North
Island farmer, Henry Holmes Miller,
aged 74, who succeeds his first cousin,
the eighth baronet. The family “seat”
is Froyle Place, Hants, and the baronetcy
was established in 1705. The new
baronet is a son of an oldtime Speaker
of M.L.’s Leg. Council.
Died near Melbourne recently, Eric
Terry, the eldest son of Edward Terry, of
Eastwood Farm (N.S.W.), an estate now
studded with homes. In the ’eighties old
man Terry (who had a term as an M.L.A.)
kept a pack of hounds for the amuse-
ment of himself and his friends. They
hunted the country from Ryde to Penrith,
and Eric Terry was probably the
youngest pink-coat that ever seriously
followed or led the chase in N.S.W. He
was not 10 years old when his father
presented him with Zoe, the most re-
nowned hunter of that day, and Eric had
either to climb or to be assisted to mount
her. Once aboard he could stay there. To
see the father on Lord of the Forest and
the boy on old Zoe clearing a three-railer
side by side was the sight of the meet.
“D.E.”: J. M. Fowler’s anti-Hughes
booklet (B. 6/11/ ’4O) was called States-
man or Mountebank ? He wrote it
towards the end of the last war, and I
remember him handing me a copy and
pointing out some particularly acrid pas-
sages with something of the pride of
authorship which distinguished Mr.
Micawber when, with somebody reading
his memorial to Parliament in the debtors’
prison, he “contemplated, not severely,
the railings on the other side of the
square.” The lucubration did Fowler no
harm in his electorate, but it settled what-
ever chance he might have had of get-
ting any appointment from Hughes. Billy
was never vindictive, but he didn’t really
like being called a mountebank by a
member of his own party.


800 K S Com^cxAAjuovvJi
LET’S BUY A BOOK
§cmvi
1
Over 600 Pages of Enjoyment.
THE BEDSIDE ESQUIRE.
e
Edited by Arnold Gingrich.
Here are gathered, in one pleasure-
laden volume, some of the best
and most diverting writing in our
time, taken from the magazine
“Esquire.”
The contributions range from
memorable articles by such
assorted people as Westbrook
Pegler and Havelock Ellis to
thrillers for the steel-nerved and
strong-stomached. Then there is
funny stuff of a high order,
through a weird diversity, from
the last clownings of Ring Lard-
ner and Thorne Smith to the dead-
pan “nut humour” of the Shaggy
Dog Stories, collected by J. C.
Furnas.
Ranging from the sublime to the ridiculous, from sombre
tragedy to unroarious comedy, “The Bedside Esquire” will
prove to be the most enjoyable reading of the year.
12/6 (post. 9d.).
2
The Land of Black Opals.
LIGHTNING RIDGE.
è
By lon L. Idriess. With illustrations.
In “.Lightning Ridge” lon Idriess tells
of his beginnings, of his childhood in
Lismore and Tamworth and Broken Hill,
of his apprenticeship in bushcraft, and
of the growing love for the Australian
outback which illumines all his work.
He tells of the jobs he had—as rouse-
about, horse-breaker, horse-tailer, shearer
—and of how his wanderings brought
him to the opal mines at Lightning
Ridge. The romance of opals, with their
fiery beauty, captured the author’s
imagination—and has held it ever since.
He became one of the band of opal-seekers who live in these
pages, sharing their heartbreaks and their sudden wild
exultations. And the stories he tells of his mates are little
gems in themselves, vivid in characterisation, rich in sympathy
and understanding. 6/- (post. 3d.).
3
Nine Books in One Beautiful Volume.
PROSE WORKS OF HENRY LAWSON.
é
740 pages. 143 stories. With
portrait from Dry-point by Lionel
Lindsay.
What Burns is to a Scotsman and
Kipling to an Englishman, Lawson
is to an Australian —the voice of
his land.
Most Australians know the
writings of this master Australian
storyteller, his brilliant tales of
bush life —vivid with the atmo-
sphere of the outback, matchless
in their sure delineation of the
characters who live and adventure
there.
Here are delightful tales, thrilling
tales; tales of love, of strife, of
adventure; tales of humour,
homely tales; stories of every mood —all alive with the
magic of Lawson’s genius; a genius which ranks with that
of the world’s greatest short story writers —O. Henry, Bret
Harte, Gorki, Maupassant.
This beautiful volume is the definitive one-volume edition of
Lawson’s Prose Works. 12/6 (post. 9d.).
Six Books in One Beautiful Volume.
4
COLLECTED ESSAYS.
m
Hi
m-
By Walter Murdoch.
904 pages. 181 essays.
This omnibus edition includes the
following 4/6 books: Speaking
Personally, Saturday Mornings,
Moreover, The Wild Planet, Lucid
Intervals, The Spur of the
Moment.
In all there are one hundred and
eighty-one essays, which originally
appeared in the six volumes. If
these volumes were bought sepa-
rately, the price would be 27/-.
Judging by the number of copies
bought by the reading public, no
essays by any other Australian
have been nearly so popular.
“Argus” (Melbourne): “Men,
books, travel —these are his happy hunting-ground, and to
their contemplation he brings a wisdom, a learning and a
penetrating humour that challenge the intellect and exalt
the soul.”
“New Zealand Magazine”: “How wise, how human, how
amusing, how unconventional he is!” 12/6 (post. 9d.).
5
Over 80,000 Copies Sold.
HOW TO READ A BOOK.
mm
The Art of Getting a Liberal Education.
By Mortimer J. Adler. With foreword
by Walter Murdoch. 302 pages.
From Professor Walter Murdoch’s fore-
word : “This book is a key to a palace.
The author has done an extraordinary
useful piece of work and done it well.
“It is really marvellous that there have
hitherto been no really good books —at
least I know of none—on the art of
reading. Adler’s is, as far as I know,
the first that instructs you ‘How to Read
a Book.’ To read this book is to realise
that reading is an art; an art which
almost everybody in the modern world
practises; but an art which most of
us practise with fumbling fingers, uncertain aims, and quite
unsatisfactory results.
“The only complaint I have to make against Adler is that
this book was not published near the beginning, instead of
near the close, of my own reading life.” 8/6 (post. 6d.).
6
OUR ARABIAN NIGHTS.
& 4
&S
By Ruth and Helen Hoffman.
Authors of “We Married an Eng-
lishman.” With 50 gay illustra-
tions by the authors.
Women of Western nations have
upon rare occasions lived in
Oriental harems. But surely this
must be the first time twins have
performed the feat —and American
twins at that.
The Hoffman twins, Ruth and
Helen, have for the past few
years been making their home in
Iraq, which used to be known as
Mesopotamia in the geographies
and which is one of the cradle-
lands of civilisation. Living in
an old Arab house in Baghdad, proud city of the Arabian
Nights and of Haroun Al-Raschid, they had plenty of
opportunity to join in the diverse society of the exotic
capital on the Tigris. With truly American enterprise the
twins explored Baghdad from top to bottom, with little
regard for caste or custom.
There is much keen observation here and delightful noting
of oddities of life in a very strange world. 8/6 (post. 6d.).
7
The Dramatic Biography of an Astonishing Man.
NOTHING OVER SIXPENCE.
I €
The Fabulous Life of F. W. Wool-
worth. By John K. Winkler.
260 pages, with illustrations.
He slept in a basement. . . worked
for nothing . . . and made millions!
This story of the five-and-ten-cent
store and its remarkable development
as a major part of modern retailing
is essentially the story of one man—
Frank Winfield Woolworth. But it
it is also the biography of a business.
The man shaped the business; the
business formed the man.
To-day the stores with the familiar
red front and the large gilded letters
spelling F. W. WOOLWORTH COM-
PANY dot the business thorough-
fares of thousands of communities throughout the world.
8/6 (post. 6d.).
8
The Most Beautiful Book of Our Time.
A TREASURY OF ART MASTERPIECES.
ê
From the Renaissance to the Present
Day. Edited, with an Introduction
and 70,000 words of interpretative text,
by Thomas Craven, author of “Men
of Art” and “Modern Art.” It is so
bound that one or several plates may
be removed for framing. Size, 12£ x
9| inches. Weight, 81b. 592 pages.
144 paintings.
This volume, containing 144 of the
world’s greatest paintings, reproduced
in their original glowing colours, repre-
sents an unprecedented achieve-
ment in the history of book printing.
For the first time, the most modern
advances in the fields of colour
photography, engraving and printing have been utilised to
their fullest advantage. The paintings were photographed
with complete fidelity direct from the original masterpieces
in the leading art galleries of Europe and America, and
entirely new colour plates were then made especially for this
book.
You will find it an art gallery in itself, a glorious record
of genius which affords its owner a lifetime of enjoyment.
70/- (freight extra).
9
Recommended by the Advisory Board of the Commonwealth
Literary Fund.
NATIONAL PORTRAITS.
ë
By Vance Palmer.
A series of twenty-one portraits of men
who have contributed something to
national life in Australia. These men,
from Macarthur to Monash, have been
picked out for their creative impulse or
their pioneering spirit rather than for
their political weight; and Mr. Palmer’s
gallery therefore contains a diverse
collection of people, many of whom do
not figure in history books. Apart
from men like Macquarie, Wentworth,
Sturt and Parkes, he includes Louis
Buvelot, who turned Australian artists’
attention to their own landscape;
George Higinbotham, that great and
brilliant democrat; Ferdinand von Mueller, the “concise
but somewhat chaotic” botanist; Robert Christison, to whom
the cattle industry owed so much; W. G. Spence, who
worked in the cause of unionism; and William Farrer, whose
discoveries in wheat-breeding were of such vital significance
in the development of this country. 8/6 (post. 5d.).
10
ē
STALIN.
A Critical Survey of Bolshevism.
By Boris Souvarine. 622 pages.
Here is a book indispensable to those
who seek an understanding of the present
world situation, a book which makes
clear the reasons underlying the Nazi-
Bolshevik line-up that has astonished
many.
Stalin has remained the most mysterious
of the three dictators; but Souvarine has
penetrated to the heart of the mystery,
and the result is a work that will en-
dure. Side by side with the historical
development Souvarine traces with Gallic
irony the career of Stalin in detail. He tells of the influences
which shaped him, his part in the Revolution of 1917, his
triumph after the death of Lenin. Souvarine’s “Stalin”
is a masterpiece of political literature and the most destruc-
tive story of the existing regime in Russia that has appeared
in print. 15/- (post. 1/-).
11
An Amazing Pageant of International Events.
DAYS OF OUR YEARS.
ĕ
By Pierre van Paassen. 465 pages.
This solid and memorable book, packed
with startling disclosures, towers above
other similar works of the past decade.
The panorama of twentieth-century
Europe is reported with relentless
accuracy—shuddering glimpses of the
world war —nationalist greed and the
background of the present European
chaos —Hitler and Nazi Germany—
Fascist iniquity in Spain—Ethiopia. Here
you have the drama of history in the
making.
There is not a dull page, and every week
new readers are discovering for them-
selves the unique fascination of this very great book, which
once read will never be forgotten. In the course of this
vivid document, nearly every important international figure
of the last twenty years talks and tells inside stories.
The impact of this book is unforgettable, and its reading
a genuine emotional and spiritual experience. 9/6 (post. Bd.).
12
One of the Most Brilliant Biographies Published in Australia.
AUSTRALIAN LABOUR LEADER.
ė
The Story of W. A. Holman and the
Labour Movement. By H. V. Evatt,
M.A., LL.D. Author of “Rum Rebel-
lion.” 589 pages, with illustrations.
This work contains a biography of Wil-
liam Arthur Holman, who, with W. M.
Hughes, was mainly responsible for the
foundation and subsequent rise to power
of the Australian Labour Party. But it is
much more than a personal biography.
It is a history of the main threads of Aus-
tralian politics since 1890 —of the
achievements and setbacks, the con-
flicting ideals and wills that have made
the Australia we know to-day. With
quiet impartiality, and a penetrating
appreciation of character and motive, the author sets out
the facts; the reader can judge for himself.
While the main stream of the narrative gives a picture of
the man Holman, and of Australia during this century and
before, there are vivid sketches of such men as Parkes,
Dibbs, Reid, Barton, Wise, Crick, Carruthers, McGowen,
Deakin, Fisher, Cook, Wade, John Storey and, not least,
W. M. Hughes.
“Australian Labour Leader” should, in its own field, be an
Australian classic. 21/- (post. 9d.).
13
COBBERS CAMPAIGNING.
■ 1
lib!
BR
C-\M»
‘.r
- : ;V-
By Thomas Wood, author of
“Cobbers.”
Thomas Wood, the author of
“Cobbers,” is well known as one of
Australia’s most sympathetic inter-
preters. In this new book he pays
a special tribute to the Australians,
both for their own qualities and for
the splendid share they are taking in
the present war.
Though Dr. Wood’s admiration for
Australians is bound up with his
faith in the Empire, in victory, and
in the future, he does not preach
at the reader but holds him fascinated
by his first-hand knowledge and varied experience of people
and places, his good stories, his cheerful confidence and
appetite for life, and the easy flow of his writing.
All profits and royalties from the sale of this book will be
given to the Australian Red Cross. 6/- (post. 3d.).
14
The Greatest Single Volume Work on Music Ever Issued.
THE INTERNATIONAL CYCLOPEDIA OF
MUSIC AND MUSICIANS.
t .SOS W^L*** o
sNvioisnw
uny oisnn
icmmoAO
Edited by Oscar Thompson. Boxed
8 x 11| inches. 2304 pages, with
many illustrations. Beautifully and
durably bound.
Within this mammoth volume of
more than 2000 pages is the equiva-
lent in briefer form of the contents
of a six-volume encyclopaedia of
music. Compact, yet comprehen-
sive ; self indexing; printed in clear,
readable type on specially made
paper.
More than sixty of the most brilliant
music critics in America and Europe
(Ernest Newman, Olin Downes, Pitts
Sanborn, Lawrence Gilman, E. J.
Dent, etc.) have contributed extended articles on the great
figures in music to this magnificent encyclopaedia.
In addition, it covers the entire field of musical knowledge—
composers, artists, operas, terms, instruments, and it com-
bines musical scholarship with easy reference. Musical
illustrations throughout. 70/- (freight extra).
15
The Greatest Cookery Book Ever Published.
AMERICA’S COOK BOOK.
ę
Containing 3427 recipes and menus for
every occasion. 1006 pages, profusely
illustrated.
This modern cookery book, which is
specially suitable for Australian con-
ditions, contains the cream of over
800,000 recipes, and is the result of
twenty years’ research. In the 1006
pages are all the regular kitchen stand-
bys as well as special dishes for enter-
taining and holiday occasions. Every
recipe has been thoroughly tested for
materials, method, time, etc. Each recipe
tells the number of portions it will
make, so that the exact amount re-
quired can be prepared without waste. Every detail of
preparation is clearly indicated.
Fully detailed instructions are given for inexpensive dinners,
emergency dinners, Lenten meals, bridge suppers, cocktails,
picnic luncheons, wedding breakfasts, convalescents’ meals,
menus for the child, luncheon suggestions. Never before
has one cookery book contained so much practical infor-
mation. 17/3 (post. 1/1)-
ORDER FORM
Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me the book(s) I have encircled
below:
1,2, 3,4, 5,6, 7,8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15.
Name
Address • . . .
B. 13/1 l/’4O


ABORIGINALITIES
Gab”: A meeting held at a small
wayback N.S.W. district decided to ask
for a school. In due course the Educa-
tion Department replied that a school
would be built on a site chosen by the
parents. Of the three •families in the
district with schoolgoing children, two
considered themselves social highlights ;
the third was mainly responsible for get-
ting the school, as he had a big family.
The two s.hs., wishing to save their kids
a long trip, offered land. As they couldn’t
agree, an inspector was sent to report.
He, finding both projected sites of equal
suitability, decided to see to which place
Big Family would send his kids. Then
the fun started. S.h. No. 1 approached
B.F. and gave him two quid to give his
(No. l’s) place preference. No. 2 raised
the price to £4. Bidding thereafter was
brisk, but when B.F. had about £5O in
hand the department notified its decision
to build, because of the inspector’s recom-
mendation, on B.F.’s property “if he
would dedicate an area of land large
enough for this purpose.” He did!
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Henare called at
the town garage. “How long you take
to fix on a windscreen-wiper?” he asked.
“Not long,” Geary replied ; “big I never
knew you had a car before.” ‘’No car,”
Henare, beamed. “I want te wiper fixed
on t’is.” And he displayed a cracked
hand mirror. “Te valley place where I
hafe my work camp so cold she keep
clouding over t’at mirror, like te dirty
sky, every time I try te shave scrape.”
* * * *
‘Dominic”: Petrol-rationing may, in
some small degree, assist in preserving
Australia s wild fauna from destruction.
During a recent run in the W.A. south-
west before the rationing came into effect
I noted just four blue-tongued sleepy
lizards laid out to every 100 miles—the
reptiles being too unwary to get off the
bitumen as the modern juggernaut came
hurtling along. The ’roos, too, should
get a chance to survive. Rushing through
the W.A. night we, more than once, have
been pulled up by a living projectile
slamming against the windscreen. Just a
misguided marsupial that stood in the
middle of the track too mazed by the
approaching twin bull’s-eyes to get out of
the way. Not wilful murder on our
driver s part; when hurtling through the
miles-long tunnels of the vast leafy forest
, IS . a^mos t impossible to pick out a
reddish-grey creature crouched low on
the reddish-grey track. Swans and other
protected wild fowl may also get a
chance. At one time W.A. everywhere
sported flocks of swan, but the advent of
the hooligan armed with a car and a gun
has made the birds scarce even on the
remotest lakes and estuaries.
* * * *
“Shazyg”: Ned had devoted several of
his hard-won free hours to teaching the
louseabout the art of mooning possums—
and it is an art. Selecting a likely-looking
tree, Ned “worked” it against the full
moon and quickly located his quarry.
Then, with the marsupial sharply
silhouetted on the glowing orb, the matter
of bringing him to earth with a .22 calibre
slug of lead was child’s play to Ned.
Finally he turned to the rouseabout. “Well,
there you are, Joe. D’you get the hang
of it now?” Joe looked thoughtful for
a moment. “All except one thing,” he
replied. “Can you tell me why on earth
the little beggars always get in front of
the moon?”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The aboriginal notion
“Black man die, jump up white man,”
about the origin of which “Anthropo”
speculates (B. 30/10/’4O), travelled far
enough to supply Tennyson with a
couplet in “Locksley Hall—Sixty Years
After.” Here it is:
Indian warriors dream of ampler hunting-
grounds beyond the night;
Ev’n the black Australian dying hopes he
shall return, a white.
I can still recall that in the ’eighties
English critics condemned the second
line for its prosaic banality. But it had
defenders. “It may not be high-class
poetry,” commented an old South Aus-
tralian squatter of my acquaintance, “but
If you re so hot, why don't you take your shirt off?”
“Aw, a man might get freckles."
it s quite true. And darned little poetry
is,” he added.
* * * *
As the players teed up to
play the second hole on our outback
Queensland golf course, two horses
munched away peacefully far down the
fairway. The first player hit a “screamer”
which, falling, landed fair on the rump
of one of the grass-chewers. We could
see it shy and look around, and as it
manoeuvred for position we could sense,
if not see, the look of deep suspicion in
its eye. Then, judging the distance to a
nicety, it let its grazing companion have
both heels flush between the neck and
hindquarters.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Digging in the bed of
the dry Gascoyne River (W.A.), we un-
covered one of mankind’s most primitive
boats, elementary even for the Stone Age
a log about lift, long by lOin. through,
paperbark or cadjeput. Soft to work,
buoyant when quite dry, shaped roughly
to the idea of a canoe, blunt at the stern,
tapered at the prow. But not hollowed
out, nor even flattened to the semblance
of a deck. The prow end, and halfway
down each side, was hedged by a kind
of fence, hardwood pegs driven into the
softer hull. About a foot in length, fire-
hardened and -pointed, these pegs were
in firmly. Woven through them were still
the remains of a basket-work of pliant
twigs. Thus the abo. family went a-
voyaging—children, food, weapons and
perhaps a few dingo pups all accommo-
dated up in the bows, while Mum and
Dad, astraddle the rear part, kicked along
with their feet. A craft requiring no
small art in balancing, and useful only in
waters free from the crocodile. But the
saurians never came as far south as the
Gascoyne. Probably used most for inland
excursions in the not-so-distant days
when the river ran a constant stream as
big as the present Murray.
* * * *
“Mick the Miler”: No matter how hot
the day or how often I ride him through
it, the old moke that carries me on my
daily beat around the fences won’t so
much as wet his whiskers in the creek.
But on reaching the boredrain in the
evening he sucks up water like a sponge.
A similar fussiness in drinking-water
marked a mob of horses on a run at
Dalby (Q.) that I handled. They were
in the habit of watering at a trough filled
from a well sunk on the bank of a lagoon.
When they were put on to a paddock on
the other side of the lagoon, which con-
tained fresh clear water, they would swim
it every morning to get back to the
trough, swimming back afterwards. There
were mares with young foals among them,
and the little fellows would take to the
water as confidently as the mothers.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Once again I raise my
voice against “Turon River” (B.
30/10/’4O) and all others who seek to
destroy wedgetails. The few lambs these
birds take—and I’ve yet to find a man
willing to swear on oath that he saw an
eagle take a live lamb—are paid for over
and over again by the hundreds of rabbits
they destroy and by the good job they
do in cleaning up carrion. “T.R.” should
take a look into the next eagle’s nest he
comes across. Anyway, is he dead sure
the wedgies slaughtered that lamb?
“Lyndo”: One of the sights of aN. S.
Wales station is a large eagle which may
be seen almost any fine morning spiral-
ling into the blue. Until five years ago
the eagle had a mate, and the pair were
privileged residents in the ranges behind
the homestead. The boss declared he
had never suffered loss or damage from
the birds, and they were of great interest
to city visitors. Then a gun-mad new-
comer shot one. Ornithologists declare
that a bereft eagle never mates again, and
certainly this one bears out that theory.
He is the only eagle ever seen in the
vicinity.
* * * *
“J. Umbuck”: That Professor Moll
mentioned in Red Page (B. 30/10/’4O)
who “left Australia at the age of 16” and
recently spent a year here fell into the
usual trap of those who try to write about
the bush from only a superficial know-
ledge of it. In one quoted bit he has been
round the lambing ewes and feels his
pockets
To see that knife and tar ■ and stuff
Were rightly stowed and safe enough.
Aside from the question of what he pro-
posed to use the tar for on lambing ewes,
what sort of pockets were they? Then
he deals with a crow by placing poisoned
fat on a sheepskin:
But the laugh was mine, and I think he knew.
No, the laugh belonged to Jim Crow, who
the moment the poison started to bite
would regurgitate the lot. Better stick to
whip-poor-wills and skunks, Prof.
“Padflogger”: The genial practice on
the part of old-time bagmen of dropping
vegetable seeds in likely places saved
many another padflogger from a perish,
or even from scurvy. The hardiest of
such vegetables was the jam-melon, or
pig-melon, as it is sometimes contemptu-
ously called. Given even the minimum of
moisture this melon germinates, then
grows luxuriantly despite drought and
the broiling sun. Its crop produced, it
dies, leaving the gourds scattered on the
plain. And long will these gourds endure.
With their reservoir of juice and seeds
they for months resist conditions that
would bring desiccation to any other kind
of fruit or berry. And what a lifesaver
they are to the weary swaggie! Trudging
through the Gascoyne-Ashburton (W.A.)
on a kangaroo-slaying expedition we fre-
quently (more so than not) were com-
pelled to slake our thirsts with liquids—
you couldn’t call them water —that
seemed to have come from the cesspits
of Hades. But what joy to drop across a
clutter of pie-melons! Sliced and eaten
with either salt or sugar—salt for prefer-
ence —they went down tastier than any
authenticated watermelon that ever
graced a sundae dished up in the cafe-
terias and cool-drink parlors of civilisa-
tion.
* * * *
“Bathurst Burr”: “No fear! ” said
Joe when I suggested pulling up at old
Tom s and asking if there were any foxes
about. “You talk foxes to Tom now
and he’ll chase you off the place with a
shotgun.” “One bite him?” I asked.
“No,” said Joe. “But the other morning
old Tom went into his fowlyard and
found heaps of feathers and dead fowls
lying round everywhere, and a fox
crouching in the corner of the fowl-
house. He’d chewed through the bark
roof and couldn’t get out again. Tom
yells for his gun, and rushes to the house,
but his luck was clean out.” “Did he
miss him?” I asked. “No,” said Joe.
“He hadn’t gone two yards from the
house before he saw the fox streaking
across the paddock fer the timber. Y’
see, old Tom forgot to shut the gate of
the fowlyard as he rushed out!”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Picked up in the town
the night before by his new employer,
Mat was snoring blissfully when there
came a violent rapping on his door and
a voice crying “Come on, there. Time to
get up!” Stumbling forth in the false
dawn, Mat pulled his trousers and boots
on and was outside before he jvas prop-
erly awake. Then, realising that it was
3.55 a.m. and that he had been hauled
forth to begin work, a sourness came over
him. Before he could say anything the
boss said “Come on, we’ll slip down t’
the paddock an’ run the horses up.” He
and Mat set forth on foot into the night-
paddock. But the neddies were frisky
and refused to be driven through the
yard gate. After a lot of running and
shouting and some cusswords, the big
fellow eased off. The boss was some-
where in the darkness, and presently a
couple of draughts thundered by with
him on their heels. “Cripes,” he panted
as Mat stood up, “the blankers are wild
this mornin’.” “No wonder,” said Mat
evenly; “how’d you feel if some silly
blanker sneaked up an’ started chasin’
y’ round in the middle o’ the night?”
After that, of course, it was simply a
matter of Mat having his breakfast and
hitting the track once more.
RIVERINA MEMORY.
You dream of Roman galleys and the long-
oared Viking ships;
The corsair craft of Barbary, their owners
wielding whips;
The fleets that quitted Venice when the West
and East were new,
And the proud sea-castles out of Spain the old
Sargasso knew.
Perhaps you dream of roaring days when
clippers raced with tea,
And a wisp of smoke off Finisterre foretold a
change at sea.
Well, you may dream you’re strutting it on
some romantic deck,
Beneath you silk or spice or slaves, or gold
from some town’s wreck.
I see another kind of craft that never knew
the sea;
The men who yarn upon her deck are sun-
burned, strong and free.
No sworded gallants stride her planks; she
flies no pennons bright,
As her headlamps light the Murray course
beneath the western night.
She carries gold from orange groves and wealth
from western runs,
And naught she knows of Polar stars but much
of western suns.
She’ll start from Pericoota, pause at Barham
for a while,
Then with her paddles throbbing swing around
the Ninety Mile.
And in the long December days, with Christ-
mas round the bend,
She’ll swing in past the Gol Gol punt and to
her journey’s end.
She runs no more; the river’s locked; the olden
days are gone.
Swift motors race the western roads; the
’planes outfly the swan.
She lies neglected in the mud, her engines
choked with rust,
Her crew long since forgotten and her skipper
with the dust.
There is no laughter on her deck, no singing
at her wheel,
And white-ants built a city in the remnant of
her keel.
But down from Bourke to Wentworth, from
Wodonga to the sea,
There stand the little towns she made, her marks
of memory.
She fed them, and she clothed them, and she
took them in and out,
In the years of their beginning, in the flush
time and the drought.
And on the silent reaches, when the lonely
night-hawk screams,
They’ll hear her paddles beating up the river
of their dreams.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“One section, mate. You can get tuppence on the bottles."
“Old-timer”: “Yair,” said old Mac,
eyeing the half-grown pup, “he ain’t
much, though y’d ’a’ thought he’d ’a’ bin
a beauty. That bitch o’ mine is his
mother, an’ you know what a trimmer
she is ; ol’ Cluffy’s dog was the father, an’
though I ain’t got much time for Cluffy
1 gotter admit that dog takes some stoush-
in’. O’ course, it really come about
through me an’ Cluffy havin’ a derry on
each other over that horse I sold him
back in 1925. We hadn’t spoke f’r nearly
nine years, when I gets this bitch o’ mine
an’ young Bill, that’s me second boy,
yanks Joe Cluffy outa the crick just in
time an’ —well, we sorta got talkin’ again,
an’ ol’ Cluffy reckons he’s heard how
good this bitch o’ mine is.” Mac took a
breather. “So then he reminds me about
that there dog o’ his, an’ says it’d be
a good idea t’ mate ’em ’cos both our
eldest boys is in camp an’ we’ll need t’
help each other with the sheep. O’
course, y’ can’t beat good dogs f’r sheep,
so I agrees. The bitch has two pups.
That’s one ; Cluffy’s got the other.” He
paused, surveyed the obviously defective
pup, lit his pipe and added, “Still, what
could y’ expect? I never seen anythin’
good come out of a political coalition
yet.”
* * * *
“Blue”: The bullocky on a neighbor-
ing station was having trouble with his
near-side leader. If he took his eyes off
the job for a minute the whole team
would be swinging inwards. There was
a good deal of rivalry between Andy and
our own bullocky, so when Jack said he
could straighten out Andy’s leader, Andy
invited him to have a go. Jack didn’t
waste any time —he simply hung a nose-
ring from the left horn by a length of
gee string, so that the ring rubbed against
the cheek near the eye. It worked like
a charm.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Somewhere on the
pebbly bank that bars the creek and
forms the swimming hole, the dotterels
were nesting, but any statement beyond
that was guesswork. We knew to within
a few yards where the eggs lay in the
open, but to find them among a couple
of thousand little stones of about the
same size, shape and color was like try-
ing to recognise your own threepence in
the collection-plate. No matter how or
where we approached the little hen
spotted us first, and when seen would
already be running to the far side or
with a plaintive “Crek!” flitting round
the bend. Then one day old Rover de-
cided to travel all the way down to the
swimming hole by water, which he did,
kicking up more row and foam than a
paddleboat; yet it was not until we
showed up that the dotterel scurried away.
So next day I entered the creek farther
up and, after scraping my keel across
sundry shallows, paddled quietly into the
long pool. It worked ; from a range of
two or three yards the sitting hen was
easily detected, and she showed no con-
cern whatever when the watcher anchored
near by. Natural enough, for her enemies
attack only from either land or air—and,
anyway, as the missus maintains, she
probably mistook the approaching head
for a floating block of wood.
* * * *
“Don Beer”: Bill and the new jackeroo
were camped out, tailing weaners. Bill’s
taciturnity discouraged conversation, so
the jackeroo watched him mixing a
damper without asking the questions he
would have liked to. A car was heard
approaching, so Bill hurriedly finished
his task and carefully heaped the ashes
over his damper. Mumbling “Boss, your
horse; weaners,” Bill rode across the
creek, leading the jackeroo’s horse. Hav-
ing inspected the weaners, the boss de-
parted, and Bill returned to the camp.
Going to the fire he started raking in the
ashes, carefully at first, then with more
energy than care. “Where the hell’s that
damper gone?” he asked. “Oh,” said
the jackeroo, “I thought the boss might
notice it there, because you hadn’t quite
covered it, so I took it out and threw
it in the creek.”
* * * *
“Teed”: Victoria’s weather history
does not record another instance of two
droughts occurring one immediately be-
fore a bumper season and the other
immediately after it. But 1938 was a
drought year with record heat tempera-
tures ; 1939 was one of the best seasons
ever known ; and 1940 is dry as a Recha-
bites’ smoke night. Some cockies aver
that you never get a bad season when the
mice are thick in the paddocks and sheds ;
but that went astray this year. Cater-
pillars usually come at the start of a
good season, too ; that also was off the
mark.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Australia may have six
dinkum Aussie species of fishlets all
addicted to mosquito larvae as an item of
diet (B. 9/10/’4O) yet still be obliged to
import gambusia. And here’s one
reason: No indigenous species will in-
crease and multiply at a rate sufficient
to reduce the mossies appreciably. If they
could the blood-drinkers would have been
wiped out ages ago. Fish-increase in
its native habitat is always limited by
a series of checks devised by Nature
aeons ago, the Dame establishing a
balance between the eaters and the eaten.
This same balance she also established
between the fish and the mosquito, and
there the balance has always hung, only
to be disturbed favorably, according to
man’s ideas, by the introduction
of an alien species exempt from
local checks and therefore capable
of a vast increase. Such an in-
crease can be seen in most alien
fish introduced into Australian
waters. Thus it is its capacity for
indefinitely increasing in numbers
that makes Gambusia affinis just
the little fellow for the mosquito-
extermination job.
* * * *
“Kyabra”: Where do Bulletins go
when they die? This from a Digger in
an artillery unit of the Second A.1.F.:
I bought The Bully in the camp here a
few days ago but failed to read the Red
Page until today—after some surveying
cow had torn the back off it to use on bur
sightsticks for theodolite work. I wonder
if you realise how many Bully covers
have been suitably used by outback sur-
veyors throughout the years?
Where I came from a surveyor wouldn’t
have had a look-in. The finest reward you
could give a blackfellow round the local
woodheap was a paper cap made of the
old pink cover; and missus, who ran the
kitchen, would have taken to, her gun
rather than allow
any chain-toter to
get his predatory
fingers on a copy.
* *
“D u n g e ness”:
The ancient town
crier of the Innis-
fail (N.Q.) Turf
Club must be
about the last of
the species in Aus-
tralia. Attired in
shorts and singlet,
with a brightly
hued racing jacket
and cap to lend
chic to the en-
semble, he parades
the town during
the annual meet-
ings exhorting the
citizenry and
visitors through a
megaphone to en-
joy the sport of
flamin’ kings and
do their sugar like
men. “Finest and
fastest gallopin’ sur-
face of any course
in the ’ole world.
Rand w i c k an’
Flemin’ton ain’t in
it. ‘ ’Cos why?’
sez you. ’Cos they
ain’t got no John-
stone River grass on ’em, that’s
why! Roll up, roll up, roll up, an’
don’t miss yer chanst o’ makin’ yer for-
chin while enjoyin’ better racin’ than all
the English nobs an’ swells ever seen at
the Derby at Hepsom. Do yer bit at
downin’ Hitler by ’elpin’ improve the
breed of ’orses an’ showin’ the paper-
’angin’ cow that we ain’t afraid of ’im.
Back yer fancy on the world’s finest an’
fastest gallopin’ surface where every
’orse fair bounds over it, an’ come ’ome
rich. Roll up! Roll up! R-o-o-l-l
u-r-r-p !”
* * * *
“K.Mc.”: It is only by accident these
days that the wayside pub gets a chance
to demonstrate the hospitality which
Lawson knew. An English visitor told
us that a broken back axle obliged him'
“to stay a night at a beastly place
-—a decrepit weatherboard joint. But
nothing was any trouble to the
landlady.” She filled an enamel
handbasin and got a towel, and
afterwards took him to the dining-room.
Then as she hacked away at a leg of
corned mutton she looked up and asked
“ ’Ow’s yer ole gutbag ; pritty himpty, I
s’pose?”
“Aratta”: Dad came into the kitchen
to find Mum reading a letter. “It’s from
Dave,” announced Mum excitedly, “t’
say that his wife presented him with twins
“Them Nazzies make me boil, missus. They're nothin but a lot o' damn'
butchers.”
yesterday. They’re” “ ’Ere, hold
hard,” interrupted Dad, clawing at his
whiskers. “Is that there letter from Dave
himself, or has he got someone t’ write
it fer him?” “It’s from Dave himself,”
said Mum, puzzled. “Why?” “An’ he
ses his missus has presented him with
twins?” asked Dad. “Sure he ses that?”
“ ’Course I’m sure,” snapped Mum im-
patiently. “You can read it for yourself
if you want to. What’s all this about,
anyway?” “It’s all right, Mum,” replied
Dad in a resigned tone of voice. “No
need t’ get wild. It’s the sorta thing we’ve
got to expect, I s’pose, him marryin’ a
schoolteacher. Good ole common lang-
widge won’t do him nowadays ; not tony
ernough. ‘Presented him with,’ mind yer.
An’ so’s things’ll be kept at the high
interlectual level he’s reached nowadays
I expect them unfortchnate kids’ll be bur-
dened with names like Cyril Marmaduke
an’ Algernon Claude. Certainly some-
thin’ classier than Jim or Jack or Ned.”
“No, they won’t, Mr. Sarcastic,” retorted
Mum tartly. “They’re girls!”
* * * *
“Turoar”: “Mingiest cow I ever
struck,” Old Bob said, “was Sam Welton
wot runs the sly-grog joint in Napaloo.
One night me an’ Tarry Tom goes erlong
fer a bottle or two. We’re waitin’ out-
side fer the all-clear before goin’ in when
Tarry gits a nidea. ‘ ’Ere,’ ’e says ter me,
‘you wait outside down be the chimney
there an’ I’ll go in all on me own.’ Well,
I’m standin’ there listenin’, thirstylike, ter
the bottles clinkin’ inside, when all of a
suddin there’s a loose board pushes out
an’ a bottle drops on the ground in front
uv me. I ’ardly ’as time ter git it outa
the way when out comes ernother. An’
thin ernother, an’ thin I twigs Tarry’s
game. There’s a mob uv blokes inside
doin’ business with Sam, an’ while ’is
ertention’s subtracted Tarry’s whippin’
the stuff out to me. When ’e finishes
there’s erbout three dozen bottles there,
an’ we dunno ’ow we’re goin’ ter git ’em
’ome. Thin Tarry thinks uv Sam’s barrer,
an’ we loads ’em inter that. Well, wot
with one thing an’ ernother we fergits
ter take it back, an’ I’m damned if Sam
ain’t got the ’ide ter set the johns on ter
us. Yair, the cow, costs us a quid each,
though, mind y’, all we done was ter
borrer it!”
* * * *
“Merrangbaur”: “Talkin’ of feet,”
said Bert the Barman, “ole Shandy Mc-
Guinness ’ad the biggest an’ flattest pair
south of the Murray. One day we gets
the tip to drop a line about arf a mile
orf shore an’ we finds we’re in the middle
of a school. We’re pullin’ ’em in in fine
style for a couple of hours, but it don’t
last. Some of these ’ere speedboats starts
churnin’ up the water round about an'
scares the fish clean outa the bay. One
flash bloke in pertickler starts cuttin’
figure-eights all round us, an’ Shandy gets
real mad. First of all ’e swears somethin’
’orrible every time the bloke gets near,
’cause there’s a fluffy blonde aboard, but
they only laughs at ’im. ’E tries throwin’
empties, but ’e ain’t quick enough. Then
’e gets the sulks an’ just sits on the cabin
mutterin’ to ’imself. All of a sudden ’e
’ops down an’ starts rummagin’ in a
locker. ’E ’auls out the biggest jag ’ook
we got, gets ’is line ready an’ plants ’is
feet all over the cabin top. Along comes
the flash bloke, throwin’ a bow wave
about twelve foot ’igh. Shandy starts
swingin’ ’is line like a lasso an’ I tips ’e’s
goin’ to ’eave the lot at the bloke. But
the slack must ’ave got tangled round
’is feet, for the jag ’ook whizzes through
the air an’ catches on the fancy brass rail
runnin’ round the stern. Before y’ can
breathe, Shandy’s jerked orf the cabin
an’ disappears in a cloud of spray.” Bert
set them up again. “Drowned? Not ’im!
Them two great flat feet of ’is ’it the water
so fast they works like them ackwaplanes
y’ see blokes ridin’ on. ’E only gets ’is
’eels wet!”


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10
0
0
0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Auttralia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Security
Economy
Service
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OI LDHTED LIA ’
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Brad don. K.B.E. (Chairman) ; Horn Sir Crab am Waddell,
K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; Colin A. Sinclair. M.L.A.; A. E. Heath, C.M.O.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless
To Rc- Nominal
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 84,283 8 p.c. = 59,543 24,740 20,483
1931.. 59,196 6 „ „ 44,657 14,539 35,022
1932.. 77,159 74 „ ~ 55,821 21,338 56,300
1933.. 82,172 8 „ „ 59,543 22,629 78,989
1934.. 137,934 10 „ ~ 74,428 63,506 142,495
Staff fund. £5OOO 137,495
1935.. 119,824 10 p.c. = 74,428 ) „ 0 3()6 lfi7
Staff fund, £15,000 . . j 30,396 167,891
1936.. 109,701 11 p.c. = 81,870 27,831 195,721
1937.. 125,794 12 „ „ 89,313 36,481 232,202
1938.. 130,198 12 „ „ 89,525 40,673 272,875
1939.. 132,578 10 ~ „ 89,035 43,543 316,418
From suspense account, £22,800 .. 339,218
1940.. 110,479 10 p.c. = 90,511 19,968 359,186
The co.’s scientific, technical, manu-
facturing and communication services,
built up as a complete Australian organ-
isation mostly during the last 27 years,
have enabled it to make important con-
tributions to our war effort in many
fields, while at the same time retaining
all the co.’s most important commercial
activities, which, of course, will be the
backbone of earnings when the difficult
post-war changeover period arrives.
Last term revenue losses followed the
prohibition of commercial wireless com-
munication with ships at sea, except
neutrals, and public use of the wireless
telephone to London ceased with the out-
break of war. In all other directions,
however, the co.’s established services are
operating continuously. Also, despite
the restriction on communication with
ships, the co.’s 19 coastal stations remain
fully manned, maintaining a constant
watch for urgent mesages from ships in
the Pacific and Indian Oceans ; and the
marine wireless section of the business has
had a busy year—92 vessels in all parts
of the world being fitted with the co.’s
Australian-made equipment. During the
term, special concession rates were intro-
duced for messages to members of the
fighting services abroad, and the privilege
of a free monthly message to their
parents in Britain was extended to
evacuee children.
The Beam photogram service, which
enables pictures of happenings in Britain
and elsewhere to be published here
within a few hours of their occurrence,
continues to do well, and the co.’s world-
range short-wave broadcasting stations
enable the Department of Information to
say its piece to all parts of the world.
The co.’s local broadcasting station
(2CH) isn’t a contributor to the pool, but
sales of wireless receiving sets have been
well maintained, and the output of the
valve-manufacturing subsidiary continues
to bound ahead, while a lot more Tele-
radio sets (short-range wireless tele-
phones) were sold, both to the Defence
Forces and to people in remote localities.
Other sections of the business which
continue to progress are the manufacture
of sound-amplifying and public-address
equipment and the noise-reduction and
acoustics branch. In a special annex,
built at the request of the Federal Gov-
ernment, much high-precision work is
being done in connection with the muni-
tions programme, and the manufacture
of delicate aircraft instruments is under-
taken. Also, the Marconi Wireless
School, conducted by the co. for the last
27 years, is now training operators for
the Empire Air Scheme and other
branches of the fighting forces.
After allowing an extra £42,500 for
taxation, spending an additional £15,000
on account of manufacturing develop-
ment, and providing £79,912, up £6052,
for depreciation, the net result was
£22,099 lighter than its immediate pre-
decessor at £110,479, or 12.2 p.c. on
capital as against 14.9, 17.4, 16.9, 14.7,
16.1, 18.5 and 11 p.c. back to 1933.
That leaves out of the reckoning £22,800
previously held in suspense on account
of suspended litigation, but now no
longer required for the purpose, and
added direct to reserves in the table. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c., and looks like
remaining there for the present, at any
rate.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a sound
financial position and continued expan-i
sion of the co.’s activities:
1933. 1936, 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £744,283 £744,283 £905,106 £905,106
Sundry creditors 259,143 240,287 366,398 412,277
Freeholds . . 297,677 377,243 538,195 609,389
Plant, etc. ) ( 522,190 570,159
Stocks j £95,258 ,>63,949 | 323,77 s 379,309
Beam service 159,647 171,495 178,615 179,718
Book debts . . 139,636 259.058 342,901 317,164
Cash. etc. . . 282,080 137,362 148,613 150,036
Patents . . 85,811 85,811 85,811 85,811
The growth of £45,879 in outside lia-
bilities was due mainly to the allowance
for taxation. The additions of £71,194
to freeholds, £47,969 to plant, etc., and
£50,591 to stocks reflect completion of
the Sydney headquarters, extensions and
additions to various sections of the works,
and preparation against the still rising
cost of raw materials. Despite the heavy
outlay on fixed assets, the more or less
liquid surplus (£371,398) was only £19,602
lighter than at the previous balance.
The market prices the f.-p. pound ords.
at 50s. as against 555. a year ago and 665.
about a year before that. At 50s. the
return is 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The contribs. at 455. yield the same. The
book value of the net tangible cover is
265. per pound of paid capital.
Drug Houses of Australia
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 51,811 2 p.c. = 46,730 5,081 3,814
Written oil, £1,065 .. .. .. 4,879
1932.. 60,069 2J p.c. = 63,071 7,881
Unexplained reductions, £1,129 .. 9,010
1933.. 38,133 H p.c. = 30,499 7,634 1,376
Reserves.
1934.. 88,112 3J „ „ 85,397 2,715 1,339
1935.. 123,581 5 ~ ~121,996 1,585 2,924
Tax refund, £2,332 .. .. .. 5,256
1936.. 147,108 6 p.c. = 146,394 714 5,970
Unexplained addition, £2,187 .. 8,157
1937.. 158,878 o,} p.c. = 158,594 284 8,441
1938.. 159,331 64 „ ~ 158,594 737 9,178
1939.. 161,145 6| ~ ~158,595 2,550 11,728
Pref. Ord. Total.
1940.. 174,588 6 p.c. 64 p.c. 163,891 10,697 22,425
With exchange of 100,000 of its own
6 p.c. prefs. for the £75,000 8 p.c. issue of
Felton, Grimwade and Duerdins (Mel-
bourne) a few months back, this big hold-
ing co. now owns all but a mere handful
of the scrip of seven of the Common-
wealth’s leading drug houses. Absorp-
tion of L. Fairthorne and Son Pty. (Tas-
mania) as from the beginning of the last
term —35,332 D.H.A. ords. were issued in
connection with the deal—spread interests
to all States, the operating concerns com-
prising:—•
A. M. Bickford and Sons (Adelaide and
Brisbane); Elliotts and Australian Drug
Pty. (Sydney); Felton, Grimwade and
Duerdins (Melbourne); Felton, Grimwade
Dental Co. Pty. (Melbourne); Felton,
Grimwade and Bickford (Perth); Taylors,
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty. (Bris-
bane, Rockhampton and Townsville); L.
Fairthorne and Son Pty. (Tas.); Drug
Houses of Australia Export, Ltd. (London).
In the holding co.’s accounts cost of that
lot figures at £2,594,110. Its own capital
is now £2,575,244 —all but £lOO,OOO ord.
Depression took a hand before the
merger of 1929 had time to produce the
benefits anticipated from elimination of
wasteful competition, savings in overhead
and combined buying and other advan-
tages. But the div. has been 6± p.c. for
four years now, and the position at the
moment looks to have more starch in it
than any time since the beginning.
War and exchange rationing have cut
holes in the co.’s importing business.
At the same time they have provided ad-
ditional opportunities on the manufac-
turing side. That, however, is no matter
of overnight accomplishment. Still, out-
turn of heavy and organic chemicals and
crude drugs from Australian sources is
now beginning to appear “as factory
routine,” while other experiment is pro-
ceeding.
Visibly, throwing of the co. back in
greater measure on its own resources has
done earnings no harm, although little
benefit is yet evident. Figures in the
introductory table relate to the parent’s
accounts only. Here are the ones that
give the more exact view:
Drug Houses and Subsidiaries.
< Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit.* 6 p.c. Old. serves, serves.f
£ £ £ £ £
19.39. .180,516 6* p.c. = 158.594 21,922 468.897
Unexplained reductions, £7556 .. 401,341
1940. . 179,940 3000 6£ p.c. = 160,891 16,049 417,390
* After deducting outsiders’ proportion,
f Subject to intangibles.
In addition to this year’s higher rates,
last term’s result had to bear £8964 under-
provided for taxation in 1939 and a
heavier depreciation charge—£s3,349, up
£3455. Leaving an unexplained reduc-
tion of £7556 out of account, after caring
for the new prefs. the £179,940 available
for D.H.A. was 7.2 p.c. on its ord. capi-
tal, compared with 7.4 p.c. in 1939.
The 6j p.c. ord. div. left £16,049 to
bolster reserves. At £417,390 these are
subject to goodwill and trade-marks of
£263,137 and to whatever intangibles
may exist in a more or less indistinct
item of £765,600, representing the excess
cost of subsidiary shareholdings, based on
independent valuation of assets, over par.
In an effort to avoid trade dislocation,
the management accumulated stocks
(£217,990 higher), which primarily ex-
plains the lift of £289,503 in the debt:
Consolidated Figures.
Paid capital— 1938. 1939. 1940.
D.H.A £2,439,912 £2,439,912 £2.575,244
Outside interests 75,000 79,111* 4,116*
Mortgages . . f 75,400 80,638
Sundry creditors 691,826 698,191 982,456
Freeholds and ] f
leaseholds .. j- 763,251 \ 716,537 707,525
Plant, etc. J [ 152,926 139,569
Shares, etc, .. 281,573 76,489 79,489
Stocks .. .. 865,491 940,800 1,158,790
Book debts . . 908,194 886,355 939,194
Cash, etc. . . 4,613 17,429 40,281
Suspense account 14,194 52,384
U ndistinguished
assets .. 719,762 719.772 765,600
Goodwill, etc. . . 145,580 201,937 263,137
* Including proportion of undistributed profits,
t Deducted from asset.
The expansion of £135,332 in capital
account and of £47,028 in share pre-
miums paid and intangibles are related
to the share acquisitions referred
to. When the books closed the more
or less liquid surplus (£1,154,660, in-
cluding £79,489 of outside investments)
was £7178 stronger.
The market expects the co. to do better,
and prices the pound ords. at 28s. 3d.,
as against 265. a year ago and 21s. 9d.
before the outbreak of war. At 28s. 3d.
the yield from 6j p.c. divs. is 4.6 p.c. The
prefs. return 4.7 p.c. at 255. 6d. The
book value of the cover is 15s. ords.,
£l9 12s. 9d. prefs.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
3929. .528,646 42J p.c.= 297,500 231,146 2,138,992
1930. .275,663 50 „ ~ 350,000 2,064,655
1931. .103,571 82 „ „ 61,250 42,321 2,106,976
1932. .205,752 25 „ „ 175,000 30,752 2,137,728
1933. .196,565 15 „ ~ 105,000 91,565 2.229,293
1934. .303,355 27J „ „ 192,500 110,855 2,340,148
1935. .420,683 40 „ „ 280,000 140,683 2,480,831
1936. .666,940 70 „ „ 490.000 176.940 2,658,771
1937. .940,628 105 „ „ 735,000 205,628 2,863,399
1938. .505,153 90 „ „ 630,000 2,738,552
1939. .356,841 40 „ „ 280,000 76,841 2,815,393
Shares written up, £246,576 .. 3,061,969
1940. .520,388 40 p.c.= 280,000 240,388 3,302,357
The gravity-cww-flotation concentrating
plant which started up on April 11,
1939, had a full year’s run, as against
11 weeks in the preceding term. The
old plant in 1937-38 had shown re-
coveries of 94.4 p.c. lead, 87.1 p.c. silver
and 84.6 p.c. zinc. In the changeover
year, 1938-39, the figures were little
better. But last term there was decided
improvement: 95.5 p.c. lead (against
94.6 p.c.), 88.1 p.c. silver (87.4 p.c.) and
86.5 p.c. zinc (83.2 p.c.).
It is a pity that closer analysis is not
possible at this interesting juncture, but
the usual production figures and unit
costs are not available owing to war-
time regulations. However, with a fixed
price for most of the lead and spelter
produced during the year the co. showed
value of mine production £263,122 higher
at £1,540,041.
In preceding years metals had averaged
the following prices in London:
Silver
Average— Lead. (Pine). Zinc.
5 years June, 1929.. £2O/8/- 2/6.9 £3O/7/1
12 months June, 1932.. £l2/16/7 1/6.4 £l2/18/9
12 months June, 1936.. £ll/6/- 2/3.8 £l2/16/7
12 months June, 1936.. £l6/4/5 2/2.3 £l5/3/11
12 months June, 1937. . £23/2/8 1/9.9 £2O/2/1
12 months Juno, 1938. . £l7/10/- 1/9.1 £l6/15/1
12 months June, 1939.. £l4/9/5 1/9.4 £l4/0/2
Last term the Barrier cos. had a contract
to supply 166,500 tons of lead to
Great Britain at £lB 16s. 7d. Aust. a
ton, f.o.b. Port Pirie. The Pirie smelters
turned out 182,000 tons in 1938. Spelter
to the amount of 36,000 tons a year was
also arranged for, £lB 15s. Aust. a ton,
f.o.b. Risdon. About 70,000 tons of zinc
was produced by E.Z. in 1938-39, and
no difficulty was experienced in disposing
of the 1939-40 production. Contract
prices were better than 1938-39 quotes,
though not nearly so good as the London
open-market quotations.
Here are such details of North’s in-
come and expenditure as the accounts
disclose:
Revenue:— 1933. 1939. 1940.
Mine production. . £619,822 £1,276,919 £1,540,041
Investments . . 111,584 133,361 155,638
£731,406 £1,410,280 £1,695,679
Expenditure:—
Mine . . ..£493,157 £966.484 £1,024,501
P. and 1. items.. 71,684 113,609 273,760
Loss investments . . 3.346 ■ —
£564,841 £1,083,439 £1,298,261
Net profit .. .. 166,565 326,841 397,418
The rise of £263,122 in mine revenue
occurred after taking stock at 13,733 tons
of lead (13,237 preceding year) and silver
772,0830 z. (748,1070 z.). Values were un-
changed at £l2 10s. a ton lead and Is.
Bd. an ounce silver. Investment income
rose £22,277, making the lift in gross
revenue £285,399. Mining costs were
£58,017 higher, and, mainly because of
the provision of £146,000 (against
£41,000) for taxes and royalty and
£75,000 (against £30,000) for depreciation,
administration exes. were £160,151
higher. Total outgo was £218,168 up at
£1,298,261, and the net profit as claimed
by the accounts was £397,418, which
compares with £330,187 in 1938-39. It
was equal to 56.7 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 47.1, 67.8, 130, 90.9, 54.3 and
39 p.c. back to 1934. The £520,388 of
profit shown in the introductory table
includes the depreciation provision and
£47,970 set aside as a stores replacement
reserve. It is computed on the same
basis as the figure for 1938-39.
The 2s. in divs. (40 p.c.) paid during
the year was the same sum as declared
in 1938-39. There was ample margin for
reserves. Since the close of accounts Is.
a share has been declared, 6d. of it from
1939-40 profits. As half-yearly distri-
butions only are to be made in future,
this does not necessarily indicate a lift
in the rate. Next declaration will be due
in June, 1941.
Mine development went on during the
year, and additions were made to ore
reserves:—
1938. 1939. 1940.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
North . . . . 4,128,000 4,235,000 *
British . . .. 747,000 649,000 *
Junction .. .. 200,000 200,000 *
Total .. .. 5,075,000 5,084,000 5,223,000
* Not disclosed.
The increase of 139,000 tons is not attri-
buted to any particular section of the
workings in the report, but it seems that
a good deal of it came from the British,
which provided 19.5 p.c. of the ore
treated during the year, the rest (80.5 p.c.)


As Good for Women
W'
sags
V
u
as for Men!
Wolfe’s Schnapps with iced water or
cordials, as preferred, makes a distinctly
delightful stimulant. In character and
constituents, Wolfe’s Schnapps is essen-
tially and above all a health drink and
contains medicinal properties not found
in any other stimulant. It is highly
recommended for tiredness, backache,
poor appetite and all the other everyday
ills of life—and to women especially, its
gentle, cleansing, diuretic action is of
inestimable benefit in helping to over-
come fatigue and indis-
position arising from natural
disorders.
OLFE
PRODUCT OF HOLLAND
THIS
agasvnc alcoholic
tKmftniifacturtd Exclusively In
hr. brat possible
** TW attention of Aseotfea
ir.-iaTitfd to the Siunafurc«a»
eijlfom,- anil to the Title or
ihaAohc-Cot dial, CJiibnSsct)*bp
\
thu
=?«T: I PWtj
fl u
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
Wolfe’s Schnapps is obtainable
in large , half and quarter
size bottles at all hotels.
*6,
0%
X
W.S. 147.P.P.
MAKE YOUR MONEY FIGHT BUY
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
PROTECTION
all the days of her life
THE good husband is ready with a wrap when his wife needs it;
ready with his strong arm when she calls for it; but in no way
does he better demonstrate his enduring love and affection than
when he joins the A.M.P. Society and builds up an assurance fund
that will be an enduring protection to her all the days of her life.
When Reginald Pascall Young married in 1931 he took out an
A.M.P. policy for £lOOO. That called for an outlay of only £2O/15/10
a year, equal to 8/- a week. Later he added a second policy for £5OO.
He died from pneumonia recently and, although his two policies had
been only eight and six years in force, his wife received a cheque for
£1756. That is the sort of protection that all men should provide.
If you feel that you want to arrange some more protection for
your wife, ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send a representative
to talk things over with you. If you prefer, ask that a booklet, “Peace
of Mind,” be sent to you. Write now while it is in mind.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout All States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ha'ssel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A VV DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
* * * * .
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian an
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Advt.
coming from the North. In the North
mine 15.6 p.c. of the ore came from
lode pillars, as against 9.9 p.c. in the
preceding year. The sinking of No. 2
shaft to 2731 ft. below the collar was
carried out, and if the ore-body continues
its present dip and pitch no further
deepening should be necessary.
During the year the co. acquired 9902
more shares in Metal Manufactures, 3750
in Commonwealth Steel, 3000 in Shale
Oil Investigations and 4070 in B.A.L.M.
It also put a value of £246,576 on that
nominal value of shares received from
B.H. Associated Smelters in 1934, previ-
ously taken in at nothing.
The effect of the revaluation shows up
in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:
1939. 1940.
Shares in other- cos. ..£1,044,908 £1,313,037
Stores 82,570 90,008
Concentrates on hand .. 80,257 12,514
Debtors 300,159 443,837
Cash, etc 128,107 187,196
Liquid assets .. ..£1,090,061 £2,047,192
Less liabilities . . . . 440,420 325,220
Liquid surplus .. ..£1,255,035 £1,721,972
Improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£1,721,972) was £466,337—0r
£219,761 if the shares revaluation is
allowed for.
As for the current year, the British Gov-
ernment has renewed its lead-purchase
agreement until August, 1941, taking a
slightly-reduced tonnage. Spelter is,
strangely enough, in brighter mood than
lead ; Australian stocks are bare owing to
munitions requirements. Spelter is the
more expensive metal to produce, but for
years before the war it was hard to sell at
near the price of lead. It looks as though
spelter will be in keen demand in the
after-war period as well.
At 41s. 6d. per ss. share it would take
slightly over 20 years for North’s market
price to be returned to holders on last
year’s div. basis. There is less than 10
years’ ore actually in sight, but that
means comparatively little; for many
years development has kept pace with ex-
traction. The immediate yield from North
scrip, however, isn’t particularly high at
slightly under 4.9 p.c.
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd.
The American decision to lay in a re-
serve of 75,000 tons of tin as quickly as
possible has meant practically unre-
stricted production for these Malayan
dredgers. But tin shares are in no great
demand, despite the immediate prospect
of increased incomes, because of the
misty future and the uncertain effect of
that accumulation of stocks on quotas
and prices generally. Thus Rawang’s
lOs.-paids are on offer around Bs., com-
pared with 9s. 12 months ago.
Rawang formed just over a decade ago
to amalgamate the old Rawang, Seren-
dah and Serendah South cos., Selangor.
From the beginning returns to share-
holders have been skimpy, partly be-
cause of the big wad of scrip (£876,000)
issued in connection with the deal, and
partly because of a conservative finan-
cial policy which enabled the accumula-
tion of a fat pile of liquids.
It was from these that the £240,000 of
new plant, etc., expenditure over the past
three years has come. Chief item was
a modern 300,600-c.y.-monthly bucket-
dredge, which set in on the main
area only last term. Shareholders
are now the owners of three highly-
efficient dredges with an aggregate
rated capacity of 700,000 c.y. monthly,
in addition to an 80,000-c.y.-p.m. sluicing
unit. A second line of income is a 31.9
р. interest in Rawang Concessions (paid
capital £200,000), and a potential source
of profit, when surface-right squabbles
are straightened out, is an equal share
with Larut and Anglo-Oriental in
55,000,000 c.y. of 0.571 b. ground adjacent
to Pungah’s holding in West Siam.
In the co.’s own properties, the last
estimate of dredging reserves (June,
1937) was 75,000,000 c.y. of an average
value of 0.51 b. t.o. Dredging, etc., has
since depleted the figure by 16,000,000
с. but new acquisitions have totalled
502 acres—a 21 p.c. increase—yardage
and metal content not indicated.
The big lift in last term’s income re-
flects the growth in the free quota from
29.6 p.c. to 67.3 p.c. of assessment (1513
tons t.o. p.a.) and the rise of £25 12s. 3d.
a ton in the net return for the concen-
trate, which assayed 76.4 p.c. After send-
ing an extra £10,175 to depreciation and
depletion account, the profit-spring was
£37,329:
Year , —Surplus— v —Dividends-^
Mar., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
£stg. £Stg. £Stg. £Stg.
1 170,921 90,413 80,508 -/10J -/9 05,700
To reserve river deviation, £4OOO.
To reserve bucket-band, £7OOO.
181,189 94,593 80,596 -/114 -/9 65,700
To reserve bucket band, £5OOO.
1939 75,029 53,872 21,157 -/3 -/3 21,900
1940 183,841 125,355 58,486 -/8 ~/7i 54,750
* Includes depreciation: £25,806, 1937; £19,891,
1938 ; £20,000, 1939; £30,175, 1940.
Divs., etc., contributed £5669 to the result,
which was further helped by a profit of
£14,857 on power sales—the co.’s station
feeds the Berjuntai, Taiping Consolidated
and Kundang plants. The div. went up
from 3d. to per share, payable in
sterling. As the co. is Malaya-domiciled,
no question of British taxation arises.
Here are operating performances:
f Dredging
1938. 1939. 1940. 1940.
Cub. yards. . 4,414,000 4,196,000 5,721,000 471,000
T. 0., tons .. 802.1 593.4 826.8 80.9
Av. yield .. 0.401 b; 0.311 b. 0.321 b. 0.411 b.
Costs, c.y. .. 2.45 d. 2.43 d. 2.56 d. 5.28 d.
Ret ore realisation, ton—
-1938, £143/2/10 ;1939, £124/10/9 ; 1940, £l5O/3/-
Singapore average metallic tin, ton —
1938, £223/10/4 ; 1939, £l9O/19/8 ; 1940, £234/13/10
Working costs were well controlled,
but may be more troublesome, as will
smelting charges, in the current term. In
the six months that have elapsed since the
close of accounts production from all
plants has been 821 tons from 4,214,000
c.y., an average recovery of 0.431 b. per
c.y., compared with 0.331 b. last term.
Taking in £42,327 of stores, etc., and
the 63,800 and 1837 shares in Rawang
Concessions and Anglo-Malayan De-
velopment respectively at par, share-
holders could see more or less liquids
of £187,531 stg. at the end of March ;
the debt was then £28,761.
Hopes of renewed coppermining ac-
tivity in S.A. to meet war demands are
wet-blanketed —with one exception—by
Government Geologist Dr. L. Keith
Ward. Exception is at Mount Gunson,
west of Lake Torrens, where production
has been begun on a fairly large scale,
ore being dispatched to Port Pirie for
smelting. Following local and political
pressure for reopening of other fields, Dr.
Ward gives this warning: “Companies
with ample resources for the development
of fields with reasonable prospects of pro-
fitable working at current copper prices
have considered the old coppermines of
S.A., such as Burra, Kapunda and Kan-
mantoo, but have turned them down.
Competent mining interests are aware of
the danger of assuming that metal values
and the dimensions of the veins contain-
ing them persist, for they are so often dis-
appointing when once the workings have
penetrated the zone of secondary enrich-
ment.”
* * 4c *
After initial construction delays, in-
creased capital costs resulting in an over-
draft of £78,000 at the end of December,
and the usual running-in difficulties associ-
ated with an intricate, modern dredge,
Austral N.Z. Mining looks to be settling
down to regular and satisfactory produc-
tion. Digging began in April. The latest
return (26 days’ running time) was
319,000 c.y. for 14320 z. gold—2.lgr. per
yard, which should pay well at the
current rate of throughput. Actually,
if original anticipations are realised, the
co. may be able to average 2.4 gr. Rated
capacity of the dredge is 350,000 c.y.
monthly, and there appears nothing in
either the nature or the depth of the wash
to hinder that turnover being attained.
At the beginning dredging reserves in the
co.’s Clutha River (M.L.) property were
figured at 28,000,000 c.y. of 3gr. dirt; that
yardage was subsequently doubled, and
then another 460 acres, comprising the
Shine Basin section and an area north
of the main holding, was added to that.
All this new wash has not yet, of course,
been systematically tested. There are
245,000 shares to spread profits over—
55,000 fewer than in the case of Kanieri
or Arahura, which have similar-grade
(but more fully proved) properties and
dredges, though working conditions there
are more difficult. Austral N.Z. scrip is
well held, partly by Austral Malay and
its associated Asian tin-dredging concerns.
* * * *
Behind the scheme for pyritic concen-
tration and production of sulphuric acid
announced at the last annual meeting of
Mt. Morgan lies the reopening of the
Greater Fitzroy coppermines, which
are only 40 miles from “the Mount.”
Private finance has hung fire over the
Fitzroy, but it looks as if satisfactory-
financial arrangements may be finalised
by the Government if Mt. Morgan will
treat all Fitzroy ore. The scheme can
be made to fit because the latter has
pyritic as well as siliceous ore-bodies,
and as both contain about 2dwt. of gold
it will help to lift the Mount’s expected
50 p.c. increase of copper during the
year still further. War-time needs are
making the Government view the joint
Fitzroy-Mt. Morgan scheme with a desire
to help. Fitzroy has at least a cold half-
million tons of 2 p.c. copper ore also
carrying almost £1 Aust. in gold values.
* * * *
The Mons Meg, at Lolworth (N.Q.), has
eased off in gold returns. The richest ore
seems to have been cleaned up, and
reserves are considered less than 1000
tons of 6dwt.-10dwt., all below 130 ft. To
keep the mine going, a downward
extension of the shoot below 200 ft. must
be found. It’s the hope of Lolworth that
the Mons Meg turns up a new shoot, for
the field has been brought to notice
chiefly by itself and the Midas, and it
appears doubtful whether the Midas will
go down to any depth.
* $ ♦
Was there ever a better pair of stickers
than the Reddie bros., of Ewan or Kan-
garoo Hills (N.Q.)? Trained in Charters
Towers School of Mines, they put up
their own battery, and after several de-
cades of not unprofitable effort they still
extract a bit of tin from the Sardine and
Shrimp, two of the oldest and best pro-
ducers of the past on the field. Tin high
or tin low, rarely does anything stop their
rush.
* * * *
Youanmi Gold Mines (W.A.) reports
underground developments which include
exposure by winzes of a continuous
length of 320 ft. of high-grade ore below
No. 4 level. Between that point and No.
8 level good values over widths ranging
from 9ft. to 20ft. have been opened up.
Monthly production continues to be an-
nounced uninterruptedly, but, although
some hundreds of thousands of pounds
has been extracted from the reopened and
reconditioned mine, shareholders, either
pref. or ord., have not yet received any-
thing. Earlier in the year treatment of
sulphide ore was said to be giving trouble
that improved methods of gold extraction
were expected to overcome.
* * * *
Shareholders of Spargo’s Reward
(W.A.) found cheer at the Perth meeting
on Nov. 4. For the first (Sept.) quarter of
the current year, after deduction of £lOOO
of capital expenditure, a surplus of £B6OO
was announced. That made the cash
balance £7500, and, though £6700 of this
was offset by liabilities, the financial posi-
tion had improved by more than £15,000
since June 30, 1939. Manager’s supple-
mentary report was full of hope and
references to payable assays. It also men-
tioned that ore mined during the past
three months had been more than re-
placed by ore developed. October’s work-
ing surplus was £2500.
* * * *
Edna May Amalgamated, Westonia
(W.A.), has started on its new term in
good style. For the year to June 30 it
showed a surplus of £14,288 ; but that
was after capitalising £8516 of the year’s
development. After paying for this and
administrative outgo, it calculates it has
netted £10,330 for the first 12 weeks of
the current term, thanks to improve-
ment in head values from 7.Bdwt. to
11.5dwt.; at least another 20,000 tons of
the same higher-grade stuff is “ten-
tatively” estimated to be awaiting extrac-
tion above 426 ft. Hopes are that early
next year ore-treatment will be pushed
up from the present 18,500 to 24,000 tons
p.a. With £24,000 now in hand, the
drilling and exploratory campaign on
adjoining properties will present no finan-
cial problems.


>WO«M
GLADSTONE'S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters,
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place. Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost, Esq., Launceston.
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/6
Blade size 3in.
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor
3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
é
%
M
■4*
?!
m
"-V.
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
“A bird’s tail has an even number of
feathers.”— “World’s News.”
One more and it would be rather odd.
* * * *
“No Egyptian peasant woman would kill a
cat, because it might be sheltering the soul
of a sleeping baby.”— “World’s News.”
That would explain a cat’s fondness
for milk and all its howling at night.
4" 4* 4*
“Just sponging my summer suit,” said
the nudist as he took a bath.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“The woman who is satisfied with simple
things is the best off.”— Woman’s paper.
Especially if her husband is one of
them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“U.S.A. Wants Beau Vite.” — Age.
As far as 89,000 people at Flemington
last week are concerned, the U.S.A. can
have him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Man remarries his divorced wife.”
Perhaps he wanted to finish the argu-
ment.
•I* 4* 4*
As the socialite’s father sadly said:
“She may be a deb. in society, but she’s
only a debt to me.”
4* *l* 4* 4*
• “After treatment at the hospital for minor
injuries the cyclist was allowed to go some.”
— “Telegraph.”
It’s doubtful if he managed to, all the
same.
4* + +
“The latest shade in silk stockings is known
as ‘parachute’.”— Fashion note.
It is to be hoped that it doesn’t let its
wearers down.
+ 4* +
“Money for nothing.”— Radio advt.
Still, we can’t all be politicians.
4< 4* 4* 4*
“A big factory will be erected by an Ameri-
can corset manufacturing concern.”
—Sydney real estate note.
A start will shortly be made on the
foundations.
“These 'igh stools are bonzer fer comfort, mate”
“According to a novelist, the stern young
English nobleman hero has been replaced in
feminine favor by the gay, laughing, middle-
class type.”
From haw-haw to ha-ha.
Scotching the Out-of-date.
“By order of the German Minister of the
Interior, a right angle is to have 100 degrees
instead of 90.”
Well, what’s the good of having what
Adolf calls a “dynamic revolution”
unless you do the thing properly? Let
the muddled democracies put up with
circles! The Nazis will demonstrate that
a super-race can do better with ovals.
Already instructions have been issued
to the Reichsmechanikgesselschaft that
under the new ruling all wheels must in
future be elliptical, and the State rail-
ways are rapidly being re-equipped. The
advantages are obvious. The gentle, un-
dulating motion thus resulting will have
a soporific effect on civil passengers, and
this should lead to a mass doping far
more effective than even Goebbels’s pro-
paganda machine. For those troops, too,
who are destined to practise embarking
on invasion barges, going a cautious 50
yards out into the English Channel and
hurriedly returning, it affords invaluable
training in resisting seasickness.
Elliptical railway wheels are also ex-
pected to yield great economic results.
Patently the brakes can be adjusted to
grip on only the bulgy ends of the wheel,
thus relieving wear and tear on both ;
also, when the train gets into top pace
the wheels will touch the rails only here
and there, thus effecting a vast saving on
the ersatz permanent way.
The greatest economy will be made,
however, in the running of council steam-
rollers. With the axle lOOdeg. to the
differential, the vehicle will be enabled to
move sidewise and forwards simultane-
ously, thus covering more ground. Also,
once its initial propulsion is effected the
juice can be shut off, and it will easily
coast along, for, as an egg is rolled along
on its ends, so the three oval wheels will
be taken by their concerted impetus up
to the apex of the oval, to roll over and
up to the apex again, and so on ad infin.
The autobahnen might become a little
corrugated in the process, but what good
German would cavil at that?
The primary object in the decision to
alter the right angle is to create em-
ployment for those millions of supermen
who have been released from the indig-
nities of rural toil by the influx of mil-
lions of slave-Poles. Corner buildings
will now be altered. The rebuilding of
one wall to lOOdeg. will mean that the
new line of buildings along the side street
will bisect the footpath and eventually
the street itself, to meet and pass through
buildings on the other side. This should
ensure sufficient work to keep all pure-
bred Aryans busy in the short peace-
breathers between wars for the next ten
thousand years.
According to Messrs. Allslop and Kid-
ner, the famous New York columnists,
the alteration of the right angle was due
to Himmler, whose tortuous mind evolved
the theory that lOOdeg. right-angle doors
could not close properly, thus facilitating
the work of his Gestapo.
Another example of this sturdy cut-
ting adrift from accepted standards of
the rest of the effete world is illustrated
by the ordering by General Blitzkrieg
von Bludwurst, the Director of Army
Medical Services, that all clinical ther-
mometers in hospitals be recalibrated to
take 10 degrees off. This will ensure that
those fever patients who are running a
temperature of, say, 108.4 will register
only 98.4, or normal, thus causing no
unnecessary agitation to the medical and
nursing staffs.
In order to prevent the loss of valuable
steel through bombed bridges falling into
the rivers they span, the Minister for
Heavy Salvage, Herr Shovelguttz, has
decreed that all water flowing under
bridges throughout the Greater Reich
shall be rendered sufficiently buoyant to
float steel girders. An army of scientists
has been instructed to invent immediately
such an agency, or else.
It is expected that the Fiihrer himself
will shortly issue a proclamation declar-
ing illegal the operation of Sir Isaac
Newton’s Law of Gravity above 1000 ft.
over Germany. This will cause British
bombs to fall upwards, thus nullifying the
activities of raiding R.A.F. ’planes.
The appointment of super Reichs-
marshal Goring to be ne plus ultra
marshal of the Reich is announced.
Hitler has ordered that, after the final vic-
tory over England and America on Dec.
4 next, the axis of the earth (i.e., Greater
Germany) shall be bent at a greater
angle at the centre to prevent seismic dis-
turbances and bring its strength to
approximately that of the Rome-Berlin
axis. Goring is to be in charge of the
work, which is to be called the “Three
Week Plan.”
80.
It Depends.
On the cardinal question “Is betting a
sin ?”
We’ve a host of conglomerate views.
My opinion in brief is: it’s not, if you
win *
But it certainly is if you lose.
C. L.
By All Accounts.
The account book was Maria’s own
idea; it would enable her to convince
me where the money went, she had told
me. For my own part, I expended the
couple of bob on it gladly, feeling that
it would peg Maria down. Optimism is
one of my failings.
“I put everything in that book, but
somehow,” sighed Maria, “the figures
won’t add up as they should. I wish
you’d see what the total comes to.”
“What’s this about ‘Milkman 2s. 6d.,
didn’t pay him’?” I asked as I obliged.
“Oh, that! Oh, I remember. I in-
tended paying him, so I put it down, but
as he didn’t leave the cream on Sunday
1 decided he should wait.”
“So the half-crown is wrong?”
“It isn’t. We still owe it,” persisted
Maria. “And I’m sure I don’t know
where that half-crown is now. That’s the
worst of these accounts”
“Perhaps this item explains it,” I said
grimly. ‘Silk stockings: 10s. 6d.’ ”
“And what if it does?” said Maria
vehemently. “With your meanness”
“Anyway, what’s this two shillings?” I
asked, hastily changing the subject.
“Bridge at Emma’s, 2s.—has that any-
thing to do with ‘Share of refresh-
ments’ ”
“That isn’t two shillings,” said Maria.
“That’s 2 p.m. —just to remind me.”
“You can’t add up 2 p.m. with pounds,
shillings and pence,” I said hardly. “And
what’s this £2 17s. 6d. doing here, with
Y.M. opposite it?”
“Don’t be a fool, Aitchem. YM2176
is Aunt Tilly’s telephone number.”
“Well, what’s this d. coconut a ha’-
penny, flour 25.”
“Dessicated coconut half a cup, flour
two cups —that’s a cake recipe.”
Yes ; as Maria says, she certainly puts
everything into her account book. And
although I gave up the totalling as a bad
job, Maria hasn’t. She has got a whole
lot of texts from it in her sermonising
for increased housekeeping money.
H. M.
Lasting.
When first we met you quickly roused
My admiration, Jill;
Now ( ev’ry Friday night, at least)
l hand it to you still.
PATON.
National Pride.
“The rodeo is a typical outback show of
Australian cowboys and -girls.”— “D.T.”
“Waal, folks, it gives me great pleasure
t’ intadooce to yew tonight Saltbush Sue,
the sweetest cutie that ever toted a foty-
five on a real up-and-comin’ dinki-di Oss-
tralian kangaroo ranch.
“Folks, y’ sho’ heard of l’il ol’ Sue, the
shootinest, ridinest, dinkumest gal in the
hull wide west. Why, folks, everybody
knows Sue. From the mesquite flats south
of the Condamine to the arroyos of
Booligal, in every cattle camp on the
Footscray sierras an’ down in the Vaucluse
panhandle, I guess that there pinto hoss
she rides and Sue is as well-known as
Gila monsters, longhorns an’ Piute
Injuns.
“This is the l’il gal, folks, that went
into the Dingo Scrubs saloon with both
guns a-blazin’ an’ smoked out that pizen-
rattler, that possum-rustler Prickly-pear
Pete an’ his hombres an’ shot ’em clear
over the border into the Kelly country.
“Folks, this here ain’t my show, it’s
Sue’s. But I sho’ am honored tew present
the pride of the west, Saltbush Sue!
Let ’er ride, boys.”
WELLSHOT DICK.
Half the Battle.
“It is unkind to suggest that a man no
longer cares for h» w,fe rf he «£*».
■Tis not the lack of love that bids
The married man go off to war.
Indeed. 'tis home and wife and kids
And future that he's fighting for.
To fend for them he risks hislife
Hut sense of duty ,sn t feigned
And anyway for strafe and strife
The married mans already trained!
P- C-
-4* 4*
Before and After.
“The married man often loses good manners.”
—Woman s paper.
Actually, he modifies rather than loses
them. For instance, when courting her,
he always opens doors for her. When
married, he slams them after her. Before
marriage he says “It’s a dear little
thing!” when he sees her new hat. After,
he growls “It’s too damn’ dear!” Before,
he holds the umbrella over her when
they’re caught in a After, he has
to dive for cover because she snatches his
umbrella for herself. When engaged to
her he listens adoringly to all her chatter
and doesn’t interrupt her once ; when
wed, he doesn’t exactly listen, but he’s
careful not to interrupt.”
ELM.
Mary has a little lamh
He’s docile, as a rule.
But when her “shearing” gets too hot
He's apt to lose his wool.
H. M.


Business,Rollery,Etc.
A Tax on the Nation
Australians had better take particular
notice of what is going on at Canberra
about the war Budget, because the way
the war is financed comes a close second
in importance to the actual fighting of
the thing itself. The efficient prosecution of
the war now, the continuance of defence
work uninterrupted by labor and
economic troubles, and hopes for a mini-
mum of industrial reaction after the war
is over depend very greatly on whether
we admit that the conflict is no picnic but
a costly thing that has to be paid for
almost immediately. Whether we admit
it or not, the Australian effort has to be
paid for now. But if we don’t admit it
we shall pay twice over.
Provided the outlay thought by Can-
berra to be necessary to fight the war is
necessary, then the more we pay out of
fairly spread taxation at once the better
it will be for all concerned. Some there
are who say that the “national credit
should be judiciously expanded” in order
that taxation may be escaped. Such
people are fools or worse than fools.
Some are shamefully cynical about the
whole thing, looking only at their own
particular interests and trying to lead
public opinion accordingly. The ones
who speak of “credit expansion” to
finance the war often talk as though such
financial subtlety would help the working-
man escape from
his share of the
burden. That is
quite wrong. It is
the simple man
who is invariably
the mug in cases of
subtle trickery.
The working-
man figures largely
in the picture, too.
It would be a lot
simpler to do the
war job straight-
forwardly if the
wage - earner ad-
mi 11 e d without
quibble that he
had to take up his
share of the war
burden. As indivi-
duals a large pro-
portion of wage-
earners probably
admit it. But
when it comes to “official” repre-
sentation in the Arbitration Court it
is another matter. The unions ask
for better “conditions” than ever. In
some cases they may be justified. But the
time will come when wage-earners, if this
country’s affairs are honestly run, will be
directly taxed to pay for their share of
the war, and those taxes will not be com-
pensated by increased wage awards.
In Maoriland, that sister Dominion
which has become so socialised that even
Labor members are frequently appre-
hensive about things, a ls.-in-the-£ war
tax has been levied on wages, and it
comes out of the living allowance —no
compensation was granted by increasing
wages. That is how it should be. Aus-
tralians must face up to this position, too.
It may be that some industries don’t pay
high enough wages now. That is a matter
for the Arbitration Court to decide. But
once wages bear a reasonable relation
to the earnings of the particular industry,
then fairly spread taxation becomes in
every way a reasonable charge against
living standards.
It is plain that if the national living
standard is reduced by war’s eating-up of
much of our production, then the indi-
vidual mode of living must be adjusted
proportionately in fairness to all.
“Scalers” should not be allowed, and
plausible talkers about “bank credit,”
“national income,” etc., as things to be
exploited to escape from the war burden
should be regarded as liars or noodles.
It happens in cases like the present,
when national production is stimulated by
the immensity of the war effort, that
certain persons, trades or industries situ-
ated in certain positions stand to reap
enlarged “rake-offs” by reason of the
war stimulation alone. If it is not pos-
sible to subject these interests to special
individual supervision, they should be
called to make heavy contribution to the
nation’s fighting funds per medium of a
general, genuine and substantial excess-
profits tax.
It is necessary to recall to our minds
that this war is a current affair, and that
it must be paid for now with existing men
and materials. There is a real cost in
labor, men and materials expended with-
out thinking in terms of money at
all. The burden can be passed on to
posterity, but if we bungle the charging-
up of the cost now posterity and our-
selves will suffer unnecessarily.
A couple of months ago the cost of
war to Australia for 1940-41 was esti-
mated at £177,000,000. That followed a
figure of under £90,000,000 issued before
the Blitzkrieg. Now £200,000,000 is the
fat round sum being spoken of, forming
portion of a £250,000,000-total Common-
wealth Budget.
In a financial statement issued last May
Mr. Spender proposed to take for defence
purposes £16,000,000 from ordinary taxa-
tion, £20,000,000 from new or increased
taxation and £50,000,000 from borrowing.
Now it is “understood” in Canberra that
an additional £35,000,000 of taxation is
to be asked for, which would make about
£71,000,000 to be raised by war taxes this
financial year, leaving nearly £130,000,000
to be got by borrowing and other credit
arrangements.
Already “differences of opinion on the
part that loans and bank credit will play
in the Budget” are believed to have arisen
“Keep an eye on ’ er , cobber !”
between the Treasury and Central Bank
authorities, and, if bank credit can’t be
used as extensively as some politicians
hope, even further taxation may be
necessary. It is not unlikely that at least
half of the war cost will have to be pro-
vided for by taxation. But it would be
better still for taxpayers if they signified
that they were prepared openly to pay
more. They will pay in full in any case.
The position may be simply stated
thus: If the nation is able to divert
£200,000,000-worth of its production to
war purposes, as proposed, without caus-
ing any great hardship, then the equiva-
lent amount of money should be diverted
to the Government, too, in order to give
honest recognition to the position. The
only question is, in what proportion shall
each of us bear the burden? It would
be utterly wrong to pretend that, though
nearly a third of the national income had
been consumed by war, private incomes
in the aggregate had not been affected.
As the national income is consumed, so
are private incomes, and to allow money
incomes to stay untaxed at their old level
when there is in fact only two-thirds of
the national production available for
domestic consumption is directly spon-
soring inflation. We are taxing the
national income (production) by one-
third ; money incomes should be taxed
by one-third also. That is why taxation
must be availed of for war purposes to
the maximum extent. It is the only sen-
sible and honest thing to do.
A further reason for the remarkable
strength of Australian ’Change prices is
said to be the reinvestment of funds
formerly held in American securities and
now released owing to Commonwealth
Government action in respect of dollar
exchange. Apparently the weakness of
Australian loans in New York is due to
the same thing ; during and after the de-
pression hundreds of thousands of
pounds’ worth of Commonwealth dollar
bonds were bought in the U.S.A. by Aus-
tralians, and as these, too, may be sold
on Wall-street for dollars, they have come
under the influence of forced selling. The
low price of Australian stocks in the
States —they were recently under £50 —
is bad business. It is a position
that could have been avoided, and R. G.
Casey, who was on the spot, should have
wakened up earlier. Some Common-
wealth action, it is understood, is now
being taken to rehabilitate the position
of our dollar bonds.
* * * *
Canberra has again extended by three
months the period in which Australian
shareholdings in 20 U.S.A. cos. must be
disposed of and the dollars sold to the
Commonwealth. The extension was an-
nounced on Oct. 29, two days before the
original period was due to expire. To
be of much value, the extension should
have been announced weeks ago, since it
isn’t likely that many holders waited until
the last two days before selling their hold-
ings. The extension has been granted’
because of the low share prices prevailing
in U.S.A.
* * * *
Shares continued to soar last week.
Following Roosevelt’s re-election B.H.P.
scrip shot up Is. 6d. on Thursday, gain-
ing another 3d. on Friday, when a large
turnover at 475. took place. Paper shares
were strong, the A.P.M. group and Asso-
ciated Pulp all participating. Felt and
Textiles again advanced (to above 375.
ex rights), and other textile concerns re-
mained firm. A.C.I. moved up, and Tooth
shares went to the best price of the year.
Base-metal shares were steady. On Nov.
8 the Sydney industrial-share index was
134.02 compared with 123.52 on Sept. 12.
The higher the market goes in its
present style the more this page
will feel inclined to distrust it.
“Buoyancy” has a lot of synthetic
confidence in it, brought about by strange
conditions. Absence of bears, release of
funds previously invested in New York,
low interest rates on bonds and war-time
stimulation of industries have so far
blinded the eyes of some investors to the
question of how we are going to appor-
tion the £200,000,000 defence bill for
1940-41, and to the doubts about the
coming wool clip and wheat harvest.
* * * *
The British Treasury, under its new
regulation, has formally forbidden the
transfer of Great Boulder’s domicile to
Australia.
* * * *
The Federal Government should
make up its mind quickly about excess-
profits tax. The old idea of a high-profits
tax, based on earnings in relation to paid
capital (however much such capital may
have been juggled with in recent years),
should be abandoned, and a real excess-
profits levy introduced. A standard rate
of profit for each co. should be estab-
lished by averaging its earnings for three
or four pre-war years, and any excess
earned over and above that standard dur-
ing a war year should become subject
to e.-p.t. It is not desirable that e.-p.t.
should be at the rate of 100 p.c. It might
be economic to have a 60 p.c. or 75 p.c.
e.-p.t., with liberal depreciation allow-
ance on munitions-producing plant and
other essential machinery, but the profit-
making incentive should not be extin-
guished altogether. Britain’s e.-p.t. is too
drastic ; it confiscates earnings in excess
of average pre-war experience. The
U.S.A. method of heavy, but not com-
plete, taxation of excess profits, with
amortisation provisions, is better. A
Labor member, Benson, has criticised
Britain’s taxation on the ground that it
meant “a complete abandonment of the
capitalist system,” and that business in-
centive was replaced by patriotism.
Patriotism, he said, though it might lift
a man to heroic heights on the battle-
field, would not work while a person
was at a desk.
Australia’s proposed “earnings-to-capi-
tal” tax must be dropped. The Gov-
ernment has so far shied at the issue
involved. If it continues to be afraid to
enforce real excess-profits taxation, then
one pillar of its economic policy will
crumble. Equality of sacrifice must be
the keynote of all war-time taxation if
inflation is to be avoided, and e.-p.t. is
one essential to equal sacrifice. Other
taxes may also be necessary, including
higher rates of ordinary company tax;
but they are additional, not substitute,
measures.
* * * *
It was announced last week in Maori-
land that the £8,000,000 compulsory loan
which closed on Oct. 18 had been over-
subscribed. A committee of the
Economic Stabilisation Conference has
urged that any further issue of credit by
the Reserve Bank would be a grave
danger to M.L.’s stability. The com-
mittee, seven members of which out of
15 are Labor representatives, asked the
Government to reduce domestic expendi-
ture.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Taxpayers’ Association
last week provided figures to show that
only one Australian in 25 paid Federal
income tax at the present time. Thus
there is a substantial field awaiting the
Treasurer, and, even if future taxation
per head on lower incomes is light, the
width of the field available should mean
a fairly large aggregate revenue. At
present the exemption is an assessable
income of £250. According to the last
report by the Commissioner to Parlia-
ment,, the 1402 resident taxpayers with
incomes exceeding £5OOO paid £2,004,505,
or 37.6 per cent, of the total Federal
income tax. Resident taxpayers with in-
comes exceeding £3OOO numbered 4098,
and paid £2,805,304, or 52.62 per cent,
of the total. Of the total number of
taxpayers, 10 per cent. —29,062 —had in-
comes exceeding £lOOO and paid
£4,306,712, or 80.79 per cent, of the total.
Resident taxpayers with incomes of less
than £lOOO comprised 80 per cent, of
the total taxpayers. They numbered
261,162, and paid £1,023,979, or 19.21
per cent, of the total.
Last week it was “understood” that
“the issue of credit has not yet been
raised specifically, but, in financing the
cost of defence, the Labor view will be
that before taxation is extended into the
lower-income classes the Government
should make greater use of credit, even
if it is already contemplating far greater
use of credit than previously.” If credit
is stretched too far, especially when all
employable men are in jobs, it won’t be
long before Labor will pay heavily indeed
for shirking a clear-cut issue.
A lift from 8.3 p.c. to 10 p.c. in sales-
tax is thought to be inevitable. Excise
on liquor may be raised. It might be
possible also to squeeze a little more
taxation out of petrol, and the field of
company taxation—especially e-p.t. —
hasn’t been exhausted.
* x rfe *
“Truth” and “Sportsman,” Ltd., with
headquarters in Sydney, showed a net
profit of £20,336 last term, compared
with £40,094 in the preceding period. The
pref. divs. were paid lass the 22\ p.c. cut,
and the ord. div. dropped from 6 p.c. to
3 p.c., subject to consideration of a final
div. upon a decision being given by the
Federal Government re the co.’s com-
pensation claim for revocation of the
license to publish the “Daily Mirror,” a
proposed evening sheet. As it was, divs.
actually declared took nearly £3OOO more
than the trading profit disclosed. The
only notable expansion in balance-sheet
figures over the past two years has been
in paper stocks, and that is all to the
good.
* * * *
The Sydney Water Board £900,000
loan was 96 p.c. subscribed. The under-
writers took the remainder.
* * * *
Of the £144,397,000 of taxation col-
lected by the Commonwealth and States
in 1939-40 (which compares with
£124,544,000 in the preceding year),
£53,825,000 came from customs and
excise duties (against £47,632,000),
£35,465,000 from income and div. tax
(£29,152,000), £14,416,000 from other in-
come taxes (£12,527,000), £7,350,000 from
estate duties (£6,916,000), £3,580,000
from stamp duties (£3,466,000),
£12,196,000 from sales tax (£9,308,000),
£7,224,000 from motor taxation
(£6,961,000), and £10,341,000 from all
other taxes (£8,582,000).


sr.
v.r
)
m
li
m
A
m
/
fIAiAX
§
K-L'V
■&m
m
,769.2137
csssr
VL HARM!-
f»,m «<»««
THROWS a \
pOWBRW L
250 ft B€AM
COSTS
oNcy
>
(BATTERI £S
EXTRA)
TRADE-MARK
MODELd77<? FLASHLIGHT
ë
For the countless jobs that have to be done "after dark,” or in poor light, there
tan be no substitute for the bright, white light of a good, reliable electric flash-
light. Every motorist, every camper, every fisherman, every home-owner
should have one—and here is the one he should have—an Eveready 2-cell
focussing flashlight, model No. 3773. Sturdily made with strong, ribbed, all-
metal barrel, powerful reflector, improved switch and fitted with screw-type
focussing base, it throws , ; ts beam 250 ft. ahead, giving unequalled brilliance.
And priced at only 4/6 (batteries extra), it offers unbeatable value!
EVEREADY (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. SYDNEY, N.S.W.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
EUROPE’S TRAGIC STATE.
I f’either information on the state of Europe under
German rule or menace is given in the personal-
experience and other items here condensed, the first
liom a vivid article by a London “Times” eyewitness
correspondent.]
Eyewitness in Belgium
The leaves are falling as I sit in the park opposite
the Royal Castle in Brussels. Barbed wire shuts off
he centre of the park, and German sentries guard
the wireless station which has been put up there next
the children’s playground among green lawns and
flower beds On one side of the park flies the swastika
flag over the Royal Palace ; on the other side, the
street and the courtyards, halls, rooms and cor-
ridors of the former Parliament and Government
buildings swarm with German soldiers, for all these
premises have been taken over by the invaders. The
uniforms are manifold in color and design, dark green,
light green, dark grey, light grey, many shades of
browns and blues, mixtures of black and brown, black
and white and other combinations. All are adorned
with some kind of weapon, a rifle or revolver or a
dagger dangling at the hip.
Some nine-tenths of the German military here
walk about in high black boots, which are worn even
by the railway officials. Brussels is full of these boots.
As accompaniments to the perpetual tramp, tramp,
tiamp, you hear the sharp shouts and commands, the
noise of innumerable motors, carts, tanks, trucks
motor-cycles, buses and overhead the roar of aero-
plane engines. There is no escape, for if you go into
a restaurant or shop, especially a food shop, any hotel
or bar, boulevard or square, the scene is everywhere
dominated by men and women in German uniforms
But the striking thing about these hundreds and thou-
sands of soldiers and semi-soldiers
is that they are in the main tired,
war-weary.
This statement is not based
on wishful thinking but on actual
observation and first-hand experi-
ence. Rarely, indeed scarcely
ever, can you hear among the
many German uniforms in Bel-
gium any of the high-flown
phrases about victory, greatness
and invincibility. On the con-
trary, German soldiers in Bel-
gium are frequently heard to de-
clare they detest this war, that
they are sick and tired of it and
want to go home. At first one
can scarcely believe one’s ears
and wonders whether it is not
some sort of trap or astute new
form of propaganda, but that
idea soon passes and the convic-
tion is formed that the “victori-
ous” German soldiers are seri-
ously demoralised.
If asked about the end of the
war they generally shrug their
shoulders and show no pleasure
in the prospect of the future.
They certainly criticise the occu-
pation of Denmark and Norway,
and they wonder what they are
doin v x in Belgium, “which will never become
German, anyway.” They do not want to fight, they
can easily be induced to profess that they personally
have no great sympathy for the Nazi Government,
they obviously have no firm faith in ultimate victory.
It would, however, be too much to conclude that
they will find strength and will-power of themselves
to oppose their Nazi leaders. The Belgians, who
clearly realise the obvious demoralisation of the Ger-
man troops in their country, are equally convinced of
fheir powerlessness to take any sort of revolutionary
initiative. A Belgian workman put the case in a nut-
shell the other day when he said, “They tell us they
detest the war and want to go home, but they are
here all the same. That is all that really counts.”
But the economic spoliation of the country, which
has not yet reduced the people to the apathy follow-
ing long and gradual starvation, has aroused intense
resentment. For the moment only the spirit of revolt
is there, ready to take shape if practical opportunity
should arise. It is believed that, when the moment is
ripe and active revolt becomes a fact in France or any
other occupied country, it will rapidly spread to all,
certainly to Belgium. The movement, if a move-
ment it may be called, appears for the present at least
to have little or no taint of Bolshevism, for Com-
munists and Nazis are lumped together in the minds of
most citizens of Belgium and looked upon as traitors.
The only tangible thing in the goal towards which
minds tend is the liberation of Belgium from foreign
domination.
The problem of King Leopold is not often raised.
It is difficult at present to say definitely how the King
stands with his people in Belgium. Something akin to
incipient propaganda for Leopold, le Roi Humain,
is afoot and many people wear a tiny gilt crown in
their buttonhole as a symbol of adhesion to his cause.
The King appears to be in some sort of conflict with
the Germans, though no trustworthy information is
available on the nature of their disagreements. He is
more or less a prisoner, and, while this fact and the
belief that he is causing the Germans difficulties tend
to improve his position, he is still far from enjoying
the affection of the whole of the Belgian people.
* * * * *
Plunder and Stock Slaughter
C From a general survey by London “Times” diplomatic
correspondent.)
In every country which they have overrun the
Germans have commandeered outright nearly all the
food reserves and have ordered the slaughtering of
much of the livestock. In one week alone Germany
took over 17,000 sheep from Denmark, 15,000 for
immediate slaughter, 2000 for grazing. Over 11,000
head of cattle were similarly taken from Denmark to
the western districts of the Reich.
Holland lost nine-tenths of her large butter re-
serves in a week. Out of 28,000,000 poultry in the
Netherlands 22,000,000 are being killed this autumn.
"The slaughtering of pigs in Holland,” says the
“Kolnische Zeitung,” “is being accelerated.” The
meat which cannot be sold in Holland will be sent to
Germany, “where more storage space is available,” a
neat way of saying that Germany will take the lot, as
she has begun to do. Only the other day came the
German wireless boast that Germany had taken
43,000,000kg5. of early potatoes from Holland within
three months —whereas, the wireless added, Holland’s
exports of early potatoes to all countries in the world
amounted to no more than 27,000,000kg5. in a normal
three-months period.
From the enslaved countries as a whole Germany
has added 2,000,000 tons of wheat to her own reserves ;
and has demanded 780,000 tons from France.
These are only a few of the statistical examples
that have come recently of a process that is general
and continuous. From Norway, Denmark, Holland,
Belgium, and now from both halves of France, comes
evidence of general decrees for the commandeering or
the slaughtering of stock. From Norway Germany
takes 200 tons of fish daily. From Belgium she takes
all the available eggs. Exports of herrings from
several countries have been prohibited ; all are to go
to Germany. Out of the Bohemian Protectorate the
— “PM,” New York.
BOMBS ON BERLIN.
German workers, we have now achieved complete air supremacy.”
Germans are taking wheat by the wagonload. Even
the depleted Polish stocks are systematically raided.
*****
(From a statement issued in U.S.A. by organisations of
the various nationals concerned pressing for food
relief for Norway, Holland, Belgium and Poland.)
In normal times, the Belgians must import 50 p.c.
of their food supplies ; the Dutch 30 to 40 p.c.; the
Norwegians 50 to 60 p.c., and the Poles in the indus-
trial area, now separated from their agricultural prov-
inces, 30 to 40 p.c. Imports from overseas are now
stopped. The situation in the cities of all these
countries is more acute than these figures imply
because the farmers and villagers consume most of the
local products and the cities mostly live on imports.
Norway, Denmark, Holland and Belgium import
feed for their animals. Without this, their meat,
fat and milk supplies decrease. As to human food’
some of them have hitherto imported only breadstuffs
and even exported dairy products, fats and meats, but
now they have to slaughter many of their animals.
Norway and Belgium and central Poland will be short
of fats and breadstuffs and of milk for the children.
Holland also will be short of breadstuffs.
The problems are the more complicated because
of great refugee movements taking place in Europe.
In Poland a million or more Poles, Christian and
Jewish, have been moved from the western to the cen-
tral part of the country. In spite of the destruction
which took place in Warsaw, the population of this
city has been increased half a million by incoming
Christian and Jewish refugees who have no means
of existence. Numbers of indigent Jewish refugees
from Germany who had been living in Belgium, Hol-
land and France prior to the occupation of these
countries are now without means of support.
It is doubtful if there will be any surplus of food
in the Balkan States this year. Any such supplies are
small at best because the severity of the last winter
was greatest in those States. Moreover, there is the
degeneration of their agriculture due to the mobilisa-
tion of a great deal of their man-power.
If there is a definite relief organisation, possibly
some supplies could be had from these eastern Euro-
pean States, but it would not be 5 p.c. of the require-
ments necessary. There is not the remotest likelihood
of getting substantial supplies from Russia, as the Rus-
sian people have been underfed for some years. If
any food supplies come out of Russia, it would be at
the deprival of the Russian people.
Holland Dreads Winter
(Condensed from a Dutch correspondent’s report in
London “Times.”)
The population of the occupied area of the
Netherlands is dreading the coming of winter. There
is coal enough in the country, but no transport is
available. In peace coal was carried from the mines
in Limburg and distributed over other parts of the
country mainly in barges. These were all requisi-
tioned by the Germans for their planned invasion of
the British Isles.
Oil stoves used to be popular in Holland, but now
no paraffin for heating is to be had, and all petrol and
petrol-derivatives are drastically rationed, so that coal
cannot be conveyed by lorries. The railway services
also have been severely curtailed. After the curfew
hour of 10 p.m. no trains run till daybreak, and a
huge quantity of rolling stock has been sent to Ger-
many.
Dutch workers, who are opposing the toughest
resistance to German domination, feel the pressure of
the German overlords increasingly heavy upon them.
Every request for work by Dutch laborers is met by
an offer of work in a German factory. Unemployed
persons who refuse this offer are deprived of their
out-of-work benefit and ration cards. German officials
in the Dutch labor exchanges also give vocational
advice, with the aim of forming a reserve of Dutch
labor trained in war industry on which the Germans
can draw. Dutch workers must also have a “labor
passport,” showing the antecedents of the bearer and
remarks by his employers. This enables the Ger-
mans to discard all “unreliable” elements in the Dutch
labor community. Many Dutch workers who had
been compelled to work in Germany have returned to
Holland, preferring privation in
their own country to the unbear-
able conditions in Germany.
The German - controlled
Dutch wireless is already prepar-
ing the people in the occupied
area for winter hardships. In
talks on “How to feed better” it
is urged that “luxurious meals
were bad for the health, any-
how.” An egg for breakfast is
held to be unnecessary ; porridge
and brown bread are enough.
Dinner should comprise potatoes
and other vegetables, with a little
meat or fish or an egg. It is
preferable, the broadcaster said,
for cows to be kept alive for the
production of milk.
* si *
Shortage in Spain
[Last week’s “Uncabled Addi-
tions” included a comprehensive
survey of Spain’s general condi-
tions. The brief further infor-
mation here given is condensed
from a personal - experience
account in New York “Times.”]
It is impossible to see how
Spain could last more than six
weeks of war. The wheat crop
is 1,000,000 tons short, and unless
u • ™° re is im P orted the country will
be in grave want before the spring wheat comes
m, even without a war. (Considerable quantities
exported to Germany now.) 1 cannot
. e “ iere . are . an Y considerable reserves, for last
spring the situation was so desperate that much of
the seed wheat was used. Spaniards who were in
T laaricl throughout the civil war say the food situa-
°n nov y 1S worse than at any time except the last
lew b< r tore General Franco’s armies entered,
c Wdh tbeir unf °rtunate capacity for publicity, the
JP ama j; ds Placed one of their soup kitchens in the
e f ’ ort . un y J . m the heart of the embassy and town-
se sect ! on in Madrid, and you realise the terrible
difference in the lot of the poor and the rich when you
see - men ’ women and children sitting in the gutters
eatlng the one meal a day—it consists of some kind
ot n^ ome stew—which they get to keep them alive,
, e morale of the people, as one would expect, is
v f ry • ’ The thou B ht of another war, when life is
a most insupportable in time of peace, frightens them
u ;-r ey declare that the food difficulties are because
the Governm ent is sending all the wheat, meat,
potatoes, eggs and olive oil to Germany or Italy—an
xa Bgerated view, but important just the same,
An ? tocra cy and businessmen, like the poor, all are
p B - n ? war ’ and many hope for the success of the
Bntl TV
There 1S the Fala nge, but the Falange is becoming
m °re unpopular. There is no doubt that Senor Suner
• his satellltes do want war, though the more sen-
~ble , reallse that it must be at the thirteenth hour.
° ne danBer may be a coup d’etat backed by the Ger-
mans a * d Italians ousting General Franco,
F l. . *
varied rrench Reactions
of [ £°ndensed from two further articles by the writer
6/11/’4O) regarding o? which New
York “Times” states: “Written in the occupied zone
2? France b y a citizen of a non-belligerent country,
name bl for his
responsibility.’’] s
Three-fifths of the territory of France is an island
in an ocean of incommunicability. Upon this island
twenty-five million souls are marooned. Around this
island is a cordon of armed guards and posters warn-
ing that those who attempt to escape will be shot.
I n their nsvchoWical reaction to the German
occupation the FrenclAave fallen into three general
classed 'This ! dSincSn Families are


disrupted, brothers estranged. We know two sisters in
their fifties who have been as close as two fingers of
the same hand. At present they do not speak. One
of my best friends, who adores his wife and children,
has found it so painful to see his wife and daughters
being converted to the Hitlerian philosophy that he
has taken separate lodgings and withdrawn from his
home. The three parties may be designated as the
Realists, the Sentimentalists and the Militarists.
The Realists would define their position somewhat
as follows: we are beaten beyond hope of an imme-
diate comeback ; it is a bitter confession, but we might
as well accept the fact: democracy has crumbled
under our feet. What is past is past. We want no
autopsies. But we are still alive and we intend to stay
alive. Moreover, we intend that our children shall
live more amply than we ever shall; that they shall
deliver themselves from this present shadow of slavery
and disgrace.
As to this face-the-facts party, I notice two things.
There are more women in it than men. The feminine
temperament seems to adapt itself more promptly to
adverse surroundings; with more decision women
chart a new course, reach out for the main chance.
These women are learning German, inviting the young
officers to dinner. The girls are organising dances
and cinema parties. Also, this Realist group is almost
solidly opposed to England. Britain must be beaten to
her knees, and before another winter, for if the
Churchill-Hitler duel drags through another winter it
will be France who pays the fare. With England
beaten, Germany may be in a more lenient frame of
mind toward docile France. As a corollary, the
Realists are furious with the United States, since
its aid permits England to prolong her defence.
The Sentimentalists are the emotional diehards.
They abhor everything Germanic ; they always have,
they always wijl. Since the day of Charlemagne this
antipathy has been in their blood. They will go their
way, leaving the German to go his. My wife’s aunt
is proud of her record. She says, “I have not seen a
German yet. I have seen thousands of German boots,
but not a German.” When she goes abroad she reso-
lutely fixes her eyes upon the sidewalk. Aunt Hor-
tense personifies a legion of intensely loyal national-
ists who do not realise the magnitude of their coun-
try’s plight.
The Sentimentalists passionately favor the victory
of England. England’s success, they realise, would
mean the intensification of immediate hardships, but,
what is of immensely superior importance, once the
temporary ordeal is over, they know that the dignity
and integrity of their nation’s existence will be pre-
served. They prefer acute suffering for a few years,
amd then the rebirth of France, rather than genera-
tions of bondage.
The Militarists are the third party, the men who
are with General de Gaulle in England. They are still
French, still fighting Germany, although they are fight-
ing from English soil, just as the Germans are still
German, still fighting England, although they fight
from French soil. These French youths feel that they
are the custodians of the spirit of the Marne and of
Verdun. Theirs is still the military programme,
Within their cause, they feel, lies the only germ of
practical aid to the Patrie. The young men of General
de Gaulle’s force stir admiration and secret pride
among all classes in France ; it is a comfort to know
that someone still carries the flag—-although the
Realists condemn them for prolonging the death
anguish of a hopeless cause.
Many persons have been curious as to the reaction
of the peasant to the German invader, for the owner
of the one-man farm is the rock-ribbed foundation of
French society. He owns his bit of pasture, grain land
and wood lot, his score of sheep and his quartet of
cows. He is an individualist, a slow thinker with a
long memory, and an obstinate fellow to antagonise.
French Governments have always handled him gin-
gerly in matters of taxation. To date the Germans
have interfered with him but slightly, since, both
geographically and strategically, the orbits of the two
do not collide. With bread for his soup, a bottle of
piquette on the table, onions and potatoes, he can
carry on. On alternate days he may hear the put-put
of a German motor-cycle patrol, but that is about his
only contact with the army of occupation. The two
personalities have not as yet come into head-on col-
lision.
To keep on the right side of the peasant, what
the Germans have taken from him has been requisi-
tioned through the Mayor of each commune, and
been promptly paid for. One man said to me, “So far
the invasion has not cost me a centime.” There is,
however, a first hint of pressure. All animals that
can serve as food—cows, sheep, even poultry and
rabbits —are being registered with the clerk of each
village. This provokes misgiving, for the peasant,
above everything, loves his pig. An old fellow of our
acquaintance has kept the same pig for six years. He
says there must always be a pig on a farm, and why
not keep one that you like? Another grumbled to my
wife “I have been down to inscribe Lucius, and it
worries me. I promised my son and his wife a piece
of him. I promised my daughter and her husband a
piece of him. That makes three families already in
that pig. If the whole German Army gets in, too,
where are we?”
In Britain’s Favor.
(From a London “Times” letter by Lieut.-Gen.
Sir Harry Knox.)
The German General Staff, if honest, when advis-
ing the Fiihrer must keep before him certain facts,
including the following:
Population: The Germans of the Reich proper,
including Austria and the Sudetenland, number
80,000,000. The populations of the European terri-
tories which Germany has treacherously and by force
occupied contain potential rebels in excess of the total
German population of the Reich.
Geographical: The Axis has a total length of
European and African coastline of some 12,000 miles.
A not inconsiderable liability for an alliance which
does not hold command of the sea.
Industry: Modern armed forces depend on the
output of industry. The British Empire has since the
last war built up in the Dominions and India metal-
lurgical, engineering and other industries. When
Dominion output is added to that of the British Isles
the production of industries essential to the prosecution
of the war attains formidable proportions. It is pos-
sibly correct to estimate the combined output as
equivalent to that of the Continent of Europe outside
Russia. Germany controls very largely the Con-
tinental output, but lack of raw materials will hamper
production both in quantity and quality. British
industry, on the other hand, has access to the raw
materials of the world. Moreover, British industry
has the friendly support of American industry. Ameri-
can industrial output if working at high pressure has
been estimated as equivalent to three times that of
the Continent of Europe.
Italy: Germany has Italy as an ally. Forty-three
million people who can have little enthusiasm for the
cause for which they have to suffer may prove un-
comfortable bedfellows. Economically, Italy cannot
support a long war. She will become a further burden
to the already overburdened Reich.
Such are some of the facts which the Nazis will
have an opportunity of considering during the coming
winter. If they find them comforting they must indeed
be optimists.
Getting Through the Blockade.
(Condensed from a New York “Daily News” article
by Guy Richards .)
Despite the British blockade, American indus-
trialists are pouring into Germany and Italy, by
devious routes, about $10,000,000 worth of vital war
materials every month. Vast stores of oil, copper,
machinery and cotton essential to the manufacture of
—“World Telegram,” New York.
FACED WITH AN INVASION OF HIS OWN!
explosives are finding an entrance to Axis territory
through Arctic Ocean ports, Spain, Portugal, Cuba,
Mexico and Russia.
These five nations —and probably more —are lend-
ing their services to American businessmen who have
found gold-lined routes for shipping blockade-banned
goods into Germany. These scattered suppliers, dealing
through their New York headquarters, have estab-
lished contacts with agents all over the world. The
agents are sponsored in the U.S.A. by amazingly
influential business interests.
The chief beneficiaries are U.S. cotton, oil and
machinery suppliers, and the giant copper concerns
which have somehow managed to keep their metal, in
scrap and ingot form, off the American embargo list.
Department of Commerce figures show that ship-
ments to Spain and Portugal sky-rocketed more than
$22,000,000 over last year’s figures for the first seven
months of the year. Cotton, oil, machinery and scrap-
iron are the items leading the big increase.
To Russia, America shipped $11,374,940 worth
of copper in the seven months ending July 31 this
year. None was shipped in the same period last year.
Exports of all sorts to the Soviet Union jumped to
$48,342,000 from $23,310,037 in the first seven months
of 1939 —a rise of more than 100 per cent.
Exports to Cubh soared $7,700,000, to Mexico
$8,100,000. These figures may indicate why Spain and
Portugal have been spared so long from involvement
with the Axis Powers in actual war. And they also
indicate to shipping men that someone here has been
able to convince the British navicert authorities that
Spanish industry, and not German and Italian, has
been consuming the goods shipped.
With the British becoming wiser, and Spain closer
to war, a tightening of the blockade has shifted some
of the flow of goods over the Pacific, where no block-
ade exists. The furious pace of trans-Pacific trade has
brought numerous charterings by Russia of American
tankers. The Amtorg Trading Co. has leased three
speedy Swedish motorships. Six miscellaneous
freighters have been booked by Soviet offices to carry
cotton and wheat from West Coast ports to Vladi-
vostok. It is in the Pacific that informed circles
believe will come the next Anglo-American move to
shut the back door, now wide open, through which
invaluable aid is flowing to Germany.
Meanwhile, daily, from Cuban harbors, loaded
tankers owned by American subsidiaries leave port —
only to return three days later, having unloaded their
cargoes on daring neutral blockade-runners. These,
in turn, set off on long voyages that scrape the Arctic
Circle to reach Petsamo and Murmansk, and thus
tranship their loads to Germany.
U.S. Non-interventionists.
[There are plainly evident gaps in this article by
Charles J. Rolo, condensed from “Scribner’s Com-
mentator” (U.S.A.), in which the writer contends that
Britain and France were sadly misled by the utterances of
President Roosevelt, leading newspapers, and diplomats,
businessmen and other Americans abroad. The writer
curiously avoids such concrete and surely significant
facts as the British-U.S. exchange of defence bases for
destroyers. Keeping such gaps in mind, his article
focuses attention on the strong non-interventionist out-
look widespread in America.]
People in Britain are hurt because America did not
send an army to Europe “to save democracy.” And
people in the U.S. are astonished and annoyed at the
assumption that America would lightly go to war
abroad. Few Americans realise how deep is the resent-
ment which many decent Englishmen and -women
feel toward the U.S. for having, as they see it, left the
Allies in the lurch.
Why did Britain expect active help from America?
The blame is about evenly divided between British
“ignorance” and American “irre-
sponsibility,” between British
leaders who wilfully misled their
people and American leaders who
misrepresented theirs. This refers
not merely to political leaders, but
to all those who have helped to
shape public opinion in the two
democracies. It includes speakers,
journalists, businessmen and intel-
lectuals.
Until the Munich crisis turned
the spotlight on America as a
future ally, the newspapers read by
the masses outside the U.S. con-
tained virtually no news about the
American scene —excepting about
the antics of Hollywood. The
British are seldom told that there
is a strong nationalist sentiment in
America. They think we are inter-
nationalist minded. The colossal
ignorance of American life was
exploited by the British press to
perpetuate the legend of a “Crusad-
ing America” —still Britain’s active
ally. The present war generation
was brought up to accept the
legend as fact.
Fine words had been tossed
around in great profusion— not by
the American people but. by indi-
vidual Americans or groups of
Americans. The chief sinners were
members of the large American
colonies in London and Paris, in-
tellectuals or important business-
men, and in both cases with wide
and influential contacts. The
opinions of the intellectuals, care-
lessly bandied about on cafe ter-
races in Paris, at cocktail parties in
Chelsea and in the drawing-rooms
of Mayfair, found their way into
dailies and weeklies under dramatic
but misleading headlines. The
opinions of the businessmen
possibly did more harm. Retailed “off the
record” at select week-end parties or in “semi-official
circles,” they becarrife the personal property of indus-
trial magnates and Cabinet Ministers, who were en-
chanted to hear their own wishful-thinking confirmed
and proceeded to frame their policy accordingly.
Equally misleading were the attitude and public
utterances of American diplomats in Europe. How
could the words and actions of a William C. Bullitt
fail to be interpreted as a proof of America’s intention
to do her duty by the Allies? The same was true of
the American Embassy in London and Canada.
A third mischief-making factor has been the will-
ingness of Americans in Europe to turn propagandists
for the Allies. What were the English to think when
Vincent Sheean, commenting at the microphone of the
8.8. C. on the appointment of Knox and Stimson to
the U.S. Cabinet, confidently asserted: “Germany has
made the same mistake she made in 1916. She has
left America out of her calculations. I am certain
that the United States will declare war”? And again,
was it not misleading the general public when at least
three Americans agreed to serve as propagandists on
the French radio, and continually emphasised
America’s desire to help the Allies—with the added
authority of being United States citizens?
A number of celebrated columnists in the U.S. did
their bit to encourage the notion of “Crusading
America.” The same criticism applies to the edi-
torial policy of some of our nationally famous
newspapers, which spoke of the German threat
to democracy and of America’s duties to
democracy, without specifying that they were opposed
to active intervention. The British hadn’t heard
about the huge anti-war spirit in America, because
our own columnists and editorial writers for


the most part either ridiculed or ignored it. In short,
not only is that part of the American press which is
quoted in the capitals of Europe more interventionist
than the country as a whole, but in its coverage of
American reactions to the war it has given to the news,
by accident or by design, an interventionist flavor
which does not strictly correspond to the realities.
Last but by no means least, there was the policy
of the present Administration, which produced in the
minds of all Europeans an exaggerated idea of the
extent to which the U.S. was prepared to intervene in
their affairs, serious misapprehensions being sown by
the President’s “Quarantine the aggressor” speech at
Chicago (October, 1937), and “We, too, have a stake
in world affairs” (April 14, 1939). Such words, coming
from a Government that had publicly condemned the
Nazi regime, could not fail to be interpreted as proof
that in a future conflict between Germany and the
Western Powers the United States would not remain
an onlooker. In fact, the whole foreign policy of the
Administration, from the time of the first Czech crisis
to the outbreak of war, was a standing encouragement
to Britain and France. The Administration, no doubt,
was motivated by the hope that it could stop Hitler by
throwing the moral support of the United States
behind the democracies. But would it not have been
more charitable to state categorically that moral sup-
port was all they would get? It might at least have
driven them to look more closely into their own
defences.
Britain’s Present Ships.
[Condensed from a London “Nineteenth Century”
article by Sir Archibald Hurd, who wrote the Official
History of the Merchant Navy in the War, this article
was written before the week ending October 20-21,
mercantile marine losses for which were officially given
out as the heaviest of the present war so far.]
Have we fared better or worse by sea than in the
last war?
In the first 12 months of the last war British
naval losses due to submarine and mine included
seven battleships - Audacious, Irresistible,
Ocean, Goliath, Triumph, Formidable and
Majestic, while the Bulwark was blown up at
Sheerness. The armored cruisers Aboukir,
Cressy, Hogue and Hawke were destroyed, as
well as the light cruisers Amphion, Pathfinder
and Pegasus, two gunboats, six destroyers,
nine submarines, the aircraft-carrier Hermes
and the minelayer Princess Irene ; four armed
merchant-cruisers were also destroyed.
In the first 12 months of the present war
the Germans employed more submarines of
improved design, more powerful mines and
bomb-carrying aeroplanes. They attacked
men-of-war at sea and when stationary at their
bases. Their capacity for harm has been
greater, but the results, so far as the Royal
Navy is concerned, have been far less. When
mobilisation took place in September last
year the British Fleet embraced 15 capital
ships, of which only one —the Royal Oak—
has been lost; seven aircraft-carriers, of
which five remain in service ; and 62 cruisers,
of which 59 are still available. As to other
types, 28 of the 185 destroyers, 11 of the 58
submarines and a relatively small number of
minesweepers, sloops, patrol vessels and gun-
boats have been sunk, as well as six merchant-
cruisers.
While these small gains were being
secured by the enemy, the shipyards were
engaged in building another fleet to consist
when completed of a total of 173 craft of all
kinds, including nine battleships, six aircraft-carriers,
25 cruisers, 39 destroyers, 19 submarines, etc.
Since the beginning of the war, in addition to
reinforcements of warships of all classes, the Royal
Navy has been strengthened by more than 50 armed
merchant cruisers, and more than 1500 minor war
vessels and auxiliary craft, of which a small propor-
tion has been sunk. Further additions have since been
made of men-of-war and auxiliaries.
As the result of the adoption of a great emergency
warship building programme, after the outbreak of
war, the Royal Navy, in spite of all the enemy’s efforts,
is far stronger today than when the war began. Had
it not been for the promptitude with which the
Admiralty laid down so many keels in the early days
of the struggle and the devotion of the masters and
men in the shipyards, the collapse of France, involv-
ing uncertainty as to the future of the French Navy,
would have been critical. That peril was removed by
the seizure or immobilisation of most of the important
units under the Tricolor. Though the Royal Navy
has to bear now, without aid, the responsibility of
maintaining command of the sea, it is well fitted for
the task, and it is month by month being reinforced.
In the Merchant Navy, which was not built or
manned for the violence of war and which has been
attacked with ruthless savagery, heavy losses have
been sustained, but not so great as those suffered by
Germany and Italy. On balance, the Ministry of
Shipping, with the additional tonnage which the mili-
tary successes of the enemy on the other side of the
English Channel placed at its service, the purchases
made abroad, particularly in the United States, and
the new vessels which have been completed in the ship-
yards, has under its control the largest merchant fleet
which has ever been under a single management.
Over 9,000,000 deadweight tons of shipping under the
Norwegian, Dutch, Belgian and Polish flags may be
regarded as a “present from Hitler.” Additional ship-
ping belonging to Denmark, and France is also in-
cluded in this fleet, while, many ships of neutral coun-
tries are under time charter to the Ministry.
The Germans and Italians have for the time
being a superiority of air power and possess
aerodromes which are within easy striking distance of
convoys in the English Channel and the ports of load-
ing and discharge. In these circumstances the Royal
Navy may suffer more serious losses than in the first
year of the war, and the sinkings of merchant ships,
with the disorganisation of the great commercial ports
owing to air raids, may present new and grave prob-
lems to the Government in future months. But the
Germans are paying a heavy price in aeroplanes and
pilots. There is no reason to doubt that the lessons of
history will be repeated in our experience and that,
with fleets of defence and supply stronger than they
were 12 months ago, the pressure of sea power will
be as decisive as in the past.
Bombers Paramount.
(From an “Atlantic Monthly” article by Francis Vivian
Drake.)
The lessons of Europe are brutally clear. From
the last despairing cry of France (“Send us 5000
’planes and we can carry on!”) to the present race-
with-death of the British, the constant clamor has
been for bombers, bombers, and still more bombers.
In the new pattern of war the term “hitting
power” has broken with military precedent. Europe
shows us (in blood and tears) that hitting power is
the heavy bomber, the fast, long-range, weight-carrying
bomber. The greater the number, the greater the
hitting power.
Hitting power is expressed in tons per day. It
varies with the distance, the speed, and the weights
the ’plane can carry. If a force of 1000 bombers, each
carrying two tons of bombs, can make only one trip
a day, the hitting power is 2000 tons ; if they can
make four trips, the hitting power is 8000 tons, and
so on, but always air hitting power means large
numbers of the right ’planes.
The fate of England depends on its bombers, on
their ability to smash the heart of German war
economy. “The process of bombing the military in-
dustries and communications of Germany, and the
air bases and storage depots from which we are
attacked,” said Winston Churchill recently, “affords
one, at least, of the surest, if not the shortest, of
—Wilmington “News,” U.S.A.
SOUTH FOR THE WINTER?
all the roads to victory.” Night after night the R.A.F.,
with its pitifully few bombers, is desperately pounding
away at these objectives, trying to make up for the
time so obtusely thrown away. The overworked
pursuit squadrons, fighting over their own homes for
lack of range, can only strive to ward off enemy
hitting power that should never have been allowed
to take off in the first place. Only in the past few
months has the R.A.F. begun its campaign against
German bases.
However numerous the pursuit ’planes, however
many enemy bombers they shoot down, undamaged
factories and bases can always send more for re-
placements, and British experience shows that bombers
always drop their loads.
Every phase of the European war has underlined
this outstanding lesson in air power —that the only
effective defence is instant and crushing offence. Who-
ever throws away the initiative throws away over-
whelming advantage, whoever waits to defend at home
plays straight into the enemy’s hands. England, with-
out aerial hitting strength, was powerless to prevent
the relentless advance of enemy air bases which now
enflank its coastline all the way from Narvik to
Bordeaux.
The machine that the R.A.F. has pronounced so
destructive, and so urgently demands, is in effect
an ordinary American transport ’plane, modified to
carry bombs instead of passengers. Give the United
States the hitting power 10,000 such ’planes would
represent and it could strike so far and so hard that
attack could be broken up far from the homeland.
It could be available over the Atlantic, the Pacific
or the Caribbean within a few hours’ call. It could
prevent the creation of enemy air bases or destroy
them. It could repel or destroy an enemy fleet. It
could reach within three hours ships still three days’
sailing distance away (at maximum speed). It could
deliver the unprecedented weight of 20,000 tons of
bombs per twelve daylight hours at targets 1000 miles
distant from its bases. With such titanic hitting power
the Royal Air Force could smash the whole of indus-
trial Germany into atoms in a week. It could drop
40,000 tons of bombs a day, against the maximum
of 500 tons a day which the Germans have so far
dropped on England.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information ana comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources .)
[When H. G. Wells arrived in America last month
cabled comment gave the impression that, in a sense
detrimental to Britain, he advised the U.S. to stay out
of the war. It was reported that, because of this
damaging interference, efforts were niade in Britain to
induce the Government to recall him. The relevant
extract from his copyright statement is here given.]
The Germans are likely to do all they can to drag
America into the war rather than admit the possibility
of a straightforward defeat by Britain. To bring
America into the war would be to bring American
party politics into the war. The Germans stand a far
better chance of a confused and inconclusive confer-
ence which would enable them to try again later, if
they can do that. The present slow growth of a
rational common world outlook between Great Britain,
Canada and America is a far better thing for all of
us than a hasty and unstable war alliance, with half
America uncertain about it or definitely unwilling.
H. G. Wells; New York “Times.”
*****
For some years it was believed by many that
alliances were necessary to Britain, and that we
could not exist unless we had the call on the services
of a multitude of small nations. Now we recognise
the fact that we can only succeed by the force of our
own arms and the strength of our own efforts and
that Continental alliances are apt to be liabilities. —
Lord Castlerosse; London “Daily Express.”
*****
“I happened to be awake and was standing out-
side the shelter having a cigarette. Two or three
bombs dropped, but I could hear by the noise they
made coming down that they were some distance
away I threw away my cigarette and went into
the shelter, sitting on the step with the door open.
Then I heard this bomb coming down, and immedi-
ately recognised that it was coming near. The
whistling, sizzling noise increased terrifically as the
bomb drew nearer. I had time to wake my wife up,
tell her to put her fingers in her mouth, which is a good
way of insuring that the mouth is open to protect the
ears, and to shut the door of the shelter. If you really
hear the bomb as I did from the time it leaves the
’plane, it is surprising how long it takes to come
down. I think a bomb falls at 150 miles per hour,
whereas sound travels at about 700 miles per hour,
so that the noise comes well in advance of the missile.
One of the St. Dunstan’s buildings was between us
and the bomb, so that we did not receive the direct
blast, but it was sufficient to shake the whole shelter
and fill it with dust. Apart from this we had no other
experience, except that of anxiety followed by relief.
A second or two after the explosion a large quantity
of rubble and other debris came down on the shelter.
If you have what they call ‘a near miss’ the effect
seems to be to put up morale and make you feel better
afterward.” — Sir lan Fraser, the chairman of St.
Dunstan’s.
*****
Perhaps medical authorities in charge of the
health of the R.A.F. will be interested in a simple
manner in which natives of the High Andes prevent
mountain sickness. In altitudes where atmospheric
pressure is extremely low I occasionally ate a slice
of raw onion or chewed a clove of garlic, which
apparently had the desired effect of preventing attacks
of giddiness, caused by difficulty in breathing and
abnormal blood circulation in the head. The nauseat-
ing odor of the breath after having eaten onions or
garlic is more or less counteracted by drinking milk
or chewing a little parsley. Airmen who feel uncom-
fortable when flying in high altitudes without using
oxygen apparatus might try this simple Andean pre-
ventive. — A. F. Tschiffely; London “Times” letter.
*****
In a normal year the Port of London handled
about 20 per cent, of Britain’s 150,000,000 tons of
foreign and coastwise trade. The Thames docks
have been reported by the British to have been
damaged so badly that they can be used for little at
present except military traffic. The ships that formerly
used them have been diverted to other ports, in
accordance with long-laid plans. Liverpool, one of
these alternative gateways through which foodstuffs
and war materials have poured uninterruptedly since
the start of the war, has 37 miles of dock space ; the
other centres have many miles apiece. Probably it
would take weeks of concentrated bombing to knock
them out at a time when the Royal Air Force is grow-
ing stronger every day. Nevertheless, the German
raids on British ports are worth watching ; for if the
seaport lungs of Britain can be crushed the British
supply situation will be serious. — New York “Times.”
*****
Britain and France tried their best to get Soviet Rus-
sian support against Germany ; Stalin’s price was Fin-
land, the Baltic States, a portion of Poland and a free
hand in the Balkans. The Anglo-French Powers could
not satisfy the greed of Soviet Russian imperialism
because they had moral scruples. It has been reported
that the Soviet Government has informed Sir Stafford
Cripps, the British Ambassador at Moscow, that unless
Great Britain recognises Soviet Russian annexation
of the Baltic States there cannot be any improve-
ment in Anglo-Russian commercial or political rela-
tions. If the United States wants Soviet Russian sup-
port against Japan, it will have to pay a big price to
Stalin in the form of extension of Soviet Russian influ-
ence in China; or, in other words, the United States
will have to agree to virtual control of China by Soviet
Russia in place of Japan. Soviet Russia would give
all kinds of encouragement to the United States about
an American-Russian co-operation against Japan, as
she did to France and Great Britain against German}
and Italy. This will be done with the avowed pur-
pose of worsening American-Japanese relations, whic
might lead to an American-Japanese war and afford an
opportunity for Soviet Russia to expand m China and
other parts of Asia.— Extract from a two-column letter
by Taraknath Das in New York “Tunes.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVE YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The art of “placing” a horse is one of
the chief attributes of a successful trainer,
and J. T. Jamieson’s decision against
starting High Caste in the Melbourne
Cup contributed largely to that horse’s
unexpected defeat of Beau Vite, Beau-
livre and Maikai in the C. B. Fisher Plate
at Flemington on Saturday. High Caste
was a comparatively fresh horse, whereas
his opponents were feeling the effects of
their strenuous Cup race.
High Caste, however, is one of the
most remarkable horses seen for years, and
even had he run in the Cup he might
have come up fresh. Not only does he
“make a noise,” but the legs of an ordi-
nary horse would give under the huge
bulk of his body. Yet he thrives on work,
and plenty of racing, and has already
started 12 times this season for six wins
and a dead-heat for first. His stake earn-
ings total approximately £25,000. High
Caste won the C. B. Fisher Plate against
a comparatively weak field last season,
but there was little incentive to back him
against Beau Vite on Saturday. Latter
had run right away from him at the finish
of the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes, and
seemed sure to do likewise over the
longer journey of the Fisher Plate. This
was reflected in the betting. There was
sufficient money to bring High Caste’s
price from eights down to sixes, but it
would have been much shorter had the
heavy-betting Jamieson stable been at all
confident of success.
Ted Bartle rode High Caste according
to plan. Determined to have the last run,
he kept his mount back last to the half-
mile, took him on the outside of Maikai
and Beau Vite rounding the turn, and,
running to Beau Vite just when the latter
momentarily looked like justifying his
odds-on favoritism, streaked away to win
as he liked by three lengths from Beau
Vite. Beaulivre, half a length farther
back, beat Maikai for third money in the
last stride.
Beau Vite and Beaulivre obviously
were feeling the effects of a gruelling
campaign, and their respective jockeys
stated that they did not gallop nearly so
generously as in previous races. Ralph
Stewart, owner of Beau Vite, was also
of opinion that High Caste’s comparative
freshness was the deciding factor in the
result, that his own horse, though he
looked well enough, must have been
knocked out by his Cup run. Beau Vite
now returns to Maoriland, and after a
short spell will be prepared for races to
be run at the Wellington Cup meeting
late in January. Time will not permit of
his racing in Melbourne next autumn,
but he will be in Australia for w.f.a.
races in Sydney, and Stewart hopes that
on his next visit to Melbourne he will
compensate for his failure in this year’s
Melbourne Cup.
Maikai’s failure may not-have been
due so much to staleness as to the fact
that he adopted the unusual role, for him,
of pacemaker. Actually, there was no
alternative for such a proved stayer, and
Munro, realising that a continuation of
the slow early pace would not suit him,
did the correct thing in taking him to the
front after the field had gone a couple of
furlongs. The time for the \\ mile, 2.30 f,
or only 2\ seconds outside the Fleming-
ton record for that distance, showed that
there was not much loafing after Maikai
settled down in the lead. The fact
remains, however, that he ran his race
back to front, and his failure does not
dispose of his chance of winning the Wil-
liamstown Cup or the Eclipse Stakes for
the second successive year.
Riding tactics resulted in the V.R.C.
Handicap being another “upside down”
affair. Apostrophe, a plodding type of
stayer, who usually drops far behind
early in his races, was left in front shortly
after the start and forced to make his
own pace. Critics blamed rider J. Pur-
tell, but the latter had to make the best
of an unenviable position, and criticism
was unwarranted. The pace was ridicu-
lously slow, did not quicken until less
than seven furlongs from home, and
Apostrophe eventually was outstayed by
Dashing Cavalier and Wilson, both of
whom had weakened to finish a long way
behind him in the Melbourne Cup..
With wins in the Hotham and V.R.C.
Handicaps, Dashing Cavalier has earned
£l2OO in stakes alone for his Sydney
owner, F. W. Hughes, in Melbourne this
spring. few years ago Hughes, a
wealthy businessman, had no intention of
owning a racehorse. Realising the need
of a hobby as a relaxation from hard
work, he decided to buy one. Now he
races more horses than any other owner
in Australia, and, in addition, has
founded a large stud. Dashing Cavalier
is the best handicapper he has owned.
The Constant Son horse started second
favorite to Apostrophe on Saturday, and,
although his chance looked far from
bright when he was well out of his ground
entering the straight, he responded
gamely to Coutts’s vigorous riding and
cut down Wilson to win by half a neck.
Latter looked all over a winner in the
straight, but prejudiced his chance by
veering into the centre of the track.
The epidemic of kicking here men-
tioned last week was responsible for
backers of Laveur for the J. A. Macleod
Steeplechase losing their money without
even getting a run. Always well in the
market at odds varying from 9 to 2 to
6 to 1, Laveur was kicked by another horse
when lining up for the start, and brought
back to the enclosure sporting a long
wound on his near knee. Acting on the
advice of the club’s veterinary surgeon,
the stewards would not allow Laveur to
start, but, as he had been in the starter’s
hands at the time of the mishap, his
backers were not entitled to a return of
their money. Stewards have discretionary
powers about declaring bets off, or mak-
ing an order concerning the settlement of
bets when a horse is permitted to be
withdrawn after the time for scratching,
but before it is under the starter’s orders.
That is fair to bookmakers and backers,
but the rule which covers cases like that
of Laveur on Saturday is distinctly one-
sided. The backer goes home muttering.
The Macleod Steeplechase was some-
what sensational in another respect. Two
jockeys, L. Abrahams and P. Bower, were
semaphored in turn as rider of The
Reckoning, but the latter was without a
jockey when the time came for him to
go to the post. Neither lad had taken his
gear to the races, and seemingly was un-
able to borrow any. The Reckoning’s
trainer, A. C. Ling, was fined £lO for
failing to make satisfactory riding ar-
rangements, thus compelling the late
scratching of the gelding. There was some
support at long odds for The Reckoning,
but he was not in the starter’s hands, and
his backers recovered their money.
Rimveil, a colt trained in Sydney by
Geo. Allen, landed a plunge in the Batman
Stakes. Freshened up after his failure in
the A.J.C. Derby, he was brought to Mel-
bourne with this race in view, and weight
of money forced his price from as much
as 7 to 1 down to favoritism at 5 to 2.
Ridden by Darby Munro, Rimveil ran
past Stylish without much difficulty in the
straight and won decisively from that
filly and Warbird. Rimveil is a white-
faced son of Veilmond, and owner
S. Buckley obtained a bargain when he
paid 80 guineas for him as a yearling.
Dark Felt missed a place after having
every chance, but well-backed Cephren
lost his chance at the start.
Followers of the powerful Lou Robert-
son stable seemingly missed an oppor-
tunity for a “killing” on High Road in
the Flemington Stakes for two-year-old
colts and geldings. He had shown little
form in either of his two previous races,
but, starting at 14 to 1 on Saturday and
returning a tote dividend at the rate of
39 to 1, he led practically all the way to
win well from two other outsiders in
Spearmain and Ratifier. High Road is
raced by B. and R. Grey Smith, the latter
a V.R.C. committeeman. One of the
biggest juveniles in training. High Road
is by Caledon from Scotch Melody—and
was sold for 40 guineas in 1935.
Neglected in the betting because she had
drawn the “slow” side of the straight
track, Pooka gave this popular theory a
temporary setback by sticking to the out-
side rails and easily defeating Piccadilly
Lass and Pireni in the Ottawa Stakes. The
race was for maiden fillies, but Pooka cut
out the five furlongs in three-quarters of
a second faster time than was recorded
by High Road in the Flemington Stakes.
Bred by Clive Leonard and raced on lease
by H. N. Leonard, Pooka is by Brueghel
from Kaftan, and therefore a half-sister
to the 1939 Oaks winner Triode, who
races in the same interests. Silver Knight,
even-money favorite, had every chance,
but weakened to finish a moderate fourth.
Veteran W.A. owner P. A. Connolly,
who raced such good horses as Blue Spec,
Jolly Beggar, Dyed Garments and Lily-
veil, had his first Flemington win for
many years when Remarc, trained in Mel-
bourne by Frank Godby, won the Final
Handicap. Remarc, well backed at 6 to 1,
hit the front about a furlong from home,
and won clearly from the faster-finishing
St. Constant, with the pacemaker, The
Decoration, third. He cut out the 10 fur-
longs in 2.2, time which equalled the Aus-
tralian and Flemington record established
by Manolive. Latter made his record
in the corresponding race, and went on
to success in the Williamstown Cup and
Eclipse Stakes. Remarc will attempt the
Williamstown Cup next Saturday, and, as
he seems to be improving with each race,
might be hard to beat. A five-year-old by
Marconigram from Revere, Remarc did
light stud duty before he came to Victoria,
and his owner intends to retire him to the
stud next season. Meantime he will con-
tinue to be trained in Melbourne.
Gladynev has won £ll4O in minor-
place money in Melbourne this spring,
but he continues to be a bad betting pro-
position. Followers of Jamieson’s stable
stuck to him again in the Final Handi-
cap, and sent him out equal favorite with
St. Constant at 4 to 1, but, after making
a dash at the leaders about a furlong
from home, he weakened into fourth
position.
Following Solecism’s success in the
Cup Steeplechase, owner “S. A. Rawdon,”
chief patron of hunting in Melbourne,
landed the J. A. Macleod Steeplechase
with another of his hunters, Collier.
Latter, who was having his first start
since his second to Dark David in the
Australian Steeplechase, conceded Sir
Balios 10 or 12 lengths from the last
fence, and backers in running laid long
odds on the leader. Sir Balios tired
rapidly towards the finish, however, and
Collier, finishing gamely, performed the
seeming impossible. Tornarsuk finished
a moderate third, but that placing prob-
ably would have gone to Musical David
had he not fallen at the last fence.
* * * *
“That doesn’t say much for the calibre
of our younger stayers” was a remark
expressed freely after Old Rowley, start-
ing at 100 to 1, had beaten another aged
gelding, Maikai, into second place in
the Melbourne Cup. Nor was it flatter-
ing to the younger brigade, even allow-
ing that the three-year-old Tidal Wave
did well to run third after steering a zig-
zag course in the straight. Old Rowley,
a seven-year-old by The Buzzard from
Syceonelle, had several good staying per-
formances to his credit, but the fact re-
mains that prior to Cup day he had not
won a race since his defeat of Allunga
in the A.J.C. Plate, 2\ miles, about 2\
years ago. Old Rowley’s success was a
wonderful result for bookmakers. Es-
pecially for pre-post men who had laid
fortunes against Beau Vite and other
fancied horses.
Experts are still puzzling over Old
Rowley’s success. When he .broke down
in the spring of 1938 there seemed little
likelihood of his ever racing again, and
even now he has a bowed tendon and a
doubtful suspensory ligament. Two ex-
planations can be advanced for his win ;
firstly, that he is a genuine one-paced
stayer, and, secondly, that the yielding
track, with the sting taken out of it by
rain, suited Old Rowley’s doubtful legs.
Whatever the real reason for his re-
juvenation, he responded gamely when
Andy Knox took him to the outside at
the turn, hit the front inside the last fur-
long and stayed too well for Maikai,
who conceded him 201 b. One of the
plainest horses ever to win the big race,
Old Rowley probably will race for the
last time in the Williamstown Cup next
Saturday. Afterwards he will be retired
to the Merriwa (N.S.W.) property of
Scully’s brother and end his days as a
station hack.
Maikai made a game attempt to im-
prove on his second in the corresponding
race last year, but the steadier of 9.4
pulled him up right at the finish. Tidal
Wave was one of the unlucky runners.
According to his rider, T. Unkovich, he
hung out about three horses wide most
of the way, but even then he might have
won had he received a clear run in the
straight. Tidal Wave, however, did
better than the other three-year-olds in
the field—Lucrative and Pandect —and,
provided all goes well with him mean-
time, he may be a big danger in the St.
Legers next autumn.
Beau Vite’s failure to finish closer than
fourth was a knockout blow to punters
who sent him out favorite at 7 to 4. In
trouble in the straight, he looked dan-
gerous for a few strides when he dashed
through on the inside towards the finish,
but weakened under his 9.7 and missed
third money by a head. It was dis-
covered later that Beau Vite had buckled
his off fore shoe. The discomfort of one
foot being raised almost half an inch
from the ground may have explained why
he ran about in the straight.
Lucrative’s fifth was a good perform-
ance, considering that he had to be
checked after straightening for home,
and there can be little doubt now that
the Victoria Derby winner is a stayer.
He conceded Tidal Wave 51b., and seem-
ingly there is little between these two
colts at two miles. Beaulivre weakened
under 9.6 after hitting the front in the
straight, but he did much better than the
second favorite, Historian, who died in
his run after making a shortlived dash at
the top of the stright. Two miles evi-
dently is farther than Historian likes,
but he is certain to be well in the market
if he contests the Williamstown Cup, of
l\ mile, next Saturday. Pandect and
Dashing Cavalier, leaders into the
straight, dropped out in the run to the
judge, the former’s failure suggesting
that he would not have beaten Lucrative
in the Victoria Derby even had he got
away with the rest of the field in that
race.
* * * *
There was nothing very exciting asso-
ciated with Saturday’s meeting at Canter-
bury Park. The competitors were of ordi-
nary class, and, as usual in such circum-
stances, winners did not prove easy of
selection. Roxford was the only abso-
lute favorite to win, though Lord Valen-
tine shared favoritism with Willie Green
for the Canterbury Handicap.
Lord Valentine accounted for that race
with a good finishing run after Constant
had taken the measure of the pace-
makers, Willie Green and Blinky Bill,
halfway down the straight, and looked a
winner. Trainer Nailon has done well
with Lord Valentine for Mrs. C. Ruwald,
and as the chestnut is a fair weight-carrier
he can be relied on to add to his wins.
Blinky Bill just missed a place, and Willie
Green, though third, did not stay as well
as anticipated.
Pen Name ran as if she would be all
the better for a short let-up, and it was
the same with her stable-companion Bel
Oiseau, who was favorite for the
Campsie Handicap later in the after-
noon. In the Canterbury Handicap
Jocular, who has been failing at various
distances, also ran as if a short holiday
would benefit him.
After being prominent from the start
of the Flying Handicap, and settling
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN
(At Flemington.)
By “SENTRY.”
Verdon Trial: Pompous or Liv-
ingstone, 1 ; Netherlea, 2; Con-
tact, 3.
Rawdon Stakes: Portable, 1 ;
High Road, 2 ; Coochbehar, 3.
Williamstown Cup: High Caste
or Tidal Wave, 1 ; Mac Rob, 2 ;
Historian, 3.
Strand Handicap: Aurie’s Star,
1 ; Hilton, 2 ; All Veil, 3.
Seddon Handicap: Nightbeam,
1 ; Stylish, 2 ; Warbird, 3.
Ozone Highweight: Mr. Felt, 1 ;
Carpentier, 2 ; Burrabil, 3.
FOR ROSEHILL.
By “PILOT."
Macarthur Stakes: Skerries, 1 ;
Parsing, 2 ; Kimbell, 3.
Lady Fitzroy Stakes: Magi, 1 ;
Limonite, 2 ; Pickpocket, 3.
Spring Flying Handicap: Hash,
1; Kooba, 2 ; Roxford, 3.
Cumberland Handicap: Dewar,
1 ; Kurrawid, 2 ; After Six, 3.
Novice Handicap: War Time, 1;
Sylveroni, 2 ; Petronius, 3.
Parramatta Mile: Early Hope, 1;
Tartanus, 2; Bestop, 3.


HAVE YOUR CHRISTMAS SUIT
MADE OF
*t\ve
COOLANA is one of the famous
Crusader Cloths. It is speci-
ally manufactured to give you
supreme comfort in summer. The in-
creasing popularity, year after year, of
Coolana proves that it is just the cloth
for which Australia is waiting . . . For
all its extreme coolness, airiness and
comfort, Coolana gives you just the
same remarkable wear and service
as all other Crusader Cloths . . .
Remember the name COOLANA 1
In a Coolana Suit you
are air-conditioned I
■p
m.
YOUR TAILOR has the New Coolana
Pattern Booh and will be pleased to show
it. You will find a pattern to meet your
taste exactly. He has the full range of
Crusader Pattern Boohs showing weights
and designs for all
seasons and climates . . .
And no Crusader Pat-
tern is Ever Sold Out !
• SCISTEfIf 0 TMOI
CRUSADER CLOTH IS GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Petruchio in the straight, Penthides had
to run to his best form to get home in
front of the slow-beginning Hash. When
half the distance was covered Hash was
1 n ap almost hopeless position, and did
particularly well to run Penthides to half
a neck Fifty yards from the winning-
post it tooked as if she might overhaul
Penthides, but her effort in making up so
much leeway slowed her down in the last
ew sti ic es.
Chiswick' again ran well, 'but though
y e w,“„ r „ e in'r„ f ° Ur f ' h his ,£ han , ce was " ot
°. ne fro ” ,*f *°P o£ k > he
s ‘Z S % I llttle horse ’, but a
d ™P i,L % S M v neces . s .fy ,0 en ;
vJi JTh r, to sr h,S cradlt acc °™'-
y*' " w , y * ape ?
and Petruduo retains sufficient of his
“f* *° make him a ™ ner m the
. u uie ; ....
Australasia, whose staying credentials
were better than those of any of his
opponents, led throughout the Trial
Stakes. Triggerman was his closest fol-
lower for a mile, but was passed in the
straight by Dewar. The latter never
looked like catching Australasia, but,
considering he had 9st„ his effort was
good enough to give him a look-in for
middle-distance handicaps at mid-week
meet,- n pc
• ' • • • • .
The colts and geldings’ division of the
Two-year-old Stakes went to Bruegalong,
who, after Pancerta had made the early
running, led into the straight from Pars-
ing, Marconigraph and Fort Leon, and
was not after in real danger, though Pars-
ing and Fort Leon finished strongly. The
winner, who is trained by C. O’Rourke
for R. Pursehouse, is by Brueghel from
Mooch Along, dam of Lochlee and other
winners, and cost 130gns. as a yearling,
In running fourth Haripur (by
Harinero) made a promising show-
ing, but the favorite, Kimbell, was dis-
appointing. After jumping away fairly he
quickly lost ground. He is a smart-look-
ing colt by Soft Step from Emily Rose,
and is owned by Mrs H F Taylor
Before leaving the weighing-yard he was
somewhat nasty, and also at the barrier.
Howe . ver - he will day.
My Legion, Chataway and Magi were
together turning into the straight in the
fillies’ division of the Two-year-old Stakes,
but doing better than the other two over
the final furlong My Legion won from
Magi, wl >o started favorite. Magi hung
out at the turn . p ickpocket (PicSadilly-
Voleuse), from B. Payten's stable, was a
strong tip on the strength of track work,
ut h er eai U quote of 3to 1 with some
bookmakers was scarcely warranted, and
she receded to fives. She came home well
t° ™ n and is worth remembering,
Cook trains Legion tor the
™ ne r r ’ who races as Warrior Power,
a Har i nero ’
° ° ark Chief and Clever Fox > and was
a ,8 ns - y ea,lin g.
n U - .
Bestop was heavily backed for the first
division of the Highweight Handicap, but
was narrowly beaten by Kooba. They
were together behind Good Earth and
Benburb half a furlong from the win-
ning-post, and, though at that stage Kooba
was running unkindly—interfering with
his own chance—and appeared beaten, he
raised another effort. There was only a
head between him and Bestop, with Ben-
burb a similar distance further away.
Good Earth, who led for a long way,
unfortunately had one of her legs cut so
badly that she will not race again for
some time. Novice had her second run
of the afternoon in this race, but did not
improve upon her showing in the Fly-
ing Handicap. Kooba, who has furnished
into a big and good-looking horse,
achieved his win at about the same time
that his stable-companion Dashing Cava-
lier was winning at Flemington, making
the afternoon satisfactory for F. W.
Hughes. It was Kooba’s first win for
over three years.
Roxford won the second division of
the Highweight Handicap. Although he
had a clear lead entering the straight it
was by only half a head he defeated the
faster-finishing Brazen Boy in a quarter-
second slower time than Kooba recorded
in his division. Yuletide’s close third
gives him a chance of shortly picking up
a race, and Bungaree will do so at one of
the mid-week meetings. King’s Park is
coming on. Roxford may improve, but
he is still a long way below his two-year-
old form.
Kurrawid’s Campsie Handicap win
pointed to his being ready for the prin-
cipal summer handicaps at Randwick,
where he has run well at a mile and a
half. Bel Oiseau, though favorite for the
Campsie Handicap, did worse than when
unplaced in the Carlton Handicap at
Moorefield the previous week, and the
second favorite, Masterpiece, who won
the Moorefield Handicap in brilliant
style, could not get near the front at any
stage.
Tuckerbox was the early pacemaker,
but a win for John Peel appeared prob-
able when he got to the front at the turn.
He struggled gamely in the straight, but
met too solid a finisher in Kurrawid.
Airoon, who is still eligible for a minor
class, was a fair third, followed by Enatic,
who did well to get that far forward after
being last less than half a mile from
home. Kurrawid’s win was his first since
he beat Santa at Rosehill last December.
* # ♦ *
The failure of Beau Vite and Beau-
livre in the Melbourne Cup is nearly
sure to cause some breeding authorities
to tell us that Beau Pere does not sire
stayers. Perhaps, but though both Beau
Vite and Beaulivre may possibly be better
up to a mile and three-quarters than at
two miles, their defeat in the Melbourne
Cup scarcely counts against their sire.
Weight stops the best, and not many
horses have won Melbourne Cups when
carrying more than weight-for-age. Beau
Vite had 71b. and Beaulivre 61b. in excess
of the scale, and if either had carried
weight-for-age, 9st., one or the other
might have won. Above 9st. a few pounds
extra make a tremendous difference at
two miles.
* n * *
After Old Rowley’s win, I heard one
of his few supporters remark: “I never
back a horse for a Cup that has not
shown form at a mile and three-quarters
or further, and Old Rowley had won at
weight-for-age at two and a quarter
miles, and he also ran second in the
Australian Cup at that distance.” If that
backer invariably acted up to that idea
he was not on any of the winners of the
five previous Melbourne Cups. Wotan
had not won at a distance as far as a
mile and a quarter, and that was the
furthest at which Marabou and Cata-
logue were successful. The Trump and
Rivette had not raced beyond a mile and
a half, at which distance they won.
Admitting Old Rowley had staying
credentials, his sixth with 8.1 in the
Hotham Handicap was not an induce-
ment to back him with 7.12 for the Cup
three days later. Advocates for “reversal-
of-form” inquiries must have had doubts
as to the correctness of their views on
that score when, in addition to Old
Rowley winning the Cup, St. Constant
won the Yan Yean Stakes the same day.
He beat three in the Cantala Stakes the
previous Saturday.
* * *
Jockeys’ stories after a big race often
make you wonder whether some have any
idea what has been their position in run-
ning. More than once I have known a
rider of a Melbourne Cup winner say
he was never further back than seventh
or eighth in the final mile, whereas he
was not one of the first dozen commenc-
ing the last six furlongs. Spectators who
have closely watched a Cup through
powerful glasses are often amazed by
jockeys’ “after-race” stories. In sprints it
is not unusual for jockeys to say they got
away well when they were palpably slow
off the mark. Admission that they did
get away badly might lose them the
mount at the horse’s next start.
* * * *
Price lists issued in September by one
of Sydney’s leading firms of bookmakers
pointed to some backers having gone for
a big win on Gladynev and Maikai for
the “two Cups” double. That combina-
tion was then quoted as “special” at 80
to 1. Before the two races were run they,
in turn, looked hopeless propositions, and
yet each ran a good second, Gladynev
starting at 7 to 1 and Maikai at 20 to 1.
At the time Gladynev and Maikai were at
such comparatively short odds the win-
ning double of Beaulivre and Old Rowley
was quoted at 600 to 1. In August it was
1000 to 1. The combination of North-
wind and Wotan gave the double books
a wonderful turn-up in 1936, and results
this year must have been almost as pleas-
ing—more so to those books who took
the risk of gambling against Beau Vite
straight out, as well as in doubles. How-
ever, it is not unusual for bookmakers to
get out of trouble when their position
seemed almost hopeless. A special in-
stance was when Valicaire (5 to 4 on)
won the 1926 Doncaster. Everything that
appeared to have the slightest chance of
winning the Sydney Cup was coupled
with her, but Murray King, at 200 to 1,
landed the second leg.
* * * *
In the Yan Yean Stakes the form
shown by High Caste and St. Constant in
the Epsom worked out fairly correctly.
In the latter High Caste gave St. Con-
stant 91b., and beat him two lengths. In
the Yan Yean Stakes, with 181 b. separat-
ing them, a dead-heat resulted.
*** ' *
Spring three-year-old form has been
somewhat topsy-turvy. After the A.J.C.
Derby most of us were prepared to
accept Pandect as the best stayer, even
though he may have been lucky to win
that race. He got away too badly in
the Victoria Derby to have any chance,
but Melbourne Cup running did not up-


is
\
s
§
'1 f 1
m
m
IS THE IDEAL CAR FOR TO-DAY!
vP. PBlHfe;'--.MW*F.pHNi a9Hk ptfFP «■« V VII * w Irf I I «
IP
It’s got every Modern Feature ... and still sells at Pre-War Prices
e
O.H.V. 6-CYL. ENGINE :
With its controlled flame combustion,
this 6-cylinder, 14-h.p. engine is the
ideal engine for power plus economy. It
has swift acceleration and a wonderful
top-gear performance and there is never
a suggestion of labouring, even with a
full load of 5-6 passengers on board.
6-PHASE CARBURETTOR :
You can't buy it on any other car! This
special Vauxhall carburettor gives six
different mixtures and changes auto-
matically from one to the other, select-
ing that which gives the best perform-
ance and biggest economy.
TT INDEPENDENT SPRINGING :
Enjoy luxurious comfort on every road!
This patented type of independent front-
wheel springing (exclusive to Vauxhall)
is the most modern type yet evolved,
automatically regulating itself to give
soft or hard springing to suit every road.
\
LOCKHEED HYDRAULIC BRAKES :
Safety! Tremendous braking pressure
is transmitted equally to all four wheels
with every slight pedal pressure. Any-
one, even without mechanical knowledge,
can adjust Vauxhall brakes in a few
minutes with an ordinary screw-driver.
3-SPEED SYNCHROMESH
You can't clash the gears in a Vauxhall
'l4.' No matter whether you are
changing up or down to first, second or
third gear, the change is silent, easy and
positive. Vauxhall has the more modern
three speed gear-box, instead of the old-
fashioned four speed.
5-6 SEATER BODY :
Vauxhall 'l4' is well named the "Happy
Medium" car. With room for 5-6 people,
it answers the needs of practically every
family. This steel, turret-top body by
Holden is one of the strongest bodies of
any car because of its box-section design.
YAUXHALL 14
COMMERCIAL CONVERTIBLE
COUPE - • £334
SPORTS MODEL - £339
SALOON
£359
AS ENGLISH AS ENGLAND
Bay on the Convenient G.M.A.C. Payment Plan
Buy from your Local Vauxhall Dealer
_Sold_and_Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia GENERAL MOTORS-HOL DEN’S LIMITED 82'
hold the idea he would have beaten
Lucrative even if he had fared better at
the start of the Derby. Prominent for a
long way in the Cup, he finished behind
Lucrative. Excuse was made for Tidal
Wave’s failure to do better in the Derby,
and his third in the Cup proved it was
not unwarranted. His form prior to
that race did not point to him as a
better stayer than Lucrative and Pandect,
but now it is probable that in the distance
handicaps in the autumn he will be rated
as good as Lucrative and superior to
Pandect.
Nightbeam has fallen short of expec-
tations, and, though Scientist’s Derby
chance was settled owing to the way he
was knocked about, it is doubtful
whether he is as good as was supposed.
Spring racing has left us in doubt as to
the best three-year-old, and the V.R.C.
St. Leger should be of more interest than
usual.
* * * *
It has been announced that Ajax is
to be trained for the autumn, though, if
there is any doubt as to a return to his
best, it might be wise to drop that idea.
Presumably the chestnut’s owners are
influenced by the trainer’s opinion, and if
with him the wish is father of the thought
that the chestnut will be as “good as
ever” in the autumn it is excusable. As
Ajax is rising seven, he has reached an
age at which most stallions deteriorate,
and to win w.f.a. races next autumn it
will be necessary for him to act nearly,
if not quite, up to his best form. At
various distances he will have tough
opponents in Beau Vite, Beaulivre, High
Caste and Royal Chief, and some of the
three-year-olds may also have to be taken
into account. More than once it has
been inferred that Ajax’s owners have
done a little side-stepping, but they will
be blamed by few if, before the autumn
comes round, they finally decide he has
done enough.
* * * *
It is occasionally awkward for a
trainer when there is a clash of interests
on the part of big bettors associated with
his stable. That was J. T. Jamieson’s
experience when High Caste and Gold
Salute ran in the Linlithgow Stakes at
Flemington on Thursday. He would
have liked one or the other to be with-
drawn, preferably Gold Salute, but the
latter’s owner decided he should run.
High Caste defeated Gold Salute so
decisively that it was possibly fortunate
for A. E. Cooper that on the opening
day the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakfes, and
not the Cantala Stakes, was made the
former’s mission. If High Caste had
started in the Cantala the owner of Gold
Salute would have got a better price,
but would probably have lost his money.
Before the running of the Linlithgow
Stakes it was anticipated there would be
a change of stables for Gold Salute, and
now G. Price has him. Well, as that
trainer has w.f.a. horses in Beaulivre and
Mildura in his care, the owner of Gold
Salute will scarcely avoid conflict of
interests on some future occasions. It is
not unusual for there to be more than
one runner for a big handicap from the
same stable, but in w.f.a. races a single
representative is generally considered
sufficient. An owner has the right to
please himself as to the race in which
he starts his horse, but, as a rule, it is
advisable to be guided by his trainer’s
judgment.
* % sfc sjc
Munro’s riding contributed to Session’s
success in the V.R.C. Oaks, but in addi-
tion to beating Tranquil Star, who ran
so well against Lucrative in the Victoria
Derby, she cut out the mile and a half
in the fast time of with 8.5. Later
in the afternoon Mac Rob won the
Veteran Stakes, at the same distance, in
Session has given P. Miller a
great return for the 450gns. he gave for
her as a two-year-old. The only fly
m the ointment for him is that he did
not breed her.
Session, who was bred by A. W.
Thompson and Co. Pty., is by Marconi-
gram from Manumit, by Manna from
Pretty Swift, by Swynford. Manumit
was sold as a three-year-old in England
D° r - and, imported by E. L.
Baillieu, was mated with Marconigram
after her arrival in Australia, Session
being her first foal. Manumit went to
■auction some months after Session, and
the owner of Kia-Ora Stud bought her
tor 1400gns. She then had a filly foal
at foot by The Buzzard, and had been
served by Brueghel.
* * * *
J nere were several failures at the
meetings at Flemington, these including
tarly Bird and Freckles. One or two
evices were tried to keep the latter from
tunning out in his races, but immediately
e started to feel the pinch he would
hang out, “and no rider in Australia
could prevent him doing it” was the
summing-up of his trainer, W. McGee.
Early Bird displayed plenty of dash in
her races, but was lacking at the finish.
Only that it is too late in the season to
ease her up for the stud it is probable she
would have been retired. As it is she is
to be kept going for summer racing.
* * * *
The success of Bland Princess in the
first division of the Novice Handicap at
Ascot was something tote double backers
did not expect. No one doubled Casica-
sado with her, and as a result the soli-
tary supporter of Casicasado and
Petronius (second in Bland Princess’s
race) received £5l 15s. for ss. Almost
needless to say the double of Bland
Princess and Pigment was not selected,
and the money was shared by backers of
Petronius and Pigment. The double tote
would be appreciated at every Saturday
meeting and at all fixtures at Randwick,
and it is probably only a matter of
time for it to be operated everywhere.
* * * *
Owing to the absence in Melbourne of
such a large number of Sydney racegoers,
the paddock at Ascot was not nearly so
well patronised as usual on Wednesdays.
Consequently the Lord Mayor’s Patriotic
and War Fund may not greatly benefit.
The racing was not out of the ordinary,
though the three-year-old La Vallee again
proved herself a smart 14.2, and Hash,
Casicasado and Early Hope won their
races decisively, the last-named after
getting into a lot of trouble. He is raced
by F. Christey, whose judgment in his
purchases during the past few months
has been excellent.
* ♦ sH *
The death of any man who has just
reached the top of the tree in anything
is to be regretted. A. G. Papworth, who
headed the list of winning trainers in
Sydney last season, died last week at
Rosehill. Talking was the horse of
greatest note ever trained by him, winning
the A.J.C. and Victoria Derbies. Owned
by S. Cash, Talking was sold to A. E.
Cooper for £19,000 shortly before win-
ning the Victoria Derby. This season
horses prepared by Papworth had done
well. t
I recently read an interview in which
a jockey said that, after all, a Melbourne
Cup was much the same as any other
race. In his own case that may have been
so, but, on the other hand, I have heard
jockeys admit the occasion was too much
for them, and that they did not ride up
to their best form. They were worried
what to do for the best, and their anxiety
caused them to make errors which they
would have avoided in minor races. I
did not see the recent Cup, and am there-
fore not in. a position to express any
opinion on that score, but I have heard
a few backers—disappointed ones, of
course —say that some of the jockeys did
not display The same judgment as on
lesser occasions. However, Old Rowley


SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
fe NEW |
CHAMPIONS
S\vs
ni
CHAMPIONS
Bring SMOOTH MOTORING
If your engine is not pulling
smoothly and evenly be sure
to check the spark plugs. Fouled
and worn spark plugs may he
robbing you of the economy
and pleasure of a smooth-
running engine. Install new
Champions for greatest speed
and power, and for the real
economy that only these su-
perior spark plugs can give.
An Empire Product—made in Windsor, Can.
won in such good style that, no matter
how they may have ridden, it is improb-
able the result would have been affected.
* * * *
The three-year-olds Lucrative (7.8) and
Tidal Wave (7.1) have excellent prospects
in the Williamstown Cup. Three years
ago John Wilkes, then a three-year-old,
won with 7.10, and a couple of years
earlier Garrio scored with 7.8. The fact
of the race being run at Flemington may
make a difference, but it can be claimed
for Lucrative and Tidal Wave that they
have shown form on that track.
High Caste has been rehandicapped at
9.7, and as that is 51b. more than he un-
successfully carried in the Caulfield Cup
a win for him is likely to be difficult. A
first-class handicap and a w.f.a. race at a
mile and a half are different things, and,
notwithstanding High Caste has con-
tinued to improve, the task may be too
much for him. Dashing Cavalier, who
has gone up to 8.8, will be suited by the
distance, and is so well that he is bound
to figure prominently. He is getting 131 b.
from High Caste, and in the Eclipse
Stakes handicapper Clem Hill has put
only 71b. between them. Remarc’s form
has been so consistent that, with 7.3, he
is bound to give his backers a great run.
His time of 2.2 for a mile and a quarter
with 7.13 on Saturday was remarkable,
and if he can keep going at that rate for
another two furlongs with his light
weight a mile and a half record for Vic-
toria is on the cards. Of the older horses
his prospects impress me most, with
Dashing Cavalier next, but they may find
it hard to beat two of the younger divi-
sion in Lucrative and Pandect.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Notwithstanding the value of the
Eclipse Stakes has been reduced by the
V.A.T.C. to £2OOO against its former
£2500, and stakes for minor races will be
down £lOO each, £4200 will be distributed
at the club’s meeting on Saturday week.
The distance of the Eclipse Stakes has
been cut down to a mile and a quarter,
and this should give a great chance to
Mildura with 9st., which is 41b. less than
he had in the Epsom. He is weighted to
meet High Caste 91b. better than when
the latter beat him in that race.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
In winning the New Zealand Cup in
3.20, Serenata cut 2 l-ssec. off Palantua’s
previous record for that race. Last year
Yours Truly won in 3.22 2-5, form he
has not quite repeated in Australia. The
Queensland Cup, won by Earl Rivoli in
Brisbane on Saturday, was also a fast-
run race, the time being 3.22-L However,
that was far from being a record for
Queensland. Spear Chief won last year’s
Brisbane Cup in 3.19|, which is also an
Australian record.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Fancied horses were to the fore in
many of the races at Flemington, and
some tote dividends were consequently
on the lean side. The backers of All
Love for a win and place in the Byron
Moore Stakes came out exactly square.
For a win that filly paid ss. 6d. for 55.,
and on the place tote 4s. 6d. for ss.
Cradle Song and Her Highness, the other
place-getters, returned Bs. and 7s. respec-
tively, so the backer whose judgment
enabled him to pick the first three in
the Byron Moore Stakes received 19s. 6d.
for the 15s. he risked.
* * '* *
Old Rowley won the Melbourne Cup,
but the honors of the V.R.C. Spring
Meeting were with High Caste, who,
despite his great bulk, stood up to his
racing jn remarkable fashion. Although
he was not a Melbourne Cup runner, he
started each day of the meeting for two
firsts, a dead-heat for first, and a second.
The 2.30 i for the C. B. Fisher Plate was
not slow by any means, and he defeated
Beau Vite quite as easily as when the
latter finished ahead of him in the L. K.
S. Mackinnon Stakes on the opening day.
The Cup must have temporarily knocked
out both Beau Vite and Beaulivre, and
we shall have to wait until autumn racing
in Sydney to decide whether High Caste
is really superior to those two at a
mile and a half.
Beau Vite is not to race in Melbourne
in the autumn, but, as he is to be kept
going to compete for the Wellington Cup
in January, he will not have much in the
way of a rest before he reappears here.
Of course there is the possibility of
owner Stewart changing his plans. The
Wellington Cup is a valuable race, but
Beau Vite may get so much weight that
his owner may deem it advisable to miss
it in order to have his horse quite fresh
for the A.J.C. w.f.a. races. Those run
in the autumn are the Autumn Plate,
H mile ; All-Aged Plate, 1 mile ; Cum-
berland Plate, If mile ; and A.J.C. Plate,
2} miles. The least for first money in
any of the four last season was £950.
* * * #
Double Remove has made a great be-
ginning as a sire. His first season has
given two champion fillies in All Love
and Triad. The latter made light of the
opposition in the McDougall Stakes in
Brisbane on Saturday, and backers were
prepared for her success, sending her out
at 5 to 4 on in a field of 12. She is out
of Chaptrel, a Son-in-Law mare, and was
sold at Randwick for 375gns. Triad is
a half-sister to Stylish, who has been
showing good forrp in Melbourne.
* * * #
On Melbourne form there is little be-
tween Beau Vite and Beaulivre. In the
W. S. Cox Plate Beau Vite defeated Beau-
livre about half a length ; in the Mel-
bourne Cup Beau Vite did not finish far
ahead of Beaulivre; and a half-length
separated them in the C. B. Fisher Plate.
At the finish Beaulivre was nearer Beau
Vite than at the top of the straight, and
in the autumn there should be some great
finishes in the w.f.a. races in which these
two, High Caste and Ajax take part.
After the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes
High Caste was generally rated inferior
to Beau Vite at a mile and a quarter or
further, and Caulfield Cup form placed
him behind Beaulivre. Yet he finished
the V.R.C. meeting the master of both,
and, even allowing they were at some-
what of a disadvantage, it is not impos-
sible for the autumn to see High Caste
again superior to them in the w.f.a. races.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Weight stopped Beau Vite and Beau-
livre in the Melbourne Cup, and it had
the same effect upon Royal Chief in the
New Zealand Cup, for which he was
regarded as “a good bet” with 9.6. He
did not get a place, finishing fifth, Sere-
nata winning from Taurangi and Little
Robin, but the latter was disqualified
consequent on his rider not weighing in.
Serenata is a four-year-old mare by
Nightmarch from Praise, and is owned
by Mrs. W. Richmond. Last season
Serenata ran in 16 races, winning two,
one at six furlongs and the other at a
mile. As she was then trained by J. H.
Jefferd, it is probable he still has her.
Jefferd won a Metropolitan in Sydney
with Star Stranger in 1926.
¥ ¥ ¥ *
In America, as elsewhere, a cheap
yearling often comes out on top. The
All Sweep colt Big Flash, who recently
won the Hollywood Derby, which carried
$25,000 added money, cost only $525.
Blue Pair, one of America’s best two-
year-olds of this season, was another
yearling bargain. He cost $6OO, and up
to the end of July had won seven races
and $22,075. In 10 starts he was not
out of a place.
# * * *
Trueness, whose form was below expec-
tations in Melbourne, is to be given a
long spell. Katanga is also to go out, but
Valhalla is to be kept going with a view
to flat-racing.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
There seems no doubt as to a section
of the Sydney press having racing officials
under control to some extent. If it were
otherwise it would be unnecessary for
stewards to indulge in an explanation
nearly every time they deal with a pro-
test. Appointed to their positions be-
cause of their ability, and arriving at
their decisions partly on what they saw
and partly on evidence, there does not
seem any necessity for stewards to go
into the why and wherefore of their find-
ings. Still, if the pressmen can get them
to talk —and it certainly makes interest-
ing reading—it is to their advantage to
do so. It is possible to recall stewards
who adhered to the precept of “Silence
is golden,” but those of more modern
ideas reckon it a good thing to have
the press on their side. In that they are
not lacking in wisdom.
* * * *
There were only six starters for the
rich three-year-old race, the Lawrence
Realisation, at Belmont Park (New
York) on Sept. 23. It was won by a
Sir Gallahad 111 colt named Fenelon,
who, with 8.11, ran the mile and five fur-
longs in 2.44 4-5. The winner received
$18,070 (approximately £A6000), second
$2333, third $1666, and fourth $340.
* * * *
According to a Durban writer Lenin
is the most outstanding three-year-old
ever seen in South Africa, and that is
also the opinion of H. Nourse, the
biggest breeder that country has known.
At the Durban T.C. meeting Lenin
easily won the Champion Stakes, of
£l5OO, in 1.50 for the nine furlongs. He
carried 7.6. Lenin is by Sunstone (Sun-
star-Stormy Ford, by Swynford) from
Droushky, by Polyphontes. In addition
to having Sundridge on each side of his
pedigree, Carbine is included as sire of
Smasher, Lenin’s great-granddam on the
maternal side.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
In Australia the various States get a
fixed percentage from the totalisator
turnover, whether it is large or small.
It is different in some American States.
Louisiana, which will shortly be racing,
has decided upon 6 per cent, for the
State and 3 per cent, for clubs when
the turnover in a day exceeds $600,000.
If, however, the pools for a day total,
say, only $400,000, the club gets 6 per
cent, and the State 3 per cent. It
is stated by “The Blood Horse” that New
York is running its tote on similar lines.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Privates in Action
A platoon or so of Diggers descended
on Leichhardt Stadium last Thursday
night and mostly kept on descending.
With one exception, though they looked
in good shape for ordinary warfare, they
weren’t in the best of nick for this sort
of lash.
Pte. George Storey (9.13) stuck to the
letter of Rule A, Clause L, Subsection 5
of King’s Regs, by wearing underpants,
which odd garments displayed a fancy
to get down to the canvas and take Geo.
with them. Result, Fred Osborne on a
technical k.o. in the second.
Pte. Jack Uren (9.4) lasted a torrid
three rounds with Tommy Mawes (9.6)
before waking up towards the end of the
third to gather from his faithful atten-
dants that Lights Out had gone long ago.
Pte. George Wallon (10.8) gave the
troops the best run for their money so
far. His attendants, eschewing the ring-
side decorum of these genteel times,
loudly counselled Geo. to hit Jack Brem-
ner (10.61) in the guts. This useful advice
Geo. put into effect in a manner calcu-
lated to put the breeze up any opponent
who meets him armed with anything
more lethal than a boxing glove. His
method of leading was to jump two yards
and direct a right swing towards the
aforesaid anatomical region. Moreover,
he got it home more often than not. He
was in better nick than the troops who
had hopped over earlier, and though at
the end of the fifth his corner was im-
pelled to urge him to “Go on right into
him, George—he’s worse than you are!"
he put up a good solid show, and should
return his supporters some handsome
piastres in army tourneys.
But the chap to punt on, Digs., is Pte.
Alex. Weymark. You can put your shirt
on this cove ; if he happens to have in
his corner, as he did on this occasion,
one Pte. Ike Harvey, then you can
put the photo, of your girl on him as
well, Pte. Ike —who looks about as much
like his moniker as J. Bull himself —being
a well-known pro. in the corner business,
and one who knows his onions intimately.
He brought Pte. Weymark along in tip-
top condition, and, a very neat boxer
wherever he hails from, Pte. Weymark
avenged all that had gone before, mak-
ing a thorough job of Mick Gordon (9.3)
in a couple of rounds.
Main event of the evening was Ron
McLaughlin (10.7) v. the South Austra-
lian lad Ron Dennis (10.2). They have
elevated Dennis into pretty good com-
pany much too quickly. McLaughlin
fought with more vigor than science, but
was so much too strong that the other
Ron wasn’t fit to go on after half a dozen
rounds.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
Most surprising thing I have noticed
in the United States is the widespread
ignorance of the rules of golf. This
applies to all classes of golfers. In
visiting 30 of the 48 States I have seen
dozens of breaches of the rules, made
solely from lack of knowledge. This
position has arisen because so many
golfers are new to tournament play and
have learnt their game on public courses
and other uncontrolled links.
The famous “Winter Rules,” which
the ordinary golfer invented to give him
better lies on the fairways during the off-
season, have done much to damage the
recognised game. Apart from a couple
of official events, each open tournament
has its own set of “local” rules, which at
times vary a lot. These variations stretch
from allowing the players in a recent
£2OOO tournament to tee their ball up
anywhere on the fairways to compelling
many competitors, including myself, to
dig out buried balls on both the fairways
and greens.
Another example occurred in the
Chicago amateur championship. During
the final I played with Walter Burkemo,
and at the 14th hole I sent my caddie
to hold the flag when my opponent was
playing out of the rough some 30 yards
from the hole. Burkemo protested, say-
ing that I was not allowed to take the
flag as he was outside 20 yards. I
appealed for a decision to the associa-
tion officials, and to my surprise they
didn’t know that in match play either
player’s caddie can go to the flag and
hold it at any time.
Compared with conditions in British
and Australian championships, United
States events are played in a free-and-easy
manner. Ninety-five p.c. of tournaments
are held outside the jurisdiction of the
U.S.G.A. That body really controls only
two events, the open and amateur cham-
pionship, and has made questionable
rulings, such as its disqualification of
Ed (“Porky”) Oliver in the latest open.
However, players and public don’t take
as much notice as they might.
If rain falls before play begins, or
while it is in progress, the day’s game
is called off and a fresh start made next
day. Thus rain that would be taken in
the usual course of a day’s golf in Aus-
tralia can cause 5000- and 10,000-dollar
events to be stopped or postponed. Every
district association is a law unto itself.
There are at least six leading amateurs
who never enter the amateur champion-
ships owing to their positions with sport-
ing goods manufacturers. However, they
are welcome to play for all other titles,
being regarded as amateur players in
every event but the one controlled by the
association. Though the U.S.G.A. objects
to my journalistic activities, I am eligible
for every other amateur championship.
Western, Chicago, Trans-Mississippi and
Houston, which attract fields just as
strong. Several other players barred by
the U.S.G.A. compete in these champion-
ships, too. And the associations running
them’belong to the U.S.G.A.!


ê
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“No Time for Comedy”
At Sydney Century, and one of those
lightly amusing pieces which flutter
pleasantly across the mind without dis-
turbing it unduly, and which can be for-
gotten in less than half the time it takes
to see them. James Stewart is the bud-
ding young playwright who arrives in
New York from somewhere in the never-
never and becomes a success overnight
with his first play, mainly owing to the
efforts of Rosalind Russell as his leading
lady, whom he marries in due course
and provides with more plays of the
superficial but financially successful
comedy kind. Enter Genevieve Tobin,
as the idle wife of a wealthy banker and
set on finding undreamed-of qualities in
whomever she chooses to adopt, and Mr.
Stewart is shortly engaged in giving birth
to a ,turgid masterpiece, which, of course,
is as unsuccessful as his comedies were
successful.
It is an interesting comment on the
Hollywood mind that this film could,
with only the slightest alterations, have
been as deadly serious as it is lightly
funny. The humor of it is drawn from
Mr. Stewart’s slow, awkward speech and
movements, from Miss Tobin’s obvious
fatuity from a large and talkative negress
servant, from a dozen other favorite
comedy devices, and from, in short,
everything except the story of the film
itself. That is the weakness of most
Hollywooden comedies; the humor of
them is only a decoration to the story
itself. For instance, it seems to be the
heritage of the French that they can see
the humor in any human situation;
Hollywood can’t, and for the most part
is limited to spreading a sort of humor-
ous veneer over a shallow and insensitive
consideration of the same situation.
However, there are sufficient gags and
slick devices in this current offering to
provide a couple of hours’ entertainment.
Miss Russell, Miss Tobin, Stewart,
Ruggles and the rest do their jobs nobly,
and even if the conclusion of the opus
is rather a mess there’s sufficient amuse-
ment in it to repay the rent of one of
the Century’s luxurious pews.
* * * *
“Lucky Partners”
What is said in the foregoing item
about “No Time for Comedy” is further
and well illustrated in this current offer-
ing at Sydney Regent. It’s a Holly-
wooden adaptation of a comedy by the
French playwright Sacha Guitry, two or
three of whose plays have been seen in
Sydney in the form of French talkies. Plot
deals with a girl who, acting on impulse
and on the words “Good Luck” from a
total stranger, shares a sweepstakes ticket
with him on the understanding that, win
or lose, she will marry her fianc6, a hulk-
ing mountain of brawn, soon afterwards,
but will first go on an impersonal and
experimental honeymoon with the
stranger.
Here again the light, engaging humor
is drawn from everything except the
story itself —from Ronald Colman’s
ability to be lightly entertaining,
from Ginger Rogers’s comedic ability
and wisecracks, from a clownish
hotel desk clerk, from a caricature of
a perplexed old Judge, and so
forth. All that is definitely and highly
amusing, but all the time there is the
impression that a deeper, richer vein of
humor has been left untapped and
smothered over with slick comedy devices.
But, as with “No Time for Comedy,”
there is sufficient of that particular brand
of humor to make an uncommonly en-
gaging film, well worth the rental of one
of the Regent’s pews, which, if anything,
are even more luxurious than those of
the Century across the street.
* * * *
“Doomed to Die,” at Sydney Capitol,
has Boris Karloff taking a spell from the
heavy horror stuff to turn in a spot of
mere murder mystery. It’s a pinch from
the Charlie Chan series, with Chinese
Mr. Wong as the infallible sleuth, and
bright enough entertainment of its kind —
two or three murders and near-killings,
numerous suspicious characters skulking
around, apparently with wholly innocent
and commendable motives, and the crime
duly pinned on the one you would least
suspect, short of Mr. Wong himself. That,
of course, would be regarded as sheer
trickery and an outrage against the prin-
ciples of the game. Nevertheless if they
ever want to introduce a bit of novel
variety into one of these shows, the idea
of the Master Sleuth hot on his own trail
and finally tricking himself into confess-
ing his guilt, would be a rather bright
one.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“The Dream of Gerontius”
Elgar’s oratorio was given in one con-
tinuous session by the Melbourne Phil-
harmonics, Symphony Orchestra and
A.B.C. Wireless Chorus under Bernard
Heinze’s baton at Melb. Town Hall. The
story of the spiritual struggle of the dying
Gerontius, his ascension through the
Yvonne Banvard presents war-baby Ross Vernon to collective father (Phil Smith,
Victor Fitzherbert, Frank Bradley and Charles Zoli), while the Law, John Fernside,
looks on —“Banana Ridge,” at Sydney Royal.
spheres and his meeting with his judg-
ment lacks the dramatic emphasis and
the concreteness of a definite personality
like the Messiah or Elijah. Conse-
quently there is an evenness about the
music which made Prof. Heinze’s task of
infusing it with interest difficult.
His human material was generally ex-
cellent. Some of the choruses were
thrilling, Heddle Nash, the Welsh tenor,
made a passionate Gerontius, Harold
Williams made an alMoo-brief appear-
ance as the Angel of the Agony, and
Dorothy Helmrich as the Guardian Angel
accompanied the saint on his flight to
the Godhead with a voice of pleasing
quality and a somewhat smothered
diction. The dying close was wonder-
fully effective.
* * * *
Chris Brennan’s Songs
The final chamber music concert of
the 1940 season at Sydney Con. com-
prised a vigorous performance of
Smetana’s quartet named “Aus Meinem
Leber” and a not-so-heartening reading
of Dvorak’s pianoforte quartet Op. 23
(Winifred Burston at the piano). A
feature of the evening was a first public
performance of five songs, words by
Christopher Brennan, music by Horace
Keats, who acted as accompanist to Bar-
bara Russell. Mr. Keats is a very fine
accompanist and writes accompaniments
very cleverly, but on a first hearing none
of the settings appealed very strongly
save the last, “I Am Shut Out of Mine
Own Heart,” in which sentiment and
melodic line ran very prettily in con-
fluence.
* * * *
Gilsullivan in Melbourne
Even the originally least successful of
the G. and S. canon go down well in the
present boom at Melb. His Majesty’s,
and “Ruddigore” got a warm reception.
The point of the satire on transpontine
melodrama is just as lost on the present
generation as it was on the contempo-
raries of Gilbert, and the political infer-
ence of Basingstoke (Eng.) requires as
long a note on the programme to make
it intelligible to a modern audience as
would a reference to the once-celebrated
egg that was thrown at Billy Hughes at
Warwick (Q.).
But Sullivan’s lightsome and sometimes
touching music covers a multitude of
incomprehension, and it got a ready pass-
port to the ears of the audience per
medium of Maxwell Oldaker as Richard
Dauntless, the fruity contralto of Evelyn
Gardiner as Dame Hannah, and the
others. The Robin Oakapple of Ivan
Menzies —or is it the Ivan Menzies of
Robin Oakapple?—was up to specifica-
tion.
* * * *
“Merry Wives of Windsor”
Nicolai’s tuneful opera was a good
choice for the Sydney Con. s School of
Opera, which commenced a four nights
season of the piece on Saturday. The
music has a quality all its own, never
banal, never dull, and there is interesting
work for several soloists. Saturday
night’s show was well dressed and
mounted, conductor Florent Hoogstoel
got good results from both orchestra and
chorus, and the various characters gave
a harmonious account of themselves.
* * * *
“A Man’s House”
The drama of conflicting ideals in the
minds of those who heard Christ preach
—their acceptance of the new order and
their duty to established authority—fur-
nished John Drinkwater with a parallel
to present-day conflicts within the indi-
vidual. His story of the disruption within
a Jewish household when some of its
members accept the teachings of the
Nazarene is interpreted in terms of
modern conditions. The fears of father
and son for their reputation and the
foundations of their business are age-old.
That most of the “events” of the play
take place off-stage and are reported
within the house merely serves to
strengthen the insistence on their per-
sonal importance to the members of the
family. Events move unavoidably to-
wards the break.
For the most part the Independent
Players, who are giving the play a run at
their North Sydney theatre, manage to
convey the inevitability of the final part-
ing. O. D. Bisset makes Salathiel, the
master of the house, an upright and
honorable figure torn between justice
and love of his family. Marie Rosenfeld
gives a live and vivid personality to the
part of the daughter who is cured of her
blindness, and Gwen Oatley, Thomas
Parramore, Warren Barry, Alan Cooper,
Desmond Rolfe and John Richards all
fit easily and distinctly into the general
picture. Staging and costuming are a
noteworthy success.
* * * *
“Banana Ridge,” already reviewed on
this page (B. 4/9/’4O) and now being
aired at Sydney Royal, is even thinner
than most of Ben Travers’s comedies.
It’s a rather clumsy piece and, though
funny in parts, suffered on the open-
ing night from Mr. Travers’s smuttiness,
which, being without a Tom Walls or
Ralph Lynn to turn it into smart smutty
humor, remained as smuttiness —a few
nights to run the show in might remove
this objection. Yvonne Banvard, Frank
Bradley, Phil Smith, Letty Craydon.
Dorothy Dunckley, Pat Macdonald and
Ross Vernon lead the list of humorists.
* * * *
Mosman Musical Society, which has
been frolicking along since 1903, had
“Rose Marie” as its 116th successive pro-
duction. It lacked something in drive
and color, though the “Totem Pole
Ballet” item, a surprising example of
careful rehearsal, would merit its four
or five encores in any company. Zanita
Cannis (Lady Jane) and Harry Nott
(Hard-boiled Herman) teamed together to
bring a continuous ripple of laughter.
Wilma Gregory was both a tuneful and
an attractive Rose Marie, and Reg Wil-
loughby a somewhat wooden Jim Ken-
yon. Cremorne Orpheum, which has
been the society’s headquarters for some
time now, housed the show.
ARTBURSTS.
XV Group’s Show
The XV Group of Independent Artists
(it has now expanded to XXIII) stages its
third annual show at the Blaxland Gal-
leries (Farmer’s), Sydney. “The members
of the group” says a catalogue foreword,
“are concerned, as a rule, with painting
what they see,” and without exception
they see things in the same forms and
colors as common people do and de-
lineate these things with such added grace,
beauty or wit as seems permissible to a
normal, rational mind.
Despite this serious limitation a major-
ity of the members of the group are dis-
tinguished painters in the best sense of
the word —in the sense that their work
requires no signature to identify the
author. Norman Lindsay’s “Incantation,”
Sydney Long’s “Evening, George’s River,”
Howard Ashton’s “Gateway to the
Pacific,” Percy Lindsay’s “Morning at
Northbridge,” the beautiful flower studies
of R. W. Phillips, the Oriental ladies
limned by Mary Edwards, the decorative
“Antiques” of Fred Leist, the sea-pieces
of J. Richard Ashton, the caricature
modellings of John Frith, the suave still-
lifes of Margaret Coen and the crisp
chalk-and-tint sketches of Frank Norton
are all individual and independent.
Portraitists Dattilo Rubbo, J. H. R.
Rousel, “Wep,” Betty Morgan and
Frances D. Ellis, landscapists J. R. Jack-
son, R. Keith Harris and G. V. F. Mann
have less intrusive personalities, but their
work, as with the sculpture of Miss E.
Blaxland, the equestrian study by Hilda
Rix Nicholas, the figure design by J. Kil-
gour and the graceful panel drawings of
B. J. Waterhouse, maintains a general
standard of aptitude and competency.
* * * *
Joe Holloway’s Sketchers
A bunch of sincere triers are the mem-
bers of Joe Holloway’s Sketch Club, whose
second annual show is at Sue’s Galleries,
next to Wynyard station, Sydney. Garret
Kingsley’s work stands out by a head and
shoulders, but there are improvement and
promise in the work of a score of other
members, among whom R. A. Rawlinson,
William Roberts, Roy Thibou, Charles
McKervey, E. Cramp, E. J. Mulvihill and
P. A. Boleyn seem to call for special
mention.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL EDITH CHAPMAN, or anyone know-
ing the whereabouts of Edith Chapman, a
granddaughter of John Webb, deceased, some-
time of Kogarah, near Sydney, and a daughter
of Tom Chapman and Sarah Chapman, who
once resided at Strathfield, near Sydney, and
whose mother, Sarah Chapman, was buried in
the Baptist portion of Parramatta Cemetery
44 years ago, please communicate with
ALFRED J. MORGAN & SON, Solicitors,
Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street,
Sydney?
Legal Notice.
TO LOUISA GRACE PARDEY.
TAKE NOTICE that I, your husband, re-
quest and desire that you return to live with
me at my home at undermentioned address
on or before the Thirtieth day of November,
1940.
I posted letter to you care of Mrs. Dickin-
son, 13 Andrew Street, Balmain.
HAROLD GEORGE PARDEY,
4 Tivoli Street, Paddington.
STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. t\hen
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids 6tay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, puffiness under the eyes ana
l Neglect is dangerous. Take
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and b.ad
der banish pain and aid in ridding the system
e VoT-Tnfni wastes and acid poisons. Get
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Christmas is just around the corner,
and already we are thinking of what we
will give as presents. But have we thought
what we will give to the bomb victims in
England? Let us help our kin whom
the German has rendered homeless by
turning up in numbers to the concert at
the Town Hall on the 28th. This is
backed by the women’s committee of the
A.B.C. symphony concerts. If you cannot
come why not arrange a listening-in party
in your own homes? Get 20 friends to
come to your home, charge them a shil-
ling each, give them coffee and sand-
wiches and send the gleanings into the
fund. You in the country towns who
can’t come to the concert could have a
joyous and tuneful reunion and go to
sleep happy that you had helped friends
in England.
On Monday, Craig-Y-Mor, Point Piper,
the home of the Japanese Consul-General,
was very animated and gay. Consul-
General Akiyama and his wife were hold-
ing a reception to celebrate the 2600th
anniversary of the foundation of the
Japanese Empire. Opportunity was taken
to say farewell to Latham, C.J., Aus-
tralia’s Ambassador to Tokyo, on the eve
of his departure to take up his duties in
the Japanese capital.
Ben Travers’s “Banana Ridge” brought
merriment to the Theatre Royal last
Thursday. Ballet and Gilsullivan and
musical plays have been the tenants of
this stage since early in 1939, and the
comedy was followed with keen interest
by the company of firstmighters. Among
these were the Bradley couple, Mrs.
Salenger and pretty daughter Mrs. Max-
well Munro, the Bertie Kellys, Mrs.
Glennie and son Dennis, who had seen
the play in London. The good-looking
Moore Cosgrave couple were others who
enjoyed the laughs. “Banana Ridge” is
a somewhat sultry comedy set in the
torrid zone for two acts. Dorothy
Dunckley, Yvonne Banvard, Letty Cray-
don and Pat Macdonald are the girls of
this swiftly-moving farce.
Mistress Page and Mistress Ford (the
one Joyce Livingstone, the other Isolde
Hill) are making tuneful jest of husband
and lover alike at the Conservatorium.
These merry wives of Windsor laugh and
sparkle and quarrel melodiously in
Nicolai’s opera. Guenda Bainton has
done one of her best jobs in the Windsor
Forest set; and as for the Tudor head-
dresses, millinery or what you will, they
made Isolde, Joyce, and Marie Ryan look
fascinating. This old English citizenry
seems to have had the real spirit of com-
munal life. Could anything be more
matey than a husband inviting in the
neighbors to help him hunt out his wife’s
lover?
The matinee at the Royal next Tues-
day will be the real goods for Coward
fans. Mr. Coward himself has promised
a three-quarter-of-an-hour act. He will
accompany himself at the piano for some
of his songs, and for his other turns
there will be expert dance orchestra
pianists. The programme is to be
packed with good stuff, but as Mr.
Coward is the star for whom every-
body will be waiting he will be put last
on the bill. “It wouldn’t be fair,” says
Harald Bowden, who is arranging the
programme, “to ask anyone to follow
him.” Levant the magician is making his
first appearance, and Edwin Styles will
be the afternoon’s compere. Big moment
of the Red Cross reception in the Town
Hall on Saturday night will be Mr.
Coward’s giving the toast from “Caval-
cade.”
The Red Cross is busy arranging a
bill of Coward attractions. When Mr.
Coward arrives there is to be at least
one Red Cross reception. This will be a
Town Hall affair on the 16th, and will be
7s. 6d. without the option of tea or
coffee. To drink costs another shil-
ling. The big splash, of course, will
be the cabaret show at Romano’s. Once
again Romano is giving the whole do-
ings. The committee will pocket the
three guineas apiece which the tickets
are to cost. There is talk of trying
to persuade Mr. Coward to take a
part in the cabaret show. The Royal
Empire Society will serve a dinner on
Monday, the 18th.
“Go it, Mum!” called an enthusiastic
voice across the fence. The W.A.N.S.
(two thousand-odd of them) were lining
up preparatory to trooping into the Ex-
hibition Building to march past Lady
Wakehurst, and they thought the speaker
was getting fresh. But he wasn’t; he
was an admiring husband, and his wife
was one of the smart in uniform. The
Exhibition Building in Alfred Park has
been given over to the W.A.N.S. for the
duration, and this was its official opening.
Knight Sam Walder, who later was one
of the speakers, had draped the immense
place with the Union Jack and Australia's
flag, and the wall at the end of the room
facing the dais was brave with the red,
white and blue and our starry emblem.
If ever you are cast away with Mrs.
N. Brennan on a leaky raft you
needn’t be afraid. She’s an expert at
signalling, and if you’ve had time to get
the flags from the ship’s locker she’ll be
able to get the distress message through.
Smart as paint, girls signalled with their
little flags “Welcome, Lady Wakehurst.”
Then came the great march past. Only
one criticism here; some of the girls
carried their shoulders so far back
they reminded of the woman who, de-
scribing a soldier, said “Straight! He
carried himself so straight he was
crooked.” Lady Wakehurst took the
salute. The band played “There’ll Always
Be an England.” Mayor Crick, whose
Mayoress looked natty in her uniform,
made a speech. Lady Wakehurst opened
the new centre. Minister for Education
Drummond contributed a speech on
behalf of the State Government.
The W.A.N.S. have their own interpre-
tation of “Whistle While You Work.” They
sing as they do physical exercises. That’s
to show they don’t get out of breath. As
each section finished its display the lasses
stood around the hall. Physical Fitness
Gordon Young was in the picture. W. J.
Bradley, K.C., M.L.C., was M.C. Mrs.
M. White was the pianist and the mili-
tary band was lent by the 2nd Garrison
Battalion. Mrs. Preston Stanley Vaughan
and Mrs. A. C. Godhard were among the
night’s importants; so were General
Miles and Mrs. Miles, Da Silva
Waugh, Mrs. Brennan, Mrs. George
Parkes and the wife of Archbishop
Mowll. Incidentally, though this perhaps
has nothing to do with Australia’s war
effort, Mrs. Linda Littlejohn goes off to
the U.S.A. on a lecture tour. Her recruit-
ing work for the movement was warmly
praised by the speakers.
The members of the Business Girls’
Voluntary Service wear no uniforms.
When they are on the job they pin a
badge on the blouse. But the lads
in the camps don’t need any re-
minder of what their arrival means
to the look of their uniforms in
the coming week. Every week-end a
group of the B.G.V.S. visits each camp—
Wallgrove, Greta, Ingleburn and the
Showground—and the soldiers bring their
torn garments, their holey socks, and
the girls mend and darn and press. Some
of the members good at sewing have been
known to take a tunic to pieces and re-
make it closer to the form’s contour.
These workers will type letters, and
if any soldier needs a message done in
the city there are volunteers to do the
shopping. Remember, all these girls are
employed during the day, and their self-
imposed tasks take up every moment of
their spare time. Of dillybags alone they
have made mountains, and until you’re a
soldier and have to pile up your equip-
ment for daily inspection you can’t realise
what a heaven-sent gift a dillybag is.
Grace Dyer, of the domestic science
branch of the Leichhardt Junior Techni-
cal School, is president of the 8.G.V.5.,
which started with 30 members and now
numbers 250. Dulcie Smithyman is the
secretary. Photograph of Grace Dyer
from Clarice Boyce.
Archbishop Gilroy was met with a guard
of honor in which the green of C.U.S.A.
(Catholic United Services Auxiliary)
struck a deep note when he went to the
Town Hall to open the C.U.S.A. fair.
At the top of the Druitt-street steps
two soldier lads tried to interest
the newcomer in a war-savings bond.
In the hall helpers decked in red,
white and blue striped aprons sold
and ran competitions for everything from
a Persian rug to a turkey. You could
buy smokes from Mrs. M. J. Slattery at
the Nurses’ Guild stall, or after you had
said “Hoy!” to Popeye at the Navy Unit
stall you could dip for a lucky packet.
Mrs. M. J. O’Neill was one of the active.
All the different camps where there are
C.U.S.A. huts were represented. Boy
Scouts helped in the fun. There were
chocolate wheels and dolls, paintings,
hampers and champagne to be had for
a mere 3d. if you were lucky. The cheer-
ful noise was as good as a tonic.
The sprightly Mistress Page of the
current presentation of “The Merry
Wives of Windsor” is Joyce Livingstone,
who was the Mercedes of the Conserva-
torium Opera School’s “Carmen.” That
was her first appearance in opera, and
the discerning eye of producer Hilda
Mulligan picked her out for further parts.
Hilda, incidentally, has revelled in the
present production, and the dressing is
both rich and authentic. Guenda Bain-
ton has designed the Tudor backgrounds.
Joyce, who is a diploma student of the
Conservatorium, does a good deal of
broadcasting. Photograph by Dorothy
Welding.
Brush up your hornpipes and get your
hand in splicing the main brace for the
C.U.S.A. party on the 20th. This will
be in the Australia, and it will not just
be landlubber dancing. Part of the night
will be given oyer to games and cards.
Commodore Muirhead-Gould and his
wife are the guests of honor. They’re
the present tenants of Tresco. Mrs. Du
Val is president of this Navy unit. Her
son, you will remember, was medical
officer in H.M.S. Cossack at Narvik, and
now wears a decoration for services
rendered. A very popular committee in-
cludes Mrs. Harry Daly as secretary and
Mrs. Hamilton Kirkland, who is in
charge of entertainments.
Tickets bought and paid for for the
Con. concert for the Sunbeam Free Kin-
dergarten already number 240. The
committee, of which the Kelso King lady
is president, expects a huge success.
Dorothy Helmrich is the night’s soloist.
A clever visitor to Sydney drawn by
the Arts and Crafts Exhibition in the
Education Gallery is Mrs. Andrew Peder-
sen. Mrs. Pedersen is the treasurer of
the Queensland Arts and Crafts, and is
represented in this State’s show by some
exquisite work. Not only is she a
weaver and a potter ; she also illuminates,
illustrates and binds books. Father Leo
Hayes, of Crow’s Nest, one of
Queensland’s noted book collectors, has
had some of his pet poets put into Mrs.
Pedersen’s leather covers.
Mrs. Clive Scandrett, of Kurraba, is
the day organiser for the Kaloola hut,
which was opened last Wednesday be-
tween five and seven. The hut is an-
other step forward of the Kaloola War
Service Group, which was organised and
started on its labors in October of last
year.
The hut is in the basement of Christ
Church St. Laurence. It is in Pitt-
street, near Central, and will be a con-
venient port of call for lads in uniform
coming into or leaving the city. Helped
by husbands and friends, the women
have made a real kaloola (and that’s
abo. for home) of unpromising begin-
nings. Walls and ceilings have been
painted white. Windows have been put
into blank walls and hung with gay
chintz curtains. As you go in the door
the long lounge offers deep easy chairs
or straight-backed orange ones. The
chairs were neither easy nor orange to
begin with. Old chairs were re-sprung
and re-covered, and everybody took a
hand with the paintpots to give the
others that smooth, lacquer-like surface.
At one end of this room there’s a billiard
table. At the other is one for ping-pong.
In between is a piano.
There’s a small room where packs can
be exchanged for a numbered ticket.
There are showers which cost 2d., and tea
and biscuits are another 2d., or rest and
amusement can be had for nothing at all.
There’s a library with a table set about
with writing pads. They were a gift
from Mrs. Neil Packer’s brother in Mel-
bourne. Here are more couches and
cushions, and easy chairs and books.
Principal carpenters were Boy Scouts
and Watson Mason, who, when he’s not
officiating with a hammer and nails, gets
his brow wrinkled deciding whether or
not to give you that overdraft. His wife
is another strong support of the hut.
Helen Morton seems to be recognised as
organiser-in-chief, and Lady Poynter is
the president. Edna Andrews is the busy
secretary. Last Thursday hundreds of
friends paid 2s. 6d. for a preview, and
over £5O was pooled.
This Letter listened, with other friends
of the Dalwood Home, to the Cup broad-
cast in the ballroom of the Australia,
When Old Rowley won she decided never
again to back her writer’s hunches.
John Milton sang “O Moon of My
Delight” in a melodic tenor. He hopes
to get to America and some further
study next year. The George Fitz-
patricks were there with daughter Jean,
just nearing her second anniversary as
Mrs. Bloomfield. In the banquet hall
next door, the Food for Babies Fund
was staging a pretty good Cup party, too.
Mrs. Eva Wunderlich has discovered
Balranald, where her doctor son Theo
and his wife make their home. Dr. Wun-
derlich’s practice covers a mere 1800 miles.
On the journey with her as far as
Hay travelled six army nurses. The
town of Balranald is very pretty and
replete with modern conveniences, such
as hot-water service, electricity, refrigera-
tors. The approach through a long
avenue of trees and then over the bridge
spanning the Murrumbidgee was en-
chanted with moonlight when Mrs. Wun-
derlich first saw it. The Sydney visitor
went to a race meeting at Moulamein
and found the tea tent being run by the
C.W.A. In the 50-mile run from Bal-
ranald she saw vast plains on which
gnarled mallee-trees rose like illustrations
from Dulac and Rackham. The roads
were marvellous all the way, and she
waved to four emus, clouds of white
cockatoos and a fox.
The Toby Brownes’ (of Kirribilli and
Binalong) daughter Nuala has now taken
to flying. Nuala has just secured her
A pilot’s license.
It was here stated last week that in
the Air Force House kitchen “every-
thing’s electric.” The gas company
protests that everything’s gas.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1967 of 1940.
BETWEEN WILLIAM FLEET Petitioner and
ETHEL MATILDA FLEET Respondent.
TO ETHEL MATILDA FLEET.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILLIAM
FLEET has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Fifth day of February One thousand nine
hundred and forty-one and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Seventh day of November One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
SAMUELSON & EWING, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 62 Margaret Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1966 of 1940.
BETWEEN KATHRINE JACKSON Peti-
tioner and
JOHN WALKER WALTER JACKSON Re-
spondent.
TO JOHN WALKER WALTER JACKSON.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHRINE
JACKSON has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Fifth day of February One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Seventh day of November One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
SAMUELSON & EWING, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 62 Margaret Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1911 of 1940.
BETWEEN EDITH CALLAGHAN Petitioner
and
EDWARD CALLAGHAN Respondent.
TO EDWARD CALLAGHAN formerly of
Erskineville West Coonamble and Gular-
gambone in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH
CALLAGHAN has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before
the Thirty-first day of January One thousand
nine hundred and forty-one and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the petition
filed herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
Dated this Fourth day of November One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CLIVE CLARKE, Solicitor for Petitioner, 79
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Clothes for all four seasons were
called for during race week. On Cup
Day the wind almost got away with
Old Rowley and his gold cup, well
guarded though it was while the crowd
lost its money and viewed without much
interest the monotony of winter apparel.
Oaks Day was the day, with just enough
hint of a change in the air to make any
woman in white hug herself over her
little gamble (sartorial if not financial).
For it was a risk wearing light frocks
and fragile hats, but the bets came off.
The day remained fine, warm and balmy
and the rain held off till the early hours
of the next morning.
Points for all-white at the Oaks went
to Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald, whose hat had a
fair allotment of brim; to Mrs. John
Lowry, her little headpiece being mainly
a circlet of flowers; to Mrs. Fred
Dennett, whose sleeves were long and
snugly fitting. Variations in lily-leaf-
green arrived with Mrs. Ivor Manton —-
there were green spots upon her silk
jersey bolero, green buttons upon her
white dress, green bows and bandeaux as
part and parcel of her white hat. Accom-
panying Mrs. Manton was her pal from
Sydney, tall, slim blonde Mrs. Eric Prat-
ten, in a simple sports frock of aqua-
blue with personality touches upon the
white pique Collar—the kind that means
clever handwork kidding to be easy.
Mrs. Leslie Cranbourne played her
tune in blue and lilac and a big hat. Nola
Purbrick went hard for spots, black and
white ones, and a little white hat, trans-
parent as narrow gauge fishnet.
Spots of another tempo, white upon
grey, were for Joan Reid, of Geelong.
In pale-grey also was Mrs. Stuart Han-
cock. Mrs. John Guest’s little hat was
just a flower or two and Mrs. Bill Gluth’s
a posy over the forehead attached to a
black velvet ribbon. Its accompaniment
was a no-weather-risk woollen coat with
helpings of silver foxes. Another coat,
this of strawberry woollen sheer, also
generously fox-trimmed, was worn by
Mrs. Jim Paxton. In two-piece pastels
was Virginia Russell —powdery-blue
pleated skirt and clover-pink tunic with
headpiece of flowers and scud of blue
veiling. White accessories made a con-
trast for Mrs. Tom Luxton’s navy-blue
outfit. Do-or-dare hats were worn by
Sonia Parrish (hers blue and bountiful)
and by Mrs. Ron Nott, whose black
straw had a red underbrim and a crown
with a waist like the Naughty Nineties.
There came Steeplechase Day, a day
of reckoning, when a survey of the week's
plunges produces all sorts of surprises.
There were thousands present who
couldn’t believe their eyes when the im-
possible happened, the certainty failed,
Beau Vite lost. Many punters came away
from the meeting wondering how in the
world they had managed to lose so much,
others perked up, realising that they’d had
a lot of fun for their money, and the
minority went home patting themselves
on the back along every mile of the traffic
route —just then racing was a pretty good
sport and not so difficult as it’s made
out to be.
The day of reckoning over clothes was
no compliment to our climate. Once
again a showery morning and a grey,
cloudy sky kept the best and newest off
the course. Thousands of frocks, hats,
shoes, bags, other oddments bought in
light-hearted vein for sunny days at Flem-
ington are still unworn. Their time will
come, no doubt, though just at the
moment their purchasers thought winter
suits ordered in October would have been
a safer investment.
Among those who found suits useful on
the last day were Mrs. Keith Colquhoun,
in browny tweeds, and Mrs. Ginner
Grey, in grey and a minute white hat.
Also in grey were Mrs. Ralph McMeekin
and Betty Littlewood, who was with
brother Foster Littlewood. Betty is one
of Stonington’s most efficient cooks, and
has lately joined the staff of Kurneh, for
her fame has been spread far and wide.
Mrs. F. B. Tompkins was with daughter
Betty, in brown and a velvet coat and an
umbrella with a dog’s head handle—no
imitation, but the real thing, with wiry
hair and whiskers. Edith Anderson
chanced the weather and won the throw
with a little hat of black net made for
a short and merry life. Nancy Alderton
also took a plunge on white shoes and
hat and no coat to hide her lipstick-red
frock with its emphatic initials upon one
pocket.
But for the races, Cup Week was devoid
of big social fixtures. There were a very
few private parties and many impromptu
aftermaths in the hotels when wins were
celebrated or sorrows drowned. Other-
wise things were quiet—even the shops
felt the lull, the weather being mainly
responsible for women thinking twice
about letting their heads go over new
and snappy apparel. Gone are the days
of a G.H. Ball on Cup night, fol-
lowed up on the next day with
a garden party which nobody en-
joyed, but which everybody attended, just
in case word went round that they hadn’t
been asked. No one wilt mourn the
passing of the garden party with its long
crocodiles of women hanging on to
unsuitable hats in a high wind and of
men feeling (and often looking) just as
silly as the plaster dandies in show cases.
The only big dance of last week was
the Silver Wings Auxiliary dinner-dance
at the Australia in aid of Navy House
and Air Force House. Officially invited
guests were the Admiral and Lady Colvin,
the Air Chief Marshal and daughter
Bunty, the Lord Mayor and his wife and
the Norman Brookes lady. Also sharing
the official board were Mrs. Barry Thom-
son and Mrs. Mortimer Robb. Throw-
ing her weight into a lucky wheel was
Mrs. Gerald Lancaster in a bouffant gown
of white chiffon and black lace. When-
ever her voice needed a rest Mrs. Harry
Cohen, in black velvet, was alongside to
help.
Depicted here by a Broothorn camera
is one of last Saturday’s brides, Phyllis
Balfour, who was married to Lieut. Jim
Read, of the Corps Signals, in the Toorak
kirk. Although wedding plans were made
only three weeks ago, Phyllis wore tradi-
tional attire of white gown and veil, and
younger sister Beverley, in pastel-pink
taffeta threaded with silver, attended to
the glove and flowers at the critical
moment. The ’groom is the third son of
the late J. D. Read and Mrs. Read, of
Springhope—the town of Springhope is
named after their property. If the
’groom missed anything of the wedding
or the subsequent reception at the home
of the bride’s parents, Dr. and Mrs. L. J.
Balfour, it was not the fault of his height.
He’s six feet four and a half inches, and
his best man, Bill Robinson, matched him
fraction for fraction of every inch.
In the cause of Air Force House Mrs.
Sam Aitchison rose nobly to the occa-
sion of gathering up a party of friends,
but they reached the course of ice-cream-
cwra-wafers before the arrival of their
hard-working and doubtless starving host,
Dr. Sam. Among those who plied him
with food when he did arrive were his
wife, in burgundy velvet, Dr. John Green,
Dr. and Mrs. Jim Buchanan, and Mrs.
Dugal McDougall, whose uplifted coiffure
was right in the picture with her gown
of black velvet elaborated with incidental
motifs of cream lace. Another black
frock of moment was worn by Mrs. E.
Russell Gabb. All emphasis was upon
the sleeves, ablaze with bands of dia-
mente, pearls and seashells. Mrs. Norman
Picot was on deck, casting an eye over
proceedings generally in graceful
draperies of parchment chiffon.
Lady Dugan made a point of being
present to open the fifth annual exhibi-
tion of work done by the patients in
occupational therapy classes held through-
out the mental hospitals of Victoria.
Afterwards she moved through each
section of the display, staying longer
than she had intended and buying things
from every stall. Dr. J. Cattarinach, Dr.
John Cade, president of the central
executive Mrs. G. F. Pardy, Sister
Symes, who is in charge of all mental
therapy classes, and other staff members
who were present could not speak too
highly of the value which occupational
therapy is proving to mental patients.
It’s a bright spot in their lives. They
take a great pride in their work, and
better health is a general outcome.
There’s no Government subsidy for
this department, so it has to keep its
head above water by other means. Mem-
bers of the auxiliaries and the patients'
friends are the principal means of sup-
port, for they regularly buy craft- and
handwork, thus encouraging the patients
to more ambitious efforts.
New goods in this year’s show included
suede waistcoats, just the thing for dad
when he goes to golf. The backs are
knitted on a recently-imported Swedish
machine. There were hand-woven dinner
mats, hooked rugs (the fleeces also
scoured and spun by the patients),
tapestry stools and all kinds of needle-
work and knitting. The men’s carpentry
section was interesting and contained
linen cupboards, decorative as well as
utility, laundry, shopping and flower-
carrying baskets, babies’ wicker cots and
satin-lined layette holders, and an assort-
ment of gay and very cheap verandah
stools. Prices were so moderate that
practically everything was sold out after
the second day. There were, for instance,
comfortable sunroom chairs with sprung
seats for only £l, and hand-loomed
cushions that would be an acquisition to
any room in the house were marked
Bs. 6d.
Dickinson-Monteath made this por-
trait of Mrs. J. L. Normovle, a visitor
from Sydney for the spring races. While
in Melbourne she stayed with Mrs.
Rupert Wertheim.
In high optimism the C.T.A. is running
a big art union for big prizes, but even
the blithest spirits of the fraternity felt
their tails drooping as they pulled their
collars higher on the early morning of
Friday, their street collection day. The
rain fell steadily upon the canvas roofs
of the street stalls, while pedestrians,
jumping the puddles, turned deaf ears
upon the voices in the wilderness, “Lucky
envelope —only a shilling.” Then quite
suddenly the rain stopped, the sun
appeared, so did lorries full of enter-
tainers, the whirly-wheels whirled and the
stalls were in full cry.
The C.T.A.’s urge forward in the cause
of patriotism will benefit the Lord
Mayor’s Fund to the extent, it is hoped,
of several thousand pounds. Prizes in
the art union have come off the club
walls and are as mixed a bag of pictures
as have been seen all in one place at a
given time. But there’s a saving clause
attached to the bait that’s dangled before
the gamblers’ noses at one shilling a
ticket. The winners can take their loot
in cash, and no doubt most of them
will, as fast as they can, for the trustees
have guaranteed to buy back every
picture at the value attached, should
disposal be desired.
It would be a strange decision of the
winner of the first prize to turn down
£lOOO in crisp banknotes for the sake
of “Canberra in 1913,” its vast open
spaces painted by W. Nicholls Anderson.
The owner would have to build a house
around the picture, or he could string a
marquee over it and settle down to spend
the rest of his life under canvas. Almost
as sizable is the second prize, J. H.
Scheltema’s “Hauling Logs,” valued at
£250, and some laps behind comes A. E.
Newberry’s “Spring in the Valley.”
Among the 200 other names listed
are Arthur Boyd, James Flett and Ida
Rentoul Outhwaite. Five pounds is the
minimum assessment of any canvas.
Next Saturday at 2 p.m. there will be a
big shoot down at Fishermen’s Bend
which will attract some of our best gun-
men. If any competitors feel that they
might get bushed among the vast open
spaces of the river flats any member of
the committee concerned will be pleased
to present dodgers on the back of which
there are maps of the district for miles
around. There will be events for both
sexes, from crack shots to mugs who
would miss a beer-barrel at 50 yards.
Admission to General Motors paddock
is a mild shilling, competitors come in
free, and entrance fees for each event are
in the half-crown region. The prizes are
worth having, and there will be a tea
tent for reviving the stamina of shooters
and spectators. Guns and ammunition
will be available, and those who are
canny enough to go along bright and
early to get their eye in may start off at
1.30 p.m. with practice birds at three for
sixpence and shoot-off birds at a penny
each.
This clay-bird shoot is in aid of
Blarney House, and is under the wing of
the A.C.P.T.S.A. Local rifle clubs are
entering into the spirit of the thing and
giving much appreciated encouragement
to the femininity of Blarney House
auxiliaries present at the meetings. These
young women are tactfully silent when
the talk gets hot with technical terms,
but it’s not all above their heads, for
Mrs. Tom Paterson, Mrs. T. C. I. Patter-
son and Paddy Wilkinson have been hav-
ing shooting lessons for some time. Mrs.
John Ramsay and Mrs. Clive Fenner are
also enthusiasts, but in a milder way.
They will compete in the women’s event
at the shoot, and will have maybe some
worthy opposition, for the Victorian
Ladies’ Clay Target Shooting Club is
coming along in strength, which should
be some 18 members.
Members of this women’s club, claimed
to be the only one of its kind in Aus-
tralasia, meet every Saturday out at Bent-
leigh. Their honorary instructor, who is
also referee for the shoot, is H. G. James.
The president of the club is pianist
Dorothy Mattingley. Mrs. B. D. Hordern
is a vice-president and Miss C. Olholm is
treasurer and secretary. The women
members represent all walks of life, and
at least half a dozen of them are nurses.


BSk/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES &. CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
e
For Sale.
THREE-SEATER cabin Genarco VH-UUI-
Aircraft not flown since complete overhaul
and form 50A signed. Engine dismantled for
overhaul. Will accept reasonable offer in
spection invited at NATIONAL ■ w
PTY., LTD., Jones Lane, Rosebery, N.S.w.
THE SE RVICE MAN
Heavy Losses at Sea.
“Nobby II”: Sinkings by submarines
have run curiously close to the average
of the last war. From August, 1914, to
December, 1917, they averaged 56,000
tons per week, nearly the same as in the
present carnage. On the other hand, the
Allies provided themselves with 6,000,000
new tons of ships in years.
For the enemy the submarine remains
the greatest destructive force. Mr.
Churchill says the recrudescence of sink-
ings is more serious than the air raids,
and the fact that the western Irish ports
are not available as naval anti-submarine
stations “is a heavy and grievous burden.”
To which Commander Archibald Southby
added:—
Many of our destroyers in the last war
operated from Queenstown and Lough
Swilly. Only the use of those bases enabled
us to deal with the submarine menace.
This time the Germans have the addi-
tional advantage of controlling the ports
of north-western France.
Submarinings in the third week in
October were a record for the war —
197,694 tons of Allied shipping. In the
next week the total was down to 16,860
tons —six British totalling 9986 tons, two
Allied of 6874 tons —but this was only
an isolated lull. The week following
began badly with the destruction of the
42,000-ton Empress of Britain, first
bombed from the air and then torpedoed
by a U-boat. The U-boat has since been
sent to its reckoning, along with a second
boat bent on the same murderous errands.
After the Empress of Britain went
down the Germans claimed to have sunk
the Laurentic (18,724 tons), the Patroclus
(11,314 tons) and the Casnare (5376 tons).
The Laurentic and the Patroclus were
auxiliary cruisers. And on November 6
three distress messages were picked up by
the American Mackay radio station cir-
cuit from a convoy which included the
N.Z. Shipping Co.’s Rangitiki (15,698
tons) and a British freighter, the Cornish
City (4952 tons).
The first from the Rangitiki said: “We
are being shelled by an enemy ship of
the Graf Spee class in latitude 52.45 N.,
long. 32.13 W.”—that is, over the ocean-
bed formation known as Telegraph
Plateau, about 1300 nautical miles off the
Eire coast in a direct line between the
south of Ireland and the north of New-
foundland. The point is hundreds of
miles from any land—Greenland is 500
miles to the north, the Azores about the
same to the south.
Convoys at this point are usually in
the hands of converted mail ships armed
to act as auxiliary cruisers. But they are
unprotected, and carry only 6in. guns
firing 1001 b. shells against the llin. naval
guns of ships of the Spee class, which fire
a 6701 b. shell. And in speed a pocket
battleship could run rings round them.
At the week-end the Germans reported
that surface craft had destroyed the
whole convoy of 86,000 tons, 1000 miles
east of Newfoundland, the British ships
having been taken by surprise. The
report added that German ’planes were
operating 500 miles west of the Irish
coast.
The Admiralty admitted the attack on
the convoy, but reported that several
ships escaped. It announced at the same
time that submarine H 49 —of the 1919
Beardmore class —claimed to have been
sunk by a “warship,” was presumed to have
been lost. Presently a Japanese ship re-
ported that the Empress of Japan, 26,000
tons, had sent messages that she had been
heavily bombed west of Ireland and
was unable to proceed under her own
power.
While all this was going on the Vichy
Government announced that a British
naval squadron of four Kent-class
cruisers similar to H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia and Canberra —had cruised oft
Libreville, French Equatorial Africa, for
several days, and had then pounded
Libreville several hours before a Free
French force landed in the town. The
communique also mentioned that heavy
fighting had taken place at Elizabeth-
ville, and that the position there had be-
come difficult. The Admiralty denied the
shelling, but admitted that a French sub-
marine which had tried to sink a British
warship without warning had been sub-
jected to “retaliatory action,” the crew
being saved. It seems extraordinary that
British warships should be spared for
operations in so distant and unimportant
a part of the world when there is so much
for the Navy to do in the North Sea, the
Atlantic, the Mediterranean and Pacific.
Supplementing the other frightfulness,
a new technique in sea bombing seems
to have been evolved. After a single
bomber did so much damage to
the Empress of Britain that passengers
were taken from her and she was left a
helpless and drifting hulk, the 18,000-ton
Windsor Castle had a narrow escape off
the west of Ireland, being saved only by
the skill of the captain. There is a ready
defence for this sort of thing in intensi-
fied A.A. protection, but no protection
exists against the submarines save watch-
fulness and luck or destroyer escort.
The Germans and Italians assert that
“dozens” of Italian submarines have rein-
forced German raiders in the Atlantic,
and the Italians themselves jubilate over
the sinking of 24,000 tons of British ships.
German claims are more fantastic —
960,000 tons-odd in September.
If Italy can spare “dozens” of sub-
marines from the Mediterranean she must
have been doing some substantial build-
ing. Both German and Italian construc-
tion will have to be accelerated to keep
up with British destruction of the pests.
On November 3 the Admiralty reported
the sinking of two Italian U-boats. Next
day two more were added to the list,
bringing the total for the war —Italian
alone —to 29 destroyed, or one quarter
of Italy’s under-water strength. In addi-
tion, two more were chased into Tangier
Harbor, one of them having been hit.
The damage done to merchant ship-
ping by German murder-ships is certainly
heavy, though the German claim to have
sunk 7,162,200 tons since the outbreak of
war is a more than 100 p.c. exaggeration.
While most German shipping can act
only in strictly confined areas, that coun-
try’s losses also have been heavy. The
Admiralty estimate is that 226 German
vessels totalling 1,132,000 tons, 72 Italian
(365,661 tons) and 27 vessels under enemy
control (44,190 tons) have been sunk since
the belated start of the British campaign
of submarining. Germany’s total avail-
able mercantile tonnage on June 30, 1939,
was 4,492,708 gross.
Submarine warfare as practised by the
U-boats is a more dastardly kind of war
than even attacks on civilian towns by
aircraft. On land women can at least
pick up their helpless babies and run with
them to a shelter. But the submarine
leaves them to scald to death in the
bowels of a riven ship or to drown in the
icy waters of the Atlantic.
It is a sneak murder at its worst, abhor-
rent to every principle of humanity and
every canon of international law.
Raider Off Australian Coast.
“Nobby II”: Last week brought more
deadly evidence that a raider or raiders
are operating in southern waters.
On June 19, R.M.S. Niagara was sunk
near Auckland. The explosion which
wrecked her took place at 3.40 a.m. ; it
was a miracle that the 146 passengers and
crew of 203 were saved. Minesweepers
found three German mines in the vicinity,
but there was no sign of a raider.
On August 20 the steamer Turakina
radioed that she was being shelled by a
raider in the Tasman. Dead silence fol-
lowed. The German High Command an-
nounced that the Turakina had been sunk
in Australian waters by “naval forces.”
A few days afterwards, it was evident
that the French steamer Notou, on her
way to New Caledonia, had disappeared.
No trace of her has been found ; neither
has there been any news of the Nor-
wegian motor-ship Tiranna, now months
overdue on a voyage from Sydney to
Mombasa.
After the Turakina affair, the seas
around the coast were thoroughly scoured
by naval and R.A.A.F. units without find-
ing any trace of the Germans. Vigi-
lance was increased, the mine-sweeping
forces were strengthened ; but after an
interval of 2\ months the attempted
murder began again.
A British vessel was sunk in Bass
Strait as the result of an explo-
sion. As in the case of the Niagara, the
explosion happened in darkness —at 11
p.m. The captain formed the impression
that the ship had been shelled. How-
ever, it was found that the explosion
was in one of the after hatches, which
blew off. Water began to pour into the
hull, but the crew got three boats over-
board, with the loss of only one man,
the carpenter, and under an overcast sky
and in heavy weather the 55 survivors,
most of whom were hardy Scots, used
to rough seas, tossed about for nine
hours, till they were taken aboard a
trawler.
On the evening of Nov. 9 came news
of the sinking of an American freighter,
the City of Rayville, 14 miles off Apollo
Bay, which is just inside Cape Otway.
The explosion was such that the captain
and some of the crew believed they had
been struck by a torpedo.
People ashore saw a red sheet of flame
go up from the ship, which sank rapidly,
the bridge being awash inside five
minutes. Fishing-boats immediately put
out and rescued 37 of the crew of 38,
packed in two lifeboats. The third engi-
neer, James Bryan, died ; he had leapt
into the sea in his lifebelt. Other men
saved themselves by swimming. One of
the boats was at sea for five hours in the
heavy swell.
A naval search picked up several
mines. Mr. Hughes announced that there
was no reason to doubt that mines caused
the sinkings and that any suggestion that
the vessels were sunk by internal ex-
plosions had been entirely removed.
The seas round Australia are wide.
Bass Strait itself is 140-odd miles wide at
its narrowest points. The Tasman is half
as wide as the Atlantic between Glasgow
and Quebec. And a day’s fast steaming
southward from mid-Tasman are the
vast, unfrequented seas of the Antarctic,
where a raider might lurk for months
without being seen.
Once Italy came into the war Ger-
many could have commissioned sur-
face raiders and submarines for distant
operations, and might establish unobtru-
sive Pacific bases. Only a short while
before the first ship went down Rome
Radio boasted that Italian submarines
had passed the Straits of Gibral-
tar in numbers and that Britain would
soon see that ships thought to be coming
from the Southern Hemisphere were fail-
ing to arrive.
Air Ascendancy
Approaching?
“Ek Dum”: Every day the weather in
the north of Europe grows worse. There
are now only nine hours of daylight on
the southern English coast —the sun to-
day (Nov. 13) rises at 7.9 a.m. and sets
at 4.19 p.m. along the 50th parallel.
The last English newspapers received
in Sydney are dated September 8, after
London had passed through its first
month of blasting, and there is little in
them to suggest that any major disaster
had then struck the country. The “Sun-
day Observer” carried its normal quota of
book reviews, theatre advertisements and
announcements of Cornish and Devon-
shire holiday resorts preparing for an
influx of winter visitors from the colder
east. The raid reports are given with
little more fuss than that with which the
Sydney press recorded the blowing up of
an overseas vessel during the last week-
end. But fashionable drapers advertised
seasonable millinery, “steel-lined.... suit-
able for the shelter,” as if it were all in
the normal course of business.
Since then, the cheery, courageous
atmosphere seems to have changed little.
Casualties have fallen despite new Ger-
man tricks —the decanting of concen-
trated tons of bombs at given points over
wide areas. The ambit of the raids has
spread all over the country —right across
Scotland from Dundee, through York-
shire and the Midlands to Merseyside,
into Wales, along the south coast, where
odd Italian ’planes have operated.
And London landmarks continue to
crumble under the bombs. St. Clement
Danes, most westerly of Wren’s churches
—the church of “Oranges and Lemons,”
which stands where Fleet-street joins the
Strand, between Australia House and
Temple Bar —received a direct hit. Part
of the Tower —it covers 18 acres—was also
damaged, but not the White Tower, its
central feature, which dates from the days
of William the Norman. Another victim
was the Carlton Club in Pall Mall, head-
quarters of the Conservative party, and
next to the gigantic Royal Automobile
Club, of which an Australian is the ad-
ministrative head, and which hundreds
of Australians visit every year.
Dive-bombers have paid more atten-
tion to shipping than before. At the
week-end the Germans claimed to have
attacked a strongly-protected convoy in
the Thames Estuary, scoring a hit on a
10,000-ton cruiser and a 5000-ton cargo
boat, and sinking a 5000-ton merchant-
man. Another convoy was, according to
German report, attacked off Harwich, a
cargo ship being sent into a list.
And there has been closer co-operation
between German bombers and U-boats
working out into the Atlantic, trying
to scatter convoys and make them an
easy prey for the submarines, one of
which was claimed to have sunk a 6000-
ton ship off the coast of Scotland.
Nevertheless, the spirit of England
remains unbroken and, heavy as they
sound, the losses have been relatively
small. Mr. Churchill announced during
the week that 14,000 civilians and 300
soldiers had been killed by the bombing
and 20,000 civilians and 500 soldiers
seriously injured up to November 5. The
great amount of house property destroyed
has been covered by the official insurance
scheme, but little damage has been done
to aircraft and munition factories, though
time has been lost. Transport suffered
some disorganisation, but none of the
essential services of the big cities—water,
gas, electricity—has ceased to work.
Shelters have multiplied, the technique of
protection has been improved, and,
whereas in September the average killed
per week was 6000, in the last week of
October it was only 2000.
For every six British lives lost the Ger-
mans have lost a machine and some air-
men.
German machine losses from August
8 to Nov. 6 totalled 2447, against 732
British; for the whole war, 4990 Ger-
mans and 1624 British. Whereas British
losses have mainly been fighters, the Ger-
mans have lost mainly heavy bombers,
and the Prime Minister placed the de-
struction or capture of personnel at 10
German to one British. The access of
Italian squadrons to the Luftwaffe has
not proved much of an advantage—
Gayda apologised during the week for
their failures.
All the time ground forces are being
built up against invasion. Apart from
the regular army of young men, there is
now a Home Guard of 1,700,000 under
arms, nearly half of whom are veterans
of the last war.
Over the Continent the R.A.F. con-
tinues its persistent strafing of military
objectives. The Channel coast is blasted
every day. Save when the weather is at
its worst, searing fires are lighted in most
of the great German shipbuilding centres.
The oil plants are never left alone, and
the gales and the increasing snow at
high altitudes have not prevented the
R.A.F. ranging to within a few miles of
the Czechoslovak borders to land a few
more pills on the great refineries of
Leuna, while Italy is suffering an increas-
ing share of the attacks delivered
especially against the embarkation ports
of the armies for Greece —from which
she was exempted until she herself opened
the way for retaliation by joining in the
bombing of Britain.
Captain Butler, the Foreign Office Par-
liamentary Under-Secretary, answering
the insistent call from the London press
for the bombing of Rome, remarked in
the Commons that the Government re-
served full liberty of action regarding
that city.
Winter will be a crucial time. The
slowing down of raids, because of the
weather, will certainly mean increase in
aircraft production on both sides, but
German power to build must be near its
zenith, while that of the British has not
nearly reached it by reason of Britain’s
greater command of materials and its
ability to secure machines and men from
the Dominions and increasing numbers
of aeroplanes from the U.S.A. In a few
months Canadian factories will be pour-
ing half a dozen types into Britain to
supplement her growing variety of
fighters and fast bombers. The Common-
wealth will be producing Beauforts and
the Empire Air scheme will be providing
the pilots and mechanics.
The Luftwaffe will need greater num-
bers of ’planes every month to do damage


BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd,
General Agents in Australia.
KITCHING’S
TRAVEL Goods Specialists.
Military TOILET SETS
PRICE:
42'-
OTHERS:
32/6 to 76/-
MONET
BEETS,
6/6 to 9/6.
WET PACKS,
12/6 A 25/-
MIRRORS,
Stainless
Steel,
2/6 and 3/-
Free
Deliver]
to all
Suburbs.
e
VERY NEAT AND HANDY
Comprising:—Hair Brushes, Clothes and
Shaving Brushes, Containers for Toilet and
Shaving Soap and Tooth Brush, also Steel
Mirror, Comb, File, Scissors, and Safety
Razor. In a beautiful Solid Leather Case,
with Zip Fastener Attached.
C. E. KUCHING PTY. LTD.
319 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 8W7133.
Wynyard Station.)
equal to that done in the past months.
With the spread of the war to the Medi-
terranean, the Germans’ base problem
will become more difficult and the call
for high-grade aeroplane fuel and oil
will put a serious strain on their re-
sources.
The Campaign in Greece.
“Ek Dum”: In 1897 six divisions of
Turks, with 156 guns, and, of course,
without ’planes or tanks or even sea-
power (“the Greek squadron held com-
plete command of the sea”), overcame
Greece in a month or so.
On April 18 Edhem Pasha, whose head-
quarters were at Elassona, ordered
a general advance. Five days later
the Greeks were in full retreat on
Pharsala, and, though there was no pur-
suit, the Turks reached Larissa on April
27. On May 6 they were in Pharsala and
Velestrino ; on May 18 they took Domo-
kos; two days later it was all over.
Considering their vast superiority in
numbers and equipment, the Italians —
with Germans to help, if necessary—
should have been able to settle the Greeks
in a week or so. Allowing that it is
winter, their failure to do much in a fort-
night has damaged their prestige. If
the Axis set a trap for the British,
hoping to get them involved in another
large-scale campaign on the Continent,
it miscalculated. Though there have been
British landings in some of the Greek
islands—notably Crete —there is no re-
port of any landing in force on the
mainland. Which, considering the vital
necessity of preserving, and increasing,
our strength in Egypt and the Canal zone,
is all to the good.
To the end of last week reports of
what had happened on the mainland since
October 28 were patchy and conflicting.
One was headed “Greek Threat to
Enemy Base—Fall of Korea Forecast”:
Unconfirmed reports from Belgrade state
that the fall of Korea (Koritza) in Albania,
the keypoint of Italian operations on the
northern front, appears to be imminent.
'Planes are attacking the town, the fall
of which would lead to the collapse of the
Italian offensive against the eastern gap
in the iron mountains guarding the road to
Fiorina.
It sounded all right, except that Belgrade
is 300 miles from Koritza, across moun-
tain fastnesses, peaks, goat tracks, rivers
and other geographical impedimenta, and
in any case is a German propagandist
centre. Next day again the Greeks re-
ported further advances, with the seizure
of “heights which commanded a view of
Korea,” “retreating Italians coming
under the fire of their own tanks.”
There was talk of the capture of 4000
Italian prisoners in a ravine.
The following morning brought intelli-
gence which was not so good:
A Greek communique states: “There
was .an exchange of artillery fire yesterday
along the whole northern front. Our
troops on the extreme left near the sea
coast have fallen back slightly.”
The front is about 150 miles long.
The message went on:
The previous position in the Epirus sector
seemed to be that the Greeks had retaken
a bridgehead from the Italians on the
south of the Kalamas River, about eight
miles inside Greek territory. The slight
withdrawal reported by the Greeks prob-
ably coincides with the Italian claim that
Italian troops have crossed the Kalamas.
Otherwise news from the front continues to
give satisfaction.
The Kalamas is east of the lower part
of Corfu, which Stunt Press geniuses
wanted Britain to occupy.
This was not all, for the operations at
Koritza and on the Yanina coast below
the Kalamas suggested that the Italians
had the Schlieffen plan working, how-
ever imperfectly.
On the north they fell back on Koritza,
while the Greeks, with the difficult
Neretchka Range between them and
Fiorina, their main northern base and
railway junction, pushed forward into bad
country. On the south-east, at the most
convenient point to Italy and in easier
terrain, the enemy pushed over the Kala-
mas, and the Greeks were losing control
of the bridgehead, which is 30 or 40
miles from the key port of Prevesa and
the great inland Gulf of Arta.
There came into the picture a dispatch
from a “Daily Mail” correspondent on
the Koritza front:
I saw only five Greek ’planes in three
days, but Italian bombers were over eight
or 10 times a day, dropping their bombs
just where they wished. In perfect sunny
weather I have seen Italian bombers cross
and recross the Greek lines without hin-
drance. I have stood alongside soldiers who
impotently emptied their rifles against low-
flying Savoias, which replied with high-
power machine-gun fire. From a staff
officer and a private, both injured by bombs
and splinters, I heard only one cry:
“ ’Planes, ’planes, ’planes. That’s all we
need”... .Italy is trying to win this war
first and foremost by the destruction of
Greek morale by continual and pitiless
bombing of non-military centres.
Pluckily as they have fought, the
Greeks will be hard put to it to hold
out on the mainland. However, the fate
“Dive, squadron, dive!”
of mainland Greece will not decide the
war. That is being done by the steady
grind of naval attrition, the blockade,
the bombing of industrial cities, the
winter hunger, the grim ability to carry
on ceaseless merchant marine construc-
tion.
One Spitfire factory or a shipload of
American ’planes or of R.A.A.F. fighter
pilots, one mile of each end of the Suez
Canal, is worth more in the balance of
ultimate victory for Britain and her
friends than the whole of Greece or all
the mud forts along the Abyssinian
border —one of which, Galabat, on the
Sudan side, was recaptured by the British
last week after a dashing fight, though
the Italians claim to have gained it again.
Monash.
“Wodgil”: W. M. Hughes attended
the annual pilgrimage to Monash’s grave
in Brighton (Vic.) cemetery, and, accord-
ing to reports of three newspapers, he
said that if the last war had extended into
1919 Monash “would have been in com-
mand of the whole Allied armies.” I
admire the fine old boy’s devotion to
the memory of the great soldier who was
his friend; but such an appointment
would have been impossible.
For one thing, the consent of the
French would have been necessary; and,
with their rooted anti-Semitism, now
manifesting itself more fiercely than ever,
it would never have been given. The
English have no such prejudice, but Haig
and the generals about him had a social
and political pull so immense that it alone
would have thwarted any effort to place
even the British Army under the com-
mand of a citizen soldier from one of
“the colonies”; and who would have
made the effort?
Lloyd George has often been men-
tioned as having been in favor of sack-
ing Haig and giving his job to Monash.
Of Haig he wrote in 1934: “It is easy
now to say ‘You ought to have sacked
him.’ Who could be put in his place?
Not one among the visible military
leaders... .would have been any better.”
Then he went on to say:
When I was considering the problem
I sent General Smuts and Sir Maurice
Hankey around the front.... to look and
see for themselves whether among the
generals they met there was one who they
considered might with advantage attain and
fill the first place. They came back with
a very disappointing report.
There followed this reference to Monash,
though Monash was not named:
Since the war I have been told by men
whose judgment I value that the only
soldier on the British side who possessed
the necessary qualities for the position was
a Dominion general. Competent profes-
sional soldiers whom I have consulted have
all agreed that this man might and prob-
ably would have risen to the height of
the great occasion. But I knew nothing
of this at the time. No report ever reached
me which attributed any special merit to
this distinguished soldier. The fact that
he was a civilian soldier when the war
broke out may have had something to do
with the tardiness in recognising his ex-
ceptional abilities and achievements.
In short, he didn’t hear of Monash until
it was too late, but if he had heard of
Monash in time it would have made no
difference. It would have been as much
as his own job was worth to place the
hierarchy of British generals under a
Monash or a Currie, and he would
never have made the sacrifice.
The Air War Day by Day.
November 4-5: London’s first 24-hour
“all clear” period since August 29 ends
in widespread raids by single bombers
operating at great heights. Scotland,
Wales and many parts of England
attacked; Air Ministry reports “casual-
ties not numerous.” Germans claim to
have dropped 1500 bombs on London.
Weather restricts R.A.F. operations on
Continent to bombing of Ostend,
Boulogne and Le Havre. All ’planes
return safe.
R.A.F. bombs Bari and Brindisi,
Italian embarkation ports, and Santi
Quaranta, principal transhipment port
for Macedonian front. Greeks bomb
Koritza, Italian headquarters in Albania ;
claim five Italian machines and one
Greek down. Italians report bombing of
Greeks at Fiorina, Kastoria and Yanina ;
also ports of Patras, Volo and Prevesa.
Two persons killed and five wounded in
bombing of Yugoslav town of Monastir
by unidentified ’planes.
Nov. 5-6 : London suffers longest alarm
period; six persons killed in crowded
area. Other areas raided include Scot-
land, Midlands and Ramsgate; little
damage. Germans report bombing of
Scottish industrial plants, including
Dundee and Pentland Firth.
R.A.F. raids Emden (causing 30 fires)
and shipbuilding yards at Bremerhaven;
also Hamburg power station, submarine
building yards at Bremen. Boulogne,
Calais, Dunkirk, Antwerp and Flushing
heavily bombed. Two R.A.F. machines
missing.
Italians claim machine-gunning of sea-
planes in Malta harbor. R.A.F. destroys
half-mile-long Libyan transport column
and shoots down two Italian fighters.
S.A.A.F. downs Italian ’plane over Met-
amma (Sudan), and bombs Keram (Ital.
Somaliland) and Neghelli (Abyssinia).
Greeks bomb Koritza (Albania) and
other Italian bases —aircraft, hangars and
barracks destroyed. Greek estimate of
casualties in Italian raids to date: 291
killed, 690 wounded. Rome reports
’planes attempting to bomb Naples put
to flight, but bombs dropped s.-e. of
Brindisi destroyed two houses. -
Nov. 6-7: Raids lasting several hours
over London ; heavy bombings at various
points. Widespread raids on other parts
of England and Scotland. ’Plane, be-
lieved Italian, kills several persons and
demolishes buildings in 175th raid on
south coast town. Six enemy ’planes
shot do\vn.
Extensive raids on German centres,
including Berlin, where suburban works
and Spandau railway junction attacked ;
other raids extend from Leuna near
Leipzig to Diisseldorf and Cologne.
Shipping concentration bombed at Cux-
haven and motor-boat convoy off Den
Helder. Coastal Command attacks Gris
Nez. Two British machines missing over
Europe.
R.A.F. raids Naples, bombs falling on
railway junction ; also ports in S. Italy
and Valona in Albania. Italians claim
to have destroyed half Fiorina ; seven
other Greek towns bombarded. Greeks
claim to have shot down six out of 20
Italian machines near Salonika.
R.A.F. supports British troops in
capture of Galabat (Sudan); also
destroys motor transport near Bardia and
elsewhere. Italians claim destruction of
six Gloster Gladiators.
Nov. 7-8: Both day and night raids over
London, also n.-w. Midlands and Liver-
pool. Damage includes hospitals and
houses; Air Ministry reports few casual-
ties. Machine casualties over Britain,
Aug. 8-Nov. 7: German 2454, British
737. As part of general raids on German
points and Channel ports, Krupps raided
for four hours ; vast fires started. R.A.F.
makes raid on Munich, mainly
on railway yards, and puts broadcast
stations off the air while Hitler is speak-
ing in the Nazi Beer Hall.
British bomb Brindisi naval- and dock-
yards, also aircraft factory near Turin
and magneto works at Milan. R.A.F.
raid on Assab (Eritrea) fires warehouses ;
Italians twice bomb Siwa (W. Egypt)
without serious damage; also Galabat
(Sudan), taken by British.
Nov. 8-9: Steamer reports distress sig-
nals from Empress of Japan, 26,000-ton
British liner, bombed off the west coast
of Ireland. Further German raids on
London and other parts of England.
Italians report “ineffective” raids on
Naples, Cremona and Sardinia. An-
nounced that R.A.F. has made 2100 raids
on Germany since May 6 at cost of 211
’planes.
Nov. 9-10: Further raids on Britain
—London and southern counties —at
night and early in the morning. No day
alarm on Nov. 10, but strafing begins
again at dusk. Carlton Club hit and
bombs dropped within 150 yards of No.
10 Downing-street.
Several Italian raids on Alexandria and
Port Said within 48 hours. Italians claim
direct hit by bombs on battleship in
Central Mediterranean and admit attack
on Derna.


ft
OF THE
A
M
I
I
EMPTY LUMBER ROOM
£ ••••r^< : -vw : .?:r^ : ;>ae^ ;^^?TO : :iSas%B3l^®S
'xj\, x; ;,,-■•■' -
/
/
:■
&SSZ
m
i: H
Well 1 Look what's happened 1 This used to be a
dingy disused lumber room—and now, it's the smart-
est guest room any home could hope to have 1 And,
there's no mystery about it, either 1 With Cane-ite
Insulating Board you can make the same change in
any room in your home, quickly and inexpensively.
Disused rooms and attics can be converted into guest
rooms, extra bedrooms—a study or a game-room. You
can cover dingy, stained walls or ceilings—employ
the smartest of modern treatments, such as the one
we illustrate—and, remember, when you renovate with
Cane-ite, you insulate against heat, cold and noise.
Cane-ite is made in Australia and is strong, durable,
and white ant-proofed. We'll gladly send you an
ilustrated booklet giving you all the details.
Masonite Temprtile makes it easy and inexpensive to have a
gleaming "tiled" kitchen or bathroom.
INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD., (BUILDING MATERIALS DIVISION)
Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide Brisbane . Perth CA.26.40
INSULATION FROM HEAT
INSULATION FROM COLD
/C
Vv.
INSULATION FROM NOISE
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C.;
Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street,
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Frothblower”: The Drys are getting
off the mark in Queensland with a peti-
tion inviting the Government to enforce
the liquor trading hours. There is to be
a house-to-house canvass for signatures
in city and country. Speakers at a
Council of Churches gathering on the
subject alleged that Queensland, in so far
as liquor laws are concerned, was the
most lawless State in Australia. Another
said that one reason why the law wasn’t
more severely bent was that some pub-
licans picketed each other’s pubs to make
sure they closed at the right time. No-
body moved a motion of sympathy with
the citizens of Longreach, whose beer has
gone up to Is. 9d. a bottle.
* * * *
“Philp”: Why was that Brisbane town-
planner sent to Darwin? It is announced
that the N.T. public service is to be amal-
gamated with the Federal public service ;
and that looks suspicious. It will, of
course, be necessary to map out Darwin
in such a way that pen-pushers on six
pounds a week won’t have to live near
those on five pounds, that seven-pounders
will be segregated from six-pounders and
so on. And, for their own sakes, I hope
that Darwin’s four hotels can arrange
their accommodation in similar fashion,
otherwise anything might happen.
* * * *
“Dip”: Bill Weaber, of Tennant Creek
(N.T.) has come to the end of a long and
gallant fight. A cattleman from the
Kimberleys (W.A.), he lost his sight some
years ago, threw in his hand in the West
and went to Tennant in 1933 to try his
luck. For once it came good ; he struck
the yellow stuff on the Rising Sun mine,
a rich and consistent producer, which he
developed very capably. Fate seems
to have had a snout on Bill —he lost a
daughter in an air crash two years ago
and a brother and sister and two nephews
have died recently.
* * * *
“Dandy K.”: Here’s me livin’ happily
in Darwin an’ thinkin’ I’m in the roughest
spot in Australia —an’ now what do I
know? A Sydney paper tells me that
Darwin is the most crime-free town in
Australia, that a mere 700 coves were
fined for bein’ plastered last year,
an’ “that there were only a few cases of
assault, no murders, one conviction for
breaking and entering and only nine
major trials in the Supreme Court.”
Next thing there’ll be a temperance
league here.
* * * *
“Cultul”: No matter how grave the
war news or the threat of drought,
Queensland still has its politicians and its
liquor laws to keep it amused, though
the laughter is getting a bit hollow lately.
Asked by Yeates (C.P.) whether the Gov-
ernment had tipped off police to go quiet
on pubs in districts where by-elections
“Hes a good Australian .”
were being held, Minister Hanlon came
back with a statement that such was the
practice of a former Government, but
there would be no “equivocation” by the
present Government. Meantime, union
secretaries are asserting that enforcement
of the liquor laws will throw many out
of work. No good Labor Government
could possibly ignore a plea like that —
or could it?
* * * *
“Lode Star”: Forgan Smith wants a
road from Newcastle Waters to Camoo-
weal, to be built by Queenslanders with
borrowed plant, and has invited Can-
berra to get on with it. The present track
from Newcastle Waters to Camooweal is
almost impassable in wet weather, but
a better route has been located, and it is
claimed that a new road would give the
Territory an additional railhead at Mt.
Isa. Canberra is to call for a report
before committing itself.
* * * *
“23-4”: It’s refreshing to come across
a bit of straight talk in these industrial
disputes, most people being horribly
bored by the flowing periods and in-
volved sentences usually associated with
them. J. E. Burke, of the John Burke
firm of shipowners, speaking, the sub-
ject being a series of claims for a 66 2-3rd
per cent, increase in wages because of
“war risk.” Each union was told it
had gone “cuckoo,” and that there was
very little war risk in Australian waters.
“Your action,” said Burke, “will drive
away trade and kill your jobs, for we
must increase freights if the claims are
granted. There is such a thing as killing
the goose that lays the golden eggs. Win
the bally war, then talk increases.”
Burke was equally forthright during the
last shipping strike in which N.Q. was
concerned.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: While the States growing
wheat for export are gloomily surveying
heavily-reduced crops, Queensland s
butter industry is taking a solid kick from
the drought. Production for four months
is down 28 per cent, and, though the flush
season should now be starting, there are
calls for financial assistance from all over
the dairy districts. The Forgan Smiths
asked the Commonwealth Government for
£200,000 in addition to the £50,000 they
received for drought relief, and received
the reply that the request will have to go
to the Loan Council. The southern
border, Downs and South Coast have
been dry for six months, and other parts
are anxiously awaiting the storm season.
* * * *
“Norther”: The strange sight of one
publican charging another with after-
hours trading was witnessed in Bunda-
berg. Informant called at the defendant’s
pub one Sunday in May, and saw men
drinking beer, he said. Defendant denied
the charge, and claimed that what they
were drinking was horehound, a state-
ment borne out by one of them. Case
dismissed, with costs. All we want to
see now is a local s.p. man charging an-
other s.p. man with illegal betting and
our cup of joy will be full.
* * *
“M. Bay”: A hot tip from
Canberra mentions Josiah
Francis, M.H.R. for More-
ton, as favorite for the
Speakership. Robert Gordon
M. is said to be keen on
Josh, and he is pretty popu-
lar in the House. He was
one of Lyons’s Ministers for
nearly three years, and has
since been chairman of the
Public Works Committee.
He has been a member since 1922, and
was a Digger, wounded in 1918.
* * * #
“Wippegong”: lam the proud posses-
sor of three little billets, each with
its story. One is a stick of a
mulga which grows only around the
s.-w. corner of Queensland and differs
from the ordinary ornamental stuff in that
it has a rich deep-pink layer between the
yellow sapwood and the heartwood (any
chap name it?). This piece was carried
down the Birdsville track, and at Marree
handed to the driver of the Centralian
train, who told me of it in his bounding
cab one purple night as his engine, simul-
taneously with the moon, climbed the
Flinders Range. The same doughty Mc-
Andrew handed me the heaviest chunk
—an ironlike block of curly jarrah from
his native Swanland. The third, looking
like a hunk of dirty cork, is a bit of
musk root I hacked from beneath the
tree-ferns in a sodden Gippsland gully.
Wax polish is coaxing out the full
beauties of these timbers. The soft fawn
of the musk, rippled with wavy grain and
dotted with bird’s-eye, is beginning to
light up as the medullary rays take on
their satin lustre; the hard, deep-brown
heartwood of the mulga is already glint-
ing in rich contrast to the saffron sap-
wood above ; the even crimp of the jarrah
glows with a warm, regular red. The
three specimens are snuggled on a little
tray less than a foot long ; not one of
them grew within a thousand miles’ travel
of either of the other two.


Radio
Technical Digest”
the new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” (U.S.A.).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi—monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST, ’ it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting
13/3 (2 years £l/2/9) to “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George's Tee., Perth
SOMETHING OUT OF THE BOX!
m
IC&wvui’
J v T-HE -PERfECT
STOCK W+ll-P_
PLAITED
OH ZAIR STEEL CORES
No. 14—16-j)lait handle, 6ft. x 12-
plait thong: 36/9
No. 15 —16-plait handle, 7ft. x 12-
plait thong 38/9
No. 16—16-plait handle, Bft. x 12-
plait thong 41 /-
Etc.
N.B.W. POST 1/3 PER WHIP.
FLY
VEILS.
No. 4 Headstall fly veil with leather
lace veil fin. 4/-, fin. 5/-.
No. 4a Headstall fly veil with twisted
basil veil fin. 4/9, fin. 5/9.
N.S.W. POST 9d. EACH.
WALTHER i STEVEMSOM £7Z.
395 CtORCE ST. SYDMEV
4 bctned (there the
A®A COOKER
U a wartime kleAAing
IMrs. A. is buying War Savings Certificates with the
• money she saves with her AGA Cooker. She knows
that no matter how much cooking is done, her AGA
Cooker is guaranteed to burn not more than £3 worth of
fuel (with coke at 30/- per ton) in a whole year. Figure
out how much you could save.
2 Mrs. Bs. husband is the manager of a factory making
* munitions, and is liable to get home at all hours. But
... tbere , is f lways a hot meal ready for him, for the
AGA Cooker is always “in,” day and night, and has a
wonderful simmering oven that keeps food hot and un-
spoiled for hours on end.
3 Mrs. C’s. husband is on military service and she has
• three children to look after. The meals she cooks
. ." e , both nourishing and satisfying. Because her
AGA Cooker makes cooking a pleasure, there is no sug-
gestion of “making do.”
4M-D. proposes to care for 3 English children. Her
• AGA Cooker will provide the extra meals at no extra
fuel cost, and because of its simplicity and efficiency
will permit ample time for her to look after the needs of
tier new guests.
The AGA Cooker shown here is
the Model “C” with its fast boil-
ing hot plate, simmering plate,
roasting or baking oven and
simmering oven.
If you cannot call to see the
AGA Cooker in operation at our
Showrooms, send for a copy of
Catalogue Rll. No obligation.
LEVIN & CO., LTD.
Est’d 1852. (Inc. in N.Z.).
45 King Street, Sydney;
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and
Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer and
Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster and
Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
JfnOnnml 'J&atSfamz
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
: . .
r-'iji-
f '?
WJ-L'l
s.4*J
a-
la
isati
A MIXED GRILL.
“X.S.”: An eminent barrister who died
recently in Melbourne is reported to have
made a lifelong study of the Victorian
licensing laws, but most publicans learned
all they need to know on the subject in
a fortnight, and some of them are ex-
perts on the laws as they relate to betting.
It is not an offence to bet, except at
tote odds. It becomes a sin only when
you use a “place” for the nefarious busi-
ness, and a “place” is as difficult to define
in law as in Einstein’s theory of rela-
tivity. For example, the back verandah
of a hotel is a “place” within the mean-
ing of the Act only if the licensee knows
you are there carrying on your business.
If he has taken a holiday without giving
anybody authority to act for him, the
verandah is not a “place.” But if you
as a bookie mistake a back porch with
no roof over it for a back verandah you
are engaged in street betting, and the
licensee’s permission doesn’t enter into it.
To make all betting illegal except on a
racecourse wouldn’t do at all, of course—
it would incommode the respectable
members of the most respectable clubs
in the metropolis.
* * # *
“Hamer”: Kindly Herbert E. Dadswell,
whose name has figured in the “S.M.H.”
imprint these many years, has been added
to the list of employees of the Fairfax
proprietary whose service has reached or
exceeded 50 years. I have a recollection
of a day when Dadswell, as cashier,
handed me an envelope which contained
twice the number of sovereigns expected.
Just previously hints had been given me
that the “Herald” didn’t like beer being
brought into the office, and I had written
some Bulletin lines on “The Cafe de
Fairfax,” beginning with:
It nestles ’neath the wowser walls
Of Mr. James’s rag.
So it struck me that the double pay might
be a pay off, and I turned back to Dads-
well to say that there seemed to be a
mistake. He smiled as he said there was
no mistake; the “Herald” was giving
double pay to every employee in cele-
bration of its jubilee.
* * * *
Strict Veg.”: In Melbourne, female
non-smokers complain that their food is
tainted by chain-cigarette flappers and
demand a law against it. Health Com-
missioner Featonby, himself a heavy
smoker, replies that the practice is
unassthetic, but gives the objectors
the consoling thought that the smokers
are the worst sufferers, since smok-
ing results in lost appetite. The
scientific opinion, however, is that
tobacco smoke, even a roomful of it, has
never hurt food. Smoke wouldn’t cure
a ham but for the heat that goes with it.
All the cigarette smoking in the world
would not affect a piece of meat on a
cafe table unless the room were heated to
a point where nobody could stay in it.
* * * *
‘Ex-Mister”: Has anyone thought of
reviving the “sniff of Australia” rite
which was much in vogue amongst Aus-
tralians serving in R.N. ships during the
latter years of Wilhelm’s war? A patriotic
Aussie lass started it by sending a bunch
of dried gumleaves to a boy-friend
then doing R.N. training, with a
letter telling him to burn some and get a
real sniff of home. A compatriot
engineer sub. fixed up a smoke-pot from
a jamtin and an enamel plate, and before
long a corner of the gunroom was good-
naturedly dedicated by the rest of the
mess to the wild blokes from Botany Bay
for the performance of their heathen
burnt-offering ceremonies. I’ve read
somewhere that smell is the most active
of all the senses in evoking memories of
past events and surroundings, and the
sniff-of-home rite certainly did catch on
amongst the lads. Yes, I know that
plenty of eucalypts grow in Europe and
Africa, but it’s the dinkum Aussie stuff
that gives the real aroma.
* * * *
“Ex-Vic.”: Melbourne’s Health De-
partment has come out with a list of
recommended foods (most of them all
right if you can afford them), and it
directs attention to the value of treacie
on porridge. I’ll bet the compilers never
tried the mixture or they’d know that
the combination of sweet oleaginousness
and hot porridge is easily the world’s
worst. Anyhow, what’s wrong with milk
on the burgoo? It contains more and
better body-building properties than
treacle, and is easier to take. Still, as
Melbourne is cursed with a Milk Board,
probably the Health coves realise that
some sort of substitute is necessary,
cities with milk boards being notoriously
short of the lacteal liquid.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Opium, is it (B. 23/10/’40)?
I once asked a native clerk of
mine in Shanghai to obtain an
opium pipe for me as I wanted to
sketch it for an illustration. He was
curiously hesitant about it, and as his
English was scanty I had to get an inter-
preter to explain his perturbation to me.
It appeared that he lived in the native
city and, if he were found with the wicked
thing in his possession, stood a good
chance of going before a firing squad in
the morning. A provincial Governor
who was an enthusiastic moral reformer
swept up the opium addicts in his dis-
trict, made them descend into a pit of
their own digging, poured petrol on them
and gave them the last smoke of their
terrestrial existence. Despite these
Draconian measures, however, opium still
flourishes in China, and is used as the
only reliable currency in some parts.
* * * *
“C. Bungstarter”: The Great Australian
Adjective is not an Australian product
at all. Nor is it even a contraction of
“By Our Lady.” Writing about 1393 for
the enlightenment and instruction of his
15-year-old wife, a wealthy and elderly
householder of Paris exhorted her to for-
bid her servants “to use ugly oaths or
words which are bad or indecent, as do
certain evil or ill-bred persons who swear
at bad bloody fevers, the bad bloody
week, the bad bloody day. ...”
* * * *
“PS.”: I didn’t say “guts” was
an American synonym, “Dewey” (B.
30/10/’40); I said its open use as a
term for courage came from America—
where they seem to have a liking for the
cruder terms of expression. As for the say-
ing attributed to Queen Bess, “I have the
heart and belly of a King of England,”
what she probably meant was that she
had the courage to face what came and
the capacity to absorb or digest it and
look for more. Or, seeing that she was
of an age when ladies enjoyed their meals
with gusto, perhaps she was thinking of
her father’s gastronomic ability, good
feeders generally being persons not lack-
ing in courage.
* * * *
“Windy W.”: E. Minney, a Wellington
(M.L.) man, feeds the pigeons in the
Manners-street reserve. He is never
without a pocketful of wheat or dried
peas. His affection for pigeons is almost
a ruling passion. He claims they have
telescopic eyesight to a greater extent than
all other living beings.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
The drums of war:
J.R.:
With their ruthless destruction, their armies and
spies,
False propaganda, cruelty and lies,
Their deceit is so futile in every way
But, somehow, we know them, they shan’t win the
day—
Not while there’s a God in heaven,
A good King on, our throne,
A British bulldog off the chain,
Watching by his bone.
J.V.P.:
Said Hitler to Goring,
“To the world our war news is boring.”
Said Churchill to Eden,
“We’ll stop the blighters feedin’.”
Britain will win this German-inspired war
So, Hitler and Goring, hold your jaw.
The Huns have got it coming,
With all their wicked cunning.
Said Napoleon, “I was able, ere I saw Elba
And Waterloo, put me on St. Helena to suffer.”
History will record that Hitler was
Winning the war till he struck Dunkirk,
When Britain his war plans flung in the dirt.
BRITANNIA RULES THE WAVES.
C.M.: Too clammy... .T.L.S.: A hollow
sonnet... .K.R.: The ending seems to jump in
from nowhere... .H.H.: Turgid... .K.MacL.:
Worth strengthening and polishing... .M.G.M.:
The sort of pome a Progress Association would
revere... . P.C.W.: Pleasant; that’s a 11....
R.F.C.: No wings there S.S.: Eight o’clock
closing seems to make you incoherent as well
as indignant... .L.G.: Keep an eye on the
postman; “Bombs from Beer” is coming back.
E.S.: Come again 8.G.: We get ’em
by the dozen... .A.R.C.: As you say, it’s off
our beat... .R.M.: “Emburse”?.. .. A.S.: It
needs just a little more sting P.S.: Keep
trying; pay more attention to form... .L.R.D.:
Not a stayer... .F.R.W.: “I know this is pretty
dreadful, but I would like your opinion on it.”
Pretty dreadful... .J.D.8.: You can have
“Old Maggie” back for a twopenny stamp....
L.S.D.: Your heroine might do to advertise a
beauty parlor D.S.N.: About 4000 words
too 10ng... .R.L.C.: Send us some others....
8.F.D.: Not for u5....N.G.: Flapper’s heart
affairs leave us c01d... .8.R.F.: Characters im-
possible, humor ponderous... .8.F.G.: Throw
it to the “wild waves of imagination”
F.8.D.: Read “Mary’s Downfall” from a soap-
box... .L.P.R.: At least it’s patriotic... .C.E.:
It’s almost sure to land a Purple Certificate
from the Children’s Pages.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.5.: Drawing flat, joke stale, altogether un-
profitable... .P.A.: A lot more study required
yet.... J.H.D.: Staggered to the doorstep and
perished of pernicious anaemia... .D.L.8.: Get-
ting closer... .F.E.M.: You’ve given the surfer
two right feet... .L.G.: Difficult to prophesy
on the strength of that one; let us see some
more... .F.H.W.: Drawing so wooden we got
splinters handling it D.G.R.: Can’t use the
two XOS barmaids in wire-gauze dresses....
5.8.: Album jests accompanied by explanatory
short stories booted out on sight... .W.F.:
Forced humor... .F.S.H.: Rough but high-
spirited; the “War Cry” might look upon it
kindly L.M.M.: Dismal... .M.S.: You
scratch remarkably we 11.... E.V.: Don’t know
whether they are babies looking like dolls
or vice versa P.N.: Can’t publish picture
of alleged human on stilts walking beside
yoked team of what might be water buffaloes.
....Valencia: The fruit of your genius gave
us the pip.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—•
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at Gd. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F, E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BRANDAUERrS
9+
*
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations,
a «»t»ninn h 00. u*. bismixoham, eno
OurServiceDepartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletii
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Young man, 26, sober, reliable, wants work
of any sort, anywhere.—8667.
To buy songs for bass voice.—8683.
To buy new or second-hand books dealing
with cafes or cost-accounting for caffis. —8664.
Information Sought.
Some idea of the size, height, width, etc.,
of the Rock of Gibraltar, and the width of
the neck of land between the rock and Spain?
—8518.
The rock is three miles in length, north to
south, and i-mile to wide at its greatest
breadth. Height is 1600ft. above sea level on
all sides except the west, where the town is
built. The neck of land connecting the rock
with the mainland is about •J-mile in width at
the narrowest.
* * * *
Position and calibre of main armament of
British warships Rodney, Hood, Renown and
Queen Elizabeth ? —8654.
Rodney, nine 16in. in triple turrets, all for-
ward ; Hood, eight 15in., four forward and four
aft; Renown, four 15in. forward, two 15in.
aft; Queen Elizabeth, four 15in. forward, four
15in. aft.
* * * *
Words of the song “Hooray for the Last
Man That Dies” from the film “The Dawn
Patrol” ?— 8459.
The words of the ditty, which is known as
“Hooray for the Next Man Who Dies,” have
never been published. It is supposed to have
originated in the canteens of the R.F.C. (later
the R.A.F.) during the 1914-18 war. In “The
Dawn Patrol” only a few bars were rendered,
the words used being: —
So stand to your glasses steady;
This world is a world of lies.
Here’s a toast to the dead already;
Hooray for the next man who dies!
* * * *
My husband was a returned soldier. He and 1
drew pensions till he died three years ago.
Then the Repat. Department cut me off, asked
me my age, and told me to get the old-age
pension, explaining that my husband left a
wife in Britain. She died seven years before
him. Could you tell me if I am entitled to
a military pension? —8575.
Repat. says it is unable to identify the case
from the particulars supplied. The answer in
any case is no.
* * * *
(1) Must a person be an absolute invalid
to qualify for the Federal Invalid Pension ?
(2) Would a person who had a bad attack of
infantile paralysis some years ago and now is
very lame in one leg and finds moving around
dangerous be eligible to receive the pension ?
(3) What is the amount of the pension ? —
8499.
(1) Yes. A qualification for invalid pension
is permanent incapacity for work, and the in-
capacity must be total. (2) From the informa-
tion furnished it cannot be stated whether an
invalid pension would be payable. Suggest that
a claim be made on the prescribed form, obtain-
able at any post office, and .lodged with the
nearest Registrar of Pensions (Clerk of Petty
Sessions). A medical certificate setting out the
nature of the claimant’s incapacity should be
attached to the papers. (3) The maximum
rate of pension payable under the Invalid and
Old-age Pensions Act is £1 a week.
* * * *
(1) Can a person who is not a qualified
veterinary surgeon charge a fee in Vic. for any
services he might give in attending to sick
animals? (2) Could an association which em-
ployed such a man charge a fee for his services
in a veterinary capacity? —8532.
(1) No. “No person shall be entitled to re-
cover in any court of law for any fee or charge
for performing any veterinary operation or
for giving any veterinary attendance or advice
... .unless he is registered in accordance with
the provisions of this Act” —Veterinary Sur-
geons Act 1928 (Vic.). (2) Same applies to an
association.
* * * »
(1) Is an apprentice in the mercantile marine
entitled to a uniform similar to that of an
officer? (2) What are his wages at the
different stages of his apprenticeship? —8515.
The conditions covering the indentures of
apprentices in the mercantile marine are not
uniform, each shipping company making its
own arrangements.
* * * *
Is the 200 in. reflector telescope which is being
erected on Mt. Palo mar, California, in opera-
tion yet? If not, why the delay? —8603.
The telescope is not yet completed. There
has been no delay in its erection, which is,
of course, a very big job. The telescope will
probably not be complete till the latter half of
next year.
* <* * *
(1) How many radio listeners’ licenses are
current in Australia? (2) What proportions of
the previous £1 Is. license fee went to the
A.B.C. and the P.M.G.? (3) What altera-
tions are proposed under the present £1 fee ?
(4) What was the profit of the A.B.C. for the
last year? —8531.
(1) 1,245,181. (2) and (3) The Commission re-
ceived 12s. and the Postmaster-General’s Depart-
ment 9s. Under the new arrangement the
Commission receives 10s. and the department
10s. (4) A.B.C. states that it is unable to dis-
close this information until its accounts are
published.
* * * *
What is the difference in a red bull-ant and
a black bull-ant? —8594.
The bulldog ants and jumpers all belong
to the genus Myrmecia, which includes a
number of forms red and black in coloration.
All are renowned for their pugnacity and the
severity of their stings. The common black
bulldog ant, M. tarsata, is shining-black in
color with dark-red mandibles; the common
red bulldog or soldier ant, M. gulosa, has the
apical half of the last joint of the abdomen
black; it is widespread in eastern Australia.
There are, however, other black and other red
species, very similar in general appearance to
these allies, so that it would require the ser-
vices of an expert to differentiate between them.
The black species are said to be less ferocious
than the red forms, and do not build such large
nests.
* =l= * *
Name of the father of Cordell Hull, U.S.A.
Secretary of State, and whom his father mar-
ried; also the name of his grandfather
( paternal) and whom he married? —8608.
Who’s Who in America records that William
and Elizabeth (Riley) Hull were the parents of
Cordell Hull. No reference to grandparents
has been found in the sources of information
examined.
# * * #
How can I get in touch with the manufac-
turers of a fabric ( synthetic ) called, I think,
Nylon, and manufactured in the U.S.A. ? —•
8552.
The manufacture of Nylon is confined to the
U.S.A., and there is no surplus available for
export from that country. There is accordingly
no prospect of supplies being available in
Australia for a considerable time. No Aus-
tralian agent has been appointed.
* * * *
Name of a reliable person or agency who
would read and criticise a child’s story ?
8548.
Send it to the A.B.C.’s Federal Controller
of Productions, Sydney.
* * * *
I was born at Brunswick, Vic., in 1870, and
at the age of 20 left home and changed my
name. Married under the assumed name and
reared a family. 1 am in need of the old-age
pension now. How should I proceed to get it ?
—8587.
From the information furnished it is not
possible to say whether you are eligible to re-
ceive an old-age pension. A claim may be
made on the prescribed form, obtainable at any
post office, and lodged with the Registrar of
Pensions (Clerk of Petty Sessions), Court House,
in your town.
« * * *
(1) What was the origin of the name of the
Granny Smith apple and whom was it named
after? (2) Where was it first grown, and in
what district or districts is it grown now ? (3)
What are the seasons for apples in the different
States in Australia ? —8496.
(1) “Granny” was the wife of Thomas
Smith, of that part of Ryde (Sydney) now
known as Eastwood. Mr. Smith had an orchard
fronting the Great Northern-road, down by
the creek. One morning in the year 1868
Mrs. Smith asked the late E. H. Small to look
at a seedling that was growing by the creek
and had a few very fine specimens of apple on
it. Mr. Small tested it and observed that it was a
good cooking apple and might be worth working
from, though Mobb’s Royal and several other
good cookers seemed to fill the demand at that
time. Small’s young son, however, remarked
that it w;as a good eating apple, as he had
sampled it. Mrs. Smith worked a few of the
trees, and not long afterwards Edward Gallard,
another member of the family, planted out a
fairly large bed and marketed a crop annually
from them up to the time of his death. E. H.
Small asked “Granny” how the apple came
there, and she replied that she had brought
some gin cases back from Sydney markets
which had contained the remains of some Tas-
manian apples in them; these were rotting and
she tipped them out down the creek. It is thought
that Mrs. Smith mentioned that the remains in
the cases were of French crabs. The greasy
skin and keeping qualities of the “Granny
Smith” point to this being correct. The value
of the “Granny Smith” for dessert was not
known until some fruit agents began storing
a few cases away and found that they kept
better than any other varieties. (2) Batlow,
Orange, Armidale, Kentucky, Young, Goulburn,
Camden, Mudgee, Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area and Bathurst, all in N. S. Wales. (3)
Seasons for apples in the various States in
Australia are as follows: N.S.W., December
to mid-May; Vic., S.A. and W.A., January to
mid-May; Tas., late January to end of May.
Queensland dates are being ascertained by
reference to authorities in that State. Market-
ing period continues all the year round in all
cases.
* * * *
Thirty years ago I read a recipe for making
a cooling paint for the roofs of houses. Can
you give such a recipe? I am living in a
hot climate, and every degree helps to keep
down the heat. —B62B.
The following list from Gardner’s Manual
(paint engineers’ standard) shows the effect
upon the internal temperature of a home with
various colors of paints from white to black.
White, inside temp., 102 deg. F.; cream, 103 deg.,
aluminium, 104 deg.; orange, 107 deg., red,
108 deg.; blue, 108 deg.; green, 109 deg.; grey,
llOdeg.; black, 114 deg. Paint-mixing is no
job for amateurs. Most satisfactory ready-
made paint to use is probably a good alumi-
nium preparation.
3|C H* * *
(1) Which is the coolest color for roofing
paint, white or red? (2) Which is the most
satisfactory paint to use, cold-water or an oil
paint? (3) Which of the two will last the
longer on a roof? —8609. .
(1) White, but aluminium paint is used
largely nowadays. (2) and*(3) Oil base.
Details of a gravity oil filter with settling
tank to deal with one gallon per week 3—8557.
To handle one gallon per week a fairly
small article should suffice. A piece of £in.
felt in the form of a cone inside a funnel will
extract carbon and foreign bodies. A secondary
filter could be arranged below the primary. Felt
and Textiles, Ltd., could supply the necessary
material. A piece approximately 18in. x 9in.
should suffice unless a double layer or secondary
cone were required. A home-made filter that
worked quite satisfactorily consisted of a kero-
sene-tin standing on its side with the opposite
side removed, with a deep tray perforated at base.
In this tray layers of felt were placed and
fairly clean oil was found to settle in the lower
compartment, which had a drain-off tap
from the lowest point.
* * * *
Recipe for a cement for marble ? —B4BB.
Mix litharge and freshly-burnt lime in the
proportion of 20 to one, and make into a putty
with linseed oil. Keene’s marble cement, which
has the advantage of being white in color, is
prepared by soaking plaster of Paris in a
saturated solution of alum, baking strongly in
an oven and reducing it to a powder. For
use, this cement is mixed with water in the
same way as plaster of Paris. It sets like
granite.
* * * #
How many times did Tommy Uren fight
Jimmy Clabby and Fred Kay respectively ?
What were the results, and how often was Uren
middleweight champion of Australia ? —8326.
Uren had 10 fights with Clabby and eight
with Kay. Of the Clabby contests Uren won
six, lost three and drew one. Kay lost five,
two on knockouts, and won three of his fights
with Uren. Uren first won the middleweight
championship title of Australia from Kay in
1917, then lost it to Jimmy Clabby, and
regained it from him the same year. Kay out-
pointed Uren in 1919, but Kay retired and
the title reverted to Uren. Frank Burns beat
Uren in 1921, but then went to England and
title again reverted to Uren, who reigned until
Charlie Ring defeated him in 1922.
* * * *
(1) Is Nel Tarleton, who visited Australia in
1933 and fought here then, again featherweight
champion of Great Britain ? (2) If Tarleton is
again British featherweight champion, from
whom did he win the title, and where and when ?
(3) How many times has Tarleton been feather-
weight champion of Great Britain? —8185.
(1) Yes. (2) Tarleton outpointed Johnny Cusick
for the British featherweight championship in
15 rounds at Glasgow on February 1 last.
He first won the title from Johnny Cuthbert in
1931; lost it to Seaman Watson in 1932; de-
feated Watson when they fought again in 1934;
and finally lost the championship he has now
regained to Johnny McGrory in 1936. (3)
Three times.
* * * *
(1) From whom did Joe Louis win the world’s
boxing championship ? (2) When ? (3) Where ?
(4) Against whom has Louis successfully de-
fended the title since winning it? (5) What
is Louis’s age ? (6) Is Louis his real name ?
—8520.
(1) James J. Braddock. (2) June 22, 1937.
(3) Chicago. (4) Tommy Farr, Nathan Mann,
Harry Thomas, Max Schmeling, John Henry
Lewis, Jack Roper, Tony Galento, Bob Pastor,
Johnny Paychek and Arturo Godoy. (5) 26.
(6) His full name is Joseph Louis Barrow.
* *
Some details about Benjamin Caunt, an old-
time English pugilist? Any books about him?
—8124.
Born in 1815 at Hucknall-Torkard, Notting-
hamshire, he was the son of a tenant of Lord
Byron. (3) Never very scientific, he was reso-
lute, powerful and courageous; over 6ft. in
height, 14st. 71b. in weight. He became champion
of England in 1838, after beating “Bendigo”
in 75 rounds. In 1843 he became proprietor
of the Coach and Horses inn, St. Martin’s-
lane, London. See Fistiana ’ (1868), Modern
Boxing (1879) by, “Pendragon,” and the Dic-
tionary of National Biography, vol. 9.
* * * *
(1) How old was Ambrose Palmer when he
retired? (2) When did he retire ? (3) How long
was Palmer boxing? (4) How many contests
did he win, lose and draw?— B699.
(1) Twenty-seven. (2) He retired after
his points defeat by American Gus Lesnevich
at the Sydney Sports Ground Stadium on
December 8, 1938. (3) Eleven years, amateur
and professional. (4) He had 65 professional
contests for 56 wins, seven losses and two
draws.
, * * * *
(1) Did Jack Carroll retire before or after
Ambrose Palmer? (2) How long was Carroll
boxing? (3) What championships did Carroll
win? (4) Where is he n0w?— 8648.-
(1) Carroll retired 10 months before Palmer’s
last fight. (2) Fourteen years.. (3) He won
the Australian welterweight. championship in
1928, and lost it a year later. Regaining this
title in 1933, Carroll successfully defended it
against all-comers until he retired. (4) He is
official referee at the West Melbourne Stadium.
* * * *
(1) How long was Jack Dempsey world’s
heavyweight champion boxer before Gene
Tunney won the title from him? (2) Tunney
defeated Dempsey twice. Which of the two
contests is referred to as the “battle of the
long count” ? —8584.
(1) Dempsey won the championship by de-
feating Jess Willard on July 4, 1919, and he
held the title a little over seven years, or until
September 23, 1926, when Tunney outpointed
him in 10 rounds at Philadelphia. (2) The
second contest, at Chicago on September 22,
1927. Dempsey floored Tunney in the seventh
round, and referee Dave Barry refused to con-
tinue the count until Dempsey retired to a
neutral corner. This gave Tunney 14 seconds
on the floor before “nine” was reached.
* * * *
Who is the heavyweight champion wrestler
of the world, Ray Steele, Jim Londos, Bronko
Nagurski or Earl McCready ? —8579. _
Londos, who defeated Nagurski in Phila-
delphia on November 18, 1938. Because
Londos refused to meet Nagurski again some
promoters conferred the title on Nagurski, who
was beaten by Steele in a match advertised as
for the world’s heavyweight championship, but
New York and all big cities in eastern U.S.A.
still look on Londos as the champion.
Brief Answers.
E.A.0.: Only book known giving details of
“every breed of dog” is Hutchinson’s Dog
Encyclopaedia (three volumes), 85s. (freight
extra), which would have to be ordered from
London... .M.T.F.: Write to Houghton and
Byrne, 2 Bridge-street, Sydney... .M.8.D.:
“Flynn of the Inland” was born at Moliagul,
Victoria, on November 25, 1880... .8.R.:
Harold Septimus Power was born in Dunedin,
M..L-, in 1878. He was an official artist to the
A. during the 1914-18 war. .. .G.T.R.:
Write to the Under-Secretary, Department of
Agriculture, Victoria... .N.D.: The estimated
population of the United States of America at
July 1, 1938, was 130,215,000... .N.R.S.: King
Farouk I of Egypt was born on February 11,
1920; he succeeded to the throne on April 28,
1936, and married on January 20, 1938....
F.8.R.: H.M. the Queen is Commandant-in-
Chief of the Women’s Royal Naval Service.
....P.R.8.: Yale University conferred an
honorary M.A. on Walt Disney in June, 1938.
. ...C.C.F.: (1) The Australian black snake
does not lay eggs. (2) With the exception of
the brown snake, none of Australia’s venomous
snakes lays eggs. Most of the non-venomous
snakes, such as the python, lay eggs....
B. : Sweden has a population of about
6,000,000, Switzerland about 4,000,000....
8.F.A.: According to the 1940 Daily Mail
Year Book there are 18,000,000 Poles, 2,250,000
Jews and 750,000 Germans and others in that
part of Poland annexed by Germany, and
5,000,000 Poles, 1,000,000 Jews, 6,000,000
Ukrainians and 2,000,000 White Russians and
Lithuanians in that part annexed by Russia
V. In June, 1939, Captain P. G. Taylor
made the crossing of 7600 miles from Sydney
to Mombasa across the Indian Ocean. A
Guba special Consolidated PBY flying-boat was
used, and the flight took 80 hours... .J.A.D.:
Either the Fruit Branch of the Vic. Department
of Agriculture or the Vic. Government Archi-
tect should be able to supply the plan for an
orchard ladder... .R.J.S.: (1) Sapwood of some
hardwoods is liable to attack by the powder
post beetle; cypress pine is immune; Oregon is
readily attacked. (2) Borers in the roof of a
house can be treated only by soaking the
affected timber as thoroughly as possible with
one-part of creosote to 10 parts of kerosene.
(3) A pressure syringe, the nozzle of which will
fit the borer hole, should preferably be used.
E.H.T.: The usual treatment for the
propagation of wattles is to cover the seeds with
boiling water and allow to cool for 24 hours
before removing. The seeds are then sown
in seed-beds in the normal manner. .. .J.D.8.:
That is a matter for the prizewinners indi-
vidually... .E.H.: Not regarded as valid in
Australia S.K.: Cannot find any record
of the brewery or whisky mentioned by you.
L.E.H.: Cannot obtain the information
you require about the Ballot car. Suggest you
get in touch with H. I. Clements, of Rush-
cutter Bay, or D. Clifton, of Boyded, Ltd., each
of whom at one time was owner of a car of
this make M.D.: Lists of books on elec-
tricity, electrical and motor engineering, also
books for civil engineers, have been posted....
J.M.: Information you require about sharks
can be found in The Fishes of Australia (Part
I), by G. P. Whitley, 7s. 6d., obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .J.X.: The
Coming New World is not obtainable in Aus-
tralia at present M.A.K.: The Bulletin,
save in its “Uncabled Additions” pages, does
not reprint... .J.F.: There is no agreement
as to the spelling or meaning of the word
Warrane or.Worane. In a map of the settle-
ment of Sydney in 1807, the surveyor, Meehan,
wrote beneath the name Sydney Cove the word
Warrang. Various writers have given the native
name for Sydney Cove as Warrung and War-
rane. Another states, that Warang is the name
of Rose Bay, and Warrane of Sydney Harbor.
... .S.: Burke’s American Speeches and Letters,
Everyman’s Library Series, 3s. 9d., obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
W. : Can trace no books dealing with un-
usual viewpoints in perspective... .A.McC.:
Hoyle Up-to-date, 25., and Rules of Draw
Poker, Solo Whist, Auction Solo and Auction
Bridge, 2s. 6d., obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, have sections dealing with
poker G.S.C.McL.: Nominally 10.8 p.c.
Actually, computed at monthly rests, something
over 17 p.c J.J.G.: Can trace no agent for
Brantford mowers in Australia... .J.R.: Gochel
■ drwg a-gwna dda may be translated as * Avoid
evil and do good” J. 8.: The oil is a well-
known commercial article. Queensland Depart-
ment of Forestry could direct you to suppliers.
H.P.M.: The word “Pinocchio” has no
particular meaning, save as the name of the
hero of the Italian fairy tale which formed the
basis of the Walt Disney film.


HTS
LYS
K
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" wire, wire netting.
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drought in the North.
“Mookau”: Eastern Australia is learn-
ing that it takes more than relatively high
prices to assure prosperity in all sections
of the sheep industry. While central
markets realise good prices for sheep and
lambs, wool-bearing stock in drought-
stricken districts are often a drug on the
market. Cannon Hill (Brisbane) reported
a few days ago the worst yarding of
sheep for years. There is talk of an
increase in the retail price of mutton
because of the scarcity.
The whole of the south-western Queens-
land sheep areas are gradually joining
north-western N.S.W. in the clutch of
the dry weather, and in some districts
round Goondiwindi bushfires have added
to the graziers’ difficulties.
Dairying is suffering even more heavily.
The Queensland Government has asked
the Commonwealth for £250,000 for
drought relief. It already has had
£50,000 and it is unlikely to get the
other £200,000. Farmers are suffering the
more because of the dearness and scarcity
of hand fodders. On the southern Dar-
ling Downs 70 p.c. of the farmers are
handfeeding. In the fertile Helidon area
below the range, adjacent to the lucerne
belts, there have been losses, but the posi-
tion is not so serious as elsewhere.
The Burnett has lost between 6000 and
7000 head of cattle, worth about £40,000.
Meanwhile prime lucerne hay in Bris-
bane markets has reached a top price
of £l2 16s. per ton, and chaff £l3 10s.
In the northern sugar areas it is esti-
mated that £1,000,000 already has been
clipped off the value of the crop by lack
of rain, the reduction being reckoned at
125,000 tons. And in the cotton belt
more than 1300 growers have had Gov-
ernment assistance this year. Instead of
the crop being doubled, as had been
predicted, it may be reduced.
Blowfly Methods.
“Ghanam”: The C.S.I.R. and the
N.S.W. Agricultural Department have got
together to bring out a simple handbook
on prevention and treatment of blow-
fly strike.
The subject is dealt with clearly. One
section covers the causes of strike ; an-
other the means to reduce the sheep’s
liability to infestation —the production of
plainer-breeched sheep, the Mules opera-
tion and the docking of lamb-tails.
Dressings and technique of shearing,
crutching and jetting are discussed at
length along with means for preventing
horn strike.
Much attention is devoted to trapping
and poisoning and methods of direct war
on the fly itself, great stress being laid on
the need for the burning or burying of
carcasses within three days of death. At
the same time, it is pointed out that
strikes on living animals are more impor-
tant than primary blowfly, spread from
carrion.
The booklet is the best of its kind so
far. One fact emerges—-that, with fly as
with other stock inflictions, prevention is
better than cure.
Copra as Stock Food.
‘J.R.D.”: The prolonged drought in
the N.S.W. north-west has resulted in
scarcity of drought fodders. Local re-
serves of hay and silage are mostly
finished and maize is scarce. Even with
artificial stock foods there has been need
for substitutions. Cottonseed meal, pea-
nut meal and even linseed meal are hard
to come by, and supplies of meat meals
are not equal to the demand. The use
of copra is being considered.
Large stocks of unsaleable copra are
on the hands of Pacific planters and
merchants, and the idea of using the dried
coconut meat with its high oil content
for feeding drought-stricken sheep seems
a good one. Graziers who pioneered the
idea fed the copra in its natural state —
in fingers a few inches long—but best
results were obtained by grinding it into
meal. Some difficulty was found in con-
serving the high oil content, but this was
overcome by grinding a quantity of oats
or wheat along with the copra, the grain
taking up excess oil. The mixed copra meal
has given excellent results fed to sheep
whose only other feed was lopped scrub.
The experience gained by the first ex-
“Now see the view from this side of the house”
periments proves that copra meal may
be a first-class addition to the list of
artificial foods, but there will be need for
further experiment to see if there are
complications.
Copra costs just under £7 per ton to
produce, freight is about 30s. to 40s. per
ton, yet ground copra meal can be bought
for £9 10s. per ton in Sydney, and ordi-
nary copra at a much lower figure.
Wheat Yields Badly Hit.
“Forder”: With acreage down and
average yield kicked to pieces by drought,
the W.A. Government Statistician fore-
casts a State yield less than half of that
of last year —19,309,467 bushels, com-
pared with 40,861,000. Total acreage
sown was about 420,000 below that of
last year, and the State average yield is
set at 7.6 bushels an acre. Last year it
was 13,8 bushels.
Queensland will do a little better
than was anticipated, a 30- to 36-bushel
average coming from early crops in the
Allora district.
In N. S. Wales not more than
30,000,000 bushels is expected, and there
are reports of crops being cut for hay or
having sheep turned into them. Good
wheaten hay is a better proposition than
grain just now —one man reckons he’s
getting £7 an acre out of it, more than
he could have got for stripped grain. The
State yield will be scarcely half that of
'.ast year.
Neither Victoria nor South Australia
can tell better stories. It’s a bit early for
forecasts there, but Victoria will be lucky
to get 15,000,000 bushels. Its normal
crop is about 40,000,000. No figures have
come out of S.A. yet, but if it gets half
a crop it’ll be doing pretty well. The
estimates show how widespread is the
drought.
Making Composts.
“Indore”: Compost heaps are as old
as farming.
The Chinese cultivator gathers from
every possible source the waste vegetable
matter of his land and household, weeds
and roadside rubbish, the muds from the
canals, with all the animal and human
excreta at his command. In India
material of all kinds containing organic
matter —crop residue, town waste, paper
and night soil —are bedded together in
regulated heaps, duly watered and turned.
A brisk fermentation sets in, and a series
of organic changes convert the mixture
into a friable manure ready for return
to the land. If fully carried out the
Indore process would achieve the perfect
cycle of the return to the soil of all the
fertilising material taken out by the crops.
In hot climates the humus of the soil
very rapidly burns out, and in its absence
the soil becomes liable to erosion. The
trash from a maize crop is first-rate
material for a compost heap, especially
if mixed with wild vegetation or some
leguminous crop grown specially for the
purpose. Seaweed and other material
which goes to waste would be valuable
adjuncts also for keeping the land in
good heart.
Sandalwood Pulling.
“Agric”: There’s been extension of the
Act controlling the pulling of sandalwood
in S.A.
The Soil Conservation Committee
wanted the removal of the trees stopped
as part of the anti-erosion measure, but
the Lands Department and the Pastoral
Board said that only a relatively small
amount of sandalwood was left in the far
north, in the Flinders and Gawler ranges,
north-west pastoral leases and along the
Trans-Australian railway from Tarcoola
to Ooldea. Thirty per cent, of the trees
were dead, 60 p.c. dying and 10 p.c. blem-
ished by rabbits, borer beetles and
drought. The sandalwood was an infini-
tesimal proportion of the scrub. It was
far more important that pastoralists
should co-operate in the destruction of
rabbits, which were still doing incalcu-
lable damage, and mistletoe.
The species required for export to
China is not the native peach but a bitter
peach known as the “fragrant sandal-
wood” or “smooth-stone quandong,”
botanically Eucarya spicata. The indus-
try has been worth £120,000 to S.A. in
15 years, though exports have shrunk
during the last three years of Sino-Japa-
nese war.
S.A. pastoralists differ about sandal as
stock fodder. Some say it has no value
and others that stock do eat it if they’re
hard put.
Hints for the Farm.
“Ml. Boppy”: When feeding sheep
in troughs, make sure that there is suffi-
cient troughing to give every sheep a
•reasonable chance of getting fed. For
500 sheep, at least 100 yards of troughing
is needed.
“Canbelego”: Grow milo grain sor-
ghum for pig feed —it is about equal to
wheat in food value, and yields 15-to 20
bags per acre. On a well-prepared seed-
bed, sow in drills 18in. to 20in. apart.
Milo, which matures in to four
months, can be harvested with a header.
Crush the grain, and feed it to pigs in the
same way as pollard.
“Goulburn”: Eight dairy cows died
from botulism at Moss Vale (N.S.W.)
recently. They had been drinking from a
stream which had its source in a rubbish
dump, where decaying refuse, including
sheep bones and a rat carcass, was found.
Botulism often occurs when feed is
scarce and cattle are eating rubbish. It
is seldom that stock can be saved once
they are badly affected. Best plan is to
keep them in such condition that they
do not have to wander round picking up
rubbish, and to be sure that drinking
water is clean.
“8.C.: It has taken 13 years to de-
velop Ghurka 595, a wheat variety due
for release by the Victorian Department
of Agriculture. In a three-year test at
Walpeup farm the new strain outyielded
its parent by 3.9 bushels an acre. This


James Murphy Bursaries
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) The University of Sydney:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, Ihe cost of residence at St. John's
College und an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
or
(b) Hawkesbury Agricultural College:
Providing all fees and textbooks not exceeding £5O per annum.
■Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the Will of the late
James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable their
sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the
University of Sydney, or of entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case
may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than the 10th January,
1941, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College and not later
than the 7th February, 1941, in the ease of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and
further particulars may be obtained from:—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
i
V
9 rV
THE ESSENTIAL LINK
For efficient co-ordination of the
three services Navy, Army and
Air Force—instant communication
is essential and radio alone can
provide this contact. Australian-
made Radiotron Valves are stand-
ard equipment for both transmitters
and receivers in all services.
. t uve million Radiotron Valves
manufactured at the Company's
works, Sydney, are now giving
lasting satisfaction to Australian
National Services and its listeners.
Protect your Radio enjoyment by
insisting upon Australian • made
Radiotrons.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil.
e
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELLS, FRIES OR GERMS.
REPEAT ORDERS PROVE SATISFACTION.
The Commonwealth Government has lately
bought 97 more and the Hunter District Water
Board 13 more.
PRICE, £l7/9/6,
including sales tax and crating.
Write Desk II for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wf
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty._Ltd^_Kinji_St ! _S^JnB^
is the second release from Walpeup, the
other being Regalia, which came out a
few years ago and last year was sown
on 40,930 acres in Victoria. At present
Ghurka and Ranee hold pride of place,
but Bencubbin is third and making rapid
progress. Ghurka 595 is expected to
have good drought-resisting ability.
“Forder”: Septoria played up with
some wheat crops last year by checking
filling and thereby reducing yield. In-
vestigations show that early-maturing
varieties are more susceptible, and that
environment has a good deal to do with
it. Crops grown under comparatively
cool and moist conditions copped out
pretty heavily. All varieties suffered in
southern Riverina, even the very late
maturers getting a slight dose of the leaf-
spot. Some durums from Palestine
escaped, and there is talk of using them
as a foundation in attempting to breed
resistant varieties. Sword, Ford, Baroota
Wonder and Bordan showed more resist-
ance to septoria than any of the commer-
cial wheats, and some of them may be
tried in the crossing experiments with
the durums.
“Bundalinga”: From 20 acres of peren-
nial ryegrass Oliver Lodge, Blowering
station, Tumut (N.S.W.), last spring cut
800 bales of pasture hay. The paddock
was topdressed with lcwt. of super, per
acre in autumn, grazed through the
winter, closed to stock in September, and
the grass cut when the seed had almost
matured. Lodge feeds the hay to stock
in other paddocks, and enough seed was
matured to spread the rye. He has
about 1200 acres of improved pasture,
chiefly perennial rye and sub. clover.
“Bundalinga”: Kikuyu grass makes a
good pasture for cattle —calves thrive on
it—and pigs. As Kikuyu is difficult to
eradicate, and spreads rapidly, don’t
plant it near a cultivation paddock. It
does not seed, but is propagated by cut-
tings, rooted runners or divisions of the
plant’s crown. Plant any time from Sep-
tember to March, provided the soil is
moist enough to allow plants to become
well rooted. Kikuyu, which stands frost
better than paspalum, does best in tem-
perate climates with good rainfall. It
can be used to control erosion in drier
districts if sown on banks of streams,
dams and tanks where it gets some mois-
ture. It will choke out bracken fern.
It needs l|cwt. to 2cwt. of super, per
acre.
“Albionner”: Lucerne’s ability to
withstand dry times if carefully managed
has been proved again, this time on the
drought-stricken N.S.W. Illawarra. The
late G. Gear had a practice on his farm
at Albion Park of planting a succeeding
stand when he saw an established stand
begin to decline, thus maintaining a con-
tinuous lucerne supply. His son, now
carrying on, got good yields from the
lucerne during last summer, and the
younger stands were still standing up
to the strain of drought a few weeks ago.
As soon as the chance arises more lucerne
is going down on that dairy farm. Years
ago there used to be a lot of lucerne on
the Illawarra flats, but much of it has
been beaten by paspalum. J. Stevenson
made attempts to re-establish lucerne on
flats near Dapto just as the drought
began. Little rain has fallen since, but
there are hardy plants persisting and a
good chance of much of the stand sur-
viving. A spring application of No. 8
fertiliser is a big help to old stands show-
ing loss of growth-vigor.
“M.H.J.”: I’ve yet to see the iron fence
that will keep mice out of a stack (B.
9/10/’4O). A well-constructed straddle is
the only effective way. It will last for
donkeys’ years, and it’s a poor stack-
builder with a decent outfit who can’t
build a stack to any reasonable height.
Other advantages of the straddle: It
allows air currents to circulate under-
neath, and mice cannot get in while the
stack is being built, provided ladders, etc.,
are removed when work is finished for
the day. Always cut wheaten hay before
the grain forms, then it is not so attrac-
tive to mice.
“H.A.L.”: Pine plantations may have
failed in W.A. (B. 16/10/’4O), but the
Pinus radiata plantations in the bottom
end of S.A., growing on sandy country
which in its natural state carried manna-
gums and bracken, have been an out-
standing success. The pines turn to mill
logs when 15 years old, and the timber
provides an excellent substitute for im-
ported softwoods —chiefly flooring,
weatherboards, building timbers and box
shooks. The fact that the land has just
carried a crop of pine-trees doesn’t pre-
vent it from growing another immediately
logging operations have finished. It’s
a Government venture —and it shows a
profit.
“Valerin”: After 60 years’ experience
on the land, I don’t hold with long-range
forecasts or the periodicity of good and
bad seasons. They just happen, and
that’s all there is to it. Droughts can
be classified as flaming bad and bad. The
former kick-off with a few years of
deceptively diminishing rainfall, culminat-
ing in a knockout. Bad droughts are
short and sharp, generally preceded and
followed by a good season. Of course,
the severity of any drought is aggravated
by rabbits, hoppers and other pests. This
present dry doesn’t show any sign of
breaking. It is safe to say the wool clip
and wheat harvest will be down 25 p.c.
and 60 p.c. respectively, and the plights
of the dairying and meat industries are
becoming desperate. Probably the most
disturbing feature is the rapid drying-up
of surface water and the depletion of
fodder reserves, with little hope of being
replenished this year. Inches of soaking
ram are needed to save a dangerous situa-
tion in N. S. Wales.
Outback Occupations.
No. XLIII.
THE SICK (?) HEIFER.
About 4 o’clock one afternoon young
Tom comes in from the paddock with a
grave face and reports that the little
Jersey heifer seems to be “crook.”
She’s a prize animal, that heifer, and
cost you £l5. She is registered, has a
pedigree as long as your arm, and you
bought her with the idea of maintaining
the farm milk supply and at the same
time getting some stock from her that
would show a good profit.
You, Tom and Jack hurry down the
paddock. The heifer is lying down. She
gives you a mournful look from her great
eyes and turns her head into her left
flank.
“Must be colic,” you say.
“What’d give her colic?” asks Jack.
“What gives anything colic?” you come
back at him. You run a hand along the
heifer’s side. She moans and tosses her
head.
“H’m,” you say knowingly, “we’ll have
t’ get her up t’ the house an’ look after
her.” '
“Will I ring the vet.?”—this from Tom.
“Vet., me eye,” you say ; “I bin among
stock all me life. She’s got colic, I tell
,y\”
You and the boys try to get the heifer
up. She doesn’t want to get up. After
some preliminary heaving and grunting
you announce that for her size she’s
dashed strong. She tosses her head, and
a horn-tip takes a square foot out of your
shirt. Tom laughs. Jack grins and steps
back, trips over the heifer’s hind-
quarters and sits down heavily on her
side.
She groans at this, heaves herself up-
right and stands trembling and rather
wild-eyed.
You slip a halter on her head and start
for the house. With Tom and Jack help-
ing her along behind, you proceed in a
series of fits, starts, sideswipes, short
bursts, halts and retreats, but you get
there in the end and tie the heifer in a
stall in the stables.
“You watch her, Jack, while I go an
mix up some stuff.”
“Huh,” says Jack, “nursemaid to a
blanky cow!”
“Listen, young feller, I’ve spoke to you
before about using language.”
“Aw, cripes, Dad, I’m not a kid!”
You go inside and mix up some flour
and warm starch with milk and water
and put it on to boil. You read some-
where that it was good for colic or diar-
rhoea or something. When it’s ready you
take some out to the heifer. She smells
it, gives you a wild look and backs hur-
riedly to the full length of the halter-rope
and stands, her head out and sideways,
her neck stretched and trembling again.
Tom bunts her in the rear and she
straightens up. Jack and Tom hold her
horns, and you try to pour the mixture
down her throat. She gets about a cupful
and a quart or so goes down inside the
waistband of your pants. The boys giggle.
The heifer lets out a bellow and tries
to stand on her head. You retreat, feel-
ing somewhat strange and walking stiff-
legged.
The missus appears and says tea’s
ready. You decide to leave the patient
until afterwards.
In the middle of tea the weather
changes suddenly and a cold, blustering
rain comes up from the south. Hurriedly
you go out and close the stable door.
The heifer is lying down again. This
doesn’t look too good, and you go back
to tea, thinking of that £l5 and wonder-
ing what her hide is worth.
The weather thickens after tea. So
does Jack’s language when you order him
and Tom to go down to the haystack and
get a couple of bags of straw to make a
bed for the heifer. While they’re away
the missus holds the hurricane lamp while
you try to persuade the heifer to have
some more gruel. But she is adamant.
The missus says “I don’t think there’s
much wrong with her.”
“Much wrong with her, woman! Why,
anybody can see she’s dead crook.”
Then the boys stumble in out of the
wild night with the straw. You make a
bed for the heifer. She is still a-tremble
and occasionally gives forth a low moan.
Extremely worried, you lead the family
back to the house.
It’s a wild night. In oilskins and with
the hurricane lamp you visit the stable at
frequent intervals. Tom minds his own
business—a good lad, Tom—but Jack
keeps passing sarcastic remarks. He
never did like cows. If it had been a
horse he would never have left its side.
The missus views your comings and
goings, and her only comment is “I still
don’t think she’s that bad.”
Eventually you get to bed. But there
is no sleep. You lie there, listening to
the rain on the roof and the pattering of
twigs and leaves brought by the wind,
and wonder how the heifer’s getting on.
When you get out of bed for the fourth
time the missus says “For heaven’s sake,
why don’t you go and sleep with the
blessed animal?”
Later, with the wind howling but the
rain stopped, you come in from another
visit, having left the heifer asleep in her
straw. You climb into bed.
Next morning, tired and irritable, you
get to the back door just in time to see
the heifer, with a bit of broken halter
on her head, careering down the paddock
full of life.
“She’s crook all right,” observes Jack
with a grin.
A yawn nearly cracks your jaw.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2!d. per line.
A Victorian’s powerful plea for the preservation of the Victorian forests earns
first place this week.
Forest Protection
Proposals that the Victorian Forests
Commission should close the State forests
for the period of fire danger have raised
a storm of protest from sawmillers,
timber workers and others concerned in
the industry. Some of the best hard-
wood in Australia grows in Victoria’s
mountain districts, and since the com-
mencement of war, with its consequent
restrictions on imports, timber has had
an excellent market.
There is, however, much to be said for
the attitude of the Forests Commission.
The fires of January, 1939, killed the trees
on tremendous areas of the most valu-
able milling country in the State. They
had seeded and regrowth has taken place,
but the young trees will not seed for 15 or
20 years, and if destroyed before that
time the forests will be denuded for at
least two centuries. Small areas which
have been reburnt since the 1939 fires are
as bare as a table top and will remain so.
The Commission is fighting a desperate
battle to keep major fires out of the
forests, and there is not the slightest
doubt that the human element is the main
cause with which it has to contend.
Millers, for example. Few are organised
on a business basis, and their policy is
almost exclusively one of exploitation and
quick profits, without thought of the
future.
Apart from that, mill operations inevit-
ably cause fires. The sides of snig tracks,
along which 10- or 12-ton logs are
winched, become piled with dry and
highly-inflammable bark. A log is
dragged over another, the friction causes
sparks, the bark catches, and on certain
days the fire is out of hand before it is
realised it is alight. Fallers, who operate
some distance from the mill, take their
lunch to the job and boil a billy. Forest
officers frequently find the remains of a
billy fire which has not been properly ex-
tinguished. A cigarette butt, carelessly
thrown into dry bark, will, despite many
opinions to the contrary, cause a fire if
fanned by a hot north wind.
The United States and many European
countries have learnt that to lose the
forests is to lose all. Millions of dollars
are being spent each year in U.S.A. on
reclamation work and reafforestation,
while Germany, with Goring as head of
the Forests Department, has adopted a
far-sighted forests policy. The problem
is bound up with water and soil conserva-
tion, with erosion, with the silting up of
streams and reservoirs and the flooding
of river flats. Already on isolated, twice-
burnt slopes there has been a heavy loss
of topsoil. Their experience in the
Mallee, which drops its topsoil on Mel-
bourne with every north wind in summer,
should be sufficient to teach Victorians
that the forests must be saved at all costs.
—SILVARBOR (Vic.).
After the War
A more ill-considered contribution than
that of “Mike” (B. 2/10/’4O) can rarely
have been written. Britain —or “we”
—he says, “must assume a pro-
tectorate over all Europe; the peoples
of Europe are not competent to
govern themselves.” Have Holland and
Denmark and Switzerland, to name no
others, not governed themselves com-
petently for many long years? Norway
was one of the best-governed States in
Europe. “Mike” has the nerve to write
of “their utter lack of Christian virtues,”
compared, of course, with “us.” And
he assumes that “we” are willing to
assume responsibility “for whatever
Churchill plans for them”!
Many of us will assume no such re-
sponsibility at all, and in any case it
won’t be Churchill alone who will plan
for them. And how are we to rule
Europe according to the gospel of
Mike”? “With a rod of iron.” Fortu-
nately few people are as intolerant as
Mike,” though he does admit that “the
British peoples have many faults.” The
peoples of Europe have long thought
that an undue tendency to interfere with
others, and to set them right, has been
one of these faults. What we do need
is to try to see ourselves as others see
us. It will certainly need all the wisdom
and patience and foresight of men wiser
and more far-seeing than Churchill, good
war-time leader as he is, to reconstruct
Europe, including Britain (and perhaps
Australia) after the war, but such crass
stupidity as shown by “Mike” will not
help.—L. Etherington (M.L.).
Events of the past couple of years have
shown us the futility of alliances with
European States. Collective security,
appeasement and voluntary disarmament
are myths which have cost us dear. The
only post-war plan which holds any hope
of practical success is the complete and
permanent arming-to-the-teeth of the
British Empire. The spectacle of a family
of nations at peace among themselves
and strong enough to forbid any attack
is in itself a force for peace.
We may yet see small nations joining
the Empire of their own free will to
escape the Hitlers and the Mussolinis,
thus adding more and more to its real
greatness.— Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Knights of the New Order
Out of the international conflict one
solid point of agreement is emerging—
there is to be a “new order” to follow
victory. The new order will get away to
a bad start in Australia if victory is cele-
brated by an outbreak of titles of honor
proportionate to the extent of Australia’s
war effort. The only sort of new order
that the survivors of the present world-
hate will accept must have the better
brotherhood of man as its main object,
and human brotherhood is not promoted
by artificial distinctions.
Natural differences make it hard
enough to keep human intercourse on the
matey level necessary for general friend-
ship ; to perpetuate and intensify in-
equalities by means of titles is asking for
trouble. Australia should fall into line
with other modern countries and let
nature do any ennobling that may be
needed. In the new order we must all
start from scratch or it will be no race.
—J.W.R. (Tas.).
Finance and War Comforts
Well, why have any part of our war
effort (B. 23 /10/’4O) financed by volun-
tary subscriptions? Red Cross work and
comforts funds are war effort, just as
surely as are armaments. However, they
are financed by voluntary subscriptions
instead of by taxation. That means they
are supported by the willing and the
patriotic, while the slackers, the un-
patriotic and the selfish go pocket-free.
To finance them out of taxation (even
increased taxation) would mean that the
burden would fall more equitably than
at present. — Jhonnick (S.A.).
Sacrifice ?
Would the public response to patriotic
appeals, be anywhere near the present
figures if there were not a prize to be
won for every shilling spent, or a good
night’s entertainment at a dance or con-
cert for every evening “given up”? It
seems strange that while Britain with
her back to the wall is fighting one of
the greatest battles in world history for
her very existence, we, a part of the
mighty Empire, want value for our
money.
How different it would be if the
average person in the street were asked
for a shilling for the Red Cross without
there being even the slightest chance of a
return for the money spent. Would
the hand dive into a pocket or handbag
and the amount asked for be smilingly
handed over? Oh, no! The maxim “the
game before the prize” seems to be for-
gotten even in this great contest.
There have been quite a few interest-
free loans, but the bulk of the money
lent for the duration of the war will re-
turn a nice rate of interest. The money
in these loans is surplus money. People
are not going without things to help win
the war. Mr. John Smith is not going to
do without his golf for a month and
give the money saved to patriotic pur-
poses. He will give what he has over
and will not miss.
We Australians must be prepared to
give our money with a smile and know
that the interest —an everlasting peace,
freedom and security—will be waiting
at the end of the battle. —D. R. (Tas.).
The Friendly Australian
Despite Sir Pompous Beecham, the lead-
ing characteristic of Australians is friend-
liness. Experienced travellers, especially
seamen, are agreed that nowhere else on
this earth can the stranger expect to find
such general kindness and courtesy as
in Australia.
If this fact is realised it is easier to
understand the prevailing attitude of the
Australian people towards the war.
Patriotic though they are, fearless as they
always have been, nevertheless they show
more in silence than in speech a feeling
compounded of amazement and disgust
towards the international ill-humor and
bad manners of Europe.
One could hardly find in Aus-
tralia the equivalent of the ill-natured,
selfish aristocrats so indulgently but truly
caricatured by P. G. Wodehouse, or the
equally unsociable types of a lower level
drawn by a multitude of English novel-
ists, from Dickens to Arnold Bennett.
One may safely enter almost any Aus-'
tralian public place, such as a railway
coach, without finding the people divided
into two groups, the one talking arro-
gantly at the top of its “county” voice
and the other silent and dominated.
When, and only when, the peoples of
Europe are as generally friendly, cour-
teous and properly humble as the people
of Australia, there will be an end of war.
—Waratah (Tas.).
Our Australian Culture
My statement that “probably no
country in the world has as little tradi-
tional culture as our own” was not
meant to imply that I considered we had
no national culture (B. 23/10/’4O). I
agree with “Australl” that “we have a
vigorous and growing culture,” but a
nation of only 100 years’ growth could
not possibly lay claim to a “traditional
culture.”
Nor is our cultural development free
from those factors which he mentions
as having moulded the culture of Europe.
We cannot deny the existence of slums,
nor can we say that the basic wage is
conducive to high standards of living—
by no stretch of imagination could the
basic wage be called a “living wage.”
Moreover, in September of last year the
chief officer of the Sustenance Depart-
ment reported that many mothers of
families'on sustenance relief were nervous
wrecks because of the necessity of stint-
ing themselves of food and clothing so
that their families might not unduly
suffer. Early in this year it was pointed
out at a Teachers’ Conference that a
large number of children attending our
Victorian schools were suffering from
malnutrition, and frequently came to
school having had little or no breakfast.
In these respects, our social conditions
do not differ very much from those of
the peoples of Europe.
I would ask “Australl” where English
culture would be today were it not for
the influence of European culture in the
past. Rome, Greece, France, have all
played their part in the development of
English culture, and if, as Frank Harvey
says (B. 9/10/’4O), “the British Consti-
tution has been built up piecemeal on
the cultural development of the com-
munity,” we must take into account these
elements of foreign culture introduced
into England in the various periods of
her history.
In so far as Australia’s artistic achieve-
ments are concerned, we are right to be
proud of those who have made her name
great and brought fame to themselves and
to their country ; but can we make any
real comparison between them and the
“old masters” of the Continent? We
have not yet produced a Mozart, a Beet-
hoven, a Bach, a Rembrandt, a Michel-
angelo, a Plato, a Socrates.
History has surely proved that a small
leaven of foreign culture is of inesti-
mable worth to the cultural development
of any country, and, in spite of “Australl’s”
gibe that I am eager to welcome to our
shores all Europe’s unwanteds, I still
think that we have much to gain from
those who seek a peaceful haven from
the tragedies and sufferings inflicted upon
them in their own land. —V. J. (Vic.).
Commonwealth Literary Fund
“Registrar” (B. 30/10/’4O) writes with
authority and I must bow to his ruling re
'the S.A. University allocation of the
fund. My par. did not stigmatise either
the professors or the teachers, only the
donors of the cash, but I rejoice that any
implied hint of collusion has been re-
moved. The professor, in the light of the
facts stated, has taken the only honor-
able course, and it will be interesting to
see if his example is followed by his
fellows in the other five States. The
teacher, we may presume, has fulfilled all
the conditions laid down for laymen—
formal application with personal refer-
ences and examples of work, plus finan-
cial statement —and is therefore not only
blameless but to be congratulated on his
appointment. May success attend his
efforts!
But the confession that the study of
Australian literature and the examina-
tions thereon are “made possible” only
by a special grant from the fund must
come as a shock to even the most caustic
critics of our University curriculum, and
it certainly explains why some of our
most brilliant writers are at the bottom
of a depression.—His One Ewe Lamb
(S.A.).
Everyone who writes with the pen has
to face up to the fact that it is a pre-
carious livelihood, but none the less worth
while. If you want to follow it, it means
sacrifice of time, money or per-
sonal well-being, and if you have the
common courage you will follow it, these
things notwithstanding.
Officialdom is notorious for favoring
the views it possesses itself, and only those
authors who conform to those views will
come in for the plums of the Common-
wealth Literary Fund. Australia doesn’t
want lickspittles to any Government. She
wants men and women with the courage
to write and say what they think.
There is only one way to do that, and
that is for authors to become independent
of the Government by hard work and
sacrifice. Don’t drag up the hoary argu-
ment about hard work ruining the lofty
inspiration of genius and all that rot —
hard work makes you face life, and un-
less our authors have the courage to
face life, God help them!
If the Government were really sincere
about the well-being of Australian writers
it would forbid the importation of
syndicated trash and give small papers
and magazines a chance to breathe. We
shall never have a bold literary fraternity
until we have a press that represents every
point of view, not in one or two mono-
poly-controlled dailies, but in many
smaller magazines, dailies and weeklies.
Authors don’t want Government charity
—they want a market for their goods.
—I. Literati (N.S.W.).
Fostering Literary Talent
The kids of today are certainly well
catered for as far as education goes. If
your boy shows a talent for art it’s
10 to 1 he’ll be given extra training in
that branch of study. If your girl has a
talent for dressmaking the sewing mis-
tress will see that it is developed in a
practical way.
I’ve found the same rule applies to
every branch of study but one —the art
of writing. Children are taught suited
English. They learn to write ponderous,
wordy essays, and they are praised for
moralising. The gift of clear expression,
if a child has it, is soon hidden beneath
the unpractical style imposed by a
teacher who probably is unable to see
any further than verbs and tenses.
When the child possessed of the
“writing itch” leaves school with his
English teacher’s praise ringing in his
ears, he begins to contribute his copy to
various publications. With monotonous
regularity his MSS. are returned. If he
is lucky, some kind person will explain
that no newspaper or magazine will
accept work which is prosy, academic
and stilted.
Something could be done about the
matter by the education authorities. They
could appoint teachers with proven
journalistic or short-story-writing quali-
ties to take charge of English classes,
and any child who shows talent should
be given special opportunities to de-
velop it.
If literary talent in our children is
encouraged, you can depend on it that
the standard of Australian writings will
improve.—Scribbler (N.S.W.).
Opera for Australia
The suggestion that a season of opera
by Australians be organised has been
rejected by J. C. Williamson Theatres,
and Mr. Frank S. Tait complains that
there are not enough experienced singers
in Australia to provide a full season.
Surely Mr. Tait is aware that competitions
are annually producing sufficient talented
singers for whom the chance to appear
in opera would open up a new realm.
Also, i£ Mr. Tait were to consult the


A.8.C., he would learn the names of quite
a few more talented singers who would
not shame the firm’s name by appearing
in the firm’s opera. Why can’t these
singers be given the opportunity to gain
experience in opera? Why must they be
sent overseas to study before Australian
theatrical managers will recognise them?
—J. F. H. (S.A.).
Shakspeare and Marie Ney
“Thespian” (B. 30 /10 / ’4O) depre-
cates my suggestion that Marie Ney
should give us a season of Shakspeare’s
historical plays on the ground that there
are few parts for women in them and
that Miss Ney excels in the boy-girl parts
which Shakspeare, willy-nilly, wrote in
his early comedies. I differ on both
counts. “Richard II” contains at least
three female parts—Queen Margaret, the
Lady Anne and Queen Elizabeth —which
provide admirable opportunities for
actresses who are sufficiently unambitious
as to prefer a good performance to
having all the fat, and I think Miss Ney
is that kind of actress. “Henry VI” con-
tains Margaret and “Henry VIII” has
Katherine. Because of the qualities of
the plays these characters have 10 times
the emotional significance of the attenu-
ated females in the earlier comedies.
I know nothing of Miss Ney’s capa-
bilities as a Shakspearean boy-girl, but
she certainly excels as the savage, middle-
aged, frustrated spinster in “Ladies in
Retirement,” and it is a pity the play
wasn’t better. — Cauboy (Vic.).
Sex Crimes
The Bulletin (30/10/’4O) would be
nearer the mark if it admitted that in
most of these sex crimes both parties
are, almost invariably, first rendered
defenceless through drink. The number
of cases “in recent weeks” is not unusual.
These sex crimes do not vary week by
week, month by month, or year by year
—the majority of them are rarely re-
ported.
The old plea that man is invariably the
aggressor in such cases should be dropped.
Often it is the woman who does most
of the “aggressing.” But the principal
aggressor in practically all cases is booze.
If the Judge is to conduct any inquiry
along the lines suggested by The Bul-
letin, then let it be an inquiry into the
nature of the liquor consumed by the
parties before they were stripped of all
ordinary sense of decency. — King’s Inns
(N.S.W.).
Smutty Vaudeville
Under the heading “Recent Sex
Crimes” (B. 30/10/’4O), you say “the
Judge might endeavor to ascertain
whether the ruffian in the dock was influ-
enced in any way by specific illustrated
prints, etc.” I quite agree with you, but
nothing is said about so-called vaudeville
shows.
At these entertainments 95 per cent, of
the jokes are sex ones, and pretty “blue”
at that. I’m no prude, but it amazes me
to see fathers of families taking their
wives and daughters along. The filling
of the mind with sexual jokes cannot do
other than have a very pernicious effect
on the morals of both male and female.
—George Roberts (Q.).
Westralian Flowers
Westralians, at any rate, vie with one
another in the garden cultivation of Aus-
tralian wildflowers (B. 23/10/’4O). The
flower commonly known as the Gerald-
ton wax, native of the tuart areas from
Perth northward to Geraldton, is to be
found growing in almost every garden,
and in the parks it forms avenues and
reaches the dignity of trees, smothered
for at least five months of the year with
pink, red or white flowers.
That quaint flower the kangaroo paw
is nearly as extensively cultivated. Many
gardeners grow clumps of boronia, and
many enthusiasts have succeeded in
domesticating varieties of orchids.
Florists of Perth now make a feature of
the sales of seeds of numerous wild-
flowers, so there is no reason why West-
ralia’s floral gems should not become well
known throughout Australia. Bill
Ding (W.A.).
This T.B.
As one who in 60 years has twice
routed the enemy, may I say a word?
The first time was in my thirties, fresh
from the Boulder mines. Six months in
the sanatorium provided a cure. Went in
weighing ten stone, came out topping
thirteen. Good meals, plenty of sleep
and rest and no worry. But one needs
a courageous wife for that.
Single men seldom get better, for their
gods are mostly beer, betting, cards and
tobacco, all deadly to the consumptive.
A fondness for reading is a wonderful
help, for then one forgets about his com-
plaint, and that mental rest is as valuable
as gold. Fifty per cent, of t.bs. die of
fright, just merely knowing they’ve got
it, and certain there’s no cure.
In my fifties the enemy made another
assault, again reducing me to lOst. This
time a couple of clever doctors, working
gratis, gave a four months’ course of
Old Tuberculin serum, pumping me full
of the product from the Commonwealth
Laboratories. That was six years ago—
and I’m still pulling down the scales
at 12st.
Here are the rules: Don’t booze, don’t
smoke (that wastes valuable saliva, neces-
sary for the digestion of building-up
food), go to bed early, sleep in a well-
ventilated room, keep the windows open
and keep the eucalyptus bottle handy. —
W. C. (W.A.).
“Let Me Feel Your Pulse”
I remember the good old when
doctors’ fees were not excessive. I was
a bright lad from the country —much
brighter than I am today—and came to
a big city to qualify for admission to the
public service. I had, of course, to
undergo a medical examination, and was
advised to go to Dr. , with whom I
would feel quite at home. The doctor,
“Hey! Fetch the ambulance — she's melting!”
who did not look too professional, had
an old-time set of whiskers, so that it was
unnecessary for him to wear a tie. I in-
quired whether it was necessary to strip.
The M.D. said “No —open your mouth.”
I did so. He said “Wider.” I was doing
my best. Again he repeated “Open it
wider.”
When I almost had lockjaw, he hit me
on the solar plexus and winded me. When
1 recovered he gave me a certificate of
soundness and said “Half a crown,
please.” Those were the days!— Bluey
(Q-). :
Against Woollen Stockings
I’ll tell “Ex-Englishman” (B. 2/10/’4O)
why I don’t wear woollen stockings.
Because they are hot, uncomfortable, ex-
pensive, dowdy and unbecoming. In
short, they are as ugly as the heavy
tweed suits that “Ex-Englishman” him-
self wears, year by year, even though
more than half a dozen men in each city
declare firmly each hot-weather season
for sensible lightweight clothing. Any-
how, I’d rather look charming than sen-
sible, seeing how many men have eyes
and how few have brains. — Marneen
(N.T.).
Trade with the N.E.I.
Australia has, with some success, been
developing the Dutch East Indies (B.
30/10/’4O) as a market for dairy pro-
ducts. Before the collapse of the Nether-
lands we were sending dairy products,
chiefly canned butter, and even dairy
cows to those islands.
We have been told that markets exist
in the East for dried and powdered milks,
but we haven’t the equipment to produce
much more than we consume ourselves.
Co-operative organisations of dairy-
farmers have been told for years of the
opportunities they had to exploit markets
for dried milks, but only a few took
enough trouble to make investigations.
They had not made up their minds about
it when war came. Opportunities have
increased enormously in the last year, but
war has made importation of drying
plants difficult, so unless something
drastic is,done Australian dairy-farmers
will see someone else take another lucra-
tive market. —Cow Time (N.S.W.).
Australian Axes
Of course good axes could be made in
this country (B. 23/10/’4O). The only
difficulty would be to sell them.
Ever tried to sell an axe to a dinkum
timber-getter? The expert has a look
at every one in your stock, testing the
balance, feeling the edge with his thumb-
nail, ringing it like a tuning-fork and
going over each point as if he were buy-
ing a racehorse. The whole collection
looks alike to you, but to his critical eye
each blade has a distinct personality. By a
process of elimination, the one with fewest
faults is selected. Even then it may be
taken to the local blacksmith to be
“heeled” and made perfect under the eye
of its new owner. Many a man chooses
a wife with less care about shape and
temper.
That’s all comparatively plain sailing
if you happen to stock the getter’s pet
brand ; if not, sales talk is a waste of
time should there be another store likely
to have it within 20 miles.
To attempt to boost a locally made
article, no matter how excellent, would
be useless. The traditions of the bush,
the cunning propaganda backed up by
subsidised competitions, plus sterling
quality, have mac(e the foreign brands
household and campfire words for years.
Seventy thousand quid is a lot of
money to send away every year for heavy
cutlery, but it would take a fair percent-
age of that sum, wisely spent, to popu-
larise the home-grown blades. Yet it
could be done if politicians weren t
so busy cutting their names on certain
benches that they have no tirn6 to foster
other Australian industries. Tommy
Hawke (S.A.).
Causes of Unemployment
In answer to “Pierrot’s” query (B.
23 /10 / ’4O) as to why there are still 30,000
unemployed in N. S. Wales, let me say
it is because for years we have been
governed by callous, selfish, incompetent
politicians. There is no possible excuse
for one man willing to work to be idle
in a young country such as this. If we
are to justify our right to hold Australia
with its vast undeveloped areas, we must
populate and develop. Surely any man
of normal intelligence can realise now
that the money could have been found
even during the worst of the depression.
When this war is won we must all
see that such a disgraceful state of affairs
does not happen in the future. Unfortu-
nately young men who have never had a
chance to learn to work have developed
into “unemployables.” It is one of the
saddest, cruellest fates that can befall a
young man to feel that he has no useful
place in society. The writer of this was
living for a time in a South Coast town-
ship where there were a number of young
men on the dole. When they received
four days’ work per fortnight on award
rates of pay, their undisguised-joy was
a pleasure to behold. — Wharfie (N.S.W.).
In Defence of Punters
I donff agree with your editorial
“Glorifying the Gambler” (B. 30 /10/’4O).
I’m one of those placid chaps who believe
that what the other cove does or thinks
largely is his own business and little or
no concern of theirs. For instance, if
he wants to enrich s.-p. operators and
fat bookies, let him. In most cases, I
believe, it’s his own money he’s so
anxious to transfer to the bookmaker, so
why should I worry? Surely I’ve enough
worries of my own without losing any
sleep over his.
For the life of me I cannot see that
it matters two hoots whether punters elect
to fling their “dough” about either in
big lumps or small. Seems to me that
if there really is a logical objection to
the big-lump-disposal method, the same
objection must equally apply to the small.
Anyhow, it’s utterly beyond me to under-
stand how the blazes their operations
have even the remotest effect when it
comes to balancing the national budget,
and similarly in regard to the war effort.
If they really do have a pernicious effect,
doesn’t it seem logical to assume that the
greatest effect must be brought about by
the aggregate of the small operator than
by the comparative few? —A. S. Spencer
(N.S.W.).
Those Medieval Miseries
Booked to give a lesson on the Dark
Ages recently, I braved the wogs in the
Public Library in quest of the good oil.
I was appalled by the fog of ignorance
that shrouded those unhappy people.
They had no banks or financial experts;
they didn’t believe in interest, and actu-
ally thought it was unfair to extort money
from people’s necessity ; they hadn’t even
thought of the dole, having a peculiar
idea that the poor were especially loved
by God, and to aid them was an act ot
piety ; when they went to war they pre-
ferred to fight someone their own size
and strength, and it didn’t even enter then
minds to defeat an enemy by sneaking
in and murdering his wife and children.
One can only smile at the simplicity
of their guilds, which believed in a
moderate profit for the master and a just
remuneration for his men. The masters
were so lacking in business acumen that
they didn’t perceive the vast profits to be
derived from employing women and
children. They were so little concerned
with the sanctity of production that
several times a month they took the day
off, dressed up in their festive clothes and
had a jolly good time.
Of course they did manage to build a
few cathedrals and put some rather pretty
windows in them. Duns Scotus, Albertus
Magnus and Thomas Aquinas wrote a
few books, while a fellow named Dante
wrote some poetry. The painters turned
out works that ordinary folk could under-
stand ; some of them still endure.
But what are we to think of people
who had no daily papers, no wireless, no
talkies, who never even dreamt of dive
bombers, who had no dog- or horse-
racing, who actually married to have
children? In short, what are we to think
of people who lived simple, natural lives
and had no idea of what civilised hfe
was? What are we to think of them-
They were lucky! — Pedagogue (N.S.vV.j.


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
15 Jewel Precision
£5/10/*
SO |Jf J|?s
r m /y 15
Watch, Stainless
Steel.
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Watch Repair Service. Send for Catalogue,
DIAMOND
& WATCH
SPECIALISTS
è
112 MARKET.SI
SYDNEY,
OPP. DAVID JONES
m
ANYWHE RE
ANYTIME
AMPLI
PORTABLE UNITS
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost T/- per
week. '
details gladly posted.
EJ3MTOIII
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25—watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours o
lgal. of petrol.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
DEAF!
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDIj, 1i.1.8.5.T.j
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
J. P. TALTY
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
_______ flaps and skirts.
4Un. knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 4'Un. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
Smoker’s Service
“Make your Post Box your nearest store.”
From Manufacturer to you.
HIGH CLASS FLAKE CUT at 8/-
per pound.
PIPE & CIGARETTE MIXTURES
from 6/9 per pound.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Write direct to Manufacturers:
HILLMAN TOBACCO Co. Pty. Ltd.
11 Commercial Road, BRISBANE.
“GOLF SHOTS”
by JIM FERRIER
Australian Open and Amateur Champion,
IS NOW ON SALE.
Over 100 photographs of the
champion in action reproduced
from a slow-motion film.
Every shot fully explained.
Price only 3/- per copy from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney, most
Newsagents or your Club Pro.
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality,
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it devc’ jps
personality.
The Pelman Institute
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Fane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market St.).
SMOKERS!
Here’s Real Value in Tobacco.
A I-'LAKE cut or FLAKE FINE CUT
tobacco at 8/- per lb. “BEST EVER,” 8/-
per lb., honestly worth 12/- per lb.
SPECIAL OFFER IN BRIAR PIPES.
“Barling'” Gold Mounted for ........ 17/6
Usual Price 30 / -
“G.8.D.” Silver Mounted for 8/6
Honestly worth 15/(1
The “Dry Swele” Self-cleansing Briar
Pipe. Usually 12/6
My Special Oiler to you is 8/6
Such values are obtainable only at —
ml -Tobacconist, Est. 39 Yrs.
LL V 1 713 George St., Sydney.
Goods sent C.O.D. if required.
sl®
SKS
m&m »
CLIMBING
TO M'A T O
18jFE ET
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet’ 2/6 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism.
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
□
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted.
é
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DAYS! New method.
NO RINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/fi Tin, Post Free,
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., Sydney
Banj
ê
for 55/-
We will send yon a beautiful
BANJO-MANDOLIN Complete
Outfit with Case, Correspon-
dence Course and Extra Strings
for 55/-,
AVe guarantee you will be able
to play tunes within 7 days,
otherwise your full money will
be returned. Goods can be
sent C.O.D.
Send for Catalogue of
Musical Instruments.
THE TALKERIES
161 Castlereagli St., Sydney.
SAVE £2O when buying
your RADIO SET, if no
Century Agent is in your
district.
Ten days’ I REE TRIAL, and 40%
off retail prices. This free trial is
to ensure your complete satisfaction
before purchasing:. “Century” Radio
.Sets embody all latest improvements.
World-wide reception bringrs over-
seas news direct to your home. Per-
formance and price will delight you.
1040 “Century” catalogue of Battery
and All-electric sets post free.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur -
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
TILLEY LAMPS
w
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool ptoof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 63/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiator a
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pt.v., Ltd.,
380 Kent Street, Sydney.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
ŵ
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGAILS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
BUY YOUR MEW BATTERY
from the Maker at Wholesale
Prices—Save £2.
Marshall Batteries are covered by a
watertight guarantee, and you can
buy them at a price which keeps
pounds in your pocket because all
the profits of the middleman are saved
for YOU. The Marshall catalogue is
packed with information about bat-
teries for cars, trucks, cycles,
home and theatre lighting. It will be
sent to you free of cost. The Marshall
Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42 Harbour
Street, Sydney.
E
f
*
RNIIVG
Get rid of
Hom s BEFORE
they start!
One application of
CHANDLER'S CHEMICAL
RJEIIORNER
will remove the horn
hud from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing-. Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30. minutes—the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An easy, cheap and humane method. Price,
D. & W. Chandler, Ltd,,
6/6
MELBOURNE and all branches, ’post Free.
BOOKS
If you’re fond of reading you should
become a member of READERS’ UNION
—the best book club.
By doing so you can get the best recent
books for a quarter of their published
price.
And it costs you nothing to join. Build
a library of your own with Readers’
Union books.
Write for particulars to:
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth St., Melb., Victoria.
ẁ
ẃ
SKATES
17/6—21/-
'with steel rolls
COWLES
K and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
LAMBS SAVED
ẅ
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS.
FLIES. OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
■rr rfflfn rags ment. 100 p.c. efficient—■
Humane Safe—and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—-fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX i
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £ 4/10/-
Urom all Agents or —
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
SOME COMMON SENS?
ABOUT
iiP
flit®
Discard tlje old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Rouss'-I
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possiole improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ItOUSSEIi APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 81 Pitt Street, Sydney.
&uoLy
With the
new scientific
"FOOTHELP."
No more suffering! “FOOTHELP”
gives you greater ease and comfort
than you ever imagined possible.
It won’t cost you a 'penny if we fail
to fulfil these promises.
Write To-day for FREE BOOKLET,
“Your Feet and How to Treat Them Properly,'’
to:
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. 12D),
05 York Street, Sydney.
The Mend is the Strongest Spot in the Pot
POTMEND
Cement of a thousand uses.
Sticks where it is put. Couldn’t
be simpler. Just mix powder
and fluid into a putty and fill
ŵ
the hole. Jt hardens like iron. It is fire-
proof, waterproof, will not chip, burn, boil
or bake out. Mends leaky pots, pans,
kettles, tanks, radiators, boiler joints, stoves,
tubs, buckets, etc. Many articles discarded
may be made useful again by using Pot-
mend. Used cold—no heat necessary. Price,
One Shilling, posted. Obtainable only from
THE UNION MFG. & AGENCY CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
CHRISTMAS GIFT
ẁ
PINKING SHEAR
28/6
each, Post Free.
W. Jno. BAKER
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
REDUCE
YOUR
ẃ
The GOVERNA BELT will reduce
your waistline and give a slim
athletic figure. Supports delicate
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
with every move you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will be
Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of bulge/
ami strain gone . . . OR NO
COST ! Write for full illustrated )
details of 7 BAYS’ TRIAL (
OFFER, \
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Bept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
ẅ
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
NO SPRINGS—NO CUSHIONS
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BAR HE R E acts like the hand wjmr,
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27U), 35 PITT ,VT.. SYDNEY.
w
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
tor one year so that I do not miss a single issue,
t enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
subscription rate, in full payment.
name
address
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE ‘OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN" SERVICE COUPON
131 tlJ’4o (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department, “The Bulletin "
Office. Sydney or Melbourne.


WE WILL PLACE
if H E
mm
m
wm.
Brilliant prospects lie ahead for men who get into aircraft building
now. This virile, new Australian industry has already made amazing
headway, but achievements to date are only a very small part of the
progress expected during the next few years. It is now established
beyond question that Aircraft building in Australia has definitely
come to stay .. . not just for the duration of the war, but for all time.
Naturally those who get in at the beginning with the right training
will get the big jobs in the future. We will open the door to you by
securing you a position. It then rests with you to work your way
up to higher pay.
i, m
ERM INTENSIVE COUR
RAINING
The College of Civil Aviation has announced a special course at their
premises at Kingsford Smith Aerodrome, Sydney, and at Melbourne and
Brisbane, to train men for positions in Aircraft building. Our training takes
you right from the fundamentals, covering reading of blue prints, use of
bench tools, knowledge of precision instruments and general workshop practice.
fill
%
:■■■■■ ...
SSiiS
Students of the College
of Civil Aviation at wor k
on a Twin Row AVasp
—Radial Engine.
.S: --
v ’••x'-Kviv;-:
r .
The College of Civil A viation also provides
COMPLETE TRAINING FOR
GROUND ENGINEERS’ LICENCES
The College of Civil Aviation also trains under practical conditions for the
Commonwealth Department of Civil Aviation ground, engineers' Licences,
taking students from the fundamentals right up to licence standard. Training
covers all phases of the subject... fitting, woodworking, construction of wings
and fuselage, rigging, the uses of instruments, etc. W
Because of the personal coaching and out unique system of practical teaching
you learn more in weeks than you would learn in months and even years by
other training methods. Fees are low, and payments may be spread ovei
the period of the course.
200 STUDENTS PLACED
Nearly 200 College of Civil Aviation students are now employed in the aircraft
industry and the R.A.A.F. Last week alone 30 students commenced work in
one of Australia’s largest aircraft building plants. Remember! if you enrol
now the College will find you a position in the Aircraft Industry as soon as
you finish training. SO CALL IN WITHOUT DELAY, post coupon, or write
for full details of the course to your nearest College of Civil Aviation Office.
..
■
m
m
The College of Civil Aviation premises at Kings lord Smith Aerodrome. Mascot,
Sydney, where complete training is provided in aviation engineering lrom the
fundamentals to licence standard. 1 here are similar premise’s in Melbourne
and Brisbane.
The addresses of the city otliccs are:
The College of Civil Aviation, Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
The College of Civil Aviation, Dept. 14, Manchester Unity Building, Corner of
Collins and Swanston Streets, Melbourne, VICTORIA.
w
The College of Civil Aviation. Dept. 14, Parbury House, Eagle
Street, Brisbane, QUEENSLAND.
W. KINGSFORD SMITH, Managing Director.
THE COLLEGE OF CIVIL AVIATION, Dept. 14,
Please send me details of your intensive course for r „ ri „.. oB
( ) THE AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY. ( ) GROUND ENGINEERS.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Mark with an X training desired.)
B. 13/1 l/*4O.
ŵ
