

OM I
U
n
Silt
THE
CHEQUERS
II
if
m
im
fen
yy
m
A /
I=X
&
rr* r '
rrrr^
m
■rtC«
jAxesjo
3
HOST HOLBROOK says:
"The Chequers, Tonbridge, Kent, is a medie-
val timbered inn which has been restored to its
former elegance to share in the busy town life of
Tonbridge and the passing traffic to nearby Tun-
bridge Wells, which has for many centuries
attracted visitors to its beneficial chalybeate
waters.
The House of Holbrook has for many genera-
tions been famous for the quality of its sauces and
table delicacies.
My Worcestershire Sauce is brewed from an
old English recipe and matured in vats until it is
mellowed by age. Ah! it is indeed a piquant
1 >y
% Mr/Js AppeAser
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
*
IVRRH.S.ORAVIC
WORCESTER.
!,*.Vr, Tan«a/.oi"* ‘‘‘?'*•
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61. —N0. 3172.
Wednesday, November 27, 1940.
Peace Offensives
Jc rice \7vi«
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


»T*
imi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S *CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Pool-let explaining how to Write for Profit, « s
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 240
The Red Page
"ELEGY FOR AN AIRMAN."
The excellent subject of the title piece
of Douglas Stewart’s Elegy for an Air-
man (Frank C. Johnston, Sydney) has
been characteristically treated by Mr.
Stewart, which is as much as to say that
it does not in the least resemble the
classic elegy. It is unrhymed, has little or
no “architecture,” makes no claim of
immortality, unless this be such a claim:
....caught in its day your silver statement of
laughter
Is a fountain they cannot bury under the clay.
O my friend, your life goes echoing on through
time
As the thrush still rings in the mind when the
willows darken,
and is composed in a metre which is not
the orthodox iambic. It is also much
shorter than any of the classic elegies, and
is in fact merely a cluster of heady,
youthful reminiscences, bound together
with the magic string of memory ; the
emotional storm has blown upon the
waters, a brief but bitter blast; the waves
are set in motion, the images of the
shared childhood crowd into the mind,
a poem is born. Those are lovely
memories, recalled with a passionate
arddr, and enshrined in many a beautiful
line and in rhythms which ring with a
fine and real sincerity. The friends were
children together:
We lived in a castle, too, we were knights and
princes
Some day or never to ride from our castle of
fire
That sprang from the black roots dug from the
Ngaere swamp
And shut us away in a tower of flame from
the winter
When the pine-trees howled to each other like
dogs and women
And the hooves of the rain struck their icy
sparks from the roof.
Together they became aware of the world
they were to live and die in:
When death was a blackbird cold by the muddy
' roadside
And grief was a game of burial played in the
garden....
They had their wild childish fancies:
The signpost was plainly a madman, a wooden
drunkard,
Babbling of places that lived in his moon of a
mind....
They fished and shot together:
The road was white in the morning and breath-
ing was silver
And the red hare leapt to her death from the
rushes at Mata '
And the snapper bucked on the line off
Rapanui.. ..
The poet laments the friend
who died with me out of boyhood,
Was young with me, and hungered for strife
and triumph,
And chose the brilliance of flight to complete
the pattern
Of speed and light he had learned from our
mountain streams....
And then comes the quick end and the
mourning:
No one should die and not be wept by women,
For death is no blackbird buried to feed the
sunflowers
But the empty room and the clothes to give to
the neighbors
And the fairy tale proved to be folly, the mirror
broken,
And the fire not lit because nothing can warm
the heart.
And that, if you ask me, is true poetry.
Briefly there are exhibited in this poem,
as in all the best work of its author, great
delicacy and subtlety of both rhythm and
imagery, a certain airy and original grace
in expression, and clever, not unsuccess-
ful devices in metre and in kindred points
of technique. The measure used in the
Elegy and in some of the poems which
accompany it in this volume, # ‘The
Fisherman,” “The Pine Trees,” is a five-
beat line arranged in stanzas of six lines,
akin to blank verse, but amply distin-
guished from that hard-worked metre by
the fact that the rhythm is not the stately
iamb, but a more varied and more supple
arrangement of those more lively and
rapid rhythms which the prosodists call
dactyllic. Like blank verse, the measure
allows of either a monosyllabic final or
of a dissyllable:
[ could wish that in death you had staked the
claim of your dust
In our land that is ruled by neither the dead
nor the living.
Indeed a very beautiful measure, but not
one to be successfully handled by any
but a true artist in words and in rhythm.
The Elegy is accompanied by about 20
iess ambitious poems, some rhymed in the
conventional mode, some adorned with
those half-rhymes, or assonances, of
which this poet is so fond, all short, some
clear and some dark. The author’s
method, if we may call it a method, in
his most characteristic poems, is indirect,
tangential, suggestive ; the title, like the
stated theme of a programme symphony
in music, is only a point of departure, to
which the artist may or may not return
after more or less wayward spiritual
adventure on the chosen plane. There
is no straight movement from point to
point, but the controlling
hand on the wheel is so
relaxed that there is stray-
ing, often very wide and
baffling, from the path
suggested by the title or by the open-
ing. lines, so that, in fact, for the
reader, no such main path is perceptible.
The language is sometimes too dark, so
dark that one suspects, when one fails to
see the meaning, that perhaps there is no
meaning there.
Quiet in my blue cloak
Your green dance of glass;
Melt in my fire the mirror -
Of the cold-nippled grass.
Thus opens the poem “Dew into Laurel,”
to which the beautiful decorations of
Norman Lindsay mostly refer ; if there
be a clear meaning intended in those
words it is not conveyed. Again, some of
the ornamental adjectival compounds,
while evidently well intended, either fail
of meaning altogether or demand too
great an effort on the part of the reader
to understand them. “Cold-nippled
grass”; “her starling-flying hair,” that
sort of thing. But these are trivial
matters ; Douglas Stewart is a writer of
rare and genuine poetic gifts.
ARNOLD WALL.
Royalty Today .
If the King wished, he could, without
doing anything unconstitutional, disband
the Army, sack all the officers from the
Commander-in-Chief down to the most
junior subaltern ; he could sack the en-
tire Navy, from A.B. to Admiral of the
Fleet, and get a trifle on the side by
selling every ship to a foreign Power;
for an offer in hard cash, he could do
likewise with the Air Force.
Cousin Jacks may be edified, if not
electrified, to know that, by ancient char-
ter, the King can make peace with any
attacking nation, “provided he hands over
Cornwall to the aggressor.” The King
can also dismiss the entire civil service,
empty the gaols by pardoning all offen-
ders, and, if he should happen to feel
that way, can make every citizen, male
and female, in Britain a peer of the
realm.
Other powers credited to his Majesty
by Keith V. Gordon, in The King in
Peace and War (Bodley Head), is that
of declaring war ; by one of those sur-
vivals of former rights' and privileges
which at least give color to the
monarchy, all the King has to do is to
give out that the war he proposes is
one primarily for the conquest of Brit-
tany. The author’s purpose is to show
how the monarchy works; how the
wheels go round. He does it exceptionally
well, with very little of the gush not
unfamiliar in books of the kind.
The general picture shows the present
King, both as man and monarch, very
much like his father. The court life
presented is one of almost frugal sim-
plicity ; the King is depicted as a punc-
tilious and, these days, pretty fully occu-
pied worker, whose main aim is to work
in harmony with his Ministers.
There is enough curiosa of court hap-
penings added to make the reading enter-
taining as well as informative. Among the
aspects of court life which Edward VIII
altered when he came to the throne were
the faces of the clocks at Buckingham,
Windsor, Balmoral and all other royal
addresses. The preceding Edward —a
stickler for punctuality, but liable to
absentmindedness if his gunsmith called
with something choice in guns, or if the
conversation turned to horses—adopted
the schoolboyish scheme of having all
those clocks always half an hoar fast.
George V left the clocks at that through-
out his reign ; the now Duke of Windsor
had them all put right, with upsetting
effects on the household staff in the
various palaces.
The richest member of the Royal
Family is Queen Mary, with the tidy
bank balance of upwards of £2,000,000,
much of it inherited from Queen Victoria
and George V. The pleasure of feeling
a good fat roll in the pocket or the
purse, however, is not for Royalty, who
“never carry any actual cash on them as
it is considered undignified for them to
handle money.”
The Court Treasurer of the Privy
Purse looks after all bills, paying
promptly on a monthly basis. The King’s
cheques must be cashed within a month
of the date of issue, this to discourage
sentimental folk from framing them, and
then, years later, being either less senti-
mental or more needy, turning them in for
payment. Everything used by the King or
Queen must be paid for, including special
trains, the trip up to Balmoral setting
them back £2lO ; the trip to Canada and
the U.S.A. cost £llO,OOO, this including
the chartering of the Empress of Aus-
tralia outward bound, and the Empress
of Britain homeward.
One of the most significant notes in
the book is the reference to the King's
friendship for Chamberlain. “In going
back through the pages of contemporary
British history, one cannot trace exactly
the same respect and friendship” which
existed “between The King and Mr.
Chamberlain.”
John Buchan's Autobio-
graphy.
The key to John Buchan's character
and to the tone of his autobiography
Memory Hold-the-Door (Hodder and
Stoughton ; Angus and Robertson) is his
statement that when he was on the barren
South African veldt he found that, while
Wordsworth failed him, he could read
Euripides with deep satisfaction.
What that statement says about Buchan
himself is not only that he was scholarly,
cultured and an acute critic, but also
that he was extremely sensitive to land-
scape, and that he had that austerity of
mind that could choose Wordsworth for
a companion in his softer moods. Born
in a Scottish manse, educated at Oxford,
devoting his life first to law, then to
politics, with writing as a hobby and
reading as a passion, Buchan reveals
himself as a fine type of stoic, very like
Wordsworth both in his serious-minded-
ness and in his love of the bleak Scottish
hills.
It’s* significant that he devotes only two
or three pages to talking about his own
books, dismissing them as “romances”
and saying that he always felt ashamed
at receiving money for books that he
wrote for his own amusement. Though
he mentions a few writers with whom he
was friendly—giving a good picture of
Henry James rooting through some
scandalous papers of Byron’s and finding
them “nauseating, perhaps, but how in-
teresting”—there is none of the usual
literary gossip in this book.
Buchan took his politics as seriously
as he took everything else. He writes
with great admiration of George V, and
shows himself a firm, idealistic believer
in the future of the Empire. He has faith
in America as the champion of democ-
racy, but warns Britain and the States
that they will never reach understanding
till they cease to look on each other as
backsliding brothers of the same family
and recognise each other as foreigners.
Among Buchan’s literary, political and
pantheistic discursions are some vivid
pen-pictures of notabilities he has known,
chief among them being Ramsay Mac-
Donald and T. E. Lawrence He quotes
Lawrence on the Great War—“ The War
was good, by drawing over our depths
that hot surface wish to do or win some-
thing”—and portrays him as broken
nervously and physically when the war
was over: “If he had come out sound,
he might have led the nation to a new
way of life, for he had a magnetic power
which made people follow him blindly
and I have seen that in his eye which
could have made, or quelled, a revolu-
tion.” A little while before he was
killed, Lawrence called on Buchan and
his wife, and Buchan said afterwards that
he believed he might become again the
great man of action, “might organise,
perhaps, our imperfect national defences.”
Buchan’s wife said, “No ; he is looking
at the world as God must look at it, and
a man cannot do that and live.” Maybe
the answer to the Lawrence riddle is
simply that England was functioning
satisfactorily as a democracy.
Lightening the autobiography through-
out is Buchan’s mystical attachment to
the countryside. Though he was not a
poet, he felt like one, and describes a
number of the sort of “illuminations”
that could have inspired poetry. Two
chapters of a book on fishing which
Buchan was working on when he died
form a charming epilogue to the auto-
biography ; elsewhere there are fishing
and shooting expeditions described in
the mood of John Macnab.
Memory Hold-the-Door is a book that
some readers will find dull. But the
correct epithet for it is “sober,” and any-
one who has similar tastes to Buchan’s
will find it tiemendously readable.
Readers’ Union (Australian represen-
tatives, Robertson and Mullens, Mel-
bourne), after the curious selection of a
tome of mere f.a.q. photo, reproductions,
has chosen several excellent books: Week-
end Wodehouse, an admirable selection
of Wodehouse stories and fragments,
demonstrating, among other things,
Wodehouse’s quality not only as a funny-
man but as a writer ; Stanley Casson’s
The Discovery of Man; and Norbert
Casteret’s Ten Years Under the Earth.
The Union chooses for its members from
outstanding publications of the past year
or so, and these three show it retaining
its good form.
Strangers to Freedom: Marjorie
Bowen (Dent). French Revolution tale
for girls past the Grimm stage and not
yet in the Joyce.
Going Gangster: M. E. Atkinson
(Bodley Head). Tiptop youngsters’ yarn ;
much better stuff than its scare title
implies; well written and nicely turned
out.
Speedy: Esme Hamilton (Bodley
Head). Capital yarn for youngsters
whose taste for horses hasn’t been blunted
by trotting to the s.p. joint. Fences, foxes
and fresh air.
Australia Speaks: Isolde Ramsay.
Longish, exclamatory poem, not without
some force, telling Australians that they’ll
get hell from the continent if they don’t
look after the abo. Some of it:
And where the brolga dances, where the silver
myalls sway;
Where black swans fold their pinions; where
the magpie greets the day;
Where painted parrakeets acclaim the honey-
scented gum;
Where emus seek the thickets when the wedge-
tailed eagles come;
Where lissom iguanas rove the brakes in search
of prey;
Where snarling dingoes cringe before the great
red ’roo at bay,
My sons abode in freedom! Theirs the right
to stray or roam!
The gunygh for a shelter and the wurlie for
a home!
Everyman’s additions: The Diary of a
Nobody, George and Weedon Grossmith,
and Stories and Episodes, Thomas Mann.
In a preface to the Grossmith drollery
when issued by its original publishers
(after most of it had run in serial form
through “Punch”) it was stated that it
had at first gone poorly in bdok form.
Since then there has been a steady sale
for repeated editions of it in England and
the U.S.A. ; Belloc has praised it highly,
and now J. C. Squire ushers it into this
mostly very august company as “destined
to a perennial popularity amongst the dis-
criminating.” The Mann vol. shows
Everyman’s slightly affected by the war:
it must be the thinnest of Everyman's—
in bulk, that is, for there’s nothing thin
about the contents, which include “Mario
and the. Magician” and- two other of the
author’s best long-short stories, with help-
ings from The Magic Mountain and
Joseph and His Brethren.
The Room Within: Richard Church
(Dent). Novel about middle-class Eng-
lish life. Music, civil servants, the herb
trade ; an aesthetic young man, a material-
istic young man, and a young girl, finely
portrayed. The author says that one of
the characters is based on the poet Hum-
bert Wolfe. Quiet, sensitive writing.
The Garden Lovers’ Log; Olive Mellor
(Robertson and Mullens). Notes on
what to do each month with flowers,
shrubs and vegetable patches ; space for
a year’s diary of your own garden ; and
hints, verses and bits and pieces about
plants. Profits to the Red Cross.
The Australian edition of a patriotic
song, “God Bless America,” words and
music by Irving Berlin (Allan and Co.),
comes for review. The tune has vigor
and some dignity. The words are soaked
in bathos.
The Maori Hei-Tiki: H. D. Skinner,
with drawings by L. A. Daff (Otago
Museum booklet). Essay on the tiki,
profits going to the Red Cross. The
author says there’s no foundation for the
theory that the tiki represents a foetus;
“It may have had some fertility asso-
ciation,” but men wore it as well as
women ; it derived its mana from the
great people who had worn it. Interest-
ing, but the researches don’t go very far
back.
Never Go Dark : Emery Bonett (Heine-
mann). Backstage novel, opening with
the young woman of the story sharing
a couch with her boss (about as unpre-
possessing a “hero” as could be depicted),
and, despite his varying fickleness, chasing
him along the street at the end. Brightly
written light entertainer.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act. THE SENIOR STORE
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Great Christmas Attractions Famous Low Prices
"All aboard the 'Bounty/ " calls her captain hundreds of times a day,
while small passengers embark in the historic ship, and set sail
to Santa Claus' Magic Castle. You remember the film “Mutiny or
the Bounty"? Then you remember the graceful sailing ship. We
have copied the ship exactly. She rides amidst a magic setting of
South Sea palms. “The Bounty" makes good time on her wonder
cruise to Santa's Magic Castle.
Santa Claus is waiting in his Magic Castle to welcome every boy
and girl with a special surprise, which he has brought all the way
from his workshop in Iceland. Santa Claus toils very hard in his
workshop all the year, preparing for his visit to Anthony Horderns',
his Sydney Home, where all his little admirers can come to see him
until Christmas Eve.
'£3-1
Ot/d-
m
s'
— -I
?=~
t.-.r )
m
M .jr%
r
rx
lA
) *
y
¥
W,
wmn i
••••:•••' S
Vi'-.
& ■■■ >.
108N502—The "Trailer Trike" with tip-
ping tray For children 3to 6 years
Prices 27/9, 28/6 40/3
• Toy Department—Second Floor,
108N48—Sturdy "Din-
kie" for children 2 to
4 years. Disc wheels
Prices ... 11/6. 13/-
108 N 14 "Dinkies”
for children 2 to 6
years .... 14/9, 22/6
108N43-
108N43 — "Dinkies'
for children 3 to 6
years. Price, 27/-
108N658
108 N 662 "Peerless Dinkie,"
with folding back support. For
children 3to <5 years Bin front;
wheel 6in. back wheels rubbeil
tyred Price 18/6
108N658—The 'Peerless" Dinkie
Express for children 3 to 6 years
9in. front wheels, 7in. back
wheels, rubber tyred. Finished
in Red enamel Price ... 20/9
108N517
108N530 — The "Peerless" Tipping Truck No. 22', for chi,
ren sto 8 years. Length 52in., lOin. disc wheels, Jin
rubber tyres, chain drive, brake horn, lamps, etc.
Enamelled Red Price 17 90/11
Also "Peerless' Tipping Truck No. 21, similar to above
but with crank drive and enamelled Blue Price 74/11
108N653—The "Peerless" Towing Truck. All
steel construction. Length 50in., 9in. disc
wheels, fin. rubber tyres, crank drive horn,
brake, etc , and it really hoists. Price .. 61/9
*
108N654—The 'Peerless' Fire Chiei, to carry
two children 3 to 6 years Length 50in , crank
drive. 9in. disc wheels, fin rubber tyres,
extension ladder, warning bell, etc . . 66/3
108N515 The "Peerless" Tipping Truck No. 17, for
children 3 to 6 /ears. Length 48in. crank drive, 9in.
wheels, brake, horn headlights, etc Enamelled Cream
and Green. Price .. 51/9
Also 17a, similar to above with chain drive and
enamelled all Green Price 60/11
108N529—The "Peerless" Car No. 15. Length 34in., Bin.
disc wheels, iin rubber tyres crank drive Enamelled
Blue Price ■. 33/-
108N517 —The "Peerless" Sports Car No. 24, for children
3 to 7 years. Length 43in., 9in. wheels, fin. rubber tyres,
crank drive, horn, headlights, etc Enamelled Blue, 50/3
Also 24a, similar to above, but with chain drive and
enamelled Red. Price 57/11
108N613—The "Peerless" Car No. 23 for children 2 to 5
years. Length 34in., crank drive, Bin disc wheels,
rubber tyred Enamelled Red. Price . 37/9
• Santaland-
Second Floor
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD., SYDNEY
'Phone: M 2401, Day or Night Post your orders to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


RESTITUTION ORDER
“Buy this block and I'll build you a house and have it ready in a fortnight.”
By A. C. HEADLEY.
I T’S a simple announcement and you can read
1 dozens like it in the morning papers:
Lorraine v. Lorraine
Ada Emily .Lorraine (formerly Wembley). Marriage,
April 17, 1913, at Newtown, Church of England rites.
Issue conjugal rights. Restitution order made.
JH) ACKSTAGE the performers were cold and irri-
table. During the first half of the programme
the audience had been listless and discouraging. Out-
side the piano, violin and cornet drooled their way
through the interval. The sounds seemed to be drop-
ping into a vast emptiness, and when the piano struck
a note on its own that note hung hopelessly on the
air frightened of the immensity of space it had to
conquer. The patrons, studded like notes of music in
the hall, listened disconsolately to the dirge from the
lolly boy, “Lolls or chocs.” They were cold, and the
waiting was making them impatient. What they
wanted was to have it over and finished, but because
they had paid their shillings and sixpences they had
to stay, sitting patient and bored on the hard seats.
Outside, the yellow lights at the entrance announced
smugly that it was “the brightest show in town.”
Backstage “the brightest show” regarded itself with
open hostility. Its members talked, but the talk was
empty and lifeless, and they were glad when the time
came for them to go onstage. They settled themselves
into the half-circle of the stage and waited for the
curtain to rise, getting ready to fit their mouths into a
stage smile.
When the curtain rose their enforced liveliness
shattered itself on the unresponsiveness of the audi-
ence. For months they had been playing to crowds
that were growing smaller and smaller, and listening
to Johnny Dionne, confident that when the novelty
of the pictures wore off the people would be coming
back to the legitimate shows. Only Bob Tulley was
unconvinced and talked about the pictures getting
better and better, but Bob was always like that, and it
was no use taking any notice of him. There was talk
of his leaving the show and getting a job working
behind the counter at Ryan’s. You couldn’t pay any
attention to him ;he was biased. Wembley and Lor-
raine weren’t paying any attention to him when they
came forward to do their number.
She was young and pretty, and compared with her
Lorraine looked clumsy. They danced together, bring-
ing the steps out in- unison. She wore a blue dress,
and above it was the golden splendor of her hair. He
was taller, much taller, than she, and the high collar
he wore had the effect of keeping his head up and
making him seem taller than ever. At the end of the
number there was a smattering of applause. They
bowed to the audience, to each other, and moved
backwards to their seats in the half-circle, where they
sat breathing heavily and looking across at each other
while Johnny Dionne did his songs. They would be
glad when the show was over. There were things
they had to talk about.
Walking along Bedford-street they weren’t
Wembley and Lorraine any more.
“Fred,” she said, “we gotter git married.”
They had been through it before, discussed it
from every angle, but the answer always came out to
that blunt statement. The man was conscious of
weariness and distress. “Yeah,” he said, “we gotter
git married, Ada.” There was a hopeless quality in
his voice.
“The money from the show,” he said after a
while, “won’t be much to live on, and you won’t be
appearin’ much longer.”
■ “We’ll have to make a do of it, Fred,” she said.
The house where she boarded was dark and they
stood against the shelter of the wall, talking about the
immensity of the thing and knowing they were in
love. Fred kissed her. “Saturday,” he said, “we’ll
get married.”
Hr HEY stood in the half-light of the church where
1 the sun lost light and became yellow. Apart
from the little group near the minister, the church
seemed empty and deserted. The great stone columns
were cold. Fred, with his collar seeming higher than
ever, was trying not to look self-conscious. The girl
was happy. While the minister automatically fol-
lowed the recital of the service, she looked at Fred.
Johnny Dionne and Kitty were there for witnesses.
That was all. She felt it was better that way.
It was over at last, and they were trooping into
the vestry. It seemed funny that those few words
could make all the difference in the world. They were
married now, and she seemed to have achieved a new
stature. The worrying thoughts of tomorrow were still
with her, but they were only brief hesitancies in life
that could be combated almost as easily as the speak-
ing of those few words in the church. Looking at
Fred she felt happy and confident.
They had taken a balcony room in Church-street.
It looked out over the cemetery and the dilapidated
grass-covered graves. They stood there that first even-
ing, watching the mist rise with the dusk. The thought
of being together was comforting for them both. They
lived in the quiet of thought until presently Fred
spoke. “We’ll have to be getting ready for the
theatre.”
They were both a little nervy and frightened when
they reached the theatre. They felt that by reason
of their action they were made conspicuous. Kitty
called her Mrs. Lorraine, and there were the usual
laughs and jokes about it and Fred tried to look
dignified. But when they were dancing together it was
different, just as if there were only the two of them
and no one else in the whole world.
When they were walking back to the house in
Church-street she turned to him. “You aren’t sorry,
Fred?” There was no need for him to answer. She
felt that they were always going to be in love. The
pressure of his arm at her side was warm and comfort-
ing.
But things were starting to go badly at the theatre.
Johnny Dionne’s prediction that the novelty of the
picture shows would wear off and that audiences
would return showed no signs of consummation.
Bob Tulley had left the troupe and had taken a job
at Ryan’s, and johnny nimself was getting frets of
worry on his forehead. It was very rarely these days
that they played to a house that was even three-
quarter full. Most of the time their voices echoed
hollowly in the hall. Seeing Bob Tulley looking smug
and prosperous seemed to make Fred angry.
“I’ve got to get a job, Ada,” he said.
But jobs weren’t easy to find. Sometimes Fred
would get a couple of days or even a week, but it
wasn’t enough. The future was suddenly dark and
discouraging. Johnny Dionne was gone. He was
singing at one of the city shows, and they learned
that he was married to Kitty. Ada had to leave the
show, and the money Fred was bringing in was barely
enough for them to live on. She found it hard to get
used to the way he was looking. The cares and
troubles were crowding themselves on his shoulders.
“Something’ll turn up,” she said. “You’ll see.”
But she was as frightened as himself of the future.
When she was in hospital he told her about the
job. “I’m working,” he said. “I’ve got a job at
Nicholls’s.” He didn’t know how long it would last,
but she was hopeful. With the hospital expenses it
couldn’t have come at a better time. Lying in bed it
was good to feel the comfort of him and the staid dig-
nity of the way he wore his high collar. He was
thinner these days. He was still dancing in the show
at night, and he told her the audiences were getting
better. It was just like Johnny Dionne had said, the
novelty of the picture shows was working off. But she
was glad that he was in a job.
It was three weeks later when the baby died and
she went to Nicholls’s to see him. On the way she was
thinking how to tell him. Surprisingly she was not
greatly conscious of any sense of loss. The thought
predominating in her mind was that of the funeral
and the expense of it. With that out of the way they
had the opportunity of starting again, clean and fresh.
Outside Nicholls’s she stood a moment trying to frame
her thoughts into words. Fred had told her he was
working in the store at the back, and now she went
in. At the far end of the shop a couple of assistants
were talking together. She moved down the alley
between the rows of crockery, and one of them came
to meet her.
“I want to speak to Mr. Lorraine,” she said.
The man looked puzzled.
“I’m Mrs. Lorraine,” she prompted.
He shook his head. “There isn’t anyone of that
name here, madam.”
She stood looking at him, conscious of a sudden
constriction in her throat. “Are you sure? He’s work-
ing in the store.”
The man called to his companion. “We haven’t
anyone named Lorraine working here?”
The man at the end of the counter didn’t have
to think.
It was warm in the street and she felt unaccount-
ably tired. It was all so mysterious. For a moment
she thought that he might have made a mistake in
the name. She walked along, troubled and uncertain.
Back in the house she sat puzzled and distressed wait-
ing for Fred. At six o’clock he came home, and he
knew by her face that something was wrong.
“I went to the shop to see you,” she said, “but
they told me you didn’t work there.”
He looked at her, and it seemed that he was
weary. “I haven’t had a job,” he said slowly. “I
thought it was better if you didn’t have anything to
worry about.”
A thought more disrupting than ever filled her
her head. “But the money?”
“Bob Tulley,” he said ; “I’ve been borrowing.”
The look of her made him angry. “What if I have?”
he said. “I had to. We couldn’t live on what we were
getting from the show.”
“How much, Fred?” she asked quietly.
“Fifteen pounds.”
It was tremendous. Sitting there in the darkness
she tried to swell her thoughts around it.
“There’ll be money needed now,” he said, “for
the funeral.”
It was funny that neither of them felt any great
sense of loss. It was as though the worry over living
had swamped their minds completely. They had only
themselves to think of now.
“I ought to be able to dance soon,” she told him.
It would have made things better, but he didn t
want her to dance. His attitude was queer and iH°*
gical. He wanted in a masculine way to shouldei
DRY TIME.
/ climbed the hill when the dark wild swans were
thrown
Like a necklace of rare black pearls against the gold
Of the sky ; while a drifting cloud was the red dust
blown
Where the wagon wheels of the sun had lately rolled.
The sunset shone through the trees like a glowing
forge ;
I dreamed the clang of the anvil as blacksmith wind
Shaped thousands of silver shoes for the white star-
stallions.
The shadows that thronged the quiet reach of the gorge
Were purple petals that dusk had scattered to blind
And muffle the marching feet of the night’s battalions.
All day long the tempest clouds, tulip dark,
Drifted in sullen strata; and the trees
Crouched like suppliant beggars lifting stark
Beseeching hands in prayer for alms of rain ;
But only the dust-drift whitened their ragged knees
While the black cockatoo and the scrub wren called in
vain ;
But now the dew has fallen, and every leaf
Is brave again and flutters a careless fan
And turns a cool wet shoulder on day’s old grief.
Where the bracken looms as shaggy and brown as Pan
The little scrub bandicoots, amber-striped pelts ashine,
Seek for their supper in tangles of brake and briar
Joyously rooting the earth up like fairy swine.
Bats that at noon hung fruit-still in hollow gums
Eagerly shake o-ut their wing-silk fold on fold,
And peer with eyes that are tiny pinpoints of fire.
There is mist on the hills like the bloom on a cluster
of plums ;
And the trill of a bough-wakened bird is a thread of
gold.
The storm clouds have passed with never one rain-
drop falling
And the moon is as frail as a flower blown in glass,
While a thwarted cricket keeps wistfully calling, calling,
Where the wind is an aching sweetness in the grass!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


everything. Lying in bed he told her about looking
for work. There was a chance down at Brannigan’s
foundry. But after a while that possibility became
remote and distant. There was the chance of a job
with Jim Cousens, and that also wore itself out in the
eternity of waiting. There were chances and dis-
appointments, so that soon those chances became in-
significant possibilities.
She went back to the show, and they began again
to dance together, but what he had said about people
coming back to the show was wrong, too. At the
best of times the place was half-empty, and it was dull
and dispiriting going through each turn and listening
to the smattering of applause. Every night at eight
the same thing, sitting on the stage conscious of the
perspiration and the feeling of discomfort.
IT was Bodder, the stage manager, who told her
1 about the job. He told her about how he had fixed
it for Johnny Dionne. “They want a dancer, Ada,”
he said.
“But there’s two of us,” she told him, “Fred and
me.”
Bodder shrugged his shoulders. “They only want
one. You’d be all right, and the money’s a lot better.
It’d help you and Fred along.”
She told Fred about it.
“Yes,” he said, “I’ll be all right. If you’re going
to dance you might as well get the extra money.”
But he was worried. It was clear from the way
Bodder was suddenly trying to find jobs for his per-
formers that the little suburban show was getting
ready to close up. In a queer self-conscious kind of
way he was glad that Ada got the job in the city. It
made things better, and they were beginning to save
a little. But even with the savings the debt to Bob
Tulley was grim and disturbing. The worry lines of
his face were becoming keener.
But for Ada it was becoming a placidly contented
existence. They were holding their own, and gradu-
ally accumulating the money necessary to pay off
the debt. She was pleased when he got the job.
“It’s down the coast,” he said, “in one of Dixon’s
stores.” It made him different, more cheerful. “You
can stay here,” he said, “and keep on with the dancing
till I get fixed. It’ll help to pay Bob.”
He sent a little money back each week. It wasn’t
much, but she was using it to group what they owed
to Bob Tulley. She wrote to him c/o the Post Office
because, as he had told her, he wasn’t sure where he’d
be living. Then suddenly he stopped writing.
It wasn’t anything abrupt. For months the in-
tervals between their letters had been lengthening.
When they stopped completely she couldn’t understand
it. She was worried and she wrote to Dixon’s. The
letter she received was brief and disturbing. Mr.
Lorraine had only been engaged for a period of three
weeks relieving one of the assistants who was on leave.
The author believed that Mr. Lorraine had since left
the town and he had no idea of Mr. Lorraine’s present
whereabouts.
She tried desperately to find him, putting adver-
tisements in the papers and hoping. She even made a
visit down the coast, but Fred had vanished. The
thought that flooded to her mind was that there was
a war on. The streets were starting to fill with men
in khaki. Whenever she saw a soldier she was con-
scious of a new and troubling fear. That was what
Fred had done ; she was certain of it, but when she
went to the army offices they could find no trace of
a Frederick Lorraine.
1 T was the beginning for Ada of four years of war
1 that was close and intimate. The Smiths and
Browns of the casualty lists were Lorraines. There
was an agony for her in every man who was killed.
She fought a woman’s war that was hard and merci-
less. Then it was over and they were coming back.
Fred was one of them. He must be. All those others
who had died were Smiths and Browns, and in those
brown-faced men who came down from the boats
there must be a Fred Lorraine. Whenever she could
be she was there waiting, conscious of the pressure
of the veins in her throat and curiously she was think-
ing of a man with a high collar.
Lorraine v. Lorraine
Ada Emily Lorraine (formerly Wembley).
Marriage, April 17, 1913, at Newtown,
Church of England rites. Issue conjugal
rights. Restitution order made.
He reads it slowly, separating each
word so that it is distinct. He can see her
dancing, and it brings back thoughts of
the old vaudeville days and a girl young
and vibrantly healthy who looks “real
pretty” when the flush comes to her
cheeks. But now that is over and done
with. The paint is peeling from the
shabby door at his back, and only slightly
muffled is the sound of the kids. But it
is pleasant to sit in the sun and think
about Ada. It is much more pleasant
than listening to the shrill of his “wife’s”
voice demanding why he doesn’t get out
and look for a job instead of lolling
around the place all day. It has occurred
to him that if he had a job he might go
back, and thinking about a job makes
him wish that he had been a soldier.
There is returned soldier’s preference,
which means that all things being equal
the soldier gets the job, and most things
are equal when it comes to pick and
shovel.
SATURDAY-NIGHT DRUMMER
By PHIL CALOW.
IF only the agent hadn’t switched jobs on me at
the last minute I would have been on the stand
good and early. There I was thinking I had to
go to Cremorne, when the agent rang up to say
there’d been a reshuffle and would I go out and do a
job at Maroubra?
This was about seven o’clock, mind, so I had
to turn round and go flat out to try to catch the
seven-fifteen boat. Of course I missed it —after nearly
breaking my neck running down the steps with a
bass drum in one hand and a great heavy port in the
other—and what with one thing and another I didn’t
get to Maroubra until half-past eight, and by the time
I found the hall it was a quarter to nine. The cove
who was running the dance went a bit crook, but I
put over a tale about the trams being held up through
an accident.
It was just a turnout. I’ve played at plenty better,
but this one was wet, and that made up for a lot.
It was hot work, though. I could feel my shirt
clinging to my back, and every now and then perspira-
tion would stand out on my forehead or run down my
chest. It made me envious to watch them drinking
beer down at the tables. What I couldn’t have done
to a pint myself!
The first half went off all right. It was a fifty-
fifty turnout, and we mixed up the old-time and jazz
pretty well. About a quarter to ten a bloke came
lurching up with three bottles, but it didn’t go far
with six of us, and they hardly gave us time to finish
what little we had. Just as we were starting on the
second glass the M.C. came over and said: “Hurry
up, boys. We’ll make this the supper dance. Give
'em a foxtrot.”
It was only just a supper when we got it. They
always seem to forget the band until they’re ready to
start again, but we made them wait until we’d had a
fair go at the sandwiches and cakes. The coffee was
pretty terrible, but one of the bottles of beer was still
half-full and I helped the trumpet polish it off. Half-
way through supper Lil’s brother —Lil’s my wife —
came up. I never expected to see him there. We had
a yarn about this and that, and I told him I’d tell Lil
1 saw him.
Then we got stuck into it again, and it was after
eleven before anyone thought of bringing us up any
more beer —and only a quart at that. We were glad
to get it, though. We played “Twelfth-street Rag“
after that, and I don’t know what happened to me, but
when the pianist gave me a two-bar break I thought
he was nodding to the sax. and I knocked off. For
a couple of seconds there wasn’t a sound. Then the
sax., the piano and I all tried to take it at once —
and all we got was a horrible jumble of sound. A
proper muck-up. We felt a bit silly, but the crowd
just went on whirling round as though nothing had
happened, and that made me wild. I’d have been
better pleased if they’d shot us a few dirty looks to
show they knew we were there.
Of course, there were always a few stompers
giving the floor curry right in front of the stand, and
they gave a man a bit of encouragement by going
nearly wild over the hot stuff, but the rest of the crowd
just danced round as though the band were only a
lot of lumps of wood with hair on.
I can get pretty boisterous myself at times, when
I’ve got a few in, but I wished they wouldn’t kick up
so much noise on the floor. All that laughing and
shouting and whistling of squeakers gets on a man’s
nerves. There was trouble when a cove pinched
another cove’s jazz cap and they went at it hammer
and tongs. It took about six jokers to separate them
and get them outside, and I was darn glad to
see the last of them. I’ve seen that sort of thing turn
into an all-in brawl, and I didn’t want to get my kit
smashed up before I’d half paid for it.
Just after that the girl in blue came up to the
stand while we were having a spell in between
brackets. I’d already noticed her floating round, but
the big tough-looking bloke she was dancing with
copped me smiling at her and gave me a few nasty
looks, so I thought maybe I’d better lay off. I got
into hot water that way once before, and Lil can be
damned unreasonable at times.
She asked for “Begin the Beguine”—as though we
hadn’t played it three times already. I asked her
who the big cove was she’d been dancing with, and
she said: “Oh, him ; he’s nobody. Don’t worry about
him. Anyway, he’s that full he’s due to pass out
any moment now.”
She went away then, after I’d told her I was
pretty dry and asked her could she dig up a bottle for
me and plant it outside somewhere. She promised
she would.
I didn’t see her again for a quarter of an hour,
but then she came up and told me she’d got hold of
a bottle. I told her to go outside and wait; then I
strolled out by a different door and nicked round to
the back of the hall. We went to work on the beer.
I didn’t have time to kiss her more than a couple
of times when Lil’s brother came round the back
of the hall with his own sheilah and copped me. I’d
forgotten all about him. He gave me a dirty look,
and I knew the rat-faced runt would put my pot on.
We never had any time for each other. I’m not sorry
1 chose Lil, but I could have picked a better sport,
I’ve found out since.
The dance petered out a little later, and I didn’t
see him again—or the girl in blue either.
When we’d packed up and got our stuff outside
I tried to get a lift into town, but none of the boys
were going my way. The last tram had gone, so I
had to wait for a cab. I rolled a smoke and sat
down on the running-board of a car, until I heard
giggling inside. I got up, feeling a bit of a fool, and
carted my kit further down the street.
The lights were out in the hall and every-
body had gone home. I was tired and hungry, and
the cold night wind from the sea made me shiver.
1 wished I’d brought a sweater with me. Car after car
went by, but no taxis. While I was sitting on the
kerb I counted the twenty-one bob again. Thank
heaven it was Sunday, I thought, and I could lie in.
“Better make it SIX at a time now, Joe — it's gettin' close to knock-orf !”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Jf {pelt C fyme<cfwie mellctimeJ^andlxmi/ud
THE VICTORIA EMBANKMENT.
Commonly referred to as “The Embankment,” the splendid roadway, with its riverside granite fronting, is one of London’s main attrac-
tions, though today presenting in its “surface conditions” a picture vastly different to that presented on its opening in 1870. The trams “a
permanent disfigurement,” that colossal architectural atrocity Shell Mex House, an even more pronounced disfigurement, the new Adel phi,
and other buildings have changed the landscape almost beyond recognition of even a few decades agone. The Temple Gardens still charm.
To the visitor the chief attraction the Embankment supplies is Cleopatra’s Needle, that Egyptian Obelisk first erected at Heliopolis some
3000 years ago, and, arriving in London after an adventurous voyage in 1877, was set up on its present “pedestal.” It narrowly escaped
destruction from a Hun bomb during the Great War. It is hoped similar good fortune will still attend it. The monument presented
by the Belgian nation in gratitude for British aid during 1914-18, the monument to the Air Force men who did their bit during those hectic
years, and the colossal group of Queen Boadicea in her war chariot at the Westminster Bridge end of the Embankment, all claim attention.
At night, with its lights reflected in the waters of the Thames, it forms an attractive vista. A less attractive one is to be observed in the
human flotsam and jetsam which drift thither to find what rest they may. It is a sad and surprising spectacle, representing a problem in
our social life still to be solved.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61 —No. 3172.
Wednesday, November 27, 1940.
THE NEW ORDER IN EUROPE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
PEACE OFFENSIVES.
It was here suggested (B. 6/11/’4O) that all the “recent
Berlin-Rome manoeuvres” were “part of a policy
designed to bring about an Axis peace.”
In the main, by striking down or overaweing the
remaining countries to which Britain gave guarantees,
and forcing acceptance of the so-called “new order in
Europe” on France and other countries, defeated or in
no position to resist The idea being that Britain,
however reluctant, will accept the accomplished fact
and call off the war.
Eleven days later the following appeared in the
London “Observer”:
If Hitler can establish agreements with Spain, France,
Russia and Japan, he can again try to present Britain
and America with the accomplished fact of a new order
on two continents, coupled with a peace proposal.
The Bulletin wrote before and the “Observer” after
Molotov’s visit to Berlin. Since then the Japanese
have withdrawn their soldiers from Kwangsi and
part of Kwangtung, as a preliminary, one report says,
to making direct peace overtures to Chiang Kai-shek,
an intention of which the American Ambassador at
Tokyo was apprised. And there has been a procession
of European notabilities to Berlin, Berchtesgaden,
Vienna —wherever Hitler chose to receive them. Senor
Suffer arrived from Spain, Count Ciano from Italy,
King Boris from Bulgaria, Counts Teleki and Csaky
from Hungary and General Antonescu from Rumania.
It was even said that Leopold, King of the Belgians,
had gone to Berchtesgaden, though German Foreign
Office officials would admit no more than that Hitler
had seen “a high Belgian personage.”
The first outcome of these tours was the addition
of Hungary to the Axis alliance ; and at the week-
end Rumania and Slovakia had also come in. While the
Hungarian gentlemen were in Vienna a protocol was
produced for their signature, and Count Csaky signed
it, as also did Ribbentrop, Ciano and the Japanese
Ambassador at Berlin. In far-away Tokyo a Foreign
Office spokesman welcomed the new ally as “the first
country to join the tripartite pact” and the forerunner
of “other countries sharing a common purpose and
ideal with Japan, Italy and Germany” ; Hungary’s
action, he added, “will unquestionably contribute
toward the attainment of the fundamental object of the
tripartite pact.” Hungarian reactions are not reported,
but there must be many frowning faces in Hungary,
especially among the old nobility. For 20 years
Admiral Horthy has been regent, keeping the throne
warm for a Hapsburg ; but Hitler won’t allow Haps-
burgs in his dominions or “protectorates.”
There must be many Italians also who are smiling
with difficulty, for Hungary, like Austria, used to look
to Italy for protection against Germany. While the
Hungarian Ministers and the rest were going on their
knees to Hitler, Mussolini made a speech in which,
while threatening Britain with destruction, and Greece
also —“if it takes two months or 12 months” —he gave
the impression that he had become a very uneasy
Duce. Accusing the English of exaggeration and pro-
claiming his own truthfulness, he admitted that three
“warships”— i.e., battleships—had suffered in the Fleet
Air Arm raid on Taranto, one very badly; and,
changing an obviously unpleasant subject, he boasted
that he had sent aeroplanes and submarines to assist
in Hitler’s war on Britain, though Hitler did not need
them. This may be construed to mean that he expects
Hitler to send aeroplanes and submarines to the Medi-
terranean, where —as his Signor Gayda wailed after
the Fleet Air Arm had put the three battleships out of
action —the Italian fleet has to cope with the British
Navy “alone and without support” ; and perhaps a
German army also, the Greeks having badly mauled
his frontier divisions and taken the Albanian town of
Koritza. If the Germans send an army—they may
prefer to let Mussolini stew in his own juice till he
moderates his demands on France —it will no doubt
go through Bulgaria, Boris having been nobbled. Bul-
garian newspapers kindly remarked that their country
was willing to “negotiate peacefully for the return of
Western Thrace” and “for a restoration of Graeco-
Bulgarian friendship,” but a later official statement
was to the effect that Bulgaria was “not contemplating”
an ultimatum to Greece.
A parallel may be drawn between the present
situation in Europe and that which existed in the
winter of 1807-08. Then, as now, Britain stood alone
against a dictator who was master of the continent.
Napoleon was in possession of the Low Countries and
the greater part of Italy ; his word was law in Spain,
Portugal and Switzerland; some of the smaller
German kings and princes were his meek allies, and
in the course of two years he had inflicted tremendous
defeats on Austria, Prussia and Russia.
At his instance, Russia, on November 1, 1807,
declared war against Britain. In the previous August
Denmark had issued a declaration against Britain and
on October 31 it entered into an alliance with France.
On October 8 the Prince Regent of Portugal ordered
all his ports to be shut against British shipping. On
December 17, in his Milan Decree, the French
Emperor declared Britain in a state of blockade, and
all the countries he had conquered or overawed
became parties to it. Austria was the last; on Feb-
ruary 18, 1808, it broke off all connection with Britain.
How all these measures failed and how Britain saved
itself and Europe is part of universal history.
In the contest with British sea-power, Hitler, it
is true, has terrible weapons which Napoleon did not
possess. The latter could not attack the ships of the
Royal Navy with U-boats, floating mines or aerial
bombs. Neither could he send bombing ’planes over
Britain to spread hideous ruin in ancient cities and
force millions of honest people to live like cave-
dwellers to escape the horrors that fly by night and
day. On the other hand, in Napoleon’s time there
were no great overseas communities of English-
speaking people—the greatest with three times the
population of Britain and three times the resources
of Britain’s enemies—from which John Bull could
draw vast reinforcements and everything required to
carry on the struggle.
Fear of an American declaration of war can
never be absent from Hitler’s mind. The same fear
in December, 1916, together with the exhausting effects
of upwards of two years of strife and doubts as to
whether conquest was worth trying to preserve, drove
the then German Government to issue its Peace Note
—and Hitler must have that in mind also.
The Peace Note was transmitted to Washington
through the American Ambassador at Berlin. Though
no specific terms were stated, the Italian Cardinal
Gasparri, Mr. Lloyd George mentions in his War
Memoirs, “said he had reason to believe that the terms
would be moderate.” All the neutral countries were
sounded ; they “were all of opinion that it would be a
mistake for the Allies to reject outright the German
peace offer.” But “the French attitude was definitely
suspicious” ; Italy and Japan stated that they “could
not accept the status quo” ; the Russian Duma was for
making peace “only after victory” ; M. Pokrovsky,
the Russian Foreign Minister, said “Russia will fight
on for a peace of victory” (in a few months Duma,
Pokrovsky and Russian “fighting on” had become
memories); and these objections prevailed. After a
conference, the Allied Governments dispatched a reply
to the effect that, “closely united to one another and
in perfect sympathy with their peoples,” they refused
to consider “a proposal which is empty and insincere.”
The first to sign was Russia ; the last Rumania!
“Empty and insincere” the thing may have been,
and reproaches and regrets are alike useless. But if
peace had come then humanity would have been
spared two terrible and wasted years of war, with their
lasting consequences. The Austrian Empire, already
beginning to turn against Berlin dictation, would have
been preserved, perhaps with autonomous Hungarians,
Czechs, Poles and Southern Slavs as permanent checks
on Prussian militarism ; and we have had bitter reason
to appreciate the wisdom of the man who said “If
Austria did not exist it would have to be invented.”
There would have been no financial chaos in Europe,
no famine, no world pestilence, no march to Prague
and no guarantee to Poland. There would have been
liberal movements in all reactionary parts of the Con-
tinent, but Hitler, Mussolini and Stalin would have
remained obscure and harmless.
Certainly the events of 1917, 1918 and after should
be remembered if there is any repetition of the Beth-
mann-Hollweg peace offer or that of Kuhlmann, his
successor, in the following year ; and it seems almost
certain that there will be. No peace offer, however
vague, and however black the heart and bloody the
hands of the person who makes it, should be met with
a brusque refusal to negotiate. The British Govern-
ment should always be ready to negotiate, always;
even if negotiations come to nothing because the
other party refuses to state his terms or to mention
guarantees —which, of course, must be required. Nor
should the answer to any peace overture be left to
any ally or allies. The predominant vote should be
given by an Empire War Cabinet, after full discussion
and full consideration of what the peoples of the
Empire—above all, the people of Britain, because they
have endured and will endure most —can do and what
they may be fairly expected to suffer. The disclosure
that H.M.A.S. Australia was engaged at Dakar is a
startling revelation of the necessity for immediate Aus-
tralian representation in an Empire War Cabinet and
on the War Council.
War on Civilians.
Its sponsors early proclaimed that this was to be total
war, and for once they were using the truth. Their
success has come largely from their own complete
acceptance of that thesis. Scruples, humane feelings,
supposed “international rules” for the conduct of war,
until lately a romantic fetish of sentimentalists —these
had less and less meaning as the last war dragged
on ; they have no meaning in this war. There is only
one resort in the total-war conception left —chemical
warfare —and, with this war also dragging on, becom-
ing, as it must, more and more bitter, only an incur-
able optimist would rule that out. The carrying of
gas masks has been general in Britain from the begin-
ning: it is recorded that the King, seeing Mr. Cham-
berlain without his gas mask, remarked in jest to that
close friend, “Surely you’re not going to trust them
again! ”
Apart from that shuddersome resort, this is total
war in the fullest sense of the term coined to differen-
tiate it from other wars. It is war deliberately waged
against civilians ; in the accepted conception of it every
civilian is as much a unit of a country’s defence and
war strength as the Commander-in-Chief. Uniforms
make no difference. Some archaic “rules” remain
under which civilians taking an active part in fighting
are liable to be shot as spies, instead of being treated
as prisoners of war, but it is doubtful if such so-
called rules will outlast this “total” war ; under its
full conception they have lost all former meaning.
Civilians producing food, carrying on transport and
other social services; farmers and bus-drivers no
less than civilian munitions workers are regarded as
no different from soldiers in a country’s war organism,
and therefore as fair targets for bombing or shelling
—bombing is only a form of long-range shelling.
The total concept does not stop at working
civilians, either; even more important under it is
civilian morale, which brings in every member of the
community—men, women and children. In every
country where they have done their butchery—the
walkover countries being excluded from the bloody
business only because they were walkovers —the Ger-
man hordes have carried on their onslaught against the
whole people, irrespective of uniforms or skirts, irre-
spective of age or sex, against the armed and the
defenceless alike. Fleeing masses of panic-stricken
civilians have been bombed and machine-gunned on
the roads, not by unhappy accident or for sadistic
pleasure in such a bestial job, but as deliberate mili-
tary design. Shiploads of children and their mothers,
taking no more part in the war than fleeing to a dis-
tant country away from it, have been torpedoed in
mid-ocean at night. Many of them have died horribly,
babes in arms lifted frozen from frozen seas, mothers
and children left to drown, with no thought of rescuing
them on the part of their murderers.
All this is done deliberately and as a matter of
course under the total-war concept. The regular
bombing of London, the hideous onslaught on
Coventry, the whole German war on Britain is a war,
not on troops, but on civilians. By deliberate design
it includes everybody ; it is an attack on the whole
people. It would be ridiculous self-righteousness to
pretend that the restricting of the answering British
attack mainly to “military objectives” is a matter of
scruples. In the House of Commons Mr. Churchill
referred to the general public outcry, continually
mounting, for reprisals : “On every side there is the
cry ‘We can take it,’ but with it there is also the cry
‘Give it them back.’ ” Mr. Churchill defended as a
reprisal the destruction of German material strength’,
significantly adding, “At any rate that is all we have
time for now.” There can hardly be any question
that what he meant was that Britain as yet has the
means for only the kind of very effective bombing it
is giving back. It follows that when Britain has the
means the German civilians, as they should, will
know as thoroughly as the British know, and neither
by hearsay nor accident, the full meaning of total war.
Thus, with Britain holding the Channel and hold-
ing its posts elsewhere, this war can develop into an
endurance test of civilian morale. In respect of the
blockades it is that already: Britain may not yet be
able to attack the German civilian morale with bombs
—unless the American help is greatly increased, it may
not be able to do so for some considerable time —
but the blockade enforced by the Navy on Germany
is directed against every German civilian, irrespective
of uniforms, ages, sexes, as surely as the bombs
dropped “indiscriminately” on Britain, and also the
attempt to blockade Britain, are directed against every
British man, woman and child.
What effect this total form of warfare is going to
have in the long run no one can yet say. One of its
most striking results up to the present is that the day
has passed when only a certain section of the com-
munity—the pick of its young manhood —had to go
forth and bear the full burden of war in some sphere
detached from the rest of the community, leaving a
large part of itself, and therefore the best part of the
nation, dead there, the remainder returning injured,
crippled, certainly to some extent unhealthily affected,
perhaps to the thankless task of having to fight its way
individually back into the .social scheme again. Aus-
tralian and Maoriland returned men were compara-
tively fortunate in their treatment after the last war,
but many of them had a rough enough struggle, had
to suffer insult, if nothing worse, from stay-at-homes
whose jobs they threatened, to say nothing of those
who had to make their fight back into civilian life
crippled by gas and wounds. Elsewhere the job that
faced the returning troops was incomparably tougher :
to go back a little further in time, returned men, hav-
ing fought their country’s wars in fields out of sight
of the general community, found themselves as often
as not treated as pariahs.
That day, at all events, is done. In Europe at
least —and who knows where else? —civilians will
know as much about war by the time this one is over
as the fighting soldiers in the past exclusively knew.
The process of this hideous instruction is horrible to
think about, but there may be a faint glimmer of hope
to it. If the lesson is well learnt—as there is only
too terrible reason for thinking it will be —there may
be a possibility of peace, also, becoming total in the
same sense that war has become total. It may become,
as war has now become, the vital concern of every
member of the community; not merely the final de-
cision on whether or not to plunge into war, but
policies, beliefs, ideas and, by no means least, press,
radio and all other claptrap which appears to be
taking a direction towards war. Certainly if com-
munities do not everywhere take just that vital and
complete interest in maintaining peace when the>
have it, it will be they in their entirety who will pay.
The day when war was almost a private business
between comparatively small sections of the com-
munity, voluntarily or compulsorily dressed in uni-
forms, is well past.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
What About Expenditure?
Though Mr. Fadden’s first Budget hits every member
of the community, and hits many hard, it will be
borne philosophically if unnecessary expenditure,
Commonwealth and State, is cut at the same time. Of
that there is no indication, though Mr. Fadden’s Gov-
ernment could prune many items and insist on its
example being followed by the six superfluities, now
more than ever dependent on Canberra for easy
money.
Mr. Fadden mentioned that his Government has
“adopted the report of the Grants Commission.” This
means that the Adelaide Government will get a cool
million of Commonwealth tax-revenue for local spend-
ing in 1940-41, the Perth Government £650,000 and
the Hobart Government £400,000 —altogether £30,000
more than last year. These amounts are scandalously
excessive, and should be reduced by at least £500,000.
To this about £6OOO could be added by abolishing the
vote for the superfluous body which brought in such
a “recommendation” in war-time.
Other items which should disappear are £15,000
for the alleged National Travel Association, a mere
excrescence on a host of Government tourist bureaux ;
£50,000 or thereabouts for the carcass of the League ;
and all votes for “entertainment of distinguished
visitors.” And there should be a reduction of at least
£25,000 in the vote for Trade Commissioners and
Assistant Trade Commissioners (£52,000 last year),
some of whose jobs have become palpable sinecures.
The pensions list should also be reviewed ; it has
grown surprisingly of recent years, and the Govern-
ment would be hard put to it to justify some of the
additions. Moreover, such sheer waste as the loss of
£37,000 in seven months on the A.B.C. publication
should be ended once and for all; if A.B.C. can
throw away money at that rate on a paper which the
public obviously doesn’t want, it could pay the
equivalent, and more, into war funds. Having attended
to all these matters, the Government at Canberra could
fairly demand that all the other Governments should
reduce their outrageous expenditure, especially as the
war has relieved them of unemployed-relief and other
obligations (though most of them are still levying
and collecting huge unemployed-relief taxes). If re-
luctant or recalcitrant, they could be dealt with in the
spirit in which the one Government that matters is
dealing with the taxpayers.
Those taxpayers are going to suffer because the
State Governments, particularly those of N. S. Wales
and Queensland, have made a practice of imposing
high income-tax rates regardless of every considera-
tion other than their alleged local necessities.
“This,” Mr. Fadden said —Mr. Spender said it
before him —“has considerably hampered Common-
wealth taxation at all points of the scale” ; and he
questions whether “we shall be able to maintain this
‘principle’ ” —by which he presumably means provin-
cial selfishness and irresponsibility.
Some greater uniformity in State income taxation
may become a war-time necessity.
One income tax for Australia became a necessity
long before the war. Mr. Stevens has announced his
conversion to this reform. Too late in his case, see-
ing that his political career has ended, but not too
late for the Commonwealth Government to introduce
it in the exercise of its war powers. Meanwhile Mr.
Fadden could lighten the additional burdens he is
imposing on earners of real income by taxing lottery
profits, as was done after the last war ; but if he means
to do this —and he ought to do it —the intention was
not disclosed in his Budget speech.
What's Thirty-seven Thousand?
Dragging a few facts about “A.B.C. Weakly” finances
out of A.B.C. was like pulling an elephant’s teeth ; but
when figures for seven months were published by the
Government the reluctance of the Commission to dis-
close them was understandable. Any private board
of directors which made such a loss on such a project
would seriously consider leaving the task of explana-
tion to its executors after a sharp dive into the harbor.
At present, the “Weakly” consists of 56 lOin.-by-
-Bin. pages ; devoted for the most part to rehashes of
broadcasting talks and to programmes, including the
programmes of private commercial stations. There is
no more reason why the Commonwealth Government
should advertise these stations than that it should
advertise private theatres or private newspapers. But
the “Weakly” prints these programmes as a measure
of competition against a private rival, which presum-
ably pays income-taxes —the “Weakly,” of course,
doesn’t.
Nobody with any knowledge of newspapers ever
imagined that this strange “national” enterprise was
making a profit. It is admitted that the loss for seven
months was £37,000, though, by a process of dis-
tributing “establishment expenses” over five years, it
is expected that the first balance-sheet will show a gap
of a mere £20,000. As the “Weakly” has no plant,
“establishment expenses” should have been next to
nothing.
The salient fact is that while the Government is
imposing heavy war taxation it is permitting A.B.C.
to lose £l2OO or so an issue on an unwanted publica-
tion, and has permitted it to lose in seven war months
an amount which would have bought five Spitfires for
R.A.A.F. squadrons overseas.
The situation calls not only for the immediate
suppression of the “Weakly,” but for drastic changes
in the inept and extravagant A.B.C. and for a general
overhaul of the Act under which it took authority to
throw away stacks of listeners’ money.
An Australian Passes.
“El V.”: A week after his death this paragraph
appeared in one of the papers:
Mr. Charles Edward Devenish-Meares, a leader of
the N.S.W. dairy co-operative movement, died at his
home in Lindfield, aged 79. He was a son of Mr.
Alfred Devenish-Meares, of Wollongong, and a grand-
son of the Rev. Matthew Devenish-Meares.
And here is his romance:
In 1901, being then 40, he was secretary and accountant
to a co-operative society that gave up the ghost. He was
now without a job, but not without vision. He went to
Kiama, and, sitting on one of the seats overlooking the
blowhole, he sketched out a plan. He put the plan to about
a dozen farmers. They were to find £lOOO, and he was to
establish N. S. Wales butter on the Empire market.
In furtherance of this modest scheme, they took two
rooms in Sussex-street, Sydney. One was a store into which
a truck ran, rattling the table of the general manager (and
typist) upstairs so much that he often could not write, but
the g.m. was not often there to worry about it.
He was usually in his little buggy threading his way
between the primitive factories of the N. S. Wales North
Coast. With his commanding presence, and an eloquence and
a persuasiveness which were scarcely matched by any front-rank
politician, he was busy on his scheme, the basis of which
was that he asked every factory for its best box of
butter, to be used in a trial for farmers’ co-operative marketing
in London. Proprietary firms didn’t oppose him. They said:
“You need money to market overseas.” Meares said: “We
have it —10 sovereigns’ worth in every box.”
Getting butter in those days was an adventurous business.
There were still districts where cream came down by pack-
horses, and where possum-skin caps were still the vogue.
Meares saw them all. Once he lost his trousers in a flooded
river. Several times he was turned over in his buggy.
Presently, as the business began to grow, he joined with
Elliott, an early driver, to pioneer the motor tracks of the
North Coast. Many a town woke to the: roar of their
juggernaut as horses leapt skyward from their hitching-posts
and teams left incontinently for the hills. But, since Meares’s
idea of sales based on quality was winning, he was forgiven
these disturbances.
In Meares’s first year he made £3Ol for his co-operative
farmer-shareholders, and paid 6 per cent, on capital—total
dividends, £45. He never returned them less than 6 per cent,
until the slump of 1930, and from the second year onwards
there was always a substantial bonus and something to reserves.
But so little capital was invested in the venture —the real
capital was in the merchandise, which was being sold direct
from the farmer-organisation to the London buyer—that
capital was only £125,000 when turnover had climbed beyond
£4,000,000.
Turnover reached the half-million mark in 1906, five
years after the venture started. It reached the million mark
five years later; in 1917 it passed £2,300,000. By that
time Meares was a national figure, and had acted as spokesman
and as the chief implementer of the scheme under which the
whole of the Australian dairy produce was sold to the
British Government during the Great War.
In 1923 turnover was £4,000,000, and there were nearly
10,000 farmer shareholders. The Empire co-operative selling
organisation, which operates for most of the exporting
Dominions, was in being.
Last year Producers’ Co-op.—the show has changed its
name—handled £6,565,000 worth of farm produce with the
aid of a paid-up capital of £220,000. It dealt with 1,257,478 cwt.
of butter alone, as well as every other kind of farm output.
During most of his building period Meares served the
farmers on the kind of salary a small business pays its
accountant. This was not through any lack of gyjerosity on
the part of his employers; but they trusted him implicitly in
all business detail and, dealing in millions, he was too busy
to raise his own salary.
In 1926 the writer sat at a Lord Mayor’s luncheon in
Liverpool next to William Dudley, head of the great Co-
operative Wholesale Society, which annually turns over hun-
dreds of millions of pounds. Meares’s name was mentioned.
Dudley said: “He is one of your greatest men. We offered
him anything he liked to take to come over here, and he
laughed at us. During the war he was the most capable
Dominion marketing man we had anything to do with. He
did more to put your farm products on the British market
than any other man.” Another Australian sitting on the
other side of him said: “Meares? Where have I heard of
him?”
Meares retired in 1931. A few years before his name had
been a household word in three States. When he died it took
the press a week to discover that he had gone. But then
the press was completely absorbed in recording the progress
of a visiting playwright who calls himself a playboy.
New Orders.
“Feng-Shui”: The anniversary of the birth of Sun
Yat-sen, solemnly celebrated by the Celestial Republic,
recalls the fact that Sun was the first in modern times
to visualise a new world order. He planned to make
China a united nation, then a socialistic State, and
finally a glorious example which would be followed
by all other countries guided by reason. After a
lifetime of exhausting effort, he succeeded in turning
China into a ramshackle republic whose Government
of party politicians was dependent on foreign loans,
and thus incurred the undying hatred of the rest of
the nation.
Lenin came next. As a follower of Marx he
visualised a world of Communist States brought about
by internal revolutions. Marx had predicted that the
revolution would occur first in highly industrialised
countries like America and England, and demonstrated
it by a vast amount of incontrovertible logic. Instead
it broke out in Russia, a nation of hereditary aristo-
crats and unindustrialised peasants. Lenin tried to
adjust his ideas to these new conditions and most of
his time was occupied in fighting Trotsky, who clung
to Marx’s original conception. Whatever has been
produced in Russia, it certainly is not the Communism
of its founder.
Japan now has its schemes for a new order for
Asia and Hitler has a new order for Europe, with
hopes for an extension to the entire planet. Now it
is being asserted in some quarters that the British
Empire and America must be the sponsors of another
new world order.
None of these grandiose schemes has any hope
of fulfilment, for the simple reason that if you want
to plan a new order you must know all the factors.
If you don’t know all the factors you can no more plan
a new order than you can plan a workable motor-car.
But you will certainly engender an enormous amount
of hatred in other nations. The most hated nations at
the present moment are those which wish most
ardently to impose new orders on other nations.
If Britain and U.S.A. want to be thoroughly well hated
they only need to come out as champions of some
vast, vague, amorphous, platitudinous scheme for
reorganising humanity.
"With Grave Suspicion."
Summing up in an unsavory divorce case heard in
Sydney (Caesar v. Caesar; Mcßae, co-re.), Justice
Street said: “I view this claim for protection by the
Police Department with grave suspicion.”
The co-re. was a detective-sergeant. He denied
having committed adultery, and alleged a sort of “De
Luxe Annie” conspiracy between wife and husband
against him. The jury did not believe him and found
for the husband, awarding £2OO damages.
What prompted Mr. Justice Street’s remarks was
the astounding fact that, though certain documents
and written statements in the possession of the Police
Department were made available to the co-respondent
before the trial, neither the petitioner nor his counsel
nor the respondent was- allowed access to them. The
papers were called for by the Court, but a police
official claimed that it was in the public interest that
they should not be shown to counsel. His Honor
read them, and decided that they could properly be
shown to counsel. Afterwards he said —
The fact that this disclosure [of files, correspondence,
evidence and statements] had been made [to the co-
respondent] was withheld from the Court when the
claim of privilege was made. The department, it
appears, knew that, and the fact was withheld from me.
After further remarks concerning the method of
obtaining statements from the wife which had a bear-
ing on the case, his Honor expressed the opinion that
his Court had been “treated contemptuously” and that
an attempt had been made to interfere with the course
of justice.
The detective-sergeant has been dismissed, but that
doesn't end the matter, nor will it satisfy a public
which has been compelled to think too much about
the N.S.W. Police Department these last few years.
It wants an assurance that the Police Department has
been placed beyond the reach of “grave suspicion.”
Victorian Houses.
“F.S.”: Despite a storm of disapproval from the
U.A.P., sections of the Labor party, suburban munici-
palities and other quarters, Premier Dunstan is going
ahead with a new Local Government Bill designed to
introduce uniformity into the building regulations.
Mr. Dunstan has discovered that there is a widespread
public demand for such a measure, and too much
subtle propaganda against it, and he wants properly
considered regulations, drafted by the usual commis-
sion—two architects, an engineer, a builder, two muni-
cipal representatives and a chairman.
Whatever the possible merits of the new commis-
sion, a detached observer would be inclined to come
to the conclusion that what is needed is not more
uniformity but more variety in building in Victoria.
Municipalities and Governments imbued with the best
intentions have been meddling in the matter for
generations, but Melbourne continues to spread in a
sort of brick-and-mortar miasma over the surround-
ing country, and standardised suburbs on the Ameri-
can model, with American shopping centres, American
cinemas, American “nature” strips and American
garages built of factory-made material, are springing
up in all directions.
Wherever one travels in the country one comes to
townships which look like bits broken off from Mel-
bourne suburbia and incongruously dropped down on
a Mallee plain or a valley in the mountains. They
resemble one another so much that they might all have
been designed in the same city architect’s office. They
are not only uniform with one another but uniform
with every other country apparently. Some little time
ago I met a Rumanian architect from Bucharest. He
said that he wanted to wipe the slate clean and absorb
Australian architecture, so I took him for a motor
drive. What he saw was so like what he had been
building all his life in his native country that he wept
from sheer homesickness.
There were once the beginnings of a beautiful
colonial architecture in Victoria. The builders used
the material of the country: stone where there was
stone (the variety of stone in the State is astonishing),
pise and timber. A few of the houses remain to show
what it was like, and they look as if they had grown
out of the country, not been imposed on it. But
modern machine production and slavish imitation of
foreign styles have submerged this beautiful architec-
ture in a sea of standardised suburbia.
A Film and Some Corns.
“Tovarish” makes a suggestion:
By way of celebrating Molotov’s safe arrival in Berlin
and safe return to Moscow, the Friends of the Soviet
should hire a bit of film shown in borjoice theatres.
It is a sober representation of what happened when
Stalin’s pal and fellow-partitioner of Polish territory secured
air ascendancy over Warsaw.
The photographer was there a fortnight, arriving the
day before the Polish military retreat from the city. There
is nothing sensational about his pictures, but they give
minute details of what happens in German air raids on
defenceless towns. He shows smashed maternity hospitals,
cratered streets, torn and broken buildings, shattered churches,
the fruits of incendiary bombing, the flaming skyline of
a Warsaw night. Worst of all, he gives pictures of the
people who have been through a fortnight of ceaseless destruc-
tion during which there was no air defence and warnings
were useless because it was all one continuous air raid.
Mothers with new-born babies shelter on cement in damp
cellars. Women look for their dead among the ruins of
smouldering homes. The faces are gaunt with terror and
grief; old and young have reached the lowest common
denominator of misery.
Stalin’s Commissars, of course, saw these things when
they took possession of the land east of the river as part
of their spoils. Afterwards Joe and Molotov delightedly
acclaimed the fact that Russia had become “cemented by
blood” with the destroyers and murderers.
It might not be a bad thing if such fiims were introduced
into the penal machinery of the Commonwealth. Moscow
agents caught snooping round factories and workshops should
be compelled to expiate their offences against Australia
in part by holding forth on the glories of the Russo-German
pact at meetings of Australian workers, with pictorial accom-
paniment. Then they might be preserved in safe places till
after the war, and sent thereupon under guard to Warsaw,
there to preach the doctrine of the Brotherhood of Man and
the virtues of the Workers’ Only Fatherland and its ally to
the hapless Poles.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Ha-ha Pigeon”: Desperate efforts
have been made by two foreign owners
of fruit-shops in our suburb to prove
their loyalty. It began soon after Musso.
hopped in, when one put up the sign
“The owner of this business is a
natturalised Austrian.” Spotting the
bloomer, his rival put up “Naturalised
Australian Here.” The first expanded
“Austrian” to “Australian.” The second
countered with “The owner of this busi-
ness was admitted to the Returned
Soldiers in 19—.” Followed a pause.
Then came “This shop run by democrats.”
Promptly came the reply, in the form of
War Savings Certificates pasted in the
window. Then came the crusher, “The
owner of this business has no Italian war
decorations.” It must have been too
much, for the best the opposition could
do was “Under New Management, Now
All-Australian.”
* * * *
“C. 8.”: A Melbourne girl told me the
other day that she had just got her ears
pierced and exposed the swollen lobes to
prove it. “Why on earth did you get
your nice ears mutilated in that way?” I
asked in astonishment. “Are you going
in for earrings?” “Oh, no,” she said. “I
was in a shop and I just thought I’d
have it done, like lots of girls I know.”
“But why?” I persisted. “Well, my
mother had it done when she was my
age.” “Yes, but she thought it necessary
to be fashionable, and earrings were in
fashion in her day. They aren’t very
fashionable nowadays and you can get
them to stick with clips, anyhow.” She
looked a trifle embarrassed and then
blurted out the perfect rationalisation.
“Well, as a matter of fact,” she said, “a
friend told me that it is good for the
eyesight and that a girl who has her ears
pierced never has to wear glasses.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The South Australians seem
to be considered an easy mark by any
adventurous wise man from the East.
The latest visitor found a girl with £25
and, proposing marriage, borrowed £22
of it, opened a bank account and got off
cheques for a much larger total. To
various victims in Adelaide he posed as
“Chief Constructional Engineer on the
Sydney Harbor bridge,” a boss at the
Cheltenham munitions factory, owner of
“a street of maisonettes” at Glenelg and
as Crawford the tennis player. “Has a
wife and child in N.5.W.,” said the pro-
secution ; “and convictions against him in
most of the States.” Thirteen months.
A “Knight of the Garter,” more spectacu-
lar but less heartless in his choice of vic-
tims, took a year. Another visitor got
off with a month for wearing a captain’s
uniform. Born in M.L., he had enlisted
twice in Victoria (discharged once and
a.w.l. once), bought “six stars, four
crowns and three Australia shoulder-
badges,” and moved across to Adelaide
to pose as a doctor and the son of a
baronet.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Almost everything in the life-
history of a fetching party to a Sydney
divorce case came out at the hearing,
except an experience she had as house-
maid in an old Randwick home. It ended
suddenly at 3 o’clock one morning, when
she returned, after a night out, full of
3-o’clock-in-the-morning courage and
other accompaniments of nights out.
After a brief slumber, she departed with
her luggage, first taking a cordial fare-
well of all concerned. “Well,” the un-
ruffled young woman said, with an arch
reference to the family calling, “I must
say you picked a loser when you picked
me.”
* * * *
“Macann”: The spirit is still right.
Three Young Diggers piled into the bus
and occupied a pew and a half. “Fez,
please!” “Sorry, we’re broke.” “D’you
refuse to pay?” “No, we don’t refuse
to pay. We’re broke.” “Yes, an’ what
happens if an inspector gets on?” “That’s
all right, old man. We won’t get you
into a row.” Conductor retires below
without pressing the issue. Bus meanders
along for three-parts of its journey.
“Here,” says one of the Digs, as it pauses
by the footpath, “I think there’s an in-
spector gettin’ on. What d’we do about
"Looks as though ’e’s located the sub., sir!”
it?” “Inspector all right,” says the ap-
parent leader of the trio. “Come on, we
get off. We wouldn’t be seen ridin’ on
a bus with one of them !” Exit the trio,
giving the inspector advance wishes for a
Merry Christmas.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Burning gumleaves (B.
13/11 / ’4O) was not the way I got
“a sniff of Australia” in London.
The Anzac Buffet in Victoria-street
was crowded with Diggers on leave
when noses began to sniff the air.
Suddenly there was a rush to the base-
ment. Some thoughtful person back in
Australia had packed layers of sweet-
scented boronia on top of some cases of
comforts that had just been opened ; the
perfume had stolen through the place,
spreading delightful visions of sunshine
and home. The boronia touch can be
recommended to the packers of parcels
for the Diggers of this war.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The nightwatchman in a Mel-
bourne building heard a suspicious sound,
grabbed his revolver and started down-
stairs to track it. Turning the corner of
a dimly-lighted corridor at high speed he
saw a dark figure, also presenting a pistol,
come rushing at him. “Stop or I fire!”
he shouted. The stranger obeyed but did
not lower his revolver. The nightwatchman
took aim but paused for a second—but
in that second his enemy had taken aim
and fired. The watchman fell over back-
wards. When he opened his eyes his
cowardly assailant had vanished. Feeling
himself all over and finding no wound he
scrambled to his feet, to be confronted
by a large shattered mirror.
* * * *
“Tummas McNark”: The smart young
English writer of froth-and-bubble plays
now being smarmed over by the pushers
and shovers of Australian “sassiety” is
nobodv’s fool. When a gushing damsel
togf(„t%n Ce e P mbarra r s"d ed Zle° “he
burbled “This is ray fiancl Don't you
think. Mr. Coward, he is the image of
you?” Mr. Coward looked the object
over, allowed his eyes to flicker back to
the maiden, and murmured, “Yes, indeed.
How interesting.” Frightfully so, one
might add with truth
„’„ ‘ , ,
“Dungeness”: Old Rowley was No. 11.
and a horse with that number was pic-
lured in the Soltine Cloth ad. on the
front page of The Bulletin’s pre-Cup
issue. The mechanical staff of a Queens-
land sugar mill is still taking running
jumps at itself for neglecting the tip, sup-
ported as it was by a mill misadventure.
For weeks the oldest of the great 40-ton
crushing rollers had been giving trouble,
and on the night of November 3 it gave
up business with a series of bumps and
crashes which rocked the building on its
foundations. Put into working order
again after several strenuous hours it
repeated the performance on the next
night. Again, a sweating mechanical
staff struggled with repairs in the early
morning hours while the rest of the held-
up shift mingled their curses on the sub-
ject of the old roller. Twelve hours
later a score of disgusted punters amongst
them realised that the faithful old gadget
had been doing its darnedest to give
them the dinkum oil about Old Rowley
at 100 to 1.
* * * *
“Bobber”: A Sydney suburban council
—Woollahra —has decided to remove
several Moreton Bay figs from a public
park because of a petition of 14 residents
who claimed that the trees caused leaves
to litter their house-fronts, encroached on
football fields and constituted a danger
to children from falling branches. Thou-
sands of city folk pass that park every
day of their lives, and thousands spend
time in it. Footballers have never com-
plained, nor have the children. The trees
belong to the city as a whole, and their
removal would be felt. Suburban coun-
cils take too much on themselves in these
matters. No tree should be removed
other than for inescapable reasons; simply
because their leaves litter somebody’s
gateway isn’t sufficient reason. If it is,
before long there’ll hardly be a tree in
the city.
* * * *
“Perry”: “Atrax” (B. 13/11/’4O) per-
petrates an old misunderstanding by quot-
ing “nine tailors make a man.” I was
carefully instructed at my school to spell
it “tailers,” the explanation being that it
had its origin in the English custom of
ringing the passing bell. The long toll
announced the death, and after a pause
the explanatory strokes (the tailers) were
rung—nine for a man, six for a woman
and three for a child.
“Snarker”: I am looking at a news-
paper picture of a launch on the Hawkes-
bury (N.S.W.) taking a crowd of boys
to a school camp. The launch is literally
loaded to the Plimsoll with them. What
would happen if a southerly struck it or
sojne other cause of accident I dread to
think. There ought to be more super-
wsion of this sort of thing.
-ii/u-i u •
Mentor modern™ 3* Tdepfecate re-
f nt attack * b y c . er ‘ ai " suc«=ss f ui rvle[-
bourne painters and Gallery offlcals on the
young lions of the movement Art should
be absolutely free if a country s art is
t° d «eloP, and every artist should be
allowed to paint as he likes. If the
modernists like painting as they do paint
I can’t see they do any harm to me.
W ben academ ;? s , and institutes come into
belng and artists have to submit their
w ° rk to the prejudices of committees,
art «“*?• Th f. re has n °t been a single
« rea * art ' st m ,he R ?>; al £ c ad e my since
“ s 'noeption, men like Constable and
Turner getting their works m only late in
'' £e ' t w , hen the y had made an established
Jcpu a J. 011 ' * * *
“Brum”: The material prosperity of
Bie Chamberlain family may be said to
have turned upon a screw. It was at the
Great London Exhibition of 1851 that
John Nettlefold (uncle by marriage of
Joe Chamberlain) saw Sloane’s machine
for making screws, and realised what it
would mean in the hands of a competitor,
He bought the patent rights, and that
was the start of the firm of Nettlefold
and Chamberlain in Birmingham. As
Joe’s father (a wholesale boot manufac-
turer in a modest way) had provided
some of the capital, he sent young Joe
(aged 18) into the Birmingham business.
Twenty years later Joe Chamberlain was
able to retire from business, having
amassed a modest fortune of some
£120,000. When the Chamberlains sold
their interest in the Birmingham firm they
got £600,000 for it. The name Nettle-
fold still means screws to the world.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman”: But why on earth
should “Bo” object (B. 30/10/’4O) to a
man’s wearing drawers —and talking
about them? Never were they “known
exclusively as the fair sex’s garment.” In
fact, we not only wore them but talked
about them when women —and advertis-
ing milliners —kept a modest silence. This
simple garment, the first thing to draw
on —hence the name —at rising from bed
when pyjamas were still undreamed of,
has for uncounted centuries been a com-
mon possession of both sexes.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Melbourne “Argus” recently
printed a headline “Hong Kong Families
Happy to Stay Here.” A dozen Hong
Kong wives promptly wrote protesting
that they were far from happy; in fact,
they bitterly resented being compul-
sorily separated from their spouses and
wanted to get back as soon as maybe to
share their joys and sorrows, and their
hubbies wanted them back. Evidently
the old sheet can’t imagine a human
being being concerned about anything
but his or her own skin.
THE BUNGS OF BUNDABERG.
“A Bundaberg (Q.) hotelkeeper, who had been
prosecuted for after-hours trading after 18 warnings
by the police, complained that he had been perse-
cuted and laid charges against 13 other licensees
for similar offences.” —Sydney “D.T.”
At Bundaberg (Q.) —so at least ’twould appear—
A fellow need never go short of a beer,
A noggin of rum or a nobbier of gin,
If he only possesses the requisite tin.
Assailed by the thirst that pertains to the clime,
He can quench it at pretty near any old time.
For the tolerant cops whom he sojourns among
Are never too hard on a Bundaberg Bung.
In less lucky towns, where the closing hour’s
six,
The Johns will come down like a hundred of
bricks
On genial landlords or tough licensees
Who break regulations or fracture decrees.
One caution or two the offenders may get
But, if these are ignored, they’ll have cause
to regret.
Their goose will be cooked and their withers
be wrung—
But that isn’t the case with a Bundaberg Bung.
A fair score of warnings, he claims, should be
his
Before he consents to diminish his biz.;
And then, even then, if he’s haled into court,
He’ll bitterly growl and disgustedly snort,
And make an appeal to all rational folk
To look on himself as a victimised bloke
That such an injustice should on him be sprung,
111-treatment that grates on a Bundaberg Bung.
So I trust that if ever I’m billed to retail
The heartening rum and the nutty-brown ale,
And I find it incumbent my hours to extend
(However the licensing laws I offend)
As long as my patrons have money to spend,
If my pride in my calling it ruffles and jars,
The prospect of emptying bibulous bars,
I fervently trust that my shingle be hung
Where I’m earning a crust as a Bundaberg
Bung.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Clusian”: It was in a Sydney kirk and
the hymn was the “Old Hundredth.” The
organist, however, gave the well-known
air a fancy harmonisation at the end of
each line, which rather confused a visit-
ing lady, who struggled gamely to re-
concile her ideas with those of the organ-
ist and the rest of the congregation. A
friend, observing her distress, leaned over
and whispered helpfully “We swing it
here, you know.” Collapse of visitor
through trying to choke back giggles.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Melbourne’s new Mayor,
Frank Beaurepaire, as befits an ex-world’s
swimming champion, takes an interest in
the physical condition of citizens, and the
other day he and a distinguished company
inspected a new device for diminishing
the waistline of the middle-aged and
elderly. It is known as “Tru-go” and
is played with mallets. Composition
rubber rings are hit 90ft. along a green,
and the endeavor is to send them between
goalposts sft. 9in. apart without touching.
A professorial director of physical edu-
cation from the University of Melbourne
declared the game to be simply marvellous,
and it is expected to spread like midget
golf did during the. depression. And
possibly it will disappear as suddenly.
* * *, *
“F.S.”: An Athens man is paying for
a memorial to the first British airman
who fell in the service of the Greeks, and
a Greek sculptor has offered to execute
the memorial, which will contain marble
from the quarries from which came the
material used in ancient Greek statues.
If this is so there will be a link between
the Anglo-Greek gesture and the Aphro-
dite at the National Gallery in Melbourne,
which was probably made of marble from
the same quarry. It is said to have been
drawn up from the AEgean by Italian
fishermen who sold it to an English
gentleman, who sold it for a surprisingly
small sum to the Felton Bequest. It is
doubtful if there is any modern Greek
sculptor capable of executing a piece of
work on the 'same artistic level, for
Greece has taken to the modern fashion,
just like Melbourne.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A blessing in disguise is hidden
in a recent decision of the Practice Court
in Melbourne that, even though a special
permit may have been issued, the serving
of liquor in pubs after hours can take
“Every time I come up and see you blokes I laugh more and more."
place only during the duration of a bona
fide meal. If this is rigidly applied,
public dinners will either have to be spun
out and the fish served 20 minutes after
the soup and so forth and so on, or our
long-winded politicians will have to put
a curb on their eloquence by giving three-
minute speeches between courses. At a
recent banquet in a high-toned pub the
fodder was consumed in less than an
hour, but the oratory pursued its tur-
gid course for upwards of two hours and
thirty minutes.
* * * *
“Gaffer” delves into the past:
Sydney’s most notable early-Victorian fire took
place in 1840; then the original Royal Hotel,
with the first Theatre Royal behind it, was
burnt to the ground. They stood in George-
street where Dymock’s Book Arcade is now.
Next to the hotel one Blanch had a foundry,
and one of his carters fell asleep in the stables
beside a candle he had forgotten to blow out.
He was awakened in the small hours by a glare
of light and great heat, but managed to
escape and give the alarm. The fire spread
rapidly, and presently the hotel and the theatre
were well alight. About 4 a.m. the roofs
of both fell in with a tremendous crash,
whilst half Sydney looked on. Officers and
men of the 50th and 80th Regiments from the
barracks lower down George-street and 300
prisoners from the convict depot at the top of
King-street helped confine the fire to the block.
The new Royal, which survived until recent
times, was opened on the same site in December
of the following year. The theatre was not re-
built, but the fine old inn, with its three wide
balconies, lasted for 85 years.
* * * m
“Phil Anthus”: A report from Charters
Towers of the death of Jim Kenniff re-
minds me of a moving story which A. H.
Davis (“Steele Rudd”) used to tell. Jim
Kenniff and his brother Pat were
central figures in a case of near-forty
years ago that gripped the whole of
Australia. Both sturdy and daring bush-
men, they were suspected of the murder
of a station-manager and a policeman in
lonely country of south-west Queensland,
and for months they eluded pursuers in
the rugged region of the Carnarvon
Range. Caught at last and found guilty,
Pat was executed and Jim was given penal
servitude for life. The whole business
aroused tremendous interest. There were
then, and always have been since, plenty
of people to declare that both lads were
innocent. Anyway, what I recall is that
Davis was Under-Sheriff at the time, a
queer job for a humorist, and had to
assist officially in the execution of Pat
Kenniff. “I was sorry for Kenniff,” he
related, “and as I watched him closely on
the scaffold I saw that he kept his eyes
raised and fixed on one spot right to the
end. Later, I slipped up and stood in
the same position and looked upward.
Then I felt more sorry for the young
bushman. What he had been gazing at so
intently was one small patch of blue sky.”
* * * V
“Nakh”: A revival of an old version of
the moonlight flit has caused some heart-
burning in a boarding-house in Mel-
bourne. The lodger announced his inten-
tion of taking a short trip to the country,
and as he left a fine, large, heavily-loaded
trunk in his bedroom the boarding-house
lady overlooked the fact that he owed a
month’s rent. After a few weeks the room
was still vacant and nothing had been
heard from the absent lodger. The land-
lady decided that the room might as well
be used by a temporary occupant, and with
the assistance of the maid tried to shift
the trunk out. It was remarkably heavy
—in fact it couldn’t be shifted. So it
was opened. It was empty, but the
bottom had been neatly screwed to the
floor.
“Chink”: Talking about opium (B.
13/11/ ’4O) I recall how a confident Ben-
digo constable who posed as an authority
on the subject was taken down. Prose-
cuting a batch of Chinese, he produced
several samples of henshee—smoked and
dried opium—which he declared had been
found on the premises. He assured the
“Hey, 'ow d ’ you know I Want to sell it ?”
Bench that he knew all about henshee.
He gave Sam Cornish, for the defence,
the same assurance. But he reckoned
without Cornish’s colleague, E. F. G.
Jolly. While the argument proceeded
Ted Jolly was busy beneath the Bar table,
and presently he passed over a small
package with a whispered word to Cor-
nish. The package went on to the wit-
ness. “Tell me,” said Cornish, “what is
that material?” Witness looked at the
small pile of burnt fragments. He smelt
it. He touched it gingerly with an ex-
ploratory tongue. “This,” he proclaimed,
“is henshee.” “Are you sure?” asked
Cornish very mildly. “Quite sure,” quoth
the Law. “I recognise it both by the smell
and the taste.” “Well, your Honor,” Cor-
nish told the Bench, “I am sure you will
be interested to learn that, only a
minute ago, my friend Mr. Jolly scraped
that mixture from his own pipe!”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: It is no doubt highly re-
grettable that Sir Pompous Beecham
should have been subjected to some sort
of hostile demonstration on the steamer
which took him from these
shores (B. 20/11/ ’4O), though
the accounts are conflicting
enough to suggest that the in-
dignities have been exaggerated.
But, seeing that he left this
country with the expressed in-
tention of writing a book of a
hostile character with regard to
its people and their manners, it
is not altogether surprising.
After all, however distinguished
a musician a man may be, he
owes something to a country which has
treated him as an honored guest and his
occasional tantrums as venial eccentri-
cities. Beecham, as far as I can see, re-
paid his debt with nothing but petulant
abuse.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Journalese is full of strange
meanings, deliberate, implied or uncon-
scious. One that intrigues me is the use
of “responsible.” In a story of two A.I.F.
men meeting in Palestine, where one had
ministered to the other in the 1914-18
show, I read that “Now, as a major, he
has met again the man who was respon-
sible for saving his life.” As though
there was some blame attachable to the
savior.
>n * * *
“Nairb”: P.M.G. van-drivers love to
cut in close to the kerb, but one of
them overdid it recently in Melbourne’s
Collins-street. Nonchalantly dodging
through heavy traffic, he slithered to the
kerb beside a posting-box. There was
a horrible crunch as he pulled up and
a mangled pushbike hurtled along the
gutter. The driver loudly announced
his opinion of the so-and-so who left
his bike standing against P.M.G. pro-
perty, and prophesied that the fiver’s
worth of damage would teach him a
lesson. When he picked up the wreck
his remarks ceased abruptly and he turned
green about the gills. It was a P.M.G.
bike!
* * * *
“N. 0.”: Among the sad sights of
London, I notice the remains of a motor
school once owned by the only man in
England who ever threatened to murder
me. Knowing his quality, I hope he
caught the Nazi airman who did him
down. My brush with him came through
a commission from a British motor firm
to report on the relative competency of
London motor-driving schools. To help,
I gathered two simple fellows, one of
whom owned half the gold cups in Africa,
while the other had won a Monte Carlo
rally against all Europe. We divided the
manufacturer’s fee and invented the game
of motor-school golf. The basis was
that we each selected a series of schools,
tried to pretend that we had never seen
a car before, and were taught to drive, in
six or ten lessons. If bowled out (as we
often were), the defeated learnee put a
quid into kitty with a view to a grand
dinner later to all the deluded teachers.
All three of us beat my Large Friend
(then an instructor) who has now been
bombed, and in the last lesson one of
us pulled himself out of a nasty mess
when a bus skidded in front of him in
busy Regent-street. The Large Friend
was glowing in his praise. “Really, old
boy,” he said, “you colonials are awfully
good at things. You are frightfully quick
to learn, you know. Primitive instinct,
what?” A few days later, as the Large
Friend was taking his ease outside a pub
on the Brighton road, a large and com-
plicated racing Bentley pulled up driven
by one of his six-lesson pupils. Next to
him in the front seat was Parry Thomas,
the world’s speed record-holder, and two
other learn-in-a-week colonials were grin-
ning in the back seat. The Large Friend
not only offered to murder me—he
offered to murder the other three for
dessert. Instead it ended in drinks all
round.
AFFLATUS.
What is it gives the poet front-rank status
And recognised distinction in his line?
Why, inspiration, surely—the afflatus
That’s usually referred to as divine.
I wish there wasn’t such a marked hiatus
Between his outfit for the job and mine.
Divine or not, I own with keen regret
Afflatus is a thing I never get.
Poela nascitur non fit. One fancies
You must have fairies at your christening
If you would weave melodious romances
And pipe as pleasantly as birds in spring
And as spontaneously. My mischance is,
When 1 essay to touch the lyric string,
I have to realise that I’m denied
The slightest aid from anywhere outside.
No lofty thoughts in glowing terms reward me,
Wafted from some remote Olympian store;
No “jewels five words long” are wafted toward
me,
Excepting such as have been used before;
The Muses whom I fain would court accord me
Uninterested glances—nothing more.
All that I find to say I needs must press, 3
It seems, from out my inner consciousness.
So here is something in your hat to plaster:
Divine afflatus is the winning card
If of your craft you’d be acclaimed a master
And have your verses held in high regard.
Without it you’ll remain a poetaster,
A struggling scribbler or a doggerel bard . . .
Would I could strike some handy apparatus
(Outside of pubs) where one might buy afflatus!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


wm
dk
o
More and more people are smoking
CRAVENA
every day
quality always tells!
10 for 9d
20 for 1/6
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Photographs of Fadden delivering his
Budget speech showed far more furniture
than politicians, and quorum-bells had
to be rung to round up a sufficient num-
ber of absentees. This won’t do. “It is
the duty of members of this House to
make Parliament workable,” said Dr.
Evatt in his first speech. True, but they
can’t make Parliament workable unless
they work.
“I now go my way, serving in whatever
capacity I may be required to serve —be
it high or low, at home or abroad.” —
Cameron, taking leave of the Country
party (“a stew of simmering discontent,
spiced by insatiable personal ambitions
and incurable animosities”). It’s abroad he
ought to be—as a member of the War
Council and an Empire War Cabinet.
The dogs have been barking for weeks
that H.M.A.S. Australia was in the Dakar
fiasco, and it was stated in print on Sun-
day that she had sunk a French destroyer
and captured a French cruiser. Sinking
and capture are denied, but W. M.
Hughes, now Minister for the Navy,
promised that day to have “full in-
quiries made to see whether it is possible
to make a statement regarding her part in
the engagement.” Twenty-five years ago
Hughes would not only have known
where the Australia was; he would
also have had something to say about
the 10,000-ton cruiser and her company
being employed in operations which were
never dreamed of when they were sent
forth to war.
It may be good war policy to keep anti-
Hitlerism alive in French African
colonies, but backing one French party
against another has its disadvantages.
Witness the report that General de Gaulle
has “threatened to execute five supporters
of the Vichy Government captured in
Equatorial Africa for every one of his
supporters executed at Dakar.” This is
in line with French traditions of faction
fighting in war-time, but it’s not quite the
Anglo-Saxon way. Also it is amazing
to read that British cruisers were support-
ing De Gaulle’s latest venture in Africa
when only one auxiliary cruiser, the
Jervis Bay of deathless memory, could be
spared to guard a great Atlantic convoy.
In reply to Fadden’s suggestion that
uniformity of State taxation may become
necessary, Dunstan thought uniformity
would be “very difficult to put into opera-
tion.” Mair said he would see what could
be done to reduce the “burden on the
lower income group.” Playford, who is
getting an easy million from the Com-
monwealth, barked that there could be
“no further cuts.” The new taxation
should go a long way towards the elimi-
nation of the offices held by these gentle-
men.
A.B.C. has been forced to admit that
expenditure on its “Weakly” has exceeded
revenue by £37,000 in seven months. That
should have brought an immediate Min-
isterial veto on continuance of the pub-
lication, but it was not forthcoming. Poli-
ticians who play ducks and drakes with
other people’s money cheerfully concede
the same privilege to their commissions.
A change in the system of industrial
arbitration, recommended by the Ad-
visory War Council, is expected to speed
up the settlement of disputes and thus
prevent repetitions of the sickening series
of strikes and stop-work meetings. There
are to be four Conciliation Commissioners
to investigate and, if advised by a Judge,
to arbitrate on disputes, and the Court
is to have some small control over State
tribunals. There is also a provision that
“any organisation or employer knowing
of any matter which may lead to a strike
or stop-work meeting” shall report it at
once. “A matter” holding such possi-
bilities is the presence of Communists in
restless unions. Unless they are dealt
with Canberra’s hopes may be blasted.
Ex-Premier Argyle died in harness. He
was in his place in the House on October
30, speaking earnestly on the unem-
ployed-relief tax bill; on November 23
he was gathered to his fathers. He was
the first A.I.F. man to become a Premier
(Playford was the second); and not a
bad Premier as Premiers go, though not
fortunate.
All the talk at Canberra is of increas-
ing taxation. Nothing is ever said about
reducing expenditure. Yet there remain
many examples of peace-time prodigality
which are without a shred of justification
in war-time. Why, for example, should
£15,000 be charged up to the taxpayers
for the alleged National Travel Associa-
tion when it can’t do a tap of useful
“What about those Australian soldiers in Greece, Minister for the Army?”
“Blest if I know! What about those Australian seamen in West Africa,
Minister for the Navy?”
“Blest if I know!”
work? And why, when the League has
become a coffin housed somewhere-in-the-
U.S.A., should £42,000 be found for the
Secretariat, £1250 for the Assembly,
£l2OO for the Labor Conference, £3BO
for the Mandates Commission and £lOO
for the Union? And why £1450 for the
International Institute of Agriculture at
Rome, £l5OO for the “entertainment of
distinguished guests and visitors” in Aus-
tralia and £1250 in London? And why,
in Heaven’s name, should the Depart-
ment of Information cost £198,000 this
year?
The year to June, 1940, was a frugal
one for Queensland Ministers ; their bills
for travelling and other expenses
amounted to a mere £2886. Forgan
Smith was the Old Rowley of the field —
hotel exes., £539 16s. 4d.; visit to Fiji
and Maoriland, £239 12s. Id. ; total,
£1037. And he’s frae Pairthshire, ye ken.
Trautwein, the Sydney “sport,” who
forfeited his liberty (for twelve months),
his seat in the Leg. Council and his rail-
way pass when proved to have forged and
uttered a document required by the tax-
gatherers, figured in bankruptcy proceed-
ings last week. He reckoned his assets
at £16,839 and his liabilities at £412,155,
£323,733 being unpaid taxes. If Trauty
had taken to politics earlier in his career
instead of going in for pubs and punting,
what a State Treasurer he would have
made!
Queensland Labor is trying to justify
its Public Safety Act by asserting that
Victoria has had a similar measure for
14 months. It takes good care not to
quote the provisions of the Victorian
measure, which, in effect,
authorises the Governor-in-Council, at
the request of the State Government and
the Commonwealth, to make regulations
for or with respect to carrying into effect
any powers or duties delegated to the States
by the Commonwealth or any measure com-
plementary to or necessary to implement
measures taken by the Commonwealth in
relation to national security.
It didn’t set up a Council of Public
Safety, and it doesn’t authorise arrests
without warrant, and there is nothing in
it about “any person who has any interest
in property” enjoying it “subject to the
Act.” Moreover, Parliament can revoke
any regulation. There is no such check
or safeguard in Queensland Labor’s Act.
Dunstan feels that the people, after
“cheerfully” paying Mr. Fadden’s new
taxes, “will demand careful scrutiny of
expenditure to eliminate waste and obtain
maximum results.” They’ve been de-
manding that from Mr. Dunstan and his
fellow-Premiers for years, and all it’s got
them so far is more waste.
Though Lee won’t be M.H.R. for Kal-
goorlie, he can claim to have polled the
highest vote ever scored by a non-Labor
candidate in that electorate. With thou-
sands of votes to be counted he had
passed Heitmann’s total of 11,569 in
1917 ; and Heitmann got in.
Asked by McCall, the young man from
Martin, whether it was true that Aus-
tralia was “merely accepting the dictates
of Downing-street” in matters of high
policy, Menzies fenced the question in
this fashion:
If you could see some of the communi-
cations which have passed between this
Government and the Government of the
United Kingdom, you would not think
Australia was failing to contribute to the
shaping of Empire policy.
He did not mention whether any of these
communications concerned Russia. In
its attitude to Moscow the British Govern-
ment has boxed the compass completely
in 15 months, and Australians would
like to know whether their own Govern-
ment was consulted before each jump or
whether its approval was taken for
granted. Also whether the permission
given to Friends of the Soviet to do their
stuff again was first thought of in London
or Canberra.
Sir Nevile Henderson, who was British
Ambassador at Berlin for two years prior
to the outbreak of war, has revealed that
Chamberlain had to do what he did at
Munich because “we had exactly seven
modern anti-aircraft guns with which to
defend London, only one or two experi-
mental Hurricanes and not a single Spit-
fire.” This absolute vindication of the
late P.M. was published as inconspicu-
ously as possible in papers which pursued
the man with sneers and insults, their
“policy” being war for Czechoslovakia
(also intervention in Spain and China),
and was ignored by the Russian-alliance
radio thunderers. Living or dead, Cham-
berlain is their aversion.
Dr. Evatt in his maiden speech at
Canberra:
Parliamentary democracy is on trial.
Unless it is made to function successfully
there is a grave danger that it will be
replaced by another form of government.
It reads like a reproach to the members
who made themselves scarce when the
Budget was introduced. Whether this
was intended or not, it was one of the
striking passages in an excellent speech.
Although the N.S.W. Premier’s plan
for a fixed price for the first 3000 bushels
of wheat didn’t appeal to the Common-
wealth Government, it had its points.
Mair points out that 13,000 of the 20,000
growers in his State grow less than 3000
bushels in an average year. Their costs
are greater than those of the big men, and
it is on them that the State, in part,
relies for maintenance of its rural popu-
lation. With the fixed price limited to
140,000,000 bushels, the Commonwealth
will need strictly to enforce its acreage
restriction through licensing to keep the
small man going.
Sydney “D.T.” is sure that “Sydney,
the capital of Australia’s biggest State,
will not let sectional interests deprive it
of the King’s Cross tunnel.” Australia’s
“biggest State” is only third in area of
the six, so the “D.T.” must mean biggest
in population. That population doesn’t
know where its next bath-water is coming
from, nor how much it will have left over
after the taxation authorities begin put-
ting the nips in, so a tunnel ought to
cheer it up immensely.
N. S. Wales Attorney-General Man-
ning found himself on the defen-
sive when the bill postponing local-
government elections for a year
reached the second reading in the
Othah Chambah. He denied that the
bill was “to test public feeling prepara-
tory to the postponement of the State
elections.” There’s no need for anyone
to test public feeling in that regard.
Delegates to the Federal congress of
the R.S.S.I.L.A. in Canberra went and
watched Parliament functioning. After
one amazed look they rushed back to
their conference and referred with disgust
to the beggarly array of empty benches
they had seen. A remark attributed to
one was that if Menzies cared to assume
full powers “we returned soldiers will see
that he is able to carry on.” He declares
that he didn’t say it, but there was tre-
mendous indignation among politicians,
especially some who were missing when
the War Budget was presented.
Most people would expect a Country
party politician to know something about
soil erosion. Dodgshun, the C.P. member
for Ouyen (Vic.), which knows what it
is to be hidden under clouds of dust,
thinks erosion “not an unmixed curse,
inasmuch as that excellent crops are
sometimes grown on newly-deposited drift
soil.” Mr. Dodgshun seems to have got
sand in his thinking apparatus.


THE BIGGER THEY ARE THE HARDER THEY FALL.
“We will be just as victorious in Greece as we were in Abyssinia.”— Mussolini.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250 000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE ............ St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Walter Maxwell Nairn, who succeeds
Bell as Speaker in the House at Can-
berra, is one of two brothers who were
bitten by the political bug in Perth about
the same time. Bill Nairn, the elder, one
of Penfolds’ men, stood for the Senate,
and, failing, was compensated with a
seat in the Perth Assembly. He soon dis-
covered that he didn’t care for politics,
and returned to the wine trade. Walter
came out for the North Perth Assembly
seat and got such a dreadful doing that
it was 18 years before he had another
shot. His second venture was fortunate:
he unseated E. A. Mann as M.H.R. for
Perth, and no opponent has since given
him any trouble. Trained as a pressman,
he was on the old “Morning Herald”—
he qualified for the Bar and worked up
a good practice. He is an affable fellow,
and, though no orator, has a powerful
voice. Members called to order will never
be able to protest that they didn’t hear
him.
Medical knight Stanley Argyle, dead in
Melbourne at 72, was born at Kyneton
(Vic.), was a graduate of Melbourne Uni-
STANLEY ARGYLE, as Tom Glover
saw him.
versity, and was Premier of Victoria
1932-35—the first A.I.F. man to become
a State Premier. In addition to general
practice, he specialised in radiology, and
in that capacity was a consultant at Prince
Alfred Hospital. Served in the 1914-18 war
as a lieut.-col. in the A.M.C., and became
M.L.A. for Toorak in 1920. He
rose to leadership of the Nationalist
party (and of the Opposition) in
1930, in which year he was knighted.
He was still in active politics and leader
of the Opposition at the time of his death.
Died in Christchurch (M.L.) recently
baronet Cyrjl Ward, eldest son of many-
times Priminister Joseph Ward. Cyril
tried journalism after leaving col-
lege ; then went to England, to a job
with the Manchester Canal Co. He
returned to M.L. as the Canal Co.’s rep-
resentative. At the time of his death he
was a director and manager of the firm
of J. J. Kinsey and Co. Title succeeds
to Cyril’s son Joseph, a lieutenant in the
M.L. military forces.
Hugh Denison, whose name for the
last 30 years has been most closely con-
nected with Sydney “Sun” and its asso-
ciated publications, died on Saturday
aged 75. He was born at Forbes (N.S.W.),
son of the tobacco manufacturer Robert
Dixson (he changed his name by deed
poll in 1907), and before coming to Syd-
ney he represented the family interests
in Westralia —where he married the
daughter of Captain Fothergill, an old
Fremantle identity—and Adelaide. There,
in 1904, he was living when the Dixson
family business was merged in the British
Tobacco Co., with Hugh as managing
director. He and others bought the
Sydney “Star” when it was on its last
and nourished it, under the name of
the “Sun,” into a valuable property, ren-
dered less valuable by unfortunate pur-
chases of newspapers which cost many
a good man his living. Highlights in
Denison’s career were a term as an
M.L.A. in S.A., his beneficences to the
Royal Empire Society and the Dread-
nought Fund, and two years as Austra-
lian Commissioner in the U.S.A. He was
knighted in 1923. Always interested in
racing, he is best remembered on the turf
as the owner of Poseidon.
Lieutenant Maurice Ashkanasy, of
Melbourne, on active service as a liaison
officer with Bth Division H.Q., is now
entitled to put K.C. after his name, letters
patent to that effect having been issued
by the Victorian Governor-in-Council last
week. A product of Melbourne High
School and Uni., the new King’s Counsel
was admitted to the Bar in 1924, and has
built up a big practice in equity, specialis-
ing in company law.
Most people who frequent Robertson
and Mullens’s bookshop in Melbourne
knew Lieut.-Commander Gordon Boyle,
who was lost with all his crew when the
minesweeper Goorangai collided with a
larger ship in the stormy marine entrance
to Melbourne last week. He sold books
for them and for their predecessors,
Melville and Mullens, for 20 years, occu-
pying his spare time by rising from the
ranks to a commission in the R.A.N.R.
He was one of the Reserve’s crack shots
and skippered many winning teams in
competitions. It was his first and last
day at sea for another member of the
crew, seaman Francis R. Hack, of South
Yarra. It had been Hack’s dream all his life
of 17 years to go to sea, but he had got no
further than the sea cadets. His chance
came when he was given the berth of a
seaman who suffered violently from sea-
sickness. He rushed home, said good-bye
to his family, and boarded the Goorangai.
A few hours later his parents were reading
a telegram from the Navy Department.
Eb. (E. J. C.) Speck, who owns Moo-
bong, between Forbes and Condobolin,
has proved the truth of the “try, try and
try again” adage. At his sixth attempt
he got into the N.S.W. Leg. Council.
A. rather silent cove, Eb. is only 54, but
his bulky figure has been so long a part
of the Forbes landscape that the town
wouldn’t know which it would most miss,
its new M.L.C. or its white Town Hall.
All local movements designed to assist
the man on the land have Eb. as a pillar,
and his good works on behalf of local
charities, though unadvertised, are legion.
A bachelor, he has been a strongpost of
the U.A.P. in the central west of N.S.W.
for years.
Peter Dangar broke with a family tradi-
tion when he decided to breed Corrie-
dales the Dangars have been merino
people for almost a century. Peter is a
great-grandson of the Henry Dangar who
bought Gostwyck station, Armidale
(N.S.W.), from Edward Gostwyck Cory,
the first owner. When Gostwyck was
subdivided, one portion, known as
Palmerston, was bought by N. N. Dangar,
and later passed to his son Peter, the
Corriedale breeder, who owns it now.
The Corriedale stud was founded in 1929.
Henry Dangar was assistant Government
Surveyor, but he resigned in 1832 to
occupy a grant near Singleton, which he
called Neotsfield, a name derived from
the district in France from which the
Dangars migrated to England.
Cheerful and able Simon Hickey looks
like being re-elected to the N.S.W. Leg.
Council on December 3 ; if so, he and
“Mudgee” Dunn will be the only mem-
bers of the McGowen Labor party re-
maining in politics. Hickey was Speaker
of the Assembly for eight days in 1921 ;
he resigned to restore a vote to his parity in
a House evenly divided, and was rather
ungratefully beaten at the ensuing elec-
tion. He had been secretary of the
Holman Labor party and chairman of
Public Works Committee. As a Councillor
he voted against Lang’s Mortgage Tax
Bill and was expelled from Lang’s party.
He foresaw the drift of events that even-
tually swept the Big Fellow into the dis-
card.
The State Government, disturbed at
the increase in juvenile crime in Victoria,
has attached a psychologist, Arthur
Meadows, to the Children’s Court as a
stipendiary probation officer to examine
and diagnose cases after the offender has
been released on probation. Meadows is
a young Education Department officer
who began as a teacher. His interest in
the child mind led to an appointment
to Lake Tyers abo. settlement, where he
established a school on the community
village plan. His success in this direction
got him the job of managing a class for
retarded children at South Melbourne.
His present work is purely diagnostic,
and what he would like is an institute
where delinquent children could be
treated and adjusted, as is done in private
schools which have been so successful in
England.
Harold Edward Holt, the new Federal
Minister for Labor and National Service,
is a Melbourne lawyer and a graduate
of Melbourne University, though born in
HAROLD HOLT, Federal Minister for
Labor and National Service.
Sydney. The youngest Minister for
many years, he was only 26 when he
had a crack at Scullin in 1934. Next
year he succeeded blind barrister Max-
well as M.H.R. for Fawkner. He enjoys
tennis, swimming and dancing, and likes
an occasional flutter on the turf.
Colonel Harry James Copley, named
chairman of the Information Depart-
ment’s S.A. Council (he was already
deputy-leader of the Volunteer Defence
Force), was born at Black Rock, S.A.,
51 years ago. His grandfather ar-
rived in S.A. from Yorkshire over
a century ago. Col. Copley all his
working days has been in the stock and
station business—for the last 10 years
as superintendent of Elder Smith’s
stock branch. He was for years chair-
man of the Stock Salesmen’s Associa-
tion, has been president of the Liberal
COLONEL H. J. COPLEY.
and Country League, and is a member
of the State Advisory Meat Board.
He commenced his soldiering with the
17th Light Horse in 1911, served in
1914-18 on Gallipoli and in France (he
was Lieut.-Colonel of the 18th Light
Horse) and now commands the Sixth
Cavalry Brigade. He favors tennis and
riding as recreation.
Dead in Tanganyika, Alfred H.
Dufrayer, soldier and traveller. His
proudest possession was one of the two
scarves Queen Victoria knitted for
soldiers specially mentioned for gallantry
in the South African War, one to be
British and the other “colonial.” Captain
Dufrayer was a Victorian member of
the Bushmen’s Contingent. His old
school, Brighton Grammar, has a photo-
graph of him in full regalia presented by
the owner.
Back in S.A. after 11 years in England
is Arnold Matters, the bass-baritone. A
graduate of Adelaide Con. and with eight
firsts at Ballarat in 1926, he sang at
Melba’s farewell in Melbourne before
trying his luck abroad. He has been a
bass soloist at Westminster Abbey ; and
under Beecham, Coates or Henry Wood
has had Falstaff, Wotan and other big
parts at Covent Garden and Sadler’s
Wells, besides 8.8. C. and Queen’s Hall
engagements. He plans recitals in all
Australian capital cities.
A half-crown has been burning a hole
in the pocket of a Bendigo (Vic.) post-
man for the last fifteen years. He re-
ceived it from his company commander,
Captain Luxton, on Gallipoli as a sou-
venir of a gallant action when the post-
man, then a private in the A.1.F., made
his way from the heights to the beach
and back to fetch water for the 7th
Battalion just after the landing. Captain
Luxton was killed shortly afterwards, and
the recipient of the coin kept it with the
intention of handing it over some day to
a member of the family. The opportunity
came when Brigadier D. A. Luxton, C.O.
of the 3rd Division Military Training
Depot, visited his city the other day.
Brigadier Luxton, a brother of the cap-
tain, had a distinguished career in the
1914-18 war, gaining a C.M.G.-ship and
a D.S.O. He was A.D.C. to the Duke
of York at the opening of the Federal
Parliament at Canberra.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
The Budget
The Commonwealth Budget is in size
and terms much in keeping with forecasts.
Taxation is to raise £150,100,000, and it
seems that public loans (including war
savings certificates), bank advances
and bank balances (£28,000,000) will be
availed of to the extent of £126,523,000.
That is, provided the total aimed-at ex-
penditure of £276,623,000 is a physical
possibility this financial year, five months
of which have already elapsed. Overseas
war expenditure of £43,000,000, included
in the total, reduces the within-the-Com-
monwealth expenditure to £233,623,000.
This is the sum which has to be found
in Australia—from taxes, loans and ex-
isting credits. Total war expenditure is
£186,000,000, civil expenditure being
£90,623,000, including wheat relief, etc.
It may not be possible to spend
£143,000,000 in this country on war this
year, especially as inflation of prices and
official salaries is a thing to be avoided
sedulously. But big changes are un-
doubtedly taking place in the heavy in-
dustries in order to gear-up our fac-
tories for a special war effort. Success of
the effort will depend greatly on whether,
apart from preliminary capital expen-
diture, spending is prevented from run-
ning far ahead of production.
Except for its avoidance of a real
excess-profits tax on companies (the
thing presented to Parliament is again
simply a high-profits tax, with all its
shortcomings and injustices, especially
as between big and small fish), the Gov-
ernment has shown courage in planning
its financial policy. In May proposals
for raising an additional £14,000,000 of
taxation were approved. The present
Budget provides for a further £31,000,000
of taxation, raising the total, as already
stated, to £150,100,000.
In order to get this extra money the
Treasury has asked for a reduction from
£250 to £l5O in the statutory income-tax
exemption ; tax on £4OO-£lOOO incomes is
greatly increased ; taxation on incomes
above £lOOO is “pushed to the limit”
(maximum tax, Federal and State, be-
comes 14s. in the £); rebate of tax on
divs. is abolished ; a “high-profits” tax
and an increased undistributed-profits
levy on companies is expected to bring in
£5,800,000 ; sales tax is to be increased
to a general rate of 10 p.c. (against 8.3
p.c.), yielding £3,400,000 more; and
additional customs and excise duties aim
to produce £4,200,000.
Male basic-wage earners who are single
will represent the starting point of the
new tax measures. They will pay 6d. in
the £ (Is. in the £ for the rest of the
financial year in order to make up for the
period already elapsed). Total additional
income tax is £17,700,000.
As to credit expansion, the Treasurer
was emphatic:
Money is now plentiful. Employment
has so increased that there is little unem-
ployed. Prices are rising steadily though
slowly. Civil consumption, except in a
few directions, has not fallen below peace-
time levels, but has rather increased.
Expenditure in Australia by the Govern-
ment on war, or anything else, must come
in some way from the pockets of the
people. It may come by loans, or from a
system of taxation designed to take from
each man according to his ability to pay.
It may come by expansion of credit
whereby spending power is taken from the
community by rising prices.
When business is slipping back and prices
tending to fall, expansion of credit may
help to keep prices stable. At other times,
expansion of credit is a concealed tax—a
flat rate tax, irrespective of income, which
is unquestionably not an equitable form of
taxation. It makes no attempt to appor-
tion the burden according to ability to pay.
Indeed, it bears most heavily on those with
fixed incomes of wages and salaries which
lag behind the rising cost of living. Above
all, it depreciates the value of small savings
—in assurance policies, savings bank
deposits and the like. The Government’s
financial policy is liberal, but it stops
short at reckless measures which would
have such inequitable results and could
only end in collapse.
There are other, better ways of helping
to lighten war’s burden. People not usually
wanting productive employment, retired
people, and women particularly may come
into the field. Still greater are the possi-
bilities for everyone of working harder,
more intelligently and more efficiently.
There is room for more skilful and more
economical administration of all kinds of
business, for eliminating waste and useless
activities both as producers and consumers.
Provided the £80,000,000 of loan money
to be asked for (of which £23,000,000 is
for the States and public bodies, not
represented in the total outlay of
£276,623,000) is raised successfully and
tax revenue is in keeping with expecta-
tions, the only sum not provided for
straightforwardly by taxes and loans is
the £43,000,000 to be spent overseas. And
John Bull may be trusted to see that there
isn’t too much stretching of credit in
that figure.
Share Prices
The sharemarket slide was unbroken
last week. As the opening of Parliament
approached, with the Budget as the piece
de resistance, the falls in prices became
sharper. The imminence of higher taxa-
tion rates and the approach by the Loan
Council to the market for £28,000,000 (to
open on Nov. 28) overshadowed all other
considerations. After Budget details were
published ’Change business was very
restricted. The Bulletin has for a
long time been hammering on this in-
ternal aspect of share values. It has
aimed to stress all along that war is a
wasteful thing no less to individuals and
companies than it is to the nation. We
all have to pay for the war, and if the
cost is borne equitably there should be
no spectacular profits and few spectacu-
lar losses for anyone.
It is difficult, of course, to foresee with
any accuracy what is going to happen
to all classes of property and incomes.
On the one hand there is the inflationary
factor —the great war demand for money,
materials and labor—at work. On the
other hand there is the deflationary factor
—the straightforward method of taking
spending-money from the people by taxa-
tion and limited loans rather than by
inflation tricks. Inflation raises the
price of goods, labor, etc., by de-
preciating the value of paper money
and fixed-interest securities, such as Con-
sols and mortgages. The inflationary
method provides the cost of war by in-
directly robbing fixed-wage earners and
fixed-income earners, and because of its
inequality of sacrifice it particularly im-
poverishes such people and reduces their
spending power, thus hitting back eventu-
ally at business-people who haven’t paid
their fair share —such as manufacturers
and other traders who have indulged in
war-profiteering. Inflation is generally
disastrous; the deception and confusion
of it are perhaps the biggest factors in
the depression it creates.
Whilst inflation is not of genuine
assistance to company operations, in the
event of inflation good ordinary shares
in manufacturing and some other indus-
tries have decided merit for capital-
defence purposes. Inflation may make
few people actually richer, but the owner
of property is in a better position to
protect himself than the person who
owns bank deposits, Consols, etc.
It is to this country’s great credit that
after 15 months of war it is still pursuing
an honest financial policy. It proposes to
do so to the end of 1940-41 at least. There
has been no deception about the means
adopted to finance the fight; taxation
and borrowing are the backbone of it.
Thus, while the natural tendency of the
war effort is to increase production,
especially munitions, and to increase em-
ployment, financing of the cost so far
as possible out of taxes and loans without
inflation puts more spending power in the
hands of the Commonwealth while taking
it out of the hands of the people in-
dividually. And so spending power is
diverted to where it is wanted most, and
if we find later on that increased output
per head has followed war-time reorgani-
sation of industry, and that, after an
adequate defence effort has been pro-
vided for, the country is capable of
greater production than first anticipated,
then any surplus spending power can
again revert to the people.
It cannot be stressed too often that the
whole basis of our financial policy de-
pends on our capacity to produce the
kind of things we want both for domestic
and defence purposes, and on the propor-
tion of our entire production that we de-
cide is necessary to fight the war. It is
impossible to create a huge defence
machine without stinting ourselves in
some things. So the arrogant critics who
yell for a greater defence programme in
one breath and for a light taxation bur-
den in the other are fools or worse. When
defence calls for a fifth of the national
income, then the nation is clearly bear-
ing a new 20 p.c. tax. The best we can
do to lighten this burden is to close down
on unnecessary State spendings and to
try hard to increase the average level of
production. We are hampered in one
direction by the droughty season.
To come back to the matter of share
values, since the Budget is of a “pay-
as-we-go-as-far-as-possible” shade of
color, money isn’t likely to depreciate
in value for the time being; on the
other hand, all incomes are to bear
heavier taxes, and bank credit will be
diverted still more to the Government,
thus restricting expansion in non-essential
industries. Some classes of business will
stand to gather exceptional profits by
reason of the large orders for cotton and
woollen textiles, metals and metal manu-
factures and other defence requirements.
Also, stoppage or shortage of many im-
ports will help other cos. But excess
profits should be properly taxed; the
Budget is least satisfactory on this point.
In hundreds of other cases it will be found
that cos. have suffered reduced turnover
directly as a result of our preoccupation
with defence. Motor-distributors are an
obvious example, and in theory, at any
rate, retailers will be another, especially
in view of the large number of men in
uniform at present.
The buying of shares therefore is still
a matter that calls for some solid think-
ing. The prohibition of bears stimulated
market support after the June collapse ;
there were other factors at work, too,
including the restriction of new fields of
investment and the Government’s cheap-
money policy. Having risen with re-
markable confidence to 134.02 on Nov. 8
the Sydney index of industrial shares
came back in a series of unbroken down-
ward steps to 129.66 last week. It was
still considerably above the “panic” figure
of 107.52 touched in June. The June
“low” was every bit a sign of bad judg-
ment as the overconfident way the mar-
ket was rising until just recently.
After this war is over there will be
a lot of rebuilding to do. Lead-zinc mines
should be kept busy, and Barrier scrip
may turn out well. It may be that mar-
kets in Britain will be controlled in post-
war years and limits put on prices,
especially for Empire products—perhaps
by arrangement with Empire Govern-
ments. Nevertheless, even if sky-high
prices aren’t allowed there should be a
firm and profitable demand over a lengthy
period.
* * * *
No new building or building alteration
costing more than £5OOO will, after Dec.
5, be permitted without the Common-
wealth Treasurer’s consent. Permits
already issued to build or extend at a
cost of more than £5OOO will be valid
only if construction is started before
April 5, 1941. Reason for the new regu-
lation is to direct investment funds more
towards the war effort, and to divert cer-
tain building materials, such as copper
and steel, to the munition factories.
* * * *
At a reported cost of £4,000,000 Aus-
tralian factories and engineering shops
have been added to and reorganised to
the point where commencement of pro-
duction of 25-pounder field guns is in
sight. When in full operation the scheme
may give jobs to 3000 men in N. S.
Wales and possibly more in Victoria.
There will be large assembly shops in
Sydney and Melbourne ; also, “four new
factories have already been built, or are
in progress of erection, in other parts of
Australia,” for manufacturing or as-
sembly purposes. Machine tools are
being supplied by the Ministry of Muni-
tions “to hundreds of engineering and
manufacturing establishments” in N. S.
Wales and Victoria, where component
parts will be made. About half of the
ordnance work will be in the hands of
the Commonwealth factory at Maribyr-
nong.
* * * *
There was disappointment for sup-
porters over Adelaide Steam’s div., de-
clared in September, and the market fell
back after showing good recovery from
the June slump. Last week the stock
was available at a particularly low figure ;
31s. was accepted in the co.’s home city,
and that compares with a highest price
of 365. this year and a lowest of 275. 9d.
On a 6| p.c. div. basis the yield is 4.2
p.c. The co. now has no passenger ves-
sels in the inter-State trade, but it receives
charter-money (not so profitable as in
1914-18), and it may have some compen-
satory arrangement with the Inter-State
Steamships Co-op. Adelaide Steam is the
biggest shipowner in the coastal trade, its
cargo fleet being still extensive. For
long-term holding purposes the co.’s scrip
is well worth attention; charter rates
may be adjusted later on, and present
distributions are probably well on the
conservative side.
The Australian trade balance is again
showing up badly—perhaps because of
imports of essential defence equipment as
much as anything. Whatever the cause,
imports have expanded faster than
exports during the first four months of
the current financial year. Here are
merchandise figures for the period com-
pared with the same months of 1939-40:
1939-40. 1940-41.
Exports .. £27,342,000 £34,067,000
Imports .. 32,215,000 39,886,000
Import excess 4,373,000 5,819,000
Gold - production figures are a secret
these times, and aren’t included in the
above. Generally, our overseas trade
figures since war began are disappoint-
ing, especially to some optimists who ex-
pected the Australian pound to come
back to par with the pound sterling. It
seems that, though prices for our exports
are fixed by agreement with Britain at
figures that aren’t high, we are paying
stiff prices for the things we buy abroad.
This undoubtedly is a contribution by this
country to the Empire war effort.
The nature of our trade balance doesn’t
lend any strength to hopes of easier
money conditions within the Common-
wealth. We are having a larger turnover
both inwards and outwards, but the
balance doesn’t make a promising base
to build anything on.
* * * *
Under the revised wheat stabilisation
plan farmers will get 3s. lOd. a bushel
(bagged) f.o.b. ports, against 3s. 6d. f.o.r.
ports previously suggested. Out of the
3s. lOd. all expenses until the grain is at
the ship’s side will be borne by the
farmer. Any excess on realisation will
be shared, equally by the producer and
the stabilisation fund. A maximum of
140,000,000 bushels is involved, com-
mencing with the 1941-42 harvest.
* * * *
The necessity for diverting spending
power to the Government was seen last
week when it was announced that the
Commonwealth Aircraft Commission was
able to get only 25 suitable men when it
advertised for 150 machinists to be
trained in aircraft manufacture. It will
undoubtedly be hard on some, but
one of the most effective means of en-
couraging people to do defence work is
to discourage them from working for
anyone else. Hence the double-edged
“persuader,” taxation, that has to be
availed of.
* * * *
Profit of Herald and Weekly Times,
Ltd., Melbourne, for the year to Sept.
30 was £206,473, compared with £233,929
in the preceding term. For taxation
£41,748 was set aside, against £52,723.
Ord. div. was kept at 14 p.c. ; with 6\ p.c.
to the prefs., the total div. charge was
£163,157. In Sydney, Associated News-
papers, which publishes the “Sun,”
among other journals, claimed a profit of
£209,334, compared with £236,920 in the
preceding term. Up to this point these
figures look very similar to the Mel-
bourne “Herald’s.” But Associated has
much more capital to look after, and its
ord. and pref. div. dropped from 7 p.c.
to 6 p.c. This co. set aside £83,493 for
taxation, compared with £75,145 last year.
* * # *
Woolworths (Sydney) shares came back
to 17s. 6d. in last week’s recession. At
this figure they yield 5 p.c. on a \l\ p.c.
div. basis ; G. J. Coles ords. at 70s. return
exactly the same income. Woolworths
showed a slightly higher return on its
capital during last term’s trading, and
it has subsidiaries that don’t pass on all
their earnings. The scrip in this chain-
store co. represents fair buying by present
market standards.
* * * *
“Pigge”: Activity in T. J. Richards
shares has been dull of recent months ;
the scrip has been a big disappointment
to many holders. Biggest stir over com-
pany-directorate changes for many years
in Adelaide followed the dumping of
H. C. Richards (chairman for 20 years
and son of recently-deceased founder)
from the board of the co., which isa motor-
body-building firm second in size only
to General Motors-Holden’s in S.A.
Richards’s brother-in-law, J. G. Emmett,
resigned from the board in sympathy ; so
did S. McGregor Reid, who is a director
of the Bank of Adelaide, Elder’s Trustee,
S.A. Gas and S.A. Brewing. That left
Chrysler-Dodge men alone on the
board, according to the leader of the S.A.
Opposition. A question was raised in
Parliament whether Australian investors
should not be protected from being
“swamped by interests outside Australia,”
although it was mentioned that capital in
Chrysler-Dodge Distributors had repeat-
edly been described as wholly Australian.
Premier Playford cautiously replied that
he would be reluctant to do anything that
might prevent finance coming to S.A. to
establish industry.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “I’m roped in one time t’
act as umpire in a cricket match at Grass-
tree Gully,” said Dan. “It’s an annual
event, an’ there’s a good deal of rivalry
between the teams. They’d been playin’
a while when the bowler appealed t’ me
f’r leg-before. I give it not out. ‘Thanks,
ole chap,’ whispers the batsman when he
got near me. ‘Y’re on a coupla pots f’r
that!’ A bit later the bowler again ap-
pealed, but I ses ‘no.’ The batsman grins,
an’ nods ’is ’ead twice, which I take t’
mean another two pots. A coupla overs
later the bowler appeals agen, confident.
But it’s a hot day, an’ in me mind’s eye
I see them pots standin’ in a row, an’
agen I shake me ’ead. ‘Another couple,’
whispers the batsman when ’e gets the
chance. I ain’t sorry I took on the job,
f’r I’m scorin’ better than any of ’em, but
next time the bowler yells ‘Owzat?’ an’
I shake me ’ead the batsman seems a
bit worried-lookin’, an’ when he gets his
chance ses t’ me, a bit dubious-like,
‘Well, nobody can say I ain’t a sport,
so y’re on another couple.’ Next over,
when I do me good deed f’r meself and
dismiss another appeal agen him, damn
me if the batsman don’t start orf f’r the
pavilion. ‘Hey!’ I ses, runnin’ over an’
grabbin’ holt of him, ‘y’re not out!’ ‘By
cripes I am!’ he ses, sour-like. ‘You seem
t’ ’ave got the wrong idea about me. I
don’t own a brewery! ’ ”
* * * *
“Bungaree B.”: “Lyndo’s” lone eagle
(B. 13/11/ ’4O) had either an inferiority
complex or decided that once bitten
meant twice shy. A white-bellied sea
eagle burdened with the name of Halicetus
leucogaster has been in residence in a tall
tree about 20 miles from Sydney for the
last score of years, said residence being
now about 6ft. high, composed of two
truckloads of sticks. Three times has one
bird been bereft of its mate per medium
of a shotgun, and on each occasion has
the widow or widower, whichever one
was left, wooed and won a partner for
the following season. It is against the
laws of nature for any bird to live a
solitary existence given natural surround-
ings, whatever ornithologists might de-
clare to the contrary.
* * * *
“J.F.H.”: My friend “Bushie” is one
of those blokes who can talk themselves
into almost anything. He was out plough-
ing when the plough broke. “Bushie”
scratched his head and began to reason
something like this: “H’m! Plough’s
broke. Nearest bloke to me with one is
Johnson —six miles away. I’ll get the
sulky out and drive over and borrow his.”
So “Bushie” set out for Johnson’s place.
When he had gone about two miles he
stopped and asked himself: “I wonder if
Johnson will lend me his plough? Oh,
I’d better get on over there, any-
how.” About halfway he stopped again
and confided to himself: “Johnson’s a
fussy sort of bloke. Doesn’t like lending
anything. Wonder if he’ll lend me his
plough? I doubt it. I’d better go and
se . e ’ though.” “Bushie” kept reasoning
with himself like this until he had arrived
at Johnson’s place. By that time he had
convinced himself that Johnson would
not lend him the plough. Thus when
he finally met Johnson all he said was:
“G day, Johnson. You know what you
can do with your plough, don’t you?”
Then he turned around and went home
again.
* * * *
“Stinghooray”: Purely as a bee-keeper,
I long for the day when Italy stops a
king-hit and is forced to conclude a sepa-
rate peace with us, and with Greece in
particular. I had a mixed apiary—Italian,
Golden and Cyprian bees. Now all my
Italian hives are empty. The Cyprians (a
Greek strain) incontinently chased them
out. No, the ejected didn’t put up a fight.
* * * *
“Pick”: The instinct that impels flock
birds to attend the sowing of seed crops
has long been a mystery. On the foot-
hills of the Dromedary Mountain, on the
"Use this paste while I go and mix some mortar."
N.S.W. South Coast, the dairy-farmers
sow extensive areas with a lesser variety
of sorghum for winter fodder crops.
On the morning that the sowing com-
mences the whistle of king parrots rings
through the mountain ravines, and on the
day after the land has been sown and
harrowed the landscape is a vista of
green and red from the plumage of the
birds that cluster there in mobs. They
remain throughout the season, undeterred
by the gun. On the morning after har-
vesting is finished they disappear.
* * * *
“Gidya George”: The mountain ash of
N.Q. coastal areas, lovely to look at,
good to work, hard enough to make a
man think it will last, is one of the most
disappointing of Australia’s timbers for
building purposes, chief reason being
that as soon as it is cut the beetle-borers
start on it. It won’t be up on its new job
a day before the thing’s clicking like a
cheap watch. After a week it sounds like
a full orchestra playing a modern dance
tune on a scratchy record. As fencing-
posts, I’ve put up lovely strainers 12in.
at the small end, barked, the butts burned
for protection against white-ants, and I
thought they were there for keeps. In
less than three months those posts were
sponges, eaten off at ground level, just
waiting a push to knock ’em flat. Pecu-
liarly, while the ash is alive the borers
won’t look at it.
* * * *
“Flight”: “Atrax’s” list of avian can-
nibals (B. 6/11/ ’4O) certainly contains all
those proven guilty ; I’d place the kooka-
burra, though, higher on the list, fol-
lowed immediately by that gayer villain
the currawong. But his list is notable
for the absence of one ground-dweller
who is as big a scoundrel as any of them
—the plain turkey. That hypocrite is pro-
tected because of his propensity for gob-
bling up hoppers. But his appetite for
those pests is exceeded only by his fond-
ness for other hopper-eating birds and
their young. I’ve seen the turk. time and
time again in a good patch of baby
hoppers. That sort of place is good fish-
ing for him: it induces the dotterels to
gather and teach their chicks how to
slay hoppers. And that’s just where the
turk. gets in his dirty work. A young
dotterel or other kind of plover is more
to him than a hundred baby hoppers. The
little plover can beat the hawk by hiding
under a tussock and remaining still.
That’s useless against the turkey once he’s
marked his prey.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Young Jack knew as
much about horses as could be expected
from a kid brought up in a city flat, so
it was hardly surprising that at his first
attempt to harness old Taffy he put the
collar on back to front and tried hard to
back the startled animal between the
shafts—with no winkers on! However,
the boss (his uncle), displaying unwonted
patience, straightened things out and ten-
dered a few words of timely advice,
finishing with: “And remember, the
winkers first always!” Upon his return
from town the boss climbed out of the
sulky and told the young ’un to “take
him out.” Three minutes later there
were a yell, a crash and a mad clatter
of hooves as Taffy went flying up the
paddock with the sulky bouncing off or
over every stump in its track. “What
started him off?” demanded the mourn-
ful owner as he surveyed his wrecked
vehicle later. “I don’t know,” the nephew
replied, looking puzzled. “I took the
winkers off first like you said, and”
It was the only time I ever heard the boss
run out of adjectives.
* * * *
“0.5. G.”: On the shark’s menu the
stingray is ever the piece de resistance, so
it came as a shock to a fisherman landing
a dog shark at Eden (N.S.W.) when a
big ’ray surged along for lunch, swal-
lowed its meal with a rush and made off.
The crew of a near-by boat soon had
the ’ray aboard. A lightning operation
was performed, and the shark was recov-
ered, still alive and fighting.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: One of this continent’s
last unspoiled areas is the coastal region
that runs north several hundred miles
from the Leopold Ranges, north-west
W.A. Well watered by half, a dozen
rivers and scores of creeks, flooded in
the “wet” but still running in any normal
“dry,” this fertile land grows grass 6ft.
tall or more. Supports marsupials in
droves; birds of the air, duck and
pigeon, in clouds; in the rivers dwell
fresh-water fish, barramundi that in size
and numbers rival those of Old Man
Murray in his prime. Lower downstream,
where the fresh water meets the salt,
mullet at times come in in literal tons,
so thick that the blacks stand knee-deep
scooping them up with the gins’ yandis
and tossing them ashore to be gathered
by the old women and the kids. But
the king-of all the region is the crocodile.
With no enemy either on land or in water
the croc., once started in life, dies only
of old age. Some of them attain in-
credible size. Upstream they float with
the tide, downstream with the ebb. Many
look well over 20ft. in length ; but one
never gets the chance to tape them.
Potted at with a rifle, they are uncon-
cerned by a bullet anywhere except in
the eye. Then there’s a flurry, but the
body never comes ashore. And no one
up there goes to the trouble of building a
trap. Such brutes could bite a man
in halves. A mere 16-footer one time
taken at Wyndham gave a gape of 24
inches.
* * * *
“Mick the Miler”: An oddity in bul-
locks was slaughtered recently at Lake’s
Creek (N.Q.) meatworks. A four-year-
old Shorthorn, bred on Kamilaroi and
fattened on Glen Prairie, it tipped the
scales at 7921 b. hot weight, with p.c.
of the total weight representing kidney-
fat, 1241 b. of it in the left kidney and
941 b. in the right. And that must be
getting close to the record.
“Douglas J.”: Most bushmen assas-
sinate Joe Blake by battering him with
a waddy. Such a method, though effec-
tive, is no good when the reptilian hide
is required for museum purposes. How
to kill without injuring the product?
Some bushies I’ve struck told of pinning
their snake down with a forked stick
and then employing a grass stem well
covered with the nicotine from a genuine
bush pipe, the grass stem being readily
inserted in Joe’s open and menacing
mouth. But Jim Walker, who at one time
did a museum line with the numerous
Blakes of the W.A. south-west, claimed
another and safer method, for there was
always the chance that the bloke holding
the forked stick might relax at the
moment the nicotined straw was being
inserted and so permit the angry prisoner
to snap at the poisoner’s hand. Walker’s
method was to bag the catch and later
drop it into a smooth enamelled tub,
from which, owing to its smooth sides,
the snake was unable to escape. There
he tickled Blake with a stick until he
became so angry as to bite himself. The
bite produced snake death just as it
would with any other animal.
* * * *
“E.H.S.”: “Padflogger’s” old man (B.
16 /10/’4O) gave him the correct recipe
for mixing and baking a damper. Suc-
cess in damper-making depends on the
dough being kneaded until it will take up
no more flour, and if proper judgment is
used in baking the product is quite as
toothsome and digestible as cabin biscuit.
So “Yangardook” (B. 6/11/ ’4O) emits a
few sarcastic remarks and howls for the
inclusion of a chemist’s shop in the
damper-maker’s outfit. Neither baking-
powder nor carb. soda and cream of tartar
are required in making a damper, and that
is why these ingredients do not appear in
the old-timer’s recipe. Baking-powder
or soda-and-acid bread is a wholesome
article of diet, but it isn’t damper.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: In more buoyant days
Smithy had been a lifesaver on Bondi
beach ; now, prospecting about a hundred
miles out from Laverton, his yearnings
for a dip in the briny seldom missed a
day. Came black clouds on the eastern
horizon. “Looks like a thunderstorm out
that way,” remarked Long Ned. A couple
of weeks later we entered the thunder-
stormed area. Soon we struck a chain of
pools; water so hard and clear that
the sand grains could be counted at a
few feet deep. In a few seconds Smithy
was in the nude. “I wouldn’t,” advised
Long Ned. “It’s that salt that it’s
caustic.” But Smithy was already diving.
He hit the surface and nearly bounced.
So dense the brine that he couldn’t sink ;
the only thing was to roll over and over.
Still, he had a great time. Out, and the
sun of the Centre dried him in a few
seconds, leaving his skin glistening with
a million fine salt crystals. Next day it
took practically the camp’s supply of
dripping to soothe his skin, which had
been flayed with sunburn and salt! It’s
odd, but the dry sunburn of the interior
is seldom painful; yet a dip in the briny
there, such as Smithy had, makes any-
thing contracted at the seaside feel like
a washover with soothing cream. It was
a week before he could wear a shirt with
comfort, and even that was only achieved
by use as a salve of the cold tea-leaves
left in the billy.
JACK GOES HOME.
Done with junk and biscuits; finished with the
bunk.
Won’t be wanting women, won’t be getting
drunk.
When we drop her mudhooks over in the bay,
Johnny won’t be with us doing in his pay.
Nothing more to part with; nothing more to
own,
In the North Atlantic, layin’ bye and lone.
When the shore lights beckon bright in Balti-
more
He’ll be keeping nightwatch far away from
shore.
Turn the selvedge over; run your stitches neat
Round the broken firebricks at old johnny’s
feet.
Give him plenty ballast! Never stow it short
When you want to get ’em quickly into port.
Drifting in a current, bobbing up and down,
Ain’t the proper manner for a Jack to drown.
Now he’s snug and handsome. Making nary
sound
In his canvas jacket Johnny’s homeward bound.
Must have ’ad a mother; might have ’ad a
wife—
Where the ’ell he came from, where he went
in life
Ain’t no use to bother. Make the lashings
fast!
Steady up the hatchway! Skipper, by the mast,
Has his Bible ready. Overside the foam
Falls in pretty rainbows, calling Johnny home.
“Never more to wander. Never more to roam.
Overboard, my Johnny! Johnny lad, come
home! ”
Bos’n tips the gang plank; skipper wipes his
nose.
Plunk! in fifty fathom, down an’ down he
goes!
Little string of bubbles, bursting one by one;
Broken chain of bubbles, marking where he’s
gone . . .
“Sails” is standing solemn, Cookie’s looking
grey—
As he went, my bullies, we may go some day.
Bring the wheel hard over! Never more to
roam,
In his canvas jacket Johnny’s safe at home.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“McM.”: The old cook on Mutter-
butter had gone on his annual bender.
A passing swaggie reckoned that he was
the best cook that ever stood on two legs.
It was the busy season, and the boss took
a desperate chance. The hut nearly lost
its roof when the boss came on the best
cook, etc., working a new batch of bread
with his bare feet. “Wot th’ ’ell are you
snortin’ about?” roared the aggrieved
bab. “No one can say / ever worked
a batch of bread with dirty mudhooks.
Yer want service an’ yer gettin’ it.” That
was the day after all hands started to
crunch charcoal in their porridge, when
he candidly confessed it might have be-
come dislodged from the stick he stirred
the porridge with. “Won’t do yer any
’arm. Thousands of blokes chew char-
coal fer ind’gestion.” Hell had broken
loose, too, when he started to dish up
his “extra special,” a roly-poly pudding,
and one of the lads discovered the reason
why one leg was missing from his Sunday
underpants. When they dumped that
poisoner, bruised and battered, on the
road that led to other parts he was still
defiant. “Garn, yer lot of crawlers!
Youse don’t want a cook ; y’ wants a
lady’s cumpanyan! I thought I was cook-
in’ fer real bushmen, not a bunch of
sissies! Blokes like youse ort to ’ave yer
’air in bobbypins! T’ ’ell with the lot
o’ y’!”
* * * *
“No. 1009”: Speaking of absconders in
the old convict days, was there any place
on this continent where the illegally-at-
large could live so well as in the seem-
ingly foodless Westralian bush? Bolting
from durance, the freedom-seeker needed
only some sort of a hatchet, a few fish-
hooks and a yard or two of line. With
the hatchet he could chop off the heads
of green blackboys, finding beneath
the crown of rushlike fronds a sizable
kernel of a substance not dissimilar in
taste to the meat of the coconut, and
equally nourishing. Eaten as obtained,
this was both tasty and sustaining.
Toasted, it was even better. Fish hooks
brought to the larder not fish, but wild
duck. Attached to a light wood float,
baited with meat (there were plenty of
sleepy lizards for bait) and floated out
at the end of the line by the watcher
among the swamp-side reeds, it was not
long before the quackers came along to
sample a mouthful; after which it was
merely a matter of bringing them in. So
there were meat and bread. Really accom-
plished absconders used even to make a
sort of farina —sago pulp—out of the
plentiful zamia palm. The big orange-
shaped bole of these low-growing sur-
vivors of the carboniferous age is filled
with a pulpy sort of fibre not unlike
kapok soaked in jelly. Pounded up with
water and then strained, this fibre yielded
a farina that could be either boiled or
baked. It was only when the blacks
stole his axe that the absconder was
obliged to come in.
* * * *
“Fishdiet”: Whale beef isn’t too bad.
Not unlike veal in appearance, it
may be fried, grilled, boiled or roasted.
And no need to baste it with dripping
either, since it will fry in its own oil.
Some there are, of course, who cavil at
its fishy flavor—but then there are some
who cavil at turtle, the food of the gods.
* * * *
“Timaloo”: That Moora cocky who
failed in the attempt to stiffen his seven-
teen cats and thought it was due to
the milk acting as an antidote to the
cyanide (B. 30/10/’4O) should look for
a better explanation. If that cyanide had
been active it would have killed those
cats, milk or no milk. But the same
activity would have warned the felines
not to drink. Many handlers of cyanide
fail to realise that KCn is not indefinitely
stable—that prolonged exposure to the
air induces an oxidation which destroys
its poisonous properties. To maintain
cyanide as an active agent it is necessary
that it be enclosed in an airtight vessel,
such as a glass-stoppered bottle. Then
it preserves a nice icing-sugar appearance
and its characteristic smell. And the
smell of a piece as big as a walnut would
so taint even a large vessel of milk that
no cat would touch it. I’ve tried to
poison poultry-eating wildcats with
cyanide not bigger than half a grain of
wheat, bedded in a nice fish laid out
in company with two unbaited fish —and
have had the two unbaited taken and the
baited left. The cat could smell the
“May I borrow your lipstick for a moment, general?”
“Think the skipper's forgotten We're still here, Joe?"
active KCn. On the other hand,
strychnine would stiffen the predatory
felines every time —it has no smell.
* * * *
“Merrangbaur”: “Old Shandy Mc-
Guinness was a wonder at ’oldin’ ’is
breath,” said Bert the barman. “We’re
down close to Queenscliff one Sundee
an’ there’s a nasty roll on. Shandy’s
wearin’ a whoppin’ great pair of boots
with rope soles an’ ’e keeps kickin’ every-
thin’ on board. Them tremenjus feet of
’is is always gettin’ ’im into trouble, an’
this day ’e finishes up trippin’ over the
kedge an’ takin’ a ’eader into the juice.
Us blokes takes no notice, ’cause
Shandy’s a good swimmer, but ’e don’t
come up again. Well, we ’angs about for
an hour or so, but there’s nothin’ doin’,
so we ’olds a post-mortem on ’im an’
drops a floater to mark the fatal spot. We
’eads for. ’ome feelin’ pretty blue an’ tellin’
ourselves wot a decent old cove Shandy
was an’ wonderin’ ’ow we’re goin’ to
break the news back at the club. We’re
sheerin’ in to tie up at Williamstown
when we ’ears some ’orrible curses cornin’
from the wharf, an’ there’s Shandy, sop-
pin’ wet.” Bert slid a couple more across
the bar. “No, ’e ain’t a ghost. Y’ see,
them boots of ’is is so flamin’ ’eavy ’e
can’t get up to the surface, so ’e ’as to
walk ’ome along the floor of the bay.”
* * * *
“Aratta”: “Me an’ me mate ’ad
finished a contrack job an’ we’re makin’
for the nearest township,” said Bogan
Bob. “The track’s through a thick belt
of timber, an’ before we’ve gone halfway
we spots two blokes busy with axes ’bout
fifty yards apart. One cove when he sees
us drops his Kelly an’ legs it behind a tree,
where he starts howlin’ like a dingo. Me
mate picks up the axe an’ approaches the
other chap. He’s a wild-eyed lookin’
specimen, an’ when we arsk him what’s
wrong with the other coot he tells us he’s
gone a bit queer with the loneliness. Sud-
denly this other bloke drops his axe, too,
an’ does a bolt
behind another
tree an’ howls.
Me an’ Bill
didn’t wait fer
any more; we
beat all records
fer five miles
through that
timber, an’ them
axes went with
us, too. We’re
in the on’y pub
in the township
a coupla hours
later when,
lum m e! the
howlin’ pair
blows in. They
spot the axes
leanin’ agen the
bar an’ yell
‘There’s the
thievin’ cows! ’
Bung, who
seems to know
’em, starts put-
tin’ in some
good work as
peacemaker. It
cost me about
two quid buy-
in’ whisky fer them before the expressed
themselves satisfied things was right. But
later, when we wus reckonin’ up our
spendin’s, we got to wonderin’ if them
cows was as cranky as they made their-
selves out to be, an’ if them damn’ axes
hadn’t been carted into that pub plenty
times before by other windy travellers.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: A mopoke, rigid on an
ironbark limb, is easily mistaken for a
bit of the same wood. Young herons
and bitterns stick their necks up, beaks
to heaven, and look like sticks. Lying
among fallen branches, a brooding curlew
might pass for a broken billet only for
the hard glitter of the coldest eye in
birdland. Quail melt into stubble;
crakes huddle into rushes; a moun-
tain thrush poses, a brown statue,
till you’re almost on his tail. Akin
to these are the plover and dotterel clan.
Experts at evasion, they’re hard to spot
with their sombre backs so consistently
turned, but if you ever manage to meet
them face to face they’re different entirely.
* * * *
“Arev”: Old Bill lived in a humpy by
the creek, and apparently the only thing
that worried him was a windy night. “I
sleep like a top on calm nights,” he told
his nearest neighbor ; “but when there’s
the least bit of wind there’s no peace fer
me.” The neighbor was puzzled. “But
why?” he asked. “Surely the trees don’t
worry you.” Bill shook his head. “No.
I don’t mind the trees. The sound of
’em swishin’ is sort of soothin’; reminds
me of the waves cornin’ in on the shore.
It’s that blanky sheet of iron on me roof.
It flaps up an’ down, up an’ down, till
it fair gets on me nerves.” The neighbor
looked up at the loose sheet of iron.
“Well, why don’t you nail it down?” he
said. Old Bill scratched his head. “Cripes! ”
he said, “I never thought o’ that! ”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “Me and Tommy
Roberts,” said Tarawingee Joe, “ ’ad a
little plant fer extractin’ euchreliptus ile
outa gum leaves out in the Whipstick,
an’ we wus jist pullin’ the devil be the
tail an’ losin’ about a foot a week w’en
old Stringybark Smith lays us onter a belt
o’ second-growth bluegum out back o’
Tumbleup wot’s fair sweatin’ ile, so we
packs our outfit an’ shifts out there. It’s
jist as Stringybark ses, an’ we’re doin’
reel well from the jump. We’d run out
about a dozen jimmyjohns o’ ile, an’ one
night we’re ’avin’ a game o’ euchre w’en
in barges a coupla ’efty blokes an’ grabs
Tommy, wot’s nearest the door. I ’ops
in, an’ we’re makin’ it pretty willin’ w’en
one o’ the blokes drors a club outa the
leg of ’is pants an’ outs Tommy with one
on the bean. Then ’e ses t’ me ‘Cut it
out, boy. It’s a fair cop! ’ Them blokes
wouldn’t lissen ter anythink we ses, but
’auls us orf ter the lumber’ouse at Run-
nin’ Crick, w’ere the bloke wot donged
Tommy ses t’ the sergeant ‘We got the
ile from a coupla cockies at Tumbleup
that these birds wus runnin’ a ’licit still,
an’ we got ’em with the goods.’ ‘Ar,’
ses Tommy, ‘ ’ave yer? If you splay-
footed coots don’t know euchreliptus ile
w’en yer smells it p’raps you’d reckernise
the Gov’ment permit t’ make the damn’
stuff?’ W’en Tommy shows ’em the
paper they performs somethink scan-
dalous an’ gets so ’ot under the collar the
sergeant dumps ’em inter the booby-’atch
t’ cool orf.”
A QUALIFICATION.
“Widow, middle-aged, blonde, attractive, affec-
tionate disposition, fond country life would meet
farmer childless widower preferred. Must be fairly
handy to Sydney.”—Hew mat. advt.
Like Barkis—in another way—she’s willing.
If qualified, step forward, Number Two!
No chicken she, but not too old for billing
And cooing—does the same apply to you?
For rural life she has a deep affection;
The gum-clad hills, the verdant fields are
sights . , .
That thrill—with one proviso and objection:
They shed their glamor, viewed from some
selection
Too far from Sydney’s lights.
In double harness she will trot, provided
(And note this also) her prospective spouse
Has not been—well, so thoughtless, so mis-
guided .
As to have youngsters hanging round the
house. . .
Blonde locks, trim form—in short, an acquisi-
tion
For any cocky bent on wedded life
But ere romance can burgeon to fruition,
Fulfilled there must be her express condition:
No farm near town, no wife!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD
FOR THE QUARTER ENDED 30TH SEPTEMBER, 1940.
* The Estimated Mine Profit is from permitted quota sales before providing depreciation and overhead charges.
For Sale.
OFFERS are invited for the purchase of an
ALL-STEEL STEAM-DRIVEN BUCKET
DREDGE with a capacity of about 80,000 cubic
yards per month. Full particulars may be
obtained from the owners, C/o MERCANTILE
EXCHANGE, 380 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Patents.
ZOTOS CORPORATION, the proprietor of
Australian Patent No. 10778/33, granted for
“Means for and Process of permanently waving
hair,” and RALPH LIGGETT EVANS, the
proprietor of Australian Patent No. 6318/32,
granted for “Improvement in method of and
means for permanently waving hair,” are pre-
pared to negotiate for and to complete arrange-
ments by way of license or otherwise with
any persons desiring to exploit the said inven-
tions in Australia.
Inquiries may be addressed to CLEMENT
HACK & SON, ASHTON & WHITE, 360
Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l, Fellows Insti-
tute of Patent Attorneys of Australia.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. Ord. Written
June, Profit, p.c. p.c. Total. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 428,156 10 10 260,000 137,532 320,035
1931.. 158,239 Nil Nil 142,768 336,506
Charged to development, £4l .. 336,465
1932.. 234,903 8 Nil 120,000 151,000 300,368
1933.. 373,095 12 Nil 180,000 151,371 342,092
1934.. 350,161 12 4 224,000 117,016 351,237
1935.. 402,956 8 5 175,000 148,008 431,185
1936.. 497,247 10 10 260,000 175,544 492,888
1937.. 691,344 171 17i 455,000 154,521 574,711
1938.. 604,802 15 15 390,000 144,774 644,739
1939.. 503,532 15 15 390,000 96,577 661,694
1940.. 563,096 14 14 364,000 112,503 748,287
Though substantially increased, output
of the co.’s big zinc plant at Risdon and
of its rich zinc-lead-silver mines on the
West Coast (Tas.) isn’t broadcast this
year, and the general manager’s report,
giving a close-up view of the year’s opera-
tions, has been withheld. Shareholders,
however, have good reason to be pleased,
as a glance at the last line in the table will
show. The figures are also a fine testi-
mony to the skill and enterprise of those
who have built up an industry which in
the days before the Great War of 1914-18
was largely in the hands of Germany and
German-controlled plants in Belgium,
and which is now an important contri-
butor to the Empire’s war effort.
To meet the increased war demand for
zinc both in the U.K. and Australia, the
co. has had to withdraw from the markets
it built up in India and Japan. But a con-
tract was made with the British Govern-
ment to supply about 3000 tons of spelter
a month (f.o.b. Risdon) for munition pur-
poses at £AIB 15s. per ton, plus the usual
premium refined electrolytic zinc com-
mands over the g.o.b. variety. The price,
approx. 255. a ton better than the equi-
valent London average for 1938-39, is sub-
ject to half-yearly adjustments according
to specified rises and falls in production
costs. So, with assured realisation of pro-
duction irrespective of shipment and the
vagaries of the freighting and insurance
markets, the slight wage increase and re-
duction in working hours early in the
term didn’t adversely affect profits. The
contract, which is for the duration and
three months thereafter, with the U.K.’s
option to terminate after buying 36,000
tons, is to be continued for the current
term.
The sale of conservatively-valued stocks
and realisation of current production at
slightly better prices are reflected in the
year’s higher profit. The by-products
(silver, lead, cadmium, copper and gold),
together with the lead concentrates from
the West Coast and the manufacture of
super, and sulphuric acid, are handy con-
tributors to the pool. After setting aside
an extra £50,784 for the taxgatherer, the
increase in declared net earnings was
£43,026. This is reconciled with the profit
in the table in this way:
Profit and loss balance .. .. ..£448,782
Net addition depreciation reserve, etc. . . 112,503
Net unexplained addition other reserves. . 1,611
Written off intangibles . . .. . . 200
Net profit as per table . . . . .. £563,096
The allowance for depreciation, etc.,
lifted the reserve for the purpose to
£2,640,970, equal to over 58 p.c. of the
book value of the mine and all property
and plant. After deducting this year’s
provision (included with profit and then
written off in the introductory table),
enough remained to show 17.3 p.c. on the
£2,600,000 of capital as against 15.6, 17.7,
20.6, 12.4, 9.8 and 8.9 p.c. back to 1934.
Still, the careful management chipped a
point off the div., reducing it to an all-
round 14 p.c.—the £1,500,000 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. advance with the ords. beyond that
rate.
The following comparison of balance-
sheet figures suggests all-round expansion
of activities:
1935. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Debentures . . £401,697 £401,604) £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 138,140 309,718 191,916 213,812
Deposits and
interest .. 87,354 59,585 203,432 211,035
Overdraft .. 8,460 8,296 62,393 28,360
Mt. R e ad-
itose b e r y
mines . . 457,524 457,524 457,524 457,524
Propc rties,
plant, etc. 3,787,542 3,835,137 3,959,003 4,038,722
Book debts . . 161,315 287,916 194,916 218,994
Shares other
cos. .. 246,733 353,781 500,468 579,461
Stocks . . 368,869 439,148 613,744 631,996
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 775,407 1,286,105 1,271,578 1,292,372
There was a net reduction of £4534 in the
outside debt, while £79,719 was added to
the book value of plant, etc., £24,078 to
debtors’ balances, £78,993 to shares in
other cos., £18,252 to stocks and £20,794
to cash and investments. Including stocks
(about two years’ supply) and share-
holdings, the year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£1,869,616)
was £146,651.
Shareholdings include scrip in Com-
monwealth Aircraft Corp., Australian
Aluminium Co., whose works at Gran-
ville (N.S.W.) are scheduled to be in pro-
duction next March, Metal Manufac-
tures, Commonwealth Steel, Imperial
Magnesium Corp. and Imperial Chemical
Industries, all of which are important
contributors to our war effort. Another
one on the list is Associated Paper and
Pulp, which is now turning out fine print-
ing and writing papers from Australian-
made pulp.
As for the current term, a further rise
in costs and stinging increases in taxation
have to be met. Still, the co. and its
associates are playing a leading part in
filling urgent defence requirements, and
when the great post-war task of recon-
struction arrives a strong demand for the
co.’s products is likely to continue.
Since the beginning of 1940 the price
of the ords. has fluctuated in the market
between 61s. 4d. and 405., and that of
the prefs. between 625. 3d. and 425. Last
week-end the ords. fetched 51s. 9d. and
the prefs. 535. 6d., at which figures the re-
turn is 5.4 p.c. and 5.2 p.c. respectively
on a 14 p.c. div. basis.
United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re—
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930. . 68,231 10 p.c. = 45,000 23,231 481,145
1931.. 42,639 10 „ „ 45,000 478,784
Unexplained reduction, £lBl6 .. 476,968
Loss.
1932.. 12,022 5 p.c. = 22,500 442,446
Profit.
1933.. 27,140 6 „ „ 27,000 140 442,586
1934.. 49,045 7J „ „ 33,750 15,295 457,881
1935.. 38,569 8 „ „ 36,000 2,569 460,450
1936.. 48,454 8 „ „ 36,000 12,454 472,904
1937.. 61,067 8 „ „ 36,000 15,067 487,971
1938.. 57,609 8} „ „ 38,250 1 , „, q
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ( U > 3j9 002,330
1939.. 57,671 9 p.c. = 40,500 ),,,,,, rl , rn .
To staff fund, £5OOO . . \ 1 “’ 171 ° 14 > dOl
1940.. 46,862 9 p.c. = 40,500 6,362 520,863
This 78-year-old Sydney-controlled fire
and marine office isn’t getting the kick
out of the business that it used to. Except
for an office in London and another in
New Caledonia, the contracts are all
written in Australia and Maoriland. Dur-
ing the 15 years to the close of accounts
in 1927 a steady 10 p.c. div. was sweet-
ened with £325,000 of bonus scrip. Then
the gift-giving, having partly worked its
own cure, ceased, and slump and trouble
in the marine section, especially at the
London end, followed. Over the last
nine years divs. have averaged 7.6 p.c.
With curtailment of marine underwrit-
ing, the loss ratio began to improve, while
income from other sections responded to
the recovery in conditions generally. Last
term an extra £19,585 of gross premiums
(£632,436) was gathered. But reinsur-
ances (£284,332) were £58,839 heavier,
owing to the farming out of war risks,
largely in the marine field. So net pre-
miums were £39,254 lighter, as the fol-
lowing table shows:
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Dosses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49.2 p.c. 44.0 p.c.
1U20.. 287,193 93,040 131,359 32.4 „ 45.7 „
1925.. 297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 „ 49.2 „
1930. .*498,050 261,695 168,124 52.5 f „ 33.7 f „
1931. .*509,981 290,748 167,101 57.0 f „ 32.7 f „
1932. .*357,836 256,408 113,450 71.61,, 31.7 t „
1933. .*344,654 198,341 119,390 57.51 „ 34.61,,
1934. .*325,693 144,417 132,208 44.31,, 40.61,,
1935. .*330,737 165,887 126,281 50.11,, 38.11 ~
1936. .*366,755 191,806 126,620 52.31,, 34.51 ~
1937. . 360,520 211,899 132,352 58.8 „ 36.7 „
1938.. 385,782 217,975 142,764 56.5 ~ 37.0 „
1939.. 387,358 206,958 157,683 53.4 ~ 40.7 „
1940.. 348,104 186,700 143.622 J 53.6 „ 41.2 „
•Includes interest, etc.
tßatio to net premiums plus interest, etc.
t After deducting investment income taxation.
The small increase in both the loss and
expense rates is mainly a reflection of
heavier reinsurances. Actually the co.
wrote more business at £14,061 less cost,
and £20,198 less was paid out in claims.
Still, the underwriting surplus (£17,722)
was £4995 lighter at 3.9 p.c. on capital,
and, deducting taxes this year, there were
an apparent shrinkage of £6310 in in-
terest and rents (£28,904), which was
equal to 6.4 p.c. on capital. Allowing for
minor reserve adjustments, the net result
from all sources (down £10,809) was 10.4
p.c. on capital as against 12.8, 12.8, 11.3,
10.7, 8.5, 10.9 and 6 p.c. back to 1933.
The div. was kept at 9 p.c.
The market, which sees no cloud in the
co.’s sky, prices the £lO shares paid to £5
at £lO, at which figure the return is 4.5
p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The cover is
£lO 15s. 9d. in net tangibles.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1933. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £450,000 £450,000' £450,000 £450,000
Sundry creditors 103,466 132,584 148,922 168,414
Government
securities . . 444,970 460,730 468,723 468,760
Gash, book
debts, etc... 284,755 342,205 393,584 421,991
Debentures . . 39,875 40,000 40,000 40,000
Mortgages . . 123,444 126,860 109.745 102,155
Premises . . 118,759 118,759 126,622 126,622
Assets are well worth their book value —
premises alone are in at a very conserva-
tive figure. When the books closed
policy-holders could see net tangibles
equal to 278 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually con-
sidered adequate. The co. is well
equipped to write still larger business.
“Truth” and “Sportsman,” Ltd.
f— Dividends
f Pref.
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 8 p.c. Deficit.
1930.. 26,298 9000 8000 5 p.c. = 10,000 74,548
1931.. 27,521 9000 8000 5 „ „ 10,000 74,127
Transferred contingency res., £1500.. 75,627
1932.. 26,945 7481 f 6650 5 p.c. = 10,000 72,813
1933.. 29,890 7275 f 6500 6J „ ~13,000 69,698
Contingency reserve taken in, £6052.. 63,646
Unexplained addition, £13,019 .. 50,627
1934.. 42.406 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 45,221
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 49,221
1935.. 42,761 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 43,460
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 47,460
Establishment a/c disappears, £10,537.. 36,923
Added goodwill, £16,287 .. .. 53,210
Capital reserve appears, £30,000 .. 23,210
1936.. 44,942 9000 8000 12 p.c. = 25,021 20,289
Special depreciation, £2OOO .. .. 22,289
Goodwill disappears, £1671 .. .. 20,618
Share premiums, £15,000 .. .. 5,618
Share issue exes, w/o, £1671 .. •• 7,289
1937.. 52,643 9000 8000 10 p.c. - 25,375 t j Q2l
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. •• S ’
Reserves.
1938.. 54,563 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 26,000 ]
Written off, £lBB5 .. .. .. j 3,657
Special depreciation, £5OOO .. ..J
1939.. 40,094 6975 f 6200 f 6 p.c. = 16,800 J R
Special depreciation. £5OOO .. .. j ’
Surplus sale property, £4275 .. .. 13,051
1940.. 20,336 6975 f 6200 f 3 p.c. = 9,000 11,212
* Nine months. t Pref. div. subject to Interest
Reduction Act.
The poorest showing since the co. took
over the newspaper business of the late
John Norton in 1925. Miscarriage of the
proposed evening venture, the “Daily
Mirror,” the expenses of which —amount
and substance not mentioned —were
chalked up against “Truth” and “Sports-
man” earnings, is reckoned responsible.
The board explains:
Early in the year the co. applied for
and on March 29, 1940, received a license
from the Federal Government for the im-
portation of newsprint which would have
enabled it to proceed with the publication
of the “Daily Mirror.”
This license was revoked on May 31,
1940, after very heavy costs and expenses
had been incurred. These costs and ex-
penses to June 30, 1940, have been charged
before arriving at net profit.
Needless to say, the Government’s action
in revoking the license has placed the co.
in a most difficult position. A claim for
compensation has been lodged.
Pending judgment of the claim, final ord.
div. has been deferred.
Plans for the “Mirror” were laid well
ahead, and most of the necessary plant
expenditure appears to have been in-
curred over the past couple of years.
The year produced headaches in other
directions. Though revenue had the
benefit of the previous term’s price-rise
from 3d. to 4d. in the main publication,
other costs, newsprint not the least, put
on disconcerting bulk, and paper-ration-
ing must have placed the co. at a disad-
vantage compared with its more bulky
rivals, the “Telegraph” and the “Sun,”
in the Sydney Sunday field. The “A.B.C.
Weekly,” however, published for the
Broadcasting Commission, continues to
help jobbing earnings.
The co.’s readers are Commonwealth-
spread, the various State editions of
“Truth” coming off modern presses,
housed in the co.’s own freeholds, in the
three eastern capitals. In addition, a
controlling interest was acquired in 1936
in Truth (N.Z.), which so far hasn’t
been remunerative.
After chipping off £14,911 for deprecia-
tion, declared net earnings last year fell
away by half to £20,336. The prefs.
were again subjected to the statutory
p.c. cut, and ord. handout was further
reduced from 6 p.c. to 3 p.c., the lot
calling for £1839 more than was earned.
That leaves out of account a profit of
£4275 on sale of some Hunter- and Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney, property added
direct to reserves, which are subject to
goodwill (£89,616), not treated as an
asset herein.
The past four years have seen con-
siderable reaching out, partly in prepara-
tion for the stillborn “Mirror.” This
balance-sheet summary indicates the
method of finance:
1936 1938. 1939. 1940.
Prof, capital. . £200,000 £200.000 £200,000 £200,000
Ord. capital.. 230,000 260,000 300,000 300,000
Mortgage f 7,670 I 286,012 246,888 286,667
Other liabilities 20,811 J ’ ’
Freeholds, etc. 174,398 272,088 278,460 239,622
Plant, etc. . . 151,462 246,818 258,305 259,817
Investments . . 96,050 106,651 101,846 102,437
Stocks . . 27,628 91,177 68,579 127,096
Debtors .. 50,728 67,088 67,355 76,848
Cash, etc. .. 2,272 7,048 10,01-6 6,083
Proceeds of last term’s property sale,
with another £39,779 from outsiders,
from whom £228,186 net has been bor-
rowed since 1936, were applied mainly
to strengthening the newsprint position,
stocks rising £58,517. The liquid posi-
tion further improved, the excess of lia-
bilities being reduced from £100,938 to
£76,640, excluding investments.
Pending clarification of the dividend
position, among other things, holders of
the ords. are prepared to part with their
scrip at 14s. On, say, a 5 p.c. basis,
the sellers’ price would yield 7.1 p.c.
The 9 p.c. first prefs. last sold at 225.,
and the 8 p.c. seconds at 18s. 6d., at
which the returns at the minimum rate
of divs. are 6.3 p.c. and 6.7 p.c. re-
spectively. The net tangible cover is
20s. 9d. ords., £5 2s. 3d. firsts and £4
2s. 3d. seconds.


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sidney.— Advt.
* * * #
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL, PAID L T P £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
The War Loan
The new Commonwealth loan is in
optional securities, as in the case of the
May flotation. A five-year loan carries
2J p.c.; a 16-year issue 3? p.c. Opening
on Nov. 28, they close not later than Dec.
14. The loan represents an essential por-
tion of the Commonwealth’s war-finance
plan—a carefully considered, honest
policy deserving the support of all in a
position to help the war effort. Here are
details of the new loan compared with
previous issues back to 1932:
In-
Term, Issue, terest, Return,
Date. Amount. Years. Price. P.c. P.c.*
7/11 /’32 £8,000,000 10 Par S'i £3/15/-
22/5/’33 8,461,000 9 Par 3| 3/15/-
16/11/’33 10,316,000 10 £99/-/- 3| 3/12/5
5/6/’34 12,234,000 14 98/10/- 3* 3/7/8
20/11/’34 15,042,000 14 99/15/ 3 3/0/5
11/6/’35 12,500,000 14 99/10/- 3f 3/8/5
26/11/’35 7,500,000 14 99/15/- 3J 3/15/5
2/6/’36 9,000,000 15 98/10/- 3>J 3/17/0
26/11 /’36 7,500,000 15 97/10/- 3J 3/19/4
27/4/’37 7,500,000 11 99/5/- 35 3/19/1
30/11/’37 8,000,000 14 99/15/- 3;f 3/15/6
19/5/’3B 10,250,000 16 99/10/- 3J 3/15/10
15/12/’3B 71,700,000 f 16 Par 35 3/17/6
21/2/’39 8,500,000 16 Par 3| 3/17/6
14/6/’39 4,750,000 16 £99/-/- 35 3/19/2
-/ 6/’39 3,000,000 t 4 Par 34 3flo/~
-/11/’39' 12,000,0001 3-5 Par 34 3/10/-
15/3/’4O 18,000,000 { £ If 1/14/0
15/5/’4'o 20,000,000 § % & /~
28/11/’4O 28,000,000 { $ fj
* Including redemption, f Cash and conversion issue.
* Issue taken by central and/or other banks.
Of the £28,000,000, £20,000,000 is for
war purposes. Interest offered is the same
as for the last operation. The more
readily the loan is subscribed, the less
need will there be for greater taxation.
The Commonwealth Government has
promised further investigation into the
possibility of using the bauxite of Mt.
Tamborine, south of Brisbane, in the
manufacture of alumina. The early
analyses of the stuff showed up to 30 p.c.
soluble alumina, but in a recent test
showing in B.H.P.’s laboratory a body of
over 50 p.c. ore has done the trick and
focused the attention of the responsible
Federal Minister on the deposit. There
appear to be fairly extensive deposits,
associated with decomposed basalt.
* * * *
O.K. coppermine, out from Mungana
(N.Q.), was discovered by Jock Munro
back at the start of this century. To the
teamsters who carried the ore O.K. re-
vives splendors of a big green outcrop
and shallow rich pockets of copper
glance. Many thousand tons of the
stuff were smelted, and then the rich ore
cut out somewhere around 150 ft. His-
tory is repeating itself in the North 0.K.,
where the secondary ore cut out at 140 ft.
recently, leaving a big body down to
200 ft. which apparently carries too much
low-grade stuff to be worth more than
picking over. The party has come back
to the 100 ft. level and here located a
further body of ore, 12ft. long, from which
50 tons was raised last month. It’s
reminiscent of the old 0.K., which Dr.
Jack reported on and showed that the
ore-bodies occurred as large, separated
bulges along a fault line. Considering the
need for copper, geophysics ought to help
in locating further ore-shoots on this line.
* * * *
Cocks Eldorado, Victoria, treated
2,419,317 c.y. (1,473,559 c.y. previous
year) during the term to Sept. 30 for
67310 z. smelted gold (51990 z.) and 114.8
tons tin concentrates (120.7 tons, 1938-39).
Net profit was £35,520, compared with
£23,797 in 1938-39 and £71,711 in 1937-
38. Latest profit was struck after pro-
viding £7853 (against £5608) for deprecia-
tion. Average recoveries last term were
8.69 d. a yard and costs were 4.2 d. In the
previous term recoveries were 11.62 d. and
costs 6.52 d. Gold recovery last year
averaged 1.3 gr., against 1.7 gr., but the
higher Mint price of gold (£9 16s. 3d.,
against £9 Bs. 3d.) helped to offset the
fall in grade. Tin content was con-
siderably lower, but here again better
prices were obtained. The higher yard-
age had most to do with the improved
revenue and reduction in costs, though
the year was free from drought—some-
thing that affected the previous term’s
operations. Last year some of the ground
worked was covered with tailings. About
half of the area dug was on the fringe
of the lead, and hadn’t been previously
worked, but values were only moderate.
Owing to the irregular shape of the lease,
working is carried out in blocks, and a
quantity of tailings has to be re-dredged
to enable the toe of the previous cut to
be cleaned up. Divs. ran to 3s. for the
year (Is. previous term).
* » * *
Minister for Mines Panton colorfully
window-dressed the Westralian gold in-
dustry in Parliament the other day. Divi-
dends to June 30 last totalled £37,034,700.
Most of the principal producing mines
reported treatment of increased tonnages,
and some new substantial contributors
had come into being. Since the incep-
tion of the Government prospecting
scheme in 1933, prospectors under it
had crushed 69,162 tons of ore for 34,555
fine ounces. So far 8478 men had been
assisted, and 600 were still being helped.
Since their inception revenue from State
batteries had been £2,369,780. Expendi-
ture was £1,190,327 greater, but the
assistance these mills had rendered
prospectors was vast. The House was
visibly impressed, but Norbert Keenan,
ex-leader of the Nationalist party and a
former goldfields member, thought Panton
should do something to protect the in-
vesting public, which at times went mad
about goldmining. There were instances,
he said, where options had been bought
for a song and sold by promoters for a
fortune. He had something to say also
about two-a-penny “experts” and sharks.
* H= * *
Two old and hardened gold prospec-
tors, Sam Hazlett and Jim Escreet, have
(“Wild Cat” continued on next page.)
FELT AND TEXTILES
OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED.
PROGRESSIVE YEAR.
The Twentieth Annual Meeting of Felt and Textiles of Australia Ltd.
was held on Friday at Feltex House, George Street, Sydney.
The address of the Chairman of Directors, Sir Walter Massy-Greene,
K.C.M.G., who is at Delhi, leading the Australian delegation to the Empire
Munitions Conference, was presented in his absence by the Deputy
Chairman, Sir George Pearce, P.C., K.C., V. 0., who said: —
You will have noted from the published
accounts that the net profit of the Company
and its subsidiaries for the year, after providing
an amount of £79,825 for taxation and £38,798
for depreciation, was £160,152, against £94,184
for the precec'ing year.
CAPITAL FULLY EMPLOYED.
This result is a record for the Company,
and, as already publicly announced, has been
achieved by the better co-ordination of our
different plants, more economical production,
and the profitable employment of the capital
introduced last year. In the Chairman’s address
to you a year ago it was explained that some
of the developmental work was not then
wholly productive; we have received the benefit
of quite a lot of this preliminary expenditure
in the year we are reviewing. Bearing
in mind the complexity of business under
present conditions and the difficulties experi-
enced by some Australian industries as the
result of unavoidable Governmental regulations
in wartime, shareholders will, I think, regard
their Company as fortunate in being able to
record such a satisfactory result. I shall deal
in more detail with the factors chiefly respon-
sible in a moment.
Besides maintaining the ordinary dividend
rate at 10 per cent, per annum, the Board
decided to transfer to General Reserve an
amount of £50,000, thus increasing it to
£lOO,OOO. At the same time it was considered
expedient, in view of the abnormal conditions
prevailing, to raise a Special Reserve of £30,000
available for any special or unforeseen cir-
cumstances which may arise. After making the
necessary provisions for Preference and Ordi-
nary Dividends and the transfers to the Re-
serve Funds, the balance of Profit and Loss
Account carried forward is £47,576, against
£43,422 brought in from the previous year.
Before proceeding to a general survey of the
Company’s activities, I refer to a matter which
I know is the dominant thought in your minds
in any consideration of the Consolidated
Accounts and affairs of our group—the new
issue of ordinary shares.
The growth of the business, particularly in
certain of the subsidiaries, has been rapid and
consistent throughout the year.
TURNOVER UP 32 PER CENT.
Taking the group as a whole, turnover has
increased 32 per cent, over the volume of sales
last financial year. This year operations do
not disclose any falling-off in business, but
rather that expansion is still persisting. This
increased business, naturally, added to the
volume of raw materials it was necessary to
carry, stores of all kinds, stocks both in pro-
cess and manufactured, and book debts, the
cumulative effect of which caused a heavy
drain on the Company’s finances and made it
abundantly clear that further capital was re-
quired in the Company’s business.
The matter has been in the minds of the
directors for some time, and action would
have been taken earlier but for the course of
events overseas. The new issue will have the
effect of placing the companies’ finances on a
very sound footing, and being issued at par
enables shareholders to participate in the benefit
arising from the expansion which is taking
place.
NOMINAL CAPITAL INCREASE.
As the issue of these shares brings the total
issued capital close to the authorised capital,
it is proposed to increase the latter to
£2,000,000 so as to provide for future con-
tingencies. Needless to say, the Treasurer will
not permit any use being made of the authority
to increase the nominal capital unless he is
satisfied that the issue is, in some way, a con-
tribution to Australia’s war effort or that it is
desirable in Australia’s interests as well as your
own.
EXPORT AND DEFENCE
REQUIREMENTS.
Our wool scouring and carbonising com-
panies are how operating under the British
Wool Acquisition Scheme, and, to the extent
that they are not processing wool for our own
considerable requirements, are fully employed
in the treatment of Australian wools on be-
half of the British Government.
Our Company engaged in the manufacture of
wool tops is also working to full capacity, and
a considerable portion of our output is on
account of Australian defence requirements for
use in the production of materials for the Aus-
tralian Navy, Army and Air Force. In addi-
tion, large quantities of our products are
going overseas to sister Dominions —India and
0"~da —also to be used for military require-
ments.
While the profits from these companies under
present circumstances are not as large as could
be anticipated under normal trading conditions,
I am confident that you will agree with me
that the work upon which our companies are
employed is of considerable national import-
ance at the present time. From a purely com-
mercial standpoint, too, these plants have a
good potential future value; the outbreak of
war interrupted our organisation abroad which
we had set up to exploit fully the overseas
market in these products—a market to which
we found the high standard of our products
gave us ready access. The connections estab-
lished overseas are only temporarily interrupted
and the foundation remains, ready to be built
upon when happier and less difficult times re-
turn.
The carpet manufacturing company is soundly
established on a satisfactory and profitable
basis, and additional looms have been added
to the plant during the year. Further improve-
ments have been made in production, and I
regard the prospects in this section of our
business as most encouraging.
OVERSEAS SUBSIDIARIES.
Referring now to our interests overseas I
have pleasure in being able to tell you that the
new factory of John Grant & Co., Ltd., in
Wellington, New Zealand, has been completed
and production commenced. We have now
modem factories, fully equipped, capable of
supplying the Dominion with its requirements
of all types of felt and with plain and stippled
body carpets. The products of the new fac-
tories, including absorbent cottonwool, poms,
and other accessories for the footwear trade,
are under the supervision, for the time being,
of the manager of our Sydney plant, where the
manufacture on a large scale of these goods was
initiated in Australia some years ago. I am
very hopeful of the outcome of this venture,
as the scarcity of the products we manufacture
is acute in New Zealand, owing to the severe
restrictions which the Dominion Government
has found necessary to impose upon imports in
order to conserve its foreign exchange. You
will be very interested to know that all of our
principal products in New Zealand are excluded
from the list of allowable imports to the
Dominion, with the exception of carpets, and
carpets may be imported solely from the United
Kingdom, and then only to 50 per cent, of
the 1938 imports.
The South African companies have derived
substantial benefit during the year from earlier
developmental work carried out by the local
directorate, although this has, in some measure,
been discounted by adverse conditions arising
out of wartime. Extensions have been made
where it has seemed desirable, and considerable
increase in turnover has resulted. As fore-
casted last year, a plant has been established
to manufacture absorbent cottonwool, and is
operating satisfactorily.
THE FOOTWEAR TRADE.
The Company’s slipper businesses are an im-
portant section of the organisation, and your
directors’ experience has been that they supply
an ever-present need in the average Australian
home. Allied to the slipper businesses are the
Company’s subsidiaries making summer types
of footwear and other moderately priced lines.
In the opinion of your directors, the Com-
pany occupies a unique position in the Aus-
tralasian and South African footwear trade, in
that its trade is stabilised and not subject to
the whims of fashion or indiscriminate conflicts
within the industry. It makes footwear for
which there is a general demand and within the
reach of all. At the same time, it is found
that the Australian customer insists on some
degree of style as well as utility, and the Com-
pany keeps abreast of the latest developments
in the types of footwear made overseas in
which it is interested.
WOOL—BASIC RAW MATERIAL.
Coming now to general conditions, we share
with all other industrial concerns the anxiety
of the times, and it would be folly to en-
deavour to forecast far into the future. I
feel, though, that our Company has a solid
background and need hardly emphasise that
the fundamental raw material in our diversi-
fied activities is wool. We are virtually inde-
pendent of foreign markets for supplies of any
kind, and have aimed to be, so far as possible,
self-contained.
Australian commerce in the aggregate has
suffered little so far as the result of the war.
Prices have been reasonably stable, though
naturally increasing somewhat, but the spec-
tacular rises so prominently a feature in the
last war have so far been absent both here
and in the home country. That this has been
largely due to the wisdom of the steps taken
by the respective Governments and their finan-
cial advisers there can be no doubt.
It is to be hoped, in the interests of all
sections of the community, that we shall be
able to continue to avoid the feverishly specu-
lative element both during the war and after-
wards as well.


DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HOMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the mnn-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence.
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
ms
m
The Symbol of
Security !
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
• N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell.
K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; Colin A. Sinclair. M.L.A. ; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost, Esq., Launceston.
AUSTRALIANS WILL NOT
LIVE IN CHAINS!
The fight for freedom is on and the
most vital of all munitions is money.
Put your money into the fight 1 Let
your savings help to speed the onward
drive to victory! Money is the fourth
fighting force. Subscribe now to the
Freedom Loan through any Bank,
Money Order Post Office or Stock-
broker.
'*KsS**
£
m
&
a®
M
UU
§
*.m
Sss
ay
M
IV*
t<\4> v;
JP
iMxS
r.:>;
C**»
U&&&E
ym
as
!•»
£
Ktf
IN THE
n
\H| I
L V '.k
few;
km&M mm
uN
A
£
*as
5&
ye
V»
*
7A!
•iirt. ar.s
(U&
Si}(»iS
left Laverton (W.A.) with a camel team
on a six months’ trip to an auriferous
locality about 500 miles north-east of
their starting-point. Hazlett has more
than one good find to his credit, is well
and favorably known to the abos. and
speaks a bit of their lingo. Escreet and
a mate, “Deadsweat” Joe Stevenson,
found The Granites in Central Australia,
and later with another mate pegged Cox’s
Find, near Erlistoun (W.A.), now worked
jointly by Western Mining Corp. and
Central Gold. The desert region Haz-
lett and Escreet are heading for is
where Carr-Boyd once roamed. Carr-
Boyd told a Bulletin man a thrilling
story of privation and thirst, and then
exhibited a photo, of a man down and
out on a quartz blow. “That’s me,” he
said in a trembling voice. “Hadn’t had
a taste of food or water for days, and
wouldn’t have lived much longer.” “Who
took the photo.?” asked the Bulletin
man. “I did myself,” said Carr.
* * * *
Mutooroo in its annual report states
that the show recently acquired at Ben-
digo “gives distinct promise,” and that
surrender of its Batlow leases (N.S.W.)
is contemplated. Mutooroo has had more
than its share of busted flushes, and is
long overdue for a turn-up.
* * * *
Two stars in the Westralian golden
firmament, Lake View and Sons of
Gwalia, announce before-Christmas divi-
dends. Lake View is paying a final 6d.,
making an unchanged 2s. for the year to
June 30, and is distributing an interim
6d. on account of the current term.
Profit last year at £529,158 stg. was up
£65,699, but British taxation, including
e.-p.t., is reckoned to have grabbed the
whole of this surplus and something sub-
stantial besides. Sons of Gwalia, which
paid a November interim of 2s. in 1939,
is paying only Is. this year. Holding
on to a larger .amount for taxation is the
main reason for the reduction.
* * * *
Coal strike of March-May notwith-
standing, Invincible, a Howard-Smith-
controlled colliery on the Lithgow field,
discloses fractionally higher profits (£4860)
for the term to Sept. 7, and div. goes up
from 3j p.c. to 4jr p.c. Current Bs. 6d.
market for the scrip is more than covered
by Consols and cash alone ; the debt of
£4568 is three times covered by other
semi-liquids.
* * * *
Freney Co. is to have competitors in
the Westralian quest for oil. The State
Government has given Caltex (Australia)
Development Pty. a lease over 134,000
square miles in the north, and Phoenix
one over 6000 square miles in the south.
A report that Colin Fraser and W. S.
Robinson had taken an interest in an
area on behalf of themselves and friends
is denied. Caltex (Australia) is a recently-
formed subsidiary of the local Texas co.,
which brought out C. St. John Bremner
from the States to be chief geologist.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
yM-i i
-
1 1 §
in
m 111
in
■
Mi
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per ni?iit.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE“ Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
Bargain sales are run on a bash-and-
harry basis.
•J* 4* 4* 4*
“In China, people pay the doctor when they
are not ill.”— Travel article.
So do many of our society women.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Once a girl would blush at a joke ;
nowadays she jokes at a blush.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“How can you treat a servant who is always
lying in bed?” — Woman’s paper.
Make her sit up and take notice.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mosquitoes fast for several days after each
full meal.” — “World’s News.”
The trouble is it takes them the entire
summer to get full.
4* 4* .4* 4*
“Viv, darling, I’m going to have a baby.
Yes, I am, I am, I am!”
— Advt. for “Woman’s” cookery course.
Looks as if she’s heading for three of
a kind!
4 4* 4* 4
Did You Know This?
That any number up to 17,684 and over
if divided by two will be automatically
halved?
That if all the girls in Australia were
added to all the women employed there-
in the total would represent the number
of female employees in the Common-
wealth?
That if a hen laid an egg a day for a
period of one week, at the end of that
week its average output per day would be
one egg?
That Mr. Churchill and Hitler don’t
like each other?
T. W. N.
“Rats are now being X-rayed in the U.S.A.”
— “World’s News.”
Many rats suspect there’s a trap in
that somewhere.
4* 4* 4 4
“A horticulturist has grown a cabbage that
has no odor even when burnt.”
— “World’s News.”
Even the water it’s boiled in, it is
claimed, is now replacing eau-de-Cologne
in popular favor.
jr.
“We have our old crowd back again with
some new faces .’’—Radio announcer.
Old hands with new dials.
“Quick, George, take these! I must salute Brigadier-General Jones.”
Simple Addition.
“How many children have you?”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
This depends on what’s happening at
the moment.
If you want the wood chopped you can
call for hours, and find you haven’t one
single kid in the neighborhood. But if
you mention that there’s a Donald Chook
cartoon at the pictures that night, quite
abruptly you have five ; they come sliding
down the peach-tree, clambering off the
roof and racing wildly across your
pet flowerbeds. And they speak to you
affectionately. It’s amazing.
Following the announcement that
you’ve had a win at the races or an in-
crease in salary the entire eight off-
spring in the house will immediately
acknowledge you as their father. The
younger ones remind you of the time they
trimmed the lawn and cleaned your
shoes, and slip in a word here and
there about scooters and ice-cream.
The older ones remark casually that
their evening-dresses are .frumpish or
their tennis-racquets need repairing.
It’s surprising what a family-man you
become in next to no time.
There is one inexpensive way, of course,
to find out for sure how many children
you have. Simply wait till the wife is
discussing the kids with a relative. You‘ll
discover then that the five eldest are really
your wife’s —“They have such nice little
ways, just like my family! ” —and the three
worst kids are yours —“Little wretches,
they’re their father all over!”
E.
“Their little flat was prettily furnished, but
there was only one chair in the living-bedroom.”
— Woman’s paper.
That would at least give the husband
some standing in his home.
4 •I* *-!< 4*
“Coppers Rising.”
—Financial column heading.
And when they’re awake a bit more,
the list of unsolved crimes might start
to shrink.
The Final Test.
“A ‘robot’ salesman that smokes, salutes,
bows and points at the article for sale is the
invention of an American.”
— “World’s News.
Of course, he won’t be perfect till
He’s taught the very human vice
Of summing up the customer
Before arriving at the price.
EVE.
Meal Ticket.
A chef who had an eye for tarts
Laid amorous siege to many hearts,
Until one, more astute than most,
Decided she had him on toast.
A saucy lass, once she had looked
Upon that chef his goose was cooked;
In fact, she plainly let him know
That she would handle all the dough,
And if he once attempted guile
She’d dish him up in proper style !
D. McM.
Pilgrim’s Progress.
“I believe that women today paint their faces
to capture men in the same way that the ancient
Egyptian women did to capture their kings,”
— Correspondent.
“Goodness,” thought Maisie, reading
this, “I didn’t know a girl could land a
king like that.”
There were no kings in Maisie’s
vicinity, but one boy looked awfully like
Robert Montgomery as Prince Florizel,
so Maisie put on the warpaint, and —well,
to cut the story short, she met him. But
he proved to be more like a knave than
a king, so Maisie discarded him.
Still, she studied the advertisements in
the “Woman’s Whimper” and on the
hoardings and in the chemists’ shops, and
spent her money on “glamor-aids,” be-
cause you never know where your king
may be. There was a young man of
rather majestic bearing in her street, and
she made it her business to know him.
But he worked in the Egg Board, or
something, and was far, far too ponti-
fical for a girl like Maisie.
All this concentration on capturing
kings interfered with Maisie’s work, and
her employer called her in one day and
said that not only would he not have
“painted dolls” in his office, but she
would have to be punctual and would
have to stop talking to the male em-
ployees. That broke Maisie down and
she wept, and the boss told her to go
and wash her face, and patted her gently,
and said he realised that probably loneli-
ness was at the back of it, because he
was lonely, too, and— —
Well, anyway, Maisie washed her face,
and one thing led to another, and the
next thing anybody knew she’d finessed
and landed the trump.
Which just shows that, paint or no
paint, all men are fools.
M8.
Perpetual Motion.
In courting days 1 gladly pressed
Your lips, and called it bliss;
But since I wedded you they move
Too fast for me to kiss.
PATON.
The Appeal.
“The reason she chose Mark was that his
undoubted adoration appealed to her.”
— Woman’s paper.
Bill might have cash to meet her bills,
And Cedric lordly station ;
She chose as best of all life’s thrills
Her Mark of admiration.
H.M.
The Love Game.
Gadabout Gertie was seriously think-
ing of taking lessons in husbandry until
she discovered that it had to do with the
land and not with the landing of a
husband.
Her romance with the laundryman was
going along fine, but when he started to
turn up three sheets in the wind and got
very shirty when she chipped him, she
gave him the slip.
Her boy in the Air Force was great at
taking altitudes, but when he started to
take latitudes she flew into a rage and
gave him the air.
Gertie is better pleased with her author,
because she can read him like a book,
demands constant proofs of his affection,
and he has novel ideas about a plot with
a little home on it where their romance
could be continued by collaborating with
the instalment man.
D. McM.
But Not Forgotten.
“Outside the Kremlin little is known of the
work, rank, achievements, etc., of the top-
flighters in the Soviet hierarchy.” — “D.T.”
There is no Who’s Who published in
Moscow, the cost of reprinting after each
purge being prohibitive. However, The
Bulletin’s representative in Moscow has
been able, by making a present of a
seven-year-old rustproof overcoat to the
deputy chief of 0.G.P.U., to obtain a
current copy of Who Was Who, a few
extracts from which are given hereunder.
Marshal Tchuckasevna: Supreme Com-
mander-in-Chief of all the Armies of all
the Soviet Socialist Republics, b. 1860.
Fought against Turks 1878, rising to rank
of acting private at Base Records. Gained
rapid promotion, attaining rank of lance-
corporal in World War. Gained distinc-
tion at Tannenberg, doing quarter-mile in
lmin. Msec, in iron-soled boots and with
full pack up. Joined revolutionists 1917
and immediately promoted brevet-general.
Led Loud Speaker division in war against
butcher Mannerheim’s White Guards. For
maintaining output of 40,000 words a day
awarded Order of Matted Moujik and
raised to Marshal. Supervised propa-
ganda plays in liberated Poland (1939).
For this was allowed to grow moustache
like Molotov’s, and given supreme com-
mand. At Kremlin dinner Jan., 1940, told
Count Schulenburg, German Ambassa-
dor, he still preferred vodka to bock. cl.
Jan., 1940, from bullet in back of head.
Grand Admiral Alexis Notatoff: b.
1900. s. of Ilyitch Halfseasova ; unknown
father ; ed. Siberian Salt Mine. Liberated
First Revolution, and rose to Assistant
Strangler of Communist party. Organ-
ised Garrotters’ Battalion against Keren-
sky 1917. Selected to murder Czarist
Admiral of Fleet. Afterwards appointed
Chief of Naval Operations. Was respon-
sible for decision to extend boiler super-
heater tubes to bows of White Sea war-
ships to melt ice. Held Grand Fleet
manoeuvres at Archangel while tied to
wharf. Proved enemy could be theoreti-
cally sunk without moving from anchor-
age. Invested by Stalin with Order of
Feathered Discus (1932). Introduced
scheme for ratings to vote on ship’s tac-
tics to be adopted during battle and poli-
tical Commissars on each ship to advise
admiral on general strategy. Sponsored
scheme to transport battleships, in parts,
by ’plane from Petrograd to Vladivostok.
Discovered by O.G.P.U. selling plans of
submarine bases to potential Far East
enemy, d. 1938 bullet in neck.
Air Grand Marshal Buzoff Oryldongya:
Received early training in gliding at
famous Bug School of Ballet. Later be-
came in turn offal salesman, sleigh-
puller, wooden-leg sandpaperer. Period
of sulphur-acid stirring in great Kiev
vodka works followed by spell of bomb-
throwing under anarchist leader Batti-
beanski. When Red Air Force formed
demonstrated by jumping off 40ft.-high
building that without parachute airmen
falling from ’plane might be killed. After
legs set, appointed Air Marshal (Dec.,
1938). Liquidated in Dec., 1938, purge.
Serge Justabotsky: Commissar for
Tanning Industry, b. 1898, Nijni Nov-
gorod ; ed. sundry anarchist societies. First
showed promise by hurling home-made
bomb at Grand Duke Tom (1910). Bombs
at Grand Dukes Joe, Jim, Ivan and
Willie (1911-14). Covered himself with
glory by murdering Czar’s assistant
venom-taster 1917. On outbreak of revo-
lution was given post of Chief Dog-
skinner, Moscow district. His mass
slaughter of Moscow’s canine population
saved Russia’s masses from starvation.
Erected a £1,000,000 factory for tanning
dogskins for army boots. Awarded Order
of Dogstar by Lenin, 1919. Under his
Commissarship 14 rat-skinning factories
and 10 subsidiary factories for canning
the meat were erected. Fell into disfavor
when mange broke out among remaining
dogs in Soviet. At private party in his
mansion on Nevsky Prospekt toasted Old
Bolsheviks and international revolution
(Apl., 1940). d. April, 1940, bullet in
back.
Vladimiroff Prlswizjktz■’ Commissar
for Cultural Relations, b. Josef Imsk,
1880. Changed name 1896 for simplicity.
Sentenced to 99 years in Siberian sulphur
mines 1897 for murdering father,
mother and seven sisters. Escaped 1914.
Murdered Archbishop of Omsk 1914, but
reprieved to join army Sept., 1914. De-
serted Sept., 1914. Murdered two aunts
1915, and with the 17 roubles escaped to
Switzerland, engaging in sabotage and
revolutionary propaganda. Returned on
outbreak of Second Revolution, and was
appointed Art and Musical Critic of
“Pravda.” Made playing of Tschaikow-
sky and Glazounov compulsory in all
Soviet factories during working hours.
When production fell 85 p.c. was sent
(1931) on special mission to bring cul-
ture to peasants in Timan Mountains.
Hasn’t been heard of since.
BO.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WAR EFFECTS IN BRITAIN.
[ltems here condensed throw further light in a
variety of ways on total war effects as felt in Britain,
and, incidentally, on how lucky countries like Australia
and Maoriland should count themselves to be, as they
are, in the war without actually knowing anything about
it from experience. The bombing was dealt with at
length in these pages, 30/10/’4O. These items deal more
with the problems of carrying on under that bombing;
actual experience with shelters and the like, by which
these countries as yet remote from war might well
profit.]
Shelter Problems
(From Manchester “Guardian.”)
The people of Germany and of Britain will have
one thing in common this winter. Great numbers of
them will choose to spend their nights in air-raid
shelters instead of in their beds. In the long war
ahead the country will have an advantage that can
best organise its shelter provision and keep up the
health and comfort of the vulnerable civilian popula-
tion during the dark winters.
In Britain we have learned a good deal about
shelters. The assumption of the shelter policy on
which everybody had been acting was that raids would
be of short duration, a matter of slipping from bed to
safety and back again. The long-continued alarm,
whether covering intense attack or mere nuisance visi-
tation by enemy ’planes, was not foreseen. Nor was
the deep-seated instinct to take cover and to stay pro-
tected until all danger is past. The people in the con-
gested areas —and it is they who are the most vulner-
able and least protected—have shown that the shelters
they want are underground shelters roomy enough to
sleep in and, moreover, shelters where they can meet
whatever dangers hang over them in the company of
their fellows.
It may be against all the rules that people should
like to herd together in hundreds in holes in the
ground ; it may be bad for their health and lay them
open to infection. But they prefer it, and it will be
hard to convince them that they are worse off in health
than if they were confined to small street surface
shelters or their own cottage cellars, if indeed they
have them.
Anderson and domestic surface garden shelters
have stood the safety test fairly well, but they cannot
be made decently habitable in the winter without the
use of more cement and waterproofing material than
the occupants are usually able to get. In the con-
gested areas of the cities the only alternatives are
the small street communal shelters and the larger
basement shelters. People are showing that they
do not like the street shelters. This is partly
because they are felt to be less safe than base-
ment shelters, partly because they are dark and air-
less, lacking in seating and in room to bed down.
*****
Everyone agrees that wives cannot be got to
go away from London unless their husbands are
to be decently looked after. Here we have for
the first time the problem of seeing that thousands
of the men who have to remain in essential jobs
in the most vulnerable parts of London are main-
tained as a bachelor population and given com-
munal feeding and safe shelters to sleep in.
As Lord Horder, who presided over the Gov-
ernment’s committee of inquiry, says, what is
wanted is “more shelters of the kind the people
will use.” They are fighting shy of their damp
Andersons and of the uncomfortable surface com-
munal shelters and going underground. “The
psychology of the habitual shelter-user,” Lord Horder
points out, “is very important and cannot be dis-
regarded ; his favorite shelter is one which gives him
freedom from the noises of a raid, light, warmth and
the satisfaction of his community spirit.” Lord Horder
wants underground dormitories and better security
against direct hits.
*****
(Canon J. Paul Deussen; Manchester “Guardian”
interview.)
“The two chief hardships in the public shelters
are the bad air and the lack of sufficient seating and
something to lean against. For a woman who may
have to stand for several hours holding a child it is
terrible. Then they badly need to be able to get some
tea when they have been there some time.
“In one shelter the people have collected nearly
£5 to buy a fan, but there is no one to give them
authority to put it in. I understand that at first fans
were not put in for fear of gas, but it seems to me
that if there were gas they could be switched off, and
it is a pity to deprive people of a necessity in the
majority of cases just for fear of the odd chance.
“In winter the problem of heating will be just
as bad. Already most of the people in my parish
seem to have colds.
In the communal shelters people have control
over their own comforts—except that many of them
are without light. Seats they can provide for them-
selves. The difficulty is that it is nobody’s job to
organise things or even to arrange about keeping them
clean.”
*****
(Manchester Guardian” London correspondent.)
Most Londoners are taking their rest these noisy
nights in their own homes or their own cellars, in
public shelters or in Tube stations. But I met a man
today who has bought a season ticket between Lon-
don and Wantage. He travels out every evening with
his sleeping-bag and goes to bed on a heap of bracken
in a fir coppice. He sleeps beautifully, he says, gets up
at seven, breakfasts and baths in Wantage and takes
the train for his office. He told me of London friends
of his who are sleeping in punts moored in back-
waters of the upper reaches of the Thames.
*****
(Lord Horder; London “Times” letter.)
If we believe that the nation which is most re-
silient establishes thereby a sound basis for ultimate
victory we must begin to treat our A.R.P. workers as
we treat our fighting forces. A primary need of our
front-line fighters, whatever their service, is the rest
pause. To remain within the vulnerable area continu-
ously and to be deprived of sleep invites both physical
and moral collapse. What applies to our fighting men
applies equally to our rescue and demolition squads,
first aid and medical personnel, wardens, firemen and
shelter marshals.
I recently saw a small-scale experiment under-
taken by a single-handed Red Cross transport officer
who transported personally as many of her colleagues
as she could to hospitable quarters within reach of
London for one night. This private venture suceeded
beyond all hopes. Tired, bomb-haunted women re-
turned in new heart and better health as the result of
the leeway of sleep being made up, the memory of
one night’s rest between sheets, one day’s food in
quiet and a sight of the English scene instead of bricks
and rubble.
*****
(From a statement by Mr. Lloyd George.)
“I know one locality where you can have under-
ground factories in quarry galleries to employ ten
thousand men. I have consulted engineers as to the
possibility of converting them for the purpose, and
they have no doubt at all that there could be no safer
or more convenient places for the manufacture of
essential war equipment. There are also a great many
disused coalmines which can be so adapted. An
—New York “Sun.”
BRITISH SECRET WEAPON—COURAGE.
engineer told me that a great many of these pits, which
are not very deep, can be converted into underground
workshops. With the progress made in the air-con-
ditioning of mines they can be made perfectly healthy,
and they are dry. Here the workmen could continue
their work without anxiety and undisturbed.”
* * * * *
The Art of Roof Spotting
(Manchester “Guardian” article.)
Work during a warning puts great responsibility
on the roof watchers who give the alarm of imminent
danger. In Manchester and throughout the country
they are taking up their work even though they are
untrained. The plain untutored ear is no bad judge
of danger, for it can catch the sounds of approaching
danger which are unheard by those at work in the
busy shops below. But there are refinements and
niceties of observation that training in actual raid
conditions alone can give.
Manchester will soon have instructors trained in
listening to the intense southern raids under R.A.F.
tuition. These men will hold classes in which they will
pass on their experience to volunteers from the various
firms. In many parts of the city business houses stand
thickly side by side, and if all maintained roof
watchers at the same time there would be some drain
on the city’s labor strength. There seems no reason
why one squad should not watch for a whole street of
business houses, controlling the imminent danger
alarms in all of them. This naturally puts even greater
responsibility on the watchers, and the sooner we
have the men trained in this new art the better.
*****
Salvage from the Ruins
(Manchester “Guardian” London correspondent.)
Is there any salvage value in this wreckage? In
the case of the average house or block of flats the pul-
verisation caused by high explosive is so devastating
that all that is left is fit only for the rubbish dump or
for filling up holes in the roads. Furniture, glass,
bricks, plaster and piping are generally so inextricably
mixed that little salvageable material remains.
But metal is vital, and where possible broken iron
railings, lead cisterns and piping are separated from
the mess. In larger buildings there is a consider-
able amount of iron and steel girder work
in the ruins. Owners may, probably will, insist
that any salvageable values must rest in them. But
they may discover that the cost of recovery by the
individual will exceed the value of the metal as scrap,
whereas State salvage may be worth while. In that
case owners may be glad to allow the authorities to
remove the steel and iron scrap and in the process help
to clear the site.
Broken glass is another problem. An unofficial
estimate puts the amount of broken plate and domestic
glass already collected at many scores of tons. In
normal times the corporation has an annual sale of
broken glass, and this is bought by traders for various
purposes. But the abnormal amount already in hand
is quite another matter. First, much of the glass
cannot be separated from the rubble. Second, what
has been separated is not only dirty but is an inextric-
able mixture of plate-glass, thin window glass, leaded
glass and glass of various colors and kinds. Experts on
glass manufacture consulted agree that, although a
certain amount of broken glass (known to the trade
as glass cullet) is used in making new glass, the amount
required has definite limits, so that even if it were an
economic proposition to separate and clean the usable
from the unusable broken glass, no market is likely
to be found for such tons of “cullet” caused by
bombing.
But, one asked, would there not be an enormously
increased demand for new glass, and therefore for
more “cullet” for its manufacture? The surprising
answer was that there was already sufficient new glass
in hand to satisfy any likely demand and that in many
cases owners would prefer to board up windows rather
than call in the glazier. They will “make do” till the
war ends.
There is, however, one valuable material that
resists, almost as well as steel, the powers of explo-
sive, and that is timber. Unless a building is destroyed
by fire a good deal of usable timber —doors, floor
joists and so on —remains, and it is hoped to use much
of this from ruined buildings. A great deal of this
timber may be used to provide the bunks that are
to be made for public shelters.
* * * * $
Combating Noise
(From an article by a Manchester “Guardian” scientific
correspondent.)
The unprecedented noise of modern warfare was
one of the factors which contributed to demoralisation
in Flanders and the North of France. Many persons
who had never heard such noise before and were un-
protected against it were terrified or numbed. An
understanding of the degree and nature of danger
from noise and of methods of protection against it has
become an important part of preparation for with-
standing attack.
The effects of noise may be classified as psycho-
logical and physical. The whistles sometimes attached
to bombs produce noises which do no damage to the
ear, but are intended to frighten. The psychological
effect is enhanced by surprise, so such whistling bombs
will not be used regularly but after intervals in which
their use has been temporarily forgotten.
If the noises are sufficiently intense they may do
physical damage to the ear, which will tolerate a
booming note of frequency 30 to 100 a second five
times as loud as a shriller note of frequency 200 to
7000 a second.
Sustained loud noises, especially of an irregular
type, have a definite fatiguing effect. They reduce
the efficiency of workers from 1 to 20 per cent. They
inhibit the normal contractions of the intestine and
stomach and reduce the flow of saliva and gastric juice.
This is one of the causes of the frequency of gastric
illnesses in pilots and others subject to loud noises.
Protection of the ears against the sustained irregular
noises of the present anti-aircraft barrages is impor-
tant for the prevention of indigestion and stomach
trouble. The issue of some millions of ear plugs by
the Government will certainly alleviate the danger.
The best results in experiments with ear plugs were
given by the liquid paraffin and cotton gauze satu-
rated with vaseline. Cottonwool soaked in vaseline is
useful, but ear plugs made of hard material are not
advisable, as they are liable to produce irritation. In
addition to plugging the ears it is advisable to bite a
piece of rubber or resilient material. This prevents the
full shock of the explosion being transmitted to the
inner ear through the bones of the skull.
* * * * *
Producing a Newspaper
[Photographs published in London “Times” have
shown the “Times” building rather severely damaged
by bombing. Newspapers are carrying on in much
the same manner as is described in this (condensed)
article by Brian R. Roberts, chief sub-editor of London
“Daily Telegraph.”]
When the public sirens sound the alert, work con-
tinues exactly as before. The “spotters”—volunteers
representing both the management and the employees
—take their place on the roof with its view all over
London and beyond. When they consider that danger
is imminent a warning is given ; this is passed on by
the central control room ; internal sirens are sounded,
and through loudspeakers come the words “The
‘spotters’ have given an internal warning.” This warn-
ing period continues until the men on the roof con-
sider that the immediate danger has passed, when the
loudspeakers announce: “The ‘spotters’ report all quiet
overhead. You may resume your duties.” It is not


unusual for more than a dozen of these internal alarms
to be given in the course of a single night.
Despite the sometimes almost desperate difficul-
ties of progress through pitch-dark streets, despite the
lesser danger from falling shell splinters and the
greater danger from falling bombs, men and women
reporters go on with their work, whether it is the
normal recording of human activities, which continue
even in war-time, or the describing of the air war itself.
Their published reports may be the result of an epic
taxi drive through a town lit only by gun flashes or
the reflected gleam of the searchlights ; of a seemingly
endless journey in a crawling train ; or of a walk
during which the walker has more than once had to
throw himself flat as a bomb screams overhead.
One reporter remarked a little petulantly the
other day that he was getting rather tired of the suit
he was wearing ; and that was the first indication his
colleagues had that his house, too, with all his per-
sonal belongings, had been destroyed in a raid. It is
this kind of undramatic “toughness,” rather than the
sensational characteristics of reporters in American
films, which creates the tradition and maintains the
continuity of a great newspaper under all conditions.
The staff of sub-editors has been divided into two
shifts, which work alternate days only, a working day
starting at 2 p.m. and ending with the “all clear” the
next morning. The only disadvantage of the scheme
seems to be that one half of the staff will not see the
other half until the end of the war!
Normally, the sub-editors work in a large, light
room on the first floor. They continue to work there
after the public sirens have sounded the alert; when
the office warning is given they go down to a large
basement room, furnished with tables and chairs. In
this room there is an emergency teleprinter machine,
and an emergency telephone switchboard, connecting
with other departments, to which the operators also
descend when the internal warning has been given.
Shorthand telephonists are present, having left their
eyrie upstairs, to take down messages which may
come in from outside. There are also two or three
boys, who thread a labyrinthine way through the base-
ment of the great building to take “copy” from the
sub-editors to the printers, housed in another under-
ground room under the new building in Shoe-lane.
In an ante-room to the sub-editors’ room and in
another room in the same basement, camp beds are
provided. Here, when the main work of the night is
done, all but one or two who remain on duty until
the complete paper is printed can sleep until the “all
clear” is given. The sound of bombs or of anti-aircraft
guns penetrates only faintly, and neither work nor
sleep is interrupted. It is a troglodyte existence, but
one in which both efficiency and comparative comfort
have been attended to.
When intensive air raids on London started, the
printers were in a less fortunate position than other
sections of the staff. The composing-room was a big,
rambling affair on the first floor, covered for the most
part with a glass roof. Obviously, the risks of con-
tinuing to work there were unjustifiable, and some
drastic remedy had to be adopted. In fact, a revolu-
tion was wrought almost overnight.
Sufficient linotype machines to set the paper were
quickly uprooted and moved into the huge sub-
basement, which also houses the biggest and newest
of the printing presses, and here work continues
through all alarums and excursions.
It has been impossible to move all the enormous
printing presses, anchored as they are in concrete and
taking up a vast space on the ground floor, and until
the office warning the men in these departments, as in
others, get on with their job. The roar made by the
presses running at full speed is so great that the warn-
ing is given by means of electric lights instead of by
siren or loudspeaker ; the men affected then go quietly
to their shelters far underground, until the “spotters”
on the roof again report “all quiet overhead,” and
work is immediately resumed at the point at which it
stopped.
The printed papers are taken in vans through the
blackout, through the bombs, through the gunfire by
men who go about their work unseen and unadmired
by the public, but with a courage, determination and
undefeatable Cockney humor which places them high
in the esteem of those who know and understand their
work. Between one journey and another a bomb may
have fallen, a fire may have been caused, necessitating
a diversion of anything up to a mile and making the
catching of a train a physical impossibility; but
somehow, some time—and much sooner than can be
imagined in such circumstances —the newspapers are
sent on their way, north, south, east and west.
*****
Mr. Churchill Sums Up
(From a speech by Mr. Churchill in the House of
Commons.)
“We have to organise our lives and the life of our
cities on the basis of dwelling under fire and of hav-
ing always this additional chance of death added to
the ordinary precarious character of human existence.
This great sphere of domestic organisation becomes
the counterpart of our military war effort. We must
try to have shelters with sleeping bunks for everyone
in the areas which are liable to constant attack. As
soon as this is accomplished, and in proportion as it is
accomplished, people will have to go to their proper
places ; and, above all, we must prevent large gather-
ings of people in any shelters which only give illusory
protection against a direct hit. People must be taught
not to despise the small shelter. Dispersal is the
sovereign remedy against heavy casualties.
“Large schemes are already on foot for providing
food and hot drinks to those who sleep in shelters and
also for entertainment during the winter evenings. Far-
reaching measures are being taken to safeguard the
health of the people under these novel and primordial
conditions.
“The diminution of the damage done by blind
bombing from what we had expected before the war
—we expected to sustain losses which might amount to
3000 killed in a single night and 12,000 wounded night
after night, and we had made hospital arrangements
on the basis of 250,000 casualties merely as a first pro-
vision—enables us to take an enormous step forward
in spreading the risk over the property of all classes,
rich and poor, in the form of nation-wide compulsory
insurance against damage to property from the enemy’s
fire. Immediate needs of food and shelter are already
provided for, so is loss of life and limb so far as it is
possible for human beings to be compensated for such
calamities, but why should we have the whole value
of the buildings of the country simultaneously and
universally discounted and discredited by the shadow
of a sporadic sky vulture? An appropriate charge
levied on the capital value of buildings and structures
of all kinds will provide a fund from which, supple-
mented if need be by a State subvention, everyone
can be covered, and covered with retrospective effect,
and everyone can be made sure that compensation for
his house and home and place of business will be paid
to him in one form or another at the end of the war,
if not sooner, and that, where necessity arises, in the
intervening period means of carrying on will not be
withheld.
“We also propose to provide insurance against
the risk of war damage for all forms of movable
property, such as industrial plant, machinery, house-
hold effects and other personal possessions which are
not at present protected by insurance. This will also
be retrospective.
“As I see it, we must so arrange that when any
district is smitten by bombs which are flung about at
utter random strong mobile forces will descend on
the scene, in power and mercy, to conquer the flames
—as they have done —to rescue sufferers, provide them
with food and shelter, to whisk them away to places
—New York “Daily Mirror.”
WHEN WINTER COMES.
of rest and refuge and to place in their hands leaflets,
which anyone can understand, to reassure them that
they have not lost all because all will share their
material loss and, in sharing it, sweep it away. We
have to make a job of this business of living and work-
ing under fire, and I have not the slightest doubt that
when we have settled down to it we shall establish
conditions which will be a credit to our island society
and to the whole British family.”
India and Dominion Status.
(From a “Contemporary Review” article by Viscount
Samuel .)
The British Empire is fighting a strenuous and
lonely battle in defence of the freedom of all man-
kind ; India, with two-thirds of the Empire’s popula-
tion, lags behind. The liberties of India herself are in
the balance ; she stands in peril of a foreign conquest
which would crush all her present freedoms and all
hopes of their enlargement; but the most powerful
political leaders of the Indian people are not lifting
a finger to safeguard her own security. True that
other elements in the nation are active and vigorous.
True that some part of her manhood and of her re-
sources has been mobilised, and that more will be
forthcoming. But what is being done is not the half
of what might be done. Morally, the political dis-
putes that are raging in India, at a moment when
every particle of energy should be devoted by a unani-
mous people to a universal cause, are a weakness to
the whole battle front.
There is not, among Indians, any sign of sympathy
with the creed and politics of the Nazis, least of all in
the National Congress party. Nevertheless, the in-
action of Congress is a moral and a material asset to
Hitler. Future historians, looking back upon this
crucial moment, and recounting the attitude of Eire,
of the Hertzog party in South Africa and of the Con-
gress party in India, can hardly fail to deplore and to
condemn a blindness to the gravity of the issue and
the urgency of the claim, a lack of a sense of propor-
tion, a failure to put first things first, which in itself
was a weakness and, if it had prevailed also among
the political parties of Great Britain and the other
Dominions, would have brought certain disaster.
It is true that all the organised elements in Indian
political life except Congress are willing to throw
themselves wholeheartedly into the battle. The
Moslems, the Sikhs, the Hindu Depressed Classes, the
Liberals, together with the whole powerful body of
princes, are already doing much and would gladly do
more. But it is Congress that chiefly matters. The
Congress party is by far the best organised and most
numerous. Congress majorities sent into power Con-
gress Ministries in two-thirds of the Provinces. They
were busy in useful and successful work for social
progress, but they are now withdrawn and immobilised.
In defence of its action Congress declares that
the deadlock might be ended in a moment. Only let
“the independence of India” be proclaimed, only let a
Constitutional Convention be summoned, on a demo-
cratic basis, to decide her future form of government,
and the situation would instantly be changed ; then all
the energies of a united Indian nation would be re-
leased to reinforce the war-front against a detested
enemy.
For my own part I have always been one of those
who have sympathised with the cause of Indian
nationalism ; at all times, in and out of Parliament,
I have actively supported it. To establish India as a
self-respecting, self-governing State, equal with the
other nations of the world, her population no longer
a subject race governed by alien conquerors —that has
ever appealed to me as a right and noble purpose.
But I do not believe in “independence” as a principle —
not for India, nor yet for ourselves in Britain, nor yet
for any of the Dominions. I do not want the people
of this island to be “independent” of the rest of the
Commonwealth ; to be able to follow any policy we
please irrespective of the wishes of the others ; to be
free to refuse them help in difficulties whenever it
might seem troublesome to give it. That is not the
way to serve either the welfare of the world or our
own.
There are too many independent States
already—more than 60. This planet would be
in better order if there were fewer ; it would be
in worse order if there were more still. It would
not conduce to the advancement of mankind,
but to its retrogression, if the British Common-
wealth were to dissolve into half a dozen or a
dozen separate independent republics. We
seek in these days the basis for a New Order in
Europe, and in the world. That would not be
the road to it. Not further fission but greater
consolidation is what the times demand.
The multiplication of independent
sovereignties is an outworn ideal. The more
far-sighted among the friends of human pro-
gress today cherish a vision that lies beyond
that. Just as Russia, thinking that she is in
the forefront of the world’s intellectual move-
ment with her philosophy of materialism, is
really clinging to mid-nineteenth-century ideas
that have been long discarded by the leaders
of thought, so the Congress party of India,
with its emphasis on “national independence,”
is not speaking, as it believes, the last word in
the most modern philosophy of politics ; it is
talking a language which was once indeed that
of the pioneers, but which has now been
frankly abandoned by those who are in the
vanguard of the most progressive countries. A
free India —yes, and a free Britain and free
Dominions. But not an independent Britain,
or an independent India, or independent
Dominions. We should all be interdependent
rather, and intimately united for powerful
defence of our own liberties and the liberties
of others everywhere.
Nor is it possible to declare for an independent
India, with a Constitution to be framed by the majority
and embodying a simple majority rule, when a fourth
of the Indian nation is opposed to it. The Moslem
community declares passionately against any such
policy ; it might resist by force of arms any attempt
to impose it. The controversy is not merely between
the Congress party and the British Government. If
so it might be easier of solution. It is gravely com-
plicated by the controversy between Hindu and
Moslem. That, unhappily, goes deep down into the
structure of Indian society. Attempts have been made
again and again to bring about an accommodation.
Unfortunately they have failed. No one will dispute
that the divergence is more acute at this moment than
at any time in the modern history of India. These are
the hard conditions in which the present Government
in Downing-street and Viceroy in Delhi have to seek
a settlement —and urgently, because of the war.
In contending that Dominion status is not enough,
that it is not equivalent to full national freedom, the
leaders of Congress are taking up a position which
would certainly not be endorsed by the Great
Dominions themselves, with the experience that they
now have of the meaning of that status, both in peace
and in war. Let anyone go to Canada, or Australia,
or New Zealand, or even to the greater part of South
Africa, and tell their peoples that they are not politi-
cally free, and he would have an answer that was
quick and sharp.
The world owes to Great Britain two discoveries
in the sphere of politics that are of fundamental im-
portance. One is the reconciliation of effective
national government with the liberty of the individual
person, achieved through the principle of Parliamen-
tary representation. The other is the reconciliation of
the unity of a vast Commonwealth with the freedom
of its several parts; and this has been achieved by the
principle of Dominion status. The term is not a good
one, for the United Kingdom itself has the same status
as the Great Dominions, and no other. It stands with
them in equal, and not superior, relationship to the
Crown, and has equal, and not superior, juridical
powers in legislation and administration.
It is this modern achievement, finally formulated
in the Statute of Westminster, which now seems to
open the possibility of a new era in history. It will be
an era in which the existence of a smaller number of
sovereign States, each of them large in area and not
homogeneous in composition, may be found consistent
with a spirit of local nationalism. Such a spirit is a
good thing in itself, but not if it is regarded, as for-
merly, as the ultimate aim in human relationships. On


'm*
■
SS>.
N\ _ siKS.
&
S&\
N- s n
vKv
»
'*/'\^v'sy.\jj
>s-\
S/m ; “a a\ -\o v.
r*J %•>.£*?
... i>.viy>\2
k .•«
1
';v<y*.r
HRBf..«
®"'.i
5*
w.
\‘l
V jSi
HMgHH
AA'N
ssi
t"'^
22*
i.i^
yr
**.*«
"■wig
«j
.‘=sr^z.
m
3*s=
aT ~»• •
\, -
■-ts*
STRENGTH IN RESERVE!
Just as Australia’s great bridges have
been built to withstand far greater
burdens than those ever likely to be
imposed upon them, so has Australia's
banking system been constructed with
strength in reserve to meet every
emergency... And so, to-day, despite
the unusually heavy burdens of war,
the Bank of New South Wales is
adding still further to its long record
of financial service to industry.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
mm
ufc a,
THEY ALL WANT
A KODAK I
The Popular Brownie (Price 8/3)
and every other Brownie
is sure of a warm welcome. . . .
Modern Folding Models, too ; in
an extensive range—-see them.
fsd
Add to
the fun
with
KODAK
HOME
MOVIES
From Christmas
morning onwards
... the happy snapshots
of your Gift KODAK
will be a continuous
reminder of your
thoughtfulness.
See the fine display at
your nearest Kodak, Dealers
FREES
WRITE FOR LATEST
PHOTOGRAPHIC BOOKLETS
• OF ALL KODAK DEALERS AND
KODAK(A / asia)PTY.LTD.
Sydney., Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Launceston, Toowoomba. Townsville,
Rockhampton; Cairns, Newcastle, Ballarat.
the one hand the freedom of the parts gives scope for
that nationalism—British, Irish, Canadian, Australian,
whatever it may be. On the other hand, the unity of
the whole maintains the principle of fewer international
units, fewer frontiers, and so, it may be hoped, fewer
wars. It is thanks to that invention of Dominion
status —better called Equal Partnership—that the
British Commonwealth survives, and is still strong to
defend the liberties and to promote the progress of
mankind. The progressives of India forfeit their name
when they belittle and reject it.
War Possibilities Ahead.
(The three items here condensed are extracts from an
article by William Henry Chamberlin in the November
American “Mercury.”)
Russia, If Germany Won
A German victory would mean a day of reckon-
ing for the Soviet Union. Stalin would pay the penalty
for his perhaps too cunning policy of promoting the
outbreak of a war from which he remained aloof.
Left alone in Europe to confront Hitler, he would
face the alternative of vassalage or war. And Soviet
prospects of victory in a war against Germany can be
fairly accurately estimated if one compares the Ger-
man sweep in Poland, Norway and France with
Stalin’s miscarried Blitzkrieg against Finland.
German domination of the Soviet Union, how-
ever achieved, would be followed by a massive pene-
tration into Russia of German engineers, technicians,
farm managers and agricultural experts. Backed by
the combined terror of the Gestapo and the Gay-
Pay-00, they would put the Russian masses efficiently
and purposefully to work. Russian production figures
would experience a genuine instead of a paper rise and
Germany would possess what she has always needed:
a vast colonial empire, not dependent on the mastery
of the seas, which could be turned into a reservoir of
food stuffs and raw materials for German industries.
I can imagine the gusto with which Hitler’s
“master race” would go about its mission in Russia.
During Russia’s famine winter of 1932-33 a German
agricultural concession in the Kuban region of south-
eastern Russia was an oasis of orderly, efficient pro-
duction in a desert of chaotic starvation. As soon as
one passed the boundary into the concession overgrown
weed patches gave way to normally cultivated fields.
The contempt of the Herr Direktor of the concession
for the Russians was boundless.
*****
Britain Needs the U.S.A.
I do not believe that a clear-cut British victory is
possible unless America enters the conflict and places
all its human and material resources at England’s dis-
posal. England alone, with the American help which
it is now receiving, may stand off the German attacks
and discourage or thwart a German invasion. But it is
very doubtful whether England, on this basis, can
obtain the trained man-power and the overwhelming
superiority in ’planes, tanks and other munitions which
would be required for an attempt to break Hitler’s
grip on the Continent.
The best that England can expect for the imme-
diate future is a prolonged stalemate, in which the
blockade, plus the activities of the R.A.F., can gradu-
ally begin to inflict more permanent and decisive suf-
fering in Germany than German ’planes and sub-
marines are inflicting on England. This prospect can
only be realised slowly. The effectiveness of a block-
ade against a whole continent is bound to be limited,
especially as it is safe to assume that the Germans will
be the last people in Europe to starve, whether in
their stomachs or in their factories.
The best, probably the only, chance of a British
victory is a change of the American decision not to
enter the war as a belligerent. Powerful forces,
emotional and economic, are pushing America in this
direction. At the same time the whole economic set-up
in the United States is being geared to an enormous
armament programme. Any suggestion of an early
peace is a bear symptom for the stock market, which
is the barometer of the hopes and fears of the Ameri-
can business world. A combination of sentimental
and economic forces brought America into World
War I. A similar combination, reinforced by a more
acute sense of imminent peril, may make America a
belligerent in World War 11.
Whether America’s hour of decision will come
soon enough to save the British Isles is anyone’s guess.
And unless the British Isles are saved, there can be
no Anglo-American victory on a world scale. A
British Government may set itself up in Ottawa. Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, along with Canada, may seek
the shelter of some kind of federal union with the
United States. The New World, by way of blockade
and non-intercourse, might drift into a state of war
with the Old. But it is hard to see how such a war
could lead to any decisive conclusion. What would
happen to the vast majority of the British people who
could not escape to Canada, in the event of an Ameri-
can blockade of Europe, is pretty terrible to contem-
plate, even in a world that has become all too cal-
loused to horror. Hitler, one may predict, would not
take any pains to feed them.
*****
Communism’s Chance
Just as the war of 1914-18 led to a crisis of misery
and despair that made the Bolshevik Revolution in
Russia possible, so this war might achieve what all the
hired men of the Communist International pathetically
failed to accomplish and spread social revolution to
the Rhine, perhaps to the Atlantic. Not that Stalin
today can be considered a very fiery apostle of social
revolution. He has probably killed more honest revo-
lutionaries in Russia, in Spain, wherever his Gay-
Pay-Oo gangsters are able to function, than either of
his fellow-dictators, Hitler and Mussolini. But social
revolution, like old-fashioned Russian imperialism or
Pan-Slavism, is to him a good instrument if it extends
the boundaries of his empire.
Stationed in Paris during the summer of 1939 I
could see Stalin playing with the naive and clumsy
British and French diplomats like a skilful angler with
a hooked fish. The stupid British guarantee to Poland
played excellently into Stalin’s hands. It drove Hitler
to accept the idea of the Soviet-German understand-
ing which Stalin had desired for years.
To be sure, when France fell with such specta-
cular speed last June, Stalin probably realised that he
had committed a miscalculation in placing the propa-
ganda services of his International at the disposal of
Hitler. (There has not been a recorded whisper of
anti-war agitation by the German Communists. The
French Communists, on the other hand, the loudest
warmongers until the actual beginning of hostilities,
played an important part in disorganising the French
rear. They encouraged sabotage and slacking in
munitions factories, their illegal presses poured out a
torrent of defeatist literature, they started whispering
anti-war campaigns among the workers and among
the poorer classes generally).
Stalin would have no reason to welcome the pros-
pect of a Europe under Hitler’s heel. But he can still
nurse the hope that Germany and England will fight
themselves into the state of exhaustion and all-round
collapse which would be, for the Soviet dictator, the
desired end of the war. With means of destruction
being constantly ingeniously multiplied by both sides,
who can say that the elastic limits of human endur-
ance may not be reached and passed? Both Germany
and England may crack up morally and psychologi-
cally, as Russia cracked in 1917, as France and Italy
very nearly cracked at the same time, as France
cracked more recently.
One cannot imagine a better preparation for Bol-
shevism than the universal misery, dislocation, down-
right hunger that have overtaken some of the most
civilised European countries. During my personal
retreat from France I was struck again and again by
something familiar in the scenes of suffering and utter
disorganisation on every hand. Towns where people
were sleeping in hordes in railway stations for lack of
other shelter, where the same hordes made it impos-
sible to get on a train, where restaurants were so
jammed that one could scarcely get a meal, even when
food was available —it was all profoundly suggestive of
the Russia which I had left in 1934.
It had taken one of the greatest disasters in its his-
tory to bring France down to something like the
normal Soviet way of life. And I recalled the remark
of one of the wittiest foreigners in Moscow: “There’s
one thing the Communists may gain from this war.
They may drag all of us down to their own appalling
level.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
Pilot is on holidays, and for the next two or three
weeks his columns will be conducted by an understudy.
The Williamstown Cup success of
Remarc was followed by that of another
Westralian horse, True Flight, in the
Eclipse Stakes at Flemington. Revelling
in the mud, True Flight won as he liked
from Wilson and L’Aiglon. Maikai,
Manolive and Balkan Prince, Eclipse
winners in the three preceding years, all
came from the West.
A fortune was lost on True Flight in
the Caulfield Cup, for which, though
favorite, he finished only seventeenth. He
was even farther back, eighteenth, in the
Melbourne Cup, and many backers con-
cluded that he had either trained off or
was not a true stayer. An explanation,
however, is forthcoming from his trainer,
V. Egan. Some trainers are apt to blame
anybody but themselves when their horses
run below expectations, so it is refreshing
to record that Egan considers he himself
blundered in True Flight’s preparation
for the Cups.
Egan told a Bulletin man after Satur-
day’s race that his mistake lay in starting
True Flight in the Toorak Handicap, in
which he finished third to Gold Salute
and Historian. The race came too soon
after his wins in the Stand Handicap and
Mentone Cup, each run over \\ mile,
and the bustling necessary after a slow
start in the Toorak, of one mile, took
more out of the horse than anticipated.
Subsequent hot weather did not help him,
and he had not recovered fully by Caul-
field Cup day. Egan hoped to have True
Flight at his top again for the Melbourne
Cup, but again there was insufficient time
to get him quite right. He began to pick
up again after the Melbourne Cup, but
even on Saturday Egan did not know
whether he would be able to handle the
heavy track.
It was True Flight’s first attempt on
rain-affected going, but he quickly showed
his ability as a mudlark. This was not
anticipated by the public, and he started
at 10 to 1 after shorter prices had been
taken. He was never far from the lead,
and, dashing to the front soon after enter-
ing the straight, was not in danger of
defeat subsequently.
A good performer in his home State,
where he won the W.A. Derby and was
runner-up in the Perth Cup, True Flight
is a nice type of four-year-old entire by
The Buzzard from Even Keel. Other
members of the family have been in the
limelight recently, as True Flight is a
brother to the A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate
winner Yaralla, and is related to the Mel-
bourne Cup winner Old Rowley. His
Eclipse Stakes success meant that every
important handicap in Melbourne this
spring was won by a horse owned outside
Victoria. True Flight will now be spelled
in Victoria until it is time to begin an
autumn preparation.
Some critics contend that a good horse
will gallop in any going, but Mildura dis-
proves that idea. On performances Mil-
dura is unquestionably a better horse
than True Flight, and it was generally
agreed that handicapper Clem Hill had
been lenient in awarding Mildura only
9.0, or 111 b. more than the winner. This
was reflected in the fact that 6 to 4 had
been taken about Mildura during the
week, but he is a notorious duffer on
heavy ground, and his price lengthened
as rain continued. Early backers were
left lamenting, as Mildura eased to 7 to 1
on the course. He occupied a good posi-
tion early, but refused to stretch out
when pressure was applied, and finished
third-last, anything up to 20 lengths
behind the winner. The time for the 10
furlongs, 2.11!-, or. 9f- seconds outside the
record, revealed the heavy state of the
track.
Mildura has been unlucky in Mel-
bourne this spring, as a bruised heel pre-
vented his contesting the Cantala Stakes,
tor which he was pre-post favorite. How-
ever, he will receive chances to compen-
sate in races during the summer months.
Wilson was suited by the heavy ground,
and his second was an improvement on
his form in the Williamstown Cup, but
he had no chance with the winner. Nor
was any excuse possible for L’Aiglon ;
but his rider, Breasley, had a personal
hard-luck story to tell ; he had been
offered the True Flight mount a few days
earlier. Having contracted to ride L’Aig-
lon, he was unable to accept it; Hartney
was then engaged for the winner.
Reading weakened after leading to the
turn, but did much better than Gladstone,
who, like Mildura and Reading, went
out at 7 to 1. Gladstone, supposed to be
able to handle a heavy track, finished a
bad last. But the biggest disappointment
was the 3-to-l favorite, Prince Ariel.
Prince Ariel occupied a good position for
the greater part of the trip, but showed
no dash over the concluding three fur-
longs, and beat only three home. Rivette,
winner of the two Cups last year, did not
pull up well, and, at the time of writing,
it was considered probable that she had
run her last race.
Tea Cake, bought for 210 guineas as
a yearling, increased his stake earnings
to £795 when he landed some substantial
bets in the Stansmore Two-year-old.
Backed from as much as 5 to 1 down to
5 to 2 (favorite), he led from the start
and won decisively from the fast-finishing
Ratifier and Her Highness, A disappoint-
ing fifth in the Maribyrnong Plate had
led many backers to believe that Tea
Cake was not quite as good as his win in
a division of the Maribyrnong Trial
Stakes and his second to High Title in
the Debutant Stakes had indicated.
Trainer P. B. Quinlan, however, knew
that Tea Cake was capable of better
form, and. puzzling over his Maribyrnong
Plate failure, concluded that it was due
to his jumping the crossings. Quinlan,
of course, does not flatter himself that
Tea Cake would have beaten All Love in
that race in any circumstances. Satur-
day’s success was nice compensation, and
more will be heard of Tea Cake, who is
by Manitoba from Avert.
Satisfaction with Fur Trader (Mani-
toba-Tricycle) influenced owner “G.
Capesthorne” in paying 600 guineas for
that colt’s year-younger brother, The
Trapper, at the last yearling sales. Both
horses are trained by former champion
jockey W. Duncan, and The Trapper
earned £2BO in prize-money by winning
the Maiden Two-year-old on Saturday.
A great deal more was won in bets by
stable supporters, as The Trapper was
backed from 12 to 1 down to sixes. Stick-
ing to the extreme outside of the straight
track, The Trapper finished determinedly
to win from Reg. Latter also raced
up the outside portion of the track,
and would have run The Trapper closer
than three-quarters of a length had he
not veered towards the inside nearing
the finish. Reg, a Lo Zingaro colt, bred
and owned by Sol Green, impresses as
likely to improve, and Pastoral (John
James-Beaurola), who finished third,
should be cheap at her yearling price
of 60 guineas.
Trainer H. Cousens, after watching
The Trapper win up the outside of the
straight, instructed jockey S. Ralph to
adopt similar tactics on Orteli in the
Rosstown Plate. It was noticeable that
the riders of five runners lined up on
the outside, and four of them were in
the first five at the finish. Orteli jumped
out in front and appeared to lead all
the way. She was well clear of Bow Tie,
leader on the flat side, a furlong from
home, and went on to win easily from
Saki and Bow Tie.
Cousens was not sure whether Orteli
would be at home in the going, but his
faith in the outside portion of the track
was reflected in the fact that the filly
was backed from 10 to 1 down to sixes.
She had shown any amount of pace in
the race won by Aurie’s Star a week
earlier, but had veered right out after
meeting with interference halfway
through. She had the outside rail to
guide her on Saturday, and the result
was never in doubt. This is not the
first time Orteli has won up the ex-
treme outside, for she clung to the out-
side rails in winning the Hopeful Stakes
as a juvenile last autumn. On that
occasion she was a 33-to-l chance. A
daughter of Great Legend and Gipsy
Love, Orteli has been a rare bargain at
the 50 guineas she cost in November last
year. Her two Flemington wins have
been worth £B5O in stakes alone, and
she has also won at Moonee Valley and
Ascot.
• ••••♦
Nine-year-old Pamelus had had a light
season at the stud between his dead-heat
for first at Ascot in May and his race
in the Rosstown Plate, but he started
favorite on the strength of good gallops
since his return to work. He weakened
into seventh position after looking a
likely place-getter about a furlong and
a half from home, but the race is likely
to do a lot for him, and a return to some-
thing like his old form is not altogether
improbable. Another worth remember-
ing is Brazen King. He had been
freshened up since his forward showing
in the Caulfield Cup, but, although well
backed, found the six furlongs too short.
He ran on strongly in fourth position,
and may do well if taken home for the
important Christmas handicaps in Adel-
aide. He is engaged in the Port Adel-
aide Challenge Stakes (lm.) with 8.6, and
the Port Adelaide Cup (l|m.) with the
same weight.
• • • • • •
A mile and a quarter was too far for
Burrabil in the Werribee Cup, but he was
much more at home over the mile of the
Ormond Handicap. Third into the
straight, he hit the front about a fur-
long and a half from home, and won
decisively from Saul and St. Fervent.
Latter got away slowly, and weakened
after moving up to share the lead with
Con Naru at the turn. Burrabil is owned
in Warrnambool by Jim Slattery, for-
merly a leading amateur rider, but for
several months past has been trained in
Melbourne by W. O’Dwyer. His win on
Saturday was his second for that trainer.
Slattery’s racing colors are red, light
blue braces and cap, but every horse
raced by him goes to the post with a
piece of green ribbon tied on each side
of the bridle. Green is supposed to be
an unlucky color on a racecourse, but
Slattery is not at all superstitious in that
respect.
Trainer Des McCormick has done par-
ticularly well with Kevastar, Atticus,
Dark David, Mamillius and other
jumpers this season, and he has
the makings of a good fencer in High-
land March, winner of the Tara
Steeplechase. Highland March, a five-
year-old March Along gelding, had fallen
at his previous start and also in a
school during the week, but in the latter
instance his mishap was due to his be-
coming tangled with a horse that fell in
front of him. There was fair support
for him in a particularly open betting
race on Saturday, and, taking the lead
coming to the second-last fence, he
battled on gamely to win from Tornar-
suk, who outstayed Whernside for second
money. Highland March was having
only his fourth start over fences, and
his trainer predicts a bright future for
him. He looks an overgrown gelding,
but might develop into a National possi-
bility.
Silver had nothing to do with the
finish of the Stansmore Two-year-old,
but breeding and relationship suggest that
he will make his mark later. By Gay
Lothario from Planetry, he is a brother
in blood to the Victoria Derby winner
Lucrative. Latter is by Gay Lothario
from Balkan Star, a sister to Silver’s
dam. Silver is trained by J. Holt for
Percy Miller, who paid 700 guineas for
the colt as a yearling.
<e # ♦ *
The Warwick Farm meeting at Rand-
wick on Saturday began in steady rain
and ended in a near-riot. Largely a one-
man show, though he had plenty of sup-
porters —and opponents —round him at
the saddling enclosure fence and over on
the flat, the demonstration threatened to
become very nasty. It was occasioned by
Hash, owned and trained by W. Wright,
winning the mile event at the close of the
programme after having failed to do
better than fourth in the Horsley Handi-
cap sprint earlier in the day. Rather it
grew out of the dislike a lot of Sydney
racegoers have for a horse being given
a second outing in the one afternoon.
That dislike perhaps accounts for the
comparative rarity of what was formerly
a much more common practice, and the
rarity no doubt helps to ruffle feelings
when it does happen. Whether a horse
.wins or loses at his second try, there is
now almost always a display of some
sort. As it happened, Hash’s perform-
ance was virtually a repetition of Bestop’s
runs at Rosehill on the previous Satur-
day. Instead of wanting to kick down
the stands, the boisterous spirits at Rand-
wick should have been kicking them-
selves for not profiting by that recent his-
tory ; perhaps that is what they really
were doing in a roundabout way.
There was no sense in the demonstra-
tions in either case, both horses being
capable milers quite up to the class they
were meeting, and both having been
downed by proved performers over the
shorter journeys. Bestop was beaten by
Grey Derby, who is particularly good
over the seven furlongs at Rosehill. Hash,
who also finished in front of Bestop, and
might have won but for running wide at
the turn, had won at a mile on the Ken-
sington track, right next door to Rand-
wick, in time which equalled the course
record, and a couple of weeks later had
won over the same distance at Menangle
in even faster time. Further, it had taken
three good sprinters, in Marengo, Pen-
thides and Vergure, to down her in the
Horsley, and her recent form had been
consistency itself.
Considering the moist state of the
weather at midday, the aversion Sydney
people, despite the drought, have for get-
ting wet with their clothes on, and the
mostly moderate and unproved horses en-
gaged, there was a fairly good crowd.
Events being largely open—a bit more
so than even punters suspected—such
almost obsolete cries as “Six to one the
field” were heard again in the land, and
were well justified, both by the keenness
of the racing, with some excellent finishes,
and by the proportion of successful out-
siders.
Though he started at eights, Lo Dokes,
a three-year-old chestnut colt by Lo Zin-
garo-Podokes, was a well-backed winner
of the Maiden Handicap of a mile ; like
all the distances, a shade further with the
false rail operating. He gave W. Cook a
comfortable ride, but it was a good dis-
play of horsemanship nevertheless. Well
drawn at four in a field of 20, he began
best of the bunch, soon had the rails,
and, nothing else trying for the lead,
Cook was enabled to decide the pace,
making it a cracker coming round the
home turn to get a five lengths’ break.
That won the race, Lo Dokes holding
about that margin to the finish. Of the
beaten lot, Drava (second) ran into some
trouble on the Kensington side, and
may have been unlucky not to finish
closer at least. Red Pete, Hunter White’s
Peter Pan-Admired colt, ran a sound
race, always round about third, and there
at the end. But nothing really had any
chance against the winner —plus Cook.
With another fair-sized field—l6 —to
pick from, punters summed up the Hox-
ton Park juvenile field as a three-horse
affair, with solid backing for the respec-
tive Rosehill and Canterbury Park win-
ners, Final Victory (2 to 1) and Bruega-
long (7 to 2), and there was probably
even heavier backing for the costly Beau
Pere-Grey Port colt Beau Port, who
went out at 5 to 2, though he looked as
if a run would do him no harm.
At Rosehill Final Victory got away
tardily, but won well; in the Hoxton
field he was left hopelessly. By Phaleron
Bay-Hunting Lodge, and labelled a bay
or brown colt, though he looks a bay, he
is a fine free-moving type who will
only have to improve at the barrier to'
be worth following. A more solidly-built
dark grey, Beau Port ran an honest race,
lacking only a bit of dash in the run
home. Bruegalong wasn’t equal to lump-
ing his 71b. penalty, and what chance he
may have had of doing so was made
hopeless by having to run a cut-throat
race with Marconigraph out in front, this
Marconigram-Suggrapho colt lasting the
better to take third money. The winner
was Linemond, a game-looking galloper
by Veilmond-Circuline. Starting at
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Hurdle Race: Coylton, 1 ; Bonnie
Laddie, 2 ; Paul Lois, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Spearmain,
1 ; Pierre Fort, 2; Garry, 3.
Benefit Handicap: Orteli, 1 ;
Bow Tie, 2 ; Denis Girl, 3.
Fund Handicap: Sun Belle, 1 ;
Counsel, 2 ; Fearless, 3.
Benevolent Handicap: St. Fer-
vent or Panade, 1 ; Royal Jubilee,
2 ; Keelie, 3.
Trial Handicap: Procella, 1 ;
David Spear, 2 ; Grand Tour, 3.


SAVE MONEY
c§
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
i new 11
CHAMPIONS
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring BETTER
HILL CLIMBING
Good hot sparks from Champion
spark plugs will give your car the
kind of ignition it needs for a
smooth, even pull up a hill.
, Champions allow less carbon to
I form, so you get more speed,
more power, more economy.
% Champions save you money!
m
9?**
™ ® '.T
I KSfi
***»£**.
'^/tt***
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
u
*/?. /A,
BEST^
BRITISH
BLADE
f
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected a*
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A C. DAWSON. T. O. BEWOU*
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. llsmy ••
twenties, Linemond came strongly out-
side the leaders at the leger to win well
from Beau Port.
Backed to favoritism for the Horsley
Handicap, Hash was near the tail of the
field when they straightened for home,
but finished into a close fourth place with
a run that should have been a guide to
punters when later she was saddled up
again. Petruchio once more flattered his
supporters with his early pace, and once
more faded out. Vergure, well up all the
way, hung on a shade better than he has
been doing to finish a close third to
Marengo, whose strong finishing run was
too good for Penthides, who looked the
winner at the leger.
F. Christey has all the makings of a
more than ordinarily useful stayer in
Dewar (Madagascar-Repetition). A four-
year-old bay horse, Dewar has only
once given his backers a poor sight for
their money since he won City Tatt.’s
Novice Handicap at Randwick on
October 19. In six starts since he has
had three wins, not beating anything of
much account, but doing it well. The
best class horse in Saturday’s field was
Mohican, who, on that account appar-
ently, was made a 3-to-l favorite, though
he has done nothing of any note since an
enforced 12 months’ rest, and would have
been a doubtful investment over li mile
at the best of times. J. Thompson, hav-
ing his second winning ride, after pilot-
ing Marengo, had Dewar always fairly
handy behind the small field, and already
moving up with five furlongs to go.
Dewar came along freely on the outside,
and in the straight made an exhibition
of it, beating Valhalla —having a change
from successful hurdling—by four lengths,
with Mohican best of the moderate rest.
Dewar’s dam produced the next win-
ner also, T. L. Baillieu’s snappily-named
Fancy Free (he is by Brazen-Repetition)
taking the first division of the Farm
Novice in a splendid finish, heads separat-
ing Fancy Free, Old Sport and Royal
Emblem over the last furlong. They
finished in that order. The second divi-
sion winner, Home Rule (Irish Prince-
Amanton), one of F. W. Hughes’s end-
less string, was 33 to 1 with the books,
£ll 14s. 3d. for ss. on the tote. He beat
the even “rougher” Petasus (£6 14s.
place) and Tom’s Pick (15 to 1).
The race that produced all the fuss
attracted 15 starters, and most of them
looked to have some chance. It still bore
that open appearance with only a furlong
left to cover, the field piling up passing
the leger, and only a couple of lengths
covering half a dozen of them at the
finish. Blinky Bill made a game bid to lead
all the way. He led a length or so to the
turn, and there came away a couple more
lengths ; only a small horse, he’ll prob-
ably do better shortly under a lighter
scale: he was a close fifth, giving weight
to all who finished in front of him. The
winner, Hash, was handy throughout—
that might have peeved punters taking
a retrospective view, but this was not a
sprint field. Hash finished strongly, but
not more so than Tusculum, who came
from second-last turning for home, to
cut Opportunist out of second money.
Randwick bookmakers who bet on
Melbourne events reaped a handsome
reward through, it seemed, using a little
psychological nous in summing up the
probable state of mind of local Eclipse
Stakes punters. Boards showed Mildura
a 5-to-2 favorite, with Reading 7 to 2,
which represented local opinion on the
event. Unknown to these punters, the
pair were equal second favorites at 7 to 1
in Melbourne. At the Randwick odds
they were backed as if they were the only
two in it, and books stood up to this
rush with an accommodating courage
quite worthy of all the circumstances.
Had the Randwick odds been 7 to 1
there probably would not have been any-
thing like the rush.
* * * *
A protest by the rider of Crackniak
against Cazaly, first past the post in the
Novice Handicap at Kilmore (Vic.), re-
sulted in the stewards disqualifying
Cazaly and placing him third to Crack-
niak and Speech, third past the post. This
unusual reshuffle caused considerable
comment, but, although no complaint had
been lodged on behalf of Speech, Cazaly
interfered with that gelding also. The
stewards acted within their rights. Stipen-
diary Shea was reported as having stated
that action would have been taken had
no protest been lodged.
Racing historians, probing for prece-
dents for the Speech case, had to go
back 17 years. At Aspendale Park in
September, 1923, Powtraven won the
Brush Steeplechase from Ooldea.
Although no protest was entered by the
rider or owner of the second horse, the
stewards, acting on what they themselves
had seen in the straight, disqualified Pow-
traven and declared Ooldea the winner,
and elevated the third horse to second
position. No horse was placed third.
* * * *
Recent results suggest that Fleming-
ton’s “bogey,” the outside or grandstand
side of the straight track, is losing some
of its terrors. Ted McMenamin helped
to lay the ghost when he took Pooka up
the supposed slow side to win the Ottawa
Stakes, and other jockeys have since
steered a similar course with excellent
results. Flemington’s curator has always
contended that each side of the straight
six affords equally good going, and that
riders themselves have furthered a false
impression by always crowding towards
the inside. People are now swinging to
his way of thinking.
That “slow” side became a major
problem for the V.R.C. Removal of the
hedge under the flat-side rails was its
final way of attempting to combat the
conviction that a horse drawn wide at
the barrier had little, if any, chance of
success. The hedge acted as a windbreak
for horses on the flat side from the
entrance of the course proper to the
finish, and in wet weather helped to
absorb moisture on that side of the track.
That was the general idea, anyway.
* * * *
“T.”: It was reckoned unfortu-
nate that Remarc had no chance
of continuing the great record of
Westralian-owned horses in the V.A.T.C.
Eclipse Stakes, but True Flight proved
a most efficient substitute. Though
probably still capable of improvement,
Remarc has amply justified Paddy Con-
nolly’s high opinion of him, expressed
after the Marconigram stallion had won
the Hannans Handicap and the Goldfields
Newmarket and run second in the Kal-
goorlie Cup. “Best horse I have had
since Jolly Beggar,” the veteran then
said; and few would venture to differ
from the owner of so many good horses,
most of which he himself trained.
The achievements of Westralian-owned
horses, mostly bought as yearlings at
Sydney and Melbourne sales, in big Mel-
bourne and Sydney races are remarkable
altogether. Over a period of 35 years
they have won more big events in the
principal centres of racing than horses
from Queensland, South Australia and
Tasmania put together—which shows that
Westralian racing men are or employ good
pickers and that their trainers know their
business. Beginning with the horse with
which Connolly won the Melbourne Cup,
here is a list of their principal perform-
ances in Westralia, Victoria and N. S.
Wales:
Blue Spec: First Kalgoorlie and Perth Cups,
1904, and Melbourne Cup, 1905.
Dyed Garments: First Sydney Cup, 1908;
first Boulder Cup and second Kalgoorlie Cup,
1910.
Jolly Beggar: First W.A. Derby and second
Perth Cup, 1909; first Perth Cup, 1910; second
V.R.C. Newmarket and first A.J.C. Doncaster,
1913.
Lilyveil: First Hannans Handicap and
Boulder Cup, 1912; second Perth Cup, 1913;
first W.A. Railway Stakes and Sydney Cup,
1914.
Macadam: First Perth Cup, 1918, and Aus-
tralian Cup, 1920.
New Tipperary: Second Perth Cup, 1918;
first Australian Cup, 1919.
lan ’Or: Second Perth Cup, 1917; first
Sydney Cup, 1919.
Eurythmic: Dead-heat (with Rivose) Perth
Cup, 1919; first Caulfield Cup, 1920; Sydney
Cup, 1921; Caulfield Stakes, 1920, 1921 and
1922; V.A.T.C. Futurity Stakes, 1922; second,
1923 ; first Melbourne (now Mackinnon) Stakes,
1920 and 1921.
Lilypond: First W.A. Derby, 1923 ; Perth
Cup, 1924; Sydney Cup, 1925.
Easingwold: Second Newmarket, Caulfield
Cup and Cantala Stakes, 1923. A good winner
on Melbourne courses and at Randwick.
Feathernest: First Kalgoorlie Cup, 1923 ;
second Caulfield Cup, 1924.
Maple: First W.A. Derby, 1926; third Perth
Cup, 1927; first Caulfield Cup, 1928.
The Dimmer: First Perth Cup and Cox
Stakes, 1931; A.J.C. Autumn Stakes, Sydney
Cup, Cumberland Stakes and A.J.C. Plate, 1931.
Second Wind: First W.A. Derby, 1928;
second Melbourne Cup, 1930; first Williams-
town Cup, 1930 and 1931, and King’s Cup,
1933.
Art: Second W.A. Imperial Stakes and first
Moonee Valley and Werribee Cups, 1935.
Apollo: Second Sydney Cup, 1937.
Balkan Prince: Second W.A. Derby, 1935;
first Imperial Stakes and V.R.C. Hotham Han-
dicap, 1936; third Melbourne Cup, 1936; third
Toorak Handicap; first V.A.T.C. Eclipse
Stakes and second King’s Cup, 1937.
Manolive: First Perth Cup, 1937; V.R.C.
Final Handicap, Williamstown Cup and Eclipse
Stakes, 1938.
Maikai: First Perth Cup," 1937; second, Caul-
field Cup, 1939; second Melbourne Cup, 1939
and 1940; third Sydney Cup, 1939; first Wil-
liamstown Cup and Eclipse Stakes, 1939; first
A.J.C. Autumn Stakes and Cumberland Plate,
1940.
Tetreen: First W.A. Railway Stakes, Lee
Steere Stakes, V.R.C. Brunswick Stakes; second
Bourke Handicap and Leonard Stakes, 1938-39.
Dark David: Third Perth Cup, first Imperial
Stakes, second Australian Cup, 1938-39; first
Australian Steeplechase, 1940.
True Flight: First W.A. Derby, second Perth
Cup, first Mentone Cup, V.R.C. Stand Handi-
cap and V.A.T.C. Eclipse Stakes, 1939-40.
Remarc: First Hannans Handicap, Boulder
Newmarket and Williamstown Cup, 1940.
Others deserving of inclusion are Foot-
mark (Werribee Cup), Gay Balkan, Gay
Prince and, going back quarter of a
century or more, Artesian and Mistico.
Artesian was Lilyveil’s master in the
West, and Mistico, in addition to having
a great Westralian record, beat Magpie
at w.f.a. Before Eurythmic came along,
many Westralians held that Mistico was
the best horse ever seen in their State.
* * * *
Though All Love smashed the Aus-
tralian record for five furlongs when she
won the Gimcrack Stakes in 58|, and
equalled that time in winning the Byron
Moore Stakes, Jack Cush believes that
staying will be her forte, and looks to
her to create new records over longer
trips. He may be correct, too, as All
Love’s sire, Double Remove, is by the
English Derby winner Felstead, and
comes from the same family as Magpie,
Heroic and many other noted racehorses
and sires of stayers. Beauvue, dam of All
Love, is by Legionnaire from Girton Girl,
a sprinter herself, and by a sire of sprin-
ters, Linacre, but she traces back to the
dam of Maltine, who won a Metropoli-
tan and produced Jocelyn, another Met-
rop. winner. Perhaps All Love will be
another staying mare in the family. Mean-
while she is resting until it is time to
begin her preparation for the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes in Melbourne and Sydney.
While All Love is the fastest juvenile
filly seen for years, her half-sister Much
To Say, a year older, has been disappoint-
ing. Much To Say gave some promise
last season, when she won a division of a
Maiden Two-year-old at Caulfield and
was placed in three other races, but her
owner tired of her and offered her for
sale in March. A bid of 240 guineas was
refused. She changed hands later, and
has yet to win a race for her new owners.
In any case, All Love enhances her value
as a brood mare.
* * * *
The fact that aged horses finished first
and second in the Melbourne Cup is
regarded by many men as evidence that
our stayers are not as good as they were.
It is a question which no amount of argu-
ment will settle satisfactorily, but Charles
Wheeler, who won Melbourne Cups with
The Parisian and Patrobas, contends that
racing clubs are catering less for stayers
now than in the past. Backing up his
argument that the tendency is to decrease
rather than increase distances, he points
out that the Eclipse Stakes was run over
11 furlongs at Caulfield but only
10 furlongs at Flemington this year
because there is no 11-furlongs start-
ing-point at Flemington. Wheeler is
only one of many who consider that the
V.A.T.C. should, in the circumstances,
have added a furlong to the distance in-
stead of taking a furlong off.
* * * *
Robert Dixson, the tobacco manufac-
turer, was a very religious man, and it
has always been understood that son
Hugh, who died last week, changed his
name to Denison because he knew the
old man would not have approved of his
racing ventures. He changed it in 1907,
when Poseidon had proved himself the
best horse in Australia—second in the
Metrop., winner of the two Derbies, the
two Cups and the two Legers, and winner
of the Caulfield Cup again. Denison
owned other pretty good horses, such as
Habashon (Villiers) and Dark Chief
(Moonee Valley Cup), and bred some
decent ones ; but he never got another
like Poseidon.
* * * *
Pandect was an acceptor for the Eclipse
Stakes on Saturday, but, because of an
injury to one of his hind legs, it was
decided not to start him. The trouble is
not serious, but the A.J.C. Derby winner
is too valuable a colt for unnecessary
risks to be taken. Pandect’s dam Credit,
though she gained no fame on the race-
course, was reckoned by Donohoe one of
the fastest gallopers he has trained—faster
even than Figure, with whom Donohoe
won an Oakleigh Plate. An injury sus-
tained on the training track ruined her
racing career. An offer of 75 guineas
was refused for Credit when put up for
sale. Donohoe prevailed upon Wren to
breed from her. He suggested Pantheon
as a suitable mate, and, although early
results were disappointing, the fourth
mating of Credit with that sire produced
Pandect.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Dundee Downs Bennell
Anyone dropping in at Leichhardt last
week and having one of the chaps in the
ring pointed out as Hockey Bennell,
welterweight champion of Australia, must
have thought that the Noble Art, too,
had gone over to surrealism. Certainly
few things less like a champion have been
sighted outside a dance hall. If this was
authentic Hockey, he’d be worth paying
a handsome retainer to stay at home.
It isn’t the first time he’s performed
like an anaemic Jack-in-the-box when the
title wasn’t at stake. It’s not so long
back that, in a non-title affair at this
same address, he was outed early in the
piece by one of the Brander clan. The
title hoisted for a return engagement, he
made Brander look a gift.
In this meeting with Dundee there was
what may have been a reasonable excuse
swinging aloft above Hockey’s head. He'd
undertaken to make lOst. for the scrap,


AUXILIARY KETCH YACHT HURRICA V.
Designed by MR. CHARLES NICHOLSON, of Messrs. Camper and
Nicholsons, Gosport, Hampshire, England. Built by Wm. Ford, Junior,
at Berry’s Bay, North Sydney.
sdf
sd
Cost £lO,OOO.
Will accept £3500 Nett.
Now lying at Williamstown.
Length overall, 58ft. 3in.
Beam, extreme, 14ft.
Draught, loaded, 7ft.
Length between perpendiculars,
48ft. Bin.
Water-line length, 41ft. 9in.
Lead on keel, 10 tons.
Lead inside, trimming ballast,
about li tons.
Engine, Gardner 3 D.C.R.,
36 H.P.
Propeller at present shipped,
2 blades, 24in. diameter, 16in.
pitch.
Another propeller, aboard, 3
blades, 24in. diameter, 16in.
pitch.
Full equipment of sails, and
3 anchors, 2 chain cables and
1 coir cable.
Two dingheys.
For Particulars, Enquire:—
CHARLES FORRESTER & CO. PTY., LTD.,
15 Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Give Useful Presents This
Christmas
★
THE
“T'MURRA”
' *DI S' SADDLE
★
£7/11/-
(COMPLETE)
This is an attrac-
tive Saddle with
Pigskin Seat and
Pads. It has
English style pads
—s hort panel
with padding ex-
tended down under
kneepad for in-
areased protection.
Send for our Saddlery Catalogue.
MOTHER & STEVEHSOM'To:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDHEY
:<00»-x
r
4
&
Weily cf"VJ'd/V SGiiUjlvt -
iwoyjfc V « «
Cv c iMefteJ*
IVE him what he wants . . . for a man’s as
much embarrassed by the kind of gift he
doesn’t really appreciate, as a woman is to find
herself in the wrong clothes at a party. And a
Gillette’s a gift after every man’s heart. For
whatever his tastes, his interests or his age,
every man appreciates a perfect shave.
He
6A'S
5^
:w
No. 45 Set contains the new
Gillette one-piece razor (Popular
Model) —no loose parts, no sep-
arate pieces to assemble. Just
twist the handle and the blade is
ready for cleaning or replace-
ment ; twist again and the razor
is ready for use. Complete in
blue moulded case with three
Blue Gillette Blades... Price B ft
■fc Other Gillette Sets
from 2/6 to 45/-
fghfgh
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
and the board said 9.13 L In fact, on
the stated weights, he was lighter than
Dundee, who holds the State lightweight
title. Let it serve, then, as a possible
excuse that he’d weakened himself taking
off weight. That appeared to be what
was the matter over the concluding
rounds of the fiasco.
Hockey won the first three rounds,
apparently with the greatest of ease. He
had Jimmy going back all the time, and,
when he could catch up with James, hit
him where, when and how he liked. In
the fourth he chased Jimmy clean across
the ring, snapping his left at him. Brought
up by the ropes on the other side, Jimmy
shot out a neat inside right which took
Hockey on the jaw. Hockey fell side-
ways along the ropes, and saved himself
from going down by grabbing the top
one; he then hung on, recovered some-
what, and looked to be boxing the head
off Jimmy as the round ended. But from
then on Hockey’s performance was de-
plorable. He got worse and worse, and
it didn’t help the affair as a spectacle that
Jimmy looked to be as hard put to it to
land a punch as Hockey was to do any-
thing whatever. In the tenth Hockey
went down for “two,” up and down again
for “seven,” and was going down again
when the towel came in.
That ancient acknowledgment of defeat
is not supposed to hold good under
present rules, so it may have been merely
a coincidence that at the same moment
ref. Pearson declared Dundee the winner.
Happily, the preceding scrap, a 10-
rounder, had been a clinker. This
was the South Australian lad Ron
Dennis v. Tommy Hunter, who hails
from the wild coal lands in the north.
Tommy, who has the rare virtue for these
times of always making a fight of it when
he gets into the ring, suited Ron, a very
neat boxer but lacking a lethal punch.
Tommy hit harder all the way through,
and made the fight as well, but Ron’s
deverness gave him a clear winning mar-
gin. He placed his left extra well early
in the piece, and later used his right just
as nicely to the body. A particularly
cool customer, the former S.A. amateur
champ, has still had only a few profes-
sional fights, even though some of them
have been as far afield as Singapore. This
was the best form he has shown in
Sydney.
The Mayor of North Sydney has barged
into the promotion business, arranging
an open-air charity scrap for the North
Sydney Oval on Boxing Night—Tod Mor-
gan v. Joe Hall, with the Australian
lightweight title at issue. Amateur scrap-
pers are to help enliven the evening, but
if the Mayor knows his onions he’ll have
a first-rate 10-rounder to back the main
scrap up. If Vic Patrick wins his scrap
with Farrington tomorrow (Thursday)
night, he’d make a good draw card.
According to furphy, Morgan and Hall
are to get set sums, not percentages, and
not remarkably high sums, either. They
ought to get a decent cut of the house.
After all, it is they and not the charities
who have the job in front of them, and
while charities go on for ever, boxers
don’t. Even Tod must come to the end
of his tether one day, and he’s a freak.
Now rising 38, he’s crossing the continent
from W.A. for the scrap.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
One of the most valuable pieces of
course machinery in the American
autumn, when most of the links are
covered with leaves, is the hand-pushed
leaf-gatherer. Like a big vacuum-cleaner,
it is wheeled over the fairways and
greens. Most of the clubs possess three
or four of the machines —and they are
necessary.
George S. May, a Chicago business-
man and a generous patron of golf, is
to stage a 10,000-dollar open champion-
ship on his Tam-o’-Shanter course next
July. This event will probably be incor-
porated with the present Chicago open
championship, as the officials are
seriously considering abandoning their
5000-dollar event and putting their sup-
port behind May’s tournament.
May has done a lot for the game. He
is the employer of Wilford Wehrle, the
amateur —retains him to play with May
and his friends at the Tam-o’-Shanter
Club. Tam-o’-Shanter was the scene of
Dick Metz’s success in the Chicago open
in July, when he scored 278 to beat
Hogan 279, Revolta 279 and my total of
280 for the title.
In a game at the Army and Navy
Country Club in Washington I pushed
my drive out slightly on the ninth hole
and found my ball in a trench used in
the Civil War. This relic of past his-
tory and several unfilled shellholes
of the period are the treasured memen-
toes of some old generals in the club.
The course is a fine one ; it includes an
extra nine holes that can be used with
either of the other nine to produce a
testing 18 holes. The property abounds
with historic spots, including the site of
an old fort which the British bombarded
in the War of Independence.
The capital has several good courses.
During my brief stay I saw Joe Kirk-
wood, junior, son of the trick-shot player
from Manly (Sydney), in action in a
play-off for an amateur-pro. tournament,
when he and his father were defeated on
the last green. Joe, jun., is stationed at
a Baltimore club.
With the colder weather now evident
in the northern part of the United States
the majority of golfers are reluctantly
getting prepared to pack up their clubs
for the next few months. The fortunate
preparing to pack up their clubs for the
next few months. Those who can afford
it move down to Florida and other sub-
tropical places where the winter can be
enjoyed in weather comparable to that
in Brisbane during June and July.
R. T. (Bobby) Jones has stated that he
can get as much stop on the ball with a
smooth-faced club as with a well-marked
face. Jones was commenting upon the
announcement by the U.S. Golf Associa-
tion that the face-markings on club faces
will be regulated after January 1, 1942.
Jones also revealed that he has never
used a sand-wedge to recover from
bunkers. He prefers an ordinary heavy
No. 9 (niblick) for sand recoveries.
In good hands either club is equally
useful. Jones retired in 1930 when he
won the Big Four —British open and
amateur and the American open and
amateur.
Ins and Outs
The cricket on the first day of the
patriotic match N.S.W. v. Queensland-
Victoria, at Brisbane, was for the most
part dreary in the extreme. The Q.-Vs.
were out for 202 (Tallon 55 ; Trumper
three for 37, McCool three for 39,
O’Reilly three for 46). N. S. Wales put
together 429 (Barnes 144, Gulliver 66
n. 0., Saggers 58, McCool 52 ; Raymer
three for 85, Ring three for 143).
Tallon again topscored in the combined
team’s second dig (416) —152 in 114
minutes, and easily the brightest bit of
batting in the match. Hassett helped
with a painstaking (and at times painful)
96. Behind the wickets Saggers snapped
up seven catches, and Gulliver took five
for 80.
Four years ago a little band of opti-
mists calling themselves the Newcastle
Shark and Swordfish Club began to
chase the elusive marlin around Port
Stephens and Newcastle. That year A. F.
D’Ombrain gained the doubtful distinc-
tion of losing their first marlin. In the
following year A. B. K. Watkins landed
the first ever known to have been caught
off Newcastle —a mere babe of 761 b. With
its name changed to the Newcastle and
Port Stephens Game-fishing Club and its
headquarters at Newcastle Tatt.’s fine
building, the optimists have done things.
On Nov. 21 the Newcastle Tatt.’s presi-
dent handed over ten fine trophies and
many certificates for the 17 marlin and
six sharks taken by club members during
the season just ended. Club records show
a 11361 b. tiger shark caught by F. Flohm,
a world’s record black stingray (3401 b.)
taken by A. B. K. Watkins, and a 1651 b.
bronze whaler shark —on 12 cord —by
A. F. D’Ombrain. Every member who
fished last season got his marlin.


HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 ftiles
of tiny tubes or filers which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pound 3
of waste. . ~ „ .
-An excess of acids or poisons In your blood
fere the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, legpains, loss of pep
and ienergy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, puffiness under the eyes, head-
aches and dizziness. _ .
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
feet rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these_ poisons
causing serious trouble. Don't wait! As*
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of people. Tney
give quick relief and will help to flush out tne
15 MILES of kidney tubes._ Get DOAN S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS it ZQUT fhemhs
pr (store,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There was a bumper house for the
Noel Coward matinee for the Red Cross.
The prices were two guineas, one guinea
and 10s. 6d., and for 7s. 6d. you could
stand or sit on the steps of the dress-
circle. Mr. Coward came on and sang
songs of his own composition in prob-
ably the smallest voice that has ever been
raised professionally under the Southern
Cross. He sang about “The Marvellous
Party,” which is funny, and “The Stately
Homes of England,” which Mr. Gilbert
rather more wittily guyed quite a time
ago in “Pirates” and “Ruddigore.” But
this writer gives Mr. Coward decoration
with or without bar (or should we say
wet canteen these days?) for his inter-
pretation of “Some Day I’ll Find You”
and “We Were Dancing.” That was
worth ten guineas to any person with
an urge to sing or recite. No woman
over 30 could listen and not conjure up
ghosts as tender as a breeze rustling the
verbena.
* Mr. Coward may be a big pot in Lon-
don and in Sydney, but he’d be nowhere
in Egypt with the troops compared with
Levante’s magic kettle. Whatever liquor
is called for pours from its spout —beer,
milk (think how the boys would rush
the milk!). One man even called for a
whisky and soda at the matinee, and got
it. Peter Dawson’s rich voice and com-
plete art added nobility to the bill. The
women soloists were Marie Burke, Elsa
Stenning and Marie Bremner. Miss
Bremner’s ivory satins were star-spangled,
and she gave her usual lady-in-a-minia-
ture impression. Edwin Styles knit the
whole together with laugh-raising patter.
When Grace Prior, granddaughter of
The Bulletin’s former loved chief, S. H.
Prior, and eldest daughter of the Bruce
Priors, of Mosman, married Flying-
Officer Rollo Kingsford Smith (he’s a son
of the W. Kingsford Smiths of Wollstone-
craft), the whole wedding was as fresh
and bright as the field flowers the brides-
maids carried. It was a Saturday morning
affair, and bride, ’groom, ’maids and best
man and groomsmen were so young
somebody remarked “Ah! A Saturday
morning children’s party.” Later one of
the telegrams read apologised for not
being able to send toy balloons, as they
were being used for the barrage at Brin-
disi. This was signed “Ciano.”
The Mosman kirk held quite an
audience in addition to relations and
friends of bride and ’groom to hear Padre
Macdonald tie the knot. Grace was a
slim slip of girlhood in floating white
organza and a Honiton lace veil (over
100 years old, lent by Helen Mcßobert),
with red roses in her hair and in her
hands. The four ’maids, Dorothy Sellars,
cousin Joan Prior and sisters June and
Marion, in their blue organdie and poke
bonnets, were like dolls off a Christmas
tree. Lieut. Geoffrey Matenson was best
man, and Flying-Officer Alan McCor-
mack and Rollo’s two brothers, Flying-
Officer John and Pilot-Trainee Peter, were
the groomsmen. The reception-rooms of
Dundoo, home of the bride’s aunt, Edith
Prior, were fragrant with gladioli, roses
and delphiniums (even the cake blended
into the color-scheme with its faintly blue
icing). Here the bride’s parents welcomed
the guests, Mrs. Prior wearing moonstone-
blue crepes and a wide-brimmed hat.
Mrs. Ken Prior and Edith Prior also
wore blue, the former’s a lupin shade
and the latter’s a deep sapphire. The
’groom’s mother chose black, which she
brightened up with pearls the shade of
her pink sailor hat.
Noel Coward, still weaving doubloons
for the Red Cross, went to Romano’s and
seemed to enjoy both dinner and dancing
supplied by that management to all 250
present, entirely free of charge. At three
guineas a ticket that means a sizable
cheque for the cause. The menus struck
a note of dignity. They were long and
of stiff white paper, and on the cover was
printed a crown in the left-hand corner
and below the lettering was set a red
cross. Guest of the night arrived about
nine o’clock with hostess Mrs. Jimmy
Dickson. Grouped with them were the
Alexander Gordon lady, the Hon. Hen-
rietta Loder and Peter Lubbock. With
a complete lack of self-consciousness Mr.
Coward popped along to the microphone
and did his broadcast numbers, while all
present bated the breath.
Later still, when the ferry traveller had
left for her last boat, Mr. Coward was
timed to sing, still again, ‘The Marvellous
Party” and “The Stately Homes of Eng-
land.” Just as the party broke lawman
W. R. Dovey paid tribute to Romano’s
generosity. Every woman wore a
gardenia. It was a pretty touch.
They were the gift of the com-
mittee. The Hon. Henrietta Loder and
Mrs. D. Yaffa were among those who
carried the fragrance-heaped trays among
the groups. White clouds of November
lilies and the swirl of white frocks are
persistent memories of this dance.
Notables were Captain and Mrs. Mc-
Eacharn. They travelled over in the ship
with Noel. They had been staying in
Quebec with the Governor-General of
Canada and his wife, the Princess Alice,
Countess of Athlone, who is first cousin
to Mrs. McEacharn. Mrs. R. H. Bet-
tington’s sweeping frock of white pique
with bolero had a very tropical look.
Mrs. Jim Lowry, of Maoriland, was a
belle in softly-spreading organza, all
diagonal mauve and purple stripes.
Jimmy Bancks and his wife were there ;
and Joyce Godsall, from Brisbane, her
mist-blue laces made with a frilled apron
effect, was a decoration in herself. She
was with the Moore Cosgraves.
Whether it was the atmosphere of
Mayfair or Belgravia brought in by the
playwright or not, the night seemed to
lack zip. Everything, though, was de
luxe. Among the well-dressed were Mrs.
Ernest Watt, Mrs. John Fairfax and Mar-
garet Dovey. Deep blue and silver lame
glittered on Mrs. Wallace Anderson and
on Mrs. Ron Mackellar, from Wollon-
gong. On Ruby Adams’s black laces
burned a great butterfly of black opal and
emeralds. Mrs. Frank Packer, in lilac-
time taffetas, Mrs. lan Gordon Spencer,
Barbara Knox, Mrs. Muirhead-Gould
and Mrs. Alan Potter were others in the
dazzle.
This Letter feels it must put the seal
of appreciation on Lord Lurgan’s kindly
interest in a young Sydney singer. Lord
Lurgan, who came to Australia for the
A.8.C., had heard a record of Joy Denny
singing “Bird Songs at Eventide,” and
was struck by the pure quality of her
soprano. He asked to meet her, and
she sang a group of songs for him. They
were “The Indian Love Call” from “Rose
Marie,” Landon Ronald’s “Down in the
Forest” and Eric Coates’s “Bird Songs
at Eventide.” That this promising student
of Emily Marks might continue to sing
only good music and be trained in the
proper tradition, Lord Lurgan has left
a trust fund to ensure the continuation
of her musical studies. Joy intends to
continue working with Emily Marks, with
whom she has been for three years. In
addition she is now with Claude Flemming
for dramatic art and stage training.
Photograph from H. Johnston.
Gwen Taylor, who was a teacher of
singing, and whose voice held an unusual
quality, got to England just before the
war broke. Gwen’s journey was made with
a view to continuing her vocal studies,
and before she left Sydney she gave a
recital which crowded the Conserva-
torium. When war started, she got a
job in the Ministry of Information, and
has been doing her bit. Writing to a
Sydney friend late in September she tells
of being in an underground train with
thousands of others when the front of
the train caught on fire ; and although
nobody was hurt her own horror was in-
tense when she found after a hasty de-
camping on to a platform that she had
her feet in a dozen of eggs—“eggs being
scarcer than pearls.” She tells of the
indomitable little Cockney whom she had
interviewed at the office. The cheery
soul had been bombed out of two houses
and had decided to go hop-picking in
Kent.
In Gwen’s own home cellar there are
two camp beds and a deckchair, and she
and her friends take it in turns to use
the chair. There are so many brave and
beautiful things in this letter that it
brought tears to the eyes. “I feel,” she
writes, “supremely confident of the
ultimate outcome, however many of us
are killed in the process.” Last week
Gwen’s dwelling was hit by a bomb,
and only after some hours was the Sydney
girl drawn out of the debris. Padre
Short, who knew Gwen in Wagga, and
who is now a chaplain with the army,
cabled her friends at the Teachers’ College
to say that she is in hospital suffering
from severe concussion.
And here’s how the schoolgirl looks
at it:
It would be nice to come out and see you
all, but I’d rather come in peace-time. I
should be scared stiff of U-boats or anything
like that. We’ve been having lots of air raids
over here. We’ve had over 70 warnings in
Bristol, but luckily very little damage has been
done. Bryan and I sleep down in the air-
raid shelter; it is much nicer than getting up
in the middle of the night and trooping down-
stairs. Last term at school we had just started
a foul geometry exam, when the sirens went;
it was jolly nice, as we missed half the exam.
We’re not having very nice weather; it’s more
like late September than August. It’s rather
good weather for tennis, though—you get so
tired playing on a scorching day. There is a
big garden in the middle of the square which
everyone who lives in the square can use. It’s
very nice because there are three tennis courts
and you can play when you like. Please ex-
cuse small writing, but I’m saving paper.
A few years ago a talented pianist,
Beatrice Ainsworth, went to London with
her mother and sisters. One sister,
Catharine, became Mrs. Richard Jacobs,
and was up to the time of her return to
Australia engaged in the studio of
Marcus Adams. He is the famed photo-
grapher of children, and takes all the
young royalties. One of his rules is that,
no matter how exalted the child is who
comes to his studio, he or she, within
his walls, is always called by the Chris-
tian name. This applied even to Princess
Elizabeth. Mrs. Jacobs, who came to
Sydney with her baby daughter, does not
care to think what may have happened
to the studio since her departure, as
Dover-street, where it stood, has been
visited by bombs. She had her adven-
tures on her journey from England. The
liner she was in collided with another,
and she was thereby delayed in South
Africa for seven weeks. Beatrice Ains-
worth, who often plays with the 8.8. C.,
is now a W.A.A.F. Younger sister
Patricia has trained as a nurse at Bart’s.
Musical Sydney still remembers Mrs. de
Beaupuis. When Mrs. Jacobs left Eng-
land she and daughter Mrs. Marjorie
Osborne were well and full of courage.
Marcus Adams photograph.
All the lovely and heroic ladies of
history (and this means Bible history,
too) emerged bright from the lavender
wrappings of memory at the pageant
which the “old girls” of Hopewood
House presented last week. “They Made
You Possible” was the title of the pro-
duction, and the idea was driven home by
ballet, song and short play. What the girl
of today owes to the women of the past
was interpreted in dances arranged by
Gertrude Bodenweiser, and by the play
by the school’s principal, Nancy Jobson.
Cleopatra, Vashti, Helen of Troy, Mar-
garet of Scotland and Cathleen ni Houli-
han were among those who made speech,
as did some of the heroines of Yeats’s
plays. On the opening night a group of
former pupils helped Miss Jobson to re-
ceive her guests. Her black frock was
glitteringly banded in diamente. The
Bomb Victims’ Fund will benefit by the
production.
On Sunday evening, December 15, the
Dutch community in Sydney is having
an invitation presentment of pictures at
the Savoy. This is in aid of the Prince
Bernhard Spitfire Fund, and the Nether-
lands community here is out to add one
to the R.A.F.
Levante got busy with his magic kettle
and gave a tea party at the Royal for
newspaper women and men one morning
last week. He and his daughter merrily
appeared and disappeared in the box and
the cabinet, and after she emerged Esme
got busy and tidied her hair, thus prov-
ing that everything was aboveboard.
Presswomen handed up rings, and the
magician fired them from a gun into a
tied-up box and then produced them
whole and entire and tied to little posies.
E. J. Tait was thrilled with some card
tricks —as who wouldn’t be? Levante
himself has a splendid gold watch, flat as
a wafer, given to him by the “Inner Magic
Circle” in London. He also has an
impressive document—a warrant for the
arrest of a milkcan which he used in his
line of business somewhere in a border
town in China. Incidentally, too, the
manager of the show was haled off with
the can. It cost a lot of explanation and
five dollars to straighten things out. Mrs.
Levante, who appears in shadow
silhouettes in her husband’s show, is a
Queenslander.
William Morris Hughes spoke for 20
minutes on Saturday at the Empire Fete
in aid of the Red Cross before he de-
clared it “open.” He spoke of the weather,
of the war, of the new taxation (not that
he grumbled about that) and of the help
needed by the Red Cross. And all the
time the rain came steadily pouring down,
but not on his head. He was protected by
an umbrella held by the Alexander
Gordon lady. Not that the length of his
speech mattered to the success of the fete,
which was held at Fairwater, the home of
the Fairfax lady. Lots of people had come
early in the afternoon and in raincoats and
goloshes had gone the round of the stalls ;
others wandered away from the speech-
making group and got busy on their buy-
ing, trying their luck at hoop-la or took
their place in the queue before the for-
tune-teller’s table. But the luckiest of all
had come in the morning before the rain
started, had seen the stalls in all their
glory, and had got way with arms and
bags filled with the good things —pickles,
jams, vegetables and flowers —for which
this fair is always noted.
The sort of thing that brings a glow
to the heart of any organiser is for the
telephone to ring on the day of a party
and to be told “I have booked for 16
but I am bringing 25.” This is what hap-
pened repeatedly in connection with the
party for the C.U.S.A. Navy Unit. So
no wonder there were smiles on every
committeewoman’s face at the Australia
on Wednesday. The banqueting-hall was
filled with the silence that indicates in-
terested bridge players ; the ballroom with
fun and chatter and the whirr of the
chocolate-wheel. The race game was a
big attraction. Under the direction of
American Airways man Edward Forrest
and Bob Jose, Marie Coen and other
pretty girls acted as jockeys and moved
up the geegees. Aileen Britton, Dorothy
Porter and Rosamund Dowling were
others who helped keep the fun rolling.
Commodore Muirhead-Gould, his wife
and Miss Kate Egan were the guests of
honor. They were received by Mrs. C.
Du Val, the president of the Navy Unit,
and Mrs. Harry Daley, the hon. sec. Mrs.
Hamilton Kirkland wore a hostess badge
as well as a spray of gardenias on her
spreading black taffetas; Mrs. Cecil
Mayo was another hostess. Dr. Joseph
Coen and Mrs. Coen and Mrs. John
Gould were among those who found the
bowling alley an attraction.
The tall form of knight Robert Garran
will be missed from the streets of Can-
berra, as he has left for the U.S.A. on
a trip of some months’ duration. The
Sydney P.E.N. Club, of which he is presi-
dent, farewelled him at dinner at the
Carlton. Robert is going to talk to the
Rotary Clubs of U.S.A. about us and our
doings.
A cable has been received by the
Joseph Coens that son Kevin, medical
officer of the Royal Scots Fusiliers, was
married on November 9 to Nance
Murphy, of Sydney. The wedding took
place in London; his brother, Lieut.
Joseph Coen, was best man, and Mar-
jorie McPhee, of Darling Point, wa's
bridesmaid.


Personal and Missing Friend.
WOULD REID WILFRED HENDERSON,
last heard of in Sydney, please communicate
with his mother, MRS. WM. HENDERSON,
of Wardsville, Ontario, Canada, now 1163 Hall
Avenue, Windsor, Ontario, Canada?
YEO, Harry George, formerly of Clayfield,
Brisbane, age 42, is requested to communicate
with the A.M.P. Society in Brisbane, when he
will hear something to his advantage.
YEO, Harry George. £250 reward will be paid
to the first person who will inform EDWARDS
& TROUT, Solicitors, Brisbane, of the where-
abouts of HARRY GEORGE YEO, mentioned
in the above advertisement.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1968 of 1940.
BETWEEN IVY IRENE WARD Petitioner and
FREDERICK PATRICK WARD Respondent.
TO FREDERICK PATRICK WARD late of
Ryan’s Road Padstow Park.
TAKE NOTICE that the said IVY IRENE
WARD has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds that you
have without just cause or excuse wilfully de-
serted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Fourteenth day
of February next and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED the Fifteenth day of November,
a.d. 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
E. D. PANCKHURST, Petitioner’s Solicitor,
28 Martin Place, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The march of the A.I.F through the
streets of Melbourne took place on Thurs-
day, out of consideration for shops and
shoppers, to whom Friday is sacred. In-
termittent rain somewhat marred the
spectacle, which was anything but gay in
spite of the novel decorations of street
stalls, the humorous spruikers and the
energetic young women who sold any-
thing from buttons with lucky numbers
to tickets for a Shetland pony. The most
crowded stall, it was interesting to note,
was the one which paid out real money in
prizes instead of cartloads of soft dolls each
a yard high, silk stockings or cigarettes.
As the 2000 picked troops passed by the
Town Hall, where Sir Winston Dugan
took the salute, there was the usual
absence of cheering. Streamers floated
from many of the buildings ; windows
and roofs were crowded with onlookers ;
but the passing of the sun-tanned soldiers
brought a look of sadness to the faces
of the onlookers, even of the very young.
The grim expression of one old Digger
broke into an irrepressible grin as some-
thing in the passing throng reminded him
of Digger doings. Opposite, a grey-haired
old lady, who must have arrived very early
to get such a good ringside seat, waved
her white gloves to each and every line
that passed. When nearly everything else
is debunked in this wicked world, pride
and belief in these young men remain
firmly implanted in our hearts.
An influential committee bearing many
familiar names is working for the
National Theatre’s Red Cross and Com-
forts Fund activities. The Lady Mayoress
is president, with Mrs. Isabel Green as
chairwoman. The Angliss, Knox and
Fraser ladies, Mrs. Sidney B. Myer, Mrs.
G. I. Stevenson and others have been
formed into a permanent committee.
First money-raising effort was a ballet
performance at the Princess on
November 26. Members of the first Aus-
tralian Ballet Co., named after its master
and choreographer, Borovansky, took
part, aided on the programme by some of
Jennie Brenan’s stars, Swan Lake-ing
one minute and performing Scottish con-
tortions in “The Tartans” the next.
Borovansky spent 15 years as a soloist in
the Russian ballet, and has high hopes
of turning his company of 59 Australians
and one foreigner into something worth
talking about. They have been rehears-
ing every day for the last six months,
and are now ready to make their debut
professionally. The first performance,
apart from the initial charitable effort,
will be given at the Comedy on December
9 and 10.
The first exhibition of the Bread and
Cheese Club was a tremendous success,
as far as numbers in audience count, at
any rate. The Velasquez Gallery in
Tye’s Building was crowded to suffoca-
tion point. The carpet salesmen on the
floor above spend their time (when not
selling carpets) in counting the number
of visitors who enter the gallery for any
exhibition. It is safe to say no individual
artist could boast of the record number
of 400 which favored the B. and C.
Club. The object of this exhibition of
art and literature, which will remain open
till November 30, is to promote interest
in—“to advertise and popularise”—such
work in this country. The Vice-Chan-
cellor of the University, J. D. G. Medley,
opened the show with one of his short,
telling speeches. He wilted in the Turkish-
bath atmosphere for a little while, but
was urged on by his wife, “Go on, dear,
get it over. I’ll hold your hat.” He got
it over very effectively, aided and abetted
by “Hear, hears” from R. H. Croll. One
of these went astray when the Knight
Grand Cheese of the Club, J. K. Moir, in
introducing the Vice-Chancellor, said the
introduction was superfluous as the audi-
ence knew him far better than they knew
the speaker. “Hear, hear!”
One of the most interesting onlookers,
and certainly the most excited, was
“Daddy” Long, one-time of the Educa-
tion Department. He showed some of his
contemporaries of the opposite sex his
photograph taken in 1925, when he retired
from the department. It depicts him as
a sprightly youngster of 65 with his
hand on a pile of books which he edited
during his many years’ service. C. R.
Long still finds life exciting at 80. Writers
and artists of any age from that down-
wards were present. Jean Campbell (who
must not be confused with the ancients)
and Alannah Coleman were both present
twice. Jean’s portrait by Lina Bryans
caused a good deal of comment —not
always flattering to the artist or her
novelist model. Alannah exhibited a
self-portrait which she evidently prizes,
judging by the value she has put upon it.
An interesting series of lectures was ar-
ranged, varying in subject from litera-
ture to carpets, and delivered by such
authorities as Prof. Osborne and
Stephanie Taylor. “The Novel from a
National Point of View,” by G. R. Gar-
ner, and “Art in the Carpet,” by R. Jep-
son, are still to come (November 28 and
29).
Barbara Bayles finds pleasure in her
job of organising the Children’s Hospital
fete. She took time off from her arduous
duties to have this photograph taken by
Broothorn. She and Mrs. Ivor Manton,
her fellow-organiser, are both members
of the C.H. committee. They have man-
aged meetings very successfully by get-
ting committee members for the fete
along to their homes, where arrangements
have been made under the pleasantest
conditions. Meeting last week was held
at Barbara’s home, Woorigoleen,
Glendon-road, Toorak. The bazaar will
be held in the hospital grounds on De-
cember 5 and 6, and this year bridge will
be a feature, with Mrs. E. Pullman in
charge. The various suburban auxiliaries
are doing their bit, and the American
Women’s Auxiliary has once more turned
up trumps. Mrs. Clymer is busy with
little books “disposing of” attractive
donations.
The Red Cross Party Drive is proving
a success. With Colin Fraser’s lady as
president and a committee comprising
all the old faithfuls; with radio stations
sponsoring the effort and going full
blast on publicity all day ; with a list
of prizes ranging from a diamond ring
valued at £BO to a modest double ticket
for the movies ; and last, but not least,
society’s love of a party, the venture
couldn’t help but succeed. The idea is
to organise any kind of party —a knitting
party if nothing more exciting suggests
itself—and make a charge to all guests,
the proceeds, of course, to go to the
Red Cross. To be eligible for prizes hos-
tesses must guarantee to raise at least
£l, and must register the party with any
commercial broadcasting station in Vic-
toria or Mrs. C. Buttrose (F 4560). Up
to date 858 parties have been registered,
involving approximately 20,000 guests.
“Lovers’ Leap” proved worth the
organising both as an entertainment and
as a financial success, judging by the
audience. A festive air pervaded the old
Comedy and effectively quelled the hoo-
doo which superstitious actors swear
hovers over it. Bowls of beautiful
flowers graced the foyer, and notable,
too, was the flower arrangement in the
stage drawing-room. Responsible for
this artistic effort were Mrs. Harold Clapp
and daughter Noel.
Boxes on each side of the stage were
occupied by the v.-r. party and the Lord
Mayor and his lady. Lady Dugan was
accompanied by the Armitage lady and
joined by Mrs. Sidney Baillieu Myer and
Mrs. W. Russell Clarke (conveners of
the committee). The chairman of the
Red Cross Society, Dr. Newman Morris,
and Mrs. Morris joined the mayoral
party.
It was a change to see a brilliantly-
frocked theatre audience, and this in
spite of the terrific downpour outside.
Girls sold programmes and sweets ; dow-
agers made an impressive background.
The play itself, produced by Gregan Mc-
Mahon, was saved by witty dialogue—or
so it was judged by the majority of the
audience, which voiced its appreciation
in chuckles, now and again breaking
out into laughter.
Mrs. Aubrey Gibson not only acts ex-
tremely well, but can always be depended
upon to make a sartorial success of any
part. On this occasion she chose a three-
piece ensemble in cyclamen-pink and
black which blended perfectly with the
furnishings and the flowers. John Elder-
shaw’s oil painting of Wannon Bridge
was Dutch-auctioned during the inter-
val and developed into something of a
competition between Mrs. Sidney Myer
and George Dickinson. The gentleman
won, and the Red Cross benefited to the
extent of £6B.
Melbourne’s Little Theatre provided
an absolute contrast in amateur shows
on Saturday night. Nothing of elegance
enhances the little church in South
Yarra, where for years the am. dram,
movement has been fostered by Brett
Randall, but its followers make up in
enthusiasm all else it lacks. “We
Moderns,” by Zangwill, proved quite up
to L.T. standards, and the theatre was
packed. The play itself is dated and
strikes an irritating note now and again
now that we are once more at war : the
old cliches ring so untrue. But it is en-
joyable nevertheless.
Joan Denyer made a fine job of the
very youthful pseudo-sophisticate her
best part to date; Jean Campbell was a
pot-boiling journalist (author of Glad
Cucumbers ), and Nancye Summers the
blonde Lorelei. The male parts were
well cast, Syd Benjamin sporting a fetch-
ing goatee as the naughty poet.
Schools in Victoria have a very fine
record of social service, cultivation of the
gentler virtues being part of the broad
education not indicated in the curriculum.
Both past and present pupils of the public
schools are active Red Cross workers.
Dickinson-Monteath was responsible for
this picture of Margot Tucker, daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. Cecil Tucker, of Orrong-
road, Toorak. Margot, who is secretary
of the Clyde Old Girls, recently took
part in “Her Shop,” which was produced
for Red Cross funds. Since then she has
been busy organising the C.O.G. tennis
tournament, which was held on Saturday
for the same good cause.
Noel Coward is certainly stimulating
society’s interest in Red Cross and Com-
forts Funds. Organisers and committee
experts are girding up their loins for a
very special effort, and lists of executives
read like an Australian Who’s Who.
Early to meet and make plans were the
Lady Mayoress’s supporters, the object
being to promote a concert. Knight
Harry Lawson made one of the smoothest
speeches imaginable, in praise of
the visiting playwright, whom he quoted
as saying that all past social values had
been broken down in England today.
Hence it was desirable to let all sections
of the community participate in the en-
joyment of Mr. Coward, incidentally,
swelling the funds of the A.C.F.
So, for the People’s Concert to be held
in the Town Hall on December 2, all
seats can be booked for the modest sums
of ss. and 3s. Mrs. E. J. Gravestock
is hon. organiser; Mrs. Beaurepaire
president. Also on the executive com-
mittee are the Angliss lady and J. A.
Norris (treasurer)*. Mrs. Keith Halley,
Mrs. Bill Gluth and Mrs. Maurice
Nicolas are to assist the Angliss lady
as ticket secretaries. Programmes will
be sold by W.A.S.P.S. in uniform, and
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell’s group of young
folk will act as ushers. All present, in-
cluding such veterans (in experience) as
Mrs. A. W. Coles, Mrs. Claud Couch-
man, Mrs. I. H. Moss and Mrs. Barry
Thomson, were formed into a committee.
Later on the same day a charitable-
minded throng gathered at the Knox
home, Greenknowe, Toorak, to make
arrangements for the Coward matinee to
be staged at His Majesty’s on November
29, this time for Red Cross funds. The
Knox lady was elected president, with
the Murdoch lady, the Countess of Bec-
tive, Mrs. R. G. Menzies, Mrs. H. F.
Creswick, Mrs. G. I. Stevenson, Mrs.
Barry Thomson, knight Robert Knox
and Cr. Nettlefold as vice-presidents.
Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh will undertake
secretarial duties, with the Angliss lady
and Marshall Greig looking after the
money. Mrs. B. Goodwill and Claude
Kingston were made publicity officers.
Mr. Coward has promised his services
in person for over half an hour on the
stage. Marie Ney and the G. and S. Co.
will fill in. Lady Dugan will grace a box,
and three other patrons have already
valued the performance (seen from a
box) at £lO 10s. Seats can be booked
for a guinea. Others may see it for as
little as ss. Front-stall arrangements
will be in the hands of the Murdoch lady.
Mrs. Fred Dennett and Mrs. Charles
Cunningham will attend to the selling
of programmes, with Althea Cunningham
and Rosemary Knox as offsiders. Mrs.
Creswick will be assisted by Cynthia
Vernon Smith and Mary Guy Smith in
selling sweets. Mrs. John Grimwade will
have a number of charming flower-girls
as sellers. Mrs. Barry Thomson and
Mrs. Norman Myer will dispose of a
Christmas hamper, and Mrs. J. V. Fair-
bairn and Iris Connolly will sell books
and photograph to be autographed. The
financial result should prove worth the
effort.
Box-office reports of the Coward con-
certs are enthusiastic. No sooner were
the doors open at 9 a.m. for booking for
the People’s Concert than the Melbourne
public began pouring in, and by 10 a.m.
all seats were sold. The matinee goes
well, too, £6OO being in hand when pre-
ferential booking closed. Added attrac-
tion is a programme of the command per-
formance of “Cavalcade” signed by the
author. The Melbourne owner who
treasures it has given it to the Red Cross
to be raffled for the matinde perform-
ance. Mr. Coward is to be asked to draw
the raffle on the stage and present the
programme.
Pioneers in the real sense of the word
are Mr. and Mrs. Jenkins, who were
in Melbourne recently. Their home
is a corrugated-iron shack in the Hart
Ranges, not far from the Spotted Tiger
Mica Mine and some 128 miles’ truck
drive from the Alice. They are
interested in mica and also in opals,
and their collection of opals was ex-
hibited at Wembley. Should a traveller
call at “the Jenkinses’ ” when passing
through The Centre he or she is made
most welcome. For dinner, which Mrs.
Jenkins cooks outside over an open fire,
there will be meat and vegetables topped
off with peaches and goats’ cream. Corned
beef and fresh tomatoes might be on the
menu if the camel team has just passed
through.
Caroline Jacob, an educationist of the
old school, passed on in Adelaide
recently. Daughter of John Jacob, who
arrived in the Rapid with Col. Light,
Caroline was born at Sevenhills in 1861.
Her career as a teacher began with the
Education Department, but in 1898 she
became principal of Tormore House, one
of the most advanced secondary schools
in Adelaide. She introduced many modern
methods in her time, including the school
uniform and badge for girls, and added
physical culture to the school’s curricu-
lum. While abroad in 1912 she was
made a member of the Secondary Schools
Headmistresses’ Association of England.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PIVI Perth
6AM
6KG
Northam.
Kalgoorlie
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
19 Ei Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St, George’s Tee., Perth
THE SERVICE MAN
R.A.A.F. in Action.
“Aileron”: It was not correct to say,
as most papers did last week, that the
R.A.A.F. “won its first battle of the
war” when it went into action in West-
ern Egypt. The first R.A.A.F. battle must
have been fought by the Short Sunder-
land Squadron which has been operating
round the British coasts, and which has
done grand work. Also there have been
numbers of Aussies in the raids on Ger-
many and in the defensive squadrons
protecting Britain, and many of these
started aerial life at Point Cook with
the R.A.A.F.
In its first appearance in active war,
the Egyptian unit lived up to the Aussies’
reputation in this and the last war. Four
R.A.A.F. pilots, led by Squadron-Leader
Heath, formerly a well-known Maitland
(N.S.W.) school athlete, who had been
trained at Point Cook and other Austra-
lian stations, encountered 17 Italians.
They themselves were flying the reliable
Gloster Gladiators, the Italians the
slightly-faster Fiat CR42’s.
Heath, leading the spearhead, is miss-
ing, believed killed, and another R.A.A.F.
machine made a forced landing on our
side of the lines. But at least three
Italian aircraft were destroyed, and two
others may have been, while a sixth was
severely winged.
The Egyptian air front, in consonance
with other activities, has been livelier
during the past week than for some time,
but all the liveliness has come from one
side. While the Australians made their
bag in Western Egypt a couple of squad-
rons of R.A.F. machines waded into 60
Italians in Eastern Libya, shooting down
seven and almost certainly destroying
three more. Five of the seven shot down
were seen to burn out on the ground.
The fight was part of one of the most
widespread and successful R.A.F. opera-
tions yet undertaken in North Africa.
Features were heavy attacks on Tobruk
and Bardia and 12 successive raids in
four nights on Assab (Eritrea), where
depots, jetties, warehouses, the power-
house and naval workshops all received
issues, and the blaze from fired oil and
ammunition stores could be seen 20 miles
away.
The one setback to the R.A.F. was
the capture of the vigorous Air Vice-
Marshal Owen Tudor (“Ginger”) Boyd,
who was on his way from England to
become deputy to Australian Arthur
Longmore in the Heliopolis command.
His machine made a forced landing in
Sicily, and Boyd and half a dozen officers
were captured. Boyd is an expert on bal-
loon barrages and was responsible for
most of the later technique of the London
one.
Boyd and his crew were avenged, in
part, at Aden. There a loitering Italian
bomber was brought dov/n, two members
of the crew were killed and a lieutenant-
colonel, a lieutenant and a radio operator
were captured.
H.M.A.S. Australia at Dakar.
The Commonwealth’s share in the
travail of the sea becomes greater every
week.
At the beginning of the present week
it was admitted by Mr. Hughes, now
Minister for the Navy, that H.M.A.S.
Australia took part in the September
attack on Dakar. He said he could give
no details (if they are not forthcoming
Parliament will no doubt demand them),
and there is no specific mention of Dakar
casualties, though some R.A.N. losses
have recently been published.
On November 20 the minesweeper
Goorangai was rammed inside Port
Phillip (Vic.) Heads and she sank in three
minutes with all hands —24 —including
Lieutenant Commander Boyle and the
commander, Commissioned Warrant
Officer D. McGregor. The vessel was a
223-ton trawler.
Next night, in a heavy gale, s.s.
Orungal, 5826 tons, went ashore on
Formby Reef off Port Phillip Heads and
the 17 passengers and crew of 70 were
rescued gallantly next morning by the
Queenscliff lifeboat and other vessels. The
ship still lies on the reef with 2000 tons
of cargo.
Further afield, it was officially admitted
last week that a British vessel was being
attacked by a raider 800 or 900 miles off
the Westralian coast. Mr. Hughes re-
fused to confirm the statement that the
ship was the Maimoa, and that she had
“It’s still got me beat ’oW these air blokes shoot through the propeller,
Dad!"
wirelessed that she was attempting to
escape at 11 knots.
During the week-end, the closing of
Newcastle (N.S.Wd port for some hours
led to a rumor that three ™ty e ssds
had been mmed ofl! flw N. S. Wales coast.
This was officially denied.
The Greeks Take Koritza.
“Ek Dum”: The war in the Balkans
has been full of surprises. Italy’s attack
on Greece was launched on October 28,
and it was the general opinion that, with
their inferiority in numbers and equip-
ment on land, their small air force and
deficiency in sea-power, the Greeks
would do well to hold out for a fortnight.
Their defence lines on the west ran
from the Yugoslav border to the lonian
coast below Corfu. It was expected that
the Italians would try to blast their way
across the north to Salonika. Possessing
the initiative, they drove towards Fiorina,
the Greek base in the north, towards
Yanina in the centre of the Greek line
and across the Kalamas River in the south,
near the southern end of Corfu. In the
south and in the cenft-e they made some
progress; but in the north they almost
immediately began to fall back. It looked
as if they were playing the old German
game of salient-making.
Meanwhile Britain landed forces in
Crete and on the mainland, and the
R.A.F. and the Fleet Air Arm began to
tear up Italian ports on the Adriatic. In
Taranto harbor, Italy suffered at the
hands of the Fleet Air Arm the biggest
naval disaster of the war. At Berlin at
the same time Hitler was entertaining
Molotov, and Italians seemed to be
strangely out of the picture. When Molo-
tov gave a party at the Russian Embassy
—on the same night there was a heavy
British air raid on Berlin —no Italian dip-
lomat was present. It may have been
remembered that Italian ’planes and
volunteers helped the Finns.
About the same time Italian air
raids on Greek cities, which had been
savage, were suddenly toned down, and
the Italian advancing lines in western
Greece began to give way. Thereupon
the Italian airmen became active again,
and the Greek soldiers going forward
were heavily bombed by massed Italian
air forces.
Within a few days there were Iresn
diplomatic moves in the Balkans. Hitler
saw King Boris of Bulgaria—he is mar-
ried to an Italian princess—at Berchtes-
gaden. There was talk of German divi-
sions preparing to cross Bulgaria to attack
Greece from the east. Hungary joined
the Axis (and so, presently, did Rumania
and Slovakia). But the only effect of these
manoeuvres on the Italian armies in
Greece was to induce them to move back-
wards faster, except at Koritza, their
northern base. There they put up a stub-
born fight for several days.
It does not appear that considerable
forces were engaged on either side, but
the Greeks gained decided advantages.
On November 20 the Italians were in
retreat across the border in the south and
centre, key towns in the north being thus
endangered. M. Nicoloudis, the Greek
Foreign Minister, announcing this most
gallant success for the Greeks and their
ally, said:
We are confident of victory, but
difficulties and needs must not be ior-
gotten. We are fighting an enemy six
times as big, who has abundant supplies
and a great air force. We have little
material and almost no ’planes. Our
towns in the interior have no defences.
This cannot continue. We must not make
the mistake of Finland, which was con-
tented with a first success and did not de-
mand aid from abroad.
And Mussolini was heard from:
We have all the material necessary to
overcome Greek resistance. Our 272 dead,
our 1081 wounded and our 650 missing on
the Epirus front will be avenged.
Vengeance had not fallen on Greece at
the week-end, though a new Italian
commander had been appointed. On the
contrary, Koritza had been taken, and
the Italians had retreated west of the
town, leaving many of their own supply
columns behind. In the south the Greeks
had crossed the Albanian border and
were on the way to Santa Quaranti, one
of the greater Italian Adriatic bases in
Albania.
Exactly what the importance of Koritza
is, nobody seems to be sure. In one
paragraph on November 23 “S. M.
Herald’s” cable man reported “military
circles in London emphasise the great
strategic importance of Koritza, which
is a great road centre.” In almost the next
paragraph it was explained that the Italians
had been landing large numbers of Alpini
which had been brought up by air, be-
cause only two roads led into Koritza by
which troops could have been brought
up, and those were already threatened
by the Greeks. However, it is certain
that the Italians found it worth while to
put up a desperate fight to hold the town.
It is equally certain that the Greeks have
made gains which should have a vast
moral effect throughout the Balkans.
An enemy summary of the defeat says
that “Italian covering troops consisting
of two divisions, which at the opening of
hostilities were deployed defensively along
the Graeco-Albanian frontier and at
Koritza, have been withdrawn after 11
days Fierce fighting occurred, and the
Italian losses have been considerable, and
the enemy’s are equally serious, perhaps
more so. Italian reinforcements are now
concentrating on a new line.”
The new line, of course, has been
established only by retreat on Italian-
Albanian soil, which is very bad for
Mussolini’s prestige.
The Axis has not yet fully revealed its
hand. Germany and Greece are not at
war, and the German quiescence is mys-
terious. Russia, as usual, waits for the
cat to jump.
But there is one vital certainty—the
German High Command would not be
worrying about the distant Balkans if it
felt that there was even a ghost of a
chance of subduing Britain by direct
attack. And some of its enthusiasm for
Balkan adventures may have faded when
r discovered that Britain had become
war y of large-scale adventures on the
Continent.
What the size of British forces is in
Q reece nobody knows. The R.A.F. dive-
bombing squadrons played a great part
j n bringing about the fall of Koritza, and
they and the Greeks were given a tumul-
tuous welcome by the Albanians. R.N.
un j ts are doing their share round the
Greek archipelagos. It was suddenly
anno unced on the day of the cap-
ture R or jt za that A.I.F. troops were
j n Athens and, with British troops, taking
p art j n t he v j c t or y celebrations ; but the
Australian Minister for the Army knew
no thing about their landing. To send
a few as moral support may be good
policy ; but there must be no more Gal-
fipolis or Narviks or Dakars.
x
Hitler's British Problem.
“Ek Dum”: A month ago “D.N.8.,”
the German Official Newsagency, an-
nounced that London’s supply systems
had, during a long night of horror, been
paralysed for a long time to come, add-
ing:—
Examples such as annihilated Rotterdam
and the devastation of Dunkirk are often
pointed out. How long will it be before
London meets the same fate?
At the same time Rome was chortling
that 60 per cent, of London’s industrial
works and practically the whole of the
docks had been destroyed. The fact is
that, though Goring’s Luftwaffe is doing
great damage, it is being done in the
wrong places. His pilots have been
working overtime since August 8.
During that period, by dint of dropping
vast quantities of bombs —he claims to
have let go £1,000,000 worth on Coventry
in a single night—they have succeeded in
killing about 140 people per day in
Britain and inflicting serious injuries on
about 200 per day.
These casualties are civilians of all
ages, including thousands of women and
children; Britain’s military losses in the
Blitzkrieg have been numbered only in
hundreds. For every two civilians killed, a
trained German airman or gunner has
been blotted out or taken prisoner; for
every six British lives lost in the raids
a powerful German bomber or fighter,
worth anything from £7OOO to £60,000
.sterling, has been converted into English
scrap.
Of course, the damage has been serious
in London and in other English cities.
But here again, in the same way that the
Luftwaffe seems incapable of hitting the
right people, so it generally is incapable
of blasting the right objectives. Docks and
industrial plants undoubtedly have been
hit, but not on the scale of mangled
Hamburg, Kiel —photographs show large
areas of both as unrecognisable—or
Essen. At Hamburg there is talk of
£30,000,000 being spent as a “pre-
liminary” on rebuilding. At Kiel, a
battleship and the largest dry dock in the
place are out of commission. And Essen's
vast output has been materially reduced:
one estimate, perhaps extravagant, is 50
per cent.
From Britain, where the information
would be sure to leak out through the
neutral press, there is no news of any
vital destruction of munition or industrial
plants. There, after preliminary attempts,
the Luftwaffe found that Portsmouth,
Southampton, Devonport were not
either helpless Rotterdam or agonised
Warsaw. A recent attempt on Southamp-
ton resulted in two-thirds of the raiding
Germans being brought down.
The chief battle “honors” which will be
written on the Luftwaffe’s flag for the
first three months’ campaign against
Britain will be: Ramsgate, 1200 houses
destroyed, a few civilian lives lost; Lon-
don, east and north-western working
people’s and middle-class suburbs par-
tially destroyed ; the centre of Coventry ,
but not the industrial part, wiped out.
with 1000 casualties among 250,000
people ; part of Birmingham smashed.
As for the damage which has been
done in London, it does not come within
an ace of shutting London down. The
latest papers received in The Bulletin
office (Sept. 29) give some temble word-
pictures. This is one:
I saw one East End area which is now
a heap of rubbish. It is hardly .possible
to guess the plan of the streets whi
stood there. Here is a depressio ,
crater. Bricks, planks, fragments or
and chairs testify that once this


sdf
W£AK M£N AND WOM£N
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
831 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
m
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
KITCHING’S
TRAVEL Goods Specialists.
Military TOILET SETS
PRICE:
42
OTHERS:
33/6 to 10/-
MONEY
BELTS,
6/6 to 9/6.
WET PACKS,
12/6 & 25/-
MIRRORS,
Stainless
Steel,
2/6 and 3/-
0
Free
Deliver]
to all
Suburbs.
0
jffffTO
§L
VERY NEAT AND HANDY
Comprising:—Hair Brushes, Clothes and
Shaving Brushes, Containers for Toilet ana
Shaving Soap and Tooth Brush, also Steel
Mirror, Comb, File, Scissors, and Safety
Razor. In a beautiful Solid Leather Case,
with Zip Fastener Attached.
C. E. KITCHING PTY. LTD.
319 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 8W7133.
(Near Wypyard Station.)
was inhabited....To reach this desolation
the taxi passed through street after street
of little houses but they are all aban-
doned. Their windows are broken; their
timbers sag, and cracks in their brickwork
declare that they will crumble if the blast
even of a distant bomb should strike them.
These streets which once hummed with
life were not streets of munition works
grinding out shells and machine-guns, but
streets of the poor.
Of course, the Teutonic theory is that
relentless bombing will break the spirit of
the British people. But the Germans
can’t even break the spirit of the
newspapers, which in the middle of
some of the heaviest bombings during
the war looked just about the same
as usual. One sported a learned
article headed “Lobsters Can Be Trained.”
Another, on its main news page, remarked
that late news would be found in column
two on page 10. It was mostly football,
plus the tale of the glorious victory of
“Tommy Martin, the London colored
heavyweight,” over the largest pair of
cauliflower ears in Hollywood. And
there was the usual nature calendar note:
The harvest moon, very red and splendid,
looks down on stubble and tilth.... The
season has made our cabbages beautiful.
I saw a field of them that was as full
of color as the pineapple fields below the
Pali heights in Honolulu. No wonder that
the cabbage butterfly is legion.
There were nine raids, lasting six and a
half hours, while that issue was in pre-
paration.
The Germans have adopted the lone-
wolf technique of sending over single
machines which are not easy to catch and
destroy. This makes it clear that, though
destructive, the German is not very in-
ventive in the air. He has yet to invent
a Spitfire or a Hurricane or something
equal to a Short Sunderland. He has yet
to find a power turret equal to the Boul-
ton Paul’s. And it took months of heavy
losses before he got it into his slow-
working brain that the way to stop
machine losses was to adopt the small-
unit plan which the dickkopfig Englischer
had been using from the beginning, and
which had kept R.A.F. machine losses
down.
It needs now only one more appropria-
tion of ideas from the R.A.F. before the
German technique becomes reasonably
effective against military objectives—that
is, the theft of the habit of deserting the
upper strata, from which bombs are
dropped indiscriminately, to dive down
to within a few feet of the earth and
military objectives, as the R.N.F.A.A.
did at Taranto the other day. But before
the Luftwaffe can imitate this precise and
accurate method of effective attack it will
have to acquire a large quantity of a
type of war machine for which it hasn’t
even got the basic raw material —the
Royal Air Force personnel.
To date, German airmen are like the
German naval men of this war. They are
deadly to defenceless civilians, but when
they meet an equal force they run of
scuttle unless caught.
Shipping losses for the week to Nov. 10
amounted to 71,699 tons. Ten ships
totalling 61,602 tons were British ; four of
25,453 tons were destroyed in the Jervis
Bay convoy. The Germans claimed
140,000 tons, but coolly included 61,000
tons which, thanks to the sacrifice of
Captain Fegen, V.C., and his crew, are
safe in port.
* * . * *
A few forays in the Sudan and
along the Abyssinian border have had
good results, Metemma, on the Sudan-
Abyssinian border, is reported “practically
evacuated” by the Italians. Mechanised
forces drove off a superior Italian force
in northern Kenya. Above all, in a
battle in the Western Egyptian desert,
British forces put 50 Italian tanks to
flight, after a five-hour fight, smashing
eleven.
* * * *
“Mark 49”: The Commonwealth will
“soon” begin to build 25-pounders, now
the standard field artillery arm. Between
£3,000,000 and £4,000,000 will be laid out
on plant and 6000 men will be employed
in N.S.W. and Victoria. The earlier
the job is got on with the better. The
25-pounder—mounted for fast traction on
rubber tyres—has a much higher muzzle
energy than the 18-pounder. It is deadly
to any kind of tank, and yet has very
high elevation, which makes it possible
to adapt it to use as a howitzer. The
work on Bren and anti-tank guns is
going forward, but it is a slow business
getting into production. There are nearly
2000 parts in a Bren and the making of
each calls for several types of tool.
* * * *
“Nobby II”: The crew of a British
tanker which was in the Jervis Bay con-
voy attacked by a pocket battle-
ship will be able to grin for the rest of
their lives whenever they sight a Hun.
After the attack, the Glasgow-built
Demetrio, with 11,200 tons of petrol on
board, found herself burning as the result
of shellfire. The crew took to the boats.
At midnight they encountered a gale.
At 5 a.m. they sighted their tanker
still on fire, it being then too dangerous to
board her. In the grey Atlantic day-
break they sighted her again, and, as she
was then “only white-hot” amidships,
they clambered to her decks. They got the
fire under control and the engines work-
ing again and reached port with only 200
tons of oil lost. If they had been German
or Italian they would have scuttled the
ship as soon as they sighted an enemy
cruiser, and thus have lost the lot. There
isn’t a man who reboarded that ship who
doesn’t deserve a V.C.
* * * *
The population of Germany, both sexes
and all ages, is round 80,000,000, and
that of Italy is about 44,000,000 ; but
Mussolini has discovered that “Italy and
Germany have a bloc of 150,000,000
resolute and implacable men.” He calls
upon his Fascists to “intensify their
efforts among the masses,” there having
been “a slackening of activities since the
war began,” and he admits the existence
of “a certain kind off'pacifism of an in-
tellectual and universal tint”; so not
even all the men are “resolute and im-
placable.” In other words, there are the
makings of another anti-war party. In
1917 the cry was that the anti-war party
had brought about Caporetto.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Uncle Sam has agreed to
hand over to Britain 26 four-engined 20-
ton Consolidated bombers. They are
about the same tonnage as the Short
Sunderlands and have a range of 3000
miles; but in this respect Wellingtons
knock the Consolidateds into a cocked
hat. Even the shorter-distance Wellesleys
flew from Ismailia to Darwin in formation
in 1937. All the same the value of these
American machines may be great, and in
any case they should prove more deadly
than the German Dorniers and other
four-engined raiders. The longer the
war goes on, the more it is proved
that the effectiveness of aircraft against
military objectives depends on the
quality of personnel as much as on
that of machines. A comparatively
light bomb load released accurately
a few thousand feet over a hangar
or an armament works inside a bal-
loon barrage is worth a whole squad-
ron load of heavy stuff dropped over at
random above the clouds and on the
fringes of the stratosphere, in the hope
that it will stonker something beyond a
few civilians and the office cat.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: German captains abroad
have no luck in their encounters with
the R.N., except when the attacks are of
the sneak-and-slide description. Early in
the River Plate battle Graf Spee hit
Exeter with a broadside and badly dam-
aged her, but instead of trying to finish
her off with 6701 b. shells—Exeter’s big-
gest guns fired 256-pounders—allowed
herself to be chased into port by a couple
of light cruisers, both of which she should
have been able to keep at a safe distance
while she spent half an hour smashing
them to smithereens. Then her captain
chucked her on a mudbank rather than
face the open sea, where nothing more
formidable than the same light cruisers
was waiting for him. Afterwards he
shot himself in Buenos Aires. The Graf
Spee business was, however, a circum-
stance to the performance of the Phrygia,
one of the German freighters which tried
to slip out of Tampico (Mex.) the other
day Sighting a couple of destroyers, the
captain didn’t wait to see what they were
but set his ship dn fire and scuttled her.
They turned out to be United States ships.
The Phrygian skipper has since twice
tried to commit suicide.
The Air War Day by Day.
November 18-19: Air Ministry reports
light bombing of Merseyside, an area in
the Midlands and scattered points in
southern England. Four of a family of.
eight killed in Liverpool. Get mans
claim “good results” for Italian bombers
raiding a British town. Coastal Com-
mand shoots down two Heinkels and
a Dornier seaplane.
In heavy weather, R.A.F. bombs Leuna
oil plant, near Leipzig, without loss of
machines.
British and Greek attacks on Italians;
two Italian machines shot down near
Yugoslav border. R.A.F. reconnaissance
reveals three battleships partly under
water in Taranto Harbor. Italians raid
Alexandria, killing 52 and injuring 79.
Nov. 19-20: Coventry raided again,
“to complete its destruction,” Germans
declare. Enemy also reports thousands
“You haven't quite got the idea, Private Quartpot.”
of bombs —450 tons —dropped on Bir-
mingham by 500 ’planes during all-night
raids “equalling or surpassing original
raid on Coventry.” Air Ministry an-
nounces extensive damage and serious fire
—controlled —in a very heavy raid which
lasted nearly nine hours, and in which
two Midlands centres suffered their
heaviest casualties during the war. Savage
attack on London, damaging hospitals,
a hotel and demolishing block of council
houses under which inmates buried. St.
James, Piccadilly—in which Governor
Macquarie was married and after which
St. James, Sydney, was named —reported
demolished.
Air Ministry announces R.A.F. raids
have halved production at Krupps. Four
large buildings of Union Chemical Works
(Stettin) wrecked ; Deutsche Vacuum Oil
plant, Bremen, put out of action;
Europa (49,000 tons), Germany’s second-
largest liner, damaged there. Berlin
heavily bombed —Germans assert hos-
pitals damaged. Docks raided at Ham-
burg, Kiel and Bremerhaven, Lorient
(France) and Skoda works near Pilsen
(Czechia).
Five German bombers and three British
lost over Britain and the Continent.
R.A.F. shoots down nine Italian aircraft
on Greek front; Greeks claim destruction
of 11 machines. Aden has first raid
for month; some damage, no casualties.
Italians report attack on mechanised units
south of Sidi Barrani, and claim to have
shot down six Gladiators and destroyed
12 armored cars, five tanks and several
guns; also claim bombing of Lake
Lipicha, south of Ismailia. They admit
R.A.F. raids on Tobruk, Benghazi, Dante,
Bardia, Massawa and other centres.
Nov. 20-21: Long raids on Wales and
south and n.-w. Britain.
Nov. 21-22: Announced R.A.A.F.
in action in Egypt for first time, bringing
down three Italian fighters for certain,
and probably three more. One ’plane
with Squadron-Leader Heath missing;
another made forced landing ; pilot sate.
Widespread raiding in Egyptian-Libyan-
Red Sea section by R.A.F. and S.A.A.r.
R.A.F. formation of 15 breaks up Italian
force of 60 machines, destroying seven
and probably three more. Air Marshal
Boyd, deputy air c.-in-c. in Middle East,
makes forced landing in Sicily and is
captured with half a dozen other officers.
Further heavy raids on English Mid-
lands, south, north-western England and
Wales. Damage not severe. Heavy
bombing of Italian forces on Greek
frontier by R.A.F. and Greek Air Forces,
little Italian air activity.
Large contingent R.A.A.F. trainees ar-
rive in Canada; announced Britain to
receive 26 Consolidated four-engined
bombers from U.S.A.
Nov. 22-23: Further long raid on
“western Midlands town” —Birmingham
the enemy declared. Extensive damage
and numerous casualties feared “more
raiders took part than at Coventiy.
Wrecked buildings include schools, two
convents, a hotel, an art gallery; Ger-
mans claim to have dropped 300 tons ot
bombs, destroying numerous factories.
Lighter raids on London.
R.A.F. raids Bari, starting large fires in
port. Italians declare only one woman
killed. Greek Air Force and R.A.F.
destroy Italian communications at Pog-
radek (Albania). Italians bomb Corfu
and Cephalonia, also Samos. Raiders
turned back from Malta. Widespread
raiding by R.A.F. along N. African coast.
Nov. 23-24: Fierce barrage keeps off
enemy raiders from southern English city.
Germans report bombing of Southamp-
ton by 250 machines, which dropped “250
tons of high-explosive bombs and thou-
sands of incen-
diaries,” and claim
further attacks on
B i r m i n gham,
Coventry, Lon-
don, Bristol. Lin-
coln and Brigh-
ton. Air Minis-
try reports at-
tacks on Mersey-
side and London
and a northern
town ; casualties,
seven German
and and four
Italian machines ;
British nil. Ger-
mans admit loss
seven machines;
claim six British
shot down. Total
losses for war to
Nov. 23: Ger-
many, 5089; Italy,
336; Britain,
1668; Greece,
R.A.F. attacks northern Italian city
objectives, including Fiat works at Turin,
and German objectives in Berlin, Leipzig,
Essen and Duisberg; also, Boulogne,
Brest and Lorient. Germans admit
R.A.F. ’planes reached Germany in “con-
siderable numbers,” but deny that any
military objectives hit. Italians admit
raids on Turin and Liguria “without
damage.”
Italians report having shot down
R.A.F. machine over Pantellaria and six
over Malta “in flames.” They claim to
have bombed Port Sudan and other
Sudanese centres at Gallabat, destroyed
two Glosters and burnt a Wellesley.
R.A.F. raids Tobruk and Kassala.


mb> u and inexp ensiv
If fitse**?
%
Q
b
t
*8
You can save money, have hours of enjoyment
and give your friends fascinating and novel presents, if you
make your Xmas gifts from Masonite Shorts. Shorts are
specially priced off-cuts from large Masonite sheets and
are available in sizes ranging from 2' x 1 to 4 x 4. They
are grainless, knotless, are easily worked with standard
carpenters' tools and take any type of finish. You 11 see
a complete range of "Shorts” at most Builders Suppliers
and Hardware Stores.
If you want freedom from heat, cold and noise get the
details of Cane-ite Insulating Board.
1
ft
v'
Sydney
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth uw-to
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
t M
“The Boys from Syracuse”
Shades of Shakspeare, inventor of this
type of comedy woven round a couple of
sets of identical twins, may see his theme
done proud in this side-splitting burlesque
of t if __
at Sydney Lyceum, tis descr bed man
epilogue as being After Will Shak-
peare s Comedy of Errors —long, long
after,” and it is just that. The laughs
start before the picture itself when the
title is flashed on the screen in Greek.
Thereafter a particularly strong comedy
cast keeps them coming every foot of the
way. Cast includes Allan Jones, Martha
Raye, Joe Penner, Charles Butterworth,
Alan Mowbray and Eric Blore. This last
couple, as a firm of ancient Greek tailors,
need only be imagined. Allan Jones and
Joe Penner play the two sets of twins in
each case as master and slave. Allan, of
course, unloads some tuneful ditties as
well as a beautiful burlesque imitation
of Europe’s most backward dictator de-
livering himself of a speech.
Most of the laughs come from the m-
troduction of ultra-modern touches into
the ancient-Greece setting—be-sandalled
and tunic-clad Greeks hailing chariot-
taxis fitted with taxi-meters, chariots dis-
pensing ice-cream, office-boys in togas
and roller skates, palatial night clubs and
cocktail bars, yelling newspaper boys with
“papers” engraved on stone slabs and sold
to strap-hangers in a crowded chariot-bus.
One topical touch too—the two tailors
trying to cope with the problem of an
income tax far exceeding their total and
mainly unpaid income.
wife”
Perhaps the old funnybone has been
worn away by constant use or something,
but it does seem as though Sydney is suf-
fering from a surfeit of Hollywoodcn
comedies when this current item at Syd-
j? e y State was released there were no
fewer than seven first-release film-houses
gh comedies, mainly of the knock-
about fa d amphoolery kind, with all the
f unn y situations and gags imaginable and
managed by a couple of players whose
chief aim appears to be as much wild,
irresponsible clowning as the film will
permit,
For that reason, possibly, “Hired
Wife” doesn’t seem as funny as it might
have if it were seen after, say, Mr. Kar-
loff at his worst. Why? All the in-
gredients for a Hollywood comedy are
there—Mr. Brian Aherne as boss of a
large cement concern, Miss Rosalind
Russell as his secretary and laying to
snare him into matrimony, Miss Virginia
Bruce as the advertising model who lures
the cement magnate dangerously close to
destruction, Mr. John Carroll as the
penurious romancer who saves the situa-
g on> and bu , by no means |east _
p ro£essor Robelt Benchley, who presides
over ab tbe po t ber w jth b j s usual placid,
a i co holic geniality.
j t should, of course, be very funny,
Possibly it is. Possibly we should have
busted our waistcoats when Miss Russell
telephoned Miss Bruce to tell her that
Mr. Aherne didn’t need her services after
all, and Mr. Aherne happened to be hav-
ing an amorous lunch with Miss Bruce
when the call came through ; perhaps our
guffaws should have heaved us from our
pews when Mr. Aherne had to get mar-
ried to save his business, and sent Miss
Russell to propose to Miss Bruce for
him and, Miss Bruce refusing, had to
marry Miss Russell instead ; perhaps we
should have succumbed to helpless ex-
haustion after mighty bellows of amuse-
ment when Mr. Aherne expected Miss
Russell to return to being his secretary
and nothing else and she refused and
ousted him from his own palatial bed-
room to sleep with the healthy snores of
Robert Benchley ; and perhaps we should
have lifted the roof off the theatre with
a mighty guffaw when, properly fed up
with the whole business, Miss Russell
sneaked up behind Mr. Aherne and
planted on his stern a kick which any
adept in that expressive art would have
been proud to administer.
Perhaps we should have laughed at
all those things until, limp and laughter-
sodden, we were carried from the theatre.
But we didn’t. We sat there and mas-
"'Ow much do ’ee charge for a beard-trim?"
saged the old funnybone and wondered
vaguely why it wouldn’t work. And
when it was all over we wandered out
thinking hopefully about the Basil Rath-
bone opus which is to be released at
Sydney Prince Edward today.
* * * *
“Action Month” is now well under way
at Sydney Capitol. Current bill has
“Texas Stampede” and “Queen of the
Yukon,” as wild and woolly a pair as
could be asked for. The first is a West-
erner with a healthy range-feud theme —
cattlemen versus sheepmen and a young
sheriff hero cast ’twixt the devil and the
deep with his goil on one side and legal
right on the other. Shootin’, fisticuffs and
goil rescued from the jaws of death bring
it to a happy conclusion. Charles Bickford
is in the other show with a Yukon gold-
field setting. Also a healthy yarn, with
not so much gun-play but plenty of
savage stoush.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Sydney Tiv. has a tiptop show, with
Will Mahoney, Evie Hayes and Bob Dyer,
plus free beer for the fortunates in front-
s’tall aisle-side seats.
* * * *
Open-air Orchestral Concert
What that fine musician Fritz Hart
failed to bring off successfully—open-air
orchestral concerts in Melbourne —Hector
Crawford, a young local conductor,
achieved at the Botanical Gardens the
other Sunday. Jupiter P., Boreas and the
other malignant deities which frown on
Melbourne in November kept off the prop-
erty, and 50,000 people assembled in com-
parative comfort, perfect weather and
the loveliest surroundings in Melbourne
to listen to some excellent music. Those
who kept still heard a great deal of the
Royal Fireworks music of Handel,
Mozart’s “Marriage of Figaro” and Eric
Coates’s “London Suite”—despite the mul-
titudinous tramplings of the restless, bird-
calls and other interruptions —and what
they heard was excellently rendered by
the Melbourne Conservatorium Orchestra.
The “One Fine Day” of Puccini and the
“Ave Maria” from “Cavalleria Rusti-
cana” floated over the treetops from the
fine vocal instrument of Strella Wilson.
There is now a demand for more open-
air music, opera and even ballet.
* * * *
Adelaide
The Repertory Theatre closed its season
with the old but popular “Cuckoo in
the Nest,” which crammed the big Tivoli
for three evenings. Frank Waters all
around the bed in which Vivienne Oldfield
sat serenely, with Meta McCaffery’s at-
tempts as landlady to get him settled in
it, caused so much laughter that the
dialogue was hardly needed,
Meanwhile, the Little was staging a
more Repertory type of thing, “Dr.
Knock,” from the French of Jules
Romains. In this satire of a newly-arrived
country doctor who makes money by pur-
suading all comers that they are really ill,
Reginald Goldsworthy scored heavily, and
there were good, if sometimes farcical,
character-parts in support,
At the Royal Megan Taylor is the
brightest star among a good lot in the
capital Ice Show,
* * * *
. „
Lover s Leap
Revived for Red Cross purposes at
Melb. Comedy last week, this frothy dis-
sertation on an impossible matrimonial
situation is not the best of Gregan
McMahon’s productions. The girl who
elects to spend a week-end with her lover
at the home of her elder sister, who has
been deserted by her Egyptologist hus-
band for seven years, her purpose being to
make the lover decide between love with-
out marriage and marriage without love,
fails to convey conviction.
No more convincing is the return of
the errant husband seeking to be released
from his marriage contract and his sub-
sequent decision to have another go at
marital felicity with a wife who has an
irrational terror of thunderstorms and
hides in cupboards. A spectator who
happened to have a passing acquaintance
with the causes of neurosis would hardly
find the situation funny wherein the
husband uses the arrival of a storm of
lightning and thunder to drive his wife a
little nearer insanity.
As the lover who becomes sentimen-
tally impressed by the virtues of the mar-
ried state, Claude Thomas was an in-
credible person. The credibility of the
ladies wasn’t of the highest order either.
ARTBURSTS.
Bread and Cheese Club’s Show
The Bread and Cheese Club, the Mel-
bourne society whose slogan is “Mate-
ship, Art and Letters,” and which has a
solemn ritual compounded of the comes-
tibles that suggested its title, plus some-
thing to wash them down, is having its
first exhibition at the Velasquez Galleries.
Australian literature gets first place with
rare editions of books lent by their
owners, including a copy of The Guar-
dian, the first novel printed on the main-
land, the author’s presentation copy of
Collins’s Such Is Life, first editions of
A. L. Gordon, Henry Kendall, Henry
Lawson, Bernard O’Dowd and other Aus-
tralian classics, and a forgotten American
steal of a forgotten Australian novel.
Art is mainly confined to understand-
able contemporary painters, though
Arnold Shore has a composition with the
title of “Conglomerate of Inclining Enti-
ties” to elucidate it. W. A. Dargie has
a clever sketch in “The Horses and the
Sea,” and “Through the Trees” is a quiet
impression by John Farmer. Charles
Crampton has a smooth-looking nude,
and Wallace Anderson an even smoother
one in marble. The claim that the exhi-
bition shows that the work of the artis >
and writers of Australia is equal to tna
of any country is a trifle
there are artists in Melbourne itself ' vn .
could make a better showing—but n
isn’t a bad beginning.


sd
PROUDS
A selection from our large display of
sturdy gift articles for men of the Services.
Combination Cigarette
Case and automatic
lighter, matt lacquer
finish in various colours.
21/-
■mm
m
Excellent quality
Military Brush,
Comb and Mant-
cure pieces in a
compact hide
case, .. 16/6
This neat and handy Safety Match
Container is in bakelite, assorted
colours 2/-
With A.1.F., R.A.A.F., or R.A.N.
badges 3/6
Military Wallet in brown
kangaroo or airforce blue,
with chrome mirror, identi-
fication space, photograph
frame 25/*
A.1.F., R.A.A.F. badges
stamped in gold, 26/6
The "Eversharp" Service Pen and Pencil in neat
waterproof Khaki or Airforce Blue cases .. 3©/‘
The "Onoto" Service Pen and Pencil in strong
brown leather case with tablet for name, etc.
24/-
mm
The Hygienic collapsible Cup in best quality chrome,
so compact and easily cleaned. Complete in solid hide
case 23/6
Service Money Belts in military tan or air
force blue, zipper and press stud pockets,
8/6. 12/-. 17/6.
In super English calf with chamois lining,
23/6
Superior leather
Cases in assorted
15/6-
With A.1.F.,
badges stamped
17/-
Cigarette
colours,
R.A.A.F.
in gold,
Very Serviceable Cigarette
Case, capacity 36. Brown
or Blue Calf 30/-
ouns
ptttto.
King and Fill Sts., Sydney
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: Brisbane designed one of the
most original entertainments offered to
Noel Coward in Australia —it arranged
to take him to the slaughteryards. He
wouldn’t be taken.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: The influence of the
fillums again! In sincere flattery of the
Australian neighborhoods called Holly-
wood, it is proposed to rename part of
the historic Brisbane suburb of Nundah,
and Beverley Hills is suggested. The
president of the Queensland Place Names
Association protests that an abo. name
would be more appropriate. So it would,
but if one is chosen I hope the christeners
will be careful. Binghi, unfortunately,
has an odd sense of humor which he is
apt to exercise when asked what certain
places are called. There are many un-
suspecting suburban homes round Aus-
tralian capitals whose front gates are
proudly painted with Binghi’s synonym
for “Lavatory.” I know a very “social”
station in western Queensland which, in
Binghi’s lingo, is Turkey Offal, and I’d
blush to tell you what a few other names
mean. So would the owners if they knew.
* * * *
“23-4”: Brisbane Chamber of Com-
merce suggests that new telephone books
should give the number first and then
the name and initials of the subscriber.
It believes that this would “prevent the
present necessity for tracing along entries
in small print to find the required num-
ber,” be a “quick reference for business
convenience” and benefit “middle-aged
people with limited sight.” This may be
all very well, but what the Chamber ap-
parently overlooked was that, unless a
person was a memory marvel able to
keep all the numbers of business connec-
tions and friends in his head, he must
find the name before he gets the number
—a maddening enough process as it is,
without adding to it by placing the num-
ber before the name.
* * * *
“Norther”: For the best part of an
hour one day last week Boonah thought
it was the centre of an air-raid. Three
storms worked up, appeared to meet over
the place and proceeded to tear it to pieces
with wind, rain and hail. Windows were
shattered, roofs blown sky-high, vegetable
and grain crops destroyed, trees uprooted
and fences upended. A timber mill boiler,
hit by flying iron, blew up; other
machinery was damaged ; stores suffered
and a pub lost 40 windows. The hail was
up to six feet deep in places, and under it
lay many a buried chook. One man lost
11 cattle, several of them frozen to death
in the hall, and at Mt. French dead cattle
and pigs were being found for days.
Boonah isn’t sure that a drought-breaker
is so welcome, after all.
41 * * *
“Poi-poi”: Though the general official
attitude seems to be that bauxite deposits
in Australia are not worth bothering
about, Queensland Mines Department is
determined to see what chance there is
of getting aluminium from the ore field
located at North Tamborine by Govern-
ment Geologist Ball. Samples from the
field tested in the B.H.P. laboratory
at Newcastle (N.S.W.) under the super-
vision of Dr. Bradfield, of the Bridge, are
said to have yielded 53.19 per cent, of
alumina. Premier Forgan Smith has in-
terested himself in the tests and is hope-
fully displaying two small samples of
pure aluminium extracted from the Tam-
borine ore by the Bayer process.
* * * *
“Darwarb”: Minister Foil has issued
a warning to people to beware of putting
their hard-earned cash in “mushroom
mining ventures” in the Territory, stat-
ing that he has “great faith” in the
mining possibilities of the place and that
there are genuine companies which de-
serve support. His Government has
enacted a law prohibiting the formation
of new companies without permission, so
he must be referring to existing shows.
Then why on earth doesn’t he name the
good ones? He has the privilege of his
position.
* * * *
“B.”: Thoughtful Australians find it
hard to get away from the influence of
the big cities when considering the re-
tarding of the continent’s development.
If the Queensland Year-Book for 1940
is to be believed, the huge wens can be
blamed for the falling birthrate. “In the
five most populous [Queensland] cities,
the net reproduction rate was below one,
whereas in the smaller cities, except
Gympie, it was in excess of unity.” Just
what “unity” means I leave to you, but
the important thing is the excess. The
Year-Book goes further, and marks out
as areas with highest fertility the Far
North Coast, the Atherton Tableland,
Mackay and a strip from Rockhampton
south-west to the N.S.W. border, taking
in the Dawson Valley, Dalby, Goondi-
windi, Charleville and Cunnamulla. And
the reproduction rate is higher than
average in spots where “economic oppor-
tunities are greater,” such as Mackay and
Bundaberg.
“Oxmead”: An English paper notes
that “for the first time for more than 60
years the name of Chamberlain has van-
ished from public life.” It remains cut
there more deeply, perhaps, than was
ever achieved by a father and two sons
before. Of the three the youngest was
to become Prime Minister, and the other
two missed the distinction by a very little.
Joseph Chamberlain had won to a posi-
tion in the ’eighties that caused him to
be looked on as the certain successor of
Gladstone in the leadership of the
Liberals. It is history how he left his chief
over the Home Rule question, and high
as he rose afterwards among the Union-
ists his chance of reaching the topmost
rung had gone. Austen went even closer
to the blue riband of politics. After Bal-
four’s retirement, he and Walter Long
(later Lord Long) tied in a vote for the
Conservative leadership, and, to prevent
disunity, each unselfishly stood aside in
favor of Bonar Law. When Joseph
Chamberlain turned from Radicalism to
become a pillar of the opposite party, he
took Birmingham with him. Now, for
the first time since 1869, Birmingham has
no Chamberlain on its town council or in
Parliament.
“Doghru”: Reported that Antonescu,
the Rumanian dietator, has ordered the
demobilisation of the whole of the
Rumanian forces, sea, land and air. If
Rumanian uniforms are what they were
a few years ago, Middle-Eastern Europe
will have lost most of its brightness,
White and gold, light blue and yrimson
were favorite military hues, and the air
force used to go about in cardinal red
from head to foot. A disgusted Bul-
garian veteran once deprecated my sug-
gestion that all this gaiety was a matter
for derision. “No,” remarked the old
fellow pensively as he watched a brilliant
airman flit by, “that sort of costume has
its military value. How could any soldier
fight a fellow like that? If he popped up
in a trench you’d want to kiss him.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “Ex-Mister” tells us, in
reference to the scent of burned gum-
lea that he “has read somewhere that
sme jj j s (he most active of all the senses
evoking memories of past events and
surroundings” (B. 13/11/ ’4O). It isn’t
hard to guess where he readl it butt his
version a labonous peri-
phrasts of Kipling s memorable
Smells are surer than sounds or sights
To make your heartstrings crack,
The poet was writing of the Australian
wattle, too.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
Shrapnel:
E.8.F.:
Hitler, you are a waster,
A waster born and bred,
And millions in this world today
Would like to know you dead.
Anon: —
Hitler the mighty, the bloodthirsty beast,
Picked out little Poland for his next feast.
He sent in his troops and the damage was done,
Britain entered the war and shall fight till it’s won.
H.C.W.:
Because of these vile enemies of aU that men hold
pure,
My soul is filled with mortal hate;
N'or would I wish that it abate
Until the day
When, with God’s aid, Democracy has made the
world secure
And crushed Totalitarian State
For evermore.
J.M.:
0 what a terrible thing to see,
The smashing of all liberty,
The crushing of aH principle
By hireling hordes invincible.
....L.R.N.: All right, but it’s not a Bulletin
yarn 8.H.; Its length doesn’t make up for
its inanity... .G.F.P.: “The Housebreaker”
went away cribless... .8.F.H.: Your chief
requirement at the moment appears to be a
sense of humor,,. ,H.Y.: “Moonlight Maiden”
doesn't look too well by daylight N.F.S.:
It might earn a cheque If you cut it by half
and dispense with ’Orace 1.R.8.: “I want
this published without the slightest alteration.”
Really 1....L.C.L.: See Masefield... .N.G.C.:
Others have made a better job of the same
subject.,, ,V.R.: “I have written dozens of
yarns for magazines all over the world.” Had
any published?,,, ,F,L,T,; It’s a long time
since we heard the gasping damsel exclaim
“Have you not a sister of your 0wn?”....
8.R.8.: Afraid that “The Broody Hen” is
sitting on a mare’s nest....J.P.E.: “Deep
Water” too deep for us... .N.H.S.: It was too
gory even for the office boy... .L.D.S.: Can’t
promise to return paragraphs, even if there
are stamps attached... .8.H.A.: “The Brook”
just babbles K.R.S.: Come again with some-
thing less hackneyed H.R.C.: The illustra-
tions are worse than the story itself 8.C.:
Not here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.S.: Millinery fashions are admittedly the
battiest for centuries, but even a modern
flapper would draw the line at wearing a coal-
scuttle G.T.: Draughtsmanship wretched,
shading muddy Frank L.: Drawing crude,
and idea is an old friend.... V.J.: Nary a gleam
in the whole bunch F.M.: Suggest you dis-
pense with clogged whitewash brush and use a
camel-hair for wash drawings... .W.H.: So
feeble it fell into the basket before we could
toss it there M.F.: You’re trying the too-
complicated too early; find your feet on more
simple stuff J.D.: “Will you point out any-
thing that may be wrong with the sketch?”
Yes —everything H.C.: Interpretation has
been sought vainly from Taxation Dept.,
Morgue, Astrologers’ League and Zoological
Society. Sent as last resort to Bricklayers’
Union... .K.F.: Altogether a dismal produc-
tion... .H.L.: Thin and unconvincing... .8.T.:
Gag as faded as the ink. .. .M.G.: Autograph-
album stuff Bill P.; An art school is indi-
cated, Bill, or oblivion for you.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is ali you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
'Vith offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BRANDAIJER'S
IF*
*
9
C.+*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations.
a BEA.MDi.DKK * 00. Ltd. BIRMNOHiK. EMO
Our Service Department
Wants.
readers page * S Set apart or the service of Bulletii
attar? thp 1S ei J lirel y ( ree - AH y°u have to do is to
Bulletin to Kd. tr ° m the lnSlde back cover of last
must TO be aV co^ C n o ed fU to o one sufe”* 1 CV ® ry
“Wanted flection and rejection is reserved.
Sell or To Let” notices are not admissible.
Dentist, Brisbane, skilled operator, accus-
tomed sole charge busy practices, desires posi-
tion. Refs. —8808.
Wanted by young woman position after New
Year as light general or housemaid, close to
city or town. Refs—8826.
Fruit expert with overseas exp. seeks work
in N.S.W. or Q’land cannery.—8717.
To buy Foot-power Loom Weaving, by
Edward F. Worst.—8825.
Name ol author and words of poem be-
ginning:—
I dreamed of sunny country, last night a golden
dream
Of wattles down the gully and gum-trees by the
stream.
—8494.
Information Sought.
(1) Displacement of H.M.S. Achilles? (2)
Armament? (3) Personnel? (4) Speed? (5)
Horse-power? (6) Coal- or oil-burner? (7)
Battles ? —8637.
(1) 7030 tons. (2) Eight 6in., four 4in. A.A.,
eight 21in. torpedo tubes. (3) 570. (4) 32+
knots. (5) 72,000. (6) Oil. (7) At the River
Plate against the Graf Spee.
* * * *
I have been corresponding with an American
friend. My last two letters have not been
answered and l suspect that they have been
withheld by the censors. Have the censors
power to do this, and is there any means of
discovering why they have done it? —8773.
The censorship has power to withhold from
delivery any postal articles which (inter alia)
are considered to be matter prejudicial to the
public safety, the defence of the Common-
wealth or the efficient prosecution of the war.
In no part of the Empire may information be
disclosed to the public as to what action (if any)
ha* been taken by censorship in regard to any
letter.
* * * *
(1) How did Great Britain become possessed
of Gibraltar? (2) Did President Wilson ever
divulge his reason for recalling the American
battleship George Washington just after he
arrived in Paris; if so, what was the reason ?
(3) In your recent publication of President
Wilson’s famous 14 points, what happened to
‘‘There shall be no annexations and no indemni-
ties” ? —8671.
(1) It was captured by the British in 1704
and ceded to her by Spain in 1713. (2) Not
aware. (3) Wilson’s points were merely prin-
ciples stated in political utterances and were
not actual diplomatic proposals. They were
not accepted by the Allied Powers, who quali-
fied their acceptance of the Wilson basis-of-
peace proposals with a rider that they under-
stood “Compensation will be made by Germany
for all damage done to the civilian population
of the Allies and their property by the aggres-
sion of Germany by land, by sea and by air.”
When President Wilson attempted to secure the
implementing of his no-annexations-or-in-
demnities point at the conference he met with
strong opposition from the French and the
British delegation, and particularly from W. M.
Hughes, and the opposition won.
* * * *
Quantity of Australian notes and coins of
each denomination at present in circulation? —
8578.
The number of Australian notes of each de-
nomination in circulation at September 30, 1940,
was: —
No. of Notes. Value.
10/- .. .. 9,067,888 £4,533,944
£1 .. .. 25,646,770 . 25,646,770
£5 .. .. 3,373,558 16,867,790
£10 .. .. 853,712 8,537,120
£20 .. .. 4,056 81,120
£50 .. .. 40,000 2,000,000
£100 .. .. 31,407 3,140,700
£1000 .. .. 812 812,000
39,018,203 £61,619,444
The number of coins of each denomination
at present in circulation in Australia cannot be
precisely stated. Silver and bronze coins to
the value of £10,164,248 have been issued by
the Commonwealth since 1910, and in the
middle of 1938 it was estimated that £9,116,000
of silver coins and £616,000 of bronze coins
were in circulation, a total of £9,732,000.
* * * *
A bet B that Menzies would win the election.
Should A pay B or vice versa ? —8720.
As Mr. Menzies’s party is still the Gov-
ernment and Mr. Curtin’s the Opposition,
there doesn’t seem to be any denying the fact
that Menzies won the election and Curtin
lost it.
* * * *
(1) What law governs the banning of books
from Australia? (2) Where can I find a list
of books banned over the last 20 years? (3)
Any appeal against such judgments ? —8525.
(1) The importation of blasphemous, indecent
or obscene works or articles into the Common-
wealth is prohibited by Section 52 (c) of the
Customs Act 1901-36. Certain types of litera-
ture, not being blasphemous, indecent or
obscene, but which, in the opinion of the
Minister, whether by words or by picture or
partly by words and partly by picture, (a) unduly
emphasise matters of sex or of crime, or (b)
are calculated to encourage depravity, and
literature of a seditious or subversive nature are
prohibited by Regulations under Section 52 (g)
ol the Customs Act. (2) A list of prohibited
works is not published, but inquiry in respect
of any particular work will elicit information
as to whether it has been reviewed and pro-
hibited or otherwise. (3) To assist the Minister
in determining what shall be prohibited the
works are referred to the Literature Censorship
Board for review. In any instance where the
importer may question the decision of the
Minister, the work may be further reviewed by
the Appeal Censor, who will determine whether,
in his opinion, it contravenes the Act or other-
wise, and recommend to the Minister accord-
ingly. In addition the importer has the right
of appeal to the Courts, if he is not prepared
to accept the decision of the Minister.
* * * *
I own a block of land in a Melbourne
suburb, and I am desirous of building a house.
After approaching several building societies I
gather that before taking on a loan I have to
find about 30 p.c. of the total value of the
loan. Is there any scheme under which my land
would be a good enough security? —B697.
Know of none. About best that can be done
is apply to Temperance and General Assur-
ance Cos. It will advance on loan 70 p.c.
of the value of the land and completed build-
ing, with repayments by monthly instalments.
* * * *
What are the rules and regulations governing
a three-sheet Sin. x 13 in. paper; articles of
general interest; price 3d.; profits to patriotic
fund ? —8744.
Under the newsprint-rationing scheme the
paper would be classified as anew publication,
and a recent decision by the Government con-
firmed the principle that the issue of new pub-
lications could not be permitted.
* * * *
(1) What educational qualifications are needed
to become a commercial radio station an-
nouncer? (2) Is a voice test made? (3) Do
vacancies exist for announcers in commercial
stations in N.5.W.? —8739.
(1) A first-class education with all-round
qualifications is necessary before obtaining a
position as a radio announcer, which sphere
has now become a very specialised field. It is
also necessary to take some voice production
lessons, and if at all possible attend one of
the various radio schools which train aspiring
announcers. (2)- Before any appointment is
made a voice test is taken, which is usually
recorded on a disc for the information of the
management. (3) Vacancies naturally occur
from time to time on various stations, and
some of the commercial stations have put in a
system of cadet announcing, whereby they train
junior announcers in the various phases of
the work.
* * * *
I sailed from Melbourne May 18, 1915,
landed in Egypt June, 1915, and then went
immediately to England, where my unit, the
Ut Australian Auxiliary ( A.1.F .) Hospital, was
stationed for the duration. What service medals
of the 1914-18 war am 1 entitled to wear? —
8623.
British War Medal only.
* * * *
(1) Who is Katherine Mayo? (2) Details
of her works ? —8568.
(1) She was born at Ridgway, Pennsylvania,
U.S.A., daughter of late James H. and Harriet
E. Mayo, and is unmarried. She was educated
at private schools in Boston and Cambridge,
Mass. Her publications include Justice to All,
a History of the Pennsylvania State Force,
1917 ; The Standard Bearers, 1918; Mounted
Justice, 1922; That Damn Y, 1920; The Isles
of Fear, 1925; Mother India, 1927; Slaves of
the Gods, 1928-31; Soldiers, What Next?,
1933 ; The Face of Mother India, 1935; and
George Washington’s Dilemma, 1938.
* * * *
How did the name taproom, indicating a
hotel bar, originate? —B49B.
It was the room in which the liquor was
tapped off from the barrels for serving.
* * * #
Is it permissible for a member of an English
family bearing coat armor to retain the arms
of his father’s family if he has changed his
surname by deed poll? Can he retain use of
such armorial bearings if he drops entirely the
former surname or should he couple the old
and new names with a hyphen? Or does he
forfeit all right to such arms even though the
change of name cannot alter his descent? —
8757.
This matter depends entirely upon the lan-
guage used in the deed poll, as the exact posi-
tion would be there defined. In some cases
where anew name is assumed the original
name and coat of arms are dropped altogether
In the other cases confirmation of the definite
arms to be used must be obtained before a
person would be entitled to use them Refer
the matter to the College of Arms, Queen
Victoria-street, London, E.C.4, where the terms
of the deed poll are registered.
* * * *
Is there a demand for silk from silkworms?
To whom could such silk be forwarded ? —8745
Offers of raw silk from the cocoon would be
of interest (according to the quantity offered)
to Lincoln Mills (A.), Ltd., Gaffney-street,
Coburg, N. 13, Vic. This firm has the plant
for “throwing” the silk, and has hitherto im-
ported raw silk for this purpose. Further in-
quiries for disposal of locally-produced raw
silk might possibly be addressed to Hatbands
and Trimmings Mfg. Cos., 15-2.1 McEvoy-street,
Waterloo, Sydney.
* * *
What treatment (if any ) will prevent men’s
boots from splitting at the sides after being
worn for a short time? Is it caused by any
of the ingredients of boot polish ? —8738.
Boots worn for a short time only and given
fair treatment should not split at the sides, and
no good polish should have a bad effect on
boots. If the boots are worn under wet or gener-
ally drastic conditions, use good dubbin, such
as Dale’s English Dubbin at 2s. 6d. per tin,
instead of polish. This helps to preserve the
leather and keep it soft.
* * * *
Recipe for ice-cream that can be made in a
household refrigerator? —B42B.
NestlCs give this ice-cream made from con-
densed milk: Half tin (70z.) of Gold Medal
condensed milk, one 4oz. tin Nestle’s cream,
i-cup water, one teaspoon powdered gelatine,
1| teaspoon vanilla essence. Soak gelatine in a
little cold water and add rest of water heated,
to dissolve. Blend milk, cream and essence,
add melted gelatine, pour into freezing-pan and
place in refrigerator. When mixture has frozen
to thick custard scrape from sides and bottom
of pan. beat for half-minute, smooth over
and replace in frige till frozen for serving.
* * * *
How. to propagate camellias, and the best
season of the year to carry out the method?
—8727.
Camellias can be propagated by both layer-
ings and cuttings. For layering, bend a low-
growing limb, make a slit at the “elbow”
and place a small stone in it, then fasten the
limb firmly in the ground with a wire staple.
If the limb is short, layer it in a box of
soil containing at least 25 p.c. of sand and
well supplied with drainage holes. For cut-
tings, a glass frame is essential with plenty of
bottom heat. Use small pieces of last year’s
wood 3in. to 4in. long, and keep the soil
moistened. The work can be attempted at
any time, but success is often very limited.
* * * *
(1) Suitable material to cover cherry-trees so
as to protect the fruit from blackbirds ? (2)
Recipe for making the material waterproof ?
8543.
(1) Cheapest procurable cheesecloth, sewn
together and tacked on a framework. (2) Water-
proofing is not desirable. If the material be
treated, this would influence conditions inside
the cage, in the matter of temperature, humidity,
etc. The value of cheesecloth is that, though
birds are prevented from gaining entry, con-
ditions inside the cage are near normal. Air,
light, etc., are required for proper growth of
both trees and fruit.
* * * *
Recipe for mixture to clean or remove soot
from chimneys, and method of use?— Bs34.
There are many substances and mixtures in
use for removing soot from chimneys, the sim-
plest and cheapest being common salt. Others,
which are said to be more effective, though of
course a little more expensive and less con-
venient, consist of mixtures of common salt with
materials such as zinc or red lead. Suitable
proportions for these latter are one part of red
lead to five parts of salt, or one part of
powdered zinc to 20 of salt. The quantity of
remover to be used naturally varies with circum-
stances, but half a cupful to a cupful will be
be found an average amount. To use, start
with plenty of fuel in the fire, get it to burn
well, then clear a portion of the surface of
partly-burnt coal so as to expose the red-hot
coke underneath. Scatter the remover over the
red-hot coke. After 10-20 minutes make the
fire burn as fiercely as it will; some wood or
paper thrown on the fire is of additional advan-
tage. The process can be repeated at intervals
if required.
* * * *
Recipe for mulberry wine? —8620.
To one gallon water add 61b. berries, 51b.
sugar, l|oz. cream of tartar, four tablespoons
brandy. Boil together all except brandy for
15 minutes, put through fine strainer and when
cool add brandy, bottle without corking and
leave for 12 days. Clean bottle necks, cork and
tie. Use in eight weeks. If made for sale this
comes under Licensing Act.
* * * *
Would donations of money, foodstuffs, etc.,
be acceptable to the Salvation Army ? To whom
should I address donations?— B77o.
Yes. The Salvation Army is aiming to pro-
vide 1500 families with parcels of food con-
taining meat, vegetables, milk, sugar, cake,
Christmas pudding material, etc.; 2500 children
with presents and parcels containing fruit, cake
and sweets, etc.; 2500 persons with Christmas
dinner; and 13,000 sufferers and others in
public institutions with gifts. Donations, either
in money or kind, may be addressed to Lt.-
Commissioner Harewood or Lt.-Colonel E
Mortimer Cutler, 140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney!
* * * *
Details of treatment for de-worming a horse ?
—8772.
, A fixture of two parts of carbon tetra-
chloride with three parts of liquid paraffin is
administered in the following ratio: Ponies and
horses under two, 2 fl. oz.; horses over two,
3 fl. oz ; draught horses, 4 fl. oz. The animal
should be starved for 24 hours prior to treat-
ment. The mixture is then administered as a
drench.
* * * #
(1) Who was the wrestler calling himself the
Black Panther ? (2) Is Londos still wrestling
champion? (3) Jack Johnson’s record? (4)
Are any holds (such as Leo Jensen’s twist
shortarm-scissors) patented, or can anyone use
them . (5) Earl McCready’s record ? (6)
Nationality of Don Athaldo? His record as a
boxer and as a wrestler? (7) Addresses of
Lurich and Meeske? —Bos7.
(1) Tom Lurich. (2) Yes, in the U.S.A. (3)
Johnson (born at Galveston, Tex., on March
31, 1878) began boxing in 1901, and won
his last contest (10 rounds with Homer Smith)
in 1924. Johnson in 89 contests had 64 wins,
six losses, five draws and 14 no-decision bouts’
He was knocked out by Choynski and Willard.
(4) No patents. (5) McCready has taken part in
almost 1000 matches, and claims to have lost
only three. (6) Athaldo is an Australian, real
name Walter Lyons. He defeated almost every
second-rate boxer he met. but did no wrestling
as far as is known. (7) Letters addressed to
Lurich care of Fitzroy (Vic.) Stadium and to
Meeske care of Sydney Stadium would reach
them.
Brief Answer*.
0.F.: Cannot suggest, without inspection,
what this trouble may be. Send a specimen
to the Viticultural Expert, N.S.W. Dept, of
Agriculture, Sydney J.McG.: Information
not available... .N.C.: Your son will be eligible
to sit for the examination for entry into the
Royal Australian Naval College as a cadet mid-
shipman in 1941. Forms in connection with
the examination may be obtained on applica-
tion to the Naval Staff Office, Edgecliff, Sydney,
in March next... .E.F.E.: The Clyde Engineer-
ing Cos. of Granville, Sydney, is distributing a
transmission gear somewhat along the lines indi-
cated... .S.LH.: Request for translations of
obscenities in the works of Martial refused
T.C.: The practice of naturopathy, chi;ro-
practics and dietetics is not governed by law in
N. S. Wales, and no information is available
concerning colleges in Australia or America
where these subjects can be studied. . ..8.A.R.:
(1) Although not impossible, it is extremely rare
that a bitch conceives to more than one dog.
(2) and (3) The periods between heats is usually
six months, but may be at shorter or longer
intervals... .J.H.: Manufacturer is Hanslick
Products, Ltd., 43 Beaconsfield-street, Alex-
andria, Sydney E.M.S.: “No heel taps”
means “Drain your glasses empty. Leave
nothing in the heel of the glass”... .D.T.: His
name is Joyce... .E.N.: Need more particu-
lars... .W. 8.: The Samuel Cook referred to
was probably the then manager of the Sydney
“Morning Herald”... .J.A.: Full particulars
regarding entry to the Royal Australian Navy
can be obtained on application to the Dis-
trict Naval Officer, Bay-street, Port Mel-
bourne J.S.: Can’t trace any such regula-
tion. Certain commodities were rationed, and
this may have affected the matter... .W.J.P.:
Angus and Robertson can supply The Story
of Exploration and Adventure, complete, three
vols., £4 10s., or terms... .P.T.: Only that his
name is Geoffrey Uther Ellis, and that he was
born in 1891 P.D.: Items for the different
pages should be kept on separate sheets of
paper, each item should indicate for what page
it is intended, and the name and address of
the contributor should be written on each page.
Payment for published items is made on re-
ceiving a claim J.H.K.: Leading biologists
discussed the subject of human races before
the British Association for the Advancement
of Science at Blackpool, England, on Sep-
tember 11, 1936, but they could reach no
agreement... .A.McN.: The region in which
auroral displays occur has been found to be
approximately between 50 and 200 miles above
the earth’s surface. They are produced by
electrical discharges in oxygen and nitrogen
8.D.M.: The chances of getting a bridge hand
of 13 cards of the same suit is approximately
one in 153,000,000,000. The odds against get-
ting 12 of one suit are much better;
300,000,000 to one P.L.G.: Lady J.
Douglas won the 1918 English Derby with
Gainsborough, ridden by J. Childs, and Lord
Glanely the 1919 event with Grand Parade,
ridden by F. Templeman... .S.T.A.: The leaves
of the sorrel plant are employed in flavoring
soups and in salad and sauce preparations.
The leaves are gathered singly for use and
are peculiarly acid to the taste... .V.L.8.:
Antimony was once used extensively as a medi-
cine in fever cases. It is still used in the
treatment of pleurisy, pneumonia and chest
complaints generally, producing a powerful
effect upon the heart’s action... .T.H.R.: An
“act of God” is any event beyond human
prevention or foreseeing, such as shipwreck,
earthquake, lightning, etc., loss in respect of
which cannot be recovered unless expressly pro-
vided for... .8.K.P.: According to Who’s Who
Cordell Hull is the son of William and Eliza-
beth Riley Hull. Unable to trace grand-
parents... .J.K.F.: It is the pointers which
have the short coat, and the setters the long
hair....J.H.8.: Your friend wins that bet;
those old Model T Fords had no gear lever.
. ...P.8.J.: The U.S.A. Declaration of Inde-
pendence was adopted by the Continental Con-
gress at Philadelphia on July 4, 1776, and
signed by John Hancock as president and by
Charles Thompson as secretary... .T. 8.1.: Area
of the Republic of Cuba is 41,634 sq. m. In-
cluding the Isle of Pines and the surrounding
Keys it is about 44,164 sq. m J.S.: Cannot
reply without knowing whether your eupho-
nium has three or four valves, and is of Eng-
lish or foreign make... .E.T.Z.: Forward fol-
lowing particulars to the Dept, of Interior: (1)
Full name and date of birth; (2) date of
arrival in Australia; (3) full name of father and
place and date of his birth; (4) number and
date of father’s naturalisation certificate, if
known; if not, approx, date of naturalisa-
tion and where father was living at that time.
. ...D.G.L.: The mythological Andrus was an
island of the Cyclades where there was a temple
to Bacchus with a fountain whose waters during
the ides of January tasted like wine... .L.C.S.:
Lord George Gordon was tried for treason as
the instigator of the Anti-Popery riots of
1780, but he was acquitted. Later he was
committed to Newgate for libelling Marie
Antoinette, and died there... .C.P.S.: Sodium is
found in the various forms of salt in combina-
tion with chlorine in many minerals and in most
vegetable and animal organisms. It is a
metallic element K.H.R.: Marquetry is
mainly used for ornamental floors. It is a
kind of inlaying in which thin layers of colored
woods are wrought into a design... .L.P.:
Write to the Cement Association, Carrington-
street, Sydney, and ask for pamphlets Nos. 1,
3 and 12, which will be forwarded free of
charge.


HITS
LYS
PROOF.
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
w
W"T*S**
m
' ? '•;
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"L Y SAG HT' S " WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drought-feeding Points.
If agistment is available it
is almost always better and cheaper than
any other form of drought relief. Every
attempt should be made to lighten the
burden on the property by disposing of
dry sheep to give every chance to the
breeders.
The secret of successful handfeeding is
to begin early. Sheep, particularly dry
sheep, can exist on apparently no feed
at all for quite a time, so long as plenty
of water is available, but they are living
on their inner reserves of fat. Start feed-
ing when pastures dry off. There is no
need to worry about dry sheep at that
stage beyond keeping the salt troughs
filled with a lick that contains calcium
and phosphorus.
Breeding ewes, however, should be
given a small ration of meatmeal, made
palatable with salt, oats or linseed meal,
etc. —not more than 2oz. meatmeal per
head per day.
When the dry grass gets scarce and
ewes have to walk long distances to get
a fill begin feeding grain. Whatever you
have —maize, oats or wheat —will prob-
ably work out cheaper than buying feed.
Maize lends itself better to “trailing,” as
stock are liable to pick up too much dirt
with the smaller grains. If you must
buy, whatever grain you can land
cheapest is best. Owing to the different
bushel weights (maize 561 b., oats 401 b.,
wheat 601 b.) the cost should be gone into
thoroughly.
Under real drought conditions —where
grass has practically disappeared—hand-
feeding has to be regarded from a new
angle. Dry sheep may be fed on scrub
but should have an additional concen-
trate as well as salt. Solidified molasses
with bloodmeal acts as a laxative and
gives protein, and this mixture is perhaps
the best in these circumstances. Breed-
ing ewes require bulky feed and a supple-
ment of high protein content. Lucerne
hay, if the price is not too high, is the
ideal fodder. Failing that, scrub or
wheaten or oaten hay should be fed. The
minimum ration of hay should be ilb.
per day, together with nuts or meal.
As meals require troughing, unless the
practice of dumping the bags on the
ground and slitting them open is resorted
to, nuts are chiefly used. The great dis-
advantage of “trailing” nuts or any other
such fodder among ewes with young
iambs is that the ewes chase every lorry
or car that comes near the paddock and
large numbers of lambs are lost.
Feeding in troughs means more work,
and sheep have to be mustered until they
get accustomed to the routine. The chief
trouble with trough-feeding applies also
to any other type of handfeeding—the
first sheep to arrive get the biggest share
and the last miss. Further, there is
always a tail to any mob, chiefly sheep
that won’t take to certain fodders.
Wherever possible, these bad doers, shy
feeders and weaker sheep should be taken
off the main mob and fed separately in
a small paddock. This means more work,
but it’s worth it to save them.
Wool Returns.
“Ovis”: The plan to store Australian
wool in the United States has been re-
sponsible for acceleration of appraise-
ments, and 1,947,000 bales instead of the
1,750,000 bales budgeted for will be dealt
with before Christmas.
To November 13, 1,126,000 bales had
been appraised at £17,680,000, of which
the growers have received £14,926,000 —
another £2,091,000 is to be available
almost immediately. Sheepskin packing-
houses have had £1,055,000 for 46,000
bales under the U.K. purchase scheme.
It is not possible to make exact com-
parisons between per pound appraisement
prices last year and this. Roughly
1,129,000 bales had been dealt with from
July to the end of November last year
for an appraisement return of
£18,350,000. Thus the years run roughly
parallel in quantities handled and aver-
age prices. In three States the appraise-
ment average is above 12d. —Queensland
12.15 d., Victoria 12.31 d. and Tasmania
12.93 d., and the Commonwealth average
is 11.66 d. So that growers have still 1.77 d.,
less charges on wool already appraised,
up their sleeves to celebrate with at the
end of the year, if they feel like it.
“Cutting 'em about a bit , ain't yer, Ma?"
Test Cows in Victoria.
“Mookau”: Victoria’s dairy results
for the year 1939-40 show a record
yield of 72,203 tons of butter and 10,803
tons of cheese, double that of ten years
ago. Against that there has been almost
a doubling of the number of dairy herd
cows in the decade: production is not
going up very much per cow over the
whole range of herds.
On the whole, the figures for tests over
the decade do not show much regular
improvement in production per test cow.
This year the average output—26llb.
butterfat —was certainly an easy record,
but last year it was only 2211 b., the year
before it was 2271 b., the year before that
again 2441 b. As far back as 1931-32
there were 16,000 more cows registered
by the Test Association and —with a pro-
portion of juniors greater than this year
—the average was 2471 b. In 1932-33 the
registrations reached 104,000 —a third
greater than this year. Yet the total
number of dairy cows in Victoria has
nearly doubled since 1929-30.
In the year of highest aggregate yield
for the State, and of the greatest num-
ber of dairy cattle, the number of test-
registered cows is smaller than in any year
since 1929-30. And only 30 per cent, of
the cows tested give more than 3001 b.
of butterfat. There was no herd of 80 or
more which could do better than 3271 b.,
none between 60 and 79 cows which
could do better than 3661 b. and there
were only two herds altogether—one of
11 animals, the other, belonging to H.
Jackson, of Rochester, 38—which passed
the 4501 b mark
Herd-testing undoubtedly has built up
a limited number of fair herds in both
N. S. Wales and Victoria, but it doesn’t
seem to achieve much in the way of im-
proving average production over the
whole industry Average figures are not
available for Victoria, but they are cer-
tainly below 1501 b. fat. The N. S. Wales
average last year was round 1301 b., about
1351 b. the year before, and under 1301 b.
the year before that. A decade and a
half ago N.S.W. figures for three con-
secmivi years were 1341 b.. ,411 b. and
in' Maoriland aU dairy cows-not
merdy a few thousand tested animals
hit an average of 228.561 b. in the peak
year of 1936-37, and all cows in milk
ran out at 2451 b. that year better than
the performance of Victoria s few hand-
picked thousands in any except two of
the last 1_ years.
" ’
Wheat and Drought.
“8.C.”: An idea of what the drought
did to wheat in western N.S.W. and in
Riverina can be got from its effect on
the Sydney R.A.S. wheat competition,
Usually the western district—for R.A.S.
purposes an area roughly within the line
Wyalong, Forbes, Dunedoo, Gilgandra,
Trangie Tullamore, Condobolin, Cargel-
ligo, Wyalong—musters 15 to 18 areas
each with its own crop contest to select
a winner for zone contest. Riverina —
Wyalong, Griffith, Narrandera, Junee,
Cootamundra, Wyalong—manages about
the same. This year it was necessary to
lump the two districts together, and only
11 crops were found fit to compete.
Poorest of them was at Bogan Gate
with an estimated yield of 17 bushels an
acre, best at Wyalong with 32 bushels.
Six of the crops were Bencubbin, two
Ford and one each of Dundee, Geeraly-
ing and Bordan. What an early-maturer
like Geeralying was doing out in that
country is a bit of a mystery; still, it got
third place and scored full points for
disease-freedom. The Bordan crop was
at Barellan and was sown as an experi-
ment, a risky one from the official point
of view, seeing that Bordan has a repu-
tation for haying-off and not filling in
places where hot and dry springs are
the rule rather than the exception. It
would be remarkable, almost incredible,
if Bordan ever stood up to Barellan con-
ditions.
Ford won the prize for C. Cassin, a
Wyalong man. It got more rain than
most other crops in the area, but its
growth was more the result of good farm-
ing. Most of the crops went in after a
fair rain in April; after that they had to
do their best on a 3in. fall in September
and nothing much else except promises.
Effect of the season was shown in the
shallow rooting. Until the September
rain there was little or no secondary roo -
growth and the roots faded 8
through the dry layer just below the -
face to the fairly moist subsoil beneath,
Practically every crop hat achieved com-
Petition honors got aTitt e mows ram than
° hers m the same.locality.Four-of the
11 f f'! ed to rea <j h pure-seed standar .
All things considered, the competition
showed that Bencubbin and Ford are
»£«further east
Qf Bordan outgrew the others. That part
Qf thg country; which j s fringed by the
western foothills of the Dividing Range,
more rain than the outer districts,
* nd - t hag generally damper atmospheric
cond j t i ons . There are heavy dews and
frequent scurries of mists and drizzles,
the soil is heavier and more holding.
What farmers there call a drought would
be looked on as a good season by men
further west.
The spread of Bordan in large part
resulted from Billy O’Neill’s champion-
ship win with it at Cowra last year, when
crops were heavy everywhere and the
country got a record yield. Those who
sowed it after the Cowra triumph scarcely
expected this year to turn out as it did
and it says something for Bordan tha
it did so well in contest with known
drought-resisters like Nabawa Bencubbin
and Ford. Generally, although the
Bordan got prizes here and there, Ben-
cubb.n proved its worth by finishing
better in the dry October.
At Cowra, F. W. Harding had a crop
of Bordan for the contest, but when the
dry set in it dropped back and was passed
by a Dundee stand which finished, in
better order. Stan Giddings, at Welling-
ton, one of the State’s best-growers,
stripped a 12-bag average from Bordan
last year. This year it burnt off worse
than Ford, Bencubbin, Waratah, Bald-
min, Eureka and Gular. Wellington is
about on the edge of the favored country
and likely to catch the dry breath of the
west.
Some people expected the drought to
be too much for the recognised varieties
—Ford, Bencubbin, Nabawa, Baringa,


James Murphy Bursaries
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) The University of Sydney:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence at St. John’s
College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
or
(b) Hawkesbury Agricultural College:
Providing all fees and textbooks not exceeding £oO per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the Will of the late
James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable their
sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the
University of Sydney, or of entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case
may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than the 10th January,
1941, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College and not later
than the 7th February, 1941, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and
further particulars may be obtained from:—-
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
BS&
n
m
m
'■m
m
o' s
m
D
n
m
m
tf/rr
$
©
m
It may ■
cost a ■
little M
more but
it's WELL
worth it/
Gordon's
jps •
lain
distilled in Ixmdon, aujlafid
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
LTD Q lon DON, ENGLAND ;
'Jlu latyeU gin dittillM in the woiLd
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
M J A ;ii ßose i^_Co; _Pty ; JLtd ; j_Kin£^t i! _Sydney
Ull!
mmuu
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil.
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELLS, FLIES OB GERMS.
REPEAT ORDERS PROVE SATISFACTION
The Commonwealth Government has lately
bought 97 more and the Hunter District TVater
Board 13 more.
PRICE, £17/9/6,
including sales tax and crating.
Write Desk B for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.YV.
fsd
etc. —but they held out well, especially
the first three. As in other years, good
farming produced the best crops, a factor
not always fully recognised when there
is talk of “rehabilitation” or “stabilisa-
tion.”
Skeleton Weed.
“Nab”: Skeleton weed is still spread-
ing in the N.S.W. wheatbelt, and has got
as far north as Tullamore. The usual
“line-of-least-resisters” are claiming that
it has proved a blessing to men with
sheep, providing a pick when all else has
failed. Maybe it has, but it is a pest all
the same, and nobody should be misled
into letting it grow.
It doesn’t show up so much in dry
seasons, but as soon as the next good
years begin those who have neglected it
and still want to grow wheat will wonder
what’s happened to their paddocks. A
blithe report from Junee that the weed is
“not making the same progress as it did
last year, or just after its first serious
appearance,” seems to be hailed with
delight, though the drought is the obvi-
ous reason and the weed will flourish with
redoubled vigor as soon as it gets a
chance.
This talk of it providing a pick for
sheep sounds suspiciously like the old
argument against wiping out saffron
thistle, which did the same thing for sheep
with its seed, but which also not only
reduced many a wheat yield but spoilt
many a grain sample through the green
saffron sap going into the grain-box at
harvest time. Plainly, if a man is to grow
wheat he can’t afford to have skeleton
weed in the paddock, too. A careful
cropping and grazing rotation will beat
it, but it takes years where the infesta-
tion is heavy. Where there is light
growth, it should be destroyed with salt,
sodium chlorate or the hoe.
Not far north-east of Tullamore lies
the fringe of the N.S.W. north-west
wheatbelt, where short fallow and
annual crops are the rule. If skeleton weed
once gets a hold in that country the
State will find its total wheat average con-
siderably reduced. There is a Noxious
Weeds Act among the pigeonholes of the
Agricultural Department, and it ought to
be brought to light against skeleton weed
at once.
“Greg.”: Silo men won’t accept green
or immature wheat, wheat with an exces-
sive moisture content or which contains
milky grains; nor will they take old
season’s wheat. Make sure the bags from
last year have been thoroughly cleaned
and are free of any weevil sign. They
should be treated either by dusting with
or dipping in a creosote solution. The
solution could also be used with advan-
tage on headers and trucks, and in sheds
where weevils are likely to be. The man
who rings in a bag or two of old season’s
wheat may easily be ringing in a nest
of weevils which would soon infest the
whole bin or stack.
“ Yeno Ham”: On Camden Park
Estate (N.S.W.) a lucerne paddock of 150
acres is being spray-irrigated. The pad-
dock averages six cuts a year. After
each cut the lucerne is harrowed, top-
dressed with |cwt. of super, per acre and
watered. In 10 months more than 300
tons of feed was cut.
“X.N.”: Parts of Queensland have had
good rain which set the creeks running.
Kingaroy plateau and its neighborhood
scored several inches, the Downs had
fair downpours and there was rain
throughout Moreton, the Dalby district
and coastal central, central and north-
western areas. Generally, the drought
seems to have broken.
“Ghanam”: The Texas “Cattleman”
reports comparative tests with cottonseed
and soya-bean meal by the Kansas ex-
periment station. One lot of steers, put
in at 3921 b. weight, ate a daily ration of
9.s4lb.shelled corn, 1.51 b. cottonseed meal,
o.llb. ground limestone, 9.551 b. silage and
lib. prairie hay per day over 134 days,
showing an average gain of 2.141 b. per
head daily. The soya-fed lot, given
slightly less corn and silage, but the same
quantities of meal, etc., made an average
gain of 2.111 b. per day. The cottonseed
calves showed a market margin of about
10s. per head Australian over the soya-
fed. They appeared, apart from other
things, to develop a better finish.
“Pear Farmer”: Now that Cactoblastis
and cochineal have practically exter-
minated prickly-pear, it must be time for
some bard to indite its requiem. Appar-
ently impervious to drought, pear could
always be relied upon for a spot of green
to enliven the dusty surrounding and,
besides providing relief for tired eyes,
prevent soil erosion. As a drought fodder
for cattle or stock, it may be surpassed,
but it had the merit of fattening at prac-
tically no cost. It also tended to make
the animals drought-resistant, as pear-
fed stock required watering only every
second day.
Hints for the Farm.
“Canbelego”: After the ewes have
been dipped keep them away from suck-
ing lambs until they have drained
and dried out. Then return the lambs to
them in a small yard, and make sure
that every lamb is mothered before night.
“Jayem”: Wheat is mainly a fat-form-
ing and energy-producing food, and to
build flesh on the pigs meatmeal is needed
as a supplement. A complete ration for
wheat-country pigs is 51b. to 61b. of wheat
and Lib. to -jrlb. of meatmeal daily.
“Valerin”: When machines come in
from the paddocks remove and clean
driving chains, then leave in an oil bath
till wanted. It prevents many breakages
later on.
Outback Occupations.
No. XLV.
A Holiday—for the Wife.
“Agnes,” says the wife one day, look-
ing up from a letter, “wants me to go
down for a week.” Agnes is her sister
and lives in the city. About nine times
a year for the past ten years she has been
wanting the wife to go down for a week.
“What, again?” you say.
“Well, a holiday wouldn’t hurt me,”
says the wife.
“But you had a holiday in—in’’
“Yes,” cuts in the wife, “it’s that long
ago.”
Silence.
“Of course,” says the wife, “I can’t go.
I couldn’t leave you and the boys here
at harvest-time.”
“Huh, harvest-time! There’s no
harvest-time this year, woman, and you
know it.”
The wife puts down her letter, comes
over to you and plants a quick kiss on
your weather-stained cheek. “I’m sorry,
dear,” she says, “I shouldn’t have men-
tioned it at a time like this.”
After all, she hasn’t been away for a
long time, and what with the wheat hav-
ing failed and the rain as far off as ever
and nothing much to do about the place
except keep the sheep alive and nurse the
water in the tank it might be as good a
time as any.
“Look, missus,” you say, “you’d better
take Aggie’s offer.”
“You know she hates being called
Aggie.”
“That’s not what I said.”
“But how would you and the boys
get on?”
You laughed. “I bached before an’ I
reckon I can do it again. You wimmen
always think the place’ll fall t’ pieces or
somethin’ if you ain’t here.”
Your wife looks hard at you, purses
her lips and then goes to her room saying
“If we hurry I can catch the five o’clock
train.”
Your mouth falls open. You didn’t
expect it to be as sudden as that. A sort
of blankness assails you. You wonder
what there is in the way of tinned tucker,
and recall that both the boys are hearty
eaters. “Cripes,” you think as the missus
dashes past on her way to the bathroom,
“she means it.”
You’re still a bit dashed when you get
back after putting her on the train. She
had told you where a lot of things were
and where you’d find this and that, but
you get home without the slightest recol-
lection of it. Jack comes from the back
paddock, stamps through the kitchen and
stops dead.
“Where’s Mum?” he asks, alarmed.
“Gone down to her sister’s for a week
or two,” you answer cheerfully. “Hurry
up and get washed while I throw a bit
o’ tucker together.”
“You goin’ t’ be cook, Dad?”
You ignore him. Tom arrives. “Hey,
Tom!” calls Jack, “we got a new cook.”
“Yair, what’s she like?”
“There she is—in the kitchen.”
Tom walks in, looks at you lighting
up the stove, and walks out again. Sounds
of youthful laughter drift along the
passage.
They come in for their tea. You’re on
the hop between boiling spuds, making
the tea and setting the table. There is
some cold mutton. You have burnt one
wrist. The butter seems to have col-
lapsed, but there is plenty of tomato
sauce. You carve the mutton, heap the
plates with spuds and serve it. Jack
pops a forkful in his mouth, gives three
chews, lets out a yell and runs outside,
spluttering. “Ants!” he howls.
They were in the butter you mixed in
the spuds—the little black, stinking pests
of the back country whose taste is a
never-to-be-forgotten horror. You throw
the spuds outside. You and the boys fill
up on mutton, bread, sauce and tea.
After tea, before clearing the table, you
go outside for a smoke. Jack and Tom
lounge on the verandah. There is a scurry
in the kitchen, and Tom’s half-grown
kangaroo pup flashes through the door
with the mutton. The other five dogs
enthusiastically take after him. You
jump up and shout curses, then sit down
again.
“Well, we won’t have mutton for
breakfast,” says Jack.
“Can you make porridge, Dad?” asks
Tom.
“You fellers have bin too long tied t’
y’r mother’s apron-strings,” you come
back. “A bit of hard tucker’ll do y’
both good.”
Jack stands up. “Think I’ll take a
stroll down the creek,” he says. “Cornin',
Tom?” Tom gets up.
You are alone. When they are well
out of sight you make some fresh tea and
gorge on bread and syrup. The place
seems quiet, as though it had lost some-
thing. Echoes of a soft voice seem to
float in odd corners, there doesn’t seem to
be any comfort, the kitchen smells of
rank butter and stale water. You go out-
side. There is a glow down on the creek.
Thinking of fires, you hurry down. Jack
and Tom are round the glow. They have
a billy on it. A beautiful aroma of roast
rabbit assails you. You move forward.
“What’s this? A bit of a campfire
supper?”
Jack looks at Tom. They nod their
heads.
“Cooks,” says Jack, “should stay in
their place, the kitchen. Have y’ washed
up yet. Dad?”
Feeling that even the stars are in oppo-
sition, you decide to assert yourself and
order them both up to the house at once,
stamping out their fire and throwing their
rabbit to the expectant dogs.
“That young Jack’s gettin’ a bit above
himself,” you mutter, making homeward,
wishing the missus hadn’t gone.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
Another first for South Australia this week.
Mistaken Identity
I was just getting into my second pasty
when the big blond man at the next table
began laying down the law to his mates
in a loud voice.
“Dere vas too many poleeticians and
too many parties. Dey fight mit dem-
selves all der time. Dey bribe der
vorkers mit big vages and little hours
and long holidays. Der vorkers strike
and strike and nopody do notings to stop
it. Eferypody haf a goot time. Dey
blay about mit elections and races and
sports and nopody vorries about der
vawr at all. Dey vas sillier than a lot
of sheep. And Hitler come and take
her in two bites as I svallow dis pie.”
And he proceeded to suit the action to
the words.
The young fellow in uniform siting
next to me had been listening. He
dropped his knife and fork with a clatter
and rose so hurriedly that he upset his
chair and nearly upended the table.
Striding over to the orator he shook a
mighty fist close to the staring blue eyes.
“What ruddy right have you to talk like
that about Australia?” he demanded, and
all mastication in the room was held up to
hear the answer.
“Who vas talkin’ about Australia?”
spluttered the foreigner, his mouth
still full of the second bite. “I vas
talkin’ about France before der vawr.
I vas dere and saw it. To hell mit Hitler.
He has ruined my Norvay alretty.”
Eating was resumed as peace was made
with an apology and a handshake. But
could you blame the young soldier for his
mistake? —Tomato Sauce (S.A.).
Why?
Why does the R.A.A.F., the junior
service, work under conditions so much
better than the A.1.F.? R.A.A.F. pay is
better in most instances than the Diggers’,
and the well-cut and attractive uniform,
together with associated equipment, must
cost twice as much as the “giggle-suit ’
and khaki uniform of the A.I.F.
The newly-opened Air Force House in
Sydney caters for airmen on leave, while
their office staff is now established in a
new city building. The Army occupies an
old factory in one of the most unsavory
parts of Sydney. So unsavory in fact that
girls on shift work are escorted to the
tram by a soldier.
Such demarcations cause much rancor
between the two forces and don’t go to-
wards helping the perfect teamwork which
will be required when they go into action
against the common enemy. —Paddy M.
(N.S.W.).
An Example
Adelaide “Advertiser” had a small
article under the caption of “Whyalla
Strike Collapses.” This was concisely
written, but the main fact —that the men
had ended the strike themselves against
the wishes of the executive of the union
—was only casually mentioned.
I consider that a front-page leader
praising the men’s action and holding it
up as an example would do more good
to our war effort than fifty articles on
the progress of the war, particularly
when we are hearing of strikes and pro-
posed strikes in Victoria and N. S. Wales.
-A. C. C. (S.A.).
Sacrifice
“D.R.” (B. 13/11/ ’4O) should be
kicked for saying Australians won’t
give a shilling to the war effort with-
out expecting a shillingsworth of
fun, a return or a prize. There have
been no returns or prizes for recent ap-
peals—the Comforts Fund, the Red Cross,
the British Bombing Relief or the fund
for buying ’planes for Britain. Nor were
there any prizes for Hospital Sunday or
the Armistice Day appeal. In Melbourne
one hospital recently opened a new wing,
and two new hospitals are being built, one
at Heidelberg and one in the city. Dona-
tions are meeting the cost of them.
From the average man in the street
and his odd, though not spare, shillings,
close on a million pounds has been freely
donated to appeals during the last few
months. Considering the cost of living,
high taxes and the calls that have been
made since the war stai'ted, that is not
a bad effort. —Pip (Vic.).
War Memorials
Plans and good resolutions of all sorts
for “after the war” have been in the air
since the word go, so what about this
one? It is at least practical, and will
call for no other effort than the curbing
of the itch for unnecessary expenditure.
The 1914-18 affair provided us with as
many war memorials, large and small, as
we can accommodate, so I suggest that,
when the present war is over, we
merely append a new set of dates on the
monuments now standing. We have been
told often enough that it is really the same
war.— Peter Penguin (S.A.).
Statues
Every moment since the war began has
offered us the chance to make an appro-
priate gesture. We have been invited to
“Overloaded me eye! It's only the 'igh tide."
fling our time, our business, our savings,
our yachts, our wives, wedding rings and
waste paper into the united war effort.
Surely now is the time for flinging our
public statues after them?
I should like to see a great heap made
of all the public statues in and around
Sydney. I should like to see them all
sent hurtling in the direction of Musso-
lini, casing bombs. At any rate, now is
the appropriate time for getting rid of
these ghastly-looking relics upon which
much money was squandered in the past.
In future, if we want to raise up a
memorial to anyone, let it be in the form
of a tree or in the destruction of a block
of slums. But, for heaven’s sake, let us
cease having these absurd figures set up.
It isn’t art, and it’s a frightful waste of
both time and money. —Gerald Dillon
(N.S.W.).
Women, Too
In this country young single men are
conscripted for the militia, so why not
conscript young single women also for
national service? They could do the
washing, mend the socks, make the
beds and perform the thousand and one
other small duties which go to make life
bearable for the average young chap.—
A. A. S. C. (W.A.).
Cheap Female Labor
Women may have revolutionised their
status (B. 6/11/ ’4O), but they are still
exploited. The nineteenth century began
a heartless exploitation of female labor,
both of women and children. Since then
Parliamentary action has made stupen-
dous changes in factory and mining con-
ditions, but until woman achieves wage-
equality with man the labor she supplies
will still be exploited.
Among the working and middle classes
—the gauge of a nation’s prosperity—every
woman holding a man’s job in time of
peace represents a saving to the employei
and a loss to the nation. The fewer men
employed the slighter the girl’s chance
of a husband and a family. In the man’s
case, the increased competition of girl
wage-earners means anxiety for his job,
which again tends to limit his family.
From a biological standpoint it is de-
sirable for the nation’s mothers to marry
early. Early marriages are more likely
to occur when daughter stays.home and
gives brother and his friends a chance
to become homemakers. —D. H. (N.S.W.).
What “Australl” and like thinkers
forget is that women are human beings
and also have to eat, sleep indoors and
be clothed, and there are not sufficient
purely “womanly” jobs to absorb the
number who must earn their own living.
If it were practicable to sack all women
from jobs which pay a man’s marrying
wage, how would “Australl” propose to
re-employ the displaced women? All the
reluctant bachelors would have to make
for the inland or military camp.
And has “Australl” ever worked in
a crowd of mixed employees and rated
their respective working capacities? In
whose time do the male office workers
get their hair cut, buy clothes, have suits
fitted, shout and are shouted drinks,
change library books, etc.? The firm’s, if
they can sneak out, while the females of
the species have to snatch their private
requirements in the lunchtime half-hour.
—Competitor (Vic.).
Women Without Uniform
With various women’s war organisa-
tions parading in expensive uniforms or
seductive shorts there is one small group
who carry on without uniform or badge
or publicity. They are the women gradu-
ates who render quiet service to the
R.A.A.F. as honorary instructors to the
reservists in maths, and science at night.
In Victoria the Air Force trainees
lacked educational groundwork. Work
had to be stopped to explain elementary
maths, or science to weaker trainees. A
refresher course covering a solid founda-
tion of algebra, trig., arithmetic and
science was drafted into 20 lesson books
and teacher volunteers were called as
“honorary instructors” for three nights
a week. The women volunteered when
it was evident that the reservists would
exceed the number of men instructors
available Most work during the day.
Limelight? It would embarrass them. —-
Gradatum (Vic.).
One Poll Clerk to Another
Voters are supposed to be free from
observation when filling in their papers,
but “Barwon” (B. 16/10/’4O) admits he
saw several women make their votes
informal. Perhaps he was so busy watch-
ing people vote that he neglected his job
of watching the ballot-box, so that
“scores inserted their how-to-vote cards
and went home with their filled-in ballot-
papers to show hubby how they voted.”
He also forgets to tell us how he knows
the cards were put in by women unless he
saw them doing so. But then, of course,
being an efficient poll clerk, he would
have stopped them, and they would not
have taken their papers home to hubby.
If “Barwon” has acted as poll clerk he
should know that ballot-papers must be
folded and exhibited to the presiding
officer so that he can see his initials
before they are put in the box.
Admittedly this is not observed to the
letter, but every officer worth his salt sees
that every voter puts his or her paper in
the box. Otherwise how could officers
balance their used and unused ballot-
papers at night. And that must be done.
During 18 years’ experience at Federal
and State elections I’ve never failed to
balance my papers, and, I
should like to know how “Barwon s
superiors accounted for the scores of
ballot-papers which must have been miss-
ing ; and I would be interested to know
what his divisional returning officer
thought and said about the matter.
On the face of it any of the girls whom
“Barwon” ridicules could have done a
better job at the polling booth than he
and his confreres. —E. R. S. (Vic.).
Cheaper Fares
Most people living in congested areas
stay there not because they like the
smoke and grime but because train and
bus fares make it impossible to live
farther out.
Our Ms.P. throw up their hands in
horror at the squalid conditions in which
families are raised in slum areas. They
plead earnestly with these stubborn
people to get out into the wider spaces
where they and their children can breathe
in God’s fresh air. And when these
people remain stubborn, the Government
wonders why.—Stiffy (N.S.W.).
Labor-unionism
Every Australian industry has its trade-
unions, and for half a century there
has been a Labor party in Parliament,
at various times a Labor Government ;
but never has a big united effort for the
social welfare of the masses been
attempted. Quack nostrums have been
dangled in front of us which couldn't
be put into practice, or, if they could,
would only make things worse.
Many of the
unions are tinpot
dictatorships. The
demagogues who
rule the roost rave
about the sacred-
ness of free speech,
and threaten to have
a blue fit at the mere
rumor of restrain-
ing subversive para-
sites, but cold-
bloodedly deny their
own members the
right. If anyone
attempts to criticise
these gentry, in
meeting assembled,
a pack of jackals
howl at him, and if
he won’t shut his
mouth when
ordered to some-
body’s fist is likely
to shut it for him. They also refuse their
members the right of a secret ballot in
regard to strikes. Grand democrats
these!
For the working class to get anywhere,
and to effect a definite amelioration of
its conditions, it must jettison the
Labor party. The party is tied in a knot
by the union dictatorships. It is hopeless.
If the workers free themselves from a
political allegiance which is hamstringing
them, they can dominate practically every
electorate in the Commonwealth. They
are the majority, including small farmers
and tradespeople, and can elect the men
to give them the legislation they desire.
The political life of nearly every Parlia-
mentarian is in their hands. Let this
power be recognised and used. —Fitzjay
(N.S.W.).
T.-p.
For 25 years I’ve handled t.-p. ac-
counts (B. 30/10/’4O), and I’ve seen too
much of the distressing struggle, some-
times heartbreak, that goes with “keeping
up with the Joneses” in humble life.
Couples living on a wage calculated only
to keep man, wife and three bairns in
modest decency, provided there are no
setbacks whatsoever, will blithely under-
take to find 15s. a week for five or six
years without regard to the normal run
of domestic contingencies.
But the crushing strain on individual
purchasers is not the major indictment of
the t.-p. system. The public pays tall
prices for this blessing, and that goes for
the thrifty cash customer, too. Bad
accounts are carried by good accounts.
Importation of costly goods is pushed to
an extent that Australia cannot genuinely
afford, and in time of depression the com-
munity is handicapped by the funding of


thousands of private debts incurred years
before.
International addiction to t.-p. turned
the last world depression into a landslide.
Consumers were left with white elephants
in homes and traders with unpayable
accounts on books, uncollectable debts
between traders completing the picture.
The firm I served at that time went into
liquidation, dragging another with it, and
embarrassing some of its suppliers for
years on account of frozen assets.
As a comment on the unthriftiness of
t.-p., let me quote a personal experience
of a late player-piano business. In these
accounts, interest at a flat rate for the
whole term was added to the purchase
price of the instrument, so that, while the
customer was paying 5 p.c. on the capital
amount during the first year, he was
meeting an enormously enhanced rate in
the final year when the debt had been
whittled down. If, as often happened,
sickness or unemployment occurred, the
account would be “reconstructed” —pay-
ments already made were washed out
against arrears, the account starting off
from scratch for a new five or six years’
term with an extra ratio of interest added.
Unkindest cut of all was the “reconstruc-
tion fee” of £3 35., the reason for which
I never managed to discover. In the out-
come, a player which had cost, say, £6O
to land on the wharf often eventually
cost the customer something like £250 to
own.
Enjoying your goods while paying for
them is good sales talk, but when the un-
predictable contingencies of life beset
one’s path the man who believes in saving
up first has something to fall back on
and the ready means to satisfy the more
clamant need.— Vouvray (S.A.).
Information obtained from t.-p. clients
—and there have been thousands —proves
that the majority of working people have
little or nothing left for clothing or
household necessities. The pay-as-you-
wear policy of Is. in the £1 weekly, plus
Is. interest, seems a simple solution of
their difficulties, even if the goods do
wear out before the time is up.
All credit organisations are a paradox
in our present-day economic structure,
for, while giving a fillip to some sections
of commerce, they reduce the spending
power of the working classes because of
high interest charges and exorbitant
profits. Investigation of their ramifica-
tions should prove interesting to the
Prices Control Board. — Pequena (S.A.).
Australian Wines
We are told that the only “wetness”
sold in A.I.F. canteens is beer and soft
drinks. Nothing has been said about
Australian wines, although the wine in-
dustry is facing a bleak future.
Sale of light wines in canteens would be
developing a market of some importance.
Many men in the A.I.F. appreciate an
occasional drink of good wine. Wine
is permitted in officers’ messes, so why
shouldn’t the privates receive the same
consideration? —Cow Time (N.S.W.).
They Asked for It
“A Roosevelt landslide” was how cer-
tain Australian dailies summed up the
result of the Presidential election. Only
about 10 p.c. of Uncle Sam’s newspapers
gave Roosevelt more than a snowball’s
chance in Hades.
But he confounded them all, won in a
canter, and the American newspapers,
like their Australian counterparts after
the Commonwealth elections, must have
had a devil of a lot of explaining to do.
It appears to me that the American
press, like its Australian counterpart,
can’t tumble to the fact that it no longer
enjoys the public’s confidence. What the
general public once regarded as gospel,
when printed in any daily, it now
regards as balderdash.
You can’t hand the average Australian
a newspaper and expect him to regard
the “leader" as a fair specimen of edi-
torial wisdom, particularly if the same
newspaper contains dozens of pictures
of semi-nude flappers doing a Tarzan
whoopee “beside the sun-kissed surf” on
any old beach. Flighty flappers and
leading articles just don’t mix. And,
again, the public seems to have taken a
tumble to this “famous correspondent”
business.
Exaggerated reports of the most
trivial occurrences, sensationalism, society
twaddle (pages of the stuff), and Ameri-
can stories, sometimes localised —that’s
about all you’ll find in the modern Aus-
tralian daily. But perhaps a miracle may
yet restore Australian journalism to its
old footing of sanity and decency? —
Zend Avesta (Q.).
Suburban Papers
In one of Sydney’s suburbs there is a
widow, with two children, eking out a
precarious living by running a suburban
paper. Because she started it a few
days after newsprint rationing was
introduced, she has been informed that
she will have to close it down. Other
suburban newspapers are finding it hard
to meet their printing bills because of
the high cost of newsprint. Some have
been and more will be forced out of
business.
The suburban newspaper plays a big
part in keeping the commercial wheels
oiled and running. The average suburban
shopkeeper cannot afford to buy space
in daily papers, and even if he could
it would be of no use to him. A Goul-
burn reader is not interested in the price
of pork chops at Campsie. The suburban
shopkeeper needs to concentrate his ad-
vertising in his immediate district, and
he can’t afford to pay much for this
necessity. Hence the value of the
suburban “rag,” much maligned in the
past and now tottering on the brink of
its grave.
Rather than that this useful institution
should be thrown idle, the Government
should abolish form guides, sexy books
and magazines and make this paper eco-
nomically available to suburban printers.
Twelve-, sixteen- and twenty-page form
guides, a huge percentage of which are
never looked at, would use up enough
newsprint to keep going half a dozen
average suburban papers. —W. L.
(N.S.W.).
The Twelfth Century
“Colbun’s” indictment of the twelfth
century (B. 30/10/’4O) is scarcely borne
out by historical fact. In England die
Judges of Henry II laid the foundation
of that common law which is England’s
pride. In France grew up a school of
literature which was to influence English
writers of the nineteenth century. The
ideals of knightly chivalry, promulgated
by romantic writers, still form the basis
of what in recent times was the code of
a gentleman. In Germany, commerce
was beginning to flourish under the Han-
seatic League, and the city States of Italy
were reviving the glories of democratic
Greece. The universities of Paris, Oxford
and Bologna were born, as was that
Gothic architecture the glory of Europe
for centuries.
Town statutes commonly insisted that
goods be sold direct from manufacturer
to consumer —today co-operative societies
aim at the same goal. The charging of
interest was denounced as an abominable
practice, as was charging in excess of a
“just price” or an attempt to monopolise
trade. All these ideas are being advo-
cated today by persons who might resent
being classified as medieval. Clio
(N.S.W.)
"Private Smith, that's overdoing it.”
Titles
The granting of titles (B. 13/11/ ’4O)
could not “perpetuate and intensify in-
equalities” in Australia because the only
titles conferred here are knighthoods,
which die with their recipients.
Australia’s knights cannot be said to
form a class. They are too few in num-
ber, are drawn from too wide a variety
of occupations and differ too greatly in
financial circumstances. Granting Mr.
Whosit the right to put Sir before his
name affects no other member of the
community, unless it be someone of
equivalent standing in society who con-
siders that he has as good a claim to the
distinction.
The U.S.A. is the only first-class Power
that does not grant titles or their equiva-
lent. However, Yankee ingenuity has
provided effective substitutes. Nowhere
else can be found so many prominent
citizens with “Colonel” or “Judge” before
their names. — Tom (N.S.W.).
Exams.
Parents and teachers often complain
that entrance exams, to secondary schools
are too hard, but, to my way of think-
ing, they are not hard enough. Many
children are presented as having com-
pleted the primary course when, in fact,
they have only an ill-digested smattering
of it. By judicious examining they pass
their exams, and go on to secondary edu-
cation, not to profit by it but to act as a
brake on those who will. They either
leave, discouraged, in a few months or
drag on as court-markers and roll-carriers
for years, to end as butcher-boys or
something. If they had gone to a tech-
nical school they could have been useful
workmen.
Examinations lead to wrong methods
of teaching and learning. Consider the
mental state of a child who places the
Cotswold Hills in South Russia and War-
saw on the Vulgar River ; or the one who
considers that Oodnadatta is “a large
town.” He hasn’t been taught, he’s been
crammed, and very often his health,
bodily and mental, has suffered by it.
The remedy seems to lie in abolishing
the exam, and admitting children to
secondary schools when they satisfy their
own school head that they have mastered
the curriculum and are mentally of an
age to proceed further. — Dewey (Q.).
Doctors’ Fees
A medical man of S.A. made out a
case for his high fees, stating that it
took years to learn how to diagnose
quickly. But evidently he did not learn
to make a diagnosis of the public purse.
With 100,000 potential patients, is it
better to get a fee from most at 2s. 6d. or
to get a fee from, say, 10 at £10?
British medical practitioners, whose
fees range from 6d. to ss. (see the prac-
tices Tor-sale ads. in the large London
dailies) have found that it is more profit-
able —and more patriotic—to charge
reasonable fees from Is. to 2s. 6d. to the
majority than to fleece the minority.—
Stereoscope (W.A.).
Really, Darwin?
If the press is to be believed, the people
of Darwin —perhaps under the influence
of the air service linking them nearer
in time to the planters, officials and
officers of the Asiatic colonies —are
developing the real tropic mentality. Up
to now it has been one of Australia’s
boasts that we have proved white men —
and women —capable of working in the
tropics. Darwin is out to change all this.
Following the decision to render the abo-
rigines homeless by taking over the com-
pound to save the expense of building a
military hospital, there is talk of a move
to import cheap colored domestic labor
from the Dutch East Indies.
In many parts of Australia in which
the climate is just as difficult as that of
Darwin women have to manage without
any domestic labor, and that under
semi-pioneering conditions. On
servantless mixed farms I’ve
known women look after cows,
kids, cabbages and carrots, to
say nothing of cooking. Yet
for the womenfolk of Darwin,
many of whom, it seems, man-
age a couple of afternoons a
week at least for bridge, the
whole idea of White Aus-
tralia must be destroyed.
To those of us in the cities
the idea is fantastic. Even
though we had heard that the
Darwinians had cheap Chinese
laundries and stick-of-tobacco
aboriginal servants, we had
somehow thought of Darwin
as an embodiment of all that
Australia stands for. We thought of the
women of Darwin as hard-slogging
pioneers, standing by their menfolk as
champions of White Australia. But, if
press reports are true, we can now believe
that in Darwin everyone shouts “Boy”
and has, as the highest ambition, a desire
to sit round all day while cheap colored
labor does all the jobs and White Aus-
tralia founders somewhere between tiffin
and the club. — Anti-pukka (S.A.).
Betting and Budgeting
Why not convert our national vice into
a budgetary virtue by the simple ex-
pedient of outlawing all bookmaking and
legalising the totalisator throughout the
Commonwealth? The scheme would not
require any expensive machinery, merely
a system of coupons, checked and
counter-checked (to make it burglar-
proof), used in conjunction with a zoning
system, whereby all dividends could be
paid from the revenue derived from that
particular zone.
The benefits from such a system are
manifest and manifold, not the least being
that a huge business, at present evading
income and other taxes, would be of
inestimable value to the taxgatherer.
Despite emphatic denials, s.p. betting is
rampant in Queensland, N. S. Wales and
Victoria, and it is obvious enough that
unrecorded betting is infinitely greater
than recorded betting.
The sporting gentleman will naturally
raise a mighty bellow against the restric-
tion of his livelihood, but his contribution
to the general revenue is only a drop in
the ocean compared with the revenue that
could be raised by this method. —F. S.
(N.S.W.).
Public Morale
The Germans are bombing women and
children indiscriminately, according to my
daily paper, the object being to “destroy
public morale” —“these senseless and
savage attacks on non-military objectives
are the work of barbarians.” In my
opinion, “public morale” is decidedly a
military objective, and whether you go
about its destruction by high explosive
and incendiary bombs or by slow star-
vation it is one and the same thing.
Our newspapers and Ministries for In-
formation would try to delude us into
thinking that war can be run on gentle-
manly lines. There is nothing gentle-
manly about war, and we must face up
to that fact. Hitler has his ideas about
destroying public morale, and we have
ours. Let us go to it. — Daylight (W.A.).
Justice
The five prisoners, held together by a
long slender chain fastened about the
neck of each and leading from one to
the other, were led like wild animals
through the streets. From some watchers
came titters of amusement or exclama-
tions of disapproval and disgust
This is not a story of the Dark Ages
or news from Hitierised Europe. It was
seen in a civilised Australian city in the
year 1940. The prisoners were on their
way to serve sentences of six months’ im-
prisonment each. They were charged
with having stolen goods valued at £lO.
In the same city on the same day two
men were charged with having stolen
and received a car valued at £3OO. Both
had previous police records, but received
sentences totalling only six months.
The five in chains had black skins ; the
other two were white. — Embee (W.A.).
Australian Flowers
“Paul Pilgrim” (B. 23/10/’4O) cannot
have seen many Sydney gardens or his
tone would not have been so hopeless.
The people of this gay and supposedly
wicked city have a passionate love for
our wildflowers —thousands of suburban
gardens contain bush favorites in
honored spots, and an immense trade is
done in little bush wildlings in pots.
June sees Queensland wattle in masses
of soft gold, followed by Cootamundra
wattles of deeper hue. Later, purple
mintbush peeps over hundreds of high
fences in September, followed by scarlet
bottle brushes and red grevilleas. Gerald-
ton wax plants, croweas, Christmas
bushes, silky oaks and lovely varieties
of hybrid kurrajongs are also very com-
mon and much loved.
Where we have failed so far is in the
cultivation of the fascinating ground-
plants which should be useful for low
borders in hot, dry situations varieties
of hibbertia, small peas such as gom-
pholobium, reclining heaths and other
cushion plants. I have tried all these
without success so far. Some of them
will have to go through a taming process
in the hands of skilled horticulturists
before they can be easily handled. They
are well worth growing, and would look
far better in our hot, droughty gardens
than the masses of pulpy pansies an-
other soft-hearted things now so popular.
Incidentally, Sturt’s Desert Pea is
Clianthus Dampieri; to call it merely
Clianthus is misleading, for this family
name is borne by other similar P an
such as Clianthus puniceus, the Main-
land kowhai bush, red or white. Max
(N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
15 Jewel Precision
£5/10/-
Watch,
Stainless
Steel.
5o «
is
a 14l 3*l?
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Watch Repair Service. Send for Catalogue.
DIAMOND
fr WATCH
SPECIALISTS
f
112 MARKETS!
SYDNEY.
OPR DAVIDJONES
BUY YOUR RADIO DIRECT
FROM THE MAKER AND
SAVE 40% (£2O) if no Century
Agent in your district.
“Century” Kadio Sets embody the
latest improvements world-wide
reception brings overseas news direct
to your home. If no “Century”
Agent in your district, the maker
will supply at Agent’s prices (40%
discount). Your satisfaction is
assured l>y TEN DAYS’ FREE
TRIAL, in your own home. 1940
Catalogue for Battery and All-
electric sets post free.
Write at once Century Kadio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
built on
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
44in. knee pads. 3in. this'll
pads. 44in. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
P. TALTY
Indispensable
Philips’
Record Atlas
A completely revised new edition
with 128 pages of coloured maps
and a new gazetteer-index of 26,000
names.
Strongly bound in cloth.
Price 21/-, posted 22/-.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth St., Mel'b., Victoria.
JUMPING FROG
m
A Real Startler. Always
a favorite with young
and old. Buy a Team
and have Competitions.
Price, 1/3 each.
Two for 2/-, posted.
Quite good sport can be enjoyed by
Having two or more Frogs and back-
ing your favorite for speed in getting
off the mark. Le-po is nicely made
of metal. Union Mfg. & Agy. Co.,
299 Elizabeth St., Melb. Ci.
“GOLF SHOTS”
by JIM FERRIER
Australian Open and Amateur Champion,
IS NOW ON SALE.
Over 100 photographs of the
champion in action reproduced
from a slow-motiaji film.
Every shot fully explained.
Price only 3/- per copy from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney, most
Newsagents or your Club Pro.
A VERY USEFUL
CHRISTMAS GIFT!
This Tomato or Vegetable Knife makes
a very good gift for the housewife, with
orange, red, blue, green or purple handles.
3/3 (Post. 3d.).
W. Jno. BAKER
ltd!
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
“See our Special Christmas Window Display.
IT’S HERE— WORLD’S SMALLEST 1940
RE-NU POCKET RADIO
sdf
NO Tubes - NO Uatteries
NO Electricity
Weighs only Soz. Long distance
reception, clear natural tone, no
crystals to adjust, no upkeep.
Can be used in Hotels, Boats,
Beds, etc.; takes few seconds to
connect. 5-year Guarantee;
Price 43/-. Also 1- and 2-Valve
Dynamic Speaker, - Battery or
Electric Portable Sets, from £4/19/6;
Interstate and overseas reception guaran-
teed. RK-Nlf, I/II). (10st. 1!)32>, opp.
Richmond Stn., Melbourne. 75 other lines.
For particulars, employment offers am.
free sample send 10d. stamps, refundable
first order.
C HOICK CASK FRUIT'
XMAS SPECIAL! SPECIAL MIXED CASES con-
taining Apples. Apricots, Pineapples, ( berries,
Lemons, Oranges,' Peaches, Pears, Tomatoes, Bananas
and Passionfniit for 12/6. N.S.W only. Order
NOW and advise what date you want the Ainas
Special despatched. ORCHARD PRODUCE
DISTRIBUTORS. Mail Order Case Fruit Specialists,
75 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO! Bears for a
whole year! Climbs 12-2 Oft. trellis fence, netting.
Each plant YIELDS 2001 b. (8 cases) large, red,
smooth tomatoes. Mr. E. Sawyer, Broomehill, W.A.,
writes: “Climbing Tomato, 14*ft. Already yielded
2001 b.. some over 140 z.” Easily grown anywhere.
2/6 packet. Also the world’s greatest HEALTH
TOMATO! “White Beauty.” PURE WHITE, and
100 PER CENT. NON-ACID (non-injurious to
Rheumatism, Gout, etc.). DISEASE FREE!
DROUGHT PROOF. Makes Delicious Jam. 2/6
packet. Exclusive Distributors, N.S.W. SEED CO.,
75 George St, (just past Quay), opp. Sailors’ Home.
RMIIYG
s Get rid of
Homs BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAITES CHEMICAL
UEHOBNEK
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
', Just apply the paste with a smgll
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY. 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
CHARCOAL GAS
UNIT PARTS
Save 75% in cost price by easily
assembling your own gas unit for any
job. The petrol system is not altered
and you can drive on petrol or gas at
will. Approved and tested parts now
in stock. Simple Blue Print drawings
with complete instructions sent FREE
with price lisL Send now, Atoma
Engineering Coy., 17 O’Connell St.,
Sydney.
5/6
A REAL
COMFORT
TO SMOKERS.
The Genuine “Cavalier”
Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
for 5/6. Honest Value, 8/6.
Genuine .Meerschaum Pipe in its
own case for only 20/-.
Honestly worth 30/-.
Barling” Silver-mounted for
The value, 22/6.
brands of Cigarettes in 50 Air-tight
Tins are available.
For all Smokers’ Requisites, write to
15/-
SOL LEVY
Tobacconist, Est. 3J> Y’rs
713 George St., Sydney.
Goods sent C-O.D. if desired,
A.I.F. ABROAD
Corona Typewriters
at Special Rates
£l4/14/- Corona Stream-
line Zephyr to any
member of the iorcea v
abroad for
to
£l4 POST FREE
No better Xmas Gift for a Soldier.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—-See ’Phone Book.
What Better Present!
sd
A BERT OLDFIELD
BAT
(Personally Autographed)
Size 4 10/6 aiul 17/6
Size 5 H/6 and 18/6
Size 6 ... ... 13/6 and 19'*
Harrow .... 15/- and 37/6
Wicketkeeping Cloves, 10/6
Compos Od.
Illustrated Catalogue I’ree.
Bert Oldfield,
54 HI'NTEIt ST., SYDNEY. 8W4257.
TILLEY LAMPS
fsd
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on li pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, -as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table l-amp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 63/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue oj Radiatorx
and Table , Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Etd.,
380 Kent Street, Sydney.
MU
MPLI
PORTABLE UNITS
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost 1/- per
week.
Details gladly posted.
AMPUON Ptii-Ud
ANYWHE RE
A N YT I /V\ E
• ior Home uiguiiug.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
lgal. of petrol.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
LAMBS SAVED
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS.
FLIES. OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
f
HALF PRICE FOR NEW
BATTERIES.
Buy your battery direct from the
manufacturer at half the usual retail
price. All Marshall Batteries are
fully guaranteed. All types of
batteries for cars, trucks, cycles,
radio, home and theatre lighting
direct to the public at factory-
prices. Write at once for 16-page
catalogue on how to choose and look
after batteries.
The Marshall Battery Mfg. Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
NO SPRINGS —NO CUSHIONS
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 4,0 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely -successful l>y all who have tried it.
The NEO BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed fiat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27Y), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
fiafas
With the new scientific
“FOOTHELP”
No More Suffering!
“FOOTHELP” gives you
greater ease and comfort than
you ever imagined possible.
It won’t cost you a penny
if we fail to fulfil these
promises..
Write 'To-day for
FREE BOOKLET:
'“Your Feet and How t>>
Treat Them Properly,” and
FREE Trial Offer to:
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept, 13E),
65 York Street, Sydney.
REDUCE
YOUR
ISIVM
The GOVERNA BELT will reduce
your waistline and give a. slim
athletic figure. Supports, delicate
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
with every move you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will be
Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of bulge
and strain gone . . . OR NO
COST ! Write for full illustrated
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL
DEFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
tYINCHZSUR
SKATES
17/6-21-
sdf
WITH STEEL ROLLS
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SVItKF.T
DEAF?
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NOEDI, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 438 George St., Sydney.
STOP™* Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® Lb^anoiV;
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed ho matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEI. APPT.TANCE CO.,
I)KPT. 27. 84 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
THIS
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN" SERVICE COUPON
27/11 r4O (See Page 34)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your "Wants" to the Service Department. ”The Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


‘if
a
WS
-*a
1
<a
m
WA
&
$
I*A
Vi
i m
im
|!l 11 ..mil 1 ill
1 !. ,„i.':,iii.i:: , iii | '^:
#
? r-
K
v
pi
NATIONAL
SERVICE
m
is to-day playing a greater part than ever in helping
to win the war —and an all-important factor in all arms of
defence is the application of the science of wireless.
For many years A.W.A. has maintained a highly technical and
experienced laboratory and engineering staff designing wireless
equipment of every type for use at sea, on land, and in the air.
As a result, the Company’s extensive organisation is to-day
producing high-grade wireless apparatus for the Australian Navy,
Army and Air Force in ever-increasing quantities, as well as
manufacturing stations for vital Wireless Communication Services.
Further, the Company’s munitions annexe is in full production.
Over 2,500 Australians are to-day engaged in research, designing
and manufacturing activities at the A.W.A. Radio Electric Works.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A'SIA) LTD.
A U STRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
