

The Spirit of Economy
“That's
the Spirit
The Sign of
the Approved
PURR-PULL
RESELLER
MORE POWER...
MORE MILES...
LOWER UPKEEP
Purr-Pull's continued success as an
Independent Company demands that
it shall produce and market a Motor
Spirit that is superior to any other.
THERE’S NO SUBSTITUTE FOR PURR-PULL
Always DRIVE ON to the PURR-PULL PUMP
“ALWAYS INDEPENDENT''
INDEPENDENT OIL INDUSTRIES. FEDERAL ROAD, GLEBE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3156.
Wednesday, August 7, 1940.
Hitler’s Unforgivable Sin
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation,, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 340
DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready ana
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
THE WIT OF W. S. GILBERT.
Overcome by the manly beauties of the
British peerage the fairies are swooning
towards matrimony. Enter the Fairy
Queen:
Queen: Oh, shame —shame upon you!
Is this your fidelity to the laws you are
bound to obey? Know ye not that it is
death to marry a mortal?
Leila: Yes, but it’s not death to wish
to marry a mortal!
Fleta: If it were, you’d have to execute
us all!
Queen: Oh, this is weakness! Subdue
it!
Celia: We know it’s weakness, but the
weakness is so strong!
Leila: We’re not all as tough as you
are!
Queen: Tough! Do you suppose that I
am insensible to the effect of manly
beauty ? Look at that man! (Referring
to sentry .) A perfect picture! (To
sentry.) Who are you, sir?
Willis (coming to attention): Private
Willis, B Company, Ist Grenadier Guards.
Queen: You're a very fine fellow, sir.
Willis: I am generally admired.
Queen: I can quite understand it. (To
fairies.) Now here is a man whose physical
attributes are simply godlike. That man
has a most extraordinary effect upon me. If
I yielded to a natural impulse, I should
fall down and worship that man. But I
mortify this inclination: I wrestle with it,
and it lies beneath my feet! That is how
I treat my regard for that man!
The passage might well have been lifted
from a Shaw comedy. Here are all the
tricks of Bernard’s trade: the sparkle
of Celia’s paradox, “We know it’s weak-
ness, but the weakness is so strong!
the frank vanity of Willis, exactly the
sort of skite that Shaw exploits both in
his plays and in his familiar pose ; the
dry, unreal conversation, made so for the
purpose of smartness; the women im-
possible as characters, made into abstrac-
tions so that they can act and speak
with psychological exactness or in illustra-
tion of a theory. The quotation, of
course, is not from Shaw but from a
gentleman whom Shaw once attacked,
usually known as Gilbertansullivan.
Gilbert (rejoicing in the melodious
Christian names of William Schwenk) is
wedded in indissoluble union to Ansulli-
van, yet a divorce would enhance his
reputation, for he is a humorist in his
own right and the usual stage perform-
ance, concentrating on music and color,
conceals rather than reveals his wit. No-
body unacquainted with the libretto
could have guessed from Kenny Baker’s
gentle crooning of the “Wandering Min-
strel” song in the filmed “Mikado” that
Nanki-Poo, after announcing so sweetly
that he’s a thing of shreds and patches,
had in him the rollicking satire of:
To lay aloft in a howling breeze
May tickle a landsman’s taste,
But the happiest hour a sailor sees
Is when he’s down
At an inland town
With his Nancy on his knees, yeo ho!
And his arm around her waist!
Yum-Yum’s song, “The Sun and I,” a
satire on feminine vanity, is proceeded
by the maiden’s reflection “Sometimes I
sit and wonder, in my artless Japanese
way, why it is that I am so much more
attractive than anybody else in the whole
world,” yet it was sung dreamily and
tenderly, a girlish idyll.
This is partly Ansullivan’s doing. Gil-
bert, always acid, had no heroines and
no heroes ; he mocked at all his creations.
Ansullivan, perhaps wiser in stagecraft,
soothed his partner’s savagery with pretty
melodies. But it is also probable that
most singers make the characters more
“sympathetic” than even the musician in-
tended. Further, because few singers are
comedians, they make the operas some-
times dull and meaningless. When the
Gilsullivan company was at Sydney Royal
recently it was a common criticism that
the shows had “faded.” Much of the
satire has. But the wit, if only the singers
could remember that there is a word
after the hyphen in “musical-comedy,”
is as fresh as on the day it was written.
Reading the librettos, you find that
what isn’t funny on the stage, what is
most faded and most tedious, is, in a
way Gilbert didn’t intend—as a revelation
of the Victorian sense of humor —
extremely funny. Through
the operas there are about
six scenes of the most ter-
rific drama where some
daring fellow nearly says
“Damn!” When Shaw’s “Pygmalion”
was first staged, Londoners used to
flock to the theatre to hear Eliza
say “Not bloody likely!” and no doubt
Aunt Semolina, not so many years earlier,
thought she had made a stand for the
New Woman when she heard that wicked
Mr. Gilbert make the captain in “Pina-
fore” sing:
Bad language or abuse,
I never, never use,
Whatever the emergency;
Though “Bother it” I may
Occasionally say,
I never use a big, big D .
Gilbert’s obscenity reaches its climax in
the roaring “Emily, John, James and I”
from the Bab Ballads : —
He noticed his Emily Jane with Jim,
And envied the well-made elf;
And people remarked that he uttered “Oh,
dim! ”
(I often say “dim!” myself.)
Victorian humor, one realises afresh,
had moments of ineffable childishness.
Edward Lear, with his old man who was
bored by a bee, and Lewis Carroll, with
his tearful turtle, deliberately created a
cult of infantilism. In fact, if it wasn’t
for the fact that everybody today reads
the comic strips in the dailies, one could
laugh at the Victorians. Gilbert’s child-
ishness far outdoes Lear and Carroll.
For some obscure reason he fell into fits
of laughter every time he thought of a
bun or a peppermint-drop. A “Bab
Ballad,” full of an earthy realism, tells
the story of one Frederick Gowler, a
mariner who quitted his ship in the
Caribbee sea:
For many a day he wandered,
Till he met in a state of rum
Calamity Pop Von Peppermint Drop,
The King of Canoodle-Dum.
The villagers in “The Sorcerer” chant
with excruciating humor:
The eggs and the ham, and the strawberry jam!
The rollicking bun and the gay Sally Lunn!
The rollicking, rollicking bun!
Little Buttercup opens “Pinafore” with
the Rabelaisian stanza:
I’ve treacle and toffee, and excellent coffee,
Soft tommy and succulent chops;
I’ve chickens and conies, and pretty polonies,
And excellent peppermint drops!
The Duke and the Major in “Patience” ex-
change badinage about toffee; the secret
sign in “The Grand Duke” is the eating
of a sausage roll; the financier in “Utopia
Limited” confesses that he has speculated
in “ginger pops and peppermint drops” ;
what the devil was so amusing about
peppermint drops?
In the names of his characters again,
Gilbert took a delight in juvenility.
And why in the name of bilge-
water couldn’t he ever name a
ship except with a tiny tot’s titter?
“Pinafore,” for a start; and “Tomtit” ;
and “Mantelpiece” ; and—shove him in
the scuppers with a hosepipe on him!
the “Hot Cross Bun.”
Then there were his puns. Frederick
would never have been a pirate if it
hadn’t been for the nurse’s mishearing
of “pilot.” Patience says demurely that
she -yearns her living. Ralph Rackstraw,
common sailor though he was, had a high
berth. In “The Pirates of Penzance”
Gilbert gives the “orphan” pun, probably
as old as Ethelred the Unready, the worst
thrashing it has had in all its distin-
guished career. He does it, is must be
admitted, rather well:
General: Stop: I think I see where we
are getting confused. When you said
“orphan,” did you mean “orphan”—a
person who has lost his parents, or “often”
—frequently?
King: Ail! I beg pardon—l see what
you mean —frequently.
General: Ah! You said often —fre-
quently.
King: No, only once.
General (irritated): Exactly—you said
often, frequently, only once.
Add to the list of puns, profanity,
peppermint drops a.nd feeble names a
desperate occasion when Gilbert nearly
said “trousers,” innumerable facetious
remarks about curates and a few little
naughtinesses about the modesty of
maidens, and the humorist’s black spots
are all accounted for.
His satire, even when—as in his
repeated attacks on the House of Lords —
it is somewhat mouldy with age, remains
good satire. When the peers make their
dramatic entrance in “lolanthe,” their
sublime ejaculation
Bow, bow, ye lower middle classes!
Bow, ye tradesmen, bow, ye masses!
should still get a laugh if it’s not bushed
among the tonsils of the singers. So
should Lord Mountararat’s defence of
intellect: “I don’t want to say a word
against brains—l’ve a great respect for
brains —I often wish I had some myself.”
Likewise the ringing eulogy of the Peers
by the company:
When Wellington thrashed Bonaparte,
As every child can tell,
The House of Peers, throughout the war,
Did nothing in particular,
And did it very well.
And in “Utopia Limited”:
King: Our Peerage we’ve remodelled on
an intellectual basis,
Which certainly is rough on our
hereditary races —
Chorus: We are going to remodel it in
England.
King: The Brewers and the Cotton Lords
no longer seek admission,
And Literary Merit meets with
proper recognition—
Chorus: As Literary Merit does in Eng-
land!
If the mockery of the use of French
and Latin tags in “lolanthe” isn’t of
much moment today, and if the extra-
ordinary metaphysics about the verb “to
be” and the imperative “must” in “Prin-
cess Ida” are about as funny as Euclid
Book IV, the company promoter is still
with us, “Utopia Limited” still applies:
But perhaps the most beneficent change
of all has been effected by Mr. Goldbury,
who has applied the Limited Liability
principle to individuals, and every man,
woman and child is now a Company
Limited with liability restricted to the
amount of his declared Capital! There is
not a christened baby in Utopia who has
not already issued his little Prospectus!
The pompous, ignorant politician of
“Pinafore” who knows nothing about the
Navy, the “modem Major-General” of
the “Pirates” who knows “many cheerful
facts about the square of the hypote-
nuse” but nothing at all about the Army
could still be found without any vast
difficulty. The judge from “Trial by
Jury” (Gilbert himself was a barrister
and a magistrate) remains a pleasing
specimen:
In Westminster Hall I danced a dance
Like a semi-despondent Fury;
For I thought I should never hit on a chance
Of addressing a British jury:
But I soon got tired of third-class journeys,
And dinners of bread and water;
So I fell in love with a rich attorney’s
Elderly, ugly daughter.
In parody—another aspect of his satire
—Gilbert could be vicious. He was not
a particularly clever parodist (one
wouldn’t compare him with J. C. Squire,
for instance), but he was meticulously
accurate. His caricature of Tennyson's
ridiculous poem “The Princess,” though
it was announced as the friendliest of
japes, would hardly have pleased the
master of technique with its malicious
emphasis on one limp line. Said the
Laureate:
“Are you that Psyche,” Florian asked, “to
whom
In gentler days your arrow-wounded fawn
Came flying while you sat beside the well?
The creature laid his muzzle on your lap,
And sobb’d, and you sobb’d with it, and the
blood
Was sprinkled on your kirtle, and you wept.”
Gilbert, repeating the scene, repeated that
“to whom” ending four times to show
his dislike of it. And he turned Psyche
into the grimmest and primmest little
bluestocking:
Are you that learned little Psyche, who
At school alarmed her mates because she called
A buttercup “ranunculus bulbosus”?
Jack Point in “The Yeomen of the
Guard,” the professional jester who never
says anything funny, is probably intended
as a parody of Shakspeare’s clowns who
also can trot out a surprising amount of
nonsense without once making you laugh.
Far the best of Gilbert’s excursions into
literary criticism is the attack on Oscar
Wilde and his aesthetes in “Patience”:
Then a sentimental. passion of a vegetable
fashion must excite your languid spleen,
An attachment a la Plato for a bashful young
potato, or a not-too-French French bean;
Though the Philistines may jostle, you will rank
as an apostle in the high aesthetic band,
If you walk down Piccadilly with a poppy or
a lily in your medieval hand.
And everyone will say,
As you walk your flowery way,
“If he’s content with a vegetable love, which
would certainly not suit me;
Why, what a most particularly pure young man
this pure young man must be!
Light enough to read now, but it must
have hurt in its day. From the technical
point of view the libretto of “Patience”
is supposed to be Gilbert’s best, and it is
so, presumably, because his spleen was
thoroughly aroused. He makes his two
poets lead the attack on themselves in
another brilliant piece of rhyming in
which each has to proclaim himself as:
. A Japanese young man,
A blue-and-white young man,
Francesca da Rimini, miminy, piminy,
Je-ne-sais-quoi young man!
A pallid and thin young man,
A haggard and lank young man,
A greenery-yallery, Grosvenor Gallery,
Foot-in-the-grave young man!
To do full justice to Gilbert as a comic
verse writer one would need to quote
him by the yard. In the Bab Ballads
there is this moving invocation to the
earth:
Roll on, thou ball, roll on!
Through pathless realms of Space
Roll on!
What though I’m in a sorry case?
What though I cannot meet my bills?
What though I suffer toothache’s ills?
What though I swallow countless pills?
Never you mind!
Roll on!
A good many of the Bab Ballads have
faded. The one that best stands the test
of time is the one “Punch” refused be-
cause it was “too cannibalistic for our
readers’ tastes”—the Ancient Marinerish
ballad about the shipwrecked sailor who
as the last survivor of a crew who had
eaten each other one by one, was most
horribly haunted by his memories:
’Twas on the shores that round our coast
From Deal to Ramsgate span,
That I found alone, on a piece of stone,
An elderly naval man.
His hair was weedy, his beard was long,
And weedy and long was he,
And I heard this wight on the shore recite,
In a singular minor key:
“Oh, I am a cook and a captain bold.
And the mate of the Nancy brig,
And a bo’sun tight and a midshipmite,
And the crew of the captain’s gig!”
It would be very easy, using that ballad
as the evidence-in-chief, to build up a
case against Gilbert’s seemingly light-
hearted humor as the manifestation of
an extremely unpleasant mind. Almost
completely free from the sex joke—there
is a dashing jest about “male poultry” in
“Princess Ida” and an astonishing (though
possibly accidental) lapse about a bed in
“Patience” ; that’s all—Gilbert’s humor
is very largely based on cruelty.
In “The Mikado” the threat of
execution and Katisha’s ugliness pro-
vide most of the comedy. Executions
are threatened again in “The Pirates,”
in “lolanthe,” “The Yeomen of the
Guard”—nearly all of them. Ruth in
“The Pirates” is funny because she is
plain and middle-aged; likewise Jane
in “Patience.” Although he railed at
snobbery Gilbert himself was not above
making use of the snob-joke variation of
the cruelty-joke: Mrs. Partlet, the comic
pew-opener in “The Sorcerer,” for
instance.
But Gilbert has other, and better,
tricks up his sleeve. He learned that tell-
ing the exact truth is nearly always funny,
because society is based on fictions. When
the policemen are scared stiff of the
pirates, instead of concealing their fright
as is the convention, they simply admit
it. When a maiden thinks she is beauti-
ful she doesn’t trouble to conceal her
admiration; the handsome young men
are equally frank.
A somewhat similar trick is what one
might call Gilbert’s “literalness.” He
follows his absurd plots to their logical
conclusion. Because nobody knows
which of the two gondoliers is the real
king they are treated as one person and
are supplied with meals for only one.
Casilda arrives to marry the king and
the duke admits regretfully, “It is true
that at present his Majesty is a double
gentleman.” Ko-Ko, pointing out that
an executioner can’t execute himself, ex-
plains vepr carefully, “In the first place,
decapitation is an extremely difficult, not
to say dangerous, thing to attempt; and
in the second, it’s suicide, and suicide
is a capital offence.” Strephon in
“lolanthe,” being half-mortal, half-fairy,
is literally so—“My body can creep
through a keyhole, but what’s the good
of that when my legs are left kicking
behind?”
Finally there are the memorable occa-
sions when Gilbert simply plays the fool,
when pure wit and nonsense bubble out
of the operas like a sudden fountain of
laughter. There is one priceless moment
in “The Mikado” when Ko-Ko, just after
he has sung the “Tit-Willow” song, is
protesting to Katisha that the tale of the
suicide is perfectly true. “Poor little
chap!” says Katisha. “It’s an affecting
tale, and quite true,” Ko-Ko assures her.
“I knew the bird intimately.” Another
in “Patience,” when the innocent little
dairymaid is deeply distressed at Bun-
thorne’s falling in love with her —“What
on earth does it all mean? Why does he
love me? He’s not a relation! It
frightens me! ” And yet another gem in
“Patience” when the aesthetes are quar-
relling :
Grosvenor [when Bunthome has
threatened to curse him]: But you would
not do it —I am sure you would not.
(Throwing himself at Bunthorne’s knees,
and clinging to him.) Oh, reflect, reflect!
You had a mother once.
Bunthome: Never!
Grosvenor: Then you had an aunt!
(Bunthome affected.) Ah! I see you had!
By the memory of that aunt, I implore you
to pause ere you resort to this last fear-
ful expedient. Oh, Mr. Bunthome, re-
flect, reflect! (Weeping.)
Bunthome (aside, after a struggle with
himself): I must not allow myself to be
unmanned! (Aloud.) It is useless! Con-
sent at once, or may a nephew’s curse
For a man who dropped accidentally
into making light operas because some-
body wanted a Christmas piece to be
written in a fortnight, it all makes a
pretty good showing.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” has built up a strong public confidence .
“THE SENIOR STORE'
$ mm
1444
¥ \
P
SHIR
m
a
»
m-
m
n
SBS
s
h.M
K
m
m
Km-.
m
ss*
4*>
mi *
if
*.,■■■
)
.
m
H
,:> X
|vAE^ OED
rECO^
\-\\GHV- y
«*»£?s■
* ROB l ca « <* of te
«T £* "STmSv>«£*sSi
‘*r besf "^” B »nv«"g a Sok.
and out
‘^^vef
d ' a9ra hooK
e _„t/pn.
London Tail. Sports Coats
55/- to 105/-
Typically English styled sports coats,
in latest colourings of Blues, Browns,
Greens, and Fawns. Handsome rugged
pattern that will appeal to smart men.
Anthony Horderns': 55/- to 105/-
Eng. Sports Trousers 55/-
Fine quality English Worsteds in any
shade to match your sports jacket.
Self-supporting waists with "TAUT-
TEX" inside to prevent shirt wrinkl-
ing. 30 to 46” waists. At Anthony
Horderns', Price 55/-
Tweed Sports Coats 30/-
Australian Donegal Tweed Sports
Coats expertly tailored by our own
craftsmen. Crisp new colourings that
carry an air of smartness. Plain or
belted action-backs. Pleated pockets.
34 to 46" chests. At Anthony Hor-
derns', Price 30/-
35/-Sports Trousers 30/-
All wool solid Grey Worsted sports
trousers. Self-supporting waists with
rubber waist pads to prevent shirt
wrinkling, which is so uncomfortable.
30 to 46" waists. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price, 35/-. SPECIAL: 30/-
DOUBLE
BREASTED
D.B. Trench
Waterproof 39^6
Rain reliability plus style.
You'll be forever high and
dry wearing one of these
raincoats, with strap shoul-
ders and cuffs. Smartly
lined inside with check, light
or dark fawns. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price, 45/-.
SPECIAL PRICE . . 39/6
• Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor,
George Street. Freight paid to
all railway stations in N.S.W.
& seaports in the Commonwealth.
a***
V
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE M 2401
DAY AND NIGHT
BOX 2712 C
G.P.O. # SYDNEY


“THERE'S MONEY IN RACING!”
By A. C. HEADLEY.
WHEN Larry took me down to see the horse I
was puzzled for two reasons. The first was
where Larry had got the money to buy it, the
second where he was going to get money for
training and entering the thing. We walked round
the nag and studied it from every angle. “Look, Bob,”
said Larry, “ ’e’s a horse an’ a half. All ’e needs is a
few gallops an’ ’e’ll be fit for racin’. Look at the way
’e’s built. If ’e ain’t a born weight-carrier you can
shoot me.” ;
“I’ve seen the same kind of horses,” I said, “and
they’re not even asked to carry weight. A horse ain’t
a good proposition just because it looks as if it could
pull a timber cart.”
“It’s got the breedin’,” said Larry.
“What happened a long time ago doesn’t matter
now,” I said. “My old man was a fighter and his
old man before him, but all I can do in a fight is rest
my chin on someone’s fist. Why should a horse run
fast because its old man ran fast?”
Larry’s face wrinkled up so that it looked like a
crumpled stocking stuck up over a suit of clothes. “O’
course,” he said, “if you got no faith in me judg-
ment.” He stood looking at the chestnut with a far-
away look in his eye. Suddenly he took it and led it
back to the stable. It was a stable he’d built himself.
Some of it explained the absence of a few of the
palings from his back fence. It was a rickety struc-
ture, but it was a stable and there was straw on the
floor. Larry came out and nodded towards the house.
“You better come up an’ see Molly an’ the missus.”
He gave a bit of a grin. “That oughter int’rest y’
more’n ’orses.”
“About this horse?” I said.
Larry screwed up his mouth as though he was
trying to decide something. “Listen, Bob,” he said,
“I’ve got the ’orse but I ain’t got the dough to make
it run. You wouldn’t”
“I wouldn’t what?”
“I was thinkin’,” said Larry, “that you might like
to go into a kind of partnership.”
I pulled up then and looked at him. “Listen,
Larry,” I said, “I don’t know anything about horses
except what I read in the form papers. What would
1 be doing with a horse?”
“It ain’t what you’d be doin’ with it,” said Larry ;
“it's what your money would help me to do. I put
all I got into buyin’ this ’orse. All I want now is for
you to ’elp me run it.”
“What does the missus say?”
Larry spat into the dry earth. “Women are all
the same. You can’t git them thinkin’ about the good
things that might ’appen t’morrer. They’re always talk-
ing about eatin’ bread an’ drippin’ today.” Then he
started to tell me about how much it was going to
cost to run the horse. 1 was working in the glass-
works and, while I was knocking out a
pretty good screw, I didn’t feel like wasting
it on food and lodging for a horse. “I’ll
think it over,” I said.
We went up to the house then. It
was an old weatherboard place, and it had
the same kind of a slant as Larry’s stable.
A couple of boards were squeezed out from
the wall, and it left enough space for the
wind to tear through. It was funny to look
at it and think of Larry being a racehorse
owner. We went in and there was Molly.
I’ll never know whether Molly’s pretty
or not. I don’t ever get past the stage of
thinking how much I like her. Not that it
gets any further than that, even though
Larry and his wife regard me as her boy
friend. Molly doesn’t like the way I get
full sometimes, and she doesn’t like the
way I get mixed up in a game of two-up.
I suppose it’s because I’m a bit too much
like her old man. She looked at us as we
came in as though we were a couple of
guilty schoolkids.
“So,” she said, shoving her hands on
her hips, “you been out to see the wonder
Of the horse world?”
“Larry’s just been givin’ me a look,” I
said. Molly has a way of getting my back
up. “Listen, Molly,” I said, “from what
Larry’s been tellin’ me it’s not such a bad
kind of a proposition.”
I caught a wink from Larry over near
the door. In the next room one of the kids
started to howl. Molly went out and came
back with the kid balanced on her hip. “If
you want to do any talkin’ about proposi-
tions,” she said, “you better start telling
him about sellin’ it back where he got it.
Two weeks behind in the rent an’ he goes
an’ buys a horse. It’s a wonder he don’t
want to bring it into the house an’ send
the kids out to chew grass.”
“Larry knows what he’s doin’,” I said.
“Larry,” said Molly. “You could put his head
under a truck-wheel and all it would do would be to
bend the tyre.”
It wasn’t the kind of thing a girl ought to say
about her oWn father, but if you knew Larry you’d
know it was the only way. Larry just grinned. Mrs.
Daley came in then, and started adding a few things
that Molly had forgotten. Instead of taking it
out of Larry they started to talk at me. Mrs. Daley
was talking about the kids running around with no
boots on, the back rent and the cash-order men. All
I managed to squeeze in was an occasional “But listen.”
Suddenly Mrs. Daley heard a saucepan on the stove
and she dived out to attend to it. There was a little
slab of silence and then Molly said: “There’s one
thing—if he can’t get some fool to pay for its keep
he’ll have to sell it. No one right in the head is
goin’ to take any notice of him anyway.’’
There’s no doubt about the way Molly can get
my back lap. “Listen, Molly,” I said, “that’s just
about the same thing as sayin’ I ain’t right in the
head.”
I didn’t wait till she found the words. I grabbed
Larry and we walked up the yard together. It wasn’t
till we were looking in the stable that I saw the grin
all over Larry’s face, and it was just the same as say-
ing there were more ways of skinning a cat. But
because I’d said it in front of Molly I wasn’t doing
any backing out. There it was, and I had half an
interest in this piece of horseflesh.
“There’s good money to be made out of racin’,”
said Larry.
DEFORE long I was finding that paying for the
' training of the horse didn’t leave me with too
much dough, but I always had enough to get a skin-
ful of beer before I went round to see the Daleys. It
had got so that I wasn’t game to face Molly in cold
blood. For peace and quiet I’d have done better at
a Communist meeting in the Domain. Molly made
me feel as if I was sneaking the bread out of the kids’
mouths.
We had farmed the horse out to a young feller
named Micky Ogg. He had about five horses and a
way with him that made people think he was training
the vice-regal string.
“It’s best,” said Larry, “to give ’im to a bloke
with on’y a few ’orses. He gits better attention.”
“I don’t care how good the attention is,” I said,
“as long as he starts winning races before I’m too old
to enjoy life.”
“Mick said he’s a good style of a horse,” said
Larry. “You got nothin’ to worry about. There’s
money in racin’.”
But I was doing some worrying of my own. It
was Molly. When she could help it she didn’t talk to
me, and when she couldn’t I wished she hadn’t. I
don’t suppose you could blame her. The Daleys didn’t
“you your orders haf. Der omnibus 21 to Buckingham
Palace take an Herr Churchill capture !”
have an easy time getting ends to meet. Larry wasn’t
making more than a few bob a week out of his
vegetable run, and it doesn’t take long for things about
a house to look shabby. That’s what it was, all those
little things —a couple of pairs of shoes that the kids
didn’t have, newspaper instead of a tablecloth, the
kids eating bread and dripping. Things like that were
what they wanted to make them think about the money
they’d have if Larry sold the horse. When I men-
tioned it to Larry he said: “Listen, Bob, there’ll be
more money out of this for both of us than what I
paid for the ’orse. It’s just that they gotter wait.
There’s money in racin’, Bob.”
But it seemed to be a long time before there was
any of the money. Most of my pay envelope was
being used up to keep the horse’s legs in running order,
and there wasn’t very much mention about it racing.
Every once in a while we’d go down to the track and
Mick Ogg would get it to run a trial for us. I asked
Mick about it.
“He ain’t ready,” he said, “not yet. He’s been
runnin’ a solid four, but he ain’t gonner be entered in
four-furlong races. You gotter build up his stamina
to do that exter bit.”
But the “exter bit” was taking time and running
away with my dough. It was running into months.
And things hadn’t improved with me and Molly. It
was the same with all the Daleys for that matter. But
there wasn’t anything I could do about it ; Larry was
holding me to the bargain, But even Larry was look-
ing at me in a funny way. It was as though he didn’t
like to think that he’d brought me into it and it was
costing me so much money.
Then suddenly Mick Ogg started talking about
the horse being ready for racing. “You better start
thinkin’ of a name for it,” he said.
All the time it had been training I hadn’t thought
about a name. We’d got to calling it Phar Lap
between ourselves but that was all. It was Larry who
made up our minds to call it “Tails.”
Presently I had to begin digging into the few quid
I’d saved up in case Molly ever got rid of the idea that
I was one of the things you found when you lifted
a stone. That was the general idea with the Daleys—
that one of these days Molly and me would get
hitched. Not that we ever did any lovemaking.
“We got the thing this far, ain’t we?” said Larry.
“We gotter race it. Don’t you worry—we’ll be coppin’
the coin before long.”
But it was the short time at the works that was
getting me. “Listen, Larry,” I said “couldn’ we sell it
and try and get some of our money back? It’s ready
for racin’ and it should be worth more than you gave
for it. If it races and it’s no good we’re going to be
left holding the bag. Mick Ogg ain’t gonner give us
our money back.”
Larry looked as though he didn’t know what I
was talking about. Then he shrugged his shoulders.
“O’ course,” he said, “if you want Molly to laugh at
you for the rest of your life”
That was what I was scared of more than any-
thing, being made a fool of in front of Molly. “All
right,” I said, “seein’ we’ve got this far.”
I T was a small race at Menangle, and the stake was
* worth about thirty quid. It was funny how it being
entered for a race seemed to fill me up with excite-
ment. You’d have thought the months of training
would have been some sort of a preparation, but I
was just like a schoolkid, and at night when I went
to bed it took me a long time to get to sleep for think-
ing about hor-ses. It seemed to have got the Daleys
the same way, even Molly. It was as though they were
all tensed up, waiting for something to happen.
It was entered for the third race, and Larry and
I were on the course early. We’d seen Mick Ogg in
the morning and he told us that Tails had a good
chance. “They’re a bunch of scrubs he’s racin’ against,
an’ if ’e don’t leave his gallop on the tracks there
oughter be a space between him an’ the second ’orse.”
Larry had talked me into bringing ten quid.
“The stake,” he said, “is nothin’; it’s what you
can pick up from the books. We oughter git a fair
price, an’ it’ll show you a pretty fair profit over what
you’ve laid out.”
“It’s gotter win,” I reminded him.
As far as Larry was concerned there wasn’t any
doubt about it. It turned out, however, that there was
no risk. After the first race we met up with Mick
Ogg. He’d been looking for us. “Listen, Larry,” he
said, “we gotter scratch it.”
Larry looked as though he didn’t understand.
“What’s the matter?” I said.
“It’s gorn lame,” said Mick. “It picked up a nail
somewhere.”
The funny thing is that I wasn’t thinking about
the welfare of the horse right then. The feeling 1
had was that my ten quid was safe for the time being,
and I wouldn’t have to face Molly if the thing ran
like a hairy goat.
We went round with Mick to have a look at the
horse, not that looking at it was any good. There
was nothing we could do. The scratching pen went
through it, and we had the afternoon to watch the


rest of the races. Larry was worried about the horse
till Mick told him it was nothing.
“He’ll be orright in next to no time. It won’t
ardly interfere with ’is trainin’.”
But after a while I was thinking that it was the
entrance fee and transport money paid for nothing.
It was all falling on me. As Mick said, Tails’s lame-
ness dropped off as quick as it had come. In a week
he was ready for racing again, and he was in the
entries for a maiden at Rosebery. “They’re no better
than that bunch of scrubs at Menangle was,” said
Mick.
On the Tuesday night before the race the excite-
ment was ready to jump out of me. I went round to
see Larry and he was chock-full of confidence. “He’ll
win be the length of the straight,” he said.
Even though they were trying not to show it I
could see that the rest of the Daleys were just as
excited as I was. They said stupid things and didn’t
laugh the right way. But the thing that worried' me
was the look on Molly’s face as though she’d like to
spit on me.
“The missus,” said Larry, “is cornin’ with us
t’morrer. She wants to see it run.”
Molly had one of the kids and was trying to keep
it quiet.
“What about Molly?” I said.
She whirled around. “I wouldn’t go near your
racecourses for all the tea in China.”
CT HE didn’t go with the rest of us but she was there,
and it was just the chance in a thousand that I
saw her. Tails’s race was well down in the pro-
gramme, and it was while I was watching the horses
in one of the early races that she came into view of
my glasses. She was standing near the fence at the
other end of the leger, and I forgot all about the race
for watching her. I didn’t say anything to the others,
but I was kind of glad that she was there. It made up
for quite a few of the things she had said about me.
It made me kind of glad, too, that she would read my
name in the racebook—Messrs. L. Daley and R.
Worthington’s ch.c.
“You gotter take a chance,” Larry was telling
me. “You got everythin’ in your favor.” That was all
right for Larry. Except for a couple of quid bets all
Larry was going for was his share of the stake. “I
gotter be satisfied,” he said, “till I can build up a
bank.”
The surprise was when the betting for the race
opened. We were sure that we’d get at least tens, but
at the start the books were calling fours.
“They’re just bein’ careful,” said Larry. “You
watch, it’ll blow out in a minute when there’s no
money cornin’.”
But in five minutes Tails was down to threes.
“It looks like someone’s in the know,” said Larry.
“We better ’op in.”
The price was down to five to two when I’d fin-
ished, and the horse that had opened favorite had
blown out to second favoritism. I put twenty-two
quid on Tails ; then I started looking round the leger
with the glasses for Molly, but she had disappeared.
There wasn’t very much time for the race and we
climbed up into the stand.
It was a six-furlong race and the horses were
out on the track. There was a lump in my throat that
I couldn’t swallow away, and my hands were cold and
clammy. It was hard to look through the glasses with-
out seeing a blur. Then they were at the barrier, and
one of the horses kept wheeling away and delaying
the start. I could see Tails standing so quietly that I
felt he couldn’t be ready when they jumped. The green
and white colors of the jockey were stabbing at my
eyes. Then abruptly the barrier went up, and there
was the lift and surge of horses.
Tails moved with the front bunch. That was
something. I could feel Mrs. Daley grip tight on my
arm. The pressure of it hurt, but you didn’t think of
hurt or of anything but that chestnut horse with the
green and white colors. I had no eyes for anything
else. Tails was centred in my glasses, and my breath-
ing had stopped. At the turn into the straight he was
lying fifth, and the jockey hadn’t started to Vvork on
him. Suddenly I was thinking of the horses in front
and the race more than half over. Then I saw it —
the check as another horse moved over in front of
him. It cost him a couple of lengths, and the front
runners had reached the leger stand. I could feel the
swift chill of it inside me. Then suddenly Mrs. Daley
was jumping up and down, her voice screaming in my
ear. “Tails!” He was coming fast. There were
three horses in front of him. There were two. There
was one. The winning-post was close. My voice was
screaming with a thousand others.
There was one horse in front when they reached
the winning post. I didn’t want to look at the Daleys
and they didn’t want to look at me. Larry was look-
ing as miserable as anyone could look. I said: “I’ll
see you later.”
All I wanted to do was get away from the course.
I hardly knew what had happened to me till I was
drinking. It was good to feel the beer making me so
dopey that it didn’t matter if I thought about things.
There was one thing fixed in my mind, and that was
that we’d sell the horse and save what we could from
the wreck. I was half-drunk that night when I went
along to see the Daleys. I was glad of it, too, when I
thought of Molly. Moving along the street I felt as
if I was going to a funeral. But when I got there the
place was lit up, and there was a lot of noise. The door
was open and I could see a few bottles of beer on
the table.
Molly saw me first in the open door. “It’s Bob,”
she said, and she dragged me in. “Where’ve you
been?”
I stood there blinking in the light. Larry, with
the smell of beer on his breath, came over and clapped
me on the back. I saw Mick *Ogg sitting the wrong
way round on a chair.
“What’d I tell y’?” said Larry. “Tails is a good
’un orright.”
I was trying to take it in. They were all different,
even Molly and the kids. It was as though something
that had been cooped up for months had broken free.
They were all talking about the horse.
“I seen it,” said Larry, “the way he got chopped
orf on the turn. On’y for that he would’ve wdh be
a street.”
“That’s right,” said Mrs. Daley.
I wasn’t saying anything. There was nothing I
could think of to say. Mick Ogg winked at me, and
after a while I was sitting on the front step with Molly.
It was the first time for ages that we had sat on the
step together. There was something different about
Molly. There was something different about me. I
had an idea of what it was. It was seeing those horses
stretching out down the straight, and the feel of the
lump in your throat that wouldn’t be swallowed.
People aren’t alive if they don’t feel that.
“It was bad luck,” said Molly. “The money, I
mean. You should have won.”
“Yeah,” I said, “I should’ve won, but it’s over
now and finished. We’ll sell the horse as soon as we
can. That’s what you want, ain’t it?”
She looked at me queerly. “Bob,” she said, “you
ain’t thinkin’ of sellin’ it —not now?”
It was funny to hear her talk like that. “I’m not
made of money,” I said.
She moved closer to me on the step. “Listen,
Bob,” she said, “this is your chance. I saw the race
today and it was just bad luck. It’s a good horse. Mick
Ogg said so. There’s money in racin’ when you’ve got
a horse like that. You won’t have to slave your soul-
case out in the glassworks. There’s money in it, Bob.”
K/ OLLY was right. There’s money to be made out
** ' of racing. Mick Ogg knows how to make money
out of racing. He’s only got half a dozen horses, but
he’s not battling. Sometimes Tails picks up a race
at one of the down-the-line meetings. It’s just enough
to keep us in the game. There’s one thing, though.
I’m not slaving my soulcase out at the glassworks any
more. I’m helping .Larry with the vegetable run.
THE BLACK DINGO
By WILL LAWSON.
yi LL night the black dingo had trotted, as he
y—j had done for a week, over the dry grassed
I country lying betweeh the Darling and Lachlan
rivers. Only now there vwas little grass left;
where scarcely a stream flowed in normal times, in
the drought there was none. For a week the dog
had not eaten —every living thing seemed to have
vanished ; bandicoots, wombats, wallabies, even the
sheep had gone, moved after shearing to better country
‘—and only at one almost dry, muddy tank had fie
drunk.
Now, as the pale lights of dawn began to light
the sky in the east, he lifted his head and wrinkled
his nose. His trot quickened, and as he went the
scent of water grew stronger. The black dingo was
a handsome animal, even though hunger had
emaciated his big frame till ribs and hip- and shoulder-
bones stood out under his glossy chin. Round the
edges of a dried-up billabong he went warily, came
upon tracks of wheels which he avoided, though he
felt no fear—for there was no smell of man —through
some stunted scrub and suddenly to the high bank
of a river—a wide river which lay ten feet below
him, flowing smoothly with lights and shadows on
its surface and trees beyond it.
The dingo twitched his nose suspiciously. So
much water, more than he had ever seen, was
unnatural. He sniffed' at the banks, trotting to and
fro, and came upon some wool bales —fifty or more —
tumbled out on the bank where they had been thrown
from a dray. He smelt them carefully, the sheep
scent exciting him, but instinct still told him that
no humans were near. He left the bales and returned
to the place where he had first stood, still holding
his head high, seeking any scent telling of danger.
There was none, and his thirst made him eager for
the water.
Below him lay a short beach where the river
banks stood back ten feet from the water for a
hundred yards, making a small landing. He put his
paws on the edge, measuring the jump, then sprang,
to land sprawling and roll over and over, knocking
the breath out of his starved body. Slowly he rose
and staggered to the water, placing his paws in it
and lowering his head in an ecstasy of relief. Thirstily
he drank, lapping with a loud, liquid noise.
A sound made him stop to raise his head and
listen. It was only a mob of cockatoos rising from
high trees down-river. The dog drank again till his
thirst was slaked, then lay down in the sunlight which
flooded the river and beach and licked the wounds
in his paws. A new sound alarmed him then, making
him rise, ready to run; a regular, sobbing sound
with an undertone of rhythmic quality.
The wild dog ran at the high bank and jumped
—an easy jump for a dingo which could bound on
to the back of a cow. His paws clawed at the top,
scrambled at it, slipped and lost their hold. He fell
and rolled to the bottom, breathless and weak. But
terror made him try again and again, while the sounds
came closer, grew louder. Blown and bruised, his
strength failing, he ran to one end of the beach.
It was enclosed by the same high bank, which ran
clear to the water. He raced to the other end. It
was the same there. Across the river was level land,
with no high river bank. Timidly he entered the
water, to find himself suddenly out of his depth.
He scrambled back to the beach as a snorting Murray-
river steamer came round the bend up-river, a terrify-
ing thing looming high, on which men moved, shout-
ing to one another. The paddles and snorting steam
ceased their uproar, the steamer drifted in towards
the beach. The wild dog crouched low against the
end of the beach furthest from the river boat.
Nearer she carrie till she lay against the beach.
Men sprang ashore with ropes and made them fast
to stumps in the clay. Long planks were put out,
reaching from the deck to the high bank where
the wool lay. Down these the men would roll the
bales.
“Shake it up, boys,” the skipper said from
the high deck. “We’ve got to be in Wentworth in
an hour.”
The black dingo’s terror made him crazy. He
made another rush at the bank, almost topped it,
but fell again. A man saw him and shouted “A
black fox. Get your gun, skipper!”
The dog eyed the plank. For the moment it
was bare of men, all hands poised like statues on
the bank, waiting for the skipper. There was a rush
of a black body, claws rattling on gravelly clay.
On to the plank, a quick twist and in two bounds
the dog reached the top as the rifle cracked and a
bullet plugged into a wool bale behind which the
dingo had vanished back into the drought.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
gfdgfgfd
WOOLWICH AND ITS FREE FERRY.
Few places on the Thames “below London” are richer in history than Woolwich, some (Sight miles east of London Bridge. Today it
is chiefly known as the seat of the Royal Arsenal, and in olden days, when the “wooden walls of old England” formed the first line of
defence against invasion, in its dockyard were constructed many famous vessels. The town itself is uninteresting and unpicturesque, but
in its hinterland may be found such agreeable localities as Shooters’ Hill and Blackheath. Some forty-odd years ago, the London County
Council established a free ferry to convey across the river the large number of workers employed at North Woolwich, in which term
may be comprehended the King George V Dock and the industries established in that area. In winter dense fogs impeded navigation,
so a subway was constructed in 1912, which obviated the difficulties thus set up. The free ferry at its inauguration was regarded as
one of the most daring “socialistic ventures” ever embarked' upon. Its popularity and general usefulness were unquestioned, and, though
its upkeep entailed an expenditure of £25,000 per annum, it conveyed over half a million passengers a year. Regarding Woolwich
retrospectively, one is reminded that the learned Camden called it “the Mother Dock of England.” It is supposed to be the site of the
most ancient naval arsenal in the Kingdom. In the third year of Henry VIII, the great ship Harry Grace de Dieu was built here, and
during the reign of Elizabeth that monarch was present at the launching of a warship bearing her name. By the Saxons it was called
Hulviz, which means “habitation” or “street on the creek.” In the Domesday Book it is referred to as “Wulviz.” In later times the
Dockyard became the first of all such establishments. Of vessels which live in the Empire’s naval story constructed here may be
instanced the Sovereign of the Seas, built when Charles I was King, and the ill-fated Royal George, which capsized at Spithead with the
brave Admiral Kempenfelt and sank with “twice four hundred men” and some two hundred women on board. The Royal Military
Academy, where officers for the artillery and engineering services of the army are trained, is not the least important of existing institutions.
The barracks constitute another phase of that military association which is part and parcel of the town. The parish church, dedicated to
St. Mary Magdalene, rebuilt 1726-40, is an unattractive brick building with stone copings, window frames, etc., and a plain square tower
at the west end. In the churchyard are a number of tombs in memory of officers- of the Royal Artillery who served their country with
distinction. Woolwich is certainly worthy of a visit by all going to London.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61.—N0. 3156.
August 7, 1940.
“PASS, FRIEND!”
“Control of the Red Sea route is such that large quantities of British shipping are passing through Suez and the Canal, and the routes from Malta and Balkan countries
to Egypt are being kept open.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.Q. ),
Wellington.
London: l Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 IOs.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
'America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
HITLER'S UNFORGIVABLE SIN.
Britain and the Empire stand today determined to
continue the war against Germany, not for the idealis-
tic and fantastic aims which have been given out from
time to time, officially and otherwise, not only for sur-
vival as a great Power and unique association of free
peoples, but also because of a positive conviction
which underlies and strengthens the determination,
and which must occur to.anybody who seriously con-
templates any German peace offer.
The quaint fantasies nurtured in the minds of
professional netters of moonbeams and shooters of
will-o’-the-wisps—the Dean of Canterbury’s excited
insistence that “our immediate war aims are the resti-
tution of sovereign rights violated by aggression;
Mr. Attlee’s demagogic assertion that “we must see
that we come out of this war with nothing less than a
new world” ; Mr. Herbert Morrison’s expressed belief
that this war is being fought with the object of
“achieving a higher standard of life for all” ; Mr.
Wickham Steed’s declaration that one of the war aims
should be “the establishment in Germany of a Gov-
ernment based on a representative democratic sys-
tem” ; the ingenious deduction of Lord Davies that
this is really “a League war” ; the fanciful aspirations
of those who have sought to commit Britain to adopt-
ing the typically American invention federal union,
within which “external national sovereignty would dis-
appear” —all these pretty fantasies today seem merely
pathetic. It is certain that if dropping them were all
that stood between peace and fighting this war out
to the bitter end, the outcry for peace would be deaf-
ening. Some of them may automatically follow vic-
tory, but none of them is any longer a valid reason
for Britain fighting on.
The deep, underlying reason why Britain stands
determined to fight the war out —why peace offers
emanating from Germany, or suspected of emanating
from Germany, would need to be accompanied by acts
that cannot be hoped for and can hardly be imagined
—has been clearly expressed in more sober statements.
The King made it the leading point of his broad-
cast on Britain’s entry into this war:
We are called with our Allies to meet the challenge
of the principle which, if it were to prevail, would be
fatal to any civilised order in the world. It is the
principle which permits a State, in the selfish pursuit
of power, to disregard its treaties and its solemn
pledges
Mr. Chamberlain on the same date expressed it when
he included “bad faith” among the “evil things that
we shall be fighting against.” Through the Munich
Agreement a personal victim of Hitler’s bad faith, Mr.
Chamberlain has reverted to the theme over and over:
Nobody desires the war to continue for an unneces-
sary day, but the overwhelming mass of opinion in this
country is determined to secure that the rule of violence
shall cease and that the words of Governments, once
pledged, must be kept.
The same underlying conviction, out of which
rises the decision that there can be no choice but to
fight this war out, has been as frequently expressed
by Lord Halifax:
We are fighting against the violation of the
sanctity of treaties and disregard for the pledged word.
If Germany is able to restore the confidence which
she has destroyed we aim at a settlement which will
encourage her to take her rightful place in Europe.
In another speech Lord Halifax gave as a leading
reason why “peace cannot be made tomorrow” the
fact that the German Government had given no evi-
dence of its “capacity to convince the world that any
pledge which it may subscribe to is worth more than
the paper upon which it is written.”
Expressed also by many others no more blood-
thirsty than these —the Moderator of the Church of
Scotland in a pastoral letter: “We are fighting f0r....
the keeping of covenants among the nations” ; the
British Labor party in its official Declaration of
Policy: “In view of the experience of recent years,
no one can trust a Nazi Government....” ; the plain
man’s plain designation of Hitler —this conviction is
the obstacle standing today above all others in the way
of any negotiated peace with Germany. To trace its
growth, from doubt increasing in the face of hope to
unshakable certainty, would be to give about a decade’s
history of the German leader. Like the Communist
leaders whose technique he adopted and improved on,
he has made lying a first principle of policy. An
exhaustive list of his promises and. opposite perform-
ances would occupy pages, and more pages would
then be required to list his demonstrable falsehoods
and deliberate distortions of fact.
Events make their own comment on these typical
utterances —worth repeating briefly as examples
because they are typical and because they are the core
of the tragedy that darkens down' on Europe and may
darken every corner of the world:
“The assertion that the German Reich plans to coerce
the Austrian State is absurd and cannot be justified.”
“Germany neither intends nor wishes to interfere in
the internal affairs of Austria, to annex Austria, or to
conclude an Anschluss.”
Speaking on the Sudetenland: “I am grateful to
Mr. Chamberlain for all his efforts. I have further
assured him, and I stress it now, that when this problem
is solved Germany has no further territorial problems
in Europe.”
After the Sudetenland settlement: “I shall not be
interested in the Czech State any more. We do not
want any Czechs.”
“Germany, France and Poland will continue to exist.
Germany wants nothing that she is not ready to give to
others. The German people have no thought of
invading any other country.”
“The German Government intend not to sign any
treaty which seems to them incapable of fulfilment, but
will scrupulously observe every treaty voluntarily con-
cluded, even if it was drawn up before their assumption
of office. In particular they will hold to all obligations
arising out of Locarno so long as other parties are ready
to stand by that treaty.”
“In general we have but one wish —that in the
coming year we may be able to make our contribution to
this general pacification of the whole world.” (January 1,
1939.)
These typical examples of lying as a first principle
of policy, along with the deliberate falsehoods and
distortions that have been demonstrated at their full
value by events within the past two years, could be
multiplied by a score, and to them would then have to
be added the acts breaking the promises and tearing
up the treaties. To the British, with a century and a
half of world trading giving them a singular under-
standing of the value and a high respect for the
scrupulous carrying out of undertakings, all this adds
up to the verdict against Hitler of guilt of an unfor-
givable sin—nobody in his senses could take the Ger-
man leader’s word for anything, however sacredly
he had pledged it. He is, of course, not alone in his
guilt, though he has made even Stalin —a natural prac-
titioner of the essentially Bolshevist principle of
lying and treaty-breaking as normal policy—look like
a timid amateur.
What both Hitler and Stalin have established
beyond any possibility of doubt by reasonable men is
that their bond of peace and friendship with another
nation means for that nation chaos, ruin, destruction,
desolation and slavery. Wishful thinkers can take such
comfort as they may from the fact that the pair who
have made bywords of promise, pledge, treaty, con-
tract —Hitler, the past-master in perfidy, and Stalin,
the clumsy amateur —have a bond of peace and
friendship between themselves. But even if they
should be at each other’s throats tomorrow the problem
of re-establishing the worth of contract arid the pledged
word in international dealings would still await solu-
tion. The ruin of that worth is Hitler’s evil bequest
to the world. The war goes on not just because Hitler
is a shameless liar and treaty-breaker by policy, but
because acceptance of his conception of the value of
contract —which would be inclusive in a German
peace—would be the sure prescription for an unpre-
dictable period of continued international anarchy.
The Japanese Question.
Some people have very poor memories. Seven years
ago when Mussolini was still Austria’s guarantor and
Hitler had just become Hindenburg’s Chancellor, the
Russian secret police arrested six Metropolitan Vickers
engineers on a charge of “complicity in a plot to
damage and destroy power stations.” The British
Government protesting, the Soviet Government
“asserted its sovereign right to try the prisoners” ; and
try them it did in its peculiar fashion. Meanwhile, the
British Ambassador was recalled to London.
The trial closed on April 19, five weeks after the
arrests. One of the Britons was acquitted ; two were
found guilty and sentenced to long terms of imprison-
ment ; and deportation of the other three was ordered.
Ten Russians accused of “complicity in the plot” were
convicted and sentenced to longer terms of imprison-
ment ; the eleventh was acquitted.
Two days later the outraged British Government
clapped an embargo on 80 per cent, of imports from
Russia. The Russians retaliated with a more compre-
hensive embargo on imports of British goods and the
carriage of Russian goods in British ships, at the same
time increasing port charges on British shipping. But
within six weeks the unpleasantness was all over: the
Reds released the two imprisoned engineers and the
embargoes were withdrawn by mutual consent.
In the course of the proceedings the engineers
had been championed in the U.S.A. almost as fer-
vently as in Britain. This outbreak of moral indig-
nation did not prevent the Roosevelt Government from
inviting Stalin and Molotov to send a representative to
Washington to discuss the question of recognition,
which previous U.S. Governments had refused on the
ground that the Bolshies had repudiated American
loans and seized American property in Russia. Lit-
vinov crossed the Atlantic, was received with great
cordiality and returned with the gratifying news that
all was forgiven. On November 17 the U.S.A. formally
extended recognition to the U.S.S.R. In the follow-
ing month, Mr. Bullitt arrived in Moscow as ambas-
sador —in days more tumultuous he was to be
ambassador at Paris. Last week Litvinov’s suc-
cessor stormed at the Roosevelt Government for
“illegally withholding gold” which was to have been
part of the plunder of the little Baltic States.
Japanese as well as Russians are apt to be sus-
picious of strangers, and in times of excitement are
subject to attacks of spy fever. Tn conscious or uncon-
scious imitation of the Muscovites, Japanese military
police, beginning on July 27, “detained” a number of
British subjects resident in Japan. Members of the
Government alleged that the Britons were “part of
an espionage network covering the entire country”
and insisted that they had a “sovereign right to try
the prisoners,”, though not in those words.
The accused were all men of note in the European
colony. One, Mr. James, a retired naval officer, is
chief representative of the Federation of British Indus-
tries ; another, Mr. Holder, is president of the British
Association and manager of Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries in Kobe ; a third, Mr. Ely, is managing director
of Rising Sun Oil in Yokohama ; and one of two
arrested in Osaka is Consul for Greece. There was
also Mr. Melville Cox, Reuter’s chief correspondent in
the Far East. After two protests had been lodged by
the British Ambassador in Tokyo, and the Foreign
Secretary had indignantly denied in the House of
Lords that any of the men were part of “any espionage
network,” Mr. Holder, Mr. Ely and several others
were released; but Mr. Cox had been dead for
days. According to the Japanese story he had,
after interrogation, thrown himself out of a fourth-
storey window at police headquarters “rather than
face a probable conviction.”
Only Japanese officials were witnesses of the
alleged suicide. According to their narrative, they
found on his person a short note addressed to his
wife which, after protesting his devotion, closed with
the sentence “I have been quite well treated, but there
is no doubt how matters are going.” This was con-
strued as an admission of guilt—'“with the progress of
the investigation, deceased became aware of the fact
that he could not escape conviction.” His friends refuse
to believe that he would ever in any circumstances
have taken his own life. In any case it is inconceiv-
able that a British journalist with such high creden-
tials would stoop to spying or that Reuter’s would
employ a spy.
It is a nasty business altogether, and for the
British Commonwealth its nastiest feature is the extent
to which Japanese militarists have come under German
influence. Some, if not all, of the arrested men have
been active in organisations designed to promote better
Anglo-Japanese relations. The probabilities are that
the proceedings against them were inspired by Ger-
mans as part of their policy to make things difficult
for the English everywhere. It has to be recognised
that, with the swift defeat of all Britain’s allies and
the occupation of the Channel Islands, German influ-
ence has increased in almost every continent at the
expense of British influence and that, chiefly in conse-
quence of the collapse of Britain’s most powerful ally
and closest neighbor— not only at home but abroad —
old resentments and old territorial ambitions have been
rekindled. Even at the Havana Conference, though
it ended in an agreement or the appearance of one that
American possessions of defeated European Powers
would not be yielded up, gentlemen from Latin
Republics were heard talking about reversionary rights
to British Honduras, Guiana and the Falklands. And
there may be other manifestations of this resurgence of
patriotism, or whatever it is, before the war is over.
But anyone reading British newspaper comments
on the ugly Japanese business would imagine that we
were still living in the days of Palmerston and Don
Pacifico—or that the editors think we are. The
“Times,” as always, kept its head, but other papers
suggested “reprisals” ranging from the reopening of
the Burma Road to the arrest of Japanese in Britain.
Even when feeling ran high during the Metropolitan
Vickers case it was not proposed in any quarter that
the arrest of Britons on a trumped-up charge should
be avenged by the arrest of Russians on a trumped-up
charge. It looks as if some British editors will never
be satisfied until Britain, the hope of Democracy and
the great exemplar of justice in a wicked world, sets
up a Gestapo of its own.
It was reserved for the Naval Correspondent of
the “Yorkshire Post,” the Eden family paper, to outdo
all the others. This gentleman put his proposition in
the form of questions: “What if we were now to
withdraw all our shipping, and all our nationals, down
to the level of Singapore, sabotaging and destroying
everything we left behind, as the Chinese did ; and
what if we were to declare an embargo on all trade
with Japan and impose a distant blockade at a range
of some 2000. miles?” And he was ready with the
answers: —•
Japan would no doubt occupy all the vacated zone,
but she would not find the raw materials that she needs
there, nor markets to replace those lost.
She might send warships to raid the trade routes
all over the Indian and Pacific oceans, but the measure
of our vulnerability to that type of warfare is the
percentage of our total oversea trade exposed to
destruction. Inside Japan, wharves would be blocked,
idle shipping and warehouses would overflow with manu-
factured goods, factories would be idle for lack of
fuel and raw materials, and hunger and unemployment
would accentuate the already explosive internal situa-
« tion, and would paralyse the Nazis of the East.
These results could be achieved without detaching
any more of our naval forces for the Far East.
“We,” of course, are the United Kingdom. The Eden-
family-paper man didn’t spare a thought for the
Dominions. Nothing to him are their shipping, their
wharves, warehouses and factories, their markets or
their nationals. They can all go to the devil—they and
the men in the freighters and tankers for which “war-
ships” would be looking “all over the Indian and
Pacific oceans,” and the men in the ships of the
R.A.N. that would have to be recalled to their own
waters, and the men of the A.I.F. and the N.Z.E.F.
who would have to get back somehow.
In the previous week the “Daily Express,” Lord
Beaverbrook’s paper, suggested that Communists,
whose organisations the Dominions have outlawed,
should be employed to stir up revolutions. That
such stuff could be presented as serious policy in
newspapers owned, controlled or influenced by Minis-
ters shows what dangerous folly it is for the Govern-
ments of the Dominions to acquiesce in being deprived
of representation in an Imperial War Cabinet and on


the Allied War Council—that representation which
is their right, and which should have been insisted on
in the very first month of the war.
At the beginning of the present week it was
announced that Mr. Satoru Makihara, of Mitsubishis,
and Mr. Shunsuke Tanabe, of Mitsuis —concerns with
extensive interests in Australia —had been “detained”
in London under the Defence regulations “on grounds
of national security.” Lord Halifax assured the
Japanese Ambassador that these arrests were not in the
nature of reprisals, and his Lordship is an honorable
man. But, however warranted, the proceedings have
made a bad situation worse, and it is unfortunate
that they should have coincided with the promotion
to the War Cabinet of Lord Beaverbrook, whose
“Daily Express” had proposed “reprisals.” Still more
unfortunate are London “suggestions” mentioned by
Australian Associated Press that “Britain’s retort may
include an Empire-wide boycott of Japanese trade.”
There are in the Pacific Dominions nearly twenty
million free white citizens who call King George their
King. For various reasons their Governments are
on better terms with the Japanese Government than
the British Government is, and an Anglo-Japanese
quarrel would immediately Meet them far more than
it would immediately affect Britain. Why doesn’t the
British Government —necessarily absorbed in the
struggle for existence with an enemy who, from the
uttermost point of his Continental conquests, can see
the cliffs of Dover—hand over the discussion of dis-
putes with Japan to the Governments of the three
Dominions?
The Canadian Government could speak to the
Japanese with the confidence derived from conscious-
ness of its nation’s strength—a strength greater than
that of most European countries—and with the assur-
ance of American protection against invasion. Aus-
tralia and Maoriland themselves are more important
than some of the European States on which British
newspapers have wasted so much ink and sloppy
sentiment, and both have shown in the present war>
that naval prowess which the Japanese so greatly
admire. Events are forcing a common policy on the
three Dominions, and the time will come when they
will be far stronger in the Pacific than any European
Power or combination of European Powers. The
Japanese attitude suggests that this is realised in Japan,
but British Ministers, minor politicians and editors
are still living in a dream-world in which great nations
in the making, already with nearly half as many people
as Britain, figure as poor damned colonials who are
expected to know their place.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Popular Rights Be Hanged!
Unlike certain other sections of the Commonwealth
Constitution, section 28 is “clear and. unambiguous,”
as the lawyers say: “Every House of Representatives
shall continue for three years from the first meeting
of the House, and no longer, but may be sooner dis-
solved by the Governor-General.” The first meeting
of the present House took place on November 30,
1937- So the Government cannot lawfully prolong
its proceedings beyond November, 1940, and is under
the strictest obligation to have an election as soon as
the rolls have been purified and the issues placed fairly
before the people.
Yet for stating this simple and obvious fact, and
for adding the reminder that neither the Prime
Minister as leader of the U.A.P. nor himself as
Deputy Prime Minister and leader of the Country
party has ever gone before the people in either capa-
city, Mr. Cameron has been pursued with roars of
rage. So has the leader of the Labor party when that
gentleman has insisted on faith being kept with the
Constitution and the people, though in his case the
roars have been somewhat subdued.
Failing a successful referendum altering section
28—and that nobody proposes, for manifest reasons —
the election could be postponed only by an Act of the
British Parliament —or, as some hopeful souls suggest,
a British Order-in-Council —and to this course, though
Mr. Menzies favors it, there are the strongest objec-
tions. It is humiliating enough for Australia to be
excluded from the British Government’s war councils
without seeking the added humiliation of British inter-
ference in its domestic matters; in any case, the British
Government, with so much more pressing business
on hand, would assuredly prefer not to be bothered.
Yet the anti-election party, to which newspapers and
minor politicians belong, though no other indentifiable
section has associated itself with it, demands that
this degrading course be followed, “in the national
interest” ; and the “Argus” has had the face to declare
that “anyone who seeks, for whatever reasons, to
defeat that laudable aim is an enemy to national
unity.”
Except in N. S. Wales, there was no demand for
postponement of elections in the last war, and the
Sydney Government that coolly proposed to keep
going for the duration, regardless of the electors, soon
found that it wouldn’t do. There were Common-
wealth elections in September, 1914 (that was the
double-dissolution affair), and in May, 1917, and there
were Commonwealth referendums in October, 1916,
and December, .1917. N.S.W. had a State election in
March, 1917 ; Victorian Assembly electors voted in
November, 1914, and November, 1917 ; in Queensland,
South Australia and Westralia there were also two
war-time Assembly elections, and in Tasmania there
was one in May, 1916. There were also Legislative
Council elections during the war period— two each in
S.A. and W.A. and one each in Victoria and Tasmania ;
the other States then had nominee Councils. The con-
scription referendums were appalling blunders, and
then, as now, Australia would have been better with-
out State Parliaments ; but there is no reason to sup-
pose that the 18 war elections were detrimental to
the war effort.
Nor do the (Canadians seem to believe that war
requires the suppression of the people’s right to pass
judgment on their representatives and choose others,
if they prefer others, when the stated terms expire.
There was an election in Quebec on October 26 ; and
Quebec has a population of 3,300,000. The Ottawa
Government itself decided to go to the country, and a
new House of Commons was elected on March 26.
There is not the slightest evidence that Canada’s con-
tribution to the war has been injuriously affected by
tIiPQF nrnpppdino r< J
It is highly probable that the people of Australia
could elect a much better Parliament than the one they
have. A majority may want a change of Government;
if so, that is the majority’s right. Only a desperate
emergency would warrant postponement of the elec-
tion ; and it will be time enough to move for post-
ponement when or if a desperate emergency arises.
-O*
"Solidarity For Ever!"
After considering the case at Sydney, the Federal
A.L.P. executive resolved to suspend the N.S.W.
A.L.P. executive, from Mr. Cranwell, the president, to
Mr. Evans, the secretary. The suspension was sus-
pended until August 16, when those who are not
Hands Off Russia boys will be received back into the
fold. The suspended discussed the suspension and
decided to adjourn “to give the Federal executive an
opportunity to state its case.” Something like a Judge
sentencing a man to 10 years and the man inviting the
Judge to show cause.
Since the Easter conference, at which the “Hands
Off Russia” resolution was passed, the average worker
has never been too sure who’s which or why in
N.S.W. Labor. Until Saturday there seemed to be
two State Labor parties (Mr. Lang’s and Mr. McKell’s)
and two Federal Labor parties (Mr. Curtin’s and Mr.
Beasley’s); now, with Mr. McKell siding with the
Federal A.L.P. against the Hands Off Russia boys,
and with Mr. Ward, M.H.R., supporting the Hands
Off Russia boys against the Federal A.L.P., there must
be three of each.
There is an unhappy clash of loyalties in Tam-
worth. In that electorate Labor voters have to choose
between a Non-Com. and a gentleman “endorsed” by
the Hands Off Russia boys, recommended to them by
Mr. McKell and assured by Mr. Evans (all and
sundry included) that he is a certainty. Though the
gentleman was promised a full issue of Mr. McKell’s
influence and the use of a Curtin record, he must be
feeling his position keenly.
Sold Again!
There should be no further room for wishful think-
ing about a Russo-German war in the Balkans after
Molotov’s speech to the Soviet Supreme Council.
Fresh from the “victories” over Bessarabia and North
Bukovina and the wave of suicides in the extinguished
Baltic States which were so explicitly guaranteed, the
Red twister merely added arrogance and attempted
intimidation to his remarks of March 29. Then he
said that it was the aim of “the principal Imperialist
Powers” to “smash and dismember Germany, whose
desire for peace they rejected,” their real objective
being concealed from the masses under the pretence of
devotion to small nations.
Despite the Soviet’s criminal betrayal of the
democracies and its rancid hostility to Britain, the
British Government let the “Daily Worker” go on
publishing defeatist stuff and appointed Sir Stafford
Cripps, a consistent admirer of Soviet institutions, as
Ambassador to Moscow. All Molotov chose to say
about the Cripps mission was it “possibly reflected a
desire for the improvement of relations,” relations
which had been made difficult by Britain’s “hostile
acts.” The hostile acts he did not enumerate, though
refusal to give up the gold lodged in Londdn by the
Baltic States, some of which no doubt belonged to the
poor devils who destroyed themselves rather than
accept Stalin-Molotov rule, is doubtless the latest.
The U.S.A. has taken the same honest stand: hence
Molotov could find “nothing good to say” about “our
relations with the United States.”
“Our relations with Germany” remained “good-
neighborly and friendly.” The foreign press had tried
to disrupt them ; “we and Germany have exposed
these attempts and swept them aside as worthless.”
Far from reducing the strength of the Russo-German
pact of non-aggression, European developments have
emphasised the importance of its existence and further
development... .It is based, not on fortuitous hr
transient considerations, but on the fundamental interests,
of both countries.
“Our relations with Italy” have also “improved,”
so much so that “there is every possibility of Russia
and Italy ensuring mutual understanding in foreign
policy, and also extending their trade relations.” On
the other hand, Britain, so far from being moved by
the beautiful sentiments animating Russians, Ger-
mans and Italians, had “replied to Hitler’s peace
appeal” that she was “continuing the war till victory
was achieved.”
This means that Britain does not wish to give up her
colonial possessions all over the world. She declares
that she is prepared to continue the war for world
supremacy The finish is not yet in sight. It is
probable that we are on the eve of a new stage of inten-
sification of the war between Italy and Germany, on
the one side, and Britain, assisted by the United States,
on the other side.
These events have not changed Soviet foreign policy.
Russia is adhering to her policy of peace and neutrality
and is not participating in the war.
The gentleman proceeded to shake his knout at
Finland, Turkey and Iran. “Certain elements of the
Finnish Government” must “cease their repressive anti-
social actions.” Two ’planes had flown from Iran
over Baku ; a third, from Turkey, had appeared over
Batum ; the facts were all down in a German White
Book (which “throws a disagreeable light over Turkish
activities”), and denials of Turks and Iranians were
useless.
Here Molotov is very obviously playing Ger-
many’s game. The game at present is to frighten
Britain into accepting a Hitler peace. If this doesn’t
come off Turkey might be frightened into cancelling
its arrangement with Britain and granting safe pas-
sage to German and Italian armies for a war in the
Middle East. Russia could come in and pick up some
of the pieces: Iran, perhaps Iraq, and what is left of
Finland.
It has been artlessly acknowledged that “Molotov’s
criticism of Britain surprised the British public, because
for weeks the newspapers had been suggesting that
Anglo-Russian relations were improving.” Those
newspapers and their Australian imitators and their
professors and the radio professors and the wandering
bands of Famous American Reporters—Heavens, how
wrong they have been about Europe, Russia and
France especially!
Wool for Japan.
It came as a shock to Australians to read, on the
authority of “Chugai Shogyo Shimpo,” the leading
commercial newspaper in Japan, that the British Gov-
ernment had banned the export of Australian and
Maoriland wool to Japan. The paper says that this
was clearly meant as economic pressure with a poli-
tical motive.
Australia handed over wool control to Britain
for the duration of the war and one year afterwards.
South Africa did not follow this example. The
Afrikanders kept their trade relations with Japan and
other neutrals in their own hands, and were able to
supply them at will.
It was, no doubt, necessary to place a restriction
on wool for foreign re-exporters whose products might
have found their way to the enemy. The nature of
the blockade is now such that there is little danger
of this taking place, and, in any case, denial of wool
to a few dangerous sources is a different thing from
completely depriving Japanese industry of the Austra-
lian material which gives winter comfort to tens of
thousands of Japanese and actual sustenance to
thousands more.
The Japanese paper declares that supplies can be
obtained from S. America ; but they are certainly not
supplies of the same type and quality as those from
Australia and are not suitable for many major pur-
poses.
The Australian Government should immediately
demand that the British Wool Control Board or Eco-
nomic Ministry or whatever agency dominates the
situation in London should release a reasonable
amount of fleece at a reasonable price for Japanese
home consumption. Australia cannot tolerate the
possible loss of a market which has been so valuable
to the woolgrowers.
And the unconscionable delay in naming the
representative Australian who is to look, after Aus-
tralian interests in Japan should be ended this week.
The right man could be very useful, not only to Aus-
tralia but to the Empire.
Cereal Story.
If optimism in high places is of any value, we should
win this war hands down. Consider John Thomson,
g.m. of the Australian Wheat Board:—•
Serious misunderstandings have arisen with regard
to the position .of the wheat industry. It is frequently
said that great difficulty will be experienced in satisfac-
torily disposing of the Australian crop. The Australian
Wheat Board has no such fears.
The words were addressed to a deputation, represent-
ing pig-raisers and dairymen, which sought cheaper
wheat and mill offal for stock feed. Just to show that
he knew what he was talking about, John Thomson
handed out some figures:
In normal seasons Australian wheat sales amount to
about 140,000,000 bushels a year. With four months to
go the board has sold 120,000,000 bushels. British Gov-
ernment purchases of 20,000,000 bushels have already
been shipped. About 38,000,000 bushels have been sold
and shipped to other countries.
The usual nark here arose to say that 58 from
120 leaves 62. Normal Australian home consumption
is set down by the Commonwealth Year-Book at an
average of 54,529,000 bushels a year, taking the five
years 1933-38. Somewhere, somehow, the Wheat
Board must have got rid of an extra million bushels,
but no enemy is going to find out where it went.
Australia had a crop in 1939-40 of slightly over
210 million bushels. On Mr. Thomson’s own figures
the board has disposed of 120 millions. There remains,
therefore, a little matter of 90 million bushels. Yet
the board “confidently expects that the carryover will
be very limited.”
Three days later, John Thomson amended his
words, and it now seems that the “serious misunder-
standings” were limited to John Thomson:
The position of shipping during the next few months
must be largely guesswork. The international situation
will be the predominating factor, and our ideas may
have to be entirely recast within the next few weeks.
It is anticipated that the carryover of wheat at the
end of November will be 66,000,000 bushels, of which
50,000,000 is at present unsold. The statement that
the board had no fears as to its disposal should refer
to storage and the damage likely to be done by mice
and weevil.
Upsetting things, deputations.
Wheatgrowers should be comforted by the know-
ledge that John Thomson gets £3OOO a year, plus £2OOO
“disability allowance” for his first year; that the
chairman collects £750 a year, two grower representa-
tives £5OO a year each and other members £5 ss. for
every day of attendance plus £2 2s. exes, (not allowed
to grower representatives) a day if absent from home
overnight. And there are fees to members of State
committees. Who says there’s nothing in wheat?


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
wife under lock and key if her inamorato
can drift through solid walls, and Dr.
Boyce has my sincere commiserations.
His plight reminds me of the good for-
tune of a modernist lady painter I used
to know in Melbourne. I was looking at
the study of a nude on her easel and
asked her where she got her model. “She’s
here,” she remarked with such intense
conviction that I looked around for the
original of the figure on the canvas, but
the studio was empty. “Oh, yes, she’s
here and very interested in what you
think about my picture,” she continued.
“You see, I am in touch with the spirits.
It is very convenient. I can summon
them whenever I want them for a sitting,
and, of course, you can’t give a spirit
money: it would only offend him.”
* * * *
“C.R.”: Hostile criticism as far afield
as Melbourne was stimulated by Sir
Thomas Beecham’s outburst when he
hurled his baton to the floor and buried
his face in his hands at the desecration
of the National Anthem by a Brisbane
choir. But the Anthem is good music
(Beethoven, for one, thought it worthy of
variations), and there is no reason why
it should not be treated with the respect
due to a fine, sturdy tune. If Elgar
thought it was worth his best orchestra-
tion and choral writing, conductors,
“Wodgil”: Could the shade of Cromwell
have been in Sydney when Jehovah’s
Witnesses staged their street parade and
heard at least one of them shout that
he recognised no king but Christ it
wouldn’t have been as flabbergasted as
the authorities were. Cromwell was
accustomed to similar performances by
the Fifth Monarchy men ; save, of course,
the Witnesses’ odd habit of exploding
exhortations through loudspeakers on
the harbor or even in the bush—a most
eerie experience when a man is concen-
trating on an intellectual exercise like
reading the “Sunday Flapper.” The
Fifth Monarchy men gave Cromwell a
lot of trouble ; but he was more patient
with them than Charles II when, shortly
after the Restoration, 50 Fifth Monarchy
men “made a mad attempt to attain pos-
session of London in the name of ‘King
Jesus.’ ” As my ancient encyclopaedia
puts it:
Most of the 50 were killed or taken
prisoners, and 11 were executed.
The most frightful penalty imposed on
the Witnesses was a pound or seven days,
with 21 days to pay.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A Port Adelaide S.M. has
been talking severely to the police. “The
court is crammed full of traffic cases ;
the figures have gone up enormously. If
the police succumb to the temptation to
bring before it every case, doubtful or
otherwise, they will have to be considered
as ordinary litigants, with the same risk
of paying the costs if unsuccessful.”
* * * *
“Hawkshaw”: The N. S. Wales police
have recently had two additions to their
long list of unsolved murders. Victor
Moulos, a middle-aged Greek, reputedly
well-to-do, was found one evening dying,
with his head battered, on a lonely road
to the north of Manly (Sydney). There
were tyre marks on his clothes, but the
police reckon that Moulos couldn’t have
been killed by a car. Exactly a week
later came the case of Thomas Hood, a
23-year-old taxi-driver. He was found
lying unconscious on one of the not-
much-frequented roads that skirt Botany
Bay (Sydney). His cab was nowhere
near, and there was no money in his
pockets, though his card showed he had
taken in 18s. 6d. during the day. He
also • had been battered about the head.
He died in hospital. Conflicting evidence
has been given by passers-by who think
they saw Hood standing by his cab late
at night on the road where he was found
having a barney with one man or three
men. His car was found later, aban-
doned, four miles from the scene of the
assault. Most reasonable theory is that
Hood picked up a passenger who was
not content with bilking the driver of his
fare, but murdered him for what money
he might have. Quite a few other taxi-
drivers in the Sydney area have been
violently assaulted and robbed in recent
months, and the police don’t seem to be
able to do very much about it.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Dr. William Boyce, an eye
specialist of Los Angeles, is petitioning
for a divorce from his wife and has cited
as co-respondent a ghost named Sho-sha,
of whom his spouse has become enam-
ored. It is not much good keeping your
“The general gave me Week-end leave, Joe, so I thought I might jus ’ as Well come ’ome.”
choirs and cinema orchestras ought to
treat it with consideration. This it seldom
gets, because it has come to be regarded
purely as a bit of patriotic ritual, to be
hurried over in order to get to the real
business of the evening. The first four
lines are all that are blared by most
picture-show loudspeakers when they dis-
miss an audience.
* * * *
“Den”: The Radnorshire Arms, Pres-
teign, latest of Holbrook’s English Inns
series to adorn The Bulletin’s front
cover (B. 24/7/’4O), has an association
with N.S.W. This inn was built as a
private house by the Bradshaw family, of
whom John Bradshaw, President of the
Commonwealth Court that condemned
Charles Tin 1649, was a member. A few
years ago a descendant of this John Brad-
shaw—according to the newspapers the
last of the race —died in the Old Men’s
Home at Liverpool (N.S.W.). Incidentally,
N.S.W. can boast another link with the
Civil War period. A descendant of one of
the Penderell brothers, who hid Charles II
in the Boscobel oak, lives in the Sydney
suburb of Ashfield. He still receives a
share of the pension granted in perpetuity
to the Penderell family by the grateful
monarch.
* * * %
“X.S.”: A country branch of the Vic-
torian Housewives’ Association was riven
by dissension so badly that it had to be
disbanded. In subsequent proceedings
for libel the aggrieved party alleged that
a report had been made against
her which meant that she had been
guilty of dishonesty and misconduct,
that she was a slanderer, scandal-
monger and virago, and “a person
against whom the members of the branch
should be safeguarded.” In her evidence
she alleged that one of the cited persons
had said: “I think she must be mad, and
of course you know she does not live with
her husband.” Actually she was a re-
spectable married woman, public-minded
and charitable, her husband being an
engineer in a distant State who came
home on holidays. The defence was
a general denial, one of the litigants
claiming that if the statements alleged to
have been made by her were made, which
she denied, they were made on privileged
occasions. After the matter had been
aired in public the warring' ladies’
emotions subsided, doubtless as sud-
denly as they had arisen, and the
case was settled out of court, the Judge
smilingly congratulating the late belliger-
ents. There is something characteristically
feminine (or feminist) about the business.
Men often abuse each other on com-
mittees, but not to touch on the marital
theme is a point of honor.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: As one who really likes
W.A.N.S. (I wish I had wan myself) I
don’t want this par to be construed as
an attack on those ladies. But l
think it should be placed on record that
the irreverent have already invented a
nickname for them: the Widows And
Neglected Spinsters. Considering what
the V.A.Ds. had to put up with in the
last war, the gals have got off lightly.
“Jachris”: Many and varied have been
the results of the tragic defeat of France.
In N. S. Wales it has meant the Amateur
Cyclists’ Union abandoning the metric
system—in these grave words: “Now
that France is no longer a recognised
ally of the Empire, we prefer to ride
over English miles.” Lest any should
imagine the renunciation a mere patriotic
gesture, empty of sacrifice, be it always
remembered that for Saturday’s State
road championship the pushbikers had
to pedal furiously for 100 miles. Previ-
ously they had pulled up at the 100-kilo-
metre mark—62 miles 243 yards.
* * %
“Tuart”: I should like to have the
contract for making the uniforms so
many thousands of women are flashing in
Sydney streets. Every organisation has
its own uniform, and when the caprice
moves it to order changes in style, cut and
color changes are made, “for you must
be in the fashion, my dear.” A flapper
paper ecstatically estimates that £30,000
has already been spent on uniforms in
N.S.W.— i.e., Sydney—alone, and as the
war proceeds and more ladies hear the
call to win it by casing themselves in the
outfit of their preference the estimate
will have to be multiplied. Meanwhile,
of course, “the clothing trades are work-
ing overtime to supply the demands” of
military ladies, and prices of uniforms
are going up. Those of the other sex who
don’t have to foot the bills for this out-
break of feminine imitativeness get a lot
of pure fun out of it, especially as they
know well enough that 95 p.c. of the
women who do really serviceable work
for fighting services do it in their ordi-
nary clothing. And they are hoping
against hope that some coterie of lime-
lighters, inspired by memories of flapper-
press portraits and rhapsodies, will start
an Amazon Corps. Unfortunately,
Amazon Corps have played no part in
the German war, though the flapper press
certified that they did wonders in Abys-
sinia, China and Spain.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Gilsullivan addicts in Mel-
bourne are up in arms at an assertion in
a radio publication that Ivan Menzies
would like to “swing” “The Mikado.” I
can fully sympathise with the comedian’s
desire to do something different with hb
old subject-matter ; he must be bored to
extinction with it. Why shouldn’t he
swing “The Mikado” if he wants to?
There is nothing sacrosanct about any
musicomedy, and there is an air of superi-
ority about the average connoisseur of
the Savoy operas which deserves to be
chastened.
* .* * *
“Lao-dah”: I read that Sir Kingsley
Wood has decided to subject the Bible
to the purchase tax and profits from its
sales to income tax. The Holy Book has
for ages been the best-seller amongst
books in almost every country except
Islam. In China native colporteurs are
used. There is one edition which
is printed with passages underlined in
red ink for the convenience of pastors,
proselytisers and converts to base sermons
on or meditate about. I met a Chinese
Bible-seller in Soochow once who was
earning a few cash by peddling Bibles
obtained from a local mission. Going
through his stock, I struck one of the
underlined variety and bought it. Perus-
ing it later, I discovered that it was the
copy of an unauthorised edition issued
by an American firm. The passages
underlined were of the nature which
make certain people say that the Scrip-
tures aren’t a suitable book for children.
I have often wondered how the copy got
to Soochow, and what a Celestial pater-
familias would have thought of it if he
had bought it.
* * * *
“P. Street”: Since I acquired the philo-
sophy of one rapidly approaching 90,1
had almost given up the vanity of envy-
ing the other bloke’s job, but there re-
mains one whose position I shall long
to fill till the day I die. He is chef of
a roadside cafe in N.S.W., and claims
each day to select and cook 7200 head
of oysters, a marine fruit for which I
have frequently surrendered many things,
including domestic harmony. The fellow
calmly admits to eating 36 of them a
day—this with the impassive counten-
ance of one announcing a normal pas-
time, like golf or patience. On the nigh’
I discovered him he confessed to a slight
indisposition of health, due, he added
sorrowfully, to having sampled an experi-
mental specimen of his culinary art—a
concoction of oysters, asparagus and
pickled peaches.
A STRAIGHT TIP.
For-those who specialise in artless rhymes
There’s virtue in a Latin tag at times,
If pebble-worn enough to leave one free
From any idle charge of pedantry.
And, now it’s up to us to firmly face
Dangers that ne’er before beset our race,
Surely an apposite reminder’s that
Bis dat qui cito dat.
Little or much, some service all may give
That tyrant force be foiled and freedom live.
Valor and strength must play the foremost part,
The willing arm backed by the eager heart.
Not all may march to battle, but be sure
They also serve who help them to endure
The burden. And, whatever work he’s at,
Bis dat qui cito dat.
No need to emphasise that money counts,
Alike the largest and the least amounts.
But, whether you’re appraising herds and flocks
Or merely knitting serviceable socks,
Whether you’re making up your income tax
Or giving quartz the pick, or wood the axe,
In outback humpy or in city flat,
Bis dat qui cito dat.
A truce to faction and its peace-time brawls!
To hell with party feuds! Our country calls,
And in her need should aught be left undone
To show we stand determinedly as one?
Shoulder to shoulder ranged, prepared likewise
To venture all you can for all you prize,
Here’s something else for pasting in your hat —
Bis dat qui cito dat.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“V.C.”: Latest drunk story comes
from the Sydney suburb of Leichhardt,
where a young man alone in. a house
thought nail lacquer smelt nice, and drank
some. The result being a bit unexpected,
he tried recovery with lacquer remover,
downing the bottle. By this time, in a
well-known state of doubt, he sought
more refreshment and found it in a
bottle of cough mixture. He then en-
deavored to shave himself, failed, was
removed to hospital and given four cups
of sodawater, which worked the oracle.
He is expected to paint the place red at
his next birthday party, when he’ll be
four.
* * * ■ *
“X.S.”: A matter of seconds decided
the direction in which a deceased man’s
estate went in a case which came under
the Property Law Act in Victoria. A
husband and wife were killed in a motor
smash on Phillip Island, Victoria’s motor
speedway. A constable and an ambu-
lance official gave evidence that the wife’s
pulse was still beating weakly when they
came on the scene, but that the husband’s
had stopped. Both were dead a few
minutes afterwards. If the husband had
died after the wife all the estate would
have gone to his next of kin. As it was,
one-half went to her next of kin. The
estate was worth £40,000.
* * * *
“F.S.”: All this controversy about
whether Sir Thomas Beecham is rude and
arrogant and whether he is a showman
or even a good or bad conductor begs
the question. You can see that when
Beecham conducts the members of his
orchestra have forgotten that they have
husbands and wives, girls, coughs and
colds and the butcher calling with an
overdue bill tomorrow morning. They
will play in a cinema theatre under a
conductor who is nine-tenths showman,
and you can see by the look on their
faces that the music is only of secondary
importance ; and it is much the same
when they play for the average A.B.C.
conductor. When they play for Beecham
they are working on something that
Beecham has made them feel is bigger
than themselves. The reason why
Beecham likes his Australian orchestras,
as he obviously does, and they like him
is that the music is always the most im-
portant thing for him and the orchestras
can be made to share his estimate of its
importance.
**. * *
“Heretic”: The finest church building
with the best situation in Australasia is
undoubtedly St. Mary’s Basilica in Syd-
ney, which dates from Macquarie’s day.
Macquarie had not long before deported
Father Flynn because his credentials
from Downing-street were not in order,
but he gave unstinted aid to the build-
ing of the first Catholic church in this
country, granting over two acres of land
as a site for it, and promising to pro-
vide a sum from Government funds equal
in amount to money collected from the
public. The site was a piece of un-
reclaimed bush outside the town in the
vicinity of the new convict barracks
which wasn’t considered of much value
for any purpose, but the years have
proved the wisdom of the founder of
St. Mary’s in accepting it, for few
cathedrals anywhere occupy positions as
fine. Macquarie laid the foundation
stone of the first church—destroyed by
fire in 1865—0 n November 1, 1821, and
contributed 20 guineas to the building
fund.
“Very bracing this morning, sir!”
“Spokeshave”: A young Melbourne
clergyman decided that it was his mission
to go slumming in the poorest quarters
of one of the most depressing industrial
suburbs. Despite a genuine desire to get
into touch with the suffering and unfor-
tunate, he found his efforts continually
defeated by the obvious indifference, if
not hostility, he could feel around him.
For some time he had been observing
an artist who came every day and set
up his easel in the meanest streets. The
artist spent the day absorbed in his
painting, though there was always a
crowd around him, and while he was
washing his brushes some waif or other
would start pouring his or her troubles
out to him, so that he got an enormous
amount of information about the dis-
trict. One day the clergyman shyly
accosted him. “How is it,” he asked,
“that you get everybody around you?
I can’t.” “Take that collar off and get
a different hat,” replied the painter.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Sydney, in its earlier days,
had quite a number of outer defences
not mentioned in “General de Range-
ment’s” par. (B. 10/7/’4O). When, the
fear of a Russian invasion bit Australia
in the ’eighties the N.S.W. Government
built fortifications on practically all the
headlands commanding beaches on
which it was thought landings might be
attempted ; and some of the batteries
lasted (still serviced by guards from the
permanent forces) until quite modern
times. There was a battery on Ben
Buckler at Bondi ; on the north head-
land of Coogee there still stands one of
the old guns of former days ; there are
marks of another battery on the south
headland, too. The culminating point of
the Noah’s Ark forts was the one on
Bare Island, intended to defend the
Botany Bay flank. The site was long ago
handed over for a War Veterans’ Home.
* * * *
“Benvenuto Spleeni”: The usual con-
certed howl of outraged aestheticism was
raised as soon as the designs of war-
service badges were released. The
modern-arties hit the roof hardest;
“inartistic monstrosities” was the mildest
of their epithets. All those whom
the flapper press rushed around to
interview condemned the designers for
their “unimaginativeness.” Before seeing
the designs, and going solely by the
vitriolic opinions of the fraternity who
gaze on a canvas showing an elephantine
limb resting against a pig’s bladder with
a background of purple cement and re-
cognise it as “A Subconscious Soul,” I
immediately formed the opinion that the
designs would be good. And so they
proved. One in particular, the medal
for the new returned men, is neat and
cleverly grouped, with the three arms of
the Services resting on a boomerang and
surmounted by a crown. The others
are appropriate and attractive. Which
reminds me that there has yet to be issued
a stamp that doesn’t similarly arouse the
ire of these arty-highbrow pests.
* * * *
“K.”: It is sad enough when doctors
disagree over a diagnosis, but it is posi-
tively tragic when the interpreters of
star signs fail to see eye to eye. A few
weeks back the Hollywood Association
of Astrologers solemnly warned Hitler
that he had “only six days left in his
timetable of conquest,” after which “the
tide will turn against him, leading to his
violent death, probably at the hands of
a woman.” Adolf, who is reputed by
the flapper press to
be something of a
Zodiacal-sign fancier
himself, evidently
scorned the threat that
the new moon would
overshadow his ruling
planet Saturn, and re-
fused to launch his
Blitzkrieg against Eng-
land within the stated
time Unfit. Undoubt-
edly he is doomed.
All we have to do now
is to wait until Pisces
enters the third House
and jostles Scorpio
alongside Sagittarius
and, presto ! the
Schickelgruber person
will do the mortal-coil
shuffling act. and
mizzle off to, I hope,
a worse world.
* *
“Seim a”: King’s
Cross, Sydney, at 5
p.m. on a weekday.
A crowd has gathered
to watch a fight on
one corner. Opposite,
an elderly gentleman
hands out pamphlets
setting forth the ad-
vantages of peace. An
Italian fruiterer rushes
out with a large, very
ripe melon and dumps
it in the gutter, where
it disintegrates and
casts its pink innards
all over the road. A florist’s van arrives
beside the fighters and begins to unload
its freight of spring blooms, and the air
becomes heavy with the scent of narcissi
and daffodils. Overhead swans fly by in
an arrowed formation to the Botany
mudflats, etched a moment on a sky of
intense blue. A colorful group of girls
goes by in the national dress of one of
the Hitler “protectorates,” and a police-
man —a rare sight at the Cross —arrives
and takes charge of the combat. A
large, noble-looking dog comes up with
a little collecting box strapped to his
back, and taking his accustomed stand
with hind feet in the gutter and front
paws on the kerb begins his daily task
of helping Sydney Hospital. Interesting
place, the Cross.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Victorian Nat. Gallery is per-
turbed about three of its exhibits. The
stuffed carcass of Phar Lap in the
museum is ceasing to attract attention,
the present generation being indifferent
to its charms. The marble bull with
peasant, by Boehm, twice natural size,
charmed former trustees into spending a
lot of money, but present trustees look
at it through the eyes of a new fashion
and most of them condemn it, though
by what criterion it is difficult to imagine,
since they have planted two statues of
gigantic soldiers on the lawn outside the
institution. They have offered the buli
to the Royal Show authorities as good
enough for unaesthetic farmers, appar-
ently, but the farmers don’t seem to
be thrilled. Queen Victoria is also
open to offers, but as yet there are no
takers. If the effigies are bad art they
are still good material, and they could
be given to a competent Australian sculp-
tor to carve into something of more
artistic value.
“We c'd turn out three a week if you'd give us a contract for a thousand more.”
LACONICISM.
“Australian fliers are easily identifiable in England
by their laconic speech as well as their readiness to
take on the enemy in any circumstances.”
— “S.M.H.” correspondent.
They give a clue, it seems, to their extraction,
Our scourers of the skies, our war-time birds,
By supplementing readiness for action
With paucity of words;
The same two qualities—it surely heartens
To recapitulate—the very same,
That earned those doughty warriors the
Spartans
Imperishable fame.
Tight-lipped and stern these went about their
labors,
Pulling their weight in many a gory fray;
And, the more signally they socked their
neighbors,
The less they had to say.
Laconic were those strong and stalwart he-
men—
A term deriving from their native heath —
Who ever kept in ancient Lacedaemon
Their tongues between their teeth.
We, too —and the acknowledgment should
flatter—
Credit across the seas begin to win
As less addicted to discursive chatter
Than others of our kin.
But here the itch for wordy disquisitions
Remains, one fears, a malady that’s chronic.
Airmen may have their wholesome inhibitions,
But nobody conceives our politicians
In -any circumstances or conditions
Will ever grow laconic.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


mm
3*
&
dfgfdgfd
dfgfdgf
CRAVEN
A
••
are so much smoother
lt*H*>*
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
?818
fdgfdg
POITICAL POINTS
When petrol-rationing was first mooted
the Victorian Ministry started talking
about staggering Melbourne traffic. Petrol
is not yet rationed, and‘Melbourne traffic
is still staggering.
Molotov has again dashed the hopes
of the politicians, pressmen and profes-
sors who were confident that his scared
gang would bog into the Nazis in the
Balkans. The wooden-faced double-
crosser’s latest speech breathed hatred of
Britain and the U.S.A., but professed
greater devotion to the German alliance
than ever. He even had a good word for
Italy. No doubt, he and Stalin hate
Hitler like poison, but so long as Hitler
permits them to practise robbery under
arms hate will be smothered by fear.
Fed up with the performances of the,
Hands Off Russia boys of Sydney, New-
castle and the South Coast, the Federal
Labor executive, led by Curtin, Forgan
Smith and Fallon, of the A.W.U., has
passed sentence of suspension on the
whole N.S.W. Labor executive. Those
who are not Hands Off Russia lads will
be pardoned if they declare themselves
before August 16, and may then be
appointed to another N.S.W. Labor
executive, but the axe is sure to fall
on Evans, the secretary. That gentleman
and State Labor-leader McKell have
been busy campaigning for Lyons, who
was “endorsed” for Tamworth before
Evans and his pals were suspended. Now
McKell and Evans have parted company,
and Lyons has been left contending with
a storm of mixed metaphors hurled at
him by the Non-Coms., the choicest
being that he is “a political waif, left
on the doorstep, whose party has been
white-anted from beneath him.”
Ward, M.H.R. for East Sydney, sided
with the suspended A.L.P. executive
against Curtin, Forgan Smith, Fallon and
co., and he hopes to get support from
the four Victorian Laborites (Blackburn,
Brennan, Pollard and Dr. Maloney) who
voted against their party on the National
Emergency measure. He may; but
it seems much more likely that the Vic-
torians will “reconsider the position.”
Federal Labor would like to lose Ward,
and many East Sydney people are
anxious to oblige.
Perhaps by way of celebrating the
anniversary of the outbreak
of the first world war, the 99 Victorian
State legislators were recalled from their
holiday last week. The other five State
Parliaments are still “resting.” This in
the twelfth month of the second world
war!
It was reserved for Dorothy Thomp-
son to discover that La Pasionaria, a
heroine to all Corns, while the Spanish
war was raging, has been making pro-
Hitler speeches in Moscow. Trust a lady
in the limelight to expose a competitor
for the cat she is!
The Chancellor of the Exchequer
expects to derive no small part of his
war funds from his tax on incomes of
£20,000 and upwards, 18s. in the £.
Maoriland taxation of such incomes
would scarcely keep a minesweeper in
being. There are only four Maorilanders
with incomes of £20,000 or over, the
total being £95,000. On the other hand,
the average income of males of 16 and
upwards is £253. That must be as demo-
cratic a distribution of national income
as there is in the world.
For the year to June 30, £8,250,000
was dragged from the pockets of. the
N.S.W. people by means of the double
impost on incomes which the Sydney
Government calls its “unemployed-relief
and social-services tax.” Only £1,674,300
went in providing jobs for the un-
employed. The nature of the jobs
may be judged from the fact that
£1,209,600 was taken from the total to
meet “interest and sinking-fund charges
on account of loans for relief of un-
employment.”
It looks as if Victorian lawmakers
mean to rush through as many measures
as possible before retiring for another
rest. One of the first matters to be
considered was the Egg Board election.
Every Victorian who owns 25 adult
domesticated female fowls is subject to
the board, but only persons with 150
adult domesticated female fowls have
had the Egg Board franchise. As a great
instalment of reform, legislation reducing
the qualification to ownership of 100
adult domesticated female fowls was in-
troduced, roosters of all ages and de-
grees of domestication being excluded.
A year or so ago the owner of the biggest
egg-producing farm in the Southern
Hemisphere was elected to the board on
the understanding that he would vote
“Seven war badges are about to be issued in Australia.”
“Mein Fiihrer, ven de dese Australians conquer make me der Governor, pleass!
Ve must gapture dose badges voteffer der cost!”
for its abolition, and in the best bureau-
cratic circles it is feared that he has a
big proportion of the little men behind
him.
A deputation of N.S.W. pig-raisers
and dairymen sought cheaper wheat and
mill offal from John Thomson, g.m.
of the Australian ‘Wheat Board. After
loftily informing the importunate fellows
that Canadian and Argentino stock-
raisers paid more for wheat than they
did, John Thomson suggested that N.S.W.
farmers might obtain bran from West-
ralia. John Thomson gets £3OOO a year
for this sort of thing.
The cables have been singularly silent
about British newspaper reactions to the
Rumanian King’s crawl to Hitler and
his Government’s plunder of British
property, but they can be easily guessed.
For years the crowned ruffian was “Carol
the Cad” to the picture papers, but in
the first quarter of 1939 he was suddenly
forgiven, and Churchill wrote an article
to prove that he was really a high-minded
sovereign with a sterling faith in democ-
racy. Now photos, of his red-haired
tart are being fished out of countless
pigeonholes, and he will be “Carol the
Cad” for the rest of his sorry existence.
Mistranslations and misinterpretations
have done a lot of harm in this touchy
modern world. “Deutschland fiber alles,”
for example. It will be tragic if the
current Japanese use of the term “South
Seas” leads to similar confusion of mnid.
On this subject, R. W. Robson, editor
of the “Pacific Monthly,” has written
understanding^:
Japan clearly means the seas to the
southward of Japan and south-eastern Asia
wherein lie the Philippines, the East Indies
and her own mandated islands, and not
what we mean by the South Seas —namely,
the Pacific Ocean south of the Equator.
I have seen the term “South Seas” used
often by Japanese publicists, but always
in reference to what we call the North-west
Pacific, and never in relation to the South
Pacific or any other part of the Pacific.
Foreign Minister Matsuoka didn’t men-
tion “South Seas” in his statement of
the Konoye Government’s foreign policy.
He gave as “Japan’s final aim” the “estab-
lishment of stability in the zone embrac-
ing Japan, Manchukuo and China, also
French Indo-China and the N.E.1.”
There is no longer an Ogilvie in the
Tasmanian Cabinet. E. J. Ogilvie, the
late Premier’s brother and Attorney-
General, has “resigned” to become head
of a new department—“ Labor and Indus-
try”—with the title of Chief Industrial
Registrar and Chief Inspector of Fac-
tories. The appointment was made by
Caucus, no applications were called for,
and the position is outside the provi-
W of , the / u blic Service Act.” A
similar department was abolished years
ago as useless. Canberra should retaliate
fnr tVilc a a ■ £ ~
tor this wicked squandering of the
people s money in war-time by reducing
the grant to the guilty Government—
vSr-hv aS M °n" £ l 7O0 ,’ ooo , laSt
by the amount of Ogllvie s salary
and the pay of his personal staff.
t-* . a n n .
r -year Parliaments and P.R. have
a lot to answer for in; the Speck,
Caucus wouldn’t have dared to per-
•.
P e * ra ,* e the Ogllvie business if it
could be challenged at a by-election,
but it can’t be ; so Ogilvie got
his soft job. McDonald was moved into
r'r.u: *. „ . Ts i » .
the Cabinet, and Becker was made an
unportfolio’d Minister (he was chairman
of a useless Public Works Committee).
And counting nf 1Q77 ballnt-nanerc will
£. OU , . IJ ? g 01 1 oanot-papers will
give Ogllvie s seat to a defeated Labor
candidate who will thoroughly approve
of the whole proceedings.
There is a strong anti-election party
at Canberra. Most of its members are
content with muttering and whispering,
but Victor Thompson’s dominant con-
viction that the nation needs him has
expressed itself in robust sentences.
Hearken to Victor:
Surely the National Security Act gives
us authority to say that, until this peril
passes, we will not inflict the torment of
an unwanted election on Australia We
should relieve the people of the task of
saying whether this man or that man should
enter Parliament... .After all, I suppose
those who have been in this Parliament for
a long time have more right here at a
time like this than outsiders... .Those who
disapprove would only be the cranks and
ratbags of the community, who are not
worth five minutes’ consideration in any
case.
Victor has been defying “the cranks and
ratbags” for 18 years.
John Strachey, who broke with the
Communist party because he was con-
vinced that London “Daily Worker’s”
war policy was “pro-German,” blames
Communist defeatism for the collapse of
France. Communist defeatism would
place Australia at Hitler’s mercy, too,
if the defeatists could get their way, but
they won’t.
A Sydney Feminist Leader with a de-
cided leaning to the Left was “endorsed”
for a Federal electorate by the State
A.L.P. bosses before Federal Labor got
to work on them. She is the wife
of a Supreme Court Judge. “Terewth”
has delightedly dug up the fact that a
plank of the Hands Off Russia platform
is abolition of the Supreme Court.
Westralian unionists can always be
depended upon to do the right thing at
the right moment. They have not only
subscribed to war loans and contributed
generously to war funds, but they have
agreed with employers to forgo any
claim or title, to increased wages and
lessened hours while the war lasts.
“Houndsman”: With the well-known
flair of the family for looking into the
core of hurricanes and other disturb-
ances, Richard Windeyer, K.C., looked
into the recent Murdoch windstorm and
put his finger on several peculiar aspects.
After all, our various newspapers are
commercial enterprises, looking for profits
from peddling advertisements. The one
subject on which the press is unanimous is
that its profits must not be attacked.
An engineering firm’s plant may be
seized for munitions and its business dis-
rupted ; but none of our sacred space must
be taken.... But perhaps a greater evil
than gagging the press is the danger that
the press should abuse its almost complete
monopoly of publicity in its own interest.
Much of what democracy is suffering is
due to the banality of the popular press
in the Old Country with its monster cir-
culation developed for the profit of multi-
millionaires. Such a press is a menace
with its own strict censorship of opinion.
There was more, ending with the straight
hint that Australia must trust the Par-
liament it elected or look for a regimen-
tation of opinion by “the superior wise
men of the press.” The wisdom of
Windeyer did not appear in the dailies.
From E. J. Hogan, Victorian Minister
of Agriculture:
With reference to the paragraph regarding
the Chicory Marketing Board (B. 24/7/’4O),
the statement that “at the last poll there was
no nomination from the principal district” is
incorrect. Practically ali the chicory produced
in Victoria comes from Phillip Island. The
growers there repeatedly elected Mr. R. Harris
as producer’s representative on the board.
There is very little chicory produced on the
mainland. Mainland growers were originally
allowed a representative, and chose Mr. C.
Edwards, but when he died no one was elected
to succeed him. The board has been very
successful. Last year it secured £5O per ton
for the growers who marketed their chicory
through the board, whereas disloyal growers
who evaded the Marketing Act and marketed
their chicory in Sydney obtained only £25 per
ton. This year the board is obtaining £55 per
ton, whereas the disloyal growers are obtaining
£2O to £25 per ton. As for the poll to be held
at the end of August, there is no doubt that
a majority of growers will vote in favor of a
continuance of the board.


THE GROWING FAMILY.


GARDENING BASKET
■
HI
Containing;
1 Pair Secateurs, 1 Pair Scissors,
1 Gardening Spade, 1 Pruning
Knife, 1 Gardening Fork,
Postage 2/6.
35/-
QUALITY CUTLERY
705—STAINLESS STEEL, Square Xylonite Handle. Well-iiuislied.
TABLE KNIVES 16/6
DESSERT KNIVES, per half-dozen 15/6
W. Jno. BAKER
PTY.
LTD. 3
1008— YORK CABINET. Polished
pah Case, fitted with Bakers
Stainless Steel Knives and Silver-
plated Spoons and Forks. Con-
tents: 6 each Table and Dessert
Knives; (i eaeh Soup, Dessert.
Large Tea and Small Tea
Spoons; 6 each Table and
Dessert Forks; 2 Table
Spoons; 1 Paii-
Carvers and 1 Steel.
In A 1 Quality
Knives and
Silverplate.
£l5/10/-
In B Qualitv,
£l3/12/6
Postage
HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
PERfQNAL ITEM S
Dead in London at 84, James Rubie,
one of the most versatile, most anony-
mous and most accomplished of all Aus-
tralian journalists, though it is not on
record that he ever wrote for an Aus-
tralian paper. Born west of the Blue
Mountains, he graduated at Sydney Uni.
and went to England 50 years ago. There
few people ever heard of him, but every-
body in Europe knew the celebrated
“fourth leaders” of the “Time*”- —those
short articles which ranged over the whole
field of human knowledge and interest
with grace and clarity. For just on a
quarter of a century Rubie was their
writer.
An engaging grin that Sydney probably
won’t see next Easter, now that the R.A.S.
Show is off, belongs to Norman Holmes,
depicted here by Dubois. He and his
smile are known wherever beef-cattle
men forgather. One of N. & Wales’s
best cattle judges, he runs a choice Short-
horn herd on his Larras Lee property,
NORMAN HOLMES.
near Bathurst, comes of an old cattle-
breeding family, and is frequently to be
found stewarding or judging at shows
from the R.A.S. down.
The death in Canada of Thomas Tait,
Victorian Railways Commissioner from
1903 to 1910, was passed over unnoticed
in Melbourne. It was Tait’s misfortune
to be boss of the railways when the Sun-
shine disaster (1908) and the Richmond
crash (1910) occurred. Tait, a chain-
cigar smoker, was the son of Sir Mel-
bourne Tait, born at Melbourne, Quebec,
86 years ago, but his knighthood, which
came in 1911, was a reward for his Aus-
tralian services.
On September 20, 1840, the barque
Martin Luther, 108 days out from
Greenock, anchored at Holdfast Bay, the
port of the then infant colony of S.A.
Among the dozen passengers was a three-
year-old girl, who was afterwards Mrs.
B. J. Currie. The other day she passed
on at 103. Sprightly and vivacious
almost to the end, Mrs. Currie celebrated
her 100th birthday by taking her first
aeroplane trip, over Adelaide. She was
seldom absent from the Commemoration
Day celebrations at Glenelg. Mrs. Currie
was the mother of 23 children, including
four sets of twins.
Father John Joseph Troy, dead at 48,
was known as Rector Emeritus of Earl-
wood, a designation earned by the
quickest bit of church-building in Sydney
history. He went to Earlwood, a lone
priest whose quarters were those of an
anchorite, with no funds to back him ;
in a few years, entirely by his efforts in
gathering the funds and hurrying the
builders, a fine church, comparable to
any in suburban Sydney, was completed.
When in the twenties, Father Troy, distin-
guished by his school career, was secre-
tary for Catholic Education at St. Mary’s
Cathedral headquarters ; he had a vigor-
ous part as R.C. representative in launch-
ing a scheme for the education of dead
or disabled Diggers’ children. A likeable,
robust, sporting character, with sincerity
in every inch of him.
Had a ninetieth birthday in Sydney,
Frank Johnston, who was born in County
Fermanagh, Ireland, went to Canada in
1871 and reached N.S.W. in ’76. One
of the first to take an axe to the Big Scrub
on that State’s North Coast, he planted
the first sugarcane grown by Tooheys
for the first sugarmill at what became
Rous, on the Richmond River. Dairying
at Bangalow later, he saw the railway
built from Lismore to Murwillumbah.
The pioneer retired to Bangalow town in
1907, thence to Sydney in 1919. His wife
is still with him.
Prof. Paul A. Dodd, Economics Pro-
fessor in the Uni. of California, has
arrived in this country to study Aus-
tralian industrial arbitration methods. He
is travelling on a Rockefeller Research
grant.
E. J. D. Abraham, of Melbourne, dead
at 73, became interested in the deaf mute
as a youth of 16 in London when he
was teaching in a free school. Deaf
mutes elected him principal of the Lon-
don Gospel School, and he went from
that to the superinten-
dentship of several mis-
, sions to the afflicted
whose world is sound-
less. An illness whose
cure required a change
of scene sent him to
Melbourne as chaplain
to the Adult Deaf and
Dumb Mission of Vic-
toria. For 55 years he
worked unflaggingly for
the mission, and out of
his zeal grew a system
of education which has
turned many afflicted
people into craftsmen,
musicians and scholars.
His death came when
he was making plans
for workshops, hostels
and a social centre after
the Charities Board had
given him permission to
appeal for £15,000. A
son is superintendent of
the Deaf Mutes’ Homes
at Blackburn.
R. A. Jenner, who
celebrated his eightieth
birthday the other day
in Melbourne, drove
the first train over the
Kew line in 1887. He
joined the Victorian
Railways in 1881, and
retired 40 years later.
“Fi. fa.”: Legal practice may have its
special worries, but they certainly do not
shorten life. Edward Mitchell, K.C., and
L. S. Woolf recently celebrated an
eighty-fifth birthday apiece in Melbourne,
and Isaac Isaacs followed their example
yesterday. W. H. (“Iceberg”) Irvine is
82, G. H. Wise 87 and Thomas Mann, of
Ballarat (Vic.), 92. Charles Powers lived
to 86, Frank Gavan Duffy to 84, E. D.
Holroyd to 88, Hartley Williams to 86
and Robert .Molesworth to 84. Judge
Backhouse, of N.S.W., was 88 and J. J.
Kingsbury, Crown Prosecutor of Queens-
land, 86 when their last calls came. Of
famous English lawyers, Halsbury lived
to 98, Lindhurst to 91, Brougham to 90,
St. Leonards to 94 and Eldon to 87. Wil-
liam Mulock, of Canada, was recently
still on the Bench at 90, and Louis
Brandeis retired from the Supreme Court
Bench of the U.S. last year at 83.
Major-General J. E. Duigan, O.C. of
Maoriland’s military forces since 1937,
recently knighted, is a native of the
Dominion. Born 58 years ago, 40 of
which he has been soldiering, he served
for two years in the S’African War at the
beginning of the century with Brabant’s
Horse, Kitchener’s Scouts and, later,
jVLL.’s Tenth Contingent. Returning he
joined the permanent military staff and
held various ranks till, as a major, in
1914 he went overseas in command of
the Tunnelling Corps, later transferring
to the Sixth Corps of the British armies
in France. He won a D. 5.0., and after
a term as instructor at Aldershot he was
sent by the British Government to the
United States on a propaganda job.
Arrested by Constable Death in Sydney
at 80, Alfred Stephen Burvett, one time
detective-inspector in the Victorian police
force. He was born a Cockney and reared
in a counting-house in Paris. As a young
man he migrated to Victoria, joined the
constabulary and quickly rose to distinc-
tion. He assisted in the running down
of Deeming after a clue had been dis-
covered in a Melbourne newspaper
office; in fact, he had a finger in
the pie of almost every notable crime
in Victoria’s history for upwards of
fialf a century. He spoke five European
languages, and could disguise himself like
a movie star. For 20 years before his
retirement he was inspector of the
inquiry branch for the Commonwealth
Government. Two of his sons were killed
in the 1914-18 war.
BEECHAM, BART.
(Modelled by Frith.)
A very old resident of Sydney, Rodney
A. Thompson, has passed on. He was
born at Redfern Lodge, Pitt-street, the
original house of Dr. Redfern, the
colony’s first surgeon, and spent his boy-
hood days at Cloppee, in Wylde-street,
Potts Point, long since acquired by the
Government. Educated at Newington
College he succeeded to the trusteeship
of his late father’s estate, which he and
his brother, O. W. Thompson, were
jointly managing at the time of his death
Rodney Thompson was an art connois-
seur and an authority on curios.
A. E. Symons, president of the Legac\
Club, was born in Sydney 48 years ago
He became a clerk in the Land Tax
Department, and studied political science
and economics at night. Later he joined
the staff of C. E. Waters and Co. He
A. E. SYMONS.
was in the A.F.A. during the 1914-18
scrap, and wound up with a commission.
He has a degree in economics, lectures
on social problems, and is deputy-chair-
man of the National Fitness campaign.
His hobbies are reading and gardening.
“Fong Tsz’s” farewell:
Poor Melville Cox! It is hard to think of
that large, happy, red-headed Londoner
going out as he did in Japan. Everybody
in the press world east of Suez knew him.
He had been with Reuters just on 40 years.
He began his Oriental life down in the poky
Reuter office in Bombay in 1907, moved on
to Colombo, was switched to China just after
the revolution and the Japanese boycott in
1912, saw the war through as manager of the
Shanghai office, and after a break managed
Reuter’s Eastern News Service for eight years
till he was transferred to Tokyo as chief
Japanese correspondent in 1934. He was 55,
persona grata everywhere, possibly the most
popular European journalist in Japan.
As Commonwealth Loan Organiser,
Melbourne journalist Charles R. Banfield
has established a few records. In two
months he has been instrumental in rais-
ing £35,000,000 for war-savings certifi-
cates, interest-free loans, gifts and war
loan, and has had to do 20,000 miles’ air,
train and road travel in the process.
The entire Mudgee (N.S.W.) branch of
the Bank of Australasia has enlisted. The
manager, Alan Taylor, is in camp with
the A.I.F. ; and the accountant, Harold
McCormack, the teller, Norman Judd, and
another officer, Tom Lyttle, are in the
R.A.A.F.
Latest young Melburnian to make good
in England amidst the screaming bombs
is Michael O’Connell. He began to make
hand-printed fabrics at his home in
Brighton. They had such a vogue that
a few years ago he went to London. His
first big job was the curtain for the
Shakspeare Theatre at Stratford-on-
Avon. Then he did the hangings for the
Shaftesbury Theatre, London. Since
Hitler exploded he has been designing
and weaving curtains for Air Force
theatres, which are scattered all over the
country. He has a self-contained farm
and a house he built himself in Hert-
fordshire.


714E-7.4C
m//.
✓ 1
* **i fM
m
m
mwMwm
I#
> i
t Mm
m
k
r THE SECRET IS T
333's BLEND
333 s)
ALWAYS (
PLEASE ) x/k> /
ASK
PLEASE
FOR
333 s
mm
A
A
1 r 47-
CISARETfes
STATE EXPRESS
Virginia Cigarettes
fdgfdgfd
CORK TIPPED AND PLAIN: 9-6 d., 18-1/-. Also flat fifties, square hundreds and round airtight fifties


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The old boss had always
been a horseman, and it was with obvi-
ous regret he realised that the car had
come to stay. He acquired one and
learnt to drive it reasonably well, though
at times he was observed to haul back
on the wheel and utter a persuasive
“Whoa, boy!” when he wanted to pull
up. This was disastrous for the gates
of the district, which he generally ap-
proached at 20 m.p.h., and only remem-
bered to shove on the brakes after the
car had gone through them. Often, too,
he left a passenger behind because, once
having let in the clutch, he never could
remember how to throw it out again until
the car had done a couple of miles. His
apology was invariably “She was a bit
fresh, so I gave her a bit of a run t’
steady her down.” The climax came the
time he took the back road through
Prungle from Wintong (N.S.W.) to
Euston. It was a blazing day, and at
Prungle they eyed the boiling radiator
and advised him to check his water at
Gilalbee, last wet tank on the stage. The
boss reached Gilalbee, and, as he would
have done in his old buggy and pair,
drove the car down into the tank to
water it. Two heavy draughts and three
men with shovels were necessary to get
it out of the bog.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were on a road job
in Gippsland, camped in a patch of dog-
wood and bracken. The work was hard,
the air keen and the camp cosy, and I
slept soundly every night. My mate
began to complain that he couldn’t sleep.
The bunk was crook, or the mosquitoes
bothered him, or it was damp or some-
thing. Knowing that he yearned for the
fleshpots of the boarding-house in the
town, I tried to talk him out of it. “Can’t
make y’ out,” I said. “A healthy bloke
like you! I sleep like a log every night.”
He looked pensively at his hands. “Yair,
so y’ do,” he said slowly ; “but when y’
get to work on y’rself with the crosscut
even the railway sleepers wake up.” We
broke camp that night.
* * * %
“Dickie Beech”: Two months ago an
old net fisherman prophesied a poor year
for sea-mullet on these S.Q. beaches.
“Look at the small mobs of parrots,
Dick,” he said in support, and so far
he has been right. It really is the bloom-
ing of the ti-tree which attracts the
parrots for honey, but why should there
be any connection between ti-tree flowers
and sea-mullet? It was abo. lore origi-
nally, and in matters of food supply the
original Australians were very wise. They
believed in similar affinities between
wattle flowers and tailer, black magpies
and blackfish, fat oysters and the wild-
hop flowers. Seventy-odd years ago Dr.
George Bennett wrote that the flowering
of the waratah was regarded by the coast
abos. near Sydney as a sign that soles
would be fat and plentiful about Botany
Bay and Cook’s River. He also pointed
o»*t that in England tench were believed
to bite better when the wheat blossomed.
Tom Welsby checked the parrot-mullet
sequence in Moreton Bay for many suc-
cessive years and found it correct every
time.
* * * * *
“Underbool”: It was a Victorian
Mallee show, and, the day being hot and
the beer plentiful, a bit of skiting was
going on about sheaf-tossing. Old Mac,
a noted hay-digger in his youth, was
scornful of the claims of the youths
about him. “Y’ don’t know what sheaf-
pitchin’ is,” he asserted. “Why in me
prime I could chuck a sheaf as high as
Billy Mowle’s windmill.” Billy smelt a
wager. “I’ll bet y’ couldn’t,” he chal-
lenged. Mac saw that he had blundered,
but recovery was quick. “Couldn’t I?”
he snorted. “How high can y’r flamin’
windmill chuck ’em, anyway?”
*• * * *
“Falstaff”: You meet some strange
characters in the bush. Queerest I ever
struck was an old chap on a worked-out
selection in southern N.S.W. He was
living alone, except for a dozen dogs, in
an old humpy, and hadn’t seen anybody
for a month or two when I came along.
An amiable old bird, he insisted that I
tramp miles with him round his fences
"It's all right, mum — I'm jist makin' charcoal for dad's car.”
while he pointed with pride to the work
he had put into the place. He was par-
ticularly proud of some big corner
strainers on a pretty steep slope, and
sweated like blazes in the boiling sun
showing me just how he’d put them in.
But the whole place was badly in need
of repair, and he must have noticed me
looking at it. “I can never git time to
fix me fences,” he complained. “I’ve got
too much flamin’ cookin’ to do.” His
further references to cookin’ and the
inroads it made into his time had me
puzzled till he dragged me back to his
humpy for a snack. I got through a
powder-loaf and some tea, and thought
I’d done pretty well, but the old boy was
upset because I didn’t eat much. He
polished off two powder-loaves, half a
dozen scones, what was left of a damper
(most of it), four cups of tea and a few
mugs of water. And that was only after-
noon tea!
* * * *
“Splodger”: Once I saw cattle in the
Charters Towers (Q.) district perishing
for a drink while up to their waists in
water and with a full trough before them.
The anomaly was explained by a leak
in the valve from the receiving tank
to the troughs which, spreading widely,
had converted the ground which was
churned up by the cattle’s hooves into a
“gluepot” bog into which the beasts sank
to their bellies. The stuff they wallowed
in was undrinkable mud, and they
couldn’t reach over the top of the trough
to get at the water in it.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: “Hungry George,” the
butcher, was a noted hard dealer, but in
bargaining with Sandy for a month-old
bull calf he struck an opponent worthy
of his steel. For over an hour the tide
of battle ebbed and flowed between
7s. 6d. and five bob. At last they com-
promised at 6s. 3d. Following his usual
custom, the butcher paid spot cash, got
his receipt and departed, promising to
call for the calf within a few days. Also
in keeping with his habit, a couple of
months passed before he called for his
purchase. Meanwhile the beast had
grown and prospered—at Sandy’s ex-
pense. But the canny Scot had a trump
up his sleeve. “You’ll have to catch
him and put him over the fence —I’ve
lost the key of the padlock,” he informed
the pointer. After an hour’s chase the
exhausted butcher tied the captured
bovine to the gate and went after Sandy
for assistance. “What! Help you lift
a month-old calf over a fence? That’d
be encouraging laziness,” declared Sandy.
“Month-old be hanged! That calf’s nearer
three months,” Hungry George flared back.
“Right,” snapped the Scot; “and there’s
two months’ agistment to pay for before
you get him over the fence.” Beaten
for the first time in his life, the butcher
capitulated ; but he was a savage man
as he watched Sandy unlock the gate.
* * * *
“Vet Sci”: That’s quite right about
the dog and the ham (B. 17/7/’4O). I
once had a little Jerusalem-Aberdeen
terrier which used to keep all the t.p.
collectors off my premises. I gave it a
scrap of ham one day, and a complete
blackout ensued. When he came to
“Izzy” had forgotten all about his duties,
and actually became so completely in-
sensitive to the approach of account-
fanciers that I had to fold my (time-pay-
ment) tent and, like the Arabs, silently
steal some other way.
* * # *
“Bowen”: “These practical jokers
sometimes come a gutser,” said old Steve.
“Durin’ the big flood out Wanga way
a mob of us was camped on a hill out of
high-water reach. One o’ the coves
there wasn’t above slippin’ a snake in
yer blankets or fillin’ yer socks with tea-
leaves. He’d cut the front right outa the
only shirt one young bloke had. When
he goes to put it on to go into the town-
ship to see his tart, all yer can see is a
fine mass of hair under his tie. He don’t
say anything, but next time we’re down
swimmin’ in the nood the shirtless cove
bets the joker who done it that he
couldn’t cut a log in two blindfolded.
The practical joker thinks he’s on a soda,
of course, and has him on. We showed
him the mark and gave him an axe. He
didn’t seem to be too pleased when later
on he takes a gink to see how he’s goin’
and finds his only pair of strides in
the scarf cut to pieces.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Australia is a continent
with an oddly smooth outline, except in
one place—the extreme north of West-
ralia. Here, over a section of 500
miles or so, is a gouged-out coast that
vies with Norway—King Sound, Collier
Bay, Camden Sound, York Sound, Ad-
miralty Gulf, Vansittart Bay, Napier
Broome Bay, to mention a few of the
larger inlets. And islands by the hun-
dreds ; some sandy and barren, others
lushly bushed and beautiful. And through
all this maze roars the tide, gathering
its 30ft. rise and fall, twice in every
24 hours, with all the noise, turmoil and
watery confusion of some vast reservoir
broken from its bonds and rushing to
the sea. Scooped out from the shores
of the larger bays are myriad minor
inlets into some of which even yet no
white man’s boat has penetrated. The
skipper put over the helm of our lugger
and let her run with a branch of the
tide rip. Into a half-mile-wide channel
we rushed, shattered cliffs rising in tiers
a hundred, two hundred feet on both
sides. Twice the lugger was caught and
whirled right around by a whirlpool
eddying round some pinnacle deep under-
neath. A mile or so and we suddenly
escaped the grip of the rip and floated
serene on a perfect landlocked bay.
The water deep and blue around en-
chanted fairy islets. All around were
the shattered cliffs, with, to the north-
east, a light silvery curtain where a sum-
mer stream fell 30ft. to a pool beneath.
Mangroves, turtle and crocodile were
there. Because of the last we didn’t put
over the diver, though shell was on the
sea floor.
* * * *
“S.V.”: The dog’s devotion to man is
a recurring theme, but a youth named
Charles Elliott, of Rathsear East (Vic.),
has reversed the adage by showing extra-
ordinary devotion to a dog. The animal
fell down a disused mining shaft when
he was on a rabbiting expedition and he
was terribly perturbed. For three days
he called at the shaft, and on the third
heard the bark of his friend. Townsfolk
tried to deter him from the rescue, as the
shaft was 100 ft. deep, had no windlass
and had a dangerous underlay. He got
sufficient rope knotted together, got his
family to lay on to the end, descended
and brought the partly paralysed creature
to the upper air.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Fish was a rare and
much appreciated item on the homestead
menu, and when ojd Jacky brought along
a fine barramundi, nicely cleaned and
scaled, Mrs. Brandingiron went to special
pains in telling Phoebe just how she
wished to be cooked and served. That
dusky damsel listened patiently until her
mistress paused at the door, recalling a
detail which she had overlooked. “And
don’t forget to wash it carefully, Phoebe,
before you put it on to bake.” As her
mistress’s footsteps passed down the ver-
andah Phoebe relieved her feelings by mut-
tering to Peter through the window as he
stacked the firewood: “That missus too
much cranky! Washum pfis! That
pfeller pfis ’im live along water ever since
’e lil’ pfeller piccaninny washum all time.'
And the barramundi went unwashed to
its baking dish.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: The only birds’ nest pro-
tected by a special and individual Act
of an Australian Parliament is located
in the world’s smallest Parliamentarily-
dedicated reserve. The birds are ospreys
—fish-hawks to coast-dwellers, Pandion
haiicetus to ornithologists; the locality
and Parliament Westralian. The reserve,
a single rock, is in the cave district near
Perth. It is under the official protection
of the Cave Warden, a sonorous and in-
triguing title worthy of Coleridge’s .de-
scription of
Where Alph, the sacred river, ran
Through caverns measureless to man
Down to a sunless sea.
But W.A. is as different from Xanadu
as its Premier is from Kubla Khan.
THUNDER-GUMS.
Lightning limns the thunder-gums,
Down the creek beside the forge,
When the rolling thunder comes
Roaring up the empty gorge.
Like grey sentinels they stand,
Tall and terrible and still.
All the ghosts of every land
Seem each trunk and branch to fill.
Do the echoes gather there
From the gorge’s rocky walls?
Do the stormclouds father there
Thunderbolts and thunder-balls?
This we know—when thunder drums
And the earth its crash awaits,
In the ghostly thunder-gums
Terror’s tongue reverberates.
Long ago, old fellows say,
Fiends of hell one night came there—
Made the long-stilled bellows play
And the smithy furnace glare,
Shaping in the thunder-gums
Something secret, something strange.
Listen how the thunder comes
Rolling, roaring down the range!
Lay your ear against a bole —
Bole or branch of any tree:
You will hear ghost thunder roll,
Like the thunder of the sea.
Can you hear? The thunder comes
Through the sunshine up the gorge—
Magic of the thunder-gums,
Grey ghost-trees beside the forge.
Dead they’ve been for many a year,
Struck by lightning, young men say;
Yet we all must lend an ear
To the tales of yesterday;
So we’ll hear the old men tell,
As the far-off thunder comes,
Flow the fiends, come up from hell,
Cursed the ghostly thunder-gums.
N.S.W.
wILL LAWSON.


“Wang”: “Talkin’ about inventshuns,”
remarked Dan, “reminds me of a bloke
I once knew who came a gutzer with
one of his own. He wus a bee-farmer,
an’ had hundreds of hives dotted all
round his place, stuck ’mongst acres of
flowers an’ trees. He wus doin’ well,
too, till he got a notion he could do
better by providin’ a new sort of honey
that would take with the chaps at the big
reservoir construction works near his
place who he used to sell a lot of his
honey to. A beer-flavored honey was
his lurk, so he gets a hogshead of beer
an’ sprayed his flowers with it. But it
didn’t work at all—neither did the bees.
They got that blown up with the hops
they just falls off the flowers an’ lies
there till they recovered. But that didn’t
stop him. He decided t’ give whisky a
try. This time he got results all right.
I’m up near his place one afternoon when
I hear a noise like a hundred airyplanes
flyin’ about. Curious, I go nearer. Then
I see the bloke an’ his missus an’ kids
streakin’ fer the house an’ bang the doors
behind ’em. An’ damn’ good reason
they had, too. Them bees was flightin’
drunk—a solid black mass scrappin’ like
hell all over the place. Two hours later
there wasn’t a live bee on the joint.
* * * *
“Sideshow Sam”: Things certainly
have changed in our business. This year
the Showmen’s Guild of Australia has
chartered two special trains from Bris-
bane to Cairns (N.Q.) and back to cover
the agricultural-show season amongst
1000 miles of coastal districts. One train
carries a full load of sideshow equipment,
ranging from marquee tents to swallow-
able swords; the other the 250 people
who operate it all. It is a jolly company,
with extraordinarily variegated interests
and accomplishments. Many have been
born and married in the business, and
wish nothing better than to die in it
without interrupting the show.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: That creeping plants
“reason things out” (B. 26/6/’4O) seems
a distinct possibility. An ivy which
covered a tree-stump in our backyard
quickly sought out and fastened to a
post erected near by. A botanist told me
he had experimented with creepers. He
erected posts, which he kept
painted from day to day.
The creepers refused the
offer. But shortly after the
paint dried out came the
tentative feelers. The insect-
catching plant of South
America will not respond if
foreign substances are
dropped into the cup-shaped
trap. Haeckel, the German
biologist, contended that
there is no form of life, vege-
table or animal, without in-
telligence. Some specimens
of deepsea vegetables are
difficult to distinguish from
a low form of animal life.
It may be, according to
Haeckel, that they are in
transition from vegetable to
animal. It would seem that
life and some form of in-
telligence are always found
together.
Skribisto”: Aboliars have been tro t
ting out their pets as the tough he-men
of the vegetable world. Well, I’ll back
the common peppercorn against all-
“Serves you right! You nearly made me spill the milk.”
comers in the Drought-Resistance Stakes.
These trees flourish on the extreme
eastern edge of the W.A. wheatbelt when
other admittedly tough varieties die off
wholesale. In other places where there
exists a cement-like conglomerate a
couple of feet under the surface, these
arboreal fighters will reach a ripe old
age while all others give up the ghost
after seven or eight years of miserable
existence. I have seen peppercorn trees
up to 40ft. in height over a hundred
miles north-east of Kalgoorlie, and even
after a two-years’ dry spell they still
retained their bright-green, glossy appear-
ance when even the surrounding mulga
looked pretty sick. The peppercorn will
thrive even in holes blasted out of the
rocklike substance frequently met with
in the wheatbelt. Another advantage
possessed by this tree is that it will re-
sist a mighty strong blow, but even when
bowled over by a “howler” it will still
continue to sprout.
* # * *
“W.P.T.”: There was a shortage of
green vegetables, so Arthur told the
young city chap who was spending a holi-
day with him to gather some stinging-
nettles to boil as a substitute for spinach.
While waiting for his host to return to
the hut after going round his traps, the
visitor decided to get the bush spinach
ready for cooking. When Arthur arrived
back he found him with a safety razor
trying to shave the fine hairs off the
nettles so that he wouldn’t get stung
when eating them.
* * * *
“Chink”: In my Melbourne garden
I saw my Irish setter poised rigidly, one
foreleg slightly raised, eyes fixed on a
tree above. She stood thus for perhaps
a minute, and then an English thrush
half fell, half fluttered down on to the
ground in front of her. By the time
I reached the scene the dog had mouthed
the bird and injured it. It was clearly
a case of hypnotism; the thrush had
been singing when the setter “fixed” it,
and, once having been caught by the
unwavering gaze, the bird remained
“fixed” until it lost control of legs and
wings.
* * * *
“Mei”: As I talked to Tom, the boun-
dary-rider, his 11-year-old son was chant-
ing with painful slowness a lesson from
his reading book. “Correspondence
school?” I asked. “Yairs ; it’s good, too.”
But as the text didn’t seem to make sense
I asked what he was reading. “Well, y’
see,” said Tom, “he’s got to read it back-
wards. The paper says ‘reverse Lesson
12,’ and that means go backwards, don’t
it?” It took all my tact to explain that
“Do ’ee think, Cap'n, I can lead Christian life on my wages?”
“Shouldn' think ’ee could lead any other, boay.”
the word was “revise” and to give its
meaning.
* * * *'
“Bull-ant Bill”: We have learned a lot
from the immigrant share-farmer and his
hardworking wife with the Zummerzet so
often in their speech. For example, that
the warts which decorate the hands of
their youngest hopeful were caused by
his disobedience in. handling one o’ the
nasty green toads in spite of maternal in-
junctions to the contrary. His stutter
was not his fault, but that of a thought-
less sister who would persist in tickling
him when he was
a wee baby. That
causes stuttering
later on. Their
clever girl’s collec-
tion of a scholar-
ship which may yet
take her to the uni-
v e r s ity probably
originated during
the year which she
spent with an aunt
married to a fisher-
man —fish feeds the
brain. When rain
is needed one can
always make sure
of it by stepping on
a spider, and if it
comes on before
seven it will clear
before eleven. At
least, such are the
invariable meteoro-
logical rules for
Zummerzet, even
if they don’t work
in these outlandish
parts. When the milking-shed was struck
by lightning he put in specially good
work at repairing and improving it, for
lightning never strikes twice in the same
place. But, all the same, they both
crossed their fingers during their first
view of the finished job. That averts all
future evil of every description.
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: I wish someone with
a really scientific mind would explain to
me the mystery of the flying-fish. I know
how he flies, having watched him many a
time. From the blue he emerges, like
an arrow shot from the bow. Fifty, 70,
even 100 feet he sails through the air.
Then, with just the touch of his tail on
the crest of a wave, he is off again for
another 50ft. No slouch at gliding is
the flying gurnet of the W.A. edge of
the Indian Ocean. But what has me
tricked is how he attainsjiis initial impetus
—how he revs, up for the flight. I know
that there’s generally a porpoise after
him, and rear lends him wings. But it
doesn’t lend any to ether potential por-
poise fodder, however desperately they
may try to escape.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: When young Bill an-
nounced his intention of getting a job on
a farm old Dan grew thoughtful. “It’s
not a bad life when you know the ropes.
The way I used ter go about it was this:
I’d drive up to a farm in me spring dray
with a fine-looking prad in the shafts and
me sheep-dorg sitting at me feet. ‘G’day,’
I’d say to the cocky ; ‘l’m looking fer a
job, but I like to find a place where a
good marYcan stop fer a few years, and
I want to work on a place that’s run
properly. Seeing how neatly you’ve got
your place laid out made me turn in off
the road to see if you wanted a man.’
That’d usually get him. If he wanted help
I’d stay for a day or so, telling him I
wanted to see if we could hit it off, but
what I’d really be doing was to sum up
his missus and see who really was boss
on the place. If she was, that was the
stone end of it. I’d never work on a
place where the woman had the egg
and cream money ; it meant that she’d
scowl if you had a coupla eggs for break-
fast or put cream on your porridge. I’d
also find out how long the blokes who’d
been there before me had stopped, but
I’d never tell ’em that I’d struck crook
bosses meself in the past —I’d always say
that we got on real well. You do what
I did and you’ll be like I was —have a
place of y’r own in a few years.”
* * * *
“Flight”: Often in western Queens-
land homesteads when there’s a hawk
flying overhead, I have noticed that fel-
low’s shadow cast under the, roof of the
verandah, out near the edge. It had me
puzzled for years. Obviously the darned
shadow could not go through the iron ;
but the thing was there just the same.
Then I solved it. The sun was throwing
a glaring reflection from the gutter up
under the eaves. The hawk passed over,
throwing his shadow in the gutter; then
that black shape was reflected as in a
camera obscura on the iron above the
gutter, inside the verandah and in the
shadow of the roof. Q.E.D.
OVER IN MACASSAR.
Witchery and Woman! Who the devil cares
If tomorrow’s market shows a slump in shares?
Let the price of rubber, let the price of tin
Rise —or fall to zero! But the price of sin!
Si-Alang might know it, Si-Alang could say,
Over in Macassar on a later day.
Witchery and Woman! List to my advice!
When the moon is shining over Paradise,
Do not leave your deckchair for a cabin, dear!
Native stewards chatter, native ayahs hear,
Si-Alang is stealthy, Si-Alang is wise,
Si-Alang is watching with his beady eyes.
For the errant lady—here is counsel more—
Be not seen together when you go ashore;
Never take a gharry to a cheap hotel!
Si-Alang is watching, Si-Alang might tell.
Si-Alang’s a Dyak, and his cousins go
Hunting heads for trophies down in Borneo.
To the man a postscript—when the news is
black,
Do not take your liquor lying on your back,
Getting jungle fever, going off your block
Like a crazy coolie maddened for amok!
Think about your mother! Switch your mind
afar!
Take a spot of quinine! Smash the whisky jar!
Witchery and Woman! South from Celebes
Someone found a serpent sitting on his knees:
“Poison counters poison,” said the sly Malay;
“Cholera is sudden —will the Master pay?”
Haunted by a phantom ere the coming rains,
Someone driven crazy pistols out his brains.
Over in Macassar Si-Alang has felt
Many moons the money sewn inside his belt.
Si-Alang is dreaming as the smoke-rings curl
Of his native village and a Dyak girl . . .
When the monsoon changes, when the fair
winds blow,
Nor’ward from Macassar Si-Alang will go!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS Of HUMAN FRAILTY
£ecS?or TrSf«PW* to become jour
experience, knowledge, care and*trust. iespousiblllty wluch demands
which TT' App ?r nt as yonr Executor
true servant mXTwASS Tf, 55 years : llas bee » «
the man-on-the-land. P ersonj l friend of the property-owner and
?bll„rk„ o oWge'X a t r foTSt’er 'S'iJ'bc ?W“ “t" 1 >"
confidence. ‘ iertei mil he tieated in the strictest
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
The Symbol of
Security !
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon
Chairman) : Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B E Mir
A. E. Heatli, C.M.G. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
K.B.E. (Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (Vice-
; James Kidd; Hon. Colin A. Sinclair, M.L.A.;
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of oil Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Meggitt, Ltd.
t Dividends
Pref.*
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 31,628 4000 6f p.c. = 22,506 90,263
1931.. 617 4000 l| „ „ 6,138 99,784
1932.. 7,623 3400 2i „ „ 8,184 103,745
1933.. 25,968 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 97,245
1934.. 29,078 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 87,635
1935.. 30,354 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 76,749
1936. . 43,479 3400 8A „ „ 27,826 64,496
1937.. 45,020 4000 10 32,737 56,213
1938.. 46,464 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 46,486
1939.. 45,907 4000 10 ~ „ 32,737 37,316
1940.. 40,821 4000 10 „ ~ 32,737 33,232
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October 1, 1931^
With factories at Sydney, Melbourne and
Port Adelaide, this co. is the biggest
manufacturer of linseed cake and oil in
Australia. Earnings over the last five
years reflect results of the board’s far-
sighted policy, the foundations of which
were laid about a dozen years ago. The
problem was to find a market for the oil,
a ton of which results from every two
tons of cake produced. It was to help
overcome the difficulties thus created that
the late chairman, S. W. Phillips (he died
last .year, and his place at the head of the
board table has been taken by Alfred
Wunderlich), induced Michael Nairn and
Co., the Scottish lino, people, to set up
here, and then made arrangements with
Blundell Spence, of Hull (Eng.), to use
that co.’s trade-marks.
Meanwhile, attention, previously
centred largely upon pastoral areas, to
the benefit of growers’ wool, mutton and
beef production, was turned to the dairy-
ing districts, where the demand for lin-
seed cake, which increases the supply of
milk and enriches the butterfats, ex-
panded rapidly. By careful planning,
combined with diligent attention to grow-
ing economic needs and a campaign to
educate buyers, the board appears to
have solved what looked like a very per-
plexing problem a dozen years back. As
prices firmed and the exchange question
straightened itself out —the co. buys its
chief raw material (linseed) from India
and S. America—conditions in the pas-
toral, dairying, paint and lino, industries
also improved. Thus Meggitt’s figures
have continued to advance, enabling
the co. to reduce its selling prices,
lift its div. to 10 p.c. and maintain it at
that level for the last four years.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts conditions were mixed.
Demand, especially in the paint and lino,
businesses, tended to ease toward the
close of accounts, and costs continued to
climb. After making a heavier allow-
ance for taxation and setting aside
£12,172 (up £1324) for depreciation,
the net result was £5086 lighter at
£40,821, which was enough to pay the 10
p.c. prefs. their full contract rate and
show 1 I*2 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 12.8, 13 and 12.5 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. That was after
allocation of £5OOO to the staff fund, as
against £3OOO in 1939.
To guard against the possibility of in-
terruption to overseas shipping, and
therefore to supplies of raw material, the
co. built up its stock of linseed. Con-
sider these figures:
_ , 1936. 1938. 1939. 1940
Pmd capital.. £367,369 £367,369' £367,369 £367,369
Liabilities .. 142,076 109,512 78,022 309.691
Premises and
plant .. 165,744 195,893 215,878 232 350
Stocks .. 140,558 155,726 134,546 256,496
Rook debts .. 62,251 50,530 57,300 88 897
Cash, etc. .. 132,626 101,238 83,356 168,554
nion(f'° ° f £231 ’ 669 in liabilities,
£-30,749 was m respect of drafts against
linseed. Stocks increased by £121,950,
cash, etc., by £85,198 and debtors’ bal-
ances by £31,597, while £16,472 more was
spent upon fixed assets than was written
off. The year’s improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£204,256) was
£7076.
Uncertain of the future, and mindful
of the fact that the co.’s supply of raw
materials is drawn mainly from overseas,
the market prices the f.-p. pound ords.
at 275. 6d. against 30s. a year ago. At the
lower figure the return is 7.3 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. have not
changed hand for some time. At 31s. 3d.
or thereabouts, they last sold to yield 6.4
p.c. The net tangible cover is £l6 14s.
Id. first and £l5 14s. Id. second prefs. and
18s. per pound of ord. capital.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
. . To Re— Re—
• Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 9,528 7£ p.c.= 11,250 167,729
• 8,560 5 „ „ 7,500 1,060 168,789
17,051 6„ „ 9,000 8,051 176,840
1933.. 13,840 7 „ ~ 10,500 3,340 180,180
1934.. 28,071 8„ ~ 12,000 16,071 196.251
Reserves disappear, £107,677 .. 88,574
1935.. 13.533 9 p.c. = 13,500 33 88,607
1936.. 18,196 9„ „ 13,500 4,696 93,303
June.
1937*. 7,660 10 „ „ 7,500 160 93,463
1938.. 15,037 12if, „ 18,750 89,750
1939.. 15,023 10 „ ~ 15,000 23 89,773
1940.. 15,109 10 ~ „ 15,000 109 89,882
* Six months.
t Including 21 p.c. sesquicentenary bonus.
From the investor’s point of view the
scrip of this N. S. Wales coastal shipping
business is more attractive as a holding
proposition than as a short-term, or
speculative, investment The co. its
vessels ply daily between Sydney and
Newcastle, and have done so since 1891,
when the old Hunter River and New-
castle S.S. cos. were welded into the
present organisation —is in a strong
position, financially and otherwise, and
shareholders have had a long run of
satisfactory divs., sweetened with £50,000
of bonus scrip (one for two) in 1920.
For the dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1929 a steady 10 p.c. was
paid. Slump and sickness in the coal
trade brought the rate down to 5 p.c.
in 1931, but it had climbed to 10 p.c.
again in 1937, and, with 2\ p.c. added in
the following year to celebrate Australia’s
sesquicentenary, has remained steady
since. Meanwhile, the quickening of out-
put by B.H.P. and others in the heavy
industries has increased the volume of
cargoes offering, thus offsetting the effects
of changed business conditions on the
coalfields and of the effects of rail, motor
and air transport, which have left the
co. no passenger traffic worth mention-
ing.
The new 1430-ton cargo vessel Karuah
took up the running in April last,
and is giving every satisfaction, the
board says. A dry spell in the Hunter
valley and the March-May strike
on the coalfields affected earnings for a
while, and then came the change in con-
ditions due to war activities, which have
probably increased the length of the
co.’s manifests. Altogether the co.
appears to .have picked up more than it
lost. After making a bigger but un-
specified allowance for taxation and
setting aside £11,360 (down £1842)
for depreciation, the declared net result-
was £B6 better at £15,109, equal to a
shade over 10 p.c. on capital, compared
with 10, 10, 5.1 (half-year), 12.1 and 9 p.c.
back to 1935. The div. was kept at
10 p.c., and the £lO9 that remained lifted
visible reserves to £89,882, or 11s. lid.
per share.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:—•
r~ —December >, )-» June ,
„ , 1933. 1936. 1939. 1940.
Capital . . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 9,895 19,673 16,907 24,114
Ship property 187,242 99.577 122,869 207,695
r reeholcls, etc. 15,279 1,650 3,963 2 03‘>
Plant, stores, etc. 9,287 5,209 8,587 9 887
Book debts .. 13,509 20,591 16,414 25 311
Consols, cash,
et ? 120,008 142,700 112,347 26,771
Chief movements in last year’s figures
were connected with the purchase of the
new cargo vessel already referred to.
The net growth in the book value of
shipping property was £84,826, and Con-
sols, cash, etc., were reduced by £85,576.
The net reduction in the more or less
liquid surplus (£32,679) was £82,430. As
usual, the fleet is reported in good order
and condition, and much depends upon
that.
Prospects of the 10 p.c. div. being
maintained during the current term
appear to be bright enough, despite the
continued upward trend of costs, in-
cluding taxation. Partly because of the
latter the market now prices the pound
shares at 40s. as against 445. a year ago.
Immediate return at 40s. is 5 p.c.
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
I Dividends ~
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. • serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 20,123 26 10 p.c. = 15,647 4,450 173,035
1931.. 16,012 26 10 „ „ 15.647 339 173,374
Tax reserve drawn on, £2729.. .. 170,646
1932.. 9,737 26 8 p.c. = 12,518 167,838
Tax reserve drawn on, £1666 .. 166,172
1933.. 6,799 13 8 p.c. = 6,259 527 166,699
Tax reserve drawn on, £1249 .. .. 165,450
1934.. 10,123 8 p.c. = 6,259 3,864 169,314
Reserves capitalised, £26,080.. .. 143,234
Tax reserve drawn on, £1603 .. 141,’571
1935.. 13,789 8 p.c. = 8,345 5,444 147,015
Tax reserve drawn on, £2490 .. 144,525
1936. .18,333 8 p.c. = 8,345 9,988 154,513
Loss liquidation subsidiaries, £1993.. 152,520
Tax reserve drawn on, £2918 . . 149,602
1937.. 21,635 10 p.c. = 10,432 11,203 160,805
Tax reserve drawn on, £3BBB .. 156,917
1938.. 26,348 10 p.c. = 10,432 15,916 172,833
Reserves capitalised, £34,773 .. 138,060
Tax reserve drawn on, £5738 .. 132,322
1939.. 26,559 10 p.c. = 13,909 12,650 144,972
1940.. 12,585 8 „ „ 11,127 1,458 146,430
It was the General Motors agency, re-
linquished in 1930, that enabled this
Queenslander to put on most fat. But
the management has since done very well
out of its distributing franchise for
Morris products in Queensland and the
N.S.W. Northern Rivers, and there have
been two gift issues since slump—£26,oBo
in 1934 and £34,773 in 1939, both one
for three. A year or so back the Stude-
baker was added to the list of agencies,
while ElectrlCE refrigeration and Philco
radio also contribute their quota to
profits and impart a spread to turnover.
Federal bungling on the petrol-ration-
ing question is blamed for last term’s
profit-slip. Chairman Jas. Howard sum-
marises the position this way:
Satisfactory turnover was obtained in the
first half-year, but the indefinite policy of
the Federal Government in regard to
petrol-rationing has had a paralysing effect
on the motor industry, and since the
announcement of the proposed drastic
rationing sales have been practically at a
standstill. Unless the scheme is modified
[as appears likely to be done] we shall have
to dispense' with the services of a number
of employees.
War has also had its effect on refrigera-
tion and wireless business, but sales here
were “satisfactory” last term, and are
expected to keep so.
When depression smote the co., the
board, which for many years had laid
by more than was distributed, was able
to repay the handful of pref. and half
the ord. capital in 1933, and, thanks to
a fine wad of investments outside the
business, the div. never went below 8 p.c.
In the event of prolonged hostilities,
something of the kind may occur again
as stocks and debtors are worked down,
unless employment can be found for the
funds in other directions.
Including undisclosed receipts from in-
vestments, etc., the contraction in last
term’s gross earnings (£95,947) was
£23,235. Allowing for the tax bill
(£6171), now charged direct to p. and 1.
instead of to the reserve for that pur-
pose, exes, were dragged back £14,999.
That left the net result £8236 lower at
£12,585, or 9 p.c. on capital, compared
with 14.9 p.c. in 1939, and the div. was
cut from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c. Shareholders
can rely on the management’s word that
“ample provision has been made for bad
debts and contingencies.”
Trade slackness is seen in the accumu-
lation of stocks (up £28,377) and the re-
duction of £27,998 in the omnibus item
book debts, investments, etc.:
1932. 1935. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £156.905 £104,320 £1.39,093 £139,093
Sundry creditors 2,557 36,538 44,867 39,868
Freehold ... 66.516 66,516 69,610 69 969
Plant, etc. .. 182 634 1.392 F 754
Stocks.. .. 61,178 76,870 105,247
Book debts, in-
vestments, etc. 202,236 163,960 188,456 158 458
Shares in sub-
sidiaries .. 54,517 3,390 _
Cash, etc. . . 16,383 540 6,514 1,092
Just what proportion of the £158,458
above is represented by shareholdings
and what proportion by h.-p. paper would
be interesting to know. Stock" in at or
under cost, may prove a source of concern
to the management, but there appears
plenty of shock-absorbing capacity in the
figures as a whole. When the books
closed more or less liquids exceeded the
debt by £224,929, down £2044.
The pound shares, up to 365. last year,
had one of their infrequent sellers recently
at 305., which would yield 5.3 p.c. from
8 p.c. divs. To maintain that rate capital
and the £146,430 of reserves combined
need net only 3.9 p.c., but immediate
prospects are that the co. will have to live
mainly on investment income. Net
tangible backing per share is 425. Id.
Carrier Air Conditioning, Ltd.
Net To Re- Nominal
Dec., Loss. Dividend. serves. Reserves.*
£ it £
1937. . 24,487 Nil 40,202
Written off, £26,519 .. .. 13,683
1938.. 5,646 Nil 8,037
Added share premiums, £195 .. 8,232
Profit.
1939.. 8,694 5 p.c. = 6,301 2,393 10,625
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £16,237 at Dec. 31, ’39.
It has been a disappointment to share-
holders. The co. was formed in 1931
to take over rights in Australia and
Maoriland to patents of one of the lead-
ing air-conditioning organisations in the
U.S.A. The public became interested
about the middle of 1937, when the scrip
was listed, following an issue of 70,000
new £1 shares at a premium of 11s. each.
This fresh capital was wanted partly to
enable the co. to set up a manufacturing
unit locally, and thus overcome difficul-
ties created by new import restrictions.
On the strength of a prospectus which,
among other things, spoke of net earn-
ings of not less than 15 p.c. p.a., early
sales of the pound shares were recorded
at 335. 3d.
But things went all awry, and instead
of profits a trading loss of. £24,487 showed
up for 1937, followed by another of
£5646 for 1938, when £26,519 was also
written off the book value of assets on
account of obsolete and unsaleable stock,
customers’ duty deposits found to be
irrecoverable, replacement and service
costs incurred in 1938 but effected in
respect of installations completed before
the end of 1937, debts found to be irre-
coverable and other small items.
Last year the business held well, and,
with the deadwood out of the accounts,
a better showing was made, despite diffi-
culties during the last quarter, owing to
war conditions. Gross earnings (£28,289)
were up £7856, and exes. (£18,420) were
pulled back £6029, leaving a profit of
£9869 as against a loss of £4016 for the
previous term. The subsidiaries made
a loss of £1175 (down £455), reducing
the combined net result to a profit of
£8694, an improvement of £14,340 on
the previous year’s operations. The
£8694 was equal to 6.9 p.c. on capital,
and shareholders were handed 5 p.c.;
the £2393 that remained lifted nominal
reserves to £10,625, which was subject to
£16,237 of goodwill, etc., when the books
closed.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. .. £125,465 £126,007 £126,007
Sundry creditors . . 23,942 24,028 23,399
Outstanding charges . . 3,253 6,219 3.375
Freehold, plant, etc. . . 20,665 37,192 34,814
bt ° cks 54,038 46,753 43,123
Debtors 88,738 59,654 65,822
12,674 652 4,330
Deferred” assets . . x. 621 1.887 1,237
Suspense account . . 125 3,152 5,381
Much, of course, depends upon the
soundness of debtors’ balances and upon
the stocks item. Including these, more
or less liquids exceeded outside liabili-
ties by £86,501 when the books closed,
an improvement of £9689 over the
twelvemonth.
As for the current term, the co. had
“valuable contracts” in hand, unprofit-
able branches have been closed by sub-
sidiaries, and the Melbourne and Bris-
bane sections are now reported to be
operating on a profitable basis. But costs
continue on the up-grade, and exchange
restrictions must affect the co.’s future
operations, the board says. Because of
this, the possibilities of further expanding
the co.’s local manufacturing activities
are being examined.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the pound shares, covered by net
tangibles with a book value of 19s. Id.,
at Bs. At this price the return would be
12.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.


.
“This bool; of photographs.. .should be on the shelves of all
Australian golfers, both for its instructional value and as a
very faithful record of the methods of our greatest player
—From Eric Apperly’s introduction to the book.
JIM FERRIER’S “GOLF SHOTS”
contains 118 photographs of the champion in action, selected by Terrier from a special
slow-motion film made of him before his departure for America.
The essential points of each shot are illustrated and explained in a way that puts
80 off the stick within the reach of everyone.
The size of the page is 10 x 12 inches.
Price 3'
(postage 3d. extra).
From the publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BOX 252188.
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW
BALANCE SHEET OF
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria under the ”Companies Act 1890”)
AT 30th JUNE, 1940.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £5,000,000 (Divided into 300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each and 4,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each).
T J , CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Issued Capital—
. Ill’ll 5 Preference Shares paid in cash to £lO per share
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares paid in cash to 10s. per share
4,211,735
Reserve (used in the business of the Bank)
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in the business of
the Bank)
Profit and Loss Account
Notes in Circulation
Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including provisions
Contingencies
Government Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest (and Interest accrued)
Other Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest (and Interest accrued)
Balances Due to Other Banks
Contingent Liabilities (as per contra in regard to obligations of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc.)
£6,603,403 1 8
6,184 0 0
1,463,054 8 ( 4
33,559,154 6 9
17,443 13 5
1,619,609 2 11
£43,268,848 13 1
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New
Zealand Notes, Cash at Bankers and at Short Call in
London
Short-dated Commonwealth and New Zealand Treasury
Bills
British, Australian and New Zealand Government, Muni-
cipal and Other Public Stocks and Debentures (at or
under market value)
Bills Receivable in London and Balance of Remittances
and Drafts in Transit
Notes and Bills of Other Banks
Balances Due from Other Banks
Stamps .. ..
£3,548,461 5 4
1,370,000 0 0
6,925,858 13 4
1,590,160 6 4
462,266 18 10
177,854 6 10
19,021 17 2
Bills Discounted and Other Advances (less provision for Bad or Doubtful
Debts)
Bank Premises, Fixtures, Fittings and Furniture (at cost less amounts
written off) ..
Other interest in Land (at cost less amounts written off)
Contingent Assets comprising Liability of Customers and Others on Letters of
Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc., as per contra
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency)
£14,093,623 7 10
26,274,023 2 4
1,280,253 0 0
1,340 0 0
1,619,609 2 11
£43,268,848 13 1
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries and Allowances —Head Office and 553 Branches and Agencies
(including Directors’ Fees, £2530 16s. 6d.) .. •
„ Rent and Other Charges
„ Net Profit fof the Year
To Reduce Bank Premises
„ Interim Dividend at 4 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares paid
February, 1940
„ Interim Dividend at 6 2-3 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares paid
February, 1940 ....
„ Balance
By Amount of Profits, after deducting Interest Accrued on Deposits and
Rebate on Bills Current, and after making a transfer to Provisions for
Contingencies, out of which account an amount has been provided for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, fluctuations in investments, and other contin-
gencies, and after making provision for Income, Land and other taxes .. £1,118,202 3 6
£1,118,202 3 6
By Balance from last Year .. .. .. £115,910 1 3
„ Net Profit for the Year .. .. 264,156 13 9
£380,066 15 0
£236,053 l”!
By Balance
I, Percy Frederick Graham Gordon, General Manager of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve, the Exchange Adjustment
Reserve, and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit and Loss of the Bank are, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true in every particular.
.... Names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the Company at the date of the Statement: John Langley Webb, Shipowner, Melbourne; Achalen
Woolliscroft Palfreyman, Manufacturer, Melbourne; William Howell Swanton, Merchant, Melbourne; Arthur Sydney Baillieu, Investor, Melbourne; William James Byrne, Solicitor,
Me hoiirnp * ’
r i , An , d 1 . make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making
a talse declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury. ’
Befor^me—R e L°G ne McCOY tate ° f Victoria > this 26th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and forty. P F G GORDON
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1928.”
We > J°hn Langley Webb, Arthur Sydney Baillieu and Achalen Woolliscroft Palfreyman, of Melbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do
lift o' ce rtuy that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true and correct and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs, and
tnat the Statement of Profit and Loss exhibits a true and correct view of the results of the business of the Company for the year.
_ , On behalf of the Board.
Dated at Melbourne this 26th day of July, 1940. JOHN L. WEBB,
ARTHUR S. BAILLIEU,
A. W. PALFREYMAN.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
r p Ne L tv •, , To Re ~
£ £ £ £
1930.. 23,944 9 p.c. = 18,900 5,044 60,155
1932.': sill 3'”” So 2,’505 “'is?
1933.. 13.522 5 „ „ 10,500 3’,022 68', 203
1934.. 18,757 74 ~ ~ 15,750 3,007 71,210
Reserves capitalised, £42,001 29 209
Unexplained addition, £750 !! 29,95»
1935.. 22,152 7) p.c. =18,901 3.251 33,210
1936.. 25,143 8 „ ~20.161 4,982 38,192
1937. . 33,496 io „ „ 25,201 8,295 46.487
oH*? 10 ” ” 25,201 fi ' r,si M f ' ls
1940.. 21,920 8 ” ” 2o!i6i 1,759 57,97 i
A .. u , ’ ’
A w fflt b u ard itse JJ Pf s The year was
i 1 °i ie ' & u S c . ontlnuec * to llse --
a . e ( . * V ° t , business contracted.”
, lat notwithstanding the higher level
of most primary producers'mcome-the
Metropole is a rendezvous for the
man on the land when in Sydney—fol-
ehasef at t* s F eason and . P ur '
y satisfactory prices.
City payrolls lengthened, too, but the
financing of our war effort calls for
exercise of discretion in the matter of
spending these days. With drought over
the greater portion. of N.S.W., the un-
satisfactory position of the wheatgrower,
and abandonment of the Show, it sug-
gests that blanks in the visitors’ book may
become more numerous in the current
term -
Meantime, however, the co. continues
to do best of the Sydney pubs After
writing the usual £3OOO off fixed assets,
the dent in last term’s net earnings was
£3955. The £21,920 represented 8 7 p c
on capital, compared with 10 2 12 2 13 3
9.9 and 8.7 p.c. for the five’ preceding
years. Another point was chipped off
the div., reducing it to 8 p c
With no interest bill to weigh on earn-
ings and a handy accumulation of cash,
he able management can face a smoky
inure, with a certain amount of confi-
ence:—
n .. .. . „ 1931 - 1937 - i 93 - 1940.
Paid capital.. £210,007 £252,010 £.252, 010 £252,010
Liabilities .. 30,331 n,5e4 9,510 6,506
Pixed assets ~ 311,317 29i ; 3i7 280,317 282 317
stock.. .. 3,770 2,’544 “ 5,736
00k debts, cash,
... ’ 03,608 51/J<2
All assets are again reported “maintained
in every respect,” and that means a lot
in the bed, tucker and beer business,
1 he practice for years past of charging all
renewals, renovations, etc., against earn-
ings implies that the board could prob-
ably show a little more head on the profit
figures, if pushed.
At 245., against 3 Is. 6d. a year ago, the
pound shares, covered by 245. 7d. in net
tangibles, yield just under 6.7 p.c. if the
8 p.c. div. continues. Of the £252,010
pyinitnl fl 17 001 bnnus
01 < - d P udl > £JI/,UUI Comprises DOnUS
scrip, the last £42,001 handed out a half-
dozen vears back Prior to 1929 there
/ . , ,j-7 J ° -
were also special cash distributions aggre-
gating £67,500, in addition to a long
rim °f 10 P*c. dlvs - Two or three years
ago that rate looked like becoming the
regular thing again, despite the hole in
bar takings the Harbor Bridge has
caused, but first reduced export income
and now war have quashed those hopes
for the time being.
Kramat Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Despite lifting of the international
quota to 130 p.c. for 12 months—it
means a domestic release of 100 p.c. for
these Malayan producers—tin scrip con-
tinues to be lethargic on Australian
’Changes. From an average of 111.45
during December’s wave of speculation,
the Sydney tin-share index had slackened
-to 79.89 last week—a fall of 28 p.c. The
changed attitude of the market reflects
investors’ consideration of the short- as
well as long-term political and economic
Problems looming,
Kramat js one of the golden-haired
° ne * ?{. th . e Ang I l °:? ner \ tal * eam -
? tarted dl SS lr lS in 1930 > and, after a small
loss for the first term ’ shareholders have
avera g ed 20 - 2 P- c - smce > notwithstanding
out Put contr °l- At the same time, thanks
ma ! nly a conservative depreciation
policy, the board has been able to accu-
mulate surplus liquids of £157,111 stg.
Biff overmuch attention should not be
paid to past results, the richest portion
Q f the Kinta property having been worked
out. Still, with a nominal assessment of
1140 tons t.o. annually, and one of the
largest and most economical dredges in
w 5 th _ hp PYnprtpf i t _
the co, can be expected to render
a satisfactory account of itself in the
ordinary course of events. At the end
of March dredging reserves were esti-
mated at 28,400,000 c.y., averaging
0.461 b. t. 0., equal to 10 years’ work at
last term’s rate of turnover. Also,
through Anglo-Malayan Development,
“satisfactory arrangements” have been
concluded for then working Banir
Rubber Estates’ Perak property on a


Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
®JU' (Eommmtal Hanking (Enntpang
of i§>yilney ffitmitfin
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Board of Directors:
EDWARD B. KNOX, Chairman. ORWELL PHILLIPS, Deputy Chairman.
OWEN E. FRIEND, ROBERT J. A. MASSIE, GEOFFREY F. HUGHES and
SIR DONALD C. CAMERON, K.C.M.G.
General Manager, C. DARVALL.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1940.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting
to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George Street, Sydney,
on Tuesday, 13th August, 1940.
Directors submit to the Shareholders the Balance Sheet as on 30th June, 1940, with a
‘OP? of the Auditors’ Report thereon. A copy of the Profit and Loss Account is annexed.
The profit for the year after payment of all expenses of
management and taxes, and provision for rebate on
current bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits,
and for bad and doubtful debts and other con-
tingencies, amounts to £389,492 5 6
To which is added the amount brought forward from
30th June, 1939 129,199 4 3
making a total of £518,691 9 9
from which the Directors have made the following appro-
priations :
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st
December, 1939, at the rate of 7% per cent, per
annum paid on 26th January, 1940 £177,712 19 4
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account amount
written off for depreciation 35,000 0 0 212,712 19 4
leaving a balance of £305,978 10 5
and now recommend—
Payment of a dividend for the half-year ended 30th
June, 1940, at the rate of 7% per cent, per annum £177,712 19 5
leaving the amount to be carried forward 128,265 11 0 305,978 10 5
The Directors desire to place on record their appreciation of the valuable services rendered
to the Bank by Sir William Vicars, C.8.E., who was first elected to the Board in 1924 and
who resigned in November last.
»?J erms Article 94 Mr. Geoffrey Forrest Hughes and Sir Donald Charles Cameron,
K.C.M.G., were appointed Directors to fill the vacancies caused respectively by the death of
Mr. Janies Ashton, and the resignation of Sir William Vicars. Also in terms' of Article 94,
Mr. Owen Esmond Friend was appointed an additional Director. In conformity with the
Articles, these Directors now retire but are eligible for election at the Meeting and have
given the requisite notices of candidature.
It rests also with the Meeting to appoint Auditors and fix their remuneration.
~ The Auditors, Messrs. Harington Burrough Cowper and Francis William Hixson, now
retire; Mr. Hixson, being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. Notice of intention to
nominate Mr. Cecil Howe Doyle, a former Auditor of the Company, to the office of Auditor,
At iqo given by a member to the Company, pursuant to Section 113 of the Companies
ACt, l9ou<
During the year the branches of the Bank at Murrayville and Piangil, in the State of
Victoria, were closed.
E. R. KNOX,
Chairman.
BALANCE SHEET, 30th JUNE, 1940
(including the figures of the London Branch by cable.)
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Capital—
Authorised 12,000,000 0 0
in 480,000 shares of £25 each
Issued— 379,121 shares of
£2seach. 9,478,025 0 0
Less :
Reserve
Capital of
£ 12/10/-
per share 4,739,012 10 0
Paid up .. 4,739,012 10 0
Reserve Fund
(wholly used
in the busi-
ness of the
Bank) 4,300,000 0 0
9,039,012 10 0
Notes in Circulation 13,589 10 0
Bills in Circulation 1,476,895 12 6
Deposits and other Liabilities—
including provision for con-
tingencies 55,457,470 3 6
Profit and Loss Account 305,978 10 5
£66,292,946 6 5
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
O. E. FRIEND.
Directors.
ASSETS.
£
s. d.
Coin, Bullion, Australian Notes
and Cash at Bankers .... 6,846,570 3 9
Money at Short Call 900,000 0 0
Short dated Treasury Bills of
the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia 6,100,000 0 0
Australian Government Stocks
and other Securities at or
below market value (includ-
ing £4,000 lodged as security
with Public Authorities) .. 7,499,511 17 4
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit 2,563,318 14 9
Notes and Bills of other Banks 712,223 19 1
24,621,624 14 11
Bills Discounted and other
Debts due to the Bank
after provision for ascer-
tained Bad and Doubtful
Debts 40,488,339 11 6
Bank Premises —at cost, less
amounts written off 1,182,982 0 0
£66,292,946 6 5
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared it with the books at the Head
Office and with the returns from the Branches. We have verified the Bills and counted the
Cash at the Head Office. We have obtained all the information and explanations we have
required, and in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true
and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our information
and the explanations given to us, and as shown by the books of the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company is required
to keep by law or by its Articles have been properly kept.
Sydney, 18th July, 1940.
HARINGTON B. COWPEB.
F. W. HIXSON.
Auditors.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Interim Dividend for the
half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1939, at the rate of TV2
per cent, per annum, paid
on 26th January, 1940 .... £177,712 19 4
„ Reduction of Bank Premises
Account 35,000 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt
with as follows :
To Dividend for
the half-year
ended 30th
June, 1940, at
the rate of
7y 2 per cent.
per annum .£177,712 19 5
~ Amount car-
ried forward 128,265 11 0
305,978 10 5
£518,691 9 9
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
0. E. FRIEND.
Directors.
By Amount brought forward
from 30th June, 1939 £129,199 4 3
„ Profit for the year ended
30th June, 1940, after pay-
ment of all expenses of man-
agement (Including Directors’
Pees, £3,292/11/8) and taxes
and provision for rebate on
current bills and kccrued
interest on fixed deposits, and
for bad and doubtful debts
and other contingencies ... 389,492 5 6
£518,691 9 9
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney]
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt,
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. YV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
V * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
THE
lIM ITE FI insurance
Ull I I CII COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS,
As*t. Gen. Manager.
tribute basis. Of 428 acres, this area has
been bored to contain 44,895,000 c.y. of
0.461 b. wash, so that altogether the co.
has enough ground ahead to provide 22
years’ full-time production (3,500,000 c.y.
p.a.).
Last term reaped the benefits of an in-
creased free quota 67.37 p.c. of
assessment, as against 29.62 p.c. —and an
improved price for the output, and net
earnings registered a lift of £42,297:
Year
Mar., Revenue. Outgo.* Surplus. , —Dividends— x
& £ £ • -f*
10 „ 7 (144,754 77,867 66,877 50 p.c. = 82,500
' * ’ (To reserve bucket-band, £3OOO.
, Q o R 1 81,288 39,452 41,836 25 p.c = 41,250
’’ • ’ (To reserve bucket—band, £4060.
1939.. 41.904 28,880 13,024 15 p.c. = 24,750
1940.. 115,712 60,391 65,321 25 „ ~41,250
* Includes depreciation, etc.: £32,227,1937; £7186,
1938; £5OOO, 1939 ; £15,000, 1940.
That was after allowing an extra £lO,OOO
for depreciation and depletion, and in-
creasing renewals reserve by £4140 net.
Div. was raised from 6d. to Is. 3d. per
share, calling for £41,250, and that should
be improved upon in the current term.
Here is the operating record: —•
1938. 1939. 1940.
Cubic yards .. 3,253,000 2,612,000 2,757,000
Recovery t. 0., tons 546.8 515.7 638.4
Average yield c.y.,
pound .. .. 0.38 0.44 0.52
Assay, p.c. .. 75.7 75.7 75.9
Working costs, pence *2.50 *2.91 *2.91
Net ore real’n ton £139/19/2 £125/5/3 £l5O/1/5
Singapore av. met.
tin, ton .. £219/-/- £195/1/2 £234/8/9
* Including provision for bucket-line renewal.
Exports exceeded actual production by
some 130 tons, carryover stocks being
drawn on to cover the difference. Since
the end of the year the dredge has been
in 0.61 b. wash, and that, if maintained,
will help considerably in producing the
high quotas now ruling.
At 13s. Aust. per ss. share, equivalent
to 525. per pound of capital (£165,000),
market valuation of the undertaking is
£343,000 stg. At the end of March the
dredge had been written down to £25,000.
Property and other plant appeared at
£72,211, while there were specific reserves
against fixed assets of £26,332.
Queensland’s premier manganese mine
at Mt. Miller, Gladstone (C.Q.), which
has not been worked for several decades,
is being dewatered and sampled in the
interests of B.H. Prop. Only the shallow
stopes have been sampled, but there is
reputed to be a 25ft.-wide lode of pure
manganese ore in the deeper levels. War
hunger for manganese means there is
a market for stuff of 40 p.c. metallic
content. Several other shows in the dis-
trict may be developed as accessory
deposits.
* * * *
There is a small rush on deep shafts l
at the Miclere alluvial field, 20 miles
from Clermont (C.Q.), where the Venus
has been treating wash going over loz.
gold to the yard. Three shafts have
bottomed in the vicinity of 250 ft., and
one dropped directly on the gold. Hig-
gins’s 10-head battery put through 325
tons of wash, headings and tailings, for
an average 7dwt. per ton. William’s
Fancy—one of the field’s fancy shows — :
averaged lOdwt. in a crushing of 60
tons.
* * * *
A bauxite discovery on Tambourine
Mountain, south of Brisbane, has been
announced by Chief Geologist L. C.
Ball. Samples obtained from the laterite
layers which cap the mountain in many
places carry up to 24 p.c. soluble
alumina. Deposits may be extensive, but
it appears that no investigation as to
extent or thickness will be undertaken
until a demand arises.
* * * *
During June Trekelano mine, Clon-
curry district (N.Q.), continued the
copper prop of the Chillagoe Smelters,
600 tons returning 74 tons of red metal.
Another old mine, the Hampden, turned
in 40 tons of choice ore for nine tons
metallic. Small parcels of 20 p.c. ore
continue to be picked from the big de-
posit at Mt. Oxide, but there is nothing
in sight to replace the Trekelano if it
fa!des out in the near future. Further
prospecting here will shortly be carried
out.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder, doyen of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile and distributor to date of
nearly 6| million pounds in dividends,
did well last year. In sterling bullion
sales, etc., realised £758,740. Work-
ing costs, including ore extraction
£237,664 and treatment £150,339, aggre-
gated £399,948, mine development
£67,472, London and Adelaide expenses
£12,563, depreciation £47,325 and Grundt
inquiry £6309, leaving £225,120. After
chipping off £48,209 for Australian and
£73,000 for British taxation, past earn-
ings had to be drawn on to. cover the
£156,250 distributed in four quarterly
threepenny dividends.
During the year 23,324 ft. of develop-
ment and 18,938 ft. of diamond-drilling
were done. Ore reserves— 999,9ls short
tons of positive assaying 5.6dwt., 220,468
tons broken assaying 5.3dwt., and
411,350 tons probable assaying s.2dwt.
—record an increase of 418,297 tons but
a pennyweight fall in grade. Most im-
portant factor in the reduction is exploita-
tion of lower-grade ore made possible
by the rise in the price of gold ; the life
of the mine can be expected to be ex-
tended considerably by continuance of
this policy.
In all 385,771 tons of the company’s
ore, 16,542 tons of tributors’ and 2399
tons of old mill clean-up material of
5.92dwt. average grade yielded 104,519
fine ounces of gold. Percentage recovery
was 91.5 and working costs 265. 7d. per
ton. Income from re-treatment of accu-
mulated resides sold to Golden Horse
Shoe, Ltd., on a profit-sharing basis
has been written off mine develop-
ment. Except for one sulphide tribute
that expires this year, all tribut-
ing has ceased. It is mournfully stated
that taxation imposed on the gold in-
dustry by both Commonwealth and
British Governments is bound to affect
shareholders’ pockets adversely unless
concessions which have been pressed for
are obtained.
In a recent circular the board expresses
regret that its invitation to a confab, “in
the hope that with goodwill on both sides
the quarrel could be composed,” had been
declined by the shareholders’ committee.
The reply to the Board of Trade inspec-
tor’s assertions re the prospectus reports
of three flotations —Southern Cross Gold
Development, Murchison Gold Develop-
ment and Gt. Boulder Mining and
Finance —to which Gt. Boulder lent its
name and which had been largely con-
founded by actual results, is that further
mining information than was supplied in
the prospectuses could not then have been
obtained.
* * * *
Omission of Blue Bird (W.A.) to
pay a dividend last month is due to
the fact that the cash position didn’t
warrant a distribution—considerable capi-
tal expenditure has been going on. Pro-
duction of more golden eggs is expected
to yield shareholders something more
shortly, however.
* * * *
General managers Bewick, Moreing
and Co. state that chief development in
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) last year was on
the downward continuation of the main
gold-carrying formation, further sinking
of the main shaft to an inclined depth of
5036 ft. and opening-up of No. 30 level.
Diamond-drilling at No. 28 level inter-
sected values in the South Gwalia series
of ore-shoots averaging s.7dwt. over 66in.
Two further bores disclosed 6dwt. ore
over 82in. and 4.2dwt. over 60in.; de-
velopment is now under way to confirm
these important-looking drill indications.
Ore reserves are still about six years’
mill supply, average grade 6.24dwt., down
o.l4dwt.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.D.N.: Have no specific knowledge of this
concern, but “promises” by forestry-board con-
cerns are often wishful thinking J.F.T.:
Consumers’ funds represent money and t.-p.
credits, etc., in hands of public available for
buying goods of a consumable nature — i.e.,
funds not used for investment in securities or
capital goods. Afraid the rest of your ques-
tion is beyond our resources... .L.V.: Sur-
render values, invariably meagre-looking in the
early years of a policy, differ among offices
and with the type of policy. The method of
calculation you quote is not correct. Not
only have expenses incurred with the writing,
etc., of the policy to be allowed for, but
account has also to be taken of the fact that
any time after issue an office is under a very
real liability in the event of the policy be-
coming a claim —cover which the insurer can-
not expect to have for nothing. Usual thing is
to add cash value of any bonuses to the sur-
render value.


mm
i
wn
M
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams , Cables and Wireless:
"METRO POLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“On the Pacific Clippers it takes about 50
miles to eat an egg, and lunch with coffee to
follow takes just over 100 miles.”
— ‘‘World’s News.”
That’s nothing. Many a railway
traveller has taken from Wagga to Sydney
to swallow a refreshment-room scone.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Gertie Goes Over.
The time for action had arrived!
Ever since Gertie Gay, leading light
in Snobville’s “younger
set,” had joined the
ranks of uniformed
women war-workers
she had longed for
this great moment.
Now it had come she
was fully prepared.
She would not falter.
She would shelter be-
hind no one. Her
place was in the front
rank. Others might
hang back. It was not
her way. As she
pushed forward she
heard a voice cry:
“They’re going to
shoot! ”
Stepping smartly in
front of several com-
panions, she secured
pride of place just as
the battery of “society”
press cameras went
into action.
o. w. w.
Hurricanes over the English Channel
usually cause a depression in Germany.
4* 4* 4* 4*
After all, a full-stop hasn’t so much
to skite about—it’s only a comma sitting
on its tail.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“Most of us have our secret dreams.”
— Women’s paper.
A favorite is the one when you’re a
centipede, completely shod with size
11 hobnailed boots and standing behind
all your in-laws. It’s a dream with a
tremendous kick in it.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
Some Women Always Kick.
“What do the letters S.W.A.K. really mean?”
— Correspondent, flapper mag.
At 16: Sealed With a Kiss.
At 26: Song, Women and Kegs.
At 36: Strife, Wife and Kids.
4t 46: Stenographer Warrants a Kiss.
At 56: Suspicious Wife ; Arguments
Knotty.
At 66: Stonkered! Witnesses! Ali-
mony Killing!
At 86: Sour! Wrinkles! Alone!
Knecked-out!
Me.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Many doctors suffer from overstrain.”
— ‘‘S. M. Herald.”
The doctor is always liable to be
knocked-up, of course.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What politicians know about milk could
be written on a postage stamp.”
— Farmers’ paper.
That’s condensed.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Weaver Lists Wanted Scrap.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
State Parliaments were not included—
they’re not wanted for anything.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Winged Thoughts.
“Bird-study offers much food for thought.”
—Nature note.
Many so-called songbirds are only
old hens.
A bird in the hand is worth less when
you feel its rubbery muscles.
Newlyweds are as happy as lovebirds
till they both realise they’ve been caught.
There’s nothing bad about a nest-egg.
E.
“Will interpreter No. 1 kindly come for-
ward and tell me what 1 am doing on this
stool?” —Sir Thomas Beecham, opening an art
exhibition in Sydney.
Surely the directions are still on the
box.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Error in Eras.
I was escorting her to a dinner-dance,
and as I arrived at her home about three
minutes early she quite naturally wasn’t
dressed. Taking me to her room, she
displayed a bevy of evening frocks, with
the query: “What’ll I wear?”
“What about the cream satin?” I sug-
gested, indicating a sheathlike confection
on ultra-sophisticated lines.
“That!” she ridiculed. “Gosh! that’s
terribly old-fashioned.”
“Nonsense,” I remonstrated. “Why,
you wore that frock at Marie’s wedding
only a few months back.”
“Nevertheless, indefinitely dated,” she
said. “It’s pre-Blitzkrieg !”
Percival.
“Excuse the precautions, lads, but the sergeant's going to sing."
“Italv came in to secure the spoils of war.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
And Britain will see that it gets its
whack.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Modern motorists haven’t as much
spirit as their predecessors.
Chilled Lamb.
“The bride came out in spots as she was
walking to the altar, and had to go into cool
storage instead of on the honeymoon.”
An excellent idea for the henpecked.
Next time the missus gets hot under the
collar and howls that she’ll go home to
ma, simply push the rice pudding aside
and shove her into the refrigerator.
Almost instantly you’ll hear pleas for a
dishonorable peace issuing from the
frigid zone. Hide all throwable heavy
articles and release prisoner, but don’t
be surprised if she’s pretty cool towards
you for a couple of days.
Percy.
4* •l* 4*
“On the eve of her wedding she had a
severe attack of hives which necessitated the
postponement of the fixture.” — Women’s paper.
The bride referred to this as an attack
of B hives!
4 1 4* 4* +
“His treatise on skin diseases contained much
useful matter, but was marred by a few sweep-
ing statements.” —Medical journal.
Rash?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The best thing for a healthy appetite is a
cold swim before breakfast.” — Lecturer.
On reading this our landlady decided
to give all her boarders breakfast in bed.
All or Nothing.
“Should wife get salary for personal use?”
— Women’s paper.
“I won’t need any salary, dear,”
She told him tenderly ;
"You get five hundred pounds a year,
And that’s enough for me.”
EVE.
I called the girl I loved a peach.
The truth of this was shown
When I proposed to her and found
Her heart was but a stone.
C. L.
Dis-appointment.
She had, it seemed, a lofty soul,
A sweet and gracious air.
Her eyes were twice as black as coal,
And honey-gold her hair.
Her lips were rouged incarnadine
And shaped in classic mould.
But though she promised she would dine
With me at Ccesar’s, rain or shine,
The hussy left me cold!
P.O.M.C.
My Military Career.
Let me say at the outset that I come
of fighting stock. An ancestor on my
mother’s and father’s side was an
official Pike Measurer’s Tape-holder at
Armorers’ Base H.Q. during the Battle
of Agincourt. Sir Bloodswill began a
tradition for fighting service which has
been a feature of our family ever since.
It was another De Boob who, a stout
Lancastrian, gallantly risked an awful
vengeance by poking his tongue out at a
photo, of Richard Duke of York while
in his own bedchamber during the Wars
of the Roses, and Sir Nincompoop de
Boob fought for a seat at the signing of
the Treaty of Utrecht.
In more modern times, a Borax de
Boob fought with the Water Purifying
Corps during the Crimean campaign, and
in the Boxer Rebellion my grandfather,
Bungshot de Boob, proved the matchless
courage inherent in the family blood
when he went on calmly polishing the
Base Records Officer’s spare leggings dur-
ing the letting-off of crackers by the
enraged mandarins of Pekin.
It was, therefore, no surprise to my
mother when I told her I proposed enlist-
ing. “My Basingstoke,” she said fondly,
“I knew the fighting blood of the De
Boobs would urge you to take up the
sword. Are they short of generals?”
“Now, mother,” I said, “I can’t expect
to start off straight away as a general,
you know. I may have to be content with
being a major or a colonel for a while.”
But the army, apparently, is greatly
changed. The lack of respect when I
told them on enlisting that I came of a
long line of fighters rather pained me.
At the medical examination, after cough-
ing and saying “99” a few times, the
fellow taking down measurements and
so on. asked the doctor were there any
peculiarities. “He’s got one hair on his
chest,” said the medico, and there fol-
lowed some rather pointless mirth.
I was subjected to further indignities
when a braggart fellow with a couple of
stripes on his arm asked me if I had
any desire to serve in a particular
unit. I replied that I would like to be-
come a colonel in the Pay Corps, a unit
which, I was sure, would offer most
interesting and certainly indispensable
work, and one which would be sure
to stir up my fighting blood. Also,
I felt l would have splendid oppor-
tunities of advancement to general’s rank,
in which eventual capacity I could give
my genius for strategy fuller play. But
this upstart merely scowled and said he
wasn’t there to waste time listening to
goats who thought they were being funny.
Coincidentally with my request, too,
there came uproarious laughter from the
fellow-recruits lined up behind me, and
one huge fellow slapped me on the back
and roared “Good on y’, Dig. I couldn’t
’ve thought of anything better meself!”
I resented this familiarity and quickly
manifested it, and only that we were
then subject to military discipline made
me desist from soundly thrashing him.
I had occasion also to give the corporal
who had asked me the question a solid
dressing-down, and to inform him that
failing a vacant colonelcy in the Pay
Corps I would consider a major’s position
in the Postal Corps or the Corps Bakery,
the latter provided only that I could have
my quarters some distance away from
the activities of the private bakers, as the
smell of baking bread I found somewhat
overpowering. The corporal gave me a
queer look, I thought, as he said that
he might arrange to transfer the Quarter-
master-General to some other job so that
I could fill it, and instructed me to
“Report at Central at 8.30 tomorrow
morning, and don’t bring more than four
cabin-trunks with your clothes.”
In camp, I took an immediate dislike
to the sergeant who took our first parade.
He was a bull-necked, red-faced, beefy
fellow with mobile hedges over his eyes
and a remarkable epiglottis. We clashed
first on his idiotic interpretation of the
word “turn.”
When he said “Right turn!” I
naturally turned right round on my right
and marched back the way I had come.
He bellowingly contended that the
“right turn” was a right-angle turn, but
1 know my Webster, and I patiently
pointed out that the dictionary definition
of “turn” was “to whirl round ; to hinge ;
to depend; to issue; to return; to
take a different tendency ; to be shaped
on the lathe; to be fickle ; to be
nauseated.” None of these filled his
interpretation, and I felt impelled to
give him, before the whole parade, a
sharp reminder of his lack of erudition.
The same fellow happened to be
orderly sergeant the next day, and when
he selected me for sanitary fatigue I
knew that, despite his still churlish atti-
tude, he had a wholesome respect for
my military knowledge. Evidently he
intended to keep me by him in the hope
of learning something.
“Hey, you,” he said brutally as 1
took the band off a cigar, “who told
you y’ could smoke on duty. Git stuck
into that” -
“I would remind you,” I rejoined icily,
“that I have my rights. I know my
King’s Regulations, and I am aware that
1 am entitled to be addressed by my
proper rank and name, i.e., Private de
Boob. If I am not so addressed I’ll
report you. Now what is it you want?”
He turned a bright purple at that, and
his moustache seemed to vibrate under
the stress of some emotion. “Why, y’
sawn-off, spindle-legged, shovel-gutted,
quarter-witted son of a” he began.
“Desist from your low abuse,” I said,
“and instruct me what to do!”
He swallowed hard. “Dig a hole
somewhere and empty them cans in it.”
“Where will I dig it?” I asked him.
“Anywhere, you stupid blankard!”
he roared, and stamped off. He seemed
in danger of losing his temper.
It was some time after they pulled
him out of the hole I had dug just out-
side the door of his tent, and had hosed
him down, that he sent for me.
“What did you say you did before
you joined the army?” he gritted.
I told him I was a monumental
mason’s reader.
“Well,” he went on, “they’ve declared
monumental masons’ readers a reserved
occupation. You’ll be discharged.”
I intend cutting across all our family
traditions for land fighting and doing my
future fighting with the Navy.
BO.


THE EQUITY TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 472 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
! BOARD OF DIRECTORS T
SIR EDWARD F. MITGHEjLL, K.C.M.G., K.C., Chairman.
SIR STEPHEN MQRELB, K. 8., Vice—Chairman.
The Hon. SIR ALAN CURRIE, K. 8., M-C.
W. K. FULLAGAR. Esq., K.C.
BRIGADIER E. F. HERRING, D. 5.0., M.C., E.D.
MAJOR ALLAN SPOWERS, D. 5.0., M.C.
* . ' REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS.
For presentation to the Eighty-fifth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on Thursday
r ,. the. Bth day of August, 1940.
The Directors have • pleasure in submitting their Eighty-fifth Report, and to state that the business
continues to-progress satisfactorily, and has not been affected by any abnormal events.
Ihe gross income for the year is slightly higher than for-the preceding year, and;the reduction in net
profit is entirely owing to increased taxation and other expenses which, owing to the Company’s charges
being fixed by law, cannot be “passed on.” 1 J ■
The Directors regret the necessity for reducing the dividend by 1 per cent.
The accompanying balance sheet shows a nc-t profit for the year of
Add amount carried forward from .last'year .. .. ..
Deduct interim - dividend of 6 per cent, paid in February last
Leaving a balance of
Which it is proposed to apply as follows:
To further dividend of 5 per cent.
To writing down Bourke-street property
To depreciation—office furniture and rnotor-car
To balance to be carried forward
the seat on the Board rendered vacant by the resignation of the Right Hon; R, G. Menzies, P.C., K.C., M.P
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Mr. Fullagar retires at this meeting, but is eligible and
offers himself for re-election.
On behalf of the board,
E. F. MITCHELL, Chairman,
“Companies Act 1938.”
BALANCE SHEET AT 30th JUNE, 1940.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—-
200,000 shares of
£2/10/- each ..£500,000 0 0
Less unissued .. 50,000 0 1 0
£450,000 0 0
Less uncalled .. 300,000 0 0
Capital paid up in money . . . . £90,000 0 0
Mortgage of company’s freehold and
accrued interest ... . . . . 15,053 2 G
General reserve . . . . . . 80,000 0 0
Investments fluctuation account .. 500 12 1
Profit and loss account .. .. 20,185 12 10
£211,739 7 5
Overdrawn Trust Accounts with
Bankers, secured by the assets of
the respective trusts (see contra).. £112,544 8 2
ASSETS.
Guarantee Fund held by the
Treasurer of Victoria, at cost . .
Commonwealth Government £13,000
33 per cent. 1956 Stock, at cost. .
Real Estate, Bourke street property,
at cost, less depreciation and pro-
ceeds realisation of Little Bourke
street frontage
Cash in hand and at bankers.
Sundry Debtors for Commissions, etc.
(after providing for bad and
doubtful debts)
Advance to Staff War Savings Certi-
ficate Group
Fixtures, Fittings, Office Furniture,
and Chattels, at cost, lets
depreciation
£lO,OOO 0 0
13,000 0 0
120,797 7 3
908 3 7
64,077 2 6
178 11 6
2,778 2 7
£211,739 7 5
Moneys advanced to Trust Estates,
for which Assets of the Trusts are
held by the Company (see contra) £112,544 8 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1940.
To Directors’ Fees
To Salaries, Auditors’ Fees, Advertis-
ing, Stationery, Office and other
Expenses . .
To Bates and Taxes, including
Federal and State Income and
Land Taxes
To Mortgage Interest, etc.
To Staff Provident Fund
To Balance, Net Profit for year,
carried down
Ail, 141 13 4
37,192 6 9
3,882 6 11
814 11 8
1,692 1 9
12,565 6 10
£57,288 7 3
1940 —Ist February.
To Interim Dividend of 6 per cent. £5,400 0 0
1940 —30th June.
To transfer to Investments
Fluctuation Account .. .. 500 12 1
To Balance ». 26,185 12 10
£32.086 4 11
I By Commissions, after providing for
bad and doubtful debts .. .. £51,316 3 3
By Rentals 5,243 5 5
By Interest on General Investments.. 728 18 7
£32,086 4 11
lhe Certificate by Directors and the Auditors’ Report and Certificate, required by the Companies Act 1938,
accompany the Official Report and Balance Sheet.
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Afterwards
War is supposed to be a young man’s
job, and in enlisting Australia’s fight-
ing forces attention has been paid
to youth and physical fitness. At various
stages of the recruiting campaign there
have been varying quantities of material
available, so that the standard of fitness
may not be absolutely even, and men
above age may have wangled their way
in. But the fact remains that many
thousands of people with useful brain-
power and more than average organising
capabilities have been unable to join the
A.LF. because of their age or physical
shortcomings. Among such people there
are some who feel that their services or
counsel would be valuable in those hun-
dreds of indirect services that are helping
(or hindering) the winning of the war.
Some men, for example, are anxious
about what is going to happen to youths
leaving school during the war and what will
be the economic results of the eventual
peace and the return of youthful soldiers
to ordinary workaday life. They remem-
ber the aftermath of the last war: the
haphazard “settlement” of returned men
and the ultimate depression that scourged
the nation and the world in 1930 and
later years. There is a belief among
some of these citizens that a start now
on preparation for the end of the war
and its economic consequences would
not be too soon, even if the conflict turns
out to be no Blitzkrieg but a long,
wearying affair.
It is a fact that one of the disasters of
war is the internal dislocation often
caused by the distraction of the conflict.
Yet only a fraction of the population can
engage in the fight itself. In the 1914-18
war Australians at home neglected their
job of attending to internal affairs
properly. There were profiteering, labor
trouble and political opportunism. There
were also inflation and muddled thinking
on financial matters, and most repatria-
tion efforts were badly directed.
Politicians at present have a habit of
washing their hands of matters “not con-
nected with the winning of the war.”
True, the war is first consideration, but
it is largely a Commonwealth matter.
State Parliaments might do something to
justify their otherwise needless existence
by sparing attention for domestic affairs,
such as employment problems, including
youth employment and repatriation.
In one of those Oxford pamphlets
now having a wide vogue throughout
the Empire, Geoffrey Crowther, editor
of the “Economist,” says:—-
Money does not .win wars. Wars are
won by men and materials, by having the
right kinds and quantities of men, trained
to their right jobs, equipped with the right
materials, in the right places at the right
times... .Though finance may not contribute
very much to the decision of the war, it
can make a great difference to the amount
of social turmoil and individual misery that
war can impose on the individual citizens
of victor and vanquished alike; it can
add to the difficulty of the post-war prob-
lems that are left for solution by the
generation which survives. It is a common-
place that defeat in war contributed less
to the social upheaval in Germany which
produced Hitler than the ravages of post-
war inflation in 1922-23; and though finan-
cial policy probably played a very small
part in Germany’s defeat, it was the pro-
longation into post-war years of unsound
methods of war finance that brought about
the great inflation.
Germany, of course, wasn’t the only
country that pursued unsound financial
methods after the war; but it went the
whole hog, whereas Empire countries
began to repent and acknowledge their
sins (and pay for them) before complete
ruin and revolution overtook them.
When this war is over we are bound
to have waves of hysteria of different
kinds. Freakishness of human behavior
characterised the post-Great-War period.
It therefore behoves us to get under way,
right away, a national movement for
repatriation and general employment.
There is no necessity for it to be
accompanied by a flourish of trumpets
or anything of that kind. On the con-
trary, the men who would be useful in
associating themselves with such a move-
ment would probably be the sort who
want neither limelight nor remuneration.
They would want to give portion of their
services to national effort, just the same
a# the A.I.F. is giving its services, and,
being mostly older men who have been
successful in a business or profession and
who have lived during two wars against
the Empire, their work and advice should
be extremely valuable.
There is a great deal to be said for
honorary part-time services given to
social and economic causes by men
active in other work of their own. They
are not chairwarmers or political appoin-
tees of doubtful capacity for the job.
They are anxious to deal with the
problem, otherwise they wouldn’t be
offering their services.
The N. S. Wales Government has
thought fit to appoint Speaker Weaver
to the job of Controller of Salvage. Its
Department of Labor and Industry might
also devote some additional time to
co-operating with voluntary movements to
assist employment now and to deal with
repatriation later on. These are prob-
lems that cannot be solved in an instant
by appointing a board, raising a loan and
wasting a lot of money. War materials
cannot be created overnight, as we have
very plainly found out. When war ceases
there will be just as much difficulty in
creating peace-time jobs, unless we make
preparations in advance. And any work
started now along these lines will be of
benefit during the war as well as after-
wards.
Some friction has been caused by the
National Security Regulations covering
issues of shares. Not infrequently the
regulations have been administered over-
officiously. Cases have been heard of
where companies formed prior to the
introduction of the capital-issue ban were
awaiting some formality before issuing
an agreed-on number of shares to
the vendor of the business, but were
stopped from handing, over such shares
because official sanction would not be
granted. What officialdom should re-
member is that there is a spirit as well
as a letter to every law, and that where
the object of the regulations is not being
defeated— i.e., where capital is not being
diverted unnecessarily from the national
effort —red-tape should not be allowed
to stand in anybody’s way. The funda-
mental idea of preventing unnecessary
industries or businesses from springing
up is quite right, but rule-of-thumb
administration is no good. No reason
is given for the turning-down of a re-
quest to raise capital or to issue shares.
But some disappointed company officials
noted with surprise that Swan Brewery,
of Perth, was allowed only a short while
ago to issue 680,624 bonus shares of
ss. each and to offer 400,000 ss. shares
at a premium of ss. This is a well-to-do
concern, too, that could easily raise
money on overdraft if it wanted to.
* * * *
Lower profits were the rule among
June 30 accounts published last week.
John McGrath (Sydney) showed slightly
lower net earnings and dropped the div.
from 12 p.c. to 10 p.c.; Howards, of
Brisbane, registered a heavier fall, and
the.div. was cut from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c.
Olympic Tyre Co., after providing an ex-
ceptional amount for e.-p.t., disclosed a
fall of about 23 p.c. in earnings but main-
tained the div. at 14y p.c. without strain-
ing anything ; this co. is active in cable-
insulating work as well as tyre-making.
Austin Distributors, also of Melbourne,
has shown lower profits, though the div.
remains at 15 p.c. Equity Trustees has
dropped its div. from 12 p.c. to 11 p.c.,
and Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertiliser has
shown lower profits. Cascade Brewery
has maintained its div. at 12 p.c., and
H. B. Dickie, the towel concern, has
increased its ord. distribution from 8 p.c.
to 9 p.c. Adelaide Cement has also
increased its earnings, and so have North
Coast Steam and Edwards Dunlop. But,
as was shown in the case of B.H.P.
and earlier in the instance of General
Motors-Holden’s, the general tendency is
for lower profits.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam, which now has no
large passenger vessels in the inter-State
trade (the Government having taken both
over on a charter basis), saw a market
of 335. for its £1 shares last week. A
short while ago the scrip went under
275., though before the Blitzkrieg in
Belgium and France there were sales
above 365. When at recent low figures
the scrip was pointed out here. If a
7 p.c. div. goes out this year (1\ p.c.
in 1938-39) the yield at 335. would be
£4 ss. per cent. The attraction about
the shares is really their long-term pos-
sibilities, the co. having a collection of
fine assets both inside and outside its
shipping business.
Melbourne Steam, whose Duntroon
still figures in the shipping advertise-
ments, dropped 1 p.c. off its final div.,
making 7 p.c. for the year, against 8 p.c.
in 1938-39. Although its passenger ser-
vice hasn’t been interfered with, its cargo
vessels may not have escaped Govern-
ment attention; and charter rates are
believed to be of a tentative nature, any
arguments to be held ovej until after
the war. Still, from the long-term view-
point, Melbourne Steam should be good
holding. The management is very con-
servative, lavishness in dividends or capi-
tal expenditure being unknown to the co.
* * *. *
The fact that gold enters so little into
Australia’s economic life except as a
commodity appears to be all to the good
in the present programme of war finance.
The value of gold is a superstition, a
superstition that has had its usefulness
in the evolution of trade, and still has
great value in international trade; but
sensible and strong economic manage-
ment internally is better than any super-
stition. It so happens that at the moment
the Federal Government is taking a more
realistic view than usual of Australia’s
finances, and Treasurer Spender is talk-
ing in terms of men, materials and prices
rather than of money. While a war is
on people are more inclined to take a
stark view of things, and in that humor
it is possible to get them to behave in
a way they would otherwise resent.
Therefore, provided a Government is
well advised, it is possible to approach
something like the ideal in managing a
nation’s finances. Australia has the
economic machinery now to go ahead
and get the utmost from the people with
as little inconvenience, unfairness and
hangover” as possible. It has arbitra-
tion, price-control that is at least three-
parts effective, and rational advice on
money matters from some Treasury
source. But it does lack a Government
that has the courage of its convictions.
That is the present danger-spot. It is
still a “no decision” turnout petrol-
rationing is a glittering example of Can-
berra’s inability to make up its mind
about what is or isn’t a national necessity
and do something final about it.' Excess-
profits tax is another matter that is being
handled like a case of measles. It may-
be that the Government has so delegated
its authority to boards and departments
that it itself is out of touch with every-
thing except what it chooses to call
“public opinion.” It is a great pity,
because courageous, enterprising leader-
ship would find opportunity right at its
hand now.


Auction Sale.
TUESDAY, 20th AUGUST, at 11 O’Clock
Sale by Public Auction in our Mart,
Nat. Mut. Building, 293 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Under Instructions Trustees Estate Jane
Costigan, Deceased.
Solicitors to the Estate: Messrs. Thynne and
Macartney, 293 Queen Street, Brisbane.
PLOUGH INN HOTEL
FREEHOLD
285 Stanley Street, South Brisbane, adjacent
to a large industrial and shipping centre.
A two-storey brick building, having a frontage
of 53ft. Ground-floor bar 20 x 24, lounge
23 x 22, storeroom and cardroom, parlor 20 x
24, various other rooms, kitchen, servants’
quarters and laundry. Upstairs 12 bedrooms,
2 bathrooms and sitting-room. It is in good and
substantial repair.
Subject to lease, particulars of which will be
supplied to bom fide prospective purchasers.
LAND—Sub. 2 Allots. 8 and 9 of Sec. 7,
Parish of South Brisbane, having a frontage
of 64ft. by 148|ft. depth.
ADJOWWC} VACANT LAND—Sub. 1 of
Allots. 8 and 9 of Sec. 7, Parish of South
Brisbane, having a frontage of 68ft. to Stanley
street by a depth along Ernest Street of 148£ft.
terms may be arranged.
SHARP AND MUSGRAVE,
Auctioneers,
293 Queen Street, Brisbane.
/NO WjUTmerToF
PRODUCER CAS
• The most complete and up-
to-date hook of its kind.
• It covers the theory and working of
producer gas plants; contains 53
practical diagrams and illustrations.
• Invaluable for car and lorry owners,
garageinen and builders.
• So complete is the work that plants
can be built.
Written by John D. and Martin G. Cash,
it fills a much-needed want —Producer Gas
is destined to play an ever-increasing
part in Australia today. Now is the time
to learn the fundamentals, types of fuel,
workings, difficulties and servicing.
Specifications of the Commonwealth Dept,
of Supply are included. (Price 10/C,
post free.)
r—"" ——- ■'
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., ORDER FORM.
I 89 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
■ Please send me “Producer Gas for Motor
■ Vehicles,’’ for which I enclose 10/6 (post free).
I NAME
I ADDRESS
BRANDALER’S
in
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAOER * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
f&d
HISTORY
O F
AUSTRALIAN MONEY
m//
STR
*c
■r.
Ml
&
REIGN OF
THE SOVEREIGN
The first Australian branch of the Royal Mint has stood
since 1855 substantially unaltered in Macquarie Street, Sydney.
The necessity for it arose from the gold discoveries
following 1851. To-day the old Mint stands as a memorial
to the greatest formative period in Australian history.
A picturesque aspect of this period was the everyday use
of golden sovereigns, but the most enduring effect of the
gold epoch on monetary affairs was its stimulus to the
growth of branch banks. In 1851 the Bank of New South
Wales, thirty-four years after its foundation, had only 3
offices. Ten years later the number had increased to 46.
The Australian banking system, in which the Bank of New
South Wales is the largest organization with 900 branches,
has helped Australia to overcome the regional difficulties caused
by droughts and fluctuations in world prices. It splendidly
bore the stresses of the world depression, which laid low
the unitary banking system of the U.S.A., and is now meeting
the necessities of war as successfully as it did in 1914/18.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK
IN AUSTRALIA
555 H.
“No, we're going up!"
A Steadier Market
Steadiness was the main characteristic
of the sharemarkets last week. Though
Broken Hill Prop, scrip dropped back
from 435. 9d. to 41s. 6d. and Adelaide
Steam shares rose from 31s. to 335., the
market as a whole showed little varia-
tion. There was a slight slackening in
prices towards the week-end, but it
coincided with the heaviest buying
activity for some time, so that it was
more of a profit-taking movement than
anything else. On Friday the market was
in the mood indicated by the last column
of this tabulation:
Jan. June July Aug.
31. 29. 26. 2.
Bank of N.S.W. .. £29.0 £24.9 £26.0 £25.8
National (£5) .. £6.1 £5.1 £5.3 £5.4
Carlton Brewery .. 68/- 55/- 58/6 60/
C.-Perkins .. .. 22/- 17/9 19/- 19/6
Tooth .. .. 52/3 43/9 48/6 47/6
Metropolitan Gas ..£13.5 £12.8 £13.2 £13.5
Q’land Insurance .. 58/- 49/- 49/- 49/-
Associated News .. 16/6 10/6 10/5 10/7
Melb. “Herald” .. 57/- 43/- 48/6 47/9
Adelaide Steam .. 36/- 27/6 31/- 32/6
Huddart, Parker .. 59/9 48/6 50/- 50/6
Australasian Paper.. 34/3 23/- 26/9 27/1
A. 38/3 30/9 33/3 33/6
Bradford Cotton ..37/6 28/- 31/- 33/
B. Prop 49/6* 39/9 43/9 41/9
Burns, Philp .. 54/- 49/6 50/- 50/-
Colonial Sugar .. £50.6 £46.2 £47.5 £47.0
David Jones .. 33/6 23/6 28/- 28/6
Drug Houses .. 26/6 23/- 23/3 24/3
Electrolytic Zinc .. 58/9 40/6 45/6 46/-
Fairymead Sugar .. 37/- 31/6 33/- 34/-
Felt and Textiles .. 38/9 29/6 33/9 34/6
G. J. Coles.. ..74/3 52/6 59/- 59/6
Henry Jones .. 56/6 48/- 51/3 51/6
Howard Smith .. 24/3 19/- 19/6 19/9
Kandos Cement .. 29/9 24/- 28/- 28/-
Meggitt .. .. 29/- 24/6 27/6 28/6
Winchcombe, Carson 28/- 23/6 22/9 24/
Woolworths.. .. 22/9 13/4 15/3 15/
W. R. Carpenter .: 45/6 32/6 36/- 35/
Yarra Falls.. .. 42/- ' 37/6 37/- 38/6
North B.H 47/6 30/6 34/6 34/6
B.H. South .. ..29/9 20/3 23/- 23/6
New B.H 20/- 10/- 12/6 12/8
Mt. Lyell .. .. 32/- 22/6 26/3 25/6
* Ex issue.
The earlier columns are for comparison
purposes. The table represents' an in-
teresting study for investment reasons,
showing which types of stock have re-
covered most and those which remain
on offer at a low figure.
Colonial Sugar is one of the few issues
now remaining dull. It didn’t fall very
heavily to start with, and at £47 it gives
a return of no more than 3.6 p.c. Fairy-
mead Sugar, up from 31s. 6d. to 345.,
yields 6 p.c. ; this co. is interested in
copra as well as sugar. It didn’t crash
either when Hitler mopped up Belgium
and France, partly because it wasn’t a
particularly active stock.
Associated Newspaper shares have re-
covered but moderately, and Wool-
worth ords. at 15s. may be bought to give
a yield of only slightly less than 6 p.c.
Metropolitan Gas has been compara-
tively steady right through the piece.
Burns Philp represents another rock.
Howard Smith shares haven’t re-
covered to any extent. Among stocks
not on the foregoing list, North Coast
Steam scrip at 38s. is as low as it has
been for some time, and in proportion
to the rest of the market it looks ex-
ceptionally good buying. Adelaide
Steam’s swift rise last week was isolated
among steamship issues. Huddaft,
Parker was still to be got near 515.,
yielding 5.5 p.c. so long as the 14 p.c.
div.‘ is continued. Illawarra Steam has
been inactive for a considerable time.
Port Jackson strengthened following
publication of improved accounts.
Among retailer stocks, David Jones
ords. have shown big recovery. Last
week they stood ss. higher than their
June “low,” but were still ss. under the
price of Jan. 31. Myer ords. on Friday
last were at 255. 3d. Fluctuation in these
shares has been much less pronounced
than in Sydney cos.
Shares in Edwards, Dunlop, pointed
out here as good buying a short time
ago, have crept up slowly to 405., offer-
ing a 5 p.c. yield. Paper-importing is
still a more profitable business than those
outside the trade realise. Partly for this
reason the ords. in Gordon and Gotch
at 345. 6d. shouldn’t be despised. Though
this concern has lost most of its
American import connections as regards
periodicals it still has a substantial turn-
over in other sections of its business,
and it has an organisation and goodwill
that will be worth money when normal
times come again.
Aust. Consolidated Industries scrip
rose to 335. 6d. late last week, represent-
ing a lift of about 3s. on this year’s
worst price. The return offering was
still over 4 p.c. Felt and Textiles has
been steady for some time now at 345.,
Yarra Falls has recovered to 385., and
Bradford Cotton, though quiet, has
strengthened from '2Bs. to 335. 6d.
At the end of the financial year the
Australian banking position was a bit
less liquid than two pionths earlier, but
it was standing up to the strain of war
very well. It has been assisted, of course,
by higher prices for exports, but on the
other hand imports have risen to a costly
figure. Here is a table showing a con-
densed comparison of principal figures,
with ratios:
June, April, June,
1939. 1940. 1940.
£mil. £mil. £mil.
LIABILITIES—
Deposits:
Fixed .. .. .. 200.9 212.0 210.3
Current 117.1 140.7 135.1
Total deposits .. .. 318.0 352.7 345.4
\SSETS—
Cash 28.6 43.2 31.1
Government securities.. 22.1 41.0 43.7
Treasury bills .. .. 23.9 43.4 38.3
Advances, etc 291.7 283.9 289.9
Cash to deposits, p.c... 8.99 12.25 9.00
Cash and Treasury bills
to deposits, p.c. .. 16.53 24.55 20.10
Advances to deposits .. 91.73 80.52 83.93
Most of the extra deposit money that
came into the hands of the nine trading
banks over the 12 months to June 30
was handed to the Government for de-
fence purposes. The same thing hap-
pened with some of the advances repaid
by borrowers. Latterly, however, bor-
rowers have been asking for assistance
again, and to grant it cash resources have
been drawn on and some Government
paper discounted.
$ * * *
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
seems to be pursuing a div. policy some-
what different from the other banks.
While its Martin-place neighbor the
’Wales, biggest institution of its kind in
Australia, pays 6 p.c., the C.B.S. has
come to light with p.c. for the year
to June 30, compared with 7 p.c. for
the two preceding years. The ’Wales has
been on 6 p.c. since 1937. A lot of its
money has gone into premises in recent
years.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
J. BULL ON GUARD.
[Apart from the extract from Mr. Churchill’s speech
on Britain’s determination to fight on, the items on the
same theme here condensed were received by last week’s
airmail. They can be taken as typical of the abundant
similar comment in all classes of English newspapers:
ten times {he amount could be given. Even the “Sunday
Dispatch” item is typical of much stuff on similar lines
in its type of publication.]
“We shall fight on the seas and oceans, we shall
fight with growing confidence■ and growing strength in
the air, we shall defend our island whatever the cost
may be, we shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on
the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in
the streets, we shall fight in the hills, we shall never
surrender —and even if, which I do not for a moment
believe, this island, or a large part of it, were sub-
jugated and starving, then our Empire beyond the seas,
armed and guarded by the British Fleet, would carry
on the struggle until in God’s good time the New
World, with all its power and might, steps forth to the
rescue and the liberation of the Old.” — Mr. Churchill.
* * * * *
{From a London “Times” leading article.)
We stand in great and instant peril; but we have
stood in the like peril before, and have fought on to
victory.
We are back in something like the situation after
the battles of Austerlitz and Jena, when a continent
united under the military domination of an autocrat
confronted Britain, which drew the sources of its
strength, then as now, across all the oceans. Condi-
tions have been modified against us by the advent of
the new air weapon, whose potentiality against an
Empire such as ours has yet to be tested.
On the other hand we possess now, what we did
not enjoy in 1806, not only the strong co-operation
of an Empire grown to manhood, but the promise of
full assistance from the boundless resources of the
United States. In Britain an immediate future of
hardship, desolation and loss is inescapable. When
these things have been endured it is no less certain
that Hitlerism will come to its Waterloo. Sea-power
is still the ultimate guarantee, still means that he who
has undertaken to conquer England must attempt to
conquer the world.
*****
(From London “Daily Telegraph.”)
We used to speak of a soldier's’ battle. This will
be a people’s battle. Every man and every woman
have their part in it. Only by the discipline and
energy and public spirit and commonsense of the
whole people will victory be won.
We must expect the whole power of the enemy
to be turned upon us. Britain is now the one armed
fortress of freedom. Its strength alone stands between
Hitler and the subjection of the world. “He will have
to break us in this island,” as Mr. Churchill put it,
“or lose the war.”
We have before us a battle of morale and will
power. Our past promises us that we shall win it.
We were taught long ago the lesson, “For here lay the
excellent wisdom of him that built Mansoul, that the
walls could never be broken down nor hurt by the
most mighty adverse potentate unless the townsmen
gave consent thereto.”
*****
{From a London “Economist” article.)
We have had too much of the frantic boast and
foolish word ; let us test each sentence to be sure that
we do not deceive others about our intentions or our-
selves about our powers. For never in the long his-
tory of the British race has there been a more momen-
tous decision to take—a decision which every citizen
must help in taking and help in carrying out.
There can be no doubt about our decision. We
must fight on. We have pledged ourselves before all
history to save Western civilisation from the menace
of Nazi barbarism ; we are in no way released from
our bond merely because the menace has grown
larger.
Not only should we fight on ; we can do so with
high hopes, soundly based, of ultimate success. This
island is now the frontier bastion of liberty ; but it is
not the last fortress. There are many sound reasons
for hoping that we can not only win the war for
liberty, but hold its English bastion. Before Hitler
can gain control of Britain he must bomb us out
or starve us out or drive us out. The bombing has
started, but our defences are strong and we can re-
taliate with a force that will constantly grow. Hitler
has been trying since September to starve us out, with
the result that there is probably more food in the coun-
try now than ever before. The only trick that has not
yet been tried in force is the bombing of our ports; and
a port is a small target to attack and a small area to
defend. As for driving us out, the one thing that we
might possibly not possess the means to repel—the
landing and continuous reinforcement of a large and
heavily-armored force—is the one thing for which
Hitler, who has no navy, is not equipped.
The chances of war are infinite, and Hitler has a
way of upsetting the rules. But at least we are not
deluding ourselves, as General Gamelin did, with a
tactical theory; we are comforting ourselves with
physical facts, such as the difference between land and
water. The burden of evidence, weighed dispassion-
ately, gives us every chance of resisting with success.
Resistance, admittedly, is not itself victory, though it
is an essential prelude. But a draw, if that is what it
comes to in the end, will be better than the terms of
submission we could now expect from a tyrant drunk
with conquest. Moreover, the blockade remains, and
though it is unlikely ever to lead to a German collapse,
it does set limits of time and extent to Hitler’s effort,
while we shall form part of the military machine of the
free outer world, to whose expansion no limits can
be set.
* * * * *
(Typical items from a London “Sunday Dispatch” page
of suggestions on “Steps Britain Must Take Now.”)
The death penalty must be the price for all acts
of sabotage and Fifth-Column activity. It is not enough
to treat a traitor in the same fashion as we treat a
motorist who goes over a set of traffic lights.
Compel every boy under 14, every girl under 16
and every man or woman over 70 and not engaged
directly in war production to leave the danger areas.
As many as possible should be sent to the Dominions,
colonies and America. It is no longer a question of
family ties and sentiment; it is a question of national
safety, and the voluntary system is not good enough.
Publish now articles and illustrations which will
familiarise the public with the mechanical details of
the rifle and the Bren gun. They are no secret to the
Germans. The practical advantages of publishing such
details would be that when men were called up for
training they would already know the theory of small
arms, and if, as civilians, they got one stuck in their
hands in a serious emergency they would not be com-
plete fools with it. Later, as more weapons were pro-
duced, everybody could some sort of training with
the weapon itself. If' everybody was faniiliar
with weapons our pledge to “fight to the last man”
would be given anew meaning.
Every firearm less than 20 years old should be
commandeered. There are houses with big gun-rooms
“Daily Mirror,” London.
THE OLD ALLY STILL REMAINS.
crammed with modern sporting pieces. The Purchas-
ing Commission in the United States should also appeal
to American citizens to sell us their personal firearms.
In this way we could get thousands of revolvers, rifles
and even Tommy-guns to supplement the small arms
now being made for us in America. We should also
take all the .22 rifles on fair grounds, private club
ranges, etc. These are quite deadly up to 100 yards
and more, and the L.D.V. would be better off with
these than with nothing at all.
Every local authority should now be ordered to
collect every inch of scrap steel and iron in its area.
No compensation should be paid. We should start
with Belisha beacons [traffic beacons]. There should
not be a railing or an unwanted lamp-post left in a
street or park within 10 days of the order being given.
Prisons should be turned over to complete war
production. Normally a man spends half his waking
hours in his cell doing nothing. Much of the rest of
his time is spent in non-productive, time-killing task
work. It costs £2 a week to maintain a prisoner ;we
should get value for it in uniforms,‘timber, ammuni-
tion-boxes, small arms, etc. Make every prisoner
work 12 hours a day; let those who will volunteer
for still longer hours and count the extra time worked
towards remission of sentence.
Interned aliens should also be put to work to
earn their keep. The 62,000 Germans and Austrians
and the 17,000 Italians still at large should be added
to their number to make a useful labor force.
Conscientious objection should be reduced to a
simple formula: “Will you fight or won’t you?” Those
who will not fight must go to work in the fields or fac-
tories for soldiers’ rates of pay plus subsistence allow-
ance on the lowest scale.
It should be compulsory on every owner or
occupier of land on which an enemy ’plane can land
to trench and obstacle it.
The idle boatbuilders of the Thames and other
bigger rivers should be put to creating a large fleet
of troop-carrying speed boats. Our waterways could
be a vital line of communication if roads and rail-
ways are bombed into confusion.
Make the penalty for leaving a car in a condition
in which it can be driven away by an invader six
months’ imprisonment and confiscation of the vehicle.
Ban the 13,000-odd parish magazines. What the
vicar thinks of our chances may be very interesting,
but he doesn’t know any more than his parishioners,
and we cannot afford the paper for him to guess on.
His magazine is also a source of danger ; its para-
graphs about the former soloist choirboy’s experiences
in France have often given the enemy valuable infor-
mation of troop movements.. Only experts know what
to put in and what to leave out.
v * * * *
(From London “Times.”)
We have never before had to create an organisa-
tion capable of putting forth the maximum military
effort within our own shores —that is to say, in the
midst of a vast and crowded civilian population whose
continued activity and co-operation are essential to
military success. For the first time we are faced with
the problems which have continuously faced Con-
tinental countries.
$
(From a London “Spectator” article.)
When Mr. Churchill declared that the German
success in France definitely increases the power of our
long-distance blockade he was expressing a view which
few experts in that field would endorse, and making
little or no allowance for the resources in coal, iron-
ore and probably petrol which the conquest puts at
Hitler’s disposal. We conducted a Continental block-
ade in Napoleon’s day with some effect, but it is not
a simple matter to strangle a Germany enjoying access
to the whole of Europe, including Soviet Russia.
The Prime Minister took too little account also of
the possibility that French aeroplane factories, with
their considerably increased pro-
duction, may soon be feeding
the German forces and not the
Allied. Such points deserve men-
tion, for in assessing the task
before us we must know the
worst we may have to confront.
If our resolution is equal to
that it will be more than equal
to anything less.
That it is equal to anything
in sight is certain. We know
what we have to expect. There
will be large-scale air-raids, and
there may well be an attempt at
invasion. On the face of it the
Germans enjoy great advantages.
They can strike simultaneously
from the Norwegian coast, the
Dutch and the French. They
can combine a naval attempt
with massed air-assault and in-
tense submarine activity. If in-
vasion of Britain can succeed in
any circumstances it can succeed
in these. But there is no ground
for believing it can succeed in
any.
We have an air force in-
ferior in numbers but far
superior in performance to the
German; no preparations for
invasion could be carried out
without its knowledge ; we shall
never be caught unawares. Our
coasts are heavily defended with minefields. Our navy
is at least four times the strength of the German,
and even the addition of the Italian, if it could emerge
from the Mediterranean, would leave our predomi-
nance far more than adequate. We have many more
troops, and in particular more seasoned troops, than
have ever been assembled in these islands before, and
the development of the Ironsides frnd the Local
Defence Volunteers forms, or will soon form, sufficient
protection against any ancillary invasion by air. Hun-
dreds of thousands more men are being called up,
munitions and equipment will be arriving in immense
volume from the United States, and the defending
forces will be provided with tanks and heavy artillery
such as the invaders could not hope to transport.
Altogether the odds against successful invasion are
such that it may well be doubted whether it will ever
be attempted after all.
But that the ordeal of intensive air warfare is
before us, if not already on us, is beyond doubt. It is
the one weapon which Hitler has available against
Britain, and he will use it to the limit. But it is a
weapon that can be broken. Our fighter ’planes and
anti-aircraft guns will exact heavy toll from the raiders
every time, and our own bombers will show the Ger-
mans what they may expect so long as they choose
to maintain the duel. We shall be fighting in the air
at greater advantage than ever before, and both our
own factories, even allowing for the damage they may
sustain, and America’s will be pouring out machines
in swiftly increasing numbers.
Defence can be left with complete confidence to
the Services. The civilian’s business is production,
in the factory, the workshop, the field, and general
maintenance of the nation’s life. For that life will go
on. It will be a higher and better life for the dangers
that overshadow it. The nation will be welded to-
gether, fighting men, workers, the women on whom
the whole fabric of family life, which is the nation’s
basis, rests, as never before. It will be consolidated
into solid rock, and on that rock Hitler’s Germany,
inflated though it be with undreamed-of domination,
will yet split.


JUDGES’ COMMENTS
Extracts “Sydney Morning Herald,”
Ist April, 1939.
The Winning Brandy, that is ‘Orlando,’
is superior to any other Brandy exhibited
in Sydney, and also fit to take its place
alongside any imported Brandy.”
Further Extracts “Sydney Morning
Herald,” 21st October, 1939.
The winning Brandy, that is ‘Orlando,’
is a credit to the Manufacturers. When
Brandy like this is produced and sold in
Australia, there should be no reason to
buy high-priced imported Brandies.
The winning Brandy could be classed as
a high-grade product in any competition.”
STRENGTH IN
A
EMERGENCY
a
im
BRANDY
An Airman to His Mother.
(From London “Times.”)
Among the personal belongings of a young R.A.F.
pilot in a bomber squadron who was recently reported
“Missing, believed killed,” was a letter to his mother
—to be sent to her if he were killed.
“This letter was perhaps the most amazing one I
have ever read ; simple and direct in its wording but
splendid and uplifting in its outlook,” says the young
officer’s station commander. “It was inevitable that
I should read it —in fact, he must have intended this,
for it was left open in order that I might be certain
that no prohibited information was disclosed.
“I sent the letter to the bereaved mother, and
asked her whether I might publish it anonymously, as
I feel its contents may bring comfort to other mothers,
and that every one in our country may feel proud to
read of the sentiments which support ‘an average air-
man’ in the execution of his present arduous duties. I
have received the mother’s permission, and I hope this
letter may be read by the greatest possible number of
our countrymen at home and abroad.”
TEXT OF THE LETTER.
Dearest Mother, —Though I feel no premonition
at all, events are moving rapidly, and I have instructed
that this letter be forwarded to you should l fail to
return from one of the raids which we shall shortly
be called upon to undertake. You must hope on for
a month, but at the end of that time you must accept
the fact that l have handed my task over to the ex-
tremely capable hands of my comrades of the Royal
Air Force, as so many splendid fellows have already
done.
First, it will comfort you to know that my role
in this war has been of the greatest importance. Our
patrols far out over the North Sea have helped to keep
the trade routes clear for our convoys and supply
ships, and on one occasion our information was in-
strumental in saving the lives of the men in a crippled
lighthouse relief ship. Though it will be difficult for
you, you will disappoint me if you do not at least try
to accept the facts dispassionately, for I shall have
done my duty to the utmost of my ability. No man
can do more, and no one calling himself a man could
do less.
I have always admired your amazing courage in
the face of continual setbacks; in the way you have
given me as good an education and background as
anyone in the country ; and always kept up appear-
ances without ever losing faith in the future. My
death would not mean that your struggle has been in
vain. Far from it. It means that your sacrifice is as
great as mine. Those who serve England must expect
nothing from her; we debase ourselves if we regard
our country as merely a place in which to eat and
sleep.
History resounds with illustrious names who have
given all, yet their sacrifice has resulted in the British
Empire, where there is a measure of peace, justice and
freedom for all, and where a higher standard of civili-
sation has evolved, and is still evolving, than any-
where else. But this is not only concerning our own
land. Today we are faced with the greatest organised
challenge to Christianity and civilisation that the
world has ever seen, and / count myself lucky and
honored to be the right age and fully trained to throw
my full weight into the scale. For this I have to
thank you. Yet there is more work for you to do.
The home front will still have to stand united for years
after the war is won. For all that can be said against
it, I still maintain that this war is a very good thing ;
every individual is having the chance to give and dare
all for his principle like the martyrs of old. However
long the time may be, one thing can never be altered
—I shall have lived and died an Englishman. Nothing
else matters one jot nor can anything ever change it.
You must not grieve for me, for if you really
believe in religion and all that it entails that would be
hypocrisy. I have no fear of death ; only a queer
elation ... 1 would have it no other way. The uni-
verse is so vast and so ageless that the life of one man
can only be justified by the measure of his sacrifice.
We are sent to this world to acquire a personality and
a character to take with us that can never be taken
from us. Those who just eat and sleep, prosper and
procreate, are no better than animals if all their lives
they are at peace.
I firmly and absolutely believe that evil things
are sent into the world to try us; they are sent
deliberately by our Creator to test our metal because
He knows what is good for us .• The Bible is full of
cases where the easy way out has been discarded for
moral principles.
I count myself fortunate in that 1 have seen the
whole country and known men of every calling. But
with the final test of war I consider my character
fully developed. Thus at my early age my earthly
mission is already fulfilled and / am prepared to die
with just one regret, and one only—that I could not
devote myself to making your declining years more
happy by being with you; but you will live in peace
and freedom and l shall have directly contributed to
that, so here again my life will not have been in vain. —
Your loving son,
A Communist Resigns.
[These confessions of the former New York “Daily
Worker” magazine editor and reporter Howard Rush-
more are condensed from the “American ■ Magazine.”]
I became a Communist because I believed that
the way to true democracy was through Communism,
“Daily Mirror,” Loudon.
THE HOPE OF MANKIND.
and I resigned because
I learned in the Red
schoolhouse that I was
wrong.
The Communists’
hatred for me is deep.
“Rushmore, you’re a
traitor —the proletariat
will take care of you,”
threatened one of my
former Red friends. I
was reminded that in
Russia I would have
been shot for denounc-
ing “the party.”
I spent six years in
their organisation—
years 'of sacrifice and
poverty and blind
loyalty. I was manag-
ing editor of the Young
Communist League’s
official paper, State
organiser of that group
for the Dakotas, and
assistant State organiser
for the Communist
party in Iowa. As the
party hierarchy goes,
those were high posi-
tions. But I didn’t want
power; I wanted the
answers to a lot of
questions I thought the
Communist system
could answer.
One day as a youth
I read a book on the
Russian experiment and was overpowered by a flood of
new ideas from anew world. My mind was receptive
then, and had this been a book on democracy in action,
explaining that gradually democracy was doing things
to help jobless youth, the aged and the sick, I would
have clung to democracy with renewed conviction. But
there was no such book, and I don’t know of one
today. So, weary of poverty, bewildered by selfish-
ness and ignorance, I grasped the new Utopia.
There was a chapter glorifying the achievements
of young Russian factory workers, farmers, writers.
“He who has the youth has the future” was the Com-
munist slogan that convinced me. I joined the party.
The air of mystery and intrigue seemed glamor-
ous to me ; the party workers, heroes. For two years I
never questioned an act or a slogan of the Com-
munist party. I saw democracy’s faults exaggerated.
I wrote “proletarian” short stories that were accepted
by the radical magazines. In 1935 I went to New
York to attend a writers’ congress. While there the
“Young Worker,” a weekly paper published by the
Young Communist League, invited me to become its
managing editor. The bushy-haired editor informed
me that the salary was $lO a week. “But isn’t it
better,” he added, “than working for a capitalist lie-
sheet?” I helped write class-conscious stories of
youth in strikes and revolutionary activity. I wrote
features and a column. I averaged 14 hours a day,
and loved it. My salary provided only two meals a
day, sometimes none, but that helped me.acquire the
necessary persecution complex.
During that first year a Communist official whom
I had met failed to show up at his office one day.
The records disclosed a S2OOO shortage.
“Why can’t the theory of Communism overcome
these capitalist inhibitions of our comrades?” I asked
the editor of the “Young Worker.” He said the fault
was in the individual. “But if individuals are weak,
then the theory has no meaning,” I argued. “You
have a bourgeois outlook, Comrade Rushmore,” the
editor said coldly. I was perhaps too much of an
idealist, but I had joined the party to escape just such
things. My code contained principles of honesty and
loyalty and these were being violated.
I was still wondering what to do when suddenly
the party turned from European slogans to “Ameri-
canism.” Jackson, Lincoln, Jefferson became Com-
munist heroes overnight. But it was merely a ruse to
rid the party of its foreign taint. Many people who
joined the party during that “red, white and blue”
period saw through the hypocrisy when Earl Browder,
national secretary, supported the Hitler-Stalin pact
and Russia’s invasion of Finland.
But 1 struggled to be faithful to my ideal. I
wanted to help the jobless and the hopeless I had
known. “I need organisational experience ” I told the
editor one day. So I was appointed Young Com-
munist League organiser for N^h and Sou , h f, a|[ota
There I spent six months, recruiting a few farm youths
Then I assisted the party organiser in lowa. • But I
could not make myself a rabble-rouser, preying on
lost hopes.
Returning to New York, I was hired as a reporter
by the Communist “Daily Worker,” and eventually
edited the magazine section of its Sunday edition.
Soon I learned that this newspaper’s editorial board
was more intolerant and dogmatic than any straw boss
I had ever encountered in the Missouri brick plant
in which I worked as a lad. In one article I men-
tioned that Browder had been booed. An editor sub-
stituted “His speech was enthusiastically received.”
“But,” I remonstrated, “that’s not true. You
couldn’t hear the applause for the boos.”
“History,” he replied sternly, “will award Com-
rade Browder a place in the Socialist sun. Who are
you to dim that light?”
When the Hitler-Stalin pact was signed, we all
had to become experts at distortion. It was a move
for peace, the editors wrote. When Russia attacked
Finland, Stalin was still a “figure of world peace.” I
thought of what the “Young Worker” editor had said
about “capitalist lie-sheets.” I was a liar for Josef
Stalin.
My last work for the Communist party was a
review of “Gone With the Wind.” I found the pic-
ture entertaining and fairly truthful. The editorial
board, none of whom had seen the film, thought dif-
ferently. “Any picture that supports the South can’t
be truthful,” the negro member told me. “You’ll have
to rewrite the review and eliminate the bias. The
party line is that nothing in the South is either decent
or democratic.”
“Democratic?” I cried. “You intolerant bigots
speak of democracy! ” I put the review in my pocket,
wrote a short note of resignation, and left the “Daily
Worker” and the Communist party for ever. Today
I am an American again. I can say what I please
and write what I please, and in the world today that is
a privilege I value as much as life itself.
I joined the Communist party because I did not
understand democracy. I did not know, while I was
in the brick plant, while I was on the freight trains,
while I was a Communist, that democracy was work-
ing in its own slow way to do the things I wanted it


to do. I believed democracy owed me everything.
Now I know I owe a debt to democracy. Six years of
my life have not been wasted.
Shaw on Ireland.
[Pat Murphy interviewed Mr. G. B. Shaw for
London “Daily Mail,” 2/7/’4O; this is an extract.]
I do not think that the problem of providing for
the defence of Ireland against German invasion is very
difficult. I think the Irish would object far more
forcibly to an invasion by Germany than they would
to investment by British troops, and I think they
would - welcome those troops if it were put to them in
the proper way.
The Irish are a Catholic people and the Germans
are not.
I suggest it should be put to the Irish in this
manner. It should be explained to them that Ireland
is a member of the British Commonwealth of Nations
and that the great advantage she enjoys as a member
is the protection of the Royal Navy and the other
armed forces, and that in times of danger she is entitled
to claim the protection of these forces.
Far from objecting to the assistance of British
troops the Irish ought to be the first people to ask
for it.
I suggest that if it were put to the Irish people in
this way they would immediately demand that British
naval and military forces be sent to protect them from
German invasion. It should also be pointed out to
them that the Pope is on our side, and that the British
troops who would go to Ireland would spend a lot of
money in the country.
We must take measures in time, as both Germany
and Russia do. We must regard Ireland in much
the same way as Stalin regards Rumania, or as he
did Poland and Finland. [Earlier in the interview Mr.
Shaw had argued that Russia’s actions in those coun-
tries were “purely self-protective.”]
At the Rock.
(Froom Tyler, in London “Daily Mail.”)
For 200 years Gibraltar has stood, sprawling
lion-like at the gateway of the Mediterranean, sentinel
and symbol of Britain’s mastery of the seas. Now,
for the first time since Spaniards laid siege to it for
four years, from 1779 to 1783, the truth of a phrase
which is part of our language, “as safe as the Rock
of Gibraltar,” is to be put to the test.
The strategic importance of Gibraltar cannot be
overestimated. It guards the Straits, 7f miles wide at
their narrowest; its Admiralty harbor of 440 acres
is deep enough at all times to accommodate the Medi-
terranean Fleet. Equipped with the latest types of
anti-aircraft artillery, installed in every strategic posi-
tion, and enough munitions stored deep in rock to
keep the guns snarling for many months, Gibraltar
is prepared to withstand a long siege.
Women and children have been evacuated. The
remaining civil population are ready to live a rabbit-
warren existence for months in many huge caverns
which have been made to shelter them. Each of these
caverns, extending deep into the rock, is constructed
to hold 1000 to 1500 persons. They are fitted with
benches, electric light, first-aid station, gas-proof cur-
tains —and an adequate supply of drinking water.
Before he handed over the command of “the
Rock” to his successor, General Sir Clive Liddell, Sir
Edmund Ironside was convinced that Gibraltar, sure
fortress for 1000 years, could be held against the most
intensive modern attack.
Nazi Home-front War-effort.
(From an article in London “Evening Standard.")
Between 1934 and 1938 the number of workers
employed in Nazi Germany increased, by something
near six millions, and most of this huge army went
into the armament industries.
Added’ to these figures were large increases in
employment among the slave States which Germany
has shackled to her war chariot. In Austria in the
year before the war employment rose by half a mil-
lion ; in Sudetenland by 100,000; in Czechoslovakia,
in Poland and no doubt soon elsewhere Germany
screws the last ounce of sweat from her unwilling
victims. In the Reich alone since the war began some
500,000 men have been trained for skilled and semi-
skilled specialised work, and 2,000,000 women have
been taken from their homes to labor in the factories.
This terrific expansion means that, despite her
meagre financial resources, Nazi Germany had been
spending at the estimated rate of £3,000,000,000 a
year. Britain’s expenditure, on the other hand, had
been at the rate of £1,800,000,000. This means, in
turn, that Germany’s productive effort had been
exceeding that of even Britain and France together.
No doubt Britain’s financial position is more soundly
rooted. No doubt we are in a better position to meet
whatever economic blasts may come. No doubt, too,
we have greater potential resources at our back. But
the fact remains that Nazi Germany was making a
more formidable use of her manpower, the fountain
from which all other wealth must flow.
The Far East War.
[These extracts are from Chaos in Asia, by Hallett
Abend (Bodley Head), reviewed on the Red Page
(B. 31/7/’4O). The author is the New York “Times”
correspondent in Eastern Asia, where he has had over
13 years’ first-hand experience. He figured in cables
last month, when “two gunmen, alleged to be Japanese,”
entered his flat in Shanghai, “beat him and forced him
to his knees,” demanding “Where is the anti-Japanese
book you are writing?” Despite this, the book from
which these extracts are taken is extraordinarily free
from bias, one way or the other.]
In two years of warfare not a single Japanese
naval vessel or transport has been sunk by a Chinese
aerial bomb, despite many extravagant claims to the
contrary.
Foreign military observers and experts estimate
that the Chinese casualties must total approximately
2,000,000 killed and wounded. The Japanese admitted
about 60,000 killed up to the beginning of April of
1939, but this figure is considered glaringly incorrect,
Eventually, but perhaps not until the war is ended,
the exact Japanese casualty figures must be known,
for it is obligatory to report to the great Yasukuni
Shrine in Tokyo the name of every son of Nippon who
dies in war. Foreign military experts estimate that up
to the first of May, 1939, Japan must have had between
150,000 and 200,000 killed, and from 400,000 to 500,000
wounded so seriously they will never again be fit for
military duty.
Although Japan has 1,000,000 soldiers on the
mainland of East Asia, nearly 500,000 of the best of
her army is kept immobilised in Manchukuo because
of the constant threat of a clash with Soviet Russia.
Her “front line” is more than 3000 miles in length.
Russia waits and watches, and seemingly is grimly
satisfied to see Japan bleeding herself of treasure and
man-power upon a hundred indecisive battlefields,
Meanwhile Russia avowedly is helping China to pro-
long the conflict and has announced the intention of
continuing to do so.
The pinch of the unofficial American and British
boycotts of Japanese-made goods is making itself felt.
And the boycott is being circumvented. Nearly every
ship that leaves Kobe for Shanghai carries a heavy ton-
nage of Japanese silk. At Shanghai it is re-baled,
labelled “Made in China,” and reshipped to American
or European ports.
Even by midsummer of 1939, 18 months after the
event, the Japanese public does not know that the
Japanese Army eternally disgraced itself by the rape
of Nanking. Vague and disturbing rumors have
reached the homeland, but these rumors are gener-
ally discredited as propaganda sponsored by Chinese
or by Japan’s opponents amongst the third Powers,
Japan is due for a painful and terrific awakening some
day. One wonders what the reaction will be.
Reverting to the system of the old civil war days,
China is manufacturing her war supplies in scores of
small, widely scattered and inconspicuous plants,
Realising the folly of developing several large arsenals,
“Daily Mail,” London.
“DID YOU HEAR A SOUND?”
which would be fine targets for Japanese airmen, the
Chinese have many small plants, all hard to locate,
and in most cases so unimportant individually that
the destruction of any one of them would scarcely be
worth the gasoline expended upon an airplane flight
and the price of half a dozen Japanese aerial bombs.
If Japan can succeed in carrying out her plans for
grabbing China, she may become one of the richest
nations in the world within a decade, but there will
be only very small profits, or no profits at all, so long
as the Chinese continue their military resistance cam-
paign and so long as Chinese in the occupied areas
persist in their passive resistance, which the Japanese
bitterly term “refusal to co-operate.”
In many quarters in China there are war-weariness
and a deep despair based upon the feeling that China
cannot win the war unaided and that the sympathetic
democracies will remain preoccupied with European
or domestic American problems for so long a time
that China will bleed to death in the interval. Some,
more cynical, think that the United States and Great
Britain are blandly looking on while Japan exhausts
her strength, and that later they will deal the Japanese
a finishing blow —exacting therefor a price from China.
Today the whole immense Mongolian plateau,
from immediately north of the guarded railway zone
to the borders of Outer Mongolia, bandits
and with Chinese guerrillas. Consequently, trade is
at a standstill, many pasture areas used by the Mongol
flocks and herds for centuries are abandoned, the
farming districts have been ravaged, and scores of
villages are entirely deserted. Apparently most of
the Mongol population has turned entirely nomad
again, and drifted westward into Kansu and Sinkiang
or into Kokonor.
Opium-poppy planting, which was almost eradi-
cated under the Nanking Government, has been re-
vived upon a gigantic scale under Japanese domination.
In some areas it is now compulsory to grow poppies
on one acre out of every ten put to crops.
After the Chinese Government fled from Nanking
to Hankow, economy measures became imperative.
Against the advice of many wise politicians, the
Chinese Government stopped all payments of pensions
to ex-Ministers and various other former politicians.
It was urged that if these “old-timers no longer re-
ceived their pensions they would, almost necessarily,
be forced to listen to Japanese offers. Penny wise,
pound foolish ; the “old-timers” were stricken from
the payrolls. Then began that period when Japan was
able to announce the “emergence from retirement of
one-time Chinese politicians and diplomats and office
holders whose names even the Chinese public had for-
gotten. By assassinating these basically unimportant
men, Chinese terrorists not only do not help China’s
cause in the slightest degree, but give Japan plausible
excuses for increasing the pressure of demands upon
the foreign Settlements and Concessions that are
havens of refuge and comparative safety for millions
of the Chinese people and are still of financial, eco-
nomic and political value to the Chinese Government.
Folly can be no more blind than this.
Foreign relief organisations, foreign missionaries
and Chinese Government investigators are agreed that
since the Chino-Japanese hostilities began, in July,
1937, fully 30,000,000 Chinese civilians have fled from
their homes or have suffered the destruction of their
homes and the loss of their means of livelihood. The
deaths amongst the war refugees have, admittedly,
been enormous. Most relief workers estimate that no
fewer than 2,000,000 of them have died from malnutri-
tion, from cold, from exposure or from cholera,
dysentery or malaria, which three diseases ravaged the
middle section of the Yangtze River in the summer
of 1938. The old, the very young, and the weak have
largely succumbed to various hardships, and in the
main only the sturdy survive.
The psychology of Japan’s leaders is being curi-
ously affected by a strange combination made up of
a sense of frustration concerning their China cam-
paign, constant and harassing fear of a frontal clash
with the Soviet Union, a depressing realisation that
Japdn has lost the good opinion of the world and her
place of honor among nations and secret doubts of
the strength of the Tokyo-Rome-Berlin axis.
Officers in the Japanese Army are, in the main,
serious, high-minded, underpaid and hard-working
men. They are super-patriotic, are imbued with the
convictions of Japan’s greatness and with the glory
of her destiny, and are fanatically devoted to their
Emperor. But for years, until they are advanced at
least to the rank of major, they are
kept so grindingly at their military
education that they know almost
nothing of the rest of the world.
The Japanese Navy presents an
entirely different face. All cadets
make long training cruises and see
enough of the world- before they
become officers to make them
realise that Japan is not the mightiest
Power in the world today. The
Navy personnel is less than one-
tenth the size of the Army personnel
today, and is made up of picked
men. They are, on the average, of
better family backgrounds, are
better educated, are better informed
on world affairs and are incompar-
ably more urbane than are corre-
sponding ranks of the Army. They
are no less patriotic, no less earnest,
no less devoted to their Emperor
than are the Army men of equivalent
ratings, but they know a thing or
two the Army is totally ignorant
about.
• • •' . 8
In the air the Japanese have not
been fighting their equals, for
Chinese fliers have been inferior to the Japanese in
training, in daring and in morale, and Chinese anti-
aircraft fire has been woefully inefficient.
In general terms, the Japanese statement of their
own case boils down to this: “We are a young nation
in a modern sense, but a very old people as a race.
We want to become a great nation, honored in the
world. We feel that we can accomplish this, and that
on fair and equal terms we can compete successfully
with the other great nations of the world. We feel that
in the past we have often not been treated fairly, and
now we are out to win our rightful place by using
consciously our own strength.” Pathetic, in a way,
is this plea in generalities, for which, however, there
is considerable historical justification.
If the Japanese fail in China, it will be because
they do not treat the Chinese as self-respecting human
beings. Knowing, as they do, the emphasis that the
Chinese put upon “face,” this is a stupid mistake.
The American people will feel profoundly the
effects of the ultimate outcome of this great war.
Neither the instinct for escapism nor the preachings
of the isolationists can prevent this. We Americans
may imagine that we are safe and detached, too strong
to be imperilled by events so far away. We may believe
that our interest is properly confined to a sentimental
sympathy for the underdog, and may lull ourselves by
reciting figures showing that the total American in-
vestment in China is less than the property assessment
valuation of any reasonably prosperous American
rural county. But this is stupid parochialism.
The outcome of this war will profoundly affect
our employment situation, may seriously limit markets
for various raw materials, will quite probably result
in the alteration of crop plans of many of our farming
districts. It may force greater naval and land arma-
ments, and thereby necessitate an increase of taxation
which will affect every American pocket book.
President Roosevelt has expressed the conviction
that this generation of Americans “has a rendezvous
with destiny.” That rendezvous may well be in the
Pacific, if it has any geographical bounds at all, for
across the Pacific an attempt is being made to make
history in a manner contrary to our interests, and not
at all to our liking.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Oversight in leaving Kevastar among
the first acceptors for the Australian
Hurdle yielded £lO5O in stakes for
owner Abe Silk when his six-year-old
gelding defeated North Cape and Cheery
Jack in record time for three miles at
Flemington on Saturday. Kevastar
clipped a quarter of a second off the
record made four weeks earlier by Cheery
Jack in the G.N. Hurdle.
Fired and sent for a long spell after
he injured a tendon early last winter,
and “set” for this year’s National when
he returned to work, Kevastar, because
of two subsequent mishaps, missed the
National, and was to have been taken out
of the Australian Hurdle. By one of those
freaks of fortune which add zest to
racing, his win at Moonee Valley last
Saturday week induced Silk, in the face
of opposition from keen judges, to take
a sporting chance and start him. Silk
believed that he was fit enough to see
the three miles right out, but could find
nobody to share his view. Even trainer
Des McCormick and rider J. Maher
thought that a gruelling race might preju-
dice Kevastar’s future, and the betting
reflected that bookmakers and backers
considered Mamillius and Dark David,
also trained by McCormick, better pro-
positions. They started equal second
favorites at 7 to 1, whereas Kevastar
went out at 12’s after longer prices had
been laid. ' While neither Mamillius nor
Dark David was ever dangerous, Keva-
star went to the front early, was worried
by Bozzago for about a mile and a half,,
shook the latter off near the six furlongs,
and stalled off challenges from North
Cape and Cheery Jack. Kevastar is by
Gay Lothario from Heliostar, and cost
Silk 280 guineas as a yearling.
Kevastar’s rider made the most of his
light weight, 9.7, and thereby forced
Cheery Jack to carry his 12.9 every inch
of the way. Cheery Jack pulled early,
and faulty jumps at the 10 and five fur-
longs did not help him, but he had his
chance in the straight. Meenan had
hugged the rails throughout, but, although
Cheery Jack made a game effort after
the last jtfmp, his big weight anchored
him, and he was five lengths behind the
winner at the finish. A fortune was lost
on Cheery Jack, who started at 5 to 4,
but his performance was that of a great
hurdler.
El Golea rose to his greatest heights
when he conceded Manrico 51b. and beat
the latter out of a place in the Moondah
Plate. A long way out of his ground
early, and forced to make his run in
the centre of the track, El Golea’s
chance looked remote when Chatsbury
shot away with a good lead beginning the
last furlong. Latter looked all over a
winner, but lack of a race caused him
to tire towards the finish, and El Golea,
responding magnificently under his
steadier of 10.5, wore him down to win
by a neck. Protest entered on behalf
of Chatsbury for alleged interference
nearing the finish was dismissed in
quick time. El Golea did run in over
the last half-furlong, but no interference
was apparent, and he would have won
much more decisively had he kept a
straight course.
Decision to keep El Golea going
during the winter months has yielded
three wins from four starts at Fleming-
ton, and it is not anticipated that his
spring prospects will be prejudiced. He
requires little work to fit him, and a
brief let-up is all he needs. His next
big test will come in the Williamstown
Underwood Stakes, to be run over a mile
at Moonee Valley on August 24. He
will meet Ajax in the race, and, although
it might be expecting too much of him
to beat the latter, at least he will have
an advantage in race condition. El
Golea’s spring engagements include the
Epsom and Cantaia Stakes with 9.8 and
the Caulfield Cup with 9.3, but, as far
as the last-named race is concerned, he
is more or less an unknown quantity
as a stayer. All going well, trainer
Jack Fryer states that he will be a runner
for the Epsom. Chatsbury is engaged in
the Epsom also, but, whereas he was
conceded 261 b. by El Golea on Saturday,
only 151 b. separates them in the handi-
caps for the Randwick mile. Chatsbury,
however, may improve more than El
Golea. He is the younger horse, and his
race in the Moondah Plate was his first
since a spell.
Manrico, a champion up the straight
six, blotted his copybook. Starting from
No. 12 at the barrier, he was quickly
into his stride, but, although far enough
in front to cross to the rails halfway
through the race, he was beaten a fur-
long from home, and finished fourth.
Manrico’s stablemate Nuffield was per-
haps the most interesting runner. The
dual Derby winner of 1938 was having
his first race since February, 1939, and
naturally was above himself in condi-
tion. He looks very bright, however,
and, although he made no showing, there
is every reason to believe that he will
stand up to another solid preparation.
Several patrons of the hill and flat
voiced their disapproval when Rose Prin-
cess won the Balaclava Stakes from Pan-
toon and Dannevirke. The mare had
finished only sixth to Frill Prince when
favorite at Moonee Valley over a similar
distance. The form of Pantoon and Dan-
nevirke, who finished almost in line with
her, was also an improvement on their
last starts. Pantoon had finished only a
moderate fifth to Tidylus.over l\ mile at
Flemington, while Dannevirke, a stable-
mate of Pantoon, had run only seventh
in the Moonee Valley race won by
Frill Prince. Maybe Melbourne punters
are in for another spell of confusing
middle-distance form. Pantoon, starting
a slightly better favorite than Rose Prin-
cess on Saturday, left the rails when in
front about a furlong from home, and
Badger shot Rose Princess through the
opening. Pantoon, who seemed to falter
at that moment, was doing a shade better
than Rose Princess right on the post, but,
as no protest was lodged, apparently
there was no interference.
Rose Princess, a Gay Lothario mare
raced by her breeders, H. G. Raymond
and H. B. Ranken, is engaged in the
Caulfield Cup with 7.8, but it seems long
odds against her following the example
set by Rivette last year. Latter went
on to two-Cups success after her dead-
heat for first in the Balaclava Stakes,
which was run at Caulfield, but Rose
Princess does not impress as a true
stayer. Pantoon and Dannevirke have
important spring engagements, but, if
Dannevirke’s form warrants a start, the
Caulfield Cup would give him his best
opportunity. He has only 6.10 in that
race, as against 7.11 in the Melbourne
Cup.
Form in the Wilgah Steeplechasers’ Flat
was of no value fro.m an Australian
Steeplechase viewpoint. Neither Stylist
n . or St. Robert, first and second respec-
tively, is engaged in the big race next
Saturday, and, although Prime Seal
shaped fairly in third place, he does not
appeal as an Australian Steeple winner
at the age of 12. He is only a year older
than Blackford, but the latter is the
form horse of the field. Blackford has
progressed satisfactorily since his G.N.
Steeple win, and, although raised 111 b.
to 11.0, is not harshly treated. Man of
Ayr and Brightello, whom he defeated,
have gone up 71b. and 31b. respectively,
and Man of Ayr has been beaten mean-
time. Finish of next Saturday’s race may
be a repetition of the National, with
Blackford, Man of Ayr and Brightello
again filling the places in that order.
Brightello finished last in the Wilgah
Steeplechasers’ Flat, but he will be a
different proposition with fences to be
jumped.
Followers of Lou Robertson’s stable
threw in for a big first-up win on
Anteros in the first division of the
Crimea Trial. Anteros, a four-year-old
by Thracian, was having his first race
for over 16 months, but weight of money
forced his price from as much as 10’s
down to 3 to 1. He finished a poor
fourth, after having every chance, but
probably will be all the better for the
race. Phoines, 10-to-l winner, had been
beaten in maiden company at the Valley
at his previous start, but led over the last
half-mile on Saturday and won nicely
from Stonecastle and John Dory.
Trained by Fred Foulsham, Phoines is
a four-year-old gelding by Windbag
from Message, and impresses as likely to
keep on improving.
Half an hour after Anteros’s defeat,
stable losses were recovered by West
Wind in the second Crimea Trial division.
West Wind, who races in the same in-
terests as Anteros, had proved costly in
two previous races, but Ron Hall made
her do her best on Saturday, when,
backed to favoritism at threes, she
finished too strongly for Quixotic and
Watch Guard. A four-year-old by Pos-
terity (sire of Mosaic) from Lady Zephyr,
West Wind began her racing career in
Maoriland, and was bought for Aus-
tralia last season. Saturday’s win was
her first, but will not be her last.
Former Sydney trainer J. Donohoe
has won three races with Astounding
(two) and Diogenes since his recent de-
cision to settle in Melbourne. Both
horses formerly raced in Sydney, and
Astounding, with two Flemington wins
from his last three starts, is proving a
good proposition for his lessee, Norman
Robinson. He was considered a goocl
thing beaten when fourth to Somerset at
his previous appearance, but Somerset’s
win on that occasion was not the fluke
many people thought. Astounding was
always favorite on Saturday, but Somer-
set, meeting him 91b. worse, ran him to
a head. Somerset is 10 years old, and re-
tains his form remarkably well.
* * * *
The necessity for running three races
in divisions caused Moorefield to dis-
tribute £l6lO in prize-money last Satur-
day. However, nomination and accept-
ance fees gave a substantial return, there
was a large attendance, and a totalisator
turnover of nearly £9OOO. The win and
place machine, with a unit of 55., was in
use in the paddock, and gave so much
satisfaction that there is going to be
much greater tote betting at Moorefield
than in the past. The odds indicator is
easier to read than those at Randwick
and Canterbury.
It was claimed that Heracles would
have won at the previous meeting at
Moorefield if he had not fallen when
one of the leaders. He proved the cor-
rectness of that idea by winning on
Saturday. Going to the front at the start
of the Hurdle Race he carried on the
running until headed by King Otho
nearly three furlongs from home. The
latter was freely used in gaining the lead,
with the result that he tired in the
straight, and Heracles beat him two
lengths. There was a large field, but
nothing apart from the first two had a
chance over the last half-mile, though
Glittering Flame’s third suggested possi-
bilities. Sanpam was prominent for a
long way, and Phil, Speed King and Lord
Belmont shaped fairly. Leap Year, who
was never going well, lost his rider at the
last hurdle. Heracles is a well-pedigreed
hurdler, being by Heroic from Kalyanni,
and therefore brother to The Marne. As
a yearling he was sold for 500gns.
Guinness started favorite for the first
division of the Trial Stakes, but, though
he won, may have been a trifle lucky.
Inside the last furlong, Widden, who was
at the heels of Bombala and Guinness,
blundered badly, and then, when he re-
covered, had to be pulled out to go
round the horses ahead of him. Guinness
beat him a length and a half, but
Widden’s bad luck cost him considerably
more than that. Bombala, who led into
the straight, gave his backers a good
run. It was the reverse with Lavengro,
who was never prominent. Pentrim and
El Camarilla showed pace, and Dun-
kerry came home well.
Three - year - old Schiehallion (Hall
Mark-Willow Queen), who outclassed his
opponents in appearance, was the popu-
lar selection for the second division of
the Trial Stakes. He displayed pace,
but Electra headed him going up the
hill, and led into the straight from
Gretchen, whom she carried out a little
wide. The result was not affected,
Gretchen lasting too long for Electra,
who narrowly defeated Markwell. The
latter was not lucky when he attempted
to get through on the rails shortly after
turning for home. He will do better, as
will Dom, who was backed and finished
fourth.
Insignia, winner of the first division of
the Three-year-old Handicap, is a
shapely colt by Melfort from Headgale,
a half-sister, by Spearhead, to Even
Song. Always well placed, Insignia dis-
posed of Ensign—the best-looking young-
ster in the race —in the straight, and then
stalled off Dublin Lad. Sally Rich ran
on well to get fourth, and St. Andrew,
who was slow in finding his legs, was
nearer the front at the winning-post than
at any other part. There was support for
Moocher, but he was never one of the
first flight. Loyal Lad, as usual, showed
pace, but could not see it out, nor could
The Elk, who is not doing nearly as well
as he promised a few weeks ago.
Country Cub had little to recommend
him in the way of form, but books and
backers were correct in selecting him to
beat a moderate lot in the second divi-
sion of the Three-year-old Handicap. He
came from a long way back at the three
furlongs to score by a head from Cape
Amber, who looked a winner when he
overhauled Moderation at the top of the
straight. Of the remainder only Mabonga
acquitted himself like a possible winner
in the near future. Trained by G. P.
Nailon, Country Cub is by Fox-Earth
from Country Damsel, whose dam, Syd-
ney Damsel, won a Doncaster Handicap.
He is a probable stayer.
Dashing Cavalier had a narrow victory
in the Carlton Mile. First into the
straight from Old Serpent and Sologram
he looked like having a comfortable win,
but a hundred yards from home it
appeared as if he might be beaten. Vigor-
ous riding by Coutts got him home a
head in front of Sologram, with Old Ser-
pent third. The last-named was bought
principally with a view to being a work-
ing companion for Mosaic, but he will
win races for trainer Abbs. Mohican
looked something like his old self, but
was unequal to giving trouble, while
Pantier and Yours Truly, though bright,
were running at a distance too short for
either.
In the Moorefield Handicap Aristocrat
gave trainer Nailon his second win of the
afternoon. Galloping with greater free-
dom than in his recent races Highborn
made the running, and commencing the
last three furlongs had what appeared a
winning lead. Then Aristocrat went after
him and, settling him immediately after
entering the straight, went on to win from
Festoon, whose form was good enough
to make him winner of a middle-distance
handicap at a mid-week meeting. Brown
Bomber and High Dividend ran indiffer-
ently. It was Aristocrat’s first win since
February of last year, and since then he
has run seven or eight seconds.
The divisions of the Flying Welter
were respectively won by Novice and
Bestop. Each scored in decisive fashion.
Tarn led up the hill from Reception, Blue
Baron and Novice in the first division,
but over the last furlong Novice had
matters all her own way, and is prob-
ably better now' than at any previous
time. Blue Baron and Reception found
the pace set by Tarn a little too fast for
their liking, and, while two or three
showed form in keeping with the prices
at which they were quoted, they may im-
prove when required. It was a surprise
to see Will Rogers in a place, and, though
he is seven years old and has done a lot
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Arkaringa Hurdle: Atticus, 1 ;
Bridge of Dee, 2 ; Paljune, 3.
Chatsworth Plate: Warbird, 1
Phocion, 2 ; Quixotic, 3.
Australian Steeplechase: Black-
ford, 1 ; Man of Ayr, 2 ; Brightello,
3.
Malakoff Stakes: Landlaw, 1 ;
Historian, 2 ; Astounding, 3.
Knowsley Steeplechase: Deckard,
1 ; Tornasuk, 2 ; Dornford, 3.
St. Aubin Welter: Greenwich, 1 ;
Historian, 2 ; Scarlet Toi, 3.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(By “PILOT.”)
Granville Stakes: Evertrue, 1 ;
Markwell, 2 ; Dunkerry, 3.
Three-, and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Novice, 1 ; Metallic, 2; Irish
Sea or Nightbeam, 3.
Maiden Handicap: Bonny Col,
1 ; Canvasser, 2 ; Pinero, 3.
Flying Handicap: Jazbeau, 1 ;
Table Talk, 2 ; Fearless Fox, 3.
August Handicap: Bristol, 1 ;
Lord Valentine or Aristocrat, 2.
Parramatta Mile: Snow Queen,
1 ; Old Serpent, 2 ; Osculum, 3.


m
A whole mill
at
every tailor’s
r J''HIS does not mean the mill itself,
but, in effect, it is the same thing.
Your tailor has New Pattern Books
showing practically every cloth pro-
duced by the Crusader Mill. And—•
this is important!—no Crusader Cloth
is ever sold out —you will never be
disappointed by finding that the pat-
tern you choose is not procurable.
Crusader Cloth is produced in a
great range of attractive patterns of
varying weights. Crusader Cloth
makes the best suits—and costumes!
YOUR TAILOR has all the
Crusader Pattern Boohs.
Ash to see them.
BUY
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
At any Bank
or Post Office
QTrusaiter (Tloth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
of racing with poor results, there may
still be hope for him, though at a longer
distance than six furlongs.
_ * . ‘, * .. \ ’ * ~
Pruning showed all her two-year-old
pace in the second division of the Flying
Welter. She turned for home with a win-
ning advantage but got very tired half-
way down thl straight. Zel was the first
to threaten her. but Bestop, with a good
finishing run, easily settled both. As
Bestop was awkwardly placed after going
three furlongs there was a lot of merit
in his win, notwithstanding the time was
three-quarters of a second slower than
that of Novice. Behind the place-gutters
. . „ •
Ponto and Toy Time put themselves in
the light of winners at mid-week meet-
mgs.. As the run is bound to improve
Pruning she is worth following.
W. Cook headed the jockeys’ 1939-40
list at Sydney and provincial meetings,
his total being 123 firsts and three dead-
heats. E. McMenamin, who was un-
lucky, owing to sickness and a couple
of falls keeping him out of the saddle
at different periods, was second with 115
wins and two dead-heats, and J. Duncan
and D. Munro tied for third with 81
wins and three dead-heats. Cook’s score
at metropolitan meetings was 88 wins
and two dead-heats, Munro coming next
with 75 wins and three dead-heats, while
McMenamin had 73 wins and two dead-
heats. McMenamin, with 24 wins and
a dead-heat, did best at Randwiclj.
Munro was second with 22 wins and two
dead-heats, and Cook third with 22 wins,
* * * • • •
Cook is a particularly good horseman,
but not superior to Munro, who also
shines at all distances and is Sydney’s
strongest finisher. Cook’s comparatively
light weight gives him an advantage over
Munro and McMenamin, and it is prob-
able that the close of the current season
will again see him on top. Duncan has
not had as much limelight thrown on
him as any of the other three, but he
rode consistently well throughout the
season. Of the apprentices, J. Thompson
did best, and if he does not put on weight
is certain of another successful season.
Me opened it well with two wins at
Moorefield
* * * *
Tn , • . „ „ ~
° f ™ s P ■ Papworlh
J e eaded Sydney framers during the recent
what made his success mert-
af'eved * w “ h a
. , y s , ma team. I know
'? have their horses
l™"?? '! ho !^ r a *™!* ed
£ ‘=“*• ™?' r „ £ > ?S tld “ H ia
t - , y w . orse f in ir stable
trainers have more time to study them,
both on and off the traini , raclc ’
are consequently dependent on their own
judgment, and have less reason to depend
upon the Meas o£ the lads , ooki!lg £ fter
them or those who ride them in exer-
? ls f\ This is probably so in some cases,
°ut others trainers experience no diffi-
in handling large teams to the satis-
faction of their patrons,
* * * . • *
Papworth’s 34£ wins carried £6168, and
he was followed by F. T. Cush (34 wins)
and J - w - McCurley (33 wins and two
dead-heats). In prize-money, however,
tbe three mentioned were well beaten by
Payten, J. H. Abbs and B. Price,
Payten recorded wins for £14,410 ;
Abbs > 12 wins and two dead-heats for
£9338 ; and Price, 28| wins for £9116.
Each also won outside N.S.W., and
Payten and Price have such strong teams,
numerically and in quality, that they are
justified in looking forward to another
profitable time this season. As Moore-
field has gained by putting up prizes for
winning trainers at its track, it is a
wonder some of the other clubs do not
adopt similar procedure.
* * * *
It is unusual for one horse’s earnings
in a season to put an owner-trainer at the
head of the winning owners’ list, but in
Victoria Rivette, with £13,075, did that
for H. Bamber. While another Mel-
bourne Cup win for Rivette is too much
to expect, the chances are she will add to
her winning account this season. Mapri-
land owner W. R. Kemball was second
with £7885, and H. E. Tancred and W. J.
Winterbottom tied for third with £7540.
S. Murphy had more winners than any
other Victorian trainer, his total being
27. J. Holt was second with 23 wins and
a. dead-heat. For the second successive
year H. Badger led the Victorian jockeys,
his score being 50 wins and two dead-
heats. In Queensland the trainer who did
best in stakes was W. A. Neale, with
£6359; and W. Briscoe, with 54 wins
and three dead-heats, was the most suc-
cessful jockey. E. Treffone, with 53
wins, did better in Westralia than any
other rider.
* * * *
Sydney lists show Beaulivre and High
Caste equal favorites for the Epsom Han-
dicap, succeeded by Gold Salute, Gun-
dagai and Mildura. Next come Dashing
Cavalier, El Golea and Beaupartir. For
the Metropolitan Pantler and Reading
are most fancied, followed by Beau Vite,
Gundagai and Mosaic. The third-liners
are Beaulivre and Mildura.
* * * *
The “young blood” of which we heard
so much a little while ago was not to the
fore when opportunity to contest a seat
on the A.J.C. committee presented itself.
Last week five retiring members of the
committee—R. C. Allen, A. W. Thomp-
son, R. R. Dangar, P. Tait and Dr. L.
Utz —were re-elected unopposed for two
years. Evidently the would-be reformers
had arrived at the conclusion there was
really nothing they could reform.
* * * *
The owner of Cheery Jack was correct
in his opinion that his horse probably
had a little more than he could success-
fully carry in the Australian Hurdle
Race. Nevertheless Cheery Jack ran a
great race with 12.9, seeing the winner,
Kevastar, cut out the three miles in
5.27 f. As the fastest three miles ever run
on the flat in Australia was Trafalgar’s
5.22 j- at Randwick in April, 1911, it is
difficult to believe that present-day
hurdlers are not up to the standard of
those of an earlier period. As with flat-
/acers, they make faster time at all dis-
tances, and speed is now necessary in
jumpers, as well as those whose efforts
are confined to the flat.
i * * *
According to reports the A.J.C. stewards
are on the lookout for trainers who
allegedly pass out information concern-
ing other people’s horses. They may be
able to curb that practice on racecourses,
but not away from them. No one asso-
ciated with racing in Sydney really be-
lieves that all holders of licenses or per-
mits use them for no other purpose than
training. Men with very small strings
cannot always make ends meet by stick-
ing strictly to legitimate business, and
there is invariably a market with book-
makers or punters for “information.”
Nor is it always very small men who
vouchsafe it. A “bit to nothing” is wel-
comed by men who are not really in need
of it, but “why miss ‘easy money’?” is
the way they look at it.
* * * *
Whether High Caste will stay better
than last season is uncertain, but he has
already shown sufficient in his work to
prove that he has lost nothing in pace.
Nor has he fined down. In fact, anyone
who did not know him would be inclined
to smile at the idea that he was not far
off good racing condition. In the autumn
Beaulivre, in receipt of 71b., beat High
Caste in the Doncaster Handicap, but, at
level weights, the latter finished a head
in front of Beaulivre in the All-Aged
Stakes, won by Ajax. Beaulivre has im-
proved since then, and there will be keen
betting if they should meet in the War-
wick Stakes at seven furlongs. Another
to be considered is Beau Vite. When
fresh he won the Canterbury Stakes, six
furlongs, last spring, beating Gold Rod
and Brazandt in fast time, and, though
it may be early to expect him to be at
his best at the end of this month, he
cannot be overlooked. Some Maoriland
writers are enthusiastic concerning Beau
Vite, saying that he has improved greatly
in strength and general appearance since
he was last in Australia.
* * * #
The tote turnover at Randwick for the
past season did not reach the million
mark, but, with the addition of £25,426
ss. from three meetings held at Warwick
Farm, the A.J.C. turnover was £1,019,321.
The change from Warwick Farm to
Randwick was profitable for the ruling
body in respect of tote betting-. At one
of the three meetings held at “the Farm”
the turnover was only £4759 15s. The
smallest amount bet at any of the War-
wick Farm meetings at Randwick was
£15,364 155., and that was the only occa-
sion on which the turnover dropped
below £20,000. At the October 21 meet-
ing it was £28,347 ss.
* * ♦• *
The A.J.C. distributed £89,950 in prize-
money at Randwick at its regular meet-
ings during the recently-concluded
season, and its total for Warwick Farm
was £28,445. In the 1938-39 season the
A.J.C. gave £88,390 for racing at . Rand-
wick, and £20,770 for Warwick Fafm.
Increase in Warwick Farm stakes in
1939-40 was due to ten of its meetings
being held at Randwick, and owners and
trainers were gainers to such an extent
thereby that they hope the whole of
“the Farm” racing will be at the A.J.C.
headquarters this season. At present that
seems almost certain.
* * * «
A cable was recently received in Syd-
ney to the effect that the ex-Sydney
jockey W. Johnstone and his wife were
safely located at Nice. However, John-
stone did not leave Paris without getting
one shock. The French correspondent
of an English paper says Johnstone was
shaving on the morning of the German
raid on June 3 when a bomb fell near
his apartment and blew him right across
the room. That was a decided hint it
was time to leave.
* * * *
Always of interest, the Chelmsford
Stakes at Tattersall’s meeting will be
specially attractive this year. Probable
competitors among the Sydney-trained
older horses include High Caste, Beau-
livre, Reading, Beau Vite, Mosaic, Mil-
dura and Beaupartir ; and three-year-olds
in John, Trueness, Nightbeam, Fearless
Fox, Tidal Wave, Broadcaster, Rylstone
and Flying Knight. Lucrative will be
here from Melbourne. Several of those
mentioned will have to put up 71b.
penalty, but in the past that has not
proved a bar. In the last 20 years there
have been only two unpenalised winners
—Syce Knight and Mala. Last years
place-getters—Defaulter, Beau Vite and
Royal Chief, in that order —each carried
a penalty. Commencing with 1920.
Heroic, Limerick, Ammon Ra, Gaine


Carrington and Gold Rod were the three-
year-old winners, and of these Heroic
and Ammon Ra won the A.J.C. Derby.
Phar Lap was beaten by Mollison in the
Chelmsford Stakes, but won the Derby.
* * * *
At the close of last season the general
opinion was that the A.J.C. Derby
would be won by either High Caste or
Reading. A couple of early failures at
three years caused Reading to lose favor,
but though he started at 14 to 1 for the
Derby he won from High Caste, and
repeated the form in Melbourne. Beau
Vite, at 5 to 4 on, missed a place.
Lucrative’s A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes win put him in a good light, so
far as the coming A.J.C. Derby is con-
cerned, but it cannot be overlooked that
John beat him decisively in the Cham-
pagne Stakes. Admittedly the latter was
receiving 101 b., and excuses were made
for Lucrative, but it was a good effort
on the part of John, who had previously
started only three times. At Canterbury
a few days later he failed to give Rimveil
121 b. in a seven-furlongs race, but it
was asking a lot of him, seeing the latter
ran fourth in the Sires’ Produce Stakes.
John was giving Rimveil a long start
at one stage of the Canterbury race, and
was beaten only a head, By John
Buchan, second ip a Tattersall’s Cup and
third in a Summer Cup, John is out of
Mince Pie, a fair stayer. Her placings
included second in a Tattersall’s Cup.
Through John, Tidal Wave also enters
into Derby calculations. In the first
division of the Wentworth Handicap, run
a couple of days before the Champagne
Stakes, he beat John half a length, and
was in receipt of only 21b. Tidal Wave
looks the part of a Derby colt, and
breeding is not against him as a staying
possibility. He is by Tiderace (son of
Fairway) from My Own (Lord Quex-
Tressida), whose form up to a mile and
a half in Maoriland was really good.
In England Tiderace was placed up to
a mile and five furlongs.
Nightbeam’s Maoriland reputation is
first class, and he looks as if he will
continue to go on the right way. Fear-
less Fox is a solid colt, and though he
was not a success in Melbourne in the
autumn it must not be overlooked that
he won at his last two starts in Sydney,
carrying 9st. to Roxford’s 7.10 when he
beat the latter at Rosehill. Foxbridge,
sire of Fearless Fox, showed excellent
form in England, and is by Foxlaw,
whose distance wins included the Ascot
Gold Cup. Trained by G. Price, Fear-
less Fox is making excellent progress.
In his second to Lucrative at Rand-
wick, Pandect gave the impression he
might make a stayer. As a Derby winner
he would bring posthumous honors to
Pantheon, though that horse, who died
only lqst week, does not need advertise-
ment so far as stayers are concerned.
Broadcaster’s pace is undeniable, but
while his trainer, P. Riddle, was satisfied
with his recent run at Victoria Park,
his owner, P. Miller, has an idea he
will make a better sprinter than stayer.
It is too early, however, to express a
definite opinion on that score. Flying
Knight is brilliant, but there is just a
doubt as to whether he will stay.
Trueness is a fine big filly, but sex
may be against her. A filly has not been
successful in the A.J.C. Derby since
Picture in 1898, though Furious made a
great bid for the race in Cupidon’s year.
As has happened before, something for
which two-year-old form says little may
come to light, but of the Derby Can-
didates being trained in Sydney my
present preference is for John, Night-
beam, Tidal Wave and Fearless. How-
ever, form in the Canterbury Guineas,
Rosehill Guineas and a couple of w.f.a.
races to be run before the Derby may
put a different complexion on affairs.
* * * *
Many followers of racing have an
idea that a tip from a trainer or jockey
as to a probable winner puts them on
the way to fortune. Unfortunately for
them it often works out the other way.
When a trainer has two runners in a
race it is often difficult for him to be
certain which is the better. It is stated
by a London writer that F. Darling,
who owns and trains Pont l’Eveque,
advised G. Richards to ride the stable’s
other representative, Tant Mieux, in the
Derby. Darling did what he thought
best in Richards’s interests, but the re-
sult was against the latter. In the New-
market Stakes, 1} mile, run three weeks
before the Derby, Lighthouse 11, who
left hte opponents at the finish, defeated
Pont lEveque five lengths. Turkhan,
who cut Lighthouse II out of second
money in the Derby, was one of the
unplaced runners.
W. Booth, who died at Rosehill last
week at the age of 69, was a most cap-
able trainer. The Palmist gave him his
first wins in Sydney, and his ability was
quickly recognised. After a time so many
owners wished to place horses with him
that I once heard him laughingly re-
mark: “I’ll have to put a barbed wire
fence round my place to prevent them
dropping them in overnight.” For
many years he was always one of the
leaders in the winning list. The many
good horses trained by him included
David, Chrysolaus, Brattle, Scarlet,
Dame Acre and Eulacre. As a breeder
he was not so successful, though he bred
several useful horses at Tatyoon.
* * * *
Naturally Beaulivre’s Doomben Cup
win increased handicapper Wilson’s
respect for him as a stayer, and he has
81b. more in the Warwick Farm Spring
Handicap than in the Metropolitan. In
the Metropolitan Beaulivre and his
stable-companion Mildura are on the
same mark, but in the Warwick Farm
race the latter is getting 71b. Most of
the other horses are weighted much the
same as in the Metropolitan, and the
race is one that, on his best Queensland
form, should give an excellent chance
to Seven Fifty, with 8.4. Dashing
Cavalier, Gil!town and Binnia Hero are
others sure to be in the market. There
are graduated penalties, ranging from. 31b.
for a winner of £l5O to 101 b. for a
winner of two or more flat races aggre-
gating £750 to the winner. No race at
Rosehill entails a penalty for either the
Campbelltown Handicap or the Warwick
Farm Spring Handicap.
* * * *
Backers who had commenced Epsom
and Metropolitan doubles with Beau-
livre got a shock when they read in a
Melbourne paper that owner Harnett
had taken substantial “two Cups” doubles
with his own horse as the first leg. That,
however, does not definitely indicate
Beaulivre is not to start for the Epsorn.
If he should win that race his owner will
be well able to afford the loss of any-
thing he may have put on him for the
southern double.
* * * *
Norman Scobie, son of the veteran
“Jim,” who recently retired as a trainer
in , Melbourne, was winning some races
for Sir C. Hyde up to the time of the
closing down of the sport in England.
After the heavily-backed Islam won a
race at Worcester in June, Meyrick
Good, in the “Sporting Life,” paid
Scobie the compliment of saying he
made few mistakes with any heavily-
backed horse from his stable.
* * * *
W. Cook recently advised young riders
to avoid swollen heads. Excellent
advice, but unfortunately newspapers
are not exactly guiltless in the matter.
When some youngster of 15 or 16 is
pursued for his life history after a win
or two, and that and his photograph
are duly printed, it is not surprising if
he develops exaggerated ideas of his im-
portance. This occasionally makes it
hard for his master. The lad gets it
into his head he has nothing to learn.
Recently I heard a trainer remark con-
cerning an apprentice: “He gave a lot
of promise, but after he had read what
a great rider he was going to make he
got so flash he scarcely knew how to
walk, and believed he knew a lot more
than I did.” That boy never got to the
front, and is now out of the game.
* * * *
Many racing clubs in America have
an occasional day’s racing for charitable
institutions and unemployed funds, and
at Belmont Park (New York) in June
there was a Red Cross Day. With the
exception of the waiters and the totalisa-
tor clerks, everybody paid for admission.
The Westchester Racing Association
turned over to the Red Cross the gross
receipts, which included admission fees
and its 5 per cent, and fractions from
the tote. Most of the jockeys gave their
day’s earnings. The caterers’ assistants,
racebook-sellers, tote clerks and Turf-
writers’ Association all contributed ; and
the Red Cross fund benefited to the extent
of $55,000.
* * * *
G. Richards rides more winners than
any other English jockey, but he does
not repay following at a fixed stake.
Up to Derby day he had won 44 of
the 223 races, in which he had ridden
—M. Beary being nearest him with 31
wins—but anyone investing £1 on each
of Richards’s mounts would have been
a loser to the extent of about £65.
* * * *
Lord Stalbridge, who won the Liver-
pool Grand National and three other
laces with Bogskar, was the most suc-
cessful owner during the English
National Hunt (jumping) season, which
ended in May. His total was £4849.
He was followed by Miss D. Paget,
with 10 winners of 17 races and £3447.
There was only one other winner of
over £lOOO, and five others who won
more than £5OO, which, as there were
219 winning owners, points to prize*
money in jumping races in England being
on the light side, except in races of
special importance. The winning list
included 43 women. I. J. Anthony, with
12 winners of 20 races, was the most
successful trainer, and T. F. Rimmell,
with 24 wins, headed the jockeys for
the second successive year.
* * * *
Americans greatly resent some of that
country’s bloodstock being barred from
the English Stud Book. According to the
American writer E. Johnstone, who is
decidedly anti-British where thorough-
breds are concerned, a bill is to be intro-
duced into Congress that will bar English
thoroughbreds—presumably from the
Stud Book—in America until the so-
called “Jersey Act” is rescinded. Accord-
ing to Johnstone, America, in the mean-
time, can get the best English and French
blood for an outcross from South
America. He says American breeders
should not buy English thoroughbreds,
but it is improbable practical men will be
influenced by the opinions of a distinctly
windy writer.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
There are no flat putts on the Can-
terbury course, where the 1940 United
States open championship was played.
It is unlike most other leading Yankee
courses, which generally have greens
giving players a flat putt near the hole.
The Cleveland course is more like the
British championship courses with their
big rolling greens.
Canterbury resembles Carnoustie*, in
Scotland, in many ways, especially as both
have five tough finishing holes. With
these hurdles to overcome four times in
a 72-hole event they bring out the best
—or worst —in every golfer and make a
win the more meritorious. Opening with
several hard holes and finishing with such
trying pars the competitors at Cleveland
are given no chance of “coasting” at
vital stages.
The Ohio State Golf Association
recently conducted an event the proceeds
from which went to paying the expenses
of two caddies through the North-western
University. The entrance fee of 7s. 6d.
was collected at dozens of clubs in a
manner similar to the T.B. and S.S. Cup
in Sydney. Suggested by Chick Evans,
former American open and amateur
champion, it has proved immensely popu-
lar with the golfing fraternity.
Leading players treat their practice very
seriously in the United States. Their
method of training to produce golf cap-
able of winning tournaments is truly the
hard way. They really work at the'
game. This to a great extent is reflected in
results. Guldahl, Hogan and Demaret hit
many thousands of balls in practice each
week, never missing a day on the course.
For the open championship at Cleve-
land Guldahl and Demaret played over
30 practice rounds before the event
started, in addition to wearing most of the
turf off the practice tees. Even then they
were pipped by Lawson Little and Gene
Sarazen. Guldahl and Demaret believe
that by sheer repetition of hitting so
many shots with each club perfection
comes in the end. Guldahl, the 1937 and
1938 open champion, is most particular
about his practice, never appearing on
damp or cold days for fear of catching
a cold.
Big wagers are commoner among the
older professionals than with the.present-
day stars. Tommy Armour and Walter
Hagen played in a four-ball game
recently where over 3000 dollars (£1000)
changed hands at the end of the round.
The younger players find it preferable
to keep their hard-earned money instead
of gambling it away.
The rough at the Canterbury course
was specially cut to a height of eight
inches for the open championship—de-
cided by the United States Golf Associa-
tion, which controls every feature of the
course, even to deciding what lengths the
holes shall be. This is in direct contrast
with the Australian championships, con-
trol of which is unwisely left in the hands
of the club committee on whose course
the event is played. This custom has
caused, and will continue to cause, dis-
satisfaction. The U.S. Golf Association
appoints a special committee of its own
officials to look after the event.
It cost a spectator over £2 to witness
the three days’ play during the open
championship. This included four days
of practice at 6s. 6d. a day. Gallery fees
are a most important item.
Preparations for the open at Canter-
bury included the erection of several
huge marquees to accommodate the press,
telegraph and refreshment booths, the
latter catering for thousands of diners.
The press tent alone seated a couple of
hundred, but is never too large. Two
specially constructed trucks each housed
several public telephone booths. The
club turned itself into a small city over-
night.
* * * *
Had his last round with Colonel Bogey,
William Meader, who had been a leader
in Victorian golf for 40 years. He helped
to found the Victorian association in
1901, and was secretary and treasurer
from 1907 until 1934, when he retired.
He founded the Victorian Golf Club at
Fishermen’s Bend, and represented the
club in inter-State contests for many
years. He wrote voluminously on his
subject, and was 73 at the finish.
Foofbrawl
With one Sydney Rugby Union com-
petition round to be played there are
still two places vacant in “the four.”
Randwick and St. George are certain ;
for the other places Gordon (third now),
Manly, East, Drummoyne and Parra-
matta (together in fourth place) are all
in the running. It may have to be
decided on percentages.
Randwick settled ’Varsity’s chances.
Rankin was back with ’Wick, and besides
his own invariable contribution to the
score (12 points from goals this time)
he made a vast difference in straightening
out the backline. At the finish the tally
was six tries to three—-30-12. North,
sorely trounced 20-3 by East, and West;
whitewashed by St. George (14 -nil), are
also out of it.
Drummoyne is putting up a sterling
finish. The Reds followed up their
defeat of Randwick by walloping Manly
three tries to one. The hardworking
Drummoyne forwards were again chiefly
responsible. Parramatta and Gordon,
contested every inch of territory, tackling
and defending solidly. Only two tries
were scored, one each, but a penalty
goal gave “Parra” the victory, 6-3.
# * # *
The V.F.L. competition was suspended
on Saturday, all 12 teams taking part
in a knock-out contest at the Melbourne
C.G. About 30,000 turned up and there
is likely to be £3OOO-o'dd for patriotic
funds from entrance money, collection
boxes and ticket sales. Umpires, police
and other officials gave their services
free.
The football, limited to two 10-minute
halves for each match, was fast and
furious, with no “beg-pardons.” By
night, the barrackers were without
audible voices but satisfied that they’d
had their money’s worth. North, Saints,
Tigers, Scraggers, Maroons and the Blues
“knocked-out” the other six. Then
Richmond did to Footscray what it had
done to Melbourne, limiting the opposi-
tion to one point, and Carlton outed
Fitzroy, while North Melbourne and St.
Kilda looked on. Next Richmond pro-
ceeded to deal with Norths, and St. Kilda
settled Carlton. In the final St. Kilda
broke away to an early lead over the
tired Tigers and won by 4-2 to 2 points.
Fitzroy has pushed its way up the
V.F. League ladder, only being kept out
of “the four” on percentages, but equal on
points with Richmond, which shares the
honors with Melbourne, Essendon and
Geelong. Footscray, which had its sup-
porters walking among the stars at one
stage, has slumped a little, and is four
points behind Fitzroy and four ahead of
Carlton and Collingwood. North Mel-
bourne is at the foot.
Melbourne, Geelong and Essendon are
certain to reach the semi-finals ; Footscray
has a slippery hold on its chance of
getting in against Richmond and Fitz-
roy ; Carlton and Collingwood have very
slim chances; the others are out of it.
“Love 40”: What the flapper press
calls “a storm of disapproval” was heard
issuing from the Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion council when Adrian Quist sug-
gested that he and Bromwich should
tour the U.S.A. and play tennis for
Australian war funds. The young
man’s suggestion, which included his
opinion that “his tennis value was
greater than his military value,” so
shocked the council that one member de-
clared he felt “sick.” Acting-chairman
Pitt calmed the storm by declaring that
he would like to give Quist “the benefit
of any lingering doubt,” whatever that
may mean.


There is Safety in the Quality
of this Pure Spirit
m
. . '
.
_
m
HI j 5
m
m 'ar
r
HHHHI
■ m
.. . ' s&2s!B£*is£v-' : vC «Mk«X}>^.^X l Xl( l W*WAl^: v .; ;
0S! <* " * -*k r' *
it# &&> Nij!
i*. •- » 1
.-jawi
sm: : vs >
&
%f|i
I HI
t ■!■ =
trmm
’ -. ; r > .
c
■**“ :
as
8M
I #
S£
v^ivT^
■o, "
m#
?■ . ■ .
V
1.1 ■■'
v
11
'
11 ' |
•• HHHi
A.I.F.
wants comforts
-guKHihe,
LORD
MAYORS
TUCKER & CO. PTY., LIMITED
■SYDNE)


SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Beecham Comes to Sydney
Sydney got its first impressions of Sir
Thomas Beecham in action as a con-
ductor on Saturday night, when the
baronet (whose music won him a knight-
hood before he inherited a baronetcy)
faced a packed Town Hall. He is a
man of many aspects. As he bows slowly
and gravely he resembles a bust of Shak-
speare. As he darts a dirty look at some
late-comers fumbling to their seats, he
recalls Captain Kettle in a paddy.
Turning to the orchestra his loftiness
and truculence melt into urbanity, even
geniality. His eye kindles as he surveys
his forces. A gentle one-inch horizontal
slap of the baton on the empty desk
before him launches the strains of
Tschaikowsky’s “Romeo and Juliet.”
Quietly and reverently the various com-
panies are paraded for religious service.
Then comes the command to advance.
The Montagues and Capulets go into
action. The baton becomes an upward-
thrusting spear, and the wood winds join
the melee ; a rapier, thrusting and parry-
ing, and the violins scream with rage ; a
sabre, slashing down, and the brasses
commence a bombardment; the left hand
hurls grenades to the side, and the drums
respond with fearful crashes. The com-
mander-in-chief is everywhere, inspiring,
rallying, compelling victory.
The tumult passes and the military
hero becomes a cunning magician, weav-
ing out of rainbows and moonbeams and
soft zephyrs the serenade of Romeo, the
shy response of Juliet. He conjures up a
cold wind and a stormy sky, and tragedy
stalks the stage. After that there is only
sorrow and a song for the dead.
Beecham doesn’t conduct music—he
lives it. In his tutelary presence annota-
tions are unnecessary. He made even
such a tangled hotchpotch of gibberish
(as it usually sounds) as Berlioz’s “Sym-
phonic Fantastique” as plain as a Biblical
parable, as logical as a Euclidean proposi-
tion.
During the Schumann pianoforte con-
certo the conductor turned off most of
his current. He let Eunice Gardiner, that
very charming and spirited young Aus-
tralian pianist, have all the limelight.
And Schumann provides plenty for the
soloist. There is no concerto in all musi-
cal literature that so cleverly sets the
stage and prepares the entrances for the
star performer; that so affectionately
amplifies the keyboard instrument’s weak-
nesses. Beecham took no bow after this,'
but busied himself helping the young
lady with her piles of bouquets.
It was a great concert —conductor in
fine fettle ; orchestra responding splen-
didly; audience enthusiasticallyresponsive.
* * * *
Schwezoff’s New Ballet
Last week at Sydney Royal the Ballet
co. gave Igor Schwezoff’s “Lutte Eter-
nelle” —Eternal Struggle—its first per-
formance. Thoughtful and colorful
ballet, excellently staged, and danced with
feeling and understanding, the repetitive
yearning quality of the music expressed
in the patterned grouping and breaking
and grouping again of the dancers.
The musical background is the “Etudes
Symphoniques” of Schumann. The ballet
tells of man’s perpetual striving for some
eventual alliance with beauty and truth,
of the persistent encroachment of dis-
tracting obsessions, of the temptation to
abandon his yearnings and of the triumph
of will necessary to achieve contentment.
The theme is presented in allegory by
figures of Man, Woman, Illusion, Obses-
sions, Truth, Beauty and Will, and a
chorus of People. It is stated with sim-
plicity and directness.
Georges Skibine was Man, young,
virile and tormented ; Toumanova.seduc-
tive and persistent as Illusion, Borislav
Runanine a dominant Will. Much of the
success is due to the effect of stage-setting
and costuming. Two Melbourne sisters,
Kathleen and Florence Martin, painted
the scenery—in browns and gold, the
backdrop showing a golden tunnel
through which streams the sun ; at the
sides the sweep of huge beseeching
hands—and the costumes and lighting
repeat and accentuate their color scheme.
Perhaps the knowledge that in “Lutte
Eternelle” they at last had a new ballet
of real and lasting worth helped the
dancers through the rest of the pro-
gramme. “Aurora’s Wedding” was given
its finest Sydney performance, Riabou-
chinska and Jasinsky sweeping the others
along by the excellence of their dancing
in the Blue Bird item, and the light-
hearted “Graduation Ball” Schwezoff
was the flirtatious general was put
through with rollicking good humor.
* * * *
Adelaide Stage Shows
Adelaide’s theatres are making a de-
termined breakaway from the everlasting
“film.” The Royal has ice, on which
perhaps the most astonishing thing is
the massed ease and grace of a large
co. on a comparatively small stage;
while the principals do things on skates
—toe-dancing, aeroplane swing, polka,
long jump—which might be clever even
without skates.
The Majestic has suddenly gone back
to its old Tivoli memories of Hudson
and Rickards and Mclntosh. It now
has again a real variety show of
Adolphe Menjou nonplussed by behavior of Carole Landis and John
Hubbard, while Donald Meek chases bear cub, in “Turnabout,” at May-
fair, Sydney.
athletes and comedians and song-and-
dance, with Will Mahoney on top.
The present Tivoli has seen three
evenings of “Proscenium,” Ivor Novello’s
play (written for Fay Compton and him-
self) of an actress, too old for Juliet,
who marries a much younger amateur,
and finds him eventually starring as
Romeo without her. Thelma Baulder-
stone’s experience makes her just right
fof this. Irving Johnston is the earnest
Romeo, and Vivienne Oldfield the jealous
youngster whose playing of Juliet is
about her only good quality. Production
by Ronald Peterson, and a lot of clever
people in small parts.
Also Robert Matthews, one of the
Rep.’s best, has lent a hand to the Play-
box Theatre in “Youth at the Helm,”
the jolly play of a cheeky outsider who
bluffs his way into a big bank and nearly
to the head of it.
* * * *
“Crazy Show”
A novel touch introduced at Sydney
Tiv. —the artists marching down from
the stage at the end of the show and
personally ushering out the audience.
Friendly handshakes all round: “Good-
bye! Come again!” “Too right, George!
. . . Betcha life, Ted! ... Be seem’ y’,
Bob!”
A good show, too; Jenny Howard,
Edwin Styles, Bob Dyer and George
Wallace heading a tip-top bill, the Eng-
lish lass stealing the show. More in
the way of a revue than standard vaude-
ville, it doesn’t for a moment let up on
its steady flow of smooth comedy sketches
and well-turned-on chorus numbers.
* * * *
The phlegmatic Friedman commanded
a better attendance than usual for his
swan song to Melbourne last week, and
listeners got more than their money’s
worth in the 24 Variations on a Theme
by Handel (Brahms) and a banquet of
Chopin, followed by a stream of encore
dishes. They were still asking for more
when Friedman departed.
* * * *
Gladys Moncrielf appears at Melbourne
Tivoli at great expense and much profit
to the management. She sang three of
those familiar numbers which still carry
an aroma of allurement the way Gladys
sings them in her artfully artless manner
and her clear, bell-like soprano, which
needed no aid from the amplifier that
has become the inseparable companion
of Tivoli songsters. She gave no encores.
The rest of the bill was up to the usual
standard, but a little gent named Kenny
Brenna, who looks like Billy Hughes and,
like him, blows up and bursts balloons
for a living, was well above it.
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Biscuit Eater”
A “biscuit-eater” in Yank sporting
parlance is a useless gun-dog; a dog
more interested in filling his own belly
than the “bag.” Present support at Syd-
ney Prince Edward is the tale of a
biscuit-eater who made good. It’s, also
a collection of some of the most beauti-
ful outdoor sporting shots yet seen.
Action takes place on a country estate
in a district where working the gun-dogs
is considered the only permissible sport.
One of the more bearable kid-actors,
Billy Lee, appears as the son of the
kennel overseer, whose one ambition is
to own and train a dog himself. His
chance comes when his father is weeding
out the runts in a recently-arrived litter.
He finds himself owner of the most
hopeless-looking specimen of the bunch.
Fillum then follows this sad hound as
he rapidly develops into a prize biscuit-
eater. He successfully runs the whole
gamut of canine recklessness, from egg-
stealing and the careful stalking of such
game as skunks and rattlesnakes to his
crowning effort of committing an indis-
cretion with the most blue-blooded lady
of the kennel. However, Billy perseveres,
and enters him in the big dog event of
the year, the field trials. Subsequent
scenes are something' which no follower
of the sport, or dog lover of any de-
scription, should miss, with shot after
shot of pointers and setters at their best.
Action is slowed down a bit in the
last stages by the overdoses of senti-
mental stuff that they usually ladle on
to animal tales. It’s accepted procedure
that dog-heroes should end their adven-
tures by meeting a noble death in some
cause or other, and present show follows
procedure. However, it would take more
than this to spoil one silhouette skyline
shot alone —of a pure white setter holding
a “point.”
* * * *
Bing Crosby, Bob Hope and Dorothy
Lamour flutter gently about in “Road to
Singapore” at Sydney Prince Edward.
Bing, son of a shipping magnate, and
down-and-out comrade Bob hit out for
parts* unknown, and come to rest at a
small island somewhere along the route
to Singapore. Hereabouts Dorothy drifts
in clad in sarong, and things move
peacefully to a happy ending. One thing
sure about it—everyone who sees it will
\ forget it.
“The Mortal Storm”
If Uncle Sam keeps this up much
longer he’ll shame us into going to war
for him. For there’s a happy “non-
Aryan” professor and his Aryan wife
and his half-Aryan daughter and his
two wholly Aryan stepsons, and the day
Hitler is appointed Chancellor the family’s
happiness is doomed. The brothers and
the daughter’s fiance become fanatical
Nazis, the old professor dies in a con-
centration camp ; then the daughter, who
has teamed up with anti-Nazi James
Stewart, is shot —at former lover’s re-
gretful orders—while escaping over the
border into Austria.
Old stuff, but much better handled by
Stewart and Margaret Sullavan at Sydney
St. James than it was by the clumsy
amateurs of “The Beast of Berlin.” What
miserable bug is biting Hollywood that
it can’t bring itself to say the word
“Jew”? Both these fightin’ anti-Nazi
fillums have carefully spoken of “non-
Aryans.”
* * * *
“Turnabout”
Another of the Thorne Smith fantasies
hitting the screen at Sydney Mayfair.
First-rate comedy most of the way,, with
a slight tendency to drag when the pos-
sibilities of the situation are exhausted
and repetition has set in.
John Hubbard is the energetic business-
man husband, envious of the leisurely
existence of his sassiety-damsel wife
(Carole Landis); she equally envious of
his high-pressure activity. Wistfully they
contemplate the possibility of changing
shoes, and obliging supernatural power
does the rest. One day of it, with wife
effectively wrecking husband’s business
and husband discovering that he is
“expecting,” is ample for both. Vigorous
appeals to the kindly spirit to go into
reverse gear, and all seeming likely to
end well, when spirit bungles the change
back and husband finds himself due for
the worst in any case.
High-explosive guffaw shaking the
Mayfair to the roots.
Artbursts.
Among the offerings in the Australian
Water Color Institute’s show at the
Education Department’s galleries, Syd-
ney, Margaret Coen’s flower-pieces,
G. K. Townshend’s riverside glimpses,
John Eldershaw’s old bridges and piers
and C. E. S. Tindall’s Scottish sketches
are outstanding. Albert Collins shows
a series of pictures of old Sydney, done
from old photographs and engravings;
more interesting archasologically than
artistically. Frank Medworth has trans-
lated some Australian scenes into the
fashionable pastel-tinted English water-
color style. One of Norman Lindsay’s
two pictures, a period piece, goes to the
N. S. Wales Gallery.
* * * *
In the Contemporary Group show at
Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries, Sydney,
Roland Wakelin’s “Rain in the City”
delivers its impression strongly ; Arnold
Shore gets some engaging color into a
rugged still-life (No. 6); Helen Stewart’s
portrait sketch “Julia” atones for a series
of incredibly stiff nudes. Eric Wilson
and Frank Hinder out-Picasso Picasso
and Russell Drysdale out-Cezannes
Cezanne. John D. Moore achieves unity
and serenity in at least one offering,
“Evening in England,” and Muriel Med-
worth’s design “Flowers at Double Bay”
is full of grace. George Bell’s large
flower-piece doesn’t look like flowers.
Kathleen Jones’s two modest offerings
are both worth while. Joseph Connor
and Vida Lahey, who shouldn’t be in
this galley at all, show their usual
straightforward stuff. Most of the other
exhibitors seem to be more interested
in proving their freedom from academic
trammels than in portraying things seen.
* * * *
The “Primitives” show for patriotic
purposes held at the Macquarie Galleries
last week was amusing, but it wasn’t
by any means an array of “first efforts.”
Except for kiddies’ scribbles the work
was mostly that of very experienced
practitioners. Interesting items included
some clever Japanese scenes, done in
part with scraps of cotton-wool and
other material, a very rude drawing by
Frith, some characteristic sketches by
Scorfield and a clever little anonymous
water-color portrait (No. 235).
* * * *
An exhibition of cultural objects of
Japanese origin at the Myer Emporium,
Melbourne, comprises fabrics, cups and
saucers, porcelain, pictures, furniture and
industrial inventions, including wireless
sets and a synchrophone. A good deal
of it looks as if it had come out of a
factory. Best things in the show are
the national costumes of mountain
peasants, which are hand-made and
-colored and whose taste is perfect.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
are given away free for a penny
read it you will never be without it.
Every month six to nine patterns
stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
m MIDDLE-AGE—
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note a
Blowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth.. While this is to he expected to a de-
gree, if passage is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting, Nature
may be warning that there is something
■wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste on* of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffl-
ness under the eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a
special remedy for the kidneys and will give
quick and lasting benefit. Old and young
alike can take DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS with perfect safety,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Mrs. Walter Swinson has pulled it off
again! The concert she organised for
the Victoria League’s club in London
for overseas service men was pictorial,
pleasing and pally. If any week can
give you a party with more than that,
you’re a lucky woman. The setting was
Government House, the programme
items and the performers had been
hand-picked, and the chairs were so
tightly packed that everybody’s knees
tickled the vertebrae ahead. Box-office
turned in £530, and if you know the
ballroom and drawing-room of G.H.
you’ll realise that not another ardent
Victoria Leaguer could have been
squeezed in. In addition to ticket money,
add £6OO or so in donations to Mrs.
Swinson for her cause, plus £3OO from
members of the League. Total draft to
cheer the London club should be about
£l4OO.
Lady Wakehurst was president of the
concert committee ; the A.B.C. supplied
the performers. All entries and exits
had been duly rehearsed during the
morning, and the whole thing dovetailed
as smoothly as a piece of the cabinet-
maker’s art. Green and gold brocade
that might have been woven for Deidre
was worn by Lady Wakehurst. As usual
she looked the most paintable woman
present. She carried daffodils. With
Lord Wakehurst she made entry when
the audience was seated.
The small gallery at the end of the
ballroom, just above the stage, was gay
with pink camellias. The Victoria
League badge was a graceful flower
piece. Through the warm rooms the scent
of stocks drifted from the tall bowls in
which they were, in the words of an
Indian love lyric, “glowing their life
away.” The young contingent handed
out booklets (a sprig of laurel to Noreen
Dangar for the warmest smile) and pro-
grammes. The Hon. Henrietta Loder,
president of this group, was tall and
graceful in green chiffons. Pictorial were
Mrs. Swinson’s black taffetas so brightly
embroidered with tiny posies. Her hus-
band and sjster Mrs. Fagioli sat to-
gether near the front. Mrs. Hamilton
Kirkland, Mrs. Vernon Cole and Beulah
Bolton were there. A group came from
Admiralty House: Mrs. Bracegirdle,
Ivie Price and Phyllis Parkinson. The
F. J. Davys, some Macarthur Onslows
and the Julius lady were glimpsed.
Mrs. Greg McGirr’s ermine and
violets made a dent; so did Mrs. Alexis
Albert’s black velvets and Margaret
Adams’s silver frock. Canada’s High
Commissioner Burchell came with his
wife and daughter. Canada was there,
too, in the Moore-Cosgrave couple.
Pianist Eunice Gardiner and singer
Evelyn Hall were the two girls on the
programme. Tenor Ken Neate and
baritones Harold Williams and Lord
Lurgan sang, and the A.B.C. string
orchestra played.
Beecham speaking for half an hour
is peerless. Beecham speaking for half
an hour and ten minutes is praiseworthy.
Beecham speaking for an hour is a bit
of a pill—even though one gilded by
eloquence. The famous little conductor
was the guest of the Musical Association
last week, and all would have been well
if Sir Thomas had been the whole pro-
gramme. Instead of which the evening
commenced with movies that were a sort
of life history of Australia. President
Faunce Allman made a speech.
Then Dr. Bainton, who accompanied his
words with a neat and incessant toe
dance, took the stage. Knight Tom
Bavin put forth an argument proving
that the Common Man liked his music.
Beecham conducts, with hand and arm,
the flow of his own words as though
they w'ere orchestral passages.
Of course, the famous one’s speech
led up to the necessity of founding an
opera. That was the hope in the hearts
of all his listeners. So that the wonder
was that, bowing the head reverently, the
vast concourse (it was probably a record
Musical Association party) did not heave
a grand amen!
Married recently at the Paddington
Registry Office (London) were Rhodes
Hambridge and Patsy Baker. Patsy is
one of those streamlined highbrows with
a smart hair-do and a perfect figure.
Both bride and ’groom are Cambridge
grads. Rhodes is still busy in St.
George’s Hospital. Patsy is also doing
an interesting job she is helping the
anatomist Slome to bring out a text-
book on his subject. Rhodes’s family,
the Frank Hambridges, and sister Mar-
jory now make their home at the Astor.
At the moment Mr. Hambridge is con-
valescing in St. Luke’s private hospital.
There’s a classic beauty about the
camellia that suggests groves in Arcady.
Even in these modern helter-skelter times
they preserve their air of leisured ease.
Last week, through grace of Professor
and Mrs. Waterhouse and Mr. and Mrs.
A. O. Ellison (ninety per cent, the ladies),
the camellia in all its beauty came to the
city. On tables and stands, palely-green
as spring shoots, the Hovey family in its
varied beauty, the Czar in all its majesty
—golden crown set in the midst of
spreading pink petals the Fimbriata
with its daintily-serrated edges, were set
in low bowl and high vase. Holding
court in a white porcelain vase, Prince
Frederick William stood erect and splen-
did, just inside the door. At the top of
the room gleamed the Bonomiana, white
as the great hope, white as the robes of
Peace.
This year the flower’s beauty helps the
Red Cross. All the takings of the show
go to this cause of mercy. One of the
earliest visitors was Lady Gowrie. In
the afternoon Mrs. Bracegirdle was an
enthusiast; so was Marjory Hambridge
with friend Mrs. Brennan. Lute Drum-
mond came with Mrs. Tancred. The John
Holmes couple did the rounds—her
hat as gay as a cluster of red cur-
rants. The blooms came from Kurra-
jong, from Hunter’s Hill, from North
Shore gardens. From Gosford came the
wide-open single blooms with the golden
centres.
To attractive brunette Lucy Bullivant
goes the honor of starting the Manly
Canteen soon after the outbreak of war.
Its first home was a basement, conspicu-
ously lacking in mod. cons’, and appro-
priately dubbed “The Dugout.” But
staunch supporters from Manly and dis-
trict rallied round, and now the rest-
room is an important place—a large, airy
room at the back of the Literary Insti-
tute. Here the hard-working com-
mittee of the Social Women’s Auxiliary
provides free meals and music for the
boys, and one of the members, who has
sons of her own and a heart big enough
to find room for other women’s off-
spring, has made a truly practical offer-
ing—her own home free of rates, taxes,
etc., for the duration.
This home in Whistler-street, not far
from the booming surf of North Steyne,
begins by . providing beds for ten soldiers
on leave for the price of Is. for the week-
end.
Claire Simpson delighted Auckland
(Maoriland) audiences when she was
nine years old. Now, at 15, she has a
recognised place in Sydney’s musical life.
Claire is a violinist and a holder of the
Walter and Eliza Hall scholarship at the
Conservatorium, where her teacher is
Florent Hoogstoel. During last month
she appeared as soloist at three of the
young people’s symphony matinees
conducted for the A.B.C. by Bernard
Heinze. Her playing of the Bach
Chaconne is considered by musicians as
most impressive. Mother, Thelma
Gallagher, is well known as a pianist
in Maoriland. One of Claire’s sisters
plays the piano, another the ’cello.
Russell Roberts photograph.
Mrs. Sibyl Greenwell, LL.B., who was
Sibyl Morrison, provided the Law School
Comforts Fund with a cheery tea-and-
crumpets curtain-raiser at her flat in
Hampton Court. The fund owed its
beginning to Margaret Dalrymple Hay,
and at first was to be fairy godmother
to the grads, and undergrads, of the Syd-
ney Uni. Law School. But, like all fairy
godmothers, it can spread its wings, and
now they are to hover in kindness over
all legal members of the A.I.F. Books,
magazines, cigarettes, razor blades and
a hundred and one amenities will be
packed by groups of loving LL.Bs. ajnd
loving wives, mothers and sweethearts of '
LL.Bs. and kindred law-degree holders.
If your family has a man of law “over
there” do join this group.
Sir Thomas Beecham’s opening of the
Primitives was the rare bit of real
humor in the show. Of all the moods,
humor is the lass with the most
delicate air. Slapstick sufficed most of
the exhibitors. From the word “go”
Beecham was as nimble-witted as Jack
Point. When conducted to the little dais
in the Macquarie Galleries he hesitated
before mounting. Said it reminded him
of the stool in “The Mastersingers,” and
would he be expected to pour forth the
prize song?
Everybody came to this show to view
his or her own or friends’ masterpieces. It
was run as a silver injection to the funds
of the Beecham concert for the Navy
and Air Force. The A.B.C.’s Mr. Bur-
nett acted as coin collector at the door,
and within active young women, Marie
Bremner among them, shook you down
for pennies in exchange for votes. Mrs.
John Fairfax and Mittie Lee Brown, who
were the show’s chief instigators, were
among the afternoon’s ardents ; so were
the Alexander Gordon lady, Mrs. A. G.
Thomas, Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax, Sydney
Ure Smith and Mrs. Bettington, whose
husband’s masterpiece, “Last of the
Appendix,” was painted entirely in
colored medicines. Charlie Lloyd Jones’s
“Trustees of the Art Gallery Judging
Moderns” raised a chuckle. Jeanie
Ranken was among the big push. So
was the McKelvey lady.
Norton Trevaire made this portrait of
attractive Margaret Swallow, of Colling-
wood, Gunning, N.S.W., who returned
recently from overseas, where she had
been studying and making appearances
in ballet in Denmark when the war broke
out. Before leaving Australia Margaret
learned her art from Jan Kowsky and
the Burlakov school. She and her
mother, Mrs. H. E. Swallow, are staying
at Oriana, Macleay-street.
Let no man think his life perfect till
he has heard an orchestra conducted by
Beecham in the third movement of the
Berlioz “Symphonie Fantastique.” Under
his lead it is a pastoral lyric where life
is so leisured that the trembling of a
leaf, the wind in the grass, make up its
essence. Of course, the whole of the
great work was a triumph, and the little
conductor with the dynamic eyes had a
reception that nearly lifted the roof off
the Town Hall.
Apparently deceived by the edge to
his tongue, some people imagined Sir
Thomas conducting with a whip, soihe-
thing in the manner of Simon Legree.
One neighbor naively exclaimed to this
Letter: “Why, he looks quite kind. See
the benevolent, fatherly smile he gives
the players.” His manner to Sydney
pianist Eunice Gardiner, who was soloist
in the Schumann concerto, was not only
kindly, it was courtly. When the at-
tendants handed up the great baskets of
rose and lily, of stock and violet, he
looked as delighted as she, and played
middleman between the hander-up and
Eunice with an air that won the listener’s
heart and hand.
Eunice wore a softly flowing white
frock. Lisa Perli, one of the celebrities,
was wrapped in ermine. The wife of
tenor Heddle Nash was there minus her
husband, who had hurt his ankle. Maori-
land’s basso Natzke was with the A.B.C.
Bearup couple. Ruth Ainsworth was
down from Frensham. Lute Drummond,
Constance Pickworth, the Hugh Poynter
lady and Mrs. Rex Bennett were well-
known singers exchanging notes. Trix
Tange, who has just handed over £lOO
to the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund frorn her
National Gallery concerts, was radiant
in moss-green. The Harry Twigdens and
the C. W. R. Powells were together;
Mrs. Hope Gibson, Mrs. Macartney,
Mrs. Denmark and the Walter Swinsons
were rain-undeterred North Shore Liners;
the Gordon lady was there, and Justice
Bonney. Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar, in
cornelian tones, Noreen Dangar, Olga
Philipoff, of the Ballet, were among the
two or more thousands.
Appropriately enough, there was a
spatter of rain on the roof of the Edu-
cation Department galleries as the Water-
colorists opened their seventeenth yearly
show. Mayor Crick, who was introduced
by president Maund, is not only an opener
of art shows. He is a buyer of pictures.
Three paintings have been bought by the
National, among them a clever snow
scene by Rah Fizelle. Anne Montgomery,
too, got herself included in Trustee pur-
chases, though why they didn’t mop up
her “Flower Medley” is a mystery. Nor-
man Lindsay’s “Dawn” is another Gal-
lery buy.
Neoroli Whittle walked into the room
in a Parma-violet suit, complete with
green hat and gloves, just to prove
how good Dora Jarret’s picture of
her is. Florence Lake, who knows all
about Mt. Morgan and Queensland and
the flowers that blow up there, is back
in Sydney. She has three pictures in the
show. Vida Lahey, Margaret Coen, Toby
Williamson and Mary Edwards all won
praise for their flower-pieces. Maude
Sherwood popped into the gallery ; so
did Isabel Mackenzie. Her offering is
a whole tree. Albert Collins, Howard
Hinton, Fred Leist, Wal Taylor and sec-
retary H. W. Grace were busy greeting
and being greeted. In five minutes
Howard had touched on kava, canoes,
Boys’ Town and the Armidale Teachers’
College, which now holds 700 paintings,
plus stained’glass windows, given by him.
Kathleen and Florence Martin must
have been delighted with the hearing
given to Igor Schwezoff’s ballet “Lutte
Eternelle.” The. two clever Melbourne
girls, who designed the decor and cos-
tumes, were in the house for the ballet’s
first night, and later Kathleen made her
bow on the stage. Among the ballerinas
in the audience was Tamara Grigorieva.
She and Stephanie Edye found time for
a word or two on the stairs. Rustling in
pink tulles was Mrs. John Collins, of
Beaudesert (Q.). Penelope Cay, Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, Mrs. Geoige Lee and Mrs.
Ben Edye were other ballet devotees in
the big audience.
% Married quietly at St. Columba
Church, Woollahra, last Friday were Mrs.
Dorothy Wrigley (daughter of the E. J.
Taits) and Angus Macpherson. A grey
frock with a pleated skirt, red roses and
silver fox furs were items in the bride’s
outfit.
Sydney R.A.S. show will not be held
next year, owing to military occupation
of the grounds. Twenty-two years ago
it had to be abandoned because of the
“Spanish” ’flu epidemic. Sydney without
its Easter Show will be as Melbourne
without its Cup, though there is no threat
to the latter at present. Brisbane Show
opens for business on August 12.


Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Personal and Missing Friends.
STEVENS. —Any person knowing the where-
abouts of (MISS) FRANCES MARY
STEVENS (born in England on January 28,
1884), and formerly residing at Birmingham,
England, and believed to have also resided
at Upper Darlington Range, West Australia,
and also at Boyanup (W.A.), please communi-
cate with GILLOTT, MOIR & AHERN,
Solicitors, 95 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce.)
TO HAROLD KEITH EDDINGTON last
heard of in Sydney New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charges in the
petition of DORICE EDDINGTON praying
for dissolution of marriage. In default of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will proceed
to hear the said petition proved and pronounce
judgment in respect thereto. AND take further
notice that for the purpose aforesaid within
thirty (30) days after the date of this publi-
cation an appearance must be entered at the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania
Macquarie Street Hobart.
(1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
Melbourne
Chatter
Melbourne surely will have to take to
parachutes- or spring boots for kangaroo
leaps if our flag-day proceedings are to
happen more often and more regularly—
for the Flinders-Bourke-Swanston-Eliza-
beth streets block becomes isolated as the
barriers are closed and as inaccessible
as a castle surrounded by a moat. Busy
citizens are marooned on the wrong side
of the street, and business is held up for
an hour or often longer.
The crowd of 90,000 which lined the
streets to see the procession on last
Friday’s flag day was a non-effusive lot;
there was hardly a cheer, small boys
whistling through their teeth and motor-
horn toots being practically the only
aural attributes. But if the public was
not noisy in its patriotism it was gener-
ous, for £13,000 was collected for the
Comforts Fund. The lucky envelopes
were the biggest draw—7o,ooo sold at Is.
each. Collections were made in the Town
Hall through orderly and systematic
numbering, with boys and girls from
“The Shop” in their gowns of learning
handing over the packages.
On the stage were the “specials”—fur
coats and capes, radios, air trips to Adel-
aide and Sydney, necklets, wristlet
watches, etc. A man from the country
collected an evening wrap shimmering
with sequins. He said it might do for
his sister. Most of the women’s frocks
went to men, and inversely there were
numbers of bright young girls around
the town possessed of briar pipes. Popu-
lar Constable “Wallie” won the cocker
spaniel pup who kept things lively at a
stall in Collins-street. The pup was a
small and dynamic bundle who yapped
all day and night without showing any
sign of fatigue or boredom. As on other
flag days there were protests about gam-
bling and drink with a kick in it. The
police did the rounds after champagne
wheels and lucky barrels, etc., but every-
body was so polite to everybody else
there was not enough friction to cause
any bother. The games of chance made
a lot of money for the good cause.
Though only a fledgling, the Silver
Wings Auxiliary has taken to the air in
no weak and wobbly manner. It ran
a successful bridge party at Myer’s last
week, it has booked space at the Aus-
tralia for a Blarney House bridge party
on the 20th, and has staked a claim in
the same locality for a dinner-dance on
Cup Eve, November 4, when the pro-
ceeds will be shared between Air Force
House and the R.A.N. fund.
Not flowers but cakes were sales
items among the bridge at Myer’s.
Mrs. E. J. Bolger and Mrs. Gerald
Lancaster had exercised presuasive
eloquence on friends who have cun-
ning ways with egg-whizzers, mixing-
basins and their contents. Mrs. Barry
Thomson was already on the job of
advertising the Blarney House do for the
20th, having made the booking date only
that morning. Myra Marsh brought
along ten tablesworth of players. A
blue feather of ambitious height soared
from Mrs. Bert Wolf’s headpiece. Mrs.
Saul Aarons zoomed among the tables
dropping leaflets about the Cup Eve
date. Roma Rainford sold chocolates
in a black velvet doll’s hat and pearls the
size of hippo’s tears. A visitor from
Sydney who enjoyed a keen game of
contract was Mrs. Colville Smith, who
can also claim Brisbane as a domicile,
since she and her husband moved north-
wards from these parts some years ago.
“Up with the meeting, on with the
real work,” could have been a swing-
music maxim to “start the day right”
as the red chairs with the paint very
fresh -iipon them were pushed back after
the first public gathering to launch the
scheme of the United Services Restau-
rant. Organiser Dr. Buffer Murphy wants
the venture to open without debts chok-
ing the heat of its gas stoves, twinkling
guiltily from the electric lights, taking
the very sharpness out of the knives
and cracking the plates by sheer weight
of oppression. So at the moment she’s
concerned with enterprises to pay the
ingoing biffs. When all’s clear the place
will be open six days a week in aid of
British children.
Trustees elected are Major-General
O. F. Phillips, Stanley Argyle, Norman
Robinson, Norman MacKenzie and
Basil Buffer Murphy. Colonel Harold
Wilkinson is hon. treasurer, and
Roberty” Lee, all unknowing of the
fate that had befallen him, for he is
in W.A., was elected hon. sec.
The housewarming at the United Ser-
vices will take place on August 31. A
committee sprang into being at the
meeting with immediate offers of help
on various stalls and sideshows and a
suggestion (adopted) that the fete would
continue during the evening with darts,
dancing and so forth, so that wives could
be called for by husbands, who would
find some inducement to stay for an
hour or two.
Mrs. O. F. Phillips and Mrs. Simon
McLennan put their hands up for 12
tables each for a bridge party on the
same night on September 6, but it was
Augustus Fritsch, vice-president of the
Food and Wine Society, who bounced
the ball for a nicely-loaded little surprise.
Mr. Fritsch and his brother worshippers
of the gods of the inner man would like
to hold a dinner at the restaurant. The
suggestion was accepted and they have
been promised a slap-up do.
A recent engagement, with wedding to
follow on August 30, is that of Yvonne
Spry and Jock Tuckfield. Yvonne
(Athol Shmith photograph herewith) is
the younger daughter of the F. W. Sprys,
of lona-avenue, Toorak. She will be
an all-white bride in romaine gown and
tulle veil, and her flowers will be held
at the critical moment before the altar
of St. John’s by her one attendant, sister
Heather, otherwise Mrs. Bowen Allen,
in pastel-blue moire. The ’groom-to-be,
the elder son of Dr. and Mrs. W. J.
Tuckfield, of Queen’s-road, has joined
the R.A.A.F., and, after completing
periods of training at Laverton and
Somers, is now stationed at Essendon.
His younger brother Ken tossed over a
law course for the urge of drama. (His
cleverest work was the name part in
Gregan McMahon’s production of
“Richard of Bordeaux,” and that at the
tender age of 21.) Ken, who has been
in England for some time and married a
young repertory actress there, has joined
the R.A.F. and recently became the
proud father of a daughter.
The flagometer —for the Red Cross, the
Comforts Fund and the duration —is
Lena Bryans’s newest brainchild. Mrs.
Bryans, a brunette of many personable
attributes, has a new idea a minute, each
one of which she follows up with the
pertinacity of a trout climbing up a water-
fall. The flagometer is nearly as high as
the Town Hall clock, a sort of giant
barometer, but instead of registering pres-
sure of the atmosphere it records pres-
sure of coin. Encouraging assistance to
Mrs. Bryans was given by the Lord
Mayor, by Councillor Nettlefold, John
.Stamp, of the engineering firm of that
name, who did the applied mechanics, 2nd
J. W. Chalmers, of builders Chalmers
and Thompson, who put the gadget to-
gether.
Mrs. Bryans also had reason to
feel bucked after her interviews with the
principals of various business and art
schools. The “Workman’s,” otherwise
Melbourne Technical College, has prom-
ised to send the flagometer a meal every
week from collection-boxes in each of
its faculties. Weekly also there will be
a new slogan. The first —another Bryans
epigram—was “Give us your pennies,
the pounds will look after our soldiers.”
“Bundles for Britain” have caught
the fancy of Americans, who coin catch
phrases as easily as they eat their break-
fast cereal. The Leon Jonases’ beauteous
twin daughter Gwen, who worked for
“Bundles” (knitted goods, foodstuffs, etc.)
in New .York, recently visited Atlantic
City with her mother, found one of the
shops in the hotel vacant and asked the
manager for premises rent free for
“Bundles” and their propaganda. She
succeeded very well with her project,
and the little shop was a going concern
when she returned to New York. Gwen
and her mother have made no definite
plans about the time of their return to
Australia.
The “tension” with Japan made little
difference to the exhibition of Japanese
industrial arts opened at Myer’s. Num-
bers of people visited the show. Although
the Japanese are alleged to regard plump-
ness with disfavor, a stout little man in
the person of the Premier, Albert Dun-
stan, opened the exhibition. Of interest
are the scientific instruments: -ometers in
various forms which can see and hear.
There were pieces'of porcelain and wood-
carving, also metalwork and fabrics and
colorful examples of commercial and
poster art, but it was the children’s effort
with chalks and brushes which gathered
most attention. These pictures spoke for
themselves in that the schoolboys of
Nippon are as imaginative and original
as the young folk of any other country.
No feature was made of Japanese
flower arrangement, though the art was
seen in two bowls of flowers. One, a
large flat rectangular vessel, contained
irises and marigolds but in one corner
only ; weighted holders like metal pin-
cushions bayoneted the thick, soft stems.
Herewith from Athol Shmith’s camera
Celia Fogarty, who collected 15 offsiders
among her girl friends to help “sell” the
flagometer at the Town Hall. Principal
assets of the salesgirls with the rattling
boxes are persuasive tones and pleasant
smiles, with assistance from a lively band
and a comical cockatoo. The feathered
helper did his piece in raucous tones at
the opening ceremony, and thereafter
spent the rest of the afternoon testing
the honesty of a penny with his formid-
able beak.
Even though the world is turbulent
and notes of music are rare in cities
where music was born, Melbourne is
absorbing its favorite art as faithfully as
in the palmy days. The- crisp touch of
Ignaz Friedman received excellent houses
and ovations. One devoted listener was
writer Mary Grant Bruce, though a dis-
appointed one when the hands of the
enemy clock warned her she would have
to leave early to catch her train back to
Croydon, where she and husband have
made their home.
On Saturday night there were two con-
certs in the environment of the Town Hall,
both for the Comforts Fund. Within
doors a well-sized and enthusiastic audi-
ence applauded the Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra with papa Schneevoigt at its
helm and Madame Sigrid Sundgren as
solo pianist. Madame wore black with
powdery-pink swathes about the corsage.
It was a musical rather than a dressed-
up audience. Evening apparel was rare
as tulips out of season, and there was a
fifty-fifty idea about hats. Singer Grace
Angelau and Mrs. J. M. Lindsay were
together. Miss Angelau had a date early
the next morning to get up and make
herself a birthday cake. Her two young
sons had their presents ready and were
clamoring for a party.
Mrs. Miles Cox was there after an
afternoon at the races, where many
friends had expressed commiseration at
her flat’s recent attention from burglars.
A bright spot in the proceedings, she
says, was the cheerful assistance given
her by the police.
While the music of Smetana, Sibelius,
Beethoven and Tschaikowsky rose within
the Town Hall sounds of the other ex-
treme came forth outside from mouth-
organs, from guitars, tin whistles and
throats growing hoarser in the frosty air.
The alfresco amateurs were mostly lads
in khaki who had gathered round the
flagometer and helped the helpers to col-
lect the crowd and keep it interested and
in the meantime relieve it of its small
change. The flag crept upwards several
degrees in pounds as a result of the even-
ing’s work.
An all-Australian lunch-hour concert
at the Town Hall was an interesting ex-
periment which originated with Miss
Stella Small, a woman whose initiative
is the antithesis of her surname. She has
a lot of faith in her brother- and sister-
composers, and has been instrumental in
the publication of some musical MSS.
which otherwise would have been lost
to the world. Some of Miss Small’s own
compositions (in two she collaborated
with Herbert Davis) were sung by Thea
Phillips and Alexander Browne. Among
other musicians who contributed was
flautist Richard Chugg; also young
pianist Joyce Greer, who returned from
abroad last March. The house was ex-
cellent, though ever-changing ; there were
entrances and exits between every item
as the lunch-hour people came and went.
Whatever their hurry, the workers of the
town did not eat within the hall, though
a few snatched a hasty sandwich out of a
paper bag in the foyer.
Edith Wall, otherwise Mrs. Oscar
Bayne, a young Englishwoman, tall, slim
and brunette and as modern as her paint-
ings, is exhibiting her work for the first
time in Australia at Riddell’s. She has
been in this country only a year. During
the opening afternoon no one could
move in the Gallery without collecting
a dig in the ribs from an architect. The
profession abounded, some representa-
tives being Oscar Bayne, Roy Grounds
(in a tie of canary-yellow and plus his
wife, in cigar-brown coat with fox collar),
Harold Bartlett, A. G. Stephenson and
Best Overend (who, in spite of wintry
winds, still wears a convict cut and never
collects> pneumonia, and seldom a cold
in the head). Representing the feminine
side of the profession were Alison Harvey
and Camilla Epps. Miss Epps arrived
from England only that morning, and
is delighted to find a temperate climate
where the sun shines and the birds sing
in green gardens. Last winter in England
she survived frost-bound streets and
water-pipes and long perilous journeys
down back stairways with a pail to collect
water on her return every evening from
her office.
A sprightly couple are celebrating a
diamond jubilee on August 21. W. H. B.
Weston plays bowls regularly—otherwise
he’s a chaplain and past master of Free-
masons. His wife is nifty with a croquet
mallet and recently visited Shepparton
with the Sandringham Club team. Both
play bridge as often as they can. Mrs.
Weston, who is a Frenchwoman, is 85,
a year older than her husband. He’s an
Englishman, born at Westminster. The
couple came to Australia in 1914 and
are succeeded by three generations.
Dancing teacher Eunice Weston is a
daughter.


THE SERVICE MAN
Britannia Still Rules.
“Zedo”: The invasion of England being
unaccountably delayed, “experts,” “famous
columnists” and others are busy specu-
lating on the threat to Gibraltar. Civi-
lian population has been moved, the
garrison increased and the fleet has put
to sea to patrol the entrances to the
Straits. There is talk of a heavy force of
Germans, with major artillery and air-
craft, assembled in Spain near the Rock,
and of Italian air forces ready for attack
in Sardinia —roughly 1000 miles away.
Some Spanish papers have remarked
hopefully that if Britain returns Gibraltar
of her own accord it will be because
the hour of rescue is ripe. And if she
does not, Spain will triumph. Judging
by the signs, Spanish and American
journalists have another think coming.
Last week Italians reported the sink-
ing of a British destroyer by aerial bomb-
ing, and the Admiralty admitted the loss
of a destroyer—H.M.S. Delight—without
giving the locality of the sinking. From
R.A.F. Cairo headquarters came the
news that late last month two Italian
submarines were bagged.
Gibraltar, according to a Madrid re-
port, was heavily bombed on July 31.
Nevertheless, the fleet would scarcely be
venturing far from the Rock if imme-
diate attack were anticipated. As for
developments in the Suez- Canal zone,
the canal has been reopened for traffic
at least to the eastern end of the Mediter-
ranean, and British air services to the
Near East, India, the Far East and
Australia are in operation again.
Britain generally is almost in full com-
mand of the seas. The Minister for
Shipping declares that Britain now con-
trols the greatest mercantile navy the
world has ever seen, employing 160,000
men; and, compared with expansion,
average losses of a little over 50,000 tons
per week are small. The blockade of
Europe is almost watertight. And troops
have been carried from and to every part
of the Empire on everything from 1500-
ton ships to the greatest vessels of the
transatlantic trade, without the loss of
a ship or a man. Of late, three detach-
ments of Australians and a large force of
Canadians have reached England “with-
out incident.”
Germany, Turkey and Russia.
“Ekmek Bey”: There was a threaten-
ing note in Molotov’s speech to the
Supreme Council of the Soviets.
He declared that Russian relations
with the Turks were not essentially
changed Turkey’s arrangements with
Britain specify that she is not obliged
to become involved in any war
to which Russia may be a party
—but added that a German White
Book throws “a disagreeable light
on certain aspects of Turkish activity.”
Early last April, he said, the Soviet made
representations about a foreign aeroplane
which flew over Batum, the Black Sea
oil port. Turkey at first denied the
flight, then promised to take measures
against such flights.
In March two ’planes from the direc-
tion of Iran had appeared over Baku,
the Caspian oilfield. The Iranian Gov-
ernment made a denial, but the German
White Book “threw sufficient light on the
incident,” and Russian vigilance along
the country’s southern borders had been
intensified.
This part of the speech was in line
with the consistent propaganda of the
agents of the Communist International
throughout the world that “the Imperial-
ist armies of Britain and France” were
“threatening the Russian oilfields at
Baku.” Australian Communists a few
months ago were telling the world that
Iran, like Finland, might have to be
taken under control to prevent its being
made a stepping-off place for an invasion
of the Caspian region.
On March 27 the Moscow Govern-
ment ordered the managers of the
Caspian oilfields to complete plans for
the sealed storage of oil during the
present year in order to make them less
vulnerable to air attack.
Other Russian operations further east
led to a partial mobilisation in
Afghanistan, with which country the
Soviet has since made a trade agreement.
After Molotov had held forth, a
report was published in New York
that Germany had sent an ultimatum to
Turkey demanding the breaking of the
alliance with Britain and its replacement
by an alliance with the Axis Powers.
There was no official denial or confirma-
tion, but the Turkish Government found
it worth while to deny that Turkish
troops had been moved toward the
Russian border.
Whatever Russia and Germany are
up to, there is no doubt that the centre
of disturbance in the Middle East is
shifting nearer to Palestine, where a
British army, of which the A.I.F. is part,
is camped. Though the Italians are only
400 miles across the sea from Haifa, at
Rhodes, there are no German troops —
unless there are some in Russia —within
2000 miles or so of Palestine and the
Bosphorus, and numerous narrow and
difficult mountain passes bar the way to
the Holy Land. Still, Germans got there
in the last war, when Turkey was their
ally, and they might do it again with
greater forces, narticularly in the air, if
“ Bullets? Oh, no, sir! I put a notch for every Hun I bag!”
Turkey could be overawed into follow-
ing the example of Denmark, Russia
being permitted to have a go at Iraq or
Iran or both. Simultaneously, the Italians,
who are massing greater forces on their
Libyan frontier, might receive orders to
invade Egypt.
The U.S.S.R. border is only 120
miles from the Bagdad-Istanbul railway,
less than 200 miles from the Mosul oil-
fields and the oil pipeline which feeds to
the Mediterranean, and 550-miles airline
—the last 400 miles over easy country for
mechanised transport—from the northern
Palestine border.
“Ek D.”: The Commonwealth still
clings to the dear departed League as an
ideal, though the League has lost its
palace and is now without even a
secretary. Nevertheless, the Government
has brought itself to the point at which
it has decided to form Papua and the
Mandated Territory into the eighth Com-
monwealth military district, with head-
quarters at Moresby. Under the terms
of the mandate, military and naval bases
must not be established in the M.T.,
and the military training of natives, save
for police duties and local defence, is
forbidden. Those prohibitions will have
to go overboard if New Guinea is to be
defended to the best advantage. German
reactions to the Australian Government’s
decision are amusing, considering what
the Nazis did to Norway and the Low
Countries. Berlin newspapers had the
face to pronounce it “a gross breach of
territorial law,” and the “Lokal-Anzeiger”
raved that “this mandatory Power made
a cowardly attack in 1914 on the wholly
unfortified and unprotected German area,
and since 1920 has exploited it uni-
laterally to its own advantage in violent
contradiction to the mandatory prin-
ciple.”
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: In 1918 Big Berthas shelled
Paris from a distance of 76 miles. Now
there is talk of preparations to lay a
70-mile-long barrage across the Channel
with heavy guns mounted opposite the
south-east of England from Boulogne
to Dunkirk, under cover of which troops
are to paddle or be towed over on rubber
rafts. Obviously it would be possible to
shell a section of the English coast from
the Boulogne-Calais sector, especially
with naval-type 14in. artillery—if the
British guns on the English cliffs did not
get in first. There is, however, a vast
difference between shelling even by a
large number of heavy guns and an
effective barrage. The barrage used by the
Germans between Monchy and La Fere
in the March, 1918, attack was imple-
mented with one field gun per 19 yards
of line, one field howitzer per 57
yards, one medium howitzer and one
heavy field gun per 128 yards, one
heavy howitzer per 256 yards, backed
by one super heavy howitzer per
512 yards. Real barrages covering a
stretch of water 70 miles long are out of
the question, unless the Germans have
long-range guns in tens of thousands.
* * * *
Minor fighting continues in northern
Kenya. Local British forces have cap-
tured a small post north of Lake Rudolf,
near the Sudan border, and a counter-
attack was repulsed with “slight loss.”
The Italians had 37 known casualties.
-Italians claim, however, to have killed
64 British, including three officers, and
to have captured the standard of the 6th
African Rifles.
The first contingent of S. African
troops have arrived in Kenya. They were
addressed before they left by General
Smuts, who told them that they were
going to a strategic rampart in the de-
fence lines of S. Africa.
In West Africa watch on German in-
habitants has been intensified since the
arrival by air of a small force of Ger-
mans at French Dakar, near Cape Verde,
where the battleship Richelieu was im-
mobilised a few days earlier. Their ob-
jective was apparently the taking over
of the Polish steamer Kroman, but she
escaped.
* * * *
There has been considerable activity
in the Mediterranean during the past few
days, as instanced by the sinking of the
Greek tanker Hermione, which was
carrying 500 tons of Italian oil. While
the ship was being held up, a heavy force
of large Italian bombers appeared and
attacked the British ships, which were
forced to sink the tanker. That there
have been other actions is shown by the
fact that the Italians admit that one of
their submarines has not returned to its
base.
* * * *
The German High Command reported
last week that a U-boat had sunk a
British submarine off the Norwegian
coast, and Italians claimed the sinking
of another by the destroyer Vivaldi in
the lonian Sea. The Admiralty does not
appear to have heard of either of these
losses.
“E.”: The best prize so far taken by
the R.N. at Port Said was the Italian
steamer Verbania (6640 tons), which
came to anchor at the Canal mouth just
before Italy’s declaration of war. Appar-
ently she was an innocent cargo ship
with no lethal material on board save
60 tons of explosives which she was
carrying to Eritrea. Somebody, nosing
round, discovered that she had been
fitted with scuttling charges. A thorough
search then revealed that she carried
850 tons of military high explosives and
otherwise was neatly packed with cars
and lorries.
* * * *
“Nobby II”: The Germans announced
on June 10 that their naval forces, in-
cluding the Scharnhorst and the
Gneisenau the latter was then stern
down in the mud in Oslo Fiord —were
operating in the North Sea and had
completely shattered the aircraft carrier
Glorious and a destroyer ; that a second
fleet had sunk the auxiliary cruiser
Orama, the naval tanker Oil Pioneer,
and another destroyer, taking several
hundred prisoners. The same day the
Admiralty issued a communique in which
it “presumed” that the Glorious, the
Orama and the destroyers Acasta and
Ardent had been lost. The Orama was
a transport but had no troops on board.
The destroyers Acasta and Ardent were
1350-ton ships of 1930 vintage. The
Admiralty added that a German com-
munique stated that there were several
hundred survivors. Casualty lists for
the two destroyers now have been issued
—Ardent, 10 officers and 143 ratings
missing, one rating killed ; Acasta, two
officers and 12 ratings killed, six officers
and 140 ratings missing. Commander
C. E. Glasfurd, captain of the Acasta,
was on the staff of the R.A.N. Naval
College from 1927 to 1929.
* * ** *
The name of the first Australian to be
wounded in action appears in the latest
Southern Command casualty list—Lance-
Corporal A. S. Webb, 5X1363, injured
by enemy aircraft abroad. Private H. W.
Williams, SXI2II, has died of illness
overseas.
$ * * *
The call-up of the next batches of
compulsory trainees begins this week.
The enrolments, which will be made in
alphabetical order, involve those in the
21-year-age group not already called up,
plus the 22-, 23- and 24-year groups. It
will include all men living within five
miles of a military training centre who
are British subjects, unmarried or
widowers without children and who have
lived in the Commonwealth for six
months. Those who have enlisted in the
expeditionary forces of the three services
are exempt if actually attested —medical
examination does not exempt. Prospec-
tive trainees must apply at the nearest
enlistment centre, and failure to report is
punishable by a fine of up to £5O and/or
imprisonment for six months.
* * * *
“M.F.”: Canada’s war effort is mount-
ing in magnitude. Eight aircraft factories
are working on orders for 3200 machines,
and already Canadians are at work in
Europe in their own Hurricanes. Early
in 1941 the Canadian output of machines
should be round 340 per month. As for
mechanised vehicles, the Dominion is
producing 600 a day and has British
orders for £15,575,000 worth in Austra-
lian money; moreover, it is hoped to
turn out 30 tanks a month early next
year, Britain having placed orders for
£18,000,000 worth. Also, 28 anti-
submarine vessels and five minesweepers
are being built, and under present
arrangements these will be replaced on
the stocks till 54 a.-s. vessels and 28
minesweepers have been launched. All
types of aerial machine-guns, plus 25-
pounders and heavy naval guns, are in-
cluded in the munition programme, along
with shells up to 9.Bin. Ammunition
orders are worth £19,713,000. From
U.S.A. 2800 ’planes have been delivered
and 11,000 more are definitely on order.
* * * *
“Nobby II”: The running fight be-
tween the Alcantara, Captain Ingham,
and an eight-gun German raider off Trini-
dad—the raider did the running—caused
little damage to the 22,000-ton British
auxiliary, though she was slowed up by
a hit while the German, also hit, dis-
appeared behind a smoke screen. Two
were killed and seven wounded on the
Alcantara. She was luckier than her pre-
decessor of the same name, which was
sunk in a fight with the raider Greif
during the last war, at the same time
bringing her opponent to the point of
impotence before another auxiliary
cruiser, the Andes, came up to complete
the job. The raider which escaped in
the recent fight is believed to be the same
which, flying the Swedish flag, sank the
King John and Davisian off the West
Indies and captured their officers.


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO" ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
-RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting
13/3 (2 years £l/2/9) to “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Sectional Boilers for Hot
Water or Low Pressure
Steam for larger installations
for cooking and hot water
supply may have sections
added to them as greater
capacity is needed.
r
;
%
1
. I
I
:
.. L.
uH!.. Hi
3-
" M§|S
rmmm
rr
: hgfm
HOT WATER MUST BE
CHEAP AND CONTINUOUS
FOR HOTELS, HOMES, COLLEGES,
BLOCKS OF FLATS, HOSPITALS, ETC.
Out of date systems mean waste. The Huestion has been
answered for many years i>ast by the use of the English
WHITE ROSE
C.I. (Eng.) BOILERS
(Plain or Rustless)
This Boiler uses coke, requires
no skilled attendant and runs for
hours on one filling; of coke. It
generates
48 GALLONS OF HOT
WATER FROM 91b. OF
COKE; TWO HOT BATHS
FOR LESS THAN ONE
PENNY.
Hot water day and night to
Bathrooms, Bedrooms, Kitchens,
Garages, Cleaning Points, etc.
Full information on request.
A type of Radiator,
for domestic, hospital,
church or public
building use.
xcvbcxv
CENTRAL HEAT-
ING with PALL
MALL (ENG.)
RADIATORS
connected with White
Rose Boilers costs
about two pence per
room for 24 hours,
and reduces cleaning
expenses as well.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS, AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
PHONE M 6505 18 LINES. LATE SHOPPING FRIDAY 8 30. PM.
JOHN
AND
50N
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
(INCORPORATED «IM VICTORIA I
324-330 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
391-403 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
THE FLYING COLUMN
The R.A.A.F. Makes Records.
“Caudron”: The crews of the R.A.A.F.
Short Sunderland Squadron will have
some fine tales to tell their grand-
children.
Guy Menzies, the youngster who broke
all rules and regulations one January
morning in 1931 when he cleared the
N.S.W. coast for the first flight across
the Tasman, was Haile Silassie’s pilot
when the Emperor returned to his
frontier. Now a squadron-leader, Menzies
is the son of a Drummoyne (Sydney)
doctor.
W. H. Garing (Vic.) piloted First Lord
Alexander to Bordeaux during the height
of the invasion of France, and Flight-
Lieutenant Podgers, another Victorian,
had charge of Lord Lloyd, who went
to Bordeaux to discuss the future of the
French colonies. Lord Lloyd is accus-
tomed to Australian pilots—as one of the
Lawrence group in the Palestine cam-
paign he flew more than once with Ross
Smith.
Fit.-Lieut. J. A. Cohen (Sydney) flew
the Sunderland which carried Viscount
Gort and Mr. Duff Qooper to Rabat in
Morocco. He landed his boat, which has
a wingspread of 115 feet, on a stream
150 feet wide. His adventures read like
something out of an old-fashioned boys’
adventure book.
The squadron has put up an easy
world’s record for continuous reconnais-
sance flying. In 14 weeks it has done
2750 hours in the air, which represents
going on for 500,000 miles of flying —say
35,000 miles per week on a conservative
estimate. No ship which it convoyed has
been lost.
And its successes were capped when
Squadron-Leader C. W. Pearce, of Ned-
lands (W.A.), bagged a U-boat and won
the first D.S.C. which has been awarded
to a member of the R.A.A.F. since its
formation.
The history of his feat shows the
sort of trouble which an enemy sub-
marine puts up with in the Atlantic with
the R.A.A.F. about. Pearce was pulled
out of bed at 3 a.m. on a report that a
German was abroad about 450 miles
from Cape Finisterre in Spain. By break-
fast time the submarine had been found
—doing Its best to submerge. Pearce
swooped down and decanted a ration of
two 5001 b. bombs, following with two
more a few seconds later —both made
direct hits. Thick oil pouring out of the
sea told the rest of the story. The sinking
was a pendapt to a long list of brilliant
services by the young W.A. flier on con-
voy work.
“Aileron”: President Roosevelt has
placed an embargo on the export of
aviation fuel to all countries outside the
Western Hemisphere. Australia is not
affected because all her aviation petrol
comes from sources other than U.S.A.
Canada, which has oil of her own in
Alberta, can purchase unlimited quan-
tities for her own purposes but cannot
re-export to Britain, which, however, is
not likely to suffer much. British import
from U.S.A. in the first eight months
of the war was only 300,000 barrels. Of
Australia’s general supply of petroleum
last year, 217,000,000 gallons came from
the Dutch East Indies, 41,500,000 gallons
from Bahrein in the Persian Gulf,
34,000,000 gallons from Iran, 1,500,000
gallons from British Borneo, and
50,000,000 gallons, or one-seventh of the
supply, from U.S.A. And out of
55,000,000 gallons of crude oils, only
384,000 gallons was shipped from U.S.A.
The main effect of the embargo will be
to reduce the chances of leakage of
quantities of 100-octane aviation fuel
to the Continental Powers, which cannot
get it from Russia and which have
been suspected of getting it through
Spain. And on the possession of fuel
of this type super-power and speed in
aeroplane engines depend.
* * * *
“X.T.”: J. V. Fairbairn, the Air
Minister, who learned to fly during the
last war, and spent a good part of it
as a prisoner, has shown that he’s not
lost his flying skill. Last week he re-
turned from a 12-day tour round Aus-
tralia, during which he covered 6700»miles
in 46 hours 41 minutes actual flying time
—a record for the round trip. In a
broadcast this very unusual Minister,
whose personal inspection gratified the
R.A.A.F. and made Stunt Press criticism
ridiculous, referred to the strepgth of
the force under his control, which has
grown to such an extent that there is
now no point on the coastline which
cannot be reached by our bombers in-
side five hours, while a complete striking
force can be assembled within 24 hours
anywhere within the Commonwealth.
Australian bombers are now capable of
lifting 200,0001 b. of bombs. On
the Ottawa training programme Aus-
tralia is well ahead, and 23,000 out of
the required 27,000 of personnel have
been enlisted.
* * * *
“Caudron”: The R.A.A.F. lost a
Wirraway and two valuable men —Pilot-
Officer Thomas Hopwood (26) and Ser-
geant Vincent Charles Monterola (23) —
through a crash in a gully near Hazel-
brook in the Blue Mountains. The ’plane
was operating over the mountains in
heavy mist and was heard with another
machine only a few hundred feet from
the ground. Then it passed over Hazel-
brook, skimming the tops of houses and
once narrowly missing a telegraph pole.
A few minutes later a crash was heard
on the south of the town, and the ’plane
was discovered in flames with the pilot-
officer’s body stood up among the
wreckage. Sergeant Monterola had been
thrown out and killed. P.-O. Hopwood
had been in the R.A.A.F. since 1934,
when he joined at Richmond. Sergeant
Monterola hailed from Adelaide and
enlisted in 1936.
* * * *
A.I.F. anti-aircraft units have taken
over part of the defence in Haifa (Pales-
tine), and did a good job in the clean-up
after the big Italian raid on July 24,
when 46 civilians were killed and 88
wounded. The A.I.F. A.A. men were
the first members of an Australian land
force to come under fire during the
war. A number gave blood for trans-
fusion to the injured.
* * * *
“Caudron”: A new type of German
propaganda accuses the R.A.F. of having
shot down a German Red Cross ’plane
clearly marked while it was seeking to
rescue Germans who had fallen into the
sea. If there is any truth in the story
it is certain to have been an accident. In
any case, the indignation of a High Com-
mand which has consistently fired on
hospital ships, dropped parachutists in
civilian guise, sown mines in defiance
of international law, submarined unarmed
refugee ships and blasted thousands of
women and children out of existence is
grimly humorous.
* * * *
Australians are all over the place now.
The Sunderland flying-boat which sank
a U-boat in the South Atlantic had as
sergeant Jack Grubb, well known in
Ballarat as a radio experimenter. He
was educated at Mount Pleasant State
school and the Ballarat Junior Tech., and
tried his hand at engineering before he
joined the A.A.F.
* * * *
Killed in a flying accident in England,
Flying-Officer Terence Newton. He was
born in Melbourne and was a capital
Rugby player. In 1936 he joined
Morris Motors to learn motor-engine
construction, and when the war gong
sounded went into the Air Force. Captain
Newton, one-time of the Irish Fusiliers
and now of Melbourne, is his father.
The Air War Day by Day.
July 29: H.M.S. destroyer (Wren) and
patrol yacht (Gulzar) sunk in air attacks.
Germans claim to have shot down 12
Spitfires and three Hurricanes and to
have sunk 32,000 tons of shipping in
battle near Dover; in another engage-
ment, they declare, a British cruiser and
a merchant ship were sunk. R.A.F. re-
ports that in Dover battle, in which over
100 machines took part, the Germans
lost 25 machines. Yugoslav sources re-
port British air raids on Italian Adriatic
ports —Trieste, Pola and Udine. Further
German raids over various parts of Eng-
land. R.A.F. attacks 17 aerodromes in
France, Belgium, Holland and Germany,
with loss of three aircraft.
July 30: Raids on Britain and counter-
raids on German objectives.
July 31: German raiders attack the
Thames Estuary and Bristol Channel;
they are intercepted by large force of
British fighters. Germans report having
bombed a merchantman west of the
Scilly Isles; also, that Messerschmitts
brought down five Spitfires and two
barrage balloons over England, and three
British raiders. Ten R.A.F. assaults on
points ranging from Cherbourg to
Hanover; Germans say that several per-
sons killed in non-military area in latter
city. Italy claims British destroyer sunk
from the air (July 28) and two R.A.F.
’planes shot down in reconnaissance flight
over Malta, with loss of one Italian
’plane.
Italians bomb Wajir motor-truck
camp (E. Africa) and Buna airfield;
they claim to have destroyed three
grounded machines. Heavy British raids
on Italian concentrations near Kassala.
British naval forces attacked by heavy
Italian air force while taking over
chartered Greek tanker Hermione with
500 tons of Italian oil and petrol; Her-
mione sunk by gunfire. Admiralty denies
Italian report of damage to warships.
Two Gloster Gladiators shoot down one
Savoia heavy bomber and wing a second.
Single Hudson bomber attacks German
supply ship at Haugesund on Norwegian
coast. R.A.F. estimates number of Ger-
man machines shot down over Britain
during July at 240, and enemy losses
of officers and men at 600.
Three R.A.A.F. Sunderlands repel
attack on convoy.
August 1-2: R.A.F. raids concentrate
on oil supplies in Germany and Hol-
land and on a daylight attack on Cher-
bourg aerodrome. Germans drop bombs
and leaflets in Britain; bombs do some
damage at scattered points in East
Anglia, Wales and eastern Scotland, and
five persons killed at Norwich ; leaflets
are picked up in thousands and sold
for the Red Cross as souvenirs; they
contain a full English translation of
Hitler’s Reichstag speech.
The Home Secretary announces that
336 persons were killed by bombs in
England in the month beginning June 18,
of whom 42 were women and seven chil-
dren under 16. Germany claims to have
bombed armed merchant ships off the
Humber and to have destroyed a British
submarine off the Norwegian coast.
Further British air attacks on Italian
oil supplies and aerodromes in Libya,
Eritrea and Abyssinia. S. African Air
Force bombs Italians south of Moyale
(Kenya). Italians claim to have set
fire to a battleship and hit other British
naval units south of the Balearic Islands.
Italians admit one civilian killed and
three wounded in R.N.A.A. raid on
Sardinia. R.A.F. reports three ships
were hit and jetties wrecked on raid on
Derna (Libya).
Trawler sunk by four German ’planes,
one of which she destroyed. Three ’planes
shot down by two British steamers.
August 3-4: Further German raids on
Britain—that on August 4, anniversary
of the outbreak of the last war, was the
most widespread so far. Germans claim
to have fired Liverpool oil tanks. 8.8. C.
went off the air, but it is officially re-
ported that little damage done generally.
R.A.F. makes further raids on France,
Netherlands and western Germany. Ger-
man ’planes damaged at Schipol aero-
drome (Holland). R.N. air arm de-
stroys four machines at Cagliari (Sar-
dinia) ; Italians admit enemy air raid
on Derna and the loss of a submarine,
but claim to have bombed Zeila (British
Somaliland) with loss of one machine.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Streef
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE ;.... 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE REVIVAL IN SHARE PRICES.
PROGRESS OF WAR FINANCE.
August Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life. \
Goldsbrough, Mort &: Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Kaloa”: The new Papuan Govern-
ment looks as if it will be a muddled
affair. In place of the Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor there will be an Administrator, in
whose absence the senior member of the
Executive Council will act. The constitu-
tion of the Executive Council is to be
altered: under the old law it consisted
of eight official members and one non-
official member elected by the non-official
members of the Legislative Council;
under the new Act the maximum number
of official members has been fixed at
nine and the minimum at five, so that it
will be possible for the size of the Coun-
cil to fluctuate. And deputies may serve
in place of official and non-official mem-
bers. Non-official members of the Legis-
lative Council have hitherto been elected
for six years ; the term is reduced to four
years, and provision has been made for
the roping-in of temporary members
“with expert knowledge” who will sit
and, speak but not vote. The Administra-
tor will not be chief Judge of the Central
Court —which is to be erected into a
Supreme Court. There seems to be
plenty of room for confusion in the new
legislative arrangements, but it does not
matter much. The official majority will,
as heretofore, be dominant in voting, and
Canberra will tell it how to vote.
* * * *
“Norther”: It was only to be expected
that Centralians would get cocky some
day and institute their own State Parlia-
ment on the lines of the effete seaboard
population. Still, it was a bit surprising
to find a representative of the “Christian
Science Monitor,” come all the way from
Boston, Mass., to write us up:
Central Australia, one of the States of
the Australian Commonwealth, is a land
a few square miles smaller than Texas.
And when we hear Adolf Hitler demanding
lebensraum (room enough in which to live)
pity the Central Australians. There are
only about 400 of them in the whole State.
Alice Springs, the capital, has a permanent
population of six people, which is tempo-
rarily increased to 12 when the State Gov-
ernment is in session.
Unfortunately, the Parliament wasn’t in
session when the “Monitor” was here,
but in that it was simply following a pre-
cedent laid down by its elder and just-as-
chimerical contemporaries to the east,
south and west.
* * * *
“Darwarb”: Our forthright Judge
Wells doesn’t subscribe to the popular
belief that a citizen can use firearms at
the behest of a police officer when try-
ing to apprehend an offender. He gave
a soldier six months for wounding an-
other soldier in the legs one night last
February, stating that the defendant
seemed to be under some misapprehen-
sion as to his rights, perhaps because,
as defendant said, a constable had ad-
vised him that he could use a revolver
to prevent the escape of a suspect or in
self-defence. Defendant said the shoot-
ing occurred while he was lying in wait
for a prowler. The wounded man said
he also was awaiting the prowler when
he was shot. Perhaps a defence of mis-
taken identity would have served.
* * * *
' “Balander”: That dream of finding a
forgotten hoard which we all entertain
suddenly became reality for a Blackall
woman, wife of a soldier and mother of
seven, when her eldest lad cleaned out
an unused fireplace in their home and
turned up a tin of gold and silver coins
worth £5OO in today’s money. It is
presumed to have been left there by one
of two bachelor brothers who owned
and occupied the house prior to dying
within a few weeks of each other back
in 1937. They were Frank and Bill
Coward, both over 70, both early Blackall
men, who had conducted a wool and
carrying business, taken up a selection,
sold it, bought the cottage and done odd
jobs, until Frank was found with his
throat cut and bundles of notes in his
pockets. Bill, then in hospital, died three
months later. What lay behind this
climax to a couple of useful lives was
never revealed, but, on the honest woman
turning over the tin and its contents to
the police, the Public Curator placed it
to the credit of Frank Coward’s estate
for the benefit of his next of kin, with
a suggestion concerning the finder’s
honesty.
‘Wat’s the idea of serving him first?”
“Tabor”: Wandering along some road
repairs on the Tambourine Plateau, near
Tambourine North, L. C. Ball, Queens-
land’s Chief Government Geologist, saw
lateritic rock being used. He ran it down
to the quarry of its source, found de-
posits of bauxite (aluminium oxide) and
submitted samples for analysis. This
indicated a low content of free silica but
a generally high acid-soluble iron con-
tent. As the samples were hurriedly col-
lected, the North is now trying to sup-
press its excitement as it awaits further
news.
* * * *
“Crackem”: All Kingaroy pricked its
ears when word came through from Lon-
don that Yorkshire factories were pro-
ducing suits of clothes made from half-
wool and half-peanut shell, and selling
them cheaper than 100 per cent, woollens.
Our peanut district is notably proud of
its product, and feels that if it can help
to clothe as well as feed the circus and
picture-show patron it will have done
something worth while for the great
cause. Indeed, one enthusiast has sug-
gested that possibly costs of production
could be cut by feeding merinos entirely
on peanuts, thus producing the cloth-
mixture in the fleece, though a noise-
maddened world may not welcome the
sound when the pressers get to work on
the clip.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Thomas O’Connor, sage of
Alexandra Headland (Q.), has celebrated
an 83rd birthday at his picturesque home
which looks out upon a 100-mile
panorama of sea and islands. A large
congratulatory mail from friends who
date back in family history to Queens-
land’s very beginnings was a feature of
the occasion. Other letters recalled the
part the old surveyor played in the
creation of two prosperous towns with
a big tourist industry Maroochydore
and Mooloolabah —from what were in-
accessible rivers and beaches when
he took up large sections of the
former Pettigrew land interests. The
family came to Queensland from St.
Helena and were nourished on Napo-
leonic tradition. Thomas O’Connor’s
father died in 1920, aged 96, a clear-
minded, white-bearded old gentleman
who had talked to one of Napoleon’s
marshals (Bertrand), seen the Little
Corporal’s body removed from St.
Helena in 1840, was at Ballarat when
it was only a few months old, and
acted as second father to Melba in her
early days. He lived to prophesy that
Hoover would be President of the United
States and to compare Billy Hughes to
Wentworth, from personal contact with
, ,
Dot ' * * * #
“M.W.”: Passed out at Thursday
Island at 91, Archibald Watson, who re-
versed the natural order of things. Usu-
ally it is the custom for retiring northern-
ers to hasten to the south to end their
days. Archibald Watson, born in the
Riverina, the son of a retired naval cap-
.■, f f
„ h d SS. fngetTcame
, , - Vr i
a demonstrator at Charing Cross Hospital
Medical School, was elected Elder profes-
sor of anatomy at Adelaide Uni. in 1885
and held the office—with breaks during
the S’African and Great Wars—until
1920, when he retired. Since then he has
held an emeritus professorship, but has
spent most of his days roaming the
northern coasts of Australia. Latterly
the scientific attractions of Thursday
Island had kept him in that locality.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Who says the North is not
going ahead? The first time I went to
Darwin, nearly 30 years ago, the Ad-
ministrator got out of his shandrydan in
the main street and took, me into a pub
for a drink. A couple of stores run by
white companies were sandwiched in
between a whole community of Chinese,
who used to clean fish on the pave-
ment. Newspaper advertising and the
continuous record of development mark
out the changes. The last few weeks have
seen two new bank buildings in occupa-
tion. Where, 15 years ago, there was not
a single garage —cars rarely penetrated
beyond East Point or Parap —there are
garage signs all over the place. B.P.
has opened its own office. Vacant land
is at a premium ; so is house room. The
latest addition to the town’s amenities
is a pub, which is described as “the best
tropical hotel in the Southern Hemi-
sphere,” with a 70ft. bar, air-condition-
ing, private bath and verandah, a tele-
phone, electric fan and specially-designed
spring bed for tropical conditions to every
room. The palace cost £85,000, and is
furnished throughout in Queensland
™ a P le ' Aad a tropical garden m which
“red guests may rest on the lawn is to be
a c ' * # * *
,■_ . .
Mataranka : Some argument is going
on as to whether a defence road rrom
Darwin to Adelaide should be built. If
any defence road is needed, it should
be across the Barkly Tableland, to link
with the northern Queensland railways ;
but in any case, unless a vast amount of
money were spent on it, and it were
raised above the level of the country-
side like the Indian Grand Trunk road
! h ® h.ghway provided would not be much
better in the long dry season than the one
already exisL A much better
scheme would be to put a bit of money
intQ strengt hening the ramshackle rail-
way w bich runs from Darwin to Birdum
an( J providing it with efficient railway
stock. At present it could not be depended
on to shift a battalion and its fighting
equipment at a reasonable speed, and if
the authorities were asked to move a
battery of heavy artillery they would fall
down with fright.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil.
n
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELLS. FLIES OR GERMS.
The Commonwealth Government has been
using them for 12 years and has just
bought 90 more for R.A.A.F., Narromine.
PRICE, £l7/9/6,
including sales tax and crating.
Write Desk IS for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
xcvcxvcxv
SOMETHING TO BE
===== PROUD OF =
The
“NARVON”
POLEY SADDLE A
★
N.S.W.
Freight
on Saddles
paid for
cash with
order.
£l6/13/-
(complete).
★
The tree is de-
signed to allow a
full free bar. The
seat is hogskin,
with a sin. dip.
The flaps and
skirts are of kip
leather and are
24in. long, and
the back staple
is leather.
Send for our Saddlery
Catalogue ! It’s Free !
WALTHER i STEVENSON ITS.
395 CEORGE ST. SYPHEY
HOW
WITHOUT
YOU SEE
m
SS.
mm
■ ■
-
:
■
1
H
&«s
S&ic,*
WmM
W A
YOU can't possibly see
what you are doing at
night unless you have light
—and plenty of it. That's
why so many motorists,
campers, picnickers and
home-owners make it a
rule to keep an Eveready
Flashlight handy in the car,
garage or camping kit.
Powered with "factory
fresh" Eveready Torch Re-
fills, its brilliant beam is
always ready for action at
the click of a switch, and
never lets you down.
eVEREADy
TRADE - MARK
FLASHLIGHTS • REFILLS
EVEREADY (AUST.) PTY. LTD.. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENIS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned, unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
H. 8.: Can’t make head or tale of it
PH : “This is my first composition, and being
so I’m proud of it.” Call again when you’ve
written a few hundred and suspect that you
might have improved 0.R.: Sounds fuddled
G.W.: Platitudinous, and line six is
borrowed R.N.W.: That “Time marches
on” phrase has been ruined by Hollywood....
J.R.: No kick J.McG.: Can’t you borrow
a pen? W.McC.: “Bellerive” would appreci-
ate tribute, but his style can’t be imitated
L.R.8., F.J.8., H.M.W., R.W.V., H.H., W.D.,
T.P.M., J.L.8., P.K. and K.E.W.: No room for
’em all. pour challenging lines from K.E.W.:
Let’s rule this nation off the map, call it henceforth
“Outlaw.”
Just strike it off our visiting list, and deal with it
no more.
Let’s grant to it its Nazi claim “For Germans,
Germany,”
And simply leave them to themselves. Send them
to Coventry.
J.L.H.: Juvenile... .C.W.: They’re on the
borderline; get more life into the characters.
. ...R.F.C.: Not far off... .R.F.F.: Thin and
humpy... .L. 8.: “Stocktaking” sounds as if it
tired you out... .L.8.P.: Juvenile, but not
without charm... .J.H.: Why “duty,” except to
rhyme with “beauty”? .. % .M.H.S.: Abominably
chirpy... .R. 8.: The trams just stopped short.
. ...J.1.: Three stories, one about American
detectives, one about the Sahara Desert, the
other about Eskimos! Why not come nearer
home? E.P.: All much too long for what
they have to 5ay....N.0.: Gavin Casey got
in a long way ahead of you.., .W.H.L.: That s
a well-tilled field... .L.W.P.: “Rambling
Thoughts of a Roving Romeo” only show his
empty-headedness... . R.P.: Returning marked
R. G.D.: An idea there; cut out three
or four of the unnecessary characters and come
again F.M.S.: “Lydia Laughed,” but we
couldn’t see the joke. .. .F. 5.8.: Send your
scheme for removing the seat of government
to Tasmania in case of “an uprising in the
East” to Mr. Menzies... .J.A.: There might
be an Abo. par hidden under all that padding.
R.H.M.: Out! C.G.A.: You’ve not
improved it... .N.McC., A.H. and. G. 5.8.:
Three- lottery winners and all broke inside six
months... .W.L.C.: Something more than dia-
logue is needed to make a story... .0.W.H.:
Locked the lady up till she was sober, then
sent her home... .H.M.L.: Lifeless... .A.H.:
Keep trying, but beware of prosiness.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.M.: Not in the market for illustrated
tongue-twisters... .F.T.: Will do our best to
struggle along without your masterpieces
S. : Composition pleasing, but wash needs to
be smoother C.C.: Portrait of your dog is
not for our pages 8.W.: Drawing is con-
fused and jumbled, and the idea has no back-
bone P.N.: Make wash drawings more clear-
cut..C.HJ.: Lady with the mop will not
make her debut here R.R.: Untidy and
scratchy S.T.: Not tempted by the siren
N.G.: “I have a great deal to learn.” You
have W.M.H.: Keep trying L.L.: B. E.
Minns beat you to that idea by about 50
years A.J.S.: It didn’t live up to the hopes
you raised in your covering letter R.J.:
Sorry, but you weren’t in the race... .R.C.L.:
As amusing as a Chinese laundry ticket....
W.A.: An office court-martial deprived that
sergeant of his stripes M.H.: No use for
your faint pencil scrawls... .R.8.C.: Try it
on a cold-tea mag F.G.: It ended its
career on the reject heap P.D.: Do you
want to make us the laughing-stock of every
cow cocky?
A MIXED GRILL.
“Paul Punter”: For the first time I’ve
read an editorial on a racehorse, and not
in a sporting journal. It appears in the
“Saturday Evening Post,” and belauds
Seabiscuit, recently retired after win-
ning a fortune in stakes. There have
been editorials concerning racing and
some of the activities of those connected
with it, but has there been previously a
leader devoted to a horse’s achievements?
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Our suburb’s confirmed
drunk was encountered sitting gloomily
on the kerb, an empty bottle between
his feet, a lost look on his face. “Where
do you live?” asked the usual helpful
stranger. “Dunno,” said the drunk, wav-
ing a hand ; “theresh a house upper street
where I usesher live, but the missus says I
don’t live there—hie —erry more. ’Scrook,
ain’t it?” He dropped his head and con-
templated the gutter between his shoes.
“Well,” said the u.h.s., “you can’t stay
here all night.” The drunk wavered up-
right. “No? Orright, I’ll go some-
wheresh” He paused, thought hard,
then seized the stranger by a lapel. “You
know what,” he said, “I bin turrouta me
home. Turrouta me home. Just one o’
them poor blanky refugees! ” And he
fell across the fence and burst into tears.
*** • *
“Dialler”: For many weeks I’ve been
listening to an A.B.C. broadcast game
in which performers go “window shop-
ping.” One buys something, the next
has to detail this and buy something more
and so on, the first to fail in the memory
test losing a point. The lack of origi-
nality is shocking. Nobody ever gets
beyond “a pair of socks for grandma, a
hat for Bill, a corset for Goring.” I’ve
given up hope of hearing someone stagger
the others’ memories with, for instance,
a weed-cutting coulter for Ebenezer
McWilliam’s orchard plough, a tortoise-
shell-mounted benzine lighter for my
wife or even a wim-wam for a goose’s
bridle.
Freddie Rayner tells this story about
his daughters Joan and Betty. One night
when Betty and Joan were doing a show
at a small theatre in Paris there arose
a terrific din overhead. Joan poked her
head through the curtain and said to
her audience: “Wait till I go upstairs
and see what all this noise is about.”
Arriving at the studio above, Joan said
sharply: “What’s the meaning of this?
We can’t hear ourselves downstairs.”
“Oh,” the reply was, “Maurice Chevalier
is just back with millions of money. He’s
treating us all!” “Where is he?” said
Joan. She then went up to Maurice
and said: “Monsieur, you are both
famous and rich ; my sister and I are
in the theatre below trying to earn our
living.” “Good gracious!” cried Cheva-
lier. “We’ll all go down and listen to
you.” “But there are only twelve seats
vacant.” “Then,” said Chevalier firmly,
“the twelve of us who are the most sober
will come.”
*K * * *
Rev. A. L. Bulbeck, whom S.A. sends
to Corps H.Q. as senior chaplain, should
be just the man for the job. Although
only 45 now, he put in four years at
the last war in the 10th Artillery ; after-
wards he was ordained as an Anglican
clergyman, and had some 13 years’ work
among returned soldiers on the Murray
settlements. Now he gives up one of
Adelaide’s leading pulpits to get into
uniform again.
* * * *
“V.D.L.”: In these days, when actual
photographs of events of arms in Europe
possibly even more momentous than Nel-
son’s victory at Trafalgar may be printed
in Australian journals a few days after
their occurrence, it is restful and sooth-
ing to contemplate how long it took for
even rumors of great events to reach
this part of the world when British Aus-
tralasia was very young. On August 22,
1806, the Rev. “Bobby” Knopwood re-
corded in his diary at Hobart Town:
“At 8 the colors were hoisted on Hunter’s
Island, the Lt.-Governor having appointed
this day to be observed as a date of
thanksgiving for the late glorious success
of His Majestie’s arms over the combined
fleet of the enemy off C. Trafalgar on
the 21st day of Oct. last.” And it was
the middle of January, 1816, before the
news of Waterloo was published in Syd-
ney by order of Governor Macquarie.
The Rev. “Bobby” records how it came
to Van Diemen’s Land under date of
January 12, 1816: “Anchored in the bay
the ship Dowson... .and we were in-
formed of the news that Bonaparte was
taken prisoner, and was at St. Helena,
and that Lord Wellington had defeated
the French army, and other great news.”
* * * *
“Hamfa t”: Australian audiences
usually give an actor a fair spin if he
spiritedly resents interruption (B.
26/6/’40); but the mummer must show
judgment. Sydney remembers the case
of Henry Lee, who, after making a great
success in “Cyrano de Bergerac” in New
York, misguidedly chose Bill Anderson
as manager of an Australian tour. Bill
stood for blood-and-guts bellowdrammer,
and an audience that came for that
sort of fare was bored by the poetical
periods of Rostand and became restive
and derisive. Lee lost his temper.
Advancing to the footlights he
trounced the audience, and denounced
Australia as a country steeped in
ignorance and vulgarity. Before he
had gone far the intelligent in the audi-
ence were more hostile than the others.
There followed the worst riot ever seen
in a Sydney theatre. Lee took the next
ship back to U.S.A., but Anderson car-
ried on —with Ed-mund Dug-gan playing
Cyrano. The way Duggan cut Rostand’s
poetry into meaty periods which were
understood (and actually appreciated) was
a triumph of Australian resourcefulness.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Use., St. George’s Tee.; Perth
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
Generai. Manager—D. S. FORBES.
iVith offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
CORNS .
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne,
Our Service Departmen
readers 1 * 5 * S SCt a^art or serv ice of Bulletin
Tl service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
ti „. The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady (19), Sydney Uni. night student,
can type and do shorthand, seeks position in
city office or library.—7767.
Author, Sydney, will undertake revision of
manuscripts for moderate fee. —7768.
To get in touch with writer who will give
constructive suggestions on MS. for a small
fee.—7744.
To get in touch with all ex-Cobb and Co.
coachdrivers in N.S.W. and Q’land. (Reply
direct to Philip S. Whelan, Camp Hill, Carew-
street, Dee Why, N.S.W.)
To hear from literary societies needing lec-
turer on Australian literary topics.—777o.
To buy early Australian books autographed
by their authors. —7769.
To buy, or exchange for novels, second-
hand copy of Sprott’s General Psychology. —
Words of two poems by Henry Lawson,
“Knocked Up” and “Patriotism,” also Lawson
poem containing lines:
Victims of men or misfortune,
Some are tired of it a 11—7756.
—7756.
Words of verses “How the Sailor Rode the
Brumby” and “The Bushman’s Farewell to
Queensland.” —7739.
Whereabouts of Queenie Halloran, one-time
“Lone Hand” verse-writer. —7772.
%
Information Sought.
is the pay of a flying officer in the
R.A.A.F. when allowances, etc., are taken into
account? —7395.
The pay of a flying officer in the general
duties branch is 19s. 6d. a day. In the
administrative and other branches, which in-
clude officers not in possession of flying qualifi-
cations, the rate of pay is 15s. a day. Where
it is not practicable for the service ta provide
quarters and rations, allowances are made at a
rate of Is. 9d. a day for rations and Bd. a
day for quarters. Allowance for dependant
(wife) is 3s. a day, provided that the officer
makes an allotment of ss. a day. An allot-
ment of Is. a day is also paid for each child
under the age of 16 years. Under prescribed
conditions, an officer may receive 3s. a day
field allowance. Deferred pay at the rate of
3s. 6d. a day is payable after embarkation.
* * * *
In a recent article on the defence of England
there was a reference to martello towers. What
were these towers? —7789.
Round towers formerly used in English coast
defence. The name is derived from Mortella
Point in Corsica. In 1794 an English fleet
under Lord Hood supported the Corsican in-
surgents, and a small round tower on the coast
withstood its fierce cannonade. The strong
resistance shown by this tower led to towers
of a similar nature being erected along the
English shores, especially on the south and
east coasts. They were about 40 feet high
and situated on the beach.
* * * *
How should sugar-gum seeds be germinated,
and what time of the year should they be
sown 3—7439.
The sugar-gum seed is not as a rule difficult
to germinate. There is no necessity for the
seed to bq heated or scalded. September,
October and November will be found the best
months to sow, and, if successful in the ger-
mination and the young seedlings properly
cared for, they should be ready for planting
out by the following May or June. Sow in
seedboxes or pans containing a fairly open
soil mixture, and cover the seed with about
iin. of fine soil. When the young seedlings
are large enough to handle, pot off singly into
small pots in which they can establish them-
selves before planting out. The pods or cap-
sules, if ripe when taken from the tree, will
usually open up to allow the seed to be shaken
*om them if placed in the sun for a- few days.
-' * * * *
Titles, authors and prices of the different
volumes of “The Official History of Australia in
the War of 1914-18” ?— 7741.
The Official History of Australia in the War
of 1914-18, edited by C. E. W. Bean, will
contain 12 volumes (11 have already been
published) when completed. Titles are as fol-
lows: Vol. I, “The Story of Anzac” (Part 1);
Vol. 11, “The Story of Anzac” (Part 2); Vol.
111, “The A.I.F. in France, 1916”; Vol. IV,
“The A.I.F. in France, 1917”; Vol. V, “The
A.I.F. in France, 1918” (the German Offen-
sive); Vol. VI, “The A.I.F. in France, 1918”
(the Allied Offensive) —all by C. E. W. Bean;
Vol. VII, “The A.I.F. in Sinai and Palestine,
1914-18,” by H. S. Gullett; Vol. VIII, “The
Australian Flying Corps,” by F. M. Cutlack;
Vol. IX, “The Royal Australian Navy,” by
A. W. Jose; Vol. X, “The Australians at
Rabaul,” by S. S. Mackenzie; Vol. XI, “Aus-
tralia During the War,” by Ernest Scott; Vol.
XII, “Photographic Record of the War,” anno-
tated by C. E. W. Bean and H. S. Gullett.
Volume VI is in the course of preparation.
Price per volume is 215., excepting vols. VIII,
X and XI, which cost . 18s. each.
* * * *
What is the origin of the custom of drink-
ing a man’s health ?— 7715.
The custom is of immemorial age and its
origin somewhat disputed. William of Malmes-
bury says that the habit took its rise from
the death of King Edward the Martyr (979),
who was treacherously knifed in the back
while quaffing a noggin presented to him by
his mother, Elfrida. Rabelais opines that the
giant Gabbara, ancestor of Gargantua, in-
vented the practice. But health-drinking was
common amongst the ancients; thus, Thera-
menes, condemned to drink hemlock by the
Thirty Tyrants, drank a cup to Critias, who
had passed sentence. The Greeks handed the
cup to the man toasted and said “This
to thee”; and our touching of glasses is a
relic of this ritual.' The Romans, when drink-
ing the healths of their lady-loves, swallowed
a bumper to each letter of the ladies’ names
—“spelling names with beer glasses,” Hudibras
called it. Martial, Ovid and Horace refer to
this custom. The Saxons were great health-
drinkers; the story goes that the beauteous
Princess Rowena handed a brimming gold cup
to King Vortigern with the words “Lord King,
your health.” The king drank and said “Drinc
heil” (here’s to you).
*.* * *
(1) / am 23 and have a junior public pass
certificate. Would I be eligible for appoint-
ment as a trainee rigger in either the R.A.A.F.
or the Empire Air Scheme? I have had no
engineering or mechanical experience. (2)
Would I be eligible for any other class of
ground staff work in either bf these' forces ?
If so, what kind of work? —7401.
You would not be eligible for selection as
a trainee rigger. Some technical training or
practical experience is essential. There are
waiting lists already in this mustering. All the
men who are on the waiting lists have passed
the necessary trade tests. In regard to the
vacancies existing in other classes of ground-
staff work, it would be advisable to apply to
the recruiting centre at Woolloomooloo. It
should be pointed- out, however, that there are
waiting lists in most of the unskilled muster-
mgs.
. H* H 5
How much did the N.S.W. Government spend
during 1938-39 on (1) education and (2). science,
art and research ? Give figures under various
most important headings? —77B6.
(1) Primary and secondary schools, teachers’
training and departmental administration,
£4,732,073; bursaries and scholarships and
allowances to students in training colleges,
£107,468; Hawkesbury Agricultural College,
£35,835; technical education, £357,760; Con-
servatorium of Music, £l4,472;'Sydney Uni-
versity (aid), £108,408; educational institutions
(aid), £8785; total, £5,364,801. (2) Australian
Museum, £21,008; Technological Museum,
£8169; Public Library, £32,354; Art. Gallery,
£9584; Observatory, £2509; total, £73,624.
‘** * *
What is “Lidford law” 7—1192.
An old English proverb ran:
“First hang and draw
Then hear the cause by Lidford law.”
The term thus came into use to mean hang
a man first and try him afterwards. The theory
is that it arose from the very arbitrary pro-
cedure of a law court in the Devonshire town
of Lidford.
* * * *
(1) I am about to buy a 60 -ton sailing ketch
for private use. Must l have a mariner’s certifi-
cate to sail it along the N.S.W. coast? (2)
Would dues be payable upon its anchoring in
Sydney harbor? (3) What is a fair price per
ton for such a vessel, about 30 years old, two-
masted, without engine, and pretty roughlv
constructed ? —7754.
(1) A vessel of the class mentioned for
private use on the coast of N.S.W. would not
be required by the Navigation Act 1901 r 35
to tarry a person holding a master’s certifi-
cate. It is, however, considered advisable that
any person in charge of a vessel of this class
should have had experience in navigating and
handling sailing craft, and should possess a
knowledge of the Rules for Preventing Col-
lisions at Sea. (2) The vessel would incur the
Federal light rate of 6d. per ton (net), and,
if registered, would be subject to the N.S.W.
harbor and light rate of 4d. per ton (net).
Should the owner desire a permanent mooring
in any port within the board’s jurisdiction, he
would be required to make application to the
Secretary of the Maritime Services Board,
Sydney, for a registered mooring site. (3)
Couldn’t make an assessment without inspection.
Secure the services of a private surveyor, of
whom there are several in Sydney.
* * * *
A few details concerning the flame-tree? —
7622.
Known scientifically as Brachychiton aceri-
folius, it is a large tree usually found in coastal
brush forests, and confined to N.S.W. and
Q’land. The deeply lobed leaves are shiny, and
fall before the tree flowers. It produces masses
of bloom of a vivid scarlet; as the stalks
of the bell-shaped flowers are also colored, the
result is a flamelike display which suggests
the popular name. The flowering period is very
irregular; in some instances the trees bloom
for several consecutive years, but an individual
tree may not produce flowers for several years.
It is also known as the “lacebark-tree.” When
the tree is full-grown the bark is fully two
inches thick, and furnishes bast of a beautiful
lacelike texture. The fibre is prepared by
simple steeping, and is suitable for cordage,
nets, mats and baskets. It is also a good
material for paper-making. The tow is of an
elastic nature, suitable for upholstering, e.g.,
stuffing mattresses.
* * * *
A few particulars about the albatross ? —7624.
A large seabird of the family Diomedeidce,
peculiar to the Pacific and Southern Oceans,
most of the species found in the Southern
Ocean appear in Australian seas during the
winter, and are familiar to voyagers along the
coastline from Brisbane south and west to
Geraldton in Western Australia. The largest
and most widespread is the wandering alba-
tross ( Diomeda exulans), which in its first
plumage is dark brown with a white face, but
gradually becomes whiter as it grows older, till
it assumes a plumage entirely white except
for the black tips to wings and tail. In this
species the span from the tip of one wing to
that of the other is usually between 10 and
11 feet. Smaller forms of albatross, known to
sailors as mollymawks, may be distinguished
by the fact that the dark coloration of the
wings extends right across the back. Four
kinds are common in Australian waters; one of
them, the white-capped- albatross ( Diomeda
cautd), nests in numbers on Albatross Island
in Bass Strait —the only locality in Australia
where albatrosses are known to breed. The
two species of sooty albatross ( Phcebetria )
also visit Australian waters. They are more
slender than the other kinds, dusky in color,
with a white ring roupd the eye, and regarded
as the most expert fliers of the family.
* * * *
Where is aluminite discovered in N.S.W., and
annual output ? —7775.
Aluminite, or alumstone, occurs at Bulah-
delah, about 35 miles from Port Stephens, in
a narrow mountain range which for more than
a mile is composed mainly, of aluminite of
greater or less purity. Owing to the nature of
the ocurrences, it has not been possible to
estimate the ore reserves of commercial value.
Four. varieties, of aluminite are recognised at
the mines, but operations have, been confined
mainly to the light-pink ore, the average yield
being about 80 p.c. of alum. The output of
aluminite in 1938 was 438 tons, valued at £B2l.
* * * *
How many . people die annually of appendi-
citis in N.S.W. and, according to N.S.W.
figures, is it more fatal to men or to women?
—lll2.
There were 234 deaths ascribed to appendi-
citis in N.S.W. in 1938, the rate being 0.86
per 10,000 living, which is 4 per cent below the
average of the. preceding quinquennium.
Appendicitis is more fatal. to males than to
females, the rate for the former in 1938 being
1.12 and for the latter'o.s9 per 10,000 living.
*** • *
A few particulars concerning Henry Hallo-
ran, a minor Australian poet who did some
writing for The Bulletin in its very early
years?— 77Bo. "
Henry Halloran was a son of Laurence Hal-
loran, a schoolmaster, and was born at Cape
I own in 1811. Educated at his father’s school
in Sydney, in 1827 he entered the Survey Office
as a clerk. He rose to a high post in the
public service, and resigned in 1878. Outside
his work his main interests.,were military (in
1854-7 L he was lieutenant in the volunteer
mounted forces) and literary. His verse gained
the praise of D. H. Deniehy, but is purely
imitative and mildly pleasing; his best service
to literature was probably his encouragement
of Henry Kendall, for whom in 1863 he
obtained a clerkship in the Survey Office. The
verse, scattered through newspapers, magazines
and pamphl.ets, was collected in 1887 under the
title Pperns”, Odes, Songs. Halloran died at
Ashfield on May 19, 1893.
* * * *
What was Marcus Clarke’s full name and
details of his life up to the time he joined the
staff of the Melbourne “Argus” in the late
’sixties? —7778.
Marcus Andrew Hislop Clarke was born at
Kensington, London, On April 24, 1846, and
educated at Chomley School, Highgate. On
his father’s - sudden death he was.sent in 1863
by his cousin Andrew to Melbourne, where
his uncle, Jarpes Langton Clarke, a County
Court Judge, secured him a clerkship in the
Bank of Australasia.- A few months’ experi-
ence convinced him' of his unfitness for office
life, and in January, 1865, he went off to gain
“colonial experience” on John Holt’s station
near Glenorchy on the ; Wimmcra River; here
he made acquaintance with bush types, acquired
a modicum of bushcraft, and began to. send
sketches to the “Australian Magazine” under
the nom de plume of “Mark Scrivener.”
Tiring of bush life as of office life, he
abandoned pastoral pursuits - after a year’s trial,
and in February, 1867, through the influence of
Dr. Robert Lewin, became a member of the
literary staff of the “Argus” and the “Aus-
tralasian.”
* * * *
(1) How many times did Jack Dempsey and
Gene Tunney fight for the world’s heavyweight
championship ? (2) Did Dempsey ever defeat
Tunney? (3) How much money did each re-
ceive out of their last fight?— 766s.
(1) Twice, in Philadelphia on September 23,
1926, and in Chicago on September 22, 1927.
(2) No. (3) Their Chicago contest drew
a record gate of 2,658,660 dollars (about
£553,887 10s. at par). Tunney received 990,445
dollars (about £206,342 at par) of this, and
Dempsey 425,000 dollars (about £88,541 at par).
* * * *
(1) What are the powers of cricket umpires?
(2) Their individual tasks? —7680.
(l).The umpires are the sole judges of fair
and unfair play, of the fitness of the ground,
the weather and the light for play; all disputes
shall be determined by them, and if they dis-
agree the actual state of things shall continue
(Law 43). (2) The umpire at the bowler’s wicket
shall be appealed to before the other umpire
in all cases, except in those of stumping, hit
wicket, run out at the striker’s wicket but in
any case in which an umpire is unable to give
a decision he shall appeal to the other umpire,
whose decision shall be final (Law 47).
Brief Answers.
D.H.S.: All such activities are merged under
the control of the Ministry of Supply, Adetohi
London, W.C.2....G.8. and J.M.: Certificates
of birth of persons born in England or Wales
can be obtained at the General Register Office,
Somerset House, London, on payment of fees,
in the case of a person resident in Australia!
g 1 ss. Id P.S.: Address inquiry to Under-
secretary, The Treasury, Macquarie-street,
Sydney V.E.U.: Get in touch with Mitchell
Library, Sydney... .R.G.M.: Department of
Supply and Development, Melbourne...
W.M.1.: Raphael Cilento is the son of R.A
and Frances Cilento, of Murray Bridge (S.A.),
and was born at Jamestown (S.A.) on Decem-
ber 2, 1893. He received his medical educa-
tion at Adelaide and London unis, and the
London School of Tropical Medicine 0.F.:
Write secretary, Society of Australian Genealo-
gists, 91a Phillip-street, Sydney... .T.G.S.:
Neville Chamberlain married in 1911 Annie
Vere Cole, daughter of the late Major W. U.
Cole. He has one son and one daughter
S.A.G.: Reliable figures are not available
L.G.D.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment, Sydney, for leaflets “Beekeeping—Advice
to Beginnefs” and “A Home-made Beehive.”
....W.A.H. and E. 0.: Write Officer-in-charge,
Base Records, Defence Department, Canberra,
A.C.T W.C.: K. S. Baker, 12 Royal-
arcade, and A. C. Campe, 13 Sydney-arcade—
both Sydney;' C. J. McDonald, 363 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne P.H.: If the work
performed by the employee is covered by an
award or agreement made by the Industrial
Court of Q., wages will have to be paid to
the employee weekly or fortnightly according to
what is prescribed. If the work performed is
not covered by an award the employee could,
in the event of wages not being paid to him
weekly or monthly, apply to any Court of
Petty Sessions which is empowered to order
tlie payment of the unpaid wages with the cost
incurred by the worker in prosecuting his
claim... .C.E.R.: When the stove is placed
out of commision remove rust with emery cloth,
then cover all parts with oil, fat or stove
lacquer. When stove is again placed in com-
mission a disagreeable odor will be in evi-
dence owing to the burning off of the materials
used. On no account coat over parts that are
rusted, as the rust will simply carry on "with its
job... .D.C.0’8.: At the outer end of each
of the symbols on the clock face there is an
inset of ruby glass. If a person on the
ground level is in such a position that it is
possible to line up the ruby inset with any
of the lights behind the clock face, the effect
referred to is obtained N.J.: See the En-
cyclopedia Britannica; available N. S. Wales
Public Library, Macquarie-street, Sydney
E.L.G.: Even if you do not know his number,
rank and unit, a letter addressed to him care of
Recruiting Receiving Depot, Showground, Syd-
ney, will find him N.S.: Beryl, an alu-
minium silicate, occurs in pegmatites near
Mount Isa, usually in crystallised form. Bauxite
has recently been discovered at Tamborine
Mountain, but it has not yet been proved to
be of workable quality... .A.C.W.: Timbers
suitable for boatbuilding are red cedar ( Cedrela
australis), hoop pine ( Araucaria cunninghamii),
bollywood ( Litsea reticulata ) and quandong or
blue fig ( Elcecarpus grandis)... .R.L.: No solu-
tion is known in which the eggs can be dipped
r to prevent their hatching,. without spoiling the
contents A method sometimes practised is to
pierce the end of the egg with a needle.
A small hole in the shell will stop the egg
hatching... .R.M.G.: The district mentioned
is considered unsuitable for the production of
tobacco commercially... .W.N.: You would
not be entitled to compensation under the
N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Act, and your
other statutory rights would depend upon the
ordinary law relating to claims by employees
against employers in respect of injuries caused
by the personal negligence or wilful act of the
employer or some person for whose act or
default the employer is responsible.... M.C.:
Although there has been no decision' in the
courts in this country it is generally held, in
view of decisions in America, that an X-ray
negative is the property of the radiologist in
the same way as a photographic print or film
is the property of the photographer. The
patient is entitled to the radiologist’s report.
... .R.WJ.L.: The total amount received from
the employer, plus allowances, should be re-
turned as income. The allowance made by the
employer for travelling expenses, etc., may then
be claimed as a deduction. If it is desired
to claim additional expenditure, such as for de-
preciation, etc., full details should be supplied
with the income-tax return... .C.M.D.: An
account of health services in the Abyssinian
campaign is printed in the Journal of the
Royal Society of Arts, London, Vol. LXXXVI,
No. 4462, May 27, 1938, and occupies the
major part of that issue. The address of the
society is John-street, Adelphi, W.C.2, London,
and the journal is published every Friday, Is.
(Eng.). Can’t say whether it is available to
non-members... .W.P.D.: (1) Yes, under the
provisions of the Q’land Land Acts and Timber
' and Quarry Regulations. (2) and (3) Yes, under
the provisions of the Q’land Sawmills Licensing
Act and Regulations... .F.T.W.: Queen Vic-
toria was born on May 24, 1819, succeeded to
the throne on June 20, 1837, married on
February 10, 1840, Albert, Prince Consort, and
died on January 22, 1901... .V.W.G.: In
South Australia if the estate (real or personal)
is derived by a widow, descendant or ancestor
of the deceased, then if £5OO in value the duty
would be at the rate of H P er cent. Federal
estate duty is levied only where the net value
of the estate after deducting all debts exceeds
£1000... .P.H.K.: Tear newspapers into small
pieces and soak these in water till pulpy, then
squeeze out superfluous liquid and mix the
paper with thin gum or flour-paste. Squeeze
again and work pulp into desired shapes, or
mould the pulp on models; this papier mache
dries as hard as w00d... .J.S.W.: You are still
liable for the outstanding balance J.M.C.:
Correct title of the song containing the words
mentioned is “A Shack in the Back of the
Hills.” This song is on a Decca record No.
X 1529.


LYS
PROOF.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
91'
fi
ill** ter ll
•A>a
MM
f E:?
v ■
!-M ( r ,v £*4 ,v ;'NAta
' vv *& - : ?,SW
£L S2£s
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool and Local Manufacture.
“Ghanam”: The British Government
has agreed to take all wool produced
during the coming season. Shipment and
manufacture are not so certain.
There is talk at Canberra of an ar-
rangement with U.S.A., and it is sug-
gested that Canada will go into the manu-
facturing business for Empire needs. It
would be far better for Australia to
begin manufacturing, even if the
machinery had to be bought from
foreign countries. Such a policy would
reduce shipping costs, apart from giving
us ultimate control of the destiny of our
wool.
Greasy wool —64’s —loses 50 p.c. of its
i weight in scouring. At successive manu-
facturing stages thereafter 7 p.c. is lost
on combing, 4 p.c. more on recombihg,
and another 6 p.c. in subsequent manu-
facturing processes to the weaving stage,
when only one pound of every three
original greasy pounds remains. Obvi-
ously, the buyer of manufactured wool
abroad is paying superfluous freight, and
the Australian buyer of Australian fleece
manufactured abroad pays in addition
a return freight with all the intermediate
profits.
The Commonwealth wool output for
a year would make approximately
300,000,000 yards of cloth. On the Payne
Commission’s estimate, wages paid on the
manufacture of the whole of this would
be £30,000,000 a year —good business for
Australia.
At the end of the last war there were
only 25 mills handling wool, cotton and
tweed together in Australia. They em-
ployed 4000 hands, used £1,140,000 worth
of raw materials and paid £360,000 in
wages. In 1937-38 the number of woollen
and tweed factories, inclusive of scour-
ing plants, was 87. They used £8,000,000
worth of raw material, employed 19,000
hands and paid £2,741,000 in wages. The
output has grown sixfold in cloths and
tweeds, though the growth has not been
so great in shawls, rugs and flannel. Total
local manufacture would be all to the
advantage of the woolgrowing industry,
and there is no reason why cost of cloth
should not be adjusted to the needs of
most other countries. It would put wool
in an assured position, which would make
a fair price for the grower largely a
matter of local adjustment, and its de-
velopment should be a great help to an
immigration policy after the war. Also,
wool manufacture is a business which
could be well distributed through the
States where the wool is produced.
Drought and Sheep.
“J.R.D.”: Overstocking is the greatest
present danger to the pastoral industry.
Country that will carry five sheep to
the acre in a good spring may barely
maintain one sheep through a cold, dry
winter ; even then there must be provi-
sion to conserve fodder from a flush
period against drought. Rabbits and
parasites are often blamed for decreased
cai-rying capacity. Rabbits can be eradi-
cated ; worms and other internal parasites
are largely the effect of bad management
and overstocking.
Under drought conditions such as now
prevail over the greater part of N.S.W.,
it pays to feed good sheep. Well-grown,
sound wool commands roughly 3d. per
pound more than thin, wasty, unsound
wool of similar type, and, further, a
strong animal ofl>shears is more likely to
survive and breed.
Dry sheep may survive a long dry
spell on dry grass and scrub provided
water and salt (preferably with dicalcic
phosphate added) are available. Weaners
and hoggets will not grow in frame,
muscle or wool on a mere subsistence
ration, and, if they are starved of the
“Hey, Bert, think I’ve got German measles.”
necessary protein at that stage', will re-
main stunted for life. Breeding ewes
also require extra feed.
It’s necessary to feed the proper and
most economical foods. Twin-lamb
disease (pregnancy toxaemia) may be pre-
vented by feeding ewes in lamb with a
protein-rich supplement—oats, lucerne
hay or meat- or bloodmeal.
Worms are another cause of drought
losses, particularly in young sheep.
Drench while the animals are in good
condition. The more sheep per acre the
more important is a regular drenching
programme.
A Word for the Ryeland.
“Hereford”: I have used Ryeland sires
for fat-lamb production since 1932, firstly
in a southern Vic. district with an average
rainfall of 32 inches, then on my present
holding 100 miles north of Melbourne,
where the rainfall is 22 inches.
Best results in the south were with
Romney-merino and Lincoln-merino cross
ewes mixed. They gave 130 p.c. drop
when joined on March 1. The whole drop
sold over the hooks at an average of
34.91 b. They rated 95 p.c. firsts and 3
p.c. seconds. The average age was not
more than 12 weeks.
In 1937, under drought conditions, but
with rain in October, I joined 400 ewes in
March and marked 85 p.c. lambs only.
I sold 140 Ryeland crosses off their
mothers in the paddock for £1 per head
and shore 70, getting about 2s. 6d. for
wool. Five weeks afterwards they brought
225. lid. at Newmarket.
In 1939 I bought aged ewes —mainly
Border cross —and next joining brought
me lambs at 255. Bd.
I founded a Ryeland stud in 1933 and
now have 250 ewes ; the only trouble is
that I have to ration them to keep them
from getting too fat.
Ryeland and Southdown cross lambs
are almost indistinguishable on hooks.
The Ryelands are hardy and good doers
under adverse conditions, capable of
weathering even a severe drought.
Power Alcohol.
“Titre”: Queensland has long been
interested in power alcohol; now the pro-
posed rationing of petrol has led to its
being taken seriously outside Queensland
for the first time ; in Queensland it has
meant the first move to expand cane-
growing specifically for fuel production.
The Queensland Cane Growers’ Asso-
ciation suggests that if sugar production
were increased to 1,200,000 tons, with
a home market of 370,000 tons at £24
and an export market of 430,000 at
£lO 10s., the remaining 400,000 tons
available would need to yield the grower
£l3 15s. 3d. to maintain the overall average
of £l5 15s. From 400,000 tons 56,000,000
gallons of alcohol could be produced on
a basis of 140 gallons per ton, the cost
of raw material Is. 11.6 d. per gal. Dis-
tillation and transport would add 7d.
per gal. Five gallons of petrol (bulk
cost Is. Bd. per gallon) blended with
one gallon of alcohol (cost 2s. 6.6 d.)
would give a good, lively fuel at Is. 9.75 d.
per gallon.
The project would result, the asso-
ciation calculates, in the distribution of
an extra £5,500,000 per annum among
canegrowers, and replacement with
locally-produced fuel of imported petrol
• —reckoning prime petrol cost lOd. —
would save £2,330,000 p.a. in exchange.
The figures contain no reckoning of
the value of by-products. And nothing
is said of alcohol sources other than
sugar. Sweet potatoes are about the
heaviest yielders, and maize, if stalks and
leaf material are included, would give
as great a yield as sugar.
Hints for the Farm.
“Brush”: A good preservative paint
for iron roofs, gates and fences is equal
parts of red oxide and boiled linseed oil.
Mix the powder to a paste with a little
oil to break up lumps thoroughly, and
then stir it into the balance of the oil.
Left-over paint must be tightly corked
to preserve it from “fattiness.” When
dressed on roofs or gutterings remove
the downpipes so that dew-water or rain
will not go into the tanks ; replace them
after about three weeks.
“Mullengah”: Here’s a good lure for
fruitfly: Half a gallon of cold water,
one cup of ja m(stone fruit for prefer-
ence) or molasses, one heaped teaspoon-
ful of sheep dip. Mix well and hang
in half-full tins. It will net night-flying
cabbage- and potato-
moths as well as the
fruitfly.
“Old Bird”: Feed
chickens to a system.
The first week give
a little coarse oat-
meal and the next
week finely broken
wheat and maize
and coarse grit. Up
to two months, three
feeds a day should
be given—morning
and evening three
parts cracked wheat
and one part each of
shelled oats and
cracked maize, mid-
day a mash of three
parts pollard and
two parts bran,
mixed with milk and
hot water. Plenty of
chopped green feed
is also essential.
After two months
the birds can be
given whole feed.
Maoriland has un-
dertaken to supply
Britain with 10,000 extra tons of bacon
during the coming year. That means a
25 p.c. increase in the pork and bacon
output of the Dominion. Last year
360,000 pigs under 1201 b. weight were
killed. An added 301 b. per pig will supply
the additional weight, but if weight is not
increased 220,000 more pigs will be
needed, which will mean round about
20,000 breeding sows.
“J.G.”: Sub. clover can be a great help
in combating soil erosion. It is self-
seeding and grows rapidly in loose soils
and in regions where there are heavy
rainfalls. Sown at the head of a gully,
drain or anywhere where the soil has
begun to wash away, it will quickly fill
the soil with roots, and spread rapidly
down the watercourse.
“Graz”: In one week country abattoirs
sent to Homebush (N.S.W.) 2700 beef
carcasses for distribution. The State con-
cern killed only 2500 during the week.
Carcass butchers with decentralised abat-
toirs save about £1 per head by killing
nearer the farms and trucking the beef
in chilled form to the city. A system
which makes for cheaper meat to the


s- .. c -x-
I ' ' ■■' 'X / -
f y ' <f^W
' % A ' '• * x>/
•■•■ >•
% .
x4i' $
unhum. fU n E i *'%,
reduced To one-s«™
READ what Mr. W. W. Holmes, of Holmes and Holmes Ltd.,
Mingenew, West Australia, says of the Company’s “Caterpillar” D 4.
“Since changing over from our previous petrol tractor to our ‘Cater-
pillar’ D 4, we have reduced our annual fuel bill to one-sixth, doing
the same amount of work as with the old petrol machine.
“The tractor has worked 3,906 hours, covering 3,000 acres per year
including 1,000 acres of harvesting, with two 10 foot harvesters,
ploughing, scrub rolling, dam sinking, etc.”
Above is shown Messrs. Holmes & Holmes D 4 pulling two Sun General
12-disc ploughs of which they say:—“We ploughed with our tractor,
760 acres in 208 hours, approximately 3j| acres per hour.”
In any agricultural job, rest assured that a “Caterpillar” Diesel Tractor
will do more work, at a lower fuel and maintenance cost.
Get in touch with your nearest “Caterpillar” dealer and ask him to
demonstrate a machine on your place.
CATERPILLAR
REGD. US. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE
TRACTORS
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON
PTY. LTD., Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters,
Sydney.
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTy.
LTD., 102 Melbourne Street, Brisbane.
Victoria and Tasmania: WM. ADAMS &
CO. LTD., Collins St., Melbourne.
West Australia: LIMITED,
Wellington St., Perth.
South Australia: THE S.A. TRACTOR COMPANY,
Flinders St., Adelaide.
8.8.30.40
consumer should be encouraged, but
Homebush is yelling for a monopoly tax
to squeeze out country-killed beef.
“Ben C.”: Why burn stubble? Many
wheatgrowers now turn the stubble in
as a means of preventing sheet erosion
by wind and water and also to restore
humus to the soil. Stubble burning in
Australia probably began as the simplest
and quickest way of getting rid of the
straw after the strippers had been
through it; later it became general as a
means of destroying disease spores.
Twenty and more years ago, when smut
was likely to reduce a crop to nothing-
ness, burning stubble was the best way
of cleaning affected paddocks. But the
dry-pickling system has almost eliminated
bunt from wheat, and it is doubtful if
the small danger of infection justifies the
destruction of a valuable soil-binder and
refertilising agent.
“Yeno Ham”: With silos bulging and
large quantities of grain in emergency
storage, where it may be damaged by
mice and weevils, N.S.W. pig-raisers and
poultry farmers can’t buy less than truck
lots of 180 bags at 4s. per bushel
from the Wheat Board. For smaller
lots they have to pay merchants 4s. 6d.
to 4s. lOd. per bushel, and they are not
allowed to buy direct from growers. They
are paying £5 10s. a ton for bran and
pollard and about £8 for wheat. If the
price of grain were reduced, they would
use less mill offal, making more avail-
able for dairy-farmers, who will need it
because of the dry spell. The wheat-
grower will have to stand the loss for
damaged wheat and the cost of recon-
ditioning it, so he would be better off if
the pig and poultry men could get as
much grain as they wanted at 3s. to 3s. 6d.
per bushel.
“Groper”: It has been estimated in
America that if nothing were done to
check erosion a paddock with an 8 per
cent, slope of medium soil could lose 7in.
of its surface soil under normal weather
and fallow conditions in 20 years. The
same paddock under close pasture would
last out nearly 4000 years. Whether or
not the estimate is right, it has a parti-
cular interest for Australian wheat-
farmers, who are beginning to realise
how rapidly their land is deteriorating.
Some of them even now are trying to crop
the subsoil, the surface having been lost.
Land under bare fallow for even six
months loses a lot of its surface by wind
and rain. Any slow slope of over 2 or
3 per cent, drop needs contour banks and
should be worked on the contour. One
of the worst aspects of erosion is that
farmers often fail to realise what is hap-
pening until the damage is done. In the
final resort, it remains a question just
how far a man who permits erosion to
develop or continue is a traitor to his
country.
“Truss”: Grass hay needs mowing
earlier than cultivated crops. If allowed
to go to seed more than half the good-
ness is lost. Bush hay is of little value
unless particular care and attention are
given to curing. A man who cuts any
old time, rakes and stacks when the in-
clination moves him, would be better em-
ployed studying racing charts. The stuff
has to be cut when early flowers are
showing ; never mind the wind-rows and
stooking of cultivated crops. Cart next
day. Don’t let it bleach on the ground.
Don’t, of course, stack wet grass. A bag
of coarse salt to about four tons of hay
is a good idea. Sprinkle over the layer of
hay as each load is put in the stack. Don’t
dump the salt and trust to luck. Spread
it.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXIX.
PLEASANT SUNDAY AFTERNOON.
Sunday on the farm. Dinner over, the
sun shining, the dogs lying near the shed,
bees or blowflies droning under the eaves,
a lazy warmth over everything. A time
this to rest after the week’s labors—to
doze in the sun with idle thoughts, or
sleep on the verandah while the hours
wander quietly by.
Strange how the farm animals as well
as all nature seem to know the day and
what it means. The horses stand head
to tail under trees. The dogs lie stretched
in the sun. The sheep are camped on
the tank. Bush birds are silent, and the
farm chook preens itself or takes a nap,
while the cat sleeps precariously on top
of the gatepost.
The boys have gone on their bikes to
visit some neighboring youngsters. The
missus is somewhere in the house, but
quiet. You stretch out on the verandah,
feeling a comfort and the slow benedic-
tion of the afternoon. You put the pipe
aside and close your eyes to sleep, only
to start awake as a penetrating sound
drifts round the corner of the house.
You sit up and curse the singing hen as
she wanders by, grab one of your boots
and let fly. It collides with the hen and
she races madly off. One dog lifts a
head, regards you with annoyance and
drops off again. Peace.
From a confused dream of bushfires
and galloping horses you awake to find
the sun glaring in your eyes. You grunt
and shift into the shade. A nail-head in
the floor prods you and you leap upright,
find a new position and settle down again!
Your eyes close.
The dogs burst into a clamor. You
come upright, curse them and see a car
swinging up to the house. Mrs. Enright.
Hurriedly you pull one boot on and
reach for the other. You remember the
hen and step off the verandah for the
other boot. A burr jabs your stockinged
heel, you hop forward, retrieve the boot
and hop back. The missus comes out,
dressed up.
Then you recall that she’d arranged to
go somewhere with Mrs. Enright, greet
Mrs. Enright sourly, watch the car go
away and return to the verandah. Your
foot stings, but now you’re alone and can
settle down. “Bonzer day,” you think
as your eyes close.
Suddenly you are awake. Two feet
away, its body still, its head up and look-
ing at you with astonishment, is a brown
snake. You perform an acrobatic leap
backwards, pick yoursfilf up and rush
inside for the gun. It isn’t there, so you
grab a long-handled shovel and rush out
again. The landscape is entirely devoid
of all forms of reptilian life. You look
about, debate with yourself whether the
blankard is under or inside the house,
and decide it would be better to bring
out a couch and rest on it. One dog
lifts a head, regards you with annoyance
and drops off again. Peace. Your eyes
close.
You have a dream in which yor? are
invisible and have been accepted by the
British Government for service in Tas-
mania, which you find to be a queer
place full of oilwells and German soldiers.
You find Hitler, make him invisible, and
are about to force him to pay a fixed
price of Bs. 6d. a bushel for wool when
Churchill starts shouting at you. You
try to shut him up, but he keeps on
shouting, and you open your eyes, and
there is Bill Jordan crying “Hey, wake
up! Wake up! That black bull of yours
is in my lucerne paddock.”
“Hullo, Bill,” you say ; “was just hav-
in’ a bit of a spell.”
“Come on, come on!” he shouts.
“That flamin’ bull’s worryin’ my South-
down lambs.”
Two hours later, having assisted Jor-
dan to empty the lucerne of the bull, you
finish emptying the bull of lucerne gas,
put the trochar and the other thing away,
make yourself and Bill a cup of tea, speed
him on his way and decide to give it
another go.
Once more there is peace, once more
your eyes close.
But the penetrating song of the singing
hen comes rasping through the afternoon
and you sit up, reflecting on the vainness
of hope and the deliberate perversity of
all things. As the hen drifts towards you,
her vocal cords dealing out the mono-
tonous chorus, you gaze upon her with
speculation, and within you there arises a
vision of the picture she would make
scattered about the farmyard by the blast
of a d.b. gun.
Without hurry you arise, go into the
house and search. The gun you find in
the boys’ room ; shells are on the mantel-
piece. You load and walk unhurriedly
outside. The dog that you have so fre-
quently annoyed now gets up—he knows
that gun—and grins.
The hen, having circumnavigated the
house, appears in full sail and with siren
going around the promontory of the
tankstand. You concentrate your artil-
lery so as to take her amidships, check
the angle and range and fire one barrel.
There is a cloud of smoke and a roar.
Where the hen was is now a cloud of
dust. The hen, mightily astonished and
shrieking her distaste, has leaped upon
the tankstand. But your blood is up, and
for her there is no escape.
Bang goes the second barrel, and all
that is left of that hen are the echoes of
her song, some white feathers drifting in
the circumambient air and several bits
of chook plastered round the jagged hole
in the tank through which most of the
shot entered, and from which all the
water is shooting forth.
When your brain starts working you
gather old bags, soap, red lead, rope and
wire, improvise a plug and twitch it on
with the wire. After a lot of trouble
you check the flow, but you shrewdly
suspect that is because the water inside
has become so low as to reduce the pres-
sure.
Cleaning up the remnants of fowl, you
decide to tell the missus that it was the
snake you shot at, and that one of the
dogs tripped you as the gun went oft.
You put the gun away, note that tn
sun is nearly set and mutter „“Than
heavens, it’s Monday tomorrow.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MINA.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
Names—though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don’t object.
A contribution on the charms of the simple and fruitful life earns double rates
for a man who writes from Grafton (N.S.W.). Dr. Page would endorse every word
of it.
Cocktail Cabinets v. Cradles
I sit back and laugh when I read of
the mugs who prefer to crawl through
life without children because of their
social ambitions and the snobbishness
that prefers cocktail cabinets to cradles.
And I pity from the bottom of my heart
the women who are childless because they
think child-bearing low or dangerous,
and the men who fear to marry because
of the family responsibilities it will bring.
They are losing the sweetest thing that
can stir the human heart —pride in the
flesh of your flesh and the bone of your
bone as you watch it grow to men and
women and direct it with every cunning
thought you can contrive. The cheer
you get when the eldest is accepted for
an air crew or the flood of satisfaction
that bathes your old nerves as the young-
est is only beaten by one point for first
place in her class is worth more than
social recognition or wealth.
The thrills of a mob of fat women
cackling about their social successes or
a gang of pot-bellied business pirates
boasting about their stock deals are
feeble joys beside the throbbing vitality
of sitting on the bleachers in your over-
coat and cheering as your second gets
through for a try, or listening through the
half-open door of your bedroom as Mar-
garet sings in her childish soprano
“Wish Me Luck As You Wave Me Good-
bye” as a duet with the man in the radio
set.
And if there is anything better on this
tired old earth than to see your own kids
holding their own everywhere, thanks to
the guts you have given them and the
education you have scraped together for
them, I haven’t yet met with it in a
lifetime of roaming. And that goes for
the missus. Wake up, you childless
moneygrubbers! There’s nothing you
can buy with your hoarded cash a thou-
sandth part so sweet as a big, healthy,
happy family that looks on you as a man
and a father and acts up to it. — Father’s
Voice (N.S.W.).
This Population Problem
In Australia, every girl who gets mar-
ried expects to be set up in a little house
in a suburb replete with gas, electric
light, macadamised roads and other
amenities of civilisation. She expects to
be given a good time or be able to join
a circulating library and wear nice dresses
which are done up in a steam laundry.
Her husband expects to be able to keep
her in the style to which she is accus-
tomed or he would feel belittled in his
own eyes ; and he expects himself to be
able to belong to a club, go to the races,
have a pot or two of beer on occasions or
join a literary society.
In other words, the couple has a stand-
ard of living already set for them by
society which they are expected to con-
form to or they will fall in their own eyes
and the eyes of their neighbors. They
have both been to primary schools and
perhaps to high schools, and some may
have been to one of the great public
schools which have enormous prestige in
the eyes of society. A tremendous pro-
portion of girls in Melbourne have done
some arts course or other at the uni-
versity, and, although it has taught them
nothing or they have forgotten what it
taught them, they are proud of having
been an undergrad, at an important place
like a university.
In other words, they have a standard of
living, and they would naturally think
that, if they didn’t give their children all
the things they think good which they
have had themselves, they would be fail-
ing in their duty. They are jealous of their
standard and would feel utterly devastated
if they couldn’t give it to their children.
Doesnt every statesman and politician
and newspaper drum it into their heads
that it is their duty?
Well, now, along comes birth control,
a comparatively modern invention. Isn’t
it perfectly natural that they should use
it to maintain the standards they believe
in? To hurl abusive epithets at them
like “frivolous,” “selfish” and “irrespon-
sible” and to say that they lack the
alleged stern virtues of their grandmothers
who had ten children is bunkum. Forty
years ago, by skimping and saving and
having dripping on his bread, a father on
five pounds a week could send five
children to school and to the university
and float them off on some career or
other. But he couldn’t do it with five
nowadays, though he might do it with
one. But don’t modem parents skimp
and save in the same way to give their
one or two children four years at a techni-
cal school or six years at a university in
order to make engineers or doctors of
them? So what’s the difference? And
how many parents are there who spend
“THAT'S put the fire out!”
their cash in self-indulgence, even if their
children end up on the susso?
The politicians like W. M. Hughes who
boast of Australian standards and at the
same time want everybody to have half a
dozen infants are asking to have it both
ways. Most of them take it one way
themselves. — Pawang (Vic.).
Land Girls and Boys
Land armies and other attractive side-
lines to the national war effort are
occupying the minds of smart young
things these days, and Dame Fashion is
swiftly catching up with the trend by
designing special nail-polishes and hair-
styles to meet the crisis.
The spectacle of farming has taken on
a new glamor in the eyes of dainty misses
who visualise themselves tripping round
homesteads. Even the newspapers are mad
about the idea. Important dailies are
devoting pages to the scheme and even
publishing full-page pictures (in these
days of paper shortage) of smart young
misses poised in the act of raking hay,
sowing wheat from heavy tractors, or
chasing a couple of sheep across the
paddock.
Meanwhile Junior Farmers without
glamor have been getting quietly down to
the job of organising a real land army.
They have been extending their projects to
increase productivity, taking over the run-
ning of elder brother’s place, milking,
feeding stock, growing vegetables—all for
the war effort. They have been bringing
in a fair bit of cash, too, organising shows
and fairs in their districts. “S.M.H.” the
other day graciously granted six inches to
a review of their efforts ; I saw nothing
in any other paper. Such is the standard
of values operating in the local press.
—Farmhand (N.S.W.).
Feminists
Yes, the women are having a grand
time now —“Grab yourself a uniform,
girls, march out of the kitchen and show
the men we’re their equals! But, of
course, we’ll still get indignant if the
men don’t give us their tram seats.”
Women aren’t suited, either physically
or emotionally, to have anything to do
with ruling the world. They might rule
their husbands, but it’s their husbands
who, once they get outside the house, can
do something about governing the rest
of the earth. Men might be more pas-
sionate, but the prize for being more
emotional always will go to women —unless
women of the future become some super-
race and can reorganise the subtly intri-
cate nerve-construction of their bodies.
It’s no use, girls! Give up this “we’re
equal to you fellows.” Nature’s got you
defeated from the start. One of the
funniest facts about feminists is that half
their struggle for recognition in the big,
big business world is made for the mere
pleasure of having men (or a man) admit
how clever women have turned out to
be. What could be more weakly femi-
nine than that? I don’t say woman’s
place is in the kitchen—not even in the
home if she can be more useful outside
—but it’s high time she was content to
work well instead of obstinately insisting
she can battle about on her own.— Eve
(N.S.W.).
A.R.P.
Air-raid precautions in Australia still
seem to be on the “missing-link” level.
In a large “semi-Government” institution
I read the instructions to the staff. The
idea was that when the sirens sounded the
staff should repair to the basement. That’s
all right, of course, provided a bomb
does not fall direct on the building; but
the idea that one must get below ground
•—simply because bombs fall from above
■—is liable to be overdone. In an air
raid one is as safe on top of a build-
ing as underneath it, for the danger is
chiefly lateral and slightly upwards. When
a bomb bursts the splinters spread side-
ways and slightly upwards.
I inspected Government-designed shel-
ters which were supposed to be an indi-
cation of what’s what. None that I saw
had any doors or even door-covering.
A shelter without an entrance capable
of being firmly closed and strongly
screened is useless, for a blast from a
bomb could reduce the shelterers to pulp.
In any event, if air-raiders were to
come in earnest, the port zone of such
a city as Sydney would probably have
to be evacuated by residents, for it is
obviously on the port zone that the
raiders would concentrate. How could
anti-aircraft guns be worked in the port
zone of Sydney without doing more
damage to residents than to the raiders?
However, our politicians so far have
only got as far as the stage of hoping to
God it won’t happen here.— Barcelona
(N.S.W.).
The Graving Dock
Why all this squawking about the
Sydney graving dock? Locals complain
that Victoria gets the cream of the war
orders, yet nitwitted Sydneysiders moan
that their gorgeous harbor will be ruined
by the Potts Point dock. Speculative
builders spoilt the harbor years ago, and
any sensible person should realise that
this dock will be a national asset in the
real sense of the word. —Blurtinax
(N.S.W.).
Scrap Ridicule
Military strategists tell us that it is a
mistake to underestimate the enemy, and
when the history of this war comes to
be written it will be seen that quite a
number of the initial setbacks were due
to that mistake. Yet we continue, by
cartoon, poster and comment, to pour
forth ridicule instead of energy.
In place of regarding the enemy as a
powerful, determined foe, now strength-
ened by the first fruits of victory, the
final defeat of whom will demand every
ounce of energy we can muster, we
manufacture and sell stupid novelties
depicting Hitler as a funny pig or a
glorified clown. One of the most strik-
ing examples of this may be seen in one
of the Defence Department’s anti-gossip
posters. It depicts two rather stupid-look-
ing people gossiping whilst a humorised
Hitler listens from under the table. No-
thing could be less calculated to impress
people with the deadly seriousness of
speaking out of their turn.
When the German people made Goring
a birthday present of thousands of tons
of scrap iron, our newspapers and radio
(including the 8.8. C.) cracked crude
jokes about Germany’s desperate posi-
tion. Yet now we are asking our people
to do precisely the same thing with the
pots and pans. If we had started col-
lecting scrap when Germany started, the
probability is that the enemy would not
have had such an initial superiority in
war machines. Ridicule won’t win this
war.— Celt (N.S.W.).
A Naval College
Surely some use can be made of the
former Naval College at Jervis Bay when
camp space has to be found for hun-
dreds of thousands of soldiers in Aus-
tralia? The college was established at
great expense, but has become a private
guest-house, if you please. If unwanted
by the naval people, it should make an
admirable training school for army offi-
cers and n.c.os. or for a militia camp.
Put to such use, the college would, at
least, save us the cost of erecting one
set of camp buildings. Perhaps the Fed-
eral Cabinet has forgotten that we have
a Naval College.— Paul Pilgrim (N.S.W.).
•Niter the War
In a topsy-turvy world Mr. Cameron
is near to beseeching the farmers to grow
less wheat, while new wool substitutes
may at any moment give the wool indus-
try a setback. At the same time plans
are afoot for the clearing of huge areas
for when the war ends and returned sol-
diers of the second A.I.F: can be set down
on farms.
What will these new Diggers grow?
Will it be wheat in a depressed market?
Will it be wool in a world from which
wool may have lost its supremacy as a
textile fibre? Better let plans be exam-
ined for setting the returned men to work
developing our fishing industry, commer-
cialising the huge marine fibre deposits
of the S.A. coast, building up secondary
industries, reafforesting in a world
in which the price of imported timber
is constantly rising, and growing the
primary products, such as sisal, that we
now import.
Otherwise the men that win the war
for us will be forced (by being bam-
boozled into taking their place in insecure
industries) to lose the peace.— Austfirst
(S.A.).
The Commos.
May not we be doing the very thing
the Communists want in Australia?
Society doesn’t want a bloody revolution
in this country, so the Government pre-
vents the Communists from saying what
they believe and printing it in their
papers. All that will do is to increase
their prestige. . When they were allowed
to say what they liked they had no
prestige.
There used to be many Communists
in Melbourne, and one was a young
man whose father was a very respectable
and eminent citizen. The young man
lived with his family, and they didn’t
seem to think him much of a menace.
I once heard him speak to a collection
of businessmen at a luncheon, and he
uttered the most bloodthirsty threats
against the established order, but they
didn’t take him seriously. He often
spoke at the university, and he was even
reported in the dailies. I used to see
the young man going along the street
with a fierce fanatical look on his face,
and it was easy to see he was obsessed
by something. I used to think: If he


were prevented from speaking in public
would that remove his obsession or in-
crease it?
While he was permitted to speak in
public nobody much bothered to listen,
and most were intensely irritated by him.
Personally, I don’t think he did any harm
whatever. Now I no longer see him on
the street. Are we to suppose that he
has become unfocused and respectable
like his father? You can’t destroy a
focused individual in that way. If you
put a repression on the Communists that
is just what they want. The lukewarm
ones will drop out. You will hear them
announcing that they have become Trot-
skyites or something, and no longer see
eye to eye with the official movement.
If the Trotskyites are outlawed you will
hear them announcing that they have be-
come something else. They are terrified
of being isolated from society, and are
giving themselves the convenient excuse
which will enable them to desert and be-
come respectable.
But the focused individual cannot act
in that way because his belief means too
much to him. If he lost his belief life
would become unendurable. If he is
driven underground he has been given
the best conditions for maintaining his.
obsession.
If my young man has been driven,
underground he has been given the per-
fect conditions for continuing his propa-
ganda. If he has been put in a concen-
tration camp that will not stop him think-
ing. He is sufficiently intelligent to know
that people don’t like him, and that, if
he cannot obtain a person’s sympathy, to
argue with such a person is useless. So
he will talk only to the sympathetic.
Hence all that the Government can do by
repressing him and others like him is to
strengthen the movement by driving out
the lukewarm, who Lenin himself said
were a disadvantage to it, and leaving the
obsessed, who alone can give it prestige.
—F. S. (Vic.).
Figures and Facts /
In B. 24/7/’4O appeared an article
telling of Soviet doings. The statistics of
deaths from murder, famine and disease
ran into many millions. They did not
Spoil my appetite for lunch.
In the afternoon I had a talk with a
young fellow just arrived from a Baltic
State now taken under Stalin’s “protec-
tion.” His knowledge of English was so
meagre that he had to eke it out with
demonstrative gestures. He told me that
in his country a certain learned and
highly - respected university professor
dared publicly to oppose Stalin’s “con-
quest through love.” The next morning,
in the middle of a peaceful street, the
indiscreet patriot was struck down with
an iron bar “yoost lak a dog,” while
three policemen obligingly turned their
backs to the butchery and exhorted the
passers-by to keep moving.
As my informant “suited the action to
the word,” playing in turn the parts of
the professor, the assassin, the constables
and the public, I could visualise not only
the single tragedy, but the mass murder
and the nation-wide agony of which I had
been reading, and the result was extreme
mental and physical nausea.
Even when arithmetical figures are true
and terrible they fail to carry conviction
because they lack the human touch, and
because they are too big for our limited
comprehension. A few unvarnished tales,
simply told, would move our hearts to
pity for oppressed peoples, and to hate
for the “political methods” that threaten
to rob us of that form of liberty we call
democracy.
Our system of government may have
its faults, but at least we can enjoy the
sport of criticising it in the “0.F.M.” or
elsewhere without being struck down “like
dogs” under the noses of complaisant
constables. — Dem or Com (S.A.).
Now or Never
If the Federal Government really
means business why doesn’t it start tak-
ing over control of at least some indus-
tries now? In my paper today I see
advertisements calling for tenders for
the building of the military general
hospital at Concord (N.S.W.), and at this
rate of progress the hospital is not ex-
pected to be completed before the end of
1941! Meanwhile one non-military hos-
pital in Sydney has military patients.
Why should such urgent military works
still be submitted to the completely futile
method of calling for tenders and farm-
ing the work out? Why doesn’t the Gov-
ernment establish an army construction
corps, and enlist the necessary building
operatives, together with architects, engi-
neers, etc.? Why doesn’t it open up an
army clothing factory, a boot factory and
the like, and staff them with enlisted
tradesmen who would, if necessary, work
the clock round?
We seem to be incapable of approach-
ing any problem with a real display of
vigor. One expected great things when
one heard of the appointment of a Con-
troller of Waste in N.S.W. (even though
he was a member of that body which con-
tains 90 superfluous politicians). So far,
however, the only brainwave this Waste
Controller has had is the idea that the
public will bring all, its waste to him.
New offices, of course, have already been
opened up for the Waste Controller, and
a fully-fledged brand-new Government
department may be expected on the ->vaste
horizon any day.— Pardon Me (N.S.W.).
Postponing the Election
Through the common disease of “wish-
ful thinking” our politicians seem to
have reached the sincere conclusion that
good government can’t go on without
them, and that any attempt to dislodge
them would be not only a costly holdup
to the war effort, but disloyalty to the
country. Those who urge the extension
of the life of the present Parliament and
Government on the ground of “national
necessity” would see no such necessity
if a Government of another color were
in power. The politicians’ objection to
an election on the ground of expense
suggests that they are overcome by re-
morse for past squandermania.
We are told that, having obtained the
power, the Government would use it only
in an emergency. The rapidity with
which an “emergency” would arise would
be astonishing.
In the event of imminent danger of
invasion or something equally perilous,
it might be necessary to postpone the
election. But there is no need to give
the Government power to do this. One
man alone could be trusted to act in the
matter. His name is George VI. — Kur-
Gan (N.S.W.).
The Political Gambler
In an otherwise unstable world the
fidelity of the gambler to the object or
medium of his speculation is a remark-
able fact. The real turf addict, for in-
stance, has no other interest in life. So
long as he can have the sporting columns
of the newspaper, the Ministry of Infor-
mation can have the rest.
It is not widely realised that the most
absorbing of all forms of gambling is
politics. Philosophers have testified that
the enjoyable excitement of this game
exceeds any to be had on the racecourse
or on the Stock Exchange. A party man
at Westminster may be nobody today
and Chancellor of the Exchequer to-
morrow through sheer luck.
Generally speaking, wealthy old gentle-
men like Mr. Lloyd George don’t cling
to Parliament for patriotic reasons, but
because, in comparison with the excite-
ment of politics, life away from the lob-
bies is intolerably dull.
This is why it is going to be so hard to
do away with State Parliaments. It will
prove just as difficult to shift these
gamblers as it would to persuade the
racing men of N. S. Wales to close
the racecourses. —J. W. R. (Q.).
Back to Victorian Days
This petrol-rationing question raises
visions of old times when there was on
every corner a hay-and-corn store packed
to the roof with fodder grown by Aus-
tralian labor; and opposite it a coach-
builder and wheelwright’s where were
displayed glittering buggies, carts, wagons
and whatnot, all made in Australia ; and
a little further down the street a saddler’s
shop vaunting saddles and harness of the
best manufacture, produced by good Aus-
tralians and used by them —all since re-
placed by the garages and petrol stations
which act as a kind of pneumatic tube
system for shooting our money overseas.
By closing my eyes a little tighter I
can raise up a vision of smart young
men and women reverting to the natural
style of locomotion, the feet, and reaping
untold benefit in health and looks as a
result, instead of growing daily more
dyspeptic from sitting in flivvers, and
weekly more unfinancial from the time-
payments and petrol bills.
Stretching my imagination a little more
I can see the farmers producing their
own locomotion on four legs at no cost,
by breeding, and thus cutting out the
dead horse at the end of a bad season for
tractor payments and fuel; the State
Governments breaking all records by
showing an actual profit and not a hypo-
thetical one by disregarding interest and
redemption, because of the increased use
of their transport; and, above all else,
the disappearance for ever of that mort-
gaged look we suburbanites have acquired
since the departure of the good old days
when we had no thought of tying out
souls to the chariot of Uncle Sam’s t.-p.
system just because of publicity methods
that made it look necessary for our social
standing.— O’Toole (N.S.W.).
* ‘Scapegoat-hunting’ ’
The scapegoat-hunting so popular at
the moment in certain quarters in Eng-
land is due to more than “muddled and
fallacious thinking” (B. 17/7/’4O). It is
the result of a deliberate plan.
The hunters are Leftists; the game
are Conservatives or Right-wing Liberals
like Sir John Simon. The former are the
same gang that wanted England to inter-
vene in Spain on the side of the Reds,
and fight Japan in the interest of Chiang
Kai-shek. The men they are denounc-
ing prevented such insanity.
It is not the latter but their detractors
who are to blame for Britain’s present
plight. For nearly two decades after
the Great War the British Left success-
fully opposed adequate defence provi-
sion. Even when they were demanding
that England go to war with the Spanish
Nationalists, Germany, Italy and Japan
at the same time, they declared them-
selves against compulsory military ser-
vice, and some looked with no favorable
eye on the recently instituted rearmament
programme.
The real purpose of the present agita-
tion is to foist a “Popular Front” Gov-
ernment on the British people by forcing
Right-wing elements out of the Min-
istry—the only Conservatives who are
not being attacked are the group which
of recent years has worked with the Left.
It is a despicable trick, but what else
could be expected of Leftists? “Popular
Front” regimes brought disaster to France
and Spain, and there is no reason to be-
lieve that an English experiment of the
same sort would run a different course. —-
Lyle (N.S.W.).
No Use for Canberra
“Although the Commonwealth Ministers met
Mr. Gauss officially in Sydney, no member of
the Ministry has visited Canberra since his
arrival here. In fact, there has not been a
Cabinet Minister in Canberra since July 12.”
I read that in “S.M.H.” of July 24.
Twelve days! And during those 12
days petrol rationing and the Murdoch
regulations evoked a wave of press hys-
teria and a Cabinet Crisis; the first
United States Minister to be appointed
to Australia arrived in these parts; the
Prime Minister tried to form a National
Cabinet; the Burma Road affair
approached a climax; a new Japanese
Government was formed (always a matter
of importance for Australia); and Hitler
made his “final appeal.” And not a
single Minister at Canberra.
The Capital Territory cost Australia
£10,746,078 to June, 1938; but what’s
ten million to a politician?—P. D.
(N.S.W.).
Birthrates
“M. Turlutu” (B. 17/7/MO) errs. Aus-
tralia as a whole has a birthrate of only
17.4, and Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, containing two-thirds of the
white people of the British Empire, have
a birthrate of only 15.3—15 p.c. less than
Germany’s birthrate.
Moreover, the birthrate in Germany
has risen since 1933 from 14.7 to 18.8,
as compared with a rise of one per thou-
sand in Australia, a fall of two per thou-
sand in Canada and falls in most other
parts of the Empire. _ _ *
The most ominous feature in this com-
parison is that, whereas the increase in
Germany has been almost wholly among
people of Germanic stock, the increase
in the British Empire has been mainly
among such non-Anglo-Saxon stocks as
French-Canadians, South African “poor
whites” and back-veld nationalists, and
—in Australia—ltalians, Yugoslavians
and other fertile strains. —J. W. R. (Q.).
“Literary Traitors”
It has long been fashionable to poke
fun at the prudery, reticence and re-
straint of Victorian writers, yet the time
will surely come when the shortcomings
of modern scribes will be, by future
generations, also severely criticised.
Many authors seem to have the type
of mind peculiar to immature school-
boys and, with statements, discussions
and memories that could well be omitted,
they spoil the effect of otherwise excel-
lent work. They seem to delight in sym-
pathising with wrong and ridiculing, in
subtle ways, right, simplicity and inno-
cence.
No one wants a return to prudery, but
couldn’t a happy medium between it and
unnecessary vulgarity be reached?
The chief duty of any type of art
should be to ennoble and inspire, and
literary traitors who * betray or fail to
live up to this standard would do a great
service to humanity if they ceased writ-
ing.—P. Radwon (Vic.).
Thirty-five Years Ago
Extract from a Bulletin article written
about 1905: —-
The continent can, with the help of an
effective Protectionist policy, be made to
produce everything necessary for maintain-
ing civilised life. An Australian navy—
a torpedo and submarine fleet for coastal
defence, a flock of fast converted cruisers
(doing business as merchantmen in times
of peace), and a small group of real war-
ships—is quite within the means of the
Commonwealth, and would be able, in the
event of most serious war, to give a naval
enemy some tronble and keep running a
certain amonnt of coastal trade. An army
of 250,000 citizen soldiers of a type finer
than could be raised anywhere else in the
world could be organised on this conti-
nent to cope with any possible invading
force.
The article would stand reprinting.
My cutting book on the same page has a
previous article which finishes “Among
the weak spots in Australia’s defence its
Minister of Defence is about the weak-
est. There are so many weak spots that
it ought to be difficult to diagnose the
weakest, bnt Playford’s incapacity has
become so monumental that it looms ug
above all other considerations.”
For the moment I thought this was a
reference to our present South Australiar
Premier. —C. C. D. (5.A..).
Anodynes
If the people studied the form and
performances of politicians with the same
thoroughness as they do those of the race-
horses, wouldn’t election results be very
different? If our flappers knew as mucli
about the private lives of the financially
and industrially great as they do aboui
film stars wouldn’t reforms come quickly 1 !
Would a nation not intellectually be
mused tolerate overcrowded, out-of-date
debt-burdened hospitals in cities which
have hundreds of streamlined, air-condi
tioneid ragshops and movie palaces? 0i
thousands of unemployed when the
nation is engaged in a struggle for it!
independent existence? Or undemour
ishment among the people when dozen!
of marketing boards are embarrassed with
the quantity of food produced here?
The public is blissfully unconcernec
about all these existing anomalies, and
so long as it chooses to drug itseli
with' its pleasures those reaping the
advantages are not likely to remove the
anodyne. —E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
We Make It Here
“Ghanam” (B. 24/ 7/ *4O) is out of date,
For years not much over 10 p.c. of oui
cloth requirements has been imported
These imports represent luxury items and
those not worth while making here. Local
mills are clothing the R.A.N., A.I.F. and
R.A.A.F.
The Scullin-Forde tariffs in this in-
stance at least cleared the way for reach-
ing self-sufficiency. Today we are ex-
porting cloth to Maoriland. —In thi
Trade (Vic.).
Patriotic Appeals
We cannot win the war without sacri-
fice —young men are ready to give then
lives, and the rest of us must give oui
money, and that means foregoing
pleasures, luxuries, comforts and cutting
down our living standards.
Many patriotic appeals are wrong in
motive and effect. Instead of “Go with-
out something and give,” they say “Come
to this or that ball or bridge party; have
a good time and help win the war.
“Hands off greyhound racing; part ot
the proceeds will go to war funds. Buy
a lottery ticket. Win a valuable prize
and help the Red Cross.”
Such appeals exploit our national weak-
nesses, snobbishness, greed, love ot
gambling. We can help our country an
our cause only by making use of the
finest qualities of the nation—devotion,
self-sacrifice and service that looks lor
no reward. Appeals for direct giving
can have amazing results when people are
stirred. —M. O. (N.S.W.).
Steam Cars?
“H.A.L.” (B. 10/7/’4O) advocates
steam motors for cars and tractors.
These would make for economy, but
believe that, in the class of boiler re-
quired, it is necessary to have pure water.
In most country districts the well wate
and even the river waters are very haw
and impregnated with elements injurious
to boilers. I’d like to hear an authority
on the subject.— L. B. G. W. (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
15 Jewel Precision
£5/107-
Watch, Stainless
Steel.
s s
Speciallv tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Send for Diamond Rina and Watch Catalogue.
DIAMOND
& WATCH
SPECIALISTS
xcvcxvcv
112 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY,
OPR DAVIDJONES
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality,
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it develops
personality.
The Pelman Institute
3a Gloucester House, 396 flinders Lane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market St.).
DEAF t
New Invention —The NATURTON
—fop natural hearing,
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDI, 1i.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney.
TOBACCO
OF QUALITY
is available at 7/- per pound; its honest
value is 10/- j>er pound. Send 6d. in
stamps for generous sample.
SMOKERS!
I carry a large assortment of imported
cigarettes, including “SPUD,” “CAMEL,”
“CHESTERFIELD” and “LUCKY
STRIKE.” For all smokers’ requisites,
call or write.
SOL LEVY
TOBACCONIST,
est. years.
13- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Two minutes from Central Railway.
LAMBS SAVED
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—
Humane—Safe—and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback —fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
RADIO
40% off retail prices where there is no
Century agent.
X,eisurely free trial in your own home.
Mr. E. M. S.j of Coolac, had a six-valve
Century on trial. He wrote: —
“We recommend it to all who come along,
and as soon as ever they see it they think
it is the most beautiful Wireless that
they have ever seen or heard —and I may
say that I am a proud owner.”
A 16-page art catalogue describes the
latest Century sets. It will be a pleasure
to post one to you. You save £2O if no
Century agent in your District. Write
at once—
Century Radio Manufacturing Co.
11 Dixon Street, Sydney.
S3*?
mm
msk
C:
;
* J SBat*sr,v
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers jcured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
.Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
I SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
1 1 Clarence Street, Sydney.
m*
W
&
l
SSL
Y/
“Enemy t* starboard, cap n!
Most doctors from goodness of heart treat some
cases without expectation of payment, but did you
ever know of a doctor who returned fees when he
failed to cure ? The Union Manufacturing Com-
pany guarantee to return mount paid if
Wright’s Rheumatia ytf<#(nedy, yjthef Canadian
cure, does Jlotl curi TOur
lumhaFlx or /wjey ■TroublesTjDf'course,'' this
rniUfj/urtf/bab'done xtJ tuene uJere many failures,
and matter have been only
thrdemstances in fyie< years in which the refund
Iwas claimed Ifyou send to 299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, the company will give you full par-
ticulars and-a copy of the legally binding guarantee
they issue with the remedy. The price is only
5/6 for a full month’s treatment, that is often
and long-standing case._
Limbing
QM'A'TO
AMAZING NEW
CLIMBING TOMATO
Bears For a Whole Year !
Climbs trellis, fence, net-
ting. Each plant yields 8
cases! Greatest plant dis-
covery of the century!
2/6 Packet Posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO.,
75 George Street. Sydnev.
100% NON-ACID! PURE WHITE
1
HEALTH TOMATO
Invaluable to suf-
ferers from Rheu-
matism, Sciatica,
Gout, Lumbago,
Neuralgia, etc. Real
tomato flavour! Dis-
ease free! Drought
proof! 2/6 pkt. posted
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., Sydney.
m
MPLI
PORTABLE UNITS
——
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost If- per
week.
Details gladly posted.
xcvcxvc
3WIIANV
3H3HM.ANV
For Home Lighting.
Battery Charging.
Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
Runs 12 hours on
lgal. of petrol.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
SOME COMMON SENSE
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TILLEY LAMPS
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on lj pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a - Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 57/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
380 Kent Street, Sydney.
Mandolin
cxvcxvc
for 59/6
We will send yon a beautiful
BANJO-MANDOLIN Complete
Outfit with Case, Correspon-
dence Course and Extra Strings
for 59/6.
We guarantee you will be able
to play tunes within 7 days,
otherwise your full money will
be returned. Goods can be
sent C.O.D.
!Send for Catalogue of
Musical Instruments.
THE TALKERIES
161 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
CHARCOAL GAS
Mr. S. McDonald, of Sydney, lias just com-
pleted his home-made Producer Gas Plant
at an inclusive cost of £lO, and it is giving
every satisfaction. Our recently improved
design for a simplified and thoroughly
efficient Gas Producer can be made by the
average handyman. The set of easily
understood blue prints and specifications,
which cost £l, show you how to do the job.
No alterations to the engine are necessary
and you can run on petrol or charcoal gas
at will. Send today.
N.Z. readers please send Money Order.
ECONOMY GAS PRODUCER CO.
10 Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
mi m
./■-■'■■"l. i
Get rid of
Homs BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL
DEHORNER
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6 Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
“BULLETIN" SERVICE COUPON
7/8/’4O (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your "Wants" to the Service Department, ' The Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
NO SPRINGS—NO CUSHIONS
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an. entirely new method oi
control. It is the result of 40' years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27M), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
4£in
pads
J. P. TALTY
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected lap
flaps and skirts,
knee pads. 3in. thigh
4jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
New batteries at Half usual cost . . .
Buy your batteries direct from the
manufacturers and save approxi-
mately half. All types of wet bat-
teries for cars, trucks, radios, motor
cycles, theatres and house lighting.
“Marshall” batteries carry the full
guarantee of this leading factory.
There is no better battery made.
Write for wholesale catalogue to
The Marshall Battery Mfg. Co.
42 HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY.
xcvcvc
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MARKER CO..
3 Jabez St., Marrlckville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
IT’S HERE —WORLD’S SMALLEST 1940
RE NU POCKET RADIO
xcvxcvcx
NO Tubes - NO Batteries
NO Electricity.
Weighs only 3oz. Long distance
reception, clear natural tone, no
crystals to adjust, no upkeep.
Can be used in Hotels, Boats,
Beds. etc.; takes few seconds to
connect. 5-year Guarantee;
Price 42/-. Also 1- and 2-Valve
Dynamic Speaker, Battery or
Electric Portable Sets, from £4/19/6;
Interstate and overseas reception guaran-
teed* RE -Is' IT, LTD. (Est. 1932), opp.
Richmond Sin.. Melbourne. 75 other lines.
For particulars, employment offers and
free sample send lOd. stamps, refundable
first order.
wiNCHmm
WITH STEEL ROLLS
if COWLES \HggPjf
y and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
SKATES
17/6—21/-
WAR RAGING
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS.
The DREAD HA’
is spreading deadly
disease germs.
SAKI-L.ID can be
fitted to any lavatory
seat and banishes
flies, odours and germs
for ever. Supplied
with 6 months’ supply
of chemicals for only
47/6. , Model C (as
illustrated), complete
with 6 months’ supply
of chemicals, DO/-.
Write for particulars.
Quirk’s Victory
Light Co.,
xcvcxvcx
229 Cartiereagrh St., Sydney; 48 King: St., Perth


Amazing Overseas Reception with
TIMATE
Champion Radio!
DID
YOU
KNOW
That 798 verified separate
stations were received on a standard
Ultimate Receiver A WORLD*S
RECORD?
.... That Mr. R. N. Shaw compiles
his “Wireless Weekly ** Short-wave
Notes from an Ultimate Receiver?
....That when Commander R. E.
Byrd led his Expedition to the
South Pole, he selected an Ultimate
Receiver for his radio work?
.... That Mr. L. J. Keast uses a
standard Ultimate Radio for com-
piling the short-wave notes for
“Australian Radio World**?
... .That the Australian Adviser to
the British Broadcasting Commission
uses Ultimate Receivers exclusively?
.... That Ultimate Champion Radio
can enable you to listen to short-
wave stations you have never heard
before, can bring you news of the
moment easily, clearly, from over-
seas?
Would n*t you be proud to have an
Ultimate Receiver in your home!
What a wonderful story you could
tell your friends about it, and what
satisfactory service and enjoyment
could you get from it. All we ask is
that you give Ultimate due con-
sideration before buying your Radio
Set—we are prepared to abide by
the result. Send the coupon for
particulars .
The ULTIMATE
DE LUXE
8-valve AU-wave
Console Receiver.
0
m
'■■■■
sms®
■ ■
■ v.
eSSSS
SSTJSS
88
BS§B
■J-
'w<S
r:~
I
3
SC**Ss
5 .v::
v n-.-
: '; V- •"
Featuring
EXCLUSIVE LIGHT RAY TUNING
A special ULTIMATE device for easier, quicker and more accurate tuning especially
on Short-wave Stations. In operation, this device is similar to the “Logging Pointer” as
used with the corresponding 1939/40 Model, but is more conspicuous and infinitely more
attractive. A short radial line of light moves consecutively through fifteen numbered slots
arranged in a circle of approximately two inches in diameter. When tuning for Short-wave
Stations this travelling light ray, which moves much more rapidly than the main pointer,
should be consulted for the logging and re-tuning of any given station or stations. This
device is exclusive to “ULTIMATE”!
"ULTIMATE" STILL LEADS!
All the outstanding features that have made “ULTIMATE” the choice of super-critical
technicians and Short-wave Experts have been retained, mostly in improved form, in the new
Season’s Models.
Unsurpassed performance, particularly on Overseas reception, magnificent tone and volume,
razor-edge selectivity and exquisite cabinets, characterize every “ULTIMATE” Receiver—
you cannot buy a better set!
OBTAINABLE IN THE FOLLOWING MODELS :
8-VALVE ALL-WAVE ELECTRIC CONSOLE 6-VALVE DUAL-WAVE ELECTRIC MANTEL
10-VALVE ALL-WAVE ELECTRIC CONSOLE 8-VALVE ALL-WAVE ELECTRIC MANTEL
7-VALVE DUAL-WAVE VIBRATOR CONSOLE 7-VALVE DUAL-WAVE VIBRATOR MANTEL
RADIOGRAM COMBINATIONS ARE ALSO OBTAINABLE IN ANY OF ABOVE MODELS.
OVERSEAS NEWS BULLETINS
t et!
NAME ..
ADDRESS
tree Log Chan metical mg Overseas News Bulletins in English
and particulars of “ULTIMATE’' Champion Radio will he
sent post free on application. Fill in t/us coupon and post
to-day.
xcvcxvc
GEORGE BROWN & CO., PTY., LTD., 267 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
