

ĺ
BATTERIES
FOR EASY STARTING
★
AS USED BY
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
DEPARTMENTS, AND
SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY TO
THE SYDNEY COUNTY
COUNCIL—FOR CARS AND
TRUCKS—FOR EIGHTH CON-
SECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radiola for 11
years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOUSE LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION & SERVICE "
N.S.W.: ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA; KEEP BROS, & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE
QUEENSLAND; NATIONAL ELECTRIC PTY., LTD.,
34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; DAVID L, PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIA; ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD,, HOBART.
NEW CALEDONIA; HAGEN FRERES, NOUMEA.
NEW ZEALAND: BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD.
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND S.E.I.
FIJI: ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO., SUVA.
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES Pty., Ltd.,
IS6 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone, MA 6188 (3 lines)
ERG—THE UNIT OF ENERGY
V .•
■'s>
st
s
.,,:-:.:.X ■::::•:
wm
l V:;
'v
-
:
4<^3g!S>'
SlVV
fc
ļ
% %
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3152.
Wednesday, July 10, 1940.
What About the King?
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn '
Story
Writing
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
I’lease send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining haw to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 340
DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
THE LAST OF YEATS.
Like all good Irish poets W. B. Yeats
believed in fairies. Sometimes he be-
lieved in himself as a fairy, a role in
which, though always accomplished, he
was inclined to be tiresome. “Politics”
in his Last Poems and Plays (Macmillan ;
Angus and Robertson), a refutation of
Thomas Mann’s dictum “In our time the
destiny of man presents itself in political
terms,” is an example of the deliberate
capriciousness to be found at intervals
throughout his work:
How can I, that girl standing there,
My attention fix
On Roman or on Russian
Or on Spanish politics?
Yet here’s a travelled man that knows
What he talks about,
And there’s a politician
That has read and thought.
And maybe what they say is true
Of war and war’s alarms,
But O that I were young again
And held her in my arms!
In Yeats, if in no one else, retreat into
the ivory tower would be pardonable ;
but this poem, if it' is to be taken at its
face value, isn’t so much like retiring to
the ivory tower as hiding under the bed.
It might be well enough as a specimen
of verse, but one wouldn’t want to read
it in a time when human destiny is all
too literally being interpreted in political
terms.
One other short poem in this fine lyric
poet’s last statement rings as falsely:
You think it horrible that lust and rage
Should dance attention upon my old age;
They were not such a plague when I was
young;
What else have I to spur me into song?
Fortunately for Yeats’s reputation,
these poems are merely thoughts by the
way, as irrelevant to the body of his
writing and the bulk of the present book
as they are to his personal life. Neither
the elf nor the wicked fairy, Yeats took
an active part in Irish politics;
philosophical or political verses are the
mainstay of Last Poems; and his essen-
tial statement as a poet a plea for
spiritual nobility—is, in the final analysis,
political. The ghost may mock his creed
in “What Then?” but the true Yeats is
in the proud boast of having created per-
fection: —
“The work is done,” grown old he thought,
“According to my boyish plan;
Let the fools rage, I swerved in naught,
Something to perfection brought”;
But louder sang that ghost, “What then?”
“The Pilgrim,” with its implication that
to an old man all the ways of the world
are folly, is not “escapism ” but a rich,
ribald acceptance :
Now I am in the public-house and lean upon the
wall,
So come in rags or come in silk, in cloak or
country shawl,
And come with learned lovers or with what
men you may,
For I can put the whole lot down, and all
I have to say
Is fol de rol de roily O.
When he was not acting the fay him-
self, or dealing with his shadowy figures
out of Celtic mythology (there is a
Cuchulain play in Last Poems), Yeats’s
favorite fairies were his Irish gentlefolk
leading lives of dignity and grace in
“great houses.” Some of them, no doubt,
deserved his praise. Most of them, it is
certain, had the ordinary failings of
humanity. There never was a golden
age, even in Ireland. Like the legendary
demigods, who were symbols of spiritual
truths, these ladies and gentlemen were
valid fairies, emblems of political truths.
They reappear in Last Poems in the
familiar form:
Or else I thought her supernatural;
As though a sterner eye looked through her eye
On this foul world in its decline and fall;
On gangling stocks grown great, great stocks
run dry,
Ancestral pearls all pitched into a sty,
Heroic reverie mocked by clown and knave,
And wondered what was left for massacre to
save.
There is no new philosophy, or de-
velopment of the old, here. It was not
to be expected in a Last Poems. Some
of the verses are left-overs
from the moods of The
Tower and The Winding
Stair. Yet Yeats kept his
fire to the end. He develops
the technique of the refrain to secure
remarkable effects of pathos, mockery
or passionate emphasis:
A statesman is an easy man,
He tells his lies by rote;
A journalist makes up his lies
And takes you by the throat;
So stay at home and drink your beer
And let the neighbors vote,
Said the man in the golden breastplate
Under the old stone Cross —
and he gives a handful of lyrics as delicate
as any he wrote years ago when Dowson
and Johnson, the Rhymers’ Club and the
Celtic Twilight were news:
The girl goes dancing there
On the leaf-sown, new-mown, smooth
Grass plot of the garden;
Escaped from bitter youth,
Escaped out of her crowd,
Or out of her black cloud.
Ah, dancer, ah, sweet dancer!
If strange men come from the house
To lead her away, do not say
That she is happy being crazy ;
Lead them gently astray;
Let her finish her dance,
Let her finish her dance.
Ah, dancer, ah, sweet dancer!
Defending the Politician.
Perhaps the most striking sidelight on
the practice of democracy in Leicester
Webb’s Government in New Zealand
(Department of Internal Affairs, Wel-
lington) is his analysis of the educational
qualifications of Members of Parliament,
showing that on an average half the
gentlemen who sit on the hill in Welling-
ton have had only primary schooling.
For anyone who wants to prove that
politicians are as hopeless as one usually
likes to believe, Mr. Webb’s statistics
might be- useful ammunition. But the
correct interpretation—a shocking heresy
—is possibly that the most vigorous per-
sonalities or intellects in the country get
into Parliament.
Mr. Webb himself doesn’t make it
quite clear which theory he favors. Be-
cause the politician is tied to the wheel
of his party he believes that “A rep-
resentative assembly is no place for
philosophers, experts in this or that
branch of government, or original
thinkers.” But he finds it “unreasonable
and unrealistic to deride the politician
as a party .hack,” and defends the party
system as the only alternative to “an
impotent babble of virtuous voices, or a
dictatorship.” He notes that the readiness
of New Zealanders to deride their elec-
ted representatives has its obverse in the
enthusiasm with which they seek the
State’s assistance on all possible occasions.
Further examining his educational
statistics, Mr. Webb reveals that the
present Labor assembly is—rather sur-
prisingly—better educated than its more-
or-less Conservative predecessor, 55 per
cent, of the Coates-Forbes Parliament
having had only primary education in
contrast to 45 per cent, of primary school-
boys when Labor took the helm. Labor’s
learned men, however, didn’t find their
way into the Cabinet. Of 13 Ministers,
only one was a university graduate, and
10 had never been to a secondary school.
These statistics and the examination
of the professions of members, no less
than Mr. Webb’s penetrating analysis of
the actual processes by which Maoriland
is governed, all go to show that a
democracy, whatever its faults, is a
democracy. Another unconscious illus-
tration of the fact is that, though these
centennial surveys are sponsored by the
Labor Government, the writers are
allowed a free hand, and Mr. Webb (who
is leader-writer on the anti-Labor Christ-
church “Press”) says what he pleases
about the way compulsory unionism
swells the fighting fund of the Labor
Party. Few of the flaws of parliamentary
government escape his eye. He looks
into the matters of bureaucratic rule by
the civil service, and oligarchic govern-
ment by order-in-council and —unusually
—finds as much to approve as to
condemn. He is particularly interesting
on the control of spending, showing to
what a great extent it is out of Par-
liament’s hands. He sums up:
Yet, when all this has been conceded, it
remains true that Parliament is the differ-
ence between dictatorship and democracy,
and is, in fact, the guardian of those liber-
ties and immunities which are the core
of the British political tradition. For, in
the first place, it is only in Parliament that
freedom of speech literally means freedom
of speech The casual visitor to Parlia-
ment may feel that the intricate warfare
which goes on there between the parties
is unreal and valueless. Ministers of the
Crown, compelled daily to run the gaunt-
let of sceptical and relentless criticism,
know better.
Government in New Zealand is the
best of the centennial series to date. As
well as the thorough analysis of parlia-
mentary government, there is a chapter
on local government, and a brief execur-
sion into foreign policy based on the
fact that “New Zealand, with its popu-
lation of 1,650,000, is among the smallest
independent States in the world.” Some-
body could be found, it is certain, to dis-
agree with everything he says, but the
present commentator found only one state-
ment calling for violent rebuttal. Mr. Webb,
believing that the national consciousness
is only slowly awakening, says “If the
New Zealanders of today were to be
evacuated to England, they would not
constitute a self-conscious minority de-
manding its own political institutions.”
Maybe not: but unless they were seduced
by the sensible licensing laws they’d
almost certainly demand to be shipped
home in a body.
A Broken Reed.
Since all he really wanted to do was
to write a biography of Otto Strasser,
Douglas Reed could easily have avoided
large prophecies about the future of
Europe in his Nemesis ? (Cape ; Angus
and Robertson). Also, he was under no
obligation to rail at the world for not
having listened to his'past prophecies:
what has that to do with Strasser’s life?
Having prophesied once more, and
having railed, he is magnificently un-
lucky :
Hitler will not [Mr. Reed’s italics] attack
us in full force. Do not believe the people
who told you that he would do this in
the autumn of 1939; who now tell you that
he will do it in the spring of 1940; and
who will tell you, if he does not do it then,
that he will do it in the autumn of 1940.
These voices are criminally suspect; they
are the voices of .armament rings, rabid
for their profits.
That is not Mr. Reed’s only piece of
bad luck. He thought that Hitler’s
prestige sank so low when the Graf
Spee was scuttled that the Fiihrer was
finished:
From that moment Hitler is old news.
Hitler is a yellowing page. Long enough
he has absorbed our thoughts. The time
is coming to consign him to an upper shelf
in the library, to look round for a book
about his successor... .Italy, if she ever
thought of taking Germany’s side, probably
changed her mind that day.
And so —to borrow the kindergarten
prose style which Mr. Reed probably
imitated from “Daily Express” leaders
—do not believe all that you see in print.
When Mr. Reed pats himself on the
back on page 317-
In his self-commiserating mood, Hitler
once, years ago, announced that he had
already chosen his successor; he thought
that a harmless polyp in his throat, after-
wards removed, was an incurable, malignant
growth. He did not then say that Goring
was the man, but I hazarded the guess, in
an article which nobody then found im-
portant enough to publish, though I was •
paid an exaggerated sum for it. At the
outbreak of war Hitler stated that Goring
actually was Fiihrer-Elect Number Two —
remember that Mr. Reed’s prophecies
on pages 304 and 307 have been colos-
sally wrong. Do not pay too much
attention to Mr. Reed when he says that-
the blackout of London is both cowardly
and foolish because enemy airmen can
always locate the city by the Thames.
Do not hesitate to regard this suggestion
as utterly absurd:
I believe the best means of bewildering
raiding airmen would be to floodlight
London and its near countryside as bril-
liantly as possible; then they would have
beneath them a dead-white and ghostly
picture in which they would be unable to
distinguish anything at all.
When you come to his argument
against conscription—
Universal service is, socially considered,
a just and honorable system, if it be justly
and honorably applied, as in Switzerland,
for instance. But if you have, by chance, a
country where that conception-of conscrip-
tion has never been explained enough for
it to be understood, and where the real
men of the country are willing to serve at
any moment without it, why make them
conscripts?—
there is no reason for you to be afraid
to point out to Mr. Reed that, if national
service is admittedly just and honorable,
it is simply nonsense to object to it.
And when Mr. Reed modestly continues:
If I had the decision in these things in
this country, I would repeal conscription;
and I would five minutes later show the
world as fine an army as any it can pro-
duce, made of volunteers. Not all the poli-
ticians, publicity experts and cretinous film
producers in the world could think out a
better propaganda campaign—unfortunately
I have to use the disgusting jargon of our
time—-than this. But its merits would not
occur to them; their minds are too subtle
to comprehend anything sincere; and they
have not an ideal between them —
do not fail to observe (1) that armies
aren’t made in five minutes; (2) that
minds can hardly be both “cretinous”
and “subtle” ; (3) that the whole para-
graph is mere ranting ; and (4) that the
sentence in which Mr. Reed complains
of the exigencies of political journalism
is peculiarly and unnecessarily clumsy,
and that, even if on occasion he is com-
pelled to use “the disgusting jargon of
our time,” there is surely no need for
him to open his book with the sentence
“I homed to England, after many years
abroad, in the spring of 1939,” “homed,”
unless the homer is a pigeon, being a
particularly distressing example of con-
temporary journalese.
There remains Mr. Reed’s biography
of Otto Strasser, the story of Strasser’s
breach with Hitler, his perilous fight in
exile against the Nazis. The suggestion
is that Strasser, more moderate than
Hitler (though none too moderate, with
his fervent patriotism, his habit of
flourishing his revolver and his dreams
of revenge) may some day come to
power in the Reich and establish a
“national socialism” with the emphasis
on socialism rather than nationalism.
As biography, this is poor stuff. As an
adventure story it is fairly interesting,
provided one hasn’t read it all before.
Mr. Reed himself describes it as “thun-
dering good.”
A Good Historical Novel
Iris Morley, who in Cry Treason (Peter
Davies) traces the career of James, Duke
of Monmouth, has all the equipment for
the production of a first-class historical
novel. She knows her period intimately
—those years of the Restoration during
which the Stuarts finally dug their dynas-
tic grave—and she is sure of her stand-
point. A believer in liberty and democ-
racy, she is not blind to the fact that
the Whigs were dubious allies of such
ideals. She is sure, however, that James
Scott, or James Stuart, or whoever Lucy
Walters’s son by Charles II may be called,
was, in the closing days of his chequered
life, on the side of the angels.
The documentary evidence that could
be used to convict him as a vacillating
craven Miss Morley admits; but she
reinterprets it. She has given in this
book an unforgettable series of pen-
portraits of the notabilities of the Court
of the second Charles. Monmouth, Hen-
rietta Wentworth, his staunchest lady-
love, Shaftesbury, Grey, Halifax, Judge
Jeffreys, the Duchess of Richmond, Nell
Gwynn and a score of others are limned
delicately yet incisively. The narration
moves at an even pace towards its tragic
end. The analysis of motives, the de-
scription of events, is more than plausible.
Within its frame, as a romance, it con-
vinces. As history—-well, history is as
you care to read it.
Lloyd C. Douglas, whose Magnificent
Obsession *found its way to the screen,
has split another chip off the same profit-
able block. Doctor Hudson’s Secret
Journal (George Allen and Unwin and
Peter Davies) is a sort of prelude to the
earlier book. It opens promisingly, and
if the promise is not fulfilled the reader
is likely to forget that, because the inci-
dents related are interesting and well told.
But Dr. Hudson’s prophetic observations
on the war of 1914-18 and on prohibi-
tion in America, supposed to be banned
20 years ago, are excursions in sagacity
easy to any writer in 1939.
Science and Wisdom: Jacques Main-
tain (Geoffrey Bles). An almost startling
anachronism a long, closely-reasoned
treatise discussing philosophy in the light
of the dogmas of St. Thomas Aquinas.
Might interest retired doctors of divinity'.
Astrology in Everyday Life: Rupert
Gleadow (Faber and Faber), A lively
defence and exposition of old supersti-
tions. Mr. Gleadow goes beyond per-
sonal horoscopes. He casts ’em for ocean
liners and airships (after they have com-
pleted their careers in disaster) and is
never, never wrong. But, wise man, he’s
remarkably shy when it comes to make
any definite statement whatever concern-
ing the future.
Child Expression in Color and Form:
Hilda Walley Oldham (Bodley Head). A
treatise on a subject that latterly has
been interesting both psychologists and
painters. The author is a Doctor of
Science, lecturer on psychology at Read-
ing Uni. The field covers the drawings
of children of all ages up to 12 and many
nationalities. Illustrations are copious
and excellently reproduced. Details of
tests undertaken to plumb juvenile re-
action to ideas should interest kinder-
garteners.
The Autobiography of a German
Rebel ; Toni Sender (Routledge). Some-
what grim and somewhat prim, but an
interesting enough story. Goebbels called
the Socialist author “Mrs. Bigmouth.”


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Anthony Horderns’ unfailing policy.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Hatjf
tfeartij
Rename
ľ
%<?
m
&
wmm
XH
m
«*»
■
m
ft!
«*r
■
*>»
9m
I
IS
n
MU
ill
«*
«
**
st
HP
m
SM
5 «S
«*e
H
11
i ■; ;
n ALL WOOL UNDERWEAR
Here is a genuine saving of 2/- per
garment on this cosy all wool Under-
wear for men. It is in Natural shade
in winter weight, with a soft, warm fin-
ish. Undershirts have short sleeves;
/
Underpants are ankle length. Sizes 36 to 44 inch chest or
waist. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, 9/6. SALE: 7/6
35'- Tweed Dressing Gowns
A worthwhile saving on these
warm Dressing Gowns. They're
made of soft, all wool Tweed, with
contrasting collar, cuffs ancl poc-
ket. Overcheck designs in Grey,
/
Fawn and Blue tonings. Finished silk cord and girdle to
tone. Sizes 36 to 42 inch chests. Anthony Horderns’
Regular Price, 35/-. SALE PRICE 27/6
'Phone M 2401, Day or Night.
MERCERY Specially Selected
for the Man on the LAND
18/6 BUSHMAN WIDE
BRIM FUR FELTS
Here is the hat for farm or
station wear. It is of a spe-
cial quality Fur Felt with a
three-inch brim. Shades of
Fawn and Grey. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price 18/6.
166
SALE PRICE
16/6
13/6 Warm Flannelette
English PYJAMAS
You'll sleep comfortably in
these Pyjamas . . . They're
made in full fitting propor-
tions, of a cosy English Flan-
nelette in a medium weight.
Smart striped designs. Small,
medium, and outsizes. Anthony
Regular Price, 13/6. SALE PRICE
Horderns'
ll/6
U'e
8/3 BUSHMAN SHIRTS
OUR OWN MAKE
Made for service in our own
workrooms, of reliable British
materials, these "Bushman"
Work Shirts have double
sew seams and are finished
with collar attached and
pocket. Sizes: t'o 19 in. neck! Heather
shades and Blue. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, 8/3. SALE PRICE 7/9
7 7 9
Ti WOOL AND
COnON U'WEAR
Men's Natural Wool & Cotton
Underwear in medium weight
with a soft finish. Undershirts
have short sleeves. Under-
pants to ankle. Sizes: 34 to
44 inch chest or waist.
sxn5 x n
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 7/6
SALE PRICE 5/11
mg%m
v.
\
m
m s
»
mm
/ v>
1
211 "HORDURA" WOOL HALF HOSE
Excellent for wear, and there's a comprehensive range of all the latest
check and jacquard designs in these all wool Cashmere Half Hose.
Navy, Fawn, Grey and Brown tonings. Sizes: 10 to 11-gins. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price, 2/11. SALE PRICE 2/6
26
Mercery—Ground Floor—George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
Post your orders to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


A Story of the Grand Nationals
“RACING
IS A FUNNY GAME"
By A. C. HEADLEY.
ROWLEY was a pal. Rowley said: “Batman’s
been to see me. He wants to know if I’ll
handle his jumpers. He reckons he’s gonner
take them away from you, Harry.”
“You told him ‘yes,’ ” I said.
“Listen, Harry”
“Listen?” I said. “There ain’t nothin’ to listen
to. Batman’s taking his horses away because he don’t
like the way I get them into shape. That’s all.”
“I don’t like taking them from you,” said
Rowley.
“You,” I said, “or someone else, what does it
matter? I’m going to lose them, anyway. It’s a cop
for you. Batman’s taking them. I can’t stop him.
They’re his horses, his money. Grab what you can.”
J T was cold out there on the track. It was coming
* the jumping season and the wind so cold that your
hands didn’t belong to you. There was promise of
a hard season. There had been no rain for months,
and the tracks were so brittle that you could nearly
hear the sound of your boots on the turf. It’s a
worrying season for the jumpers when that happens.
A jumper can go wrong from a million things. Meet-
ing the ground over the hurdle is like taking the thrust
of a crowbar. Every morning you look at the sky,
look for the rain and think of shin-soreness.
Batman hadn’t said anything to me, but I knew
it was right coming from Rowley. Batman’s string.
It left me with a one-horse stable. It was like a man
losing his job, and owners aren’t floating around all
the time trying to find someone to look after their
horses. The worst of it was the time of the year,
with all the big leaps coming off. The National
Hurdle and Steeple, and me with a one-horse team I
was trying out on the flat. But Batman hadn’t taken his
horses yet, and one of them had accepted for a race
the next day. Bride’s Tooth, a seventeen-hand grey ;
she had a show, but it wasn’t something you could
bet the rent on. I was wondering if Batman would
change his mind if her number went up.
When Perce brought Bride’s Tooth down to the
track I went over to have a look at her. She looked
fit enough. She hadn’t raced for a while, but she
always stripped fine. You could see the spread of
power in her shoulders and quarters. The trouble
was that she was a risky jumper. She’d had two starts
in hurdles and two falls. She was a skimmer, taking
a fence with half an inch. Then maybe she took off
a bit too far back and you were tearing up your
betting ticket and wondering if she was all right. But
she’d been schooling better lately, taking the jumps
with something to spare, and it made me think about
winning a race.
“Perce,” I said, “you can give her a go over the
big flight.”
She took them without a fault; that was some-
thing. But it’s different in a race when there's
something crowding the jumps with you, and one
horse is a high jumper and the other one needs
length, and because they’re running together they
take off together and one of them is wrong. I’ve seen
plenty of races lost that way.
j SAW Batman the next morning. “What kind of
* a show has she got?” he wanted to know.
“She ought to do well,” I said, “but I’d have a
saver on the favorite.”
He didn’t mention anything about passing the
horses to Rowley. It made me think'more than ever
that a prize today would make a lot of difference.
Losing or keeping those horses was going to make
a lot of difference to me.
It was hard to get a rider for Bride’s Tooth, as
I knew it would be. Jockeys have got families and
they don’t like to ride dust-grubbers —not the good
riders. But you can always get one of the battlers,
and they’ll kiss your hand for a chance to crack their
necks. I got Hughie Biskin. He’d been at the top
over the sticks once, but he’d started getting the idea
that he could kick home the bad ones as well as the
good. It meant a run of outs, and those runs just
seem to keep on going.
“Drop her in behind the front bunch,” I said,
“but don’t hold her too hard. If she wants to go
with them you needn’t, try to stop her.”
Hughie said: “If she can win it she will.”
He’s a nice feller, Hughie. In the silks he looked
a lot better than he did in the blue serge suit you
could see your face in. “Thanks for the ride, Harry,”
he said.
“Show me something,” I said, “and there might
be more.”
“You can leave the ridin’ to me, the runnin’ to
the mare,” he said.
“Kick her home and it’s the odds to a couple of
quid for yourself.”
“I’d carry her home for that,” he said.
There isn’t much trouble at' the barrier in a
hurdle. The horses are mostly older, and the jumping
does something to quieten them down. After the
barrier was drawn into place it was only half a minute
and they were away. Hughie gets Bride’s Tooth
away with the bunch, and after a furlong the mare
is lying in behind six horses. There is a bunch at
the front with three horses in it, all of them trying
for the lead. At the first jump they begin to sort out.
Bride’s Tooth takes it low and she is in fourth place,
and I can see that Hughie has got a strong rein on
her. The next jump she takes the same and she is
holding her position. In front the field has settled
down into a line, and a bolter is out five lengths. The
favorite is sitting tight just in front of Bride’s Tooth,
and already I know that he is the one to worry about.
He’s going easily and taking the jumps quietly. But
at the mile Bride’s Tooth gets into one of the jumps
“Beggin' your pardon, my lady, but Would you mind if We call potatoes potatoes and NOT pommes
de terre ?”
and I am feeling empty in the stomach while Hughie
works his way back into the saddle.
Bride’s Tooth is ahead of only one horse when
he gets her going again. It doesn’t look as though
she’s got an earthly. But at the six 1 can see her
coming, and she is passing horses fast. It isn’t a slow
pace on, but she has picked up a dozen lengths by the
time the four is reached. The bolter has come back
to the field, and now the favorite is cutting it out.
And Bride’s Tooth is going better. I have the feeling
she will win it. I am shouting as they come round
the bend with two jumps to go. But I am not shouting
at the last fence. I am looking back down the track
where Hughie is picking himself out of the dust. The
roar tells me it is the favorite’s race, and I go round
to the gate to wait for Hughie.
It was then that I struck Batman, and he wasn’t
looking any too pleased with himself. “I’ve made
arrangements with Rowley Glarr to take over my
horses,” he said. That was all.
I wasn’t going to let him know how I felt. “When
does he take them, Mr. Batman?” I asked.
Batman said: “As soon as you like.”
He went then, and I was waiting for Hughie
Biskin and thinking about not having any horses.
“Sorry, Harry.” He looked it with his lip hang-
ing down somewhere under his chin.
“Sorry?” I said ; “you got nothing to be sorry
about. You can’t be sorry about something you can’t
help. If she’d been any good she’d have walked it in.”
“Listen, Harry,” he said, “you mightn’t know it,
but you got a National chance there. I’ve rode ’em.
I know what I’m talking about. A National chance,
that’s what I’m saying, Harry.”
“Hughie,” I said, “I haven’t got a National chance
anywhere. If you want the riding you’d better see
Rowley Glarr.” I told him about the stable switch.
“Anyway,” I said, “form in a maiden hurdle don’t
read the same as a Grand National What’s picking
up a few lengths on a field like that?”
He was trying do say it. “It —it’s the feel of a
horse, Harry. It’s the way she bunches for a jump
and the stretch of her on the flat. I’d like to have
the riding.”
“You’d better see Rowley,” I said. “You can tell
him I sent you.”
f WAS hoping Hughie would get the riding, but the
1 next time I was on the course I saw that lenks
had his name posted. It was funny I should meet
Hughie before the first race. He hadn’t got a mount,
and when I met him he was walking around trying
to get the best odds for a dollar about Bride’s Tooth.
“(What did Rowley say?” I asked.
“Rowley was orright,” said Hughie. “ ’E’d ’ve
give me the ride. It was Batman. He didn’t like
the way I handled Bride’s Tooth.”
We could hear the books calling eights Bride’s
Tooth. “I oughter get tens,” said Hughie.
“I’ll give you twenties,” I said.
Hughie stared at me as though I wasn’t right in
the head. “I told you,” he said, “she could win a
National.”
We went down to the fence to watch the race.
When it was half-run I knew that Bride’s Tooth
wouldn’t win it. She wasn’t even going to make a
showings She was up with them, but you could tell
by the way she was moving. She wasn’t going to
make up a dozen lengths in this field. At the four-
furlong post I said to Hughie “I’d like to back her
back with you,” and gave him his dollar. You could
see him thinking about no rides and no money before
he took it.
“Thanks, Harry,” he said.
“What do you think of your National hope?”
I said when it was over.
He was thoughtful. “She didn’t bungle a jump,”
he said, “and why?”
“Yair,” I said, “and why?”
“She was taking them feet to the good. You
oughter know how that tears the guts out of a horse.
She’s remembering the shin-crackers. Listen, Harry,
if I ’ad money I’d buy her.”
“It’s lucky for you you haven’t.”
“I’d win a National, Harry.”
He was so earnest about it that you could almost
believe in what he was saying. He was standing there,
trying to drum things into me about a jumper that
I didn’t think was worth tuppence. “Harry,” he
said, “you could buy her. You could get her cheap.
She ain’t done nothing. I’d get her right for you
and I wouldn’t want no money. Listen, Harry, it’s
a chance I got of getting back on the top, an’ this time
I’ll stay there. I’ll put you back, too.”
1 thought of that. It’s winning the big races
that brings the horses into your stables. It isn’t that
people think about you having the best horses ; it’s
that they-think you’ve got the way to get them right.
And it’s the number of horses you’ve got that makes


you a successful trainer. “Listen, Hughie,” I said,
“I’ll think about it.”
“Don’t think long,” said Hughie ; “she’ll be harder
to buy when she shows them something.”
THE next time Bride’s Tooth raced I was watching
1 her, and she didn’t show anything better than
the last time. But I was noticing the things that
Hughie Biskin had pointed out. She didn’t touch a
jump this day either, but she was taking them higher
than anything else in the race. In a two-mile hurdle it’s
something that makes a jumper’s job twice as hard.
At the judge she was running a poor fifth. After the
race I went round to see Rowley.
“I’ve got a friend,” I said, “who’d like to pick
up a cheap jumper just to see his colors out, and
maybe save the newspaper photographs of spectacular
falls. He likes greys.”
“You don’t mean it?” said Rowley.
“I was wondering,” said I, “if you couldn’t kid
Batman to get rid of one of his string.”
Rowley grinned. “After today,” he said, “it
shouldn’t be hard.”
A week after that I went round to see Hughie
Biskin.
“Listen, Hughie,” I said, “I’ve got something for
you.”
“You got me a mount?”
“Something y.ou might like better,” I said. “You
can take a look at the new owner of Bride’s Tooth.”
I thought he was going to kiss me. He got up
from his chair, sat down, and stood up again. His
mouth was trying to say something, and all you could
see was his Adam’s apple going up and down. Then
suddenly he thought of something. “She’s entered for
the Nationals?” he asked.
I nodded. “Being entered don’t mean anything,”
I said.
“You don’t know what it means,” said Hughie.
“It means living in places where there’s air. It
means Elsa doesn’t get old too soon. It means the
winner of a National.”
“It means we’ve got a maiden hurdler on our
hands,” I said.
Excitement was staring out of him. “Not for
long, Harry. Give me a month.”
“There’s not much dough in the kick,” I said.
“She cost me seventy-five. Maybe I couldn’t do
much to help you feed a couple of mouths.”
“Listen, Harry,” he said, “you don’t have to do
nothing. The rest of it is on me. I’ve got enough to
keep the wife and kid off the breadline for a while.
This is all I want. I’ll be round soon’s Elsa gets
back.”
E came round in the afternoon, and he must
1 1 have spent an hour doing nothing but look at the
big grey. After that Hughie practically lived with the
mare. He schooled her and talked to her more than
he talked to his own kid. She was entered for a hurdle
at one of the mid-week meetings, and I wanted to give
it a fly. But he talked me out of it.
“She ain’t ready,” he said.
“There ain’t much dough in the kick, either,” I
said.
“Listen,” he said, “it’s like I’m not doing much
except help you to spend your dough. And now I’m
gonner do more. I’m gonner ask you to have a tenner’s
worth about the double —the two Nationals. You
oughter get a thousand to one. I want you to do it,
Harry. That’s how I feel. And if she don’t win one
of them I’ll give you your money back.”
“The trouble, Hughie,” I said, “is you’ve been
on the outer, and it’s going to your head. All I’m
wondering is if I’ll get the seventy-five back out of
her, and the feed bills. I’m not wasting any more
till she shows me something.”
It was funny how close we got to yelling at each
other. But the next day Hughie was looking sheepish.
“Listen, Harry,” he said, “I got a present for you.
Two thousand to two quid. I took it for you. It was
all I had.”
He stood there blinking as though he’d done
something to be ashamed of. I didn’t get a chance
to say anything before he was off, rubbing his hands
over the grey. The Grand National Hurdle was only
six weeks off. I was wondering when Hughie was
going to give the grey a run. You can’t take a horse
straight off the tracks and run him in a race like the
National. He doesn’t meet the scrubs there that he
comes up against in mid-week hurdles, and it takes
time to run a horse into racing condition. The tracks
were fining Bride’s Tooth off a little, but it wasn’t
enough. I spoke to Hughie about it.
“Saturday week,” he said, “at Mentone, and she
won’t have to show you anything after that. With
the nine stone she’s got she’ll walk it in.”
“You and me had bettter start hoping,” I said.
There were some good jumpers in the Mentone
race and you could practically write your own ticket
about Bride’s Tooth. But after the race I was think-
ing that maybe there was something behind Hughie’s
confidence. She didn’t win it, but she came from a
long way back and was only half a length to the bad
at the finish, and the horse in front of her was one
of the favorites for the big hurdle.
Hughie came out of the weighing-room looking
sorrowful. “I left the run too late,” he said.
“Listen, Hughie,” I said, “the National Hurdle
is three miles and the Steeple is three miles and a
furlong. I’m going looking for bookmakers.”
There were two races after that before the
National, and Bride’s Tooth managed a first and a
third. She wasn’t touching her jumps, and she wasn’t
"Move over, Ali Baba — We've run out of petrol !”
overleaping them. She was a skimmer still, but a
safe skimmer, and in each of those races she was
finishing over everything. It was nice to watch her
jump and think about the extra distance of the
Nationals. In the list for the hurdle she was down
to third favoritism. Hughie was going around like a
cat on hot bricks.
p RAND National Hurdle.
Flemington. People there to see the most spec-
tacular racing in the world. Hughie Biskin situng
straight on a horse, and the green and white diamonds
that are my colors. Inside of me I was choked with
the excitement, and then they were moving out on to
the track and my hands were shaking so that it was
hard to keep the glasses still. I could feel the effort
of breathing as the horses moved along towards the
barrier. .
The barrier is up and the line of horses moving,
but I’m only looking at one of them —a grey in the
centre of the field—and I’m thinking of all the hurdles
that a horse can make a mistake at. I watch Hughie
ease her back into the field. She is going right.
She takes the first jump like a bird. The field is
stringing out. I’m counting the horses in front —eight
of them, and one four lengths in front already. More
jumps and my heart has stopped beating. One of the
front-runners is over. She is right behind. She can’t
miss it. Then she is running into sixth place. More
jumps, and the field is tailed off, but she is going com-
fortably.
Something has moved up on the outside of her.
Get her away, Hughie, it’s a short-jumper. She’ll take
it too close. Hurdle. It’s the one on the outside
that made the mistake. It jumped with her, took off
too far. Go with the long-jumpers, Hughie. Keep
them together. I don’t know whether I’m saying it or
thinking it.
A mile to go. Three miles is a long way, and
a horse can get tired. She is in seventh place now.
At the five the leaders are coming back to the field.
The pace is on. The favorite goes to the front at
the four. Nothing is doing better than the favorite.
Bride’s Tooth is running fifth, six lengths back. The
favorite will win it.
Another jump to go. She is moving up. The
favorite is over it. The favorite will win it. Then
people around me are yelling “Bride’s Tooth.” You
can see her come with Hughie shaking the whip at
her. Halfway down the straight she is a length
back, but I know I am going to lead in a National
winner. It isn’t a race now; she is going right away,
and I am trying to stop myself from shaking. Through
the glasses I can see Hughie’s grin.
When I got near him he had that “I-told-you-so”
look all over his face. He even said it. “I told y’,
didn’t I, Harry?”
I must have felt the way he felt when I first
told him that I’d bought the horse. “You can go
on telling me,” I said, “as long as you like.”
IT rained before the Steeple, nearly a week of it,
* and I was beginning to wonder how the grey was
in the mud. It didn’t even trouble Hughie.
“You’ll be glad,” he said, “I took that two thou-
sand-to-two double for you. What’s going to beat
her?”
“Maybe the mud and rain,” I said.
“She’ll eat ’em,” said Hughie.
She was down to favoritism for the Steeple,
and it was where she should be on her run in the
Hurdle. The only thing I was thinking of was about
the mud. There are some horses that can’t do any-
thing when the going’s soft. Maybe Bride’s Tooth
was one of them. You couldn’t blame a man for
getting anxious about it. But Hughie wasn’t having
any share in it. You could hear the plink of rain
in the yard and feel the dampness of it in every part
of your body. When you walked in the mud and
felt it hold your feet you started to wonder again.
The day before the Steeple it started to fine, but
it didn’t matter then because it was the track you were
thinking about.
Steeple Day and you’d never have thought it
had been raining except for the feel of the soft-
ness of turf under your feet and the clean wash of
the sky. Around me I could hear people talking
about Bride’s Tooth. Then the horses were circling
in the birdcage, moving out on to the track and stand-
ing at the barrier. Bride’s Tooth had drawn towards
the outside, but in a race like this it didn’t make
much difference.
There’s a way “They’re off!” seems to lift every
part of a racecourse. But they were moving fast,
sorting themselves ready for the first jump. A steeple
is different from a hurdle; the jumps are different,
and that was another thing I was wondering about
Bride’s Tooth. She took the first one beautifully,
but it didn’t mean anything. There were a few of
the jumps over already, and the field was thinning
itself out. Out in front the usual bolter had
opened up a lead of ten lengths. I could see
Hughie sitting back against her in the middle of the
field. Even then he looked confident.
A mile and a half from home he was still keeping
her steady in the field. Out ahead the bolter was
fifteen to twenty lengths to the good. I wasn’t worried
about the bolter. I was thinking of the horses that
were keeping with Bride’s Tooth. They were the ones
to watch. The ones that started to move when she
did. At the mile the bolter was still out twenty lengths,
but Bride’s Tooth had started to move up and there
were horses coming with her.
But suddenly I was watching the bolter. Bride’s
Tooth had run into second place, but the bolter still
had that twenty-lengths lead and it was the four-
furlong post. Out in front he didn’t look like weaken-
ing. The boy on him was driving him along. Then
I saw Hughie shake the whip, and it was like Bride’s
Tooth was flying over the distance. It was ten lengths
at the three. Three at the furlong post. And then
she was level. But there were horses moving with her
on the outside. I could see the swing of Hughie’s
arm with the whip. Necks in it with fifty yards to go.
I was almost too scared to watch. Stride and stride
and I didn’t know till the numbers went up. I
swung the glasses at the grin on Hughie’s face. Then
I saw Bride’s Tooth was favoring a leg. I couldn’t
see Hughie quick enough.
“She got into a jump,” Hughie said, “that’s all.
Now what about that little two-thousand-to-two I
landed for you?” He went in to weigh out.
When he came out I told him about the two-
thousand-to-two ticket.
“I gave it to your wife,” I said, “when I thought
it wasn’t worth the paper it was written on. I told
her it was for the kid’s education when I thought it
meant he’d never learn to read or write.”
Hughie started to shout.
“She won’t take it,” he yelled.
I said: “You don’t want the kid to grow up and
be a jockey, do you? And if she don’t take it I’ll
give it to charity.”
We were in the middle of the argument when
Batman walked up. He looked like a fashion-plate
out of some magazine.
“I want to talk to you,” he said.
I WENT to see Rowley. “Batman’s been to see me,”
A I said. “He wants to know if I’ll handle his jumpers.
He says he’s taking them away from you, Rowley.”
Rowley looked at me. “You’ll take ’em, won’t
you, Harry?”
“It doesn’t make much difference to me now,
Rowley. I’m set. I’m on top of the jumping game.
But I don’t like taking them away from you.”
Rowley said: “Listen, Harry, if he takes them it’s
because he wants to take them. He’ll give them to
someone, and it might as well be you. You or any-
body else, it don’t make any difference to me. I’m
going to lose them, that’s all.”
Racing’s a funny game.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
tfjnt mfiie cfiaU mellcwncM ancllouqwt
MARGATE.
In a “widened sense,” Margate may be regarded as the first town of importance on the southern side of the estuary of the Thames.
Here is London by the sea, in a popular sense assuredly. It stands on the brow of that jutting headland of chalk cliffs which fringe the
mouth of the “great” river. The strong air from the North Sea sweeps down upon it, during the hot summer months, with refreshing
vigour. Its countryside is luxuriant. No wonder it has for generations been the ideal resort for the masses of the Capital. It possesses
every natural advantage for the uses to which it is now principally put. It is famed in song and story. “Ingolsby” conferred upon it a
sort of rythmical immortality. The designation “Whitechapel by the Sea” savors of the profane, for not all who patronise Margate hail
from the East End of the Metropolis, very far from it. During the season its crowds are certainly reminiscent of the boisterous, tree
from care battalions that are proverbially typical of Hampstead Heath on a bank holiday. From their deportment is provided a refutation
of the assertion of the late Captain Basil Hood, “Englishmen in England may take their pleasures sadly.” Here in July August is
bustle, jollity, excitement to the full, characterised by an ensemblement hardly calculated to appeal to those who regard the rough an
ready of life” as the antithesis of social enjoyment. For all of that, Margate is a place no visitor to the Old Country should tail to see.
Like many other places, it is “not so black as it has been painted.” In fact, if the spirit of Margate is grasped, a holiday
not be other than enjoyable and instructive. It is not Blackpool, nor indeed, applying the comparison to Australia, Man y, t. \ a
or Glenelg, yet it suggests all of them. An old last century ditty, “A Rare Old Place Is Margate,’ happily and truthfully descn e 1.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61.—N0. 3152.
July 10, 1940.
ROOM, AND WELCOME!
"Australians are offering to take many more children from the danger zone than Britain can send.”
“These are your cousins, the cubs, joeys, and there’s a lot more coming. And the more the better!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.) . .
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months . 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members OF the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. Vrated Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
WHAT ABOUT THE KING?
The Bulletin once more urges the Australian and
Maoriland Governments to claim their fair share of
representation on the War Council which was so
recently called Supreme. It urges them also to press
for a revival of the Imperial War —or Defence-
Cabinet ; and it suggests, with respect, that the chair-
man of that Cabinet should be his Majesty King
George.
There is no constitutional impediment. It is, in
fact, a prescriptive function of the sovereign to assume
the leadership of his subjects in time of peril. His
Majesty’s legal title rests on a statute of William the
Third, and William undertook the task of saving the
nation from the French. In a more dangerous hour
the duty was nobly discharged by Queen Elizabeth.
When in the course of the American Civil War Lord
John Russell drafted an ultimatum to the Lincoln
Government over the seizure of the Southern agents
Mason and Slidell, and sent troops to Canada, the
Crown intervened to prevent war by “having the lan-
guage considerably modified and the responsibility
for the outrage thrown on the officer who committed
it, and not the Government.” And George the Fifth
took the responsibility of intervening in the Irish
question when civil war in Ireland seemed more than
a possibility.
Under Section 61 of the Constitution Act the
Governor-General could himself summon a body such
as the National War Council, for which Mr. Curtin
and Mr. Forgan Smith are asking. In the words of
the section, “The executive power of the Common-
wealth is vested in the King, and is exercisable by the
Governor-General as the King’s representative, and
extends to the execution and maintenance of this
Constitution and of the laws of the Commonwealth.”
It was by virtue of this section that Sir Ronald
Munro-Ferguson called the Recruiting Conference of
1918 and issued the invitations. They were extended
not only to the members of the Commonwealth Minis-
try and Opposition but to the Premiers and
Opposition-leaders of all States and to many public
bodies. Ernest Scott left it on record that “this fact
influenced the attitude of Mr. Tudor, who stated more
than once in the course of the discussions that if the
conference had been called by the Government he
would have taken no part in it.”
In 1916 the representatives of Australia, Maori-
land, Canada and South Africa (even Newfoundland)
were admitted to the Imperial War Cabinet, and there
they remained until the conclusion of hostilities, con-
tributing actively to the preparation of the peace
policy. Dominion status notwithstanding, there has
been no such recognition of the rights of Australia,
Maoriland, Canada and South Africa this time,
though they have roughly half the population of Britain
and a greater proportion of men fit to bear arms. Their
exclusion from British councils is all the stranger
when it is remembered that in 1916 Britain had many
allies,, and that its partners in this war have been
reduced to conquered countries for which only exiles
can profess to speak.
Loyal to the Crown, Australia, Maoriland and
Canada have considered themselves bound by British
foreign policy, though they would not themselves have
entered into an alliance with France or given a guaran-
tee to Poland. Presumably their Governments were
consulted about these commitments, but they never
took their Parliaments into their confidence. In effect,
the alliances were not “open covenants, openly arrived
at,” and they have failed appallingly.
Last week the British Government took it upon
itself to order an attack on the French warships in the
western Mediterranean failing compliance with condi-
tions which were refused. The instruction may have
been amply warranted by the emergency, and it was
carried out by the Navy with splendid daring and
efficiency; but the point is that the British Govern-
ment assumed a responsibility involving all the
Dominions without giving any of them a voice. Had
the proposal been put to an Imperial War Cabinet
it would probably have been approved as a harsh
necessity. Nevertheless the Australian and Maoriland
spokesmen would have had something to say about
the possible consequences to the army in Palestine
and the Suez Canal region of which Australian and
Maoriland soldiers form so large a part, and the
Canadian representative would assuredly have men-
tioned the possible repercussions among the three or
four million Canadians of French descent. Maybe
these considerations were weighed by Mr. Churchill
and his colleagues, but we cannot be sure, since
Cabinet discussions are not reported. Certain it is
that no Canadian, Maorilander or Australian was
there, none having been invited.
Certain it is also that the foreign policy which
British politicians of all parties have supported is in
ruins. “The covenant of the League” was its “corner-
stone” ; and the League is a fugitive, dying on ‘its
feet. Then Mr. Baldwin discovered that “our frontier
is on the Rhine” ; and members of the present Gov-
ernment wanted to add to this “frontier” the Oder,
the Guadalquivir and the Hoangho. Their news-
paper friends still pursue Mr. Chamberlain with
invective because he was unwilling. Not that any of the
Guadalquivir or Hoangho gentry ever spared more
than a passing thought for the Empire. They and
most of their associates are still obsessed with Europe
—the Europe from which Britain has had to retire,
and in which it is not only at war with Germany and
Italy, but in a state of war with its nearest neighbor
and, till last month, its closest ally; the Europe which
the English never understood and never will under-
stand.
As King of Australia, King of Maoriland, King
of Canada, South Africa and the colonies and
dependencies and Emperor of India, his Majesty is
free from this European obsession. He can speak for
his people in all lands as no British politician can.
He is respected throughout the world, not only for
his high office, but for his sterling character and for
the quiet dignity with which, assisted by his Queen,
he has restored the prestige of the Crown. There is
no British politician who is not hated in some quarter
for something he has done or said. Nobody hates
the King.
In short his Majesty has every qualification for
presiding over a Cabinet or Council in which all the
countries of the Empire would be represented, which
the Prime Minister of Britain would enter, with the
Prime Ministers of the Dominions or their deputies,
as the first among equals (a position assigned to him
under the Statute of Westminster), and which, while in
no way interfering with the British Government’s
measures for the defence of Britain —to assist in which
three Dominions have gladly sent their soldier sons—
much less its control of the navy, the army and the air
force, would have the last word on issues of war and
peace. And it goes without saying that, when the King
had to address the people as chairman of this Cabinet
or Council, he would do so in the grave, weighty and
expressive language for which Buckingham Palace has
always been distinguished. There would never be
any descent to the level of a “Daily Mirror” leader.
Non-intervention in the affairs of Europe was the
policy of the wisest of our ancestors, and it has been
departed from with results which have staggered all,
except perhaps those who departed from it. In their
wisdom our ancestors also saw to it that great reserve
powers were vested in the Crown. The time has come
for the greatest of these reserve powers to be invoked,
and for the King to stand forth as the leader of all his
peoples until he has led them through the tragedy of
war to the blessing of peace.
Bomb for Bomb.
It is saddening to turn to the war of 1914-18, wherein
so many millions of decent people made sacrifices of
health, comfort, happiness and life —sacrifices which,
because of League moonshine, wrongheaded politics,
sloth and unpreparedness in the presence of deadly
danger, were all in vain—but there are lessons still to
be learned from that war. One of them is contained
in the story of the two soldiers, just out of the trenches,
speculating on the outcome. “Are we going to win?”
one asked. “Yes,” the other replied, “if the civilian
population holds out.”
In the horrible pass to which total war has brought
Western civilisation, the result of the present war be-
tween Germany and Britain may depend on the for-
titude of the civilian population. Victory may go to
the nation with the better capacity to stand bomb-
ing. In each case the weak links of the chain are
women and children.
There are in Britain roughly 1,800,000 more
females of all ages than males of all ages. Considered
as a military problem, that doesn’t sound good, but
the position in Germany is worse. Leaving Czechia,
Slovakia and Poland out of account, there are at least
2,250,000 more females of all ages in Germany than
males of all ages, and the number of young German
children is not far short of double the number of
young British children.
In Britain at the census of 1931 there were
21,525,400 males and 23,412,000 females, all ages. In
Germany at the census of 1933 there were 32,086,000
males and 33,944,200 females, all ages. According to
a recent calculation, the excess of females in England
and Wales has decreased from 1,687,000 to 1,631,000
since the census was taken ; in Germany, on the other
hand, the excess of females has been increased by the
inclusion of the Saar, Austria, the Sudetenland and the
Danzig neighborhood. For example, Vienna at the
census of 1934 had 846,400 males and 1,027,700
females.
As everyone can now see —though rio one can be
fairly blamed —it would have been a great advantage
to Britain had large numbers of children and elderly
people been shifted to safe places throughout the war
months. An exodus of children is now beginning, and,
however small the scale, it will help. Every child
moved to the Dominions or other countries overseas
during the dangerous period means so much less strain
on the parents and so much less drain on the nation’s
food stocks. No such plan is possible in Germany.
There can be no movement by land to the countries
which German bombers and soldiers have desolated,
and in which they have created the conditions which
breed pestilence, as well as famine, and there are no
ships to carry German children overseas.
More important is the fact that the British are,
in a measure, inured to bombing. Many, still living,
experienced it in the last war and many others have
experienced it in the present war. But it is a new thing
to nearly all German non-combatants. Though
there were a few raids over the Rhineland in 1918,
the people in most of the German cities and towns
were exempt. The Berliners, for example, never knew
what it felt like to have explosive bombs dropping
on their city. They have suffered this experience on
several occasions lately, and their reactions and those
of people in other places hitherto raid-free must have
been pretty bad. Anyway Berlin Radio, previously
so triumphant, was reduced to confessing that the
British bombers had been so “sudden and unexpected”
that there was “no time to sound warnings,” and to
advising people to rush to their shelters as soon as
they heard anti-aircraft fire.
Writing of Hitler’s arrangement with Stalin, the
British Ambassador at Berlin has recorded that “the
first impression at Berlin was one of immense relief,
partly at the removal of the dreaded Russian menace.”
In September, 1938, Goring told him that Germany
then had more aircraft than Britain, France, Czecho-
slovakia and Belgium put together, and it must have
been true. But by manufacture and purchase Britain
has steadily redressed the balance, and in quality of
men and machines the Royal Air Force has proved
superior to the enemy’s.
At the crisis of the magnificent rearguard action
of the B.E.F. and the survivors of the French armies
sent to Flanders, the R.A.F. gained supremacy for
as long as it was necessary to save them. If that had
not been the case there would have been no embar-
kation of 250,000 or even 2500 soldiers from a single
Dunkirk pier. Those newspaper and newsreel photo-
graphs of warriors massed on the Dunkirk sands
without possibility of cover tell a most significant
and most heartening story. Nearly all of them
would have been killed or taken if the R.A.F. had not
driven the German bombers away. In splendid co-
operation in a task which, in respect of individuals,
has always summoned forth the finest qualities of
English-speaking people, the R.A.F., the Royal Navy
and its auxiliary services saved the army, and with the
rescued and reinforced army they will save Britain
if Britain needs to be saved.
In another burst of confidence, Goring gave Sir
Nevile Henderson “an interesting explanation of why
such attention had been paid in Germany to A.R.P.
Soldiers, he said, cannot keep their eyes to the front
if their families in the rear are exposed to danger.”
If invasion is attempted the warriors engaged will
often have to take backward looks. Relieved of the
necessity for protecting beaten Dutch, Belgian and
French armies, in the process devoting magnificent
men and machines to certain destruction, the R.A.F.
will have more time and force for that particular duty.
And a duty it will be so long as Britain is men-
aced with the fate of the Low Countries and France.
There is not a man in the R.A.F. who would not
rejoice if bombing of cities and towns were called off
by mutual consent, but while it goes on the R.A.F.
must give bomb for bomb, and, if possible, drop two
bombs on Germany—or Italy—for every bomb that
falls on Britain. The only answer to total war is
total war.
The Wheat Puzzle.
“Ben C.”: Members of the costly Australian Wheat
Board are going about with furtive looks these days,
for whichever way they turn they can’t get away from
the mountain of grain piled up in the country.
Earlier and blithe assurances that the problem
would be solved have died out, and there has been a
cessation of the weekly statements that this or that
amount has been sold. The sober truth is that the
A.W.B. can no more ease the congestion than win the
war. Lack of ships has long been blamed for the
position, but since the elimination of France has
relieved Britain of the necessity for maintaining food
supplies to that country as well as to an expeditionary
force located there the fact is beginning to emerge
that Britain has as much grain stored in her own
islands as she is likely to need for some time.
So the position at the moment is that Australia is
full of wheat which Britain doesn’t want, the Com-
monwealth Government has compulsorily acquired
the entire grain stocks, we have no ships in which to
send the wheat anywhere, and official estimates fore-
cast that in N.S.W. alone the silos will be very nearly
half full when the new harvest comes in five months
hence.
The Wheat Board was constituted last year. Obvi-
ously it has ceased to serve any useful purpose. All it
can hope to control are mice and weevils, and other
people are employed to do that. Private merchants,
who are in the business for profit and who risk their
own and shareholders’ money, should be given a
chance to prove their frequent assertions that they
could sell wheat if given a free hand.
There remains Asia. Manchukuo and parts of
Japanese-controlled China could probably use plenty
of Australian wheat, either as grain or flour, and,
though Japan may not be able to pay for it in hard
cash, she might consider a deal in arms and even ships.
Ideas like this might sound treasonable to some
Australian politicians, especially of the “Hands off
China” breed, but they’ll have to get used to a sight
more unusual departures before the war is over, and
plenty of them are dead tired of that mountain of
wheat.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Mr. Mair Pleased."
In the last week of the financial year, Mr. Mair, the
Sydney Premier (“without portfolio”), who has nothing
to do but yap, concentrated his gas on the Common-
wealth Government, demanding the internment of all
enemy aliens. Mr. Bruxner, the Deputy-Premier,
who has nothing to do but concur in the decisions of
the Commissioners of Railways, Tramways and Buses
(he is titular Minister of Transport), discharged a lot
of gas on his own account, and several other Ministers
joined in. Indeed almost the only Minister who wasn’t
heard on the subject was Mr. FitzSimons (Health),
who has been in Melbourne for many months doing
something or other for the militia and whom, except
that his salary has gone on, the taxpayers have never
missed.
Internment of enemy aliens is exclusively a Com-
monwealth matter, and this other State Governments,
useless as they all are, have had the grace to recognise.
If the Commonwealth Government is guilty of any
sin of commission or omission it can be held to
account in the Commonwealth Parliament. It is an
impertinence and an annoyance and a waste of the
Commonwealth Government’s time for any State
excrescence to butt in.
Perhaps the idea was to divert attention from the
Mair Government’s own sins of commission and
omission. There have been bitter complaints of the
railway fares exacted from soldiers on leave from
their often-remote camps, and during the week in
which the internment-of-aliens fuss was made even a
Ministerial paper roasted the Mair Government on
that score. And at the end of the week the Govern-
ment had to announce that the financial year had
closed with another loss of £2,213,000. That brings
the accumulated deficiency to £35,752,000, less contri-
butions to the national sinking fund —£9,455,600 to
June 30, 1939.
Mr. Mair did not mention the accumulated de-
ficiency. Instead he blithered in this fashion: —
It is pleasing to learn that we are to have a deficit
£300,000 less than was anticipated two months ago. If
there had not been an upheaval in the coatl industry, our
deficit would only have been about £1,200,000, which
is very satisfactory, in view of the fact that deficit
finance had been arranged for £1,500,000.
“Pleasing!” “Very satisfactory!” A million lost in
the coal strike, during which trains and trams
ran all the time, though services, it is true, were slashed
because the self-satisfied Railway Department was
caught short of coal (in South Australia, which uses
N.S.W. coal, there was no slashing, and the Govern-
ment wound up the twelvemonth with a loss of
£163,000, which was £407,000 less than the estimate).
Mr. Mair must imagine that the taxpayers have an
unlimited capacity for swallowing rubbish.
During 1938-39 a surplus of £7785 was predicted
by the then Treasurer, Mr. Stevens; and on the
strength of this “allowances” of Ministers were raised
from £16,724 to £23,420, of Assemblymen from
£52,448 to £68,669 and of “President Leg. Council,
etc.,” from £3498 to £4690. The actual result was a
thumping deficit, which Mr. Richardson, Mr. Stevens’s
successor, reckoned at £2,448,600 and the Auditor-
General at £2,895,200, both amounts being exclusive
of long-term and short-term loans (a million was bor-
rowed for current expenditure from the Superannua-
tion Board). Mr. Richardson announced that he
would have to raise another £4,000,000, and this he
proceeded to do by various clumsy and oppressive
increases in income tax, taxes on dead persons’ prop-
erty and stamp duties, getting in ahead of the Com-
monwealth Treasurer; but he promised that “the
deficit” (i.e., the annual loss) would be “reduced” to
£1,512,300.
In 16 years, 1921-1937, the N.S.W. public debt
was doubled, the increase being from £175,085,000
to £350,292,000. In 11 years, 1927-1938, N.S.W.
tax-collections per head (lottery taxes excepted) rose
from £5 8s. lOd. to £7 11s. 5d., and debt and taxes
are soaring all the time. The accumulated deficiency
has been accumulating for 12 years. It has been
financed by loans, Treasury bills and temporary
accommodation from the Commonwealth Bank.
This Government is, in fact, bankrupt. The more
money it raises by loans and taxes, the worse its posi-
tion becomes ; and in the eleventh month of the war
it can find nothing for its alleged Parliament to do.
As a measure of national security, the whole show
should be suspended forthwith as a public nuisance.
The Gaunt Horsemen.
There is a growing belief in this well-fed part of the
world that Europe —and for most people now Europe
means Hitler —is facing a famine. Many are persuad-
ing themselves that, if Britain can hold off the invader
until the winter, the problem of feeding their own and
the conquered peoples will be too much for Germany
and Italy, and that as starvation breeds revolt both
dictators will meet defeat.
Plenty of people who should have known better
saw in the German invasion of the Low Countries
and the seemingly-desperate onslaught on France
strong evidence that Germany was already facing a
dangerous shortage of food and material and was
thus committed to a sort of “gambler’s last throw.”
The truth is that it was no “last throw” but a
carefully-prepared and well-executed plan. If the
Germans were short of material they are short no
longer, with the possible exception of oil; and nobody
knows how far they have progressed with their coal-
hydrogenation schemes, nor to what extent they can
apply it to the vast coal deposits available in France,
nor exactly how much oil they are getting from
Russia and Rumanian wells.
It boils down to foodstuffs. Since all central and
western Europe except Portugal and Britain is either
controlled by or open to enemy power, that power
can draw certain supplies from there. It is said that
Denmark, Holland, Belgium and France, having suf-
fered the ravages of war, will have little or no food
to spare. That would be a good argument had the
war been a long one, but the conquest of each country
ranged from a few hours to a few weeks.
On the east and south the enemy can draw on the
U.S.S.R., the Balkan States and. Turkey. North
Africa, or that part of it which can be reached
by Axis ships or transport ’planes, has also a portion
of food to give. Many imagine the place as one vast
desert, but the coastline is very fruitful and produc-
tive. And the Baltic and the Mediterranean teem
with fish.
There is strong evidence that European grain
crops suffered seriously from the terrific winter and
the flooded spring. But Germany had stored vast
quantities of grain, and Italy had nine months in
which to make up deficiencies.
The Hitler domains are probably short of meat,
wheat and some fats for the coming winter. However,
a meat shortage is nothing new, and there are grains
and root-crops that can replace wheat.
Pestilence is another matter. Conditions set up
in the defeated countries, especially Poland and
France, make for epidemics ; and epidemics ravage
not only the innocent but the guilty. For nearly two
months enormous numbers of Belgian and French
fugitives, running to millions when Paris was doomed,
have been without sanitation and piped water, to say
nothing of proper food. Typhoid and diphtheria are
certain consequences, and cholera is a strong proba-
bility. Germany itself —Hamburg especially—has a
pretty bad cholera history, and France has not been
immune. According to medical authority, “the one
real and sufficient protection lies in a standing condi-
tion of good sanitation, backed by an efficient and
vigilant sanitary administration” ; and over a great
part of France that protection has been destroyed by
the conqueror.
A Water Board Docked.
Horribly narked because it didn’t get the £3,000,000
graving dock job in Sydney Harbor, that city’s Water
Board is lashing out in all directions, and no names
are too hard for the Federal Government, the Sydney
Public Works Department (which appears to have
pinched the job) and State Minister Martin.
It gave a similar performance when Treasurer
Spender refused to let it go on the loan market for
£500,000 immediately after it had borrowed £1,000,000
at a time when the country was just waking up to the
need for cash conservation. That was six months ago,
and since Spender the other day agreed to let it have
£250,000 no doubt a place has been reserved for him
on the new diamond-studded honor roll in the board’s
Pitt-street palace.
At the moment the board, according to its Mr.
Moverly, is engaged in three separate works, each
costing about £2,000,000. It has been periodically
warning Sydney not to waste water since last Christmas,
and it has been trying to pawn its assets once more
in order to get money. It had wonderful sup-
port from the Sydney press and the Sydney Pre-
mier when the dock business broke loose, but the plain
truth is that its performances in recent years have
been no sort of a recommendation for a job like the
dock.
Anyhow, such bodies being what they are, the
obvious and quickest way to get the dock built is
by private contract.
Meantime, war between the board and the Works
Department is more imminent than between Russia
and Germany, and Sydney is still short of water.
Steam Power for Road Haulage.
“H.A.L.” writes from Naracoorte (S.A.):
Somebody has given a thought to steam (B. 19/6/’4O).
Running around Adelaide is a Foden steam wagon which was
imported before the last war. In spite of having been in
continual use for over 26 years it is still carting 10-ton loads
at a reasonably fast speed. Its owner also runs motor-
trucks, but he says emphatically “That old steam-wagon always
has been, and still is, the most profitable vehicle I own.”
Any decent engineering shop could turn out steam wagons
of that type at short notice and at a reasonable cost. Every
wrecking-yard has heavy old truck chassis which could be
fitted with steam engines of this type.
The White steam car was on the market about 25 years
ago; in appearance and performance it was equal to anything
then on the roads. Its twin-cylinder engine was a masterpiece
of designing; steam was generated in a small flash boiler fired
by kerosene. No heavier than any modern car engine, yet
able to deliver equal horse-power, it was trouble-free. Many
engines from these cars are still in use on stationary plants
and are giving good service. My neighbor owns one. It
pumps water for irrigation, saws the firewood, drives a dynamo
to charge wireless and house-lighting batteries, and costs
nothing to run save a little lubricating oil and the trouble of
carting firewood in from the paddocks. He paid £5 for it at
a junk yard.
White engines could be built on mass-production lines
with about one-tenth of the plant needed for the manufac-
ture of the simplest design of petrol or Diesel engine. The
old kerosene-burning boiler could be redesigned to use coke
or charcoal, and the latest design of car radiator could be
adapted to act as a condenser for the exhaust steam.
There is no more trouble about driving and caring for a
steam-driven truck than one running on charcoal gas.
Mussolini.
“Nakhoda”: Uncle Sam’s immigration quota law,
which reduced the annual influx of Italians (B.
19/6/ ’4O) — e.g., from 265,000 in 1913 to 6662 in 1932 —
was largely responsible for Mussolini.
Travelling around the Bay of Naples in 1920 I
passed hundreds of abandoned vineyards and un-
tenanted houses. Asking an old ladrone what was the
cause of a desolation like unto Pompeii, I received the
answer “The golden land, America!” “Where aire
their owners?” I asked. “The young folk are in New
York and Chicago, and the old folk have retired to
some Italian city to live on the remittances they send
them.”
Pre-Mussolini Governments tried to deal with the
situation by redoubling the absurdities of democratic
government as practised on the Continent. There
were 20 parties in an election while I was there, and
each electorate had to vote for 20 candidates en bloc.
On one list appeared a Communist, a Social Democrat,
a Catholic party man, an atheist and so forth and so
on. If they won they all went into Parliament together
to wrangle.
Outside Parliament, “Viva Lenin!” was scrawled
on houses, barracks and ancient monuments. Workers
started to seize the factories, trams were so overloaded
that they broke down in the streets and trains seldom
ran to schedule. The Government was afraid to de-
mobilise the army, the streets were full of officers in
scarlet cloaks, and every second man was in uniform.
Exchange had soared, and the country was the happy
hunting ground of tourists. They could hire a car
for tenpence a day and live in a good hotel for half
a crown and were bitterly resented as robbers by the
native. Beggars wept and dribbled amidst heaps of
refuse on every pavement.
Oblivious of these problems, Lloyd George, Nitti
and Millerand met at the Villa Devachan, under an
Australian gumtree, trying to reconcile the Versailles
Treaty with the aims and aspirations of the League of
Nations. D’Annunzio had seized Fiume with his
Blackshirts and was contemplating an Italian renais-
sance in which art and letters were muddled up with
politics. But there was an obscure little man with a
beetling brow and a jaw like the heel of a boot who
had been a Socialist and a soldier and done terms in
prison for attempted revolution —Mussolini.
Under ordinary conditions he would probably
have gone back to radical journalism or any old
journalism and never been heard of. But America’s
embargo and the League of Nations had made, the
Italian people a perfect audience for him. He took
over the Blackshirts, gave them a doctrine of Italy for
the Italians, the ideal of physical heroism and the re-
establishment of the old Roman Empire. His march
on Rome was a walkover.
"They Also" (Mustn't) "Serve."
Candid confession of “Wat St. Heuse”—-and there are
many more like him:
For 40 years, spread over three major wars, I have
been trying to do my country some service—personal, that is ;
outside the normal one of paying taxes and giving the State
the use of my savings.
Rejected for the Boer War, I begged the Government
(British then) to tell me some way in which I could serve.
It thanked me prettily, and that was that.
With others of like thought I plunged into the newly-
planned Rifle Club movement; a fond group of patriots that
bought its own rifles and ammunition, rented its own ranges,
paid for its own butts building, staffing and maintenance.
The Brasshats discouraged us all they could; called us
the Popgun and Papspoon Brigade, refused us .303 rifles and
Morris tubes, forbade us to carry rifles in public, even wanted
to license our popguns as sporting pieces. We bought, and
trained ourselves with, Martinis, Winchesters and pea-rifles,
and made ourselves quite marksmanlike rifle- and revolver-
users.
Came 1914. Again I begged the Government (Australian
now) to let me serve somehow, any way. Again I was
thanked prettily—and again that was that. No use was made
of the time, office, knowledge, typewriter, telephone and
willingness I offered, though I was soon to see tens of thou-
sands being wasted on soldier “returned empties,” Some-
bodies’ nephews and Home Fusiliers and the like doing for
full-time pay what I and other unfits would eagerly have
done for nothing. (Most recruitment work was of necessity
done during the after-hours period in which wage-earners
are free; a good opening for the volunteer offering time as
his gift. Home Fusiliers spent their days organising flappers
into [never-used] Amazon Corps, addressing tea-parties [wholly
female] and spinning yarns and red-tape.)
I resumed rifle-shooting. Technique had changed since
1900, but I could, if I sat in a hole, still get my average
of inners up to 600 yards, and I could teach the why and how
of arm and method. We were invited to give A'.I.F. rookies
in our area preliminary instruction in small-arm work; but
in a few weeks Brasshattery called in all Lee-Enfield rifles,
leaving us to teach rapid-fire with 1890-vintage Martinis
with mule-kick recoil. And that was that!
Seeing the writing on the wall, once more I offered (in
early 1939) to serve my country in any capacity that might
release a better man for more vital duty, once: more setting
out (a now more varied) experience, also office, telephone, type-
writer and time available, as before. The answer was pretty
as ever, and as fruitless.
Came a State national register. I registered—with offer
of extras, as in 1914. Came the Federal register, I was there
again—also with extra offer. Still no use for my services;
not even an acknowledgment, pretty or otherwise, by now.
I tried reminding the State registrar of my existence—with
repeat of offer. The answer this time was not so prettily
worded as hitherto—quite formal, in fact —but still no one
wanted me; the Organisation—per Colonel Watsthis—had
everything in every respect well taken care of.
Now I live in a congested residential area at the extreme
edge of a big municipality, remote (physically and psycho-
logically) from the City Hall where Official Organisation lives.
Our suburb overlooks one of the nation’s most important
strategic points. We British-breds are completely surrounded
by refugees, neutrals, ex-Allies, ex-enemies, naturalised friends,
Rolls-Royced natives and what-nots. If ever there was a spot
that needed a quiet watching post of volunteer devotees
backed by Commonwealth authority it is this.
Is anything being done? It is not. No armed force
patrols. We run out excitedly like kids if a policeman is
reported in our square. Even our titular air-warden, if any
of those much-heralded saviors now exist, is 1| mile away,
via three separate transport services. No warden or anyone else
has communicated with me, and 1 have been a resident of the
area for 11 years.
There could be raised hereabouts in a few hours a self-
dependent, “cell” of volunteer servitors who might include
every form of profession, business expertry and skilled trade.
They would have means enough to equip and maintain them-
selves; but nobody does anything and nobody invites to do
anything those who like me are eager to have a fry. And
without official O.K. nothing possessing authority or power
can be done.
Ah, well! lam hardly likely to see a fourth war. Why
should I worry? But I do.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Hop out , you — it's your turn to open the gate."
“Oxmead”: N.S.W. Justice Boyce, as
the obituary notices recorded, was born
at Pepper’s Creek, Jumper’s Flat, Rock-
ley, N.S.W., which recalls a story I had
from his own lips. When he went to
Rugby School, after brief terms at the
King’s and Sydney Grammar, he was put
through the usual questionnaire for new
boys by the headmaster, Jex-Blake, a
delightful but somewhat pompous old
pedagogue. Where was he born? “New
South Wales, Australia,” replied the
future Judge. “Be more specific, my
boy,” said Jex, a little testily. Boyce
obliged him. “Pepper’s Creek, Jumper’s
Flat,” he began, but again he was inter-
rupted, this time more sternly, with “No
flippancy, please.” So he was enrolled as
merely a product of Rockley. My own
impression is that Jex suspected an
attempt to pull his leg by a juvenile
student of Bret Harte.
* * * *
“Ulva”: Tremendous happenings on
the other side of the globe don’t make
much impression, it would seem, on the
average Australian, so I’m a bit surprised
when the Poet, instead of responding to
my friendly greeting, sinks into a chair,
bows his head in his hands and groans
“This dreadful war! This awful war!”
“Oh, cheer up,” says I. “Scotland still
stands where she did, and Britannia still
rules the waves. Even if the French”
He waves an impatient hand. “You don’t
understand,” he says ; “you don’t know
what’s happened. They’ve reduced the
size of beer glasses !”
* * * *
“The Listening Insect”: A Melbourne
Zoo official was passing a cage full of
cockatoos when his sensitive ear was
assaulted with “What do you well
want?” As there were several hundreds
of possible offenders, the Zoo authori-
ties are still unable to sheet home the
crime to the perpetrator, and there is
talk of quarantining the area until it has
been purged of subversive elements.
Recalls the broadcast of a Melbourne
studio which announced that one Sunday
morning it would put on the air the most
remarkable talking cockatoo in Australia.
Listeners’ ears were greeted with a torrent
of foul language, followed by a hasty
apology from the owner. A second
attempt produced an even more eloquent
discourse in the lower reaches of the lan-
guage, and the broadcast was abruptly
discontinued. There was a public oui-
cry, and the owner of the disreputable
bird subsequently explained that he had
bought it from a publican and was
unaware of the creature’s extensive com-
mand of the language. Presumably it had
ambitions, and had been reserving its full
powers for a wide audience.
* * * *
“McFlagon”: Don’t make any mistake
about the seriousness of this war. Even
Scots are finding it too much for their
natural reactions. One sold the other a
horse for £lO on the understanding that
it was sound. The buyer later asserted
that the neddy was blind, and wanted his
money back. The argument led to the
Small Debts Court in a N.S.W. northern
town, but when the case was called it
was stated that the parties, believing that
squabbles over trivial matters were out
of order during such a war, had agreed
that the seller should take the horse back
and the amount should be donated to
patriotic funds. Commendable, nae doot,
but fancy calling £lO “treevial!”
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Our suburb’s tame drunk
was put off a crowded tram far from
his destination, it having been revealed
that he had no money and was in a dis-
putatious mood. Our suburb’s cattiest
gossip observed the marooning, and, on
reaching our street, lusciously exposed
the details to sundry people poking about
their front lawns. She had barely got
inside her own gate when four separate
cars, each containing a thoughtful man,
backed out on to the road and headed
citywards. Thirty minutes later they
straggled back, and from the second one
the drunk was gently hauled and de-
posited on his own front doorstep. Thus
does our suburb look after its own.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: The exodus of white
women and children from Hong Kpng
nearly had a precedent when I was there,
though I was not responsible. During the
shipping strike organised by Bolshevik
agents in Canton the great rock with its
huge population of yellow men and its
slender sprinkling of whites was in
danger of starvation. A general boycott
brought essential services to a standstill,
and the women had to cook, wash and
mend for their menfolk. This would
not be regarded as much of a calamity
in Australia, but in Hong Kong it was
different. The colony lives on cheap
colored labor, and c.c.l. is the enemy of
modern conveniences such as electricity.
Hong Kong found that it was much more
primitive than it had imagined. It has
since tended to mechafiise itself along
the lines of Western cities. But bad
habits are difficult to get out of. I
batched with a young Englishman in
Hong Kong who would sooner expend
his energy bawling for his “boy” for
five minutes than raise himself up out
of his long chair and reach for the
matches on the table.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Those Maorilanders who
disembarked at Suez to go into camp in
the desert are a bit more familiar with air-
craft than those with whom I arrived at
Port Tewfik (Suez) in the last dust-up.
Of the 1200 on our transport not many
had seen an aeroplane, and the decks
were crowded as we steamed to our
berth. The Diggers’ eyes turned aloft to
the ’planes soaring in the blue. Till then
the raucous admonition of the sarge-
major was: “Hold yer heads up—there
ain’t' no half-crowns on the ground.
Now he had to substitute “Hold yer heads
down ; time to turn yer eyes to heaven
when y’re saying yer prayers.”
*,,* * * - .
General de Rangement : The first
attempt made by Australia in the way ot
offering resistance to any possible blitz-
krieg was a sort of a pul-box arrange-
ment placed on the site of what is now
Macquarie-place (Sydney). There was a
powder magazine hard by, as well as a
flagstaff for signalling. Later the outfit
moved to Dawes Point, together with
guns from the Sirius. British troops
manned the battery at Dawes Point
until they were withdrawn in 1870,
and after that the newly-established
Aussie Artillery moved in. In days
gone by the Volunteer Artillery used
also to train at Dawes Point and
scatter cannon balls all over the harbor
in practice. The battery at Dawes Point
finally succumbed, not to the enemy,
but to the North Shore Bridge, after a
spell of being used as a station for the
Water Police.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Add to those who turn from
artistic occupations to sterner stuff in time
of stress an Australian painter who fell
on hard times. He was discovered by an
admirer in a small suburban backwater
painting a fence. “Dammit, old boy,”
quoth the admirer feelingly, “I’m sorry
to see you doing this work.” “You
needn’t be,” replied the artist serenely,
“I’m quite happy. I’ve painted a dozen
fences in this street and have been paid
cash. I’m out of debt, and I’ve a fiver
in the bank —in fifteen years of high
art I never had even an account. It’s
fences for me in future.”
* * * *
“T.”: In Sydney at least people have
learned to their astonishment that a num-
ber of shopkeepers it took for Greeks
are Italians and that a number it took
for Italians are Greeks. In my subbub
patriotic urchins used to adorn the
approaches to Tony’s premises with in-
vidious references to Tony and his sup-
posed country, the least invidious being
“Italy Is Our Ennemy.” These attentions
must have been detrimental to Tony’s
trade —one of the biggest in the subbub
—but it is now thriving again, for Tony
has proudly proclaimed that he is Greek,
and pro-Ally. And a surprising number
of Tony’s fellow-subjects are, it seems
from the printed characters stuck on their
windows, “Cyprian,” and not only pro-
British, but “British.” It would be dread-
ful for these worthy Cypriotes if Cyprus
twisted.
* * * *
“D.E.”: I once thought of forming a
Society for Getting Dead Tired of Mary
Maguire and Margaret Vyner. Not that
I had or have anything against these
personable young women, but I was
weary of the acres of mush served up
about them and their unimportant
achievements. In an age not given over
to flapper-worship, Melba, though all the
world acknowledged that there wasn’t a
singer to come near her, never com-
manded a tenth of the space which has
been lavished on each of these flapper-
press goddesses. But when Miss Maguire
married the papers dropped her (though
some of them are doing their best with
other members of the family), and 1
suspect that they will drop La Vyner
now that matrimony has claimed that
charming creature. The only married
ladies who interest the flapper press are
those who change their partners early
and often —Hollywood morons, of course,
preferred.
* * * *
“Oran”: In one of those radio com-
petitions a competitor was asked to name
nine kinds of thoroughfare. He struggled
through with difficulty. It recalls the
prophetic lines of Erasmus Darwin, in
which he saw “the proud arch, Colossus-
like, bestride yon glittering streams,” and
envisaged a Sydney with broad streets,
crescents, solid roads, canals, embellished
villas, spires and towers. Wonderfully
accurate, but Erasmus uses the term for
a thoroughfare that has never become
popular in Sydney. The city still lacks a
circus—for, though the wheels go round
in the one facing Macquarie-street, no
vehicular traffic is allowed through it.
* * * *
“U.”: With its usual contempt for
detail, the “A.B.C. Weekly” alleges that
before Josie Melville appeared in “Sally”
“practically all stars” in the Australian
theatre “had been imported.” A rather
summary ruling-out of such stage per-
formers —most of them Australian by
birth and the others by residence from
childhood or youth—as Nellie Stewart,
Alice Rees, Frances Saville, Dolores
Drummond, Rose Edouin, Myra Kemble,
Essie Jenyns, Pattie Browne, May Pol-
lard, Ida Osborne, Fannie Liddiard, Aggie
Kelton, Violet Varley, Flora Graupner,
Hilda Spong, Lily Dampier, Frances
Ross, Florence Young, Alice Crawford,
Beatrice Holloway, Rose Musgrove,
Carrie Moore, Dolly Castles, Gladys
Moncrieff, Strella Wilson, Olive Godwin,
Dorothy Brunton, Lizette Parkes,
Dorothy Cumming, Howard Vernon,
Scott Inglis, Harry Roberts, Walter
Baker, Bert Bailey and quite a few o.thers.
But the A.B.C. journal doubtless has a
high criterion of stardom.
;S * * *
“S.T.S.”: One of Adelaide’s best
trustee cos. has had to admit in the
Supreme Court the losing—through its
“servants” —of a will. This was taken by
a clerk to a hospital for the making of
a codicil, and could not be found when
the testator died a few months later.
However, a carbon copy which had been
kept by the co. was allowed by the Court
for probate, but it took a whole batch
of affidavits to back it up as 'an
equivalent.
* * * *
“Mac”: Zola (B. 26/6/’4O) wasn’t the
only Frenchman who had a glimpse of
the future. The elder Alexandre Dumas,
in a speech made in 1848, said: “Geo-
graphically, Prussia has the shape of a
serpent, and like a serpent it seems always
to sleep and prepare to swallow every-
thing around it —Denmark, Holland and
Belgium. And when it has engulfed them
all you will see that Austria will pass in
its turn and, perhaps, alas! .France also.”
NEGLECTED TALENT.
[After reading various encomiums on ex-Premier
Stevens in the correspondence columns of Sydney
dailies.]
Is there no cavity or niche,
No coign of vantage definite,
No war-time billet into which
This estimable gent would fit?
When high resolve and fertile brains
Are urgent needs, one can’t conceive—
A perfect puzzle it remains—
Why nothing comes the way of Steve.
Too many seek a leading role,
So Spender says, in times like these;
A sentiment upon the whole
With which on,e readily agrees.
Still, master minds are all too rare
And, if results he would achieve,
Voices are asking Menzies where
He’d find a better bet than Steve.
The man who cooked the goose of Lang
Should surely prove of matchless use
In euchre-ing the Nazi gang
And cooking Adolf Hitler’s goose.
Who steered his State from out Depresh?
And who with half a chance would cleave
His way to eminence afresh?
Who but that sturdy patriot Steve?
A busted idol, some may say,
Who took a Humpty Dumpty toss.
Bethink you, though, before today
That many a resurrected joss
Has managed on a wider stage
His reputation to retrieve.
And who the blazes can engage
It wouldn’t be the same with Steve?
It irks a humble row to hoe
In any place where erst you’ve been
The foremost figure of the show,
The genuine god in the machine.
And plaintive pens demand “Whaffor?”
While others place and pay receive
For helping us to win the war,
No cushy job arrives for Steve.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Wodgil”: The trouble with Treasurer
Spender is that he won’t try to live up to
his name. In his enthusiasm for making
every penny pull its war weight he wrote
a newspaper article in denunciation of
“elaborate propaganda urging the com-
munity to spend freely on normal objects
of expenditure.” He pointed out in-
dignantly that “retail sales have been
above those of last year” and “beer-con-
sumption has risen notably,” and issued
a warning that it might be “necessary to
take steps for controlling consumption,”
for “the Government acknowledges no
duty whatever to preserve luxury condi-
tions or favored opportunities for any
individual or group” “S. M. Herald”
backed him up in a leader headed “Doing
Without.” Both effusions appeared when
Snows’ Great Sale was in full blast; and
the Snow is boss of the Sydney U.A.P.
With a scream like that of a strong
swimmer in his agony, the Snow demanded
to be informed whether Menzies or
Spender was running the war, and the
“Sun,” whose Thursday edition is mostly
ragshop ads., shrieked that Spender’s
advice was “diametrically opposed to the
interests of Australian industrial, pastoral
and agricultural production and the whole
business activities of Australia” ; in short,
a Policy of Disaster. Poor Spender has
been reduced to pleading that he was
misunderstood.
* * # *
“Harold Hardupp”: A refugee house-
hold which has made a reputation
among its neighbors for frequent musical
evenings has recently seasoned its con-
certs plentifully with British patriotic
songs. No doubt the refugees feel that
these contributions are a sign of loyalty ;
but I find the sing-songs have anew
interest. “Rule, Pretannia,” sung like
that, is a passing pleasure ; and I like
to hear these foreign patriots on “Sons
of the Sea.” There is something joyful
to me in a full-chorussed “Dey gan’t
puildt poys of der Pulldog preed dot
maght old Inklandt’s name.”
“Thusap”: Answer-
ing the front door I
found a shaky indi-
vidual who came
straight at me. “Look,
Dig., I’m crook, see!
Bin on it, see! Could
y’ spring me a deener
f’r a reviver?” Firmly
I shut the door. A
minute later the back
door called. There
stood the same beggar.
“Look, Dig., I hope y’
ain’t as tight as the last
bloke I struck. He
knocked me” “I
know, I’m him,” I
snapped, and shut the
door. I had barely
settled down when the
front - door bell rang
again. There stood the
shaky one. “Look here,” I said, “you’ve
gone too far. Now you get out of here,
or” His look of astonishment and
alarm was marvellous. “S’truth, d’ y’
meantersay y’ the same —that this is the
same —well, strike me, Dig., now y’ can
see how crook a man really is!” He’d
earned his deener and he got it.
* * * *
“Pedagiggle”: This year marks the
centenary of Dickens’s Old Curiosity
Shop. Nowadays one feels inclined to
laugh at Little Nell, though she captured
all hearts in 1840. After the Little Nell
type came the dressmaker, beautiful but
poor, and facing temptation on every
hand (Dickens’s little Emily couldn’t
resist temptation and had to be sent to
Australia with the Micawbers, whose
descendants are still writing copiously in
every State). Then came the governess, a
perfect lady in reduced circumstances,
who lasted until the beginning of this
century. Today we have the hard-
boiled glammer gurl who inspires
no lachrymosity at all. But the
war will leave its mark on the modern
fiction heroine, and very soon we’ll be
back to the beautifuLbut-poor type, pre-
pared to defend her virtue against the
last man in the last figleaf.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Conditions of this war don’t
allow the big public farewells of 1914-15.
I remember a packed affair at
Dee Why at which Cecil Hartt was
one of the Diggers. He had to
be dragged on to the platform to
say his few words. The other warriors
had spoken about fighting for King and
country and how they intended to dish
the enemy ; but that sort of thing was not
in Hartt’s nature. “Things are pretty
crook for us artists just now —and six
bob a day isn’t too bad,” he said. Cec.
got “the hand” of the night.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Whatever jurisdiction
Shanghai foreign territory comes under,
white residents will still largely be de-
pendent on the vast silent horde of
Chinese. I was walking around Shanghai
with a master of the Chinese language
when we met a man who was con-
gratulating himself on the speed with
which he was executing a municipal
council commission, the absence of
“ Mitzi! Mitzi! Come back at once.”
“Haul that flag down and foller ME!”
pilfering and of labor troubles. The
Englishman went up to a notice in
Chinese pasted on the walls of the build-
ing the contractor was erecting and
translated the thing for us. It stated that
the King Of the Beggars’ League of the
Fifth Division wished to inform all and
sundry that the dues to the league had
been duly paid in full by the compradores,
and he had pleasure in granting full
immunity for the work during the finan-
cial year, with the parallel consent of the
Robbers’ League.
* * * *
“Bo”: Though audience-rebuking on
the concert platform (B. 3/7/’4O) takes
the form of the frozen glare more often
than the vocal outburst, Paderewski once
adopted a more drastic method. During a
South African tour he gave a recital in
the Transvaal. As the pianist delicately
struck the opening chords of a Chopin
nocturne a huge Boer, seated almost
within reach of the maestro, pulled out
a handkerchief rather like a single-bed
sheet and gave a reverberating blast
which trumpeted well above the piano
in pitch and volume. The long-haired
Pole jumped as if he’d been shot; then,
bending a look more of sadness than
anger upon the Philistine, he stalked out
with great dignity. Nor did he come
back.
* * * *
“K.P.”: We hear a lot about electrical
wonders nowadays, but for thousands of
years the human outfit has been doing
electrical stunts which make a city auto-
matic-telephone exchange look like a
baby’s toy. When our cave-dwelling
ancestor inadvertently picked up the fire-
stick by its hot end, a set of delicate
heat-measurers in his fingertips immedi-
ately signalled along
branch and trunk lines
to the proper sub-
station in his spinal
cord. It automatically
selected the right line
to central and relayed
the message across.
Central made another
automatic selection and
flashed it through to the
power station control-
ling the ancestral
muscles, whence it was
routed to sub-station
arm - right - flexor-exten-
sor. Sub-station selected
the appropriate outward
line down the spinal
cord, the message
reached the branch ex-
change and was sorted
up into hurry calls to
pull those fingers clear.
The whole job, frorn
touch to pull, took
less than a tenth
of a second. The
only difference nowa-
days is that we have
developed a swear-
ing reflex as well, which
makes the business all
the more complicated
and surprising in its
efficiency.
“Adelaide”: A Sydney man has been
worrying the Adelaide police about a
forgotten matter dating from 1924. He
said that, returning to his former home
to enlist, he was told of an old warrant
made out against him at the instance of
his employers of 16 years ago; and,
having a complete answer to any possible
charge, he wanted it all cleared up. The
employing firm didn’t remember, and
didn’t wish to hear anything more of
the matter ; so next day the conscientious
one was told he could go away with a
clean sheet.
* ' * * *
“Whacko”: Since the doings of women
appear to have become much more im-
portant to flapper-press editors than those
of the unromantic male, strange things have
been reported from the war zone. For ex-
ample, the following report from a nurse:
We travelled a total of 1400 miles and
shed our clothes and equipment and almost
everything but our tin hats.
And the blase French probably didn’t
even blush.
He * * *
“Gadgeteer”: All sorts of inventions
are pouring into the Inventions Board
these days, and though only about 4 p.c.
of them survive the first examination
it is still a good bet that somebody will
think pf something likely to give the
enemy a headache. There’d be a better
chance of that if the Inventions Board
had a couple of cranks on it. All in-
ventors and exponents of new ideas are
regarded as cranks by the official mind ;
hence the cold reception the idea for
tanks first got.
H= * * *
“Kimber L.”: My favorite film maga-
zine informs me that the stars are with
us. Though he can’t knit socks and
sweaters, one movie actor has bought six
copies of a book of a film in which he
appeared, autographed them and sent
them to Australia to be sold for Red
Cross funds. A feminine star says she
will knit for soldiers. I’ve been auto-,
graphing war savings certificates for
weeks but nobody puts my name in the
paper.
* * * H:
“Hamfat”: Sometimes an audience has
to be managed for more than mere
restiveness (B. 3/7/’4O). lohn Cosgrove
was the hero of one such occasion in
Sydney at the old Standard Theatre.
He was running a second-rate Italian
opera co., and one night the Italianos
went on strike. Cosgrove faced the audi-
ence and announced that he intended to
get rid of the faith-breaking opera
people, and that at the door each patron
would be handed a ticket for the per-
formance next night—“ ‘Fun on the
Bristol,’ by the well-tried and approved
John Cosgrove Company.” He, declared
John virtuously, always kept faith with
his public. “Did I hear someone ask
for his money back? Let him come
here on to the stage and I will give
it to him.” Hopefully, the audience
watched a man mount the steps. “Look
at this miserable wretch —this man who
wants his money back,” was the start of
the withering invective with which Cos-
grove blasted the unfortunate devil before
he flung some coins in his face. Then he
clouted his victim off the stage into the
orchestral well. “Now, is there any
other gentleman who would prefer to
have his money back?” There were
no takers. And probably nobody in
the audience realised that the coin-
demander was a member of Cosgrove’s
co., hastily instructed to play the part.
CARICATURIST CONVENTIONS.
The sturdy copper, who pounds his beat
And constant combat with crookdom wages,
Is always given prodigious feet
And mutton fists in our artists’ pages.
And when the flappers come romping on
The screen, a Cursory glance discloses
In the caricaturist’s lexicon
Their tribal badge is tip-tilted noses.
There are flowing locks for the bardic clan,
And straggling ziffs for the outback yeomen;
You can never mistake the alderman
With his narrow forehead and wide abdomen.
All these are cliches well understood,
And now another my song exposes:
A sine qua non for the sisterhood
Of Bright Young Things is tip-tilted noses.
The Beak has ever an owlish look
As he gives the luckless prisoner toko;
You can always manage to spot the Book
By his jewelled paws and his Jewish boko.
The upper lip of the wowser’s long
As on human frailties he proses;
And you know you’ve come on a laughing
throng
When you get a glimpse of tip-tilted noses.
They walk, I’ll swear, with a dainty tread;
Their lips, I’ll lay, are as red as roses;
But these fairy figures—come, tell me, Ted—
Why have they all tip-tilted noses?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


'tim
m
More and more people are smoking
CRAVENA
every day
quality always tells!
10 for 9d
20 for 1/6
3014
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
And only three months ago the Stunt
Press was calling it “a kidglove war”!
Corns, and their friends got a bad
doing at the conference of federated
unions in Melbourne, where co-operation
in the advisory panels which are to help
the defence programme was decided
upon by 44 to 15. And the majority
would have been greater had the A.W.U.
and other unions which have had no use
for the A.C.T.U. as run when the Reds
were roaring been represented. What-
ever happens—and nothing much can
happen now that Australians are realising
their strength and pulling their weight—
this country is not going to be a half-
starved and down-at-heel Moscow-run
“republic.”
It was reserved for Zwar, the Heidel-
berg (Vic.) M.L.A., to come out with a
proposal which members of six useless
Parliaments have been dreading that
they should shut up shop for the duration
and go without pay. So far Zwar has
escaped with his life.
Bukovina, part of which Stalin has
grabbed, was, until November,'l9lB, an
Austrian duchy and “crownland.” In the
Austrian time the population was a mixed
lot of Ruthenians, Rumanians, Germans,
Poles, Russians, Jews and Armenians,
and it had 14 members in the Reichsrat
at Vienna. Considering the Austro-
German territory violently recaptured
from Czechoslovakia, Poland, Denmark,
Belgium and France, Hitler evidently
considers himself heir to both Hapsburg
and Hohenzollern empires ; so, look out,
Joe!
Succinct summary of the situation in
France before the capitulation:
At Paris the profoundest ignorance
reigned. Nothing was known of the state
of feeling in Germany, or of the real con-
dition of the German preparations for war.
As little was known of the fitness of their
own army for a great war; it was thought
that it was strong and ready, whereas it
was ill-organised, ill-supplied, and without
proper reserves, while the incapacity of its
leaders was appalling. No one knew any-
thing of strategy. Maps and plans were
bad; bravery there was in plenty, but lead-
ing and management were absolutely
wanting.
Correct in almost every particular; and
it was written 52 years ago of the war
of 1870.
Statement attributed to N.S.W. Rail
Commissioner Hartigan by his tame
Minister Bruxner, the Scourge of Enemy
Aliens:
His administration should not be called
upon to pay for the cost of soldiers’ rail
travel when that travel is made for their
personal amusement and pleasure.
Whoever writes the history of the war
will have to include that as the dead
limit of bureaucratic insolence.
If General de Gaulle is really a
Royalist—our daily press has assigned
him to the Action Frangaise group —that
will account for his failure to get overseas
co-operation and for newspaper denuncia-
tions of the British Government since it
recognised his Committee. Party spirit
is so bitter in France that when trouble
comes partisans hate partisans more than
they hate the enemy. In 1870 they tore
each other to pieces in the very presence
of the enemy. Much the same thing hap-
pened in 1793, and it would happen again
if the conquerors permitted it. Obviously
they can’t run the risk of letting raging
Communism spread.
W. M. Hughes’s speeches on Russia
and its agents in this country are a liberal
education in the kindred arts of blowing
hot and cold, balancing on a tightrope
and boxing the compass. In his latest,
delivered after the Red brigand, break-
ing a pledge to Rumania, grabbed Bess-
arabia and part of Bukovina, Billy echoed
the “long live Russia” cry of a Sydney
Domain spouter, and added some sicken-
ing mush of his own about Hitler’s part-
ner stopping Hitler. Because there is a
sentimental feeling for him, the old man
is not privileged to outrage public senti-
ment. After all, he is Attorney-General
in a Government which has outlawed
the Russian conspiracy, and if prosecu-
tions of Russian agents are decided upon
he will have to launch them.
Because of the general feeling in Vic-
toria that State politics don’t matter a
dump, the Labor bosses have been allowed
to do things which they would never
have dared to do in pre-Federation days.
They have accepted “for the workers” a
rotten arrangement of electorates which
gives a country vote two and three times
the value of a metropolitan vote, and
they have spinelessly sat behind a C.P.
“No matt a, Adolf; two biga da navies we still have. You go looka for mine
and I go looka for yours.”
Government whose supporters couldn’t
elect a Senator if their lives depended
upon it, whereas Labor, in 1937, elected
three with commanding majorities over
the U.A.P., C.P. and Independents com-
bined. And the bosses have taken to
choosing candidates themselves. But this
practice provoked ominous resistance in
Collingwood at the general election, and
more of it has shot up in Coburg, where
there is an Assembly vacancy. If Coburg
is lost there may be a real revolt.
Cain went to Coburg to speak for “the
executive’s candidate,” Cameron. The
stubborn burghers demanded the right
to select their own candidate and in-
sulted poor Mr. Cain with such remarks
as “Dunstan’s better half.” He retorted
that their candidate was a “scab,” and
the resultant storm nearly lifted the roof.
Thanks largely to “customs collections
arising from abnormally heavy imports”
(and for their safe carriage the men of
the Royal Navy, the R.A.N. and the mer-
cantile marine have to be thanked once
more) Spender was able to announce a
Commonwealth surplus of £12,000,000.
He had already earmarked £9,000,000 for
war expenditure, and the other £3,000,000
will go in the same direction. Loss of
trade with France, Belgium, Holland,
Denmark, Italy and Norway means,
among other things which are patent
enough, that there is no possibility of a
surplus this year.
Criminal Court Judges have consis-
tently refused to mitigate the punish-
ment of convicted persons who pleaded
that they would like to join the A.I.F.
Treatt, the N.S.W. Minister of Justice,
evidently disapproves of this attitude;
anyway, he has cancelled two-thirds of
the sentence imposed on a fraudulent
solicitor who has “learned the Morse
code so that he may join the A.1.F.” The
case was a particularly bad one —there
were 37 charges—and the Appeal Court
refused to alter the sentence of 12 years’
hard imposed by the trial Judge ; but
Treatt has set himself up as a higher
authority, declaring that “exceptional
times justify unusual action.” He will
now be rushed with similar applications
from criminals who are not solicitors,
and refusal will invite an obvious taunt.
Maoriland Labor certainly knows how
to tax. It has increased its sales tax
from 5 p.c. to 10 p.c. ; bumped up the
death and gift duties, making the maxi-
mum 60 p.c. ; imposed a new national-
security tax of Is. in the £ (same as the
social security tax); lifted the company
tax to Bs. 9d. in the £ (previously 7s. lid.)
on £7950 and upwards, beginning at
2s. 6d. (instead of 25.), and made the
minimum tax on private income 2s. 6d. in
the £ (it was 25.), rising 3d. in the £ on
each £lOO to a maximum of 12s. in the
£ on £3Boo—the previous maximum was
Bs. 7d. on £7950. Very stiff all round ;
all the same, the taxes on higher incomes
will in some cases be lower than in Aus-
tralia.
Public works expenditure in Maoriland
was £10,450,000 in 1926 ; for this year it
is to be £20,589,000. It seems an extra-
ordinary amount for a country at war,
especially as war expenditure within it is
reckoned at £17,750,000. Many of the
“works” could wait; but in Maoriland,
as in Australia, politicians can’t get rid
of the “works” obsession.
A. W. Relph, chairman of a taxation
committee set up by the Victorian Cham-
ber of Commerce, pointed out that up
to June 30, 1939, administration costs
of £642,901 and £1,375,357, interest and
sinking fund, had been charged to the
unemployed-relief fund.
To businessmen it seems that to charge
unemployed-relief with the interest, sinking
fund and flotation expenses on loans
floated for other purposes is quite im-
proper.
If businessmen did such a thing share-
holders would have another name for it.
An Australian-born youth of 21 re-
fused to take an oath of loyalty under
the Defence Act. Declaring himself to
be one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, he said
he was neutral to all wars, and refused
the oath because it conflicted with God’s
laws. He got six months in gaol. Six
months’ compulsory military training
would have done him more good, oath
or no oath.
“We have seven public services
struggling to cope with the war.” —B. S. B.
Stevens at a Croydon (Sydney) “War
Rally.” Wrong, we are struggling to cope
with seven public services and the war.
Melbourne University Labor Club
gathered to hear an ex-member of the
International Brigade in Spain spout
about “Fifth Columnists.” A student
exhorted everyone to fight Communism
and was, probably to the astonishment
of some people, roundly applauded. The
trouble with some of these confounded
students is that they persist in doing their
own thinking.
Victoria is offering from 1500 to 2000
homes for refugee children from Eng-
land, and a politician expressed himself
as thrilled by the response. The fugitives
from Hitler’s terror should have every
care and consideration ; but what about
the State’s own children living in devas-
tated areas? Any member of Parliament
who lives in Melbourne or any parent
who wants to mother a child from Eng-
land needs only to take a short walk to
find undernourished children in slums
which by no stretch of the imagination
could be said to have been caused by
Hitler. The deathrate there is deplorably
higher than in the well-fed suburbs.
Five of the six States represented at
the Canberra apple and pear conference
agreed to a compulsory pool, N.S.W.
being the objector, as usual. Forced to
realise that the others meant business,
N.S.W. delegates finally agreed to submit
the proposal to their clients. The plan
offers a good chance for all pome
growers to get something for their fruit;
apparently N.S.W. prefers they should
get nothing unless N.S.W. gets the best
cut. With one national Government
there’d be none of this bother.
“H.”: Apropos of “Alliances and
Other Illusions” (B. 3/7/’4O) there was
once a Prime Minister who epitomised
his principles thus in the House of Com-
mons :
I hold with respect to alliances that Eng-
land is a Power sufficiently strong, suffi-
ciently powerful, to steer her own course,
and not to tie herself as an unnecessary
appendage to the policy of any other Gov-
ernment. It is a narrow policy to suppose
that this country or that is to be marked
out as the eternal ally or the perpetual
enemy of England. We have no eternal *
allies, and we have no perpetual enemies.
But that was in 1848. Pity we haven’t
had a few more Palmerstons.
One of the first things done by Keith
Murdoch when he took over the Depart-
ment of Information was to seize A.B.C.’s
7 p.m. news “session” and make it a
departmental affair. The result has been
one of the worst horrors of the war so
far suffered by Australians. The news is
frequently old, and is always interlarded
with superfluous explanations and some-
body’s views.


SHARING THE BURDEN.
"N.S.W. Premier Mair said that, failing agreement with the clubs, a bill to curtail racing would be introduced in August.”


SECURITY FOR
YOUR SAVINGS...
If you have only about £2O to invest
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
will solve your problem as it has
done for other small investors. It
gives you an interest in 20 leading
Australian companies and your
funds are safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees, Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Free Booklet' No. 1 is yours on
request to the Managers of the
Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. 80x4028 V.V..G.P.0.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
‘‘CONSCRIPTION
OF WEALTH”
HOW IT WILL OPERATE.
July Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
PERSONAL ITEMS
T. Inglis Moore, poet, novelist and
“S. M. Herald” leader-writer, has en-
listed as an artilleryman in the A.I.F. A
native of Camden (N.S.W.), he is an old
Sydney Grammar boy, who went from
Sydney Uni. to Oxford on a travelling
scholarship, became an instructor in’Eng-
lish at lowa (U.S.A.) Uni., and later
assoc, prof, in the same subject at the
Philippino Uni., Manila. Returning to
Australia, he was for a year sub-warden
of St. Paul’s College, Sydney, and in
1934 turned up teaching to join the Fair-
fax firm. Stories and poems by him have
appeared in The Bulletin.
The murk in the international outlook
was shot through with a bright ray when
Prof. P. Russo left Tokyo the other
day to return to Melbourne. He bore
a message of cordial friendship to the
“Dear People of Australia” from Prince
Konoye. The prince is one of Japan’s
Elder Statesmen, and it is the first time
in history that one of these has sent
such a message to a foreign nation.
Russo won the Mollison Scholarship in
languages at Melbourne University and
went to Tokyo University. The Japanese
Government liked him so much that they
employed him as a liaison officer in
culture between them and the Occident.
Clarrie Fallon, acting-general secretary
of the A.W.U. while Teddy Grayndler
takes leave,.is a quiet, forceful chap. It
is to his credit that the Q.A.W.U. (of
which he has been president) is the only
branch that has largely extended its mem-
bership of recent years. He did not hesi-
tate to make war on big divisions with
“Red” tendencies and recruit their mem-
bers in a union that is solidly anti-Red.
His appointment confirms the A.W.U.
anti-Communistic attitude. A son of his
was killed in a R.A.A.F. crash.
Justice Dudley Williams, latest addi-
tion to the Bench of the N. S. Wales
Supreme Court, is a Sydney barrister
who made a name for himself in equity,
JUSTICE DUDLEY WILLIAMS.
taking silk in 1935. He served in the
1914-18 war in the Royal Field Artillery,
enlisting in England. He was appointed
an acting-judge last November.
After sending out last week’s Bulletin
to the corners of the world “Ben” Purss,
publisher-foreman, took ill and passed on
at Canterbury (Sydney), aged 70. The
Bulletin’s oldest employee, with 53
years’ unbroken service, -Lc drew his first
pay as a casual hand, but was soon a
fixture. Many a broke “casual” who
worked in his part of the building will
remember him as one who never knocked
back an appeal for a couple of bob, even
when, on the face of it, the chance of
getting it back looked to be Ben’s and
Buckley’s. If what he gave away in two-
bob “bites ? ' 5 had been his at the end
he would have left a tidy will.
Charles F. Henry, who has come to
rest at the 91st milestone at Hobart, was
probably the oldest and most-travelled
of Australian-born lawyers. A native of
Launceston, he was admitted to the Bar
in the Speck in 1870, and in the course
of a long professional experience prac-
tised in Victoria, N. S. Wales and M.L.
Colonel E. F. Harrison, who returns
to his former post of Commandant at
the Royal Military College now that
Brigadier Plant goes to the A.1.F., has
spent most of his time in the army since
1904. Graduating from Cambridge, he
joined the Royal Australian Artillery in
1904 and went to India as a staff officer
in 1912. Joining the A.I.F. in 1917 he
was with the 2nd Field Artillery and
became G.0.l of the 3rd Division. Men-
tioned in dispatches, he was appointed
Lt.-Col. in 1918. Since the war he has
held several staff jobs and was at the
War Office 1925-26. He took time off
from army matters to represent Bendigo
in the Federal Parliament in 1931, but
retired in 1937. He is 60.
Lent to the Commonwealth to train
defence technicians, E. P. Eltham, Vic-
toria’s Inspector of Technical Schools
and Deputy Education Director, was
born in Gippsland and educated at
Melbourne University; he left in mid-
course for a job with the A.I.F.
training officers in engineering in the
1914-18 war. He has been sent on more
investigatory tours abroad than any other
man in the Education Department, look-
ing into the manufacture of machine-
guns in England for the Federal Gov-
ernment and into methods of dealing
with unemployed youth for the Victorian
Government, among others.
Rainbows should be luck symbols for
Dr. J. J. C. Bradfield, designer and con-
sulting engineer of Brisbane’s new Story
Bridge. He was born in Rainbow-street,
Sandgate, named after the Rainbow, first
British man-o’-war to enter Moreton Bay.
In his design for the Sydney Bridge he
incorporated the rainbow arch. When
early on October 28 last the successful
linking of the north and south arms of
the Story Bridge at the centre of the
1207 ft. span was completed the rising
sun caught the morning mist above the
awakening city and spanned it with a
brilliant rainbow.
Back from Fiji for a course of training
before joining the R.A.A.F., Lieut.-Col.
Clive Brewster. A Melbourne Grammar
boy, he got an M.C. and a C.B.E. in the
argument with the Kaiser, when he was
known as Major Joske. Later he changed
his name for family reasons. He was
managing the firm of Carpenter and Co.
in Fiji when the call came. He com-
manded the Fiji contingent which
attended the last Coronation.
Lieut.-Col. A. D. Verrier, who was at
Ingleburn with the 2nd/10th before the
Sixth Division left, is likely to have a
reunion with his son somewhere on the
other side; Private Arthur Verrier is in
reinforcements for Dad’s battalion.
Trafford Cowan, studmaster of the Pol-
talloch stud, Tailem Bend, and racehorse
owner, is another recent South Australian
recruit.
Send-off to an Old-Young Digger:
It is nearly six years since A. M. Blain,
looking like the resurrection of Edgar Allan Poe,
pushed his head round the door of the Bulle-
tin office and announced that he had come to
talk about the Northern Territory. Since then
life for those who inhabit sundry Ministries,
Parliament Houses, departments, newspaper
offices and other public hangouts has seemed
to consist mainly of Blain talking about the
N.T., which is his constant theme on every
occasion from a race meeting to a funeral.
His talk differs from that of most people who
favor the subject in that he knows what he
ADAIR MACALISTER BLAIN, M.H.R.
is talking about. He is all Australian —descen-
dant of half a dozen historic families of the days
of Macquarie and before. His father was a well-
known western Queensland drover. Blain him-
self went to the 1914-18 war in his teens in “D”
company, 32nd Battalion, and was wounded
at Messines and again at St. Quentin. He
qualified as a surveyor in 1924, and knows
the far north as few men know it —he has sur-
veyed bits of W.A., the Mt. Isa, Lawn Hills
and Burketown hinterlands, the Granites field
and parts of the Barkly. He ran his blazes
across Arnhem Land in 1933-34, when he led
the Government survey expedition through the
wild country beyond the Roper to the sea.
He is one of the most popular men in the
House of Representatives, but it will have to do
without him for some time. At 43, he joined
the new A.I.F. as a private last week, and is
already in camp.
There is a 1914-18 war V.C. among
the recently-appointed commanding
officers of the Eighth Division —Lieut.-
Col. Arthur Seaforth Blackburn, who
won his V.C. at Pozieres. There, as re-
corded in the Official History, he made
his “fifth, sixth and seventh attempts”
to advance; though “of his 70 n.c.os.
and men about 40 had been killed or
wounded.” A barrister, the son of a
canon, he was born in Adelaide, which
he has been serving as City Coroner.
He fought in Gallipoli as well as France,
and on his return represented Sturt for
two years in the S.A. House of
Assembly. He was educated at St.
Peter’s College, Adelaide.
One of the 1914-18 soldiers who rose
from private to lieutenant-colonel was
W. F. J. (Bill) McCann, Deputy Prices
Commissioner in South Australia, also
Deputy City Coroner and a leader of
the Fighting Forces Comforts Fund. He
enlisted as a private but gained three
stripes just before embarkation.
Lawrence John Hartnett, appointed
Director of Ordnance Production under
the new scheme, saw a lot of the world
before he settled down in Melbourne
as managing director of General Motors-
Holden’s. He was born in Woking, Eng.,
in 1898, and served his apprenticeship to
engineering in the yards of Vickers at
Barrow. He was a lieutenant in the R.A.F.
in the 1914-18 war and then was with
a private firm in Singapore. After joining
General Motors he served that concern in
New York, Stockholm and England, and
from 1931 to 1934 he was making a tour
of Soviet factories as a technical adviser.
Then he came to his big job in Mel-
bourne.
Sydney’s old Domain friend A. D.
Kay has bobbed up in London as an
official orator in Hyde Park for the
Ministry of Information. Kay was an
Independent M.L.A. and left that job to
become a member of Lang’s Meat Board.
Sacked by Bavin, reinstated by Lang and
put off again, he went to England. He
must have found the English good
listeners ; he has been there ever since.
Adelaide has observed the centenary
of E. J. Eyre, who made the great and
nearly fatal exploration, single-handed
except for natives, between S.A. and
Westralia, and was saved from serious
trouble only by a passing vessel on the
Eucla coast. S.A.’s furthest west is called
Eyre Peninsula in his honor. The occa-
sion has brought out a memory from
the veteran H. A. Curtis, of the Educa-
tion Department, probably the only Aus-
tralian living who knew Eyre. They met
in London in 1869, after the old explorer
had been Governor of Jamaica, and had
put down a native rising there with a
severity that divided English opinion into
two camps —for his promotion and for
his punishment.
William Martin, skipper of the Niagara,
which was sunk off Maoriland, is
“Plugger Bill” to the brotherhood of the
sea, a pal to knights, and “that dear
captain” to old ladies, for he is an extra-
ordinarily good mixer. He breeds turkeys
in the Sydney suburb of Pennant Hills
when the Union Co. lets him.
Another Federal Parliamentarian to
join up is 40-year-old Senator K. C.
Wilson, who has represented S.A. in the
U.A.P. interest since 1937. He’s an
SENATOR K. C. WILSON.
Adelaide lawyer. Had a couple of years
in the militia as a bombardier ; has gone
into camp as a gunner.
Lieut.-Col. Burford Sampson, Vic-
toria’s Director of Recruiting, is known
to Diggers as “Sammy.” As Senator for
Tasmania he consistently advocated pre-
paredness and compulsory military train-
ing. He led the 15th Battalion on Aug. 8,
1918, after the death in action of his
colonel, Terence Patrick McSharry, and
in post-war days he for nine years com-
manded the 12th Battalion A.M.E.
“Sammy” bears the scars of three wounds
and his two sons are abroad with the
A.I.F. His slogan is “It’s a poor dog that
won’t fight for its own bone.”
Among recruits to the A.I.F. in Mel-
bourne is R. B. Lewis, son of the
Director-General of Munitions. He is
Melbourne Uni.’s heavyweight boxing
champion and a leading oarsman ; he was
a member of the crew which won the
inter-University eights at Penrith this
year.


\ alone
&e secret
t\\e
hination
—said
■ io \Valk er
.Tnhnme w
mmrn
■
KpvA
Of course it isn’t really in a safe that we
keep the fine whiskies from which Johnnie Walker is
blended* The whiskies are kept in the quiet highland
glens where they are distilled, until they are mellow and
mature enough for blending* But the secret of combining
them of blending all their individual qualities in a
smooth and harmonious unity —that is the treasured secret
of Johnnie alker, handed down from generations past*
I can t reveal the secret but then there’s no reason why
I should* For if you want to know how to get a perfectly
blended whisky, you have only to ask for Johnnie Walker
by name*”
ŀ
BORN 1820-
STILL GOING STRONG!
JOHN WALKER AND SONS, LIMITED,
LONDON KILMARNOCK SYDNEY
H fjfP
JW.102.FP.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Turoar”: “All this talk uv mother-
craft in the noospapers an’ gittin’ up
socials ter teach ’em more erbout it ain’t
a fair crack uv the whip,” old Bob
growled. “Take Tarry Tom’s missus
how. She ain’t a bad cook, but she’s
got one failin’ wot spoils ’er. She don’t
like me an’ Tarry ’oppin’ fer an ercasional
night out with the boys. Alwuz tellin’
us we’re a coupla lazy, drinkin’ loafers
’oo won’t cut a bit er wood fer a wum-
man. As long as she jist talks erbout it
we don’t care much. But one night we
comes ’ome an’ finds the door locked.
There’s a note struck on it, sayin’ she’s
goin’ ’ome ter ’er mother, an’, since we’ve
bin keepin’ the pub so long, the pub c’n
try keepin’ us an’ the kids fer a while.
She says we’ll find the kids at the pub,
an’ she’s not cornin’ back till we finds
out wot’s the best proposition. Yair,
mothercraft! As if they ain’t crafty
enough without teachin’ ’em it.”
* * * *
“N. Sylvester”: Admirers of the
Northern Hemisphere have told us often
of the glorious odors of the pine forest.
Australian versifiers have told us some-
thing similar regarding the flowering
wattle. But to me there are two subtle
scents (he memory of which always
lingers. One, the sweet scent of spinifex
off W.A.’s north-west coast carried out
to sea by the early morning land breeze.
One may ride through miles of spinifex
without becoming aware of its scent; yet,
drifting along in a clean, spray-washed
lugger, it flows in on one’s senses like
a subtle incense. My other memory is
of among the jarrah or the karri of
W.A.’s south-west; early morning or
evening, with blackboy burning on some-
one’s campfire. Blackboy gum burns with
a sweetish scent; had Australia been
peopled by a race capable of building
temples they assuredly would have used
it as incense. And I recall another in-
cense: out on the cold crisp air of the
central plateau, with sandalwood boiling
the billy.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big bloke was
humping Bluey down Echuca way and
took 255. a week and keep from a dairy
cocky because he wanted a few bob to
get to Melbourne. It was 4 a.m. to
9 p.m. on those cows, with a couple of
hours off every Sunday to wash your
clothes and get your breath. Mat stuck
it for a month, never even smoked, col-
lected his fiver and departed. On the
train he sat in a poker game and got
out at Spencer-street with £8 in his kick.
There he met Jonesy, who mentioned a
horse, on which Mat put a pound. It
won at 25 to 1. “Go on the land!” he
sneered. “It took me a month t’ earn
a fiver on the land, an’ I make £2B
in half-day as soon as I get off it.” A
month later he came down to my camp
under the bridge at Cobram, dropped
his swag, looked round and said grimly,
“Well, I’m back on the land.”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: Binghi did not always
adopt the makeshift tucker-producing
devices described by “Pinjarrah” (B.
26/6/’4O), as instance the case of the
big fishtraps at Darnley Island (Torres
Strait). These are in the form of stone
walls skirting almost the entire island.
They are arranged in concentric circles
on the maze pattern. Through one inlet
the fish enter at the flood tide and cruise
upwards, only to be stranded in the con-
volutions and left in the mud by the ebb.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: “I’d sooner nurse a cow
than a man any day,” declared Mrs.
Doolan, as she sugared her tea and
reached for a scone. “There’s Doolan ;
I had him sick with a cold in his back,
“Iv'e run out of gas . You Wont mind me making a little charcoal ?”
and he was more trouble than all the rest
of the farm. If he got up he was roarin’
with the pains he said he had, and if
he didn’t get /up he was roarin’ at the
boys for not doin’ what he wasn’t doin’
himself. If he lay down he wanted his
back rubbed, and when it was rubbed he
groaned and said it was worse. Nothin’
was right, and all the rest of us suffered
more from Doolan than Doolan suffered
of the pain. ’Twas in the middle of the
bother that old Roanie went down. I
mixed her up a drench and she took it
better than a lamb. Paddy made her a
bag rug and she never moved while he
tied it on. When we had to sling her she
heaved herself on to her knees while
the bags were slid underneath ; and after
I’d rubbed her rump with turps —well, if
you could have seen the gratitude of her!
She nearly tore the face off me, her
tongue’s that rough!”
* * * *
“Arachne”: That aboliar who watched
a wasp dealing it out to the eggs of a
red-back spider and wading through the
web saw something I’ve looked for in
vain for years. Though the striped killer's
web is not extra thick, the wasp is usually
beaten because the web is so awkwardly
placed in corners and cracks; also,
judged by the lethargy displaced by hor-
nets I have seen caught in the strands,
the red-back’s web seems to possess some
toxic property.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: There has been
a lot of “told-you-so” ink spilt by mili-
tary dugouts concerning the advantage
of a war of movement over one of posi-
tion since Hitler’s armies have demon-
strated it so effectively. Adolf got the idea
from m’y old friend Wotta Woppa,
Chief of the Da-mnliahs, when he under-
took operations for the recovery of 16
valuable pigs from the Notsu-ch-liahs
across the Yur-abla-nkard Valley. Realis-
ing that enemy strategy would be based
on holding the line of tree-houses by
arrow-fire and the dropping of rocks and
hot cinders on any assaulting force, Wotta
held their attention by a feint of frontal
attack and sent a flanking force of fast-
footed young warriors up a gully to
occupy their main industrial centres at
their rear. Meanwhile his loudest-lunged
henchmen, out of reach of arrows, bel-
lowed appalling threats in order to u«der-
mine the foe’s morale. When the striking
force returned with 197 pigs, 67 old
women and over half a ton of yams, he
was in a position to dictate terms. Total
casualt.es were one man badly scratched
by a woman and another slightly bitten
by a pig. Only the fact that the fine old
strategist has since been eaten by a croco-
dile prevents me from pressing for his
attachment to Defence Headquarters, or
at least to the A.8.C., with my services
as interpreter reasonably recognised.
* * * *
“Sporax”: Watching abos. and dogs
streaming over practically every W.A.
goldfields camp I realised that even among
the canines the color line is drawn. Black-
fella dog and whitefella dog absolutely
don’t mix. When the nigs with their
canine herds came around the towns the
whitefella dogs simply went mad with
indignation. Clearly they regarded the
intruders as ones who had fallen from a
high estate, and they showed it by bark-
ing and, when occasion offered, mass
attack. And the blackfella dog took it
humbly ; tail between legs, he never even
ventured a growl. About the saddest
canine tragedy that I ever witnessed was
when a cold-hearted digger presented a
no-longer-wanted dog to a mendicant
lubra. Reluctant to depart, the hound
had to be haltered with a length of cord,
his master performing the office and
handing the lead to the lubra. When that
dog realised finally that his white master
had done with him and he now belonged
to the blacks no negro slave “sold down
the river” ever wore a more dejected
appearance.
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: Cruising up the
W.A. north-west coast we came on an
ancient beachcomber who kept a sort of
turtle farm—though perhaps “reservoir”
would be the better word. In the little
land-locked bay that he called his he
had about a score of greenbacks literally
anchored. “You see,” he explained, “me
and the boys like a run up to the
Lacepedes now and then, and once you
get a set of niggers going on a turtle
beach like the ones there they’ll keep
turning the shellbacks over all night.
They’d like to have - a hundred on stock.
So we fill up the old lugger with all we
can carry, and there they are —good way
to keep them alive until we want them.”
The anchoring was done with a couple
of half-hitches of deep-sea line around a
back flipper, the mooring being a big
stone sunk in about twenty feet of water.
Three turtles to each anchor. “Keeps
them from getting lonely; being all
females, they like to be in company,”
our host further explained. Although
they had been there over a fortnight the
greenbacks seemed to be doihg all right,
Putting the clock on them, we timed how
long they each could stay under water
before coming up to breathe. Twenty
minutes was the average. Pretty good
f or a reptile that can also spend hours
as hore.
* * * *
IID \ , , T
B - tbe D - : ? n u ce on »y bave f * s f n
a . rea one-man horse. watched a
nder swm S round the corner ol a
ln a N.Q. town ; he twisted in the saddle
against his pony’s turning and, somehow,
crashed. The startled dapple-grey
bounced a dozen yards, turned,
nickkered, stepped slowly back and
nuzz i e d him. 1 left the pavement to
ick him but flat ears and bared
teeth made me pause . A wom an ran
f A
f lh , e °PP os,te S|de, only to find her-
se . °°i m g al a P alr °[ lve heels. n
a mmu t e a rJ ng lormed, but none could
approach. It was a blazing day. ‘ Put
your hat on,” I shouted. This seemed
to waken the fallen horseman. He rose
on an elbow, stared stupidly around, sat
up and picked his hat from between
the pony’s forefeet while she held the
ring. “Bring your head down, Betty,”
he said, and, grasping the bit-rings, hauled
himself up and hung over her neck, fairly
groggy. “Are you all right?” I asked,
“I’ll be 0.K.,” he answered. The crowd
edged closer. “Keep away, you people,
she’ll worry you,” he warned ; we could
only watch while his head cleared. Say-
ing something to her, he grabbed mane
and saddle-bow and slowly climbed up.
That pony didn’t move till he picked the
reins off her neck ; then she broke the
ring and cantered gently down the street
with him.
“James W.”: Why do horses hate and
fear camels? Can’t find any record of
a camel savaging a horse, though in-
stances of their having played the devil
among sheep are reported. The fear
seems instinctive and must go back aeons,
for even the slightest scent of an oont
sends a horse cranky. At a Central
Queensland bush school a dozen horses
careered terror-stricken round the
grounds for no apparent reason. Teacher
was a city bloke, and maddened mokes
were a bit outside his orbit. The horses
got worse, and the dominie had mustered
the kids inside the school for safety when
the cause —four camels —hove in sight.
As the desert-plodders viewed the horses’
antics with their usual aloof contempt
one of the men came as far into the
grounds as the dogs would let him and
explained in yells that they’d come to
give the kids camel rides at Id. a pop.
If the Education Department Pooh-Bahs
had heard teacher’s reply there’d have
been a scandal. The oonts moved on. The
neddies quietened down, but devil a one
of them would go through that gate and
cross the spot where the camels had
tarried. Teacher had to cut the fence
that afternoon to let the kids ride their
horses out, and the fence stayed down
until a downpour of rain three days later
disinfected the orthodox entrance accord-
ing to horse notions.
ALL CLEAR NOW.
The old man dropped an ancient swag and
met us with a grin.
“I’m on the track again,” said he, “that place
of beer and sin.
It’s twenty year since I went south, t’ live
in pomp an’ style
On money got f’r nuggets in a hole at Wait-
awhile.
Y’ betcha life I see some change in roads an’
camps an’ men,
An’ miss some things I useter like, though I
was fussy then;
But, still ’n’ all, it’s better now than what it
was of yore,
The bloke that was Dan Kelly, he don’t haunt
the roads no more.
“They useter bob up, month be month, in pubs
an’ huts an’ camps.
Y’d meet one, p’r’aps, at Chillagoe or on the
Zeehan ramps;
An’ down the Murray waited more t’ fix y’
with their eye
An’ tell y’ how Glenrowan burnt an’ how they
didn’t die.
The local papers took ’em up; from Perth t’
Sale, with pride,
Each township pushed its claim t’ have a Kelly
in the hide.
An’ dinkum blokes who flogged the pads, in
vain they loudly swore;
The bloke that was Dan Kelly—well, he multi-
plied the more.
“O’ course, I miss the diggers’ camps that once
I useter know,
An’ mates at Boulder, Wyalong an’ on the
Bendigo.
The drovers’ cooks are gone, it seems, an’
in the river bends
Y’ find these hikin’ youngsters on their holiday
week-ends.
An’ in their dinky little pants an’ with their
hair cut short,
Y’ don’t know if they’re masculine or of the
other sort.
But theugh these things might make me wild,
there’s much I’m thankful for,
The bloke that was Dan Kelly, he don’t haunt
the roads no more.
“I tell y’ it got pretty tough in them ol’ days
I knew;
It looked as though Dan Kellys then on every
gum-tree grew.
Y’ couldn’t dodge ’em high or low, those
whiskered cadgin’ pests,
With calkerlation in their eyes an’ beer-stains
on their vests.
It got so bad that on the tracks the battlers to
a man
Were dodgin’ every bloke they saw in case he
might be Dan.
An’ though I’m broke an’ back again, them
liars’ day is o’er,
The bloke that was Dan Kelly, he don’t
haunt the roads no more.”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


"If it do come to that, Josephus, We could declare this a open city.”
“Old-timer”: There was a fair-sized
lake at the back of the men’s hut, and
Paddy the Poisoner sifted some of the
black sand through his fingers and went
to see the boss. Later rolls of netting
appeared, and a couple of the hands were
set to erecting a small yard. “What y’
goin’ t’ do, Paddy?” Sam wanted to
know. “Run poultry?” “You’ll see,”
said Paddy mysteriously. After the netted
fence was up he began digging, and it
became evident that we were to have a
vegetable garden, a fact hailed with
delight by a gang too long fed on corned
beef, stewed mutton and spuds. Paddy
made beds and sowed seed in his spare
time, and before long there was a fine
showing of cabbages, lettuce, tomatoes,
carrots and other delicacies. As the first
of the ground-fruit approached maturity
the boys used to hang on the fence and
lick their chops, seeing visions of baked,
roast, boiled and fried veges. One morn-
ing the birds woke up to the feast before
them. Wood-duck and teal fell on that
garden in thousands, and what they left
went down the gullets of swans, starlings,
sparrows and anything else in feathers
that came that way. You never saw such
an ornithological picnic! Paddy, called
to the door, let out a bereaved yell and
raced for the garden, but the damage
was done. “I was right,” said Sam
gloomily. “He is running poultry.”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The term “T’other-
sider” (B. 26/6/’4O) was in use long be-
fore gold was discovered in Coolgardie.
When I was a nipper many time-expired
convicts from Tasmania were to be met
with in Victoria. These gentry were
generally known as “T’othersiders,” but
they were occasionally referred to as
“Vandemonians” or “Derwent Ducks.”
For some obscure reason the “T’other-
sider” evinced a very decided objection
to inquiries relative to the offence for
which he had been transported, and my
friend Brummy” Watson was no excep-
tion. One day, after I had persuaded him
to show me his lash-scarred back, I
judged the moment opportune to ques-
tion him on the tabooed subject. He
bent upon me a malicious leer and re-
plied- “Lookit ’ere, young-feller-me-lad,
I ain t bin askin’ you wot yer old man
wus lagged for, but at the same time I
don’t mind tellin’ yer that I kem aht
from W’itechapel to the Derwent, pris’ner
o’ the Crahn on the transport ’Orrible,
fer shakin’ a ’og orf a ’en-roost.”
* * * *
“Bughouse”: It is interesting to con-
template the strange disinfectant proper-
ties of this globe’s three elements —earth,
water and fire. Organic life everywhere
is an uncleanly, sometimes a foul, thing.
Yet fire speedily reduces foulness even
in its most obscene form to a handful,
of pure ash. Earth is slower, but a mere
few inches will smother the odor of the
foulest decaying animal body; a few
weeks or at most months will convert
that foulness into sweet-smelling earth.
Under the cover of just that meagre foot
the carnage of the greatest battlefield,
which left exposed would pollute the
atmosphere for miles, dissolves into im-
potency. Stranger still is water, and
especially the waters of the sea. Despite
the life that it harbors, uncountable living
creatures, and billions of acres of sub-
marine forest and fields of grass, the sea
never becomes foul. Always is it of
crystal purity. The drainage from the
filthiest harbor, the sewerage of a great
city, a few miles out from shore become
dissolved in the general purity. Stranger
still, the sea purifies the air. Over the
continents and flowing outwards over
the seas the air is foul with fumes,
smoke, disease germs. But less than a
hundred miles out all foulness has
vanished, destroyed by sunshine and
water. So the globe breathes. A globe
that was all land would soon become
devoid of animal life, smothered in the
unrelieved foulness of its air.
* * * *
“Carmi”: Jews Retreat, on the Darling
Downs (Q.), celebrates not the mass
migration of Semites who fled from some
European pogrom, but the strategic re-
tirement of a Yiddish shepherd who in
the ’fifties was employed on Canning
Downs out-station. When a party of
Mclntyre blacks —who, despite many
intermarriages between them and the
Blucher tribe of Canning Downs, had
little of this latter tribe’s natural bon-
homie—were sighted making for the cor-
roboree grounds near Blades Hill, War-
wick, the jumbuck-minder fled across the
Condamine to George Leslie’s run. Billy
Jenkins, one of the stockmen, laughingly
named the men’s huts locality “Jews
Retreat,’’ and although a short while ago
the Education Department changed the
school name to Canning Vale the farmer
inhabitants cling zealously to the older
and more picturesque title.
**‘ * *
“Lespy”: “I’ll never ’ave another dog
like Nip,” said old Ben as he put down
his glass. “’E was the most intellergent
foxy I ever seen. When I first got ’im
the missus caught ’im asleep on a bed
on our back verandah, so she beat ’im.
A coupla days later she found ’im layin’
on the floor in front o’ the bed. When
she put ’er ’and on the bed it’s warm,
so, knowin’ ’e’s been on it, she beats ’im
again. About a week later I seen that
dog standin’ with ’is front paws on the
bed blowin’ on it.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: “Bees?” said old Mrs.
Brady, glancing down the garden at her
half-dozen industrious hives. “What’s
bees but a lot of old-maid factory hands?
Of course they work ain’t never had
nothing else to do. Mind, I grant you
the queen-bee might be better off with
a bit of this ’ere birth control, but she’s
got all them old-maid daughters to look
after her; and no husband to worry her.
Only one ’oneymoon to blame for the
whole affair, too ; I reckon a queen-bee’s
got some plain female sense about her
after ail. Them fools of men-naturalists
get writin’ about the wisdom of bees—
lot o’ nonsense. Takes a woman to un-
derstand bees. Why, if them old maids
down there was to get notions of pro-
ducin’ a Messiah or a ’eavyweight boxer,
or even somethin’ like the good-lookin’
bank clerk they seen in the township, or
whatever passes for such amongst bees,
there’d be no racin’ round after honey
to feed the queen an’ her new kids with.
That there postmistress down at Boggy
Creek makes me think of what they’re
like. Only things she’s got in life’s her
work and her sting:—that’s her tongue.
But she’s got the better of the bees all
the same ’cos they can only sting once
and it kills ’em. Lots in these parts ’as
wished it would kill ’er but she’s still
stingin’. Bees! ’Ave another cupper tea
an’ a slice o’ bread-and-’oney.”
*,* * *
“B. A. Ker”: The rabbit would appear
to be the last creature to credit with will-
power, yet on occasion it can give a
demonstration of “mind-over-matter”
that man couldn’t hope to emulate. For
instance, a fatal bullet will rarely stop
bunny if it is within a few yards of a
burrow; in nine cases out of ten, one
shot clean through the heart will be
found just inside the entrance. Then
again, a front leg torn off in a trap (a
back leg always holds by the sinew) is
not a major injury to the hardy little pest.
“Hoppies” live for years—unless, as is
often the case, they have profited so
little by experience as to be caught again.
Once saw one that had done the hat
trick. Both front legs were merely stumps
—one obviously an old injury, but the
other still a raw wound. The third time
had proved it —on the back leg. Yet,
despite the agony the creature must have
suffered, it was as fat as the next one.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: We were anchored in a
mangrove-bordered creek. For days the
big blow had been working up, so the
skipper had three anchors out, the lugger
stripped to bare poles, all canvas taken
off and stowed below. The blow came on
at midnight. But there was no dawn,
so densely black the sky that the risen
sun was blotted out. By noon all anchors
were dragging and the skipper was full
of the idea of cutting away the masts —
the usual North Westralian practice when
even a bare pole offers a terrific resistance
to the furious wind. With an axe and a
saw he and the mate crawled out on
deck, keeping low beneath the shelter of
the bulwarks. Thinking he perceived a
lull the skipper got to his knees and
swung the axe. But the blow never fell.
Like a straw the tool was torn from his
grip and blown away. The mate’s saw
went the same way. In north-west
cyclones men even are blown away. In
this particular blow 50 bullocks being
driven along the coast to Broome were
literally lifted and dumped into the ocean.
Ourselves? The lugger eventually drove
into the mangroves, safe but exceedingly
wet.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: When we were young-
sters there was always the chance of a
lift to school, for nearly everyone took
their own milk to the creamery. We
had a wide choice of vehicles, from Hob-
son’s cart in which the cans were buried
beneath a pyramid of nippers to Mac-
Alister’s gleaming turnout, which hurtled
along behind the fastest horse in the
district. Mac never gave a ride —or any-
thing else— to anybody ; but if you could
grab the tailboard as it whizzed past you
reached school in remarkable time, your
feet hilariously slapping the road about
every five yards throughout the trip. At
the creamery the carts lined up and the
horses dozed till it was their turn to back
in to the tipping platform; then skim
milk was loaded, more yarns swapped,
and everybody was home before lunch-
time. Went back there the other day
and did the evening pick-up with a six-
foot athlete who was a baby when I set
out on the long search for greener hills.
He handled his three-ton truck with
superb skill, hustled those dairymen
whose machines were chugging a little
late, took messages from approved
customers, advised mugs in trouble, de-
nounced faulty chilling plants, and
tossed aboard over 600 gallons of milk
before setting off for the factory down
the line. At 9.30 p.m. we pulled into a
queue of similar trucks which slowly
moved up to a long siding across the
sheet-iron floor on which cans were
skidded to waiting wizards who in the
matter of seconds emptied, weighed,
sampled, recorded and dispatched the
milk for buttermaking, drying and chill-
ing for city delivery. The truck moved
on a few yards and immediately reloaded
its cans, scalding-hot from the steam bath
they’d just taken, and we were heading
for home —with a billy of icy milk be-
side our feet. Next morning it’s all done
over again; but just a bit too early to
give any youngster a ride to school.
“When you’ve finished peelin’ them spuds you can scale the fish.”
A BEEFEATER’S DREAM.
“An ox weighing' 1} tons, said to be the largest
in the world, was sold by its Essex owner to the
Government for slaughtering.”— Cable.
King of all kine, champion of beef and bone,
What pride was his who raised you from a
calf
To hear his fellow-chooms exclaim, when shown
Your size, “Bah goom, a whopper, eh?”
“Not ’alf! ”
Alike —“to fortune and to fame unknown”—
Gray’s words could never be your epitaph.
You join, by being mentioned in a cable,
The celebrated beasts of song and fable.
You’ll furnish chops and roasts and cuts galore;
And, if the rest to “snorks” the butchers
churn,
The chain might reach a mile —or even more.
What depth of steak around your o.s. stern!
That hide, so vast and solid, that you wore
No politician worth his salt would spurn.
To calculate the food in life you guzzled
Would leave the keenest statistician puzzled.
Yours was a life ideal. Just to browse
In English meadows and to put on weight;
To watch men milk your relatives the cows,
The while your lordly bulk you moved, sedate.
Not your proud neck to bend before the
ploughs.
But, touching on your size, O ox, I’d hate
To have been snoozing somewhere on some
hummock
And wake to find you treading on my stomach!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


M
QUIET HOURS
FAR
FROM HOME
The luxurious comfort ... the friendly atmosphere
. . . and the very quietness of the Victoria’s magnifi-
cent Tudor Lounge assure you many pleasant hours
of rest and relaxation. For though you’re in the
heart of Melbourne, you’re far removed from the
noise of city traffic.
And you will enjoy the smooth efficient service that
brings more than a quarter million
guests to the Victoria each year.
tOlB/ x
°° e %^ ROOIOS ’ r
S eIC - Settee-
i t - u Caters be wm
\ " uo^-^-JC
T&fck''-
MELBOURNE’S
MOST POPULAR HOTEL
Next Town Hall-
Little Collins Street.
GLADSTONE'S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Guwler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS’
FREE SETTINC^fS
I
CRAIG & AITREN,
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
llazor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 1 1
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/0
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .... 15/tt
Blade size Sin.
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, 3/G extra.
654 George St., Sydney
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Consolidated Industries, Ltd.
, Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.
£, £ '•£,£>
’29 207,952 15,750 12i p.c. = 116,310 418,656
Staff fund, £2505 416,156
’3O 187,254 15,750 12J p.c. = 116,310 471,350
’3l 76,768 15,750 6" ~ „ 55,828 476,540
’32 92,137 15,750 71 „ „ 69,786 483,141
’33 122,439 ’ 15,750 9 „ „ 83,743 506,087
’34 129,602 15,750 9 ~ „ 83,743 536,196
To superannuation fund. £5OOO . . 531,196
’35 175,522 15,750 13 p.c. = 120.962 570,006
’36 205,493 15,750 15 „ „ 139.572 620,177
’37 231,199 15,750 15 ~ „ 139,572 696,054
’3B 287,628 15,750 15 „ 139,572 828,360
Surplus sale assets, £4,331,718 .. 5,160,078
Bonus scrip issued, £2,558,814 .. 2,601,264
’39 324,512 15,750 6.86 J p.c. = 239,598 2,670,428
Share premiums, £99,694 .. .. 2,770,122
’4O 368,662 15,750 7 p.c. = 251,229 2,871,805
t On enlarged capital.
Formed in 1915 under the protective
conditions which the Great War of that
time provided, Australian Glass Manu-
facturers amalgamated two businesses in
Sydney and one in Melbourne. In 1919
W. J. Smith, who had played a prominent
part in the formation and management
of A.G.M., resigned and set up the Zet-
land Glass Bottle Works at Sydney. A
couple of years later A.G.M. and the
Zetland co. got into double harness, with
Mr. Smith as managing director of the
combined enterprises, and he has re-
mained at the helm ever since.
With an enterprising management,
technical efficiency and the assistance of
the tariff, etc., which gave the co. virtually
a monopoly of some sections of the trade
throughout Australia and Maoriland, the
business developed into one of Aus-
tralia’s most prosperous industrial under-
takings, now employing over 6000
persons as against 2260 five years ago,
when the output consisted almost entirely
of bottles. The co. continued as A.G.M.
until early in 1939, when the name was
changed to the present title. Then the
business was “sectionalised,” being par-
celled out among eight wholly-owned
subsidiaries —now there are 18.
The price paid (in scrip) for the vari-
ous sections wasn’t mentioned, but the
difference between the book value of net
assets of the new and old cos. showed
a surplus of £4,331,718, of which about
half appears to have been for goodwill,
etc. (valued at £114,500 in the old co.’s
books). Of the £4,331,718, £2,558,814
was capitalised, 11 new ords. being issued
for every four held, and the gift-giving
does not appear to have been overdone.
Earnings for the 1939 term included
profits from manufacture for only nine
months. Still, the £324,512 netted was
considerably more than enough to pay
the pref. div. and 6.86 p.c. to the ords.,
equal to 25.7 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the gift scrip issue just referred to.
To provide for still further expansion
of the undertaking, 996,941 new £1 ords.
were offered and snapped, two for seven,
at a premium of ss. each, half-way
through the last term. When the books
closed £393,750 of the new capital and
£99,694 of the premium money had been
gathered, leaving £603,191 of capital and
£149,541 of premiums still to come. Here
is the position as the consolidated
balance-sheet figures of the holding
(parent) co. and its subsidiaries show it —
consolidated accounts were not previously
published:
Liabilities. | Assets.
Paid capital. £4,058,042 | Freehold .. £1,185,654
Calls in advance 4,559 | Plant, etc. . . 1,268,013
Outside 1 Shares, etc.. . 753,847
Interests*.. 38,117 j Stocks .. 1,454,793
Reserves .. 3.004,532 | Debtors .. 500,427
Sundry | Consols & cash 167,870
creditors).. 509,706 | Intangibles .. 2,377,385
Final divs... 136,979 | Inter-co. balance 43,946
| , :
£7,751,935 | £7,751,935
* Including proportion reserves. ) Inc. tax provision.
One item which catches the eye is stocks ;
but unless something very unexpected
happens there appears to be no immediate
trouble brewing in that direction. The
financial position is obviously comfort-
able. More or less liquids exceeded the
amount coming to creditors and other
outside interests by £2,329,114, while in-
tangibles were more than offset by
reserves.
The subsidiaries cover a wide field, as
the following list shows:
1. Australian Glass Manufacturers Com-
pany Proprietary, Limited: Glass containers,
felspar and silica deposits, etc.
2. Queensland Glass Manufacturers Co.
Pty., Ltd. : Glass containers.
3. New Zealand Glass Manufacturers Co.
Pty., Ltd. : Glass containers and corrugated
strawboard boxes (in Maoriland).
4. Australian Window Glass Pty., Ltd. :
Window gla’ss, figured rolled glass, glass bricks,
etc.
5. Crown Crystal Glass Pty., Ltd. :
Flint, blown, pressed, hand-cut crystal glass-
ware and lighting-ware, etc. (in Sydney).
6. A.C.I. Engineering Pty., Ltd.: Machines,
moulds, dies, presses, and general engineering.
7. A.C.I. Fibre Packages Pty., Ltd. : Cor-
rugated strawboard boxes and cartons.
8. A.C.I. Investments Pty., Ltd.: Invest-
ments of the parent and subsidiaries.
9. A.C.I. Metal Stamping and Spinning
Pty., Ltd.: Metal caps, steel furniture, light-
ing-ware, display stands, and generally stamped
and spun metal.
10. A.C.I. Plastics Pty., Ltd.: All kinds
of plastic articles.
11. Bernard-Smith (Pty.), Ltd.: Fabricated
steel.
12. Brunton’s Bright Steel Pty., Ltd. :
Free-cutting bright steels.
13. Dott and Co. Pty., Ltd.: Flint and
blown glassware and lighting-ware (in Mel-
bourne).
14. South Australian Silicates Co. Pty.,
Ltd. : Silica, flint, kaolin, etc.
15. Plumb (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.: Field and
bench tools.
16. A.C.I. Case Makers Pty., Ltd.: Case
making.
17. A.C.I. Refractories Pty., Ltd.: All
classes of clay refractories.
The first three cos., which turn out lines
on which the business grew up, are still
the most important of the group. War
conditions, however, are providing a
natural shelter under which the remainder
promise to flourish. Incidentally, the
co. has, at its own expense, built an
annex, now equipped by the Defence
Department, to turn out munitions with
out profit to the business. It was intended
to add the manufacture of motor-cars to
the list, but after political repercussions
the idea has been put on the shelf, for the
present at any rate.
Last term all sections of the organ-
isation continued to expand. After
making an increased but unspecified
allowance for taxation and providing
£295,556 (equal to 12 p.c. of the book
value of fixed assets) for depreciation, the
declared net profit for the entire group
was £435,254, of which £433,271 belonged
to A.C.I. That was enough to pay
the pref. div. and show 11.6 p.c. on ord.
capital. A trifle was added to the div.,
making it 7 p.c. The position is thus
much better than the figures of the hold-
ing co., which include a net unexplained
addition of £17,623 to reserves, alone
disclose in the introductory table.
Extensively traded, the ords. have
fluctuated between 395. 7d. and 30s. 3d.
since the beginning of 1940. At 31s. 6d.
the return now is 4.4 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. It is a very satisfactory
return from a sound industrial stock.
The 9 p.c. cum. prefs. yield 4.8 p.c. at
375. 6d. The net tangible cover is
£26 15s. sd. prefs and 235. 2d. ords. per
pound of paid capital.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
, Dividends
Half-year Net Pref, To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’30..42,775 4000 10 p.c.= 25,000 13,775 248,316
Sept.,’3o. .33,020 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 9,020 257,330
Mar.,’3l. .28,109 4000 8,, „ 20,000 4,109 261,445
Sept.,’3l. .23,968 4000 8„ „ 20,000 261,413
Specific reserves written off, £2369 .. 259,044
Unexplained additions, £4079 .. .. 263,123
Mar.,’32.. 22,342 4000 8 p.c. =20,000 261,465
Sept.,’32. .23,458 4000 8,, „ 20,000 260,923
Mar.,’33. .25,678 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 1,678 262,601
Sept.,’33. .31,280 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 7,280 269,881
Mar.,’34. .30,867 4000 10 „ ~ 25,000 1,867 271,748
Sept.,’34. .32,989 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 3,989 275,737
Mar.,’3s. .31,660 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 2,660 278,397
S’ept.,’3s. .33,548 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 4,548 282,945
Mar.,’36. .37,593 4000 12 „ ~ 30,000 3,593 286,538
Sept.,’36. .41,970 4000 12 „ ~ 30,000 7,970 294,508
Mar., ’37. .45,235 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 11,235 305,741
Sept.,’37. .52,254 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 18,254 323.998
Mar.,’3B. .47,734 4000 14 „ ~ 35,000 8,734 332,732
Goodwill written off, £118,074 . . 214,658
Sept.,’3B. .50,983 4000 14 p.c. =35,000 11,983 226,641
Mar.,’39. .43,844 4000 14 „ „ 35,000 4,844 231,485
Sept.,’39. .46,245 4000 14 ~ „ 35,000 7,245 238,730
Mar.,’4o. .46,422 4000 12 ~ „ 30,000 12,422 251,152
* Subject to goodwill, £118,074, till Mar., ’3B.
Visibly, owing to the rush by traders
to stock up ahead of price-rises, etc., war
has so far done earnings more good than
harm. But for provision of £26,657 more
at £59,132 for taxation, the declared
result for the past 12 months would have
been £24,497 up instead of £2160 down.
Gross earnings (£195,529) expanded
£28,027 ; including the taxation referred
to and £9013 for depreciation, outgoings
(£102,862) mounted £30,187. Allowing
for the pref. charge, the £92,667 of pro-
fit was 16.9 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 17.3 and 18.3 p.c. for the two
preceding years.
For the first half of the year ord. div.
was at the rate of 14 p.c. p.a., the same
as for the preceding years; for the
second it dropped to 12 p.c., which, con-
sidering the way earnings held, suggests
the board may be preparing shareholders
for further reduction in their income. If
12 p.c. is maintained, however, a return
of 6.9 p.c. is obtainable from the scrip
at 345. 6d. The rate could drop to 81
p.c. without the return going below 5 p.c.
The 8 p.c. prefs., which have a prior
claim to div. only, would yield 5.1 p.c.
at 31s. Net tangible cover (both classes)
is 28s. 4d.
The extent to which the co. has come
to the assistance of clients at a difficult
time is apparent from this table:
Mar.,’3s. Mar.,’3B. Mar.,’39.
Paid capital . . £000,900 £600,000 £OOO,OOO
Liabilities . . 125,421 . 108,506 139,421
Freeholds . . 213,309 191,262 194,118
Leaseholds .. 18,719 16,542 16,024
Plant, fixtures, etc. 31,782 30,877 30,293
Stock . . . .' 180,621 183,861 235,265
Book debts . . 235,486 311,770 398,953
Cash, investments,
etc 250,691 293,084 204,478
The lift of £51,404 and £87,177 in stocks
and debtors’ balances respectively partly
reflects price-rises, partly the bigger
turnover. The movements were financed
by tacking £30,855 on to the debt and
drawing upon cash, etc., for £88,606.
Still, when the books closed cash and
public securities alone (£162,128) were
equal to ss. 4d. per pound share, while
the surplus of more or less liquids (up
£19,913) stood £67,068 in excess of paid
capital. That excludes £32,207 (book
value) invested in the M.L. subsidiary,
which passed on £3926 last term.
Heavy stocks have so far helped
cushion the impact of war on the busi-
ness, which is Australasian-wide. But
import control will entail some shrinkage
of income from newsprint, printers’
requisites and fancygoods, and paper
rationing won’t help advertising revenue.
How the perhaps-most-profitable sphere
of operations—distribution of both local
and overseas periodicals, etc., importa-
tions of which have been in the vicinity
of the million-pound mark of recent
years—will be affected by exchange con-
trol remains to be seen. While most
American publications are on the outer,
a steady stream of English journals is
coming to hand, and the difficult times
ahead may make reading a more popular
recreation.
Another doubtful quantity is the trans-
Tasman connection. Still, taken all round,
it was a very stable investment during
slump, the management is thoroughly
alive to current problems, and, with
finances in fine shape, the co. looks like
continuing to render a satisfactory ac-
count of itself.
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.)
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1930.. 71,910 10 p.c. = 58,295 1 ..... ~-,000
Staff provident fund, £3500 . . j 10,Ho 141,99-
1931.. 62,769 10 p.c. = 58,300 ) , 4r>q 14S 461
Staff provident fund, £3OOO .. J ’ ’
1932.. 49,052 71 p.c. = 43,725 1 9007 nr, 2SB
Staff provident fund, £2500 ..f 2 ’ 827 14G > 2bb
1933.. 47,125 74 p.c. = 43,725 1 Qnn u?1 o,
S’taff provident fund, £2500 ..( 9UU
1934.. 48,788 74 p.c. = 43,725 1 _ rfi „ , 4q 751
Staff provident fund, £2600 .. j Ao A x >
Inner reserve disclosed, £26,000 .. 175,751
1935.. 54,494 8 p.c. = 46,640 ) - . IHI ~,
Staff provident. fund, £2500 lai ’ J - Uo
1936.. 54,454 8 p.c. = 46,640 ) 5 qi 4 186 41°
Staff provident fund, £2500 . . } 18(, ’ 41 “
Obsolescence reserve, £18,223 .. 204,642
1937.. 50,130 8 p.c. = 46,64 Q 1 qqf)
Staff provident fund, £2500 990 205,03
1938.. 77,735 8 p.c. = 46,640 31,095 236,727
Special 124 p.c. cash bonus, £72,875 .. 163,852
1939.. 62,148 8 p.c. = 46,640 15,508 179,360
1940.. 78,418 8 „ ~ 46,640 31,778 211,138
The major part of the turnover these
days arises from the sale of superphos-
phates, which the co. continues to turn
out in increasing quantity from four large
chemical-fertiliser works. These are
situated in the most important agricul-
tural and pastoral centres of the
Dominion’s two islands. In the other sec-
tion of the business (the wholesale drug
trade, in which the co. grew up) four


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL, PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 '0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL. .. .. 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ONLY £IA MONTH MORE
TO OWN and
most eases no more to run
YOU’VE always wanted “ ®“ ,c £can be
lsr h Sen y row d b a'good time to find „»«.
Because there » P" r aUn
« v< ; r Xi* * the difference may
- **» to £4O.
In itself that’s little {'“oiTliuick. Bnt as a
prestige and pleasure you U get dif( ,n
matter of fact y° u h , . t iiat other car by three
is *e actual difference in cos. of
ownership. but
Here’s why. You may -probably
you also get back mor have paid. In other
two-thirds of the extra m° n^J_ th i rd G f the difference
words it hmenst yon o a pleasure of
in price to nave
owning the Buick. aTl nroxi-
All in all, you’ll Buick than a
mately only £1 a month more £l month
cheaper car. And “ tha t begin with enough
t%nvs vou —the riding quaime vour course
road weight to hoi sa f e ty, plus the thrill-
substance, »treng.h, dnrabdny, Eiglll engine
mfd *e fnlWo”! ride of BuiCoil Springmg on
A , for running costa, ta mmt of the
do you Will find Buick as econom g 5 m .p.h.,
In R.A.C.Y. testS d ßuick g ave 22 6 m pPgg m . p . h .
21 .,m.p,.
can* mark in your
GENERAL motors-holden^i™
Buy from your local
BUICK DEALER
Sold' and Serviced by Buick Dealers throughout Australia
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES—NOW!
warehouses are stocked largely with pro-
ducts manufactured in the co.’s own phar-
maceutical factory, so the rationing of
London credit and restriction of imports
hasn’t caused any serious dislocation of
this part of the business. Partly because
of this and partly because the manufac-
ture of super, is a sheltered and subsidised
industry in the Dominion, and also be-
cause of the co.’s sound financial struc-
ture, conservative valuation of its assets,
careful management and wide margin
between earnings and distributions, the
shares are among the most popular in-
dustrials in the local market.
The scrip, fully paid to £2 and visibly
covered by 545. 6d. in net tangibles, is
priced at 755. as against 665. a year ago.
The return at 755. is 4.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. Factors that have contributed
to the rise in price are the drop in interest
rates and public preference for sound in-
dustrials.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts the 40-hour week, war
conditions and the louder demands of
the taxgatherer bumped up costs, in-
cluding steamer freights. This meant a
rise in the selling price of super., the use
of which affects the volume and quality
of primary production. Primary produc-
tion is part of the Dominion’s war effort
and directly affects the volume of the
country’s overseas funds, which have been
at a low ebb for some time. So, to side-
step the effects of an increase in the price
of super, upon production, the Govern-
ment has decided to subsidise the manu-
facturing cos. to the extent of the actual
increase in costs.
Sales continued to increase and, after
allowing for the net cost of manufacture
and for depreciation, etc., gross earnings
sprang £78,787:
Exes. p.c.
Gross Profit. Expenses. of Gross.
1920 ..£139,909 £100,098 71.5 p.c.
1925 .. 147,344 99,985 67.8 „
1930 .. 202,679 130,770 64.5 „
1933 .. 131,957 84,832 64.3 „
1934 .. 127,761 78,973 61.8 „
1935 .. 137,226 82,732 60.2 „
1936 .. 149,551 95,097 63.5 „
1937 .; 156,700 106,570 67.8 „
1938 .. 215,073 137,339 63.9 „
1939 .. 189,096 126,948 67.1 „
1940 .. 267,883 189,405 70.7 „
Including taxation, which took a much
bigger mouthful, exes, gobbled £62,457
of the increase. That left the net result
£16,270 stronger at £78,418, equal to
13.4 p.c. on capital as against 10.6, 13.3,
8.6, 9.3, 9.3, 8.3 and 8 p.c. back to 1933.
Thejfiv. was kept at 8 p.c. It is a very
attractive showing, all things considered,
including the steep increase in Maoriland
tax rates.
Now consider these figures:
1930. 1935. 1939. 1940.
Capital . . £583,000 £583,000 £583,000 £583,000
Liabilities* . . 252,463 84,438 219,526 334,724
Factories, etc. 466,943 366,221 392,158 394,999
Stock.. .. 373,891 274,477 330,316 382,167
Book debts . . 172,094 133,802 212.123 320,615
Cash, etc. .. 105,002 73,523 57,315
* Includes provision for taxation.
The year’s increase of £115,198 in outside
liabilities was largely on account of an
increased but unspecified allowance for
taxation. The growth of £51,851 in
stocks was due partly to higher prices
for rock phosphate, sulphur, nitrate of
soda and sacks. The expansion of
£108,492 in debtors’ balances reflects in-
creased turnover and advances on over-
seas purchases during the closing months
of the year. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£425,373,
equal to approximately 14s. 6d. per
pound of paid capital) was £28,937. On
fixed assets, which are worth a lot more
than their book value, £2841 more was
spent than was written off.
Union Theatres Investments, Ltd. (Syd.)
t Dividends Towards
Dec., Profit. Pref. 8 p.e. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £6505 1
1929. . 23,850' 27,980 Nil J 16,016
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £16,032
1930.. 15,887 28,000 Nil ] 12,097
Overprovision for taxation, £2692.. 9,405
Reserves.
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £9308 ) ~ '
1931.. 15,590 Nil Nil 15,590 J 15,493
Written off parent’s debt, £9308.. 6,185
Overprovision for taxation, £1741.. 7,926
1932.. 3,845 Nil Nil 3,845 11,771
5 p.e.
1933.. 15,964 17,500 Nil 10,235
1934.. 16,053 17,500 Nil 8,788
1935.. 16,683 17,500 Nil 7 971
1936*. 19,978 17,500 0.3 p.c.=1500 978 8,949
Tax refund, £1557 10,506
1937.. 21,657 17,500 0.8 p.c.=4000 157 10,633
1938.. 25,263 17,500 1 „ ~5000 2,763 13,426
1939.. 22,814 17,500 1 „ ~5000 314 13,740
*53 weeks to Jan. 2, 1937.
This member of the Union picture
group owns the State Theatre, newsreel
theatrette and an 11-storeyed shopping
block, including ballroom, etc., in
Market-street, Sydney. The theatre and
theatrette are leased to Greater Union —
the former till Jan. 1, 1943, at an annual
rental of £33,800. The lessee is required
to care for the theatre and plant; hence
this Investments co. makes no provision
for depreciation of that portion of its
properties in its own accounts.
Of the slip of £2449 in last term’s
result, £1875 reflects a bigger bite by
the taxgatherer, who has already notified
his intention of taking more by way of
land taxation this term. Gross earnings
(£43,108 after writing off £3284) were
down £723 ; exes, crept up £1727 to
£20,295. The £22,814 of profit was barely
sufficient to cover the prefs.’ minimum
requirements and hand the ords. 1 p.c.,
bringing their aggregate receipts from
the beginning to 3.1 p.c.
Though the mainstay of revenue —
rental from the theatre—is secure for
another 2} years, other income is not
likely to be so buoyant, and with the
rising trend of upkeep, etc., net earnings
may be difficult to maintain. It means
that div. margins for the prefs. (originally
8 p.c., now a 5 p.c., issue) are likely to
continue narrow, and that their right to
50 p.c. of divisible profits after ord.-
holders get 1 p.c. doesn’t look like being
worth much. At 11s. the market there-
fore asks for an immediate yield of
9.1 p.c. from the scrip. Net tangible
backing is £2 9s. 4d., all represented by
the equity in the building.
The trouble from the start has been
over-capitalisation. Early estimates got
badly astray, and the management found
itself involved in an outlay of more than
a million:
1929. 1935 1938. 1939
Pref. capital.. £350,000 £350,000 £350,000 £350,000
Old. capital.. 128,500 500,000 500,000 500,000
Mortgages .. 145,000 145,876 145.876 145,876
Sundry creditors 23,578 16,753 . 3,108 4,872
Union Theatres 374,588 —•—
Land and
buildings .. 969,880 1,017,149 1,004,489 1,001,602
Book debts,
cash, etc... 49,771 12,202 24,207 31,044
Of the money £350,000 in prefs. was
gathered from the public, largely because
the old Union co. and Australasian Films
guaranteed the div.; but after paying
£22,530 in this connection both guaran-
tors went into liquidation in the early
’thirties. In the end Union found itself
with a half-million wad of scrip locked
up in its own strongroom, practically all
but £128,500 (part consideration for the
site) being cash found by its own share-
holding cos. —West’s, Spencer’s, Amal-
gamated and Greater J.D.W.
No recent information on a proposed
renewed association between Greater
Union and Hoyts has been forthcoming.
Control of the city theatres of both
groups had been vested in General
Theatres Corp. between 1933 and 1937.
Bon Marche, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends—- —Towards
Net Pref. lie- Re-
Jan., Profit. 71 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1930.. 11,140 7500 6 p.c. = 6000 22,649
Loss.
1931.. 9,858 3750* Nil 9,041
1932.. 7,913 Nil Nil 1,128
Deficit.
Written off investments, £2625 .. 1,497
1933.. 17,875 Nil Nil 19,372
Insurance reserve (£5000) taken in .. 14,372
1934.. 7,353 Nil Nil 21,725
1935.. 1,573 Nil Nil 23,298
Profit.
1936.. 8,335 Nil Nil 8,335 14,963
1937.. 8,766 7500 Nil 1,266 13,697
1938.. 8,840 6,094 Nil 2,746 10,951
1939.. 10,362 5,812 Nil 4,550 6,401
1940.. 8,874 5,812 Nil 3,062 3,339
* Half-year’s div. to August, 1930.
Public investment interest in this depart-
ment store, which trades largely on a
t.-p. basis, is confined to the prefs., which
carry a cumulative 1\ p.c., reduced to
5.8 p.c. by the N. S. Wales Interest Re-
duction Act, with the right to advance
with the ords. beyond the reduced
to the original contract rate. They
constitute one-half the £200,000 of share
capital, the other half, and therefore
control, being held by Marcus Clark and
Co., which also trades extensively on a
t.-p. basis and whose big shop is a few
hundred yards down the street in Rail-
way-square.
The co. ran into a patch of trouble
during the last big slump, and losses
instead of profits showed up for the five
years to the close of accounts in 1935.
Payments to the prefs. at the reduced
rate were resumed in 1937, and have con-
tinued since, but there was still nearly
£32,000 (54- years) arrears of divs. coming
to them when the books last closed.
There was then £3339 of capital unrep-
resented by tangibles in the accounts —
goodwill, not treated as an asset herein,
figures at £60,000. The board gives no
hint as to what it proposes to do about
these arrears of divs. Until they are out
of the way, it isn’t much use talking
about the participating rights of the
prefs., which at the moment don’t appear
to be worth much, if anything.
The co.’s customers consist almost
entirely of working people, which means
that turnover and collection of accounts
are susceptible to the level of employ-
ment and wage rates. Of recent years
there has been a steady advance in both,
and earnings have responded. During
the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, conditions became more uncer-
tain, further extension of credit was re-
stricted, costs continued to climb, and so
did the tax bill. Declared net earnings
were £l4BB lighter at £8874, which was


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 188 S.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Hon.- Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (Vice-Chairman) ;
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; Colin A. Sinclair; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.
Manager; J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
£l7 invested
gave his widow
£444
AT 34 years of age John Moseley Cudaway became a
member of the A.M.P. Society and arranged that
he should pay a premium to the Society at the
rate of £1 a month. For this the Society undertook
that, on his death, it would pay his widow £444. He
expected, of course, to live till he was 70 or more, but when
he had paid £l7 in premiums (which was last month) he died.
His widow received £444.
Another instance of high return on money invested: In
1929 a lad, aged 12 years, was assured by his father for £lOOO,
the father’s idea being that he would pay the lad’s premiums until
he could pay them himself, and that the lad could thus have the
benefit of the lower-age premium for the rest of his life. The
young man died unexpectedly last month. Only £134 had
been paid in premiums, but the Society paid £llB2 to his mother.
Here is how another policy doubled: In 1903 a member of
the Society, aged 38, assured his life for £5OO. Last month he
died, and his widow received £lO7B, the policy having grown,
with bonuses, to that sum.
Imagine how you can cover your risks of life and death
by A.M.P. policies! There is no sounder investment in all the
wide world, even for the rich man! For rich man, and man of
small means, alike, an A.M.P. policy is a shield and buckler.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send you an experienced
man to talk over with you your opportunities to invest in A.M.P.
policies. If you prefer, and will ask for it, a copy of “Peace
of Mind” will be posted to you.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sir S'amuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout All States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Position Vacant.
MECHANICAL ENGINEER, required for
Singapore.—Qualified Mechanical Engineer
capable of undertaking Bucket Dredge design,
erection and working. Only applications from
persons possessing experience in the above
work will be considered. Salary S.S. $7OO per
month, equivalent to Australian £1220 ' per
annum. Applications with Testimonials and
stating age, qualifications and experience to be
sent by Air Mail to Post Office Box 194,
Singapore, S.S.
For Sale.
THE PIONEER MINE
(Also known as NEWMAN GOLDMINING
SYNDICATE).
FOR SALE BY PUBLIC AUCTION at the
Mart, No. 175 East Street, Rockhampton,
Queensland, on Wednesday, the 28th day of
August, 1940, at 11 a.m., MESSRS. J. J.
HIGGINS & CO. and R. FOULKES & CO.,
Auctioneers in conjunction, have been favored
with instructions from the PUBLIC CURATOR
of Queensland, Receiver and Manager, in the
above matter to submit to Public Auction the
Whole of the Assets, in One Lot, situated at
Hunter’s Gully, Parish of Morinish, comprising:
GOLDMINING LEASES, Nos. 120, 121, 172,
173 and 174, Rockhampton District, area 300
acres 1 rood 2 perches (more or less), together
with MACHINE AREA 74, Rockhampton Dis-
trict, area 5 acres (more or less), all of which
adjoin. The Plant and Machinery briefly in-
clude Rails, Winding Gear Machine, large
Diesel Engine, medium and small Engine, 2
Ball Mills and Stone Breaker, 2 Rollers, 1
Dry Blower, Belting, Pulleys, Shafting, Sundry
Tools, Sheds, Air Plant, Tanks, Dodge Truck,
I.R. Pump, Piping, etc., Pumping Engine and
Pump, Saw Bench and Saws, Small Jaw Crusher,
etc. Note: Inventories of working plant and
Machinery available from the joint Auctioneers.
Terms and Conditions at Sale.
J. J. HIGGINS & CO. 1 Auctioneers in
R. FOULKES & CO. / Conjunction.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAYIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON. T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Qen. Manager.
enough to pay‘the prefs. their 5.8 p.c.
and leave £3062 (3 p.c. on ord. capital)
to put on the shelf.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1934. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £200,000 £200,000£200,000£200,000
Liabilities .. 95,399 128,497 127,006 120,887
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 122,762 121,989 121,527 121,065
IS •• Hill IMS I|U5
BwJc debts " ins’ll ill’ll ifir’nq? !?«’««
Investments " 108,73 164,908 166,037 106,536
cash, etc. .. 484 800 1,003 834
To clip £10,922 off the overdraft, etc.
(£67,985) and add £7928 to stocks,
» e „a ,Ol 'L balanCeS 7 ere re - dUW I by £9 a Ol
“A * e ttSoJjS s “” d /y
creditors (£52,901) incres.sed by £4742.
The year's improvement in the more or
S
ness of debtors' balances.
Uncertain as to what the future holds,
sellers offer the pound prefs., covered
by 395. 4d. in net tangibles, at 12s. At
this figure the return is 9.7 p.c. on a
5.8 p.c. div basis
After falling from Bs. 9d. to 4s. over
the past couple of months, Triton (W.A.)
shares now have a better face at ss.
Though there is more floating scrip
around these days as a result of Gold
Mines of Australia’s capital reduction
—83,550 Triton shares were parcelled
out in this way the co.’s latest
accounts don’t justify so sharp a fall,
The slip of £6216 in the profit reflects
reduced millings ; though grade was a
fraction down, a higher price for the
yellow metal lifted yields from 575. 3d.
to 60s. 7d. per ton: ■
VIVM
Von p . N .
**, D»t. to„: piS V
1936 -- 77 ’ 715 6 - 94 33/11 £91,078 -/6 £24,000
1937.. 75,825, 7.11 37/5 85,228 1/- 48,000
1938*. 41,242 6.18 35/6 32,997 1/- 48,000
1939 -- 111,408 J- 4 9 JJ/JJ 113,137 48,000
105 ' 318 t six ’ h ' °
The £109,951 was struck after providing
£3879 for taxation, but before appro-
nnotinrr /i pij /:qi\
£S^i?! i,4I S£ ,p capltal
£|l^han , ffih^ i drs
h a A 8 a a • , T “sts, which
, j, ‘- nto the T"? L S’
pa “S I? flects heavier ground at depth,
, wh “* the management says is tending
*° reduce output. Still, for the first two
months of the current term no diminution
in either the physical volume or grade
of crushings is apparent. Deferment of
the May div., ascribed to the laying-in of
reserve stores, etc., and the heavy call
for development on both the co.’s own
holding and Western Gold’s Rand leases,
should be only a temporary worry. Ore
reserves have gone ahead from 317,000
to 329,000 tons, grade (6.7dwt.) o.3dwt.
down owing to greater dilution at depth,
and a diamond-drill has stabbed some-
thing thought to be worth further in-
vestigation midway between the North
Rand and Triton’s Emu North workings.
Except for one small shoot, exploration
on Western Gold’s holding, for develop-
ment of which Triton has been putting
up 90 p.c. of the working capital, has
been disappointing.
**■ * *
Though not as full as it might be,
an announcement from the management
has removed some doubts from in-
vestors’ minds and put a bit of starch
into the market for Norseman G.M.
(W.A.)- Assembly of the new power unit
is under way, and output should shortly
lift to 20,000 tons a month —a third in-
crease on present crushings, most of
which may come from the Norseman
block. No further capital outlay is an-
ticipated. Checking of ore reserves has
also indicated the last broadcast esti-
mate —312,200 short tons (5.2dwt.) at
Norseman and 430,000 tons (2.3dwt.) at
Iron King—to have been conservative.
In the main mine little general develop-
ment is at present being done, work being
concentrated on the opening-up of a
ninth level and shaft-sinking to No. 10
horizon. Rising costs are referred to,
also the inroads of enlistments on skilled
labor, but this should be rectified by
Prime Minister Menzies’s restrictions on
goldmining men joining up.
* * * HJ
Lake View and Stars have dropped
from 20s. to 13s. stg. since the begin-
ning of May, although latest quarterly
dividend is maintained at 6d. stg. a share,
or, with the U.K. income tax chipped off,
4.875 d. net. The fall, as in the case of
other London-Westralian gold stocks, is
partly attributed to higher costs and in-
creased and likely further increased Eng-
lish taxation. Operations for the last
quarter showed a working surplus of
£180,404. Capital expenditure on plant
was £17,491. Developments in the co.’s
group of properties added substantially
to ore reserves during the period, and
two outstanding diamond-drill stabs were
recorded at a depth of 2674 ft. in the
Lake View. One penetrated ore assay-
ing lldwt. over 269 in., the other 127dwt.
material over 51in.
* * * *
By nearly a two-to-one majority of
votes shareholders again supported the
directors at the Gt. Boulder meeting on
June 28. They did so after chairman
De Bernales had, amid din and clamor,
spoken his mind, and the heads of the
opposing Grundt Committee had spoken
theirs. De Bernales said the co. had been
heavily hit by British war taxation, and
talked of removing the co.’s domicile
from England to Australia in order to
escape it. He suggested that net profits
of mining cos. for the duration of the
war be invested in a special issue of free-
of-interest war bonds. Meanwhile the
mine steadily continues to bulge in in-
trinsic value, but in the absence of a
statement on recent low returns the shares
remain depressed around 6s. 3d. on Aus-
tralian sharemarkets.
* * 4: *
In softening the blow of a ninth call
of 3d.—the eighth of was made in
March—directors of Ora Banda South
(W.A.) state the mine at Marble Bar
apparently contains unlimited supplies of
ore, and that, according to the manager,
Mines Department officials who recently
inspected the property were greatly im-
pressed with its possibilities. Financial
aid on a £-for-£ basis has been requested
from the Minister for Mines. Lack of
funds to enable speedy opening-up of
the mine is given as the reason for recent
production not being carried on at a
profit. It is the co.’s third venture. First
was at Ora Banda (W.A.), second at
Mundubbera (Q.).
* * * *
Westralia is looking for moneyed en-
terprise game enough to tackle exploita-
tion of some of its varied undeveloped
mineral deposits. Enormous resources of
high-grade alunite exist in two place's,
wide apart, and there are immense ton-
nages of iron, magnesite, bauxite and coal
elsewhere. One expert reckons it should
not be difficult to devise a process to use
alunite in the recovery of the now-wasted
sulphur from the roasters on the Kal-
goorlie mines, where enough sulphur is
said to be blown into the air each day
to satisfy total Australian sulphuric-
acid needs. In addition to the sulphur,
tellurium and mercury in the concentrates
also pass off to waste, and we could do
with both, he adds, especially the latter.
Warming up, the same authority suggests
that coal from Collie, Westralia’s one and
only producing field, although a non-
coking variety, should be tested as a
source of coke, that production of char-
coal iron be added to the industries of
the State, and that “hills of sawdust” be
treated for by-products, such as methyl-
alcohol, acetone, acetic acid, wood-tar
and gas.
V * Hi *
After just two years’ digging, Victoria
Gold Dredging, of Newstead (Vic.), has
handed shareholders £225,000 by way
of divs., of which £137,500 was dis-
tributed in the term to March last,
making, in all, £95,000 more than paid-
up capital (£129,500). Here is the operat-
ing record:
Year Treated, Gold, Gr., Costs, Net
Mar., C.y. Oz. C.y. Pence. Profit.
1939* . . 1,217,750 10,827 4.27 4.08 £73,410
1940 . . 2,2-86,297 20,692 4.34 3.68 157,591
* months.
A feature of the
dredge is its resoiling equipment, which
“remakes” the ground as dug, leaving
it suitable for agricultural or pastoral
cultivation. Since the beginning re-
coveries have fallen 30 p.c. short of bore
indications, but yardage estimates have
been exceeded by 8.6 p.c. The property
was bored to contain 19,000,000 c.y. of
3.69 gr. dirt, of which Mines Department
permission to dig 15,000,000 c.y. valued
at 3.64 gr. was obtained; scoutboring
last year indicates that another 2,000,000
c.y. may be added to reserves. Average
yields in the current term have been only
fractionally below last term’s experience,
while the last two weekly clean-ups
have returned Still, over the
past six weeks the lOs.-paid contribs.
have fallen from 375. 3d. to 25 s.
Following distribution of Gold Mines of
Australia’s holding as part-return of
capital, the scrip is more widely held
now, though nearly half is still in the
hands of Gold Exploration and Finance.
* * * *
Following systematic drilling, Atlas
Gold is letting slide its option over the
big Kingston lode, 30 miles from Bris-
bane and worked in a small way for years
as an opencut proposition on 2-3dwt. ore,
because the prospects aren’t reckoned
good enough. Floated with a flourish
earlier this year by G.M. of Australia,
B.H. South and Mt, Coolon, which among
them have so far put up £ 10,000-odd, the
Atlas co. is now looking elsewhere.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
11l
III!
ill!
in
mil!
11l
HI
lill
11l
IIH
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates—unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
4* 4* 4
“What is a man to do when his typist is
always sending out letters with words incor-
rectly spelt?”— “Sun.”
Send her away for a spell.
•I* + 4* ❖
“Defendant said plaintiff was knocking his
wife about with a stick. He said to him,
‘What’s your game?’”— “Sun.”
It certainly wasn’t cricket.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“Does the weather cause domestic quarrels?”
—Melbourne “Sun.”
It does when husbands arrive home
under it.
4* ❖
Trance.
“Streamlined sleep has arrived. It can save
you from 30 to 60 sleeping hours a month.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
If your regular retiring hour is 10 p.m.
ignore habit and stay up till mid-
night. That’s two hours saved, and the
effort expended in remaining awake
makes you so utterly weary that at last
you stagger to bed and sleep like a top
till morning.
This sleep-slimming business goes on
for a month, when you discover that you
have 60 sleeping hours to spare. Grati-
fied, you open your morning paper and
search for the form guide. It isn’t there.
Puzzled, you study the calendar and
realise that, instead of the day being
Saturday as you had thought, it’s the
previous Thursday. Keep it up, and
at the end of one year you’ll have over
four weeks up your sleeve.
Not knowing how you could use four
weeks of hoarded slumber you lose your
nerve and start wishing people a Merry
Christmas early in November. You
glance in the mirror. Then, with dark
circles under your eyes, you hark back
to the days when you squandered sleep.
Then bells ring in your ears and the
cat, apparently wearing striped plus-fours
and clerical collar, fixes you with an in-
quiring glance. That settles it. Dog-
tired and dizzy, you drag your pyjamas
over your clothes and turn in. When you
awaken you are sane, refreshed and 17.
hours in arrears.
Percy.
4* 4* 4*
“Golfers co-operate to overcome petrol ban.”
—Sporting gossip.
Apparently it was interfering with their
drives.
♦l*
“A plan for the world’s first nudist public-
house has been vetoed by a Judge in New
Jersey.”— “World’s News.”
The only thing customers would have
had on them would have been the
drinks.
4* 4*
Some men enter politics because
they’ve got nothing to do. Then they
find that they’ve still got nothing to do.
•J* •£« »£«
The way some gardeners get rid of
their rubbish is over the fence.
•b •£•
“King’s Cross has a floating population of
several thousands.” — Article.
And thousands more who can’t keep
their heads above water.
“Goebbels says democracies attack with
printers’ ink.”
Write is might.
4*
“Golf and dancing.” —“Sunday Telegraph.”
At the amateur stage, golfers agree,
they dance with rage at every tee.
4* +
Some men make a living floating com-
panies for people to sink their money in.
4- 4* 4* 4*
“Admission was free, but during the evening
•a collection was made on behalf of the society.”
—Sydney weekly.
The catch was inside the door.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Advice to Painters.
Dear Dorothy Hix, —Miss Smoulder,
my girl, is a beauty ; but her paint comes
away on my coat. Should I make the
girl paint a bit better? Should I give
the girl up and forget her? Or —it’s
awkward, of course —should I get a
divorce? Or just kiss my Miss Smoulder
per letter.
In this vein,
I remain,
Mr Plain.
Dear Mr. Plain, Coax your wife
(when you think you’ve grown bolder)
just to use the same paint as Miss
Smoulder. Kiss your wife a good-bye . . .
When you come home she’ll sigh, “Pet,
my paint is still there on your shoulder! ”
Full of tricks,
Dotty Hix.
Partiality.
“Card-playing is one of Stalin’s favorite
pastimes.” —Communist speaker.
The charm of bridge he fails to see,
And euchre he considers drab ;
Like Hit and Muss, however, he
Is very fond of playing grab.
NAT.
The editor’s fiancee wrote,
“Let’s wed !” , . . But now she frets,
For, true to form, back came his note
“The editor regrets”
EVE.
In the Dawn.
It was no good running, he knew. Only
a slow and careful search of the scrubby
valleys and timbered hillsides would
locate her.
The dawn was touching the far crests
of the mountains as he circled down the
first slope, eyes and ears alert. He had
not discovered her absence until an hour
ago, and he still felt the reactions of the
shock.
There could be but one reason for
her going. Nothing else, he was certain,
could have persuaded her to leave the
shelter of his love and care and throw
herself on the mercy of an unsympathetic
world. If only he could overtake her,
could find her before it was too late.
Still watching and listening, he passed
along the second ridge and worked down
into the gully. He recalled that he had
adored her from the first moment he
saw her. She had been very young then,
rather immature, but the heavy coat she
wore—it was winter —had failed to hide
the promise of the swelling symmetry of
limb and the breath-taking sweep of a
figure that men saw more often in dreams
than in reality. He remembered her eyes,
large, candid and lustrous, and the fine
head and face they illumined. She had
“Last down lousy!"
become his, and had more than ful-
filled—
A movement caught his eye. “My
little beauty,” he murmured, and a re-
lieved smile lit up his face as he sat on
a handy log and waited for the best Jersey
in his herd to calve.
NOWRA NELL.
Concurrence.
Were you the lowest in the land
I’d still be glad to shake your hand,
For you agreed in language red
That Hitler is — well, what we said!
N.
African Interlude.
General Bullartista Boloni bent a black
look upon the fort of Abraca Dabra,
which he commanded, and the circum-
ambient desert. Nothing was going right.
No fewer than seven of the mandolin
players had been out of tune at
practice that morning; worse still, the
sergeant-mandolin-artificer had reported
that he was down to his last dozen G
strings. True, the general had just had
heartening news over the Rome radio
that the entire British Mediterranean
Fleet had been sunk by a small Italian
flotilla ; but even then it might be weeks
before more supplies of catgut could be
obtained. Moreover, the garlic issue had
fallen off terribly in quality—even only
four hours afterwards a hiccough had no
flavor at all.
It was with considerable misgivings that
the G.O.C. approached the parade-ground
where the Grand Opera Battalion was
drawn up —bassos on the extreme right,
baritones next to them, then the tenors,
light and robust, and lastly on the outside
flank the sopranos.
This morning’s training was to be
exacting—the quartet from the Third Act
of “Rigoletto”—but though desert train-
ing had toughened them he still had
doubts as to how they would stand up
to heavy vibrato work. The High Com-
mand had ruled that the works of Verdi
—a true Fascist in spirit—were to be given
preference in training, though it was his
own private opinion that Leoncavallo
would have given them better stamina.
The general noted with chagrin that
Tito Gorgonzola, the key-basso, was not
on parade. It appeared that some maca-
roni had gone down the wrong way and
the singer-warrant officer’s subsequent
coughing had caused a relaxed throat.
There was silence over the brooding
desert as Conductor-Lt. Chuccalotta Con-,
fetti raised his baton. From the combined
tenors came the opening words “Bella
figlia dell’ amor,” but after the first bar
the general was chewing his curled mous-
tache in anger. The attack was all wrong!
Corpo di Baccho! Snatching the baton
from his subordinate, he blew his nose
loudly in B flat to give them the note and
started them off again. But it was still
hopelessly ragged. Flinging the baton
down, he ordered three hours of “mi-mi-
mi-mi” exercises over two octaves and
then strode off to his tent.
Just before after-dinner parade the
G.O.C. was handed a dispatch. It was
direct from II Duce himself, ordering that
the troops speak as much as possible in
English to train them to interrogate
prisoners they might capture. Also, that
the whole garrison would be rewarded
with an extra ration of a litre of olive
oil per man if a spectacular mass-capture
or dispersal of enemy troops was effected.
It was with surprise that the assembled
troops, who had been whale-oiling their
hair by numbers, heard the G.O.C.
address then in spiggotty.
“I hava receive the dispatch froma
II Duce”
Here the troops obediently roared in
their trained voices:—•
“Duce ! Duce !”
“He saya you da good Fascisti soldieri
musta learn spikka da Eengleesh”
“Basta ! Basta !”
“Anda II Duce”
‘‘Duce ! Duce !”
“Anda II Duce” -
“Duce ! Duce !"
“Damma! Letta me get on, eh? Anda
II Duce theenks we may captura da
Eengleesh”
“Basta! Basta!"
“So we musta learn introgata heem,
yes? Anda eef we beeta da Eng’ II
Duce promise da extra olive oil ration
to da troop!”
“Viva Duce !’’
As the troops broke with a joyous roar
into “Santa Lucia,” making the welkin
reverberate, an aasvogel that was flying
past fell to earth with a thud.
Next day Captain Luigi Bloazanobo,
leading his company at the gallop,
announced dramatically to his general
that, sighting a force of 20,000 English
with tanks and guns through the shim-
mering haze, he had ordered the charge,
and the English had fled so precipitately
that when his company of 200 strong
arrived not a man of the enemy was to
be seen.
“Sapristi!" exclaimed General Boloni,
and forthwith cabled II Duce the glad
tidings.
That afternoon Lieut. Legato came
back and reported that his battle
patrol of 50 men was proceeding over
the nearby desert when he saw a great
mass of enemy infantry—fully 15,000.
Ordering his men to stop playing their
guitars, he formed them into a solid
square and charged. The enemy made off
at so great a speed that no prisoners could,
be taken.
“Caramba!" said the general, and
dashed off another message.
Within a week he had reported having
dispersed 470,000 English, with not one
casualty to the victorious Italian forces.
The promised extra rations, when they
could be available, now amounted to
four years’ normal supply of olive oil
for each man. Then one day General
Boloni took his troops personally on
reconnaisance around the 500-yard radius
from the fort. As he rode along on
his camel Captain Bloazanobo pointed
excitedly to the horizon. “Da Eengleesh,
sira,” he cried, “we willa captura them,
no?”
The G.O.C. shaded his eyes, looked
for a moment keenly, then turned to his
captain. “Da bletty fool you are, yes?
Dat issa da mirage, stupido! Now
whatta I have to tella da Duce, eh?”
Next day, at parade, “O Sole Mio”
was sung i.n a minor key.
BO.


INSIDE
AUSTRALIA
• • Sc
Carry
bank
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
TRAVELLERS CHEQUES
.4 I 9 H
Business, Rollery, Etc.
To Spender: Not to Spend?
T ,, , i ,
In a clear and reasoned but (by mod-
ern journalistic standards) rather for-
bidding article published in Sydney
“Herald” last week Treasurer Spender
wrote on the folly of spending propa-
ganda.” His argument that “business as
usual nluv extra non ” is nut of the nues-
usual, plus extra pep, is out or me ques
tion just now is best expressed in these
extracts :
c , . ,■ . -
Great numbers of men are now being enlisted
in the A.I.F. and the Air Force. A fuithu-
large number of men and women-estima ed
now at 150,000-will pass; directly or indirectly
into munition and aircraft manufacture. Vast
quantities of materials will be absorbed.
Since nearly all these resources will be drawn
from existing civil industry, it is a fair infer-
ence that civil output in at least some branches
must decline substantially.
That output of goods and services for civil
use must diminish in this way is the bedrock
physical reason why consumption expenditure
must be reduced. It is here that the real costs
of war impinge upon the individual. He
simply cannot get all the commodities he has
been accustomed to buy because they cannot
be produced, or, at least, could only be pro-
duced by taking essential resources from war
production. Therefore, it is quite useless on
his part to spend more if the commodities are
not to be had; it is, indeed, worse than use-
less, because such spending will only force
prices up against everyone. That is the crux
of the whole problem.
It is merely idle to say that the problem
could be avoided by, for example, the creation
of additional money, since, as I have just
pointed out, civil output will be reduced, and
there will already be a surplus of consumers’
spending power; to take away this surplus is a
ma i°r secondary purpose of borrowing and
SffiedVs^n' wo, se W ° Uld "*
The Government has a duty to guard against
inflation. In a time of drastic economic
chan 8 e such as thls > the danger is immeasurably
greater than normally . to neg i ect the proper
safeguards would, therefore, be just as culpable
as neglect of military precaution. These people
who speak of inflation as a bogey are in the
same £, ass as those who laughed at German
rearmament as a bogey. The one has grown
as terrjble enemy without; the other would
be no less terrible or deadly within,
. ,
The Sun, which is always ready to
kill with kindness its friends in the re-
tail trade, went along to S’Sydney Snow
about it The president G f the Retail
, , . . ,f .. , 411*71.
Traders Association was all ready. Who
speaks for the Government — -the Prime
Minister or the Treasurer?” he asked,
r™ . .
hen he wen t on •
Since the outbreak of war Mr. Menzies
has called consistently for “business as usual.’
indicating that by adopting this course Great
Britain is helped by our taking her exports and we
in turn are helped by Great Britain taking ours,
Mr Spender says, “Buy as little as you can,
and so conserve all finance for war purposes.”
An entirely different set of circumstances has,
of course, arisen in the last few weeks, which
-may necessitate the adoption of Mr. Spender’s
views, but the problem is so vital that, in my
opinion, it should be examined in every aspect
by our most competent economists and financial
leaders before advice is accepted which, if un-
sound, may have very far-reaching and damag-
ing repercussions.
It seems obvious that if “buy as little as you
can” is to be the policy of the country, great
unemployment must ensue, with the certain
result that the taxation pool will evaporate com-
pletely, and the Government will need to adopt
other measures to find the necessary finance.
My strong recommendation, therefore, is that
an examination be made immediately by quali-’
fied authorities, and that on their report the
Government’s policy should be framed.
The retail trade can be depended on to give
every possible assistance to the national effort.
The Federal Attorney-General was
then called on. Mr. Hughes said—very
pithily for that gentleman:
What Mr. .Spender means is spending less
on non-essentials. The nation has only a
certain income—it can spend it one way or
another. The more it spends on non-essentials
the less it has for essentials. It is very sad,
but things can’t be expected to go on as usual
during war.
Apparently the matter was all too deep
for Mr. Mair, N.S.W. Premier. What
he said, if anything, was not quoted
(though his Water Board was “facing
an exhaustion of loan money” until Mr.
Spender announced a £250,000' loan at
the last minute). But the “Sun” got a
few non-committal words from Mr.
Dunstan, of Victoria:
The Premier of Victoria said today that,
although people should not adopt an extrava-
gant attitude, he thought that to close down
and refuse to spend was a wrong policy.
“By the circulation of money there are many
indirect and direct benefits,” he added. “Wise
expenditure at all times is beneficial to the
community.”
The “Sun,” in a leading article the
same day, referred to the Treasurer’s
article as a “Policy of Disaster.” It mis-
quoted the article—compare the first few
lines in the third paragraph of the fore-
going extracts from Spender with the
“Sun’s” opening assault:
The Federal Treasurer (Mr. Spender), in
a surprising outburst this morning, advises
the Australian citizen to spend less in order
to diminish “the output of goods and ser-
vices for civil purposes.” This advice is
to the last degree deflationary.
Briefly, what the Treasurer said was that
the diminution in the output of “civil
goods” was inevitable because of the
war-time diversion of men and materials
towards making “war goods.” What he
advised was that it is futile to spend as
much money as hitherto on a reduced
quantity of goods available because all
that happens then is that you pay a lot
more for a smaller quantity of goods.
Munitions are produced by munition-
workers, not by leader-writers. If the
“Sun” expert is able to demonstrate how
we can divert 10 p.c. or 20 p.c. of our
labors to war efforts and at the same time
carry on production for civil use “as
usual,” then he will find that there will
be no lack of credit for the job. But
we must be sure of our munitions first.
The Treasurer does not in any way sug-
gest” that we stop buying useful goods
that have already been produced or of
which production is inevitable and which
are in excess of war requirements. All
he suggests is that there should be an
adequate diversion of national labor and
materials to the Government for pursuing
this war. That means, primarily, a
diversion of the money necessary to buy
labor and materials.
The rest of the “Sun’s” leading article
was mainly based on the false interpre-
tation in its first paragraph, and it went
from sneers to hysterics throughout. A
number of small fry contributed columns
of entertaining letters on the subject for
days after.
In all probability only a comparative
few read the soberly-presented article by
the Treasurer in the “Herald.” A far
greater proportion would read the puff-
puff stuff in the “Sun.” In any case,
on the following morning in a city
tearoom three women were going for
Spender hot and strong. “He’s telling
us not to spend on anything but neces-
sities,” said one. “He’s stupid.” “Yes,
I saw those articles in the ‘Sun,’ ” said
another. The third puffed a cigarette. “I
reckon if we’re going to be killed in this
war we might as well be killed straight
away,” was her contribution. And
this philosophy seemed to fit in with that
of the others and the eat-drink-and-be-
merry “economists.”
“Win the war with waste” has been
used as a slogan by the N.S.W. Con-
troller of Salvage, Mr. Weaver. Coming
from a N.S.W. Government Department
it has a strikingly frank sound about it.
Professor Copland, Federal Prices
Commissioner, says that the cost of living
in Australia has risen only 3 p.c. since
the outbreak of war. The position cer-
tainly looks satisfactory. There have
been increases in the cost of a number
of things, mostly of an imported nature,
but basic living costs have been kept
from going up much. Prices of the things
we export, on the other hand, have risen,
which is to the good from an economic
viewpoint—it encourages production at a
time when increased output is particu-
larly desirable. There may be some
downward revision of our contract prices
with Britain later on, owing to the block-
ade and war waste of the Continent, in
which case the restraint on living costs
will act as a shock-absorber.
*■* * *
Mt. Lyell, Australia’s largest copper-
mine, had 19s. 7d. a share in investments
outside the mine last balance day. The
19s. 7d. was “at cost and valuation,”
probably a conservative figure. There
was, in addition, ss. 7d. a share in stocks,
debtors, ores and metals, less liabilities.
Taken together, these items represented
255. 2d. a share, and in the year to
Sept. 30, 1939, dividends on investments
totalled £83,692, equal to 5.4 p.c. on
capital. Outside of all these investments
and liquid assets is the mine, which has
been the foundations of the co.’s fortunes,
and which has a substantial life still
ahead of it. Last term, charging all
overhead to mining operations, there was
a net profit of £77,497 from this source,
representing another 5 p.c. on capital.
Out of total earnings of 10.4 p.c. the
co. paid a 1\ p.c. .div. For the first 11
months of the co.’s last financial year
electrolytic copper averaged £49 ss. 7d.
sterling in London, the London Metal
Exchange being closed for some time
during August, the price subsequently
being fixed at £5l sterling. In the Com-
monwealth, where Lyell’s entire output
is absorbed, a price of £63 17s. 6d. Aust.
was fixed, equal to about £5l sterling.
Later on, when copper rose sharply in
Britain (it is now £62 stg.), the Australian
price was not allowed to rise correspond-
ingly until the miners at Queenstown
threatened to strike because they felt
they were being unfairly deprived of
their 3s. a week price bonus. Professor
Copland then recommended a lift to
£76 Aust. a ton, equivalent to the
present London price, on condition that
£4 a ton was set aside for the further
development of coppermining.. In Lyell’s
case this would mean the appropriation
of about £52,000 a year, at least portion
of which would be spent by Lyell for
the purpose specified in any case. At
present the co. is getting £l4 Aust. a
ton more for its copper than in 1938-39,
and though the lift in wages of 3s. a
week means increased costs, profits for
1939-40 should certainly be above the
level of the preceding year. The £1 shares
are selling at 23s. —less than the book
value of the investments alone.
* * * *
Reports have come to hand of attempts
being made by canvassers to swap shares
in a concern carrying the name of “Glad-
stones Proprietary” for scrip in N.Z.
Forest Products. The managing director
of Gladstones Pty., Ltd., of Kembla
Buildings, Sydney, says his concern is in
no way connected with these operations,
nor is the scrip offered that of his co.,
which has for a considerable time been
trying to establish a reputable market
for Forest Product shares.
* * * *
After an absence of a couple of weeks
that interesting stock Adelaide Steam
was dealt in on Sydney ’Change last week
at 28s. 3d. Previously there had been
turnover at 275. and 275. 6d. in Adelaide.
Some aspects of the co. were mentioned
here last week. Yield at 28s. 3d. is 5 p.c.
on a p.c. div. basis. Though there
are 2,325,135 shares issued they are
held, with remarkable firmness. It is a
stock of class.
* * * #
Most sensational drop on ’Change last
week was in W. R. Carpenter (B.
3/7/’4O). The copra position isn’t good—
lack of shipping has resulted in a piling-
up of stocks in New Guinea and the
Islands, and some of it is going rotten.
W.R.C., however, isn’t likely to have
been affected any more than anyone else,
but in comparison with Burns Philp and
Morris Hedstrom the co.’s scrip has
fallen with particular force. Up to 465.
earlier this year, there were sales of the
shares at 295. last week. Carpenter’s
three large vessels have been taken over
by the British Government, leaving the
co. to grab what American and British
tonnage it can, when available ; and that
is practically the state of affairs through-
out the Islands. Overseas the copra
position has been seriously affected by
the downfall of France —Marseilles was
a regular market previously —but all these
troubles should be of a passing charac-
ter. The war can’t go on forever, and
even if things should go badly with us
for a time it is hard to see how assets
in the Mandated Territory, where the
Carpenter business is fairly substantial,
are likely to be more adversely affected
than those in the Commonwealth. The
co.’s shipping property should be worth
a lot of cash.under present conditions—
and it isn’t in New Guinea.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. •• '1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Que§n St reel
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE .. St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
For Sale.
NEWSPAPER FOR SALE. Provincial daily.
Price £12,000. Terms to approved buyer.
Apply, with evidence of bona fides, to Vendor,
c/o EDWARDS, DUNLOP, LTD., Sydney.
(Owners retiring.)
I
m
mmm
YOU never know when you will
need the friendly brilliance of a
good electric flashlight, so play safe
and keep an "Eveready" flashlight
handy, where you can find it quickly
and easily in the dark. More import-
ant still, see that you keep it loaded ,
ready for instant use, with depend-
able, "factory fresh" Eveready Flash-
light Refills, the best batteries you
can buy. Even when all other lights
fail an Eveready will never let you
down . . . Obtainable everywhere.
T 62-1727
FLASHLIGHTS * REFILLS
•ATS-N 'A3NQAS "Q J. 1 ’Aid (VIIffHiSHV) A a V 3 H 3 A 3 ©
The Commonwealth wool cheque for
1939-40 is £64,722,636, plus half of any
profits on resale by Britain. On original
appraisements the clip was booked at
£59,841,898, or 12.4 d. a pound for the
3,604,316-bale offering. This average
was 1.03 d. a pound below the flat-rate
purchase price of 13.4375 d. agreed on,
so this difference, aggregating £4,880,738,
now becomes payable, together with the
10 p.c. of proceeds previously withheld
from growers under terms of sale.
In the 1938-39 season 3,219,444 bales
of wool were sold in the Commonwealth
for £39,123,031. The average price was
a pound. The 1939-40 cheque rep-
resents £25,000,000 more external income
for this country. The clip for 1940-41
may not be so good.
* * * *
Practically half the world’s wool
market is now under German and Italian
domination, according to Yorkshire esti-
mates. France was the world’s second-
greatest consumer, though much of its
consumption was re-exported in manu-
factured form. Thus Britain, the U.S.A.
and Japan may possibly take up where
France has left off, and the Empire’s
placing of some millions of men under
arms should have the effect of increasing
the consumption of wool. The imme-
diate prospect, however, is one of
shrunken markets, and there has been
talk of redrafting Britain’s contract with
us on a lower price basis. So far the
talk has come mainly from the Austra-
lian end.
**, * *
Where it is found that the burden of
war-time taxation bears too heavily on
essential industries it may be found
necessary to allow Government grants
in order to save them from collapse.
That, however, doesn’t alter the fact that
a Government policy of raising as much
defence money from taxation as possible
is the honest and sound one. No rule-of-
thumb method ever operated fairly and
effectively in every direction ; intelligence
must be used as well as legislation. The
Department of Munitions Supply will
soon find where raw materials, etc., are
lacking, and something will have to be
done about it. Already Britain is short
of flax for linen-making, and a bounty
is being offered. That is the way it
will be in a number of cases. What
the people have to remember is that we
are in a war a big one and there-
fore a large quantity of war materials
is required. To make them we have
to stop making a lot of luxuries of civil
life. Since the buying range of the
civilian is restricted he has fewer avenues
for spending, if prices of things that are
available are kept down. He has more
money unspent. But he won’t have it
for long'. Some of it will be taken in
taxation to pay for the munitions, etc.,
that he for one wanted to see created
in order to make the country secure. For
that security he has to pay. By payment
principally through taxation the position
is faced squarely, especially if inflation
is kept out of prices and living costs.
* * * *
“P.”: New aircraft-making functions
allowed the B.H.P. by the recent enlarge-
ment of articles of association are being
put into effect at Whyalla, where
cylinders for ’plane engines are being
made. For the shipbuilding enterprise at.
Whyalla managers, naval architects,
draughtsmen and foremen platers and
shipwrights have arrived from the Clyde
and Newcastle-on-Tyne. To relieve the
acute housing shortage in this mushroom-
growth town, 40 homes are under con-
struction for shipbuilding experts and
skilled men, and at least another 100
houses are expected to go up in the next
12 months. Oliver Badman, M.H.R., has
begun to agitate for a railway to be built
from Port Augusta to Whyalla —by the
Commonwealth.
* * * *
Last week sharemarkets generally
weakened slightly until news of Britain’s
action in connection with. the French
fleet became known. The better senti-
ment on Friday followed similar condi-
tions on London ’Change. Even so,
Friday’s prices were on the whole little
better than those of the preceding Satur-
day. This table shows movements in
some leading issues :
Jan. June June July
31, 6, 29, 5,
1940. 1940. 1940. 1940.
Bank of N.S.W. .. £29.0 £25.5 £24.9 £24.5
National (£5) .. £6.1 £5.5 £5.1 £5.2
Carlton Brewery .. 68/- 59/- 55/- 54/6
C.-Perkins .. .. 22/- 17/6 17/9 17/9
Tooth .. .. 52/3 44/- 43/9 43/3
Metropolitan Gas .. £13.5 £12.9 £12.8 £12.9
Q’land Insurance .. 58/- 52/- 49/- 49/
Associated News .. 16/6 11/4 10/6 9/6
Melb. “Herald” .. 57/- 44/6 43/- 43/-
Adelaide Steam ..36/- 28/6 27/6 28/3
Huddart, Parker .. 59/9 48/6 48/6 48/6
Australasian Paper ..34/3 23/- 23/6
A. .. .. 38/3 30/6 30/9 31/6
Bradford Cotton .. 37/6 32/- 28/- 28/6
B. Prop 49/6* 39/9 39/9 40/3
Burns, Philp .. .. 54/- 49/- 49/6 49/6
Colonial Sugar .. £50.6 £45.3 £46.2 £46.3
David Jones .. .. 33/6 29/-- 23/6 23/6
Drug Houses ..26/6 22/3 23/- 23/3
Electrolytic Zinc .. 58/9 41/- 40/6 41/3
Fairymead Sugar ..37/- 33/- 31 /6 31/-
Felt and Textiles .. 38/9 32/- 29/6 31/
G. J. Coles .. .. 74/3 58/- 52/6 55/-
Henry Jones .. .. 56/6 45/- 48/- 49/-
Howard Smith .. 24/3 18/9 19/- 18/9
Kandos Cement ..29/9 24/6 24/-
Meggitt .. .. 29/- 26/- 24/6 24/9
Winchcombe, Carson 28/- 25/- 23/6 20/6
Woolworths .. .. 22/9 14/6 13/4 13/11
W. R. Carpenter .. 45/6 35/6 32/6 29/6
Yarra Falls .. .. 42/ 39/- 37/6 36/6
North B.H 47/6 30/9 30/6 31/-
B.H. South .. ..29/9 20/9 20/3 21/3
New B.H 20/- 11/- 10/- 11/3
Mt. Lyell .. ..32/- 22/6 22/6 23/9
* Ex issue.
Chain-store scrip was better; so were
Australasian Paper, now very active,
8.H.P., Electro. Zinc and the other base-
metal cos. Associated News and Mel-
bourne “Herald” were weak, and so were
Winchcombe, Carson and W. R. Car-
penter.
* * * *
Newspaper shares continue to rest
among the sick ones on the stock-lists.
Associated News, in Sydney, is the lead-
ing example. The co. paid a 7 p.c. div.
for the three years to the close of
accounts in 1939; during the current
term (it closes on Sept. 30) an interim
of 4 p.c. p.a. went out, which is the
same as the interim in 1938-39, when
earnings of 12.3 p.c. on ord. capital were
disclosed. Since the outbreak of war
the co. has had to bear increased news-
print costs and higher ink prices ; also
it has to put up with a partly-disorganised
advertising field and newsprint ration-
ing. Then there is competition from
radio, which doesn’t use newsprint and
doesn’t have to put up advertising rates
because of smaller newsprint space. On
the other hand the price of the “Sun”
has been put up from l|d. to 2d., but
it isn’t likely that this additional revenue
will compensate the co. for its other
troubles. Apparently competition from
“Truth’s” new evening paper has dis-
appeared under a heap of paper-
importing licenses and but
there was no sustained sign of relief or
rejoicing among Associated shareholders
when the news got round. The ord.
shares dipped down to 9s. 6d. last week,
yielding 14 p.c. should the 7 p.c. div. be
maintained, and 10 p.c. if 5 p.c. is all
that goes out for the term. Even the
co.’s 7 p.c. pref. issue has slumped to
13s. 9d. If the statutorily-reduced rate
of 5.4 p.c. only is paid this year the yield
available at that price would be 7.8 p.c.
Consolidated Press, publisher of the
Sydney “Telegraph,” “Women’s Weekly”
and now proud possessor of the “Daily
Tsfews,” has not yet paid an ord. div.,
but the pref. rate of 6} p.c., kept up to
date, is not subject to the Interest Re-
duction Act. Any dealings in these shares
lately have been around 15s. 6d., but
dealings are not large enough to reflect
popular opinion of the stock.
•,•• • • •
Herald and Weekly Times, of Mel-
bourne, has not escaped the tide in the
newspaper section of the sharemarket.
This stock, leader in its class, was down
to the low level of 425. 6d. last week.
The Australia-wide newspaper concern
paid 14 p.c. in 1938-39 —6 p.c., 6 p.c. and
bonus 2 p.c. —and the April interim was
at the unchanged amount of 6 p.c. Last
term’s earnings (to Sept. 30) represented
20.5 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
22.2 p.c. The war newsprint and adver-
tising position will affect the “Herald”
and its associated papers in Melbourne,
Adelaide; Brisbane and Perth, but it is
able to have its own way more than the
Sydney press, which has greater com-
petition. If the Herald div. falls to 12
p.c. for 1939-40 the return at last week’s
quote for the ords. would be £5 13s .per
cent.
* * * *
From “O-mei-shan” (Hong Kong):—•
A. W. Raymond (B. 22/5/’4O) brings up
some pertinent points as regards prospects of
trade for us in China, including the old com-
plaint of poor packing, grading, labelling, etc.
In many cases his complaints are justified, but
it must be understood that they are not con-
fined to China but are applicable to our export
trade generally. The remedy lies in having a
good agent here—Chinese *or European makes
no difference—giving him what he wants and
when he wants it at a price that will allow
a fair margin of profit. Given these things
our goods are able to compete; without them it
would be hard to give them away.
What trade we enjoy at present is earned on
the merits of the goods at the selling price, as
competition for butter, cheese, milk foods,
jams, etc., is very keen. Lactogen is a case
in point. It is a standard article, marketed by
Nestles, and no one can accuse them of over-
looking any chance of pushing business. They
have the organisation and they get the trade,
or a fair share of it, anyway. What can be
done by a big organisation can to a lesser degree
be done by a small agent, but he must have
the right connections, plus a knowledge of the
local market.
Exporters and agents often overlook the fact
that the Chinese are the ones to look to for
.an expansion of sales. It is reasonable to
make some appeal to the European population
in advertising, but their buying power is limited,
whereas that of the native population is practi-
cally unlimited, always provided the price is
right. In this connection it often pays to
market the article in a size that will fit a
price. The pubs in Australia are an example
of this when one thinks of the number or
“pots” they sell for a sprat, and the number
of “pints” they don’t sell for 9d. or lOd.
Mr. Raymond also complains that his cargo,
fresh fruit, lay for a couple, of days on a wharf
before he could get it into cold storage. As
far as Hong Kong and Shanghai are concerned,
I am sure it was due to his own inexperience.
Provided his shipping documents, bills of
lading, invoices, etc., were in order and showed
all particulars required, I am positive that if his
own organisation was working smoothly he
could have had his cargo in cold storage half
an hour after leaving the ship’s slings.
Banking arrangements are no more difficult
in China than elsewhere, my own experience
being that Australian exporters are more often
to blame than the banks concerned for any
delay that occurs. Once again, it is only a
question of knowing what is required and get-
ting it. The virtues or otherwise of Chinese
importers need not be gone into, as they are no
better and no worse than any other nation-
ality. They are not in business for their health,
and will take a loss when they have to, and
only when they have to. Summed up, export
trade to China depends on the same essentials
as to other parts of the world; in most in-
stances buyer and seller can co-operate to
their mutual profit.
* * * *
“Gluthand”: The first keel at the new
South Australian shipyard at Whyalla
has been laid. Some of the 13 patrol
vessels which Navy Minister Cameron
announced had been ordered from Aus-
tralian shipbuilding yards for Britain
will be built there. Production of pig-
iron at the Whyalla blast furnace —the
first for this purpose built away from
the east coast of Australia —is expected
to begin about March or April next
year. It had been hoped to begin in
January, but imported machinery has
been delayed.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE EPIC OF DUNKIRK.
[ltems here condensed provide a more realistic,
personal-experience and personal-witness impression than
could have been gathered from cables of the historic
achievement subsequently described in an official
Admiralty announcement as “the most extensive and
difficult combined operation in naval history”—the
rescue of the B.E.F. and other forces from Dunkirk and
thereabout. The story as a whole indicates the tough-
ness of fibre and spirit that invaders of Britain must be
up against.]
To extricate by sea a great army in retreat and closely
pursued has always been recognised as one of the most difficult
and perilous operations of war. To effect it on a scale of
this magnitude from open beaches; to do it in the air-age
under the eyes and the fire of a mighty enemy, wielding
winged arms numerically stronger —this in its kind is an
achievement never paralleled and never to be forgotten. Each
service was worthy of the others. They were mutually inspired.
As an example of combined operations this feat excels every-
thing in the archives of war.
— J. L. Garvin, London “Observer.”
“There have been trapped armies, terrible retreats, perilous
embarkations and heroic rearguard actions in the past,”
comments an American observer, “but no combination of all
of them on a scale like this.” That will surely be the verdict
of history. It is hard to conceive what a blend of coolness
and daring, of professional skill and personal courage lies
behind this great story. —London “Star.”
*****
(Mr. Anthony Eden; official broadcast.)
“On the call of the King of the Belgians the B.E.F.
advanced into Belgium. The advance lasted several
days. Then, through events outside our control, our
army had to go back in less than half of that time.
Seventy-five miles forward, a fight at the end of the
advance, and 75 miles back, fighting all the way —
all in the space of ten days!
“That was the first phase of the battle. It was
brilliantly executed. A summons to surrender was
rejected by the British commander. His troops fought
on to the end. They defended the narrowing gap to
the sea. Day after day the battle continued. At
the end of it they had fought themselves to a stand-
still, but they held their ground—and by doing so
enabled’most of the Expeditionary Force to get clear.
“There is no braver epic in all our annals.”
* * .-1 4 *
(From a London “Sunday Graphic” article by Field-
Marshal Lord Birdwood.)
The men of the B.*E.F., R.A.F. and R.N. fought
with a courage and tenacity which would be unbeliev-
able if I had not previously known by practical experi-
ence of their prowess.
At Gallipoli I was asked if I had enough men.
I replied that I had. All I asked was that they should
have the fullest equipment possible, for that way
only are our soldiers given a fair chance to prove their
mettle. It is a stirring thing that a handful of British
sappers withstood a charge by 300 enemy tanks. Sap-
pers are not supposed to be offensive troops.
So much for the courage of the unequally armed
British soldiers, who stood their ground and fought
it out.
Unlike Gallipoli, this was an evacuation known to
the enemy and carried out under terrific attack from
aircraft, heavy guns and tanks. Yet the same superb
gallantry prevailed and the same staunch discipline
which made Gallipoli into military history.
•!* *ic
C From Yorkshire “Post”)
Leopold uncovered the British flank. It was
only by the vision of Lord Gort that we were not
overwhelmed. His reserve was held near enough to
become a new left flank force by which the trick of
the German coup fell flat.
Thrice Reichenau had the chance of encirclement
within his grasp and each time an adroit move of
masterly tactics gave him a new front. We were doing
this all the way back.
Lord Gort brought the last division into Dunkirk
and stood on the beach. A naval officer indicated a
place for him in a boat, but the Commander-in-Chief
would not have it, and directed soldiers to fill the
space. He sent his staff away, even to his last aide-
de-camp.. Only when word came that enough men
were in the line to fight the final rearguard action
did the Commander-in-Chief obey the Government
order to appoint a Rearguard Commander and cross
to Dover.
“How many men are over?” he asked on landing.
When told the figure, he went over to the Naval
Commander and expressed the thanks and gratitude of
the Army.
*****
(.London “Daily Telegraph” reporter.)
I heard of sections on the terrible beach at Dun-
kirk who were ordered to shave by their officers, and
cheerfully obeyed the order —“to relieve the bore-
dom,” they said.
*****
(London “Daily Telegraph” reporter.)
Describing the scene on the beaches an officer in
the R.A.M.C. said the sands above high water were
pitted with shallow holes —these not the result of aerial
bombardment, but made by the troops as a flimsy
protection against machine-gunning by enemy ’planes.
Some of the men in the grey dawn were standing
in the sea up to their waists waiting for the small boats
which crept inshore out of the mists to take them off.
One of these men, describing the embarkation,
said: “Bombs were dropping all round us, but the
Navy carried on as if it were all in the day’s work.”
*****
(From a “Times” leading article.)
What has to be visualised is the air battles, the
bombing and the shelling under which shoals of small
craft of every kind, working with an efficiency that is
beyond praise and almost beyond precedent, brought
away contingents of troops whose fortitude was a
vital element in the success of the whole* enterprise.
*****
[The subsequent Admiralty announcement gave the
numbers of the “armada” as “222 naval vessels and 665
other craft and boats,” of which “only six destroyers and
24 minor craft were lost, in spite of incessant bombing
attacks.” The Admiralty statement added: “Fishermen,
yachtsmen, yacht builders, yacht clubs, river boatmen
and boat building and hiring firms manned their craft with
volunteer crews and rushed them to the assembly point,
although they did not then know for what purpose they
were required. They operated successfully by day and
night under the most difficult and dangerous conditions.
The Admiralty cannot speak too highly of the services
of all concerned. They were essential to the success of
the operation and the means of saving thousands of
lives.” In the article here condensed from London
“Daily Herald” Hannen Swaffer describes the perform-
ance of this extraordinary fleet as he, and thousands
more, saw it from the England side.]
They will tell the story, so long as England lives.
It is the epic of the longshoreman, the saga of
the paid hand, the odyssey of the fisherman.
It is the chronicle of how the men with whom
you went for a row at Ramsgate, the men who, on a
summer evening at Brighton, took you for a moon-
light cruise, and the men who pulled up the sails for
week-end yachtsmen on the Crouch became, in
emergency, a comic Armada, went to Dunkirk —and
saved a doomed army.
“Nice day for a sail, sir,” some of them have
said on the promenade in days of peace. Or else,
perhaps, they have sold you a nice plaice on the beach.
Volunteers in the Salvation Navy, they went to the
rescue when all else seemed lost.
A fortnight before, as part of a national plan—
fears of a possible invasion or a Fifth Column, or for
emergency use in something unforeseen —they had,
—“Daily Mirror,” London,
“THIS WAY, CHUM!”
many of them, been registered as owners of motor
craft or as men who looked after them for others. Or
they were fishermen.
Even octogenarians volunteered. “I know I’m
over 80, wrote one retired fisherman, but I’ve sent
the wife away. Let me know how I can help.” He
was only one. “Old salts” by the hundred, with no
idea what they might be wanted for, demanded their
right to serve.
Then, suddenly, we all feared that the B.E.F.—
cut off, surrounded, betrayed by a kings treachery—
was doomed to annihilation. It was fighting its way to
the coast, we knew, the flower of our race. But, once
on the beach at Dunkirk, how could it be got away?
The seas were too shallow for troopships to approach
the shore. Local commanders right round the south-
east coast gave orders.
Soon, speedboats that dash you from the pier out
to sea and back again, trawlers that bring in your fish
and pleasure steamers—every imaginable kind of
harbor craft—were steaming for Dunkirk, many string-
ing behind them a line of dinghies and rowing-boats.
Frnm tho Thame? Fshiarv thev went from Ramcantp
rrom tne 1 names Estuary tney went, trom Ramsgate,
Dover and Folkestone, and trom the Essex rivers
where—at Brightlingsea, Wivenhoe, Burnham-on-
Crouch and Maldon—city men go for week-end
sailing.
Not only the men went. They took their young
sons. Wives and mothers pleaded to be taken. Tear-
fully, they had to stay behind. But they yelled as their
men steamed into the horizon: “Give ’em one for
me - TT . „ . . , . ,
History will tell, in countless columns, of the
scenes off Dunkirk how, for days, tiny craft, largely
manned by longshoremen, went to and fro front the
beach to the large craft waiting in deeper seas. They
were bombed from the air, riddled with machine-
guns, under almost constant fire. For days they went
on at their work of rescue—men who, called on
urgently, faced death without a tremor.
Some made journeys back to England, their small
craft half sinking with the weight of those they were
bringing home. One lot safe, they went back for
more. Some made seven or eight trips across the
Channel!
Some, called on to attend the wounded, impro-
vised splints and did crude first-aid work. Others
became cooks, nurses—yes, and nursemaids, for here
and there a soldier had come away with a child
refugee. One lot even became tailoresses. A party of
nurses soaked to the skin went down below, nearly
naked, in one boat, leaving their clothes on deck to
dry. When in the morning the nurses woke up, their
uniforms were dried, pressed and mended.
Let me tell of Tollesbury, a tale that can
be told of almost every town and hamlet round the
south-east coast. From Tollesbury, a tiny place in
Essex, the racing yacht Endeavour crossed the Atlantic
to race for the America Cup. The Endeavour’s captain
and many of the crew have homes in this Essex vil-
lage. When the call came for volunteers Tollesbury
rushed to the response. Among the first was Ted
Heard. It was his father Ned who was captain of
the Endeavour.
Then there were Bob Goodey, Tom Frost and
Jim Lucas, who used to help man the Royal racing
yacht Britannia. They and thirty other Tollesbury
men of the sea brought back, among them, hundreds
of battle-stained Tommies.
Scores of ports and fishing villages, hundreds of
nondescript craft and many more hundreds of such
men and boys —“almost from Lowestoft to Brighton,”
they say —shared in an epic adventure beside the
achievements of which Drake and Frobisher must
take second place.
* * * * *
(From London “Daily Mail.”)
Usually at this time of the .year lifeboatmen like
old Charlie Knight, who is 69, are taking people for
trips “round the bay.” With eight other lifeboatmen
he volunteered to take a motor-boat carrying eight
small boats to Dunkirk. For two days, two nights
and well into the third night these men rowed boat-
loads of soldiers from the shore to the motor-boat,
then took them out to the larger ships. All the time
they were bombarded from the air. All the eight
rowing-boats they used were in turn
swamped and sunk.
Charlie Knight is back in England
—and so are 2000 men whom he and his
mates helped to embark.
Joseph Read is 15. He insisted on
going across the Channel with his father
in a motor-boat to bring men home. In
one afternoon this boy helped to rescue
100 soldiers who were swimming in the
water.
Incredible attempts were made by
German guerrilla troops to capture and
sink British rescue ships. Disguised as
Allied soldiers in uniforms which they
had taken from the dead, they tried to
smuggle themselves aboard ships and
take command. One such attempt was
described by the captain of a trawler: —
“A trawler, captained by a friend
of mine, was leaving Dunkirk with a
party of British and Belgians aboard.
Most of them were wounded, and none
had arms because they had swum out to
the ship. Almost as soon as the ship had
left Dunkirk 12 men aboard, dressed in
Allied battle-dress, produced revolvers
and shot the captain, who was on the
bridge. They also shot the signaller, but
he managed to reach the speaking tube
and shouted to the crew below what was going on.
“The crew numbered only about 10 men, but they
got to the arms room, and, after a fight, overpowered
the Germans. After that we searched all men as they
came aboard, no matter who they were. You could
never be sure who was friend and who enemy. The
Germans doing this spoke perfect English. I caught
one on my own ship on Friday. He had a gun hidden
under his uniform.”
Another merchant seaman, now in the Navy, said:
“We were taking men aboard from a bit of pier
that still • stood at Dunkirk when a party of men in
British uniform opened fire with automatic guns. If
we had not had the Lewis gun manned we should
have suffered heavily, but our gunner mowed down
the men in a matter of seconds.”
Many of the seamen who went backwards and
forwards continually for days practically lost their
voices through shouting in the incessant din of gun-
fire.
* * * * *
[As seen by an eyewitness on one of the rescuing
destroyers, writing for London “Sunday Express.”]
I sailed in a destroyer about midnight. It was
calm and clear. As we approached the French coast
we could see the German searchlights wheeling to and
fro, and suddenly a battery opened fire. Our guns
swung round and everybody crammed on his tin-hat
a bit tighter. There was a glow of fires along the
horizon, and “flaming onions” bursting into red flares.
We wriggled our way through the minefields until
we were nearing Dunkirk. The oil tanks were still
blazing furiously; a shell landed in one of these
blazing tanks and a huge red glare blazed up. It died
down again and the moon came out from behind a
cloud, giving the sea and sky a queer semblance of
peace in contrast to the blazing inferno ashore.
Just then, about three o’clock in the morning, we
bumped some wreckage and fouled one of our pro-
pellers. So there we were with one engine out of action.
The captain tried to clear the mess by going ahead
with both engines, but the ship protested by making a
series of strange jumps.
We crept ahead on one engine till we reached the
entrance to Dunkirk harbor.
There we lay-to, and explained by flashing lamp
to the British admiral in Dunkirk what had happened.
To enter a harbor and manoeuvre alongside a wharf


with only one engine under shell-fire is a tricky busi-
ness. The captain wasn’t sure if he was justified in
taking the risk without authority.
From the inside of the harbor came the flicker
of a signal lamp. “Enter harbor forthwith,” it said.
“Right,” said the captain rather grimly. “I suppose
it is better to enter Heaven maimed and with one pro-
peller than to stop outside.” So he rang down half
speed on both engines, and after one protesting buck-
jump the obstruction, whatever it was, cleared itself,
and we went smoothly through the entrance.
It was light enough to see the outlines of the town
buildings still standing, black against the glare of fires,
and the vast clouds of smoke billowing away to the
eastward. And it was light enough to see assembled
the whole length of the mole thousands of men of the
8.E.F., waiting patiently for embarkation.
There was a French destroyer already alongside
filling up with men. There was a trawler alongside
also, but she had been sunk by bombs and only her
masts and funnel were above water. The white ensign
was still flying bravely at her masthead.
We went alongside between them, watched by
those thousands of patient eyes under the shrapnel
helmets. Scaling ladders were lowered and down they
came.
A few stretcher cases arrived, carried by men too
tired to avoid stumbling. As each was lowered on to
the gun platform between bursts of fire, the surgeon
bent over each case with the mercy of the morphia
syringe in his hand.
We were full up at last. Every inch of space on
deck and below crammed with men. Already many of
them were asleep where they lay, and many of those
who slept had smiles on their faces.
As we went out we met another of our destroyers
coming in, and the tired men raised a croaky cheer as
she went past.
The English Channel was an extraordinary sight
as the sun rose. It looked something like Henley
regatta ; as if every craft on the south coast that could
float was heading for Dunkirk.
When eventually I landed at our base the quay
was thronged with thousands of men being fed and
sorted out and entrained. It was a vast sea of khaki
and slung rifles.
As I threaded my way through them something
bright caught my eye. One of the soldiers had a
child’s spade and bucket dangling from the muzzle of
his rifle. They were painted a bright orange. Perhaps
he had found them abandoned and was bring-
ing them back for his children —strong in his faith
in the Navy to bring him back to his children.
* * * * *
(“times” naval correspondent.)
The adventure of one of the warships is typical
of them all. In company with three other warships
she was sent to the Flanders coast, and on the passage
over they were six times attacked by dive-bombers —
the most nerve-racking of experiences imaginable for
those whose nerves are capable of being racked, but
the description does not appear to be applicable to
the companies of H.M. ships. One of her consorts
was damaged, though not enough to interfere with her
performance of duty ; but that made it desirable for
her to go into harbor first so that she could get away
earlier, which she duly did with a full load of troops
while her consorts waited outside. There they were
continuously attacked by enemy aircraft. One of
these they shot down.
When the turn of my informant came he was
bombed on the way in by high bombers, but their
bombs fell wide. While his troops were embarking,
the bombers attacked again and got closer; but the
bombs fell on the offshore side of the ship, and there
were no casualties. When his ship was full up he went
out of harbor and remained near, as he was providing
anti-aircraft fire to protect a transport which left just
after him ; 12 attacks were made on her, but, thanks
to the effective fire of the warship, she was not hit.
But a bomb fell very near the warship, and, bursting
on the water, caused some casualties on board and
punctured her main steam pipe, so that she became
helpless.
She was at once taken in tow by one of her con-
sorts, but, as the bomb attacks continued, her captain
decided that he ought not to delay an undamaged ship.
So he called her alongside, transferred to her all his
passengers and sent her off for England, anchoring his
own ship while his own company made good the
damage. He remained at anchor for an hour and a
half under continuous air attack the whole time, though
he was not hit. At the end of that time the steam-
pipe was repaired and steam was raised again ; in
spite of the holes in his ship’s side he returned to his
base, and was much aggrieved when he was not
allowed to return at once for another trip to Flanders.
* * * * *
(Manchester “Guardian” London correspondent.)
Getting from London to the coast was a slow
business. Time and again the train was held up to let
through trainloads of the B.E.F. and other trainloads
of evacuated children. There was no missing the fact
that one’s train was taking the reverse direction along
a triumphal route.
Wherever a village street met the railway line
there were country folk to wave to the returning sol-
diers. Old soldiers manning defence posts at points
along the line had chalked up on the walls of bridges,
“Welcome home, boys,” or “Well done, lads,” along-
side the more faded notices that urged travellers to
throw out their newspapers. At stations where the
tired and hungry men had been fed the milk cartons
. and the banana skins had been swept from the plat-
forms into great drifts along the line.
The countryside was wearing green and gold and
white in honor of its soldiers. The bluebells were out,
too, with bees and butterflies to enjoy them. So it
was all the way to the coast, where suddenly there were
men and ships battered in battle, dead and wounded
and prisoners of war. Less far away than the dis-
tance one had already come men were fighting and
dying in the sunshine on Dunkirk beach, burrowing in
the sand to a mock shelter from shells and bombs,
The sea between us and them looked peaceful.
* * * * *
(From an article by London “Daily Telegraph” B.E.F.
correspondent.)
I stood for hours and watched a succession of
vessels unloading endless columns of tired hungry
and dirty British and French soldiers rescued as by a
miracle at the eleventh hour from what ha appeare
inevitable elimination.
I saw one craft measuring less than 25tt tong
arrive loaded to the gunwales with 25 men, having
taken 12 hours to make the crossing.
The men so fortunately snatched from enemy
hands had most of them been lying for hours—some
for days—on beaches around Dunkirk, hungry and
“nCoa
taising n B o murntut y o£ contpiaint
tmß The o, vessels £ wafting to transport them to safety
the small boats in which to cross this ga'p many of the
men had to wade waist- or even neck-deep through
water covered with a thick scum of oil from the petrol
tanks destroyed by the Royal Air Force at Dunkirk.
Reasons for the success of an evacuation which
many had believed impossible included: (1) The mag-
nificent and sustained defence put up by the army
against the advancing Germans ; the behavior of the
troops during the last days of intensive trial was
—“Haagsche Post,” Holland
“There might be good fishing in these troubled waters!"
more magnificent than words can express. (2) Bril-
liantly carried out demolitions designed to block the
enemy’s progress. (3) Incessant R.A.F. attacks on the
enemy’s rear positions. (4) The continued fine weather,
for had wind created a swell on the beaches embarka-
tion would have been rendered immensely more diffi-
cult.
Arrangements for receiving the thousands of men
as they landed were excellent. From the quayside,
where each received an apple and piece of chocolate to
stay his hunger, they were marshalled into waiting
trains and proceeded to a point where they found
ready for them a hot meal with plenty of cigarettes.
They were then reloaded into their trains and taken
to a central depot, whence they were routed to bar-
racks in various Commands to be reclothed and relaxed
by a bath and a rest.
Many, as they waited in line to disembark, gave
three cheers for the ships’ companies. All showed the
strain of hunger, sleeplessness and constant attack
imprinted on their faces in heavy lines of fatigue.
Some who had apparently had to swim from the
beaches had lost clothing and wore a blanket wrapped
around them tied with a piece of string. Some told
me they had rowed in small boats for several miles
from shore before being picked up.
At the dock two young R.A.M.C. doctors rushed
up to me. “Which destroyer,” they asked, “is the next
to go back to Dunkirk?” They said they had urgent
order to get there to reinforce the medical staff. That
the town was in flames, that every hour German occu-
pation became more and more inevitable had not
apparently entered their minds. They had their orders ;
they would carry them out.
* * * * *
(London “Daily Telegraph” reporter .)
All night officers and men of the B.E.F. poured
into a town on the South Coast. From one ship
several hundred men of all ranks and representing
many units crowded down the gangways on to the
quay. Their feet were blistered by days of marching.
Their eyes smarted from lack of sleep. But smartly
they formed ranks and marched briskly away to their
train, singing “Roll Out the Barrel.”
The crowds gathered along the promenade went
almost delirious with enthusiasm. Outside the pier
barricades a collection was made, and with the pro-
ceeds shops near by were cleared of cigarettes, choco-
lates, newspapers and fruit.
*****
C London ‘‘Daily Herald” reporter.)
After all their trials and hardships these British
soldiers came ashore with a variety of dogs they had
picked up. Dogs of incredible types, colors and sizes
had attached themselves to these men, who could not
bring themselves to abandon them. I saw R.S.P.C.A.
men rounding the dogs up and taking them away in
a lorry. Two or three hundred had been brought
ashore along the coast.
*****
(‘‘Times” special correspondent.)
Tens of thousands of the B.E.F. passed through
this South Coast village station. Separated by a field
from the station is a large barn. Inside this barn day
and night between 30 and 40 women of the village-
working in relays—cut sandwiches. One woman said
she had cut so many she never wanted to eat again.
There was to have been a cricket match in the village,
but it was postponed and the team was brought along
to the barn to lend a hand.
Inside there was a pile of loaves. Outside there
were cases of food —jellied eels, sardines from Portu-
gal, oranges, apples and cheeses from New Zealand.
In a subdued buzz of conversation busy hands kept
on cutting sandwiches.
Everything was counted in thousands at this
station. Thousands of hard-boiled eggs ; 5000 hot
pies ; 5000 hot sausages.
(From a report by a London “Observer” special
correspondent.)
In one South Coast town dance halls,
schoolrooms, church halls and canteens
were used to house the men. Even this not
being sufficient, the Mayor issued an urgent
call to every householder, and long queues
of people lined up at the civic offices regis-
tering their names as willing to billet sol-
diers.
At one town the bread supply ran out,
but an appeal to housewives broadcast by
loudspeakers brought hundreds of towns-
people hurrying to the harbor with loaves
from their homes.
Boys of 17, who on Thursday night
were working in factories on the south-east
coast, reached home after having been to
Dunkirk to help to evacuate the troops. A
naval officer who was with them when they
returned said he had never seen such cool-
ness in his life. Off the coast they were
bombed and shelled for 24 hours. All the
time they were helping soldiers into their
small craft. One of them said “The trouble
was the smoke. For 20 miles round Dun-
kirk there was a pall of smoke a mile high,
and the sea seemed to be full of smuts. We
were wading up to our necks half the time
and I’m black all over now.”
Train after train bore away the war-
riors, tired almost beyond words yet still
not too tired to appreciate the miracle of
their rescue or to crowd to the windows to
look on the English countryside again. The
train journeys from the coast were marked
by striking scenes. People gathered on
bridges overlooking the line to cheer. Em-
bankments became grandstands for thou-
sands of other watchers. At wayside cross-
ings villagers flung the troops cigarettes and
chocolate. At one country station trains were halted
so that refreshments could be served to the men. Boy
Scouts, girls in khaki and soldiers acted as waiters and
waitresses, carrying cartons of tea, sausages and other
food to the men in their carriages. Porters hurriedly
collected postcards which the troops had scribbled in
the train telling wives and families of their safe arrival.
Some of the naval and merchant seamen engaged
in the evacuation were at work for 48 hours. In a
warship which brought troops over a sailor was seen
to finish a job, put his head to his hands and fall fast
asleep in 10 seconds.
The Army’s gratitude to the Navy was shown at a
South of England reception camp. A general was
speaking to men who, like himself, had just got back
from the war zone. “Who brought you home? he
said. There was a unanimous yell, “The Navy!” and
a tremendous outbreak of cheering.
*****
(“Yorkshire Post” military correspondent.)
We are too near the event to absorb all the big-
ness of it. Our hearts were gripped by hope, then
admiration, and, in the end, gratitude ; the latter more
particularly to the Royal Navy and the R.A.F., who
crowned the qualities of the B.E.F. by making a triple
combined set of operations such as we had only
dreamed about.
Britain, U.S.A. and Japan.
[This historical survey of Britain’s policy towards
Japan and how it has been influenced by U.S.A. policy
js condensed from an American “Foreign Affairs” article
by Gerald Samson, Reuter’s correspondent in the Far
East.]
After 1902 the Anglo-Japanese Alliance was
regarded as the instrument most likely to furnish
stability and peace in the Orient. The Alliance, how-
ever, became anathema to the U.S.A., friendship with
which was a cardinal principle underlying British
foreign policy; and the continental ambitions of
Japan, plainly revealed in the 1915 Twenty-one
Demands on China, were in conflict with British aims.
What finally decided Britain to drop the Alliance
was the growing tension between Japan and the
United States, together with Canada’s strong opposi-
tion to its renewal. The British delegates to the 1922


Washington Conference therefore abandoned the 20-
year-old pact in favor of international agreements that
on paper safeguarded Britain’s main interests. China’s
integrity, the Open Door and equal opportunity were
guaranteed by the Nine Power Treaty; the Pacific
status quo was secured under the terms of the Four
Power Pact and the Naval Limitation Treaty. Even so,
the British Government did not feel that these under-
takings in themselves provided a sufficient margin of
safety, and for the supplementary protection of its
Pacific possessions and communications it constructed
the powerful naval and air base at Singapore.
The Washington Treaties necessarily had an
adverse effect on Anglo-Japanese relations. Although
Japan had reluctantly acquiesced in the lapse of the
Alliance, she considered that she had been jettisoned
by her old ally ; while the provision of an inferior
ratio in the naval agreements, plus the shadow of the
Singapore Base, created an abiding bitterness. Nor
did the Nine Power Treaty have the desired effect of
assuring in China a stable, peaceful nation well dis-
posed towards Great Britain. On the contrary, the
rise of Chinese nationalism, with its demand for the
abolition of the so-called “unequal treaties,” led not
only to the continuation of civil strife but to violent
anti-British agitation in Canton, Shanghai, Hankow
and other cities. This was the more serious since
Japan, under the guidance of Foreign Minister Shide-
hara, stood aloof; while Japanese merchants not
unnaturally viewed the anti-British boycott as a
heaven-sent opportunity to “muscle in.”
The situation, so far as concerned China, was
relieved by Britain’s recognition of the Kuomintang
Government at Nanking, by her return of the British
Concessions at Hankow and Kiukiang, and by other
conciliatory measures. As it turned out, the hope for
better relations with Japan was frustrated precisely
because of Britain’s new China policy. The demand
of the Kuomintang —whose xenophobia was now
directed against Japan—for the retrocession of the
Kwantung Leased Territory and the increased irrita-
tion caused by the stiffening of the Chinese attitude
in Manchuria were in Japanese eyes the direct result
of the British Government’s having “bowed down”
to the Chinese in the case of Hankow. Nevertheless,
following Japan’s previous example, Britain was care-
ful not to be drawn into the quarrel, and kept out of
it until the Japanese Army marched into Manchuria
in September, 1931, and China appealed to the League
of Nations.
This Japanese coup constituted a direct challenge
to the efficacy of the League Covenant, the Nine
Power Treaty and the Kellogg Pact, to all of which
Japan was a signatory. Moreover, it automatically
placed on trial the whole system of collective security
which the League States had been endeavoring to
build up ever since the close of the Great War. From
the day China lodged her appeal to the League the
influence of Great Britain had been paramount at the
Council table, and she must bear the principal blame
for the fact that subterfuges and delays of all descrip-
tions were permitted until Japan was able to present
the League with a fait accompli —“Manchukuo.”
American overtures for co-operative international
action to vindicate the collective security system were
treated with apparent reserve.
On the other hand, a careful investigation con-
ducted in Washington as well as London has con-
vinced the writer that the United States was not at any
point willing to pledge her support to a policy of
sanctions or other punitive measures which the League
might agree to adopt. That such measures in this
case would have been ineffective without American co-
operation should be self-evident. Since, therefore, it
was the view of the British Government that coercive
action against Japan entailed risk of war, and that only
the association of the United States could make the
British strategic position tenable in such an eventuality,
the refusal to bring Japan to book does not lie entirely
on one side of the Atlantic.
Where British policy seems deserving of censure
is in failing to recognise that ever since the United
States stepped out of the picture in 1920 the Covenant
was impotent to prevent aggression by a major signa-
tory Power, and in encouraging the smaller and less
powerful signatories to have confidence in a worthless
guarantee. Britain had hoped against hope for “peace
in our time” and preferred the sound of brave words
to a state of official international anarchy. The very
ring of the Covenant’s text was as the ring of Magna
Charta, immunising a would-be aggressor as by one of
Merlin’s spells, and offering a talismanic protection of
liberty. Now plainly the spell was broken and the
talisman had failed, and British policy had to adjust
itself accordingly.
Asa consequence, when Japan commenced large-
scale hostilities in China in 1937, and China a second
time appealed to the League, Britain, though again
favoring friendly mediation, was more firmly than ever
opposed to any form of coercive action. On this occa-
sion Britain laid the greatest possible stress on the
need for Anglo-American co-operation, and the League
definitely took second place. “In our view,” said Mr.
Chamberlain at the Guildhall on November 9, “an
essential factor for success in any endeavor to bring
about a settlement is the co-operation of the United
States.”
This eagerness to work with the United States was
only partly explained by the increased gravity of the
situation in the Far East and the belated recognition
that this could be handled successfully only by joint
or parallel action of the English-speaking nations. It
was no doubt due in equal measure to the expanding
influence of the Berlin-Rome-Tokyo Axis and its im-
plied threat to the liberties of Britain and the other
“peace-loving nations” referred to by President Roose-
velt in his denunciation of “the present reign of
terror and international lawlessness.” His words at
first kindled high hopes that concerted action by the
democratic Powers might follow. But when it was
seen American public opinion, still strongly isola-
tionist, was opposed to such a course, it was realised
that international intervention was out of the question.
The Brussels Conference opened with this knowledge
and was a complete waste of time.
This further failure led the British Government
to take an unequivocal stand the next time the Oppo-
sition raised the question of upholding the rule of
law in the Far East. In the House of Commons
Mr. Eden said: “If hon. members opposite are advo-
cating sanctions I would remind them that there are
two possible forms of sanctions —the ineffective,
which are not worth putting on, and the effective,
which means the risk, if not the certainty, of war. I
say deliberately that nobody could contemplate any
action of that kind in the Far East unless they are
convinced that they have overwhelming force to back
their policy. Do right hon. gentlemen opposite really
think that the League of Nations today, with only two
great naval Powers in it, ourselves and France, has
that overwhelming force? It must be perfectly clear
to everyone that that overwhelming force does not
exist.”
Britain’s policy in the Far East today is still
based fundamentally on the principles embodied in
the Nine Power Treaty. Britain is as anxious as ever
to see an independent and strong China, but is equally
anxious not to break off amicable relations with Japan.
Britain continues to stand firmly by her basic treaty
rights in China, but is willing to negotiate on minor
adjustments where discretion recommends such a
course. And, perhaps most important, Britain will
seek in every way possible to co-operate with France
and the United States. The impotence of Western
diplomacy without American support has been proved
up to the hilt. It is not too much to say that the very
fate of the Western Pacific is bound up in the de-
cisions which the American Government may now
take.
* * * * #
(Uncle Sam’s future in the Pacific, as seen by a writer
in the “Philippine Magazine.”)
The United States is preparing, by force if need
be, to render its traditional policies consistent. Toward
Japan a period of dalliance is drawing to a close.
Toward Russia a period of active enmity is probably
—“Daily Herald.” London.
DUCE: “ You’re getting warmer”
ITALY: “You’re telling me!”
beginning. One of these will be played against the
other. But by and large, and according to the exigen-
cies of pure opportunism, the United States will play
a strong, independent hand.
With Japanese-American trade relations on a
day-to-day basis, the most pointed debate among the
informed these days is over embargoing materials of
war to Japan. Since without materials purchased in
America Japan cannot, it is said, continue its war in
China, war over the issue would seem unlikely or
suicidal for Japan. On the other hand, the lengths to
which Japanese generals are willing to go is unknown,
and Japan is said to have accumulated a year’s supply
of war essentials. It may be that the U.S.A. will
have to sink about half the Japanese fleet.
This is not a preferred solution to the situation,
but for a vast number of reasons it is likely to be
enforced. The powers-that-be in the U.S.A. would
greatly prefer that the Soviet Union and Japan tangle
immediately ; probably this fond hope has lain behind
the U.S.A.’s persistent provisioning of Japan with
major raw materials of war during the last few years,
The main difficulties in the way of continuing this
lucrative trade are (a) Japan s stubborn aggression
against China without reliable evidence of taking on
the Bolsheviks seriously ; (b) the danger of a non-
aggression pact between the U.S.S.R. and Japan at the
expense of Britain and France in the Orient; (c) steady
increase in American indignation over this trade with
Japan ; (and) the U.S.A. needs to start accumulating a
few more reserves itself.
During the last year Pacific fortifications, distribu-
tion of provisions and range of manoeuvres, and now
the recruiting and training, aircraft construction and
propaganda, all indicate getting ready for war in the
Pacific area. Admiral Harry E. Yarnell, in a national
broadcast on Oriental problems, said, in effect: No
troops will be landed ; it will be Purely a naval war
The lately retired chief of the U.S.A. Asiatic fleet
S ° U Durin°g W the war excitement and fear in the Islands,
the Philippine legislature will vote frantically to rescind
the independence commitment in favor of dominion
status. Other islands may, through war or purchase,
fall into United States hands; it would be particu-
larly profitable, for example, to protect British and
French possessions at the expense of the Dutch. Any-
way, Uncle Sam seems due to slip bashfully into the
shoes of Mother England in the Orient.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
It is strange how in war-time many people turn
to the occult sciences, astrology and spiritualism. The
late Lord Beatty, for instance, constantly conferred
with a lady whom he believed to be endowed with
powers that were more than natural. — Viscount Castle-
rosse ; London “Sunday Express.”
% * * * *
It is difficult as yet to give a complete picture of
the enormous sum of suffering brought about by the
sudden migration of the millions who, when the Ger-
mans invaded Belgium and Northern France, aban-
dqned all their belongings and fled on the roads, ex-
posing themselves to the bombs and machine-guns of
German aeroplanes. Detailed reports, illustrated with
photographic documents, will be compiled later, and
it will then be seen how great has been the progress
of German barbarism since 1914. — Belgian correspon-
dent in London “Times.”
* * * * *
Recently near Craiova, Rumania, I passed a long
train of cattle-trucks crowded with peasants. It was
a hot day. In spite of the heat they were wearing
their thick peasant clothes: white woollen trousers,
sheepskin hats and waistcoats, coarse white or red
stockings and old scraps of motor-car tyres strapped
over their feet. They were herded together in the
cattle-trucks, and they stared at us as we passed. They
had lean, sun-burnt faces and shepherds’ eyes which
see only the essential things. They were being taken
to the frontier to be dressed in khaki and to be given
old French rifles. — George Pendle, in London “Fort-
nightly”
* * * * *
There is [3 / 6 / ’40] a German subject—Baron von
Pirquet—behind the reception desk of the hotel at
which Lord Halifax lives. His colleagues call Kim
Mr. Pirquet. I called on him—a tall, good-looking,
dark young man with charming
manners. He received me in his bed-
room, wearing an elegant dark-blue
dressing-gown. There was a big
radio-set by the bed. As he lives in,
the curfew will not affect him. His
position is no doubt embarrassing.
“I do not wish for publicity,” he said.
He had had no trouble at all, he
added: “After all, I have been here
nearly two years.... ” For some
years he worked in hotels in Vienna.
He was Austrian. “Anti-Nazi?” I
asked. “Certainly,” he said. As in
the case of all such technically enemy
aliens, his employers and the authori-
ties have of course satisfied them-
selves about him. — William Hickey ;
London ‘‘Daily Express”
* * *
Great retreats and rearguard
actions have written some of the
most glorious pages in the history
of the British Army, but they carry
with them an unmistakable reflection
on our traditional peace policy and
our habitual unreadiness for war ;
and the pride which the British
people may justly take in them must
be tempered with deep humility.
Almost invariably when our vital
interests have been threatened and
against our will we have found ourselves plunged in
war, our small regular forces have been called upon at
the Outset to act as our shield and buckler till the
country was fully armed. Trusting in their valor and
prowess, we have called upon them for unexampled
efforts and let them be faced with trials almost beyond
endurance. Brigadier-General C. F. Aspinall-
Oglander, commenting on Dunkirk, in London “Even-
ing News.”
*
Rearguard actions are always stirring often
more so than triumphant assaults. The Navy once
again played its dashing part. In reading of this new
adventure I recall the little midshipmen of Gallipoli
standing calmly to their posts in their open boats
under a withering hail of fire when we made the land-
ing. I did not see one boy duck.— Field-Marshal Lord
Birdwood, on Dunkirk, in London “Sunday Graphic.”
% sfc * * *
A French opinion on Lord Gort: “The British
do not seem to develop the outstanding leaders in
peace-time, but in war the natural leaders are more
numerous than in other armies. In any crisis the
big man to deal with it arises. In Flanders we had
the big event of a comparatively small force faced,
in a corner of Belgium, by the gigantic power drive
of the German Army prepared years in advance for this
very place and field. It seemed long odds on a com-
plete German success. The man who foiled and
fooled the Boche was General Gort. His masterly
tactics when he found the Belgians gone, his left
flank exposed and a German Army moving on it
were decisive and made the line hold right to Dun-
kirk.” —Yorkshire “Post.”
* * * * *
At the Norfolk and Norwich Assizes, Mr. Justice
Hilbery, referring to trial by jury, said: “I ask whether
in times like these we can afford to have citizens
called away from perhaps vital occupations to wait
about in a court or courts, perhaps for a week, to
serve as jurors, to try those who are charged at a
time like this with criminal offences. Every man
today who has work to do is vitally required in the
effort that this country must make, and it is an
extravagance that we should think it necessary to
continue this right ."—London “Times”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Cheery Jack’s record-breaking win in
the Grand National Hurdle Race at
Flemington on Saturday shattered an old-
established contention that no horse, let
alone one carrying 11.7, could win that
race when having his first start over
jumps for eight months. First Sydney-
owned horse to win the big race, Cheery
Jack simply outclassed his opponents
with a display of superb jumping and
superior pace on the flat. Rider L.
Meenan wisely did not fight against him
after he had pulled his way to the front
a mile and a half from home, and Cheery
Jack won easily from First Brigade and
Dark David in the race and course record
time of 5.28, or If second better than
Belar’s previous best.
The fact that the rest of the field was
not much above ordinary suburban stan-
dard did not detract from Cheery Jack’s
brilliant display. The time was there,
and he fully justified the confidence of
his owner, J. M. C. Forsayth, and his Mel-
bourne trainer, Maurice McGrath, that
flat racing and private schooling would
fit him for the job. That he succeeded,
however, was a tribute to the skill of
McGrath, who was instructed by For-
sayth to prepare him along those lines.
Forsayth states that similar methods pre-
ceded Cheery Jack’s win in the A.J.C.
Hurdle last year, when he was trained at
Rosehill by Bert Stanton, and added that,
with the possibility of a rehandicap in
the event of success, it was unnecessary
to give him a race over jumps before
tackling the National. He is a natural
jumper, and has never forgotten the
schooling lessons taught him early in his
career.
A six-year-old gelding by David, noted
sire of jumpers, from Cheerio, Cheery
Jack deserved his win, as a series of mis-
fortunes befell him when brought to Mel-
bourne for the corresponding race last
winter. A fall at Moonee Valley, com-
bined with a recurrence of slight kidney
trouble, necessitated his withdrawal, and
a week after the big race he lost on pro-
test after finishing ahead of the G.N.
winner Green Cape in the Doutta Galla
Hurdle. Even allowing for the improve-
ment he has made meantime, his success
with 11.7 on Saturday showed what a
golden opportunity had to be missed with
9.6 a year ago. The Bulletin represen-
tative was at the stables when Forsayth,
after having heard veterinary opinion
concerning his horse, decided to scratch
him. Forsayth took the setback philo-
sophically, remarking, “It’s bad luck, but
he is only five years old, and perhaps he
will win next year’s National.”
Those words were prophetic, but a
few weeks ago Forsayth seriously con-
sidered withdrawing Cheery Jack from
Saturday’s race. As his horse had been
favorite since the declaration of weights,
his statement to this effect raised a storm
of protest, but, even so, backers would
not have received a run for their money
had Cheery Jack won the Sandringham
Handicap at Flemington on June 1 or
the Birthday Handicap at the same track
on June 17. Forsayth is definite on that
point.
“Had Cheery Jack won either of
those li-mile flat races,” he declared on
Saturday, “it was my firm intention to
keep him to flat racing and to forgo his
National engagement.” Fortunately for
double-backers, but unfortunately for
double bookmakers, Cheery Jack finished
only third in both. The big weights he
will now receive in hurdle races, how-
ever, may more or less force his owner
to keep Cheery Jack to flat racing in
future. He is engaged in the Caulfield
Cup with 7.4 and in the Melbourne Cup
with 7.2, but, while Forsayth does not
flatter himself that he can win either of
those races, he is of the opinion that
Cheery Jack could hold his own in dis-
tance handicaps of more moderate class.
Double bookmakers will have to do
a lot of financing to reduce their liabili-
ties. They laid Cheery Jack for large
amounts with every fancied candidate for
the G.N. Steeple, though much “dead”
money was left with them when popular
second “legs” in Giant Killer, Mustella
and Tifone fell by the wayside. It
seemed certain also that big money for
the stable double, Cheery Jack and Turf
Boy, had gone west after Turf Boy’s in-
glorious display in the Wanda Steeple-
chase last month and his subsequent
shoulder soreness. Early last week
McGrath, who owns as well as trains
Turf Boy, was not at all optimistic about
getting his horse to the post. His con-
dition improved considerably, however,
and, at the time of writing, McGrath
was hopeful that he would be able to
run Turf Boy in the Steeplechasers’ Flat
today (Wednesday) and in the National
as well.
McGrath thinks a great deal of Turf
Boy, and if the latter is a starter next
Saturday it can be taken for granted that
his owner-trainer considers him quite fit
to run the 3 miles 1 furlong. That being
so, Turf Boy should win in a field that
is not strong otherwise. His 12.2 repre-
sents 21b. more than h§ carried when
second to Giant Killer in the correspond-
ing race last year, and 31b. less than when
he beat Bully Hayes in the Hopetoun
Steeple at Flfemington on June 1. Bully
Hayes, incidentally, appears to have made
a good recovery from an injury that
seemed sure to prevent his running next
Saturday. At latest, owner-trainer Jack
Jury expects him to run, and to win.
First Brigade’s second to Cheery Jack
was an improvement on his form at
Moonee Valley a week earlier, and it was
unfortunate for his connections that he
should have pulled up badly. He had
the run of the race, but rider R. Sweet-
nam, who dismounted after passing the
winning-post, stated that First Brigade
almost collapsed a few yards from the
finish. “I realised then that he had
broken down earlier,” Sweetnam de-
clared. Whether or not the mishap made
any difference to the result is another
matter. First Brigade is raced on lease
by J. Langham from T. S. Ryder, both
South Australians, and perhaps Ryder
will have better luck with Blackford in
the G.N. Steeple. Bill McKay, owner-
trainer of Glowing, had much more
reason to bemoan his fate. Glowing,
who had been backed by him to win the
National double, and was one of the
most dashing young jumpers in Mel-
bourne, broke his neck when he fell a
mile from home. In falling, he settled
whatever chance Bureaucrat might have
had.
Dark David, rising 11, ran perhaps his
best race over hurdles at Flemington in
narrowly beating Paul Lois for third
money of £2OO. Incidentally, his form
suggested that Our Boy, who had beaten
him easily at Moonee Valley a week
earlier, would have made things interest-
ing for Cheery Jack had an injury not
prevented his running. Our Boy is mak-
ing satisfactory progress, however, and
probably will receive his opportunity in
the Australian Hurdle. Trainer Des
McCormick advances an interesting
theory to account for Dark David’s
failures at Flemington. He contends that
the old gelding does not sight the grey
hurdles there as well as he does the black
hurdles at Moonee Valley and Caulfield.
Black against the green turf affords a
greater contrast, and it does seem strange
that hurdles on all courses are not uni-
form in color.
Course scratching of the G.N. Steeple
favorite, Blackford, robbed the Kensing-
ton Steeplechase of a lot of interest.
Nothing is amiss with him, but success
might have meant a rehandicap on top
of his present penalty of 41b. The race,
instead of clarifying the National posi-
tion, clouded it further. National Debt
and Hearty Laugh, well-fancied S.A.
candidates for the big race, were among
the six runners that failed to complete
the course, and, although Brightello won
easily from his stable-mate Gracstello,
doubts exist about his ability to get the
distance next Saturday. Gracstello is a
non-stayer, and King’s Warden, who fin-
ished third, was not even entered for the
National. My Blarney, another South
Australian, finished fourth, but he was
15 lengths behind King’s Warden and
was not impressive from a National view-
point. Sir Muslin fractured a shoulder
when he fell, and was destroyed.
Excuse was possible for Martext’s
failure in the Kensington Steeple, and he
is still a decided G.N. possibility. He
lost almost half a furlong at the start,
and that, naturally, put him right out of
the race. His National prospects must
now be gauged on his latest form in the
Warrnambool district, where he is
trained, and that form says a lot for his
chance. A genuine stayer, and a winner
at Flemington, he won the recent Warr-
nambool Grand Annual Steeplechase, the
distance of which is farther than the
advertised three miles, and at his next
start beat Jacasse six lengths in a flat
race over nine furlongs at Woodford.
Value of the latter form lay in the fact
that Jacasse came to the city to win the
principal flat race at Mentone two weeks
ago.
Record times are unusual during winter
months, when tracks, as a rule, are hold-
ing, but Flemington course-proper on
Saturday was lightning-fast. Quite apart
from Cheery Jack’s National record,
Prince Ariel’s 2.28} in the Winter Han-
dicap clipped a second off Elanage’s
course record and got within half a
second of Palfresco’s Australian record
for a mile and a half. French Gem’s
I. for the first division of the Iramoo
Handicap was only quarter of a second
outside the Flemington record, and three-
quarters of a second outside the Austra-
lian record for seven furlongs, while
Atticus’s 3.35 f for the Maiden Hurdle
was only l|sec. outside Bridge of Mar’s
Australian record for two miles over
hurdles.
Early battle for the lead between the
two tearaways, Lady Kooringal and
Temple Coyn, was responsible for Prince
Ariel’s record. The two mares spread the
field right out, but ran themselves into
the ground in doing so. Third most of
the way, Prince Ariel hit the front at the
top of the straight and battled on in the
gamest possible style to win by half a
head from Barametric, who had headed
him inside the last furlong. Marcius ran
on well in third place, though without
ever being a danger to the first and
second horses. Trainer Frank Godby
showed good judgment when he bought
Prince Ariel from Sydney trainer R.
Skelton, and, at the same time, took over
the indentures of the latter’s apprentice,
J. Crossingham. They have been asso-
ciated in two Flemington wins in less
than a month, and on each occasion
Prince Ariel has been backed heavily. A
three-year-old gelding by Marconigram
from Queen Balak, he carried only 6.12
on Saturday, but seems certain to im-
prove. His spring engagements include
the Caulfield Cup with 7.2 and the
Melbourne Cup with 7.4.
Neglected in the betting at 33 to 1,
French Gem’s weight advantage of 391 b.
enabled her to beat El Golea in the first
division of the Iramoo Handicap.
Although she won the Oaks in 1938,
latest form said so little for French
Gem’s chance that her South Australian
owner, G. W. Badman (owner of Aurie’s
Star), did not back her himself, and ad-
vised his friends against doing so. Bad-
man intended to give her a couple more
races before retiring her to the stud.
French Gem, however, was in a gallop-
ing mood, and, always well-placed, over-
came the disadvantage of hanging out
badly in the last furlong. She wound up
with a length and a half to spare from
El Golea, who, however, ran one of the
best races of his career. El Golea, who
is topweight for the Epsom and Cantala
Stakes, carried 10.13, and conceded from
171 b. to 481 b. to his rivals. Tetreen was
a moderate third after appearing to have
had every chance.
Apprentice V. Hartney’s amazing run
of success continued on Sir Richard in
the Myross Handicap. It was the tenth
time he had been first past the post in his
last 11 rides, though one of the wins was
taken from him on protest at Moonee
Valley last Wednesday. Sir Richard was
always favorite, and, although it was by
only a head and half a head that he beat
Sun Valley and the much-raced Partoer,
he impresses as sure to go on improving.
He has raced only four times for two
wins, a second and a third, and is a fine
type of colt who might not be out of
place in the set-weight races next spring.
Owner Phillips has been racing horses
for many years, having won the G.N.
Hurdle with Jullundur in 1916, but it
is doubtful whether he has ever had a
better run of success than in recent
weeks. In addition to Sir Richard’s two
wins, he has won four races with Elli-
son. Sir Richard’s spring engagements
include the Caulfield Cup with 7.1 and
the Melbourne Cup with 7.2, and,
although he received 101 b. from Sun
Valley on Saturday, he might improve
more than the latter.
Sent to Australia by the Duke of Kent,
but, because of the war, sold at a high
price to Mrs. L. R. Buxton, Greenwich’s
second to the 25-to-l chance Con Burn in
the second Iramoo Handicap division
drew attention to his prospects in impor-
tant spring races. Greenwich was hav-
ing only his second race in Australia, and
his first since March, but was moderately
fancied, and his price firmed from tens
to sevens. A long way back early, he
was reasonably close to the leaders at
the turn, and, although not doing as well
as the winner at the finish, will be all the
better for the race. Form said practically
nothing for Con Burn’s prospects, but the
stable risked a few pounds, “just on the
off-chance.” He is a four-year-old by
Burnewang from Humoresque, trained by
F. Manning, jun., for Mrs. T. J. Confoy.
Big disappointment of the race was the
Irish gelding Scarlet Toi. Always a hot
favorite, he finished only fifth, and little
excuse was possible for his failure.
Abe Silk likes nothing better than a
jumper, and his enterprise in paying 450
guineas for Atticus last March was re-
warded when that gelding justified his
warm favoritism for the Maiden Hurdle
Race. Atticus was left with a long lead
when Cantland ran right off the course
going out of the straight, and was not
headed subsequently to win easily from
Lord Tolgus and The Brewer. Special
weight conditions of the race were all in
his favor, but Atticus, who is only a
four-year-old and a decent welter horse
on the flat, will improve with hurdling
experience. He should win in stronger
company before he is much older, even if
not up to Australian Hurdle standard.
* * * *
Beaulivre adds to the many supposed
certainties from Sydney that have been
beaten in Brisbane by a local horse.
Although Beaulivre was “off” earlier in
the week owing, it was believed, to the
drinking water disagreeing with him, he
ran too well on Saturday for there to
have been much amiss. He was beaten
a head by Expressman in record
time for Doomben, and the track was
said to be a little soft. Perhaps that may
have had something to do with neither
Creditor nor Penthides running up to ex-
pectations. Vergure acted up to his best
Sydney form, and his third covered ex-
penses. His owner was hopeful he
would at least do that. Vergure was a
length behind Beaulivre, whom he met
41b. worse than Epsom terms.
Expressman was second favorite, so
his win did not surprise Brisbane race-
goers. He recently won a sprint race in
brilliant style at a Q.T.C. meeting, and
he and Godfrey M. stood out as the
best of the Brisbane horses. The latter
was a close fourth, only a head behind
Vergure, and it is said f he would have
given his backers a much better run if
the luck of the draw for positions had
favored him. Expressman is by Wyvern
(Coronach-Salamandra), a winner in
England.
M. McCarten was hopeful Beaulivre
had dead-heated Expressman and it was
refreshing to note that he did not rush
into print on the score of any alleged
error by the judge. McCarten, however,
is an intelligent man, and recognises that
in a finish where it is only a matter of
inches a jockey who is riding his hardest
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(By “SENTRY.”)
G.N. Steeplechase: (In absence of
Turf Boy) Martext, 1 ; Blackford,
2 ; Bully Hayes, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(By “PILOT.")
Brush Hurdle Race: King Otho,
1 ; Lord Belmont, 2 ; Trekster, 3.
Encourage Stakes: Majunga, 1 ;
Beau Frere, 2 ; Excursion, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: The Elk, 1 ;
Shem, 2 ; Hydra, 3.
Carlton Mile: Tuhitarata, 1 ;
Bonny Loch, 2 ; Last Chance, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Salivant, 1 ;
Anpapejo, 2 ; Highborn, 3.
Flying Welter Handicap: Gallop,
1 ; June, 2 ; Moaveil, 3.


can scarcely be regarded as a greater
authority than the judge as to the result.
At the time of writing Beaulivre is in
the Doomben Cup, but there is still the
possibility of its being deemed inadvis-
able to run him in an 11-furlongs race
on a sprint preparation. His pace would
enable him to hold a good position in the
early part without any trouble, but there
would be the likelihood of the last fur-
long troubling him. In Maoriland this
season Beaulivre won nine races in suc-
cession, but only two were beyond a mile.
One was the N.Z. Derby (Christchurch),
in which the pace was so easy that the
mile and a half took 2.40, and second
place was filled by Moorsotis, whose best
effort in Sydney the previous month
was to run second in a mile welter at
Randwick. In that he was weighted
41b. above the minimum of 7.7, but
carried only 7.6, consequent on an
apprentice allowance being claimed for
his rider. The other was the Harcourt
Stakes (Wellington), 1| mile, in which
Beaulivre (7.11) finished a neck ahead of
Beaupartir (9.0).
In the Great Northern Derby at Auck-
land in January Beaulivre was beaten
three-quarters of a length by Beau Vite,
and at the same meeting was similarly
defeated by the latter in the Clifford
Plate, \\ mile. On that form Beaulivre
is not as good as Beau Vite at a mile
and a quarter or further, and the Doom-
ben Cup, at 11 furlongs, with 9.1, may
be tough for him. Beaulivre, by the way,
has placed E. C. Harnett high in the
winning list in Maoriland this year. Up
to the end of last month he was third,
with £4540, those above him being the
partnership of E. R. Davis and O. Nichol-
son, with £4970, and E. N. Fitzgerald,
£4589.
Unless the lower scale tells in Gill-
town’s favor —he drops from 8.12 to 8.0
—it does not appear as if he will beat
Binnia Hero in the Doomben Cup.
Binnia Hero is down 131 b., but while the
difference of a pound is scarcely worth
considering the extra quarter-mile may
do more for Binnia Hero than Gilltown,
notwithstanding the latter’s Moonee
Valley Cup win at a mile and five fur-
longs. Probabilities suggest Binnia Hero
will improve a little more than Gilltown,
who seemed at the top of his form be-
fore he went to Brisbane. Binnia Hero
did not win at two years, but he has
more than made amends this season, his
record being seven wins, two seconds,
two thirds, and £2580 in prize-money.
He is one of the last of Heroic’s get, and
his dam Coolpa is by Cooltrim from
Strypa, by Martian. On her showing in
the Carnival Handicap Hilarious should
run well, and Huko may be Brisbane’s
brightest Cup hope.
* * * *
The late postponement of Kensington
on Saturday was bad news for some of
those bookmakers who principally confine
themselves to course business on meet-
ings in other States. After the results of
the Doomben Newmarket and Grand
National were known their comment
was: “The chances are we would have
won over the Newmarket, because though
Expressman was v/ell in the market most
backers would have restricted themselves
to our own horses. It would have been
different with the Grand National. We
were certain losers on that, as backers
would have asked for scarcely anything
outside Cheery Jack, notwithstanding his
price would have been shorter than in
Melbourne.”
* * * *
It is regrettable that the clubs have
been unable to come to some amicable
arrangement relative to the proposed re-
duction of fixtures at Sydney and pro-
vincial meetings. The Cabinet sub-com-
mittee proposed to cut racing down to 52
Saturdays, seven statutory holidays and
10 Wednesdays, the days to be appor-
tioned by the A.J.C. However, the-A.J.C.
asked for an extension to 22 Wednesdays
for the metropolitan clubs. With regard
to the provincial clubs, which it was pro-
posed to reduce from twelve to six days
each, the A.J.C. committee recommended
that they be given Wednesdays instead
of Tuesdays and Thursdays, as at present.
That idea did not appeal to the metro-
politan debenture and non-proprietary
clubs, whose proposition was that racing
should be reduced from 171 to 121 days,
that they should continue much as at
present, and that Kembla Grange, Wyong
and Richmond should be temporarily
dropped, but should receive compensa-
tion. Those clubs do not favor that
proposal. There is still time for the clubs to
come to an agreement, and submit some-
thing acceptable to the Government. If
that is not done, it means legislation early
next month to'deal with the position, and
that may lead to something more drastic
than originally contemplated by the
Cabinet sub-committee. Parliamentary
interference with racing is something to
be avoided if possible.
Victoria is cutting down racing, but
only in the country districts and the
meetings are very minor affairs. Metro-
politan fixtures will not be affected. Only
for circumstances standing in the way
that might tempt some of Sydney’s
younger men to try their luck in Mel-
bourne, though that city is not lacking
in trainers.
* * * *
The old suggestion of a “breakaway
body” has cropped up in connection with
the question of reduction of racing in
Sydney. Such a move would not im-
prove matters for owners and trainers, as
those fighting under the banner of oppo-
nents of the A.J.C. would cut themselves
off from the rich stakes at Randwick as
well as those put up by the principal
clubs in the other States. The latter
would undoubtedly continue to support
the A.J.C. in preference to a combi-
nation of proprietary and debenture
clubs, whose main interest in racing com-
mences and ends with possible profits.
Furthermore, all the principal breeders
would be on the side of the A.J.C., and
they would be disinclined to risk disquali-
fication by leasing horses to be raced at
meetings that would be banned by the
present ruling body. As for a Board of
Control, no one genuinely interested in
racing could wish for that.
* * * *
Covert, who did not come Up to ex-
pectations when backed for a division of
the Maiden Juvenile Stakes at the recent
Rosehill meeting, won the Two-year-old
Novice Handicap at Newcastle last
Thursday. He had little to spare from
Joselata, but as he is a well-grown colt
by Fox-Earth from Lynforce he is sure
to improve. He cost 400gns. at Rand-
wick last year, and as his dam is a half-
sister to L’Aiglon and High Syce he may
develop into a stayer. Fox-Earth, who is
by Foxlaw, won handicaps up to a mile
and three-quarters in England, so there
is nothing lacking on the sire side of
Covert’s pedigree.
*'* * *
In the belief that it is impossible to tell
what may happen to racing in the near
future, several Sydney trainers of spring
handicap horses are starting to move them
along earlier than usual. Wisely enough
they do not intend missing opportunities.
Consequently some horses may be at the
top of their form before the big handi-
caps are run, and that may tend to bet-
ting upsets, as some horses are hard to
keep right.
* * * *
With ordinary luck the Clarence River
J.C. (Grafton) should have another suc-
cessful cup meeting. This year the handi-
capping is being done by one of the
A.J.C! stipendiary stewards, P. J. Bartley,
who does not lack experience in this
line of business. Buzalong gave him a
topweight in the Grafton Cup, but
though even that impost leaves him with
a chance, Bristol, Buzzal, Salivant and
Mabson strike me as having better
prospects. Bristol is to go to the meeting.
Lightly-weighted Liege Maid should also
give a good account of herself.
Two-year-old Martheus will, with 7.10,
take some running down in the Ramornie
Handicap, but will have to keep moving
to keep out of the way of Radical (8.12)
and Winnipeg (9.5). When Radical ran
second to Bona Fide at Canterbury he
had 8.7, and those behind him included
Denis, Brazandt, Vergure and Forward.
In the C.R.J.C. Handicap Buzzal, Sali-
vant, Mabson and Liege Maid comprise
a collection likely to furnish more than
one place-getter. In respect of penalties
the winner of any flat race of over £4O
is liable to be rehandicapped up to 101 b.
* * * *
The desire constantly to have their
names in print is evidently becoming an
obsession with some racing officials,
owners, trainers, jockeys and others.
Even youthful apprentices talk of judges’
mistakes. Everyone has a right to his
opinion, but a hint that the old adage of
“Silence is golden” still has some appli-
cation would occasionally not be out of
place.
* * * *
My idea that Cheery Jack would suffer
in the Grand National consequent on
not having raced over the jumps for
several months was wide of the mark.
Running up to his recent form on the
flat, and not being troubled in the least
by the hurdles, he gave none of his
opponents a look-in over the last half of
the trip. Dark David did better over the
jumps than on any previous occasion at
Flemington, but was only a moderate
third, with Bureaucrat and Paul Lois
heading the remainder.
Cheery Jack’s easy win must have
pleasantly surprised even his owner,
J. M. C. Forsayth, who, when he won
his first important race, last year’s A.J.C.
Hurdle, thought he was rather harshly
handicapped. It is probable he would
now admit he was mistaken. Apropos of
Cheery Jack’s time, there are no three-
mile flat races run at Flemington these
days, but the fastest time put up in the
Champion Stakes at that distance was
Radnor’s 5.22|, with 7.12. Quiver (8.12)
and Wallace (7.12) dead-heated in 5.23-y,
and Trafalgar (9.5) was next best, with
5.25*. Therefore a hurdler’s 5.28 with
11.7 does not compare unfavorably with
the times recorded by old-time crack flat-
racers, and does nothing towards uphold-
ing the oft-expressed opinion of worship-
pers of the past of “Ah! We have no
racehorses like those of the old days.”
* * * *
The other day I heard a query as to
how Lady Gay would be likely to fare
in a Flying Handicap. A win would
not be beyond her at one of the subur-
ban or mid-week tracks. She would be
sure to receive considerable weight con-
cession, and, as she can run a good five
and a half furlongs, an extra half-fur-
long under a light weight should not
trouble her. At various periods in Syd-
ney 14.2 ponies proved they could win
in open company, and Lady Gay is now
getting so much weight in her own class
that F. T. Cush may be almost forced to
try her outside it. That trainer has re-
ceived an extension of his lease.
* * * *
The idea of a match race at Randwick
in connection with the Red Cross meet-
ing is being adhered to by the committee.
The prize-money of £lOOO is attractive,
but one of the difficulties in connection
with such a race will be to fix a distance
equally suitable to all our best horses.
Ajax is not likely to come for the race,
and the best of our lot, according to
the A.J.C. handicapper’s figures, are
Mosaic, High Caste, Beaulivre, Reading,
Buzalong and Mildura, and the last-
named has yet to prove himself up to
weight-for-age form.
It is doubtful whether those associated
with Mosaic and Reading would favor
anything less than a mile and a quarter,
and that is probably quite as far as the
owner and trainer of High Caste would
like him to go in a hard race so early
in the season. Beaulivre can run a great
mile, and mile and a quarter is not
beyond him. Beau Vite’s presence
would add interest at any distance from
a mile. With the Guineas run the same
day, there would be little likelihood of
any of the leading three-year-olds taking
part. It therefore seems to me it would
be advisable for the committee to wait
as long as possible before committing
themselves to anything definite apart
from the announcement as to prize-
money. Assurances from owners that,
barring accident, their horses would be
runners, and agreement as to distance,
would appear to be necessary factors in
making a success of the race.
* * * *
Notwithstanding Gladynev appears to
be thrown into the Caulfield Cup with
6.7, some Maoriland critics do not re-
gard his chance as exceptionally good.
“The Watcher” in the Wellington paper
the “Dominion” says that, even with his
light weight, few racing men over there
would back him to beat Old Bill or Beau
Vite. That is surprising, in view of the
fact that Gladynev will meet those two
on 311 b. and 251 b. better terms respec-
tively than when he was third to them
in the Wellington Centennial Cup. Old
Bill finished a neck ahead of Beau Vite,
with Gladynev two lengths further away,
and there were 23 other runners.
* * * *
Any owner who gives a high price for
a horse deserves a return, and it is good
to learn that, although Seven Fifty
recently gave his trainer, B. Pay ten, a
lot of trouble, diathermy treatment had
such a good effect upon him that it is
fairly certain he will be right for spring
racing. In Brisbane last season Seven
Fifty won three races, two at a mile and
the St. Leger, while his minor placings
included second with 7.12 in the Queens-
land Cup, two miles. Subsequent to his
St. Leger win he finished a long way
back in the Brisbane Cup with 8.3. As
he is in all the spring handicaps, his con-
nections are evidently uncertain whether
he is better suited by a mile than a longer
distance.
At his first start in Sydney he was third
in the Colin Stephen Stakes, li mile,
two lengths from the dead-.heaters Royal
Chief and Mosaic. At his next run he
was last in the Craven Plate. In three
later starts in Sydney he did not show
form of any account, but as in Queens-
land he is reckoned a good horse, and
the price paid for him upholds that idea,
a move for him in anything in the spring
will be worth noting. His respective im-
posts are: Epsom Handicap, 8.3 ; Metro-
politan, 8.4; Caulfield Cup, 8.8 ; Mel-
bourne Cup, 8.7; Cantala Stakes, 8.9.
Those figures point to one of the Sydney
races being chosen for him in prefer-
ence to reserving him for any of the
southern handicaps.
* * * *
As originally framed, Moprefield’s
programme of £l4OO for Saturday next
was liberal, but it will go considerably
beyond that. It seems certain that the
Kogarah Handicap will run into three
divisions and the Juvenile and Fly-
ing Welter Handicaps into two each. If
there is the usual half-hour between
races a start will have to be made at
12 o’clock in order to finish at 4.30. In
the circumstances an interval of 25
minutes may be considered sufficient,
and, even at that, it may be necessary
to start at 12.30 in order to conclude
at 4.25. Perhaps the final race may be
run at 4.45 or 5 p.m., though at this
time of the year the latter hour means
racing in the dusk.
* * * *
It will be necessary for either Beau
Vite (9.6) or High Caste (9.5) to make
a weight record for a four-year-old in
order to win the Epsom Handicap. At
present Nightmarch has the record for a
horse of that age, carrying 9.4 when he
won in 1929. Next to him is Gold Rod
with 9.3, and then Hyman 9.2, Chatham
8.13 (he won again the following year
with 9.10), Woorak 8.12, and Amounis
and Synagogue 8.11. Beaulivre has 9.4,
so, while he will not have to make a
record, he will have to equal it in order
to win.
So far as horses of all ages are con-
cerned Marvel is still on top with 10.2,
and there has not been a three-year-old
winner since Dare Devil (6.12) in 1892.
The most decisive winner of the race I
ever saw was five-year-old Sequence in
1901. He had 9.4, but after turning into
the straight he ran right away from his
27 opponents, winning by 10 lengths—
it looked more—from Allinga. The fol-
lowing year he was second with 10.3,
beaten a head by Air Motor, 7.2. He
was similarly placed as a three-year-old
with 7.2. Sequence was owned and
trained by J. A. Mayo, who is still a
fairly regular racegoer, though he does
not bother himself with ownership.
* * * *
In a recent issue I touched upon the
fallacy of overloading a jockey with
orders, especially in races over a dis-
tance. More particularly does this apply
in connection with lightly-weighted
horses. One of this division may have
been showing form prior to an important
race, and nothing is much more annoying
to its supporters than to see it pulled
right back at an early stage when the
pace is comparatively slow, instead of
making some use of the seeming advan-
tage given it by a pull in weight.
When the pace is clapped on it is often
left with a lot of leeway to make up
over the last six furlongs, and it may
either have to go round the horses ahead
of it or take the risk of being hampered
in attempting to get through. I am not
suggesting that because a horse has a
light weight it should be set the task of
winning all the way at a mile and a half
or over —few can do that in a handicap —
but there is a medium. Naturally a jockey
does not care to depart from orders,
knowing he is likely to be blamed if his
mount fails, but in the long run the
trainer who contents himself with telling
his rider to “do your best” probably
fares better than the one who, in the
way of instructions, attempts to ride the
race for him.
* * * *
At the Angle Stud sale last week the
well-known sire Excitement was bought
by J. J. Leahy for 500 guineas.
* * * *
The totalisator turnover at Pimlico
(Baltimore, Maryland) on the day Bime-
lech won the Preakness Stakes was
slightly less than $1,000,000. Of this total
the Preakness was responsible for
$222,088. It would have been a great
deal more if would-be bettors had been
able to get to the tote windows. Machine
betting has been the vogue in Maryland
for many years, and in the State of New
York, where it was legalised this year,
racegoers have taken very kindly to it.
Jamaica was the first course at which it
was used, and in 24 days $14,048,748 was
put through —a daily average of $585,364.
Even reckoning at the rate of $4 to £1
Australian —and the dollar is worth more
in our money now —that would be
£A146,341 per day. Before the meeting
was half over the club increased the
value of its minor races.
* * * *
Of recent years Mrs. Ethel V. Mars,
owner of the Kentucky Derby winner,
Gallahadion, has been one of the prin-
cipal buyers at the Saratoga yearling
sales. In 1934 she gave $17,900 for
nine vearlings ; in 1935, $109,800 for 28 ;
in 1936, $131,500 for 16; in 1937,
$124,100 for 17 ; in 1938, $95,600 for 15;
and in 1939, $59,000 for 12—a total of


SAVE MONEY
■ ,TS
| thrifty
\3Lto install
NEW Ml
\/
CHAMPIONS
it
nilj
0
w
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring FUEL ECONOMY
Worn plugs waste fuel. Install
new Champions. They ensure
fuller combustion of the fuel.
Less carbon. More power and a
smoother-running engine. Fuel
lasts longer and you soon are
repaid the cost of the spark
plugs ... and more! Champions
actually save you money.
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 90 of 1937.
BETWEEN EMMA BRYANT Petitioner
And FREDERICK WILLIAM BRYANT
Respondent.
TO JEAN ANDERSON.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed EMMA
BRYANT has filed her petition in the Supreme
Court of New South Wales praying for a
divorce from her husband Frederick William
Bryant on the grounds of his adultery with
you. She alleges that he committed adultery
with you between the first day of January One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven and
the Twenty-seventh day of June One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-eight at divers places
in and around Ballina Lismore and Murwillum-
bah in the said State and at divers other places
in the said State This notice is given to you
that you may have an opportunity to apply to
the Court to be let in to defend the charge if
you so desire. A copy of this petition may be
obtained at the address undermentioned free
of charge on application by you.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of June One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. C. McINTOSH, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Molesworth Street, Lismore; by his Agent,
ALFRED ED. McINTOSH, Solicitor, 107
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
THE ORIGINAL AND GENUINE
"KEMP"
SADDLE
«
'
•V-
N.S.W.
Freight
on Saddles'
paid for
Cash with
Order.
f No. 75.
Tn/TyZ
(Complete)
This is the
only Saddle
with the best
claim to the
title “Kemp.”
The pads are set
high up, almost
level with the head
of the saddle, giving
wonderful security to
rider. The seat has no
seams to burst, and the
panel has leather points. It
is made of best “Kip”
leather and on a best
“Fouright” tree.
WALTHER * STEVEMSOMH
395 CEOBCE ST. SYDNEY!
KTT2
$537,900 for 97 yearlings in six years.
Even at last year’s rate of approximately
$4 to £1 Australian, that would repre-
sent £134,475. Now the dollar is worth
more in our money. Australian breeders
would appreciate a buyer who, for six
years, averaged £22,400 each season for
yearlings.
* * * *
Long entry lists do not always mean
large fields in the spring. There were
only 16 runners for the Metropolitan last
year, and for the last 13 years 20 has not
been reached. The record is 35, when
Quinologist won in 1916, the distance
then being a mile and a half. Thirty-
eight in Aleconner’s year (1913) is still
the record field for the Epsom Handicap,
and 17 for the A.J.C. Derby when Tri-
valve won. In the respective years of
Cisco, Kilboy and Salitros there were 16
runners. Fourteen, when Salitros won,
is the best for the Victoria Derby, and
39 for the Melbourne Cup, that being
when Carbine won with 10.5, which is
likely to stand for many more years,as
the highest weight successfully carried in
that race. Forty-one ran in Grace Dar-
ling’s 1885 Caulfield Cup, when several
horses fell. Since then the highest has
been 34 in 1895, Waterfall being the
winner.
* * * *
Handicappers’ opinions must differ,
and Pannade was one Sydney horse with
which the V.R.C. handicapper decided it
was inadvisable to take any risk. In
the Melbourne Cup he gave him 7.5,
against his Metropolitan weight of 6.10.
Last season he won a two-year-old handi-
cap at Rosehill with 7.2, but as he was
in receipt of 281 b. from Grand Billy,
who ran second, it was not a perform-
ance of special merit. He has not shown
anything this season, but evidently the
V.R.C. handicaper believes there is hope
for him at four years. He is by Pantheon
from Ranier, a sister to Rampion.
* * * *
Mosaic’s 9.6 in the Melbourne Cup is
comparatively low for a topweight in that
race, but three years ago Pamelus and
Golden Promise were on top with only
9.3 each, which was the lowest since Pro-
gress was given that weight in 1881,
the maximum then being 9.7. Several
horses have been allotted 10.0 or over
in the Cup, Archer having 11.4 in 1863.
He won with 9.7 in 1861 and 10.2 in
1862.
Others weighted at 10.0 or over were :
Panic 10.0, Volunteer 10.0, The Barb
10.4 and 11.7 in successive years, Tim
Whiffler 10.4 and 10.0, Dagworth 10.0,
Commotion 10.1, Malua 10.0, Carbine
10.0, 10.5 and 10.12, Wallace 10.0, San
Fran 10.5, Wakeful 10.5 and 10.0, Posei-
don 10.0, Poitrel 10.0, Eurythmic 10.5,
Windbag 10.0, Spearfelt 10.2, Phar Lap
10.10 and Peter Pan 10.6. Poseidon ran
with 10.3, being penalised for his Caul-
field Cup win.
* * * He
I have often written that it would be
only fair to owners of mares if they
could learn something concerning the
sureness of stallions in their services. It
is all very well to arrange for a return
the following season if a mare misses,
but the same thing is liable to happen
again, and to the man who has a limited
number of mares the loss of a couple of
foals is a serious matter. Bearing on this
an American breeding authority writes:
One thing I believe that should be en-
acted into law is a statement witnessed be-
fore a notary stating the number of mares
every sire publicly advertised was bred to
the preceding season, and number of foals
resulting therefrom, the number of slips,
if any, and the number of mares, with
their names, that did not get in foal. It
should work both ways; the owner of the
mares is entitled to know the fertility
percentage of the sire he intends patron-
ising, and the owner of the stallion should
be advised of the foaling record of the
mare. In the main the owner of the stal-
lion has the edge; he has recourse to the
Stud Book and the supplements thereto,
but the owner of the mare is completely
in the dark as to the number of mares the
sire covered the previous year, the number
of services necessary to stop each mare,
and the number of foals that accrued as
the result of the former year’s stud season.
* * * *
Sir Richard, winner of the Myross
Handicap at Flemington on Saturday, is
a brother to Jubilee Son and half-
brother to Pantler. He is by Constant
Son from Lile Queen, who was 15 when
she threw him. Lile Queen was a smart
sprinter, winning at Randwick, Warwick
Farm and Rosehill, but it is probable
Sir Richard will stay. As a yearling
he was sold for J2sgns., being knocked
down to T. J. Hayes, who trains him
for Eli Phillips. No mistake was made
as to his chance last week, his starting
price being 9 to 4.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
Teaching generally brings to the
American professional the largest por-
tion of his income. Teaching has conse-
quently been developed to a high degree.
Able to command better fees than in
other parts of the world, mainly because
golf played at private clubs in the United
States is a wealthy man’s game, the
average pro. earns a good income if he
has any sort of reputation as a teacher.
At a meeting of the Chicago district
P.G.A. to which I was invited, I spent
an interesting three hours listening to the
best teachers outlining how they im-
parted their knowledge to their pupils.
Most of the speakers were middle-
aged, and were chosen for their ability
to teach in preference to younger men
who were the better golfers. Of the
many speakers, only one stated that he
attempted to change the player’s own in-
dividual style; the other dozen or so
were unanimous in saying that the best
way to improve any handicap player was
to assist him to develop his own swing.
There is no set style or particular way
to play golf; this was realised by the
U.S.A.P.G.A. when it abandoned this
year a scheme of standardised golf in-
struction it had been following for some
time. Apart from fundamentals, such
as the grip and stance, no two players
look identical in their swing. Tommy
Armour, former British and American
open champion, pointed out that there
was never any definite style of swing to
be learnt in playing golf. He said,
“Every player, whether good or indif-
ferent, should concentrate upon improv-
ing his swing rather than adopting some-
one else’s.” For years I have been think-
ing on similar lines, for I have seen so
many golfers completely spoil any chance
they had of improvement by trying to
copy someone else. The average Ameri-
can professional thinks the same; and
he must show results or else lose some of
his income.
One speaker hit the bull’s-eye when
he said that unless his pupils could prac-
tise what he told them he was unable to
do much for them. “Supervised prac-
tice” is a term coined by these men.
Unless the pupil is under a watchful eye,
following out the pro.’s instructions, it is
difficult to help much. This supervised
practice is popular in the U.S.A., for it
brings the pupil back to the pro. more
frequently, with the advantages not all
on the pro.’s side, either.
Another point Australian professionals
could follow: Many of the teachers here
keep a small card system with a card
for each pupil. A few remarks on each
lesson given are jotted down. This en-
ables the pro. to recall instantly his
pupil’s errors and what he was telling
him in his previous lesson. By being
lesson-conscious the pros, here have given
their pupils a keenness that makes them
want to have regular coaching.
Very few of the younger Australian
pros, are good imparters of their know-
ledge. The older men are nearly all
good teachers. There appears to be a
much better understanding between
teacher and pupil on the American
courses. By concentrating upon firstly
“selling themselves” to the player, they
build up a confidence that makes the
pupil feel more at home and in the mood
to follow instructions. When a player
has no confidence in his teacher or has
any fears as to the advice he is getting
the lesson is wasted.
I have watched several of the leading
pros, give a lesson in which they stress
one thing at a time to their pupil, never
attempting to confuse his mind with
too much. Some pros, make a feature
of short, snappy lessons for ten minutes.
When a golfer has no time to go down
to the practice fairway a pro. gives him
a quick once-over before he commences
his round, getting him to hit a few balls
and giving him a tip or two for his round.
I listened with interest to a visiting
pro. relate how in Pittsburgh a band of
professionals took on a contract at their
clubs to give their members all the les-
sons they wanted for a fee of £3 15s. per
head for the six-months season. Five
days a week were set aside for the pro-
ject, during which the pro. booked lessons
as the members wanted them, while the
other two days he was able to charge for
lessons or deal with outsiders. The trial
is said to be proving a success, and has
stimulated interest in the game.
Whether this plan would work in Aus-
tralia, however, is open to discussion.
However, some pro. at home might do
well with the idea by concentrating on
a group of active players. Several pros,
in the United States with this “retainer”
method have been presented with cheques
for £2OOO in a lump sum for fees, while
at smaller clubs sums around the £750
mark are common.
Footbrawl
With three victories in succession—over
South Melbourne, Collingwood and
Footscray—Fitzroy has suddenly jumped
from its despised position into V.F.
League prominence. In a fast and ex-
citing game on Saturday the Maroons
beat ’Scray with splendid centre play,
speed and judgment, though ’Scray rallied
well and did its darnedest to reassert
itself. Fitzroy, 17-8 ; Footscray, 14-13.
* *•. ' * ' '
Essendon is the latest team to have its
feehnp-ruffled by the low fellows of
North Melbourne, who simply won t
recognise that their duty is to be well
walloped by the aristocrats of the com-
petition list. They so far forgot them-
selves on Saturday as to lead the ’Dons
for two quarters, going down by 19-14 to
16-9, and at Essendon, too!
* * * * *
At b ? me to St * Kilda, Geelong pre-
sented rts guesta wto a heavy ground,
a . greasy ball and a beating. The home
“J* * low and piled up a big
P olnt s tally, 12-22 to 11-10. .
Richmond, like Footscray, lost its
P lac e in the lead to a despised force,
Uarlton. From the first bounce the Blues
to /e into it like a German into a pound
of bud{ : r > and, though the Tigers brought
everything out of their bag of tricks, they
failed to produce a winner. Carlton, 9-22 ;
Richmond, 9-11 ; and all eyes now on the
Richmond-Footscray clash next Saturday.
Collingwood, sighing for past glories
anc j sore f rom re cent defeats, went out
to Flawthorn and, after moodily playing
J" ou ’] d db tbe lo ca ls> f ound itself
heading for another downfall. After con-
templatmg the tact with some alarm
Wood threw off its despondency and
threw itself into the game to win largely
b Y Hawthorn s mistakes in the last
ff ua rtei, 14-17 to .
Melbourne went to Sowth and easy
victory. The premiers dominated the
game from the first bounce, and ran out
eas j es j winners of the day, 19-16 to
jq-18.
* * * *
“R.D.”: Avenging a defeat last year,
£f n W ;. downed Q““nsland by 87 to 83
" " Ausste-rules match at Sydney ; but
‘3 b. ?," 8 ' Twenty-three points
bebmd a ‘ i , '"IV Q“f ens ' anders
ba £ d ™™ f, , Z \ a ? d , W £ e
a J>‘‘ unl „ u , ck >' " ot !° be m , fro ”‘ a ‘ * e
finlsb - st f n P°wd,tch who would be
J P la “ m Melbourne team,
ba " d ' ed tbe ***** ball bke a cham P-
a h nd k,ckedS n TV as ““V
and Carrigan.
. * . * * T *
1S a Sain on the cards that University
£°me f rom last to first in the Sydney
R u § b Y Union competition, as it did last
y ear » anyway, the students are making a
strong bid. An 8-3 win over Parramatta
m Saturday s slush the Varsity for-
rds slogged their way through man-
fully-was.fou u rtb in , a J° w - But
Rsndwick is still in the lead. The Greens
threw the ball to the wings just as on the
driest of fields, and the method (their
slower opponents were tricked into
adopting it also) brought them success
over West—l 9-6, three tries to one.
A * , . * . - . ’ . *
„ of dtfficulttesm fielding
f' e . an ?',‘ s Place. „ T ?L9 UeenS ‘
l r d .S T.fT ,- Blmb ° , W u 7
, { r, „ ■ „ l^ tlre Jl 1en | to be P tbe
ly a S alnst North, and, thanks
? rg | ly ba fot X a F ds m
,be , Cb *’ ‘H Villagers triumphed-
-13-5. North had included four men who
had already turned out for the “seconds”;
and East played full-back See in both
matches against Drummoyne. For the
seconds he kicked two penalty goals
and a converted goal; for the “firsts” two
P-§ s - and two converted. East won 16-8.
St. George and Gordon fought deter-
minedly to a 6-all draw, the first of the
season.


QJ
m
♦
&
G
m<xc
m
to'
USUAL PRICE, £BB/-
NOW £7/7/-, LESS 10%,
£612 3
NETT
DEDUCTED
FROM
YOUR BILL
CRAFTSMAN
TAILORED
IN
LONDON
Take advantage of
this unique offer,
which includes
Greys, Fawns and
Navy English
Worsted in a large
number of fittings,
and each garment
is in perfect con-
dition.
mym
<<
1
' ** « : -¥>&p
' ' ✓ !
1111
\ ;
**> 8 ••X . % s . s O/S> ' : ’'
vm*s* «»* «*v
" x ■■ ■ ''sSt.
• ' j
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD., BROADWAY, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 6506
Without Exception!
THE WHOLE OF THE HUGE RANGE
OF ENGLISH CRAFTSMAN TAILORED
CLOTHING IS SUBJECT TO THE
10% DISCOUNT. THIS INCLUDES:
ENGLISH DRESS WEAR, TOPCOATS,
RAINCOATS, AND LOUNGE SUITS,
WHICH ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
FAMOUS 131 FITTING RANGE.


Jsl
A
TENDER
CHICKEN
IS A
THING
OF JOY
and when is added crisp baked
potato, garden green vegetables, and
rich sizzling gravy, then it becomes
the dish par excellence.
We guarantee tender birds, generous
serves, and complete satisfaction.
Liquor is served (only) with a two-
course meal at Night Dinner, from
6 p.m. to 8.45 p.m.
Jim Donlevy’s Band plays glorious
music during Dinner, and request
numbers if desired.
HOTEL
B W
4091
l
The House of Better Food,
WYNYARD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT' THE TALKIES.
“The Great Victor Herbert”
Well, said Clarice, I’ve just been to
Sydney Prince Edward to see “The Great
Victor Herbert” and it’s simply the most
absolutely marvellous thing I’ve ever seen
because it’s not in technicolor but it’s
all about Allan Jones who’s terribly good-
looking and who’s got the sweetest little
moustache and black wavy hair and sings
gorgeously and shows the loveliest teeth
you’ve ever seen.
He sings the songs or operas or what-
ever they are that Victor Herbert writes
and every year he leads a band to
Victor Herbert’s house and sings outside
and they all go in and have a gorgeous
party and one day when he is singing
outside the house a girl on the footpath
starts singing too and she has a beautiful
voice so Allan asks her to come to the
party with him and she goes inside and
meets Victor Herbert and sing S-for him
and he tells her she has a good voice but
to come back when she has had more
experience.
But the girl knows she can sing already
and Allan knows too so he takes her to
another very exclusive party where Victor
Herbert is and a lot of other important
people and she sings with Allan instead of
the leading lady who is very insulted but
everyone recognises she has a good voice
although Victor Herbert is annoyed be-
cause she gate-crashed the party and he
won’t listen to her or to Allan and he tells
her that she’s only Allan’s plaything and
then she tells him that she and Allan were
married that morning so Victor Herbert
knows that that is different and he’s
delighted and gives them both a part in
his new opera or whatever it is.
Well everything is lovely then until the
giri becomes more popular than Allan
which is terrible because it makes him
miserable so she takes their baby which
was born and goes to Switzerland and
leaves Allan to get back all the popularity
he lost when she started singing with
him and Allan sends her money although
he can’t get any parts now because the
public has had enough of him and he
goes down and down and when his wife
comes back again *she finds he really
hasn’t any money at all and has dozens
of bills to pay so she starts teaching
singing and they’re very poor and it goes
on like that for a long time and it’s
terrible until one Christmas Day an old
friend who is a doctor and who is in-
venting a serum which is good for pneu-
monia comes to visit them and brings
them the loveliest Christmas presents but
when Allan comes in he is ashamed be-
cause he is too poor to buy his wife
and daughter any presents and then he
has a terrible row and realises that he
isn’t any good for them so he packs his
things and says he’s going away to Aus-
tralia where he won’t stand in his wife’s
way any more.
Well as soon as Allan has gone Victor
Herbert comes and asks Allan’s wife to
come back and sing in his new opera and
she says she will because it will make a
lot of money but when she is halfway
through rehearsing for it her voice slips
and she feels tired because she is getting
old and the doctor tells her she can’t go on
that night bcause she might die if she
does and it’s terrible because the show
has to start because it’s been advertised
and nobody knows what to do until the
daughter starts singing and they all
decide that she is the only one who can
save the show which is marvellous be-
cause she’s only fourteen but when the
curtain goes up she can hardly sing be-
cause she’s never been on the stage be-
fore and is terribly frightened and wor-
ried too about her father going to Aus-
tralia and all the people in the audience
want to know who she is and why she
can’t sing and why did Victor Herbert
put her in the show when she’s so young
and can’t sing properly.
Then just when she thinks she can’t
stand it any longer Allan comes back be-
cause he wanted to hear his wife sing
before he went to Australia and he’s ter-
ribly surprised to see his daughter on the
stage instead but he knows what’s wrong
straight away and rushes around to the
back of the stage and takes a costume
from one of the cast and goes on the
stage himself and sings to his daughter
and then she knows everything is all right
and they all sing together marvellously
and everyone is happy and even the
doctor gets a telephone call to tell him
that his serum which is good for pneu-
monia is successful.
“I Take This Woman”
Hedy Lamarr is the woman and
Spencer Tracy the one who does the
taking in this current item at Sydney
State. She’s a sassiety butterfly who
burns her wings, and he’s a doctor work-
ing. in a clinic in a slum district; he
stops her drowning herself, takes her to
his clinic and marries her, then, to set
her up in her old haunts, takes on a job
in a “platinum-plated slaughterhouse”
where the wealthy are soaked for
imaginary cures for imaginary ailments.
A patient dies through negligent treat-
“Tell Mrs. Worlick that We decided to come after all !”
ment, whereupon Tracy renounces the
golden calf and returns to his sheep.
Threaded through that much of the
yarn is another narrative about the
bewchus Hedy still being infatuated, even
after marriage to Tracy, with the cove
who burned her wings, and unable
to decide between him and her hus-
band until she goes along and faces up
to him in his apartment. There’s some
accurate psychology in this bit, but, like
the rest of the film, it’s thickly coated
with sentimentality. Tracy is as natural
and as solid as ever, and any sentimental
syrup runs off him like water off a
duck’s back. In looks, Miss Lamarr is
a warning to go home, but on this show-
ing her director and photographer do
most of her acting for her.
* * * *
“An Englishman’s Home”
From a book written before the last
war and recently brought up to date, this
Sydney Embassy offering deals with a
German spy working in a quiet English
village to establish a wireless transmit-
ting station to send out a beam to guide
’planes carrying parachute troops and
then enemy bombers over England. Most
of it is crude stuff, but contemporary
history gives it some topical interest.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Beecham
Sir Thomas Beecham is so interested
in his orchestra that one of these nights
he will forget his audience altogether.
At rehearsals he makes surprisingly few
demands upon the orchestra members.
He seems in some way to convey his feel-
ing without jumping down their throats,
as was the manner of one A.B.C.
importee.
But on the night of the performance
he makes incessant demands upon them.
At the third concert at the Melbourne
Town Hall he drew out of his collective
instrument as delicate a rendering of two
Mozart pieces as has been heard in Mel-
bourne for a long time. In the second,
the Concerto No. 4 in D Major, he had
the services of Maorilander Haydn Beck
as violinist.
The second part of the programme was
given up to the Symphony No. 2 in D
Major of Sibelius. The Finnish composer
hurls a multitude of themes and motives
into the pot of melody, stirs them up,
adds salt and pepper and other condi-
ments, and then produces out of the
chaos a finished dish of well-ordered in-
gredients which is swept away in one of
the loudest uproars in musical literature.
There was no confusion about it, how-
ever. It had weight and power, like a
strong wind blowing. Beecham wrecked
a second collar over it.
* * * *
Schneevoigt Studio Broadcast
From a listener’s standpoint the best
broadcast of Georg Schneevoigt’s current
Australian season was that of Thursday
night from 2FC studio. Quality of the
transmission was first-class, and the pro-
gramme was attractive and well-varied.
Beethoven’s First was splendidly per-
formed, especially the scherzo (con-
sidered “revolutionary” 140 years ago)
and the robust, jocular, carefree finale.
The “Spring Song” of Sibelius was given
an eloquent reading, Schubert’s “Rosa-
munde” overture has never been more
gracefully played in Australia, and
Verdi’s “Otello” ballet music (written at
74, after the composer had digested
Wagner and Berlioz) was made to sparkle
prettily.
* * •?
Friedman
In his recital at Sydney Town Hall
last week Ignaz Friedman deserted the
older romantic classics long enough to
play Debussy’s “Evening in Granada,”
the “Triana” of Albeniz and a
Scriabine prelude. Main dish of the
programme was the Chopin B Minor
Sonata, with a Bach toccata as entree
and Liszt’s “Campanella” as dessert.
Friedman, like Moiseiwitsch, becomes,
\yjth advancing years, more and more
interested in technique. Passages or
phrases of exceptional digital difficulty
are polished till they dazzle ; staccatos
become mere whip-snaps; interthread-
ing embellishments lift their voices
emphatically; contrasts of light and
shade are tremendously enhanced. It is
all very clever, and is possibly very use-
ful to pianoforte students interested in
details, but the ensemble suffers. The
listener is thinking more about Friedman
than about Chopin, or Schumann, or
Bach, or Beethoven.
* * * *
Elgar Oratorio
“The Apostles,” first member of a
trilogy with which Edward Elgar initi-
ated a new order in oratorio, was per-
formed at Sydney Conservatorium last
week under Dr. Bainton’s baton. It was
a well-prepared performance, notable for
choral singing in which the words were
well enunciated and the connotation of
words and music properly appreciated.
Elgar’s characteristically rich orches-
tration seemed to be relished by the
band. Soloists were none of them
outstanding—they are of no more im-
portance than chorus or orchestra in the
Elgar scale of values —but they fitted
harmoniously enough into the general
picture. Walter Kingsley’s St. Peter was,
perhaps, most nearly adequate to the
composer’s intention.
* * * *
The programme of Beatrice Tange’s
recital at the National Art Gallery, Syd-
ney, on Saturday afternoon (a Lord
Mayor’s Patriotic Fund effort) was well
varied. A lyrical performance of
Chopin’s G Minor Ballade and a power-
ful exposition of Liszt’s Sixth Rhapsody
were outstanding items, backed by
Brahms, Schumann and Rachmaninoff
numbers.
“Short Story” *
The assertion that the modern young
hussy considers virginity a stigma to be
rid of as soon as possible isn’t sufficient
to make anything new or exciting of the
old triangle ; but that’s about the peak
of Robert Morley’s “Short Story,” an
amiable enough concoction in which a
middle-aged author has an affair with a
teen-old flapper who later comes to his
home as guest and, with youthful, femi-
nine assertiveness, is anxious to have it
out with the wife and settle the matter
there and then. Husband, however,
climbs down at the crisis, admits it was
only an affair and, when his wife
threatens to leave him, packs the young
lady off.
Morley, a topnotch actor himself,*
seems to think as much of his players
as of his play, and, because of that and
because of their own ability, Thea Rowe’s
Curtain Professional Players presented
the offering for more than it’s worth at
their theatre near Circular Quay, Syd-
ney, last week. Thea Rowe, as the wife,
and Coral Pern, as her companion, Lady
Whosit, made easy work of their roles ;
both are lively, expressive actresses able
to use voice and hands very well. Jean
Forbes Allen looked the part of the
American sassiety flapper, though her
accent suggested the Bowery rather than
Boston.
Thomas Vary, as the author, found
nothing to trouble him; Clement Ken-
nedy, as Lord Whosit, was appropriately
funny all the way ; and Clyde Manning,
as a film producer trying to persuade the
author’s missus to return to her old pro-
fession, was also unruffled and very natu-
ral, except on the one or two occasions
when his knack of understating his
lines almost lost a couple of them. Elsa
Charlesworth, playing two roles —one as
a servant and one as the village nuisance
—overdid both of them. Clement Ken-
nedy was also responsible for settings, a
job which he managed remarkably well.
ARTBURSTS.
Australian Art of Yesteryear
A mixed show of “early works of
well-known Australian painters” at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, has some
good names in it. Penleigh Boyd is rep-
resented by a rather experimental sea-
study, Elioth Gruner by a charming
piece, “Night of Blue and Pearl,” and a
fine bit of still-water painting, “Old
Wharf, Clifton Gardens.” There’s a
characteristic Hilder water-color, “Re-
flections,” an equally-characteristic gum-
trees-and-cows Heysen and an example
of Streeton at his snappiest—“ The Hill-
side.” Six Melbourne etchings by John
Shirlow are all admirable. A 150-year-
old sketch, “Farm Cove,” by Conrad
Martens portrays a Sydney locality little
touched by time. Thea Proctor, J. W.
Tristram, B. E. Minns and Syd Long
are other painters worthily represented.


BRANDALEI
m
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BEANDAUSR * CO, Ltd. BIRMINGHAM, ENG
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Pf Tired Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do noth-
ing about them. Nature may be warning you
that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood, causing nagging backaches,
rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffiness
tinder the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning show there is something wrong with
your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well and keep you well.
A WOMANS
LETTER
In spite of Saturday’s torrents of rain
nearly 5000 W.A.N.S. reported at the 24
metropolitan and suburban schools set
aside as their rallying points. Mrs. A. C.
Godhard, who, with Mrs. Crawford
Vaughan, is organising the movement,
had a busy day flitting (or, taking
the weather into consideration, trickling
might be the right Word) from centre to
centre. And in each centre physical fit-
ness was the subject first tackled. Mili-
tary drill was in full swing for the greater
part of the afternoon, and well-known
leaders of women’s movements took their
place in the ranks. Florence Taylor was
noticed among them. Federal Treasurer
Spender looked in on the girls at Manly,
and when Mrs. Crawford Vaughan raised
the point he said he saw no reason why
the Government should not provide a
miniature rifle range for the use of the
W.A.N.S. Night classes in everything
from A.R.P. to canteen cooking for
women who can’t attend on Saturday
afternoons will soon be started in the
City Council’s exhibition rooms.
The patriotic concert arranged by
Roland Foster and his wife, Thelma Hous-
ton, was great fun. In spite of incessant
downpours there was a great roll-up at
the Con., and the crowds Were notice-
ably peppered with the literary-minded as
well as us newspaper fellows. Our in-
terest was, of course, Mary Gilmore's war
poem: “No Foe Shall Gather Our Har-
vest.” Brunton Gibb, who had previ-
ously twanged the heartstrings of his list-
eners with Vermede’s “The Sea Is His,”
gave Mary’s poem great point. She her-
self sat with poetess Lilia McKay. Not
far off was Dr. Mackaness, his mind busy
in the interval with his forthcoming an-
thology of Australian verse. With him
were his wife and his daughter and son-
in-law, Joan and John Holmes. The
“Sun’s” chief sunbeamer, Hugh Denison,
was there with his lady. And in the side
aisle was seen newspaperman Fred Kirby,
there specially to hear Mary’s poem.
On the programme there was also a
brand-new song, “Land of the Free,” of
which the words and music were written
by Bradley Ryrie. Magda Neeld came
along from the State Theatre and sang
this with fire and charm. Marie Ryan,
too, was in the second part of the pro-
gramme, and Heather Kinnaird had to
appear after the interval. Marie was
lifting her voice for Prince Edward audi-
ences, and Heather was doing broadcast-
ing. Marjorie Hambridge, breath-taking
in dahlia-red with a sort of classic flow
to the skirt and a girdle of gold vine
leaves, supplied some graceful violin
works. The Norman McLeods, as usual,
were surrounded by friends. Mrs. Rex
Bennett and Thelma Houston, who were
busy among the ushers and the sellers
of badges, carried outsize bags made of
Empire flags. The stage was bright with
flags and bordered with boxes of ferny
shoots.
If you go to the Industrial Arts Society
Show in the Education Gallery and buy
a tie or a teacup, a lovely bowl or some
woven curtains, you are helping the Red
Cross. The members decided to give
their takings to this cause. When Mrs.
Ellis Fielding-Jones declared the show
open last Wednesday, she said “thank
you” with sincerity, and after that the
gist of her speech was “art is long and
war is fleeting.” Dominating the long
gallery are three murals painted by Mary
Soady for the Sydney County Council,
and used as a background for their show
windows. This Letter gave her heart to a
tall green vase with a stem that opened
out wide like a trumpet lily. This was
wreathed with convolvulus. Bunny Ellis
was a graceful hander-out of programmes
and handbills. Lois Windeyer brought
sage-greens to the day’s color scheme.
Lute Drummond’s Cossack cap was of
astrakhan. Toby Williamson was one
of the many artists; Mrs. Osborne, Mrs.
Hector Hamilton, Mrs. Barrington-Hearn
and two small Fielding-Jones girls were
others of the art-minded.
Pianist Trix Tange is having an artistic
setting for her Saturday-afternoon re-
citals. These are to be given in the
central court of the National Art Gal-
lery, and are to benefit the Mayor’s
Patriotic Fund. Last Saturday was the
date of the first concert, and there was
quite a good audience. The player, who
studied for some years abroad, has lately
had an extensive tour in the U.S.A.
Lorna Searl, who has, in the tradition
of the Searl family, carried on a flower-
shop in the city since the death of her
father, the well-known and well-liked
Fred Searl, is among the recently
engaged. Her young man is Richard
M. Edwards, whose father is Colonel
Edwards, of Westgrove, Exeter. Richard
himself is a member of the A.I.F.
Salute the Commandant of the
Women’s All Services Canteen! She is
Mrs. J. King-Patrick, and the canteen
owes its foundation to her and Mrs.
Bunster-Robinson. It is to be opened
at an early date, and already there is a
rush of volunteers. Tickets are selling
well for the great night of the 17th of
this month, when the Mosman Musical
Society is giving a performance of “The
Quaker Girl” in the Con. to aid the good
work. Dick Shortland will be the pro-
ducer and Ivan Rixon, one of the origi-
nal Glee Singers, is the musical director.
Mrs. C. Lindsay, who is the week-end
adjutant of the W.A.S.C,, reports an
almost military precision in the way the
volunteers step out on parade. Dorothy
Welding made this photograph of Mrs.
King-Patrick.
A Queensland playwright came to
town last Saturday night. “Caroline
Chisholm,” by Landen G. Dann, which
has had good notices in Brisbane papers,
was produced at the Bryant Play-
house. As the name indicates the play
is set in pioneering days, and it must
have been a bit of a squash in the dress-
ing-rooms for the 20 or so girls taking
part. Crinoline belles need a bit of
space. Ruth Rutter, who has the part
of Caroline Chisholm, in addition to be-
ing a talented actress is a Bachelor of
Economics of Sydney Uni.
If you have a grey blanket, or know
anybody with a grey blanket, bespeak
it for the new Air Force Hostel. This
is on the threshold of birth. As soon
as -suitable premises can be found for
it, a committee of women, the Claude
Reading lady, Mrs. Warwick Fairfaix
and Mrs. C. L. Jones among them, will
let themselves loose over a scheme of
decoration, furnishings, and so on. At
the moment the committee is concentrat-
ing on blankets. Grey ones are just
about as scarce as gold currency. The
new hostel will be up near Central, and
the boys will be able to snatch a bed
and breakfast there when duty or pleasure
keeps them in the city overnight.
That romance can blossom during
study of the alimentary canal just as
rosily as when floating on the Grand
Canal has been proved by Dr. Margaret
Walker-Jones and Dr. Brian Basil Jones.
The two met while doing medicine at
Sydney Uni., and later both were resident
medicals at the Royal North Shore Hos-
pital. Last week they became one in
St. Mark’s Church, Darling Point. The
bride, a Vaucluse girl, wore a toque of
violets with her Parma-violet outfit. The
’groom, who is joining the R.A.A.F., is
the son of the Dr. Basil Jones couple of
Double Bay. After Canon Barder had
sealed the deed of partnership, the bride’s
parents held a family reception at the
Australia.
Conductor Thomas Beecham is. a
modest chap. His valuation of the coming
patriotic concert under his leadership is
£5OOO. The A.B.C. is lending both
orchestra and conductor to a woman s
committee which is planning a gala night
for the Navy and Air Force. As the
Alexander Gordon lady is at the helm,
and every nice girl the world over loves
the fighting forces, the £5OOO peak may
be reached. Anyway enthusiasm sparkled
in the Gloucester Room of the Australia
last Friday morning. Everybody was
there.
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax was chairwoman,
and, incidentally, spoke up in eulogy for
the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund. Mrs. Bct-
tington, of the Red Cross, Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, who brought the largest hat, Mrs.
Dixson and Mrs. C. L. Jones, who put
in a word for the new Air Force Hostel,
were other speakers. Present were Miss
Phillips and Mrs. Walter Swinson, who
has so successfully launched the coming
concert at Government House that
already all the tickets are sold, and there
was present a whole army of the younger
workers who sell buttons and pro-
grammes with fervor and charm on the
slightest provocation.
Every woman was keen as mustard
on the coming event, and in the excite-
ment one of the reasons for calling the
meeting—the reading of the balance sheet
of the concert for the Mayor’s Fund —
kept being put off. Finally it revealed a
profit of almost £5OO, which seemed to
disappoint the committee? but which this
writer thinks was a very good effort.
Tickets for the Navy and Air Force con-
cert will be one guinea, half a guinea and
five shillings. There will be one gilded
block of two-guinea seats. It is going to
be a Trafalgar amongst victorious nights.
Winsome Hume is a girl who lives up
to her name. This Peter Pan photo-
graph proves it. Winsome is secretary
for the dance in aid of the Industrial
Blind Institution which will be held in
the Pickwick Club tomorrow night. Like
all her contemporaries, this Cremorne
girl takes her share of welfare work.
She is secretary of her suburb’s branch
working for the Industrial Blind. She
is also one of the Anzac Buffet helpers.
Mrs. Hoogstoel is president of the dance,
Mrs. Norman Murray the vice-president
and Betty Neilley the treasurer.
Fun and good-fellowship are waiting
for the boys of the army, navy and air
force every Wednesday night in Christ
Church St. Laurence Hall in Pitt-street.
Organist Lilian Frost, pianist Bort Fay
and Mrs. Ben Edye are making these
weekly parties as gay as they helped to
make their weekly soldier entertainments
in 1914-1918 years, when they were all
very young, and dreamed that the big
struggle “over there” was a war to end
wars. Lilian Frost and Bort Fay, who
played all the new song hits then, play
all the latest song hits of today, while
the lads gather around and sing mightily.
The hall is just near Central Railway
Station in Pitt-street, and over 150 boys
found it easy to hop into and hard to
drag themselves away from last week.
Mrs. George Lee, who with Mrs. Edye
helped Lilian Frost in her soldier parties
during the previous war, just got down
from Queensland in time for the open-
ing night. Cakes and cigarettes and gifts
in cash or kind will be welcomed by the
organisers.
English singer Lisa Perli, now tour-
ing with the A.8.C., thinks Sydney Har-
bor a dream of beauty. She said as much
one recent evening when she was a guest
of Lady Gowrie. She stood on the
balcony of Admiralty House as the
winter dusk became crusted with the
multicolored lights of the waterfront,
the golden lights from the ferries. Lisa
brought news of Sydney singer Joan
Hammond, who has been, and maybe
still is, staying with Lady Gowrie’s
mother in Ireland.
Ivan Rixon, who will conduct Tne
Quaker Girl” at the Con. on the 17th
for the funds of the Women’s All Ser-
vices Canteen, is musical director and
teacher at the Radio Theatre Guild, and
has also formed his own choir of glee
singers. Ivan is thoroughly at ease with
the violin and brass instruments of every
calibre, and has inter-State championship
prizes to prove it. Singing, too, is one
of his accomplishments. For some time
he has let others make the music while
he conducts it. His baton has led his
forces to success in oratorio, musical
comedy and symphony presentations.
Former students now members of the
A.I.F. were welcome guests at the dance
of Riverview Old Boys’ Union. The
dance was held in the Wentworth ball-
room, and a table was set aside for
soldiers on leave. Secretary Max Mar-
shall and Marie Brennan were host and
hostess at this board. President Alan
Bridge and his affianced, Eleanor Dalton,
who received the official guests, by the
time you read this will have been mar-
ried in the chapel of Riverview College,
and have had their wedding party in the
Wentworth ballroom. Eleanor’s father
was E. B. Dalton, of Orange. Her
mother now lives at Potts Point; Alan’s
father is woolman Lionel Bridge, of
Elizabeth Bay.
To-day’s star event is the party in aid
of the Netherlands War Relief Fund.
This is a five-to-nine-o’clock, and the
wife of Consul-General Elink Schuur-
man, Mrs. Blok, of Point Piper, and
Mrs. Van der Mandele have had much to
do with the arrangements. The banquet-
hall and dining-room of Petty’s threaten
to be crowded out. By the end of last
week nearly 300 tickets had been sold.
At 10s. 6d. per person, Queen Wilhel-
mina’s subjects should get together a neat
cheque for the Comforts Fund, which is
distributed under the direction of the
Netherlands Majesty in London. The
management of Petty’s is giving the
band and the use of the rooms.
Bravely over the rest of the deco-
rations will float the flag of the
Netherlands. Grunwald, famed Dutch
comedian from Java, will entertain the
company. A few nights ago he made
the Dutch community drown its sorrows
in laughter when he gave a “Night in
Dutch” in the Shell Co.’s building.
If you have a tiara which is slightly
outmoded, a peck of diamonds which
you haven’t room for or merely an old
gold watch that ceased to keep good time
ten years ago, send them along by
July 15 to the Red Cross race meeting
art union. Frank Albert’s little contri-
bution is a diamond bracelet worth over
£l4OO. Gold-mesh bags of the sort
that used to be the envy of this
Letter’s childhood days loom large
in the gifts so far given to the
fund. Lady Gowrie, Lady Wakehurst
and Mrs. Hunter»White have given
one apiece. A gold cup won by Desert
Gold in 1917 will go into the melting-
pot. Alexander Gordon and his lady
have dropped 22 pieces into the collec-
tion. Collectors are out after £lOOO
worth of gold. The jewellery will be on
show in Eva Sullivan’s shop window, 70
Castlereagh-street. At night-time you can
watch it sparkle in Hardy Brothers’ show-
case in the Australia. The art union will
be drawn during the spring race meeting.
Any discarded treasures which are not
booked for the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund
would find a grand welcome at the
English-Speaking Union rooms. A jumble
sale that will last at least two days is
being arranged by Mrs. Hector Hamilton.
Its address will be at 77 William-
street, and if you have a spare needle
or an anchor the organisers will be
pleased to hear from you. Mrs. Evans-
Jones is one of the workers, and the
object is to raise funds for the purchase
of materials, also for the E.-S.U. branch's
quota to the Red Cross.


The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE - - 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday .
. Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 822 of 1940.
BETWEEN RITA EDITH LANE Petitioner
And FRANK HENRY LANE Respondent.
TO FRANK HENRY LANE late of Thomp-
son’s Corner, West Pennant Hills.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RITA EDITH
LANE has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-
fifth day of September next and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of tire
Petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of June, 1940.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CHURCH & DEY, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1042 of 1940.
BETWEEN MARY ELIZABETH PURNELL
Petitioner
And STANLEY WILLIAM PURNELL
Respondent.
TO STANLEY WILLIAM PURNELL late of
Cremorne.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
ELIZABETH PURNELL has commenced a
suit against you,in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of habitual drunkenness for three
years and upwards and cruelty AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Second day of October One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Second day of July One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
(us.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
St. James’ Buildings, 107-9 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 769 of 1940.
BETWEEN JAMES McGREGOR GARDNER
Petitioner
And JEAN LOUDEN GREY GARDNER
Respondent.
TO JEAN LOUDEN GREY GARDNER late
of Whitinch Partick Renfrewshire Scotland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JAMES
McGREGOR GARDNER has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Twenty-first day of October One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limite.d or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 21st day of June, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. lAN SHORT & DIVE, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The old Western Market site has had
its ears washed, its eyebrows trimmed and
its plumbing brought up to date, and
has become, almost overnight, Air Force
House. Its-dormitories, dropping down-
wards one after the other alongside the
sloping Market-street level, are fitted with
rows of neat narrow beds, each with a
blue quilt to match the overalls of the
canteen workers. At present posters deco-
rate the walls; some of surf girls all
aglow with summer beach tan are sure
to meet with the approval of the lads on
leave. There are a billiard-room, a library
in the hall and so many writing-tables
in the lounge that no man will have an
excuse for not keeping the folks at home
up to date about his doings.
Air Chief Marshal Burnett, Air Vice-
Marshal Williams and Group-Captain
Lukis provided the sole weight of uni-
forms on the first afternoon, when
the Air Chief Marshal (still under a false
impression that the place contained 73
bedrooms ) made a laudatory speech from
the canteen steps. Harold Luxton then
stepped forward to offer thanks to the
City Council for hustling the merchants
of this city for donations for the pantry,
to the architects and builders and to Miss
M. K. Stuart, buyer-in-chief for the in-
stitution, who is also honorary buyer of
vast experience for the “Queen Vic.” and
the Jessie McPherson Hospital committees.
She has the necessary sprig of heather in
her make-up that gets the best value in
anything from a pound of potatoes to a
hot-water system.
Officers and men of the R.A.A.F. at
the Showgrounds sent along congratu-
lations in the form of a basket of flowers,
given a box seat upofi David Knox’s
antique sideboard, lent “for the dura-
tion.” Blarney House sent a telegram,
a sporting gesture from an institution
that isn’t nearly so solid financially as
its younger-sister hostel. Although it had
a perk-up last week in the form of plans
for a new dormitory, Blarney House could
do with a lot more largesse from the
wealthy and influential. Air Force House
is lucky in the solid bank-rolls that are
backing it. It’s social plus.
The first day of the Grand National
meeting at Flemington brought a well-
sized crowd out to the course, for the
weather was fine, chilly and windless, and
the racing gave promise of interest to
punters and those who know a good gee-
gee when they see one. Meeting old pals
and enjoying it was Nola Purbrick, a
brunette all in black. She has only re-
cently returned from England. Also re-
ceiving cheery greetings on all sides was
Mrs. Wallie Moore, looking well in pave-
ment-blue and a clutter of feathers for
a hat. Her big bit of news is the arrival
of a fine healthy infant for the Jim Sellars
couple in Singapore. (Mrs. Jim is Mrs.
Moore’s daughter Roma.)
The ballroom at the Australia was far
too small for the Merchant Navy dinner
dance ; the committee could have sold the
tickets twice over. It also found the ex-
periment of a Saturday night was a trump
card—it’s likely that Saturday night dos
have come to stay, for the troops are in
town on leave, and once the Embassy is
filled to capacity there’s nowhere for
them to go but the pub lounges. Khaki
and air-force blue were in the minority
at the Merchant Navy Ball, but gold braid
was present in stripes of forceful width.
The British lion in stout-hearted guises
from crests and coats-of-arms to flags
and pennants was wrapped around the
pillars. The previous evening Mrs. Mor-
timer Robb, Mrs. Humphrey Clegg, Mrs.
Charlie Osborn and F. G. Burchall
mounted ladders and climbed on to tables
to achieve the right degree of patriotism
and decoration.
The Gold Room with its expectant
lucky-envelope claimants was popular as
a bargain basement at rush hour ; the
dart boards, too, did a merry trade. There
Mrs. Charles Osborn (who had lent her
better-half to the official party for the
evening), Mrs. Harold Stokes, Mrs. Geoff
Docker in gold satin, and Mrs. Alan
Brockhoff in a handsome creation of
silver lame skipped hither and thither
collecting missiles. The boards were
pasted with playing cards, and the best
poker hands, without any cunning and
bluff, won the best prizes from the glass
showcase presided over by Mrs Len
Pugh.
Admiral and Lady Colvin enjoyed the
party, for they stayed late, as did Cap-
tain and Mrs. Crane, from Flinders, and
daughter Susan, blonde and dewy-eyed in
cream satin, also Commander and Mrs.
H. L. Quick. Roma Alston, in geranium-
red, seemed delighted with her lucky
envelope draw of a free make-up. Alice
Carse, swishing aquamarine taffeta, sold
cigarettes. Peggy Odium, in a mush-
room woollen frock, was among poster
girls doing sideline propaganda. Mar-
jorie Carney, wearing blue and her new
diamond ring, was with fiance Edwin
Kennon.
Once again the American Ball for the
Children’s Hospital bounced high in the
Palais on receipts of 1400 tickets and
smash hits off the dance floor, among
which were a couple of new ideas of
stunts without prizes. These pandered
to instincts other than those for gain, and
did well in the process. The hole-in-one
competition was just honor and glory
and put decorations on the chests of
numerous people, including Grimwades,
Gilders, Keon-Cohens, Dan Reddan,
Jimmy Clymer (who couldn’t go wrong
that night with a golf club), Bill Gluth
and Pilot-Officer J. B. Shackell. At the
“crashatorium” primeval instincts were
released upon thousands of dud electric-
light bulbs, pieces of cracked china, etc.,
collected over a period of weeks by Mrs.
Earl Moser, Mrs. Jud Holt, Mrs. L.
Luiggi, Mrs. Ralph Smith and other
scrap-hounds. Maybe it was a silly game,
but it made money.
Mrs. Charles Deem and Mrs. W. Gil-
bert went to the other extreme with their
novelty spinner, for they killed two birds
with the one idea and issued war-savings
certificates as prizes. Among those who
sold cigarettes from early eve to early
morn were Mrs. Frank Rock, in a silver
coat, and Helen Burnett, in merry-making
stripes. Mrs, Herbert Allen’s handsome
gown of iris-blue woollen sheer stood a
mighty invasion of sequins, beads and
other glistening matter upon yoke and
cuffs. Vacillating earrings and gleaming
necklets were accessories to Mrs. Rupert
Harvey’s black velvet gown. Dr. and
Mrs. Foote missed the dance by a
whisker, or rather a few miles of jour-
neying, they being on their way to their
new appointment in Batavia. The Vice-
Consul and Mrs. F. W. Jandrey did the
honors, sharing a table with the judicial
John Lathams and the T. W. Whites,
“Tommy” in a squadron-leader’s uni-
form.
An Athol Shmith camera caught this
glimpse of Vaire Wilkinson, Mio is on the
committee for the Grand National Ball
to be held next Friday. Vaire’s war
week includes Sunday afternoons, when
she and a number of other young girls
meet in Mrs. J. F. Churton’s ballroom to
help entertain lads in service uniforms
with tea and dancing. Vaire has also
promised to help Dr. Deborah Buller
Murphy with her war-service restaurant
on the site of The Dell, which is to be
opened soon.
Sir Thomas Beecham seemed more
tolerant than usual of his audience at
last week’s concert, though he gave the
house a dirty look when someone
sneezed just before the Sibelius Sym-
phony. Beecham helped the owners of
the strings to move the furniture for the
Mozart Concerto (No. 4 in D Major) and
he patted soloist Haydn Beck upon the
back when his task was over.
The seats were so close together that
late arrivals climbed over one another’s
knees —the plump ones looked as if they’d
never make the distance, but they did,
somehow. The Montague Brearleys were
there, Mrs. Brearley in a black and gold
lame coat with leg-of-mutton sleeves
and black lace mittens. A blonde in blue
was Betty Bradford ; her coat of woollen
sheer showed a dusting of sequins and a
closer plethora of the same starry turns
down the edge-to-edge front panels. Ab-
sorbing music with her mother, Mrs. F.
Lynch, was Mrs. J. W. M. Eddy, in bur-
gundy velvet (her husband had taken his
skis up to Hotham). With two school-
girl daughters were the Fred Gambles,
mother in black velvet, dad in khaki,
Mrs. Gerard Osborne was there minus
her better-half (he also being in uniform
up at “Pucka”). Pattie Wilson’s sky-blue
woollen ensemble suited her brunette
coloring.
Beecham, Bart., has been drawing
down upon his distinguished head criti-
cism for his tardy or non-arrival at vari-
ous functions. The Savage Club gave a
bucks’ party for him, but he sent apolo-
gies for absence on the score of indis-
position ; the A.B.C. put on an afternoon
bun-fight at Menzies, for which the guest
of honor arrived at the deathknock—but
that wasn’t his fault. He’d warned the
Commission that four o’clock wasn’t his
line of country, for that day at any rate,
The party ate cakes and drank tea with-
out him, but it wasn’t exactly a hilarious
affair.
On July 13 Thornton Wilder’s poetical
play “Our Town” commences a week’s
season at the Comedy. Herewith a
Spencer Shier portrait of Noela Adams,
who will play Emily, the young bride,
Her frock in the restricted style of the
early days of this century is being made
by her mother, Mrs. Dal Adams, Noela's
debut with the McMahon Players was in
“Lot’s Wife,” wherein she was Eve, in
a white satin surf-siren suit and necklace
of apples, also in several jeune fille frocks
for gracing the mountains and valleys of
Asia Minor.
The younger fry have come into their
own at the Exhibition of Contemporary
Child Art at the Velasquez Galleries.
Adults who are patronising of fresh
young minds and unfettered spirits would
do well to visit the gallery and reassess
their standard of values. The average
person would live more compatibly with
some of these youngsters’ pictures than
with a few of our modernists in action,
family objets d’art, treasured pen paint-
ings on satin done by grandmother, who
should have known better, seashells and
aspidistras.
Young children from Fintona, Preshil,
Haberfield (N.S.W.), St. Mark’s Chil-
dren’s Club, Fitzroy, and from other
schools and clubs in other States have
contributed work, so have little abos.
and Red Indians. Two fauns by an Indian
child could get away with a gambol upon
a Frances Burke-Maurice Holloway print.
Of interest is the finger-painting—the
children enjoy its rhythmic possibilities.
More ambitious efforts in this line of
work are seen in stage backcloths for
Christmas Carols, Pied Piper, Kipling’s
Jungle Books, etc. Foreign contributions
add to the Variety of the show. During
the Spanish War Spanish children
sketched in colored chalks their ideas of
revolutions and evacuations. Polish
children have contributed bridges and
street scenes, Finns placid landscapes,
Mexicans and Russians equally non-
belligerent objects, but at least one Ger-
man child sent a ship of war.
The reopening of the National Gallery
after extensive internal alterations was an
affair of strict invitations, of speeches
(some verbose) and of tea and teacakes.
Regarding the invitation pasteboards
several soldiers filling in hours to spare
in the Museum were halted and turned
back when they had finished with the head-
hunters’ spears and feather headdresses.
They had no cards to take them into the
realm of pictures. Gallery Director
Jimmy MacDonald noticed the incident
with regret, but his hands were tied. The
trustees had issued an order against waifs
and strays and the general public. As
well as an inspection of the new archi-
tectural additions, those invited to the
ceremony took the opportunity of visit-
ing the W. B. Mclnnes Memorial Loan
Exhibition in the Upper McAllan Gal-
lery. The 73 pictures there are all lent
by galleries, public institution, etc., or by
private citizens. They depict a fine
artist’s finest work over a wide range of
years.
The economy complex, result of war
jitters, is a sock in the jaw for some sec-
tions of the community. Smaller hair-
dressers are wishing that their customers
would get off the straight and narrow
path and come back for a frivolous hair-
do once a week, dress shops are feeling
the pinch, and hat shops are bewailing the
fact that while their customers wouldn’t
try to get away with the year-before-
last’s dowdy effort in felt they can be on
top of the world in an uncovered wind-
swept wave.
British Timber Controller Major A. I.
Flarris says that to save wood and ship-
ping space British women might have to
sacrifice their high heels. But Australian
women lift their eyes to forests of stringy-
bark and mountain ash and go tripping
along as blithely as ever on their tfiree-
inch spikes. Their nifty ankles are safe
for the present, though there is a general
wail about stockings, their price and their
short life. Only a few years ago the
woman who went shopping in town with-
out a hat threw her reputation to the
four winds and the forty thieves. Next
summer, if she goes abroad with no silk
upon her ankles but only sunburn lotion,
no one will say a word. Thus conven-
tions wilt before necessity.


ĺ
m WifiK M£N AND WOMfN
Loss of vitality ami premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
K2l GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
811
SM7BbLL
OINOJ.
QN&7D
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
•‘RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
i n o- radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting
13/3 (2 years £l/2/9) to “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
THE SERVICE MAN
The French Fleet.
On July 4 Mr. Churchill met the
House of Commons to reveal what hap-
pened to the French Fleet, a mystery
which had baffled the newspapers since
the Bordeaux Government accepted naval
capitulation as part of the armistice
terms.
Apart from two uncommissioned
35,000-ton battleships reported (though
unofficially) to be safe in British waters,
the pride of the fleet was two 26,000-ton
battleships, Dunkerque and Strasbourg,
which were completed in 1937-38 as
answers to the German Scharnhorst and
Gneisenau. They carried eight 13in. guns
against the nine llin. weapons carried
by the Germans. Then there were the
battleships Bretagne, Lorraine and
Provence with 13.4 in. armament; the
Paris—which escaped to Britain before
the armistice—and the Courbet, 12in.-
gun ships. All these craft were round
22,000 tons and of the vintage of the
period from a year or two before to
the middle of the last war.
In addition, there were 19 cruisers,
commissioned from 1927 onwards (some
of the latest had Bin. guns), and 57 de-
stroyers. Twenty-nine of the destroyers
were over 2000 tons, with 5.4 in. guns
(they fire a shell only a few pounds
short of our six-inchers), and their speed
was fast —up to 38 knots. They were
really very fast light cruisers. And at
the outbreak of war there were 80 sub-
marines ranging from the giant Surcouf,
which has two Bin. guns, to small coastal
craft.
The R.M. said that on the morning
of July 3 the Royal Navy had taken
possession of the greater number of the
French warships or had demanded that
their commanders should comply with
British requirements.
The French Government had ordered
all ships of the navy and the mercantile
marine to return to French ports and
surrender. The Germans and Italians
undertook to intern the navy and
not to use it against Britain. There
could have been only one reason
for this concession, that it was imprac-
ticable to use most of that part of it
which was not under British control—
possibly for personnel reasons. The
modern battleship crew is a crew of
specialists ; and ammunition is not inter-
changeable in navies save in rare cases.
Every navy provides against usage by
the enemy in case of capture as far as
possible.
The French commanders were now
faced with alternatives about as difficult
as men could be called upon to face.
• The Petain Government is the de facto
Government of France, the only Govern-
ment on French soil. Every naval officer
is a sworn official of his Government.
Disobedience, especially in time of war,
is mutiny ; transfer of ships without the
authority of a de facto Government is
high treason; both offences are punish-
able with death. Though the Petain Gov-
ernment betrayed Britain when it sur-
rendered to Germany, the commanders
were still servants and instruments of
Government policy and action, not the
makers of them.
' They were faced by British squadrons
capable of overwhelming them. Leaving
out the consideration that surrender to
the British would exile them from
their country and their families, it would
have been easier for them to refuse to
return to port than to obey the order,
especially since it was certain that refusal
would cost the lives of many brave men.
Anybody who has lived on a well-
managed naval ship knows that its life
is a thing to itself; its crew are a well-
knit family. Sacrifice of life comes
harder than in an army where contact
between men and officers is less constant
and less familiar.
In the circumstances, the action of
those officers who decided to obfey. their
Government, ignominious as it is, calls
for respect, and respect has been their
portion. They were pitilessly sacrificed
by their enemies and their Government
—that Government which, even before
the armistice, handed over 400 able-
bodied German air pilots, many of them
captured by the R.A.F., who are now
free to fight once more against France’s
late allies and comrades in arms.
In Britain “800 or 900” French sea-
men “expressed an ardent desire to
continue in the war.” Two battle-
ships, two light cruisers, some sub-
marines, eight destroyers and 200 smaller
craft, mainly at Plymouth, Portsmouth
and Sheerness, were boarded and taken
over without resistance except in the
case of the big submarine Surcouf. The
Surcouf was the scene of a struggle
caused by “a misunderstanding,” in
which a French officer and a British
seaman were killed and two British
officers, a rating and a French rating
were wounded. One of the British offi-
cers died. There were no French at the
funeral.
Abroad, control was not achieved so
easily. A French battleship, four
cruisers and smaller ships lying at Alex-
andria were forbidden to leave harbor
by the British admiral there. Before the
matter was decided one way or the other
French as well as British fired on Italian
bombers.
In Oran, a great naval port on the
Algerian coast, the issue was resolved
only after a pitched battle. The Dun-
kerque and Strasbourg were there. Vice-
Admiral James Somerville, one of the
heroes of the Dunkirk evacuation and
known to many Australians at the Dar-
danelles—he won the D.S.O. there—sent
an officer to tell the French admiral that
he must sail with the British or under
their control or sink his ships within six
hours. The answer was a refusal.
The guns of the heavy British ships
were already trained, and the ’planes of
H.M.S. Ark Royal went into action.
Within 10 minutes, according to Mr.
Churchill, one of the Dunkerque class of
battleships was disabled and aground;
one of the 22,000-ton Bretagne class was
sunk. The Strasbourg made a dash for
Toulon, pursued by the R.N. Air Arm,
which bombed her in such a manner that
she will be out of commission for months.
Other ships escaped with her. The French
casualties were heavy—ll 33 killed and
wounded. Our losses were an officer and
a rating wounded and the crew of a
’plane missing.
Only one heavy French battleship is
not now accounted for. Of seven heavy
cruisers, three are at Alexandria and two
in British ports. Save for a number of
submarines, little of the navy is now in
French hands.
The French admitted that the Bretagne
was sunk and that the Dunkerque and
the Provence were set on fire along with
the Mogador, one of the large, fast, light
cruiser-destroyers. Alleging that the ships
were not given time to weigh anchor,
the French Government broke off diplo-
matic relations with Britain, and ordered
a bombing raid on Gibraltar. The Brit-
ish, for their part, bombed the Dunkerque
to render her useless.
In effect, after years of alliance with
France Britain found herself in a state
of war with the republic. Marshal
Petain ordered French warships to inter-
cept British merchantmen. His Govern-
ment taunts Mr. Churchill with having
“implored” France last winter to lend
French warships to protect Canadian
ships because Britain no longer had the
means to do it.
However, it is likely that no value
attaches to French official utterances as
the expression of French sentiment. The
unfortunate country does not now own
even its own voice and mind.
At the week-end the position in the
West Indies was nebulous. An aircraft-
carrier, the Be arn, sent to pick up U.S.
’planes sold 1 ) France,' together with a
6000-ton cruiser and several submarines,
was said to be lying at Martinique,
blockaded by a British fleet. The block-
ade part of it was denied, but there must
be British warships in the neighborhood,
and United States warships as well. The
R.N. Central Command for North and
South America is in the West Indies,
and Martinique lies between and in
sight of the two old British colonies of
St. Lucia and Dominica. There are
always U.S.A. patrols based on Porto
Rica.
A Far-flung War.
“Ek Dum”: At the beginning of last
week Russia was engaged in occupying
Bessarabia and North Bukoyina. The
Rumanian Government renounced the
British and French guarantees, King
Carol—a Hohenzollern —being “100 per
cent, with the Axis,” and sent troops to
Transylvania, threatened by Hungary,
and to the Dobrudja, once owned by
Bulgaria. But there have been no
attacks on these provinces.
The Tatarescu Cabinet resigned and a
Government was formed by lon Gigurtu.
It included four members of the pro-Nazi
Iron Guard. One of its first acts was
the expulsion of 30 British engineers em-
ployed on the oilfields, who were told to
leave within 24 hours. And Rumania
was not only guaranteed but subsidised
by Britain.
In the Far East, though the evacuation
of women and children from Hong Kong
continued, the Japanese Consul-General
at Hong Kong declared that there was
no blockade, certainly no suggestion of
a sea blockade. A naval spokesman,
Captain Okuma, announced that Britain’s
attitude to representations about the
delivery of arms to the Chinese armies
by way of the Burma-Indo-China road
was causing serious concern ; the impres-
sion that Britain was deliberately delay-
ing the reply was aggravating Japanese
sentiment. At the week-end it was stated
that the Japanese had received the reply
from Britain, that it amounted to a
refusal, and that the British attitude was
supported by the Menzies Government.
This Mr. Menzies indignantly denied.
It would be better if the control of
Pacific policy were shifted to the South
Pacific. The relations of Australia and
Maoriland with Japan are good, as has
been shown by friendly utterances of
Prince Konoe and Consul-General
Akiyama within the past few days. It
has been made clear that Mr. Arita’s
reference to “the South Seas” in his re-
cent statement was not meant to apply to
Australia, Japanese giving the term a
much restricted application. Australia
and Maoriland would certainly not risk
a quarrel with Japan for the sake of
American and Russian arms manufac-
turers if they are really using the Burma-
Indo-China route.
The main preoccupations of western
Europe—a France clearing up its dead
and ruin and with the attitude of its
colonies hanging in the balance; four
great Powers racked by incessant air
raids —were the projected German inva-
sion of England and the fate of the
French Navy.
In spite of the occupation of the Channel
Islands, the outlook in England by July 3
had apparently become more cheerful.
Shares rose some points on the London
Stock Exchange, probably because of
knowledge of what was happening or
about to happen in regard to the French
Navy. All men registered for national
service in Britain up to the end of May
were called up on July 3. Their access
will bring the strength of the army to
2,850,000, or 190 divisions.
Four more classes of recruits to be
registered this month will increase the
total to 4,000,000— figures which appar-
ently include troops in the Mediter-
ranean, though not Dominion and foreign
soldiers in the King’s service. ..
Every day, defence effort was intensi-
fied in Britain. In west Sussex and the
beautiful districts nearest the narrower
parts of the Channel —districts which in
years of peace are full of light-hearted
walkers and holiday-makers taking tea on
the open iawns of village tea-houses—
bombs crashed from German aeroplanes,
beaches were closed and there was a con-
tinuous curfew.
The massing of German transports
in Norwegian ports was reported.
Italian papers announced that full
preparations had been completed by Italy
to assist in the invasion of Britain. Count
Ciano’s press insisted that the attack was
not a question of days but of hours;
that, while German and Italian forces
were ready, there had been delay while
Italy had been assured that there would
be no complications in the Balkans. It
was alleged that crack Italian troops,
aeroplanes and mechanised units would
take part in the invasion.
The submarine campaign has become
nastier durinjg the week to June 24
Britain lost 88,259 tons of merchant
shipping. A feature of last week’s
operations was the torpedoing of the
new 15,500-ton Blue Star liner Arandorai
Star, which was on its way to Canada
with a large number of German and
Italian prisoners and internees. It was
the worst thing of the kind since the sink-
ing of the Lusitania. But the loss of
life —over 1300 —was mainly caused by
the panicking of the Germans and
Italians, who struggled savagely for seats
in the boats, while 300 British soldiers
did their best to restore order. Even
though some of the terror-crazed
foreigners were shot, the rush could not
be stemmed. The commander, Captain
Moulden, gave his lifebelt to an Italian
and dived into the sea. He was never
seen again. The U-boats are not having
things their own way; H.M.S. Snapper
destroyed seven ships in two German
convoys.
In the Middle East and North Africa
summer is now at its worst —blinding
sun, temperatures well over 100, sand-
storms, flies. In the desert country it is
like Innamincka at Christmas-time. There
has been no fighting in Palestine, nor up
to the beginning of the present week had
any bombing been done there by any
enemy. But the disturbance of relations
between Britain and France and the un-
settlement of Iraqian policy add to the
problems of the British-Indian and Aus-
tralian forces in Palestine, which are now
side by side with a large French army
in Syria.
The picturesque Nuri Bey—one of
Lawrence’s men —has been on a mission
in Ankara from Iraq. His attitude is in-
dicated by his remark that Turkey and
Iraq have agreed that the Syrians should
now complete their independence. The
British Government must support Arab
opinion in the Middle East or lose pres-
tige in all its protectorates and zones of
friendship and alliance. It seems im-
probable that the French in Syria will
attack the British in Palestine, though
they are objecting to any more Poles
from their army following 6000 Polish
legionaries who recently joined the
British.
In Africa, despite the summer, fight-
ing has flared up at many points. There
were heavy attacks on the Libyan and
East African frontiers. Italians advanced
into the Sudan from the east and took
Kassala and Gallabat, the former being
on the railway which leads to Port Sudan
and the Red Sea. Capuzzo (Libya) has
been besieged by the British. And air
raids, including destructive ones by the
R.A.F. on Tobruk, the Libyan naval
port, and Bardia, where large Italian
forces are concentrated, have continued
from Malta to the Indian Ocean.
The North Sea, however, is still the
crucial centre of the war. Intensification
of effort on both sides points to the im-
minence of the attempted invasion of
Britain. The R.A.F. has mined Baltic
waters and all the approaches to harbors
and estuaries under German control along
a coastline 1200 miles long. Air raids
by land and sea continue on a widening
scale. The German habit, so far, has
been to launch major attacks about a
week before the full moon; and it will
be full moon at Greenwich on July 19.
Then, too, and for a few days before
and after, tides will be at their best.
Petain and Haig.
From James Cornell, Chairman of
Committees in the Westralian Legislative
Council, who as a representative of the
Diggers met Haig on two occasions.
The surrender of France by the Petain Gov-
ernment and events which have succeeded it
would not have astonished Lord Haig had that
great soldier been spared till July, 1940. He
knew Petain.
The inaugural B.E.S.L. conference was held
at Cape Town in February, 1921. Afterwards


2 Medium-Priced, Quality-Built D.B.GUNS
Featuring Excellent Pattern and Hard-hitting Qualities!
CEKT MODEL 402 D.8.8.L. HAMMER
GUN.
12-gauge, 30in. Steel Barrels, Choke,
Greener Cross Bolt (Anson Fore-end).
PRICE (Carriage Paid) ... £B/5/6
CERT MODEL 416 D.8.8.L. HAMMER
GUN.
12-gra»ige, 30in. Steel Barrels. Extension
Rib, Bar Locks, Cross Bolt, Walnut
Stock, Pistol Grip.
PRICE (Carriage Paid) . . £7/5/9
NATIONAL
SECURITY
It is permissible, subject to obtaining a Permit, for any British
Subject Sportsman to possess a Gun, Rifle, or Ammunition ; likewise
Graziers and Farmers, who require Guns and Rifles and Ammunition
for the purpose of keeping down Noxious Animals, Pests, etc. There
is NO FEE or CHARGE to obtain a Permit, which is issued free by
the Officer in charge of your District Police Station.
MICK SIMMONS LTD
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY; AND ALL BRANCHES.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
The Greatest Tobacco
Value in Australia
GOVERNMENT SAYS “SPEND.” GOV-
ERNMENT SAYS “SAVE.” You cun
do both here. YOU’VE SMOKED
SOMETHING WHEN YOU’VE SMOKED
GOOD, PURE TOBACCO.
MANUFACTURED AND BLENDED BY
THE MANUFACTURERS direct to you
at practically half the Foreign Im-
ported prices.
BUY AND ENJOY the Empire Tobacco.
Developed by the Commonwealth and
State Governments of Australia with
the latest research and scientific methods
known to our Agricultural Department.
Keep your money in Australia and
help your own country to develop its
marvellous industries at great saving
to yourself.
FOREIGN PRICES SMASHED BY US
With orders over £1 a Briar or Cherry-
wood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
ALL LINES IN PIPE TOBACCO
AND FINE CUT
Per lb.
First Croi>, mild .. .. .. 6/3
All British, mild .. .. .. 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium .. .. 6/3
Old Peter, medium .. .. .. 6/3
Cavendish, strong .. .. .. 6/3
Beech Nut, medium . . .. .. 6/9
Africa, mellow and mild .. .. 6/9
Soldier’s Own, mild .. .. 7/3
Normandie, medium .. .. 7/9
Winning Post, medium .. .. 8/-
Three Bells, strong 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium 8/-
Latakia, pipe only 10/-
Wliite Lodge, medium .. .. 10/-
White Lodge, light 11/.
Barlock Flake, light and dark .. 8/6
Cahills, medium .. .. .. 10/9
Union Leader, medium .. .. 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium .. 11/-
Nigeroid, black, pipe only .. 8/-
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only .. 6/-
PLUG TOBACCOS
“Clinker,” mild, 8s 7/6
“Skipper,” medium, 8s .. .. 7/(5
“Big Hit,” strong, 8s .. .. 7/6
“Three Sailors,” 8s 7/6
“Royal Navy,” nuggets .. .. 7/6
Irish Twist, 13s .. . .. 7. 0
“Trade” Tobacco, 36s .. .. 6/0
“P.M.,” plug dark, 8s .. .. 6/6
Zig-Zag Papers, 5 packets for 1/-.
Post free in Queensland only. 6d. per
lb. adjoining States, 1/- other States.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY PTY, LTD.,
Successors to
Combined Growers’ Tobacco Mfrs. Co.
Ltd.,
11 Commercial Road,
BRISBANE.
Ha is and most of the visiting delegates set out
uoon a tour as guests of the Government and
ex-soldier organisations. One Sunday morning
in a small hall in Johannesburg Haig and the
delegates attended a meeting of the local
League of Comrades. At its close Haig asked
all nresent but the delegates to retire.
He then said • “Today some of you men will
leave our party to return to your homes, and
we may never meet again. Before we part I
wish to mention two references that have been
made to myself by public men during this tour,
The first was that the Empire should be thank-
ful to myself for having led its army to vie-
tory. To that my reply has always been that
any thanks due is general and not particular
that it applies with equal force to all ranks of
the army from the private to the G.0.C., for
without the common sacrifice and support of
the whole Army victory would not have come
our way
“The second reference was to what the
speakers were pleased to call the sacrifice I
made in subordinating myself to Foch and thus
making his appointment possible. To that I
have never replied, because the present is not the
proper time to make public what I am about
to explain to you.
“You will all recollect how the line between
the Allied and German Armies ran prior to the
German offensive that began on March 21,
1918. You will also more vividly recall how
that line ran on the day that I issued my
‘Backs to the Wall’ order. The British line even
then was not broken, but it had been so altered
as to menace the whole position of the Allied
Armies if the Germans succeeded in dividing
the British from the French.
“The British line then began at the North
Sea and joined the French Army as far south
as Montdidier. To enable the British Army to
reorganise and re-equip it was imperative that
the French Army, which thus far had not been
attacked in this great advance, should go for-
ward and engage the enemy Several _ personal
interviews with Petam failed to convince him
that, if the situation was to be saved, the
French Army must go forward and fight, and
thus relieve the pressure upon the British
Army. Petam appeared to be obsessed with
the necessity of the French Army being re-
served for the defence of Pans only. For every
yard the British Army was forced back Petam
accordingly retired the French Army obliquely
in the direction of Paris, thus increasing the
length of the already-weakly-held British line.
This, if continued, must have resulted in the
Germans dividing the British and French
Armies, thus attaining the objective sought by
the attack made on the British Army,
“I got in touch with the War Office. That
day Milner and Robertson reached France,
That night in a chateau at Doullens I briefly
put the situation to them. I said further that
it could not be expected that I, who had so
long commanded the British Army, should be
put under Petam or that Petain, as commander
of the French Army, should be put under me.
I suggested that Foch be placed in supreme
command. I had fought with Foch on the
Marne, and in the first and second battles ot
Ypres, and I was satisfied that Foch knew
when to fight and how best to fight,
“My suggestion was accepted. Two days
later the French Army went forward and en-
gaged the enemy. From that moment the ulti-
mate decision was never in doubt.
“At no period during Foch’s command was
I, as G.O.C. the British Army, subordinate
to Foch on the question of its command. We
knew one another too well to mistrust one an-
other or to act independently. Our confidence
was mutual.
“So now you have the simple story of how
the High Command came about, though per-
sons in high places claim to have inspired it.”
Haig was six years younger than Petain. He
died too soon and Petain was spared too long.
THE FLYING COLUMN
Raiders at Kiel.
“Aileron”: The raid on Kiel (July 2)
was a dashing affair, worthy of the best
R. tradition. It is not an easy place
to get at. It lies at the head of the
long, narrow Kieler Fohrde, which runs
almost due south out of the Baltic and
is shaped somewhat like Spencer’s Gulf,
S. if the mouth were narrower. The
naval dockyards and quarters spread
round the tip of the Gulf where the
commercial harbor lies say from
Miranda to Stirling North in an approxi-
mate Spencer’s Gulf position, with the
marine harbor opposite. Half-way up
the fohrde the Kiel Canal begins, join-
ing the harbor to Elbe, and the Eider
River, which runs out of the end of the
Gulf, connects with other smaller
canals to Hamburg.
Kiel is so placed that to follow this
river brings the raider out over the drill-
ground and into a choice collection of
objectives—a beautiful railway line with
shunting yards and a junction which splits
into two lines running on each side of
the Gulf. There are submarine quarters
handy on one side, and on the other,
right up to the head sluice of the canal,
it would be impossible to drop a bomb
without hitting something of naval im-
portance. Beyond that there are heavy
forts guarding the sea entrance.
The R.A.F. came in along the Eider
on a night so clear that no flares were
needed. The Scharnhorst, which is only
40ft. shorter than our Renown and Re-
pulse with a 98ft. beam, lay comfortably
in her floating dock. She was a target
which called for close approach, but as
she carries 12 4-lin. anti-aircraft guns
and bristles with pompoms and other
small fry, 2000 ft. was altogether too close
to her for comfort, especially as it
brought the attackers within range of
nearly every other muzzle round the
harbor,
The first flights came in at great height,
throttled down into a glide and hit the
dock a third of the way along with the
first bomb.
Further flights flew at lower ranges
through the shell fire, which they cheer-
fully disregarded. The crew of one
which was shot through in several places
could, 85 miles distant on their homeward
way, see the fires which they had started
round the dock.
The attacks were continued for a full
hour. Three bombs from one salvo
straddled the Scharnhorst in a row and
started more fires on both ship and dock.
j n a jj 5 fi ve separate flares were counted
ar ound the dock and harbor, the largest
of them a solid mass of flame as big
as a i ar g e aerodrome,
Kiel would be a magnificent place to
bomb if there were no anti-aircraft guns,
but under war-time conditions the air
a b oV e it is a place for heroes, and a
successful attack on it is something to
cauS e a thrill of pride.
“Caudron”: The R.A.A.F. has re-
ceived its full issue of 100 Lockheed
Hudson bombers from U.S.A., though it
has waived its right to another 50 in
favor of Britain. The machines give Aus-
tralia an air force which at least has a
fully up-to-date nucleus. The Lockheeds
are fitted with every modern device, in-
eluding some which the Stunt Press has
been complaining that we do not possess,
The machines have given a magnificent
account of themselves, particularly in
long-distance actions. Some have re-
turned to Britain from Norway with
wings shot into holes large enough to
admit the body of a man, one with a
wing almost half destroyed. And they
have accounted for as many enemy
machines in proportion to their numbers
as any of the two-engined types. One
last week added an Me 109 to the Ger-
man list of casualties.
The Air War Day by Day.
July 1: R.A.F. bombers again raid
Germany; explosions and fires observed
at important points. Seven persons (five
children) injured during raid (one of
three) on Wales.
Augusta, on Sicilian coast, bombed by
R.A.F.; damage obscured by clouds of
smoke. American flying boats take pas-
sengers from Hong Kong —one Clipper
carries a load of 84. Kiel raided; Ger-
mans allege little damage, but admit a
few civilians killed and claim that anti-
aircraft fire brought down five R.A.F.
machines over north-west Germany and
two over Kiel. They admit loss of three
’planes which raided Wick (Scotland),
killing 15, and Bristol docks.
July 2: R.A.F. reports bombing of the
German battleship Scharnhorst, being
repaired at Kiel after attack by a British
submarine. Floating dock and quayside
buildings seriously damaged. Attacks on
steelworks and aerodromes at Wesel,
Cologne, and Venlo and the Texel (Hol-
land) ; also on railway yards, viaducts
and factories, including an aeroplane
plant at Deichshausen.
Two German raids on Britain; one,
in daylight, kills 10 and injures 110;
the other, at night, kills two and injures
13. Daylight raid made on a town where
public halls are opened for homeless to
sleep in. German bomber shot down
off east coast. Italians claim to have
shot down two raiding R.A.F. ’planes
at Metemma, East Africa.
July 3: Malta raided. Five killed,
22 wounded, including women and chil-
dren, in further raid on England. Six
Gerrrfan bombers brought down. A
Messerschmitt shot down over Holland.
R.A.F. bombs targets (mostly aero-
dromes) in Denmark, Belgium, the Ruhr
and Westphalia, docks at Zeebrugge and
bases at Ymuiden and the Texel (Hol-
land).
The Luftwaffe, according to the Ger-
mans, successfully attacked ports, coastal
fortifications, war factories, an aircraft
factory at Reading and a camp at Aider-
shot, and two heavy bombs hit a
British ship in a Channel convoy. British
accused of “unscrupulously attacking
civilian population in northern and
western Germany.”
July 4: R.A.F. reports 40 German
machines down in 12 days against a loss
of 12 British. German claim to the de-
struction of 75 British raiders denied.
Brussels aerodrome bombed ; five Junker
bombers and some other machines hit.
The Hague air headquarters attacked
from 1500 ft. and bombs burst among
machines and running air crews. Raids
on Aix-la-Chapelle, Hamburg, Neu-
munster, St. Omer, Lunen, Merville and
military objectives in other towns.
A Lockheed Hudson brings down a
Messerschmitt in France. British fighters
shoot down another over s.-e. England,
badly damaging a second. Two other
raiders accounted for during an attack
on s.-w. England, where hundreds of
people watch Spitfires tackle 20 raiders,
which came over in arrow flights of three.
Raiders drop bombs from 200 ft. and try
to machine-gun crowds. A single ’plane
machine-guns part of the n.-e. coast.
German losses for the day, seven
machines.
Germans give casualties in R.A.F.
Hamburg raid at 16 killed and 25
wounded. They add that since the war
began 10,000 bombs have been dropped
on Germany, 448 people have been
killed and 1042 wounded.
Italians raid Alexandria but are driven
off by fire of British and French war-
ships. British report 60 Italian machines
destroyed in 20 days and 25 others badly
damaged. Air Ministry announces suc-
cessful attack on Macacca (Italian
Somaliland) by Blenheim and Gloster
Gladiators.
July 5: British naval aircraft score six
hits on the damaged French battleship
Dunkerque at Oran ; two machines re-
ported lost but return. French “rearmed
naval air squadrons” over Gibraltar
attack “British ships which had taken
part in the Oran battle”; in reply
to claim that “at least one large
vessel was hit,” British report no
casualties and no damage. Germans
report bombing of “English” oil depots,
ports, railways and other objectives and
claim to have sunk a 10,00 Q-ton merchant-
man and a submarine and damaged two
other merchantmen. They declare that
five British machines were shot down in
Germany after civilians had been killed.
R.A.F. attacks on Cuxhaven, Hamburg,
Wilhelmshaven, Cologne, Schipol and the
Texel.
July 6-7: R.A.F. completes laying of
extensive minefields along German and
Norwegian coasts and in the Baltic. Two
Baltic minefields account for 12 ships,
and warship reported damaged. Germany
and England mutually raided day and
night at several points. Two killed in
raid on England (July 6); one enemy
machine driven into the sea from 27,000
feet. Two Germans shot down during
raid on s.-e. England.
July 7: Greater intensity developing
in Mediterranean air war. Attacks on
the frontiers of Libya-Egypt, Sudan and
Italian East Africa, and Kenya-East
Africa. Warships at Italian base of
Tobruk (Libya) and aerodrome at
Catania (Sicily) bombed —workshops and
hangars at latter port destroyed. At
Tobruk two large ships reported aground,
another down by the stern, a smaller ship
on its side. Italians assert that three
R.A.F. machines were shot down during
the raid; admit two unloaded merchant
ships hit. Large Italian troop concen-
trations at Bardia bombed and machine-
gunned. Italians declare only slight
damage and that raid was followed by
retaliatory bombing. Oil tanks at Zula
(Eritrea) fired. Aircraft used in large-
scale fighting at Kassala (Sudan). Italians
allege destruction of eight British ’planes
in two raids at Aroma and Goz Regeb
(Sudan). R.A.F. fires oil tanks at Bergen.


THE SILENT HOUSE
wm
H
£
m
oi
f.
mm
© Do you want a home that is quiet and restful —
where external noises are shut away—an oasis of
peace in a noisy world ? Cane-ite is the secret
—Cane-ite structural insulation, used in walls
and ceilings. Cane-ite deadens sound; its millions
of tiny cells of INERT air, cushion and kill every
noise—and, as well, ensure snug warmth in
winter, refreshing coolness in summer. Its struc-
tural strength makes it suitable for any type of
decorative treatment, particularly ceilings.
Cane-ite is made in Australia, from Australian
sugar-cane; in three thicknesses and in boards up
to 12 feet long. Easily and inexpensively installed
—as ideal for the handyman as for the tradesman.
Write now for prices and further information.
Masonite, "The Wonder Board of 1000 Uses", is proving
particularly popular for office and factory partitioning.
cm
TE
STRUCTURAL INSULATION
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD., (BUILDING MATERIALS DIVISION)
Sydney Melbourne . , • Adelaide • Brisbane ■ Perth CA.15.40
FOR DECORATION
RENOVATION
FOR INSULATION
AGAINST HEAT
BBB~[
'<7fd
FOR INSULATION
AGAINST COLD
l
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“C.Q.R.”: A great cattle-moving feat
is in process Of completion with the shift-
ing of 1000-odd head from the Elsey,
once the home of /Eneas Gunn, and
Hodgson Downs adjoining, to Mel-
bourne. The distance is well over 2000
miles, and the job was handed to Drover
Sullivan, with three stockmen, a cook
and horsetailer and a team of 40 horses:
The route was down the O.T. line and
thence across the Victorian border. Four
months out, the first 1000 miles had been
traversed. After that dry weather and
scarce feed made the going hard ; water-
holes at one stage were 50 miles apart.
At Dalhousie, on the Alberga, the tired
mob was rested, then taken on to
Abminga, where it was railed. Only
10 per cent, was lost. The head drover
then returned north to pick up another
mob.
* * * *
“Larrangai”: The new N. T. Native
Affairs Department may not always be
on the right track with its policy, but it
does try to do something for Black
Brother. The latest move is a reorgani-
sation in the Darwin Abo. Compound of
counter-attractions to the delights which
lure the inmates into the town and
temptation. Cricket, football, hockey,
tennis and basket-ball, a gymnasium,
wireless and a library are all to be
added—the library is to consist of
“selected literature.” There will be
dances and music. Later the reserve is to
have its own picture show, and the sur-
roundings of the compound will be turned
into a “model garden suburb,” with
“avenues more than a mile long lined
with coconut palms and fringed with
crotons and the floral hedges of abori-
ginal homes.” All that seems to be miss-
ing is a cocktail bar and a s.p. joint.
If Binghi doesn’t civilise under these
luxurious conditions, the Administration
will have to fall back on the old-time
expedient of giving him back a bit of the
native scrub, full of goannas and wal-
labies, in which his forebears used to be
so happy in their pristine state, and leave
him to carry on his own “cultural life.”
“Pip”: Bowen
(Q.h which is to be
the site of an A.I.F.
camp, is raking in
cash for its Com-
forts Fund with a
Miss A.I.F. com-
petition. Three
ladies are in the
running — Miss
Public Service,
Miss A.C.F. and
Miss Licensed Vic-
tuallers ; votes
cost thrippence.
Australians have
proved particularly
adicted to these
Miss So-and-so
stunts, and I don’t
know why patriotic
societies haven’t
started a continent-
wide search for a
Miss Young Dig-
ger. It’d swell their
funds.
* *
“Phildee”: J. B.
Blair’s Bulletin
yarn “The Fire En-
gine of Treacle
Creek,” over which
u m uddy waters
closed, had a sort
of parallel at South
Johnstone (Q.). A
mill locomotive jumped the rails while
passing over a creek. The engine dived
20ft. into deep water and a line of several
trucks followed it. Driver and fireman
jumped clear.
“Dip”: Lee Lim has passed on to his
ancestors via Darwin’s Chinese Cemetery.
He reached the town in 1883 when he
was 14, and rose to be head of the firm
of Wing Sang Tong. Chinese funeral
rites and mourning occupied the best
part of a week.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: A Queensland motorist
has ha<i Chinaman’s luck. He and a
companion were driving along the Bris-
bane-Warwick road with two gallons of
petrol, two coils of wire and 201 b. of
gelignite in the rumble. They smelt fire,
“Turn the wireless up so I kin ’ear it goin' round me traps, Ma .”
and both got out of the car. One opened
the rumble door. The gelignite blew up,
the car was reduced to fragments and the
man behind was killed. The one in front
was able to stagger three-quarters of a
mile. If he had been anywhere near
the rumble there would have been no
hope for him.
* * . *
“Atrax”: Brisbane enjoyed a quiet
chuckle during the recent conference of
dairy factory managers and secretaries.
Speakers pointed out how the quantity
of table-quality margarine ordinarily
produced in Australia has risen rapidly
from pre-war amounts and is becoming
a serious menace to the butter industry.
All agreed that the claims of margarine
interests to equality in nutritive value and
even in flavor were ridiculous, particularly
the latter. Dropping in for a light lunch
at a near-by cafe, a couple of the expert
representatives agreed about the excel-
lent and novel flavor and quality of the
contents of the butter-dish, and asked the
waitress where it was made. She said
she didn’t know but would get them one
of its wrapping-papers. She did. It was
inscribed, in full accordance with State
law, “Margarine—Butter Substitute Only.”
* * * *
“Scat”: Two welcome additions to
Darwin have been completed. One, a
pub, is open to everybody ; the other, a
club, to nearly everybody. Designed by
Sydney architects, built by Sydney con-
tractors and opened by the Adminis-
trator, the Darwin Hotel is a large white
concrete structure with blue tiles and all
mod. cons. The other building was
opened by the President-General of the
Methodist Church (Prof. A. Albitson) and
by Flynn, of the Inland, who is
Moderator-General of the Presbyterians ;
it is the Welfare Club, and not only
members of the Army, Navy and Air
Force but male civilians are invited to
make use of it.
* * St *
“Pab D.”: Darwinians will have to
listen more intently to their wireless sets
now to keep up with the news. The
flying-boat service has been cut, and
newspapers . are to be delivered by
monthly ship-mail.
* * * *
“Mataranka”': The air is a wonderful
thing in civilising as in destruction. There
were two manifestations of it within the
past few days. In one case, Mrs. Mary
Bartlam, 79, was flown 2200 miles from
the Ord (W.A.) to Brisbane on a stretcher
after she had collapsed on a station where
she was visiting her son. Probably a
record trip for a stretcher patient. The
second is in the extension of Perth
“Daily News” operations to the Terri-
tory. The paper is now on sale in Dar-
win within a couple of days of publica-
tion, and has laid itself out to include
special N.T. news and to issue a monthly
Darwin supplement.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Tell “S.T.S.” (B. 22/5/’4O)
that Adelaide is not the only place where
parklands have been filched from the
public ; Darwin has suffered more. There
is not one of Darwin’s parklands left
today. Callan Park is given over to
electric transformers and a water-tower;
on Cavanagh Square there are a power-
house and other buildings ; Larrakeyah
Square has been taken over by the mili-
tary ; and Parap recreation reserve is a
pumping-station site. There is still the
sports oval, but it is used by athletic clubs
on sufferance, the military having the
right to take it over at any moment. We
protested, but what was the use? We
have no civic rights, no municipal coun-
cil ; and, though our voteless member
has done what he could to keep our park-
lands for us, his efforts were nullified by
the Department of the Interior, which
allows us no word of protest. It even
took our Town Hall for the use of the
Commonwealth Bank.
* * * *
“Enoggera”: Queensland is no more
generous than the other States in its treat-
ment of A.I.F. soldiers on leave. Men
are certainly allowed concession rail fares
when they are some distance from the
city, but those at Redbank, 16 miles
from Brisbane, still have to fork out half
a day’s pay—2s. 6d. —if they get mid-
week leave to travel to Brisbane and
back ; and those at Caloundra, off the
far end of Stradbroke Channel, many of
whom have homes in the capital, have to
give up two days’ pay to cover the dis-
tance in mid-week and 6s. at the week-
end. And in Caloundra there is nothing
to do in one’s spare time but watch the
waves.
* * * *
“Norther”: Queensland has its Works
Co-ordinator, too. His name is Kemp,
and he and Forgan Smith are trying to
decide which are civil and which defence
works. Among civil works the twain
hopes for irrigation expansion, cotton
development, another Brisbane bridge
and removal of level crossings. Defence
works have yet to be named.
* * * *
“Coomoo B.”: A Queensland cattle-
man of some renown was E. W. Archer,
who has passed out at 69, and for a time
he was a politician of less renown. He
arrived in Central Queensland from
Surrey (Eng.) and formed Archer Bros,
to run cattle at Gracemere, Laleham and
Torsdale. He was M.H.R. for Capri-
cornia in 1906-10, M.L.A. for Normanby
in 1914-15 and chairman of the Port
Curtis Co-op. and the Calliope and Fitz-
roy shire councils at different periods.


ĺ
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELIiS, FEIES OR GERMS.
The Commonwealth Government has been
using them for 12 years and has just
bought 90 more for R.A.A.F., Narromine.
PRICE, £l7/9/6,
including sales tax and crating.
Write Desk B for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ļ
wm
m
m
H ■ M
-
mm
m mm
“This book of photographs. .. .should be on the
shelves of all Australian golfers, both for its in-
structional value and as a very faithful record of
the methods of our greatest player —From Eric
Apperly’s introduction to the book.
JIM FERRIER’S "GOLF SHOTS"
contains 118 photographs of the champion in action,
selected by Ferrier from a special slow-motion
film made of him before his departure for America.
The essential points of each shot are illustrated
and explained in a way that puts 80 off the stick
within the reach of everyone.
The size of the page is 10 x 12 inches.
riTCH WITH STOP
MI
I m
■ ■■'. ■: t Mt ■■
:
HI
's.te kn "" “■*
1
PITCH WITH STOP
'* - ,
*
V
m i
■
'I
limb* iiceply'ldwkid*
« »ky ••'for th' lontct W»u
*
A
Price 3/
(postage 3d. extra).
From the publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 252188.
•BUNKER PLAV
\
-
ľ
ŀ
ł
BUNKER PLAY
l
ĺ
• ' >:
ļ
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Na notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
T.R.: “Defence of the Farmer” is just just.
B.H.: Interesting... .V.L.: Remove the
“balmy sea” and the “zephyr breeze” and try
a women’s paper... .J.W.G., H.W., H.J.C.,
G. D.G., J.E.S., D.N.H., H.F.McH.,
H. J.S., P.L.B. and W.R.: W.R. sounds
the trumpet this week:
When Nick with amaze
Saw earth was ablaze
The hair on his neck fairly rizz.
Adolf to conspire
To set it on iire
S'ent him off like a willy wizz.
Since hell was his forte
What a rotten retort
To try to take over the bizz.
F.McD.: Anyhow, it’s the first spring poem
this year... .D.H.M.: Make an Aboriginalities
par. of it... .Bellerive: Nobody else could have
written it:
My writing table did
Rock to and fro.
My ink did capsize;
Into a stream did flow.
Sheets of foolscap
From out of a rack
Sailed up to the ceiling
And did flutter back.
My boxer hat fell
From a hook on the door,
And bounced like a
Ball across the floor.
From out of a corner
An old straw broom
Did grotesquely caper
Around the room.
The goggled-eyed cat,
In the throes of fright,
Spit like a toad
And took to flight.
The window rattled.
And the blind did flap,
When I awakened from
A afternoon nap.
....L.P.R.: “The Arrow” fell wide of the
mark.. . .K.T.8.: The same “Spring Song,”
but a little earlier this year... .8.R.P.: Pay
more attention to telling a story before you
try “to develop a style” M.R.D.: Smart,
but that’s a 11... .N.R.F.: The ending spoils it.
....G.8.E.: It fell to pieces after the first
sentence .. . .H.R.V.: Leave “Flotsam and Jet-
sam" within reach of the next high tide....
PR B.: Hollywood uses that plot some 52
times a year... .L.R.C.: Have seen worse;
come again... .P.R.F.: Read the first page and
then guessed that the mortgage would be lifted
by the stranger in the big black car, the villain
die an unnatural death, and the rest of them
live happily ever after H.R.8.: The sketch
has merit; give a little more thought to some-
thing in the same vein K.T.8.: You’re still
plodding along well-worn tracks... .P.R.C.:
Slapstick, and poor at that R.8.E.: No room
for a “true love story” T.W.C.: The w.p.b.
is stuffed with such “literary morsels”....
R. : You should see print if you keep at
it... .N.R.D.: It’s no more mysterious than
the crossword on the Tiny Tots’ Page
8.R.D.: If that’s what you call “defying all
conventions” you’d better try following them.
B.R.F.: “I’ve aimed at Bulletin style.”
But you hit the w.p.b L.R.C.: In the whole
20,000 words of it you haven’t said one thing
that hasn’t been said a dozen times already....
S. : Try it elsewhere... .J.K.F.: “Bush
Voices” clamoring in the w.p.b P.8.K.:
That ghost has been haunting us for many
years... .M.C.G.: The Fifth Columnist vicar
was hastily interned... .W.F.T.: Likewise the
sewing circle which knitted in code H.8.M.:
“The Last Pioneer” pensioned off... .J.J.W.:
The victim who died with a knife in the back,
a bullet in the heart and a broken neck had
our sympathy, but we still don’t know who
did it W.G.L.: “He was off at last; off
to the great, wild, noisy city.” We showed
him the sights and sent him back to convalesce.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.C.R.: Appreciate your determination to
“give the dictators hell,” but we hardly think
those gloomy cartoons would he1p....A.P.:
Can’t agree with the contention that “what is
needed is a vigorous campaign in articles and
drawings against the greatest evil in this modern
world—the liquor problem”... .N.B.L. Nice
to see Hitler, Mussolini and Stalin as Lilli-
putians, bur scarcely appropriate,.. .A.E.M.: So
that emaciated abo. is still shivering by those
same few embers... .L.P.: Child Studies might
suit a women’s supplement... .M.P.Cr: Draw-
ings show merit, but gags are deadly du11....
E. : That freakish style won’t take you
far....8.D.: But the Diggers aren’t fighting
those people this time... .T.1.M.: Juvenile....
F. : First heard that jest when mother
took us in the pram to a baby clinic... .T.R.:
Keep sending them in, and try for a clearer
line... .K.G.T.: There have been many changes
in design since last you saw an aeroplane....
R.McC.; That hard-up tragedian is no longer
funny H.W.: A dinosaur may have looked
like that, but we don’t want them capering
about our pages.. . .E.M.: Caricatures are good,
but we’ve had all three in the last 12 months.
... .E.L.: Give more attention to figures, less
to architectural background.... .A.C.: You’re
sadly behind the times with that “attempt to
introduce the principles of Cubism into the
sphere of humorous art... .A.A.H.: Hopeless.
.... D.E.: A hackneyed wheeze and an ugly
drawing.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Interesting, and perhaps significant, was
the suggestion of a Senator from Maine
that, “as a start, we should close the
German Embassy and send the Germans
home,” and that “the Italian Embassy
should be treated the same way.” In
Presidential-election years the first State
elections are held in Maine, and the
claim is made for Maine (as a corre-
sponding claim was made for Man-
chester) that “What Maine thinks today
America will think tomorrow.”
* * * *
Written by Professor Roberts after “I
spent most of the study-leave which the
University of Sydney granted me
(November, 1935, to March, 1937) in
Germany and neighboring countries”:
Czechoslovakia.... enormously wealthy and
strong. The three States of the Little Entente
have 60 peace-time divisions Imaginative
strategists talk about a German invasion break-
ing down Czech resistance before France and
Russia could come to their aid. Such fan-
tasies are absurd.... Czechoslovakia is far
more likely to hold the ridges from Eger to
the Oder Hitler has not even been success-
ful. So far he has achieved only one diplo-
matic victory, the Saar. None of the other
lost lands have been won back; indeed, the
prospects of their reincorporation have never
been worse. Germany stands encircled....
Russia, France and Czechoslovakia are closer
friends than ever.
This champion misreporter is still “pre-
sented” by A.B.C. and “S.M.H.” as the
Man Who Knows All.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Italy has always been a bad
starter in warfare. In 1880 she made her
first grab at Abyssinia, but a garrison
was slaughtered by the natives. The
Italian Parliament ordered a punitive
expedition, but at Adowa in 1906 Mene-
lik routed two Italian armies, captured
two generals and killed 6000 soldiers,
capturing 2000 others. In China four
Powers had extorted leased ports from
the Son of Heaven, so Italy thought she
would have a try. China had no fleet,
no army and no friends, and the Italian
Government demanded a naval base in
unmistakably menacing language. China
returned a curt refusal—and nothing hap-
pened. The Italians opening moves
against Austria in 1915 were also un-
successful.
* * * *
“J.D.”: Thorby has been thundering
about the prices charged for army re-
mounts. Overcharging is not so much
the trouble as that there are so few good
types of animals available for the army
in the land that produced the in-
comparable “Waler.” The U.S.A. has a
better idea. It runs a Remount Service,
and there is a Remount Association with
its own publication, the “Horse.” A
recent issue shows that the Remount
Service was responsible for the breeding
of 16,492 mares in 1938, including mares
bred to horses at Remount depots and
under the care of agents throughout
the country. From these mares were
reported 10,193 foals in 1939, or
61.8 per cent, of the number of
mares bred. Of these totals, 15,709
mares were bred to thoroughbred stal-
lions, and 9782 of them (62.3 per cent.)
produced foals in 1939. Other stallions
used were Arabian, Morgan, Saddlebred
and East Prussian. The average number
of mares per thoroughbred stallion was
26.2. It’s all an example to our Defence
Department.
* * * *
In England there is a Joint Emergency
Committee of the Red Cross and the
Order of St. John, with Lord Cromer as
chairman. Within six months of the war
over a million pounds had been contri-
buted to the fund. Women gave their
jewels ; from many homes came valued
ornaments. There was even a diamond
necklace worth about £30,000 sent as a
gift. The funds go to the staffing of hos-
pitals. Almost in the blinking of the
eyelash after the declaration there were
Red Cross Channel ships, and Red Cross
’planes were fitted up.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A'CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, q.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, also this
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, tins
Bank offere tlte fullest'facilities for tlie transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
W ants.
Lady, Sydney, own machine, will correct and
type manuscripts. Experienced, reasonable.—
7265.
To buy copy of Dorothy Wordsworth’s
Journal. —7498.
To buy set of Australian Historical Records.
—7507.
Information Sought.
(1) Does the army offer scope for rapid
advancement to the right type? (2) Would
business executive ability be of the same value
in the army as in business ? (3) Is it possible to
enlist in a selected section of the army ? (4)
What section would you recommend to a branch
manager of a large chain store? —7347.
(1) Yes—consistently with the exigency of the
campaign and the qualifications of the indi-
vidual. (2) Yes. (3) Applicants may express a
preference for any branch of the service, and,
as far as is practicable, will be allotted accord-
ingly. (4) Depends entirely on your inclinations
and qualifications. .
* * * *
Chances of enlistment in the R.A.A.F.?
7335.
Candidates are being accepted for entry as
air crew for the purpose of being trained either
as pilots, observers or wireless operator-air
gunners. The maximum age limit for pilots
is 28; for observers and air gunners 32. Per-
sonnel are also being enlisted in , the ranks of
the R.A.A.F. in the following trades and call-
ings : Fitters, turners, cooks, instrument-makers,
coppersmiths, oxy-welders, all of whom must
be fully qualified tradesmen and (excepting oxy-
welders and coppersmiths) not more than 50.
Candidates applying in the latter two trades
must have passed their 18th but not their 35th
birthday. Forms for application are being for-
warded to you and, when filled in, should be
sent to the Recruiting Officer, No. 2 R.A.A.F.
Recruiting Centre, Dalgety’s, Palmer-street,
Woolloomooloo, N.S.W.
* * * *
7 wish to enter a military college. Can you
tell me (1) age and qualifications necessary, (2)
best time and place to apply, (3) would I board
at the college, (4) what monetary arrangements
are made, (5) length of training course 3—7508.
(1) Over 16 and under 20. Minimum edu-
cational requirements are an intermediate cer-
tificate, with passes in English and one other
language, algebra, geometry and two of the fol-
lowing subjects: history (ancient and modern),
geography, physics, chemistry, commercial
practice, economics, geology, botany and
biology. Appointment is by selection, and most
candidates have passed the leaving examination.
Candidates selected are those with the highest
qualifications. (2) Now, at Headquarters,
Southern Command, Victoria Barracks, Mel-
bourne. (3) Yes. (4) The college provides £3O
for outfit and maintenance and ss. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
a day, according to the cost of living. Pocket
money not more than 7s. 6d. weekly. (5)
Four years. -
* * * *
Names of books covering studies of
R.A.A.F. recruits in { 1) navigation, (2) wireless
theory ? —7493.
(1) Practical Air Navigation, by Group-Capt.
Summers, 4s. 3d. This is all that is necessary
for a beginner, but Martin’s Air Navigation, a
more expensive volume, is useful. The Air
Department’s navigation manual is not on public
sale. (2) Modern. Radio Construction, by
Reyner, Bs.; Foundations of Wireless, by
Sowerby, 7s. 6d.; Outline of Wireless, by
Stranger, 7s. 6d.
* * * *
Meaning of the term “currency lad”? —7510.
“Currency lads” and. “currency lasses” were
terms once applied to the native-born popula-
tion of N. S. Wales to distinguish them from
the immigrant portion of the inhabitants, who
were designated as “sterling.”
* * * *
Is there any evidence that any such creature
as the bunyip has ever existed? —7500.
There is no evidence for the -existence, now
'or in any age, of. a large marsupial otter,
which seems the most probable explanation of
this legend, but such a creature is not unthink-
able.. In 1846 a skull was found on the banks
of the Murrumbidgee and submitted to W. S.
Macleay as that of a bunyip, but he
pronounced that it was that of a much
deformed colt; Prof. Owen afterwards decided
that it was a calf’s. From time to time there
have been alleged eyewitness accounts of
bunyips. One, said to have been seen in a
lagoon north of Narrandera in 1872, was
described as “about half as long again as an
ordinary retriever dog, the hair all over its
body jet-black and shining, its coat very long.”
This fits in with the- idea -of a marsupial otter.
Another, seen at Dalby in Queensland in 1873,
had “a head like a seal and a tail consisting
of two fins, a larger and a smaller one.”
The Great Lake, in Tasmania, has several to
its credit; one bumped a boat in 1863, and
in 1870 Francis McPartland saw three or four
together. It is possibly of some significance
that seven observers in this locality, covering
about 10 years, agree in describing the animal
as like a large sheepdog about the head and
3ft. to sft. in length.
* * * *
(1) When were camels first introduced into
A ustralia ? (2) To what extent are they em-
ployed today ? (3) Details of load and distance
of which they are capable ? —7405.
(1) The camel was first introduced in 1840
when the survivor of three animals purchased at
Tenerilfe was landed at Port Adelaide. The
second importation was made in 1860; 24
were brought from India for the Burke and
Wills expedition. In 1866 Thomas Elder im-
ported 100 camels; most of these died of dis-
ease; the rest were acclimatised at his Beltana
station and bred freely. (2) Camels are now
in general use in the interior of W.A., S.A.,
N. S. Wales and Q’land, especially in the first
two States. They are employed by the survey
and water conservation departments, also as
mail carriers and for the transport of supplies
to mines and telegraph stations. Riding camels
are used by station-owners and the police for
urgent work. (3) On long journeys Arabian
camels are loaded with 3cwt. at the most, but
much heavier burdens are put on the heavier-
built Egyptian beasts. The Australian camel
carries an average load of 5501 b. to 6001 b., and
will cover 25 miles a day for two months at a
stretch. Riding camels will do 100 miles a day
for a week.
* * ■ *
Details of the Nelson gold robbery? —7501.
Took place in Hobson’s Bay, Melbourne,
April 2, 1852. The ship Nelson, which had
arrived the previous day from Geelong with
treasure, was boarded by a gang of robbers and
plundered of gold to the value of £24,000.
There were only three passengers and three
sailors aboard at the time. A Melbourne store-
keeper met the robbers on the beach and
bought the gold at 30s. an ounce. He then
sailed for England and was never prosecuted.
Four men —John Jones, James Morgan, James
Duncan and John Roberts —were indicted for the
offence and found guilty. One was afterwards
released, his arrest being found to be a case
of mistaken identity.
* * * *
Is there any record of the wreck of a vesesl
named the Mermaid in 1829?—7503.
-Yes. Her disaster was the first of an almost
incredible series. The Colonial Government
cutter Mermaid was wrecked in Torres Strait
in 1829 on her way from Sydney to Raffles
Bay. All those aboard took refuge on a
rock, and were taken off three days later by
the Swiftsure, sailing from Tasmania. In
three days she, too, was wrecked. Two days-
later the Governor Ready, also from Tasmania,
passing within sight, took aboard the ship-
wrecked people from the Mermaid and the
Swiftsure. On May 18 the Governor Ready
was herself wrecked, but all the people were
saved in the longboats. Another Tasmanian
vessel, the Comet, soon afterwards took the
accumulated crews of the three wrecked ships
on board, was herself wrecked, and all hands
again were saved At last the Jupiter, from
Tasmania, came in sight, and taking all on
board sailed for Port Raffles, at the entrance to
which harbor she ran on shore and was herself
wrecked.
* * * *
Details of the career of a bushranger named
lackey lackey? —7494.
William Westwood (Jackey Jackey) was trans-
ported in 1837 at the age of 16 and took to
the bush in the Goulburn district in 1840.
For some time he robbed mail coaches on the
Bungertdore-road; growing more daring, he
frequented the main southern road, and even
visited Sydney. In 1841 he was captured and
sentenced to penal servitude for life, and after
an attempt to escape from Cockatoo Island was
sent to Port Arthur. He escaped, but was caught
in Hobart and sent to Norfolk Island. There
in July, 1846, he headed a riot, killed four
policemen and was hanged on October 13
when only 26.
* * * *
I understand that an attempt was made to
walk a tightrope across Middle Harbor
(Sydney).. Any record of this ? —7492.
On March 29, 1877, L’Estrange, known as
“the Australian Blondin,” crossed the inlet on
a tightrope stretched from cliff to cliff. The
length of the rope was 1420 ft.,. and its height
above the water 341 ft.
* * * *
What benefit has Australia received from the
“Baker” Kodak Benefactions? —7495.
The 10th annual distribution of £14,500 to
charitable and other organisations in Australia
from the income of the charitable fund of the
“Baker” Kodak Benefactions brings the total
distributions to £BO,OOO in the last 10 years,
derived principally from dividends •of Kodak
(Australasia), Ltd. The Baker Medical Research
Institute has received £57,800, and numerous
Australian hospitals have participated in these
benefactions. Many contributions to medical
research and public health have been made by
the institute.
* * * *
Particulars of the kidnapping of Col. C.
Lindbergh’s child a few years ag0? —7502.
The baby was 19 months old when it was
taken between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. on March
2, 1932, from the Lindbergh home, near Hope-
well, New Jersey. On May 12 the body,
almost a skeleton, was found by a negro
teamster in a thicket near a roadway less than
five miles from its home. Meanwhile Lind-
bergh had paid 50,000 dollars to an alleged
agent of the kidnappers, and Gaston B. Means
had collected 100,000 dollars from Mrs. Evelyn
Walsh McLean on a promise to return the
baby. Means was sent to prison. On Septem-
ber 10, 1934, Richard Bruno Hauptmann, a 35-
year-old carpenter and a parolled German con-
vict who had entered the U.S.A. unlawfully,
was arrested after passing one of the ransom
banknotes at a filling station. He denied his
guilt, but was found guilty and sentenced to
death. He was executed on April 3, 1936.
* * *
(1) Countries producing radium ? (2) For
what length of time can healthy tissue with-
stand radium rays ? (3) Is radium a metal or
a liquid ? —7189.
(1) Czechoslovakia and the U.S.A. (2) No
absolute time limit. Treatment may be con-
tinued for several hours, but length of exposure
depends on area to be irradiated and whether
a “screen” is used. (3) It is an element, and
is generally used in the form of the metallic
salts, the chloride or bromide.
* * * *
I have an American-made wireless receiver
and a set of unused valves which I want to
bring into Australia from New Guinea as my
personal property. What Customs duty will I
have to pay on (1) the receiving set, (2) the
valves ? —7196.
(1) Provided the receiver complies with
Tariff Item 409, it would be admitted free of
Customs duty, primage and special war duties
and. sales tax. Item 409 states that “passengers’
furniture and household goods, which have been
in actual use by such passengers for at least
one year and not exceeding £lOO in value for
each adult passenger. (Two members of a
family, being children, may be reckoned as one
adult.)” (2) Customs duty, each valve 4s. or
ad valorem 40 p.c., whichever rate returns the
higher duty; primage duty, 10 p.c.; special
war duty, 10 p.c. on the amount of Customs
and primage duties payable; sales tax, 8 1-3 p.c.
* * * *
(1) Is there anything in the Commonwealth
Constitution to prevent the Commonwealth
Government bringing in conscription for mili-
tary service overseas? (2) If not, why was a
referendum held on this question during the
1914-18 war? —7176.
(1) Under the Constitution the Parliament
of the Commonwealth has full powers to make
laws with respect to the naval and military
defence and protection of the Commonwealth
and of the several States. Under this power, a
universal obligation could be imposed on all
citizens to defend and protect Australia by
serving in the naval or military forces of the
Commonwealth within the Commonwealth or
abroad. (2) Because the Government of the
day preferred to put the responsibility on
necessarily uninstructed electors rather than
assume it itself.
* * * *
What was the largest diamond ever found ?
Particulars ? —7504.
The Cullinan, named after T. M. Cullinan,
chairman of the Premier Diamond Mine (Trans-
vaal) Company, where the stone was found on
January 25, 1905. The name of the stone was
later changed to Star of Africa. In the rough
it weighed 3025| carats (abont 1 l-31b.), and had
only one small flaw near the surface. It was
bought by the Transvaal Government for
£150,000 and presented to Edward VII on his
birthday, November 9, 1907. I. J. Asscher, of
Amsterdam, was entrusted with the cutting of
the stone, and he cleaved it first into two parts
weighing 1977! carats and 1040! carats from
which the two largest stones have been cut,
one being a pedeloque or drop brilliant weigh-
-516| carats and'the other a square brilliant
weighing 309 3-16 carats. The first has been
placed in the sceptre and the second in the
crown of the regalia. Besides these two great
gems there were also cut from the original a
pendeloque weighing 92 carats, a square-shaped
brilliant 62, a heart-shaped stone 181, two
marquises 8 9-10 and IH, an oblong stone
6f, a pendeloque 4 9-32, and 96 small brilliants
weighing together 7| carats. The largest stone
has 74 and the second 66 facets.
* * * ■ *
Best method of getting rid of cockroaches ?
7352:
Breeding places of ’roaches are generally
defective w.cs.', accumulations of refuse, drains
and drain sumps. These should be examined
and made as vermin-proof as possible and well
and .regularly sprayed with any. reliable spray
or powder. Spraying should be done regularly
inside the house, and, wherever possible, all
openings, cracks, etc., should be sealed with
putty, timber or tin. Protect all foodstuffs
and burn all waste food and refuse. Keep the
’roaches on a starvation diet as much as pos-
sible, and make; for thorough cleanliness and
regular spraying. Persistence is the watchword
in getting rid of vermin.
* * * *
What is chromite? Is it found in N. S.
Wales ? —7506.
Chromite, or chromic iron ore, is the only
commercially important ore of chromium. It
is -found usually in association with serpen-
tine. The chromite found in N. S. Wales
is used as a refractory material. The main
deposits are in the Gundagai and Tumut dis-
tricts, and there" are smaller quantities in the
northern portion of the State. In 1938, 952
tons valued at £2564 were produced in N. S.
Wales.
* _ * * • • *
(1) Cause of gastric ulcer? (2) Suitable diet
after acute stage has passed and patient re-
sumed work, though not completely recovered ?
(3) What should be avoided? (4) Should alka-
line powder be continued? —7136.
(1) Exact cause debatable, but there are many
predisposing factors-—family tendency to ulcer,
constant abuse of the stomach with highly
seasoned foods or foods which are too hot
or too cold or imperfectly masticated. Infection
of tonsils, teeth, gall-bladder or appendix are
encountered in some causes, as is deficiency
of vitamins in the diet. (2) Milk, cream and
eggs are staple foods; lightly-cooked lean meat
and fish may be taken with puree of vegetables
and stewed fruit. (3) Alcohol, tobacco, too
much fat, highly-seasoned foods. (4) Yes.
* * * *
What is low blood-pressure? Serious? —7309.
A low systolic blood-pressure has been arbi-
trarily defined as one below 110 millimetres
of mercury when measured with a blood-
pressure gauge. Low pressure is, however,
not as serious as high pressure—insurance
figures indicate that moderately low pressure
adds materially to the expectation of life
after 25—that is, of course, unless the con-
dition is associated with some debilitating dis-
ease such as pulmonary tuberculosis. It has
been said that any pressure below 105 needs
careful investigation as to the cause, while
one below 100 calls for rest from all active
duties. But like all rules this has exceptions.
* * * *
Some information regarding whaling in Maori-
land ? —7499.
It was once an extensive industry, 300 vessels,
chiefly from America, visiting M.L. waters.
Whaling in this field started about 1795,
reached its peak between 1830 and 1840 and
then began to dwindle. Efforts have been made
recently to revive the industry, but results are
not encouraging. The only station now in
active commercial operation is at Tory Channel,
Queen Charlotte Sound, where, during the 1938
season, 75 hump-backs, one sperm and one
blue whale were caught, producing 400 tons
of oil.
Brief Answers.
T.P.L.: Suez Canal, 100 miles; Kiel (Ger-
many), 61 miles; Panama, 50 miles; Elbe (Ger-
many)', 40 miles; Manchester (Eng.), 35 miles;
Welland (Canada), 27 miles... .L.E.8.: The
Australian professional pianist whom Rupert
Brooke mentions was probably F. S. Kelly,
who was killed in action... .L.R.8.: Germany
Speaks, “by 21 leading members of party and
State,” is. probably the book you arc after.
It was published by Thomas Butterworth, Lon-
don J.R.: Ethelton won the S.A. Derby in
1925; All Crimson was second and Annihilate
third. Time was 2.36*....K.5.D.: William
Bede Dailey was a member of the N. S. Wales
Leg. Council from August 11, 1870, to Sep-
tember 19, 1873, when he resigned; he became
M.L.C. again on February 9, 1875, until April
8, 1880, when he resigned once more; he took
a seat in the Council again on January 5, 1883,
until his death on October 31, 1888. During
his life he was also a member of the N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly, Solicitor-General, Attorney-
General and Acting-Colonial Secretary....
F.J.N.: Full particulars of goods which are
prohibited or restricted from being imported
are contained in a book, The Customs Tariff
of New Zealand. The Import Control Regu-
lations, 1938, prohibit the importation of any
goods except in pursuance ot a license under
the regulations or of an exemption granted
by the Minister of Customs... .L.R.V.: Of the
20,217 persons employed in coalmining in Aus-
tralia in 1937, 43 were killed and 500 injured
by accidents... .J.P.R.: A mercury intensifier
might bring up some of the shadow detail in
the negative without working too severely on
the highlights....R.B.E.: From the facts.given
the dog seems to need exercise more than
anything else. No healthy animal should be
expected to spend three-quarters of its life on
a chain....B.R.H.: N. S. Wales is practically
the only Australian State growing rice. Small
experimental crops in other States are negligible
at present. Average yield was 95.59 bushels
per acre in 1937-38.... R.8.E.: He should have
to pay half the cost of the fence... .L.R.8.:
From the description the fish sounds like the
wirrah; it makes tough eating R.8.R.: Yes,
fine gauze filters would help to keep the mos-
quitoes out of the tank; a couple of spoon-
fuls of kerosene will prevent them from breeding
in it N.T.R.: Filing a small cross or drilling
a small hole in the nose of the bullets would
make them spread, but should not be necessary
using a .44... .8.G.R.: Information not avail-
able.... M.C.: Treatment-is difficult at this
stage and requires prolonged rest in bed—the
ulcer may then be strapped with an Unna’s
gelatine bandage. This dressing has to be
renewed frequently if there is copious discharge.
8.8.8.: Can find no foundation for the
story, which has been current for years....
F.D.: (1) Advisable to continue with the medi-
cal treatment you mention or, at any rate, keep
in touch with the doctor. (2) and (3) The
condition is unlikely to be relieved by the
patent medicines you mention L.B.R. : Write
to M.-G.-M., Chalmers-street, Sydney....
8.J.R.: Write to the Under-Secretary, Mines
Department, Perth... .S.D.: Research spon-
sored by the British Ministry of Health, the
Mellon Institute and other bodies has shown
that aluminium utensils are very resistant to
corrosion by foodstuffs cooked therein. There
is no evidence that cooking in such utensils has
harmful effect... .G.H.W.: (1) The New Line-
road in Victoria was built on the west side
of the Tambo about the beginning <?f this
century. (2) It was called the New Line be-
cause it replaced the old road which was built
on the east side of the Tambo, and crossed
and recrossed the creek from Tambo back to
Doctor’s Flat. The mailcoach travelled over
it after the old road was abandoned. (3) The
Fainting Range-road was the track McMillan
took to Gippsland in 1840. It was used by
packhorse, bullock-dray and then mailcoach.
The New Line-road was built after the Fainting
Range-road.. . .L.R.C.: Applications for en-
listment in the R.A.A.F. should be forwarded
to the Recruiting Officer, No. 2 R.A.A.F.,
Recruiting Centre, Dalgety’s, Palmer-street,
Woolloomooloo (N.5.W.)... .P.N.: The elec-
trolytic precipitation of copper requires caretu
clarification of solutions and an elaborate plant
with suitable cells and ample .power available
at low voltages and high current density, lhis
method is usually employed only for the refin-
ing of copper. The ordinary method is to run
the solutions through wooden launders l° ac
with scrap-iron which will precipitate th
copper.... H.R.P.: The value of Australian
mineral production to the end of 1937 Wi
£1,355,000,000....L.P.: In 1938-39 there were
219 factories in Australia engaged in the manu-
facture of pickles, sauces, spices, condiments,
coffee, etc. Persons employed totalled 4463..
K.T.: In N. S. Wales early potatoes are gener-
ally harvested about November-December, la
crops about July... .F.L.P.: Olem is
soluble in water, but can be dissolved in alcoh
or ether . H N.R.: Charlotte Corday assas-
sUed Marat on July 13, 1793. She was
executed four days later.. -.-NsR-C-- G ? rc •
discovered in California in 1848 v* c
From 1933 to 1937 production of coke in NA
Wales jumped from 473,427 tons to "39,9
tons Total value ot production .noised
from £512,693 to £909,822.. ..PL- t.
is the second largest white city in the Bntisn
Empire. Calcutta and Bombay are larger,
they have colored populations.


MTS
LYS
ft
PROOF,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
<■ ... ....
* *
aps*
SIP
' ri
wmm
V; •:• '■>?<-;
4;'
8&&£w
.- V v <* '■■ ;.' •-
■v^asaa
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents^
lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
"L Y S AGHT'S"
SPECIFY
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Murrawong”: Buyers were interested
mainly in quality rams from well-known
studs. There was little demand otherwise,
and many good sheep were sacrificed
or passed in. Top price was 675 guineas
for a Bundemar ram by King Charles.
Other good prices were 530 guineas for
the Egelabra ram which was reserve
grand champion at the Show, 600 guineas
for a Haddon Rig ram donated for the
Red Cross and bought back by the owner,
500 and 400 guineas for Wahwoon rams
and 300 for another Haddon Rig.
The rams generally were as good as
ever, and the type was plainer-bodied
and freer from extreme development.
Bidding was dull and slow. Merino stud
ram average prices were 20 per cent,
lower than last year. Fine chances were
offered the ordinary breeder to secure
high-class rams at flock prices. Numbers
of selected rams were sold at four to
eight guineas.
Fine -and superfine wool rams met a
poor market. The demand was for
strong and medium wools —for rams with
plenty of size and constitution, and
buyers had a keen eye to density.
Fleeces that handled badly, that were
short on the back or at all loose or
open, were passed by.
Extra-strong wools sold readily, and
the Koonona sheep from S. Australia
averaged well. Some of the other studs
from that State did not do so well,
however; a number of their sheep were
out of condition, and anything that did
not look its best did not stand a chance.
The percentage of sheep of bad con-
formation was about the same as usual.
Some studs have slipped badly in strong
wools, and the number of frosty-faced
and rough-woolled sheep is too high.
Several breeders appear to have aimed at
producing a long-stapled wool, and in
doing so have lost sight of the necessity
for density and character.
Corriedales sold well, although flock
rams were affected by the general de-
pression. J. M. Phelan, of Attunga, re-
fused a bid of 350 guineas for the ram
which was grand champion at the Show.
He sold another ram at 110 guineas and
a Cullingral ram brought top price at
auction —120 guineas. In all, 143 Corrie-
dales were sold at auction for an average
of £l7 11s. This was £2 a head better
than last year and reflects the swing
of the wool market. The total number
of merinos sold at auction was just on
1400 for an average of £22 13s. —£6
below last year’s average.
Corriedale buyers had .a wide range
of types to pick from, and this breed is
evolving according to districts much as
merinos have done in the past. There
are fine wools —58s and better —and there
are broad wools that look more like
Romneys—of 46s and even lower quality.
Some studs show a tendency towards
harshness and starey wool.
British breeds sold comparatively well.
There was a good demand for Border
Leicesters, and good clearances were made
at an average of about £l4 per head.
Only a few Ryelands were offered, but
they met keen competition at the highest
average for any British breed. The Rye-
land ram which was reserve champion at
the Show was sold by private treaty at
55 guineas.
Romneys were comparatively cheap.
Only a few Dorset Horns were sold,
and the S. Australian rams brought good
prices. Southdowns met with fluctuating
demand. Buyers showed their preferences
clearly, and some rams showed a sub-
stantial drop on last year’s values.
Export Lamb Breeds.
“Yarrunga”: The first step towards
limiting sheep breeds to cross for high-
grade export lambs has been taken by
the Commonwealth Animal Protection
Committee after a year’s investigation of
the subject.
The recommendation cuts down the
British breeds to four—Border Leicester,
"It’s rough on a man, ain't it?"
Romney Marsh, Southdown and Dorset
Horn. The merino ewe is the basis of
all first crosses for breeding mother ewes,
and for this purpose, in addition to the
two British longwools, the Corriedale
is included as a first-cross sire.
The committee hopes for the co-
operation of the Australian Meat Board
in a series of commercial experiments
on approved properties to test out the
lines of crossing agreed upon. This
embraces use of the Romney, Border and
Corriedale on merino as first cross, fol-
lowed by Southdown and Dorset rams
in second crosses to produce the export
type required by Smithfield. In deference
to Victorian opinion, the Border Leicester
may be included as a second-cross sire.
The “hall-marked” British breed
quartet is the same as J. M. Coleman
selected as capable of filling breeders
requirements in all States. At the Sydney
Sheep Show only these four breeds and
the Ryeland were represented, there
being no entries in the classes scheduled
for Lincolns, English Leicester, Shrop-
shires and Suffolks.
Pigs on a Large Scale.
“Pappamosca”: The Argentine handles
its pigs on sheep-station scale. Maoriland
is learning to do the same, but Australia
has a long way to go.
Last year M.L.’s export of pork car-
casses was 680,496. Fifteen years ago it
had just passed the 5000 mark. Pig
numbers have more than doubled in a
decade. The development has been
brought about by wholesale dairy-com-
pany organisation, by vigorous co-opera-
tive marketing linked with insistence on
high standards of quality, and by the
economic use of buttermilk and other
farm by-products for feeding.
Some of the dairy companies them-
selves have gone into pig-farming to pro-
vide an outlet for their by-products. The
N.Z. Co-op. has a 75-acre farm in a well-
sheltered valley near Te Awamutu. Large
barns hold supplies of concentrates. The
surplus buttermilk of the factory is
pumped for a mile into tanks on high
stands, and from there gravity carries it
through a 2in. pipe to the pens all over
the farm—there are 2\ miles of pipe.
Curd troubles are got over by running
a mixture of 1 p.c. molasses in water
through the pipes every day.
There are 120 breeding sows in use.
One-third are purebreds, and there are
four boars of each breed—Berkshire,
Tamworth, Devon and Large Whites.
The breeding policy is a peculiar one,
but it justifies itself by results. Crossbred
sows are frequently bred to boars of a
breed not in the original female mixture.
The farm layout is interesting, plotted
as a circle. Buildings are in the centre,
with handling yards, dip, weighbridge
and a block of fattening pens. Progress
is regulated by periodical weighings from
the time the pigs are three weeks old.
The fattening pens have concrete walls
and floors, with a boarded bed at the
rear. The feed is piped to the pens, which
are warm and cosy. Races run from the
central buildings to every part of the farm.
All workers are specialists. One man
has charge of all farrowing operations
and of young pigs until they are weaned.
Weaning is done in the breeding pens at
the back of the farm, where high clumps
of succulent cocksfoot give the young-
sters and their mothers great feed and
good shelter. They leave their first home
at eight weeks old when weights are
round 401 b.
The next step brings them into the
intermediate pens, where they are sorted
and culled. The fattening operations are
under the direct supervision of the farm
manager. The output of the farm is
about 2000 pigs a year, and increasing.
W.S.W. Wheat Areas.
“A.A.D.”: The State Marketing
Bureau’s preliminary estimate of the area
sown to wheat in N.S.W. this season is
4,500,000 acres for grain and hay. This,
compared with 4,625,000 acres actual last
year, represents a reduction of 2.7 p.c
Much depends upon how much of the
million acres has been planned for
hay. There is no evidence that farmers
as a body deliberately restricted their
areas for grain in view of the obscure
price and marketing outlook ahead. On the
contrary, led to expect in the vicinity
of 3s. 6d. at sidings for the f.a.q. wheat
acquired by the Commonwealth, the
trend was to maintain normal acreages
and chance the future.
Crop prospects at the end of June were
more or less in the balance as a conse-
quence of insufficient carry-on rains
during May and June. The best of the
crops were backward and the major
areas in need of substantial rain. The
harvest prospect then was not 50 p.c. of
that of a year ago.
Erosion on Wheat Farms.
“Ben C”: No one method will
adequately control erosion because so
many things can ca-use it. Sudden heavy
rain can wash out a gully, slow steady
rain build up a flood, high winds can
take the top-soil from dry fallow and
so on. It’s necessary to study the whole
farm and all possible erosion factors
before making control plans.
Erosion must be tackled at its source.
Generally the top of a rise—where the
water gathers to make its rush down-
hill—is of poorer soil than the slope and
flat. If feasible, quick-growing timber
or a pasture that will bind the surface
should be planted there, and the pasture
carried well down the slope, leaving the
flat for cultivation. Natural water-
courses should never be interfered with ,
their pasture should be made permanent
and there should be no overgrazing.
Grading .and check-dams are useful where
gullies have already formed.
Easily-eroded slopes, of course, need
contour banks. They must be carefully
planned to distribute the water evenly
should there be too much for them to
hold back. Cropping systems also need
careful regulation based on the run of
water and loss of soil. Sometimes a
new subdivision will make all the differ-
ence, even to the extent of rendering
further control measures unnecessary.
Before control measures are adopted,
study the farm through a normal year
and make the plans accordingly.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mattock”: Chou moellier as stock-
feed should not be overlooked. It grows
rapidly in good rainfall country or where
irrigation is available. Tests in Maori-
land last year showed it is richer in
digestible proteins and mineral matter
than turnips. Well-limed soil, treated
later with a dressing of manure or super.,
is suitable. Seed should be broadcast
lightly in ridges or narrow beds and
thinned out to 2ft. each way. The seed-
lings can be transplanted. Sowing-time
is November to January. Chopped up
leaves of chou moellier are relished by
all stock, and the plants will supply
“greens” for six months.
“Goulburn”: Try this on that prad’s
sore shoulder—loz. of zinc sulphate and
loz. of lead acetate, dissolved in a pint
of rain-water. Shake the bottle before
using and apply with a sponge before
and after work.
“U. 28”: Almost invariably when a
horse is staked in the coronet a cut is
put round the top of the hoof in an
effort to locate the stick and draw it.
Nearly every time that results in a
bumble hoof. Given fair seasonal con-


ditions it takes just about three months
for the cut to grow out at the toe of
the hoof; but the bumble remains.
Though a bumble doesn’t necessarily
cripple a horse, it doesn’t add to his value
and use. And the thing is easily avoided.
Don’t cut against the grain, round the
top of the hoof, but with it down into
the hoof. If the cut is made with the
grain, then when the wound has grown
out there isn’t any disfigurement.
“Mullengah”: Don’t cut or lop fodder
trees when drought-feeding, flail the
leaves off. By stripping the foliage in
this way twigs will make new growth
within a few weeks.
“Ghanam”: The last wool of the
N.S.W. season was cleaned up in Sydney
during last week and returns are easily
a record. Last season 1,143,000 bales
yielded £ 15,000,000-odd. This season’s
rake-off for 1,395,000 bales was
£23,728,000. Under present conditions
there is no chance of an increase in con-
tract prices in 1940-41, but Britain and
U.S.A. will need every pound of wool
they can get.
“Bundalinga”: Ten years ago W. P.
Dixon and his son sowed 40 acres of sub.
clover on their Wallendbeen (N.S.W.)
property. They harvested 23cwt. of
seed. Today 1200 acres of their 1260-
acre farm carries sub. clover. Last
season they took off 8001 b. of sub. clover
seed per acre, getting 90 tons from 250
acres. It brought £lOO a ton. The sub.
was established with wheat on country
cropped for three seasons, and is top-
dressed every year with 901 b. of super-
phosphate per acre.
“Mullengah”: Allowing for wages and
horse feed, the heavy growth of grasses
and crops on H. R. Syme’s property,
Warrangong, Koorawatha (N.S.W.), was
conserved last year as pit silage at a
cost of 4s. 6d. a ton. During the 1938
drought all conserved fodder, except one
pit of silage, was used, 1000 tons of
silage, 7000 bushels of oats and 28 bales
cf lucerne hay being fed to stock. The
next season 500 tons of silage was put
back into the pits, and a year later 750
tons was pitted. Other reserves now
include 346 tons of lucerne hay, 134 tons
of cereal hay and 108 tons of grain.
There are 9700 sheep on the 6200-acre
holding.
“Esser”: On his 820-acre farm at
Ariah Park (N.S.W.) Dave Edis grazes
pigs as a lot of other men graze sheep.
In all there are about 200; next year
there may be as many again. Edis grew
200 acres of wheat last season, the pigs
absorbing most of the grain. He reckons
it’s worth 4s. a bushel sold “on the
hoof.” He grows oats, lucerne and peas,
stores fodder as grain, hay and silage
and buys up the local buttermilk. Tam-
mies and Berks and their crosses are
his breeds, and he concentrates on local
markets at Wagga and Cootamundra.
“Yarrunga”: At Kiah, on the extreme
South Coast of N.S.W., R. J. Goward
has had remarkable success this year
with maize and beans in mixed farming
on Towamba River flats. On 3in. rain-
fall he produced the State’s champion
maize crop of 145 bushels yield on land
that had been 7ft. under flood waters in
August. Ten acres of French beans re-
turned more than £lOOO from table and
seed crops, sold in Sydney and Mel-
bourne.
“Raleigh”: In parts of the N.S.W.
Central Coast areas farmers have re-
ported that swarms of beetles were re-
sponsible for the destruction of bracken
fern. Hopes were raised that a natural
ally had appeared for the control of a
plant pest that monopolises vast areas
of coastal and tableland grazing country.
The insect turns out to be a native species
known as the large fern weevil. Ento-
moligists are not sanguine of it ever be-
coming usefully destructive. Besides, two
species of minute wasp parasites that
feed upon the weevil grubs have been
identified in N.S.W. Hawaii has intro-
duced these wasps to control fern weevils.
“Zedo”: Up on the Maranoa (Q.)
country (some of it old pear land), which
was purely grazing a few years ago,
belah and brigalow scrub soil is now
fast being brought under cultivation by
dry-farming methods. Wheat, barley and
even lucerne are being found practicable.
In time it will mean a big thing to the
drier far west if seasonal advantages are
properly made use of to pile up stores
of reserve fodder adjacent to districts
which are purely pastoral.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXV.
ACQUIRING A HERD.
Having let it be known that you are
thinking of going in for beef cattle, you
find that everyone who owns cattle sud-
denly seems anxious to get rid of them.
Even the publican puts a couple of free
drinks under your belt, then takes you
out the back and shows you a large
motherly-looking cow with a tremendous
udder and asks if you’ve ever seen a cow
like that before.
You have; there are dozens roaming
the district roads. You explain you want
beef, not dairy cows. “Blime,” he says,
retreating to the bar, “y’ couldn’t get
anything beefier than oF Daisy.”
Daisy eyes you benevolently and lets
out a penetrating bellow. You sneak
away.
By the time you’ve rejected the district
hospital herd, some bull calves from local
dairymen and “a line of good cattle”
driven to your gate on Sunday at dawn
by a couple of suspicious characters you
decide to seek expert advice.
A local stock and station agents says,
“Now, look, if I was you I’d go in f’r
sheep. Fair dinkum, I would. Y’ could
carry more sheep than cattle, an’ sheep
are easier to feed an’ manage, an’ they give
y’ a return in wool an’ lambs. No matter
how good cattle are, they can’t do that,
Now, look, I got a line of four-tooth ewes
that - .
“Cattle,” you say firmly, and leave him.
The second agent thinks the country
is going to need horses before long what
with petrol shortages and so forth. It
he was you he’d grow horses, that’s what
he’d do, and strangely enough he knows
of some good brood mares that
“Cattle,” you assert, even more firmly,
and retire.
Near the post office, sitting in a high-
powered car and reading mail, is a large,
red, beefy man. Sid McSteak, one of
the biggest cattle-dealers in the west! He
seems to spend his time tearing along
back roads, the back of his car full of
blue dogs, suitcases and dust. Most of
the dust clouds outback have McSteak
in the middle of them. Everybody knows
him, though nobody knows where he
lives or what he does with the cattle he
deals in. Local people who have visited
distant parts of other States come back
and tell how they saw McSteak roaring
along some far road or reading his mail
outside some unknown post office. He d
be reported in Melbourne today and 73
miles west ot Cunnamulla (Q.) a week
hence.
This !S your man You approach.
G day, Mr. McSteak. Look, you
don t know me, but You hastily ap-
prise him of the position. He gives you
a quick glance, reads his mail, spits ovei
the side of the car, shoves the mail in
a pocket, opens the door and says, Hop
in. We 11 have a look at this place of
yours. Can’t tell till I see it.
Puzzled, you get in the car. It roars
and tries to jump from under you the
dogs in the back fall down and get up
again, and you re on the way at 60 m.p.h
McSteak hunches silently oyer the wheel
and drives as though all the devils in
Hades were after him. He swings in at
your ramp, roars up the paddock in wide
circles and sends your horses bolting for
the timber. His dogs begin to bark, and
from the homestead your dogs race vainly
after the car, also barking. You see your
wife come on to the verandah and peer
across the paddock, and as you grimly
hang on you wonder if she’s barking, too.
Suddenly the car stops dead, your head
hits the windscreen and McSteak’s dogs
hurtle out of the back into your lap.
They apologise briefly and scramble back
to shout defiance at your dogs, You
come to and see McSteak crawling round
in the grass. Thinking he must have
been thrown there, you are about to get
out when he rises, brushes both knees
and comes to the car. “Y’ want t’ build
up that clover,” he snaps, slams in the
gears and has you back in the town
drinking a beer before you can speak.
While you’re still wondering he growls,
“Drop you a line. Gotter be in Diamond
Creek be Monday,” bustles through the
bar door and roars away,
a week passes. Then the post office
rings up to say there’s a telegram. You
ask them to read it:
250 stud Shorthorns in calf loaded
trucks Gulnare Monday reach you Thurs-
day guarantee price reasonable if not will
A&llidl Cl 0 ,“
. „
Gripes. you say.
“What?” says the post office.
You ring off and sit down to think.
This McSteak’s a sudden sort of cove,
You feel a bit doubtful that no price
has been mentioned, but you can get a
copy of McSteak’s telegram and cover
yourself with the guarantee. Probably
that’s the way the big-gun dealers do
business. Feeling that you’re in a world
of big things you wire acceptance,
Thursday being three days away gives
ample time for the news to spread. When
the stock train pulls in all your neighbors
anc ) most Q f the district agents, dealers,
drovers, dogs and small boys are on hand
to see the cattle specially selected by your
friend Sid McSteak.
with t he cattle is a sun-burned,
leather y, bow-legged, capable individual
wbo S p ds often and speaks seldom. As
the great sleek cows sway down the ramp
anc j on t 0 the road your heart beats with
pride. They’re beauties, and everybody
knows it The seven miles to your farm
j s a p roce ssion as cars, carts, sulkies and
h orsemen gather to admire the stock and
barrack you enviously. You ride easily
beside McSteak’s man, trying to hold
yourself like a big cattleman. You steal
a j ook a t the silent rider beside you, edge
over and say, “Did Sid—er—Mac—you
know—Mr. McSteak—did he say any-
thjng about price 7”
McSteak hireling regards you
spits an d grits out, “Nuh! But
doan /’J wo He doan > mind
ir / well fr y ’ ood agistment!”
. 6 . . ..
Agist - A ternbie doubt assails
k ou - m a vlsl °n you see McSteak on
hl * knees in your paddock, hear his re-
raarks abou clover, recall your hurried
words about good grass lor cattle a
he P office. Agistment. And the
bloom in district Agistmen .
}!? dt s k' tin ■ Blast McS eaK
and dls suddenness.
“Er—how much—er—what you reckon
them cows is worth a head?” you ask.
Narrowed eyes appraise the drifting
herd. A hat is pushed over one eye. A
portion of saliva is shot into the dust,
“Me? Aw, round about fifty guineas?”
He grins with a slight contempt. “Was
you thinkin’ of buyin’ ’em, mister?”
“Who me!” you gasp with a weak at-
tempt at loud laughter. “Fifty times two-
fifty,” you think to yourself. “Gaws-
truth!”
Without a plan and with little hope you
watch McSteak’s Shorthorns pouring over
your farm in a liver-colored flood.
This beautiful Stud Ram from Eli Elwah was sold for 420 guineas at the Sydney
Ram Sales to go to a Queensland Stud.
Photo. Fishwick Studio.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
Names—though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don’t object.
Double rates for a Tasmanienne who writes with great candor and courage on
race suicide.
For “An Old-fashioned Family”
“Anither” (B. 19/6/’4O) makes me
tired. Admittedly a policy that inclines
to overpopulation may bring wars and
devastation upon us, but there’s less
chance of its doing so if we all take a
share in the populating business. If the
population of Britain and the Dominions
sinks to any extent while that of, say,
Germany, increases, we go down, and
not merely to the condition of a fourth- or
fifth-rate Power but to become a vassal
State. Those people who “hurl vast
quantities of moral and righteous indig-
nation from the pulpit and the press” at
those who are committing race suicide
know what they’re talking about.
And it’s time that “Anither” and his
kind put an end to the blither of parents
who talk of wanting peace and security
before they’ll bring children into the
world. Most of these same parents want,
and have, one child (you’ve only to look
around your own friends to count
dozens of one-child families), altogether
ignoring the fact, if it ever occurs to
them, that to bring one child into a world
that may be torn asunder by wars and
devastations is a hundred times more
cruel than bringing three or four who
would help to restore the population
balance.
Their cry for a better world before
they will add to their family is nothing
more nor less than a cry for a new wire-
less or a new dinner set. Similarly that
other plea, “I want to give my child a
decent education and I can’t afford to
educate two decently,” means they’d
rather educate one child at a “refaned”
private school where it can make “good”
contacts than at a State school.
I’m not married yet, and if this war
goes on may not have the opportunity,
but if I do I’m going all out for an old-
fashioned family (by which I don’t mean
the ten or twelve of our grandmothers’
days but the four to six of our mothers’
time), and be hanged to whether I can
afford a new dinner-set or a refaned
school for the kids. — Betty Martin
(Tas.).
To Have and Hold
May I remind “Anither” (B. 19/6/’4O)
that if his parents hadn’t taken a chance
his article would never have been written.
Security, collective or otherwise, is only
a chimera —at best it can only be tem-
porary. Life, more than ever these days,
is working its own way through under
chance conditions, and we in this country
above all need more adventurous parents
of adventurous children. Overboard with
security! France followed security—
dreamed of it —and as a result it had in
the field 500,000 fewer soldiers than it
mustered in 1917, after three years of
bitter fighting.
We Australians have a White Australia
Policy—a direct expression of pride and
faith in our own kind ; we have a station-
ary population with an increasing number
of elders; many of our young men will
never be parents. To wait for a hypo-
thetical world of security for children to
be born means to wait for children to be
born of another race—and color. We
Australians, if we are to survive, must
throw overboard this negative septic
poisoning which has undone so much of
Europe, and which serves as an excuse
for letting well alone. We must front
the future with a confidence that believes
in its own kind, and we will be justified
in the occupancy of a fairly large portion
of the earth’s surface for the one best
of all reasons—we will have the numbers,
the means and the will to hold it.—C. F.
(Vic.).
“Fell that Tree!”
Admittedly Governments should have
control over landowners’ timber (B.
19/6/ ’4O), but landowners should also
have some control over Governments.
In the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) district lanes
have been mercilessly slashed through the
virgin bush for all sorts of “improve-
ments,” particularly power cables.
Long Island (N.S.W.) was saved by a
miracle. The Railways Department was
going to stalk across the top of the island
on 40ft. poles (with accompanying insu-
lating lane), carrying cables for use in
construction of the bridge. Only a wild
outcry made it take poles and cables
the easiest and most inconspicuous way
—along the foreshores and causeway to
the bridge.
On my own selection, which I was
carefully preserving as a natural sanc-
tuary, first came Privileged Communi-
cations —the P.M.G. —scouring a gutter
for his wires. Then the übiquitous cables.
I fought the latter desperately and had
a promise to spare the bigger trees which
have struggled for donkeys’ years in this
country. For a while a bit of lopping and
lining-up was done to show me how con-
siderate officialdom could be. But now
there is a blasted hurricane track littered
with slaughtered blue- and red-gums, and
my sanctuary is just another barren hilltop.
A tree once felled is down, and the fact
that there’s a hitch over getting copper
cables for the duration won’t put it up
again.— Sick (N.S.W.).
Sydney Newspapers
The Commonwealth Government was
forced to rescind its decision to permit
publication of another evening daily in
Sydney and, through its own short-
sightedness in granting the permit in the
first place, brought a storm of adverse
criticism on its head.
The Sydney “Daily News,” “official
organ of the A.L.P.,” crashed through lack
of support, and its license to import news-
print should be revoked instead of being
handed over to Consolidated Press, which,
a little earlier, had denounced Labor-
policy in a front-page leader.
The Federal authorities could go a
little further by seeing what could be
done about the extravagance of having
three voluminous Sunday newspapers in
Sydney, one of which fills up with syn-
dicated American trash, while the others
afford trifling encouragement to Aus-
tralian artists and writers. Crusader
(N.S.W.).
Paper Saving
If we are really in earnest about paper
saving, why not have the papers justify
their use of paper by stipulating (Govern-
ment decree) that they must publish only
matter suitable for intelligent adult read-
ing? We would save a lot of paper that
way.—Fou (N.S.W.).
Is Victory Worth While?
There is this aspect in connection with
sport (B. 19/6/’4O) and its by-products
—that it distracts attention from the
things that really matter. If these hefty
football players are really unfit for mili-
ta'ry service then let them get busy on
some other sort of national service. If
they must play in their spare time, then
let them play somewhere where no crowd
will gather round to watch them.
If we look at the lamentable failure
of the recent Commonwealth War Loan
appeal we should all feel deeply shocked.
Up to within a few days of its closing
date there were fewer than 17,000 indi-
vidual subscribers. The loan actually
closed with 32,000 subscribers in a popu-
lation of 7,000,000 people of wholly
British descent!
It was oversubscribed, but the fact re-
mains that fewer than one in 200 of the
people of this country contributed to the
effort. The remaining 199 in each 200
apparently could not find the price of a
solitary £lO bond, even on easy terms of
payment.
N.S.W. now proposes to cut its racing
programme by 50 per cent. This means
that, in place of races (horse and dog) on
52 Saturdays, nine public holidays, 51
Wednesdays, 52 Tuesdays, 14 Thursdays
and trotting on 40 Mondays, we shall
now have races (probably) only on
Saturdays, public holidays and Wednes-
days. No action is to be taken in Vic-
toria or in Queensland in regard to what
the Queensland Acting-Premier describes
as “healthy relaxation.”
The British Empire has lost every single
round of the war so far (including the
loss of a formidable ally); and it seems
even now that the mass of the Australian
people do not think that victory is worth
while. How else could we interpret this
addiction to alleged sport all during and
after a period in which Britain sustained
the most colossal military defeat in all her
history.—Ex-I. O. (N.S.W.).
Racing First
When the Defence authorities wanted
space for military requirements in Vic-
toria no objection was raised to the use
of the Showground, although that is con-
cerned with keeping up the standards of
agricultural and pastoral production. No
politician or newspaper had the temerity
to point out that there are half a dozen
racecourses eminently adapted for the
purposes of the army. It is now an-
nounced that a skimpy indoor Royal
Show is to be held at the Exhibition,
limited to dogs, cage birds, pigeons,
poultry, horticulture and women’s in-
dustries. No suggestion was made that
horseracing should be conducted indoors
or on vacant allotments or that the Mel-
bourne Cup might be run off at
Horsham. — Wangpa (Vic.).
Naval Defence
In my mind is a picture of the proud
and powerful Spanish Armada with its
huge ships outmanoeuvred and relent-
lessly punished by the smaller and
handier English craft. And beside this
picture is another of the modern massive
floating fortress outmoded and rendered
useless by numbers of small high-speed
craft, easily handled, developing a speed,
say, 50 p.c. greater than that of the battle-
ship—T. E. Lawrence knew something
of this sort of thing—able to carry a
couple of torpedoes, dash' in, discharge
them and away again, presenting a diffi-
cult target to the battleship and an
almost impossible one to an aeroplane.
Is the second picture a fantastic one?
If not the construction of numbers of
such small craft might do more to
strengthen the defences of Australia than
the building of huge dockyards and mon-
sters of the deep. And, with their limited
range, no one could claim that they were
other than purely defensive weapons.—
Upagum (S.A.).
Inappropriate Records
Some of the compilers of wireless pro-
grammes seem to have a gift for pro-
viding the inappropriate, especially in
their use of tiresomely stale records.
There are still stations using songs of the
“Lord Haw-Haw,” “Run, Adolf, Run,”
and “Adolf, Hold Your Hand Out” kinds,
and others relating to the Maginot and
Siegfried lines and to British troops in
France.
All through the period of great naval
work there has been frequent repetition
of a record of “We Joined the Navy to
See the World” which contains the lines:
We joined the Navy to do or die:
But we didn’t do, and we didn’t die.
Even preparers of radio programmes
should have understanding enough to
realise the heroism and the loss of life
involved in naval action, and to scrap
silly records. — Listener (Vic.).
Home Defence
Mr. Menzies has said that, with the
additional call-up, we would have a
home defence army of 250,000, including
compulsory trainees, militia, A.I.F. per-
sonnel in training, the Diggers’ reserve,
and other odds and ends.
It’s still not enough. Even if thorough
training is impossible, there should be
some defence organisation to include
every Australian, if only to ensure that
the work of mobilisation in an emergency
ran smoothly and each man had some
idea of what he was to do. By making
use of the Diggers some training could
be given to all of us, and within a very
short time Australia would be a nation
in arms the best insurance against
invasion.
Instead of a quarter of a million Mr.
Menzies should aim for an army of a
million Australians. The men are will-
ing ; all they need is the opportunity. —
Paul Pilgrim (N.S.W.).
British Strength
Hitler himself was under no delusions
as to the strength of the British Empire
when in 1924 he wrote in Mein Kampf:
....The British nation will continue to
be considered as the most valuable ally
in the world, as long as the world looks
to the leadership and spirit of its people
for the ruthlessness and tenacity which is
determined to fight out a struggle, once
begun, by every means and without regard
for time and sacrifice right on to the vic-
torious end; which proves there is no need
for the military armaments existing always
in any special ratio to those of other States.
That our fighting spirit is tenacious and
determined is correct, though our stocks
in world opinion, through pacifism and
disarmament, slumped badly until revived
by the Chamberlain rearmament pro-
gramme. Soolers, who agitated for fight
until Mr. Chamberlain was forced by
public opinion to change his appeasement
policy for one of defence pacts and war,
are now blaming the old man for
Britain’s lack of preparedness. What
British statesman did more towards
Britain’s rearmament? Fourteen month’s
ago, when he reintroduced conscription,
the soolers in the Labor party were call-
ing him a traitor, while the mob yelled
“Down with Chamberlain.” Yank
soolers have hurriedly scuttled into their
nootrality burrows. — Patriot (N.S.W.).
As It Was in France
When the State munitions management
boards were appointed, some industrialists
cavilled at two of the three men chosen
for S.A. The two were the Chamber
of Manufactures president and the
Auditor-General. One political leader
swung into action, saying the com-
plainants were only interested in grab-
bing defence work for their concern. The
other political faction said the whole of
the new muntions organisation and con-
trolling personnel was aimed to tie every-
thing up to monopolies.
Such a nice, friendly spirit of co-opera-
tion will go far to land us in. the same
ditch as France. — Pigge (S.A.).
Minorities
It is odd, but one of the main causes
of the military downfall of France was
that country’s electoral system—similar
in essential respects to that which moon-
rakers sought to foist on Australia 40
years ago. It is designed to ensure the
representation of minorities, the idea being
to divide the electorate into blocks, each
returning a number of members.
The system returns minorities all right,
so many that in France for the past 10
years there has never been one party big
enough to carry on the Government with-
out the support of those who were pro-
fessedly its political opponents. As a
result there never was a continuous
policy, since no party ever held office
long enough to carry out one. Defence,
the most important matter, suffered.
More, such a multitude of parties bred
strife, for there are few things more
bitter than an ideological bigot splitting
straws with a similar opponent, and such'
strife and bitterness no doubt helped to
breed Fifth Columnists. •
So let us in Australia beware. Our
Commonwealth electorate is already sub-
divided into blocks, which elect State
Parliaments —really minority parties
within what should be one indivisible
whole. The result often is opposition by
State Governments to the Common-
wealth, especially when the national
Government happens to be of a different
political complexion. We have had more
than one instance of this even since the
war, paltry State interests being placed
ahead of the national welfare. —W. C. C.
(W.A.).
Traitors *
While all aliens who are open to the
slightest suspicion should be interned, it
should also be noted that the “Fifth
Columns” in Europe consisted mostly of
the nationals of the country they be-
trayed.—D. C. M. (N.S.W.).
War News
I wonder if anything has contributed
as much to the feeling of depression
among people as the perpetual announcer-
voice dinning tales of death and destruc-
tion into ready ears. The average house-
holder can get what he wants out of his
morning and evening newspaper, but as
well as that he must have it served up
to him at frequent intervals.
The listener gets war news with his
breakfast, he eats his lunch to the loud


admonitory voice of “The Watchman,”
and can follow up with more news
as dessert. At 4.30 p.m. he gets it
straight from the 8.8. C.; he has it for
his evening meal. At 9.30 he essays an-
other chance with the 8.8. C. At ten to
twelve he turns on to the last gift of the
day and toddles off to bed, his ears still
ringing with the saga of horror and his
mind drugged by the repetition of words
that he has probably heard over and
over half a dozen times since morning,
and which he might have read once in
his newspaper. — Outsider (Vic.).
’Ware Buffalo Fly!
It looks as though the two good seasons
enjoyed by extensive pastoral areas in
North Queensland will have to be paid
for heavily in the future. They enabled
the buffalo fly to cross the dry belt which
has hitherto held it back in its eastward
progress from the Northern Territory.
It has obtained firm foothold eastward
of Normanton, apparently with full re-
quirement for its entire life-cycle and
hence permanent establishment.
Some old-hand Gulf pastoralists main-
tain that it can’t possibly be worse than
the already-existing March-, sand- and
houseflies as a cattle pest, but they cannot
have ever seen the buffalo article in full
activity in circumstances which really
suit it. Apart from cattle troubles, it is
capable of interfering with settlement
and development by humans. And, if it
spreads to the Atherton Tableland, it is
going to put a kink in the Queensland
dairying industry, particularly into
exports. The C.S. and I.R. might well
get actively busy on it. — Dungeness (Q.).
“Enigma” of Russia
There is no enigma of Russia. It was
she who started this holocaust by signing
the rascally pact with the Nazis. She
believed that the protagonists were suffici-
ently well matched to wear themselves
down in a war of exhaustion over a
period of years. When they were
weakened it was her intention to step in.
At the end of the last war Bolshevism,
thriving on defeatism and despair, took
hold in many parts of Europe. Workers
and soldiers’ councils were set up and
soviets established, and only bad organi-
sation within defeated the movement.
There would have been no lack of
organisation this time ; there was to be
one victor and one only the Mighty
Soviet.
No one is more surprised or shocked
at the success of the German' Army in
France than Russia. She realises that,
with Britain standing firm, yet unable to
take the offensive for some time to come,
the German Army may turn east. Where
else but to the granary of the Ukraine
can Hitler look to feed his hungry con-
tinent? Where but to Russia for other
raw materials?
The Mighty Soviet is like the boy who
played with fire. There is no enigma-
just plain funk. If she intervenes in the
war it will be because she is attacked. —■
T.E.P. (N.S.W.).
Aluminium
lon L. Idriess undoubtedly knows his
Australia, but that does not qualify him
to become a commercial producer of
aluminium (B. 26/6/’4O).
Alumina is the basis of aluminium,
and bauxite is 50 p.c. alumina. When
the alumina is extracted the game has
only just started. The world-wide method
of producing aluminium is the electrolysis
of alumina dissolved in fused cryolite,
a double fluoride of sodium. Cryolite
comes from Greenland.
The quotations about manganese are
so much eyewash, as in duralumin, the
alloy which is needed for aero manu-
facture, there is 9.3.75 p.c. aluminium,
4 p.c. copper, 1.25 p.c. silicon, 0.5 p.c.
manganese and 0.5 p.c. magnesium.—
W. H. W. (N.S.W.).
Send Us More!
The presence in Australia of Sir
Thomas Beecham stirs the thought that
war-time England, with its inevitable re-
strictions on music and the other arts,
could well spare such men as this eminent
musician—and cultured women, too.
Their coming to this country would
greatly broaden our culture. Many, I’ll
wager, would never want to return.
A team of actors such as, say, the Old
Vies, would open the eyes of a
generation fed on Hollywood pap and
used only to its low standard of mum-
mery. Our Governments might even
take time off from weighty considerations
of night trotting and the dogs and, enter-
ing into the real spirit of Empire prefer-
ence, give such an organisation a chance
by banning the fifth-rate moronic pulp
that represents 60 p.c. of the fillum
cahlony’s output; it would also conserve
dollar exchange, thus skittling two cats
with the one brick.
During the last war Marie Tempest
and Graham Browne created the prece-
dent, and gave an incalculable fillip to
the drama here. Back in London, Marie
established herself as her country’s lead-
ing comedienne.
Not the least consideration of such a
friendly invasion would be one of food.
Every mouth less for England to feed
goes to ease the burden on an already
overtaxed merchant service, and these
people would come to a land blessed
with a superabundance of food. — Momus
(N.S.W.).
How to Help
Most of us have heard the earnest and
often helpless “What can / do to help the
war?” Well, here’s the way.
After you have done your utmost
economising, salvaging waste, knitting
comforts or working patriotic overtime,
what about making perhaps the most tell-
ing sacrifice of all by accepting the daily
personal disciplines that will raise your
physical grading? This is not a fad but
an important national matter, for the
aggregate drain of unfitness is filching
the time and robbing the exchequer of
the whole nation.
The common cold alone is still indus-
try’s great millstone, costing millions of
working days per annum, and it is due
far more to inadequate resistance than
to draughts or climatic changes. The
whole range of alimentary faults, from
dyspepsia to constipation, wreaks toll on
nerves, working efficiency and the pri-
vate purse. Ask any candid chemist how
his calling is fattened by Our mismanaged
stomachs. The cost runs to millions.
The whole trade in anodynes, tonics
and palliatives for common ailments gets
far too big a slice of the nation’s re-
sources, and the monetary toll is the least
part of the price of slack modern living
habits.
A tour around the hospitals of our
capital cities, public, institutional and
private, gives woeful evidence of the
tragic drain of disease on the nation’s
physical and financial welfare ; and when
to this is added the vast field of private
patients, and the other vast one of
the quacks’ patrons, the aggregate be-
comes staggering.
Most “Fitness Campaigns,” however
catholic their propaganda appeals, seem
to result in extra sports outlets and hiking
facilities for strenuous youngsters who
are capable of making their own outlets.
But the slack body muscles, muddy skins,
sciaticas, drained vitality, spreading
abdomens, taut nerves of middle age and
after continue with us to reproach this
“afge of science and enlightenment.”
Dietetic follies mock our boasted stand-
ard of living, since the paradox of mal-
nutrition of the overfed is well known to
the meds.
The civilian who wants to make his
contribution to the war can do something
by sharing, even if only for 15 minutes
every day, the fighting man’s discipline
of organised exercise. Twelve months
of the regimen have put the clock back
10 years for this scribe, and it cost
nothing.— Tinmuth (S.A.).
A New Parasite
A new parasite has arisen and, un-
happily, he cannot be controlled by the
war-profiteering regulations. He operates
chiefly in country districts and his victim
is the soldier-car-owner.
As soon as the news that you have
enlisted or intend enlisting circulates, he
pays you a call. He wants to buy a car.
You, of course, will be wanting to sell
yours? He thought so. Of course, he
is in no hurry to buy. Cars are very
cheap these days and will be cheaper.
Only the other day a young chap, just
called up, approached him and offered his
very nice car (here he throws a disdain-
ful glance at yours) at a ridiculously low
figure. Of course, he might just as well
sell for what he can get; it won’t be
worth a bumper when he gets back from
the war. Nothing deteriorates a car more
than just standing up on blocks.
Here you mentally knock off twenty
pounds from the already bargain-price
figure you had in mind. The parasite
continues the attack. You’ll have to sell
yours, of course. Can’t take it with you.
Not worth a bumper when you come
back. Er —what figure did you have in
mind? You look at the man and hate
him. You know he has you in a corner,
because you know you have to sell. You
feel like kicking him in the pants, but
you name your price, about half the sum
you would have asked last month, and
a bargain to delight the soul of any
pawnbroker.
But the parasite is not impressed. Of
course, he’s in no hurry. There are
several others offering. But he’ll keep
you in mind. Good morning. You watch
his retreating figure and know that you
should have kicked him in the pants.
You look at the little bus and vow you’ll
put her on blocks for the duration before
you’d sell her to the So-and-so ; but even
in mid-vow you falter. Between now and
camp you have to sell. He’s a cash
buyer; you want the cash, and you don’t
want the car. You wonder whether the
lousy So-and-so would consider a tenner
less.— Nigel (N.S.W.).
As Another Sees Us
A smart American journalist, desiring
to assess our Australian wages system,
requested me to send him a Saturday
issue of the chief daily paper from each
State. Here is his summing up:
Proportion of average salary spent on items
judged by advertisements and other publicity.
The “screen,” with sport and other amuse-
ments, easily first place.
Next in order, all forms of dressing and
furnishing, allied with beauty aids and glamor
generally. Unlike the talkies, etc., the “rags”
and “sticks” are widely sold on time payment.
Bad sign.
Next, liquors and smokes in big demand, not
only by men. Definite appeal to women in
ads., specially in cigarettes.
Labor-saving gadgets of domestic use (as
apart from ornament), mostly t.p. Popularity
natural consequence of previous items. Guaran-
teed to preserve beauty, save hours per day
for pleasure, and do away with work. Peram-
bulators not in the picture. Your race must
be dying out.
Adult education. Mostly commercial courses.
Cultural subjects scarcely mentioned.
Music. Highbrow vocal or instrumental
concerts or opera show bearish tendency.
Musical education low in sympathy. Piano
tuition, qualified teacher, 25 cents a lesson!
Books. Classics, second-hand given away.
Moderns, mostly hair-raisers. Lending libraries
strong.
Employment. Greatest demand for sales-
men and office girls. Where are the toilers?
Religion. Slow market. Lifeless competi-
tion. Placid.
Can’t place your autos. Could be classed
with business, plant or with lethal weapons.
Where are your boasted horses?
Food, plentiful and cheap. Canned and
packed and denatured and semi-cooked. Hence
great sale for cure-alls. Looks just like home
to me.
Entire social structure topheavy. Rich dis-
tributors, few industries, poverty-stricken
farmers and ranchers. How do you balance
it?
Thanks for papers. Generally pretty smart,
but I had read some of the matter before on
this side.
That’s how others see us. Take it or
leave it. —One of Us (S.A.).
Running Away from Realities
In times of great nervous strain, indi-
vidual or public, we all have an ostrich-
like urge to blind our eyes to the hard
facts of life. Many men have recourse
to such distractions as gambling and
drink. Many women, more lonely and
less animal, seek surcease of sorrow in
cults and mysteries that are as far re-
moved from reason and logic as possible.
To escape from the realities of today they
pry into the mysteries of tomorrow.
When consciousness becomes unbear-
able they become inquisitive about their
“unconscious.” Any kind of mumbo-
jumbo about their “complexes” helps
them to forget their “simplexes.”
Any kind of incantation about their
“fate” being ruled by stars or tea-leaves
serves to numb the pain of actualities or
probabilities. In such circumstances
the greatest compliment you can pay a
lady is to tell her that she is “psychic.”
To be a brilliant conversationalist you
must talk about constellations or mental
vibrations or anything that is the oppo-
site of commonsense.
Occultists reap a rich harvest from
such obsessions, selling horoscopes and
lucky charms and telling fortunes, the
law against false pretences notwithstand-
ing. Last night a lady knocked at my
door to inquire the address of a crystal-
gazer who does a roaring business down
the street. Seeing a display of New
Guinea totems in my lobby, she seemed
fascinated by the primitive ugliness that
made them look like nothing else on
earth and therefore “occult.” In spite of
my protests she insisted that I should
“consult” the primitive wooden idols
about the affairs of her dark husband
with a certain fair woman. Payment
was offered.
Such silliness may be quite natural and
easily explained by the psychologists, but
it is pitiful and highly dangerous. Imitat-
ing the ostrich will not help us to win the
war. Running away from reality is a
sign of defeatism and despair. — Face
the Facts (S.A.).
Correction
Said “A. Blug” (B. 29 /5 / ’40):
About a year ago the Commonwealth
set aside £lOOO a year to help indigent
authors; £6OO of it was handed on a plate
to the rich universities!
The facts are that this financial year
the Government provided £4200, of
which £l6OO will be spent on pensions to
indigent authors, £lOOO on fellowships,
£6OO to the universities and £lOOO for
assistance towards the cost of publishing
manuscripts and the republishing of Aus-
tralian literary works now out of print.
— Secretary, Commonwealth Literary
Fund (A.C.T.).
Stop Press
, In one of the Sydney Sunday flapper
papers I read the following in the nine-
page section devoted to the doings of
socialites and a lot of other galum-
phonia:
I was in the midst of war work when I
saw the clock approaching the hour of
Margaret Shiner’s marriage with Hugh Glen-
dower. In view of this I was undecided
whether to get into my garden-party
clothes to call in and drink their health.
Then I realised I might not get another
chance to wear my Schiaparelli model
broderie Anglais hat, probably the last one
from his salon, which was brought over
with much trouble in the last ’plane before
the airport was bombed....
There were several more yards of this
sort of stuff, together with photo, of Miss
Shiner. And all the sickening rot came
by cable from London.
I hope the rationing of paper will see
the very last of this type of journalism.—
Vere de Beer (N.S.W.).
Stai Silly
“Nairb’s” reply (B. 5/ 6 / ’4O) to my
“blast” at his proposal for reformed
government has not upset my contention
that it is a “silly nostrum.” “Nairb”
would abolish State Parliaments and set
up a central Government of 21 honest
and competent men who would agree
with one another and not indulge in
“party squabbling.”
The one redeeming feature is the scrap-
ping of State Parliaments. The rest of
the plan reveals itself as an alteration in
mere political structure regardless of
policy and changes in the economic and
social spheres.
A Government of 21 honest men with
“organising and executive” ability would
not be an appreciable improvement on
the present if it maintained the status
quo in economics and society. We might
have a Government of 21 honest and
capable Fascists or Communists, but their
Governments would not be better than
the present.
But “Nairb” might retain the prevail-
ing economic and social systems. In
that event there is still the difficulty of
choosing the men. Surely the people at
large are unable to select 21 men who
could be trusted to rule without the check
of Parliament. And if one good man and
true picked out 20 assistants that man
would be a dictator. The Big Business
State is bad enough as an economic dic-
tatorship without being a political dic-
tatorship to boot.
I share “Nairb’s” admiration for
Salazar of Portugal, but would remind him
that Salazar’s reforms are not merely poli-
tical but also social and economic. More-
over, Salazar does not rely on the help
of a mere handful of men with “organis-
ing and executive ability.” He is assisted
by a National Assembly of 90 members
elected by direct suffrage and a Cor-
porative Chamber of 79 which represents
professions and economic activities. The
population of Portugal is approximately
the same as that of Australia.
And why does “Nairb” say that Parlia-
mentary salaries are gluttonous? They
may be nominally large, but the member
does not enjoy the personal use of the
full sum. Electors expect that much of
it be donated to every little tinpot acti-
vity in the electorate. This practice
should be outlawed ; then salaries couid
be reduced. Federal members (I hold no
brief for State members) have the addi-
tional heavy expense of hotel accommo-
dation in Canberra, and it is significant
that most stay not at the hotel patronised
by the wealthy but at one where they
are granted a tariff reduction. If mem-
bers are wealthy it is because of their
private interests, not their public salary.
The late Mr. Lyons had no private in-
terest, but he received a Parliamentary
salary for 30 years. He died a poor man.
Gold passes do not cover all the travel-
ling expenses of members. Country
members receive no petrol allowance for
visiting centres remote from the railway.
This country is in need of reformed
government, but the plan of reform will
have to be something more practical than
“Nairb’s” brain-child. —A. G. (N.S.W.)-


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS OE LUXE
15 .lewel Precision
£5/10/-
VTatch, Stainless
—_ Steel.
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Otd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dnstprodf.
Semi for Diamond Iling and Watch Catalogue.
DIAMOND
fr WATCH
SPECIALISTS
ľ
112 MARKET STi
SYDNEY, .!
OPP DAVIDJONES
m
*ifiSSSSPk*
Si
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
CHARCOAL GAS
—saves 80% on fuel costs and is therefore
the logical answer to''petrol rationing.
Our recently improved design for a
simplified and thoroughly efficient Gas
Producer can he made by the average
handyman at a most economical cost. The
set of easily understood blue prints and
specifications, which cost £l, show you
how-to do the job. No alterations to the
engine are necessary and you can run on
petrol or charcoal gas at will. Send today.
N.Z. readers please send Money Order.
ECONOMY GAS PRODUCER CO.
10 Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
"WINCHESTER
SKATES
WITH STEEL ROLLS
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
RADIO
10% off retail prices where there is no
Century agent.
Leisurely free trial in your own home.
Mr. JE. M. S.j of Coolac, had a six-valve
Century on trial. He wrote:—
“We recommend it to nil who come along,
and as soon as evei' they see it they think
it is the most beautiful, Wireless that
they have eher seen or heard —and I may
say that I am a proud owner.”
A 16-page art catalogue describes the
latest Century sets. It will he a pleasure
to post one to you. You save £2O if no
Century agent in your District. Write
at once— l
Century Radio Manufacturing Co.
11 Dixon Street*: Sydney.
ŀ
TILLEY LAMPS
300 Candle Power. liritish
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on 1-] pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 57/0 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
IV. Kopsen & Co. I*tv., Ltd
380 Kent Street, Sydney
ł
%
cJ
&
m
w
|SS
>:•/
“ Charcoal-unit, eh? 1 can remember when a plain limousine Was
good enough for him!”
LEARN A LUCRATIVE PROFESSION
IN YOUR SPARE TIME
BECOME AN EXPERT TEkEGRAPHIST
Teach Yourselt
with
Muir Key and Buxxdr
Outfit.
W * 3"
Nicely Plated on Bakelite Base. Complete with
Codes and Directions. Price, 10/-, post free.
There are good positions with liberal salaries
always open to expert operators of either sex.
More than ever before the expert is needed in the
service of the natiop, and .persons so equipped
can better their positions quickly, easily and
cheaply. Buzzers alone can be supplied for 4/0,
and keys alone, 6/-; Key, Buzzer and Light
Outfit, 15/—. All prices include codes and postage.
They will run on pocket or 4-volt battery.
UNION MPG. & AGENCY CO.,
• 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
t \
l
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
CO.,
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
ĺ
"Ainslite"
Coloring
Clay
Pipe
With Self-cleaning: System. Usually 2/6.
To “Bulletin” Readers for . . .
1/6
Good Tobacco Cheap. Send (id. stamps
for liberal quantity of “Bevy’s Own”
Quality Tobacco at 7/- lb. v Honestly
worth 10/- lh. For cigarette or pipe.
SOL LEVY
TOBACCONIST
est. years.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LAMBS SAVED
ļ
By Using the
ROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient— l
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
Banjo Mandolin
for 59/6
We will send you a beautiful
BANJO-MANDOLIN Complete
Outfit with Case, Correspon-
dence Course and Extra Strings
for 59/6.
We guarantee you will be able
to play tunes within 7 days,
otherwise your full money will
be returned. Goods can be
sent C.O.D.
Send for Catalogue of
Musical Instruments.
THE TALKERIES
161 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
ľ
The DUNLEAVY DIAGRAM
(BEG.)
Write
for
FREE
BOOK
/ A framework
to simplify
and improve
boxing, with
directions. Acts
as a self-
instructor.
JACK
DUNLEAVI',
Box 1791 K,
G.P.0., Sydney.
X!
Write
for
FREE
BOOK
7
OILSKINS
for long, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 RECENT STREET, SYDNEY.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
J. P. TALTY
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
44in. knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 4Jin. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
SOME COMMON SENSE
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made io
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form,. testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
New batteries at half usual cost . . .
Buy your batteries direct from the
manufacturers and save approxi-
mately half. AH types of wet bat-
teries for cars, trucks, radios, motor
cycles, theatres and house lighting.
“Marshall” batteries carry the full
guarantee of this leading factory.
There is no better battery made.
Write for wholesale catalogue to
The Marshall Battery Mfg. Co.
42 HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY.
nrmm
ANYWHERE
AN YT I M E
MPU
PORTABLE UNIT,
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost 1/- per
week.
Details gladly posted.
ŀ
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
lgal. of petrol.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
DEAF I
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing. '
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
K. A. NOEDL, JL1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney.
IT’S HERE-WORLD’S SMALLEST 1940
RE-NU POCKET RADIO
NO
TUBES OB
BATTERIES
ł
FITS YOUR POCKET,
WEIGHS ONLY 30ZS. Long
distance over 100 miles clear,
natural tone; superior performance.
No crystal to adjust; no upkeep.
Anyone can use in Hotels, Boats,
Beds, etc- ; takes few seconds to
connect. Guaranteed 6 years. Pay
postman 42/-, or Wire, Write, Call.
RE-NU, LTD. (Efit. 1932), opp. Richmond Stn.,
Melb. 75 other lines. Agents required. Employ-
ment offers. For full particulars and free
samples send lOd. in stamps, refundable with
first order.
Wireless Statics Aerial Eliminator, connects to
any Wireless. Price 15/6. Weighs 3oz. Midge
Broadcaster, operates thru your own radio.
Do your own Broadcasting. Price, £l/1/-.
s Get rid of
Homs BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL
DEHORNEK
will remove the horn
bud from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing-. Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes—the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An easy,_cheap_md humane' method. Urine,
£
*»
hayes Veterinary
l
351 Queen St.,
BRISBANE. Post Free.
6/6
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
tor one year so that I do not miss a- single issue
i enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annuai
supbscnption rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
10171’40 (See Page 38)
Mr,, Mrs. or Miss .....
Cut this out and send with your "Wants" to the Service Department, "The Bulletin "
Office. Sydney or Melbourne.


V.
w
We know you want to help your fighting
men to win this war, Whatever your age or position,
you can do your bit by lending your weekly savings
to Australia. The time to help the country that you
love is NOW. Join a War Savings Certificate Group
in your office or factory.
If no one has organised a Group in your firm, find out
how to start one today, Special War Savings Group
subscription books are available free of charge.
Apply to:—
The Organising Secretary,
WAR LOANS AND WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES CAMPAIGN,
Commonwealth Bank,
SYDNEY MELBOURNE - - - : ADELAIDE
BRISBANE - - - - - HOBART - - - - - PERTH
\
> JOIN THE CROUP
in your office or factory
1
\
INSERTED BY COURTESY OF GLADSTONES PTY. LTD.
