

HUTUWAI TONIC Contains
the Juice of Hutuwai Herbal Plants!
That is why Hutuwai can do you good! Hutuwai is Alkaline. Since
Hutuwai Tonic was first introduced to the Australian public thousands
have written to express their sincere thanks for the remarkable
benefits they have received. Read and consider the letters printed
below . . . testimony such as this must give definite proof of the
marvellous health-restoring qualities of Hutuwai. Well, then, when
there is Hutuwai, why suffer? The pain of Rheumatoid Arthritis,
Rheumatism, Neuritis, Sciatica, Backache and Nerves makes you
look old before your time . . . the agony is registered in your face;
your eyes lack sparkle, your step loses its briskness . . . you lack
enthusiasm. Get rid of those aches and pains . . . regain that
youthful vitality . . . enjoy abounding energy . . . benefit from
the experience of others . . . drink Hutuwai. Health is Life!
Hutuwai is Health! lake HUTUWAI and LIVEI
f
UWAI
Gives
“SCIATICA Entirely OVERCOME,
Thanks to Hutuwai"
“MY PAINS HAVE GONE
•. . Thanks to Hutuwai"
ST. PETERS. ADELAIDE. 6th July, 1938.
Dear Sirs, —About three years ago my feet packed up on me
suddenly. I could not bear standing on them. I ached all
over my body with Rheumatism. 1 could not work and 1 lost
health and weight fast. Then I tried Hutuwai. My pains have
gone and I have put on thirteen pounds weight. Thanks to
Hutuwai 1 can run around as well as I could four years ago.
•——Yours faithfully, A. C. POTTER.
Wilson Road, NEWMARKET N.W. 1,
BRISBANE, Q'LAND,
28th August, 1939.
Dear Sirs, lam pleased to tell you that I found your
Hutuwai Tonic a splendid remedy for Sciatica. I was
suffering acutely from this complaint a few months
ago.
After a short course of Hutuwai Tonic the Sciatica
was entirely overcome, and I am feeling very well
now, thanks to Hutuwai.
—Yours sincerely (MRS.) E. L. BURGESS.
r
NERVES
1
Hi
MBS. E. LUCK.
"LIFE WILL BE WORTH
LIVING . . . Thanks to
Hutuwai"
SURRY HILLS, SYDNEY.
3rd March, 1939.
Dear Sirs, 1 was told that all I could
do was to build up my health and
overcome my NERVES. I got a
bottle of Hutuwai and with that one
bottle I began to improve. I was
able to eat and sleep, and, above all,
I'lost that dreadful depressed feeling.
Life will be worth living, as, thanks
to regular Hutuwai Tonic, l am in the
very best of health.
—Yours gratefully, (MRS.) E. LUCK.
'
MR. OWEN
"I Prayed for the End to Come
... HUTUWAI MADE A NEW
MAN OF ME"
CLEVELAND, Q’LAND,
22nd August, 1939.
Dear Sirs, 1 was stricken down with
Rheumatoid Arthritis. My joints were
locked. 1 had to be carried around. The
pain was unbearable and 1 prayed for the
end to come. However, Hutuwai Tonic
made a new man of me; today all my
pain has gone, the stiffness has dis-
appeared and I can do heavy work again.
—Very gratefully yours, J. H. OWEN.
TAKE
HUTUWAI
AND
LIVE
GET RID
OF ACHES
AND PAINS!
Drink Hutuwai.
LARGE BOTTLE
4/6
Also in 3/- Size.
Valuable
DIET CHART FREE
with every bottle.
Sold by CHEMISTS
and STORES through-
out Australia
PRONOUNCE
hoo-too-Wy
▲
THE BEST TONIC ON THE MARKET... Contains the Juice of Hutuwai Herbal Plants
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61. —No. 3130.
Wednesday, February 7, 1940.
Moonbeams from Mars
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn Frèlance
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address
S.B 240
The Red Page
SEVENTY AUSTRALIAN
POETS.
Eight new books of verse, seven pub-
lished in Australia and one in Maori-
land —a total of 496 poems.; no fewer than
70 Australians and Maorilanders among
the authors, though not all of them
still courting the Muse. Statistically, at
any rate, it’s an impressive array.
Here they are: Bayldon, Arthur Albert
Dawson ; Brennan, Christopher John ;
Cole, Elsie; Duggan, Eileen; Esson,
Thomas Louis Buvelot; Gilmore, Dame
Mary Jean; Jose, Arthur Wilber-
force ; Lavater, Louis ; Lawson, Henry ;
Macartney, Frederick Thomas Bennett;
McCrae, Hugh Raymond; Mackellar,
Isobel Marion Dorothea; Maurice,
Furnley; Neilson, John Shaw ; O’Dowd,
Bernard Patrick; O’Leary, Patrick
lgnace ; Palmer, Edward Vance ; Pater-
son, Andrew Barton (“Banjo”); Pitt,
Marie Elizabeth Josephine; Power,
Helen; Quinn, Roderic Joseph; Baker,
Alice D.; Bennett, John ; Brady, E. J.;
Brennan, Niall; Byrne, Gerald ; Devaney,
James; Fairbridge, Wolfe; Fitzgerald,
Paula; Forsyth, Joan; Grano, Paul;
Harris, Max; Hudson, Flexmore; In-
gamells, Rex; Jutsom, E. Margaret;
Kennedy, Victor ; Law, Marjorie ; Lyle,
Garry; Mann, Leonard ; Mclntyre, A.
Lester ; Mudie, lan ; Opie, John ; Perry-
man, C. Elliott; Pfeiffer, P.; Reid, A.;
Tilbrook, lan; Vrepont, Brian; White,
M.; Wichert, E. B.; Barclay, Helene;
Miller, Hedley Barron ; Pulling, J. Lee;
Finnin, Mary ; Adams, Arthur H.; Hyde,
Robin ; Lawson, Will; Gillespie, O. N.;
Bowden, Boyce; Allen, C. R.; Mulgan,
Alan; Charlton, Walter; Barr, John ;
Church, Hubert; Wright, David McKee ;
Hannah, Marjory L. {nee Nicholls).
Two anthologies are largely respon-
sible for the list. Furnley Maurice, edit-
ing Path to Parnassus (what a title!) for
the Melbourne University Press, has had
the good taste to mix Australians with
the standard English poets, so that Hugh
McCrae hobnobs with Keats, “Banjo”
Paterson with excerpts from the Bible.
The anthology, intended for school use,
should be popular. A couplet from Shaw
Neilson:
Here in the heart of September the world
that I walk in is full
Of the hot happy sound of the shearing,
the rude heavy scent of the wool.
Rex Ingamells’s Jindyworobak Antho-
logy (F. W. Preece, Ltd., Adelaide), which
has been chiefly valuable in the past as
a place where young writers could try out
their experiments, is all the better this
year for the support of some more prac-
tised hands: Brian Vrepont, with a rich
“Grape Harvest” ; Leonard Mann, with
a sensitive “Australia” ; James Devaney,
with a frog-pool that is “a pandemonium
of delight,” and the pretty song “Dedi-
cation” :
The wild joy that things possess
Would seem out of place,
And all beauty meaningless
For want of one face;
The wren’s lilt for lack of you
Would wring the heart’s core,
And stars upon the night’s blue
Would move me no more.
From the first poem “Tasman” to the
final “Requiem of a Race,” the anthology
is wholly Australian in tone. Max Harris
has snared an ibis in three telling lines;
Niall Brennan has a sun “whose rays
were a parrot’s pride” ; A. Lester Mc-
Intyre catches Mosman Bay in a moment
of tranquillity; Paula Fitzgerald and
Marjorie Law offer pleasing lyrics. The
proofs have been badly read: “hopless”
for “hopeless” and “quilty” for “guilty”
aren’t exactly helpful errors.
One other anthology from the Mel-
bourne University Press might be men-
tioned here— A Book of French Verse,
selected by A. Carey Taylor. It’s a com-
panion to Furnley Maurice’s anthology,
and, beginning with early songs and end-
ing with Verhaeren and De Regnier, is
for school use. As pieces of book-
making, both are a credit to the Press.
Why J. Lee Pulling’s Barbitos, also
from the Melbourne University Press,
should have been such a severe-looking
publication is a mystery. Academic dress
might have suited his translations of
Horace s odes—though they’re too grace-
ful really to deserve it —but it certainly
doesn’t suit the English verses he has
translated into Latin:
vespertine, mica; semiavis o mica;
quam miror quid agas; nam super alta te
cerno pervolitantem,
sublimis quasi lanx volet.
That, perhaps it should be explained, is:
Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
How I wonder what you’re at!
Up above the world you fly,
Like a tea-tray in the sky.
Mr. Pulling must have got a lot of
fun out of writing this book, and so will
anyone reading it if (a) he
has a proper interest in
Horace, and ( b ) he remem-
bers any more of his Latin
than that all Gaul is divided
into tria partes, and that there is
something peculiar about ut. The
next three on the list are Helene
Barclay’s Mainly Pen-Sword. Poems —
mainly exclamatory satires which aren’t
as effective as the occasional lyrics; Hed-
ley Barron Miller’s Songs and Sonnets
(Strand and Broadway Press, Ltd.)—a
smooth collection, graceful, neatly
turned, inclined to sentimentality; and
Mary Finnin’s Look Down, Olympians,
handsomely turned out by W. A. Hamer,
Ltd., Melbourne.
Miss Finnin produced a good book of
lyrics last year, and this one is better.
One of her own lines is an apt descrip-
tion of her style—“ The world my prison,
but my heart in flower”: her poems are
heavy, almost clumsy in texture, but pas-
sages of pure lyricism keep breaking out
of the prison, all the more attractive be-
cause of their difficult birth. That is
what happens in “Vignette,” in “Good
Friday Meditation,” in “After Chaos,”
in “Cinderella”:
But still in dreams you tread,
Soul, the dark distance
With a lone bravery; and I who fled
Afraid, the stairways of my golden days,
Steady as starlight thread the midnight’s maze,
The prince enthral,
Find the glass slipper and the festival.
Finally, there is Pat Lawlor’s Maori-
land centennial publication, Wellington
in Verse and Picture. For a souvenir it
couldn’t be bettered. A poem about Wel-
lington that once appeared in The Bul-
letin, beginning “Thin stone is in this
chill wind from the south,” seems to be
missing, but possibly it wasn’t altogether
suitable for a centennial publication. The
poems he has collected make a graceful
tribute, and the photographs are excel-
lent.
Katherine Mansfield's
Scrapbook.
“I am cold. Bring paper to light a
fire. Flame. Smoke. Strong. Strength.
Light a fire. No more fire. White paper.
Black paper. It is late. It is still early.
I would like to speak Russian with you.”
This is the end of The Scrapbook of
Katherine Mansfield (Constable; F. W.
Preece, Ltd.), a list of phrases for which
she sought the Russian equivalent while
she was staying at the Gurdjieff Institute
at Fontainebleau.
Middleton Murry, who edits the
scrapbook, quotes the list to indicate “the
discomforts which Katherine deliberately
endured at the Institute” ; probably he
meant it, too, as a kind of poetic sum-
mary of her life and work. “I would
like to speak Russian with you” would
make an excellent title for a critical
study of Katherine Mansfield and her
“darling” Chekhov.
The list is also an indication of the
style and tone of the book: it is dis-
jointed, sad; a mirror of sickness, un-
satisfactory literary work and uneasy per-
sonal relationships in the gloom of Lon-
don apartments. There are flashes of
sunlight, but the story is wintry.
The clouds loom up in the first para-
graph of the introduction when Murry
says: “About a year ago, for medical
reasons, it appeared imperative that I
should lose no time in tidying up my
affairs.”
Anyone making a first acquaintance
with Katherine Mansfield through this
book would get a false impression; it
must be read as a postscript to the short
stories and the Journal. The least in-
teresting part of it is the scribblings about
her relations with Murry, for that’s an
old story.
The best of it is the cluster of short
stories and the bits of stories—a page of
description, a portrait in miniature, odd-
ments which must be labelled unfinished
but which have the charm of a hasty
lyric, a glimpse of sky or water. Pub-
lished by themselves, the stories would
have made an exquisite book.
Next in interest are her quotations
from her reading, with her acute and
lively comments. She is delighted at the
spectacle of Dorothy Wordsworth sit-
ting down in a field for an hour because
she was afraid to pass a cow; she says
“Fool!” to the editor of Dorothy’s
Journal who sub-edited the domestic bits
about knitting William’s socks; she tells
Coleridge, when he says it is the per-
fection of a woman to be characterless,
“Now you are being silly!” ; there is an
excellent denunciation of D. H. Law-
rence’s The Lost Girl, an excellent appre-
ciation of Tolstoi’s War and Peace, and
much, naturally, about Chekhov.
A. P. Herbert Again.
When you think of Australia training
men in the broiling sun to face bayonets,
bullets, shells, bombs and all the other
amenities of contemporary civilisation
and then denying them the solace of a
glass of beer at the end of the day be-
cause it might undermine their health
or their morale or something, there’s only
one thing to do—to sit back and roar
with laughter. We need an A. P. Her-
bert to reduce all the solemn blah of
wowserdom to its proper absurdity. As
we haven’t one of our own, maybe the
authorities should read the original’s
General Cargo (Methuen; Angus and
Robertson), with particular reference to
the dramatic case of the Indiarubber
Sandwich, Rex. v. Haddock and the
Friendly Feeding Place.
This is the A.P.H. of Misleading Cases
at his best. England, he points out, has
a law that permits the consumption of
intoxicants after the regular hours if the
grog is taken with a meal; and some
intelligent magistrate once decided that
a sandwich constitutes a meal. Every
drink you have you must order another
sandwich, with the result that, the cus-
tomer who is thirsty but not starving is
usually found almost embedded in un-
consumed sandwiches. The Friendly
Feeding Place hit on the brilliant idea of
providing an indiarubber sandwich, so
that it could be produced time and time
again without cost to the proprietor or
waste of food.
In the subsequent prosecution, the
House of Lords found for the restaurant.
The Lord Chancellor decided that, since
the Law didn’t say the meal had to be
eaten, it didn’t matter what the sand-
wich was. Lord Plush thought that there
was a good deal of evidence to show that,
“for the purposes of avoiding intoxi-
cation, an indiarubber sandwich is more
effective than a bread one.” Lord Rattle
agreed, because he thought the whole
thing was bilge. Lord Fish disagreed
because he had found he couldn’t swallow
the indiarubber sandwich, but, it is re-
corded, no one paid the slightest attention
to him.
General Cargo is a general cargo of
Herbert’s “Punch” articles, mostly written
between the Munich crisis and the out-
break of war. Some of it, dealing with
the House of Commons or the Boatrace,
isn’t very funny at this distance. But
most of it, attacking absurdities in inter-
national or domestic politics, is extremely
funny. His light verse —here’s a sample
from “Foreign Affairs”—is exceptionally
good:—
I’m a little bit tired of the Japs,
I am weary of wooing the Wops;
They engage in superfluous scraps,
And I shall be glad when it stops.
Then, speaking of foreign affairs,
I’m a teeny bit tired of the Huns:
They behave like a nation of bears,
And I have to keep throwing them buns.
Don’t think I am leaving the League,
Don’t think I’m an insular sap;
It’s just that I suffer fatigue
If you mention a Jop or a Wap.
And I really don’t care if the Hop
Is a Nord or a Nube or a Dane:
Whatever he is, it’s a flop,
And it mustn't be mentioned again.
Rabelaisian Novels .
Nobody who has read Jerome Weid-
mann’s first novel, I Can Get It for You
Wholesale, would deny that he has a
fairly strong claim to the adjective
“Rabelaisian” as it is popularly used,
meaning that he prints the nearly un-
printable. What’s In It for Me ? (Heine-
mann), continuing the story of Harry
Bogen and Martha Mills, is just as much
in the “tough” tradition.
It opens with the shady little smart-
Alick being gratuitously unpleasant to
the desk-clerk at his apartments. Next
it reveals the glamorous Martha lying
tousled in a “snarl” of bedclothes. She
and Harry, like a couple of witty Pomer-
anians, bark angry wisecracks at each
other. The couple and the bedclothes
snarl for the rest of the book until
Martha goes off with a new lover and
Harry’s money.
Keeping pace with that idyll of young
love are two other themes Harry’s
crooked career in the dress business, and
his moments of remorse when he visits
his mother in the Bronx. Though the
few swift chapters at the close—with
Harry desperately trying to regain- con-
trol of the Frankenstein monster of his
smartness, trying to stave off discovery
and gaol, to attend to his mother’s ill-
ness, to cope with Martha’s jeering in-
fidelity are powerfully written, the
climax falls curiously flat. Harry is
broke and a fugitive, Martha has de-
serted him and his mother is dead, but
when he exclaims “What the hell does
a guy do now?” he’s not a figure of
tragedy but a comic little tough guy
about whom Mr. Weidmann is obviously
going to write another novel.
The story as a whole falls between the
stools of realism and comedy ; when you
are beginning to think it is Dreiser it
suddenly becomes Damon Runyon.
Harry’s cheap wisecracks should mount
up into a tower of sordid cynicism, but
they collapse of their own sheer weight
into funniness. The unpleasant book
becomes pleasant. It is a brilliant piece
of writing: 386 pages of unflagging wit.
Harry does the talking, and the style is
terse and slangy.
Mr. Daniele'Varfc might be surprised
to have The Temple of Costly Experience
(Methuen; Angus and Robertson)
brought under the heading “Rabelaisian
Novels,” but that is where it belongs.
Not that it is Rabelaisian in the way
of Weidmann’s bedside book. It is a
clear, sparkling story about nothing very
much that happened in China. But it is
in the tradition of the rambling,
romantic, episodic novel where the
anecdote is as important as the theme,
where the author writes for the pure
love of telling a story, not to point a
moral or to demonstrate a knowledge of
psychology.
As in Tristram Shandy, for example,
little irrelevant incidents, told for their
humor and their oddity, barge into the
main story like a wasp through the
window. The trouble with The Temple
of Costly Experience is that what comes
in is a wisp: the fact that a servant is
called Exalted Virtue, a donkey Theo-
dore Roosevelt; a Chinese theory about
time; a description of the Tartar Wall
at Peking; the song about “the old
family toothbrush” that an American
visitor taught a Russian refugee; legends
of dead emperors; stories of ancient
wars.
The place of the novel (mainly) is
Peking; the time (probably) about ten
years ago ; the people (vaguely) are The
Maker of Heavenly Trousers and his
wife Kuniang; Igor, the beautiful youth
who is in love with Kuniang and has
visions; Donald, an American interested
in the Ballet; Elisalex, the beautiful
Russian out from Paris to visit her old
lover the Prince Dorbon Oirad, one
time Hetman of Cossacks in the army
of the Czar and now Abbot of a Mon-
golian monastery.
What happens (vaguely) is that every-
body goes to the Abbot’s monastery—
the “Temple of Costly Experience”—and
Igor is shot with an arrow by a Tartar
because he has kissed Kuniang, and the
Abbot dies mysteriously and is buried
in the tomb he has been building in
preparation for the happy event, and his
followers try to poison Elisalex, and
Donald goes back to America and
nostalgically drinks the tea called “The
Eyelashes of the Swan,” and Kuniang
and the Maker of Heavenly Etc. sail
regretfully for Europe.
Mr. Var£ says “When I write a
Chinese story in English I often feel that
I am saying too much: I am being pre-
cise and lucid, whereas the story itself
should be nebulous and vague.” But
he needn’t worry: he’s not saying much
too much. He also says “that elusive
quality that is characteristic of Chinese
art is one of its charms,” and that is
true of his own book.
In the final analysis the delicate story-
teller is an advocate of the anti-social
doctrine of art for art’s sake, while the
tough Mr. Weidmann offers the two very
moral precepts, “Crime Doesn’t Pay” and
“Be Kind to Mother.” So that perhaps
Mr. Varb is the Rabelaisian.
As part of Wellington Province’s cele-
bration of Maoriland’s centenary, Alan
Mulgan, author and journalist, presents
The City of the Strait (Whitcombe and
Tombs), a. carefully-vetted history of the
M.L. capital, Wellington, and other large
towns of the province. Old photographs
are lavishly reproduced, and the narra-
tive, though it traverses, for the most
part, well-tilled fields, is gracefully put
together.


E j
* STRONG CONSTRUCTION
* ACCURATE WEIGHT
* RELIABLE SERVICE
Anthony Horderns' Weighing Scales have long been noted tor quality,
dependability, appearance and price. Precision built, and registered by
the Government Weights and Measures Department, they are absolutely
accurate. The distinct indicators quickly register weight.
WHITE ENAMELLED SCALE
Scale to weigh 20 lb., showing over or under-
weight. Ideal for weighing quantities of the
one weight, and ensuring correct weight.
Fitted with square china plate, 9x9 inches. Nickel plated fittings.
Height 26ins. Weights extra. Stamped by Weights and Meas-
ures Department. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' £2B/5/-
EASV TERMS: DEPOSIT £2/16/6. 18 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF £l/10/5.
£285-
ft •'
uv\
K&tt
« •
nm
m •
- ■ ■
AUTOMATIC PLATFORM
OR SCOOP SCALE
&
V
Automatic Weighing Machine, Single Dial, to
weigh 112 lb. x \ lb. Can be supplied with
platform or with scoop.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE £23/19/6
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT £2/8/-. 18 MONTHLY PAYMENTS £l/5/10.
AUTOMATIC DOUBLE DIAL
PLATFORM MACHINE
£26126
Double Dial. Platform 13
ins.xlsins. Height of scale
27ins. To weigh 56 lb. x
4 oz. Registered by
Weights and Measures Department.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT £2/13/3. 18
PAYMENTS OF £l/8/8.
£26/12/6
MONTHLY
Scale as above with scoop instead of platform, can be
supplied at same price and easy terms.
dfg
AUTOMATIC WEIGHING
MACHINE WITH SCOOP
Double Dial, to weigh
112 lb. x £ lb., fitted
with large tipping scoop
made of galvanised iron.
PRICE £2B/5/-
£2B / 5 / -
Scale can also be supplied with platform 13in.
x 15in. instead of scoop, at same price and terms.
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT £2/16/6. 18 MONTHLY
PAYMENTS OF £l/10/5.
• Scales —Ironmongery Dept.—Ground Floor —Pitt Street .
free within our delivery area.
Delivered
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
•PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE BABY
SUCKLING
“Out of the Mouths of Baby Sucklings Comes Wisdom at the Midnight*s Sighing Hour ” — Mrs. Parsley .
BY HAROLD MERCER.
4 ‘ “T" HE Bible says,” remarked Mrs. Parsley piously,
I “out of the mouths of baby sucklings comes
I wisdom at the midnight’s sighing hour, and
then there is weeping and snatching of
teeth ; which that last part of it is very true, and I
hope the baby in Number 7 didn’t disturb you last
night.”
“I didn’t hear it,” I replied.
“I’m glad of that,” said Mrs. Parsley. “Mind you,
if I’d known the people in Number 7 had a baby I
wouldn’t have let them the flat. I like the dear little
things meself; and a baby’s a sort of sign of respecta-
bility.
“As the Pope said (though, myself, I’m a Protes-
tant, but I’m broadminded) when he saw the Saxon
children in the art gallery, ‘Not angels, but the country
wants them.’ I always say no home is replete without
them.
“Them Number Sevens didn’t tell me they had
a baby when they came ; and they didn’t bring it
with them to see the flat. Not that I blame them ;
but what a tangled mess we leave when first we prac-
tise to deceive. Now all the tenants are complaining,
and I suppose I will have to ask them to go to seek
fresh greens and pastors new.
“And yet,” pursued Mrs. Parsley, “I remember
when a baby was welcomed in this establishment, and
everybody went mad over it, as if it was a nine days’
blunder. And you would hardly credit all the gumboil
which follered it being here, poor innocent mite.
i ‘ J NEVER expected what was going to happen
when I let Number 12 to Miss Littlejohn. A
crabbled little woman she was, especially about men.
Mr. Slompack said that a face like hers was a gar-
nishee of respectability. But I felt a little sorry for her.
“She being what she was, I was putrefied to the
spot that night when Mrs. Wassail came hammering
at my door, some time in the morning, singing out that
Miss Littlejohn had had a baby.
“‘Mrs. Parsley! Mrs. Parsley!’ she cried like
that voice in the wilderness, while I was getting on
a wrap to open the door, ‘there’s a baby been born
and nobody with the poor woman! The door of her
flat is locked.’
“‘A baby! You’re mad! ’ I says, opening the door
and staring at her pale, panting face. ‘Babies don’t
happen in this establishment without my dissent.’
“ ‘I assure you, Mrs. Parsley—in Number 12. It’s
Miss Littlejohn,’ she says.
“You could have knocked me down with the
straw which shows the way the wind is blowing when
she said that. I hurried upstairs, where there was
quite a crowd of tenants round the door of Number
12 in dressing-gowns and wraps. And, sure enough,
there was the sound of a newborn Uiy crying inside.
“I can tell you 1 didn’t know whether I stood on
my head or my heels, things seemed so Topsy Turn-
key ; and it made me angry. ‘Miss Littlejohn!’ I calls
out, shaking the door. ‘How dare you do a thing like
this in my house? Is this a respectable thing for a
woman like you to do?’ And then I remembered I
was a woman myself. ‘You pore soul, open the door
and let me in,’ I says.
“But there was no answer, except that Miss Perry,
who always liked to give people the creeps, said that
she thought she heard a moan, and Miss Littlejohn
might have died, leaving the pore little newborn soul
locked in that flat; though how a dead corpse should
moan I don’t know.
“I was running down for my house keys to get
the door open when Dr. Killum, from across the road,
and a nurse with him, came bustling in.
“ ‘This is Miss Littlejohn’s flat, of course?’ he says,
putting a key in the lock. ‘I must ask all you good
people to move away ; the patient will need to be
quiet. Which is the landlady?’ And then he told me
what to do.
“When I came back with the hot water the nurse
took it at the door. The people had gone, but not to
bed ; all night long some of them seemed to be stand-
ing around one another’s doors or in one another’s
flats talking about it. And no wonder! Miss Little-
john! I was all of a fluster myself. But I felt I had
to talk sharp to that Miss Perry, which a nasty
auspicious mind she always had.
“ ‘And there’s that Mr. Slompack snoring in
his flat through it all,’ I heard her say. ‘I shouldn’t
wonder if he had something to do with it.’ Which
the way them women always tried to blame Mr. Slom-
pack for anything that happened was terrible.
“The worst shock of all I got was in the morning
when I saw Miss Littlejohn in a wrap coming up the
stairs, looking white as a ghost, with some milk and
things she’d been out to buy.
“ ‘You get right back to bed, and I’ll get any-
thing you want. I’ll make some groats for you,’ I
says. ‘D’ye want to kill yourself? Fancy getting up
and about like this!’
“A rush of red came on her face. ‘Me, Mrs.
Parsley?’ she cried indignantly. ‘Me?’
“ ‘Well, I must say,’ I says, ‘that I’m surprised.
But I ain’t going to say anything to you, you pore
soul, in your present condition. I dare say you’re
n.-re sinned against than sinning. But now you’ve
got to think of the pore little life you’ve brought into
the world.’
“She was only a little whippersnap of a woman,
but for a moment I thought she was going to eat me.
‘How dare you speak to me like this?’ she stormed.
‘Me? Don’t be ridiculous! .1 found the poor girl
who is in my flat in the street below, crying as if her
heart would break. I learnt from her just how things
were with her ; and although I don’t know much about
these things I saw that any moment was likely to be
the next. So I hurried her up to my flat, got her
into bed, and then rushed across to the doctor. I
handed him my key, being too upset to come back
and face what was happening, and waited in his sur- *
“I thought you'd never get here!”
gery. Oh, Mrs. Parsley, the poor girl is well brought
up ; but she hasn’t got a home and she’s been deserted.
WMat beasts men are!’
“So there it was all in a nutmeg, as the saying is,
with Miss Littlejohn completely excommunicated from
the auspicions we had had about her, as Mr. Slom-
pack put it later.
“I’m not one to talk, believing that a still tongue
is more precious than a jewel in a swine’s snout; but
before breakfast everybody in the flats knew the
story, and Miss Littlejohn was a sort of hero to them
who hadn’t liked her before.
“IT was surprising the way the whole establish-
* ment took on about that baby. They all knew
Miss Littlejohn was pore, so they put in liberal to pay
the doctor’s expenses and the nurse and cetera. That
Mr. Nobuck Palmer, which was such a puffect gentle-
man, he was here then, and he first thought of the pre-
scription, and said he’d see about the registration ot
the child, which, as everyone knows, has to be done;
and there was a lot of trouble about that because
Enid, which was the little mother’s name, wouldn’t
talk about the eternity of the child ; and they said that
it would have to have a father as well as a mother.
But that Mr. Nobuck wasn’t the sort of man to let a
thing like that worry him ; he said he would get it
fixed up, and he did.
“Well, that baby was a dear little thing ; and so
was the mother, pore creature. Never shall I forget
how I was drawn to her, she a girl hardly out of her
sweet seventeens, as the saying is, looking down so
proud at the darling little thing, and her eyes filling
with tears as she thought of how matters stood.
“ ‘Never you mind, dearie,’ I comforts her.
‘There’s a silver lining before the dawn, and the ways
of improvidence is best, however harsh they may
seem to the inhuman eye, which is not inflammable,’
I says. ‘Who knows that it may prove all the better
that he didn’t marry you, leaving you free to marry
some rich young man who’s won a lottery.’
“It made everybody curious the way she wouldn’t
say who was the father and made such a mystery of
him, but spoke as if, if she mentioned his name, every-
body would know him. Mrs. Wassail, who, having
been a barmaid before she was married, was inclined
to sediment, said he was probably the sign of a noble
family. Little Enid seemed quite proud of him, in
spite of the way he had treated her, which when any-
body spoke about it she would say it wasn’t his fault.
‘I made myself too cheap,’ she says. ‘I loved
him so much that I didn’t think of anything.’ And then
the pore child would cry about having lost him,
through rowing at him, which is the way a lot of
wives lose their husbands and some keep ’em ; but
even then she wouldn’t blame him.
“ L_ IUMANITY is a strange thing, even if it stays in
* * a residential that I’ve always kept respectable, as
you know. Here’s people raising a howl about the
Number Sevens’ baby, which is a sweet little soul —
a regular little bud in heaven, as the saying goes ; yet,
because Enid’s was born on the spot and gave ’em
a thrill, everybody in the house seemed to fancy they
had a share in it. Not that there was any rush to pay
expenses after the first go-off. Miss Littlejohn let
Enid and her baby share her flat, and was so pleased
about it you’d hardly know it was Miss Littlejohn.
“In spite of being a heart bowed down by weighty
woe, there wasn’t many girls brighter than that Enid
when she got about; and if she was a little ashamed
of meeting people she was very proud of her baby;
and quite right. Even the animals have their instink:
the hymn says ‘Can its mother’s tender care cease
towards the child she-bear?’ No ; nor its he-bear
either! And Enid’s was a he. ‘A sunny air,’ Mr.
Slompack called it.
“In a couple of weeks along came
relations; which I never saw any looked
more like them distrained relations you
read about in the divorce cases. With them
was a young feller who came reg’lar, and
it appeared had been an old sweetheart.
Which he seemed too staid and proper to
my way of thinking, and I got a surprise
which made my heart jump like a planta-
tion when I was passing Number 12, with
the door open, one day.
“ ‘Then you’ll be taking baby away?’
Miss Littlejohn cried, her voice like some
strong swimmer in his organdie, as the
poet says.
“ ‘No ; understand me,’ says his lord-
ship, pious as a church service on Easter
Friday. ‘I loved Enid years ago ; and I still
love her. She will go back to her people,
and in six months I will marry her. But
her people won’t have the baby-; and I cer-
tainly won’t. We’ll make an arrangement
for its keep.’
“‘Oh, how sad for Enid! But I
would look after it, for nothing,’ cried Miss


Littlejohn. And then the door closed, which I dare
sav it was to hide Enid’s sobbing, though I heard
some of it.
“I suppose them people of Enid’s must have used
immoral swaying, as Mr. Slompack called it, on Enid ;
for, sudden-like, there was Miss Littlejohn left with the
little cherub, and it got to be known as Miss Little-
john’s baby. She’d go red over that sometimes, and
yet it pleased her. How she looked after it, or got it
looked after, and carried on her work was a marvel.
“She would have been happy, but it was after
the baby had been left with Miss Littlejohn that the
plot began to sicken, as they say in the books. What
with them four bears, as Mr. Slompack called
it, and the talk of kidnapping, and Miss Littlejohn
scared to death of it all, it was most upsetting.
“"‘THE first we knew of these envelopments was
1 when a big fine-looking car pulled up and a
livery shover, as they call them, came up the stairs
and said all in a heap: ‘Does Mr. Nobuck Palmei
live here? Sir Ernest Bumble’s condiments to Mr.
Nobuck Palmer, and would he arrange for the baby to
be taken to see him? The car awaits his convenience.’
“ ‘Which,’ I told the livery shover, ‘Mr. Nobuck
Palmer is not in. And what baby is it you are talk-
ing about?’ Although I guessed, and I had quite a
fit of plantations of the heart thinking of what Enid
had said about the father of that baby. Everybody
knows who them Bumbles are!
“ ‘Cripes! Blest if I know, ma’am! ’ says the
shover, talking like a huming being. ‘ ’Ow many
babies ’ave you?’
“Little Miss Littlejohn was quite agertated when
she got the message. She ran the little mite into the
bedroom as if she wanted to hide it. Historical she
was, nearly, saying that Enid had given her the
custard of the baby and nobody was going to take
it from her. That car went away without any baby ;
but poor Miss Littlejohn was quite upset about the
incidence until Mr. Nobuck Palmer came home.
“Which Mr. Palmer had taken a lot of interest
in that baby like the gentleman he was, and, as Miss
Littlejohn told me herself, he was always putting his
hand in his pocket for a pound to give her; he said
if she could give so much to the baby he didn’t see
why he shouldn’t do a bit, too.
“ ‘Pro bono publico, san fairy ann, as the French
say,’ says Mr. Nobuck Palmer, breezy-like, though he
had looked took aback when he heard the message.
‘My dear little lady, you mustn’t get upset. The eternal
grandfather of the baby has no doubt heard of the
child, and wants to see it.’
“ ‘They may want to take it away! ’ cried Miss
Littlejohn, piteous.
“ ‘Leave it to me, little lady,’ says Mr. Palmer.
‘They can’t take it from you. Enid left it in your
charge. But if the rich relatives want to do something
for the child you wouldn’t want to stand in the way of
its prospects, would you?’
“ ‘Of course I wouldn’t,’ said Miss Littlejohn, cry-
ing. ‘But I don’t want to lose little Leo.’
“‘You won’t! I’ll see to that. If they take the
child, they take you, too, who has looked after it,’
says Mr. Palmer.
“ ‘l’d sooner die than be parted from the darling
now,’ says Miss Littlejohn.
“It was all over the flats like wildflowers about
the big car that had come, and it having come out
about the baby being of noble birth, as they say in
the books; Mrs. Wassail kept on saying that about it
being a sign of the Irish autocracy. And although
Miss Littlejohn was very upset she was a bit consoled
by hoping she might get a job when all she would
have to do would be to look after the baby.
“But that was only the beginning of the impli-
cation, because that very night I heard Miss Littlejohn
screaming; and when I got up to her flat, which some
other people got there, too, she began telling me to
put a man who was there out.
“He wasn’t a bad-looking young feller, and he
was well dressed, only his face looked as if it had
been knocked awry a good deal, and his nose seemed
to have been broken.
“ ‘lt’s all very well to ask me to leave,’ he says. ‘I
want my kid. It is my kid. My name’s Jabbers. If this
lady admits it’s Enid Gray’s baby, it must be mine.’
“ ‘Nonsense, young man! ’ says Mr. Wassail. ‘That
baby’s father was one of the Bumble family’
“ ‘Bumble, me eye! ’ says the young feller.
“It took quite a lot to get him to go. Mr. Slom-
pack was one of them that got a black eye ; and even
then he said he’d come back.
“ ‘Give him in charge if you see him, Mrs. Parsley,’
says Mr. Palmer. ‘lt’s a clear case of attempted kid-
napping.’
“ ‘He says he is the father,’ Mr. Slompack began.
“ ‘Of course he does! That was the best bluff
he could undertake,’ says Mr. Palmer. ‘He’s got to
have some excuse for wanting to secure a baby’
“ ‘But why the dickens,’ says the Major, ‘should
he want to secure a baby? Most people try to avoid
’em.’
“Mr. Palmer says that it was money, which is the
routine of all evil, especially when we haven’t got it.
‘With all his wealth’ —which everybody knows he is a
Crisis —‘Sir Ernest Bumble has only one son,’ says Mr.
“ Don't cut too much tie-wire, Alf —you might put the telephone system out of order.”
Palmer ; the son’s married, but has no children —he
is deported from his wife. Sir Ernest has nobody to
leave his money to. Well, ladies and gents, this baby
might seem invaluable to a kidnapper who wanted to
make money; or someone who hopes to get Sir
Ernest’s money might like it to be out of the way. Y’
don’t know what might happen.’
“ ‘Meaning,’ says Mr. Wassail, ‘that it might be
worth while to kill the poor kid?’
“ ‘lt might,’ says Mr. Palmer.
“Mr. Slompack said he didn’t think such a thing
could happen ; but everybody became quite excited
when it seemed that that innocent little baby suckling
which didn’t know bull from a bee’s foot, as the saying
is, was wanted by so many people. Mrs. Turner says
we might all be murdered in our beds yet; which she
was always saying.
nDUT when that baby like one of
them scarabs which folds their tents and var-
nishes the face of the earth, it was as if a bombshell
had been burst.
“Before that happened that Sir Ernest Bumble
had come. ‘I am Sir Ernest Bumble,’ he says, just
like that, and starts asking me if I had his son staying
here with Leo’s mother ; and when I tell him the facts
he says: ‘The uncorrugated young bla’guard! It’s
just what my son would do —to leave a woman like
that! ’
“After which he saw Miss Littlejohn and Mr.
Palmer, which I wasn’t there ; but from what I under-
stand" that Sir Ernest Bumble had an idea of taking the
baby to his home, and Miss Littlejohn with it, though
when that was going to happen wasn’t settled.
“But such a thing was never to happen, for I heard
Miss Littlejohn crying in her flat, and when I knocked
at the door there she was sprawled over her sewing
machine where she had been making things for the
baby, crying as if her heart would break. There was
a box of lovely flowers on the floor and a gold wristlet
watch tumbled out of its case near them, where it had
been thrown down.
“ ‘She did not love the baby enough to take it
before, and now they want to take it from me!’ she
cries out.
“I got the grist of it, as they say, from a letter
all crumbled up she handed to me. It was from Enid
saying that she was being married that very day, and
they wanted, after all, to have the baby, which they
would call for. But, the letter said, they were not
going to forget Miss Littlejohn, and them flowers and
the watch was a token of their gratitude.
“ ‘But it’s mine! The baby’s mine! ’ cried Miss
Littlejohn, starting up like a roaring lion seeking whom
it may devour. ‘lt’s not her as much as him ; and he
wouldn’t look at the baby at first; turned the little
soul down! Men are such beasts! But I’ve looked
after the precious mite ; I’ve gone without to see that
it got all it wanted. I’ll keep it!’ she cries.
“I tried to smooth her down, and thought I had
done it, but I didn’t know what a tragerdy it was until
Enid arrives, and throws her arms around my neck,
kissing me. She seemed all happy in spite of her hus-
band—which she said he was coming later, but she
couldn’t wait —being that regular whitened steeplechase
who had talked like a church service. She was like
that one moment; then she came down, changed into
tears, crying out that Miss Littlejohn and the baby
had gone.
“Which so they were ; the door was open and all
Miss Littlejohn’s things were packed up tidy ; but they
had dissipated.
“You never saw such a hullabaloo then, Enid
sobbing and crying and refusing to go, even when her
husband came along ; which it was a surprise to me
to see that husband, -because he wasn’t the same one.
The police and detectives came in ; and Enid went on
crying over the baby’s cot which poor Miss Littlejohn
had scrimped herself to get.
“ ‘No, 1 won’t go —I won’t,’ she kept saying. ‘She
may come back —they can bring us news here if they
find her.’
“So on and on they stayed till late at night an’
me in and out to see them, she crying broken-hearted
and him looking like two penn’orth of misery. Hour
after hour struck, and as midnight neared we were all
quiet waiting.
“Then the door opened quick and Miss Littlejohn
came in, the baby in her arms. Enid’s husband
leaps for the door, and as it closed behind her Miss
Littlejohn, clasping the baby tighter, faced us all,
defiant.
“ ‘I had to come back,’ she says with a strangling
throat. ‘I had to have some place to rest after walk-
ing about; and I thought you’d have been gone. But
you can’t have it —it’s mine.’
“Then it came to me all of a sudden there was
something Miss Littlejohn wasn’t awake to.
“ ‘Miss Littlejohn,’ I says, ‘don’t you see this
ain’t the man Enid was going to marry who didn’t
want the baby? It’s the baby’s real father, who found
her out and has married her.’
“ ‘And you, dear thing,’ says Enid, throwing her
arms around her, ‘knowing how you love the baby
Harry wants you to live with us.’
“Which I must say that I had been flappergasted
myself when I had found out that Enid’s husband
wasn’t that whitened steeplechase, after all. I had
been going to tell that man with the battered face
who had come wanting to get the baby that if he didn’t
go at once I’d call the police, when Enid came rushing
down the stairs and threw her arms round his neck.
“ ‘Harry! ’ she sobbed. ‘They’ve lost our baby—
our darling baby.’ But even with her so upset she
was still proud of him. ‘This is my husband —Harry
Jabbers ; “Red Harry” they call him. I thought every-
body knew him. He’s a champion boxer!’
“ ‘lt was funny,’ said Mr. Slompack, ‘how she
looked as if she felt everybody ought to bow down
and worship. Fancy! A champion boxer and the
women in this place had guessed anything from blue
blood to an archbishop. It was funny, too, that Jabbers
should have arrived just when Sir Ernest and that
precious son of his had learned the truth from Enid
about that Bumble in the birth registration being a
mistake. The son looked relieved, but the old man was
angry and disappointed.’
“ ‘Mr. Nobuck Palmer must have made an error
in using the name in the eternity details,’ I said. ‘lt
was him who registered the baby.’
“ ‘Yes,’ laughed Mr. Slompack, ‘Palmer’s a smart
chap. He no doubt thought the name Bumble’d be
useful. Wasn’t Sir Ernest angry about some money
he said he had been paying over? I saw Mr. Palmer
coming up the stairs while the talk was going on, but
he kept out of the way.’
“‘I am sure,’ I says, ‘that Mr. Palmer wouldn’t
do anything dishonorable.’
“Which, anyway, it didn’t seem that it mattered
now that everything had come all right for them young
people in the unscrewable ways of Providence. And
now I’ve thought over things, them tenants can howl
as much as they like about that blessed baby crying.
It’s going to stay,’’ said Mrs. Parsley decisively.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
mellcwncJdandXwiqiiei/
BROOKS’S CLUB.
in the very heart of the West End district known as “Clubland” is St. James’s Street, and here are Clubs dating back to the Seventeenth
Cen ury, the most famous of which are Brooks’s, Boodles’ and White’s. • They have played important roles in the social, political and sporting
history of the nation in the years that are passed, when life moved along a plane far removed from that it occupies today. Until the
opening years of the last century a Club was seldom more than a mere knot of acquaintances who met together of an evening at stated
times in a room engaged for that purpose at some tavern. In St. James’s Street at this period were “subscription houses,” as Clubs
were designated, for the reception of noblemen, members of Parliament and the haut ton, and known by such titles as Boodles’, Brooks’s,
Whites, the Cocoa Tree, Martindale’s and Pascoe’s. Here, as a contemporary chronicler records, “Dinners and other accommodations
were provided for visitors in the most elegant and liberal manner.” When the Eighteenth Century was ushered in, the Club, as it is known
"/u- ° ur own hme, may be said to have had its genesis. Brooks’s, with its appealing Adams architecture, in the long ago was the great
Whig Club, and here some of the most distinguished political characters regularly forgathered. While now disassociated almost entirely
from every form of political activity, it retains a suggestion of its former reputation in that it numbers among its members men whose
families are known for their “Liberal tendencies.” It is one of the ultra-fashionable Clubs, whose members are “put down” at birth,
in a manner much the same as parents employ for entry to Eton. These Clubs, as you may read in the social histories of the times .
/PPPiP » 1 * ™ e y “ ave Passed, witnessed curious happenings. There is the story of that amazing character, the Marquis of Queensberry.
( Old Q. of the broad sheet scribblers), who, undertaking to walk from Brooks’s to the Bachelors’ Club in broad daylight completely
naked, won his bet by walking in a cab, the floor of which had been removed. Clubland of London, while now almost coeval with
the mighty metropolis, is a land of bewildering variety, poles removed, as regards “complexion,” from that “country” of which Brooks’s is
a reminder.


IN THE CONTINENTAL FASHION.
“Adolf, since you went to Poland you’ve had halitosis.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
MOONBEAMS FROM MARS.
Madame Tabouis is back for a return season in cables
in the new role, for her, of Good Fairy. She sees
straight into Hitler’s mind, and gives out the com-
forting assurance that he has dropped his Blitzkrieg
ambitions and will launch no great offensive in 1940.
One guess being as good as another, that could be
right; but Madame’s “reasons” are up to her usual
standard:
His reserves are not large enough to meet the
wastage involved in a Western attack; the Allies have
taken all measures to meet such an attack, even if it
should come through Belgium, Holland or Switzerland.
Madame, of course, knows no more of what is in
Hitler’s mind than a tadpole. She has, however, cer-
tain claims to the distinction of being representative
of her day. The future historian should not overlook
her. She is typical of times in which on all sides
make-believe fictions abound. The historian should
find it an inspiring period; it should inspire the
satirist even more ; they should revel in it as a period
bewitched by synthetic moonbeams.
The League of Nations “action” over Finland was
an example as typical of this moonbeam period as
Madame herself. The most enthusiastic supporters of
that “action” were those who could give no help—
Haiti, “willing to support any action” ; Bolivia, “in
full accord with proposals” ; Ecuador, “prepared to
support within limits of our means any action which
the Secretary-General might take” ; Venezuela, “will
refrain from any action which might weaken Fin-
land’s resistance” ; Argentina, “will receive with sym-
pathy any suggestions for co-operation.”
Moonshine, the lot of it. And just as this same
illusory half-light enables Madame Tabouis to look
like a seer and the League to look like the arbiter
of world affairs, so it enables Uncle Sam to look like
a sentimental benefactor. Smitten by a moonbeam
straight from Mars he revised his Neutrality Act, and
applause rang out from London to the Leeuwin. The
raising of the embargo meant that the Allies had to
come along armed with cash and do their own carry-
ing ; otherwise, the amending legislation was held to
be so entirely in their favor that many thought it
alone had already won the war. Now a writer in the
American “Foreign Affairs” suggests that when the
effects of that legislation on British and French for-
tunes come to be analysed it may well be found that
the disadvantages outweigh the advantages.
Cash-and-carry and the establishment of zones of
combat operations are, in effect, an American invitation
to Germany to sink on sight any merchant vessel which
approaches England and France. The other neutral
States which send their vessels through the war zones
will receive short shrift, for Germany will be much
less exercised about angering them than she would have
been about angering us and risking a new American
intervention.
The same writer holds that this United States legis-
lation must “greatly facilitate Germany’s submarine
campaign and other naval and air operations in the
North Sea, the Channel and the Bay of Biscay.” The
indiscriminate sowing of mines was the first direct
result of it: “Germany timed this action, be it noted,
after the passage of our neutrality legislation.” He
doubts whether “Germany would have dared take
such violent and reckless steps against neutral ship-
ping if American vessels were still involved.” So that,
while the Allies applauded, the Germans chuckled ;
a specimen of moonshine satisfactory to all parties.
In Uncle Sam’s country also a legalistically in-
volved titles tangle has the effect that ordered ’planes
cannot be flown into Canada. To meet this dilemma,
with orders pouring in, “the somewhat ridiculous ex-
pedient has been worked out of taking the ’planes to
a level field on the border, where they can be pushed
across.” The United States legislation covering these
and other war matters is, in the “Foreign Affairs”
writer’s opinion, largely subterfuge—that is, make-
shift fiction —the whole idea of it being “to permit us
[Americans] to continue our normal trade and com-
merce so far as we can do so safely, but to change
the outward form of it so that if there are any inci-
dents our national honor and prestige will not be
involved.” A pretty finding.
Thus Uncle Sam tries to keep up his romantic
masquerade—a comic figure, in a way, but with his
own virtues, and not more afflicted than anybody else
by the moonbeams from Mars.
Symptoms indicating that J. Bull is in some ways
also affected by this potent moonshine are to be found,
as in Australia, flaunted in dailies. Germany has a
broadcaster who calls himself Lord Haw-Haw and who
broadcasts Nazi propaganda in English for the en-
lightenment of Britain and the Empire. He gets more
publicity in the English press than any other broad-
caster gets anywhere, with the result that half Britain
is listening to him, and a few, at least, believing him.
Journalist Vernon Bartlett, M.P., records that “a
London revue bears Lord Haw-Haw’s name, no
comedian is complete without a wisecrack about him,
few newspapers allow us to forget his existence.” Mr.
Bartlett asks: “Has the press gone mad?” He ought
to know ; he works for the “News-Chronicle.”
Under the same moonshine influence the British
press not only gives Lord Haw-Haw continual free
advertisement; it supplies him with his material. Miss
Unity Mitford’s tragic return from Naziland with a
couple of bullets in her head was given such pub-
licity that her distressed parents had to move for an
armed guard to protect her. From the boat to her
people’s home newshounds trailed her; their papers
came out with sensational stories and with photo-
graphs bearing such captions as: “Looking over a
fence into the yard of Lord Redesdale’s home at High
Wycombe as Miss Unity Mitford was being lifted from
the ambulance.” This, Lord Haw-Haw could reason-
ably explain, indicated the British press conception of
the vaunted British rights of privacy and freedom. The
notion that this sort of thing—in Australia as in Britain
—is to be expected from a free press, and that nothing
must be done about controlling any such abuse, who-
ever or whatever suffers, is yet another specimen of
the countless fictions that are made to serve in a world
flooded with moonshine.
One of the most remarkable of all examples of
the new moonbeams from Mars at work is provided
by Eire’s neutrality. J. Bull has come out of his
trance sufficiently to realise that presently he may be
fighting for his very existence. Hence, conscription
and his whole colossal war effort. In the portion of
Ireland which is neutral it is accepted that J. Bull could
not impose conscription if he dared ; in the portion
which is not neutral he could impose it but dare not.
If a British ’plane came down in the neutral portion
of Ireland, or if British naval men or soldiers were
compelled to land there, they would have to be grabbed
and held for the duration. Thus, though careful
observers pronounce the whole of Ireland as intensely
detesting Hitler and most sympathetic towards first
Poland and now Finland, and though, as in the last
war —when Ireland’s dead totalled 50,000 —many Irish
have volunteered, J. Bull today cannot use three of
his former important naval ports because they are in
the neutral portion of Ireland, which portion the
“Irish Times” has described as an “honorary member
of the British Commonwealth.”
But even in those parts of the Empire that are
willing, only Britain seems alive to the realities of the
job ahead. Elsewhere —including Australia —the war
effort is as yet half-hearted. The explanation is not—
as far as Australia is concerned, anyway—reluctance
to take an equal share of the burden. Rather it is that
the flood of illusion-breeding moonbeams is parti-
cularly potent here. Looking at things in this distorting
light, many believe that this war will be won without
fighting. Many more look forward to an early internal
collapse in Germany. Others cling—a bit desperately
now —to the hope that the Powers involved will call
the war off at the eleventh hour— i.e., before Europe’s
spring—and find an arranged peace at the conference
table. Still others believe that at the worst it will
be a siege war, going on as it has gone up to now
until Blockade takes effect. There are others who
build intoxicating hopes on present neutrals ; others
again who nourish the fantasy of Stalin turning on
Hitler and, yet more fantastic, winning.
As the handful of instances here brought together
indicate, reliance on make-believe fictions, in prefer-
ence to the facing of realistic facts, has, if anything,
increased since Mars took charge of the moonshine
lighting. The time for shedding this pleasant dream
state is by now at least five months late. The scene
where Mars will begin operations will not long remain
as remote as it seems now. In Europe the rains have
come. For a while now it will be all slush where, in
the worst winter for many years, it has been all
frozen. Then spring.
Those are the all-significant facts. Unless a
miracle happens, the next fact then will be desperate
fighting over unpredictable lines of front, and in and
from the air. It is a fearful prospect; but there is
nothing now to be gained by not facing up to it. There
is a lot to be gained by shedding all illusions, make-
believe and fictions of every kind, realising that in
war the surest thing to expect is the worst, and speed-
ing up to an all-in effort to prevent that happening.
An Ancient in a Temper.
Mr. Dwyer-Gray, who is Treasurer of Tasmania once
more —he was Premier for a time and then changed
posts with Mr. Cosgrove— went to the last Loan
Council meeting demanding “the utilisation of national
credit through the Commonwealth Bank.” Nobody
paid any attention to him, and this seems to have
wounded him to the soul. Anyway, he said in Hobart
last week that “if the Federal Government insists on
financing Australia’s [war] etfort under existing con-
ditions, the terrific burden of Federal taxation will
cripple industry and make the States insolvent.” But
that wasn’t all:
If existing methods of finance are continued and the
war lasts another two or three years, there will be such
an accumulation # of debts that it will be necessary to
repudiate them to prevent revolution.
This elderly alarmist was an admirer of Mr. Lang
until Langism became inexpedient or something. His
prediction of the financial ruin that awaits Australia
unless Australia swallows his inflation nostrum will
no doubt be availed of by the Goebbels propaganda
department, together with Mr. Lang’s anti-recruiting
stunt, for the pitching of tales as to the Australian
position and attitude. Certainly there is something
radically wrong with a system which admits of a sore-
headed provincialist in the smallest part of the Com-
monwealth, drest in brief —very brief —authority,
preaching war-time inflation and prophesying indus-
trial disaster, State insolvency and repudiation (“to
prevent revolution”) if his unsolicited advice is not
followed. Britain, with its one Parliament, is free from
such impertinences.
Obviously Mr. Dv yer-Gray thinks no end of
himself as a financier. In his time Tasmanians have
been smitten with State income taxes running to 37.8 d.
in the £ on £7600 of “earned” income to 50.076 d. in
the £ on £6500 of property income and to 72d. in the
£ on anything above those amounts. There are also a
“special” tax on property income (the flat rate is Is.
in the £) and a wages tax. These imposts yielded
£1,046,200 in 1938-39, a large part coming from the
taxation of lottery prizes—mostly won by people in
other States—which are not taxed by the Common-
wealth, though they used to be taxed by it and should
be again as a war measure.
All the same Mr. Dwyer-Gray’s Government relies
to a large extent on Commonwealth grants, interest and
sinking-fund subventions, industrial subsidies, loans
and what not. In 1938-39 the Commonwealth came to
light with a special grant of £410,000 (it was actually
£575,000 in 1937-38), Financial Agreement payments
amounting to £266,800, £85,000 for “adjustment” of
farmers’ debts, and about £289,000 more for Federal-
aid roads, bounties and so forth ; and over the years
the Commonwealth Government has found £667,700
for losses on Tasmanian soldier-settlements. If the
Commonwealth Government ceased to play the part
of fairy godmother, Government House and the two
Houses of Parliament at Hobart and the London
Agency would have to be closed and Mr. Dwyer-
Gray’s occupation would be gone.
Kept supplied with easy money, Mr. Dwyer-
Gray’s Government scatters it about so profusely that
it fails to make ends meet. To lune 30, 1939, there
was an accumulated deficit of £733,400, £25,900 having
been added in the previous twelvemonth. Though
the National Debt Sinking Fund Commissioners do
their best, the State debt is always growing. If reached
£26,366,900 last year. The population is about 235,000.
It never grows much.
■ There is nothing to prevent the Government intro-
ducing its Budget in the first month of the financial
year (it begins on July 1), which is normal British
practice. But the Auditor-General annually pro-
tests that “the presentation to Parliament of the
annual estimates of revenue and expenditure does not
usually take place till the end of November, and some-
times later in the year,” although the Audit Act pre-
scribes that they “are to be laid before the Legisla-
ture as soon as practicable after the close of the finan-
cial year.” In the result the Governor is asked to
sanction expenditure “in anticipation of Parliament’s
approval,” and in this way £146,600 was spent in 1936-
37, £173,700 in 1937-38 and £68,600 in 1938-39. Other
remarks of the Auditor-General:
These excesses indicate that more care should be
exercised in the departmental budgeting. I have fre-
quently drawn attention to the delay in submitting
excesses to Parliament. The figures are available soon
after June 30.
It should be quite practicable to compile and submit
supplementary estimates before the granting of any
supply for the new financial year.
Attention is again directed to the practice of submit-
ting estimates to Parliament in insufficient detail and
of grouping larger amounts under the item “Con-
tingencies.”
Since the estimates form the basis of the appropria-
tion accounts, the control of expenditure by Parliament
is thereby affected No departure from the standard
form of estimates by departments should be permitted.
The accumulated deficit is still being financed from
loan moneys raised for capital purposes.... The use of
such loan moneys to finance revenue deficits for an
indefinite period is considered illegal.
Tasmanian Government Tourist Bureau, £32,000. No
information was even furnished as to the nature of
the proposed expenditure. There was no limit to the
amount which could be expended on any one item so
long as the total expenditure did not exceed the amount
authorised.
I have pointed out in previous reports that it has
been the practice in this State to carry forward votes
of loan money. This practice is of doubtful legality
The Constitution Act and the Audit Act make it quite
clear that votes from consolidated revenue lapse at the
close of the year. Commonwealth loan votes lapse at
the end of each financial year.
So much for Mr. Dwyer-Gray’s capacity to give
financial advice to Australia from the summit of Mt
Wellington or some such place. What a nerve the
old gentleman has!


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Two Viewpoints.
A.B.C. places great faith in Mr. Kurt Offenburg, one
of its foreign-affairs commentators, and when important
events happen Mr. Offenburg paces to the microphone.
At the end of November the Soviet Union attacked
Finland, and Mr. Offenburg instructed Australian
listeners' about the position. His broadcast was re-
ported by the Sydney “D.T.,” notorious for its Mighty
Soviet stuff and its Russian-alliance rhapsodies: —
The Russian-Finnish war was actually a struggle
between Germany and the Soviet for command of the
Baltic Sea. Finland had co-operated more closely with
Germany than had any other Baltic State. General
Mannerheim was strongly pro-German. His removal
from power was now demanded by the Soviet. He was
feted by General Goring in 1936....Only last Sep-
tember Herr Ribbentrop declared that Germany would
not allow Soviet influence to dominate Finland When
Russia had secured the domination of the Baltic she
would go no further than she had done in Lithuania
and Poland. <
About the same time, an Imperial Policy Group
observer was in Finland and gave his impressions: —
It is only natural that feeling in Finland against
Germany is bitter What has happened in the Baltic
was decided upon between the Russian and German
Governments before Germany invaded Poland. One
Finnish member of Parliament said to our observer:
"When 1 go to my constituency I will not leave a
stone unturned to see that not a single scrap of friend-
ship for Germany is left.” Our observer ends his
report by saying: “When they speak of Germany their
eyes glow with hatred and they clench their fists.”
And on the eve of the outbreak of war “some
circles in Finland suggested that, if they have to
resist armed invasion, they will declare themselves
on the side of the Allies.”
Our observer was convinced that Russia’s consolida-
tion of her position in the Baltic is not aimed against
Germany but is a strategical move indicating the high
stakes lor which Russia is playing It was agreed
between the two Powers that Russia should build up
her new sphere of influence in the Baltic directly the
partition of Poland was complete, and this programme
has been followed.
The Group insists that “Russo-German collabora-
tion is much more serious than most people suppose.
This, the view of astute neutral diplomatists, both
in Moscow and Berlin, is confirmed by all our
reports from many different parts of Europe, and is
borne out by certain events, the nature of which is
ominous. Communist propaganda throughout the
world is working in Germany’s favor.”
Anti-German in August, it is certainly pro-
German in February in Australia and Maoriland.
Producer Gas.
Though there was no apparent connection, the con-
clusion of a successful and cheap run from Melbourne
to Sydney by a car using producer gas and the an-
nouncement that Parliament will decide whether the
bounty-fed production of cars in Australia should be
handed over to A.C.I. will give legislators an oppor-
tunity to use their foresight.
The car, an old model as cars go, travelling to
Melbourne used petrol at a cost for the trip of £3 17s.
It returned over the same route using producer gas at
a cost of 13s. 6d. On the gas it reached a speed of
72 m.p.h., and the driver estimated the average at 42
m.p.h.
Suction-gas engines, which run on the same prin-
ciple, have been in use as stationary power plants in
this country for many years. They have driven pumps,
shearing machines and town lighting plants. Their
adaptation to automotive vehicles is not new, and it
seems strange that Australia, without its own petroleum
supplies and with plenty of charcoal-gas material,
should have lagged behind other countries so long in
making use of a cheap fuel supply.
Most of those who have adapted their tractors to
charcoal gas are enthusiastic about the results. One of
the chief objections raised is cost of installing the gas
plant—it ranges from £80 to £100 —but if the compara-
tive costs of the car trips mentioned above are any
criterion the saving would more than compensate for
the installation.
Australia faces rising costs for petrol as well as
restriction of supplies. Evidently it has a cheap form
of fuel in its own backyard. Before Parliament comes
to a decision on local car manufacture, it should at
least make sure that any charter it grants will not pre-
vent further development of producer gas as an auto-
motive fuel.
Australians Need Not Apply.
“Ped”: Major-General Mackay, who has been head-
master of Cranbrook (Sydney) School for six years,
has resigned “because of a difference of opinion with
members of the school council.” Strange to say, he
is an Australian, born at Grafton (N.S.W.). It will be
unusual if an Australian succeeds him.
Most of the plums of the non-departmental boys’
schools are gathered by men from over the water. The
best recommendation for a vacant good job seems to
be Maoriland or Britain as a birthplace. When it
comes to sending in an application, Australian train-
ing and experience are almost as great a hindrance as
an Australian degree, although at times these dis-
advantages have been overlooked because of additional
outside experience. Some Australian non-dep. schools
have very few Australians on their lists of past and
present headmasters ; others none at all.
It would be a mistake to conclude that Australian
universities cannot do a good job, that Australian
schools are not good training grounds, or that all
capable men seek other occupations. The undervalu-
ing and neglect of our own product are just another
case of liking the look of the other side of the street,
a tendency only too common in this country when
places at the top have to be filled.
Be this as it may, the Australian non-departmental
pedagogue is in a pretty hopeless position. He cannot
hope to become head of the school he is in because
there is a prejudice against that; he cannot hope to go
to the top of certain schools that always import their
heads ; he is debarred from the command of others
for religious reasons ; and he knows that where there
is some chance of his application being considered the
dice are already loaded in favor of the stranger. The
men in the game know it, and the young men coming
on know it.
It is time the headmasters of the Headmasters’
Conference got busy producing their own successors
and training their governors to accept them.
Water Boards and War.
Sydney Water Board, which recently moved into a
palatial building, the like of which no private firm
ever dreamed of, went on the local market for
£1,000,000 at £4 7s. 6d. per cent., and got it with a
rapidity that took its breath away.
It had no sooner recovered its breath than it
hungered for another half-million. Acting Treasurer
Spender vetoed the proposal on the score of the Gov-
ernment’s desire to preserve the loan market as much
as it could for war loans.
Now Water Board members have joined the grow-
ing list of broken-down politicians and exploded and
stopgap Premiers whose idea of conducting a war is to
tell the national Government what it ought to do. Their
war slogan is “Spend, Borrow, Spend and Borrow
Again.”
Thus board member A. N. Campbell:
The Sydney Water Board has a right to first
approach to the market.
If a national long-range policy were co-ordinated
with planned programmes in all the States, there would
be none of this trumpery argument that New South
Wales must mark time in its normal progress.
Outside the County of Cumberland N.S.W. would
hardly lose a wink of sleep if the Water Board slipped
down one of its own mains and were washed out to
sea. One of the chief grievances of the State is that
its real progress is hampered by these quasi-Govern-
mental bodies which are for ever demanding colossal
sums for spending in one big city.
The national Government has something on its
hands which will cost the country an astronomical
sum before it is all over. It is going to need
every penny it can get. Any other Government in the
same position would close down on all sectional
borrowing.
How They Spend the Money.
“E.V.” goes on a journey:
The wanderer through the scrub of figures presented in
Budget papers and taxation reports sees many question-marks
starting up. ,
Suppose, for the sake of argument, that six State
Governors and six Agents-General are necessary—not one is—
why is the Governor of South Australia (£SOOO p.a.) paid
£2OOO p.a. more than, and the Governor of Tasmania (£3OOO
p.a.) as much as, the Governor of Queensland? Is it because
S.A. and Tasmania get special Commonwealth grants and
Queensland doesn’t?
And does Westralia need an Agent-General at £2OOO a
year plus £SOO house allowance, plus £8 a week car allowance,
together with a secretary at £767 a year? Queensland gets
along with an A.-G. at £1425 —his salary was increased by £6O
last year. Other States pay from £IOOO to £2OOO to men
who, when anything of real moment occurs, are ignored in
London, the High Commissioner being the only representative
of Australia of whom most Englishmen have ever heard.
When the system of Australian administration was framed
it was based on the orderly British model. There was a
legislative body which made the law and settled policy. A
responsible Minister formed the link between the Legislature
and the administrative departments. An administrative head
ruled the department and was responsible to the Minister.
He got the highest salary.
Departments are no longer so constituted. Almost every
department has become salted with bureaux, whose immediate
actions are often placed beyond the immediate control of the
head, the Minister, sometimes even of Parliament itself. In
most of the States there is scarcely a department in which
there is not a part greater than the whole.
The Colonial Secretary’s Department in N.S.W. is a
case in point. Its head gets £1387. But the principal section
of the C.S.D., the Police, has been deeded over to a
Commissioner who gets £1778 —it was increased £250 last year.
The titular head is left with the management of accounting,
fisheries, electoral matters—governed by special legislation-
aborigines and weights and measures.
The head office of the N.S.W. Treasury is run by an under-
secretary at £l5O0 —increased £l2O last year—an assistant
under-secretary at £932, an accountant at £897, a chief clerk
at £730; total staff 106. The tax commissioner draws £1387;
his staff numbers 783. There is a stamp-duties office with a
commissioner at £1065 and a staff of 48 —no doubt it will
be substantially increased as a result of the new stamp duties,
etc., which have made chaos worse confounded. The tax com-
missioner has two assistants averaging £990 —it went up £75
each last year—and 140-odd officers receiving from £307 to
£702. Actual salary cost of running the department last year
was £211,790, of which the Commonwealth found £79,000.
And “Premiers’ departments” have sprung up in all the
States except S.A. All have under-secretaries at £IOOO or more
and an ever-increasing army of employees. The N.S.W.
Premier’s Department has a staff of 50—in Mr. Bavin’s day it
was 26 —headed by an under-secretary at £1382. There are
also an assistant under-secretary at £837, a chief clerk, a
research officer, a private secretary, and clerks drawing up to
£551. Activities other than those of the Premier are specially
provided for by statute and are headed by gentlemen in well-
paid jobs. “Development” has a head at £1487. The Auditor-
General, whose job is really important—or would be if the
politicians ever paid any attention to him —draws £llOO.
The Queensland Premier has a department with 18
employees, controlled by an under-secretary at £1065. In
the Westralian Premier’s Department there are an under-
secretary at £1520 and a staff of 13 dividing over £SOOO.
It would be a mug who could not point out where sub-
stantial savings could be made in these directions, and others.
"The Richmond Crash."
A correspondent writes from Berrima (N.S.W.):
The Coroner referred to “some laxity in the system of
checking over ’planes and engines before flight.” I was
present at the inquest, and the impression I formed was, and
is, that there was no laxity in this case.
The pilot in charge of the Anson reported to the duty
pilot on arrival from Melbourne that his starboard engine
was running roughly. Asked to fill in the regulation fqrm
(EE77) he replied that he was then anxious to go straight
to Sydney. The duty pilot made a note and awaited instruc-
tions, meanwhile attending to the pegging down and refuelling
of both Ansons —the two that afterwards “took off in the
dark” —their crews being absent.
No regulation instructions re engine overhaul having
been received, the duty pilot got in touch with his superior
officer. He was told, “Do anything you can for the visitors.”
The return flight was to commence at one o’clock on Monday
morning. Aircraftsmen spent four hours on the starboard
engine that had been “running roughly,” under supervision
of the duty pilot, who then tested the starboard engine of
each machine. He made a report (available, but not brought
forward at the inquest) concerning the omission on the part
of the pilot in charge of the flight.
Pilot and crew returned just prior to starting time for the
return flight. He tested, and was satisfied with, the perform-
ances of all engines. Three witnesses stated that the engines
were running normally until the machine hit the ground.
The duty pilot (called “air reserve officer” in the reports)
was a flying officer on active service with the R.A.A.F. He
holds a Cambridge degree of engineering.
A Wheat Board Deal.
Australian flour exporters did not listen with all-
approving ears to the fanfare of trumpets with which
Wheat Board chairman McPherson announced the sale
of 7,500,000 bushels of wheat to Japan at 3s. 2d. for
bagged and 3s. for bulk.
Mr. McPherson declared that the price paid by
the Japanese was above the then ruling rates. He
forgot to point out that the buyers were bringing their
own ships to carry it away and that they had been
allowed six months in which to do so. These factors
cheapened the wheat from an Australian point of view.
Australian millers shipping to the Orient have to pay
freight, whereas the Japanese will find the wheat very
useful for back-loading. Storage charges over a
six months’ period mean 3d. a bushel off the price to
the grower.
The wheat was sold in October, and inquiries then
brought the statement that the sale had been made in
an effort to clear old grain out of the silos to make
way for the incoming harvest. Unfortunately for this
explanation, the wheat is still in Australia and con-
tributing to the congestion.
The Australian flour trade with Manchukuo
flourished until the Gullett trade-diversion policy gave
it a smack in the eye. From that it has not recovered.
The Japanese have not been slow to seize every oppor-
tunity to corner imports into Manchukuo, and one of
their latest decisions is that wheat flour is to be
blended with soya and rice flour in order to provide
the natives with cheap bread. Nobody can blame
them for acquiring the wheat, but the deal has helped
neither growers nor local exporters.
Trouble on the Station.
“Old-timer’s” account:
The run was one of the largest in the world, and capable
of carrying many more head, but subdivision into six
paddocks and a couple of small outstations, with six
managers and their assistants and one general manager and
his assistants, seemed a mistake.
As was to be expected by anyone familiar with the
animals, most of them kept close to the water, though a few
of the more adventurous, probably with a strain of Border
Leicester in them, foraged inland, finding good country. Had the
six managers had any foresight they would have worked the
paddocks so that the sheep might be more evenly distributed.
As it was, the good pastures inland had to be denuded to feed
the flocks that congregated on the water, and as the managers
followed a short-sighted policy of providing all sorts of con-
veniences in the way of barns, feed, protection and even
entertainment, it was only natural that the weaker of the
sheep bred outback drifted towards the water.
The waterhole, by the way, was a fairly big one, with
plenty of room all along its banks, but the sheep flocked to
about half a dozen different spots and camped there. As time
went by these camps got bigger and more crowded, and a
good few of the camps further along the bank and back
from the water degenerated into places where you might find
a few stragglers, a few decaying yards, and large heaps of
ancient manure.
Another bad thing was that the six managers got pretty
cocky and took little notice of the general manager. They
squabbled with one another about their boundary fences,
wrangled over shearing rights, and even introduced a system
whereby sheep going from one paddock to another had to
obtain travelling permits to do so or be penned up on the
boundary.
Sheep, as anyone knows, have to be cared for in matters
of health, training, mating, breeding and so forth. This
should have been attended to by the general manager and the
head-station staff. Instead, each of the six managers did it,
and the consequence was that each had his own gang of
drovers, shearers, shepherds, bookkeepers, tally clerks, branders
and all the others necessary for the conduct of a big station.
There were overseers and foremen and deputies and sub-
deputies and all sorts of minor personages until the station,
carrying something nearing 7,000,000 head, was employing one
hand for every 10 sheep.
This meant an outlay for working expenses hardly com-
pensated for by the returns. Frequently the same sheep
were being driven by several different drovers, seven different
branders put their marks on the same jumbuck, tally-clerks
got into great confusion because they overlapped each other,
and so on. But the managers said this could be overcome, and
they appointed more drovers, branders, etc., and found more
things to do with the sheep to provide more people with jobs.
But the crowning result was that, in an effort to get more
wool, the whole seven managers began having the sheep
shorn several times in a season. Every time a manager found
himself short of wool he ordered a shearing. The sheep,
finding themselves being rapidly brought to a state where they
would soon be skinned alive, bleated loudly; but nobody
took any notice at that time.
Then, on the other side of the waterhole, dingoes
appeared in vast numbers. The owners over there mustered
all the John Bulldogs and French Soldathounds they could
find, and the general manager told the six managers that the
run would have to help, otherwise the dingoes would be over
the waterhole before long. It was decided to pick out the
strongest sheep and train them as dingo-fighters. It was
obvious that if the station was to concentrate on the over-the-
water menace as it should it would need all the wool it
could get, would have to cut out all the waste and muddling
that had been going on, strain up the station boundary, cut
down sheep nuts and other luxuries, and muster all its
resources. . ; .
But the six managers weren’t going to be done out ot
their rights. They howled for more money, and set about
shearing more wool from the sheep in their respective
paddocks. Their idea of resisting the dingo menace was to
expand their old practice of appointing more tally-clerks and
what-not to do the work they were expected to do themselves.
Strangely enough, they are now having great trouble with
the sheep. The animals have displayed by their actions
that they are tired of being pushed in all directions by u the
six managers and their crowds of hands, they buck and bleat
terribly every time a bit more wool is taken from them, and
one or two have been reported to develop aggressiveness when
interfered with. It has even been suggested that mobs ot
them seem to want to graze under the general manager s care,
and to get rid of the six managers. It seems a bit stupid to
the managers, but they can’t help being worried, because
sheep are so stubborn.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“D.E.”: I listened to that broadcast of
Hitler’s latest, as relayed by A.B.C. I
couldn’t follow the original, but A.B.C.
translated snatches of it in the third per-
son. It made Ad. threaten to “over-
whelm” France, whereas the Associated
Press version attributed to him a milder
vaunt (“If you, Daladier, think that
your troops can march on our soil, we
will show you that our troops can tread
your soil”); but when translators differ
how can ignorant blokes like me decide?
Anyway, the high-pitched Hitlerian voice
and impassioned, exhausting delivery,
which always makes you feel that the
man is about to topple over in a fit,
sounded impressive ; and impressive, too,
were the thunderous acclamations of the
crowd, dying away into deep silence
before another shrill burst of rhetoric
pierced the ether. Came the peroration,
or whatever they call these things in
Germany, and I waited for it to be
Englished, expecting something big with
the fate of nations. No good—from
A.B.C. there arrived instead those well-
known words “You are now to hear
Jim Davidson’s Dance Band.”
* * * *
“Clarence”: Something should be
done about these advertisements that
popularise slogans such as “Your Best
Friends Won’t Tell You,” “Did You
Soap Yourself This Morning?”, and so
on. In suede sandals, orange shirt, cinna-
mon trousers and a specially-cut mauve
sports coat I sauntered into the main
street of our suburb to give the
girls a thrill. Two rough fellows were
digging a hole in the road. They stared
with what I thought to be a proper
appreciation of the well-dressed man,
and then one called loudly to the other,
“Do y’ think he’s a ‘change-daily boy,’
Steve?”
% J*e * sjs
“S. Piel”: Parramatta (N.S.W.) is
losing an inhabitant of 25 years’
standing: Though he has taken no part
in the public affairs of the old town, nor
done any of those things which cause
municipal authorities to insert memorial
plaques in unexpected places, during his
stay he has collected one of the finest
aviaries in the State and saved nearly
“ Upsa-daisy , general!”
£l5O. He has not been asked for
his opinions on the progress of Parra-
matta during the quarter-century he has
spent there, and if he is will scarcely
have much to say, as he lived the entire
time within the confines of the gaol,
serving a sentence for attempted murder.
Still, it would be interesting to know how
he got the birds together.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: If it had been reported 30
years ago that eggs had been thrown at
Nellie Stewart in Melbourne, that her
platform had been upset and she had
been prevented from completing her per-
formance by violence, every right-think-
ing citizen would have been up in arms
and there would probably have been
lynchings. But this is what happened
the other night at Collingwood. The
new Nellie Stewart is a member of the
Communist party executive.
* * $ $
“Qwert Yuiop”: People who feel ner-
vous about heights will get a shiver from
considering the performance of H. Con-
way, foreman mechanic in charge at
4QS radio station, Dalby (Q.). During
a raging thunderstorm lightning fused
the circuit supplying the aeroplane
warning-lights on the 710 ft. mast, high-
est in Queensland. Carrying a Tom
Bowling bull’s-eye lamp—they are heavy
concerns 28ft. high and lOin. in diameter
—and a number of hurricane lanterns
as well, Conway climbed the vertical
ladder to the top in torrential rain, pitch-
darkness except for dazzling lightning
flashes, and heavy wind rising to gale
force in sudden squalls. Normal time
for the climb under ordinary conditions
is 50 minutes. Resting for a few minutes
every 200 ft. and fixing lanterns as he
went, he reached the top under the hour,
secured the Tom Bowling in place, and
came down again. To all save hardened
steeplejacks such an experience includes
all the material for a first-class night-
mare.
* * * *
“Hamer”: De Vere Stacpoole, writer
of “S. M. Herald’s” current serial, knows
Sydney from memories of his stay here,
but his memories are out of date. He
talks of Rushcutter Bay as a place from
which a “superb view of the Great
Bridge” is obtainable. Rushcutter Bay
happens to be one of the locations from
which the view of the bridge is barred,
the skyscrapers of Potts Point intervening.
'** * *
“T.”: That “Return of the Viking”
cartoon (B. 24/1/’4O) reminded me of
an extraordinary statement made to me
long ago by William Paterson, g.m. of
the Westralian Agricultural Bank. It
was to the effect that he had found the
remains of a Viking boat below
Rockingham, on the south-west W.A.
coast. I thought the old gentleman was
pulling my leg and, after a few languid
questions, changed the subject. After-
wards I was told that William, though
a shrewd old party, was not addicted to
pulling legs or telling tall tales ; but I
never had an opportunity of discussing
the thing with him again. The Vikings
took their high-prowed, high-sterned
and square-sailed craft across the North
Atlantic to Greenland and the North
American continent. The Mediterranean
was no closed sea to therq, and it is con-
ceivable that a party of the dauntless
adventurers got down to the Cape and
across the Indian Ocean, sustained by
thoughts of plunder and women. Pater-
son has been dead these many years.
Perhaps he saw in me a prize mug ; but
I have often wondered whether anyone
else heard the story of the Viking boat?
* * * *
“El V.”: I treasure an Australia Day
cartoon the sole ingredient of which is
the bole of a desert gum labelled
“Still More Majestic Shalt Thou Rise.”
The roots are bunched on the surface,
showing that it is growing on a thin crust
of arid soil, above rock. Its maimed and
twisted branches exhibit all the signs of
perennial thirst and malnutrition. A foot
or two from the ground is a huge bul-
bous tree tumor —it is, in fact, about as
fine a sample of diseased and struggling
arboreal poverty as could be found in a
six months’ march. Drawn for the
Innamincka “Times”? No ; for a Mel-
bourne daily within easy reach of Gipps-
land, where the mighty gums rise like
cathedral spires.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: It is so sorrowfully
unusual for free beer to flow in Sydney
to assuage the Brobdingnagian thirst of
the black-and-white-artists fraternity that
the story of X and the Ten Bob Note
is almost worth recording just from that
point of view. X, in an oasis with some
other parched wayfarers, spotted the note
lying on the floor. He debated with
himself: Should he yell “Hey! Any-
body lost a ten-bob note?” No ; half
the population would claim it. Should
he ask the barman if he knew the right-
ful owner? No ; the barman had a lean
and hungry look. By unanimous vote
the black-and-white gentlemen decided
that the loot, translated into beer, should
be swallowed at once. X was toasted
with gusto till the note was cut out. It
is a beautiful idyll, but there is more to
it than that. Imagine to yourself (as
we Bohemians say) the horror of X when
he returned home, found that he was ten
bob short and realised that the note had
dropped from his own pocket. He has
found a sad pleasure in telling the story
to all and sundry, like the Ancient
Mariner.
* * * #
“D.C.”: For mispronunciations, a
chap I know takes the bun. Since the
outbreak of war his conversation has
centred about Hilter and Molossini and
such things as the perispites of sub-
marines. Any Nazir’s funds abroad, he
informed me, should be confinscated.
But the pick of the bunch was this:
“Germany will never break through the
Maggot-o Line!”
* * * *
“Dukachita”: Although the best ad-
vertisement a “great public school” can
give itself still is to win some sporting
trophy, Melbourne’s grammar schools,
owing to the influence of a few head-
masters, notably Darling, are beginning
tentatively to compete in the arts. Most
of them now have art masters, and one
has gone in for music under the influence
of a competent orchestral conductor. As
a fully-equipped orchestra is as yet an
impossibility, he has to be satisfied with
a string ensemble comprising eight to
ten performers, duettists and so forth.
Recently a joint concert was staged,
another college having been invited to
send its musicians. The first school’s
orchestra had carefully rehearsed some
simple little pianoforte-p/ws-flute sonatas
of Haydn and Handel and gentle things
of that sort. It played its part very
nicely. Then the rival school sent on
its champions. They formed a brass
band complete with trombones, drums,
trumpets and other uproars, and as their
leading footballers, runners and rowers
had joined up because they believed that
the blowing would be good for their
lungs, they nearly lifted the college roof
off. They ran away with the show, to
the dismay of the distinguished con-
ductor.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A former pupil, on a visit
from another State, thought he would
revisit his old Melbourne college. He
entered the grounds and, seeing a
portly gentleman in cap and gown
strolling around apparently deep in
contemplation, went up to him and
asked politely: “Excuse me, sir, are
you one of the teachers?” Pausing
in his walk, the portly one gazed silently
at his questioner for a moment and then
said: “A teacher is one who stuffs facts
into boys’ heads. A mastah makes
gentlemen of them. I am a mastah!”
* * * *
“Jachris”: My 1939 desk-calendar
came to the end of its days fully repent-
ant and with open confession of past
misdeeds:
The liberty of the individual must be
thus far limited; he must not make him-
self a nuisance to other people.
Its successor for 1940 early seemed deter-
mined not to let youthful exuberance
get out of hand; though it soon re-
marked with a show of confidence:
If youth is not quite right in its opinions
there is a strong probability that age is not
much more so.
Now it has given way to overt bump-
tiousness. War, the passing of the years,
or something led me to think of taking
a wife. Date was decided upon, and i
turned over the leaves to see what day
it was. Then said the calendar:
Love is an ocean of emotions entirely
surrounded by expenses.
I’m done with the thing!
* * * *
“Toheroa”: That Melbourne march
reminded a Digger of an experience he
had in the 1914-18 war. He was marching
with his cobbers through his home town,
and numerous sweethearts and wives were
hanging on to the arms of their depart-
ing menfolk. As he lived a long way out
he didn’t expect any feminine support.
But he got it. Suddenly a damsel dashed
alongside and, clutching his arm, said
breathlessly, “I say, be a sport. Pretend
you know me. I’ve told some girls I’m
engaged to a soldier, and I know the
cats are somewhere looking on.” The
Digger obliged, and half-way along the
lady, with a triumphant air, reported that
the cats had seen her. “But what’ll you
do afterwards?” asked the departing one
with interest. “Oh, I’ll just kill you in
action,” returned the lady brightly.
THE STATE POLITICIAN.
There are various things in this country, no
doubt,
It’s abundantly clear we could manage without,
And the absence of which, far from leading to
grief,
Would be hailed with profound and intensive
relief.
The dingo, the rabbit, the sparrow, the pear
With prickles, are pests we could thankfully
spare.
And 1 rise to propose, as the latest addition
To the sinister roster, the State politician.
Why the hell should he linger? What use can
he be
Now our homeland is one, from the sea to the
sea?
And what can he give in return for his pay,
The suave M.L.C. or the glib M.L.A.?
Yet he eats up our bunce, while he prattles
or purrs,
Devours like the locust—and clings like the
burrs.
A clog on the wheel, but a tough proposition
To wipe off the map is the State politician.
Envisage his functions, apportion his cost,
And reckon how hugely we’d gain were he lost,
And you’ll wonder, despite all his fury and
sound,
Why we still should permit him to cumber the
ground.
Yet, braying his slogans and grabbing his
dough,
You’ll find him a fixture wherever you go,
That useless appendage and darned imposition
On our national system, the State politician.
What a boon and a blessing we'd count it,
begad!
Could we strike some Pied Piper, like Hamelin
had,
To gather this sorely superfluous throng
To the strains of his music and steer them along
Till far from our ken they for ever adjourned,
Like the rats —and the children —that never re-
turned.
How we’d welcome some miracle-working
magician
To put on the pot of the State politician!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Lanno”: There’s hope for the Aus-
tralian coal industry. A Washington
(U.S.) report has it that because stock-
ings made of artificial silk produced from
coal outlasted those made from other
fibres they were withdrawn from the
market. The coal stockings are claimed
to have four times the strength of pure
silk stockings. Our coalminers appear to
lead a dreadful life, judging by the
evidence given at wage tribunals, and it
would undoubtedly be cheering in the
bowels of the earth for the blackened
toiler to pick up a lump of coal and
dream visions of the lovely limbs it
would eventually encase. Advertising,
too, would receive a fillip, as the pub-
licity hounds let themselves go over the
respective virtues of Abermain, Greta or
Bulli hosiery in the spring-sale advts.,
with Victoria pushing an attractive line
of brown-coal lingerie.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The refreshment-room at
Adelaide Central railway station has got
tired of losing 30 or 40 butterdishes
every year, and a man has been fined
for stealing one “on a date unknown.”
He volunteered this information while
being interviewed about something else:
“I took the dish seven or eight years ago
when I was with a football team ; every-
body souvenired something.”
* * * H=
“Chevroford”: Melbourne dailies re-
cently tried to work up a scare over the
shark menace in Port Phillip, but the
incident about which they got excited
was funny rather than sensational. A
number of sharks after snapper were
trapped by the receding tide behind a
sandbar off Mentone in very shallow
water. One is alleged to have been a
15ft. grey nurse. A medico got to hear
of it. Having a rifle, he roused out a
constable and they sallied down to
shoot the sharks. The constable waded
out to a rock and blazed away at the
brutes at close quarters, but produced
no effect whatever. The sawbones then
tried firing at the gliding forms from the
clifftop. In the meantime all the dogs
in Mentone had assembled on the sea-
front. A fisherman came along and
suggested a line and a hook baited with
rabbits. Every time he hurled it into
the water the dogs chased it. By this
time the tide had come in and the sharks
departed seawards. For some reason or
other, although the types of killers that
terrorise bathers in N.S.W. frequent
the Victorian coast, man-eating seems to
be the last thing they think of.
* * * *
“M 8”: Australia’s celebration of her
152nd anniversary did not escape 8.8.C.’s
all-seeing eye. Its announcer informed
the world that Australians were about to
celebrate Wattle Day, an occasion when
the Commonwealth remembered its foun-
dation. “It is just 152 years,” he went on,
“since Captain Phillip landed in the
sheltered bay which has become the site
of Sydney, Australia’s largest city.” Bay !
* * * *
“Epi Bare”: This war seems to have
settled the hash of the nudist clubs in
England and at the same time revealed
that somebody has been cashing-in on the
craze. The proprietress of a nudist club
admitted that since the war her business
had fallen away to nothing because mos*
“Look, sir — bushfires!”
of her customers had taken on war work
and others now found it beyond their
pockets to indulge in playful gambols
around her premises in the altogether.
The big freeze in Britain no doubt
helped nudism downhill, and with the
whole nation suddenly face to face with
grim reality it is likely that editors of
“nature” magazines and their photo-
graphers, models and writers will soon
be looking for other jobs. Still, if any
find their way out here I’m willing to
rent my few acres to them—reckon I
could make a few bob on the side by
hiring out adjacent gum-trees.
* * * *
“F.S.”: A leading Melbourne painter
was executing the portrait of a peer of
very ancient lineage, the private secre-
tary to a Governor. The secretary was
an erratic sitter, sometimes turning up
late, sometimes early and sometimes not
at all, and one day he arrived, after
breaking a previous appointment, full of
apologies. “It’s the gout, my dear sir,”
he explained. “It’s the gout. Gout has
run through my family for untold gen-
erations.” “Too bad,” said the painter,
picking up his palette and turning to his
canvas. “It’s just the same with me. I
can fully sympathise. But my family-
tree produces piles.”
“Coorte”: Hobbies which can lead to
a career (B. 10/1 /’40)? Before the last
war I was employed in a Government
department in Adelaide, and one of my
fellow-clerks used to lap up anything con-
cerning ancient Egypt. We thought him a
goat for spending all his spare cash on
books dealing with excavations along the
Nile, hieroglyphics, etc., but he used to
retort that it was not a bit more expen-
sive than trying to pick winners, and a
darned sight more interesting to him than
standing and roaring yourself hoarse
while other blokes kicked a bag of wind
around a paddock. He enlisted in 1914,
and while in Egypt spent every moment
of his spare time in the Cairo Museum,
where he soon made the acquaintance
of the staff. After the war his hobby-
gained qualifications earned him a job,
and today he is an Egyptologist of some
tonnage. None of his former workmates
has achieved to a tenth of his fame or
importance.
* * * *
“Spokeshave” : Spurious fivers, reputed
to have been forged in Sydney, are be-
ginning to make their appearance in Mel-
bourne, and the bookies, the usual reci-
pients, are loud in their lamentations,
two of the notes having been passed at
Moonee Valley. In one of his books
“Gentleman overboard!”
Major Douglas claimed that counterfeit
coin stimulates trade and industry just
as effectively as the legal currency, but,
of course, that would depend on the
ability of snide currency to keep in cir-
culation. One of the sights of Shanghai
is the counter of one of the leading
banks, which is lined with counterfeit
dollars with nails driven through them.
If an unsuspecting depositor brings along
a piece of defective coinage and it is
detected, as it usually is, the clerk gets
out a hammer and a nail, and with one
blow puts it for ever out of circulation.
The unfortunate owner says “Whaffor!”
and, not knowing the arguments of the
Major, departs cursing the financial
methods of the white man.
# * * *
“Lao-dah”: A man in Melbourne
tried—in vain—to pay his telephone
account in coppers. Reminds me of a
personal experience in a cable station in
Borneo. A native coolie staggered into
the office one day bearing a heavy sack
on his shoulders, the sweat pouring off
him. He put a telegram on the counter,
a message from a German planter to
his girl in Bremerhaven. When I told
him the cost the coolie heaved up the
sack and emptied out a huge pile of
cents. The thought merely of having
to count them sent up my temperature,
and, consulting the regulations, I found
that cents were not legal tender. The
coolie had to carry the sack five miles
down to the coast again and interview
his master. Intensely indignant, his
master did the five miles, the coolie, still
with the sack, following him, to hear my
explanation as to why his cable had been
refused, the coolie’s English not having
been equal to the occasion. I pointed
out that I had no option, and he apolo-
gised, explaining that the coppers had
been obtained to pay his coolies and he
had no dollars on him. So I accepted
his lOU, and he went off again, with
the coolie staggering behind him with
the sack. The Melbourne regulation is
derived from an ancient law which had
its origin in the fact that pennies used to
be shaved and their value was never
stable. In any case, copper coin is not
legal tender above twelve pence.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Melbourne City Fathers
are in a sad dilemma over their big
organ, sundry visiting executants, includ-
ing Dupre, having criticised it in no un-
certain terms. They called for a report
from local experts, but no two experts
agree in their diagnoses of the disease
that afflicts the instrument except as to
the bad location of the echo organ,
which is only a minor ailment. Why
don’t the city dads let the monster be?
Considering the amount of use that is
made of it and the lack of public interest,
except when a pretty feminine executant
or a famous one comes along to play it,
it is little more than a white elephant.
William McKie used to say that to know
what Bach’s music was really like you
had to hear it on the same sort of in-
strument that Bach used ; and that could
have been put in the Melbourne instru-
ment’s pocket.
EASY MONEY.
(With acknowledgments to “Pilot,” B. 17/l/’40.)
Why do you go a-racing, O my fellows?
What subtle magnet, what mysterious force
Drags you to where the bookie booms and
bellows?
Is it because you really think the horse
The noblest item in the brute creation
And that you feel to see him, as he flings
Furlongs behind him, is a revelation
To gladden artists and enrapture kings?
Is the attractive influence, in short, '
The chance of boodle or the charm of sport?
And you, my sisters, let me ask you plainly,
Who grace the stands in decorative flocks,
Is it entirely—is it even mainly—
To show the latest lures in hats and frocks?
Are you a bit consoled when on our courses
You’ve backed a lot of losers on the totes
By thinking you’ve improved the breed of
horses
And helped some struggling jocks, to earn
their oats?
With what I know of paddock and of flat,
I’d find it difficult to credit that!
You gents who “lay the field” in accents
cheery
And with your slogans make the welkin ring,
I’m quite aware to you my simple query
Would seem an utterly superfluous thing.
You go with bulging bags in your possession
And find it a remunerative job
By plying your legitimate profession
To pull your divvies from the fickle mob.
’Twixt you and them the clear distinction is
They’re mostly there for pleasure —you for biz.
The racecourse patron’s hopes—whether he
lets it „
Be known or not —are fixed on “easy mon.”
And in the bitter end somebody gets it
Beyond a doubt. Say, can you tip the one?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


■<&
m
10 for 9°
20 for 1 ; 6
50 for 3 ; 9
100 for 7'6
For greater
smoking enjogment
CRAVENA
V**)'
f
2817
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Struck by a southerly from Geelong
or some such place, the P.M. announced
last week that the motor-car contract —
the one that was to give A.C.I. a five
years’ monopoly, plus a £1,500,000
bounty—would be “suspended” until it
has been ratified by Parliament. That
will be never.
Lauri J. Nathan, listed in the last
Commonwealth Taxation Report as hav-
ing understated his incomp for nine years,
1923-24 to 1932-33, by £19,704, and hav-
ing therefore been charged another
£1361, changed his name to Newton on
September 9, 1938. So did Lionel Nathan,
whose understated income for the same
years amounted to £19,662, and who had
to fork out another £1395. Both are Mel-
bourne warehousemen. Couldn’t it have
been arranged for one to call himself
Nelson and the other Wellington?
The U.A.P. could have had four can-
didates for Corio (Vic.), but the local
organisation wanted only Vinton Smith.
When that was made plain the others
undertook to sign his nomination-paper.
Protectionist, Digger, national-service
man and M.L.A. for doubtful Oakleigh
in two Parliaments, Vinton Smith ought
to suit Corio down to the ground. And
it is nothing against him in so sporting
an electorate that he became a represen-
tative oarsman after his return from the
war.
The A.W.U. executive has had heaps
of trouble with Communists, but recent
events have enabled jt to get heavily
home on the brotherhood. Though
W. B. Hay, retiring president of the
Queensland branch, was too ill to attend
the Coolangatta conference, he wrote an
address, read by a vice-president, in
which he asked A.W.U. men to note that
the responsibility for the war “lies with
the two devilish Allies, Nazism and
Communism.” Corns., who never smile,
are now scowling more furiously than
ever.
The N.S.W'. Railway Officers on the
Broken Hill-line fettlers’ strike, second
of the Red litter:
The Australian Railways Union has gulled
a number of employees into striking. The
strike is futile and unnecessary.
That ought to give “Railroad,” the
A.R.U. organ, something to write about.
Perhaps it will try to show that the strike
may save the Workers’ Paradise from
being overrun by the White Finnish
hordes of the fiendish Mannerheim.
To hand, “with the compliments of the
Left Book Club, N.S.W. (President:
C. E. Martin, M.Ec., M.L.A.),” a
pamphlet which begins with the com-
plaint that National Security has been
Thrust Upon Us, though Parliament, it
seems, approved. It goes on to* protest
against the editor of “Napredak,” a
“liberal newspaper published in Mel-
bourne in the Croatian language,” being
“reproved for making remarks which
might easily have been interpreted as
adversely critical of Mr. Menzies and
Mr. Chamberlain in their role of demo-
cratic champions.” And something
“Victor Gollancz wrote in the ‘Left News’
of February, 1939,” is quoted:
Of all the gains that, outside the
economic sphere, men have won perhaps
the greatest is the free, inquiring, indepen-
dent and sceptical mind.
You see this in perfect efflorescence in
the U.S.S.R., where national security,
conscription, dictatorship, Nazi alliance
and wars, Polish and Finnish, are thrust
upon the free, independent and sceptical
inquirer, and if he objects he is welcome
to a bullet in the back of the neck.
Beautifully unanimous for once, “S. M.
Herald,” Sydney “D.T.” and the “Sun”
have put up their price to twopence, as
an urgent war measure or something.
Melbourne “Age” and “Argus” are still
giving more for three-ha’pence.
Those two old pals Premier Dunstan
and A. E. Hocking (“the Kingmaker”)
are going about Victoria giving one an-
other beans. People unversed in
“United” C.P. politics don’t quite know
what the barney is all about, but the
rival “Liberal” C.P. says it started when
Hocking jibbed at “endorsing” Dunstan’s
son Arthur for the Bulla-Dalhousie seat
and became an all-in affair when Hock-
ing was bounced off the State Savings
Bank Board. Dunstan has challenged
Hocking to fight it out in the Dunstan
electorate, Korong-Eaglehawk. Hocking
JOSEPHINA STALINOVITCH.
In a continuous performance of the Dying Duck at the Mannerheim Theatre,
Finland.
(This picture arrived too late for the exhibition of Overseas Art for Ballet and Theatre,
now open in Sydney.)
retorts that “two members have offered
to vacate their seats in neutral territory,”
and that the Premier will find him ready
in either.
The Dunstan-Hocking wrangle is
worrying some of the Ministers to the
soulcase, especially as many of the C.P.
branches object to what they call Hock-
ing’s “omission” from the Savings Bank
Board. “Mr. Dunstan is the only man
who can lead the party. No member
of our Cabinet would serve any other
leader. If the Central Council tries to
interfere, it will smash up not only the
Government but the whole U.C.P.” This
cry of agony was wrung from Bailey,
the Chief Secretary, at Timboon ; but,
as a Labor member before he turned
Cocky, Bailey ought to be used to these
family quarrels.
A car belonging to the Secretary of
Railways figured in a queer holiday acci-
dent in Sydney. It broke away un-
attended, hurt a woman, knocked an-
other car against a tree, plunged through
a rail fence, and was stopped by a stone
fence when, with one wheel hanging over,
it seemed about to take a 20-foot drop.
Secretary and Commissioner live in Mos-
man, and Assistant Commissioner at
Vaucluse. Railway suburbs are reserved
for customers.
In 1881 the population of Tasmania
was 115,705, and it is only 235,000 or
so now. Perhaps the Speck would make
a better showing with a provincial coun-
cil. . It may have been trying to carry
too many politicians and officials, from
an English Governor down.
The war has delayed the establish-
ment of the tinplate industry at Whyalla
(S.A.), but in the meantime B.H.P. will
build ships Ihere. Anyway, its g.m.,
Essington Lewis, has authorised Premier
Playford to announce that “there is every
likelihood of such an event happening,”
and Playford is going on with his water-
supply plan if he can get the money.
Playford has also a vision of steel mills
decorating the Whyalla landscape, and
a British company has told him that it
contemplates starting an industry, un-
named, which will “employ more than
5000 people.” In his elation, he has
made the handsome admission that
“South Australia’s troubles have been
due to a disregard of our own affairs
rather than to the Commonwealth bogey
or to Victorian and N.S.W. competition.”
In the industrial plans now working in
so many Australian minds, Albany
(W.A.) should no.t be forgotten. It is
ideally situated, has a magnificent climate
and possesses perhaps the finest neglected
deep-water port in the world. It would
be a good thing for Britain and Aus-
tralia if the entire population of Jarrow
were shifted from that distressed area
to Albany, even if Miss Ellen Wilkinson
were to make speeches in the Parliament
in Perth instead of the one at West-
minster. Perhaps the lady wouldn’t get
so excited at Albany or Perth.
How some of the money went in Tas-
mania last year:—
Governor’s establishment, £6567.
Ministerial (salaries, travelling expenses,
entertainment of distinguished visitors),
£8985.
Agent-General, £4396.
Leg. Council (salaries and contingencies),
£lB5l.
Assembly (salaries and contingencies),
£2955.
Parliamentary “allowances,” £19,500.
Parliamentary special services (railway
passes, printing, fares, etc.), £6598.
Economic Adviser to Government, £262.
Travelling expenses of Ministers on Loan
Council business, £BO.
Grant to League of Nations Union, £2OO.
And the Transvaal, which is four times
the size of Tasmania, and has nearly four
times the European population, gets
along with an Administrator at £2500
p.a. and a provincial council of 55
members.
There has always been a Labor element
among the Westralian farmers, even in
the P.P.A. itself, and drought, poor prices
and dissatisfaction with “eastern rule”
have added to its numbers. So Cameron
was prepared for squalls when he set out
for the West, but he was rather aston-
ished at the feeling among the graziers.
He struck it first at a meeting called by
the Wool Executive Council of the
P.P.A., his speech being preceded by a
motion to the effect that the Westralian
C.P. members “have forfeited all claims
to further support, and should be refused
endorsement.” After Cameron had
stoutly defended them, the motion was
toned down at the instance of a profes-
sor, and in the end it was resolved to ask
the Woolgrowers’ Federation “to discuss
the wool position and decide action to
be taken by the Country party.”
Cameron was told in Westralia that
Prowse, Gregory and Johnston were gone
coons. Hitchins, the wool man, has nomi-
nated against Prowse (Forrest) and ex-
Senator Marwick against Gregory (Swan).
In the Great Southern district, hitherto
solid for Johnston, anti-C.P. resolutions
were carried in some places, notably
Katanning and Lake Grace; but
Cameron got votes of confidence at Cor-
rigin and Kulin. Everywhere he said,
“If you expect me to vote for a party
which won’t send a ’plane, a man or a
gun to assist the Empire in its struggle
I won’t do it” ; and this made a distinct
impression.
The university lecturer who proposed
that Australia should present “£7,000,000-
or £10,000,000-worth” of produce to
Britain has been billed as “economic
adviser to the N.S.W. Treasury.” Pre-
sumably N.S.W. would have to find
two-fifths of the gift, and its Treasury
was £6,500,000 to the bad in the
first half of the financial year. The
“economic adviser’s” name does not
figure on the estimates, but those of Pro-
fessor Mills and Professor Roberts do—
they draw substantial “honoraria” for
doing something or other in the economic
line. Apparently the Government is too
stupid or too lazy to do any economic
thinking on its own account.
“A substantial reduction of output”
and sudden stoppages, “after the owners
have spent £5O to £2OO per colliery” in
preparation for a day’s toil—this is the
new programme of the Miners’ Federa-
tion, which asked for arbitration, got an
award and won’t accept it. It is a pro-
gramme that Hitler might prescribe, as
Billy says.


SHOCKS FOR SOLDIERS.


VV. JNO. BAKER TRIPLE CRUSH
EM AS CULAT O R. — A well-made, first-
class nickel-plated instrument, com-
bining the blunt cut and the crushing
block. Its simplicity and thorough
effectiveness in operation commend it
to both the novice and expert
Price, 55/
WOOL GROWERS
BAKER'S
TATTOO
FLIER, hand-
made, plain
finish, with one
set of ten
moulded figures,
1 to 0. and one
stick Indian Ink. Flier to
hold thi’ee figures, 55/-.
Flier to hold four figures,
59/6. Extra Letters or Figures,
2/- each. Size of figures, *in.
BAKER’S IMPROVED LAMB CLAM.
The position of the blade enables the
user to complete the operation without
moving his grip on the Clam, the result
being a cleaner job, quicker healing,
and saving time. About Bin. overall.
Black Horn Handle Grip. Brass Guard.
Width across ja>v, lfin. 13/6 each.
W. Jno. BAKER
PTY., 3 HUNTER ST.,
LTD., SYDNEY.
2K9p
Baker’s Bagging anti
Bottle Outfit. Consists of
Red Tang Shear, f Pint Galv.
Tin Bottle and 6 x 2 x 1 Oil
Stone. The Sheath is made
as No. 17 Outfit. 32/6 com-
plete. Postage, 1/6 extra.
PERSONAL ITEMS
N. St. C. Deschamps, selected as
official secretary at the Australian
Legation in Washington, was born in Bris-
bane 31 years ago and got his Austra-
lian schooling at Melbourne Grammar.
More followed in Rome and Brussels
before he went to Cambridge and gained
first-class honors in French in the modern
language tripos. Returning to Aus-
tralia he was for a time foreign political
commentator to the A.B.C. He joined
the political section of the Department
of External Affairs in 1937, bringing to
Molongloside the very unusual local
qualifications of a wide personal acquain-
tance with Europe and fluent speech in
French, German, Spanish and Italian.
Ronald Doyle, killed in a ’plane crash
in New Guinea, belonged to a pioneer-
ing family of nor’-western N.S.W. He
was educated at The King’s School, and
his interest in aviation commenced after
he had become a farmer. Later he went
to Melbourne for practical training, and
then became a pilot with W. R. Car-
penter and Co. He was 27 when he took
off on his last flight.
John Norman Lawson, who became
Minister of Trade and Customs in the
Menzies Cabinet last April, was born in
Sydney 42 years ago, and holds a degree
in veterinary science from Sydney Uni.
For some years he was an officer of
the M.L. Department of Agriculture,
then returned to Australia, dairy-farmed
on the Hunter River (N. S. Wales) and
grew wheat a lot further west. Com-
menced to mingle in politics in 1930,
when he unsuccessfully stood for Cobar
(N.S.W.). Has represented Macquarie
(N.S.W.) since 1934. He has travelled
extensively in Europe and Asia, and
MINISTER OF CUSTOMS.
travelled fast in his school days at Syd-
ney High, winning the All Schools’ one-
mile championship. Takes a great interest
in painting and is a familiar figure at art
exhibitions.
Prof. Alexander (“Wee Ahlec”) Ross,
who has come from Perth to Melbourne
to offer the services of the organised phy-
sical science workers of Australia to the
Government in the war crisis, has been
secretary of the Australasian branches of
the British Institute of Physicists for 15
years. He was born in Glasgow, ran
off with a string of distinctions at its
university, and has since added academic
honors galore to his name. In 1912 he
got the physics professorship of Perth
(W.A.) University, just after he had seen
in Goettingen how German scientists
were mobilised by the State. He has
published a mort of research findings
and is 56.
Australian Rex Leeper, whose father
was headmaster of Melbourne Grammar
School for years, has, with the shifting
of war threats to Rumania, become an
important factor in the diplomatic game
of chess as British Minister at Bucharest.
Leeper made a name in the British dip-
lomatic service as quite a young man ;
on him to a great extent devolved the
responsibility of establishing good re-
lations between Britain and Turkey. That
he was an Australian helped, for
encounters on Gallipoli gave the Turks
a great admiration of Australians. Leeper
speaks all the languages of the European
East fluently, and has an understanding
of the ways of their peoples.
The retirement of J. W. Cowburn from
his job as secretary to the .N.S.W. branch
of the Amalgamated Engineers after 18
years (his membership with the union
goes back 42 years) recalls days when
there was war amongst the rival engineer-
ing unions which caused more strikes
than grievances against employers. The
Australasian Society of Engineers objec-
ted to Australian funds going to a central
organisation in England and to its over-
riding authority ; the Amalgamated En-
gineers, the world’s greatest union, with
colossal funds gathered from branches in
every part of the globe, scorned the
breakaway organisation. Cowburn was
the leader of a movement which estab-
lished amity between the rival unions.
A solid, level-headed unionist, that was
only part of his good work. He had a
brief term as an M.L.C. but did not seek
re-election after the expiration of his
term in 1935.
Dead in Brisbane at 77, G. H. Schofield,
who once was a well-known figure in
municipal politics. A stocky, determined
little Lancashire man, he climbed off an
immigrant ship 55 years ago, settled in
Brisbane’s West End, saved enough
money in five years to start a building
business, and accumulated enough in-
fluence to become an alderman of S.
Brisbane 15 years after landing. He was
mayor of S. Brisbane in the State’s jubilee
year, 1909.
Knight James Barrett’s record for sit-
ting on committees in Melbourne is
threatened by A. E. Monk, of the Trades
Hall, who at half Barrett’s age—Monk
is under 40 —finds himself president of
the Victorian Labor party, the Trades
Hall Council, the Australasian Council of
Trades Unions, the State Relief Com-
mittee and the Federated Clerks’ Union,
as well as member of a welter of com-
mittees. He has just been made presi-
dent of the board of management of the
Melbourne Technical College, which
used to be known as the Workingmen’s
College. Since he started as a clerk in
the Gas Employees’ Union at the age of
18, Monk has sampled almost every
white-collar job in the Labor movement.
“Morimoto”: Rev. Frederick Watts,
arrested by the Japanese on charges of
breaking currency regulations, is an Aus-
tralian who has had an unusual experi-
ence of missionising. After graduating
from Melbourne Uni. in divinity, he
started saving souls as a curate at Rich-
mond. Since then he has preached at
Genoa, at Marseilles and at Kobe, as a
missioner to British seamen. The crime
for which he has been interned in Japan
isn’t a crime in peace-time, but a virtue.
Every white in Asia who is paid in
local currency operates the exchanges.
If he doesn’t he gets himself into Queer-
street.
Arthur Henry Peters, recently ap-
pointed Director of Lands in S.A., is a
Tasmanian, 46 years of age, whose climb
A. H. PETERS.
in the S.A. Lands Department, which
he entered as a junior clerk in 1910, has
been steady. Stages in his ascent were
chief clerk 1923, assistant secretary 1930
and superintendent of the Land Branch
1931. Golf and tennis keep him fit.
Private Frank Stewart, a stretcher-
bearer in the A.M.C. at Puckapunyal
(Vic.), is a full-blooded aboriginal. He
is a graduate from Grade 8 of the State
secondary school at Swan Hill, was a
jockey ait Flemington, a horsebreaker in
N.S.W., and is one of the fastest foot-
runners in Victoria. In 1935 he won
the Benalla Gift,
D. S. McDonald, the new superinten-
dent of Technical Education in S.A., has
the unusual but practical qualification of
having served apprenticeship as a cabinet-
maker — with the Pengelley co., of
Adelaide. He has since collected a B.A.
degree and diploma in education with,
as sidelines, a war wound and three years
in Papua training natives.
No man is better known in Melbourne
than M. Paul Bibron, the little French-
man from Touraine who 52 years ago
started teaching Sassiety its dance steps,
and has only just left off at close on 80.
Old Admiralty House in Exhibition-
street was his academy, and here and in
their homes and at schools and colleges
he taught the future Judges, lawyers,
doctors and matrons of the metropolis
the polka and mazurka, and their sons
and daughters the “Big Apple” and other
novelties. The only thing he didn’t teach
them was his own deportment, which
savored of the French Courts of the
eighteenth century, and was probably
instinctive. The variety of his clientele
and the respect it had for him is shown
by the fact that General Blarney took a
holiday from soldiering to chairman the
committee organised to farewell him.
Frank Wittmann, the Melbourne phar-
macist who had the distinction of being
the smallest man in the First A.1.F.,
wants to attain to the same distinction
in the Second if he can get it. Having
been rejected in Australia during the
1914-18 war, the little chemist paid his
own passage to England, where he
pestered the Australian headquarters
until they gave him a job with a de-
chlorination squad that was much needed
in Mesopotamia. There he got his ser-
geant’s stripes, and earned them. He
was supervising the embarkation of his
men on a troopship when a former
schoolmate, a captain in the R.M.C., a
giant of six-foot-six, happened to recog-
nise him, walked up behind him, lifted
the midget up and with one heave pul
him on his shoulders. Nothing perturbs
Wittmann, and he continued to bark ou>
his orders.
J. J. Liston, secretary of the Victorian
Liquor Trade Defence fund, has found
a part-time job to occupy him between
the periodical outbreaks of frenzy when
Bung and the Cold Tea party rend each
other over the No-License issue. Return-
ing from a visit to the U.S.A., he found
the war had started, and jumped to the
conclusion that a need would arise for
accommodation for lonely Diggers on
leave in Melbourne. He collected the
necessary funds, largely from the liquor
people, took the whole floor of Robb s
building in Collins-street and founded
Blarney House as a city club for soldiers.
There a Digger can get a good meal for
sixpence, a clean bed for another sprat,
a bath and other facilities. Opened only
a few weeks ago, it is already in need
of expansion.
Stanley James Goble, whose promotion
to the rank of Air Vice-Marshal was
gazetted a few days ago, got his step
just after he had asked to be relieved
of his job as Chief of the Air Staff, so
it looks as if some more congenial post
will shortly be found for him. Though
he’s still on the sunny side of 50 he’s
one of the R.A.A.F. veterans. He served
in the 1914-18 war first with the Royal
Naval Air Service, later with the R.A.F..
emerging as squadron commander with
a brave breastful of medals, including
D.S.C. and D.S.O. He made air history
in Australia in 1924 by a flight around
the continent with 1. E. Mclntyre, and
after a spell of Staff College swotting
AIR VICE-MARSHAL GOBLE.
became one of the brasshats of the
R.A.A.F. Just before the new war broke
out he was Air Member of the Board
for Personnel. He qualified as M.I.Ae.A.
in 1924. Recreations are golf and tennis.
L. D. Edwards, Queensland’s Director
of Education, demolishes a claim:
This page (8.17/l/’4O) says the A. G.
Ogilvie High School, Hobart, is the only com-
mercial high school in Australia.
Here in Brisbane we have a State Com-
mercial High School and College, opened as
a separate institution in January, 1933. The
mean quarterly enrolment during 1939 was 1143,
and the average daily attendance for the year
994.


y|
«**&&**
w
Jrf •*>-
st a s tfc«
o\A sa AS^<!
w e *
b.?** s t a **'* f *
AV te^T^> eCaUSe
v • '\Vi
p
1 -fo
1, Ji^
V^ tct
"f* s*?s<>*'*»•»>«*


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: The big man from Billibilli
and the little man from Sheepwash were
at it hammer and tongs when a bearded
stranger, trailing a cornsack tied at the
top, strolled into the bar. “What’s all the
argyment about?” he asked. “Snakes,”
replied the Billibilli-ite. “I say there’s
“Never mind, Bert — we'll catch the next.”
bigger snakes up my way than anywhere
round here.” “Not on yer life there
ain’t,” retorted the man from Sheep-
wash ; “up my way they’re”—— The
bearded stranger moved self and bag
nearer the counter. “Snakes?” he said.
“Yorter see the one I caught a coupla
miles from here” ; and he fiddled with
the top of the sack. “See this ’ere
bag” His remarks were drowned in
the noise of men stampeding for the
door and of Ryan leaping on his
counter. He availed himself of the
excitement to empty the three handiest
pots, having done which he looked up at
Ryan with a quizzical grin on his whis-
kers. “I wus telling yez ’bout that snake
I caught,” he said. “See this ’ere
bag” “Don’t open the damn’ thing
here,” thundered Ryan. “What’s up with
yer?” replied the other, emptying two
more pots. “I ain’t got no snake here.
I wus jist going t’ tell yer. See this ’ere
bag? Well, that snake I caught wus that
big I couldn’t put him in it,” and, empty-
ing the two remaining pots, he walked
out, dragging his bag behind him.
* * * *
“Sandpatch”: You can tell Scorfield
that his cartoon of the Digger leading
horses and being told to stand to atten-
tion when addressing an officer is liter-
ally correct save for two minor details.
In 1917, when the incident took place, I
had quite presentable whiskers on the
upper lip, and had lost my hat half an
hour before. Those horses got far too
much to eat for the work they did, but it
was all dry, chaff and grain ; so the sight
of a bit of greenstuff made them as frisky
as a Water Board president who has just
floated a £2,000,000 loan. A bullet-hole
through the left wrist cramped my style,
and as I weigh only ten stone and a bit
two artillery draughts were a problem.
But it wasn’t as bad as trying to feed
eight or ten hungry donks, who all
seemed to think that the seat of your
pants was an effective substitute for the
contents of a nosebag.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: At odd times cranks bob
up with the suggestion to cut a channel
in from the sea and fill the central Aus-
tralian lakes, the idea being that evapora-
tion would then result in increased rain-
fall in contiguous areas. The central
coast of N.S.W. is alongside the Pacific
Ocean, and if there was anything in the
evaporation theory it should never know
a drought. It’s having one now, had one
last summer, and up along the Hunter
River there has not been a decent rain
for years.
* * * *
“G. Roper”: For charcoal for pro-
ducer gas, I’m putting my money on
jarrah. Not only does that W.A. timber
yield a coal of high calorific value, used
by Westralian smiths for over a cen-
tury, but it also ranks among the world’s
lowest in ash content. I once toiled as
fireman in a timber mill the power unit
of which was a locomotive-type boiler
and engine, fired with mill waste, shav-
ings and sawdust. So little ash did this
conglomeration of jarrah yield that it
was necessary to open the ashpit only
once in six months for a clean-out. The
test to distinguish seasoned sawn jarrah
from karri is to burn a splinter of wood
from each flitch. Karri will leave a light
fleecy ash, jarrah none. The high ash
content of most woods necessitates the
use of scrubbers, the cumbersome, bulky
part of the producer-gas outfit. With
jarrah charcoal the scrubber might
almost be dispensed with.
* * * *
“Splodger”: The swamps had been
bone-dry for months, the ground was
cracking. There wasn’t a suspicion of
moisture anywhere. Came a sudden
storm. At 10 p.m. on Thursday the
swamps were filled. At 10.1 p.m. a mil-
lion full-grown frogs and 3,653,497 half-
grown ones lifted up their voices. At
11 a.m. next day every growth of reeds,
every tussock of grass, every possible
anchorage was thick with frog-spawn.
In 13 hours those* frogs had come to
full life, wooed, courted, married, per-
haps divorced, and given birth to mil-
lions of fresh lives!
* * * *
“Naturala”: Infinitely skilful though
she is, Nature does some things clumsily,
then cunningly adjusts the balance. Wit-
ness the crab. Equipping him with bone
she places it on the outside, thus giving
armor as well. But the crab soon out-
grows his shell, and to keep on growing
must cast it off. He slips through the
lightly-feathered aperture which develops
along the junction of the shell and the
tail. Then naked, without armor, he
must hide until a new casing grows.
During the period of waiting, the crab
swells himself to the limit with water.
Thus his new suit finally covers him
many times too large, designed to serve
him so that not more than four shell-
castings cover a crab lifetime. This over-
size in suits explains why many crabs
are disgustedly thrown away after being
carefully boiled. “Nothing in them;
must have been starving.” Also why soft-
shelled crabs are thrown away under
the impression that the softness must be
due to disease. To the abo. the soft-
shelled crab is favorite, the only time
he gets a proper bite, because shell and
all go down.
* * * *
“Flight”: Best mason among birds is
the peewee. It doesn’t put up anything
elaborate, but what it builds is there for
keeps. Swallows and most other mud-
builders have their nests in more or less
protected places where they’re compara-
tively shielded from the weather. The
peewee makes its nest out in the open,
on the exposed fork of a tree, and the
higher and more open it is to the weather
the better the builder likes it. How long
would any man-made pise building stand
if a drip developed in the roof? The
peewee doesn’t bind his mud with cow-
hair or other reinforcement, yet the nest
will remain on its limb for months.
* * * *
“Archer N.”: Gold losses from roast-
ing ores on the Golden Mile in the early
days were revealed when a mining com-
pany, loaming on ground south of Kal-
goorlie (W.A.) aerodrome, found over a
large area fine gold and mineral just
under the surface. It showed even on the
dumps of old water shafts which never
had produced a color. Explanation was
that the fine stuff, caught in the roaring
draughts of the chimneys of the old
wood-consuming roasters, had been
thrown high into the air and had settled
on the surface of the ground in the
neighborhood. Years of weather had
worked the gold, which in all cases was
associated with fine mineral, to about
three inches below the surface. Nowa-
days great draughts are not necessary for
roasting, which is done by the sulphur
content in the ore itself, though one of
the larger cos. estimates a monthly sav-
ing of £9OOO with its flue-chambers,
which trap any metal escaping through
the chimneys.
* * c
“Dick Tafone”: Coolangatta (S.Q.),
where the Federal Convention of the
A.W.U. assembled, earned fame in the
long-ago as the only place where that
august assemblage of Labor’s high-priests
was ever declared black. When the first
meeting was held there about 1926,
“Gumleaf Jimmy,” an abo. who per-
formed on that home-grown instrument
with considerable skill, used to serenade
the delegates with “The Red Flag” and
“Workers, Arise,” and pass round the hat.
One day a joker drew the minstrel aside
and suggested that unless he received a
more liberal financial response to his
artistic efforts he should declare the con-
vention black. The sable musician
counted his sparse takings and emphati-
cally did so.
“Edjudina”: Out from Youanmi
(W.A.) at least a dozen emu corpses hung
from the fence wires. The squatter
ordered their burning. Camped in the
near distance old Mick Murphy watched
the funeral pyre. When the ashes were
cold he approached. “Ye niver know
what might be in thim emus, thim
roamin’ over gold-bearin’ country."
Taking his ground-sheet and battered tin
dish he started on the ashes. One slug
plopped on the bottom of the dish with a
heartening sound, and there were a
couple of small specks. “ ’Tis the way
av the creatures,” Mick explained. “Like
all birds they need grit in their gizzards
and a bit av shiny gold takes their eye.
Niver do I meet a patch av their drop-
pin’s but I give thim a turn over, and
here wus a whole dozen gizzards. ’Twud
have been throwin’ money away to have
left them like that squatter did.”
“Odd Pint”: 1 see be the papers where
some bloke touring Groperland by
car nearly threw a sixer when some
emus came out of the scrub and started
pecking at the bright spots on his Lizzie.
Seems he thought they might have a piece
of him and got going. But it was only the
big birds’ curiosity. Bright metal flashing
in the sun, a gaudily-colored rag and the
like will bring emus around as eagerly as
women in the cities rush bargain-display
windows. The lanky feather-dusters have
provided many a lone bushman with a bit
of fun. He spots some emus off in the
distance, lies down and starts kicking his
legs and waving his arms in the air. The
birds survey him in astonishment, then
they begin to approach indirectly, making
wide turns and pretending to lose interest,
but always coming on. When he has
them close enough the joker leaps up
with a wild yell and there is an early-
door rush to the horizon. Black Brother
often used the method to provide the
family with a poultry dinner.
Hc * * *
“O’D.”: I like the spirit of some lady
car-tourists in southern N.S.W. who
stopped to boil the billy by the road. The
fire got into some grass and they tried to
beat it with a rug. But it leapt away, and
they promptly piled into their car and
raced into Jugiong to give the alarm and
admit their fault. A good many men
would have lost no time in speeding right
out of the district.
* * * *
“D.C.”: A rabbiter friend of mine had
a black greyhound who invariably left
the remainder of the pack and hunted
alone. In a few minutes he would return
with a rabbit, receive his pat and a bit
of praise along with it, and then go off
again. One lunchtime, while his boss
was dozing under a tree, “Darkie” turned
up with a rabbit and received an absent-
minded sort of pat. In a few moments
he brought another along. When he
brought the third rabbit his boss began
to wonder, and at the fourth he roused
himself. “Darkie” was bringing the
rabbits from the heap that had been
caught during the morning.
* * * *
“Tamar”: Axemen come across queei
things in Tasmania. Clearing a patch in
the north-east, a couple struck a fallen
trunk lying along a creek bank. When
the axe went into it on one side, however,
splinters flew from the steel and there
was a badly-damaged blade. Examina-
tion showed that, while half the tree was
good cutting wood, the other portion was
fossilised and hard as granite. Sections
broken out later made good sharpening
stones. Not far from the same spot a
well-sinker came on a big blackwood log
at a depth of 40ft., but this was cut
through with the axe without effort.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Some bright young men
out Forbes (N.S.W.) way have broken
into the news because they mount polo
ponies, take a hoe and ride down the
Bathurst burrs on the property. They've
evolved some system of scoring points,
which might be new, though the idea of
cutting burrs from the saddle is older
than I am ; and I recall the man that
dug the Murray. I also recall a year when
roly-poly infested some paddocks not
100 miles from Forbes until you couldn't
put a foot down without stepping in
them. When they dried off the boss put
a couple of battlers on to rake them up
in heaps for burning. The pair worked
well, and in a couple of days had the
paddock dotted with what looked like
young haystacks. On the fourth day, as
they worked towards the eastern boun-
dary, a howling westerly sprang up.
seized those heaps of roly-poly, and in a
few minutes had bundled them and the
battlers against the fence. There was no
sign of the battlers when we came on
the huge heap, but when the boss called
to Curly in a loud voice to put a match
to it the blast that came from its interior
almost set fire to it anyhow. It took a
pound of lard and several beers to soothe
their hurts after we got ’em out.
SONG OF THE SPRINGBOARD.
High on the bole of a great grey tree,
A lithe brown man I can dimly see,
Dimly, because of the rising mists
From gullies deep, where the brown track
twists,
But clearly comes, as the axe he swings
On the springboard high, the song he sings.
It wakes the echoes the hills among—
The lilting notes of that old bush song;
The birds are silent, but on the breeze,
Where blue smoke curls above the trees,
A woman’s voice from an old hut floats,
To blend with the axeman’s lusty notes.
My thoughts go back to those pioneers,
Who®e song has gone with me through the
years;
Ana 0.1 a breeze to the city strays
From hills that lie in a dim blue haze;
And from the gorges of memory
The song of the springboard comes to me.
VICTORIA.
THOS. V. TIERNEY.


“Give me my No. 2 iron.”
“Arev”: Selina Jupp was home on
holidays. She threw off her hat, opened
her bag, took out a comb and ran it
through her hair. Fishing in the bag
again and producing mirror, powder-
puff and lipstick, she proceeded to repair
her complexion. Selina felt herself to
be the centre of attraction. “I’ve learnt
to play the banjo, Mum,” she said. “I’ll
give you a tune.” Out came the instru-
ment from a leather case, and Selina
twanged away, obviously pleased. “What
do you think of that?” she asked her
father. “Not too bad,” her sire replied,
“except for the noise. Your fingers have
got so supple you’ll be fair to middlin’
on the milkin’ in the mornin’. But don’t
let the cows see you tiddlywinkin’
yerself up or they might want the curry-
comb on their hides and flour on their
noses before they condescend to be
bailed up.”
“M. Urray”: War as an educator! All
my life I’ve believed that Australia was
the only country where it was necessary
to erect rabbit-proof fences, but Mel-
bourne “Age’s” London correspondent
corrects this with a story of how a Ger-
man patrol, having cut the barbed-wire
and advanced on a French post, were
stopped by a rabbit fence long enough
for the French to drive them back with
grenades. Aside from wondering how
men who had cut their way through
barbed entanglements would even be
bothered by netting, I should like to know
if the Germans will be prosecuted under
the P.P. Act for wilfully damaging a
rabbit barrier. If they’re not, it just
shows what the poor cocky is up against.
* * * *
“Mako”: When I lived in the back
country beyond Poverty Bay (M.L.), a
hill separated the Maori kainga from the
small village a mile away. An enter-
prising Road Board cut through the hill
and diverted the road between two banks
that had evidently been the scene of a
Maori battle or cannibal carousal in the
bad old days. Skulls and bones were
there in quantities, and a ride or walk
between these grisly relics after dark was
something Henare refused to face alone.
After a night at the pub the revellers
used to wait until all the party had
gathered on their horses at the end of
the cutting and then charge in a body
at top speed. The galloping horses and
appalling yells and shrieks believed neces-
sary to terrify the waiting demons could
be heard all over the countryside. New-'
comers put the uproar down to a con-
vivial evening, but those who understood
Henare knew the commotion had more
of ancient belief in it than beer.
“Curate’s Egg”: Corroboration of the
theory that The Centre was once a sea
is forthcoming in the frequent appearance
of marine growths in far-inland areas,
notably the occurrence of coral specimens
between Winton and Longreach (Q.).
These are identical with species occurring
on the entire length of the Barrier Reef.
In the ’nineties I remember finding on the
Bogong High Plains (Vic.) a complete
skeleton of a petrified whale several
thousand feet above sea-level. The fossil
was deposited in a bed of seashells. On
the shifting sandhills of the Kidman
country, west of Thargomindah (Q.), I
have picked up exactly similar types of
seashells.
* * * *
“Sam”: Up on the Murchison shearers
and shed-hands were yarning when there
arrived an itinerant vendor of knives,
mirrors, razors, etc. Everything was very
cheap—and looked it —but a shed-hand
bought a pair of hair-clippers and retired
to the chaff-house with a shearer to have
a bit off the top. Suddenly came a wail
and then an urgent call from the chaff-
house —“Tar!”
* >:• * *
“Arev”: Bill had lost his dog. “He’s
a good dog,” Bill said. “I wouldn’t
parted with him fer a quid.” “No,”
drawled young Joe, “y’r conscience
would ha’ pricked y’ fer takin’ a man
down.” Next day Bill was all over the
town making inquiries. “I’ve had him
from a pup,” he told the storekeeper. “I
wouldn’t ha’ parted with him fer a fiver.”
Someone said that a stranger had been
seen with a dog resembling Tiger. Bill
went to the pub. An hour later he was
back home. “Where’s Tiger, Bill?” asked
Joe. Bill grinned. “I found him with a
city bloke at the pub. I sold Tiger fer
five bob. Five bob, mind y’, fer a dog
that was the biggest coward in the dis-
trict.” Joe stared. “Aw, well,” Bill said,
“I had t’ stick up fer him when he was
my dog. A man can’t turn down his
own dog. But now he belongs t’ some-
body else I don’t mind admitting that I
was always a bit ashamed of him.”
sjc % * %
“The 0.D.”: Lately the Sydney papers
have been carrying pictures of blokes
fighting scrub fires in the
outer suburbs. What gets
me is how these bold lads,
mostly clad in shorts and
singlet or bathing trunks,
can get anywhere near the
fire. I’ve done a bit of fire-
fighting myself, and always
found it necessary to cover
up as much as possible.
Maybe I’d better start sun-
baking on the roof and
toughen up a bit.
* * *
“Anthropo”: As a race
the Australian aboriginal
was remarkably lacking in
the sense of music. Not
even a drum or a tom-tom.
The nearest he got to a
musical instrument was in
the bull-roarer and the did-
geree-doo. And even the
latter was, and is, confined
to the northern edge of the
continent. And what an in-
strument! A sft. or 6ft.
length of bamboo with the
joint partitions knocked out.
Put the mouth to the
smaller end and blow, making any
sort of note with the tongue and
lips. The tune is exactly described
by the name didgeree-doo. At a
corroboree, though, accompanied by
the clacking of sticks and the meas-
ure slanning by the gins of their
leathery thighs, the didgeree has a sort
of rhythm. But the bull-roarer has none.
A flat chip of wood on the end of a long
string, whirled round and round, the
humming note rising and falling with the
speed of the whirl. The bull-roarer was
probably the world’s earliest musical in-
strument. The aboriginal Egyptians had
it, as also did they have the kylie or
boomerang. Ethnologists seeking to link
our abo. with other of the world’s primi-
tive races seem not to make sufficient of
this obvious connection. And, anyway,
the Egyptians even in their prime seem
to have been rather behind the march in
the matter of music and musical instru-
ments.
* * * *
“Norther”: Something like a Wild
West movie gone mad hit Tabulam, a
North Coast N.S.W. town, during the
heat-wave, when about 1000 cattle, mad-
dened by heat and thirst, got a faint
whiff of the Clarence River and broke
out of the saleyards. They took fences
in their stride, and many went down in
the rush. Dogs and citizens in their path
had to dive for safety, and frantic drovers
and auctioneers failed to stem the stam-
pede, which ended in the Tabulam swim-
ming pool. The sale was abandoned.
* * * *
“North Cape”: We were discussing the
case of the boy taken by a shark off
North Brighton (N.S.W.). “Queer how
worthless creatures continue to survive
while fish valuable to man become
scarce,” the professor said. “Sharks are a
survival. As a tribe they rank among
the most ancient inhabitants of the seas,
far outdating most existing species of
fish. Their skin probably accounts for
it. A shark has no scales. That sand-
papery feel of its hide is due to embryo
teeth, thousands of tiny denticles, each
one of which possesses the capacity of
being modified into a real tooth. In the
shark’s mouth Nature has done this, pro-
viding some species with rows upon rows
of teeth, thus giving them a wonderful
advantage in the capturing of food ; the
capacity even of biting a human leg right
off, the rows of serrated, razor-sharp
blades shearing right through the bone.
Which reminds me that sharks have no
bones. Most fish have bones, which on
burning become calcined, but a shark’s
skeleton is composed entirely of gristle.”
We thanked the professor, and changed
the subject to drinks.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: One reason for the belief
that ferrets thrive only in captivity may
be the utter lack of the instinct of self-
preservation displayed by domesticated
specimens. Escaped ferrets will nip any-
thing from a dog to an elephant to see
what it tastes like —they seldom find out.
Another effect of domesticity is the
toning-down of vicious characteristics,
young ferrets that are frequently handled
being as playful as kittens. I have even
seen them playing with kittens.
* * * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: Whenever I see any
mention of mosquitoes being bad in a
certain locality I always defer judgment
until the writer states the size of the pests ;
as soon as they are described as being
as big as flies, or bigger, I lose interest,
for it is a sure indication that they are
comparatively unprovoking. Not only
is the large skeeter slow on the wing,
but its bite is less irritating than that of
the grey fellows, almost inaudible on the
wing, which burrow deeply into cloth-
ing to get at your skin.
“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat, humping the
drum down the Edward River (N.S.W.)
one summer, made camp in a handy
bend. When he settled down to bunk,
however, he was unsettled by a serious
problem. The night was too hot for
clothing, and the mosquitoes too thick
and voracious for nudity. Mat thought
it out, then went to the river bank,
smeared himself thickly all over with blue
mud, waited till it dried, then lay down
and slept. But next morning he had
sundry itchy spots on his torso —where
perspiration during the night had washed
bits of the mud away and given the
enemy an open go.
* * * *
“Falstaff”: Some animals can stand
an amazing degree of heat. And I don’t
mean 120 in the waterbag. I spent a
whole day burning piles of rubbish in
an incinerator —a solid brick affair. When
I emptied it out a day later I found, in
the middle of the red-hot ashes, a
blackened fruit-tin. Inside were four baby
mice—alive!
* * * *
“Uramao”: Evidence accumulates that
Maoriland was visited by vessels from the
Northern Hemisphere before Tasman and
Cook. There is a bell in the Dominion
Museum, Wellington, of Tamil origin. It
was retrieved from the Maoris by one of
the first European missionaries. Inscribed
round the rim are the words in Tamil :
“Mohoyeddin Buks —His Ship’s Bell.” The
Maoris had been using it for stewing
sweet potatoes and were tempted to swap
it for a real cooking pot. They said the
bell had been found among the roots of
a fallen tree.
“Now you WON’T get your license !”
THE STANDARD.
“Y’d think,” the ancient battler said,
“T’ ’ear these wireless blokes
That talk of swelt’rin' city ’eat
An’ wiltin’ city folks,
That it was reelly ’ot down there —
I wonder what they’d say
If they could give a broadcast when
It’s warm out Wintong way.
“They’d see crows ’ide in rabbit ’oles,
An’ tree-frogs wet with sweat;
An’ cattle climbin’ windmill stands
T’ fan themselves —I’ll bet
The city blokes would think it ’ot.
Why, any sunny day
We grill chops on the nettin’, when
It’s warm out Wintong way.
“Of course, these ’ere thermometers
F’r us quite useless are—
They’re only meant f’r chilly spots
Like Louth an’ Marble Bar —
But still we ’ave a register
T’ tell ’ow goes the day:
When chooks lay ’ard-boiled eggs, why
then
It’s ’ot out Wintong way.”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


Have voii made
a Will?
Sometimes there is hesitation in making a Will
because it is regarded as a final and irrevocable
step. But a Will may be altered or changed com-
pletely any number of times during the life of its
maker. In these uncertain times it is more than
ever important that everyone possessing property
should make a Will and appoint an Executor who
will not die or leave the country.
In all cases it is advisable to engage the services
of a solicitor, and, in appointing The Trustees
Executors & Agency Company Ltd. as Executor,
you avail yourself of the services of Australia’s
oldest trustee company. It has more than 61 years’
practical experience in estate administration and
offers adequate security for the faithful per-
formance of its duties.
Write for free explanatory booklet.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 Bligh St., Sydney 401 Collins St., Melbourne
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided
Profits, £961,115.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Lieut.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M G
K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: . . J. W. Russell French
Manager: K. M. Hughes
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The WILD CAL COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank
Net
Business Dividends, Written
June, Profit. 124 p.c. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 591,263 375,000 159,500 3,427,741
1930.. 532,736 375,000 120,000 3,465,477
8 p.c.
1931.. 261,657 240,000 3,487,134
5 p.c.
1932.. 142,720 150,000 3,479,854
1933.. 214,327 150,000 50,000 3,494,181
1934.. 216,566 150,000 50,000 3,510,747
1935.. 238,580 150,000 50,000 3,549,327
1936.. 247,460 150,000 75,000 3,571,787
7 p.c.
1937.. 206,126 171,935 80.000 3,585,978
1938.. 270,594 168,875 85,000 3,602,697
1939.. 240,294 163,025 65,000 3,614,366
A number of things have happened
since the last accounts were balanced and
the figures sent to London, where the
headquarters are, and back to Australia,
where most of the business is done. The
balance was struck a couple of months
before war was declared. Despite low
prices for primary products, and after
making whatever allowance was con-
sidered necessary for contingencies—and
the call was loud at the time —gross earn-
ings sprang £27,205:
1930. 1938. 1939.
Gross earnings .. £1,587,758 £1,268,612 £1,295,817
Exes 827,941 823,860 860,329
Taxation .. .. 227,081 164,158 190,194
Profit . . . . 542,736 280,594 245,294
Exes, were up £36,469, and the tax-
gatherer made off with an extra £26,036,
leaving the net result £35,300 lighter at
8 p.c. on the £3,000,000 of paid capital,
compared with 9, 8.8, 8.2, 7.9, 7.2, 7.1,
4.7, 8.7, 17.7 and 19.7 p.c. back to 1929.
That was after passing another £5OOO
to the staff fund. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined)
the year’s profit was a mere 3.6 p.c., and
few businesses are earning less than that
on their total funds. In addition to its
own funds, the co. enjoys the use of
£1,872,966 of perpetual debenture stock,
a reminder of the ’nineties, which is cost-
ing on the average a shade over 3y p.c.
The div. was kept at 7 p.c., which was
worth 6.8 p.c. in Australian currency after
allowing for exchange at the current rate
and English income tax —3s. 7d. in the
pound, after allowing for Dominion
relief, in the first half of the term and
ss. 3d. in the second.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
Liabilities.
1932. 1938. 1939.
Notes .. .. £1,028 £l,Oll £l,OOB
Bills, etc. . . 1,878,911 2,796,612 1,674,852
Fixed deposits. 19,403,465 20,552,478 20,362,759
Free deposits.. 9,968,820 14.636,133 14,579,717
Total . . £31,252,224 £37,986,234 £36,618,336
Assets.
Liquids . . £14,196,155 £16,209,099 £14,001,701
Advances . . 24,762,786 29,689,100 30,532,941
Premises .. 711,103 744,886 718,264
Total . . £39,670,044 £40,643,085 £45,252,906
To meet a contraction of £1,121,760 in
bills, etc., of £246,135 in deposits and add
£843,841 net to advances, liquids were
drawn upon for £2,207,398, reducing
them to 38.2 p.c. of liabilities to the
public as against 42.6 p.c. at the previous
balance. Advances were 87.3 p.c. of
deposits, compared with 84.3 p.c. a year
earlier, and the bank was holding only
£4 6s. 3d. of the public’s money for
every pound of its own, including per-
petual stock. It is a strong position.
Since the close of accounts there has
been a changeover from a peace to a war
economy. From the banking point of
view, one of the chief features of this
change is the Government’s cheap-money
policy. This policy has been implemented
by legislation and by central-bank action.
To prevent depletion and assist accu-
mulation of overseas funds (they form
part of the base of the Australian credit
system), the Government has instituted
control of both imports and exports and
foreign-exchange transactions, including
the sale of overseas securities. Also, wth
the object of preventing the cost of living
from climbing too quickly, an extensive
Government system of price control has
been set up locally. Further, to protect
the local capital market, industry is com-
pelled first to obtain permission of the
Treasury to raise new funds.
At the same time, the Government has
continued to spend for war purposes, part
of the money being found by the issue of
low-interest-bearing short-term Treasury
bills, which have been taken up by the
central and trading banks ; and the public
has not yet been asked to subscribe to
large war loans. All this and better prices
for exports have combined to bump up
deposits in the trading banks, and thus
bring about easy-money conditions, as
evidenced by the recent cut in the prices
paid by the banks for deposits. This cut
suggests maintenance of the Govern-
ment’s policy of mobilising funds, and
therefore a continuance of relatively
cheap money—for some time, at any
rate. Speaking generally, the effect of
this policy upon bank earnings should
be more helpful than otherwise.
During 1939 the price of the E., S. and
A.’s £5 shares paid to £3 fluctuated be-
tween 78s. and 102 s. 6d. in the market.
At 855., the price last week-end, the
return is 4.5 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis,
after allowing for exchange and English
income tax at the effective current rate
of ss. 3d. in the pound.
O. Gilpin, Ltd.
, Dividends
_ „ PreL To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £, £ '
1929.. 33,046 7,000 5 p.c. = 22,775 3,271 26,639
1930.. 35,459 7,000 5 „ „ 26,555 1,904 28,543
1931.. 11,384 7,000 Nil 4,384 32,927
1932.. 13,482 7,000 24 p.c;= 13,608 25.801
1933.. 39,223 7,000 6 „ „ 32,661 25,363
7 & 6 p.c.
1934.. 43,253 9,993 5 „ ~ 27,469 5,791 31,154
1935.. 50,666 18,910 6 ~ ~ 33,261 29,649
1936.. 73,282 19,000 10 ~ ~ 55,435 28,496
1937.. 75,584 19,000 10 ~ ~ 55,561 1,023 29,519
1938.. 65,110 19,000 8 ~ ~ 44,752 1,358 30,877
1939.. 73,157 19,000 8 ~ ~ 45,060 9,097 39,974
There is nothing in those figures to
justify the market’s sharp writing-down
of this co.’s share values. From 265. 3d.,
the 7 p.c. A prefs. have fallen to 225. 3d.
(after touching 20s. 6d.) over the last 12
months, and the 6 p.c. Bs from 21s. to
17s. Bd., after being as low as 15s. The
ords. are not listed, though listing was
promised when pref.-holders and the
public between them took 200,000 from
chairman O. Gilpin, who founded the
business in 1895, last year at 225. 6d.
On the prefs. current yields are now
6.3 p.c. As and 6.8 p.c. Bs. The low
level of Consols returns and bank-deposit
rates promise to concentrate more atten-
tion on well-secured, good-yielding pref.
shares such as the Gilpin first issue. There
are 100,000 As and 200,000 Bs, ranking
in the order stated for both divs. and
capital ; the £566,430 of ord. capital is
in 559,400 pound fully-paids and 140,600
paid to Is. Including uncalled capital,
the net tangible backing is £lO 7s. lid.
As, £4 13s. lid. Bs'and 21s. 2d. ords.
Combined pref. div. requirements were
almost four times covered by 1939 earn-
ings.
The size of stocks may explain some
of the market’s present hesitancy. The
item leapt £149,149 last year, owing
largely to overseas purchases in antici-
pation of war. The board went outside
for an extra £139,818 net to finance the
movement, lifting the total debt to
£403,243:
1928. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Pref. capital.. £lOO,OOO £300,060 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital. . 420,705 554,350 559,400 566,430
Mortgage . . 25,251 88,310 79,369 75,148
Overdraft . . 98.117 23,817 155,380 287.892
SMudry creditors 65,305 21,149 28,676 40,203
Freeholds, etc. 132,681 429,101 484,261 493,563
Plant, etc. . . 31,912 186,087 185,228 185,536
Stocks . . 632,616 402,708 498,879 648,028
Book debts, etc. 7,182 4,922 2,114 5,204
Despite expansion of the business mean-
time, stocks are only £15,412 greater than
in 1928, and, provided they have been
well bought, are more likely to be a
source of strength than a weakness in
view of higher replacement costs. Book
valuation —more conservative than usual
at sale value, less a third—appears sound.
Including stocks, more or less liquids
show a margin of £249,989 (up £12,421)
over the debt, and then there is £133,570
of uncalled ord. capital. Though there is
no great strain on finances and stocks are
self-liquidating, no harm would be done
if some of the £133,570 were got in.
The co, runs a chain of drapery stores
scattered mainly throughout the country
districts of Vic., S. Aus., N.S.W. and
Tas. and staffed largely by women. Only
two of the 94 selling units are on lease-
hold property, and, though tending to
slow down the rate of net earning, that
has helped to consolidate goodwill and
sidestep the problem of advancing rents.
Business being for cash, there are few
book-debt problems and little book-
keeping expenses. About 75 p.c. of turn-
over is in Australian manufactures.
Despite bushfires, the low level of our
export income and an increased tax and
wages bill—the last partly a result of
wage-rate lifts and partly from N.S.W.
industrial laws compelling the co. to
employ more men in its stores in that
State—the board was able to show net
earnings £8047 higher at £73,157. That
was after provision of £12,509 (not over-
generous) for depreciation and the more
conservative basis of stocktaking—saie
price less 31| p.c. had been adopted in
the two preceding terms.
Allowing for the prefs., the profit
claimed represented 9.6 p.c. on average
ord. capital, as against 8.2, 10.1, 9.7,
5.7 and 6 p.c for the five preceding
terms. The 8 p.c. div. was repeated, the
£9097 that lemained lifting reserves —a
somewhat slender support for the ords.—
£39,974 in excess of the £50,000 valua-
tion placed on goodwill, not treated as
an asset in these reckonings.
N.S.W. excepted, primary producers
have had a good season to date, with a
better return for their products; and, sub-
ject to the course of costs and taxation,
factors outside the management’s control,
Gilpin’s should be able to maintain its
earnings at a satisfactory level.
Victoria Nyanza Sugar Co., Ltd.
Nominal
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 02,338 15 p.c. = 45,000 17,338 34,259
1930.. 55,003 10 „ „ 30,000 25,003 59,262
1931.. 799 Nil 799 60,061
1932.. 718 Nil 718 60,779
Loss.
1933.. 38,017 Nil 22,162
June,
1934 t. 18,307 Nil 3,795
Profit.
1935.. 4,215 Nil 4,215 8,010
1936.. 17,330 3 p.c. = 9,000 8,330 16,346
1937.. 25,624 0 „ „ 18,000 7,624 23,970
1938.. 23,071 0 ~ „ 18,000 5,071 29,041
1939.. 5,988 Nil 5,988 35,029
t 14 months.
It has been an erratic business. .Share-
holders received an average of p.c.
for the five years to the close of accounts
in 1930; for the next five they went
without, the net result of operations being
a loss of £51,252. For the four years to
the close of last accounts, divs. averaged
3| p.c.
Headquarters are in Melbourne, where
the co. was formed about 17 years ago ;
but the plantations, mill and refinery are
all in Kenya, East Africa. In the early
stages, when the co. enjoyed practically
a monopoly of its home market, some
juicy returns were won and handsome
dividends paid. Then, as usually happens
in such circumstances, there was a rush
to get into the business. Overproduction
and price-cutting followed, and the col-
lapse of world prices and the visitations
of locusts accelerated the retrogression.
The tide turned in 1935, and good pro-
gress was made for the next three years.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, a dry spell, especially dur-
ing the last half of the term, reduced
crushings and bumped up costs per ton
of sugar produced:
1934 f. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Cane grown . . 49,293 50,761 74,943 62,031
Cane purchased . . 21,700 29,690 20,825 17.590
Sugar (white) pro-
duced . . . . 5,057 0,111 11,1,22 7,653
t 14 months.
About three-quarters, or a little more, of
the whites are sold locally. There was a
drop of 14s. 6|d. per ton in the average
price received last term.
After allowing for depreciation (£9537)
and taxation (£1186), there was a sharp
contraction of £17,083 in the declared
net result, which was a shade under 2 p.c.
on capital as against 7.6, 8.5, 5.8 and 1.3
p.c. for the four preceding terms. Since
the outlook for the current term is none
too promising, the board decided not to
pay a div. Nominal reserves were thus
lifted to £35,029. They are labelled
nominal because they are subject to
£48,000 (up £1000) of development ex-
penditure capitalised.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. . . £300,006 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. .. 3,183 10,235 9,456
Mill 112.791 99.126 94,796
Land, buildings, etc. .. 59,401 )
Rolling stock, tramways, j- 115.530 118 905
plant, etc. . . . . 56,636 J
Plantation development 52,200 47,000 48 000
Sugar stocks . . . . 505 893 ’302
Book debts .. .. 13,529 12,242 12 919
Cash, etc 18,085 103,392 96^947
The net growth of £3375 in land, build-
ings and plant was mainly on account of
purchase of an adjoining 250 acres, now
ploughed and planted, and of the sinking
of a 470 ft. borehole for water. The
more or less liquid surplus (£100,732) was
£5560 less than at the previous balance.
As for the current term, the price of
sugar has strengthened, but is subject to
control, costs are on the up-grade and
locusts are again paying attention to the


Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £25 of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy post free on applica-
tion to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRAUAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
fa
drnks
FOR BUILDING AND
IRRIGATION SUPPLIES
COSTS LESS
THAN A FIRE!
The “BILLABONG
BUSH FIRE PUMP
A powerful fire fighter comprising a 3in. x 4in. Low
Down Pump, fitted with brass air chamber, 10ft. of
suction hose, foot valve, 25ft. of heavy fin. delivery
hose and ejector nozzle. All fitted and p I ~\C\ /
assembled, complete and tested for 3L»o/lU/ #
We quote for irrigation plants large
or small. Send a rough pencil sketch.
PHONE M 6505 (15 LINES > LATE SHOPPING. PRID&Y. 6-SO PM.
JOHN DANKS SON
PROPRIETARY limited ( INCOAPOft ATSD IN VICTODIAJ
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
INVESTMENT a*l
OPPORTUNITY
OPPORTUNITY knocks but once, according to the old
saying. To-day, however, with modern investment facili-
ties, opportunity continues to knock at the door of those wish-
ing’ to obtain security, independence or advancement.
A first step towards the achievement of these ambitions is to
seek a safe, sound investment for part of your earnings no
matter how small. In this connection your attention is drawn
to the following advantages of a Fixed Deposit with the
Rural Bank: —
j The security, backed by the Government, is unquestioned.
2. Your investment returns you interest at current banking
3. You may make a Fixed Deposit in the Rural Bank from
£5 upwards.
4. Making such an investment is simple, and can be com-
pleted in a few minutes.
5. You will be banking with an institution which lends portion
of its funds for carrying out important, special functions
that contribute to the welfare and prosperity of the whole
community.
O V
W * W
O «J T H IV A *. E
Head Office: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The Rural Bank is YOUR Bank—Serving you—Serving
the State.
co.’s properties. Immediate dividend
prospects are thus doubtful, and appear-
ances are that only moderate returns need
be looked for under existing economic
conditions.
During 1939 the price of the pound
shares ranged from Bs. 4d. to 13s. in the
market. At 95., the price last week-end,
the return would be 8.8 p.c. on a 4 p.c.
div. basis. Including the development
account (3s. 2d. per share) but not the
exchange fluctuation account (Is. 7d. per
share) the net cover is 225. 4d. per share.
Australian General Insurance
To Re-
Dec Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 16,938 10 p.c. = 6993 9,945 52,311
1930.. 6,578 9„ „ 0300 278 62,589
Loss.
1931.. 3,937 4 „ „ 2800 45,852
Profit.
1932 7,952 0 „ „ 4200 3,753 49,604
1933.. 10,640 8 „ ~ 6600 5,040 64,644
1934.. 12,031 8 „ „ 6600 6,431 61,075
1935.. 12,874 9 ~ „ 0300 6,574 67,649
1936.. 12,345 9' ~ ~ 6300 6,045 73,694
1937.. 13,648 10 „ „ 7000 6,648 80,342
1938.. 16,418 10 „ ~ 7000 9,418 89,760
1939.. 14,253 10 ~ ~ 7000 7,253 97,013
It was slump, troublesome marine busi-
ness and the unsatisfactory nature of
motor-car insurance that interrupted a
flow of 10 p.c. divs. a decade ago. How-
ever, as conditions improved, so did
earnings, and the div. has been at 10 p.c.
again for the last three years, and looks
like remaining there—for the present, at
any rate.
The co. is an offshoot of the Mercan-
tile Mutual, and the business is well
spread throughout the Commonwealth.
Considering the effects of drought, bush-
fires. low prices for exports and of inter-
national developments, last year’s under-
writing performance, though less favor-
able than the one it followed, was very
satisfactory. Consider these figures:
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926.. £96,550 £55,475 £35,176 57.5 36.4
1927.. 115,734 69,236 41,470 59.8 35.8
1928.. 120,614 65,175 45,899 54 38.0
:q?o . 183,10 l 67,838 55,741 51 41.9
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 60.2 41.4
1931.. 85,822 60,504 36,450 70.5 42.4
1932.. 74,658 37,099 35,184 49.7 47.1
1933.. 67,259 30,642 31,848 45.5 47.3
1934.. 69,819 28,881 34,990 41.3 50.1
1935.. 70,907 30,125 34,411 42.4 48.5
1936.. 78,511 37,029 35,767 47.1 45.5
1937.. 91,388 43,278 41,336 47.3 45.2
1938.. 97,806 44,644 44,027 45.6 45.0
1939.. 98,988 47,910 44,309 48.4 44.7
A heartening feature was that the co.
gathered an extra £llB2 of net premiums
at 6s. p.c. less cost. But losses, a factor
over which the board has no direct con-
trol, made off with an extra 565. p.c.,
leaving the net underwriting result £2366
lighter at 9.6 p.c. on capital. Interest
(mainly from Government securities,
mortgages and fixed deposits) turned in
£7483 (up £199), equal to 10.7 p.c. on
capital. The net return from all sources
(down £2165) was an attractive 20.3 p.c.
on capital, compared with 23.4, 19.4,
17.6, 18.3, 17.1 and 13.6 p.c. back to 1933.
Assets are a satisfactory lot:
1932. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. £70,000 £70,000 £70,000 £70,000
Liabilities.. .. 15,528 14,903 26,692 28,936
Freeholds .. .. 2,500 2,500 2,500 2,500
Mortgages. . .. 40,902 42,048 41,408 41,738
Debentures .. 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000
Public securities. . 61,912 68,397 88,024 91,988
Book debts . . 7,246 5,509 8,754 8,869
Cash, etc 22,772 34,598 47,267 53,804
When the books closed, policy-holders
could see net tangibles equal to 168 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums, whereas
150 p.c. is usually considered adequate.
And shareholders could be called upon
to fork out another £130,000 should
need be —only 7s. is paid on each of the
200,000 £1 shares.
The market, which likes the possibili-
ties of the scrip as a holding proposition,
prices the shares at 17s. 6d. as against
17s. a year ago and 16s. 3d. 12 months
before that. The return at 17s. 6d. is
4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The cover
is 16s. Bd. in net tangibles.
National Trustees (Melb.)
At 14s. 2d. the 40s. shares paid to 10s.
of this little trustee (paid capital £37,500)
are yielding a very satisfactory 4.9 p.c.
from current 7 p.c. divs., paid for three
years now. Reserves of £33,034 give the
shares a net tangible support of 18s. lOd.
each, all in the fine new premises
(cost £73,944) which the co. put up tor
itself last year in Queen-street, Mel-
bourne.
For the 12 months to Oct. 31 £2691
(down £B5) was netted. Though that was
only 7.2 p.c. on capital, it was after what
appears an excessive provision—equal to
60 p.c. of the profit claimed —for taxation,
while money represented by the new
premises became revenue-producing only
from June.
Appearance are, therefore, that a more
comfortable margin over the 7 p.c. div.
should be shown in the current term.
Though not disclosed, the National’s trust
business continues to mount in value,
and war conditions should send still more
business into the expert care of these
trustee cos.
Norseman Gold Mines (W.A.)
Continued expansion—throughput has
quadrupled in as many years —has rapidly
transformed this Dundas producer from a
medium- to a low-grade show. Total plant
capacity is now 15,000 tons monthly ;
it is expected to reach 18,000 tons p.m.
in February and 20,000 tons in June.
No suggestion of those on the register
being approached for more —they sub-
scribed for 100,000 new ss. shares at 16s.
last August —has been made.
A grade of 3dwt. in the Norseman
mine and l|dwt. in the Iron King iron-
stone block is now generally payable,
whereas reserve ore in those sections is
estimated to bulk s.2dwt. and 2.3dwt. re-
spectively.
Last term there was a pennyweight
drop in average recoveries (4.6dwt.); but
the output was worth an extra 13s. net
an ounce to the co., and, with 52 p.c.
expansion in ore-treatment and conse-
quent lower unit costs, there was an extra
£4517 available for shareholders:
Year f I)ivs - '■
Oct.,’ Revenue. Exes.* Sunpltis Share. Amt.
1937. . £256,097 £150,400 £99,097 3/- ±60,000
1938.. 251,335 159,053 91,082 4 - 80,000
1939.. 299,000 202,801 90,199 4/7* 92 > J ®°
* Includes taxation —£16,020, 1937; £17,323,
1938 ; £16,320, 1939.
That was after charging share-issue exes,
of £1335 and £5153 more at £15,561 for
depreciation. Development expenditure
debited to p. and 1. was only £6043, a
further £17,615 being written off from
share-premium reserve, now depleted.
Future development will therefore be a
charge direct to earnings. Still,_ official
hopes are that 4s. a share cash divs. will
be maintained; the odd 7-|d. sent out
last year represented a distribution of
100,000 2s. 6d. Norseman Developments
shares, one for four.
Apart from millings for subsidiaries,
the co. crushed 131,554 (up 45,140) tons
of ore and re-treated 5251 (down 17,837)
tons slimes for 31,1130 z. fine gold. Mill-
feed was drawn from the following
sources, extraction averaging 90 p.c.:
Head Gold Working
Treated, Gold, \a.ues, Y«.±d,
Tons. Oz. l>\vt. Dwt. Ton.*
1938 <3 ”. i n” 73,006 22,715 6.86 6.17 30/0.5
1939!! 116,393 28,854 6.47 4.95 26/8
Iron Ring— 1>855 3.27 2.92 13/3
1939!! 15,161 1,528 2.31 2.01 10/11
* Excluding development.
Considering the small increase in ton-
nage, the fall of 2s. 4d. a ton in costs
(ss. 6d. extraction, ss. sd. treatment) of
Iron King ore, which is carted three miles
to the Norseman mill, is the striking
feature there. Installation of a second
scraper unit is expected to push pro-
duction here up to 6000 tons monthly,
which should mean still cheaper work-
ing. At the Norseman mine increased
efficiency is also in evidence, the costs-
cut being a gratifying 3s. 4|d. a ton—
{Continued on next page.)


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 188 S.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY EOOKLET .)
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKINC COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . . . £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman), Orwell Phillips
(Deputy Chairman), Robert J. A. Massie, Geoffrey
F. Hughes, Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES THROUGHOUT
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
m
m
should be
accompanied by an
ASSURANCE POLICY
Act wisely young man l
Assure yourself with the
Equitable Probate and Gen-
eral Insurance Co., Ltd., and
you’ll be fulfilling your ob-
ligations for all time.
EQUITABLE
PRO BATE
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., llrisbane
Winsrello House. Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS. General Manager.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
lHd. in respect of extraction (18s. sd.
a ton) and 2s. sd. in respect of treatment
(Bs. 3d. a ton).
Though there has been some reduction
in grade, development added 79,300 tons
more than milled to ore reserves, lifting
the total 1o 742 300 short tons-
me total to /‘t-zpuu snort ions.
1 1938 v — 1939 ,
Tons. Grade. Tons. Grade.
Norseman—
Proved .. 1 ops non r r 1 243,400 5.0 dwt.
Partly proved ) “ u,s,uuu awt - \ 08,900 3.7 dwt.
Iron King—
proved'.'.24o’oi)o I'.s dwt! Woo 1.2 M.
Extensive development continues, and
“most satisfactory evidence of the
strength of the ore-shoots at and below
No. 8 [bottom] level” is reported. Iron
King reserves are all above 100 ft.
Despite the gathering of £20,114 of
share and premium moneys, further out-
side finance of £24,051 was necessary to
meet the year's fixed-asset expenditure
(£42,417). At Oct. 31 the debt stood at
£60,606 ; cash and debtors then amounted
to £24,595, stores to £18,802 and uncalled
capital to £22,500. The co. also held
5()!000 2s. 6d. Norseman Associated
shares, which it proposes holding for
another 12 months.
Over the past year market for Norse-
man ss. shares has fallen from 28s. 9d.
lo 20s. When Ihe August issue becomes
fully paid in April lh«re will be a half-
inillion shares to spread profits over. If
80 p.c. divs. are maintained, Ihe fiat
yield a, the lower figure will be 20 p.c.
For the two months to December, on
recoveries of 4.ldwt., working surplus
has been well maintained at the rate of
£135,800 p.a. Apart from plant addi-
lions now being made, managing director
Hedley Mitchell's statement that Ihe co.
was willing to co-operate in any official
endeavor to speed up gold-production
may presage still further expansion.
Victorian Gold, 1939
Despite drought, fires which destroyed
several mineheads and floods in rapid
succession, 1939 was a boom year for
Victorian goldmining, and its successor
has opened with promise. At an esti-
mated 150,0000 z., compared with
144,2430 z. in 1938, the 1939 yield was
the best effort for 20 years. On the
year’s average London price of the metal
the output would be worth around
£1,453,000 Aust., of which £370,987
found its way into shareholders’ pockets,
as against £242,657 and £222,570 in the
two preceding years.
Chief div.-payers in the principal
mining districts were:
Ballarat —
Maxwell Con. £19,500
Gold Dumps 10,800
Bendigo—
C.N. Gwynne 37,500
Deborah .. 27,450
N. Deborah. 22,400
IronbarkSth. 11.005
New Chum. 10,500
Bendigo (eont.)
S'. Virginia.. £6,000
Castlemaine —
Vic. Dredging 118,750
Wattle Gully 45,000
Beechworth—
Rutherglen .. 30,000
A 1 Consol... 15,750
C. Eldorado. 13,750
The Victoria co.’s dredge at Newstead
tops the score with £118,750, bringing its
total payments to the end of 1939 to
£156,250.
In all, alluvial cos. handed their share-
holders £133,250. That was despite a
smaller contribution from Beechworth.
But both Cocks Eldorado and Adelong
are now in their stride again, and, though
progress at Cocks Pioneer is slow owing
to the hard cement overburden and
Bright Valley has put up the shutters,
Redbank is giving a better account of
itself. When Harrietville (Tronoh) com-
pletes its deep-digging plant, Victoria will
have one of the biggest dredges in the
world.
Heading reef-miners is the rich Wattle
Gully, which has added another 10-head
of stamps to the battery. It is the only
Chewton producer to have returned any-
thing to shareholders. Of the score of
cos. which took up pick and shovel in
the rush here two years or so ago, only
a half-dozen are still seeking their for-
tunes.
Bendigo continues the most important
goldfield. In 1939 17 cos. milled 104,900
tons for 39,8200 z. gold, an average of
7.6dwt. a ton, and divs. aggregating
£117,730—£75,021 more than calls
made—were paid by eight of them. Cen-
tral Nell Gwynne and Deborah, whose
scrip mounted in the sharemarket as the
year progressed, filled the first two
places. North Deborah’s contribution
was all made in the last five months of
the year, and the co., which is crushing
some of the richest ore on the field at
the moment, may be higher up in the
current year. Ironbark South is obtain-
ing highly satisfactory results from 800 ft.
and 927 ft., and hopes are that Deborah
South, a new float, may turn out a prize-
packet similar to North Deborah.
Of the other fields, Ballarat is now a
mere vestige of its former self, Maxwell
Consolidated, seventh on the list of State
div.-payers, being its only mine of note
since the demise of Gordon. In the
Wood’s Point area fires early in the term
destroyed the old Morning Star surface
plant, etc. (since rebuilt), and with it the
co.’s chances of maintaining its position
as the State’s premier producer ; but A 1
Consolidated, at Gaffney’s Creek, weighed
in with divs. of £15,750.
The profitable nature of sands re-treat-
ment is evident in the £40,800 distribution
of the two Placer pups, Rutherglen and
Gold Dumps. In addition to these highly
mechanised ventures, innumerable private
parties are making a living out of the
State’s numerous dumps, and increased
activity can be expected with gold worth
£9 16s. 6d. net an ounce in local cur-
rency.
As with Wiluna, accounts of Mount
Magnet Mines, working the Hill 60 and
St. George leases at Mt. Magnet (W.A.),
come to hand when the next batch is
about due to close. Those for the 12
months ended March, 1939, record a
loss of £4944 after charging £3845 for
depreciation and £4668 for development.
With the Big Bell, the co. is treating
some of the lowest-grade ore (3dwt.
last term) in the State. Improvement is
expected, though, following installation
of a new power unit. At 300,000 tons
ore reserves are estimated at five years’
mill supply, grade 3*dwt. Lack of funds
is still a millstone, and divs. on 50,000
£1 participating prefs. are accumulating
at the rate of £3500 p.a. ; 568,043 2s. 6d.
ords. are also on issue.
* * * *
Features of North Kalgurli’s latest
quarterly underground report are (1) good
width and values of the Union Jack lode
900 ft. south of, and 450 ft. greater in
depth than, the deepest workings on that
gold-carrier, and (2) strong lodes opened
up in Croesus Proprietary blocks and
location of high values in the south drive
at the No. 4 level. Erection of new treat-
ment plant on Croesus Proprietary is
being speeded up. During the quarter
41,450 tons averaging B.lldwt. was
broken and 35,642 tons averaging
7.43dwt. was treated for a yield of bul-
lion worth £99,983 sterling. Costs
totalled £51,111, capital expenditure
£1378 and outlay on new plant £8439.
* * * *
Approximately 40,000 ft. of develop-
ment work was done by Lake View and
Star during the year ended June 30,
1939. Good lengths of ore above aver-
age grade were opened up. Most im-
portant were on the new lode, No. 2 lode
west branch and Hannans Star main lode.
Out of a total of 1021 ft. of driving on
the Hannans Star main lode 710 ft. was
in ore averaging B.2dwt. over sft. In
the Ivanhoe section the outstanding de-
velopment was the extension of the north
drive on the 1820 ft. level, which exposed
ore worth lO.ldwt. over a width of 41ft.
Work in the Chaffers, Lake View and
Associated sections was also responsible
for adding substantially to ore reserves.
Expenditure on new plant amounted to
£5tg.48,740.
Cost items in Lake View and Star’s last
year’s accounts not already noted in Aus-
tralia: Mine development, £66,137; ore
extraction, £603,138 ; tailings re-treat-
ment, £54,413. Writings-off: Special de-
velopment, £55,180 ; depreciation, £45,653.
As already known, £130,000 was set aside
for taxation, and dividend at 50 p.c. (2s.
per share) remained unchanged.
* * * *
At £2642 and £2753 respectively, com-
paring with an average £5400 for the
preceding seven months, operating sur-
pluses of South Kalgurli, Fimiston
(W.A.), over the last two months
have a slender look about them. As
a result the surplus for the first ihree-
fourths of the current term (£A43,193) is
some £3BOO behind the corresponding
figure for the previous year. Increased
costs are making themselves felt-
monthly outgo has lifted by over £looo—
crushings have also been worth less,
despite a better price for the yellow metal.
* * * *
Extraction of gold from sulphide ore
has been troubling Youanmi (W.A.).
L. C. Amery (chairman) told shareholders
at the recent annual meeting that ore
from the new and deeper workings had
proved to be more mineralised than that
on which satisfactory experiments had
previously been made, and the adoption
of different methods of treatment had
been found necessary. As the result of
these methods better output figures were
anticipated.
* * # #
Favorable results have been obtained
from exploration in the 630 ft. drive south
and from diamond-drilling north to the
Lone Hand lode in Gold Fields Austra-
lian Development’s Moonlight property,
adjoining Wiluna (W.A.); but continued
decrease in values generally at depth
is the other side of the picture. The
mine, which is producing 9000 tons ore
monthly, is a low-grade proposition,
average gold content of the last-estimated
433,900 tons of ore reserves being
4.45dwt.
* * * *
Clansmen, one of the so far unlucky
smaller Adelaide gold-seeking set, has
taken an option over a Norseman area
adjoining that now being prospected by
the Copeland. In the event of a deal
being made the vendor takes £5OO and
20,000 contributing shares, with the right
of taking more should he require them.
Apart from Norsemali, Central Norse-
man, Blue Bird and one or two others,
good things at Norseman seem scarce.
* * * *
Greenbushes, Westralia’s once prosper-
ous but afterwards almost-down-and-out
tinfield, is trying to stage a comeback.
Two cos. have made a start, and others
are tipped to follow suit. A dredge, the
first on the field, is operating on one
property, and “costly machinery” has
been erected on another. Production of
Greenbushes tin is valued at over
£ A 1,000,000, but nearly all of it was
got years ago.
* * * *
Jubilee mine, in the Broad Sound
(C.Q.) district, represents Mace Bros.’
interest in mining. Ore has been going
to Mt. Morgan for treatment, returning
15dwt. to 20dwt. gold per ton. A recent
trial shipment of six tons sent to Chil-
lagoe gave over 30dwt. per ton. The
mine reports that the 100 ft. level now
being driven found the reef very small.
Quartz and pyrite represent the cleanest
and best ore, and as the mine is 45
miles from rail it should not present
difficulties in treating locally.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. • • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. •• •• 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Streef
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenball Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
BUSINESS—AS USUAL, OR BETTER, OR WORSE?
WAR, INDUSTRY AND TAXATION
FACTS, FIGURES AND COMMENT ON THE
MONTH’S FINANCIAL HAPPENINGS.
February Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
PutVHshed hv The Rullrtin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd.. 252 George Street. Avdeev and ill star
6BEAI® ST
stay »* '“ s „rS««>»" r r “’
s-rrl-t^st
e„»ve»l«»L 0 " on , y «.!«••,
train*-
Sing^ e9
5/-
16/-
uiCTOMh
P9iW|!
SMOKE-OH!
“Motorists are increasing by leaps and
bounds,” says a car manufacturer.
Pedestrians are surviving in the same
manner.
“Tell her that time stands still when
look into her eyes and she’ll adore you.”
—Article on advice to suitors.
But try telling her that her face would
stop a clock!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“This wins £l. Fruit en Surprise: One
pint mixed fruit (either fresh or tinned), \-
pint milk, 2 yolks eggs, loz. sugar, 2 whites
eggs, 2oz. fine sugar. Grated rind of egg.”
— “Truth.”
A recipe like that is cheap at twice the
price.
•|« •£«
“In an experiment with rhythm two groups
of miners were trained to swing their picks in
time with the beating of a metronome. The
miners said that their movements had become
easier and that they felt more contented with
their work.” — “Sun.”
“It’ll doh me, re, soh fa,” said the
digger, plucking at his banjo.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“‘I have never seen better marching,’ said
Col. Godfrey, of the 2/6 Battalion.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
We presume this 2/6 Battalion is going
abroad to fight for the Crown.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“There is a man in America who cries for
a living.”— Article.
Many wives find this an effective way
of getting money, too.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Woman on footpath struck by car.”
There must have been a shortage of
pedestrians on the roads.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I wish to join a ladies' bridge club. Could
you give me any advice on the subject?”
— Correspondent.
Have a couple of operations before-
hand.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Love As She Likes It!
“It has been said that Australian men are
roughneck lo\ers.” — Women’s paper.
This must stop.
Join the Whacko School of Gentle
Lovers. Men, we teach you in five easy
lessons the gentle art of making love. Our
course shows you why it is wrong to
adopt strangleholds and deathlocks ; why
it is unconventional when placing the arm
round the object of your affections to act
like a South Sydney League centre-
forward going for a try through the ruck.
Fill in chart and forward to our Dr.
Stiffneckke. He can tell at once if yours
is real love, German measles or hydro-
phobia. Have you been reproached about
your approach? We can put you right
about this and throw in a few useful
hints about your retreat, too, if you want
them.
Testimonial from ex-student: “Why
didn’t you cut out that last lesson on pro-
posing? You !”
D. McM.
“54 Common Errors in English.”— Advt.
Including ‘What’s yours?” and “Will
you marry me?”
•}« •£•
“Woman makes blouse from three dish-
cloths.” — News item.
This bears out the contention that
modern woman does not know what dish-
cloths are for.
“A.B.C. says it can’t please everyone.”
If it did it would break a few records.
4* 4" 4* 4
“Boxer charged with bigamy.”— News item.
Apparently he was a glutton for punish-
ment.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Hoppled.
Down George-street to Haymarket
with a quart beneath each arm, and a
fixity of purpose that nothing could dis-
turb, he sped as if pursued by demons
out to do him harm, with one foot in
“Pluck a hair, Reginald—elephant hairs are lucky.”
the gutter and the other on the kerb.
And crablike in the helter and the skelter
of his flight, past pubs and shops and
theatres and safety-zones he came. Then
when the coppers lumbered him and said
that he was tight, he wailed, “Is tha’sh
wot’s up wish me? I thorsh tha’sh 1
wosh lame!”
P. O. M. C.
4* *i* *i*
“What do the initials O.H.M.S. signify on
an envelope?” asks correspondent.
Trouble.
4* 4« 4 4*
If silence is golden, why are politicians
given gold passes?
4 1 •l 1 4*
“Inspectors want Melbourne barbers’ shops
registered.”
With the V.R.C.?
4 4 1 4 4*
“Woman bigamist released as first offender.”
Some would say a bigamist had com-
mitted two offences.
4 4 4 4
“Serum used on a dog bitten by a snake.”
It will be news when serum is used on
a snake bitten by a dog.
Then there was Steve, who was asked
to put in a contract price for white-
washing the dogproof fence on the S.A.
border. After three nights with paper
and pencil working out quantities he sud-
denly realised it must be a joke —because
where would he get the water to mix
the whitewash?
“Earthworms enrich the soil by pulling
leaves into their burrows, where they decay.”
—“ World’s News.”
The household worm pulls the leaves
into a heap, burns them, and then turns
—to get the next order.
May.
“May is very fond of pigeon-pie.”
—Extract from letter read in divorce case.
I envy all the birds she ate;
Their lot is peace, they’re safely dead.
Eternal plucking is my fate
That she on pigeons may be fed.
/ am a bird who’d like to say
I’m happy as the birds in May !
H. M.
No Escape.
Lady, when your age you tally,
You tell lies numerically.
One fatal figure bowls you out,
And that's your own — it’s growing stout !
D. McM.
No Woo in Wooden.
“He was a wooden lover, with all his good
qualities.”— Women’s paper.
He may have had a heart of oak, and
his face was of mahogany owing to
honest toil in the sun, but he was not
poplar with the girls. He might pine for
them and take them for a walk on the
beech, but not a word of tender longing
would pass through his gums. They felt
that he was not giving them a fair deal,
and the thrilling question -Wattle he
say tonight?” led to the disappointing
answer that he wooden say anything.
For all he showed, he might not have
cared a fig for the brightest rose or the
sweetest peach who was in his company.
In fact, he refused to karri on with any
one of them ; and, taking the palm as an
impossible lover, he remained a bachelor.
Lucky cow! I bough to him.
H.M.
An Old Science.
“London doctor listens to heart beats over
telephone.”— News item.
No doubt certain cavilling laymen will
condemn this as exaggerated laziness, but
as one who has sawn off many a limb
by proxy I am wholeheartedly in agree-
ment with my brother-medico’s method.
I myself have long practised a similar
long-distance system.
I came of a particularly brilliant
family. My elder brother Eustace was
for years chief dog-walloper outside the
city’s poshest undertaking establishment.
Claude, the youngest, had a bent for
science. Starting modestly as a cadet
bonecrusher at a fertiliser works, he had
become a journeyman blood-drier before
he was sixty.
My father wanted me to follow him
in the wholesale butchery business, but
the mater wished me to find fame as an
organ-mender. Self-sacrificingly aban-
doning my own ambition to become a
bailiff, I determined to compromise be-
tween my parents’ respective wishes, and
so embraced medicine.
It was really my early scholastic
promise that decided me in my choice,
for I had gained one B and three C’s in
a school exam. My father, being a
stickler for uniformity, looked upon the
odd B as something out of place, but he
could see that I must eventually make
my mark in the halls of learning, so he
coughed up enough to send me to
’varsity.
I needed only seven “posts” before
getting through, though undoubtedly I
would have gained my degree with even
greater ease had the blighters sitting on
each side of me at the various exams,
written in plainer and bigger hands.
My decision to set up straightway in
Mac Collins-street was prompted by my
desire to ease the lot of suffering
humanity on as large a scale as possible.
Also, if I could get three guineas a
touch instead of the half-guinea of
suburban practice, I could the more
easily discharge my obligation to my
father, who was charging me 7 p.c. on
the capital he had outlaid on my
studies.
It was not until the men repossessed
the furniture and effects from the sur-
gery that I woke up to what my trouble
was. I had been writing my prescriptions
in a legible hand. I decided to move to
the country.
I well remember my first patient in
my new practice, for she it was who
first gave me the idea I eventually found
so profitable. A lodge patient rang up
to say her daughter was flushed, tossing
about restlessly and apparently couldn’t
see straight, and could I do something
urgently? Her place was about five miles
out of town and the garage man was
beginning to give some broad hints about
settling his petrol bill. Walking is not
one of my pastimes, so I got her to bring
the patient to the ’phone and put her
wrist against the transmitter. Putting my
ear close to the receiver, watch in hand
I counted the pulse-beats. I had no
trouble in diagnosing acute strabismus,
evidently induced by excessive occlusion
of the bile duct. I prescribed a gargle
with stinkwort and picric acid and a
hot-water bottle every three minutes until
the eyesight became normal.
It proved a complete success, and
thereafter I treated the bulk of my
patients by telephone. In fact, I became
so expert that simply by putting my
stethoscope to the receiver I could easily
distinguish between diseases as widely
differing as elephantiasis and the itch.
Only one unpleasant incident marred
my practice of this method of diagnosis.
I was in the garage one day endeavor-
ing to discover what was causing the big-
end bearing of my one-cylinder Di Dion
to keep knocking against the steering
column, when the second under-foot-
man approached and respectfully an-
nounced that a person from Bandiwakka
had rung up to say there had been an
accident, and could I come right away?
His wife had been kicked in the neck
by a cow.
As I couldn’t possibly leave the Di
Dion just as I had the torque tube half-
dismantled, I told him to bring her as
close to the ’phone as possible. Although
her breathing appeared to be somewhat
stertorous, I was convinced her neck
wasn’t broken. I told the husband to
put a mustard plaster on the affected
part and give her a strong febrifuge
every twenty minutes until the pain sub-
sided, and that I expected all bills to be
settled by the first of the following
month.
That afternoon a furious individual
rang up to say that the plaster had caused
great damage to the cow’s hoof, and that
if she had to be destroyed he would
come on me for damages. “Call yourself
a vet.! ” he shouted. “Why, you wouldn’t
know the bots from the staggers!”
Anyway, it was his own fault for get-
ting on to the wrong number. I still
contend that my diagnosis was sound.
BO.


oja
WU
ana convenience
SV/'
ft*
t-ra
OPEN A CHEQUE ACCOUNT
A current account will enable
you to make payments by
cheque, thus avoiding the need
of carrying large sums of money,
and reducing the risk of loss to
a minimum.
The pass-book or pass-sheet and
cheque butts are a complete
record of transactions.
The account brings you into con-
tact with an expert organization
whose duty it is to give you
every assistance and advice.
It is quite simple to arrange
for a banking account to be
opened at any of the'Bank of
New South Wales branches for
even small amounts.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED IN THE YEAR 1817
S4OA
AUSTRALIA* ITALIA
SHOWN© €®»AIWILm
249 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Emperor Mine
The oxidised ore is running out—there
is less than a year’s stipply in sight,
though 100,000 tons of semi-oxidised
stuff may help to prolong; operations on
present lines —and soon there will haV.e
to be a changeover to sulphide and semi-
sulphide ore, in which the mine’s best
values exist. The co.’s technical staff has
made investigations in the laboratory and
pilot plant, and a method of treatment
involving primary cyanidation followed
by flotation of residues, the gold from
concentrates to be extracted by fine-
grinding and prolonged cyanidation and
the tailings submitted to re-flotation, has
been recommended.
A sum of £30,000 has been allocated
for plant, which is expected to be
operating by April. A great deal hinges
on how effectively this modified plant
is able to deal with the different classes
of ore. On a throughput of 500 tons
daily, which is about last year’s milling
rate, an overall extraction of 92 p.c. is
estimated, with milling costs at 13s. a
ton, which is only 3s. a ton above last
year’s actual mill costs. ■ \
As the sulphide ore averages 9dwt.,
as against .6.sdwt. for most of the
stuff treated to date (which yielded
a little over 90 p.c. of its gold content
last year), the inference is that Emperor
should show improved profits soon after
the new plant starts dealing with the
higher-grade ore. The extra 2.5dwt.,
if extractable at 13s. Fiji, would repre-
sent an additional 20s. a ton profit pro-
vided there are no plant difficulties and
no increase in mining costs. It is a
matter of record, however,, that this
co.’s early estimates of values and costs
have never been realised.
In order to gather some idea of the
future it is necessary to look at the
past. Emperor Gold Mining Co. is
owned by Emperor Mines, Ltd. Em-
peror G.M. Co.’s lairge plant started up
at the end of 1937, and in the term to
June 15, 1938, treated, with the old mill,
91,611 tons for 29,1740 z. fine, an aver-
age of about 6.4dwt. Costs ‘totalled
365. per ton of ore, and net profit was
£63,592 (Fiji currency).
During the term to June 15 last 178,941
tons of ore was treated for 52,3930 z.
fine, excluding 9230 z. stacked in con-
centrates an average recovery of
5.96dwt. Financial results.were as fol-
lows (Fiji money):
Income —
- Bullion sales .. .. .. £4-31,212
Rentals , ... ;. ; " i’,760
l . *‘ ■ . ’’ ' '£432,972
Outgo —
Mining .. .. £44,154
Milling ■. .. . r •' 8&,428 •
Administration . . 24,545
Depreciation .. 22,551
Development . . 29,873
Royalty and realisation 31,825
Income tax .. 10,007
251,383
Net profit .. .. .. £181,589
Fiji money is £lOO to £ll2 Aus-
tralian. All-in costs, including royalty,
s
“Don't take no notice of ’er, yer Honor. She's punch-drunk !”
realisation, depreciation, income taxes
and 3s. 6d. a ton for development,
totalled 28s. Id. per ton of ore treated.
The net profit of £181,589 represented
slightly more than 20s. (Fiji currency)
per ton of ore. Since operations corn-
menced, divs. representing 3s. (Aust.) a
share have been distributed among
shareholders in the holding co., aggre-
gating £285,000 altogether. The entire
capital of the operating co. is held by
the public co., which itself has a paid
capital of £950,000. In the beginning
the vendors (Theodore, Wren, Cody and
Packer) took £600,000 out of the show
in cash and shares, which means that
£350,000 has been available to install the
large plant and to develop the mine to
its present stage. Dividends have taken
most of the earnings.
In the 1936 accounts E. G. Theodore
estimated that from the date the new
plan, s,anted 150,000 tons a year would
be treated for 9dwt recoveries-67 ; 5000 Z
a year worth £540,000 (Aust.) at £8
an ounce. Total costs, including over-
P i - 17 - 6d ; a
r mo 7ca e Tm' ng u resu 1
£408,750 (Aust.). Though the price of
gold was near £9 -s an ounce for the
most of last term and nearly 30,000 tons
of ore above Mr. Theodore s estimate was
milled, low grade of ore and costs of
31s. 6d. (Aust.) a ton made the 1936
estimate look veiy woolly.
Ore estimates haven’t been so accurate
either. In 1936 670,000 tons averaging
above lOdwt. was spoken of. In Sept.,
1938, 328,500 tons of 6.Bdwt. oxides,
t°ns 8.1 dwt. semi-oxides and
332,500 tons 10.2dwt. sulphides were
provable them waf a °total'of
sarffinn ’a v V * *
T ’ P< TO? P ° rtlon « aa \ he
reserves averaging slightly over B.4dwt.
At Sept. 6, 1939, there was 193,350
tons of 6.Bdwt. oxides proved, also
100,300 tons of B.ldwt. semi-oxides and
493,400 tons of 9dwt. sulphides. Total
gold content of the proved reserves was
328,3900 z., down 11,8430 z. compared
with a year ago, the average assay being
B.34dwt. At Sept. 6 there was also
52,000 tons of Bdwt. sulphide ore
probable. Even including this, develop-
ment didn’t quite keep up with the mill
during the year.
Assuming that all the proved and
probable ore can be treated at a cost of
35.. a ton above last year’s expenditure,
which is what the latest report infers,
and taking gold in at £9 9s. (Fiji), the
profit in sight would seem to be about
£1,650,000 (90 p.c. extraction). At 15s. a
share last week the market valued the
at £1,425,000. Considering that
buyeis . are looking for profit as we 1
Sated
costs p of A |lin P t| ]‘ y sulphide o re
have yet to be achieved. There are some
w fl o “]jk e the look” of recent develop-
rnents down below, but in the past
development has been disappointing. Of
course, a change in fortunes may now be
fl ue But a gre at deal depends on the
future of mini costs .
Sydney Water Board’s £1,000,000 loan
a t £4 7s. 6d. per cent, was filled within
a week. The average yield, including
redemption, on the day the loan closed
was £3 12s. Bd. per cent. A request by
the Water Board for permission from the
Loan Council to raise an extra £500,000
was knocked back for the time being. The
influence of easier credit conditions fol-
loWing better P rices for our P rimar Y Pro-
ducts all rounds (wheat not excepted) and
the market-stiffening activities of the
Xrea „ nrv are nnw rlUrlv evident in thP
Y eVldent m the
Y '
* v * *
The motor-tyre cos. are not considering
an Y immediate further increases in their
prices, according to reports last week,
Prices for tyre co. scrip have been firm-
ing slightly of late, Dunlop and Olympic
both participating.


GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street,. Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania'. . Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Modern ... n
PLASTICS for the HOME!
DLASTIC ware with its beauty, hygiene, lightness and durability, is
in ever increasing demand for the modern home. And no wonder
you'll say, when you see some of the many beautiful "Garnite" products
now available. Manufactured by the most modern methods, and of the
highest quality raw material, "Garnite" offers you a wide range of
useful, economically-priced items from which to choose and all of
the designs are exclusive to "Garnite." The selection of attractive
"Garnite" products shown on this page, and many others also available,
may be seen at most hardware or department stores. Call in next time
you're shopping and ask to see them.
BEAUTIFUL DRESSINC STOOL
FOR BATHROOM OR BOUDOIR
The “Garnite” Dressing stool is the
only plasticware stool on the market,
and combines beauty, hygiene, utility
and long life to a degree that cannot
be attained by any other material.
With ordinary usage, it is practically
everlasting; its colours are abso-
lutely permanent; its surface is im-
pervious to stains and corrosion;
little more than a rub with a cloth
is ever needed to keep it clean and
bright. Colours include: Walnut,
Green, Blue; Cream, White and
Black, and attractive marbled
designs.
BATHROOM WALL LAMP
The attractive Wall Lamp illustrated
below right is an almost indispensable
fitting for the modern bathroom.
Fixing is simple, and the lamp itself
can be obtained in green, blue, ivory,
pink and cream as desired. Other
bathroom fittings include coathooks
and door pulls in a similar range of
colours.
PRODUCTS illustrated in the
panel below are only a
few from the wide range of
"Garnite" products available,
and all of them are well worth
your inspection.
H
m
m.
I
-•s
4
5
V. 1
| These attractive "Garnite" Cups
1 * and Saucers are Odorless and
Tasteless, not affected by extremes
of temperature and will stand plenty
of rough handling. A stout rim
formed on the bottom of both cup
and saucer similar to that on the
ordinary china cup and saucer, is
an exclusive feature of their design.
J Here's a really compact 2-way,
*“* 3-fiat-pin plug which fits all
standard outlets. There's a place
in every home for one or more of
these attractive "Garnite" plugs.
3 Strong serviceable plates as il-
. lustrated ;are available in a
wide range of colours.
A A .wide range of "Garnite" tum-
biers is available, and can be
had in a variety of popular colours.
They are just the thing for picnics,
camping and caravanning, as well
as for use around the home.
C This delicately moulded lamp is
*'* available in a wide range of
lovely pastel shades and is ideal for
the dressing table. A special feature
is a spring clip in the base of the
lamp by which it can be attached
to the bed.
£. Mothers will find these light-
weight "Garnite" Chambers
very helpful in training the tiny tots
to develop clean and regular habits
from babyhood. They are available
in a range of modern pastel shades,
hygienic, easy to keep spic and
span, unbreakable with ordinary
usage, and very reasonably priced.
PLASTICS PTY. LTD.
sadf
420-434 Spencer Street,
Melbourne.
also at
Dowling Street, Waterloo,
Sydney.
Agents; Q'fand Gloss
Mfrs. Co- Pty. Ltd.,
Montague Sf., Brisbane.
Aust. Gloss Mfrs. Co.
Pty. Ltd., Grenfell St.,
Adelaide.
Aust. Glass Mfrs. Co. Pty.
Ltd,, Murray St., Perth.-
The Federal Ministry has decided to
submit for the “approval” of Parliament
the car-bounty-monopoly agreement with
A.C.I. about which it was previously
so emphatic. There is the Corio seat,
which takes in the Geelong motor-car
assembling works, to be considered,
among other things. Details of the
agreement with A.C.I. now reveal fur-
ther concessions promised by the Govern-
ment —that efforts would be made to
admit essential machinery duty-free, and
that import-control powers would be
exercised to “counteract any unfair
trading methods which might be adopted
by overseas interests.”' Preliminary speci-
fications of the car to be made provided
for a 16-h.p. or 18-h.p. engine develop-
ing 40 to 50 h.p., wheelbase 102 in. to
112 in., top speed 70-75 m.p.h., and price
in the Chev.-Ford-Willys class (about
£350). A.C.I. shares were weaker at
375. 9d. last Friday.
* * * *
New Broken Hill Consolidated shares
slackened to under 20s. last week. The
co.’s capital is in stock the equivalent
of 2,031,536 ss. shares, so that the mar-
ket’s valuation of the mine is just over
£2,000,000, compared with approxi-
mately £4,800,000 for South and
£6,500,000 for North. As potentially
N.B.H. Consol, is a really big mine,
and is under the expert wing of Zinc
Corp. production operations will be
from Zinc’s new main shaft, recently
brought into full operation—the scrip is
decidedly attractive at 205., even if the
suggestion of Dr. Gustafson that “the
entire past production of Broken Hill
may be duplicated within the limits of
N.B.H.’s property” is heavily discounted.
Those who are looking to the future
should find the scrip particularly interest-
ing.
* * * *
Rights to H. B. Dickie new ords, obtain-
able last week at 55., represented 275. 6d.
for the shares when fully paid, the issue
being at a premium of 2s. 6d.< a . share.
There are 100,000 ords. and 15,000 prefs.
already paid up ; the new 50,000 ords.,
with the 25,000 6 p.c. prefs. :also on
offer, will carry capital to £190,000, and
will bring in £6250 of share premiums.
The premiums -will lift visible reserves
to £19,445, still £7555 short of the
£27,000 at which goodwill appears in
the books. But with plant figuring at
only £36,440 last balance day, and free-
holds at £37,850, there appeared to be
some inner strength in fixed assets. Owing
to the fact that about 60 p.c. of an Aus-
tralian towel is represented by imported
yarn, the co. bought heavily of yarn
stocks before the outbreak of war, and
profits should be assisted by this fact
and the great demand for Australian
towels, etc., since overseas shipping has
become uncertain. Defence Department
orders helped in creating a record turn-
over to Dec. 31.
The co. has been a successful makei
of towels for some years. The ord. div.
has been 8 p.c for the past two years,
while last term there was a margin of
4.6 p.c. on ord. capital to be carried to
reserves after attending to the prefs. On
the completion of the present capital
enlargement net earnings of £14,400 will
be necessary to hand the prefs. 6 p.c. and
pay 8 p.c. on the ords. Indications are
that the co. will be able to maintain divs.
on all classes of shares during the cur-
rent term if it so chooses. An interim
div. is due this month. On a 275. 6d.
basis the new ords., when fully paid,
would yield 5.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
* * * *
During the 1938-39 financial year em-
ployment in Australian factories was
1.4 p.c. less than for 1937-38, but was
still 22.6 p.c. greater than in the pre-
depression year 1928-29. Taking the
growth of employee population into
account, 1938-39 factory employment
was 8.7 p.c. greater than in 1928-29, and
2.3 p.c. less than for 1937-38. Following
the outbreak of war in September, there
was a revival in factory employment; in
November, 1939, for instance, there was
an increase of 1.8 p.c. compared with
November, 1938. N. S. Wales and
Queensland have been particularly active.
After climbing from 8 p.c. for the
March quarter of 1938, to 10.4 p.c. for
the Sept., 1939, quarter, total Australian
trade-union unemployment fell to 9.5 p.c.
in the December quarter. The member-
ship of Commonwealth trade-unions now
totals 479,348, compared with 420,304 in
February, 1929.
* * * *
The value added by Australian fac-
tories to raw materials, etc., processed
by them during 1938-39 was over
£196,000,000, compared with £188,061,000
in 1937-38. These figures represent what
the Statistician refers to as “Australian
factory production.” Last year's total
was a record, though the rate of in-
crease showed signs of slackening. Dur-
ing the current year war has given fac-
tories a new impetus.
s(c * * *
B.H.P. shares weakened noticeably last
week, sinking to 48s. 3d. At near that
figure they represented 795. on the
basis of the old shares before the
bonus issue was allotted. That is ss. 6d.
down on the highest quote of 1940. The
weakening occurred in spite of further
talk from Melbourne about British Gov-
ernment shipbuilding orders coming to
Australia. The simple fact is that B.H.P.
scrip has been lionised by the share-
market for two or three months, and
now there is the inevitable cooling-off.
* * * *
Interim ord. div. of Melbourne Steam,
payable February 14, is 3j p.c., the same
as last year, when a final of 4j p.c. made
8 p.c. for the year.
* * * *
Sargents, the Sydney catering co., has
maintained its interim div. at the rate of
10 p.c. p.a., to which level distributions
rose in 1938-39 for the first time since
1930. The scrip is at 28s. 9d. It has
been as high as 30s. and as low as 21s. 6d.
over the past two years, and as there
are 298,682 shares issued there has been
width enough in share-dealings to encour-
age speculation. At last week’s market
the scrip gave a yield of 7.1 p.c. Earn-
ings last year represented 12.4 p.c. on
capital.
* * * *
Australian tin producers feel as if
they are being smelted or something by
the Commonwealth’s price-fixing com-
missioner. A maximum price for such
metal as is used in Australia was fixed
in December, but it is blandly explained
that ■: no powers are possessed under
present regulations to fix a minimum
price. So £299 is the maximum Aus-
tralian price, with any other smaller
figure you like to think of as a possible
minimum. When tin was up to £275
recently in London, the Australian equi-
valent would ordinarily have been about
£345 ; however, the maximum price of
£299 ruled. Now tin is back to £236 the
A ’•alian price is at or slightly under
the maximum. But what is lost to the
Australian tinminer simply through price-
fixing isn’t his chief worry. He has tin
oxide to sell, as a rule, not refined metal.
Price-fixing has ruffled relations with
those who treat the concentrates, the
equities of miner and smelter being con-
fused by the fact that between a third
and a half of Australia’s tin production
is exported, and is not subject to price-
fixing ; there has been talk of a pool and
an equalisation fund, but the whole ques-
tion was in the melting-pot last week.
Tin is too small an industry in this
country to be worried about in ordinary
circumstances. In the price of solder,
food-cans, etc., a rise of even £lOO a
ton wouldn’t amount to much—to the
consumer. On the other hand, a £lO
or £2O rise means a great deal to the
producer. But since tin happens to be
a metal, and as the policy of price-fixing
applies to all metals, it has to be brought
under the regulations. The dragnet has
fetched up a tangle of complications.
* * * *
Universal Pictures Co. of U.S.A. has
reported that during the first two months
of the war its business with the rest of
the world has increased. This is interest-
ing as a sidelight on the effect war is
having on the trade of neutral countries.
So far only Great Britain’s restriction
on the use of foreign credits has had any
important effect on Universal Pictures’
export business.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE WAR IN FINLAND.
[Further items dealing with various phases of the
war in Finland are here condensed from acknowledged
sources. They include eyewitness accounts of the
destruction of the 44th Division of the Red Army,
wrecking Soviet hopes of cutting across Finland to
Oulu—a highlight of the Finns’ heroic defence. Part
of this description was cabled; it is here included to
round out the picture. Other items deal with general
aspects of the war that has so far been fought in Arctic
conditions. A background to the fighting in Finland as
a whole was provided in last week’s “Uncabled
Additions” —a detailed official account of the negotiations
and Soviet threats and demands before the invasion was
launched.]
Destruction of the 44th
(Condensed from London “Times.”)
From the Russian frontier to the port of Oulu
on the Gulf of Bothnia is a distance of about 120
miles. On Oulu the railways of Finland converge, to
run on through Tornio into Sweden. The disastrous
implications of a Russian advance to Oulu are there-
fore plain.
The Russians employed three divisions of good
troops—one from the Ukraine, one from Siberia and
one from Turkestan. Early in the war the leading
division advanced from Uhtua to Suomussalmi and
beyond. Then its further progress was blocked by the
Finns, and after a long fight it was routed.
Meanwhile another division in rear hung in the
wind, disregarding appeals for aid or making only
feeble attempts to render it. Among traditions of
the Russian Army good comradeship in the field has
not been prominent, and the maxim “March to the
sound of the guns,” which has been deeply impressed
upon the soldiers of most armies, has too often been
forgotten. However, the commander of this second
division, the 44th, did presently begin to move, though
too late to save his colleague. The Finnish force which
defeated its predecessor now turned upon the 44th.
The latter suffered an even more crushing overthrow.
Practically all the artillery and transport of both fell
into the hands of the Finns, and the third division
appears to have been badly mauled. For fugitives
in these forests winter is an enemy even more terrible
than the Finns.
The tactics of the defence were the same in each
case. The attackers were isolated ; their field kitchens
were destroyed ; all fresh supplies, save a little food
dropped from the air were prevented from reaching
them ; they were harassed until cold, hunger, strain
and fatigue had rendered them fairly easy prey. In
the case of the 44th Division, after defending itself
for some 10 days as best it might against an enemy
whom it hardly ever saw, it then began to retire. That
was the signal for onslaughts which did not end until
it had ceased to exist.
(From a London “Daily Herald” report from Finland.)
The Finns cut off the 44th Division from the
frontier, and when the Finns launched their final attack
the Russians were in a state not far from panic. With
the highly-motorised Russian division deprived, by the
blowing up of a bridge, of its last chance of escape,
and with panic beginning to spread, the Finnish attack
was launched from the east, north-east and south. From
behind the trees, out of the darkness, the machine-
gunners opened fire, sending tens of thousands of
bullets into the moving columns, mowing down men
and horses.
In two days the battle was over. Thousands of
Russians had been killed, or were dying from wounds
in the bitter cold.
(From a report by a British United Press correspondent
with the Furnish North-Eastern Army.)
I have just travelled along four miles of road
strewn with Russian dead, and covered so thickly with
all kinds of Russian vehicles, from 10-ton tanks to
machine-guns mounted on skis, that it is hardly pos-
sible to move. The magnitude of the catastrophe which
befell the Russian 44th Division—after the annihila-
tion of the 163rd Division —became clear when I
travelled over the battlefield.
The bodies of the Russians were still strewn
among the debris, frozen where they fell. Not a single
battery —not even a cart —escaped the Finnish en-
circling movement. The frost has preserved the body
of every Russian soldier in the exact position into
which he sprawled when a bullet or the frost over-
took him. Many that I saw lay with their knees
pressed against their chest in the last agony of a
shrapnel wound. Others had their hands held tightly
to their stomachs, where machine-gun bullets had
struck them. Some leaned grotesquely against trees,
where they had crawled to support themselves after
being wounded. Others were spreadeagled close to
small shelters or behind carts which they had tried to
reach before freezing to death.
(From a report by the “Times” Helsinki correspondent.)
One explanation of the failure of the 44th Division
to respond to frantic appeals for help by the advance
division that was being defeated is the possibility that
personal relations between the two Russian generals
were not harmonious ; a similar case of discord was
partly responsible for the Russian disaster of Tannen-
berg in 1914. It is difficult otherwise to understand
the passivity of the 44th Division, which waited its
turn to fight until the remnants of the defeated division
were dispersed.
*****
Red Army Shortcomings
(From the report of a New York “Times”
correspondent in Finland .)
Observations on the Red Army by Finnish
military experts may be summarised as follows:
(1) The Russians have plenty of good artillery of
all sizes, but in the opinion of one Finnish officer
it has been “mishandled.”
(2) By Finnish standards the Soviet artillery
marksmanship is definitely poor.
(3) Soviet artillery ammunition is of unusually
poor quality, and a considerable number of their shells
fail to explode.
(4) Soviet tanks seem to be modern and of good
quality, but the isthmus terrain is not conducive to
their effective use.
(5) The organisation of Soviet attacks is regarded
as second-rate and is attributed by Finnish com-
manders to the Red Army purge, which has made
officers hesitate to take responsibility for fear of the
consequences should the action fail. On the body of a
Russian regimental commander the Finns said they
found an order from headquarters which said in effect:
“The advance has been too slow. If it is not speeded
up commanders will be brought before a military
tribunal.”
My own observations bear out what the Finnish
officers say about the quality of explosive shells hurled
over from the Russian side. A big proportion of their
three-inch and six-inch shells are “duds.” The same
goes for air bombs. At Lahti seven out of seventeen
airplane bombs failed to detonate.
*****
Spam’s Debt
(From a report by the “Times” correspondent at
Hendaye, Spain.)
Nationalist Spain is preparing to pay an outstand-
ing debt to Finland. During the Civil War the Fin-
nish Minister in Madrid took many refugees under
the protection of his flag. His legation was finally
raided by the Red militia, and hundreds of unfortu-
nates were dragged out to death or captivity. Never-
theless, Finland’s intercession saved many hundred
-“Bartoldo,” Milan.
RUSSIAN ADVANCE—ITALIAN VIEW.
“Comrade General, our men advance.”
“Good. When they get to Moscow, inform me.”
others. Finland’s brave resistance to Russian aggres-
sion has deeply impressed Spain, and the recent vic-
tories were hailed with joy. The motives for Spanish
sympathy go deeper than gratitude, now that Finland
is in her turn resisting Soviet aggression. As a sincere
member of the Anti-Comintern Pact and one who has
always proclaimed that the Western Powers must band
themselves against Russia or face the danger of being
overwhelmed, General Franco feels bound to con-
tribute as effectively as possible to Finland’s resistance,
which, magnificently successful as it is in the initial
stage, cannot be expected to outlast Russian resources.
Difficulties of transport are almost insurmount-
able ; but, according to the latest reports, a plan is
being thought out to convey to Finland some of Spain’s
surplus war stock, with a number of volunteers. If the
plan matures, it will be yet another proof of that inde-
pendence of policy which General Franco has chosen.
* * * ¥ *
Scandinavian Dilemma
(Condensed from an article in the “National Review.”)
Norway would stand firm if encouraged to do so.
Sweden is more doubtful.
Bred in the bone of every Swede is a dread of
Russia and a liking for Germany. Even the last war
did not educate them out of the pro-Germanism which
is endemic in Scandinavia.
What Finland wants is military help. Swedish
politicians shy at the picture. On the other hand the
Swedish people, nearer the ground and more realist,
press for support to Finland. They see that it is not
only Finland’s fate that is being decided among her
lakes and woods but their own as well.
Standing together, Norway, Sweden and Finland
could have defied Russia. There is a party in Sweden
which realises the danger of not helping Finland, but
pacifism and commercialism have eaten deeply into
the country which was once mistress of the Baltic
and its southern shores. Germany’s threats that she
would resent any help being given to Finland deterred
the Swedish Government from giving the assistance
that would have saved that country and might even
have prevented the attack.
If the Russians conquer Finland while Sweden
looks on, we must look to see a Russo-German con-
trol of all Scandinavia, not only of the wealth and
minerals of that region, but far more than this. As
a result of shutting our eyes to Russia’s criminal
assault on our ally Poland, we may see the German
siege of Britain directed from the coasts of Norway
and Sweden.
For the moment we are nearly as ineffective as
the U.S.A. More cannot be said. It is not the passing
of resolutions at political gatherings that will help the
Finns to hold back the Russians. That will not even
assist the Swedes and Norwegians to stand firm. In
despair the Finns appealed to the League, saying “Who
will help us?” This futile and powerless body rnet
at Geneva, where the usual mischievous absurdities
occurred.
m * * * *
Finnish Appeal
[President Kallio, appealing to the world against
the Soviet bombing of civilians when he received foreign
Press representatives, as reported in the “Times. J
“If we take into account the fact that churches,
hospitals, hospital trains, scientific institutions, his-
torical memorials and private houses have been t“ e
object of air bombardment, we see clearly enough the
nature of Bolshevist methods.
“We should be amply justified in making another
appeal to the League of Nations. But there is reason
above all for you, who can see with your own eyes
by what methods Russia is waging war on civilians, to
draw the attention of the world to these facts.”
* * * * *
“Red Army Betrayed”
(From “Critic’s” weekly notes in the “New Statesman. )
Two years ago, when I saw Trotsky, he prophesied
that the coming European war would lead to revolu-
tions everywhere. The first revolution, he said, would
be in Russia. Stalin had forgotten Lincoln’s maxim
that you cannot fool all the people all the time. Stalin
had gone too far in betrayal.”
Until Stalin embarked on a war of aggression,
however, his power seemed to me safe enough. Now,
I agree, he has really betrayed too many people. I
am thinking most of the unfortunate Red Army sol-
diers, whose betrayal seems to me the worst of all. For
20 years they have been ceaselessly told that foreign
capitalists would attack Russia, that they would have
to fight Fascism ; that a socialist country would never
commit an act of aggression ; that the Red Army was
strong to defend the revolution and the soil of Russia.
The Finnish war is a different affair. No masses
rise to support the Russians. Finnish workers, like
others, defend their liberties. In the circumstances I see
no reason to disbelieve the statements of Russian
prisoners and the extracts from the diaries of Russian
dead reporting the dismay which officers and men alike
feel at the appalling conditions in which they fight. The
Russian soldiers obviously feel morally betrayed. Their
terrible losses are only explicable by a lack of desire
to fight. Add to that gross inefficiency due no doubt
to the fact that Stalin has shot his best officers.
But I do not accept Trotsky’s interested prophecy,
speedy revolution. Even if the Finns hold out for
many months, who is there left in Russia with the
authority or capacity available to lead a revolution?
* * * * *
Lenin Up-to-date
[On the same pretext that Stalin has used —that the
Finns threatened St. Petersburg, now Leningrad—the
Czar Nicholas 11. in 1901 decided to attack Finland.
In his newspaper “Iskra” Lenin savagely attacked the
move; his comment, here given, applies word for word
today.]
This is an act of violence by a perjured Czar and
his Government of “bashibazouks.” A mere two and
a half million Finns cannot naturally dream of a suc-
cessful revolt, but we, all of us, Russian citizens, we
must think of the dishonor that burdens us. We are
still such slaves ourselves that we can be employed
to reduce other nations to slavery. We still submit to a
Government that crushes with the cruelty of the hang-
man not only every aspiration towards liberty in Russia
itself but which, on top of that, uses Russian soldiers
to destroy the liberty of others.
War Aims from the Maginot Line.
[This arresting document appeared in London
“Spectator” under the covering comment: “We have
been permitted to print, as representing a French stand-
point, of which it is essential to take full account,
the following translation of the greater part of a private
letter written by a distinguished French diplomat now
serving in the Maginot Line.”]
Frenchmen are certain we shall win this war, but
are equally certain that it will take a lot of winning,
and that it is impossible at the present moment to form
any conception of what Europe will be like at the
end of the conflict. The new aspect of Russo-German
relations modifies the whole picture profoundly.
Who knows whether we shall not within a few
months see Italy, Spain and Hungary morally on our
side, whereas logically we ought to reckon them
among our adversaries?
In such conditions is it not academic to try
to specify the aims of victory, and would it not be
far better to concentrate simply and solely on the
conduct of the war, which quite certainly has plenty
of surprises in store for us in the realms both of
strategy and of diplomacy? The treatment to be
given Germany will not depend only on morality and
right, as the ideologues would wish it to do, but
also on what the state of Germany may be, whether
Bolshevist or bourgeois, at the time when peace
comes. The experience of the past, moreover, must
have its part to play. Can there be any hope that
suddenly in the year 194- reason will reign over the
world and the golden age signal its advent? We
have the memories of the last war to recall us to
realities. Will the tens of millions of embittered
National-Socialists and barbarously persecuted Poles
and Czechs and bombarded Finns (to say nothing of
victims still to come) be prepared suddenly to unite
in a common ideal of fraternity and peace? You
would need to be a Tolstoy or a Lansbury to believe
that —and that is sufficient to dispose of cruel follies
like the Federal Union.
I examine my memories of Germany in the triple
light of my service with the army of the Rhine, my
diplomatic work at Berlin and the Hitler experiment,
and all they lead me to are certain questions.
It is all too clear that Nazism satisfies certain
permanent traits and needs of the German mentality,
that it is not a historical accident and that its
doctrines serve as shelter to the same ambitions and


Says Mrs. Lindbergh.
From a “Reader’s Digest” article by the
wife of Colonel Charles Lindbergh:—
Do you know what it has sounded like on the
other side of the Atlantic, the confused roar that
has been going abroad from the American press,
radio, articles and speeches? It has sounded like
a united roar here in America for more news, more
war, more action, more attacks on the part of the
Allies. Does it please you, this picture of us in
America, sitting snugly and safely on the sidelines,
like spectators at a gladiatorial contest, crying for
more blood —more French and English blood —while
we have no intention of shedding any of our own ?
Or does it seem to you as it does to me—profoundly
immoral ?
Since we do not intend to get into this war,
should we not let the Allies prosecute it as they think
best, without criticism and with deep humility?
Deep humility first because we are not suffering and
they are, and also deep humility because we cajwot
consider ourselves entirely blameless for the mis-
takes in the last quarter of a century which have led
to this conflagration.
If we are disillusioned about Europe, they are
also bitterly disillusioned about us. We gave them
a dream of World Peace and Collective Security —
impractical as it may have been —and then left them
unsupported with the problem of carrying it out.
desires that we have already seen exemplified: in
Frederick the Great or Kaiser Wilhelm. Would not
to trust the Germany that emerges from the defeat
of the Third Reich be to discount German psychology
utterly and criminally? And are the fanatical little
bourgeois who acclaim Hitler today capable of
understanding anything but the most brutal repres-
sion? Are we to respect this time, as in 1918, the
unity of Germany which has apparentlv revealed
itself as a magnetic centre for all the Germanic tribes
scattered over the Continent? Does not, on the
contrary, the antagonism between No'rth and South,
between Catholic and Protestant, which has been put
to service in the interests of Hitler’s persecutions,
offer a possible field of action in this domain? Or,
on the other hand, shall we not by taking precautions
which seem to all of us so legitimate be simnlv
sowing the seed of future revanches?
These questions must be answered if Europe is
to become habitable once more, but the problem
will certainly go beyond the purely Germanic field
in its present limits. Formerly it was not enough for
the French to suffer a single reverse to end the menace
they presented to the peace of Europe. Blenheim
was not enough; there had in due course to be
Waterloo. Is it illegitimate to hope that Germany,
which attained power so recently, will one day attain
maturity under the repeated blows of fate? We
shall not be able to be sure of that, but could the
English of 1820 have believed in a France definitely
pacified, or the comrades of Joan of Arc that we
should one day know some other hereditary enemy
than the English? History inculcates both scepticism
and hope—which means that we have to find a way
of driving into the German consciousness the con-
viction that the domination of the world is an in-
sensate dream without this revelation merely insti-
gating some new destructive efforts.
I have so far arrived at only two conclusions.
The first is that we should be making the most
profound mistake in agreeing to enter into friendly
negotiations with the heads of the Reichswehr if they
break away from Hitler and the Nazi Party. At
the present moment, now that the conflict has been
actually joined, the danger is no longer from the
Nazis. I might almost say, the very opposite. It
is the Nazis who are horrifying the world and who
assure us in the moral domain today and perhaps
in the material domain tomorrow both support and
allies. But the army represents a quite different but
unquestionably grave danger.
Make no mistake about it, the real danger is
the Reichswehr. To make peace without the destruc-
tion, the capitulation or the disintegration of the
German army under the guise of suppressing Hitler
would be to sanction a return of William 11. and
Ludendorff.
My second conclusion is that military victory
must assume a form calculated to impress the Ger-
man mind. In other words, we must not be content
this time with showing ourselves at Cologne or
Wiesbaden. The conquered must see our armies,
for however brief a stay, without any appearance of
oppression, and at Berlin and Hamburg, at Breslau
and Munich. Without that we shall soon have a
new legend of the stab in the back and a new Hitler
to exploit it with all the astuteness of Mrs. Baker
Eddy.
Beyond that I see no light. I believe our chief
business is with the disease, without spending too
much time yet over the convalescence or the relapses
which may follow. In that I am perhaps pursuing
the habits of mind of my compatriots. We think little
about peace here, and we never speak of war, but
we know in every fibre of our being that there
will be no security for Europe as long as the present
military, naval and air force of Germany survives.
German-Russian Allies.
(From a London “National Review” article.)
Despite ever-accumulating evidence to the con-
trary, we persist in our refusal to believe that Ger-
many and Russia are allies.
It is as clear as it can be —and was so even before
the European war began—that there is a prodigious
sharing out of booty between the two Socialist despot-
isms. That arms have passed through Germany to
Finland is no evidence to the contrary. Russia sup-
plied both the Abyssinians and the Spanish Nationalists
with oil. Of the arms that passed through Hong Kong
for Nationalist China, 85 per cent, were German and
Italian—and yet Germany and Italy were none the
less partners with Japan in the Anti-Comintern Pact.
In the sharing-out, Finland was to fall to Russia
with German consent. That this is so is proved by
Germany bullying Sweden into neutrality. No greater
service could be done to Russia, for the only chance
Finland has of averting a Russian conquest is that
Sweden be drawn into the war on her side. And this
is precisely what Germany is preventing. Compared
with such a service, the service done to Finland by the
dispatch of a few weapons (which, in any case, ceased
as soon as the Russian invasion began) is nothing
at all. .
There is one thing the two despotisms realise
much more fully than many people in this country—
that Europe is really at war, that this war is a fight for
sheer survival, and that every immediate tangible
interest and every sentimental consideration must be
swept aside to clear the way that leads to final victory.
Italy’s Good Balkan Influence.
[lt is no time since Mussolini was Bogeyman No. 1
and The Bulletin, for deploring the break in traditional
Anglo-ltalian friendship, was called Fascist by Com-
munists and their Parlor Pink dupes. The article here
condensed from Manchester “Guardian praising Italy s
restraining influence in the Balkans is typical oi _ the
change that has come over a large section ot the British
press.]
Hungary has wanted Transylvania from
Rumania, while Bulgaria asks from her the Southern
Dobruja, with a piece, perhaps, of Macedonia from
Yugoslavia and a port in the Aegean from Greece.
This time of general insecurity, with the great law-
abiders and the great lawless occupied elsewhere,
might have seemed ideal for the armed pursuit of
some of these aims.
One such attempt would have plunged the whole
Balkans into militant chaos. Why has one not
yet been made?
It is, of course, possible that even among these
peoples the effects of modern war are seen for what
they are. But there are active elements of stability,
and one of the most powerful among them is the
influence of Italy. Italy, in her stronger periods, has
always looked towards South-eastern Europe. In
the Middle Ages her rulers allied themselves by mar-
riage to the royal houses of Serbia, Hungary and
Bulgaria. The merchants of Venice held the com-
merce of the Levant in their hands, and when the
Turks swept into Southern Europe they found in this
city one of their most obstinate enemies.
This line of history leads Italy quite naturally
into the Balkans today. She has now another reason
for wishing the peacefulness of these States. Russian
Communism is attempting to march westwards ; from
Hungary’s new frontier with Russia it is little more
than three hundred miles to the Italian border.
It is not only that a Russian appearance in the
Balkans brings a second Great Power within striking
distance of Italy, but that it would mean the spread
of a doctrine which Italy, with the Papacy, considers
the great modern evil. For Italy the effect of a
Russian entry into Bucharest would be little different
from that shock which Europe experienced when
the infidel Turks knocked at Vienna in 1683.
More than this lies behind the talks between
Count Ciano and Count Csaky, the Hungarian Foreign
Minister. Italy’s regard for the Balkans is a discreet
compound of interests and ideals. War in the Balkans
would mean heavy material losses for her, and she
would naturally seek to restrain its causes. Hungary
and she have had much in common. They are both
Powers left dissatisfied by the Treaty of Versailles,
and Hungary not only fears but has experienced
Communism under Bela Kun in 1919 —a fearful ex-
perience which has left a deep mark.
Thus Italy sympathises with Hungary’s desire to
expand her truncated territory by gaining part of
Transylvania from Rumania. She probably is well
aware of the argument that the proper bulwark
against Russian advance is the Carpathian range,
which divides Transylvania from Rumania proper,
and which the Hungarians think would be well
defended by them. But after the talks in Venice
observers in Budapest believe that, for all her
sympathy with Hungarian claims, Italy is keenly
awake to their possible consequences, and that she
has done her best to restrain her ally of the sadly
broken Anti-Comintern Pact. From Hungary’s point
of view few times could seem more favorable.
Rumania is in fear of a Russian advance into Bes-
sarabia (less than she was, perhaps, after Finland’s
example) and might feel irresolute before pressure
from another quarter.
A rough approach, however, to the Transylvanian
question might be the signal for the Balkans to fall
into general war. Italy’s task and responsibility are
great, but every effort Italy makes for peace in the
Balkans will strengthen her, for if that peace collapses
the way is open to Germany, which, while Russia is
no more than a threat, is the real danger to Balkan
independence. The British alliance with Turkey and
guarantees to Rumania and Greece themselves form
the basis of a system which aims at keeping two
aggressive giants out of that corner of Europe. It
is a system with which Italy, whose aim is a Balkan
peace, should sympathise and which she could do
much to support.
(From an article in the “Spectator.”)
The advice Italy is offering to the Balkan States
is wise advice which could not fail to meet with
approval in Britain. At this juncture it is of the
utmost importance that the British Government should
make it clear that it has not the least intention of
seeking to bring any Balkan country into the war.
It cannot be too strongly emphasised that to do so
would be contrary both to Britain’s wishes and to
her interests. In the last war, when Austria and
Germany were invading Serbia, and the Balkans had
been from the start a theatre of war, the position
was fundamentally different. Germany secured the
aid of Turkey and Bulgaria, and the Allies sub-
sequently won the adherence of Rumania. But no
such situation will present itself in this war unless
Germany or Russia attacks a Balkan country. Italy
is anxious to prevent any aggression in the Balkans,
which she pictures as coming from Russia. Britain
is equally anxious to prevent it, though Germany is
the aggressor with whom we are more directly
concerned.
This, of course, does not mean that the general
European policy which determines Italy’s attitude to
the Balkans is the same as ours. That is obviously
not the case. Italy would probably prefer that there
should be a balance of power in Europe in which
—“De Groene,” Amsterdam.
DUTCH VIEW OF ITALY.
GRETCHEN-MUSSOLINI : “He loves me ...he loves me
not...he loves me ...”
neither Germany nor the Allies should become
supreme, whereas we from the nature of the case
desire the crushing of the Nazi regime. Italy has
vital economic interests in the eastern Mediterranean,
and it is natural that she should look for a great
expansion of trading activities in the Danubian and
Balkan countries. Her political and economic
ambitions there are inseparable. For us the Balkan
countries have assumed an abnormal importance
mainly because we desire to deny the exploitation
of them to the Germans.
If the Balkan States could so far put aside their
differences as to present a common “peace front,”
neither Russia nor Germany would dare to attack.
Therefore, because peace in the Balkans and not war
is to the British interest, if for no other reasons,
Britain is bound to view with satisfaction Italy's
efforts to reconcile Hungary and Rumania.
Japan’s Dilemma.
[Since the article here condensed from London
“Economist” was written there have been occurrences
with some bearing on the dilemma in which, the writer
argues, Japan now finds herself. They could be taken,
however, as counterbalancing each other —on the one
hand, the Anglo-Japanese dispute over the German
seamen; on the other, the reported abandonment of the
Russo-Japanese frontier negotiations. So that if the
writer’s thesis was sound when the article was written
it would still hold.]
Japan must go forward. In the last three years
her budgetary expenditure has sprung from five to
over ten milliard yen, and each year an increasing
proportion has had to be covered by loan (3033
million yen in 1937-38, as against an estimated 5400
millions for 1940). Sixty-four per cent, of the Budget
is earmarked for military purposes, and obviously
such staggering expenditure cannot be combined
with a policy of marking time. The greater the
pressure the greater must be the Japanese effort to
close the “China incident” and move from conquest
to exploitation.
In two years’ warfare Japan has proved her
inability to defeat the Chinese without outside sup-
port. She must associate herself with another Power
or Powers, but her choice is strictly limited to the
revolutionary grouping of Russia and Germany on
the one hand and on the other to the conservative
West. The dilemma arises because an association
with either group offers Japan little hope of achieving
the end for which in the first place she went to war.
Her aim was a compound of patriotic nationalism
and stern economic fact. Japan felt conscious of
her imperial destiny long before she transformed
herself into an industrial State. Since then economic
considerations have appeared to reinforce the original
imperialist urge. Japan’s economy has been largely
based on the differential advantage (over against the
West) of a great, disciplined and frugal labor force ;
so far this has compensated her for her lack of
essential raw materials. If China, with her excellent
supplies of coking coal, iron-ore and lighter metals,
coupled with a labor force even vaster and even more
frugal, were to enter the field, Japan’s precarious
economic structure would be shattered and with it
Great Powerhood. Thus when the persistence of
General Chiang Kai-shek in overcoming internal
faction and the assistance given by the West in
restoring order to China’s finances had given the
country two pre-conditions of industrial development
—national order and economic stability—Japan had
either to accept the loss of her differential advantage
or to strike.
In 1937 three obstacles stood in Japan’s “Imperial
Way.” The truce between General Chiang Kai-shek
and the Communists enabled China to meet the shock


of invasion with a united front; the hostile attitude of
Russia helped both to supply the Chinese and to
draw off the pick of the Japanese Army to watch the
Manchurian frontier ; finally, there was the problem
of the Western Powers, whose trade with and invest-
ments in China offered an apparently insuperable
obstacle to the creation of a purely Japanese economic
bloc in East Asia.
For two and a half years, therefore, Japan has
been fighting on three fronts. By all the normal rules
of war China is defeated, but she refuses to accept
defeat. In the “occupied” areas, Japan’s attempts to
organise her conquests —in the political sphere by
setting up puppet Governments, in the economic field
by establishing a new currency—have been failures.
Japan’s anti-Soviet policy not only consisted
of open conflict on the Mongol frontier. By asso-
ciating herself with the Anti-Comintern bloc in
Europe, she sought diplomatic support with a pos-
sibility of more concrete assistance. Her link with
Germany and Italy also served her purposes on the
third front, against the West. Friction between
Britain and Japan over the Concessions developed
on parallel lines with Britain’s growing estrangement
from the Axis Powers in Europe. When, after the
fall of Prague, Britain opened negotiations with
Russia, the ring was complete. In a potential conflict,
Japan might count on the immobilising of the British
Fleet in the North Sea and the Mediterranean, while
Russian action could be countered by a German
advance to the East. Ip the summer, therefore,
Japan’s determination to drive Britain from China
came to a head in the blockading of Tientsin.
Extremists were clamoring for a hard-and-fast mili-
tary alliance with the Axis and war with Britain.
When news of the Russo-German agreement shat-
tered two years’ patient diplomacy, the Cabinet’s
immediate resignation was an apt symbol of Japan’s
dismay.
Now that the whole promising Anti-Comintern
policy has been betrayed, Japan’s freedom of move-
ment is by so much reduced ; yet the necessity for
seeking outside support in the struggle with China
remains as urgent as ever. Therefore, unless the next
few months produce a new series of international
transformation acts, two courses only appear open
to Japan. She may on the one hand come to an
agreement with Russia. With Soviet complaisance
secured and General Chiang’s resistance broken by
the disaffection of the Communists, Japan might be
in a position to make a final military effort to finish
the campaign, set up a central Government under Mr.
Wang Ching-wei, and turn to the exploitation of her
conquest. The “final military effort,” however, begs
the whole question of the West. A pact with Russia
does not solve the problem of Tientsin. Even if a
move towards Russia were to break China’s resist-
ance, Japan would still have to deal with Great'
Britain and the United States.
Great Britain’s insistence during the Tokio talks
that currency and other general problems could be
settled only in co-operation with other interested
Powers, the United States’s denunciation of the 1911
Commercial Agreement and the American Ambas-
sador’s more recent attack on the whole Japanese
conception of a “new Asiatic order” are clear evi-
dence that there exists a certain minimum basis of
co-operation between the Western Powers, and that
they will work together rather than compromise their
rights. A move towards Russia on Japan’s part would
exhaust still further Japan’s very limited capital of
sympathy in the United States, and she dare not
risk reprisals, for they could be almost immediately
effective. The pledge to reopen the Yangtse to the
merchant shipping of other nations, although it is
obviously connected with the desire to secure a new
American treaty, may be counted as a gesture of
goodwill. There is thus at least a countervailing
possibility that a settlement in China may be sought
on the basis of accommodation with the Chinese
Nationalists and with the West.
Yet —and this is the root of the dilemma —this
second course is hardly less hazardous than the first.
Japan has bled herself white in two years’ incon-
clusive warfare. Her industrial structure is strained
to breaking point, her reserves depleted, her wealth
squandered, her whole economy thrown out of gear.
Can Japan afford to abandon an effort which has
cost so much? And can she pretend that agreement
and co-operation with the West falls far short of
abandonment? Her material poverty is such that
in the post-war race to re-stock and develop China
she must fall behind. Even though a prolonged war
put Great Britain out of the running, it is by the
industrial giants of the U.S.A. and just possibly the
U.S.S.R. that Japan will be outclassed.
This then is the unhappy dilemma. For the
time being Japan is not committed to either course,
but she cannot evade the choice.
Survey of the “Eastern Front.”
(Condensed from an article by Arthur Merton, London
“Daily Telegraph” correspondent in the Near East.)
Both Britain and France have allowed in their
military plans for the possibility of an “Eastern
Front,” with a campaign either in the Balkans or
the Caucasus in the coming spring. The nomination
of General Weygand and of Lt.-General Sir
Archibald Wavell as respectively French and British
Generalissimos in the Middle East has been to this
end.
General Weygand, with headquarters at Beirut,
has under his orders all the French forces —Metro-
politan, Colonial, North African and local —in Syria
and the Lebanon. General Wavell is in supreme
command of the British troops in wide areas in the
Middle East and Africa, with close co-operation with
the Air Officers Commanding in Irak and Aden.
Turkey is convinced that a Russian movement
towards Iran is not improbable, and she is preparing
to meet it. The protocol in the Turkish agreement
with Britain and France dealing with the possibility
of war between Russia and the Allies is not a bar
to Turkish co-operation, as some regard it. It was
specially drafted to meet Turkey’s difficulties in her
relations with Russia, and it left Turkey free, when
the emergency might arise, to join the Allies against
Russia or to remain neutral without her abstention
being regarded as a breach of her bond. From what
prominent Turks have told me during my recent tour
of the Eastern Mediterranean, Turkey would not
hesitate to enter the field against Russia if Russia
attempted an offensive towards Iran or penetrated
the Balkans. Likewise, if Germany moved into South-
Eastern Europe, Turkey would take steps to prevent
her from gaining access to the Black Sea. In either
event close Turkish and Allied co-operation is
anticipated.
It will be necessary for some time yet to retain
a strong military contingent in Palestine. I under-
stand that Dominion troops may be sent there.
The whole of the French force congregated in
the “States of the Levant under French Mandate”
is destined, together with the reinforcements arriving
almost daily, to serve on the “Eastern Front,”
wherever it may be.
Irak as ally of Britain has broken off diplomatic
relations with Germany. Not so Iran and Afghani-
stan, who, not being our allies, are neutral. Turkey
has also remained neutral in this matter. In Iran
a Russian advance across the frontier appears to
be regarded with much apprehension. The Iran
army is not strongly equipped, but those who know
the conditions affirm that there is little real danger
of the Russians getting far into Iran.
Afghanistan would appear to have little to fear.
True, that country lies directly ton the route to
India, the possession of which has since time imme-
morial been alleged to be Russia’s ambition. But it
— “Karinatur,” AniKara.
NAZI BALKAN EFFORTS—TURKISH VIEW.
Germany exhausted from trying to turn the Balkan
entente to her will.
is scarcely likely that Moscow would venture so
far afield before the position with regard to Iran
and the oilfields had been assured.
Like that of Egypt, Irak’s army would not serve
outside the country. Protected geographically as
Irak is from direct Russian attack, it would only
be after Russia had defeated the Iran forces in the
north-west or had been allowed to pass through that
area that the Kirkuk oilfields would be in jeopardy.
Long before that, however probably as soon as
Russian troops had passed the Iran border —Allied
forces would have been moved up from Basra to
the rescue of Irak, while Turkey would have been
busy harassing the long Russian line of communi-
cation.
Instead of trying for Mosul and Kirkuk the
Russians might, of course, first move down towards
the Iran oilfields on the east side of the Persian
Gulf. Those oilfields are of vital importance to us.
We cannot risk their falling into what would be
enemy hands. Failing an appeal from Iran for assist-
ance, some formula meeting international law con-
ditions would have to be evolved to enable us to
take the necessary measures on Iran territory to
protect this vital point from Russian attack. Military
experts believe that if Russia did move towards Iran
it would be intended more in the nature of a feint,
to draw off Turkish and Allied troops while action
was being taken in the Balkans, than a real menace
to Iran and Irak.
Wherever the Eastern campaign may take place
the Allies are in an infinitely better position than
they were when they embarked upon the Gallipoli
and Salonika ventures. Then they had only Egypt
as base on which to draw for supplies and reinforce-
ments and to which to evacuate casualties. Turkey
was on the opposing side, and through Palestine and
Irak was able to worry us considerably by the threat
which her forces in those countries constituted to
our communications.
Today the Allies can use many more bases in
addition to Alexandria, Port Said and Suez, while
the fact that Turkey is an ally and her erstwhile
Arab possessions to the immediate south are now
within the Allied orbit means not only that com-
munications with the East are safe but also that the
Allied base can be brought much nearer the “Eastern
Front” and we can have a wider area on which to
draw for supplies.
Finally, our alliance with Irak should prove of
infinite value, as regards bringing up reinforcements
and material from the East in the event of Russia
starting an offensive through Iran or Italy turning
against us. While, normally, reinforcements from
Egypt and Britain would proceed straight to Beirut
or through the Dardanelles, those from Australia and
India could be brought via the Persian Gulf instead
of the Suez Canal.
Federal Union Unions.
[Judged by the item here condensed from a London
“Daily Express” article by William Hickey, League of
Nations Unions may before long be appearing under
a new label.]
Federal Union, the new political organisation,
looks like becoming the League of Nations of the
next peace. Especially since the war began, Federal
Union’s membership has been soaring. It now claims
nearly 600 recruits a week, has hundreds of active local
groups ; archbishops, ambassadors, bless it, so there
is a general feeling among the semi-politically-minded
that it must be okay and the solution.
Recently FU gave a slap-up cocktail-party in
Mayfair to inaugurate a Federal Union club there.
Many of the more cultured peers were present; cham-
pagne was poured down their throats, membership-
forms pressed into their hands. (I say that FU “gave”
the party; in fact, it was paid for by a man well
known in the oil world.)
FU also gave a stand-up sandwich-and-beer lunch
at a Fleet-street tavern. Pressmen were present;
propaganda was poured down their throats; they
were led up to each of the federalist starlets in turn.
I asked an eager young gauleiter —l mean group-
leader —which States in Europe were considered cur-
rently “democratic” enough to belong to the nucleus
that FU wants to start with. He said Britain, France,
Belgium, Holland, the Scandinavian countries —er,
Switzerland —oh, and of course Finland, if
One of the party bosses held forth glowingly on
the charms of the future world, or some-of-the-world,
State. “You see,” he was saying, “there’ll be two sorts
of police—the State police for offences against State
law, the Federal police for offences against Federal
law.”
All that FU now needs is a badge, a shirt, a song,
a salute.
“The Way to Lose the War.”
(i Condensed from an article in London “Evening
Standard” by its financial editor, S. W. Alexander.)
Unless somebody speaks out the lot of us in
Britain are going to be ruined. We shall not be able
to pay for the war. That means, literally, that we
shall lose it.
Consider the bill for shifting departments from
London to “safer areas.” Heavy transport costs!
Reconstruction of hotels for temporary Government
occupation! New furniture! Building of the perma-
nent huts to house the departments! Reconstruction
of the hotels after the war, plus compensation! Billet-
ing allowances. Every item is waste!
This war is an economic war. We are blockading
the Germans. They realise it. But the Germans are
also blockading us. We haven’t realised it. We are
simply flinging away the money and the goods which
we obtain from our soil and from overseas.
A.R.P. is a duty that free citizens should freely
undertake —the protection of our homes against the
killer who comes against unarmed people. The citi-
zens are not paid for this duty in France or Finland,
much less in the bully States. But we are spending
£750,000 in A.R.P. wages every week. It is more than
we pay our entire Navy, merchant cruisers, mine-
sweepers and all. We ought not to pay one penny in
A.R.P. wages.
The Air Ministry is spending gigantic appropria-
tions —great and avoidable extravagance is going on.
All over the country great manufacturing firms are
turning out airplanes and aeronautical equipment.
Some are being paid on a basis of a percentage on
cost. In other words, it does not matter to them what
the cost of production is—they get this percentage on
it. And the higher the cost of production and the
higher the wages paid, the bigger the profit. That is
a monstrous system. In addition, these aircraft firms
compete recklessly one with another on a huge scale
for the smaller volume of skilled labor which we nov
have. As a result prices are going up all round.
American machinery has been sold here for £6ou
that can be bought in England for £2OOO. We must
have the machinery and we have to pay for it. But it
takes two to make a bargain, though one does all
the driving. We cannot blame the seller, but who on
earth appointed such buyers?
An equally wicked form of waste is neglecting
to use resources. Here we can thank the politician
and professors who have been meddling in industr;
for years. The Coal Control is modelled on then
teaching. Those who invented this war-time scheme
for coal overlooked the fact when they created then
vast and most expensive machinery that before the
war the British coalmines were working at well belcw
capacity. They were working to a stipulated and re-
stricted quota of output. Now steam coalmines ar--
working to full capacity, and coal is being produce.
in such quantities that colliery sidings are full o.
loaded wagons for which the collieries cannot obtar.
orders. . ,
While this colossal surplus is in existence,
councils are employing inspectors to make certain tha*
trolleymen who sell coal by the hundredweight de
not deliver an extra sack to a customer over the
amount which was taken last year! Altogether thb
coal scheme is costing each local council anything
between £lOOO and £4OOO a year. It is an appalling
waste of public money. . ..
Britain’s Food Controllers are costing £2,000,W
per annum. For what? For holding up food. T. -
Food Minister, the controller of these controllers. ■
the man who before the war asked: “Why grow mo. ;
food? War may never come!” _
Britain needs to change from such lunatic policie>
It wants a man, or a body of men, strictly charged r
the House of Commons with the task of lopping o
these monstrous growths. For unless they are loppe-
off they will surely bear us down in the battle with oi
hard adversary.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
Conducted by "PILOT")
Adding to the inter-State representa-
tives which promise to lift this year’s
Oakleigh Plate and Newmarket well
above the average in public interest, if
not in standard, Operatic stressed his big-
race claims by a record-breaking win in
the Moorabbin Handicap at Mentone on
Saturday. He hit the front early, was not
afterwards headed and scored by three
lengths from Megfort in 1.1 li for the six
furlongs, cutting half a second off Har-
monic Law’s previous best for the course.
Operatic’s form was more in keeping
with the big reputation that preceded his
arrival in Melbourne, a reputation that
suffered somewhat when he failed at
Ascot at his first start. The Mentone suc-
cess earned him a little extra weight in the
Oakleigh and Newmarket, and, with so
many other brilliant sprinters about, one
doubts whether he will be quite class
enough to win either of those races. He
had nothing of much account to beat on
Saturday, the Queenslander Graceful
Mover having beaten Megfort just as
easily at Mentone on January 24. Recent
sprint form, in fact, enhances the big-
race prospects of Chatsbury, who beat
Magic Circle (subsequent winner of the
William Reid Stakes) and Operatic out
of a place in the Tooronga Handicap at
Caulfield.
The owner-trainer, A. A. Williams,
bought Operatic after seeing him gallop
in Brisbane in February last year, won
six races with him in the north before
taking him to Adelaide to win two more
races at the Christmas meetings in that
city, and now has the added satisfaction
of owning a horse capable of winning in
three States. Operatic is a five-year-old
gelding by Violoncello-Caravella, Violon-
cello having won the Caulfield Cup of
1921.
Lady Kooringal, who has made almost
as many retirements as a prima donna,
came back to the racing stage with a
vengeance by running away with the J. L.
Reilly Stakes in the course record time of
2.2}, only three-quarters of a second out-
side Manolive’s Australasian record. As
usual, she set up a long lead in the early
stages, and was out anything from 15 to
20 lengths at the half-mile, but riders of
other runners, accustomed to seeing her
stop badly in the straight, apparently
thought she would do the same this time.
They did not bustle their mounts unduly,
and could do nothing to remedy matters
by the time they awakened to the fact
that Lady Kooringal still had a substan-
tial lead at the home turn. She went on
to win by two lengths from Mac Rob,
Royal Jubilee just beating Old Serpent
for third money.
Mac Rob, though beaten by Lady
Kooringal in the J. L. Reilly Stakes, is a
fine advertisement for the “horses-for-
courses” theory. No matter how moder-
ately he may run on other tracks, he can
always be depended upon to do some-
thing remarkable at Mentone. In
front of only one horse near the half-
mile, he must have been anything up to
35 or 40 lengths behind Lady Kooringal
at that stage, and at the home turn he
was still a long way out of his ground.
He mowed the opposition down once he
took hold of the bit, and was rapidly
overhauling Lady Kooringal at the finish.
Lady Montague disappointed owner
A. E. Kimpton in the J. L. Reilly Stakes,
but Gladstone, another of his horses, ful-
filled expectations in the Frankston
Welter Handicap. Gladstone prejudiced
his chance by hanging in in the straight
and having to be checked twice to prevent
his interfering with Buoyancy, but he
raced more generously over the conclud-
ing stages, and grabbed a half-head win.
Many backers of Buoyancy considered
that the latter had won, or, at the worst,
had dead-heated, but it was so close that
the man in the box was the only one in a
position to say definitely. Gladstone, a
four-year-old gelding by Liberal-Arra-
sene, became the third record-breaker of
the day. His 1.37 - for the mile clipped
half a second off Mac Rob’s previous best
for the course. Gladstone has always
given the impression that he would de-
velop into a good horse, and, Saturday s
race being only his fourth after a spell,
improvement seems certain.
Two Melbourne relatives of notable
horses are going the right way towards
upholding their family names. Chats-
bury, half-brother to Manfred, is the
latest sprinting star, and on Saturday Dis-
tinction, a half-brother, by Constant Son,
to the £19,000 dual Derby winner, Talk-
ing, won the first division of the Bass
Juvenile Handicap.
After Jack Holt, acting on behalf of
Mrs. G. M. Robinson, had given 750
guineas for Distinction as a yearling, he
could have resold the colt at a nice profit.
Holt, however, saw in him the makings of
a good horse, and, as Distinction began
to grow fast after being placed in work,
decided to give him every opportunity to
develop before asking anything serious of
him. Distinction’s race at Mentone was
only his second, and, always favorite, he
won in attractive style from Miss Jemima
and Happiness. The field was not strong,
but Distinction, who is a nice type of
colt, appears sure to improve. Holt was
pleased with the performance, and natu-
rally hopes that the colt will improve suf-
ficiently to warrant his being stacked up
against the best of his age in the rich
two-year-old races in Melbourne and
Sydney this autumn.
Archie Crofts paid 650 guineas for
Home Secretary as a yearling in Maori-
land, and had his first return when the
colt won the second division of the Bass
Juvenile Handicap. Prize-money was
worth only £lOO, but Home Secretary was
the medium of solid support, and finished
too well for even-money favorite Lerida,
after the latter had looked all over a
winner 100 yards from home. His time
was half a second slower than that re-
corded by Distinction in the first division,
but he has raced only three times, and
will improve. A bit of distance should
not trouble Home Secretary later, as his
dam,Homedale, won the Moonee Valley
Cup of 1931. He is by the imported sire
Solicitor-General.
Arguments as to whether Patagonia
would have won the Summer Hurdle
Race had he not crashed at the last jump
continued throughout the afternoon. The
ex-Maorilander rose to the hurdle ahead
of Frisco, but there is little doubt that the
latter would have won in any case. He
had Patagonia covered at the time, and,
with the latter out of the way, won very
easily from Soloist and Terka. Frisco
adds to the number of good jumpers
sired by David, others of whose stock
include Giant Killer, winner of the last
G.N. Steeplechase, and Cheery Jack.
Dornford, an even-money favorite, found
12 stone beyond him. He hit the front
leaving the straight the first time, but was
beaten at the home turn and just missed
a place.
A series of misfortunes befell backers
in the Chelsea Handicap. Merry March,
backed from fours to favoritism at 9 to 4,
Sun Call at threes and Tovaros at 7 to 2
were the only runners quoted inside 12
to 1, but Merry March forfeited his
chance at the start. Sun Call, whose rider,
E. Preston, was fined £5 for taking up a
wrong barrier-position, faded at the busi-
ness end of the trip, and Tovaros was
something in the nature of a good thing
beaten. Tovaros dead-heated for third
with Balkan Maid, behind the 25-to-l
chances Bev Rose and Night Train, and
she did well to finish so close after stand-
ing flat-footed at the start, being a long
way out of her ground early and strik-
ing trouble when making a forward move
at the home turn. Bev Rose (Beau Fils-
Love Lane) found the seven furlongs
much more to her liking than a mile at
Moonee Valley at her previous start,
when she had finished seventh to Old
Scotch.
* * * *
Six of the seven winners at Moorefield
last Saturday were warm favorites, and
in consequence many bookmakers spent
a tearful Sunday. “No more Moorefield
for me,” was the declaration of several,
but the layers’ turn is bound to come. It
always does, at any course, though for a
long time past bookmaking has not been
a business in which anyone could put on
a bag with the expectation of making
money.
Astounding started at odds on for the
Three and Four-year-old Handicap, and
scored decisively after Beau Mari —who
can be improved —had attempted to win
all the way. Pimm’s and Woolooga were
nearest Beau Mari going up the hill, but
Calruin struggled into second place, form
good enough to make him a provincial
or mid-week possibility at least. Pimm’s,
who went to the starting post looking as
if he had been for a swim, is not of
much account, and nothing that is favor-
able can be said of any of the others
that followed the place-getters.
It has been claimed for Dark Elegance
that she is greatly superior to her stable-
companion Ensign. That may be correct,
but it is certain that any Sydney handi-
capper would not now put much between
them. In the colts and geldings’ division
of the Juvenile Handicap Ensign scored
his third successive win, and, though Valve
and Two Ton Tony hung on to him to
the turn, the result was never really in
doubt. Valve, who was backed, is by
Veilmond from Valdivia (Valais-Wake-
ful’s Daughter). Angus, who ran third,
is a big-barrelled colt by Marconigram
from Revere (Heroic-Real One, a sister
to Amounis). He cost 140gns. D. Lewis
is training him for his joint owners,
C. H. K. Miller, R. W. McFadyen and
F. Packer. Mark Twain and Two Ton
Tony were nearest the place-getters, but
of the beaten lot only Valve ran as if
likely to win in the near future.
Rosy Morn opened favorite- for the
fillies’ division of the Juvenile Handicap,
but was quickly deposed by Lady Neith.
The latter, who had run third at her two
previous starts, soon proved no mis-
take had been made as to her improve-
ment. When the field settled down she
was leading from Lucky Number, Dawn
Mary and Rosy Morn, and did not after-
wards give her opponents a look-in. Cost-
ing W. J. Smith 75gns. as a yearling she
is trained and raced by C. O’Rourke, who
has her on lease. Lady Neith is by
Pentheus from Tresseith, by Tressady
from Neith, who could sprint and stay,
her wins including a Challenge Stakes
with 10.2 and a Cumberland Stakes, in
which she defeated Trafalgar.
Of those behind the place-getters
nothing impressed me more than Lady
Lustre. She had only 7st., but, after get-
ting away badly, she finished fourth. She
is by Waikare from Lustre, by Doric
from imported Louise, by Friar Marcus.
Her yearling price was 180gns.
In the St. George Handicap Korimako
had an easy task in adding £255 to her
credit account. Last early, she ran up
to the pacemaker, Jocular, three furlongs
from home, and had the race safe before
turning into the straight. Good Morn-
ing and Might Not filled the minor places,
but their form was not good enough to
point to an early win for either in a fair
field. Racing is agreeing with Korimako,
as she looks better now than a month ago.
Lord Valentine appeared favorably
weighted in the Moorefield Handicap,
and, starting favorite, won easily from
Last Chance. When the latter drew away
from Matchless Mary going up the hill,
and then stalled off Sidcup, his prospects
appeared decidedly bright, but Lord
Valentine had him beaten at the straight
entrance. The change to Randwick has
evidently agreed with Lord Valentine.
He failed a few times after going into
G. P. Nailon’s stable, but he has won
four times in his last five starts. Bramol
appeared to be going quite easily starting
up the hill, but was in trouble a little
further on, the distance and his weight
pulling him up before reaching the
straight.
Carnsion, with a strong finishing run,
landed the first division of the Flying
Welter, in which Diogenes had a useful
lead from Marie Bruce and Brazandt
approaching the home turn. Although
she only finished third it seemed to me
Novice was unlucky to lose. She was
disappointed when trying for a run at the
turn, and twice struck trouble in the
straight. The favorite, Dashing Cavalier,
looked as if he needed a race, and, in my
opinion, the distance was also against
him. Improved by his run, and suited by
a longer trip, he may shortly do much
better. Exactor is another who will be
none the worse for more racing.
Backed for the second division of the
Flying Welter as if she could not lose,
Cigarette acted up to her supporters’ ex-
pectations. Two furlongs from home she
was behind Merton, King’s Park, The
Kite and Phosphonic; but half-way
down the straight it was apparent she
would win, and she did not experience
much difficulty in beating The Kite a
length, with Merton and King’s Park
heading the remainder. Cigarette is a
good type of Heroic mare, and as she has
not done much racing is likely to con-
tinue improving. Two of the unplaced
lot in King’s Park and Last Gold may be
worth keeping in mind for a small race.
* * =t= *
Ajax’s 10.7 in the Newmarket Handi-
cap is not more than was generally anti-
cipated, but, great as he is, I think that
puts success beyond him. He heads the
list in the Newmarket and Cup doubles,
but, to hold his place, he will have to
win the C. F. Orr Stakes and Futurity.
Last year’s winner, El Golea, is up
71b., Aurie’s Star (second) down 21b.,
and Kanuri (third) up 121 b. Of that
trio Aurie’s Star reads best. Further
down the list than Aurie’s Star, those
with chances include Magic Circle,
Graceful Mover, Chatsbury, Unishak
and Harmonic Law, and for the first leg
of a double I would as soon take Grace-
ful Mover as anything. If certainty
attached to High Caste running I would
give him a great chance even with 9.2,
but his owner may prefer the St. Leger.
Nothing strikes me as really standing
out in the Australian Cup. Actor may
not return to his best form, and, anyhow,
he has a fair load in 9.7. Maikai and
Rivette are proved stayers, but, despite
her two Cups win, I think 9.2 will prove
difficult for the latter. Round Up, Dark
David and Yours Truly are fairly treated.
Son of Aurous and Prince Sion are
not overdone in respect of weight, not
is the Perth Cup winner Tomito, and
Lady Montague and The Progeny are
also among the possibilities. Gladstone,
who won at Mentone on Saturday, may
make a stayer, and he has 51b. less than
was allotted him in the last Melbourne
Cup. Morvren and Mac Rob have re-
cently shown form. It is the same with
Dark David, and, without attempting
anything in the way of a definite selec-
tion at this stage, any of those three
is worth consideration as the second leg
of a double. Tomito is another.
* * * *
If Ajax is as well as F. Musgrave be-
lieves, he may win the C. F. Orr Stakes.
Not that he is so favorably handicapped
by comparison with everything else in
the race, but because the maximum of
9.5 gives him a comfortable weight.
Failure will naturally cause Ajax’s price
for the Newmarket to lengthen, and
Adios and High Caste are so forward in
condition that they should keep him
moving at Williamstown, as will Man-
rico. Gold Salute, too, can be relied on
to give a good account of himself, and
even if Ajax should win the race will
be anything but an easy one for him. He
has not started for several months, and
that may tell against him when opposed
to seasoned horses.
He * * *
Adios, according to present intentions,
is to be a runner for the C. F. Orr Stakes
at Williamstown next Saturday. If he
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
By “SENTRY.”
Electric Handicap: Damocles,
1 ; Pauline, 2 ; Florin, 3.
Trial Handicap: Lord Walla, 1 ;
Gay Invader, 2 ; Decurio, 3.
Wyndham Handicap: Gladstone,
1 ; Lord Windburra, 2 ; Lusson, 3.
C. F. Orr Stakes: Ajax, 1 ; High
Caste, 2 ; Manrico, 3.
Newport Welter: French Gem,
1 ; Harmonic Law, 2 ; National, 3.
Marine Handicap: Pure Gold, 1 ;
Graceful Mover, 2 ; Unishak, 3.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(To be held at RANDWICK)
By “PILOT.”
Maiden Handicap: Ashment, 1 ;
Peekmond, 2 ; Majunga, 3.
Ingleburn Nursery Handicap:
Yuletide, 1 ; Lady Neith, 2 ; Dawn
Mary, 3.
Glenfield Handicap: Diamond
Wedding, 1 ; Waireka, 2; Scarlet
Circle, 3.
Farm Novice Handicap: Good
Earth, 1 ; Freckles, 2 ; Ras Desta, 3.
Warwick February Handicap:
Rival Hit, 1 ; Tusculum, 2 ; Gold
Spark, 3.
Minto Handicap: The Blizzard,
1 ; Astounding, 2 ; Novice, 3.


mm
%
«i
1
B
m
SOLTINE CLOTH is made only from Pure
0 Australian Wool.
SOLTINE CLOTH keeps the wearer cool through-
out the Summer.
SOLTINE CLOTH, having more “twist” in its
£ fine worsted yarn than other cloths, will not
crease or crush.
SOLTINE
REGD.
CLOTH
CL~fc j
BORN—SHORN—WOVEN AND WORN IN AUSTRALIA
OBTAINABLE IN ALL LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
does well in that he will start in the
Futurity Stakes. As his respiratory
trouble is not so pronounced as a little
while back, seven furlongs will not
trouble him, and he has also shown that
the Melbourne way round does not come
amiss to him. In addition to his horses
that have gone to Melbourne, Mildura
and Gold Rod are likely to swell G.
Price’s team. As a stayer Mildura did
not come out as well as expected in the
Anniversary Handicap, but at the
southern meetings there are two or three
races short of a mile and a half that
should nicely suit Mildura. He is so
well that it would be a pity to waste his
condition.
* * * *
Canterbury Park reopens on April 6,
and continues on April 20, with every-
thing new —prize-money, totalling £4500,
remodelled track, win and place tote, and
ideas in the way of weight limitations
for its two principal races. One is at
six furlongs, and the other at a mile and
three furlongs, with a maximum of 9st.
in each. Both should catch the good
horses before they are spelled subsequent
to autumn racing at Randwick.
The sprint is called the Frederick Clis-
sold Quality Handicap, and, instead of
the Canterbury Park Cup, it would have
been a graceful act of remembrance if
the other race had been named the Wil-
liam Davis Cup. As manager and secre-
tary over a long period, the late “Bill”
did a great deal to advance the interests
of the club.
# * * *
Hard luck for Beaulivre’s owner that
muscle-soreness disposed of any chance
of the colt running in the Futurity Stakes.
As an attempt to force his preparation
might result disastrously, it is safe to say
he will miss Flemington as well as Caul-
field. The A.J.C. meeting is only a little
over six weeks off, so it may trouble his
trainer to have Beaulivre as well as he
could wish even then. In the circum-
stances it would not greatly surprise if
Beaulivre were to skip autumn racing
altogether. Better that than do any-
thing which might tend to his detriment.
* * * *
Mrs. E. J. Watt was luckier at the
A.J.C. Anniversary meeting than her
husband. His share was seconds with
Waireka and Mildura, while Mrs. Watt
scored with Tusculum. The last-named,
who is a brother to Dromos and
Osculum, may be an improvement upon
both. Always a good galloper in private,
he had disappointed on occasions, but
though he ran a trifle greenly at one
stage in the straight in the Progressive
Handicap he finished most determinedly.
The Kite and Court Gossip, the other
place-getters in that race, are not out of
the ordinary, but Tusculum can be relied
on to win in better company, and he
may get as far as a mile and_a half.
* * * *
Armidale races on Wednesday and
Thursday are bound to attract a large
local attendance, and there will be a
fair sprinkling of Sydney horses, as well
as visitors. The Armidale Cup takes
place this afternoon, and I have a fancy
for Glorious, who, with anything ap-
proaching a clear run, would have gained
a place in the race won by Scarlet Circle
at the A.J.C. Anniversary meeting. Next
to her I like Cigarette and Sigh. The
former finished strongly in her race at
Moorefield on Saturday, and should not
be troubled by an extra furlong. For
the City Handicap on Thursday, the two
appealing most to me are William Wont
and Sigh, though Val William is favor-
ably handicapped, and Tony is return-
ing to form.
* # * *
It has always been my contention that
stewards should be very circumspect
where alleged reversal of form is con-
cerned. The second day’s racing at Rand-
wick upheld that idea. At Rosehill nine
days earlier Climax, weighted only 51b.
from the minimum in an ordinary mile
welter field, beat three, tiring greatly
over the last quarter-mile. In the same
race Magic Ring, with actually 71b. less
than the advertised minimum, conse-
quent on a 71b. apprentice allowance,
was last.
On their form that day neither was an
Adrian Knox possibility, yet Climax
won and Magic Ring was third, finish-
ing well ahead of her more-fancied
stable-companion, Good Morning. I
understand Climax’s trainer was not keen
on her starting, but her owner thought
she might as well take her chance.
Reversing Rosehill form, Climax finished
strongly to beat Waireka, who had a
useful lead a furlong from home.
Climax’s starting price showed how little
was thought of her chance.
Trimmer also demonstrated what one
run will do for a horse. In the Challenge
Stakes he was fourth, the minor place-
getters, Denis and Ccesar, being too good
for him at the finish. In the Kurnell
Handicap on Monday he met them only
21b. and 31b. better respectively, and did
not give them a look-in. It would not
be too much to say that he beat Denis
51b. and Ccesar much more. Not the
least suspicion attached to the bona fides
of Climax, Trimmer or Magic Ring in
their previous efforts, and yet a few days
saw improvement- of pounds in their
form. Happenings of this sort make you
smile when you hear self-accepted racing
authorities demanding “blood” when
some horse or other runs better or worse
at a few days’ interval.
* * * *
Gold Salute looked a little stouter at
Randwick last week than when he raced
in the spring, but in such a short period
he could not be expected to greatly
change. Still, he is in fair trim, and ran
well enough in the Kurnell Handicap to
make him a possibility for something in
Melbourne. Reports differ as to exactly
how much A. E. Cooper gave for Gold
Salute, but it is not too much to say that
Talking, Mala and Gold Salute jointly
cost him fully £32,000. In prize-money
Talking and Mala did not return anything
approaching what was paid for them,
but, as a plucky buyer deserves some
luck, no one will begrudge Gold Salute’s
owner a few good wins with him.
* * * *
Allunga did not do nearly as well in
the Anniversary Handicap as in the
January Handicap on the first day of the
Anniversary meeting. He is seven years
old, and, while he cannot yet be rated a
back number, it is doubtful whether he
will get beyond a minor win or two. A
return to his earlier form is too much
to expect, and there cannot be much
hope for him in weight-for-age races at
the coming autumn meetings. They
promise to be hard to win at all dis-
tances.
=!= # # $
Bloodstock auctioneers William Inglis
and Son have sold thousands of yearlings,
and this year they have catalogued over
600 for their customary autumn sales at
Randwick. As usual, youngsters by im-
ported sires outnumber those by Aus-
tralian horses, and additions to the former
include J. R. Smith (Gainsborough-
Inscription), Piccadilly (Fairway-Pick
and Choose), Double Remove (Felstead-
Quick Rise) and Brueghel (Pharos-Bun-
worry). Seventy-four stallions are repre-
sented, and 429 yearlings are by imported
horses.
The total of 609 is made up as follows:
J. R. Smith (imp.) 27 Waikare .. .. 7
Piccadilly (imp.) .. 26 Limarch .. .. 6
Mel.fort (imp.) .. 25 Royal Sun (imp.) .. 6
Excitement (imp.) 25 Glenariff .. .. 5
Medieval Grand Joy (imp.) 5
Knight (imp.) .. 22 Fox-Earth (imp.) .. 5
Pentheus .. ..21 Hauwiri 4
Madagascar (imp.) 21 Junior Counsel .. 3
Veilmond .. .. 20 Brazen (imp.) .. 3
Silverburn (imp.) .. 18 Scintillation (imp.) 3
Peter Pan .. .. 18 Iliad (imp.) .. .. 3
Christopher Gilt Edge .. .. 2
Robin (imp.) .. 17 Hadrian 2
Harinero (imp.) .. 17 Kuvera .. .. ... 1
Double Remove Law Maker (imp.) 2
(imp.) .. .. 16 Light Brigade
Winooka .. ..15 (imp.) .. ..2
Hall Mark .. .. 15 Plantain (imp.) .. 2
Brueghel (imp.) .. 15 Rampion .. .. 2
Spearfelt .. .. 15 Rionscup (imp.) .. 2
Beau Pere (imp.) .. 14 Ruffler (imp.) .. 2
Buoyant Bachelor Siegfried (imp.) .. 2
(imp.) .. .. 14 Bodyguard .. .. 1
El Cacique (imp.) .. 14 Buonarroti .. .. 1
Marconigram Bulandshar (imp.) 1
(imp.) .. ..14 Caithness (imp.).. 1
Pantheon (imp.) .. 14 Closing Time .. 1
Sylvandale .. .. 14 Contact 1
Andrea (imp.) .. 13 Deputy Ruler .. 1
Bullhead (imp.) .. 12 Dignus .. .. .. 1
Metallurgy .. ..12 Dunnottar (imp.) 1
Chatham .. ..11 Eastern Monarch
Constant Son (imp.) 1
(imp.) .. ..11 Game Carrington.. 1
The Buzzard Grand Mogul .. 1
(imp.) .. .. 10 Inchaquire (imp.) 1
Conspirator (imp.) 9 Lo Zingaro (imp.).. 1
Denis Boy (imp.).. 7 Manfred (imp.) .. 1
Fanfare 7 Rivoli .. .. • • 1
Tippler (imp.) .. 7 Ronsard (imp.) .. 1
Seascape Boy Soft Step .. .. 1
(imp.) 7 Theo 1
* * * *
As Panchio was passed in at lOOOgns.
when offered at auction last week, it
would be interesting to know what
O. Triggs paid for him. Through
Panchio it would also be interesting to
gauge the value of Yuletide, who, in
receipt of 31b., beat Panchio more than
that in the Havilah Handicap. Bidding
for Yuletide stopped at 700gns. at the
same sale at which Panchio was offered,
though form makes him out a better
horse than the latter.
* * * *
Weights for the Doncaster Handicap
and Sydney Cup will be declared on
March 11. After the declaration of
weights for the Doncaster the winner of
any handicap flat race worth £6OO to
the winner, or two or more handicap
flat races aggregating £7OO, can be re-
handicapped up to an additional 101 b.
The same applies to the Sydney Cup, with
the additional proviso that the winner
of the V.R.C. or A.J.C. St. Leger shall
not carry less than weight-for-age.
* * * 5*
Distinction, Miss Jemima and Happi*
ness (sister to Adios), place-getters in that
order in the first division of the Bass
Juvenile Handicap at Mentone, were bred
in N.S.W., the respective yearling prices
of the first and third being 750gns. and
260gns. Distinction is a half-brother, by
Constant Son, to Talking, and possibly
J. Holt is already building on him as a
Derby winner. Home Secretary, winner
of the second division of the Bass
Juvenile, may make a stayer. He was a
650gns. yearling, and is by the Bland-
ford horse Solicitor-General from Home-
dale (Rossendale-Hasten Home), a
Moonee Valley Cup winner.
* * * *
Three-year-old Burhan Ali (Umidiwar-
Teresina), who cost P. H. Osborne
610gns. at a sale in England of horses
owned by the Aga Khan, is to be given
a long spell before he is trained for racing
in Australia.
* * * *
Maoriland still has plenty of money
left for racing, the tote turnover for the
three days of the Wellington meeting
aggregating £300,225. On the last day


Position Vacant.
DREDGE MASTER WANTED for Bucket
Dredge operating Australian State; must be
thoroughly experienced and have a sound know-
ledge of gold saving and treatment, steam and
electrical machinery and water conservation.
Applications to set out full particulars of experi-
ence, age, whether married or single, salary re-
quired and when able to commence duties.
Copies only of testimonials to be attached to
applications and to be addressed to “Dredge
Master,” C/o The Mercantile Exchange, 380
Collins Street, Melbourne.
£lO9 906 11s. went through the machine,
a record for Wellington. The turnover
for the three days was £67,708 greater
than last year.
t * * *
Thirteen-year-old My Own (dam of
Yours Truly), with a filly foal by Tide-
race. and again served by that horse,
was sold in Wellington a fortnight ago
for 500gns.
* * * *
Pasch (Blandford-Pasca), winner of
the 1938 Two Thousand Guineas, was
destroyed in England a few weeks ago,
meningitis being the cause. Pasch started
a hot favorite for the English Derby.
He could only run third, but subse-
quently won the Eclipse Stakes at San-
down Park. He was owned by H. E.
Morriss, whose Derby winner Manna
was also destroyed last year.
* * * *
After the Anniversary Handicap I
heard a backer of Mildura say, “I wish
the use of the false rail had not made
the race thirty yards over the mile and
a half. That just made the difference.”
Three-quarters of a furlong from home
Mildura’s defeat of Gold
peared certain, but as, after he got level,
he could not hold her, the chances are
it would have been the same if the race
had been run over the exact distance.
* * * *
Many people believe they see non-
triers where there is really no reason
for such a belief. Yet things occasjonally
come their way. Only recently a trainer
of my acquaintance backed one of his
team for a minor race. It showed up in
the early stages, but could scarcely wobble
home, and was one of the well-beaten
division. However, one of those authori-
ties who have a weakness for discovering
“dead ’uns” declared it was one of the
“hottest things he had ever seen.”
When it ran again a little later he
upheld his belief by supporting it heavily,
and had the satisfaction of seeing it win.
The trainer thought so little of its chance
that he did not have a shilling on it, and
backed two others in the race. It cer-
tainly was not “dead” for the owner,
trainer or jockey at its previous start, but
the punter who declared it was came
out on top. Which is further proof of
what can happen in racing.
* * * *
Professional tipsters still flourish in
Australia, even though they are not
allowed to advertise in the same fashion
as a few years ago, when the “wonderful
gallops” they had witnessed at Randwick
and elsewhere brought them many
pounds from the credulous. The fact that
they were not allowed on Randwick to see
gallops did not matter in the least. Not-
withstanding that their headquarters are
at Canberra some still send out advice
concerning the gallops they have seen at
Randwick or Flemington a few hours
before issuing their circulars. Flying must
keep them busy. It never surprised me
that people who did not know much
about racing took the advertising tipsters
seriously, but the astounding part was
that their supporters included men who
rather prided themselves on their know-
ledge of everything associated with
racing.
* He * *
When time for races is being discussed
we hear a lot about the improvements
of tracks, as compared with 50 years
ago. Of leading courses there is prob-
ably no more notable instance than Caul-
field. When Malua won the first Oak-
leigh Plate —or Oakleigh Handicap, as it
was then known —he took 1.11 for the
five and a half furlongs. I saw William
Tell win in 1886, and he was such a
good sprinter that, while he took 1.91,
he also accounted for that year’s New-
market Handicap. When Brattle recorded
1.61 in the 1915 Oakleigh Plate it was
not thought that time would be greatly
improved upon, but now the record is
Aurie Star’s 1.41.
Carlyon won the Caulfield Guineas in
1.421 in 1887, and that remained the
best until 1907, when Master Foote did
1.41. Avant Courier, in 1927, was the
first to get inside 1.40, beating that time
by quarter of a second; while Ajax, with
1.37, is now the record-holder for the
race. /
The Futurity Stakes was first run in
1898, Resolute winning in 1.301. Blair-
gour cut that time down to 1.271 in
1911, and in 1933 Winooka did 1.241,
which is still the record. Waltzing Lily
and Regular Bachelor did 1.241, and
Heros and Ajax 1.25. The Toorak Han-
dicap best up to 1907 was True Scot’s
1-411, and The Chanter did 1.371 in
1936.
In 1901 Hymettus, in winning in 2.35,
made a record for the Caulfield Cup,
but High Syce won in 2.301 in 1929,
Game Carrington in 2.281 in 1933, and
Palfresco in 2.271 two years later. While
I am of opinion that horses are much
taster at all distances from six furlongs
to two miles than between 40 and 50
years ago, the advance in times at Caul-
field must, in a great measure, be attri-
buted to the marked improvement in
the track.
* * * *
The highest-priced filly at the Wel-
lington (Maoriland) sales was the brown
daughter of Phaleron Bay and Baylock.
She made 550gns., and was knocked
down to Wright, Stephenson and Co. on
behalf of a client. The Tiderace-My
Own colt was not productive of such
keen competition as his brother, who
was sold for 1450gns. last year, but at
850gns. he made a fair price. He is
to remain in Maoriland, his buyer being
W. Shand, of Christchurch.
* * * *
Vaals was a high-class rnilcr, but had
no pretensions as a stayer. In Maoriland,
however, his progeny have been shining
over a distance. At Auckland recently
he was represented by the three
place-getters in the Takapuna Cup, Our
Jean winning from Fils de Vaals and
Mintlaw. It was a soundly-run race,
the mile and a half being cut out in 2.29.
Our Jean is a three-year-old, and her
form has been wonderfully consistent.
Up to the beginning of January she
had won five races and been placed in
others.
* * * *
Last season English trainer H. Peacock
had such great success with youngsters
that 11 from his stable were eligible to be
weighted for the Free Handicap for last
year’s two-year-olds. The race is to be
run at Newmarket in April. Peacock’s
winning record last season included 28
two-year-old races.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
The mere playing of golf shots is only
a portion of the game ; the head should
be used as much as the hands. A thought-
ful golfer will generally beat a more care-
less opponent of equal stroke-making
ability, for the apparently minor points
in the game are just as essential as the
fundamentals.
In the last few years I have concen-
trated on simplifying my game as much
as possible —that is, if there are two ways
of playing the same shot, concentrate
upon the easier one of the two, and per-
fect that stroke. Sometimes, however,
one is called on to play the harder shot
because of circumstances, and it is experi-
ence that counts, thus giving the studious
player his deserved advantage.
Since my visit to England in 1936 I
have been a firm believer in the pitch-
and-run shot. The mention of this shot
immediately brings to mind a short run-
up shot from just outside the green. But
short run-ups are not the only form ,
such shots can, by practice, be played
from longer distances. For instance, on
windy days when the ball is flying at any
height, it is subject to the full force of
the wind, but when played lower it keeps
its line and is much safer. Long- and
middle-markers, who have troubles
enough in hitting the ball consistently
true, can make their game a lot easier
by adopting the useful pitch-and-run shot.
Played with a variety of clubs, depend-
ing upon the type of shot required, it has
solved many a difficult shot for me.
In my kit*of 14* clubs l carry a cnipper
—in my opinion a club no player should
be without. Not only does it serve for a
variety of run-up shots, but it comes in
extremely useful for low-flying shots up
to 170 yards in length. Most golfers ex-
perience difficulty with the strength of
the more delicate shots. They are with-
out an adequate sense of touch, and this
is one of the major hurdles to overcome.
While most players swing the club reason-
ably well, they don’t get results in keep-
ing with their ability. The more inaccu-
rate a player is, the more opportunities
he has of bringing off some.good chipping
from just off the green, because inaccu-
racy usually leaves him off the green
with his long irons. If he can learn this
shot he is on the way to better goff.
The ordinary pitch-and-run, say from
25 yards from the hole, can be treated
similarly to a long putt. Using practi-
cally the same stance and grip as tor
putting, the clubhead should also be kept
on the line of flight as long as possible.
The clubhead should be kept slightly
closed on to the ball throughout the shot
—that is, the toe of the club is pointed a
little to the left of the hole, rolling over
on to the ball. As the hands and wrists
do most of the work there is little or no
body-movement in the shot. This shot
is mostly a matter of practice, as touch
is the main feature. Constant playing will
do much toward improving one’s chip-
ping. .
For the longer shots from 60 and 70
yards from the hole more vigorous play
is needed. Sometimes I still use the little
chipper, the ball rising about four feet
from the ground and having a long run
to the hole. This shot, however, can be
played only when the ground to be
covered is even in pace and not too un-
dulating, for were the ball to land on an
uphill slope much of its power would be
lost. The No. 6 iron is a useful club for
these longer run-up shots, as it gives the
ball greater height and ensures an even
passage to the flag. It is best to use hands
and wrists mainly in these shots, as they
control the shot, the length of the stroke
depending upon the distance the club is
taken on the backswing.
I find the shots played with the chipper
over longer distances invaluable at short
holes, playing against the wind. While
this shot is not a common one, it can
be a most useful ally when playing in
boisterous conditions. By teeing the
ball up slightly and standing as close
as the lie of the club permits that
is, with the sole of the club flush on
to the ground—and using the same swing
as if a No. 5 iron was being played,
the shot can be easily controlled. For
anyone playing this stroke for the
first time it is advisable to try it out on
the practice fairway, as it will seem
strange for a while It is necessary to
have a full follow-through, as the loft of
most chippers is between a No. 2 and No.
3 iron, and the ball will otherwise fly too
low. The average height should be about
that of a normally hit No. 2 iron, and
when landing on the green into the face
of the wind it should have no difficulty
in pulling up. While not appearing as
spectacular as the shot of higher trajec-
tory, it is a safer and sounder way of
combating the elements when the know-
ledge of the player is pitted against them.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
(Formerly of the “Referee.")
Winning the three home matches and
taking the Sheffield Shield, N.S.W. also
got out of its financial troubles. Gates
for the three matches reached £9115,
though one lasted only two days. The
total is £6700 better than for the corre-
sponding series last season, and close on
100,000 more people witnessed the
matches. The main reason is that cricket is
once more being played as though it were
a pleasure instead of a solemn business.
During the Sheffield season 14 bats-
men averaged over 40 runs per innings.
Four of these are Victorians (Hassett
68 60, Tamblyn 44.85, Barnett 44.30 and
Sievers 40.44), five N. S. Welshmen
(Mudge 58.60, Cohen 57.50, Solomon
54.57, Barnes 48.20, and McCabe 48.20),
three South Australians (Bradman 132.75,
Badcock 64.50, and Waite 60.87), and two
Queenslanders (Brown 60.41 and Rogers
41.58).
Only five bowlers secured more than
20 wickets. O'Reilly outdistanced the
rest in actual results and in deadliness,
with 52 wickets at 13.55. He is the one
great match-winning bowler we have,
because he not only gets the wickets but
gets them cheaply and comes with the
rush of a champion at the pinch.
Grimmett took 49 wickets at 24.70.
The veteran has rarely been in better
form. Ring’s figures were 33 at 29.81.
Ring will do still better ; he is bringing
in qualities of the all-rounder not com-
mon in recent years.
Pepper, 27 wickets at 31.11, looked the
unlucky bowler of the N.S.W. side. There
may be recompense in the future. His
length has so much improved that he
looks not less promising than the best
of the other spinners to back up O'Reilly.
Ward’s 23 wickets cost 36 runs each. His
star has been obscured by Grimmett.
Though a member of the weakest side,
Ellis did best among the fast bowlers.
The Queenslander's 11 wickets cost 23
runs each—quite an outstanding perform-
ance It was a pity for his side that he
had to stand out of matches with strained
muscles. A typical Australian of the
wiry sort, he looks a Test-match bowler
if he toughens up muscularly.
Barry Scott stood up to the fast bowl-
ing better than his rivals. He tried with
great heart and maintained his pace well,
but his 19 wickets cost 36.57. Lush,
who got 6 wickets in the Sydney matches
at 28.66, is the best all-rounder among
the speed bowlers. He has not, so far,
Icept up the fire and pace so uniformly,
except when the new ball is being used.
A South Australian with a future is
Klose, who bowls left-hand but bats
right-hand and is a brilliant field. Klose
got 15 wickets at 16.90. It was not easy
to follow the sparing use made of his
bowling by Don Bradman and the free-
dom with which Ward and Waite were
employed. Perhaps Don is breaking him
in gently. Waite tried hard, yet on the
good wickets his 13 victims added 47.84
each to the opposing totals.
Flcetwood-Smith did not infuse the
usual novelty into his attack. He bowled
his customary off-break quite well, but
in Sydney rarely tried the bosie ball.
He had more runs hit off his bowling
than anyone else save Grimmett and
Ring; in fact, his 17 wickets were
luxuries—at 52.05.
Test-selector William Johnson was at
the Sydney C.G. when N.S.W. beat Vic-
toria by 177 runs. His son lan shows
all-round promise. lan made a vigorous
40 when Victoria was up against it,
having captured three of the five N.S.W.
wickets that fell in the second innings—
the innings was closed at 5 for 492. This
colt’s slow off-break bowling has a Don
Blackic touch.
+ * * *
The South Australians, under Brad-
man, are to play in Perth at the week-
end.
* * * *
A Patriotic Fund match, N.S.W. v. The
Rest in Sydney, cannot, if arranged, take
place before April. The military have
moved into the Sydney C.G. pavilions
from the Showground, now being pre-
pared for the big show.
Chiefly because of the miserable policy
of the N.S.W. Amateur Swimming Asso-
ciation, Westralian Percy Oliver had little
opposition in the Australian champion-
ship races assigned to his State. In Perth
he collected the 440yds. and the 330yds.
medley, and in Kalgoorlie the 220yds.
Bassingthwaite (N.S.W.), whose expenses
were subscribed privately, was next-best,
though a Kalgoorlie swimmer, Nanki-
villc, was second in his home town. Ron
Masters was beaten by his fellow-Vic-
torian Norris in the springboard diving,
but took the high-diving event easily.
N.S.W.’s sporting reputation was re-
deemed by the women. Raising funds
independently, they sent a strong team
to the West, and the girls did excellently.
Among them was Evelyn de Lacy,
formerly of Westralia, who won the
110yds. by a foot from the Westralian
girl Dorothy Green, though in the
220yds. Miss Green turned the tables,
Miss de Lacy finishing third. In the
110yds. backstroke, Miss G. Millard
(N.S.W.) lowered her own Australian
record to lmin. 17 3-ssec. The 220yds.
breaststroke went to Miss V. George
(Vic.), Miss M. Dovey (N.S.W.) being
second.
The narks of the N.S.W.A.S.U. have
been after the scalp of Sheedy, the Perth
man who is general secretary of the
A.S.U. They got a dreadful shock when
Sheedy was reappointed and named a
selector (along with a Victorian and a
Tasmanian), and when their own L. E.
Duff was refused nomination as execu-
tive member for N.S.W. Duff has been
the head and front of the “nark” policy.
if * * *
The race for the N.S.W. 100 yards
championship was expected to be a match
between Sydney University sprinter Brian
Dunn and Bruce Ryan, of Western
Suburbs, but a bad cold compelled Dunn
to scratch. Ryan, though badly away,
beat Burfein (Queensland) by a foot in
9.7 sec. ; Burfein last year was second to
Dunn in 9.6 sec. The Victorian Back-
house collected the half-mile easily
enough, nor did Metcalfe (Uni.) have to
distress himself in the high jump. Pardon
bettered his 1939 figures in the hammer-
throw, and Magee cut his time for the
220yds. hurdles to 24.95ec. And Stubbs
outdistanced the opposition in the three-
mile walk. He chopped eight seconds
off the record, bringing it down to
21min. 7sec.
* * * *
J. H. Gosse, chairman of Adelaide’s
Zoological Society and vice-president of
its R.A.S., has been elected a committee-
man of the Port Adelaide Racing Club.
In his youth he captained the S.A. inter-
state football team, and is now president
of the Norwood club, vice-president of
the Football League and vice-president of
the Rowing Association. His active asso-
ciation with amateur sport ended after six
years of rowing with inter-State crews.
He is chairman of directors of George
Wills and Co.


/
fsM
»
KK
L )
%
t
PJ
STAND EASY-
and enjoy the
cool refreshment
of this real
Australian drink.
aaoe/
i
Here’s To’ ee
KEEP
THE
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD
Agents:
VICTORIA: CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Goldsbrough, Mort Sc Co., Ltd., Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp Sc Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
ait
FLYING
BREWERY, SYDNEY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun>
ceston.


otO'W
TIVOLI
sadf
sdf
“SPICE OF FIFE/’ VARIETY REVUE.
Big New Company. Oversea Stars.
UEA SONIA, EDWIN STYLES,
5 CLEVERES, GEO. WALLACE.
WILL MAHONEY,
EVIE HAYES and New Oversea Stai
in the Variety Revue,
“THE HAT TRICK.”
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Love on the Doleful”
The proper title of this merry item at
Sydney Minerva is “Love on the Dole.
The perfect title would have been “She
Was Poor but She Was Honest,” for she
was poor and she was honest, and when
the wicked bookie tried to barter with
her mother for the poor girl’s honor it’s
a wonder the audience didn t hiss the
villain from the stage. t(
The play comes from a modern pro-
letarian” novel, and it sets out deli-
berately to make the audience uncom-
fortable about poverty and unemploy-
ment. Showing a decent family strug-
gling to remain decent in the squalid in-
dustrial district of Hanky Park, it is at
once a drama and a sermon, a work of
art and an appeal to the social con-
science. If only the characters were as
credible as the facts, the double impact
would be extremely powerful, but the
first two acts are marred by absurd sen-
timentalities. The slum family is a more
pathetic group of innocents than even
J. B. Priestley would dare to borrow
from Dickens.
To take a significant example, the
audience is asked to believe that a slum
girl of about 16 doesn’t know the first
thing about betting, and has to have it
explained to her that three horses can't
win one race. The love scenes are im-
possibly gawkish; the family life is too
glumly gloomy; Lloyd Lamble’s hack-
ing cough—developed suddenly in the
second act —is hardly necessary when
he’s going to be knocked on the head a
few minutes later; the cop who strides
about as if on stilts, frightening the
lovers and representing the Spectre of
the Law, is faintly funny; and Cecil
Perry’s Sam Grundy is too much like
Sam Weller’s ghost.
Because it is well acted, it has life as
a stage piece. But as a sermon that is
supposed to draw attention to the stark
facts of poverty it is too unreal to be
related to the actualities outside the
theatre.
The third act saw an extraordinary
change from Victorian mawkishness to
the most brutal realism. After the soft-
ness and the pathos, the climax is cyni-
cal, bitter, hard. The act seemed to go
too swiftly for the implications fully to
be realised, but it is a tremendous state-
ment. The family, after the long struggle
against hopeless odds, is forced to live
by the daughter’s prostitution. The
father has thrown her out, but he accepts
a job that her lover had provided for
him. This is melodrama, perhaps, but
it is modern melodrama, not Victorian ;
and that, after the first two acts, is some-
thing to be grateful for.
Lloyd Lamble was disappointing this
time, but he was unlucky in that just
when the play was coming right he had
to die. Frank Bradley, very restrained
as the father, gave a fine character study,
and Ron Randall played the son with
enthusiasm and understanding. It is a
play well worth seeing for its acting ;
there were good performances by Pat
McDonald as the daughter, Yvonne Ban-
vard as the mother, Ethel Gabriel, Agnes
Cullen and Erna Living as three old girls
with a taste for gin and spooks, and
Megan Edwards as a young girl in deep
waters.
« * * *
“Choreartium”
There is one passage in “Choreartium,”
the long, storyless ballet making patterns
to Brahms’s Fourth Symphony, that is
as fine a piece of imaginative choreo-
graphy as the art has to offer. By its
curious, shuffling rhythm and by its de-
sign of dark red dresses and linked white
arms on a half-lit stage it suggests some
mysterious bondage of women in the way
a Mallarme poem would suggest it.
Colonel de Basil’s company made the
passage as moving as ever at Sydney
Royal on Friday. Nina Verchinina, ex-
pressing liberation from the bondage,
was a striking figure. The other move-
ments, dull in comparison, were relieved
by vigorous dancing by Toumanova and
Lichine.
The programme opened with “Jeu
d’Enfants,” a light-hearted rigmarole in
which the dancers represent items as
improbable as wooden rocking-horses,
soap bubbles, racquets and a shuttlecock.
Lichine was in form here, and Ria-
bouchinska, as the child, had a role
that suited her sense of comedy. This
ballet is at its best in its formal
moments, in which Denisova, as the Top,
was the top.
A repetition of the rough-and-tumble
of “Cimarosiana” was the concluding
number. Sono Osato and Lazovsky
danced their tarantelle with spirit again,
and Olga Morosova, with Jasinsky and
Petroff, provided another bright interlude.
* * * *
It’s some time since Annette Keller-
man has been seen in these parts, but
she retains her best form. A charity
performance on Saturday night of her
“Marine Fantasy” was entertainment new
to Sydney—best described as a musical
revue staged on and in the water. Ballet
and chorus numbers were enacted in part
on a floating stage and completed in
the wet. Clowning acts and sketches were
carried on in this same pneumonic man-
ner. Diving by the N.S.W. Diving Troupe
and a musical background by Mosman
Musical Society contributed to the show,
which was concluded by a very striking
“LOVE ON THE DOLE,” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
The lovers-on-the-dole. Pat McDonald and Lloyd Lamble (on the box seat), and, from left across, Frank Bradley (he
does a clinking job in this play), Cecil Perry, Erna Living and Ethel Gabriel.
act, “Parade of the Water Lanterns,”
with a hundred or so swimmers weaving
patterns in the dark with Chinese lanterns.
In addition to originating the “Fan-
tasy,” Miss Kellerman was responsible
for costumes, stage ensembles and water
ballets, songs, commentary and the role
of leading lady.
* * * *
Sydney Musical Society’s performance
of “Princess Ida” at the Con. Hall was
for the Lord Mayor’s Patriotic Fund.
The Firm lent scenery, dresses and per-
forming rights; stage management was
in the hands of Dick Shortland, who has
the professional touch ; Stan Buddie as
King Hildebrand and Joel Joseph as King
Gama brought experience to their roles.
There were some good voices, too —Reg
Willoughby, tenor, Mildred Walker,
soprano, and Frank Lisle, baritone, being
outstanding. Choral singing was excellent,
and pianist Mrs. D. Stern reconciled the
audience to the lack of an orchestra.
Ivan Rixon conducted capably. Waits
between acts were three times as long as
they should have been.
AT THE TALKIES.
“On the Night of the Fire”
There’s no doubt about these quality
English films—this current Sydney Vic-
tory offering is right out in front of any
filmed drama seen for many months; a
natural and logical story resting in the
hands of the players to interpret it faith-
fully.
A barber in a dingy Newcastle slum
on his way home one day sees £lOO
through a window on a table within his
reach. He takes the money and hides
it at home, but his wife discovers it and
confesses that she is heavily in debt to
the draper across the street. He gives her
the money to pay the account, and the
police trace the notes back to the draper.
He disowns any knowledge of the rob-
bery, but attempts to blackmail the
barber, who kills him in a fit of rage.
Then, logically and inevitably, the net
closes in and the whole tragedy of poverty
and petty human failings and their con-
sequences unfolds itself.
The director, Brian Desmond Hurst,
has achieved a triumph in his handling
of the story. Without for a moment
limiting the photography (and an ex-
cellent, searching and selective job it is)
or the players (and there are many of
them) he has produced a crisp, direct
narrative, unencumbered by the slightest
divergence or irrelevancy. The film has
genuine suspense without any false
values ; and the naturalness and accuracy
of many scenes and incidents are almost
startling.
Ralph Richardson, as the barber pitting
his limited intelligence against the natural
course of events and realising that they
are catching up with him, offers a prac-
tically faultless stretch of acting. He
stands out as the central character of
the story, but never stands out from the
film nor from his environment in it.
Diana Wynyard brings all her stage
ability to the role of his wife and handles
it with the same perfect sense of pro-
portion.
The setting of the film a dingy
cobbled street with two smooth concrete
tracks along it for modern traffic, a
“select room” for blousy women to drink
in, cramped, dirty shops and filthy rooms
and attics—is an achievement in detail;
and the characters that stream through
it—wharf rats, dock workers, shapeless,
dirty women, harpies and gin-soaks are
a marvel of casting; a Norman Lindsay-
ish answer to Shakspeare’s “What a piece
of work is man! how noble in reason!
etc.”
* * * *
French Musicomedy
Having romantic notions about the
French, this showman expected them to
be extra good at musicomedy, and duly
turned up full of hope at Sydney Savoy
for “the first French musical comedy
presented in Australia.” The music part
of “Three Waltzes” turned out to be
good, being choice bits from the three
Strausses. The rest didn’t seem a patch
on Hollywooden efforts in the same line.
Main fault was in presentation. Scenes
are too crowded, jumbled up and con-
fused. All the settings are thrifty, and to
make them seem lavish there are packed
into them as many people and props, as
they can be made to hold.
Jumbled backgrounds and the shadows
the French film-makers like add to the
confusion. Shadows and half-lights are
very well in serious realistic filmsmusi-
comedy calls for brightness and sparkle.
Hollywood has brought to a fine art
what might be called the economy of
essentials. This French presentation over-
looks the first requirement of art —that is,
selection. These jumbled scenes may be,
as they are no doubt meant to be, “true
to life,” but they are that in the same
sense that writing would be “true to life”
if an author took a shorthand note of
a conversation and put it whole into a
story, which, lacking selection, would be
poor art.
The light comedy touch of English
stage- and American film-musicomedy is
missing. Apparently they take their
musicomedy seriously in France.
Done with a very light touch it could
be pleasant musical romance. A pretty
dancer back in last century sacrificed
her gallant lover for the sake of his army
career. She wed another, and her stage
actress daughter repeated the sacrifice act
with the son of the army chap, though
from another motive. The daughter of
the second one becomes a famous film
star, and is able to nab the grandson
of the first army chap without anybody
having to sacrifice anything.
Thin stuff, but quite suited to the pur-
poses of light musicomedy romance.
The heavy French hand presents it all
too seriously. On this showing, French
filmsmiths should stick to solid fare and
leave froth to our nootral friend, who
is incomparably good at it.
Apart from the pleasant romantic
music, the best item in the production is
Yvonne Printemps, who plays the young
lady of each period charmingly.
* * * *
One of the most arresting screen items
witnessed last week was the news-reel of
the new A.l.F.’s march through Mel-
bourne, seen in Sydney at the State
Theatrette. Before it was over the crowd
had closed in on the marching troops, so
that from wall to wall of Melbourne’s
wide streets it was a packed mass in
which it was impossible for anybody to
move an inch. When it has done the
rounds, the whole film should be worth
putting away for future use. Its “rounds”
certainly ought to include export to other
countries.
* * * *
“We Are Not Alone,” at Sydney Cen-
tury, is a further illustration of the truism
that if Hollywood makes one good film
it’s a fiver to a tram ticket that more
will follow in similar vein attempting to
emulate the original. “Good-bye, Mr.
Chips,” from James Hilton’s novel, was
one of the best films of last year. “We
Are Not Alone” is from a book by the
same author, but the story of an English
country doctor and a German governess
who, at the outbreak of the 1914-18 war,
were accused of and hanged for the acci-
dental death of the doctor’s wife is strong
drama, and the film’s refusal to recog-
nise it as such results in a hopeless dis-
tortion of values. And surely Paul
Muni’s fidgety-faced, gesticulating crea-
tion could never be written down as typi-
cal of a quiet, preoccupied English
country doctor.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
I, *
’ » * "
Jjjurra:
99
uTBE
*
>r w , VJIBU ~_ PBP
v;-\
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S'pringwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
tor the original.
POR. AMBITIOUS MIN AND WOMEN
r £20.000.000 spent yearly on advertising in Au5......a.
......a. Opportunities for interesting work in many'
I branches for trained men and women. A big help i"
1 any buiiness career. (You need not be able to
k draw)* Successful students from 16 to over SO years
' include many leading advertising executives. Out-J
, standing success in public examinations. Complete.
interesting.- practical training. (Evening classes
individual postal tuition). Classes start Feb.. June..
Qct. Students join any time.
p this advertisement for big 56-page free to those
uinely interested *in advertising training. *
A. the SCHOOL OF APPLIED ADVEBTISIKO
W 36 Orosvenor St., Sydney Established 193%
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Annette Kellerman’s “Marine Fantasy”
was as pretty a piece of work as Sydney
is ever likely to see. It was staged, above
and below water, at the Olympic Pool,
and was bounded by the span of the
Harbor Bridge and the lights of Luna
Park. Every now and again a train would
go thundering over the bridge, but this
was added atmosphere. It might, for in-
stance, have been the surf breaking on
some lonely shore, while the seaweed
maidens trailed their silvers, greens, reds
and purples in their aquatic ring-a-rosy.
Whether the music was slow or quick,
march-time or dream-time, the sea
nymphs in every group had their timing
perfect.
From first to last the fantasy repre-
sented the doings at King Neptune’s
Court. Here were pretty dancing girls in
green and silver, and queens all silver
lame. Slim bodies turned slowly round
and round in the green translucent waters,
in cleverly-timed porpoise turns. Marie
Ryan, a daughter of Neptune, long skirts
of transparent tissue over a silver swim-
ming suit, sang “My Dream Boat” and,
behold! out of the darkened corner of
the pool came the dream boat drawn by
swimmers. In it sat two small babes, who
afterwards joined the Gollywogs’ dance.
They bustled on a bit late, and made
quite a little sensation. Annette, Fanny
Durack and Mina Wylie, in the water to-
gether, were a star turn. There were
coral girls and seashell girls. Here were
mermen in red, white and blue trunks
(reading from left to right) and blue,
white and red, and when they swam
through the waters the colors merged,
fluent as the English and the French
waters of the Channel.
The committee of Prince Alfred’s, for
which Annette produced the show, was
delighted ; so were the people packed in
the stands and on rows of chairs around
the pool. President Mrs. Ben Edye came
early, and was discovered reflectively
balancing an ice-cream bomb. This she
passed on to another enthusiast, just before
the cry came through the loud-speaker
“Is Dr. Edye in the pool?” Another
doctor who was paged through the mega-
phone was Dr. Stening. Stephanie Edye
and the Dr. Spencer Holloway couple
formed a party. Near by sat Mrs. Bruce
Prior, whose daughters Marian and Grace
were in the pageant; her group included
Mrs. S. H. Prior. James Sullivan, in
navy uniform, handled the front of the
house. The H. K. Priors were there in
company with Captain and Mrs. James
Patrick. With Mrs. Russell Gillies and
daughter Brenda Dunrich were Marie
Burke and husband Guy Nelson King.
The Jim Ashtons were other applauders.
And after all was over there was liter-
ally a raft of flowers for Annette. It
was propelled from the side of the pool
to the stage. Also there was for her (un-
noted by the audience) a silver water jug
from the cast. For husband James Sul-
livan there was a silver cigarette-case.
Ginagulla-road, Bellevue Hill, was
quite a little America one late evening
last week. America’s Consul-General was
holding a reception at his home for the
R. G. Caseys. With Mr. Casey, on the
eve of his departure to take up his duties
as Australia’s Minister-Plenipotentiary to
the United States, it was a case of hail
and farewell to many at the party. The
buffets were in the garden, and what with
the cool breeze and the harbor views,
the very friendly and complete host, the
Chinese houseboys in their rich Pekin
blue robes, the marvellous drinks and
so on, the five-thirty-to-seven was some-
thing to be remembered. Mrs. Casey’s
frock of black sheer stencilled in yellow
was among things admired. All the
Consuls were there ; Cabinet Ministers
abounded; Ernest Johnson, an im-
portant person in America’s shipping
world in the Orient, and in the Pacific
generally, and all the best-looking, the
best-dressed and the best-hearted of
Uncle Sam’s children in Sydney helped
make up the hundreds.
Mrs. J. H. Jenkins, away up in Praslin,
which she says is the second-largest island
in the Seychelles group, is proud, and it
seems she is justified, over the sailfish
which she had just caught when she
wrote to this paper. This fish, she claims,
is the largest of its kind ever caught in
the Seychelles. It is 9ft. long and weighs
1751 b. Its tail measures 2ft. 6in. across,
and its outspread sail 4ft. Altogether it
breaks the record by 701 b. The sailfish
is one of the species that fall for the
hook-and-feather racket, and 350 yards
of 32-cord line proved this one’s undoing.
With the new woollen fabrics you can
eat your cake and have it, too. You
can go gaily and lightsomely clad when
winds o’ winter nights blow shrewd and
shrill, and still be as cosy as a feather
in an eiderdown. Hundreds of men and
women applauded the delicate hues of
evening frock and afternoon dress. A
Paisley printed evening frock that had
the suppleness of silk was a choice piece.
Its slightly-trained skirt swung full and
free. There was a wool-lace wedding
frock, and raiment in which the most
captious modern bridesmaid should feel
like the heiress to millions. There were
swimming suits, gay and gaudy; there
were slacks and negliges. Colors were
anything from liquid gold to legionnaire
red, with pigeon-blue, green-tea, red-
raspberry and blackberry-wine mixed in
between. In this sheep’s clothing the
mannequins looked like lambs.
The Australian Wool Board instigated
the display and the party that surrounded
it. Chairman Dalziel Kelly made a
speech, Cinesound took pictures, the
drinks were anything from fruitcup to
what have you? The jolly old crowned
merino who Lambeth-walked on the
programme had a convivial air. He
might with justice have been haughty,
as he realised that the display of goods
in the Australia ballroom was originally
the product of his brethren, his cousins
and his aunts, and that yearly they were
worth almost £55,000,000 to the land they
lived in. A really good Australian
family.
Around all the green and brown spaces,
little bays and sunny beaches, the work
of the Red Cross goes on unceasingly. A
very active branch is the Collaroy-
Narrabeen, and the secretary of its
younger set is Mrs. Cyril Dedden, seen
in this Falk photograph. This branch
has been established six or seven years,
and in the last six months, besides bundles
of socks, these younger workers have
handed in £25 to the funds.
A second visit to the Ballet “Fran-
cesca” last Wednesday confirms first im-
pressions that this is strong meat. Rest
assured, there is no vegetarian diet about
this number. Carbohydrates, calories
and vitamins are simply rampant about
the court of Malatesta. Even Francesca
has the iron in her blood. In one scene
she and her young man put in practically
the elements of the Apache dance to
show the storm of their emotions. Alto-
gether it’s a grand show, full of dash and
plot from the word go. Daggers are
drawn and swords flash, and there are
two corpses at the end. As the American
language says, “it’s got everything.”
Brian Cannell, who was Elioth
Gruner’s secretary, sends from Maori-
land, where he is paying a visit to the
artist’s sister, a copy of the letter propos-
ing a memorial to Gruner. The letter is
signed by Archdeacon Robertson, who
is chairman of the committee, and it ;s
sent out from the Rectory, St. John’s
Church, Canberra, where as long as 25
years ago Gruner attended the services.
It will be remembered that the artist
loved Canberra and often stayed there,
and that some of his finest painting por-
trays the surrounding landscape. The
suggested memorial is very modest. It is
planned to erect a stone reredos on the
altar of St. John’s. This would contain
three panels, the two end ones to hold, if
possible, Gruner paintings. The whole,
it is estimated, will cost from two to
three hundred pounds. Subscriptions can
be sent to “The Gruner Memorial Fund,”
c/o the manager, Commonwealth Bank,
Canberra. Robert Broinowski and Ken-
neth Oliphant are on the committee.
Mrs. R. G. Casey had every minute of
every hour occupied while she was in
Sydney last week. Every day there was
a luncheon party, as well as afternoon-
tea drinkings. There was a late-afternoon
do given by Mrs. E. J. Watt (the Watts and
the Caseys are family connections). There
were the American Consular reception
and many dinner parties. Mrs. Casey,
by the way, is a great battler for
Australian painting, Australian woods
and Australian-made carpets. She looks
forward to living in Washington, and
after being so much in Canberra she
should be quite inured to a political
atmosphere.
From windy Wellington in Maoriland
came Phyllis O’Shea a little more than
a year ago to the studio of Frances
Scully to study ballet dancing. Phyllis
has a capacity for work plus a natural
talent, and her teachers were not sur-
prised when she won the £lOO scholar-
ship to the Royal Academy of Dancing
in London. This was for the most
promising dancer in N. S. Wales and
Queensland. The scholarship is awarded
every two years, and last time also a
pupil of the Frances Scully school
(Audrae Swayn) won it. Now with war
alarms sounding Phyllis is awaiting a plan
to be suggested by the academy in Lon-
don as to her further studies. Monte
Luke photograph.
The best Swiss hanky was soaked
through by the time the curtain at the
Minerva went down on the heartbreak
of Pat McDonald and her family in
“Love on the Dole.” Lots of welfare
workers and social uplifters were in the
audience, but, alas! to them, the scenes
in this home without jobs were probably
just slices of the life they see as they
go about their humanitarian work.
Canon Hammond was represented. Mrs.
Peter Morphy and Mrs. Marjorie Kato
were noticed in the audience. Bishop
Moyes, of Armidale, too, was there.
Pat McDonald’s father and mother
were there, very proud of their clever
daughter. Mrs. McDonald wore pearls
with her black frock. Robin Eakin
was there with her mother, Mrs. R. A.
Eakin. Robin’s young man is in camp.
Black-and-white-striped taffetas swished
as she walked, and she girdled them with
a deep band of Russian violet. Frances
Ellis suggested a Shakspeare heroine.
She was slimness in black, and on
her fair head she wore a scarf of black
lace. A pretty girl was Betty Welch
from the Waikato (Maoriland). Her
frock of green was quilted in gold. In
spite of its cowled hood there was nothing
monastic about this dress. Nora Peachey,
an English actress, Mrs. Clive Ogilvy and
Barbara Salenger were among the night’s
attractive.
Some day when you are strolling
through Centennial Park you may have
the luck to see crisp young women, their
trig suits of forest green belted with
brown, topped by jaunty forage caps, en-
gaged in mysterious rites amid sward and
boskage. You won’t be seeing fairies at
the bottom of the garden, or even daugh-
ters of the leprechaun. The busy ones
will be members of the Women’s Emer-
gency Signalling Corps running wires
and telephone buzzers, and indulging in
outbursts of Morse. Before they can do
this they must give many nights and after-
noons, or, if they are business girls, their
lunch hours, to attending lectures and ac-
quiring practical knowledge of the elec-
trical and radio apparatus necessary.
The members of this Emergency Sig-
nalling Corps, which is run by the Elec-
trical Association for Women, will even-
tually, if necessity arises, be able to help
to keep telegraph and wireless com-
munications open. About 200 girls jour-
ney up to the Women’s Electrical Asso-
ciation rooms in Clarence-street, just near
the approach to the Bridge, on the lec-
ture nights. The lecture starts at seven
o’clock, but the girls come early, pro-
vided with sandwiches.
Mrs. F. J. McKenzie, who organised
the movement, provides cups of tea, and
then everybody gets busy, and lecture
followed by demonstration goes on till
about nine o’clock. It is reckoned that
a student must have six months’ training
before she is commercially useful. The
emergency signallers got busy last July,
three or four months before the war
started. The girls take transmitting, re-
ceiving and theoretical examinations. So
far 80 have qualified.
The new hut close to the Chapter
House of St. Mary’s Cathedral is now
in running order for the entertainment
of soldiers and sailors. Although this
hut is being run by the Roman Catholic
community, its services are for men of
any creed and in any type of military or
naval uniform. There are facilities for
writing letters ; there’s a piano. All the
building, painting, plumbing has been
done free of charge. Free of charge
also will be the service of the hut.
Last week had a very changing pattern.
There were cricket and tennis, wool was
extolled in a fashion parade, there were
semi-official farewells to the Caseys, and
on Friday the Ballet dusted a handful
of glittering sequins on the whole.
“Choreartium” was the principal dish
of this change of programme, but even
the superb Tamara Toumanova and
Lichine could not divest it of that un-
reasonable suggestion of the Hitler Youth
movement that it holds for this Letter.
All the usual devotees of ballet were in
their first-night seats. Mrs. Ben Edye
and Stephanie were there ; so was Mrs.
Dundas Allen, peacock blues in the
ribbon shoulder straps of her flowered
dress. Brown lace with touches of gold
was worn by Bea Meeks. Penelope Cay,
Faith Macarthur Onslow and Barbara
Knox were seen.
Apart from the Casey entertainments,
Geoff Lempriere’s beach party for the
Ballet last week was the most talked-of.
Nielsen Park rendezvous after the show,
and then supper and song till almost
dawn-crack.
The Morrows, of Runnymede, near
Cassilis, are down in Sydney at Bayview
with three young Morrows, cooling off.
Temperature when they exited hastily
was 115.
Mrs. Destombes, back in Sydney and
just now living at Potts Point, is busy
on her second book of travels. For her
first book she was awarded the gold
medal of the Geographical Society of
France. The book on which she is now
engaged concerns her journeys through
China and Indo-China.
The Mayor’s Patriotic Fund benefited
by a fashion parade at the Australia last
week. Clothes seem a never-failing draw,
and women gazed with pensive satisfac-
tion as furs and evening gowns and suits
were paraded before them by girls with
attractive figures. A grey fur coat (it
looked like squirrel) with a cuddly
matching muff could have been borne
by at least one onlooker in spite of the
day’s feverish temperature.


AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “Bulletin ” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm
The Phantom —Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Florence Edith Barlow.
WILL the abovenamed, last heard of at Villier
Street, London, in 1921, or any Person knowing
her address, please communicate with MESMO.
GUILLAUME & SONS, Solicitors, 1 Salisbury
Square, London, E.C.4, when she may hear
of something to her advantage.
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles
of kidney tubes and Alters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger of acid
poisoning Is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
Aness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and Alters. , . ,
Don’t delay I Ask your chemist or store
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS .. .
used successfully the world over by
of people. They give quick relief and will
helD to Aush out the 15 MILES of kidney
tubes. GET DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS at your chemist or store,
Melbourne
Chatter
The feminine element of the A.I.F. is
getting into party clothes for farewells,
but not into new ones; evening and day
frocks which have seen an amount of
service are doing the trick, for in most
cases the nuises and masseuses have
agreed that it would be foolish to buy
anything that is not going to be used
often while ihey are away. Luggage
space, too, is precious, and these young
women hope that when they have leave
they will have accumulated enough sav-
ing's to go giddy in whatever shops are
on tap.
Royal Melbourne Hospital is repre-
sented by Matron Anne Sage, who is
leading the contingent, with Jessie Bowe,
who got out of her uniform for the last
time (for the present) and into a light-
weight summer frock on an evening when
some of her confreres on the staff took
her into town for a farewell dinner.
There’s to be a further party at the hos-
pital on the 12th, when other guests of
honor will be Susie Finlayson (who has
been saying good-byes at the Freemasons
Hospital, where she has worked for a
year or more), Margaret Josephs (who
has been shaking hands with the Diggers
at Caulfield Military Hospital), Haidee
Metzner, Dorothy Mills and Eileen
Jones ; also Winifred Kelly, who must
be among the babies of the contingent.
She did a year on the staff at the Mel-
bourne after finishing her training, and
will be at the Children’s until she relin-
quishes her duties there early this month.
Prince Henry representatives are Dora
Burchill, who has travelled and nursed
in Spain, Vera Ley and Elizabeth For-
rest. The only nurse who trained at the
Children’s is Eleanor Logan, who said
good-bye last week to the young patients.
The three nurses for war service who
trained at St. Vincent’s are Margaret
Walsh, Eileen O’Keefe and Beatrice
Kelly. Constance Kirk leaves the Queen
Victoria, where she has been adding
more qualifications to her general certi-
ficate.
Accounts are being balanced for Flag
Day, on which £l2OO-odd was collected
through donations, sales of buttons, at
stalls, etc., to help along the Lord
Mayor’s Comforts Fund, which reached
£34,000 last week-end. Among the Flag
Day stalls there was a victory for vita-
mins A, B, C and D (or whichever mem-
bers of the family live abundantly in
pineapples), for Mrs. Abe Silk’s pine-
apple stall at the Town Hall corner
brought in the amount of £353, all for
pineapples, pineapple juice and some
cantaloups to fill up the corners. The
Blarney lady’s, stall on the doorstep of
the Australia collected £3lO, and the
talents of the artists of brush and pencil
in the Town Hall foyer were responsible
for £l90 —a worthy effort on the part
of people to whom time is money, and
to whom a tube of paint means per-
haps the worth of a week’s smokes.
The Jewish Young Men’s Society and
the concert stall in Bourke-street run by
Mrs. Barry Thomson and Mrs. J. R.
Murphy each raised £l2O. Mrs. J. F.
Key’s convening of stockings and cigar-
ettes in the Block Arcade produced a
similar amount. The three days’ tea-
and luncheon-rooms, managed by Mrs.
Ray Buxton and Mrs. J. J. Daly, brought
in over £lOO, as did the Duration Group
stall, organised by Mrs. E. Dye.
The older generation can stay the dis-
tance as well as the younger. At the
farewell party at Admiralty House to
M. Paul Bibron it was 3 a.m. before the
400-odd guests stopped dancing and
5 a.m. before the last of them left for
home for a snack of sleep before break-
fast. M. Bibron is relinquishing a career
during which he has taught dancing in
Melbourne for several decades. To him
it doesn’t seem so very long ago since
the days when his pupils arrived in car-
riages at Old Admiralty House, all curls
and flounces and furbelows with conscien-
tious chaperons in attendance.
Hearing that the party was in the
wind, absent friends sent word by mail,
and 100 telegrams arrived from every
State and from New Guinea. Speakers
at the party, some of whom were pupils
of a past era and all of whom were
friends of “Bibe,” included Generals
Blarney and Johnston, Judge C. H. Book,
W. Horsfall, Lucius Conolly and Harry
Davey.
Being a Frenchman M. Bibron can
accept a bouquet with dignity. He re-
ceived two, one of red flowers, the other
of water-lilies. His friends presented him
with a cheque as well as their compli-
ments, and there was a presentation also
for his manageress, Mrs. Wrathall. She
is staying on at Admiralty House, where
Harry and Una Vine, who are M.
Bibron’s successors, are holding a cabaret
opening night on February 10.
A recently-engaged couple are Mary
Wilson (whose photograph is by Athol
Shmith) and Simon Fraser. Mary is the
only daughter of J. S. Wilson, of Torres-
dale-road, Toorak, and the late Mrs.
Wilson, and her fiance is the elder son
of the late Simon Fraser and of Mrs.
Fraser, of Trawalla-avenue.
Alan Treloar is Rhodes scholar-elect
for 1940, but instead of going to Oxford
he’s in camp, a corporal in the M.U.R.
He’s a son of Major Treloar, well known
at the War Memorial Library in Can-
berra. Alan is a past student of Cary
Grammar School and of Ormond Col-
lege. An exhibition in Philology is the
climax to his successful classics course,
well-peppered in all years with exhibitions
and honors in Latin, Greek and French.
Among other University students who
did particularly well in their finals was
Edgar Harcourt, who is addicted to Eng-
lish and Philosophy, a switch from his
original plan of architecture. He com-
pleted this latter course in all save _ two
subjects before deciding that he didn’t
want to be a professional architect and
plunging into arts. He s a past-student
of Wesley and Queen’s and shows
prowess at football.
Bruce Williams, placed first in the first-
class honors list of the School of Econo-
mics, is very young to have done so well.
Particular distinctions in the School of
History came to L. G. Churchward,
G. B. Westmore and R. Neale. Among
the young women students Jessie Wight,
an old girl of M.L.C., did a particularly
solid course, and in passing plucked
honors and exhibitions in English
Language and Literature. She’s interested
in sport, was in the Queen’s tennis team
and was always ready for a game ot
basketball. Marjorie Dyson won first-
class honors in French and German, and
Alison Gillespie collected first-class
honors and the final exhibition m
Philosophy. Jean Irene McPherson, who
is an old girl of P.L.C., did a well-above-
average course in Science and won honors
of the first-class variety in Bio-chemistry.
The Maurice Quins and their three
children, visitors from the ‘‘hottest spot
in Australia,” are being made welcome
by their numerous relatives, with head-
quarters at Charles H. Quin’s old stone
mansion in High-street, Malvern. This
family, on a much-appreciated holiday
to a cooler climate, lives at Bamboo
Springs, Marble Bar (W.A.), where the
homestead is built of mud (for coolness)
and mosquito wire. ’Planes, the flying
doctor and the pedal radio have made that
part of the world much less isolated than
it was a few years ago. Maurice’s sisters
Margot Quin and Mrs. Noel O’Keefe
gave a late-afternoon party for the
family’s W.A. offshoots when in between
long cold drinks on a hot night guests
were face to face with images of the deities
of Bali. Charles Quin has numerous pals
among ocean-going skippers who for
years have sailed the coral seas of the
East Indies.
Something of a surprise was in store
for the 1000 or so women and girls who,
having joined the Women’s Air Training
Corps, gathered on the C. of E. Girls’
Grammar sportsground last Saturday
afternoon for what they thought would
be a sit-down meeting. They found them-
selves drafted into squadrons, toeing the
line, forming fours and marching up and
down in the blazing sunshine, mostly in
high heels and wearing the sort of hats
that simply are not done for drill. Now
that volunteers know something of what
they are in for, a lot will drop out and
the rest will get going, and the move-
ment will gradually take shape. Mrs.
J. R. Bell, Nancy Lyle, Freda Thompson,
Ruth Snell, Mrs. L. Westbrook and
Joyce Inglis shouted sergeant-major’s
orders (without trumpets), and Marjorie
Goodisson helped with orderly duty. A
hopeful sign, considering the variety of
ages present, was that there were no
faintings or other casualties. Noticed
among the Trojans were Lynette Walk-
ley, Mrs. John Howse, Puss Carse, Edith
Anderson, Gladys Brunton, Ivah Perry,
Peggy Mollard and Anne Turnbull.
Athol Shmith’s camera has caught
Shirley Campbell in a happy frame of
mind. Shirley, who is the daughter of
the Colin Campbells, of Kent House,
Queenscliff, recently became engaged to
Captain Robert Maynard Cruickshank,
elder son of Lieut.-Colonel and Mrs.
M. H. Cruickshank, of Hobart.
Padre William Tyler, of Puckapunyal,
had his fair share of weddings on Satur-
day. He performed ceremonies at Gee-
long (his old parish), at Williamstown
and in St. James’s Old Cathedral, and in
between appointments he attended as a
guest the marriage of one of his flock,
Captain Michael Buring, who was mar-
ried to Meredith Buchanan in St. Paul’s
Cathedral by the precentor, the Rev.
Hole, assisted by the Rev. J. W. Bethune.
Mr. Bethune is Michael’s godfather.
He has memories of the day he
christened Michael, a protesting infant,
and he went to the last war with
Michael’s father, A. G. A. Buring, so a
little thing like the distance by air across
Bass Strait did not prevent him from
attending the young man’s wedding. The
’groom’s gifts to the ’maids, the bride’s
sisters Lindsay and Elizabeth, were pieces
of jewellery, and he also recognised the
valuable services of best man Lieut.
F. H. Wood and groomsman Lieut.
P. S. Whitelaw with a beer mug apiece.
A recent engagement is that of
Yvonne, only daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
A. E. V. Richardson, and Lindsay,
younger son of J. W. Cust, of Brighton,
and the late Mrs. Cust. Yvonne, who
possesses few immediate relatives, has
therefore no great number of family
letters to write with news of her engage-
ment, but Lindsay has three sisters and
a brother scattered in various places, so
no doubt he’ll be using his fountain pen
a little more than usual.
Brother Reg, who is the musician of
the family, is in Sydney. Pat, otherwise
Mrs. Theo Haultain, is living with her
children on Dunk Island. Her husband,
ex-skipper of the Larrakia and of the
Vigilant, has joined the Air Force and
is now an instructor in navigation. Mrs.
David Triggett lives in the Western Dis-
trict, and a third sister, Sylvia Cust, is
in England, where she went two years
ago in company with Honor Good.
Recently news arrived from overseas of
Honor’s marriage to Rhodes scholar
Michael Thwaites, at which Sylvia was
bridesmaid. She is living in London,
and has taken over the flat which used
to be the home of Ivan Menzies.
The girls of Melbourne’s Y.W.C.A.
are sure to like their new general sec-
retary, Louise Burton, who commences
her duties in succession to Grace Carr
on March 1. Miss Burton, who possesses
a beautiful complexion, a charming smile
and the suggestion of a Canadian accent
which is by no means unattractive, gives
the impression of knowing and under-
standing girls and their problems. She
received early experience in her work in
Melbourne, Sydney, Bendigo and Bris-
bane. Then she went to Nottingham,
England, where she was Y.W.C.A. sec-
retary for several years, and was on
her way home to Australia via Canada
when she was caught up in Toronto,
where the Y.W.C.A. of that city per-
suaded her to stay and carry on its sec-
retarial work for eight years.
Miss Burton says that Canadians and
Americans are very conscious of the
Y.W.C.A. and feel themselves responsible
for its progress. There is also co-
operation between the two countries
through conferences, interchange of in-
structors, etc. In Toronto the association,
through one or more of its activities, is
in touch with between 5000 and 6000
women and girls. It catches them young ;
there are clubs for Canadian High School
girls aged between 12 and The asso-
ciation approves of “co-eds” and en-
courages the girls to attend the club social
fixtures.
Miss Burton speaks of the growth of
interest throughout the American con-
tinent in vocational guidance. Here the
Y.W.C.A. is very up to date, for, as well
as providing group activities, education
and recreation, it gives its constituents the
services of guidance clinics wherein help
is available from psychiatric centres. The
clinics are well patronised, for all girls
have their worries, varying from losing
jobs to family disruptions. While she
was in Toronto Miss Burton says the
Y.W.C.A. erected a chapel at its central
building. The chapel is open day and
night, and is used a greal deal by the
general public.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Fertb
Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S. A. )■
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting the
Australian equivalent of 3 American dollars
through “The Bulletin” Office, 252 George
Street, S'ydney.
THE SERVICE MAN
Europe and the Near East.
“Ek Dum”: This certainly is a peculiar
war. Neutrals in Europe are suffering
as much as anybody. While the armies
on the Western Front are sitting down
in their burrows, Antwerp is dead. Re-
turns for September—and that was only
the beginning of the slump—showed that
only 258 ships entered the port, com-
pared with 1025 in September, 1938. In
the first week of October, Rottendam
saw 91 vessels come in instead of a
normal 270 to 300.
All neutral countries within striking
distance of Germany, Italy excepted, are
more than half mobilised. In parts of
Holland the dykes are opened, and cut
trees and branches span the watery waste
which used to be farm and pasture and
roads.
Meanwhile, the Germans are doing all
they can to demonstrate to neutrals that
everything goes on as usual in the Reich
and that only Franco-British life is dis-
located. Dutch and Scandinavian papers
are full of advertisements for German
tourist resorts and towns almost on the
fringes of the Siegfried positions. It is
probable that there has been less change
in life in Germany than in other countries
involved; but only because the chief
business of Germany for a long time
has been preparing for war.
None of the latest advices from
Europe seems to give any real clue as
to what course the war may take.
The Imperial Policy Group sums up
the German plan of operations as one
based on an intention to strike at a
series of limited local objectives without
becoming involved in general hostilities
on two or more fronts.
The technique as it was applied to
Czechoslovakia and Poland is instanced.
The push against Czechoslovakia began
in May, 1938. Rumors of German troop
movements were allowed to spread.
Europe was excited gradually to fever
point, but Germany did not march. The
whole game was to determine the re-
actions of other countries, to see where
help might be forthcoming for the
Czechs. Germany knew at the end of
that operation exactly what must be
done to isolate and break down the
victim. Poland and Hungary were
tempted with offers of territory. Russia
was dealt with quietly and the Siegfried
Line was built. When the moment was
ripe the trap was sprung.
With Poland the same technique was
followed. There was the preliminary
threat, then the pause while Germany
created a defensive screen and isolated
Poland from her neighbors. When the
campaign started espionage in Poland had
supplied Germany with data to the last
dot on the maps. Poland conquered, the
strategy is the same.
The Imperial Policy Group observers
say that there was never any question
of a German offensive in the West dur-
ing autumn or winter.
Great Britain and France are quite alive
to the fact that the old historical battle-
grounds of the West may become little
more than the site of a great garrison, the
successful holding of which may largely
neutralise Western Europe from the military
point of view. The least weakening of the
position would soon lead to a different
state of affairs.
According to the I.P.G., an increasing
probability is that the next objective will
be the Near East. There are limits
beyond which the Germans could not
reach in that direction, but there is room
enough between the Western European
and Near East defences of the Allies for
“surprising events.”
Hungary might be pressed to aggres-
sion against Rumania, with coincident
pressure against Bessarabia from the
Russians. Bulgaria might be offered the
Dobrudja. Then the evil partners of
Berlin and Moscow would try to bar-
gain with Turkey, whose policy it is to
keep friendly with the Soviet Union. The
Turks would be tempted with offers of
the restoration of Syria, Palestine and
Irak: —
So far as Turkey is concerned, her Gov-
ernment is a highly honorable one, with
every intention of carrying out its obliga-
tions to the-Allies... .But Turkey’s reser-
vations over Russia constitute a serious
obstacle which is grossly underestimated
in the West and by the Turks themselves,
who cannot and will not believe that Russia
is really working with Germany... .Turkey
will meet with nothing but disaster if she
disregards the ominous signs of Russo-
German collaboration and is manoeuvred
out of the Allied sphere.
Furphies.
“Nobby II.”: The things cablemen
swallow! For example, that Germany
“Duck over to the Q.S. stores and get me a whip, sarge !”
has 75 berths building submarines and
that the output soon will be two every
three days—24o a year.
So far construction of U-boats has
been at least a seven months’ job. If
the enemy is going to put the output up
to 20 a month he will need a good many
more than 75 berths. It took him three
years, 1936-39, to increase his underwater
fleet from 29 to 71. Thus the supposed
war-time programme means packing a
normal three years’ construction into a
month.
When said quickly and with sufficient
awe of Mr. Hitler, 240 U-boats a year
doesn’t sound much. Actually it amounts
to just over 10 miles of hulls, let alone
other trifles.
The German yarn is almost as rich
as the one about the 1600 ft. warships of
which the Soviet Union has been boasting
over Moscow radio. To build those in
secrecy would be a greater achievement
even than to just build them. Their top
hamper would be nearly 150 yards above
the keel —H.M.S. Hood’s fighting top is
about 154 ft. from the waterline, and she
is half the length of the Russian bogey
ships. Stalin’s monsters would stretch
nearly from the Hotel Metropole to
King-street in Sydney, and be at least
twice as wide as Martin-place.
Perhaps some radio uncle has mistaken
an iceberg for an ironclad in the smoke
and mist which hang round the Gulf
of Finland.
“J’wood”: Denys Reitz fought for the
Boers against the British when he was
a boy. He followed Botha and Smuts
when they accepted the British connec-
tion, and, unlike Hertzog, he has never
twisted. Now a writer with an inter-
national reputation and a Union Min-
ister, Reitz visited Britain when Casey
and Fraser (of Maoriland) were there,
and crossed the Channel to inspect the
Western Front. Returning to Cape
Town, he has said three interesting
things: (1) The position there is not
stalemate but checkmate ; (2) the British
are holding a remembered line from Lille
to Arras, which, unfortified at the out-
break of war, now has defences so strong
that there are barbed-wire entangle-
ments ten miles deep ; (3) the Germans
over-concentrated on bombers and have
too few fighters, with the result that they
can harm London less than the Allies
can harm the Ruhr. It is the most illu-
minating statement that has been made
by any British Commonwealth Minister
since September 3.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Chamberlain must have had
Tennyson’s “Ode on the Death of the
Duke of Wellington” in mind when he
made that moving reference to the
neutrals —so different from Churchill’s
stuff —in his last speech, perhaps the best
he has ever made. Especially these
lines:
For this is England’s greatest son,
He that gained a hundred fights,
Nor ever lost an English gun.
Quoth the old P.M.: “We ask the
neutrals to remember that we have never
sunk a neutral ship and have never wit-
tingly sacrificed a neutral life.” If we
had a Tennyson today he could make a
haunting stanza of it by slightly altering
the original. But only Communists write
war verse nowadays, and theirs like
their fighting—is rotten.
Around the Army.
XIII.
THE SIGNALLER.
By dot and dash ( it’s iddy-iddy-umpty),
Or should the flags or hello be his
gear,
Whether in ice or mud or sand he’s
dumped, he
Will send his “don” and “esses,” “toe”
and “beer.”
His flow of torrid epithets amazes
When things are slow and he’s becom-
ing bored;
But when the lines are being blown to
blazes
The “spook” would have a furious
golfer floored.
Dawn. Men, pliers dangling from their
belts, and a couple of them carrying a
reel between them, nose their way up
towards the front line and sing out cheer-
fully: “Hey, can any of you coves tell
us where the F.O.O. hangs out?”
Reply, in a stage whisper: “Can’t you
blankards talk quieter? Do y’ want to
draw all the crabs around the place?
Jerry’s on’y a coupla hundred yards
away.”
“That’s all right, Dig.—the lardheads
aren’t afraid of us.”
“Whisper, you goats, can’t yer? It’s
all right for you cows cornin’ up here for
five minutes and then nickin’ off and
leavin’ us to cop everything he sends
over.”
But this will not deter the signallers.
When after further profane inquiries they
are given the location of the Forward
Observations Officer, they may move on,
more or less quietly. If, as is likely, they
have had a few swigs of O.P. from the
water-bottle on the way up, they may
even break into “Sweet Adeline” or their
own battle-song:
We are the signal army,
A ragtime mob, you see:
We cannot fight, we cannot run —
What ruddy use are we?
Eventually they get to their destination,
install a field ’phone in the observation
post, and retire amid a furious barrage
of curses from the infantry.
The signal linesman whose job it is to
repair breaks in the telephone and tele-
graph lines from all points of the front,
from F.0.P., battery and battalion H.Q.
back to brigade, div. and corps, is no
great respecter of persons, and from the
safe vantage of obscurity he conducts
flippant conversations with the brasshats.
Let us wander with a linesman as he
makes a “test” back to H.Q. after repair-
ing several lines that have been blown
up. Before taping up he gives a ring
on his small ’phone and probably bangs
a general in the ear as he talks to another
of the heads. Instantly the linesman is
engaged in conversation with a voice full
of fish-hooks and menaces.
“Yes, general, I’ll see to it right away.
My G.S.O. has —hullo! hullo! who the
devil’s that cutting in?”
Instantly recognising the voice of a
haw-haw whom he has no great time for,
the linesman adopts the tone for the
occasion.
“This is Henry the Eighth, and who the
devil’s that?”
“What! Who the”
“Well, well! If it isn’t little Miss
Boleyn, and she’s grown a big walrus
mo! Now don’t lose your head, Ann
darling.”
“By God, when I find out who you
are I’ll give you 28 days’ first field
punish”
“You’d play hell with a big stick and
a crate of eggs, wouldn’t y’!”
“Look here, my man, you get off the
line at once or I’ll”
“Ar, go an’ take a running jump at
yourself! How about you getting off
yourself and giving me a burl?”
Of course, even a ropeable general has
no hope of finding out who the linesman
is, even if he had the time to try. It can
always be blamed on to one of a dozen
units operating in the sector.
To the Tommy signaller the airy persi-
flage of the Australian linesman as he
chats the high-and-mighty is a constant
source of popeyed wonder. “Bloimey,
choom,” he exclaims, “if we squawked to
ahr awfficers like that we’d all get shot!’
Should the division general at some
time get a bit nasty and put a popular
boozer out of bounds nothing much can
be done about it, but at least he can be
chiacked in perfect safety. So at about
three o’clock one morning the general
will rise from a deep sleep to grab the
’phone beside his bunk, wondering
whether it’s a break-through or a night-
mare he’s been having.
“Hullo, hullo, yes, what is it?”
A voice, simulating a feminine squeak,
will answer him.
“G’day, mudguts, it’s time you were up.
Rise and shine!”
“Who the”
“It’s your wife here, and don’t take
that hectoring tone when you talk to me!
Just remember you’re not ordering your
troops about now. I’ll do any ordering
that’s needed around this place. And
what’s all this I hear about you trying
to do a line with that little red-headed
piece where you’re billeted?”
It’s a poor sort of signal unit that you
can’t knock some fun out of, even in a
war.
S. W. K.


*
m W£AK M£N AND WOMtN
Loss of ■vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. IVrite for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
on
GLAND
TONIC
TABLETS
(rut-
Radiotrons stand out in
popularity with radio
owners and broadcasting
engineers as the most de-
pendable and best known
radio valve.
RADIOT
VALVES &
* SEALED FOR
YOUR PROTECT/OH
Advt. of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co.
Pty. Ltd.
THE FLYING COLUMN
The New Frightfulness.
“Aileron”: On Monday and Tuesday
of last week German aircraft ruthlessly
attacked shipping off the east coast of
Britain. About 40 machines took part,
and newspapers complain that only one
was brought down. But without know-
ledge of weather and visibility conditions
and other factors, it is not fair to con-
demn the R.A.F.
The raiders attempted no offensive
against coastal towns, but their perform-
ance at sea was marked by sheer
brutality. Their prey was small coastal
“Look out , Bert; the silly cow's flyin' blind.”
ships, lightships and trawlers, mainly
types of vessels specifically excluded from
attack by The Hague Conventions. They
claim to have sunk 14 merchantmen and
four patrol boats, and brought down a
’plane without themselves suffering loss.
According to a group of newspapers,
the British admit that 11 ships were
sunk or severely damaged, and that 106
brave seamen lost their lives. On Tues-
day, however, a flying-boat doing most
of the work, they got a U-boat which
had attacked a convoy, and the survivors
are now in an internment camp.
On Saturday there were further attacks.
The enemy claims to have sunk “a mine-
sweeper, four patrol ships and nine
merchantmen under convoy,” and to have
“seriously damaged many other armed
merchantmen” ; but admits that ‘ three
’planes failed to return.” The British
brought down two —one near a Whitby
farmhouse and seriously damaged two
others, and no R.A.F. machine was lost.
In the bitterest winter for 125 years,
the chances are five to one against any
seaman living if cast into the sea, unless
immediately rescued. The mere sinking
of ships at present is, therefore, tanta-
mount to wholesale murder.
The raids were marked by savage
machine-gunning and showers of bombs,
and, in one case, by the dropping of
steel darts. A Nazi ’plane flew over the
small unarmed lightship Dudgeon. The
pilot waved, went into a dive, bombeu
the vessel and then machine-gunned her.
Eight out of the helpless crew of nine
are dead.
When the Stanburn, a 2880-ton coaster
carrying 28 men, was sunk, only two
men survived. Eighteen of the crew ol
the Eston perished ; 19 were drowned
or shot when Giralda was
destroyed. The 200-ton t Rigo
letto lost her skipper and mate th y
were machine-gunnedwhtletrying
put out a fire started by a bomb.
So far from f ® horror at these
deeds, the enemy boasted in this fashion.
The explosions blew part of the bridge
of
cras hing and screaming from the ship,
Flames from the blazing bridge swept the
decks. They crept towards four men who
temperately
floundering in the sea as the ship sank, as
though afraid of being sucked under.
obviously four years of the Great War
taugbt the enemy nothing about the
British mentality. The kind of men who go
§ea - n w [ n t er in what Berlin blithely
cads tbe “German Ocean,” whether they
ar£ Br j t ish G r Scandinavian, belong to the
g ree£ j wbose determination is only stif-
£ened by atrocity.
*
That Messerschmitt Model.
“Aileron”: “Aeroplane” publishes—
for the first time in any language —speci-
fic details of the Messerschmitt two-
motor fighter, which should prove a
good antidote to a lot of the nonsense
which has been broadcast.
The machine is a sound one but not
revolutionary. Its wing span is 55ft.;
wings are metal-covered. It is powered
with two 1150 Daimler-Benz DB-601
motors. Empty weight (tare) is 99001 b.,
and disposable load 49001 b. Wing-loading
is about 35.8 per sq. ft., power—at take
0ff—6.441b. per h.p.
The machine apparently has a cruis-
ing range, at 15,000 ft., of 820 miles, dura-
tion 2-f-hrs.; of 1500 miles at 215 m.p.h.
and 1750 miles at 175 m.p.h., though
these figures are necessarily only calcu-
lated. f
It has a long glasshouse, and, o
course, two nacelles, but the design is
generally aerodynamically clean; tne
wing-loading is high, but not •
It is bigger than the average fighter as
a target. .
“Aeroplane” comments that it does
not appear quite so formidable as pub-
licity suggests.”
It seems to be a long-distance escort
machine for bombers. The two 20mm.
cannon fixed to fire forward through the
nose and four machine-guns—two fixed
forward and two at the rear on a mov-
able mounting—do not sound nearly as
terrifying for actual scrapping as the eight
concentrated guns of the Hurricanes and
Spitfires. Evidently _ the new Boulton-
Paul was designed with some knowledge
of the new German bogey.
Commercial Aviation
Carries On.
Though there has been a reduction
here and there, the England-Australia,
England-East Africa, England-South
Africa and England-Far East services
have been maintained to an astonishing
extent since the war began, and book-
ings on all Empire routes have been par-
ticularly heavy. Demands on African
traffic were such that Imperial Airways
put on a special service, using land-
planes, between England and Egypt, and
a weak spot in the structure of Empire
communications was eliminated by the ex-
tension of the England-Egypt service to
Karachi and Calcutta.
Over the Atlantic work goes on as
usual, despite the necessary change of
terminal at the English end. This service
functions under the handicap of almost
complete absence of navigational and
weather aids, but it takes more than a
major war to hold up British fliers in-
tent on doing a job of this kind.
The almost-hourly service London to
Paris was suspended immediately war
was declared. Daily flights to Swit-
zerland, Belgium, Hungary and Poland
similarly came to an end, but a line to
Scandinavia started by British Airways
just before the declaration of war
operates without interruption. And six
weeks after the outbreak of war Imperial
Airways and Air France put on a Lon-
don-Paris service which operates with two
departures daily from each capital.
Uncle Sam Takes an Interest.
“Aileron”: Significant are the sending
of United Airlines’ foreign sales man-
ager, H. B. Longfellow, to Australia and
the appointment of E. H. Forrest as Aus-
tralian manager. He will work in close
association with Qantas.
With the Pan-Pacific line operating
from Auckland to Honolulu and Im-
perial Airways providing connection with
Sydney across the Tasman, and with
Atlantic services running at full schedule
when conditions allow, United Airlines
will cover the continental part of the
Australia-England run.
The company is a good example of
swift development of commercial avia-
tion in the United States. It was founded
in 1926, and its machines have flown
15,000,000 miles and carried 1,500,000
passengers. It serves the Pacific Coast
from Vancouver to San Francisco and
Los Angeles. Its east-west route, through
Salt Lake City, Denver, Chicago, New
York and the Atlantic coastal cities, is
the pioneer coast-to-coast run.
“Aldis”: Particulars have reached a
Sydney newspaper (30/1/’4O) of three
Three aspects of Germany's Henschel
Hsl26. A short-range reconnaissance
high-wing monoplane, it is obviously
modelled on the R.A.F.’s Westland
Lysander.
new German military aeroplanes:
Junkers JuBBK, Heinkel Hell 2, and
Henschel Hsl26. Only the Junkers is
new; the Hsl26 was in service long be-
fore the present war. In appearance it
is strongly suggestive of Britain’s West-
land Lysander, and does the same job,
being designed only for short-range
reconnaissance, photographic and general-
purpose duties. It carries a handful of
light bombs and, like its R.A.F. proto-
type, is an intermediate form of craft.
As for the Heinkel He 112, details have
been open knowledge in R.A.F. technical
circles for some time, and it is unlikely
that the JuBBK will remain an unknown
job for very long, so difficult it is for
one side to conceal anything completely
from the other.
The Air War Day by Day.
Jan. 29: Enemy aircraft over east coast
of Britain from the Firth of Tay to
Kent. Prevented from crossing the
coast by R.A.F. fighters, the raiders
attacked shipping at various points.
Tan. 30: Renewed attacks on shipping
off east coast of Britain. Nazi bomber
shot down in the sea. On the two days,
according to newspaper reports, nine
British and neutral ships were sunk
and two are missing, presumed lost:
86 lives were lost and 20 men are
missing. Germans first claimed to have
sunk 18 ships. Later they mentioned
eight.
Jan. 31: Attacking a Grimsby trawler
a Heinkel bomber dropped steel darts
and incendiary bombs and used
machine-guns. Despite damage, trawler
made port.
Feb. 1: Steamer Highwave sunk by new-
type Nazi bomber, apparently four-
engined adaptation of commercial type.
Bombs dropped in salvos of 20.
Feb. 4: During another east coast raid
by German bombers, one was shot
down by R.A.F. fighters near Whitby,
Yorkshire, a second in the sea off Tyne-
side, and three were severely damaged
in combat. German report admits loss
of three ’planes but claims sinking of
14 ships.


IF YOU ARE ABOUT TO PURCHASE
A PORTABLE TYPEWRITER
„ THE IMPERIAL »
GOOD COMPANION
THE ENGLISH
PORTABLE
Sffi^ajmWßlTfß
VS
ns
REMEMBER THE ENGLISH
TYPEWRITER IS
£ £ £s LOWER IN PRICE
POUNDS LIGHTER IN
WEIGHT.
EVERY STANDARD TYPE-
WRITER FEATURE.
Write or call at your nearest agent.
L. Dobell & Co. Pty., Ltd., 47 Creek Street, BRISBANE; Jackson & O’Sullivan. Queen Street,
BRISBANE. Dobell Pty., Ltd., 107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; Roneo Co., Ltd.. 21 Hunter Street.
SYDNEY. Johnson and Hey. 37 Hunter Street, NEWCASTLE. Geo. Raitt & Co., Ltd., 407
Collins Street, MELBOURNE; John Withers & Sons, 210 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Holdsworth & Co., Ltd., 51 Grenfell Street. ADELAIDE. Burridge & Warren. Ltd., 69 King-
Street, PERTH. J. Walch & Son, Ltd., 130 Macquarie Street, HOBART; J. C. McPhee Pty.,
Ltd., 99 Collins Street, HOBART.
TO-DAY—Buy the Typewriter made in England.
FOR SALE
v- - -
SOUTHPORT
RUWALA” GARDEN FLATS
The most modern flats in this
fashionable watering place. Hot and
cold water, sewerage, e. 1., and
beautifully furnished throughout.
4 main flats —2 garden flats—2 cabins.
Returning over £3O PER WEEK
during the season.
Going concern: Walk in—walk out,
Price, £2750. £1250 cash—Balance
Bank interest.
Half an acre of land, offering un-
limited possibilities.
Apply Queensland Pastoral Supplies,
Ltd., Bowen St., Brisbane. G.P.O.
Box 7GSK.
S NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The North’s Strange Summer
“Q.C.R.”: In Europe they have had a
new ice age which refuses to get back
to normal. Contemporaneously, the
heavens began to play up in monsoonal
Australia. The N.T. and the Gulf coun-
try struck it hot, then “enjoyed” almost
the most expansive floods known since
the white man came.
The rain began to move down the
coast normally, except that “temperatures
were remarkably low.” But while Bris-
bane was rejoicing storms suddenly
swept the southern parts of the State ;
then an old man heat-wave, which left the
oldest inhabitant gasping, clamped down.
The middle south-west, which had been
fried last year, was now grilled. At Mit-
chell, on the s.-w. railway, where they
don’t think it hot until the beer boils,
century succeeded century, and a post-
office thermometer, “hanging near a
door in the draught,” showed 119 deg.
Centuries in other western centres were
as common as flies in Aramac.
And Brisbane had a full issue. Four
days over 90 it had known more than
once before ; this time the four turned
into 11, with great variations which in-
tensified the effect. The mercury climbed
to 109.8, dropped back to 92 and
climbed again to 106.4. Very old and
very young people suffered most; in
Queensland, the N.T. and N. S. Wales
there were 53 deaths within 10 days.
Then came a blessing: drought-break-
ing rain over Queensland, from the south-
west to the Gulf, and northern N.S.W.
Though the blessing was tempered in
parts by washaways and floods, vasi
sighs of relief went up from a vast region
which has endured much.
“Coolibar” from an ark at Newcastle
Waters (N.T.):
This time last year the Oldest Inhabitant sat
on the pub verandah and between gulps of
beer declared that “prutty soon we’d git no
blooming wet a-tall.” This year the 0.1. is
floodbound in his house, bemoaning the fact
that he can’t get down to the pub for a
spot—“Me creamy pony won’t even swim the
crick f’ me.”
What rain the Territory missed the last
eight years has been made up this wet—and we
haven’t had it all yet. Floods have been the
highest since 1921, so the lakes country will
be full of fat cattle for Vestey’s buyers this
season.
At Borroloola, on the MacArthur, there were
31 inches in 12 days. The Barkly Tableland
is a lake over a hundred miles wide; between
Daly Waters and Darwin there is one stretch
of water 260 miles wide. The Katherine had
300-odd yards of railway washed away, and
the linesman, plus belongings, had to be re-
moved from his hut.
The Roper district suffered most. Mission
buildings and effects were washed away, the
lugger Holly was smashed to pieces, and Jack
Mahony had to move his wife and what be-
longings he was able to rescue twice when the
river kept rising. The Roper is 50 miles wide.
Some years ago, when Nutwood, out from Daly
Waters, had 13 inches, an adjoining station,
Hodgson, was flooded out. Nutwood has had
21 inches, seven of which fell in two hours, so
there won’t be much of Hodgson left.
Newcastle Waters had the least, a fall of 11
inches, but it brought the creek up to the
1921 watermark—a bullwadcfi a few yards
below the pub.
Although the creek is only two miles wide
it is impossible to swim horses over, as they
cannot see the opposite bank. For a week
the airmail had to give us the go-by. The local
barge, propelled by a cattle-station crew, rowed
over the aerodrome fence to rescue some
horses.
Our mailman thought he would do the wet
mail by truck this year, and put an end to
the packhorse era started by The Fizzer. He
was sadly mistaken. His “Iron Bedstead,”
dual wheels and shovel blades attached, took
one look at the creek and, like the horses, re-
fused to dog-paddle across. According to the
contract, the mail must be at Daly Waters
two days out from Newcastle, so the mail-
man had to make use of Qantas and send his
load as air freight.
“Q.C.R.”: Another of Queensland’s
firetrap towns has had part of a street
gutted—the fourth affair of the kind in
a few months. One of them—the burning
of Goomeri’s leading hotel —cost nine
lives. This time it was Nanango, on the
edge of the Kingaroy Plateau ; a hotel
“Its all right, Ma, they ain't hoppers — they're only skeeters!”
and eight shops were destroyed. The
blaze began in the hotel, which was a
shell in half an hour. The flames were
seen up to 20 miles away, and the fire
burnt out only when it .reached a vacant
allotment. Luckily the night was so hot
that most of the occupants of the pub
and other buildings were in the open air.
* * * *
“Fig Leaf Bill”: Queensland resorts to
all sorts of methods of dealing with heat-
waves, but the only man who urged the
community to thoroughness in its meas-
ures in the last one was fined a fiver
at Bundaberg for holding a meeting
without a permit. The reformer chose
Bourbon-street, the main thoroughfare,
as his location, and loudly demanded
that all Bundabergians should throw
aside their rags and make their beautiful
bodies visible. A copper, uniformed to
the neck, asked if the orator had a per-
mit. He said he had—from the Omnipo-
tent. But as it could not be produced
he found himself before the Beak.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: The Pink minority of the
Queensland Public Service Union has
received a slap in the eye. The council,
in its annual report, remarked that
help had been asked of it for Chiang
Kai-shek’s Chinese, for the Abyssinians
and for the Spanish Internationalists, all
these depressed peoples having the sym-
pathy of the Trades and Labor Council,
with which the union is affiliated. So,
the council said, it was meet that a view
should be expressed on later aggressors
-Ihe Russians, who were allying them-
selves with Germany m an effort to
destroy the British Empire and also every
other nation but themselves. “One result
of the war,” it added, “will be world-
wide aversion to Communism and Fas-
cism, and that almost justifies the war
in itself.” Pinks who tried to have the
passages removed from the report were
badly defeated on a vote—by 110 to 21.
* * * *
“XT.” : Every little while a new in-
ventor tries to show the world how to
eat a mango outside the bathroom. Latest
is a lady who says you should cut a
slight groove in the top of the luscious
fruit near the stem and then gradually
skin and remove the stone with knife
and fork. Lord Chelmsford was the best
mango-eater I have ever seen.* His way
was better, if a little more wasteful, than
the new method. With a sharp knife he
cleaned the fruit off each side of the stone
with graceful sweeps. Then he diced
each side in its skin with the knife. A
spoon removed the “dices” neatly and
cleanly. To see his Ludship doing the
job on a hot day in a white suit was to
feel a new resurgence of enthusiasm for
the vice-regal system.
* * * *
“Octane”: North Queensland sugar-
growers are determined to expand the
production of power-alcohol, and if they
have the co-operation of the Common-
wealth they should succeed, though
the quantity of molasses available is
limited. Other crops, particularly sweet
potatoes, could be used. Sarina distillery
has an output capacity of 1,250,000
gallons a year. The Cane Growers’ Asso-
ciation envisages an increase to 5,000,000
gallons. The State Government is
now obliging spirit vendors to buy
2} gallons of alcohol for every 100
gallons of motor spirit sold. If petrol
prices go up and alcohol production pro-
cesses can be cheapened—as they have
been amazingly over the past few years
—there is no good reason why
alcohol whole or as a mixture should
not become a fairly popular fuel and
why, even with a fair water content, it
should not be incorporated with oil fuels
for tractor use. High-compression
engines—compression has gone up 50 p.c.
in the last decade—help to pave the way
for usage of pure or nearly pure alcohol.
I have run a high-compression car for
hundreds of miles on alcohol without
much carburettor adjustment. The Com-
monwealth could help by specifying that
in the cars to be built in Australia com-
pression should be high enough and tank
and pipe linings so constructed as to
make alcohol usage possible in emer-
gency. This would not detract from
their capacity for the cheap and econo-
mical use of petrol,
* * * *
“M.E.”: “S M Herald” in an
effort to bring home to ’“civilised”
Australians the comic hardshi under
~,t.- . , e ,, . ‘ XT l
” h ‘ ch •*“ brave fellows °, f the Nortl >
h ? ld the fort a B a,nst the loomln B Me
°* ccdor ’ re P r °duces a supposed ad-
vertisement of a well-stocked station
property: quiet locality, running hot
water, only a fortnight from the train,
excellent opportunity for enterprising
young man. Then it explains that the
new occupier will have to be of the
type that can ride “half-tamed horses
through a stampeding herd while load-
ing and firing a .303 rifle,” and he must
not dislike “aborigines, alligators, ants,
silence, snakes, scorpions, mosquitoes,
buffaloes and flooded rivers.” For the
station belongs to a buffalo-shooter, and
the hot water laid on is the “foetid”
Alligator River. How little “Granny”
knows her own country! Anybody who
tried to kill “fifty buffaloes a month by
galloping [on a half-tamed horse] beside
them and placing a rifle against their
spines” would last about six minutes. A
buffalo-shooter’s horse is about the best-
trained type of animal in the Common-
wealth. Anyhow, the modern buffalo-
shooter doesn’t get much time to shoot
buffaloes. He has to keep up with the
flood of new ordinances and argue with
tbe Taxation Department as to whether
bu ff a l°-shooting is a primary industry
and exempt from tax.


/C
2
lur
<O.
'h
If
0
PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
w
mm'm
THE
No. 145
KEMP
STYLE
POLEY
SADDLE
£9/12/6
(COMPLETE)
This saddle is very
suitable for station
work where a low
pad is preferred. It has pigskin seat,
good long kip flaps and short panel
with leather points.
N.S.W. Rail Freight Paid for Cash
with Order.
WALTHER t. STEVEMSOM 'To:
39S CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
MACMILLAN BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
XHE herries
1 CHRONICLE
Hugh Walpole’s famous saga,
originally issued as four separate
novels, now in one volume. 1500
pages. 8/6.
DUDYARD
KIPLING
Captains Courageous, Puck of Pook’s
Hill, Kim, Many Inventions, The
Day’s Work, The Jungle Book.
3/6 each.
THE 20 YEARS’
CRISIS. By E. H. Carr.
“The most important book on world
politics published this year.
“Manchester Guardian.” 10/6.
To be obtained from all booksellers and
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON.
My Wife says
COOKING IS A PLEASURE
SINCE WE BOUGHT OUR
AG A COOKER _
w
t
i
ittt
■Up?? ’
ft m&L
m
1.,
2&fc
r*
ym
«&,■
■w-'{
iifß
: >
22sfe*?
m
Ss
ail
.... For the AGA Cooker abolishes
cooking fatigue. A complete dinner can
be left in the large cooking oven to cook
by itself. The cooking oven of the AGA
is one of its most delightful features.
Without attention it looks after, even
overnight, most of the cooking usually
done on top.
For example, vegetables, after a few
minutes’ boiling on the hot plate can be left
to cook in this oven without water, with
the result that they are deliciously tender
and appetising. Sauces need no longer
mean a last-minute rush, but can be pre-
pared early and left to the care of the oven.
The AGA Cooker burns continuously;
ovens and hot plates are always instantly
ready for every cooking need; yet it is the
most economical cooking appliance in the
world. For instance, Model “C” (illus-
trated) is guaranteed to burn not more
than £3 worth of coke a year (with coke
at 30/- a ton). It is thus so inexpensive
to run compared with other methods of
cooking that the saving in fuel it effects
makes its purchase a sound investment.
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
" IkOrkmdUeotSicmy.
COOKER
MADE IN BRIT*"*
We shall be pleased to demonstrate its astonishing
qualities, if you call at our showrooms. If you
cannot call, write for illustrated AGA Booklet R 2.
LEVIN & Co. Ltd. “S.
45 King Street, Sydney; and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer, and Preston, Ltd., ADELAIDE.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster and Sons. Ltd., HOBART.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
W.H.S.: Do you realise you’re calling a
bulldog “Mother”? ... .R.L.: Flat... .J.H.8.:
Neat handwriting... .M-A.: “Latitude’s” what
you need, all right... .A.S.: You can’t rhyme
“debauches” with “tortures”... .D.MacF.: No
plums J.W.: Sarcasm isn’t enough
J.C.: Just a jingle... .H.H.: He’s an un-
pleasant subject, but that’s no reason for writing
unpleasant verse... .S.H.D.: “Any rise?” No
advance at a 11... .C.W.S.: The usual poem
about a big city... .8.J.L.: They’re genuine,
anyhow M.D.: Shorten, polish, and try it
on a women’s paper M.H.F.: A sprightly
little lightweight... .G.W.: The mortality
among old cart-horses lately has been more
than we can cope with... .A. 8.: The last line’s
all right, but it’s a long way to it P.J.1.:
Well, it’s a pleasant change to meet an old
dog that isn’t howling over a dead master,
and a master who isn’t furtively shedding a
tear over a deceased dog J. 8.: Jerky
J.H.J.: A women’s paper should buy the in-
fants.. . .G. 8.: Not far off; but we’ve said it
in prc C....W.F.K.: Can’t imagine a throne
at Pai amatta J.A.: Too literary G.T.8.:
Not upj but they’re all headed in the right
direction,,....F.T.L.: Reads like a 12-year-old’s
diary....H.N.R.: That plot went out of date
about the time motion pictures started....
8.R.L.: The Religious Editor is reading “The
Wickedness of Tennis” to the Sporting Editor,
one paragraph each day... .8.R.8.: “And
Paul’s work was heard beyond his small home
town; it reached to the cities and echoed
across the seas, and presently his words rang
around the world.” Sounds like a new jazz
hit F.V.R.: “Swamp” too murky....
F.L.R.: We purged the w.p.b. to “find living
space for this little refugee” G.B.R.:
You’ve smothered the yarn in a wilderness of
description H.B.R.: You, too G.B.W.:
According to our contributors each year
approximately 100 prospectors are murdered
by their mates who subsequently die horribly
of thirst B.H.P.: “I write for pleasure.”
Whose? C.L.R.: Five murders, three sui-
cides and one hanging. Hooray! C.F.T.:
Ghosts never trouble us, even if they do
“shriek up from the bedside and caress the
occupant with cold, clammy claws” B.T.T.:
Your humor is still in the classroom stage
C.R.N.: “The Homer” homing F.C.H.:
“It Comes, It Comes.” It goes, it’s gone
B.D.J., H.N.R., J.P., K.C.S.: Try them else-
where J.F.: Didn’t fall for “The Man from
Ninda” J.C.S.: “The Week-ender” was well
built, but it’s not for us... .R.K.L.: Mrs.
Brown should find a resting-place elsewhere,
also A.T.A.: Served up just as well —and
just as uninterestingly—as Monday’s stew
J.D.O’N.: Not up T.L.W.: “Ring-ln” has
been well wrung out.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.B.E.: You didn’t make a bad job of the
fig-leaf E.J.: On its way back O.J.: No,
afraid it won’t be remembered as one of the
famous war cartoons of 1940 H.E.: The
sort of thing that might be scrawled on a
starched shirt-front at an artists’ ball M.K.:
We’ve cautioned that milkman before
E.M-P.: Not in the market for colored sketches.
S.C.: You’ve been devouring too many
American comic strips... .F.T.M.: No accommo-
dation here for decrepit old man and his pack
of hounds W.W. : Brushwork is untidy and
pen drawings are a dreary and scratchy lot.
P.H.: A stock gag among fishermen....
M.F.: You’re more interested in the ladies’
hats than in the general effect of the drawing.
C.W.J.: Once seen it is better forgotten.
... .E.H.W.: A political cartoon needs to be
simple and direct; the example sent is a hope-
less jumble P.W.: It took us five minutes to
unwrap and as many seconds to reject it....
L.G.: An old-timer... .H.P.R.: You can draw
top-hats, walking-sticks and attache-cases, but
little else D.E.: Pictorial statement of war
aims was a flop... .B.W.: We will endeavor
to struggle along without your masterpieces.
. . .S.W.: The youth is now cooling off his
anger in the office clink N.S.: We liked the
rainbow in the background and that was all.
F.T.: Send it to a home for old and in-
firm jokes W.M.H.: All the sketches were
misfits; all the gags were stale.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Pawang”: The advertiser of an inten-
tion to commit suicide (B. 17/1/’4O) sel-
dom does it. All that the man who
hopped on to the rail of the bridge in
Melbourne was after was to impress
other people. The terror he was pro-
ducing in his audience was what he
wanted. Your true suicide is an individual
of quite another kidney. He is usually
the sanguine, happy person who has
never suffered any major rebuff at the
hands of fortune till he gets into a crisis
that destroys all his comfortable illusions.
* * * *
“I am not going to take the dole from
the Government!” With these words a
S.A. wheatgrower knocked back the
wheat bounty payable from the flour
tax. This queer specimen should be pre-
served, mounted and set up in a special
place at Canberra as a warning to poli-
ticians that there are still people who
don’t believe in a method of taking
money from one section of the people
and giving it to another to keep them
quiet.
* * . * *
“Spokeshave”: “Bughouse’s” theory
(B. 17/1/’4O) that the madness which
afflicts the present generation is due to
a shortage of oxygen in the atmosphere
is on all fours with my charlady’s belief
that the Vic. bushfires caused last year’s
epidemic of influenza. It is also just
as reasonable as the Communists’ belief
that under the rule of the proletariat there
must be an end of human hatreds, jeal-
ousies and rivalries.
* * * *
“Dead Nark”: N.S.W. health authori-
ties will have to concern themselves with
the sanitary arrangements of holiday
camps. Few have anything better than
the old pan system, washing facilities are
poor, garbage disposal doubtful, and sup-
plies of good water scarce. At one such
area this year, where the tents were
pitched side by side over a couple of
acres, there was a mild outbreak of sore
throats and running eyes among children
and adults. In another season it might
become something much more serious.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Vyner Brooke, the third
white Rajah of Sarawak, seems to be
having as much trouble over the succes-
sion as native Oriental princes. One of
his three daughters became the second
wife of the Earl of Inchcape, another the
wife of Harry Roy, a dance-band leader,
and the third espoused Bob Gregory, the
“all-in” wrestler. The Rajah is a retiring
individual, mainly concerned with the
administration of his extensive kingdom
and not keen on front-page sen-
sationalism. A year or so ago he tartly
announced that, although his daughters
were popularly known as Princes?
Leonora, Princess Pearl and Princess
Baba, none of them was a princess. Now
he has deprived his nephew, Anthony, of
his rights of heirship. The Inchcape lady
protests that her five-year-old son is the
logical successor. If he became Rajah,
she would presumably act as regent; and
feminine rule is so contrary to Malay
tradition that all right-thinking citizens of
Kuching, the capital, would mengamok
at the bare suggestion.
* * * *
“El V.,” after dipping into the German
Who’s Who:
In Wer’s Ist Goring says he is Aryan and
an adherent of the Evangelical (Lutheran)
Church, and mentions that he was once in the
South-West African service. Himmler claims to
be a Catholic and an Aryan. Goebbcls, too,
says he is a Catholic, but omits the Aryan. He,
like Goring, goes into great detail about him-
self. There is no mention of Hess, but Hitler
gets a page to himself at the beginning of the
book:
Adolf Hitler—Fuhrer and Chancellor of
the Reich. Born 20.1 V. 1889 in Braunau-am-
Inn. Catholic. Attended State school and
junior modern school; to make possible his
education was worker in building trade.
From 1914 to 1920, a soldier. Leader of
the Nazi party. Member of the Reichstag
since January 30, 1933: Chancellor of the
German Reich, August 2, 1934: Fuhrer and
Chancellor of the Reich.
And who has the longest notice in Wer’s Ist ?
A certain Kaiser Wilhelm, whose address is
given as Haus Doom, Holland.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Two Melbourne artists,
a master and his pupil, visited the
National Gallery in London expressly
to see a small but very famous Rem-
brandt. To their exasperation they found
that, as with the Rembrandt in Mel-
bourne, the picture was glazed and so
situated that all they could see was a
realistic study of a brass rail and portion
of the floor of the gallery. “We’ll go
and ask the director to remove the glass
for us,” suggested the pupil. “They
would do it for a press photographer ;
why shouldn’t they do it for artists?”
“Oh, I wouldn’t ask him to do that,”
expostulated his master. “You know
what these Englishmen are like. He
wouldn’t like it.” Then he suddenly gave
a shout of delight. He had discovered
that by lying flat on his stomach on
the floor he had completely eliminated
the reflections that had so distressed
them. His pupil joined him, and to the
astonishment of the attendants they
stayed in that position for the best part
of an hour until they had glutted their
eyes on the picture. * *
*
The keen, intelligent, clean-shaven face
of Phra Bisal Sukumvid, Thailand s
Director-General of Public and Mun -
cipal Works, has been seen about Mel-
bourne in company with the bearded
Ambrose Pratt They are old friends,
journalist - novelist - company - director-
traveller Pratt having made Phra isa s
acquaintance when he was investigating
Siamese tinmining and social customs.
P.B.S. has control of water supplies, high-
ways, construction of public buildings,
electricity and tuwn-planning, and he is
in Australia because his Government nas
given him £20,000,000 to spend on road-
building, and he wants to see how we
Pm-pionprc ire heine used less
do it. foreigners are Deing usea ic.
and less in Thailand as its two univer-
sjfles begin to turn out trained men, and
there are no Europeans at all in the Raii-
Denartment The visitor got his
ways Department Ine ™“ or 8« l “
engineering education in the U.S.A. ana
England,


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Covns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
iaconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 141 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject..
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, good appearance and per-
sonality, seeks position as part-time organiser,
journalistic and publicity exp., able to type,
used to committee work.—6o7o.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
used to handling manuscripts, seeks typing
work ; neat and accurate. —6069.
Man (38), Vic., with little capital, would
like to hear of opening in the country; would
provide truck or tractor. —6081.
To buy first editions only of early books by
“Steele Rudd.” —6072.
To buy copy of Mostyn Stayne, by Roderic
Quinn, and Tommy Cornstalk, by J. H. M.
Abbott.—6o6B.
Words of song beginning “So, stand to your
glasses, steady.”—6l2o.
Information Sought.
(1) Has anything been done regarding a
proposal to build a port at the mouth of the
River Murray? (2) Particulars of the scheme?
—6006.
(1) No further development has taken place.
(2) See report of George Buchanan. Vol. II
(Commonwealth P:P No. 108, 1926-27).
* * * *
(1) Can the police in N.S.W. legally seize
and confiscate a gun from a person caught
shooting ducks or other game during close
season ? (2) What is the position in Vic. ?
(3) What is the law regarding carrying firearms
on a Sunday in N.S.W. ? —6096.
(1) Under the Birds and Animals’Protection
Act (N.S.W.) any person who during a close
season for the protection of any specified bird
or animal takes or kills any such bird or
animal is subject to a penalty of, £2O. Every
member of the police is by virtue of his office a
ranger, and any person found by a ranger
offending against the provisions of the Act may
require the offender to deliver up his gun, net
or other appliance to him. (2) The law is practi-
cally the same in both Vic. and N.S.W. (3)
“Everyone who is found shooting at any pigeon
match, or for pleasure, sport or profit of any
kind whatever” on Sunday is liable to a
penalty of £5.
* * * *
What is hcemophilia ? —6138.
The medical term for a diseased condition
of the vascular system, often hereditary. Suf-
ferers are known as “bleeders,” characterised
by a disposition towards bleeding, whether with
or without the provocation of an injury to' the
tissue. When this bleeding is spontaneous it
comes from the mucous membranes, especially
from the nose, but also from the mouth, bowel
and bronchial tubes. Slight bruises are apt to
be followed by extravasations of blood- from
the tissues; the swollen joints (knee especially)
of a bleeder are probably due, in the first in-
stance, to the escape of blood into the joint
cavity or synovial membrane. It is always
from the smallest vessels that the blood escapes,
and may do so in such quantities as to cause
death in a few hours.
ifc % * *
I am a minor (18 years of age) and am
engaged to a young man of 25 years who is
of good character and financially in a position
to marry. My father refuses to give his con-
sent. Mpst I wait three years? Can’t the law
help us in any way? —6l4o.
Yes, the law provides a way out of the
apparent impasse. The Guardianship of Infants
Act, 1920 (N.S.W.), provides that, “if any
person whose consent to a marriage is required
refuses his consent the Court may, on applica-
tion in the prescribed form, consent to the
marriage.” But before the consent is granted
“an inquiry shall be made on oath, or solemn
affirmation as to the facts and circumstances of
the case.” The Court sits in camera, that is,
to the exclusion of the public, unless the Court
otherwise orders. Applications of this kind are
not frequently made, as parents realise that their
grounds of refusal to a marriage must be
reasonable and substantial and calculated to
be of genuine benefit to the young folk.
* * * *
Who was Lola Montez, who appeared on the
Australian stage during the middle of last cen-
tury ? —6133.
Her maiden name was Marie Gilbert, she
was the daughter of a British army officer, was
born in Ireland in 1818, and in 1837 made a
runaway match with a Captain James of the
Indian army, from whom she was divorced in
1842. She then studied dancing and appeared
on the stage. After successes in Germany,
Poland, Russia and France, she appeared at
Munich in 1847, and later became the mistress
of Ludwig 1., the old King of Bavaria. She
was naturalised, created Comtesse de Lands-
feld and given an income of £2OOO p.a. For
a while she ruled Bavaria, but her political
opponents proved too strong for her, and in
1848 she was banished. Next;year she married
George Heald, a young officer in the-Guards,
and fled with him when his guardian instituted
a prosecution for bigamy against her on the
ground that her divorce from James had not
been made absolute. In 1851 she made stage
appearances in America, two years later Heald
was drowned at Lisbon, and in the same year
she married the proprietor of a ’Frisco news-
paper, but did not live long with him. Subse-
quently she appeared in Australia, lectured in
the U.S.A. and died in New York in 1861.
* * * *
Huneker in one of his essays on musical
topics gives a picture of Berlioz,. as kettle-
drummer in an orchestra performing his own
“Symplionie Fantastique,” drumming like a
maniac with his eyes fixed on a beautiful
young actress in the audience for whom he
harbored a hopeless passion. Any truth in the
story? —6l3o. ,
Can’t vouch for the exactitude of the
Huneker episode, but Berlioz, though he had
a pretty thorough musical education (he won
the Prix dc Rome scholarship) and could play
the pianoforte, the guitar, the flute and the
flageolet, did sometimes take the drums in pref-
erence to the baton in performances of his
own works. The actress was Harriet Smith-
son, an Irish girl. Berlioz pursued her for
years, and finally, after she had broken her
leg in an accident, and was bankrupt, her
stage career ended, he induced'her to-marry
him. By all accounts there were few less happy
marriages.
» * * *
What were the religions of (1) Bach, (2)
Handel, (3) Mendelssohn, (4) Beethoven, (5)
Meyerbeer, (6) Verdi, (7) Liszt? —6129.
(1) Lutheran. (2) Probably Church of Eng-
land —he was buried in Westminster Abbey.
(3) Lutheran (his Jewish father became a
Christian). (4) Never defined; he subscribed
to no creed but sometimes gave expression
to Christian sentiments. (5) Jewish. (6) Roman
Catholic. (7) Roman Catholic (he took a lay
order, hence his nickname “the Abb6”).
* * * *
Some details concerning William Hatfield,
Australian author? —6135.
He was born. at Nottingham (England) in
1892, was articled to a solicitor, but left his
law studies fin 1911, and worked his passage
to Australia. -He worked at all phases of bush
life, sheep camps, cattle stations, droving,
horse-breaking and kangaroo-shooting for 10
years in N.S.W., Q’land, North Australia and
South Australia. He s.tudied aboriginal lan-
guages and customs with civilised and semi-
civilised nomads, and after holding a - position
as head stockman on Buckingham Downs
station, Q’land, turned to writing. His books
include Sheepm'ates, Ginger Murdoch, Desert
Saga, River ' Crossing, Black Waterlily, Big
Timber, A ustralia . Through the Windscreen and
I Discover Australia.
* * * *
Some particulars regarding the functions of
the N.S.W. Supreme Court?— 6l3l.
The Supreme Court of N.S.W. was estab-
lished in 1824 under the Charter of Justice.
Jurisdiction is exercised by a Chief Justice
and not more than 10 Puisne'Judges, of whom
four are engaged usually in the Common Law
and Criminal jurisdictions, and the remainder
in Equity, Bankruptcy, Probate, Lunacy and
Matrimonial Causes. The Court possesses
original jurisdiction over all litigious matters
arising in the State, except where its jurisdic-
tion is excluded by statute, in certain cases
where extra-territorial jurisdiction has been con-
ferred, in Admiralty and in appeal. Its
original jurisdiction is exercised usually by one
Judge. The procedure and practice of the
Court are defined by statute, or regulated
by rules which may be made by any three or
more Judges. The Supreme Court has power
at common law to restrain inferior Courts
which act in excess of their jurisdiction, and to
grant mandamus to enforce a legal right. The
right of appeal to the Supreme Court from in-
ferior Courts is purely the creation of statute
law. In proper cases appeals may be carried
from findings of the Supreme Court to the
High Court of Australia or to the Privy
Council. Further particulars will be found in
the N.S.W. Official Year-Book.
* * * *
I desire to transfer my property in Vic. to
one of my sons. It consists of house, orchard,
implements, etc., value about £l2OO. Can you
give me some indication of cost and method?
—6084.
The personal estate, that is, everything but
land and houses, can be transferred by deed
of gift. It must be properly registered and
stamped at the Titles Office. The donor of the
property has to make a statutory declaration
as to its value. You cannot give a deed of
gift over land or houses. The transfer of these
is made by conveyance, which also is subject
to stamp duty.
V * * *
Some details concerning the Universal Postal
Union? — ; 5933. - ’“v ....
The union was founded following a meet-
ing of representatives from a number of
countries in Berne during September, 1874. The
object was to facilitate exchange of correspon-
dence between nations. Practically all the
countries of the world are now members of
the union, which has its headquarters in Berne.
Every five years representatives of member
nations meet in congress to revise the rules
governing international exchange of mails. The
administrative costs of the International Bureau
are borne by the Governments of the various
nations.
* * * *
(1) Is it a fact that any given number or
amount multiplied by nought becomes nothing.
(2) This sum was given: 16 multiplied by 12,
add 32, multiply by nought, add 17. The
answer was given as nothing. Is that correct?
—6109.
(1) Yes. The logic of it is that the smaller
the amount by which you multiply the smaller
the product. If you multiply by one-billionth
the effect is to divide by a billion. As you
make the fraction smaller and smaller the pro-
duct gets smaller, until when the fraction is
infinitely small, or nil, the product is infinitely
small or nil. (2) No, correct answer is 17.
* * * *
(1) On what basis are “fair rents” assessed
in Queensland? (2) If on property valuation,
whose valuation would be taken, that of a
valuer appointed by the Court, a local valuer
or the local authority ? —5952.
(1) No variation of the rent is allowed ex-
cept where the lessor can show that specific
alterations or additions have been made to the
premises since the Court’s determination, or
the outgoings of the lessor in respect of the
premises have been increased. Twenty-eight
days’ notice of the termination of the lease
must be given by the lessor in all cases where
the lessee has paid his rent and fulfilled the
conditions of the lease, but this period may be
extended by the Court on good cause shown to
it. (2) The valuation of the property would
be determined by the weight of evidence pro-
duced to the Court, and no doubt the valuation
of a local, authority would have a high value,
jf it were not conclusive.
* * * *
Names of books on naval architecture
which contain laying-off tables of hull lines of
ocean-going tugboats and a diagram of the
slip towing hook? —5973.
A book entitled The Design and Construc-
tion of Small Craft, by A.. Munro Smith,
obtainable from the Association of Engineering
and Shipbuilding Draughtsmen, 96 St. George-
square, Westminster, London,-has a chapter on
the design of ocean-going tugs and also dia-
grams for slip towing hooks. Regarding laying-
off tables for lines of ocean-going tugboats,
cannot trace publication ,of any such tables,
but refer you to the “Shipbuilder and Marine
Engineer,” Newcastle-on-Ty-ne, England, also
“Shipbuilding and Shipping Record,” London,
which may be able to supply you with copies
of their magazines containing the lines of an
ocean-going tug.
* * * *
Where can cinnabar be marketed, is there a
good demand for it, how much would a small
retort suitable for two partners to work cost,
and would the retorted quicksilver be saleable
in any quantity? —5967.
There is a fairly brisk demand at present,
and prices have risen. Very ■little cinnabar is
sold in its - crude . state, as the retorting is
usually performed at the mines. The cost of a
retorting plant cannot be estimated unless it
is known how much ore it is desired to treat
daily. Provided that the ore is rich it might
be sold untreated to O. T. Lempriere, Ltd.,
Bowden-street, Alexandria,: F. Hambridge, .Ltd.,
22 Bridge-street, or Norman Hill, Cathcart
House, 11c Castlereagh-street—all Sydney. If,
by sales of a considerable quantity of ore,' an
extensive deposit; of cinnabar can be shown -to
exist, there should be no -difficulty in arrang-
ing for the necessary finance. to enable re-
torting operations to be carried out at the mine.
* * * *
Areas of the following parks and reserves
in Sydney and the outer metropolitan area:
(1) Moore Park, (2) Botanic Gardens, (3) the
Domain, (4) Hyde Park, (5) Centennial Park,
(6) Taronga Park, (7) National Park and (8)
Kuring-gai Chase? —6G72.
(1) 354 acres. (2) 65 acres. (3) 86 acres.
(4) 37 acres. (5) 474 acres. ' (6) 50 acres. (7)
33,832 acres. (8) 35,373 acres. • :
*** • : *
When was the Workers’ Educational Associa-
tion formed, in N. S. Wales? Scope of its
activties, number of classes held and total
membership? Does it receive financial help
from the Government ? —6078.
The Workers’ Educational Association of
N.S.W. was founded at a conference called
by the Labor Council of N.S.W. in June, 1913.
It organises tutorial 4 classes, study circles,
summer and holiday schools and public lec-
tures. In 1938 the membership of the associa-
tion consisted of 877 individual members, in-
cluding, 452 students: using the library, and
54 organisations other than tutorial classes
were affiliated with fit. In 1938 68 tutorial
classes were held, viz., 14 at the University, 25
in the city , and suburbs, 14 in the Newcastle
district and 15 in other country districts. The
number of students enrolled was 2100, and the
effective enrolment was 1591. There were also
in operation nine discussion groups with an
enrolment of 114. The income of the associa-
tion in , 1938 was £lBlO, including an endow-
ment of £750 from the State, a grant of £l5O
from the Uni/and subscription fees amounting
to £753.
«** , *
Under a partnership agreement which gives
the , managing partner full control of the man-
agement of - the business and the staff and the
appointment of an auditor, \w_hat steps can the
other partner take, if he considers . the balance
sheet is not correct? —5993.
If there is a partnership agreement the
partners are bound by its terms, however much
one of . them may regret fihe very complete
control of the business put in the hands of the
managing partner. If no fixed period of the
partnership has been agreed upon “any partner
may determine the partnership by giving notice
to the others.” Should one partner therefore
be seriously concerned about the management
of the partnership it is open to him to deter-
mine it by giving the requisite notice.
* * * *
(1) World’s records for (a) high jump, (b)
broad jump, (c) hop, step and jump, (d) pole
vault? (2) Correct names of gear used in
pole vault? (3) What is the usual number of
judges or track stewards at a sports meeting
where events are run one at a time? (4) How
many attempts at high jump and pole vault are
allowed before the contestant is ruled out? —
5880.
(1) (a) 6ft. 9£in., by Cornelius Johnson
(U.S.A.), 1936, and David Albritton (U.S.A.),
1936; (b) 26ft. B|in., by Jesse Owens (U.S.A.),
1935 ; (c) 52ft. s£in., by Naoto Tajima (Japan),
1936; (d) 14ft. llin. by William Sefton
(U.S.A.), 1937, and Earle Meadows (U.S.A.),
1937. (2) Pole vault standards and crossbar,
pole vault take-off box and vaulting pole. (3)
The rules of the International Federation
of Amateur Athletics recommend (in addition
to a manager, a referee, a starter and three or
more timetakers) six or more finish judges,
three or more field judges and four or more
umpires or track stewards. (4) Three at each
height.
Brief Answers.
G.8.Y.: Clearly a case for a solicitor to dis-
entangle with all the facts and documents be-
fore him, and this Page cannot act in that re-
spect... .E.M.: You would have to enlist in
England. Write Women’s Auxiliary Air Force,
41 Tothill-street, London, 5.W.1... .H.S.: It is
assumed that the application is for an old-age
pension. The Act provides that all real and
personal property owned by a person applying
for a pension shall be subject to a reduction
to be made from the amount of such pension,
but so long as the property in question con-
stitutes the home of the pensioner it shall not
be subject to any deduction. How long it
would remain your home would, of course,
depend on the purchase money for the block
of land being duly paid.... A.J.8.: Wild
Flowers of Australia, by T. Y. Harris... .T. 8.:
Write Mitchell Library, Macquarie-strect, Syd-
ney F.H.S.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept, for leaflet “The Growth of Plants in
Nutrient Solutions,” by M. S. Benjamin
R.W.S.: From Holden’s Motor Body Builders,
182 William-street, Sydney... .W.T.: Apply
R.A.A.F. Recruiting Centre, Erskine House,
York and Erskine streets, Sydney... .A.H.H.:
They do not reveal any special talent, and it is
unlikely progress would be made without
tuition C.W.D.: (1) The Society of Aus-
tralian Genealogists was formed in 1932 with
the object of encouraging the study of family
history, genealogy and heraldry. (2) From the
secretary, E. McC. S. Hill, 91 a Phillip-street,
Sydney... .G. 8.: Write Mitchell Library, Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney... .J.0.H.: Write Mr.
C. J. V. Weaver, hon. sec. Numismatic Society,
11 Carlisle-street, Leichhardt, N.S.W
A.N.M.: Get in touch with Dr. C. E. W. Bean,
Official War Historian, Victoria Barracks, Pad-
dington, Sydney... .S.G.M.: Write C.S. and
1.R., 314 Albert-street, East Melbourne, Vic.
. ...S.M.M.: Send your address and a typed
copy of the verse “A Bushman’s Farewell to
Queensland” will be forwarded. . . .E.L.8.: See
Who’s Who in Australia, 1938 edition, available
all public libraries... .A.J.M.: Communicate
direct with the General Medical Superintendent
of the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney,
who, will give full details... .A.M.C.: No book
other, than the ordinary handbook is issued
at the moment on the Model D-15 Inter-
national truck. Should you require further
information, get in touch with the International
Harvester Co. of Australia, 5 Pyrmont Bridge-
road, Camperdown, Sydney... .T.O’T: No,
not without new legislation by the Common-
wealth .Parliament... .A.J.H.: Write Leo Buring,
Ltd.', 255 a George-street, Sydney... .R.E.: (1)
The 25-pounder ammunition is separate. (2)
Q.F. J 18-pounder. • (3) Voluntary- enlistment
in the militia has ceased. (4) Suspended for a
time... .R.G-: Warrant officer 11s. 6d. per day,
plus 3s. per day in the case of a married mem-
ber, with ah additional Is. per day in respect of
each child under 16 years of age. After em-
barkation -an additional 2s. per day is payable,
which is deferred... .J.E.R.: There is no re-
liable estimate of such costs.... .A.L.: Oregon
is preferred to hardwood because it is cheaper,
lighter and easy to handle. Also it bends and
splits 'when great strains are placed on it,
thereby giving warning to miners, whereas hard-
wood snaps, allowing the ground above to
fall suddenly F.R.O’S.: Potassium phos-
phate is used as a purgative, and can be pro-
cured from any chemist in Brisbane at an
approximate cost of 3s. per ounce. There is
very little demand for it....A.E.: The only
traceable portrait of a Mrs. Campbell was a
portrait of Mrs. Patrick Campbell, the famous
actress, painted by Solomon J. Solomon, R.A.
. ..‘.P.N.M.: (1) Secretary, Navy Office, Mel-
bourne. (2) and (3) Candidates for entrance to a
naval college must attain the age of 13 during
the calendar year in which they apply. Appli-
cations close on June 30 each year. (4) and
(5) Special examination set about primary final
standard R.H.G.: (1) Nothing on record.
(2) Small diamonds have been found in the
gravels at Chiltern (Vic.), recovered during the
process of treating alluvial gold wash. (3) No
varieties... .R.S.: Write to correspondent, care
of this office.. ..L A D.: Write Professor L.
Wilkinson, Faculty of Architecture, University
of Sydney... .H.L.: Write to the Master
Builders’ Association of N.S.W., 12 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. .. .1.K.D.: List of military
handbooks has 'been ; posted... .F.H.: Social
Services> in Australia, edited by W. G. K-
Duncan, 65......D.J.F.: Angus and Robertson's
second-hand department, Sydney, can supply “The
-Pen-Drawings of-Norman Lindsay” in special
number of “Art in Australia,” limited edition,
bound in brown wrapper; price 21s 8.T.:
The silver paper was never bought, for tin-
foil ;(now rarely used) can’t find a market, and
the material put round many cigarettes, sweets,
etc., is aluminium foil, which has no value
once used... .W.J.G.: Sawdust cannot be
formed into solid masses by compression alone.
Some bonding agent is required, and, to a
limited extent, it is bonded with resinous
matter, as in the manufacture of fire kindlers.
The normal way of utilising sawdust as fuel
is to blow it into the boiler furnaces with air.
. ...W.A.C.: The Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research, 314 Albert-street, East Mel-
bourne, has published notes from time to
time in its “Journal” on various sheep para-
sites and their control. Reprints of these,
notes may be obtained by writing to them and;
indicating the particular parasites on which in-;
formation is required... .W.W.: Cannot trace :?
it looks like a misprint for “I swear to man.'';
....AS.: Write Tyrrell’s Bookshop, 281'
George-street, Sydney... .N. 8.: (1) Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, and New
Century Press, 3 York-street—both Sydney.
(2) Simply submit work to them. (3) Occasion-
ally, but they concern the publisher rather
than the author... .J.V.C.: See H. M. Green's
An Outline of Australian Literature and M-
Barnard Eldershaw’s Essays in Modern Aus-
tralian Fiction H.L-: (1) So called be-
cause the gifts were generally given in boxes.
(2) In England gifts in boxes were generally
given to servants and postmen the day after
Christmas Day.... A.E.S.: See page 230 of
the Official History of Australia in the War,
Vol. XI J.C.: N0....J.H.: Write Secretary,
Naval Board, Defence Department, Melbourne.


Srs
LYS
&
pro or
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
.•pits St
£s=3
*s*s
m
mm
'iLix*£\£&jl£
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTIN G. ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Export Lamb Quality.
“Crossbred”: Improvement in the
quality of lambs exported last season
( 1938-39) is a satisfactory feature of the
Australian Meat Board’s review. Total
shipments were 4,958,360 carcasses, as
compared with 5,194,819 in the previous
year. Decreases occurred in Victoria and
N.S.W. owing to adverse seasonal con-
ditions until March.
Victoria accounted for more than half
the quantity shipped, but large numbers
of N.S.W. lambs and many from S.A.
are exported from that State.
Grading results afford useful compari-
sons of the relative position of the in-
dustry in the several States. In Victoria
(55.73 p.c. of total shipments) the general
standard of quality was surprisingly good
during the early part of the season (to
end of November). Later a high per-
centage of “summer” lambs caused a
rapid decline. The progeny of ewes
showing mostly merino blood (strong
comeback and Corriedale) stood up to
the dry season much better than those
derived from the long-wool type of ewe.
Seasonal conditions in N.S.W.
(21.33 p.c.) until the late summer rains
were most unfavorable. With the excep-
tion of May and June, when some good-
quality lambs were in evidence, the
general standard was poor, and the usual
difficulties in carrying out standardised
grading were encountered.
A marked increase in the number
of lambs exported from South Australia
(13.37 p.c.) was noted. Quality was par-
ticularly good, owing in part to improved
methods of breeding but also on account
of the exceptionally favorable season.
The grading left little to be desired.
Quality in W.A. (7.34) was well main-
tained over a large increase in produc-
tion. Owing to the wider areas drawn
from, a slightly larger number of lambs
of a leggy type were included in second-
and third-quality grades.
Tasmania (1.13 p.c.) is making slow
but sure progress in production of the
right type for export, but some producers
are inclined to hold their lambs until
above the most desirable weights for the
U.K. market.
The quality of lambs in Queensland
(1.10 p.c.) is showing improvement, owing
to the introduction of a more suitable
class of rams.
Black Scour Worm.
“J.R.D.”: Fairly heavy losses have
occurred among young sheep in s.-w.
N. S. Wales, and, judging by the con-
dition of weaners and lambs, heavier
losses are still to come. The winter was
excellent, with plenty of green feed until
last December. Since then the grass has
dried off, and there is little nourishment
left in it except for grown sheep or young
sheep which have only a few worms to
carry.
The regular rainfall during the winter
made ideal conditions for internal
parasites. Although all stock were in
good condition worms were multiplying
at a tremendous rate. When the grass
dried off sheep which had been drenched
at weaning or as lambs showed little
effect, but those which had not been
drenched quickly fell away.
It’s advisable to drench all sheep under
18 months with bluestone and nicotine
sulphate. Do the job as soon as pos-
sible, particularly if they are out of
condition. If sheep are very weak give
them half the prescribed dose and give
them the other half three or four days
later. If weaners are only starting to
show signs of worminess give the pre-
scribed dose and repeat in from one
to three weeks according to their con-
dition. Drench healthy weaners once a
month as a preventive until the danger
period is past.
It has been found that the ideal volume
of a dose is somewhere about 1 fl. oz.
Drench should be made up by mixing
lib. of powdered bluestone and 16 fl.
oz. of nicotine sulphate in water. For
two-tooths and older use 2\ gallons
water with a dose of loz. for grown
sheep and £oz. for two-tooths ; for sheep
under 12 months make the bluestone
and nicotine, up to five gallons with
water, with a dose loz. for lambs eight-12
“We only got to cover it with sandbags and it’ll make a beautiful bombproof shelter.”
months, foz. four-eight months, and £oz.
under four months.
Pork-curing Hints.
“Mookau”: The basic principle of
meat-curing is that salt is made to
permeate the meat and the muscles until
the growth of destructive bacteria is
stopped. Whatever else may be in the
cure, salt is the important ingredient.
A good pork cure is about 81b. salt,
31b. sugar and 3oz. saltpetre per 1001 b.
pork. The saltpetre keeps the color of
the meat bright and attractive, the salt
cures it, the sugar keeps it moist and
helps the flavor.
Pork is best cured in small pieces—say
61b. or 71b. This gives the salt a chance
to penetrate quickly. About three days
per pound will do the trick with hams.
Bacon pieces need only two days per
pound.
A couple of hours in cold water will
remove surplus salt from the surface of
the meat after cure. Smoking does not
help cure, but it flavors and it stops mould
growth.
Voluntary Restriction.
“Ben C.”: Fred Rowlands, of Wau-
goola (N.S.W.), who has the land and
climate to produce heavy wheat crops,
believes that any grower who can afford
to reduce his wheat acreage this season
should do so. He suggests that efforts
should be made to keep sharefarmers
in production, and that there are plenty
of landowners who could neglect wheat
for at least a year while concentrating
on fat lambs and mutton.
The revised Australian crop figure set
the 1939-40 harvest at 204,000,000
bushels, of which probably 150,000,000
will be available for export. About 80i
millions of this has been sold, but is
still in the country, the shipping prob-
lem being as acute as ever. There are
inquiries for wheat and flour from India
and the Orient, and it’s hoped that an
improvement of the shipping problem
will allow us to take advantage of them.
Still, you can’t grow wheat on hopes,
and there may be something in Row-
lands’s idea.
Potatoes and Fertiliser.
“Murphy”: N. S. Wales Plant Advisory
Council has some recent tests at
Dorrigo (N.S.W.) with balanced fertil-
isers for potatoes.
Super, was the basic fertiliser used
at the rates of 3cwt., 6cwt. and 9cwt.
per acre. In some plots the super, was
used straight, in others with lcwt. or
2cwt. ammonium sulphate and lcwt. or
2cwt. muriate of potash. The season
was an average one with 27in. of rain,
the soil a rich chocolate typical of the
Dorrigo plateau. Graded and rogued
“Factor” seed was used, 28 rows to the
chain and seed 15in. to 18in. apart.
Increase of super, above 3cwt. to the
acre did not noticeably increase yield.
But 2cwt. of ammonium sulphate gave
an improvement of two tons to the acre
and muriate of potash 'another ton or
two tons of output. Best results were
obtained from 2cwt. amm. sulph., 3cwt.
super, and lcwt. muriate of potash, which
produced 12 tons lcwt. to the acre,
against the average for all plots of 9.57
tons to the acre. The Australian aver-
age is only about 2.5 tons to the acre
in a normal season.
Phalaris Tuberosa in the Dry.
“Sheepo”: “Sandpatch” (B. 10/l/’4O)
is right about the advisability of foster-
ing P. tuberosa in the western areas of
N.S.W. The old idea that the plant would
not thrive in country where the rainfall
was less than 20 inches was knocked to
pieces in Victoria during last year’s
drought. Phalaris survived in some
places where perennial rye failed and
died.
A perennial itself, P.t. can survive a
long dry summer and then spring to life
after the first soaking rains. Out here
(west Riverina), a 12 months’ drought
left the soil dried-out and the country as
bare as a board. After the break in Feb-
ruary last year, the Phalaris came to life
quickly. During winter, when the rain-
fall was abnormal, Phalaris thrived ex-
ceptionally, thousands of acres being
covered by a dense crop. Having seeded
heavily it needs only a decent fall during
the next few weeks to see the plant
carpeting the plains once more.
I don’t know whether P.t. has been
tried out as silage, but if the growth this
year approaches anything like it was
during last winter, it would be worth ex-
perimenting with the surplus.
Tractors in W.A.
“Wester”: The increased'use of trac-
tors in the Westralian wheatbelt and
comparative costs of kerosene and char-
coal gas have been subjects of investi-
gation. In 1928 there were 4000 in the
.State, or one to every 750 acres sown
for grain. Last year there were 5600,
or one to every 530 acres. In the same
period horses used in wheat-production
dropped from 100,000 —one to 30 acres
—to a little over 70,000 —one to 35 acres.
It also appeared that horses still on the
farms were not being used to the same
extent.
A gallon of kerosene was found to be
equivalent to 141 b. of charcoal for gas.
Highest cost for kero, on the farm was
Is. 5d a gallon. Producer-gas costs
varied. Charcoal in the Darling Ranges
cost £2 10s. a ton for jarrah and £2 15s.
for white-gum. Freight was high on
small lots, and the further the charcoal
had to be carried the greater was the
decrease in its price advantage over kero.
Where charcoal could be got locally costs
were mostly below 30s. a ton.
The average costs were below Is. Bd.
an acre for over 30 p.c. of the machines
surveyed. Not many years ago contract
ploughing cost as much as 7s. 6d. an
acre, yet plenty of the farms using trac-
tors showed a total cost for cultivation,
seeding and harvesting of less than 10s.
an acre.
“A.A.D.”: Record N.S.W. wheat yield
this year is 59 bushels 401 b. per acre of


There s a great satisfaction in really knowing that you are getting value for
your money.
We are certain that we can satisfy you with this working Cossack.
Heavy double soles, full and half sizes, in Black or Brown. Price .... 29/6
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations J( 15
Sheep bought ~ 20
Wire netting |f 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item:
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Commonwealth
Cov’ment Action
“BETTER-THAN-EVER”
Empire Tobacco, devel-
oped by the Common-
wealth and State Gov-
ernments, makes our
Tobacco BETTER
THAN EVER.
Empire grown Tobacco is better
than ever because of the new
agricultural and scientific methods
developed by our Governments,
which have helped the Farmers
grow finer, better Tobacco.
WE ARE THE
MANUFACTURERS
Order your Tobacco
DIRECT FROM US
at practically half the price you pay
elsewhere.
With orders over £ 1 in all lines a
Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco
Pouch, Cigarette Lighter or Holder
is included.
PIPE TOBACCO AND FINE CUT.
Per lb.
First crop, mild .. .. • .. 6/3
All British, mild 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium .. .. 6/3
Old Peter, medium .. .. .. 6/3
Cavendish, strong .. .. .. 6/3
Beech Nut, medium .. .. .. 6/9
Africa, mellow and mild .. .. 6/9
Soliders’ Own, mild .. .. 7/3
Normandie, medium .. .. 7/9
Winning Post, medium .. .. 8/-
Tliree Bells, strong ~ .. .. 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium .. .. .. 8/-
Eatakia, in pipe only .. .. 10/-
White Eodge, medium .. .. 10/-
White Eodge, light 11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark .. 8 6
Cahills, medium .. .. .. 10/9
Union Reader, medium .. .. 11/-
Tender Reaf, medium .. ~ 11/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only .. 8/-
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only .. 6/-
PRUG TOBACCOS
“Clinker,” plug mild .. 7/6
“Skipper,” medium .. .. .. 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong .. .. .. 7/6
“Three Sailors” .. .. .. 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” .. .. 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks .. 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks .. 6/6
“PAR” Dark Plug 6/6
Zig Zag Papers. 5 Packets for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSRAND ONRY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
Combined Growers,
COMMERCIAL RD., VALLEY, BRISBANE.
Pusa 4, grown by J. Noy at Bellata.
This is also the highest yield ever re-
corded on farmers’ experiment plots.
Noy top-scored for the State last season
with 50 bushels 231 b. of Ford. The
crops were grown in chocolate gravelly
loam, of which there is a comparatively
limited area in the midst of a 60-mile
black-soil plain. Previous record was
55 bushels 271 b. of Dundee, grown by
A. M. Paterson in black basaltic loam
at Myall Creek in 1935. The two new
rust-immune wheats, Fedweb 1 and
Eureka, both evolved in N.S.W., have
been amongst the season’s most pro-
lific yielders in trials, ranging to 55£
and 46 bushels respectively. Eureka
grain has the added merit of being Of
high baking quality.
“Pappamosca”: Sydney R.A.S. is ex-
tending its pig sections this year because
of “the radical changes in type stand-
ards.” There haven’t been any “radical
changes” ; the only difference is that we
are beginning to wake up to overseas
market needs. The R.A.S. encourages
too much variety. It would be better
if one or two breeds which have the
bulk of the British choice-bacon market
or which are capable of beating the
average of English imports were catered
for. What is needed is an Australian
national pig. It should be fairly easy
to get. The perfect carcass by English
trade standards and the Hammond scale
is an exactly balanced piece of meat
in which there is little room for variety
of contour.
“More Grass”: There’s no need to go
as far as the Argentine to show that
linseed will grow in warmer climates
(B. 17/1/’4O). At Urbenville (N.S.W.)
W. E. Davies is growing linseed on an
alluvial creek flat. An area of half an
acre was sown in June, 1939, and har-
vested five months later. The yield was
estimated at 25 bushels per acre. When
harvested the plot was 4ft. high and very
dense. At sowing time 2cwt. super, per
acre was applied, after which there was
no further treatment. The linseed was cut
when the seed commenced to rattle in
the seed head, the sheaves being stooked
for a few days before being threshed.
There are thousands of acres of land in
North Coast N.S.W. similar to these
Urbenville Creek flats on which linseed
would undoubtedly thrive. Hand-fed to
cows, calves, pigs or poultry, it would
considerably reduce the concentrate bill.
“Ovis”: The Australian Meat Board
has promised that an attempt will be
made to get a better price for Australian
mutton when the contract is reviewed
next October. The board admits, in
respect to complaints about the figures
arrived at for heavy mutton, that it was
necessary to adopt a definite basis for
prices, and that “for all lines, including
mutton, 1930 average quotations were
taken.” It was then discovered that,
though the figures were satisfactory fot
lamb, they were not for other lines, and
the British Government refused a request
from the Commonwealth for an increase
of |d. per pound. Prices on a 1938 basis
certainly provide no margin for increas-
ing charges produced by war and in-
creased taxation and other burdens.
“Mustang”: I ran my colt in with a
neighbor’s mob for branding, but pro-
tested it was unsafe to do the job in
a small yard without a crush. That idea
was laughed at. One man did the roping
while the rest sat round on the fences
to prevent the horses from jumping. He
scared the mob out of their wits by
racing them round the yard to get the
rope on them. Result, my colt with a
broken neck against the rails.
“Coaster”: Worth noting that the drug
value of ergot (B. 24/1 / ’4O) does not
apply to the disease always found in
paspalum in the coastal districts of N. S.
Wales. The disease is identical with that
found in rye, etc., but the alkaloid con-
tent of the paspalum form is too low
to make it of any commercial value.
Outback Occupations.
No. 4.
Beating the Rabbits.
One of the first things you discover
on taking up the block is the number of
hitherto unknown people who display a
keen interest in your welfare. One of
the first letters you receive reads like
this: —•
“On a visit to your property on the
26th proximo I counted 104 fully-grown
rabbits and 17 kittens. In the south-
west corner there are three working
warrens, and a lot of harbor down by
the creek. I have reported this matter,
and you are hereby informed that steps
must be taken for the edification of these
animals under the Noxious Weeds Act,
Section A, sub-section 2 ( b ), para. 1112,
as amended 1912. If you see Bill John-
son tell him his grey horse is here in
the pound. Yours etc., R. Ulingsworth
Fitzwater, Deputy-sub-assistant Rabbit
Inspector for the Parish of Duddo Bore.”
Your first sensation is one of admira-
tion for the mathematical precision of a
man who can pass over your property
and in the next breath detail the number
of rabbits and their young then exist-
ing. You have been troubled by crows,
and wonder vaguely whether he could
tell you how many of them black blank-
ards are dwelling on your lambs. And
does he ihink you have nothing else to
do but chase rabbits and run round look-
ing for Bill Johnson? By cripes, what’s
he got you snouted for? There’s thou-
sands of rabbits on old Quonk’s place,
and millions on the Crown Land reserve
at the back, but he never bothers them
about it. One law for the rich and an-
other for the poor struggling cocky,
that’s what it is. x
To blazes with Bill and his grey horse!
Let him look after the darned prad him-
self. You call one of the boys and tell
him to hop on his pony and slip over to
Johnson’s with a message from the rabbit
inspector.
You go to the shed looking for shovels
and mattocks. You collect three shovels,
two mattocks and a waterbag. Then
you look at the sun and decide the best
time to start digging is in the cool of
the evening. There’s a hot northerly that
night, and the rabbits wouldn’t be in
their holes anyhow; you decide to make
a start early next morning.
You think about those rabbits most of
the night, and when you sleep you dream
of grey bunnies digging holes under the
rabbit inspector’s house in the town. In
the morning you remember that McCay,
over the other side of Danyo Ridge, has
a mechanical fumigator. After break-
fast you get in the car and go over to
McCay’s. He’d lend you the fumigator
only the nozzle has been lost, but as soon
as it’s found Have you seen the
line of ewes he picked up? You get
home about dark.
There’s a man waiting to see you. He
heard in the town you wanted men to
dig out rabbits. Who told him? No-
body, he just heard. What's his name?
Fitzwater! You tie his whiskers to his
toes and boot him off the place.
You start out next day with shovels
and mattocks. It’s a nice morning. The
digging is good. Soon you’re down in
a trench. The dogs doze up above.
There isn’t a sign of a rabbit. Maybe
you’d better try the other warren. Time
passes. At sundown that corner is criss-
crossed with trenches like the old Western
Front, and you have one rabbit, two
frilled lizards, a big frog and a lot of
blisters because the mattock handles
were loose and kept jarring your hands.
Next day you get an idea. You yoke
the tractor to the old tank plough and
rip the inside out of every warren on
the place. The dogs run down a few
rabbits. On the last warren the plough
hits an old buried stump, the tractor
bucks once, veers and the drawbar
breaks. You’ve had extended control
with long rods to gears and throttle, and
you lose your grip. The tractor bolts
for the creek, gets into holts with a tree,
gets somehow in reverse and races to-
wards you. You run with it, estimate
the distance, and try to jump aboard.
You make it, but the steering wheel
punches you on the nose, you fall back
into a cluster of saffron thistle, and
from there see the tractor pull down two
panels of fence and disappear into Tom
Heegan’s haystack.
After a few days you can sniff again,
Heegan’s stack is rebuilt, the fence re-
paired and the local mechanic has the
tractor running again.
All you have to do now is burn out
the harbor on the creek. That’s easy,
and the dogs collect a few more rabbits.
You’re glad the rabbit business is cleaned
up, and see about getting the scarifier
on to the fallow in the back paddock.
Days pass. You appreciate the free-
dom of farm life, and realise that having
beaten the rabbits you have done a duty
to the whole district.
About a week later, while you are
asleep one night, the alarm of fire is
raised. Out you go. An old root in the
rabbit harbor by the creek has burned
underground and come up again 50 feet
away. The grass is well alight and the
fire racing towards the homestead. Neigh-
bors appear, and you all fight hard. You
save everything except 130 acres of grass,
seven panels of the subdividing fence,
two ewes and the corner of the woolshed
where the engine was.
Next day you get a letter:
“On a visit to your property on 26th
of last month I counted 104 fully-grown
rabbits and 17 kittens, and advised you
accordingly. Today, three weeks later,
I again inspected your property and
counted 234 fully-grown rabbits and 67
kittens. My board regards this matter
seriously, and has instructed its solicitor
to prosecute. Your Clydesdale stallion
was found bogged in the Council Tank
last night, and was in such a bad way
that it had to be destroyed. I have the
honor to be, R. I Fitzwater, Dep.-sub.-
ass., Rab. Ins., Parish Duddo B.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2ld. per line. . . ,
Month* aeo a prize was awarded to a Victorian who wrote, from personal
exDenence in favor of large families. Now double rates go to a South Australienne
whose personal experience was not favorable. Naturally she doesn’t want her name
published.
Large Families
My contacts with couples who have
achieved their biological destinies in a
really big way—l am one ol a family
of 12 youngsters —disclose emotions othei
than"the “bravery” mentioned by “P.R”
(B. 17/1/ ’4O).
Certainly children from large families
learn to battle for themselves—most bag-
men do. The children’s initiative, how-
ever, springs from the fierce competition
and the exigencies within the family
group. Consider the lot of the basic-wage
earner with a quiverful of 10. Even
allowing that competition did make one
kid work like the devil to equip himself
for success, would that clinch an argu-
ment in favor of large families?
Consider, too, the hotbed of jealousy
in most large families. Frustration and
favoritism are rife, leading to open war-
fare and feuds.
I smile ironically when I recall the
struggle my family and parents had to
get even a decent meal. It is no argument
in our favor that we muddled through
the early years to better tucker. The
point is that our childhood would have
been less difficult and dangerous if there
had been fewer in the family.
Nor do parents come out of this
struggle with medals for alleged bravery.
For years my father and mother had to
toil night and day while the wolf scraped
at the door. Dad’s week-ends were often
spent cobbling from eight to nine pairs
of boots for the kids. It was nothing
for Mum to have two dozen frocks in
the wash for the girls, besides repairing
the wear and tear of the boys’ pants.
That was before the days when soap
advertisements gravely warned young
marrieds against the awful social sin of
having “housewife’s hands.” I fancy she
must have used the wrong soap.
When I hear this glib talk of large
families for the low-wage earner I just
glance at my mother’s legs for a vivid
reminder of what hard work and fre-
quent childbirth can do to a woman —
gnarled and knotted with varicose veins,
they look more like a road map than
human limbs. — The Twelfth (S.A.).
The youths who head the classes and
win bursaries are usually those who are
not distracted from their studies by the
merry-go-rounds of Vanity Fair, and
whose parents are poor enough to take
an interest in the homework of their
offspring. The tail-enders and duds are
too often the “neglected children” of
richer homes. They toil not, neither do
they swot.
Take any two boys, equal each to
each. Give one sixpence a week and
the other ten shillings a week to spend.
Then compare their exam, marks and
count their evenings at home.
Much of the domestic misery of to-
day is due, not to full quivers, but to
the fact that one kid gets what should
be split up amongst five or six. Bring
him up to expect the lot, and when he
is old he will still grab it, plus Mum’s
and Dad’s portion. The Prodigal Son
had only one brother. Otherwise there
would have been no large sum to squan-
der, and he would have stayed on the
farm and behaved himself.
And parents who are busy making the
two ends of a large home circle meet
have no time to construct the eternal
triangle.—J. W. (S.A.).
The Birthrate
Appeals to patriotism and racial senti-
ment won’t solve the problem of our
falling birthrate. People have children
or refrain from having them from purely
personal motives. Every married couple
discusses this question, and is confronted
by opposing sets of desires. On the one
hand there is the fundamental desire to
reproduce one’s kind, and, on the other
hand, there is the acquired desire for a
high standard of living, as represented by
a smarter home, fashionable clothes, a
car, leisure, entertainments, sports, and
so on.
Viewed from this angle, almost every
advertisement published or broadcast is
anti-childbearing propaganda. Modern
advertising is not a take-ty-or-leave-it
affair. Its first principle is to arouse
desires. A desire for a car, for example,
cleverly created and fostered by modern
publicity methods, can soon outweigh
the desire for a child, especially as no
one is spending a few hundred thousands
annually to advertise the merits of having
a family.
To ask a married couple to have chil-
dren and go without luxuries is to ask
them to accept a lower standard of living
when every scrap of commercial propa-
ganda is lauding the advantages of the
higher standard.
As I see it, our incomes, on the aver-
age, are too low for us to gratify both
our acquired and our fundamental de-
sires, with the result that we sacrifice the
fundamental because it is the most
general and the least specific of our
wants. Secondly, the medical attention
available to the average mother on the
average income falls below the standard
which her relatively high standard of
education tells her is desirable. Thirdly,
war, unemployment and high taxation are
three more features of modern life which
destroy one’s faith in the future and lead
to a tendency to enjoy what one can
today because tomorrow may never come.
The solution is not to get back to the
good old days but to get on to better
days, combining the relative tranquillity
of 50 years ago with the industrial effici-
ency of today. Our desire to possess
and our ability to produce are both in
excess of our ability to buy. Either the
first must be reduced or the last must be
increased if we are to solve the dilemma
of modern life. — Amicus (N.S.W.).
“J.S.” (B. 17/1/’4O) states that the
declining birthrate is a result of the
system under which we are living, »and
which, he asserts, does not provide for,
nor encourage, the reproduction of our
people. How then does he reconcile his
statement with the fact that all around
us we see childless married couples in
extremely comfortable circumstances?
In many instances both the partners are
holding down good jobs with a net in-
come of £lO per week.
Again, it is common to hear young
women state that when they marry they
are not going to have children for at least
10 years, because they want to have a
good time. In that last sentence is the
whole cause of the declining birthrate.
Women today expect to be able to fly
round and waste their time on stupid
pleasures and so-called thrills, as much
after they are married as before. They
refuse to settle down and become
mothers of the future young Australians,
who, as I see it, are the only hope for
a continuance of White Australia. —
P. G. B. (N.S.W.).
Education of Girls
When P. Radwon (B. 10/1/’4O)
watched schoolgirls either rejoicing or
worrying over the results of their annual
examinations in arithmetic, geometry
and algebra, he was not the only observer
who was struck with the futility of it
all. If he visited any public library in
the capital cities he would find further
evidence of futility in young women
pouring over piles of hefty tomes and
struggling over problems that will in the
end leave them on the shelf, frustrated
and bitter feminists. Of course, all the
world knows these now bright young
things are out for a careeah, individuality,
self-expression and all the other feminist
flapdoodle. Usually they get what they
want, become professional successes —
and personal failures.
The trouble starts at school. With
married women ousted from teaching
bodies, the ambitious spinster pro-
jects her own efficiency ideal on
to schoolgirls. Preparation for a
natural future of marriage and family
life is taboo. The value of x and y and
memorising of Euclid are the things that
really matter; not a knowledge of
elementary human biology, sex without
“the beautiful loves of the flowers,” cook-
ing a square meal and budgeting for a
family.
Is it any wonder that girls with that
educational background get highfalutin
notions of their mission in life? The
tragedy of it all is that when “well-
educated” women cast around for a mari-
tal “catch,” after years of sophistication
and frustration, they usually bring a
whopping neurosis and a lazy outlook to
the altar. Or they learn too late that a
clever woman is never missed.
This stressing of intellectual values,
instead of underlining emotional values
in the female, has warped the whole
relationship between the sexes. A spin-
ster novelist who can transfer her erotic
fantasies to paper; an “efficient” woman
who can take the chair at feminist
meetings, and that misfit the athlete
—these types get the prestige and
approval. The woman who can run
her home, cook a decent meal and
gather a family round her is merely
a dull domestic type, according to many
“brainy” female products of our educa-
tion system. One thing is certain, the
“dull domestic type” is worth any bunch
of neurotic careerists who, in their in-
feriority, try to compensate for emotional
starvation by aping men or evading the
challenge of womanhood. —C. Halbert
(Vic.).
The Big Job
When is the Government going to
give us a lead in making the national
effort we have heard so much about?
Certainly there are the Second A.I.F.
the new Air Force, the millions beiq.g
spent, the war loans, the Red Cross
efforts, etc., but, to my mind, a national
effort means the utilising of every ounce
of energy towards the one end and the
cutting out of everything detracting from
it —in short, the nationalisation of every
service, function and power.
We are told we are fighting for our
very existence, that everything we hold
dear and without which life would be
useless is at stake. Then why “the busi-
ness as usual” attitude? Why such spec-
tacles as miners walking out of court,
teachers demanding Federal subsidies,
employers victimising employees called up
for military service, the haggling over
wheat prices, the wrangling of politicans,
Parliaments taking a long recess and,
worst of all, a large percentage of man-
power being wasted?
If the Empire is in the danger alleged
—and there doesn’t seem much doubt
about it —surely the time has come for
a halt to be called, for a leader to tell
us, “We’re up against it. It’s a case of
one in, all in. Till we’re out of the mess
all local affairs are to be dropped. No
squabbling about profit and loss or your
rights or my rights till we’ve won through.
If we don’t win, what we think are our
rights won’t be worth a damn!”—Kings-
man (Vic.).
Churchill’s Speeches
A study of the war barometer for
several months shows that a speech by
the First Lord of the Admiralty is in-
variably succeeded by trouble. The first
wave of submarine terror followed his
first fiery outburst. The sowing of the
ocean with magnetic mines and the sub-
sequent harvest of devilry and death
followed his next proud boast; and after
his confident pronouncement that the
navy controls the seas and has dealt with
every eventuality came a week in which
some 15 vessels went to the bottom.
Next time Winston ventures on one
of his major flights of exuberant oratory
we will involuntarily brace ourselves for
the impending shock. We reflect on the
general rule that an orator is seldom a
solid executive man and begin to wonder
if the First Lord is an exception.
It might be an idea to suggest settling
the issues of war by a contest of words
with the Goliath from Munich chal-
lenging the David from Downing-street.
—G.A.B. (N.S.W.).
Petty Profiteering
Since the outbreak of this war there
have been, in small ways, increases in
the cost of many things. Though the
amounts are mainly in pence they result
in a certain amount of strain on the
pockets of those with families or meagre
incomes, and if put on to a large range
of necessities must gradually become an
actual worry.
Any protests about the fairness of such
increases are met with smiling and
righteous reference to war causes, but
what guarantee has anyone that this is
really so or that wily tradesmen, unable
to profiteer in big ways, are making the
most of trifles?
Daily papers find room to publish
much unimportant news, so why couldn’t
they give us regular lists of all com-
modities made dearer by war conditions
and also the exact reason for the in-
crease? This would satisfy many a
doubting Thomas among customers and
would prevent unscrupulous traders from
popping on pennies here and there. The
average person is just as eager to save
small sums as businessmen are to secure
them, so it would be fairer for all con-
cerned if the suggested lists of rising
prices were published daily, or at least
weekly, until things become normal again.
—P. Rad won (Vic.).
“Give Back Our Colonies”
It says much for the effectiveness of
German propaganda that, even at this
stage, voices are raised in protest in the
British press over the dirty deal Germany
got at Versailles. Germany, they affirm,
must have colonies, must have living
space.
But must she? If there is such lack
of living space why the intense efforts
to raise the German birthrate? Why the
official discouragement of emigration?
Why the shortage of labor? And, re-
member, the German colonial history is
a record of maltreatment —a convincing
reason, at least on humanitarian grounds,
why Germany must not have colonies.
There has been a lot of sentimental
claptrap talked about German over-
population and her economic plight. Since
the last war Germany has paid stupen-
dous amounts in reparations, yet has
managed to raise and maintain the most
formidable fighting force in Europe. The
British intellectuals so glibly talking about
a post-war brotherhood of man and a
pooling of resources —Britain’s, of course
—could do worse than ponder on the fact
that had Germany concentrated on butter
instead of guns she would not now be
so short of bread-spread.—C. A. B. (Q.).
Refugees
There does not seem to be any great
anxiety on the part of male refugees to
return to Europe and engage in the fight
against Hitler and all he stands for. Some
of the stories told to newspaper re-
porters by people seeking sanctuary in
Australia before the war gave the impres-
sion that the speakers were only too
anxious to do anything that would in-
jure Hitler or his cause. But those same
refugees are not clamoring to join a
Foreign Legion formed to assist the
Allies. The legion has not even been
proposed yet.
No, the refugees are apparently
satisfied to let young Australians defend
the country in which they have made
their homes. While Australians are being
trained in defence some of them for
overseas service—refugees are content to
remain in civil life and to grab everything
they can.
A gesture Australians would appre-
ciate would be an offer by the refugees
to undertake some kind of defence work
for Australia. It is up to the Government
to see that they are made to do some-
thing towards that end. Service side by
side with young Australians in the militia
would be the surest and quickest means
of giving them an Australian outlook,
and they would be earning the right to
stay in this country.—Cow Time (N.S.W.).
Australia for Australians
Isn’t it remarkable that Australians
are able to go overseas and command
important positions in all walks of life,
while in their own country they seem
to be considered incapable of filling im-
portant positions in public life? Why
do we have to import Governors and
Governors-General (an Australian proved
the best we ever had) and leaders for
our Air Force, Army and Navy? In
Government departments and universities
we find important positions held by non-
Australians, and also in the national
broadcasting service.
Surely it is time our politicians were
made to realise that Australians can hold
their own with anyone. These politicians
are very fond of telling us that Austra-
lians are the best soldiers in the world,
but Australians in the army, navy or
anywhere else prefer to be led by fellow-
Australians who can do the jobs just as
efficiently as any overseas expert.
Instead of the obsolete Preference to
Returned Soldiers Act which is brought
into force when it pleases those in
authority, we badly need an Act to give
preference to Australians where all other
things are equal, thus at least to give
them a fair deal.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
The Australian Language
TJiis continual disparagement of our
language is becoming tiresome. What’s
the matter with it, anyway? It is clear
and unpretentious, and one need only


listen to the intonation of other English-
speaking countries over the air to recog-
nise its superiority in distinctness. In
America the Australian “brogue”—as I
have heard some Americans speak of it
• —is much admired. Because our speech
differs slightly from its original form,
must it necessarily have deteriorated?
To me it is lamentable that some of
our own people condemn our native in-
tonation and, in their misguided search
for culture, mimic the broad old Eng-
lish style. The result is an exaggerated
affectation true neither to the original
mother tongue nor to the Australian
evolved locution.
On every hand patriots advocate the
use of Australian products, and enthusi-
asts shout “Australia for the Austra-
lians.” Yes? Well, why not keep our
own language? Why entertain for one
mopient proposals that our schools
should adopt a different method of
speech?—E. Carol (Vic.).
Australian Critics
Virile criticism, as Arthur Falk says
(B. 24/1/’4O), may be lacking in Aus-
tralia ; there is certainly no lack of
critics. But how many Australian critics
ask themselves whether they have a right
to an opinion on the books they criti-
cise? Freud was and Einstein is a very
distinguished man, but nobody would
expect Einstein to be able to write a
thesis on Freud’s work or Freud to be
able to write a thesis on Einstein’s. Yet
the average newspaper reviewer will
review a book by Einstein one day and
a book by Freud the next. He may be
criticising something, but he is certainly
not criticising Freud or Einstein.
The notion that because an individual
can put words together he is necessarily
competent to analyse a work of litera-
ture is most sedulously fostered at, of
all places in the world, our universities,
where callow youths who know nothing
about themselves or the world about
them are permitted to analyse the plays
of Shakspeare. What they should be
doing is analysing some simple little
statement. They may ultimately work
up to Shakspeare, but to begin with him
is like beginning the study of arithmetic
with Russell’s Principia.
If a person were to tell me that he
had understood a book at the first read-
ing I would say that it was either an
ordinary book or he was an extra-
ordinary individual. —S. G. M. (Vic.).
Casual Australians
We have built up a kind of aura
about the casual Australian. But he never
was and never will be a real asset to the
country. He leaves it to somebody else
to carry the burdens that allow of his very
casualness. He’s usually gifted with a
hard jib and is boosted up as typical.
Yet, unfortunately, he is aped by the
lad who wishes to evade his obligations in
the piping times of peace. He grins at
the idea of tin soldiering, conveniently
forgetting that it is the earnest fellow
who, by the giving of time and brain-
power, builds up the system into which he
tardily strolls to gather the encomiums.
Soldiering is a science that can never
be learned without application. Even
the humble first stripe carries responsi-
bility ; the vast organisation of an army
depends upon the delegation of it step
by step. In it the casual fellow is some-
thing of a bugbear. There are always too
many ready to follow his example, largely
perhaps because we’ve extolled it.
It’s all very well to point at individual
acts of carefree bravery. He’s an un-
known, unreliable factor. Thank God
the type is usually too indolent to
have the lives of other men in his
keeping. And the sooner public opinion
places him in his right category the
better. — Jae (S.A.).
Tourist Roads
A correspondent to the daily press
is in great distress about a tourist
road near Brisbane. Too much stress is
laid on these so-called “tourist” roads,
which are chiefly used by city people.
Those in high places speak solemnly
of catering for tourist traffic. Of what
value are tourists to Queensland com-
pared with her butter, sugar, wheat and
wool? I don’t know what conditions
prevail in the last three areas, but I live
in a dairying district, and I have seen
in the wet seasons cream held up and
deteriorating while dairymen worked to
pull the cream lorries out of the mud.
Meanwhile the shire councillors and
their influential friends in near-by towns
were worrying about a road to a picnic
resort so that the poor dear townsfolk
could get about in all weathers. And
cream on the farms went rotten and
farmers’ wives made dampers to eke out
the bread supply until the lorries got
through.—L. L. L. (Q.).
“Sanctuaries”
In “Wild Life,” a magazine published in
Melbourne, appears an advertisement for
the sanctuary here inviting the world to
“meet such outstanding Australians as
koalas, lyrebirds and the platypus. You
will be delighted to wander through this
bushland reserve meeting scores of
friendly animals and birds. Spotlight
tours by night by special arrangement.”
The advertisement includes a photo-
graph of a girl standing beside a teddy
bear, and on page 34 a girl is depicted
sitting at table with a mother bear and
two cubs. Elsewhere in the same issue a
plaintive article confides that Rebecca, a
female platypus, awaits a “happy event.”
Surely such exploitation and commer-
cialisation of our native animals are
beyond a joke, while to call such places
“sanctuaries” is a flat contradiction in
terms.
In such “sanctuaries” these timid, cap-
tive creatures are turned into nothing else
but pitiful exhibits to satisfy vulgar
curiosity and bring in cash. Daily trippers
by thousands and charabanc loads of
schoolchildren all revolve around them.
Even their nocturnal gambols are capi-
talised.
All this, mind you, under the guise of
“preserving Australia’s unique fauna.”
Ridiculous! — Morwell Hodges (Vic.).
Monkey Suits
Why are a few publicity-hunting cranks
always trying to have us ordinary, decent,
average Australians dressed up in shorts,
helmets, bare legs, sandals and so forth
in the name of dress? To my mind
there is nothing so like a trained monkey
in a circus as a Chidleyite parading
the streets and looking about to see how
many stares he has caught.
If there is any part of Australia that
is too hot for the average healthy-minded
as well as bodily-healthy Australian to
get about in reasonably light tweed or
the like, there are plenty of lighter cloths
in silk, cotton and other textures which
make it unnecessary to display our phy-
sical beauty or imperfections to the
vulgar gaze.
If Australia really needed dress reform
for men she would have had it long ago,
for there are few places where independ-
ence of thought is more widespread.
For hard manual work in the heat we
already discard all that is reasonably
superfluous, but when it comes to going
abroad in our leisure or less strenuous
vocational affairs we normal Australian
men draw the line at being conspicuous.
That is why the reformists in dress will
always be at the tail of the hunt. Dress
reform of the Chidley kind is unneces-
sary to achieve coolness, and if it were
not we ordinary males of mature years
would not pay the price of being dressed
in monkey suits. — Plain Bill (N.S.W.).
News Broadcasts
In his complaint about the curtailment
of the 8.8. C. news bulletins (B.
27/12/’39) H. A. Lindsay is far too mild.
A.B.C. cut one off in the middle of an
eyewitness’s account of a bombing raid
on a Finnish town —not in order to give
us local items of world-shaking interest,
but merely to go on with a programme
of boop-a-doop music.
Why this lack of consideration when
the 8.8. C. goes to the trouble and ex-
pense of sending out a full programme
which includes a news summary? Is it
right to expect us to sit up until mid-
night in order to hear the rest of the
news, or to wait until next morning for
it?
When the “A.B.C. Weekly” was first
published one of the boosts for it given
over the air said, “If you want to know
why we cut off the news broadcasts after
ten minutes, buy the ‘Weekly’ and you’ll
see the explanation.” I bought three
copies, then ceased to buy it, for not
one word of explanation had appeared
on the subject.— Carrick, A.B. (S.A.).
“Swing”
May I discourse on what jazz and
“swing” fiends have done to the classics?
Miss Maxine Sullivan was the first to
“swing” melodies that were never in-
tended to be “swung,” but she at least
had the decency to confine her activities
to sentimental old tunes which many
people consider should have been allowed
to die —their merit was not as music but
in their sentimentality. Maxine jazzed
them up, and they are heard in every
dance-hall now.
The fashion caught on, and quack inu
presarios searching for “noo toons” dis-
covered names they had never heard of
before, names like Tschaikowsky, Rubin-
stein, Beethoven, Chopin and Rossini.
The virtuosos of the new school had
never heard of these men, but appar-
ently they were “some guys” in their own
day, of course. So they set to work to
swing them, and they still swing them.
You may hear Mr. Bing Crosby warb-
ling “Ave Maria” or “Lovely Night” ; he
concedes that strict dance tempo is not
observed, but all the delicate inflections
and gasping heartbursts which charac-
terise the Prince of Crooners are present.
You may hear Mr. Benny Goodman
and his band giving their version of
Rubinstein’s “Melody in F,” and, if
you’re particularly highbrow, you can
hear some other awful cacophony mak-
ing a mess of Rossini’s “Large al facto-
tum.” I have not yet heard of anyone
“swinging” “Les Sylphides,” but it
“swings” painfully easily, and should in
time become a popular dance number.
Similarly for long dances, instead of
playing brackets of numbers, I suggest
the “Scheherazade” suite or, if some-
thing a little more lengthy is required,
I can assure everybody that Beethoven’s
“Eroica” Symphony would make a really
hot number.
But there’s worse than that. I heard
a melody the other day that I had been
trying to pick up for some time. It was
only classical, of course —to be exact,
the second movement of Tschaikowsky’s
Fifth Symphony. Suddenly I heard some-
one singing it. The tempo wasn’t quite
correct, but it was definitely the theme,
and, note-perfect, that songster warbled
his way through the second movement
of Tschaikowsky’s Symphony No/ 5.
When it was over the announcer in-
formed me that I had heard Jules le
Jardin, the famous French crooner, sing-
ing “Hold Me in Your Arms Forever”
or something like that.
Incidentally, does anyone else know
that “Jeepers Creepers” is pirated directly
from Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony?—
Taurus (Vic.).
Too Much Gloom
There appears to be an excess supply
of those sober-sided morons who deplore
the fact that some of us, despite the fact
that there is a war on, still like our
normal peace-time entertainments. They
seem to think that it is our bounden duty
to mope around with faces as long as
fiddles and a gloom as deep as the ocean.
That is their righteous view of taking
the war seriously.
It’s taking it too darned seriously and
contributing to a general air of depression
in business and in the daily round. Life
is hard enough without our adding
vicarious dejection to it.
Maybe I am a moron to be able to try
to look normally at a life a few of our
leaders are determined to make abnormal.
But at least I’m a happy moron and, I
imagine, looking at the question quite
dispassionately, of more non-combatant
value than your attenuated-phizzed
gentlemen.—2s (Q.).
Inter-State Cheques
A curious anomaly of modern business
methods is that the supposedly marvel-
lous increase in transport facilities has
not shortened the time-lag between pre-
senting and cashing an inter-State cheque.
In Brisbane, if I get a cheque from
Sydney, I must wait five clear days
before I can collect. If the cheque comes
from Melbourne, the delay is 10 days.
I lodge the cheque on, say, Monday
morning, after the bank opens. It is too
late to catch that day’s train south. The
cheque lies 25 hours in Brisbane while I
try to borrow from a friend to carry me
over until I can draw real money.
Tuesday morning the cheque leaves Bris-
bane, arriving in Sydney on Wednesday
about 7 a.m. Wednesday night, if the
cheque is drawn in Sydney, it starts its
homeward journey. Thursday afternoon
it is back in Brisbane, too late for col-
lection. Friday morning, if there is no
hitch, I can collect at the bank. Of
course, if the cheque is a Melbourne
one it is still somewhere in the southern
city, or on the first stage of the return
journey.
For this amazing service I am slugged
exchange, on top of which the Queens-
land Government, not satisfied with the
fact that I must affix duty stamps to
any receipt I send, grabs duty on the
cheque as well.
Some day an Australian Hampden is
going to seek an injunction preventing a
bank from taking off those few pence
for the State from an inter-State
cheque. Test of Section 92 of the Con-
stitution, as my reading of various
authorities goes, is whether there is any
discrimination against the inter-State in-
strument. Collecting of stamp duty from
inter-State cheques looks like discrimina-
tion to me.
Of course, I may be wrong. I am no
lawyer. But, lawyer or not, I don’t appre-
ciate waiting five days for money the
airmail would have made available in
about five hours.— Benn (Q.).
“They Never Mention It”
“Pawang” (B. 24/1/’4O) asserts that
“archbishops and prohibitionists” have
been demanding protection for the sol-
dier against drink but don’t say a word
about venereal disease.
Frankly, let me ask “Pawang,” if the
army were teetotal, what proportion of
the troops would be likely to contract
v.d.? And of what use is all the mention
in the world on the subject of v.d. if
the whole issue is clouded by alcohol?
Is a man narcotised by alcohol likely
to take any precautions?
“Pawang” asserts that “nobody has
proved that alcohol did much damage
to any army during the last war.” I’m
glad he says “much damage.” King
George V., I suppose, when he totally
abandoned the use of alcohol in all the
royal households from 1915 until the end
of the war, was doing that just to be a
“nark”? And when Lloyd George said
that Britain was fighting Germany, Aus-
tria and drink he was just trying to be
funny.
The honest fact of the matter is that
alcohol and venereal disease are twins
Ex-Imperail Officer (N.S.W.).
Government Employees
I want to break a lance in earnest with
those O.F.M. contributors and others who
fling indiscriminate abuse at civil servants.
Government departments contain a large
proportion of workers whose jobs are
neither soft nor secure. I mean tem-
porary employees.
The road of the “temp.” is indeed
rough. He is used when required, then
thrown out. He is in the ruck, with the
odds heavy against his ever getting pro-
motion or permanency. He may be em-
ployed for quite a time, even for years
if lucky enough, but always over him
hangs the spectre of dismissal. His em-
ployment is a hard bargain, his service
paid for by the hour to the nearest penny
and dispensed with if and when possible.
“Nairb,” “Iago” (B. 17/l/’4O) and
others might not be aware of the astonish-
ing number of temporaries in Govern-
ment employ, but I beg them to spare
this type of civil servant from their sneers.
I know from personal experience that all
jobs handed out by the Government are
not cushy ones. —Justacrust (Vic.).
Dole Standards
One aspect of juvenile crime always
carefully avoided in public discussions is
the dole. In the name of all that is
democratic how can a people obtain the
education and environment that make
good citizens when thousands in every
State must look forward to graduating to
the dole when they are old enough, and
confine themselves in the meantime to
the physical and mental food that goes
with being children of parents on the
dole?
We need someone with brain and heart
enough to prove to the country that run-
ning it for those who live around us, at
least in a measure sufficient to do away
with need for the dole, can be as profit-
able and as satisfying as running it to
increase a private bank account. We
would deserve the prayers of millions if
we could conduct industry to open an
avenue for all those who can and will
work to the basic wage as a minimum.
As for physical education, there’s a
laugh if anyone feels humorous about
the tragedy of a nation. Physical train-
ing for children whose physical capacity
is determined by the amount of food
parents can get on police rations!—
Harry Welch (N.S.W.).
Long Life
Despite “Con Sistent’s” refutation (B.
17/1/’4O), I still believe that an optimistic
outlook and tenacious will to live
materially aid longevity. The heart is
merely a pump and can be in good work-
ing order, but continual worry or a
sudden shock can cause it unexpectedly
to cease functioning.
History shows that some of the world’s
geniuses were weaklings. They never
worried much about food or rest, and
would probably have succumbed much
earlier in life if an innate fiery passion
of determined devotion to a cause had
not kept body and soul together
Crusader (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
GREENMORE ELECTRIC ROASTER
57/6
Plug in just like
your Iron.
It roasts, toasts,
grills, makes your
scones and boils on
top. Oven size
llin. wide, Sin.
deep, 6in. high—
very low running
cost. Richly
enamelled mottled
Green, Blue or
Cream. Complete
with flex and plug.
From all Good
Stores, or direct from the Manufacturers:
GREENMORE PRODUCTS,
11 Stewart St., Richmond, Victoria.
DEAF
d
The World’s Smallest Effectiva
Hearing Aid —
The VIBRAPHONE
No Cords. No Batteries.
30 DAYS' HOME TRIAL
WRITE OR CALL FOR BOOKLET
NATHAN HEARING AIDS
Suite 60115, City Mutual
Bldg., cnr. Hunter and
Bligh Sts., Sydney.
New
Shipment
Just Arrived.
The Genuine “Cavalier”
Silver-Mounted Briar Pipe
still offered to “Bulletin”
readers for 5/6. Honest
Value, 8/6.
Send 6d. in Stamps for
sample of “Levysown”
Tobacco at 7/- lb. —worth
—for Cigarette or Pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
for 17/6; Honest Value, 30/-.
ml I? W Tobacconist, Est. 39 Yrs.
1/C I 1 I 713 George St., Sydney.
Goods sent C.O.D. if desired.
liberal
Quality
10/- lb.
ď
No increase
in Price.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot he
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
161 CASTXEIfEAGH STREET. SYDNEY
đ
OVER
50 RIFLES
of all
CALIBRES
CHOOSE
FROM
EVANS &
Repairs to Guns and Rifles,
269 LITTLE COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
MEMor' s i^ itH easE
Pass Examinations.
Grip Business Facts.
Speak Without Notes.
Master Lodge Ritual.
Make your brain accurate, creative,
dynamic. Handle men and affairs.
Reconstruct yourself for efficiency
with the Leeds Method.
Booklet Free. Write—
Rev. W. Rowlands, 12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Melbourne.
2
L
=j
- o
“7
'ln
» >
|M i
X/
■>'
\
\
X
X
K
#
W M ■
7 ' m idlin' y if it hadn't been for Chamberlain We Wouldn't be
in this flamin' tangle."
!OPvou ß ßupture
d
Worries?
One leading Doctor on 3/11/ 38
says:—•
“I order your appliances for my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
•14 DAYS FREE TRIAL*
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
ď
TREASURE COTS,
Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
9*<?
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “ Bulletin ” production -
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Enthralling Serial.
Delightful Short Stories.
Kitchen Craft and
Tested Recipes.
Mothercraft Service.
Patterns in Color and
How to Make Them.
Between Ourselves
Women Writers Ex-
press Opinions.
Published
fit
Bl
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
'made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
tm
THE
HANOI
PUMPLESS
IRON,
Price, 35 1"
DEMON
KEROSENE
STOVES.
KRONOS INCANDESCENT BURNERS
for Glass Bowl Lamps, Crude Oil Bath
Heaters. The latest invention. Write
for catalogue.
T. W. SANDS, 387 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
NU-LIFE SHOE PATCHES
#4
That is just what it is —a new
life for every repair. Uppers
seldom wear out. NU-LIFE
makes soles wear as long as
uppers. Spread it like
putty and it becomes
as hard and tough as
good leather in a few
hours. Outfit 1/9, post
free, enough for many
patches or for a thick pair
of soles. Try it; we guaran-
tee you will be satisfied.
Failure is ii
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l
JYJNCHHUR
SKATES
13/6-18/6
đg
NNna p ub
S3IMOD
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEBL, 1i.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney,
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
LAMBS SAVED
dg
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
umane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—-fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/--
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY & CO.,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
7/21’40 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your "Wants” to the Service Department, The Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


m
X
fm
rh
mm.
||
Hear War
News As It
Happens!
Get
as clearly as local broadcasts
on the ULTIMATE
ULTIMATE
Gets Results!
0 Commander R. E. Byrd selected
an “ULTIMATE” Receiver for
his radio work at the South Pole.
£ Mr. R. N. Shaw, “Wireless
Weekly” expert, compiles his
weekly short-wave articles from
an “ULTIMATE” Receiver.
£ The Australian Adviser to the
British Broadcasting Commission
uses “ULTIMATE” Receivers
exclusively.
£ 798 verified separate short-wave
stations were received on a
standard “ULTIMATE”
Receive r—a n outstanding
world’s record!
Wouldn’t you be proud to have an
“ULTIMATE” Radio Set in your
home? What a wonderful story you
could tell your friends about it and
what satisfactory service and enjoy-
ment you could get from it!
All we ask is that you give the
“ULTIMATE” Receiver due con-
sideration before buying your Radio
Set—we are prepared to abide by
the result. Fill in the coupon or
send us your name and address
today and you will receive by return
the fullest particulars of the mar-
vellous “ULTIMATE” Receiver.
LONDON, AMERICA, MOSCOW, JAPAN, BERLIN —it doesn’t matter to
“ULTIMATE” the news flashes through instantly, clearly, without surge or
Addling for sensitive spots. You don’t know how full, clear and dependable
overseas reception can be until you’ve heard “ULTIMATE.” It’s a revelation. Never
again will you be satisfied with ordinary reception—“ULTlMATE will spoil your
taste for anything but the best! Test it for yourself and prove our claims.
Honestly, “ULTIMATE” IS DIFFERENT.
“ULTIMATE” Champion Radio is custom-built to give matchless, perfect
performance. Every ultra-modern radio luxury is incorporated. Solid construction
ensures long life and eminently satisfactory service. Tuning is remarkably sensitive
and selective—even the most difficult stations come through instantly and easily.
There is only one word to describe “ULTIMATE” —PERFEL a ION!
Models are available for either A.C. or Battery-vibrator operation, and a cabinet
choice of either a full console or attractive mantel model. Full particulars, including
a most useful free Log Chart giving positive identification of over 400 overseas
stations, will be sent by return of post. Just fill in the coupon below or send your
name and address.
Log Chart giving positive identification of over 400
overseas stations and details of Ultimate Champion
Radio.
9
NAME
ADDRESS
SF
m
Va
Va
*
0
GEORGE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD., 267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNE
