

M kms
m
i
£2
Vk
BP
'
US!
\-
w :
flgr.
o 5
mm
:\JM
.
W 0:
K\
vv
Zy/tiv,-
~»*
S
<-T *
>
if
OB!
Mi
3
fe)\ k?
rip
HOST HOLBROOK says:
V
"Although the 'George’ at Crawley in Sus- LSpt F
sex was established as an inn early in the 17 th r~ _A /).
century it was not until the Prince Regent popu- -
larised Brighton that it became an hospitable jyf?
landmark to travellers on the Brighton Road. r 1 1 *
For more than a century the products of the
House of Holbrook have been known and ap-
preciated in the homes of England, and so it is
that wherever good meals are served folks know
that my Worcestershire Sauce will make them
more appetising.”
CVKRIC.S, VS SpC' r
m
i^j£ix!S%z& Ssg
'orJds ftppeliser/
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
0.25.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3157.
Wednesday, August 14, 1940.
The Truth About France
Price 6d-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
SJJLI
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
too Russell Street., Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please- -send, without obligation, particulars oj V°W
Home—Study Course in COMMERCIAL Ahl,
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name,
My Address
S.B. 440
"LET'S BUY A YEAR-BOOK ."
“Let’s buy a year-book for our authors,”
suggested Sydney “Sunday Telegraph,”
introducing its review of Some Stories
(New Century Press, Ltd., Sydney). “It
is remarkable,” the message for the Sab-
bath continued,
how little impression seems to have been
made on Australian authors by a curious
fact recorded in the Commonwealth Year-
Book—that nearly two-thirds of the popu-
lation of Australia live in towns.
A foreigner would hardly suspect this
fact from Some Stories, a collection of
short stories by 10 Australian writers,
mostly of the elder school.
It is odd that so many of our writers
either escape into fantasy or cling in
spirit to the days when a steer ripped up
Macpherson at the Cooraminta Yard.
These days it is more likely that a taxi
ripped up Macpherson in Pitt-street.
“S. M. Herald,” though she found the
collection “disappointing,” approved its
publication as a “representative example
of Australian output”:
The publishers of this volume are to be
congratulated on their enterprise. Aus-
tralian short-story writers have not yet
reached the standard attained by Austra-
lian novelists, and one hears from well-
informed sources loud lamentations to this
effect. It is interesting, therefore, to come
across a collection of stories considered
worth while as a commercial venture, and
offered, one imagines, as a carefully
chosen, representative example of Aus-
tralian output in this field.
It is interesting, and it is disappointing.
More collections of this nature would
provide a welcome variation in the usual
list of Australian publications. American
short-story writers have proved the effec-
tiveness of an unbiased outlook and vigor-
ous attack; Australians should, with
application and experience, be able to set
an equally high standard of inventiveness
and craftsmanship.
New Century Press’s blurb, naturally,
agrees with the “Herald” on the signi-
ficance of the collection, and, again
naturally, disagrees with both newspapers
as to the merit of the contents:
This volume has in it some of the
most interesting fiction ever produced by
the 10 famous Australians —G. B. Lan-
caster, Norman Lindsay, Ethel Turner,
Albert Dorrington [etc.]. The vogue of the
short story in volume form has definitely
come back into favor.
What really is remarkable and odd and
interesting and profoundly disappointing
about this matter is that neither the
“Sunday Telegraph” nor “S.M.H.”
pointed out that these far too rustic
stories, this “representative example of
Australian output,” had been exhumed
from back files of the “Lone Hand.”
Thirty years ago, when they were pub-
lished, they were all as fresh as daisies.
Some Stories omits to mention this.
There is no acknowledgment to the
“Lone Hand” nor any recognition of the
fact that when these stories appeared
the “Lone Hand” was . published by The
Bulletin.
Let us by all means buy a year-book.
The Red Page
Methuselah Was a Chicken .
Search the reference books, the en-
cyclopaedias, the Who's Whos, and not
a whisper of Inman Bernard will come
to light. Even the American Who’s Who,
where he ought to be found if anywhere,
has nothing on him. And that, consider-
ing the story he has to tell in his poorly-
named autobiography, Cities and Men
(Geoffrey Bles), is rather remarkable,
though not inexplicable.
Inman Barnard is so old that for
35 years or more he has been retired
from active public life. He is so in-
credibly old that he begins his recollec-
tions with his staff captain big brother
inviting him to “pass a fortnight with
him at the front” —in the American Civil
War! Lincoln shook hands with him
and wanted to know, “Well, bub, so you
came all the way from Boston to see
me? What are you going to do when
you grow up?”
He was going to be a policeman: in-
stead he became a favored special corre-
spondent in North Africa and in France,
Germany, Russia and elsewhere in
Europe of James Gordon Bennett, the
owner-controller-editor of the New York
“Herald” and the man who sent Stanley
looking for Livingstone. Inman Barnard
knew Stanley ; he thinks his real name
was Rowlands, and gives a picture of
him violently different from the senti-
mental portrait fixed in the minds of
movie addicts by Spencer Tracy. He
knew personally Gordon of
Khartoum, Sir Richard
Burton (the translator of
the Arabian Nights), Louis
Pasteur, Tennyson and
enough sultans, dukes, princes and
the like to overcrowd a dynasty.
He saw and talked with Victor Hugo at
the unveiling in Paris of Bartholdi’s
statue of “Liberty Illuminating the
World,” Hugo sitting opposite the statue
—“two Colossi facing each other.” He
played a leading part in one of the most
spectacular cases to be found in medical
history: four boys bitten by mad dogs
in America were shipped by arrangement
to Paris and there successfully treated by
Pasteur. Bennett stood the racket, Inman
Barnard acting as his representative.
He can fancy himself as older still
than all this makes out. Where his own
life does not reach back so far, his experi-
ences make links with the remote past.
The French novelist Alphonse Daudet on
his deathbed gave students of the Latin
quarter something to get their teeth into.
France, said Daudet,
should not allow the nineteenth century
to disappear without solving what I con-
sider the greatest question of the century
—what has become of the remains of
Voltaire and Rousseau? Is it true that
they were cast into the sewers?
“Feeling in Paris at this suggestion
attained proportions such as might have
been aroused in the United States had
the remains of Washington and Lincoln
been stolen and thrown into a refuse
heap.” Down into the slippery and drip-
ping corridors of the Pantheon vaults
went an official party to decide the ques-
tion ; with them, journalists (including
Inman Barnard) and a dozen masons,
locksmiths and carpenters. Voltaire’s
tomb was the first attacked.
_ With chisel and hammer the half-rotten
lid was ripped open The coffin was not
empty. It contained human bones. Senator
Hamel seized the skull in both hands and,
holding it up for inspection—the skull of
Voltaire —he shouted in a voice that was
singularly shrill and vibrating under the
dark vaults: “Voltaire est present!’’
He handed it to Inman Barnard, who
“pressed it in a close grasp.” The skull
of Voltaire! Then Rousseau’s similarly.
So much for Daudet’s story. The party
was down there for five hours: Senator
Hamel caught double pneumonia and
died within a week; over 30 others of
those present suffered serious ..attacks of
influenza, bronchitis or pneumonia: “The
crypts of the Pantheon, slippery with
slime, had become a veritable culture bed
for poisonous microbes.”
And, vicariously, Inman Barnard is
older still than that. Present at an early
excavation job in Egypt, he helped Dr.
Henry Brugsch Pasha unroll the mummy
of the Pharaonic Princess who, according
to legend, had pulled the infant Moses
out of the Nile: her “finely delineated
and perfectly preserved right hand,” some
three thousand years old, Inman Barnard
“clasped with emotion.”
He is able to record that “Lincoln’s
feet, in white woollen socks and easy-
fitting stout black leather square-toed
shoes, were the largest and broadest that
I ever saw, with the exception of those of
General Charles Gordon.” His friend
Sir Richard Burton “philosopher,
scholar, poet, explorer, athlete, com-
batant, skilled swordsman and jovial
comrade,” able to converse in 10 Orien-
tal languages, including Arabic, Persian,
Hindustani and Afghani—carried as a
“cane” a heavy iron bar “adroitly con-
cealed inside a Malacca joint.” At
Shepheard’s (Cairo) one evening Lady
Burton was telling her friends that she
was now the happiest woman in the
world, since “Richard had forsworn
strong drink.” And then there was a
terrific din, Sir Richard, unforsworn,
having dropped his “cane” on the top
of the marble staircase, and it rebound-
ing down them, step by step, “with aston-
ishing reverberations.”
Russia’s Alexander 111, as Inman Bar-
nard knew him, “was physically the
counterpart of the American boxer, John
L. Sullivan.” Tennyson, having Inman
Barnard to dinner, kept him “under the
charm of his conversation until one
o’clock in the morning,” their talk “en-
livened by discreet sips—‘cat-laps,’ as he
called it —of his potstill whisky, and
whiffs of Virginia tobacco through his
long clay churchwarden pipes.”' When
he went first to Constantinople the United
States Minister there was General Lew
Wallace, author of Ben Hur. When Ben-
nett, aboard the thousand-ton luxury
yacht on which he mostly lived, tried to
pass up the Dardanelles, he was stopped
at Chanak by the Turkish commander,
who declared the yacht a gunboat: it
carried four guns. Later, when Bennett
had pulled the necessary strings, the
Sultan invested him with a decoration
as compensation for the delay, and gave
the commander at Chanak the same
decoration for doing his duty. When in
1901 the Prince of Wales with whom
Inman Barnard had dined aboard Ben-
nett’s yacht became Edward VII, the
yacht chef who had prepared that dinner
became the chef a,t Buckingham Palace.
So Inman Barnard, at 91, rambles on,
with more and more and odder and odder
tales to tell about notabilities of a half-
forgotten era, ranging from the slave-
dealing magnate Zobehr, who sold
throughout the Moslem world over two
hundred thousand slaves and at least
forty thousand eunuchs before Gordon
settled his hash, to the ex-Kaiser at the
time he became Emperor, on which night
Inman Barnard, in the role of an im-
promptu courier, got away safely from
the Potsdam Palace with, stuffed up
under his vest and addressed to Queen
Victoria, the personal diary of the Em-
peror William I, the Kaiser’s grandfather
—a package which the young Kaiser
urgently wished to lay hands on.
Cities and Men is edited by Sisley
Huddleston, who vouches for it as
authentic.
Nationalism in Poetry .
It is a pity that no publisher thought
of bringing out an anthology of New
Zealand verse to mark the centennial.
From all the signs—from such phenomena
as Mr. Jordan’s clamor at Geneva and
Mr. Semple’s extraordinary outburst of
roadmaking to the publication of the
centennial surveys and the significance of
a vigorous war effort —it is obvious that
an urgent nationalism is at work, and
there are a number of good poets in
whom it has found expression.
Prominent among them is Eileen
Duggan, whose New Zealand Poems
(Allen and Unwin) are in themselves an
impressive statement of the spirit of the
country. “Invasion,” for example, is more
than a personal attitude ; it is the poet
as “the focal point of awareness in his
time”; it says what everybody is
feeling:
War shows what each man’s country is to him.
Ah, look with me on this great windy sod,
Richer by lines of leaves than Adam’s loam,
Its kowhais’ fiery drizzle in the spring,
Its paddocks’ green oblivion of grass,
Its alps, those proud desires, arrested sighs
Of earth’s old hopeless passion for the blue —
Oh, some would weep and some go numb and
cold
As an Australian in Antarctic snows,
But we would burn until our souls ramped
flame.
For if I held the freehold of this land
From Cape Reinga to Oreti Beach
I could not feel that it was more my own.
In the last three lines is nationalism in
its purest form and at its most fervid
intensity. It reminds one that patriotism
—confined to this, its true meaning—is
a noble emotion. After such a statement,
one would expect to find a burning love
for her country in Miss Duggan’s other
verses, and that is what one does find.
It doesn’t come out in flamboyant
phrases, but in little things, images, turns
of speech that show that the poet does
own the land from North Cape to the
Bluff —that she has, you might say,
digested it. A bushman’s wife, she says,
is hard as maire in some things.” Not
“hard as oak”; the English race has been
established long enough in Maoriland for
that word “maire” to be used without
self-consciousness. The landscape is
closely observed, intensely known :
The marsh plant slowly drips its sombre seeds;
The very blackbird is a bird of rue;
A barren wind rustles the raupo reeds,
Breaking the silver bucklers of the dew.
Still another sign of the maturity of
the national consciousness is that Miss
Duggan can accept the Maoris without
sentimentality and without attempting to
Write imitation karakia. Here is “A
Maori to Mary,” not only a good poem
but an exact analysis of the Maori mind
—the humor mixed with the reverence,
the attempt to make an earth-religion out
of the sky-figures of Christianity:
Oh you the lucky woman, Meri, you the
lucky woman!
A mouth at your breast, and a child in
your shawl,
A son out of God, and a chief for your people,
Ai-ee! All that, and I none at all!
If only I had a son to lift up to my tribe,
Meri,
To carry him slung in a mat at my back!
To hear the old men crying, “Ha, rangitira!”
Ah, and the ones that laughed at my lack!
Nationalism such as this is a natural
growth. It can’t be forced. Occasionally
in New Zealand Poems Miss Duggan
does try to be consciously national, con-
sciously an interpreter of the Maori; and
then she is never so successful, Her
“Centenary Ode” (compare it with the
spontaneous “Invasion”) is an example of
artificial patriotism resulting in an
artificial poem:
We salute you, sovereign soul,
And we adjure you more,
Yea, as the dying speak,
By every crag of peak
By every jag of shore,
Ah, keep our freedom whole!
A poem called “New Zealand” is false
because it attempts to use the form and
imagery of the Maori, and the white
New Zealander doesn’t and never will
think that way. In another poem there
is a somewhat similar lapse of taste in
an attempt to rhyme Maori and English
words —“Karori” and “hoary,” “Rimu-
rapa” and “harp a.”
The flaws are rare, and in any case,
though they are the result of patriotism
running ahead of itself, the patriotism is
unquestionably genuine. Miss Duggan
has called on her earlier books, New
Zealand Bird Songs and Poems, for some
of the items in this book; other poems
are new. It’s a fine collection and fully
merits its sub-title, “In honor of the
centennial of the Dominion of New
Zealand.”
S. H. PRIOR PRIZE COMPETITION JUDGES.
The literary judges appointed by the Trustees of the S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize competition for this year (closing date June 6 last) are:—
H. M. Green, Fisher Librarian, University of Sydney; author of ‘‘An
Outline of Australian Literature.*’
Miss Beatrice Davis, head reader of MSS. for Angus and Robertson.
Frank Dalby Davison, novelist and literary critic.
Norman Lindsay a Best-seller.
Letter from T. Werner Laurie, Ltd.,
publishers, London:
The book feature of the war has un-
doubtedly been the popularity of the
works of the Australian novelist Norman
Lindsay among the soldiers, sailors and
airmen.
T. Werner Laurie, Ltd., issued only a
few months ago cheap paper-covered
editions of Mr. Lindsay’s stories, and the
following astonishing figures show his
sales to date:
The Cautious Amorist, 130,000.
A Curate in Bohemia, 44,000.
Pan in the Parlor * 63,000.
It is doubtful if any English-born
author has enjoyed anything approxi-
mately approaching such sales.
Mad Pelynt and the Bullet: Derek
Clifford (Heffer, Ltd., Cambridge). A set
of lyrics on a theme of love and! disillu-
sion by a young English poet with Aus-
tralian connections. The author —“these
poems are the intense expression of a
personal crisis” —has forgotten Words-
worth’s true saying that a lyric is made
out of “emotion recollected in tran-
quillity,” so that often he mistakes
violence for power. The verses are
technically ingenious, and there is a
promising gift of imagery:
Stacked in the golden granary of her mind
snugly secure from the hurtling spheres,
I wanton like a firefly in her laughter
and know no tears.
The river paused, a duck with idle head
turned on the motionless stream....
The Pied Piper of Dipper Creek:
T. H. Raddall (Blackwood). Good,
honest, robust yarns, set in Nova Scotia,
with plenty of action and rich in humor.
Author’s style and general outlook re-
semble a blend of Henry Lawson, Vance
Palmer and Steele Rudd. Like Lawson
and Palmer he knows his people and
country thoroughly ; like Steele Rudd he
breaks into caricature and farce for pur-
poses of plot and humorous effects.
Always he tells a good straight tale.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" —the conscience of business .
GO ON A BIKE!
it's Healthier, Cheaper, and Saves Petrol!
Will you be one of those who are healthier and happier by the ownership
of a bicycle now that the ideal cycling weather is here? There is a
crispness in the air, an inducement to get out on the open road on a
reliable bicycle, with all the essentials to give you perfect recreation.
These famous makes guarantee you years of trouble-free cycling.
The
ROYAL ENFIELD
%
s
LIGHT ROADSTER
"Royal Enfield" LIGHT ROADSTER
FRAME: 22". Finest Enfield gun steel.
Coslettized against rust.
WHEELS: Standard, 28 x If".
RIMS: Chromium-plated, 28 x 11.
TYRES: Highest grade Black English Dun-
lop. Guaranteed.
MUDGUARDS: Best Enfield roll edge
steel, detachable.
BRAKE: Front rim, 5/6 extra.
HANDLE BARS: Chromium-plated. Any
desired shape.
SADDLE: Best English Tourer.
FINISH: Best triple-coated enamel, Black,
Gold lines and crest.
EQUIPMENT: Tool bag, tools, oilcan, in-
flator, bell, and approved reflector.
£9 19 6
• Eadie Coaster Free Wheel Brake. Cash Price
20/- deposit,. 6 monthly 30/9 payments or 9 monthly 20/9 payments.
• Slurmey-Archer 3-Speed Hub Gear. Cash Price £l2 10 0
25/- deposit, 6 monthly 38/5 payments or 9 monthly 26/1 payments.
• Simplex-Dumond 3-Speed Gear. Cash Price £l2 10 0
25/- deposit, 6 monthly 38/5 payments or 9 monthly 26/1 payments.
"ROYAL ENFIELD" LADY'S TOURER
• Lady's Tourer (loop-bar frame). Cash Price £lO 12 6
21/3 deposit, 6 monthly 32/8 payments or 9 monthly 22/1 payments.
• Sturmey-Archer 3-Speed Hub Gear. Cash Price £l3 2 6
26/3 deposit, 6 monthly 40/6 payments or 9 monthly 27/4 payments.
” Royal Enfield" Lady's Sports Model
• Lady's Sports Model (straight-bar frame). Cash Price £lO 17 6
21/9 deposit, 6 monthly 33/6 payments or 9 monthly 22/7 payments.
Freight extra.
WHITE FLYER
SPECIAL SPEED MODEL
The Ideal Road and Track Racing Bike
"THE WHITE FLYER"
BUILD: Best British parts only.
FRAME: 22”, close built. Finest English
lightweight steel, rust-proofed, all
tapered fittings.
FORKS: Tapered. Solid ends front and
back.
STAYS; Tapered, exterior-brazed.
WHEELS: Racer, 28 x 1| x I 4”.
RIMS: Endrick English, plated.
TYRES: Best Dunlop Speed, I-4-”, 1§ wires.
Guaranteed.
BRAKES: Best English cable calipers,
front and rear.
HUBS: Double-sided rear hub, slip sproc-
ket and fixed sprocket.
HANDLE-BARS: Best English racer, shock-
proof grips.
SADDLE: Best narrow racing seat.
FINISH: Best British five-coat enamel in
Cream and Gold.
EQUIPMENT: Tools, tool bag, oilcan, in-
flator, bell, and approved reflector.
"WHITE FLYER" RACING MODEL
• "White Flyer" (as above). Cash Price £lO 19 6
Terms: 22/- deposit. 6 monthly 34/- payments.
• "White Flyer" (Simplex-Dumont 3-Speed Gear). Cash Price £l3 10 0
Terms: 27/- deposit, 6 monthly 41/6 payments.
• Sports Lower Ground Floor, Pitt St. Delivered free only within delivery area.
THE SENIOR STORE”
■v
&
"ROYAL ENFIELD" LIGHTWEIGHT
motor cycle 50 Guineas
"MADE LIKE A GUN"
The most economical method of transport. Easy to manoeuvre in
traffic. Low riding position. 150 miles per gallon, lj horse-power.
Three gears. Tank capacity, 250 miles. Terry's saddle. Miller's
electric light outfit. 6 months' guarantee. 3 months' service.
EASY TERMS: £l5 deposit, 10/- per week.
CHALLENGER
LIGHTWEIGHT ROADSTER
THE ” CHALLENGER AU STRALIA'S
POPULAR LIGHT ROADSTER
BUILD: Best British parts only.
FRAME: 22". Best English weldless steel,
rust-proofed.
WHEELS: Best British, 28 x It".
TYRES: Australian, 28 x 1|". Guaranteed.
PEDALS: Best English rat-trap.
BRAKE: Front rim 5/6 extra.
HANDLE BARS: Best British, reversible,
2-2~" outrigger.
SADDLE: English model.
FINISH: Best five-coat British enamel, 20
main colours. Hand lined and
decorated.
EQUIPMENT: Tool bag, tool, oilcan, in-
flator, bell, and approved reflector.
Challenger" Lightweight ROADSTER
® Standard Model, Fixed Wheel, Rim Brake. Cash Price £6 19 6
Terms: 14/- deposit, 6 monthly 21/6 payments. Black enamel only.
9 Popular Model, Free Wheel Clutch, Back Rim Brake £7 10 0
Terms: 15/- deposit, 6 monthly 23/- payments.
9 Popular Model, Eadie Coaster Free Wheel B.P. Brake £8 5 0
Terms: 16/6 deposit, 6 monthly 25/6 payments.
"Challenger" LADY'S LIGHTWEIGHT
9 Free Wheel Clutch, Back Rim Brake. Cash Price £8 10 0
Terms: 17/- deposit, 6 monthly 26/2 payments.
9 Eadie Coaster Free Wheel B.P, Brake. Cash Price £9 5 0
Terms: 18/6 deposit, 6 monthly 28/5 payments.
UNIVERSAL
SPECIAL BUSH MODEL
UNIVERSAL" SPECIAL BUSH MODEL
9 Fixed Wheel Model. Cash Price £ll 10 0
23/- deposit, 6 monthly 35/6 payments or 9 monthly 23/11 payments.
9 Eadie Coaster Free Wheel B.P. Brake. Cash Price £l2 5 0
Terms: 24/6 deposit, 6 monthly 37/8 payments.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone M 2401 (Day or Night)
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


“ADVERSITY”
“ It's a little stunt I learnt up in the abo. country.”
By SPENCER STEER
TO get to Newcastle from Sydney by sea you go
down to the foot of King-street late in the even-
ing, buy a ticket from a young man sitting behind
a bright little window, pass through a great shed
sweet with the smell of lucerne hay, and board which-
ever of the Newcastle Company’s ships happens to be
alongside the wharf.
On this particular evening, to my great satisfac-
tion, the electric lights lit up the big white paddle-
boxes of the old Newcastle. I was glad of that, because
I had known the ship and her skipper since she was
young and we were boys. I was also on the best of
terms with the mate, and counted the chief steward
and boatswain as friends. These are advantages of
sea travel that are obvious, even if the voyage be only
one of half a dozen hours.
At half past eleven the paddles stirred up oily
Darling Harbor and we began our vovage In fortv
min tes We wem under the black shadow of North
Head and alutle kter oft Mariv beach I went on
toThe bridge toTel! theTaDtainit was a fine ni«ht and
to the bridge to tell .he captain it was a tine night, a
when the long curve of the Steyne lights, s ining
through the Norfolk Island pines above the sands,
were falling back on to our poit quarter, I came
?°™h°e saloon to say “good °nfght" To the chfef
,/ c 1 ■ r C F F , . j • .
steward, busy 111 his little bar on the stai board side.
These were customary formalities whenever I voyaged
to the Hunter on the Newcastle. They used to make
rnr feel that T was assisting" in the navigation of the
? I Su 1 1 u assisting in the navigation ot t
casUe to be" broket up Caplmflterl Ts tod
antohe mate and The chM steward retired.
~T , „ u . , . r 11 ,1* j ~ , • A
L °°k at that blg fell °w behind ye, whispered
Sandy Calhoun as we waited for our drinks. Him
with the red lace the ugly one.
He was ugly—not with the honest ugliness of those
of our fellow-creatures who have not had such beauty
served out to them as you and I and Alexander Cal-
houn, but with a sort of bestial ill look. His face was
red and flat-nosed, and he had cauliflower ears.
He was muscular and powerful, and well-dressed.
There was nothing flash or cheap about his clothing.
Some good tailor had covered his nakedness, and
someone with good taste had chosen his linen and his
tie. His body was big but not gross, and he was
quiet and unobtrusive. But his face almost made you
shiver—it was so evil.
We finished our drinks and went on deck, and I
spat over the rail. The light on Barrenjoey was ahead
of us, on our port bow.
“He’s an ugly blighter, right enough!” I said to
Calhoun.
“Ugly!” he laughed. “Why a face like his puts
us among the angels. Ye’d think to look at him
that he’d be keeping some pretty low-down sort of
joint, wouldn’t ye? Well, he doesn’t. He’s one of
the best men I’ve ever come across. Honest, gener-
ous, kindly—that’s what he is. I’ve got to relieve the
old man on the bridge, and he’s waiting. But come
up in a few minutes, and I’ll tell you all about Ben
Raby »
THE Barrenjoey light—a fixed red one in those
1 days—shining through the night like the crimson-
curtained window of some old inn, was abeam when
I reminded Sandy Calhoun that I was interested in the
man who’d been cursed with the unfortunate face. I
was more interested than ever because, having asked
Sam Garside, the chief steward, whether I had a stable-
companion, he had shown me the passenger list —and
the lower berth in my cabin was occupied by a Mr.
Raby.
“Ob, yes,” said the mate, putting his night glasses
down on the ledge clamped to the rail and taking.
out his pipe. “Ben Raby’s a mineowner. He’s got a
mine of his own, left to him by his father. It’s one
of the few private mines—barring John Brown’s, of
course —about Newcastle. Out Lambton way, it is.
A good property, I’m told. He’s the very best sort
of an employer there is, and Rabyville’s a model vil-
lage. He’s laid on water to every cottage at his own
expense, built a hospital, started a co-operative store,
has a scheme of insurance for his miners’ lives that
takes a big whack out of the mine’s profits, does every-
thing he can think of for his men and their families.
He’s got a couple of racehorses, and always runs ’em
straight. He’s got a wife who looks like an angel—
and is an angel—and she simply worships him. And
two of the finest kiddies you ever saw. There’s no-
body more liked or respected in the district. His face
is all right there. Like his word, it’s always taken for
granted. But he’s had a hell of a time with it in other
places.
“Whenever Ben goes anywhere they don’t know
him he has trouble with the police. They twig that
dial of his as soon as it lands amongst ’em, and imme-
diately begin to suspect its owner. In Melbourne they
once ran him in because they thought he looked like
the chap who’d have most probably killed that stock-
broker in Flinders-lane. He was in Queensland at the
time of the Gatton murder, and he did some time in
a cell over that before he was able to prove to ’em
who he really was. He was told to get off Morphett-
ville racecourse by a detective in South Australia one
time—and a horse of his own running, too! The
plainclothes men almost invariably shadow him, for
a while, in any of the other capitals.
“He told me, not long back, that when he goes
away from Newcastle now to any of the other States
he always calls at the police station and gets the
inspector to write him a sort of to-whom-it-may-
concern letter of introduction, which he carries in his
pocket ready for any emergency. And all that simply
because the Almighty made some sort of a mistake,
and gave a good man a face that was designed for a
Bill Sikes.”
“How does he feel about it?”
“Well, it’s made him a bit sensitive, you know,
but he laughs afterwards. Still, it’s annoying, to say
the least of it. The worst thing that ever happened
to him was in London. At the old Empire.
‘‘COME time before he was married, Ben took a
trip to the Old Country. He’d never been there
before, and knew nobody in London. The old man,
his father, came here from the Black Country in 1850,
and all Ben’s uncles and cousins and other relations
he’d never seen were round Wolverhampton and those
parts. He’d plenty of letters of introduction, of course,
but he didn’t know anyone, and he lands off the boat
at Tilbury on a Saturday morning, and gets up to
Fenchurch-street about midday. He hires a hansom
outside the station and drives up to the Strand, where
he takes a room at the Hotel Cecil.
“He had lunch, and then went out to stroll
around the town, as he puts it. He gets on to Water-
loo Bridge, and says to himself ‘Ah, here I am on
London Bridge at last,’ and a lot of mistakes he
makes like that. He wanders off on to the Surrey side
of the river, and gets lost, and only arrives back at
the hotel by taking another hansom. I don’t quite know
where he could have got to during the afternoon, but
I know he had a drink at the Elephant and
Castle because he remembers its having
struck him as being such a rum name for
a pub.
“And wherever he went he kept seeing
two fellows whom he’d noticed in the
entrance hall at the Cecil when he was book-
ing his room. Confidence men, he sup-
posed, but he was ready for ’em, and a bit
amused at ’em and the idea of them chas-
ing him about, just as if he’d come from
behind Bourke and didn’t know Sydney
and Melbourne.
“Well, after dinner he asks the hall
porter where’s a good theatre to put in the
evening. So the hall porter tells him the
Empire, and he charters another taxi and
goes to Leicester Square —and sees those
two confidence men again- when he’s buy-
ing his ticket. It’s a good show, the Empire,
Ben considers, and by-and-bye he goes
up to one of the bars for a drink. He’d
just got into the dark of the promenade when a fellow
grabs him by the arm and another fellow closes up on
the other side of him and pokes a revolver barrel into
his ribs and says: ‘Come along, chicken —we’ve got
you. You’d best come quiet. We’re police officers.’
“They were the same two who’d been following
him about ever since he’d landed up at the Cecil!
They rushed him downstairs, where there’s two uni-
formed men and an inspector standing by a four-
wheeler with the door open, and Ben’s shoved into it.
And the two detectives and the inspector crowd in,
too, and the cabby lashes up his old moke, and before
he can say ‘Whaffor’ they have him handcuffed. And
so they land'up at Vine-street police station.
“And there Ben learns that he’s a notorious New
York gunman who’s been hired by an anarchist
society to take potshots at King Edward and the
Kaiser, who’s on a visit to England. And they keep
him there all night, while half Scotland Yard comes
and takes a squint at him through the peephole in the
cell door.
“It’s not until Sunday evening that he gets out, and
then only because they’ve got the right man caught
him at Southampton —and Ben sees him, and says
he’s the ugliest brute he ever caught sight of. But 1
doubt if he could have been much worse than Ben.
Anyway, that sort of thing’s enough to sour any man,
isn’t it? Though Ben’s not soured. He just laughs.
But d’ye know what he’s christened his face? He calls
his dial ‘Adversity,’ because he reckons it’s the only
thing that’s ever gone against him.’’
'“THE white, flashing lamp on Norah Head was
t showing up, so I went below to turn in. When I
switched on the light in the cabin, there was that fear-
ful and uncanny countenance on the pillow in the
lower berth, looking even more horrible asleep than
awake —if that could be possible. Indeed, my sym-
pathies were with the police in the several episodes of
‘Adversity’s’ career Sandy Calhoun had related to me.
No one could blame them for being suspicious of any-
one who looked like Mr. Raby.
I woke when the paddles ceased their monotonous
beating and the cascading sound of their activities had
given way to a gentle, rippling noise, and knew that
the Newcastle was gliding towards the long sheds of
the King’s Wharf within Port Hunter. Mr. Raby was
brushing his hair before the mirror above the wash-
ing-place, and turned to nod “good morning” to me
as I swung my legs over the side of the top berth.
“Saw you having a drink in the bar last night—
or, rather, early this morning—with my old friend
Sandy Calhoun,” he said pleasantly. “Great chap,
Sandy.”
“Oh, yes,” I replied, charmed by the Raby
manner, even if still a little repulsed by the Raby
physiognomy. “Sandy and I are old friends.”
The extraordinary features broke into a grin. Mr.
Raby took down his jacket from a peg over the settee,
and brushed it busily whilst he spoke.
“If you’re an old pal of Sandy’s,” he chuckled,
“there’s no harm in speaking plainly. He’s one of the
very best —in fact, I think Sandy Calhoun and I con-
stitute a sort of mutual admiration society. He tells
stories of me that aren’t entirely discreditable, and 1
spin yarns about Sandy that do him no harm. By the
way, I don’t know your name—though I’m quite sure
Sandy’s told you mine.”
“Steer—Spencer Steer,” I told him.
“Oh, yes, Mr. Steer. Glad fo meet you. I’ve
often heard of you from Sandy. Did my name come
up by any chance last night?”
“Well, yes—it did, Mr. Raby. To be quite candid,
most of the mate’s talk was about you. Quite—er-
quite sympathetic talk, it was, though.”
The big man laughed heartily as he struggled into
his jacket. He buttoned it up, and then sat down
on the settee. “Did he mention anything about what
I call ‘Adversity’?”
“Well, yes, he did,” I confessed. “Told me quite a
lot about it. But just as a sort of joke, you know.
I’d think that your ears must burn a bit sometimes


’when Sandy’s sounding your praises,” I added, a little
embarrassed. One does not regard tales of the mis-
fortunes attached to an acquaintance’s face as a sub-
ject for conversation on first making that acquaint-
ance
“I know,” roared Raby, “I know. I’ll bet he told
i . J A ■
rV C ‘ rC , Um TT S,ory ° £ my first arnval m
ori son, didnt he.
Well, yes he did.
“Good old Sandy! About the two detectives who
followed me from the Hotel Cecil all over South
London—including the Elephant and Castle Hotel?
About meeting ’em again in the evening at the Empire
Music Hall? How they ran me into Vine-street police
station? The way they took me for an American
gunman? A real good yarn. Told you all that, I
suppose?”
“Well., to, be quite frank he did ”
Ho, ho, ho, bellowed Ben Raby, bursting into
laughter that might have been heard anywhere in
Newcastle, let alone on the King’s Wharf alongside.
‘’Splendid! Sandy Calhoun’s splendid! Why, do you
know, Mr. Steer, I’ve never been out of Australia in
my life. But, all the same, I think Sandy does really
believe that yarn himself. Well, good luck to him!”
DUST
By MYRA MORRIS.
JOE got the bath catalogue from Simpson’s the
same day he had word from Sarah that she was
leaving the hospital. There seemed to him some
special significance in the fact that they should
arrive together, the shiny bath catalogue and Sarah’s
letter. He folded up Sarah’s letter that was neat like
Sarah and smelled faintly of disinfectant, and studied
the catalogue. There were lots of things besides baths
that he might in his capacity of small country store-
keeper buy from Simpson’s—enamelware and tin stuff,
heaters, hurricane gates and standard lamps—but it
was the baths that were of primary importance.
Joe ambled out from the little shop that was stuck
on to the side of the house to the bathroom and stood
scratching his head. He was a tallish, red-haired man
looking as if he had been put together with stray
pieces of wire, and his wrinkled trousers always seemed
to be on the point of dropping down. His faded blue
eyes roved round the room. It was an ugly room,
obviously filched from the end of the back verandah.
Its walls were unlined and threads of light showed in
the cracks. There were a broken shaving-mirror hung
on a slant, a rusty chip-heater and a stuffed-up shower
drooping foolishly over the bath. The bath was
terrible: galvanised iron with the paint flaking off,
stained to a ripe orange where the discolored water
dripped.
Joe surveyed the atrocity with a slight air of sur-
prise. It was as if he had never seen it before. A
smile spread slowly over his face. It would be good to
see a primrose porcelain-finished bath standing there.
Good to see the walls lined and painted and some-
thing done with the crumbling uneven bricks on the
floor. The bath would cost only five pounds-odd
because he would get it at wholesale price. That and
the carriage—goods train —to Tibby’s siding. He’d do it
—for Sarah. It would be something to celebrate her
homecoming, a way of expressing his gratitude for her
complete recovery.
She had been bad, Sarah. Something wrong with
her inside. The youth had gone out of her face
and left it with sharp corners and little shadowy
hollows. It was the work that had done it, Sarah
had declared, stooping with her hands to the small of
her back. Everlastingly fighting the wind and the
dust, Sarah had said. The dust, the gritty sand that
drifted over the sparsely-grassed paddocks and bil-
lowed lazily down the road, seeping through the cracks
in the walls and oozing up under the flooring boards,
laying a faint reddish film over the inside of the little
general store that was Joe’s province.
Joe rambled through the house with his springy
tiptoe walk. The place was shabby enough once you
got to noticing it! Stringy holes in the linoleum,
smoke on the kalsomined walls, little strawlike plaits
curling off the cane furniture. He was invaded by a
sudden emotion of pity for himself and pity for Sarah.
No wonder she was done in. Summer after summer,
the dust, the wind and the frail little shaking house.
But he’d fix all that. He had a good fortnight to do it
in. The floors, the walls, the bathroom, the new
bath. Sarah would be staying for two weeks-with
her sister in Golden Square after she left the hospital
at Bendigo.
Joe walked back through the stuffy sitting-room
to the bathroom, straightening his shoulders. Poor
old Sarah! A bit of a nag, she was. All women
were. If she wanted to nag now, he’d let her. He’d
see to it that he chopped the kindling from now on
without being asked, and carry up the mallee roots
for the fire, be careful about dropping pipe-ash all
over the place, and not go down to the pub to yarn
with old Tom Hankey so often.
He folded the shiny catalogue and stuck it care-
fully between the wall and the piping of the shower.
He d write to Simpson’s tomorrow or the next day
and he d write to Sarah tonight. And he wouldn’t
mention a word about his improvements. Let all
that be a surprise.
I” 1 HERE was something in Joe’s badly-spelled,
cautious letter that pleased Sarah. She wept over
it furtively, sitting up in bed with her little-more-than-
middle-aged face scrubbed and polished-looking like
all the other faces in the ward.
She was sick of the hospital and its unvarying
routine. Right from the beginning she had hated it,
though she had kept her frettings to herself. That
terrible antiseptic smell that was like a mixture of
blood and red roses and carbolic! It had got into her
clothes, her skin, even into her hair that was screwed
up into a neat little grey nob on the top of her head.
She had lain there a whole month thinking of
Joe and the store and the wind scooping the red dust
up out of the wheel-ruts. She had been wicked, she
could see now, to grumble about the grit and the work
that it made. Wicked to nag at Joe and blame him
for conditions over which he had no power. “It’s
no place for a woman to live in, Joe. You’ve got to
sell out!” She’d never say that again—never! She’d
be content merely to be home, to have the comforting
smell of home, the feel of home about her instead of
bare, white walls and polished boards and brisk-voiced
nurses.
To be up again and doing! Scrubbing, cooking,
mending Joe’s clothes, watering the straggly geraniums
in the tiny garden where the earth would be already
caking, though it was still early spring. To be a well
woman, free and able to order her own goings and
comings! To stand at the door of the store and watch
the life of the road. Sheep pinkish with the red dust
in their wool pattering past, cars with spattered mud-
guards, drays with loads of spindly wood, and later
the wheat wagons rumbling along towards Tibby’s
siding. She had a lot to be thankful for, she had!
Joe had been wonderful. She’d make it up to him ;
remember that he was slow and no longer very
young, and defeated a bit by bad seasons and the
long hot summers.
She folded the letter tenderly, glancing with her
bright little screwed-up eyes at the pale woman in the
next bed. “A letter from my husband, Mrs. Smith.
He’s that glad I’m going out of here tomorrow.”
The pale woman smiled with ready sympathy.
“That’s nice, Mrs. Milvain. You’re going to your
sister first, aren’t you? That won’t be quite the
same as home.”
“No, it won’t be the same,” confessed Sarah.
I T wasn’t until a fortnight later, when she met Joe
* at the siding and felt the first grit under her ill-
fitting plate, that she realised to the full the reality
of coming home.
Joe, who had borrowed the rattling car from Tom
Hankey, was a little shy with her and awkward, but
his shyness vanished when they reached the house and
the store sleeping in the sun on the side of the road.
He helped Sarah inside and her eyes filled with easy
tears. It was all so comfortable and friendly after
the hospital. Even the holes in the linoleum, the
smoke on the walls and the shabbiness of the bath-
room, where she went to wash the dust of the journey
off her hands.
“Everything nice and clean, eh, old girl?”
demanded Joe, who had left it too late to tidy up,
and had had to get help in. “I’ve got plenty of wood
up, and I’ve watered the geraniums. You don’t need
to go outside.”
“It’s all lovely,” said Sarah ; “but I’m not an
invalid now, Joe.”
No, she wasn’t an invalid, but still it was queer
how tired the smallest jobs made her feel. Joe was
good, but he was forgetful. For three days he
remembered about the wood, then she had to remind
him. He dropped his pipe-ash everywhere, threw his
shaving-papers on the bathroom bricks and forgot
to empty out the discolored water. And there was
the dust creeping in through the cracks, breathing
down from the roof, settling on table and chair.
“What a place!” sighed Sarah, working with
angry energy, standing at the door of the store watch-
ing the sheep trail down the road.
“You want to leave things -be a bit,” Joe told her
at the end of the second week, and he sidled off to
the pub with an apologetic smile and a feeling of
guilt.
He was back late that night. Sarah set her
lips and said nothing. I mustn’t start nagging! I
mustn’t start nagging! But the next night she forgot
about nagging and Joe heard her out impatiently.
“What you got to grumble about, eh?”
Sarah’s tight little body bristled. She had every-
thing to grumble about! The dirt after the lovely
clean look of the hospital, the flies, the shabbiness, the
dust that was getting fter down.
There was a storm next morning. The spring had
been warm and dry, and the surface of the earth
lifted easily in the wind. The wind lashed the pepper-
trees in the yard and flapped the irons on the roof,
driving the reddish dust before it.
“I can't bear it,” thought Sarah, tidying up with
a sense of bitter defeat. A woman was never finished.
It was different for Joe. He stayed in the store and
flicked a feather-duster over the saucepan lids'and
tin billies and was content. She was exhausted, dirty,
with dust in the seams of her face, and hostility in
her eyes when she looked at Joe.
“What’s the matter now ?”
“This awful place! The dirt, the dust! Always
cleaning up! It’s no place for a woman to live in.
Joe. You’ve got to sell out.” Sarah’s voice was sharp
and piercing. She drew a deep breath and swallowed.
She hadn’t meant to say that again.
Joe ambled after her into the bathroom and stood
sheepishly with his hands in his pockets. What a
nag the old girl was! Pity she hadn’t stayed in that
wonderful hospital that she was so struck on! He
stared at the bath dully. It was littered with scraps of
leaves and twigs and dirt that had come in through
the cracks. A loose page fluttered down on to the
bricks. He stooped for it lazily. Simpson’s catalogue
of baths! He looked at it with a vague feeling of
regret. Hadn’t he meant to buy a new bath, a
primrose-colored one, before Sarah came home? He
must have forgotten somehow, like he had forgotten
the other things. Well, what odds! He crumpled the
shiny paper in his hand.
“Wouldn’t do to have a swell bath here,” he said
as he watched Sarah running the muddy water out of
the tap.
“No, I suppose not,” agreed Sarah dispiritedly.
She went on running the water and Joe.tiptoed out.
This dust made a bloke thirsty. He’d slip down to
Tom Hankey’s for a bit after closing time.
“Smile, please!”


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
IdmafWie mellcmcdi andlvuqud
Surely no place within a circle of thirty
miles from the Bank of England can
claim greater interest in the national life
of Britain than the City of Rochester,
with its cathedral, begun in 604, and fine
old castle. Politically, socially, ecclesias-
tically, industrially, it has played a notable
part in the history of the country and
the race which carried its ideals and tradi-
tions to the Seven Seas. This port on
the Medway, adjoining Chatham, figures
in our literary annals. Dickens closely
identified himself with it, and as readers
of the great writer are aware it enters
into many of his books. At modern
Rochester in these stirring times are built
and launched the Imperial Airways
flying-boats which serve the Empire’s air
routes. Edward IV held Rochester as
of great importance, for we find that in
1460 he granted it a new charter, wherein
it was recited that “the city was situated
in a place most defensible, and fit for
the resistance of enemies who might enter
the realm, and that considering the
loyalty and services of the citizens, as
well to him as to his progenitors, and
that if they had more ample liberties
their services and readiness would alsc
be enlarged,” he also ordered that thej
should thenceforth be styled “the Mayor
and citizens of Rochester.” The most
illustrious holder of the See was the
saintly John Fisher, recently canonised,
who proved a powerful obstacle to the
first of the matrimonial arttics in which
Henry VIII indulged. St. John Fisher
was beheaded. No Australian or New
Zealander could be said to have really
visited the Old Land if Rochester was
omitted from the itinerary.
upper: ROCHESTER CASTLE, EIGHTEENTH CENTURY.
Lower: ROCHESTER CASTLE, TODDAY.


WATCHFUL WAITING.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.41
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 .months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
MISLEADERS AND MISLED.
Australian Government spokesmen continue to take
turns at rearing up on their hind legs and slang-
whanging a presumably large and obnoxious section
of the general public. Fresh bombardments from
more of them were heard last week. The alleged
offences are implied rather than stated, names are
never used, and the indictments invariably flow, on
into logical perorations, the substance of which is a
defence of the Government’s war-effort.
If that effort is half as good as its voluble adver-
tisers make it out to be, the Government is doing well
for the country. Why shouldn’t it be doing well for
the country? Heaven knows it has been in power
long enough, under one leader and another, to be
now doing something at last to earn its salt, even if
there were no war and no possible direct menace to
Australia to spur it on. If it is amply providing for as
complete a defence of Australia as can be managed
with the man-power and other potentials available for
the purpose ; if at the same time it is taking whatever
diplomatic steps are open to it to try to prevent this
country becoming involved with other countries not
yet in the war ; if, also, it is quite certain that the
defence arrangements it is making are the right ones
for Australia’s peculiar conditions, and not slavishly
based on military ideas applicable to some other
country —if the Government is doing these things, and
a lot more as well, it is doing no more than it should
be doing.
Allowing that “whisperers” and “knockers”
against the Government’s war-effort are a twentieth
as numerous as these apologists make out, their pres-
ence, though it may be reprehensible, should be under-
standable enough. Since the last war Australians have
seen Government succeed Government with nothing
done for Australia’s defence except to smash it to
ruins, until war came, and with war the popular
clamor which signified that seeing to the defence of
the country was not only no longer politically risky
but was politically expedient. In the face of this, it
is nothing remarkable if there are some who continue
to have somewhat less faith in a virtuous Government
than the virtuous Government has in itself.
The Government’s apologists should be able to
find comfort in the fact that over the years during
which Governments persistently declined to spend
more than three to four millions a year on defence,
and at the same time made political capital and a
political virtue out of a vote-catching determination,
expressed over and over again, not to reintroduce the
elementary precaution of compulsory national train-
ing—during all this time faith was being shaken in
other things besides Government performance. As
to that performance, Australians witnessed, and were
disgusted by, the spectacle of their Government going
back voluntarily, in its relations with Whitehall, to the
old colony status. “Tune-in with Britain” was the
catchcry, and to that it would still seem to subscribe
today, with, where Australia’s peculiar interests are
concerned, a subservience that would have been in-
credible to a not much earlier crop of statesmen.
It is a political parrot-cry of the moment that
these are no times for recriminations: let the dead
past bury its dead ; have faith and trust in the living
present leaders and authorities. This would look
better if it did not so much resemble a shield against
justifiable criticism, and if the representatives of that
past —the whole gang of political windbags, radio
and press oracles and other misleaders —were dead
with it. For if the alleged “whisperers” and “knockers”
and suchlike cynical beings are so numerous that it
is necessary for a Government spokesman to sprout
up every other day and wade into them, the explana-
tion of them is not confined to the fact that Govern-
ment defence performance for 20 years was such a
sorry farce. Faith in the pretensions of supposed
authorities and experts at large has been as greatly
shaken. It may not have mattered very much at the
time, but the fact remains that tendentious and other-
wise unreliable reporting and comment in newspapers
and radio in past years are now showing their effect in
a tendency to doubt everything written and spoken.
When on top of this there is imposed a censorship—of
necessity, admittedly—and when this censorship has
too often been stupid and bungling, what wonder is
it if the sensitive antennae of Government apologists
detect the presence of “doubters” and “whisperers”!
After what Australia has put up with in past
years, both in Government performance and mislead-
ing information from abroad, it would be a miracle
in credulity if there were not at least some who had
by now reached the stage of cynical disbelief in almost
everything spoken and written. The political and in
other ways controversial aspects of those now remote
events the Abyssinian and Spanish wars have no bear-
ing on the point that in the so-called reporting of
those wars journalism —both through the old medium,
the newspaper, and the new medium, radio —did
itself lasting injury.
In the Abyssinian affair journalism, almost with-
out exception, took the side of the natives. The
humanitarian or political aspect # of this phenomenon
is not in question; only journalism is. Right up to
the collapse of the Abyssinians journalism kept
up the pretence that they were winning. The col-
lapse, coming on top of the flood of misleading
catchpenny twaddle, shocked the people who sided
with the Abyssinians, and they were probably the great
majority. Their faith had been imposed upon, and
shameless advantage had been taken of their credulity.
What was started in the Abyssinian war was com-
pleted in the Spanish civil war. Here again the con-
troversial aspects of a most controversial affair are
not at issue ; only journalism, British and Australian.
The side taken in Spain by journalism, again with
scarcely an exception, was the anti-Franco side, and the
performance was even more disturbing than that in the
Abyssinian war. In Abyssinian reporting special cor-
respondents had to concoct their own heroic tales and
erect their own heroes. In Spain they had the clever
Communist propaganda service to aid them. In the
result Spanish leaders were served up as heroes whose
own comrades subsequently debunked them as ignorant
brutes, and the folly was cultivated that the upholders
of a foreign atheist cult would by force of arms impose
their will in an intensely religious country against
upholders of the traditional Spain. The collapse and
flight of the losers and the flowery welcome ac-
corded the conquerors completed the ruin of faith in
the written and spoken word.
Stalin and Hitler on their own mounds have
since then made faith in their written and spoken
word a fool’s cud ; but worse damage was done by
those who served up views in lieu of news. The upshot
of all this —together with all the twaddle since served
up on such topics as the might of Britain’s Con-
tinental allies; the eagerness of the U.S.A. to strip
for action ; the comfort to be drawn on all occasions
from actions of Soviet Russia, however unpromising ;
the impregnable strength of the French Maginot Line ;
the.heroic qualities of the King of the Belgians and of
King Carol; Hitler’s “strategical blunder” in attacking
Norway ; Captain Hart’s widely propagated and evi-
dently widely accepted theories on the unshakable
strength of the defensive over the offensive in modern
warfare —the upshot of all this, and of the exploding
of scores of windbag oracles of newspaper and radio
fame, capable of conceiving anything except that they
might possibly be wrong, has been to so shatter faith
in declamations and pronouncements, official as
well as unofficial, that the wonder is that “whisperers”
and “doubters” are not every bit as plentiful as the
busy Government apologists make them out to be.
The fact is that there are so few of these gentry
in this overwhelmingly patriotic country that Govern-
ment spokesmen could better employ their oratory
on patiently and clearly explaining what the Govern-
ment is doing, without resorting to monotonous abuse
of unnamed, supposedly numerous and sinister but
highly incredible adversaries. Some criticism no doubt
can be heard, but what is the line of it? Is it ever
that the Government is doing too much, or ought not
to be doing what it is doing? It is never anything
other than a fear that the Government may not be
doing enough. That is natural and legitimate. It is a
poor substitute for doing better to go about the
country slangwhanging such patriots as traitors. For
whatever the Government is doing—and there is
growing evidence everywhere that it is now doing a
good job of work —it is still doing nothing more than
it should be doing; nothing more than it should have
been doing for many years past; and certainly nothing
more than will be vitally necessary if what these
preparations are being made to ward off should
unhappily come to pass.
Australia Must Be There.
“The Government’s statement on international affairs,”
said Senator Collings in the Chamber in which he
leads for the Opposition, “is a mass of hopeless and
inadequate evasions of the real situation.” Strong, but
not too strong; indeed it might be applied with jus-
tice to every statement on international affairs in
which Mr. McEwen, the Minister who deals with that
department, has had a hand. Mr. McEwen’s reviews
of foreign affairs are for the most part dull repetitions
of British official reports and newspaper repprts. They
reflect the easy optimism of the moment, and when
—as happened so often in April, May and June —
events blast away the foundations on which the easy
optimism is based, Mr. McEwen has to scramble out
of a hole. His own comments, when ventured, range
from the platitudinous to the fatuous.
On Monday of last week Mr. McEwen obliged
the Brisbane “Courier-Mail” with a “special survey
of the world situation” which almost any editor of a
school magazine could have written, provided that on
delicate subjects he was determined to give nothing
away. In this mood, the Minister of External Affairs
wrote that “We welcome a settlement of the Sino-
Japanese war on just terms, and desire no more than
the maintenance of the status quo in the Pacific basin.”
There is evidence that in this our views are shared
by the United States, whose policy is, month by month,
crystallising more clearly. It is a policy directed, while
keeping the United States out of war, toward the most
active discouragement of intended aggression, and to
the detriment of aggressors.
Nothing could be more depressing, though no
doubt readers of the “Courier-Mail” were expected to
be thrilled to the marrow. On the subject of Italy,
however, the Minister let himself go, again in the
style of a school-magazine editor, and in that inane
spirit of underrating the enemy which has led to so
many unpleasant shocks. He pictured the Italians as
“greedy for spoils, but.... .reluctant to fight.”
The navy has skulked behind its minefields; the army
and air force remain on the defensive. Nevertheless,
with every justifiable cause to despise the spirit and
strength of the Italians, we must realise that Hitler will
be obliged to inject into them some backbone and some
material assistance. So it would be idle for us not to
contemplate hard fighting in the Middle East and Alex-
andria when seasonal conditions are more propitious
later in the year.
And even while this stuff was being set up the Italians
had invaded British Somaliland and were closing on
its Gulf of Aden ports.
The day after the article was published, Mr.
McEwen was at Canberra delivering the speech of
which Mr. Collings spoke with such contempt when
the rehash was served up in the Senate. He addressed
himself to the subject of Anglo-Japanese relations —in
which there seems to have been a change for the
better —without mentioning that Australia is a vitally
interested party or (of course!) that his Government
had made this representation in either quarter. He
did, however, say that one of the persons “detained”
in Japan is an Australian and that the Consul-General
for Japan and the British Ambassador in Tokyo had
been approached on the Australian’s behalf, but he did
not explain why there is no Australian Minister at
Tokyo to see to the welfare of Australians in Japan
and look after the interests of their country. It was
reserved for Mr. Beasley, following Mr. Curtin —who
pleaded for a secret session so that the position in the
Pacific and Australia’s part in it and in the war might
be freely debated —to say that a Tokyo appointment
made synchronously with the appointment to Washing-
ton “might have lessened German and Italian influ-
ence in Japan and created a different feeling in Tokyo.”
In the Brisbane paper Mr. McEwen wrote that
“no consultation could be more intimate than that
which exists between the Australian Government and
the Government of the United Kingdom.” He ampli-
fied this assertion on Wednesday, declaring that “Aus-
tralia is not only continually in consultation with the
British Government and other Dominion Govern-
ments, but there is ample and recent evidence that
the Commonwealth’s opinion weighs heavily and
affects decisions made from time to time.”
On the previous day, according to the “S. M.
Herald” report, he had stated that “the Japanese Gov-
ernment made arrests of Britons before any action
was taken by Britain against Japanese nationals.” Here,
for once, he is in conflict with the newspapers ; the
Melbourne “Herald,” the Sydney “Sun,” the Sydney
“Telegraph” and other papers reported as a fact from
London that a Japanese and the German-born wife of
another were “detained” there two weeks before the
detentions in Japan. This rather suggests doubts as
to whether the British Government is so prompt and
precise with its information or so responsive to
representations from Canberra as Mr. McEwen —in
all sincerity, naturally—makes out. In any case it has
to be remembered that British official communications,
even when prompt and precise, may not be correct.
In respect of Poland, Norway, France and Rumania,
the British Government must have been very badly
let down by its agents, as well as by many of the
newspapers. One of the few exceptions was the
Imperial Policy Group’s monthly. Even before the
French caved in the editor of that publication wrote
that “the great tragedy of recent times is that the
British Government was not told by its advisers that
French public opinion was no longer in favor of com-
mitments in eastern and central Europe.”
France was mentioned by Mr. McEwen in the
Tuesday speech. He said that “relations with our
previous ally” (not Australia’s ally really) “have been
difficult. The situation in the French colonies remains
obscure. Some, it is clear, are accepting the authority
of the Vichy Government.”
Certain of these territories, however, rely for their
economic livelihood on the British Empire, and a con-
tinuance of close collaboration with these is to be
expected. In the case of New Caledonia, the Common-
wealth Government has been able to reach a satisfactory
arrangement with the local administration for the main-
tenance of economic relations in order to provide a
regular means of contact.. ..and to assist the co-opera-
tion o# New Caledonia in the prosecution of the war.
The Commonwealth Government has decided to send
a representative to Noumea.
If this may be taken to mean that the Government at
Canberra has done something constructive on its own
account in the field of foreign policy, it is a refresh-
ing change. But many related questions and possible
contingencies await its attention. There are the ques-
tions of the New Hebrides, of Java, Sumatra, Celebes,
the Dutch part of Timor and —above all —Dutch
Borneo and New Guinea. There are the contingencies
that would arise if invasion of Palestine or Egypt or
even a descent on Aden were successful. For all these
reasons, and others which have been mentioned, and
still others which may develop, Australia needs much
more than mere radiophone talks. It needs active and
able representation in an Imperial War Cabinet and on
the Allied War Council —if the devoted bands of exiles
from their unhappy countries are still classed as
allies. And it has in Mr. Cameron a man who could
give it that quality of representation, with a well-
accredited member of each of the fighting services to
assist him on the War Council. Mr. Cameron would
not be overawed by his associates, nor would he
take to London that blind faith in the infallibility
of British official information and in the capacity of
British politicians to do all the thinking required to
be done for us which is cherished by some of his
colleagues.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The People to Decide.
Australia is to have a Commonwealth election after
all. This in spite of the fact that, in the edifying
language of Sydney “D.T.,” crowing over the impend-
ing removal of Mr. Gullett from the Ministry of
Information, “the big newspapers of Australia” (or
most of them) “finally showed last week that they
would not tolerate” a 1940 election and “demanded”
that the British Government be asked to sanction
an indefinite postponement. “Follow Britain” has
for years been the cry of “the big newspapers of
Australia,” and it has had some very queer results, but
the long-enduring Australian people would have taken
it very badly if a right guaranteed to them under their
Constitution had been suspended by British action.
Which is not to say that the Constitution is not in
urgent need of amendment in vital respects.
Mr. Cameron is entitled to credit for having re-
fused to be a party to the flouting of Section 28 with-
out the people’s consent, more especially as members
of his own party had enrolled themselves in the anti-
election brigade. It was reserved for Mr. Curtin to
wreck the plan by refusing to be associated with an
appeal to Westminster or Downing-street. At the
same time he reiterated his refusal to join a so-called
Win-the-War Government, for which, he maintains, he
has no authority from the electors. When the people
have had their say his attitude may change. He may
then be guided by the example of Maoriland Labor,
which has set up a non-party War Cabinet and an
advisory War Council, such as Mr. Curtin and Mr.
Forgan Smith asked for, and whose conduct of the
Maoriland war effort has all along been admirable.
There are many Australians —and they are by no
means all Laborites—who consider that Australia
would get similar results if it put Labor in office. Be
this as it may, it is for the people to pass judgment
on the Menzies Government on the score of its record
and its proposals, and, if they are not satisfied, to
choose another. Moreover, the election will give them
a much-needed opportunity of improving the personnel
of Parliament. In both Houses and in every party,
there are duds who have been suffered too long.
Hargrave.
A Lawrence Hargrave memorial, erected on Bald
Hill, Stanwell Park (N.S.W.), was unveiled by the
State Governor, Lord Wakehurst, on August 2—25
years after Hargrave’s death, though not to the day.
Hargrave lived in Stanwell Park for years, and Bald
Hill was the scene of some of his experiments. But
none of his models is to be found in the pretty place ;
though the Sydney Technological Museum has a few,
the best of them are housed in Munich, where, no
doubt, Hitler has inspected them many a time.
In his own country, Hargrave was one of the
Great Unknowns of his time. Son of an Englishman
who preceded him to Australia, and who became a
Law Minister in four N. S. Wales Governments and
a Supreme Court Judge, he seems to have been
regarded as one of those sons who are overshadowed
by their parents: “a decent sort, but not a patch on
his father.” When the elder Hargrave was a man of
note, the son was a mere assistant at Sydney Obser-
vatory. But if the father is now remembered, it is
only for the works of his son.
Of light wood and tissue paper, “propelled, first
by means of flapping wings and then by a screw,”
Lawrence Hargrave constructed the first successful
monoplane model. As T. C. Roughley wrote in the
Australian Encyclopedia, “the motive power was
originally clockwork, then rubber bands in tension,
then compressed air and lastly steam.” With these
models “flights of between 300 ft. and 400 ft. were
made ’ on Bald Hill. The news of the Hargrave
experiments travelled and “a world-wide stimulus”
was thus given to “the study of aerodynamics.”
Then came Hargrave’s rotary-aeroplane engine.
He discovered that a “three-cylinder screw engine
could be made by turning the boss of the propeller
into an engine, thus allowing the cylinders to revolve
on the crank-shaft, shaft and crank-pin being stationary
and the thrust coming direct on the valve-face.” His
engine weighed ounces and made 456 revs, per
minute. Foreigners turned Hargrave’s design to very
profitable account. One of the rotary engines based
on it was the Gnome, described by the great “Jacky”
Fisher in the memoirs he wrote in 1919 as “that won-
derful engine which really made aeroplanes what they
are today.”
Hargrave turned his attention to box-kites. In
1897 he “succeeded in flying a kite which soared 20°
to windward of the zenith in a 12- or 14-m.p.h.
breeze. Possessing as they did “far greater stability
than any apparatus previously discovered,” the Har-
grave box-kites “paved the way for the successful
heavier-than-air flying machine.”
The first aeroplane that ever flew publicly, that of
Santas Dumont in France in 1906, was simply an
arrangement of the Hargrave box-kite.
Hargrave gave his discoveries to the world with-
out asking a penny for them. He did not even take
out patents. And though honored in his lifetime by
men like Octave Chanute and Hiram Maxim, who
wrote to him for particulars of his investigations and
exchanged data with him, he did not escape the ridi-
cule which seems to be the portion of every selfless
inventor who is ahead of his time. Even curators of
museums to whom he offered his models dismissed
him as a crank. There may be similar “cranks” in
Australia today. Possibly some of them have sub-
mitted designs which would be useful to the Empire
r* or existence. Members of War Inventions
Boards should remember Hargrave and dismiss none
or them as impracticable until they have been patiently
considered.
Victoria's Plethora of Boards.
Victoria is busily trying to scratch off some of the
rash of boards with which its body corporate is afflicted,
and Premier Dunstan, being a good enough politician
to keep one ear firmly pressed to the ground, is mut-
tering something about setting up another board to
inquire into the boards, or something.
Melbourne “Age,” treading warily among the
plethora of corns likely to get trodden on by the feet
of public disapproval, points out that, though export
prices for eggs have mounted in the past four years and
production might consequently have been expected to
increase,
Strangely enough, it is asserted that during the
period of [board] control export has decreased.
Though whether it regards the assertion or the de-
crease as strange isn’t clear. v
Also under fire is the Milk Board, with its
remarkable effort to cheapen milk by allowing a re-
duction to buyers of more than a quart at a time, its
£7667 in salaries and wages, its board fees of £BOO,
its £1219 travelling expenses, its £ll9l for “contin-
gencies” and its £9955 for compensation.
Both growers and consumers who are up against
the boards have a mighty hurdle in that part of the
Act which demands a 60 per cent, poll and a 60 per
cent, majority for abolition —a big majority favored
abolition of the Onion Board two years ago, but it
was a fraction over 59 per cent, and the board was
saved. This might easily happen in the Chicory Board
poll on August 30.
If Mr. Dunstan really means to get back for his
“Parliament” some of the work his “Parliament” is
elected to do, he can do it by amending the Act so
that a simple majority of voters and votes will do the
the trick.
Whitewash for Leopold.
“Felon,” “coward,” “Fifth Columnist” and “traitor”
were some of the expressions heaved at King Leopold
of Belgium after his surrender on May 27. Sir Roger
Keyes, who for his share in bringing down Mr. Cham-
berlain had been extolled in the newspapers and
rewarded with a post at Belgian headquarters,
attempted a defence of the King. He forthwith ceased
to be a newspaper hero, and hasn’t been mentioned
in the cables since. It is never easy to silence an
admiral, but the savagery of the attacks made on Sir
Roger reduced him to utter silence.
The point on which most stress was laid was that
the Belgian sovereign had criminally left his Allies in
the lurch. “Suddenly, without prior consultation, with
the least possible notice, without the advice of his
Ministers and upon his own personal act, King Leopold
surrendered his army and exposed our whole flank
without means of retreat.” Such was Mr. Churchill’s
account, given in the House of Commons on June 4,
and he wound up by saying “No reason now exists
why we should not form our opinion of this pitiful
episode.” M. Reynaud, then head of the Govern-
ment which was presently to surrender all the French
forts, arsenals, munition factories, military depots,
guns, tanks, rifles, aerodromes, ’planes, naval stations
and ships of war, used even harsher language.
But there turned up last week a pastoral lettei
issued by Cardinal van Roey, the Belgian Primate, and
read in all Belgian Catholic churches, in which the
King’s own version appeared. He told the Cardinal
that he had capitulated only because his army was
“encircled,” and that further resistance would have
meant not only its annihilation but the killing of hun-
dreds of thousands of civilians. He added that he
had made no treaty with the enemy, and that it was
“not true that the Allied High Command was un-
acquainted with the untenable situation of the army
or with the necessity for it to cease fighting.”
During the same week there arrived in London
the U.S. Ambassador to Belgium, a Mr. Cudahy, who
volunteered information to the press on a variety of
topics and was promptly ordered to come back to
Washington. Mr. Cudahy said that “when the truth
was known about King Leopold’s decision to sur-
render, it would not only be accepted but applauded.”
I think it will be shown that the Allies were fully
informed not less than three days beforehand that King
Leopold had reached the conclusion that every further
hour of resistance meant the useless sacrifice of lives.
Somebody mentioned that this was equivalent to
branding M. Reynaud as a liar. Mr. Cudahy found
it expedient to explain that he did not want to enter
into a controversy. He must have started a very
animated one, but Australians have not been per-
mitted to learn any more about it.
It can scarcely have been true that the Belgian
army was “encircled,” and if the British were “left with-
out means of retreat” they soon found the “means.”
Certainly, after taking over the exposed flank, they pre-
vented the enemy from surrounding them, as also did
some of the French. Still the denial, however belated,
of the charge against the King (“without prior consul-
tation, with the least possible notice,” and so forth)
deserves to be answered. So far no answer has been
forthcoming.
»
The Outlook for Farmers.
Mr. Cameron, in his capacity of Minister for Com-
merce, has told the Representatives in plain language
what plenty of far-sighted people already knew. While
Britain will continue to need wool in large quantities,
also dairy produce, bacon, eggs, sugar and dried fruits,
and while we ourselves will need more cotton, flax
and tobacco, there is small comfort in the situation
for producers of certain other commodities.
For wheat, meat —frozen baconers excepted—
fresh fruits, canned fruits, barley and wine, the outlook
at the moment is anything but satisfactory. In the case
of wheat it would be unsafe to allow production to
proceed as if there were no marketing difficulty! The
best thing to do with crops now struggling to survive a
hard winter is to turn a big proportion into hay.
The Minister wants to see a changeover to mixed
farming in the wheat country.
He came out with his statement as an indication
of what he would tell the Australian Agricultural
Council when it met in Sydney on Monday. Since
the A.A.C. last met, State Departments of Agriculture
have been making a survey of what forms of produc-
tion could be stimulated, what new products could
be established, and so forth. In the light of Mr.
Cameron’s remarks, the time has been wasted, for
the Commonwealth Government could quite easily
have told the farmers where they stood, and the
expensive business of dragging Ministers and experts
and others from one end of Australia to the other
for another useless conference could have been cut out.
Meantime, Mr. H. S. Henley, president of the
N. S. Wales Farmers and Settlers, was telling their
annual conference that Australia needs an Agricul-
tural Committee.
It may be necessary to appoint a Director-General
of Agriculture—another Essington Lewis—if one can be
found. Producers are looking for a lead.
As things are, there are so many agricultural
councils, departments, bureaux, associations and con-
ferences, so many more wheat, egg, milk, meat and
other boards, and so much constitootional chaos that
farmers don’t know whether they are going or coming.
By all means let Australia have a Director-
General of Agriculture, provided such an appoint-
ment cancels the horde of Governmental and quasi-
Governmental institutions now clinging to primary
production like sandflies to a Darling stockhorse. Like
education, transport and taxation of incomes, agri-
culture should become a Commonwealth matter.
A Lesson from Hong Kong.
“Feng-Shui”: Hong Kong, from which people are
arriving in hospitable Australia, has been riven over the
evacuation question. As anybody could have pre-
dicted who knows how interdependent white and
yellow have become in China, the thing resulted in
wholesale disorganisation.
Britons as well as Chinese in Hong Kong protested
that it had caused widespread misery, bankruptcy
and unemployment; that the victims of official ignor-
ance, because of H.C.L. in Australia and Manila, were
going to worse conditions ; that non-European residents,
including Chinese and Eurasians, had been excluded,
although 98 p.c. of the cost would fall on the 1,500,000
Chinese remaining, and that social discrimination had
extended even to Manila, where those who were not
pure British had been given the poorest quarters. It
was also believed —mistakenly, however —that Aus-
tralia would not admit the half-caste.
Whatever some people may say to the contrary,
European prestige in China has depended not on
battleships but on co-operation.
The European names which are most revered in
China are those of men like the Australian Dr. Morri-
son and Sir Robert Hart. Hart'founded the Customs
and the Posts and Telegraphs which have operated
for generations from one. end of the country to the
other through civil wars, revolutions and wars with
foreign nations. During the chaos of the revolution
the Chinese postman travelled on foot, by wheel-
barrow and in bullock carts from Shanghai to Outer
Mongolia delivering his letters, and such was the
prestige of the European that the telegraph continued
to function without interference between the warring
factions. Rebel generals allowed the foreign-staffed
Customs and salt gabelle to collect their revenues and
transmit them to the Central Government, and even
supplied them with escorts.
Nine-tenths of the Chinese in Hong Kong went
there because they thought that British ideas of free-
dom and fair-dealing made the fortress a sanctuary
from oppression.
They were seeking co-operation, and to the extent
to which they got it Hong Kong grew. There is a
lesson there for all the nations.
The Baffle for Tamworth.
“Norther” attends a by-election:
Centre of one of the most fruitful districts in Australia —
there are wheat paddocks here that have grown a crop
every year for 50 years and never needed artificial fertiliser —
Tamworth (N.S.W.) is far enough way from Sydney to escape
some of the deadening blight of big-city influences. Its
surrounding agricultural industries are amazing in their scope
and stability, its local manufacturing industries thrive, it
has a daily paper the equal of any other in Australia for news
content and make-up, and the town itself has a fine air of
prosperity and progress.
On this happy place there swooped last week no fewer
than forty (40) politicians. They invaded its halls, gathered
crowds on its street corners, screamed defiance at one another
from all sorts of stages, movable and fixed. They made
sorties into the encircling villages—at Nundle 15 of them
arrived, with three different policies, to speak to 150 people—
and generally assaulted the usually peaceful night air with
words, words, words.
The A.L.P. —which one isn’t clear —had 15 Ms.L.A., five
Ms.H.R. and a Senator; the U.A.P.-C.P. had 12 Ms.L.A.,
and the Auburn Hope had himself and six others for the
A.L.P. Non-Coms.
For days the struggle raged, even the ether trembled to
the roar of sound. Lone farmers, going their rounds by
night, saw glaring headlights rush along the district roads;
sparrows roosting in the eaves of country halls had their rest
disturbed; the staff of the local daily—its boss an M.H.R. —
worked far into the night trying to cope with the rush of
words.
On Saturday, glad that peace had come again, the citizens
went to the ballot-boxes. By Sunday the district was as
innocent of politicians as its hens were of teeth, a fact hailed
with relief by most, with regret by those who had got among
the free drinks.
All this to elect somebody to represent Tamworth in a
Parliament that serves no useful purpose that a Tamworth
Regional Council under a single National Parliament couldn’t
serve—a Parliament that seldom, if ever, hears of Tamworth
or any other of the country districts struggling to hold
their populations against the big city the Parliament really
serves; a Parliament whose work is handed over to boards
and commissions; a Parliament mostly to be found in recess.
No wonder there was such a battle for the good job.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Think you could kill a sheep, choom?”
“Don't know , sir; but if you lend me the axe I believe I could knock him about a bit."
“D.E.”: If another Scholar Gypsy or
George Borrow decided to follow the
fortunes of a Romany tribe in Australia
he would have to do a heap of travelling.
A party of those gypsies who go wander-
ing round the continent bobbed up in
Westralia recently, having come overland
from South Australia in what Perth
“Mirror” described as “three of the most
expensive cars that money can buy.”
They camped near the railway town of
Midland Junction, and after the usual
complaints the police went after their
king with a vagrancy charge. He
answered it by flashing a £lOO note in
court, and the startled magistrate inti-
mated that he did not want to see or
hear any more. But a lady of the tribe,
lumbered for telling fortunes and in the
process pinching £3 from a garage till
(running the till-money through her
fingers was part of her modus operandi),
was smacked with two fines and ordered
to make restitutioq. Pausing to give
the latest of three offspring copious re-
freshment, she described herself as a
showwoman, daughter of a showman, and
born in Sydney. It is a fact, I believe,
that most of these particular gypsies are
Australian by birth.
“Oxmead”: A Great Daily supple-
mented a recent cable about the drop-
ping of some German bombs on Norwich
with the information that this is “one of
the main cities of Norfolk.” Actually,
of course, it is the only city in the county,
whether the word is taken in its original
sense as the seat of a bishop or in its
later one as carrying a good-sized popu-
lation. Its 130,000 citizens (or there-
abouts) represent more than a third of
the tally of the whole shire —no other
borough comes within cooee of it. Yet
Norwich has fallen a long way from
its old-time prominence. At the close
of the seventeenth century, according to
Macaulay, it was not only the first of
English manufacturing centres but the
third city in point of population of the
whole realm, just a shade behind Bristol.
* * * *
“Tummas McNark”: Another elderly
cove has turned up with the claim to be
100 years old, this time on the N.S.W.
coalfields. Probably he can substantiate
the claim, but all the same I’m getting
a bit suspicious of these centenarians —
there are too many of them, and they all
read without spectacles, work like tigers
and eat like cormorants. I once encoun-
tered a Chinese, said to be a hundred,
j u p looked if He was being fed
f, na IOOKeo ir. ne was._ oemg icu
through a glass tube, was unable to move
and his mind was incapable of grasping
anything. Another time I struck an old
Australian, said to have entered three
figures. When I asked him how old he
really was, he confessed, “Damfino, but
I must be gettm on Oneof hisstrong-
est memories was seeing Ben Halls body
b ht into Forbes (Ns>w#) in 1865,
and that> he remarke d, was “the year me
first boy was born> ”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: For the confidence trick
(B. 24/7/’4O) of fainting in public places,
to get free transit and drinks, may be
recommended the attitude of a cynical
Adelaide police-sergeant who told the
story himself in court: “So I said to him,
‘Don’t faint on this floor; it’s hard.’
And all he said was, ‘You’re hard!’”
* * * *
“Passionate Purist”ln two different
newspapers I read an item concerning a
Mr. Street. One referred to him as
Minister for the Army, the other as
Minister of the Army. To me, prose
depends for its harmony on scansion, and
somehow I cannot pass the of in the
title without a mental jolt. All the same,
I must admit, after a close study of the
0.E.D., that a Minister of Justice could
well be one appointed to dispense the
commodity, and though at first glance it
may appear that the same could not be
said of a Minister of Agriculture yet it
would be possible to say, The Minister
appointed to dispense agricultural educa-
tion and administer the laws relating to
agricultural production.” But a Minister
of the Army could hardly dispense the
army, though he might administer it.
There is much more to it, and possibly
what I need is a minister of mental illness.
Still, I’d like a ruling.
* * * *
“S.V.”: Melbourne will justify almost
anything nowadays in the name of
patriotism. During the recent drive for
the Comforts Fund a prize cocker spaniel
was on exhibition. Any member of the
general public could give the animal a
pat at the price of a penny. It is on
statistical record that it had to put up
with 2400 caresses.
* * * *
“Peck o’ Maut”: Somebody, in allusion
to colonial Governorships and how they
were awarded in the bad old days', re-
cently mentioned Thackeray’s Rawdon
Crawley as the sort of “whisky-soaked
embarrassment” who was once regarded
as eligible for such a job. No doubt
Becky Sharp’s husband took a generous
share of all stimulants that were popular
in his day, but I don’t think whisky was
one of them. You will come on frequent
and appreciative mention of various other
intoxicating drinks in Vanity Fair, from
brandy, rum, gin, punch, port, Madeira,
claret and liqueurs down to plain beer,
but I can find no reference to whisky,
which hadn’t got so fdr south (from
Scotland) or so far east (from Ireland)
as to have become popular, much less
fashionable, in Rawdon Crawley’s time.
I doubt if it was before early-Victorian
years that whisky got a real grip on
England. So that Adam Lindsay Gordon
was guilty of a glaring anachronism when
he made Sergeant Leigh, celebrating his
captaincy at the Restoration, call on the
landlord for “a flask of your fiercest
usquebaugh.”
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Democrats who rejoice
at the plight of the aristocracy must at least
admit that its members are adaptable.
At the height of the Blitzkrieg in France,
the “Times” carried this advertisement
on its front page:
Lord and Lady Walsingham educate up
to 46 girls with own. Tennis, swimming,
riding. Excellent education. No uniform
or extras. Finishing course; languages;
dressmaking; cooking. 50gns. a term.
Protestants only.—Tottington, Thetford,
Norfolk.
The noble Lord is the eighth baron. He
commanded a battalion of the Norfolk
Regiment during the last war, served in
Mespot and France, was thrice wounded,
mentioned five times in dispatches and
won the D.S.O. His wife is the daughter
of an R.A.' But the family has been
versatile in its methods of earning a
crust since the first De Grey received his
title as Chief Justice of the Court of
Common Pleas in Georgian days. One
lived on his means and was chairman of
committees in the Lords, another was
Archdeacon of Surrey and a Prebendary
of Winchester Cathedral, and the last
was a London metropolitan police magis-
trate.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: “Ologist” is right (B.
24 /7 / ’4O) about the origin of “sissy” ;
how the letter “c” ever got into it is the
only mystery. The American first-born,
if a boy, is addressed as “Junior” ; when
a girl arrives he is naturally told to be
kind to “sister,” and so she gets called
precisely that. I remember the wife of
a U.S. Consul here who surprised all her
new friends when offering almonds to her
small daughter: “Another nut, sister?”
So, as soon as the boy gets too old to
play with girls, “sissy,” as meaning girl-
like, becomes to him a word of abuse.
* * *
“Dagobert”: The word “Hun,” as
fastened on the German, far antedates
a Kipling poem which was recently sug-
gested in these columns as its origin.
In Henry Labouchere’s letters written
from besieged Paris in 1870 appears the
following:
“There is no sacrifice I would not make
rather than capitulate to those Huns,” I
heard a grocer declare.
But in those days the full obloquy of
the word was reserved for the Prussians,
Saxons, Bavarians and the rest being re-
garded as lesser evils.
* * * *
“Audio”: Sundry howls of rage about
“Fascism” and “free speech,” emanating
from political persons who were either
cut off in the middle of broadcasts or had
their scripts banned, have been punctured
by the explanation that faked audience
effects were introduced. A sample script
showed that cheers, jeers, and cries of
enthusiasm or opprobrium had been in-
terpolated to convey that the speaker was
getting a great hearing and his audience
was against the opposing party to a man.
To such a pass have party politics in
Australia come. The censor might now
turn his attention to similar practices in
newspaper reports.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Announced by papers which
like a sex angle to their wars that hun-
dreds of beautiful German girls are
arriving in Holland to make eyes at
Dutch mayors and policemen. If there
is anything in the story, and if Goebbels
is responsible, as alleged, he is merely re-
viving halfheartedly a fine old Indian
custom of which Mysore’s Haider Ali and
his fat son, Tippoo Sahib, were the prize
exponents. Their custom with British and
other prisoners was to line them up at
attention, give them a little opium to
soothe their nerves, circumcise them and
declare them officially to be Moham-
medan converts. They were then marched
to a parade ground and, upon the order
“about turn,” were compelled to enter
into matrimony with the dark-eyed
little Mysoreans whom they found facing
them. After that they were reckoned fit
to be enlisted in Mysore’s own army.
Some of the unreasonable British were
against the idea,- but both Haider and
Tippoo were far more total in their war
methods than any Nazi dictator ever
born. Recruits who resisted had nails
driven into their feet or were given slow
poison.
“0.P.”: I’ve read a lot of fiction about
the hysterical joy of blind people who
by some surgical or other miracle re-
gained their sight, and their jubilation
seemed only natural. But a Bondi (Syd-
ney) man whose sight was restored after
10 years “in the dark,” as they say in
Ireland, pronounces the recovery more a
handicap than an advantage. He finds it
easier to shave himself or to play the piano
with his eyes closed than with them open.
He cannot judge the distance of an
approaching motor-car or its speed, and
lives in terror while walking in the
streets. Also he has lost his livelihood,
for he used to be a “Blind Entertainer.
Suggests a supplement to Emerson’s essay
on “Compensations,” doesn’t it?
* * * *
“Strict Veg”: The Mardi Gras (or
flower festival or whatever it was) in aid
of the Comforts Fund which developed
out of the A.I.F. march in Melbourne
on a recent Friday produced a nice little
problem in ethics. Persons with sten-
torian voices drove a thriving patriotic
trade in lucky wheels at every corner
in Collins-street and Bourke-street, and
the police took their names and addresses.
Only one stallholder’s courage failed him
after the police visit; the rest continued
to contribute to the £13,000 raised.
Councillor Beaurepaire, chairman of the
committee, said there ought to be a fe"
days in the year when patriotic collectors
could imitate the bookmakers, and that the
Block ought to be registered as a legiti-
mate place for betting. He didn’t blame
the police, however; they were onl)
doing their duty.
THE UNTOUCHABLES.
“The screaming gyrations of the myrmidons of
Molotoff.” —Picturesque invective from the Labor
free-for-all.
Comrades, beware our enemies
Without, who neither toil nor spin!
But still be mindful, if you please,
Of more insidious foes within.
Their stock-in-trade is blatant noise,
At wholesome discipline they scoff,
These fractious, factious Moscow boys,
The myrmidons of Molotoff!
Beware the bogus five-pound note!
Avoid those joints where after dark
The mutton’s almost surely goat,
The snapper more than likely shark.
Watch out for serpents in the grass,
On whatsoever quest you’re off —
A role in which there’s none surpass
The myrmidons of Molotoff!
Fight shy of any pub wherein
The landlord’s lack, or greed, of oof
Flas made the beer unduly thin,
The grog too sorely underproof.
Beware of racecourse tout and gun,
From burly rough to seedy toff,
And as assiduously shun
The myrmidons of Molotoff!
Up, comrades, up and sternly strike
All such from off your calling list,
One-eyed fanatics and the like,
Dour charlatans who squeal and twist!
From loyal Labor’s ranks we’ll spurn,
And hustle from the party trough,
The blokes whose eyes to Moscow turn,
The myrmidons of Molotoff!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“The Wowser”: A Melbourne Judge
handed out to the former sports broad-
caster Solomons a sentence representing
a concurrent term of six months on each
of two charges of having cut broad-
casting wires at Ascot (Vic.) last Decem-
ber. Solomons’s offence was pot so much
the mere snipping of some wires while
a horse-race was in progress, but being
found out in an attempt to swindle
starting-price bookmakers. In brief, his
plan, as admitted by the bright young
man before he skipped from Australia
to Fiji, was to interrupt the real broadcast
long enough for him to put over a fake
one, thus allowing confederates to get
amongst the s.p. men and make their
killing. Since s.p. men are outlawed both
in N.S.W. and Victoria, it’s a bit difficult
to understand why the law should be
so concerned about them. If somebody
snipped the wires relaying a Beecham
concert it would be regarded as nothing
more than an untimely lark, and the
offender would be let off with a caution
or at worst a small fine.
* * * *
“R.S.T.”: From his office over-
looking the sports field our old head-
master overheard some of our choicest
Australian expressions, so he called
the school together in the main
hall. “I’ve heard some of you boys
trying to swear,” he said, “and it
moves me to pity.” Then to a petrified
assembly he continued: “When you call
a man a or say this or that,
or that So-and-so is a , you’re
not really swearing.” When we’d recov-
ered from hearing our venerable head
vigorously delivering himself of the most
lurid expressions in the Australian lan-
guage, he went on. “Australians can’t
swear. Your Afghan can swear for half an
hour without repeating himself, and give
a most colorful and pregnant condem-
nation of the object of his wrath. Your
Australian can’t do that. All he can do
is ejaculate a few meaningless words or
phrases which have been used so often
that they are more boring than the dullest
of platitudes. Now get back to your
games.” Chastened, we got back.
* * * ' *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A grave risk to
Australia has been revealed by a photo-
graph in a Brisbane daily. It shows
Defence Minister Street inspecting troops
and wearing with civilian clobber the
long kneeboots affected by dictators in
their most dictatorial moments. As has
been pointed out by the learned Prof.
Guyver, footwear of this description is
the principal factor in producing dic-
tators. When worn habitually the result-
ing corns, bunions, fallen arches, halitosis
and sore heels create the necessary
irritable and vindictive frame of mind, «r:
the heat draws the blood from the
wearer’s brain into his feet, and the
inevitable consequence is that he gets
too big for his boots.
* * * *
Cult Crank”: Informed by the solici-
r! i° r ,^ e esta te of a Melbourne woman
that she had left him £l5OO, Father Divine
got this speech of thanks off his chest:
will I you to be as this leaves
w; We ’ h ea khy, joyful, peaceful, lively,
in 'r 8 -’ .successful, prosperous and happy
m-.,nn int ’ bo , d y ancl mind, and in every
anH Kn mUSC e ’, sinew > joint, limb, frame
anrl rv f 16 ’C a l ld even in ever y atom, fibre
and cell of My bodily form.
wu, 6 Was a little Premature, for the
rhiia! Ver ’ a com P lete war invalid, and two
cniwren contested the will and the Court
"Wait till I get the mug who folded this parachute!"
denuded the negro mullah of £6OO. So
far, no message has come for the Court.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: I hope the Commonwealth
Parliament won’t withhold its annual con-
tribution of £43,000 to the League of
Nations, and here’s why. I rent one of
Melbourne’s early mansions, and a few
years ago it became infested with rats.
They gnawed the wainscoting, ate their
way through the wire netting of the
pantry, removed the lid of the breadbin
and ate the contents nightly and bred like
wildfire. They became so self-confident
that one old-man rat would walk across
the room with unruffled calm when the
family was having breakfast. After a while
the rodents began to invade the second
storey, walking downstairs when expos-
tulated with with thumps which would
have done credit to a herd of elephants.
I used all the approved methods for get-
ting rid of them, including traps, baits
and the municipal ratcatchers, complete
with smoke barrage and terriers, without
even keeping pace with the natural in-
increase. Then a friend told me that there
was a rat poison on the market which
had the endorsement of the League of
Nations, because it attacked only rats
and was harmless to all other animals
and human beings. Entirely sceptical I
bought some. After a single application
every rat disappeared, and they have
never come back.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Probably the largest single
cause of death amongst white mankind
is blockage of the small artery which sup-
plies the heart muscle with blood-
coronary occlusion, doctors call it. An
investigation of 1620 cases made by the
American Association of Industrial Physi-
cians and Surgeons has altered previous
medical views concerning it by showing
that only 2 p.c. of attacks came on dur-
ing hard work or unusual activity, and
that 52.5 p.c. occurred during sleep or
rest. Mild routine activity contributed
21 p.c., ordinary walking 15.5 p.c. and
moderate activity 9 p.c. When analysed
these percentages correspond quite
closely with the proportion of the day
spent in each, and would appear to sliow
that hard work or exertion causing heart
strain has no causal influence. Against
“Sorry we're late , sir, but we've been chasing her for two Weeks."
which must be considered the habit of
hearts to defer reaction against strain, so
far as any outward signs are concerned.
* * * *
“D.E.”: A lot of those French blue-
jackets who, in happier days, were to be
seen about Sydney from time to time
were Bretons, and there was an unusually
high proportion of blond types among
them. If the Nazis have their way these
fair-haired, smiling youngsters will come
no more as Frenchmen, for, by permis-
sion of the conqueror, a parcel of so-
called Breton Nationalists have pro-
claimed Brittany a separate State, “in-
dependent of France.” In other words,
the Germans are trying to do with France
what the men of Versailles tried to do
with Germany, and if the experiment
lasts as long it will be a miracle. A dull
dog as a politician, Fritz seems incapable
of learning from history, even his own.
He attributes to the Bretons a traditional
hatred of England. In point of fact, they
look more like the English than any
other breed of Continentals, and they
were allies of England against the First
Republic—hard-fighting allies, too, and
devoted to the Bourbons, though those
poor-spirited creatures proved unworthy
of their devotion. There is a fine picture
of a Breton leader in Victor Hugo’s novel
Ninety-three, in other respects an absurd
glorification of the Conventionalists, con-
taining one priceless sentence: “There
is Himalaya and there is the Conven-
tion.” Napoleon’s name for Victor’s
gods was “ruffians.”
* * * *
“Erua”: An ambitious but penurious
brush-wielder received a visit from an
ad. man who put it to him that
there were certain aspects of his
work that the commercial world would
appreciate if he would submit to
a few modifications of his methods. The
indignant artist replied that he could
never prostitute his genius to the uses of
advertisement. “All right,” said the
tempter ; “but how much did you get for
the last picture you sold?” “Three
guineas,” was the reply. “Yes, and for
half as much work we’ll probably pay
you thirty. But, of course, if you don’t
care to take it on” The agent clat-
tered down the stairs, but a much-in-debt
painter called him back. Now the land-
scape and the portrait stand against the
wall, and the poster and soap and powder
ad. take foremost place. And a wife
who has acquired a fur coat seizes the
cheques with unbecoming alacrity.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: A man alleged to hold the
record for the longest term of married
life has just died in Bombay. He was
Sir Temulji Nariman, who at 93 was also
the oldest medico in India. He was
married for 87 years, and his wife, who
survives him, was a six-year-old bride.
This tends to confute the notion of
Katherine Mayo, of Mother India fame,
that child marriage necessarily leads to
short life and other evils too horrible
to contemplate. There is probably less
neurosis in India, where bridegrooms are
pre-selected and marriage contracts are
sometimes made before the parties are
born, than in U.S.A., where it is not
thought in the least extraordinary that
couples should be engaged for 11 years
while the young man is working to give
his fiancee the social position she expects.
Malnutrition, lack of drains and disease,
which Hindu intolerance of modern
science encourages, are probably the chief'
cause of the expectation of life in India
being 26 years, which is what it was in
England in Shakspeare’s day.
* * * *
“Gertie Giggler”: Really you wouldn’t
believe what a marvellous uniform we
WANS are getting a coat and skirt shirt
and tie in a simply thrilling shade of grey
and all for £3 16s. 6d. I’m glad they
didn’t decide on forest green or/oyal blue
because ash blondes like me look simply
ghastly in those shades as it is I’ll have
to line up at the old cosmetic bar and find
out what new powder
rouge and lipstick
I’ll need to go with
it still we girls must
make sacrifices if
we’re to win the war
I’ve heard some of
the girls say if they
could get the material
they could make it
up themselves for
28s. but Maisie says
she supposes they’ll
have a lot of trouble
in buy i ng the
material she says
she’s a wake-up to
that stunt anyhow
I’m going to get mine
tailor-made even if
I have to put it on
the lay-by I look a
frump in anything
home-made and we
must look smart.
DROUGHT.
"The use of garden hoses has been forbidden
the Sydney Water Board.’
The reign of winter closes;
Twill precious soon be spring
With buds upon the roses,
But (dash it!) here’s the sting,
A ban is on the hoses
We use for gardening.
Sprinklers must cease their spraying
On golf and bowling greens,
And oldsters on them playing
Will wear the doleful miens
Of soldiers vainly praying
In camp for wet canteens.
In bosky nooks and passes
Of pleasure-ground and park,
Where laughing lads and lasses
Are wont to spoon and spark,
No more will verdant grasses
Evoke polite remark.
No use to growl or grizzle—
The board will have it so—
Until some drenching drizzle
Arrives we needs must go
More gently on the swizzle
That’s known as H2O.
In such as these conditions,
From many a sacred fane
Our parsons send petitions
To heav’n_ above for rain,
Though offering no submissions
In what precise domain.
So that, when next the time is
For supplication set,
I reckon it no crime is
To trust they’ll not forget
That catchment sites imprimis
Are where we want the wet.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


CRAVENA
are kinder . .
to the throat
10 for 9 D 50 for 3'9
20 for I'6 100 for 7^6
mm
WM
m
m
■%*
m
m
m
2819
POLITICAL POINTS
Curtin is getting, what he wanted, and
what all hands now profess to want —
an early election. The Labor leader has
added cubits to his political stature by
the measures he has taken to asser-t his
authority in Caucus and to remove the
Hands Off Russia blight from the N.S.W.
Labor organisation. In the party room
and in Sydney Trades Hall, though Hands
Off Russia boys were there in force, he
had very impressive receptions last week.
With surprisingly little help from the
U.A.P., young Chaffey held the Tam-
worth (N.S.W.) Assembly seat for that
party, though, his father’s last majority
was reduced by about half. Ryan, the
Non-Com. Labor man, was second, with
a couple of hundred more votes than
Lyons, the “official” Labor candidate;
and Lang and Beasley are now crowing
over McKell and the Hands Off Russia
crowd, whose relations have become
worse than ever.
“The country wants a first-class War
Cabinet which can obtain the loyal co-
operation of every section of the com-
munity.”—B. S. B. Stevens, announcing
his resignation of the Croydon (N.S.W.)
Assembly seat to become a candidate
for some Federal electorate. True, but
who said the country wanted Stevens?
Among suggested ways and means of
removing the military from Sydney
Showground so that the Royal Show
might be held there at Easter was one
that the troops should be put under
canvas in a handy park or racecourse
for a couple of months. The idea had
its points, and no doubt the troops them-
selves wouldn’t mind such a change at
Easter; but unfortunately it emanated
from one Walder, a U.A.P. knight,
whose name is stamped on the walls
of thousands of tents.
“It rained gold boxes,” somebody
wrote when the first Pitt was storming
England. In Australia these days it
rains boards. One more was “created”
when the Commonwealth Cabinet was at
Brisbane —a board “to investigate the pro-
duction of power alcohol.” The subject
has been “investigated” twice in the past
few years—once by the C.S. and I.R. and
once by the Standards Association, and
the C.S.R. and another concern are
turning out large quantities of the juice.
The utter uselessness of boards can be
judged from the case of Stewart, the
Minister who, in the twelfth month of
the war, can’t make up his mind about
petrol-rationing. Stewart, an atoll of
indecision, is totally surrounded by
boards.
“There are far too many boards with
their highly-paid members.” And Mair
said it—Mair who is Premier (“without
portfolio”) of a State that is plastered
with boards. But he was just talking for
the sake of talking, having nothing else
to do.
Victorian Opposition-leader Argyle
finds it “extremely difficult, in the present
circumstances, to concentrate my
thoughts on the ordinary programme of
Parliament”— i.e., his Parliament. Then
how about trying to get his Parliament
suspended for the duration?
Dunstan is introducing a “limited”
moratorium for Victorian farmers. His
measure gives the embarrassed agricul-
turist temporary protection against action
by creditors for three months —six
months if the Farmers’ Debts Adjust-
ment Board thinks six months necessary.
Protection is extended to guarantors and
predecessors in title. Where no adjust-
ment of debt takes place during the period
of the order, a conditional order may
operate for any period up to twelve
months. As a palliative Dunstan’s pill
may have points; but it is no remedy.
Mair’s potion for the wheatgrower is
a guaranteed price of 3s. 4d. a bushel at
sidings for the first 3000 bushels. The
N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers decided to
go for 4s. a bushel for the first 3000 or,
if that be impossible, 3s. 4d. for the whole
crop. Then, to show it bore no ill-feeling,
it rejected a motion for abolition of
State Parliaments.
It has come out that voluntary women
censors, of whom there were 20 in Syd-
ney alone, divulged the contents of letters
from R.A.N. men to their relatives and
friends. The matter was brought up by
Ward, M.H.R., and to the astonishment
of the whole House Ward proved to be
right for once. Without separating the
“Declaring that 18,000,000 Europeans are facing starvation, ex-President Hoover states
that a commission, of which he is head, is asking the German Government for pledges
ensuring safe delivery of supplies and guarantees that they will not be confiscated or
diverted.”
“I gif mein vordt of honor der foodt I not touch vill. Vot more could you
vant?”
.....
inuocent from the guilty the military
d was part of their show received orders
f° . sa the A great seaman s pre-
wL didn’t
blab • Sh h d hd d *
bat> ‘
MiUion-gaUon petrol storage tanks are
° b ,„ f ‘nn by “Tf'v
the f "i' 11 be dl , str,buted
m prov naal areas not vulnerable to enemy
attack. Not only petrol storage tanks
should be “distributed in provincial areas
not vulnerable to enemy attack.”
There was a of six hours bet ween
the Briti ? h and French declarations of
a . r and ** bas never been explained. Now
1S asserted at Vichy that the Daladier
Government’s action, tardy as it was,
was taken in violation of the Constitution,
and heads may roll.
JJke his predecessor, the bold Thorby
has become a yes-man for A.B.C. Men-
tioning “criticisms concerning the num-
ber of high ‘executives’ on the payroll”
—the list stretches almost to the crack
of doom—the Lion of Calare roared as
gently as any sucking dove: “They are
matters for the commission itself to con-
sider, not me.” In other words, Thorby
accepts no responsibility for the expen-
diture of the people’s money by a con-
cern not responsible to the people, and
is not even interested when such expendi-
ture is fairly challenged. The victorious
commission has appointed another “high
‘executive.’ ”
Like A.8.C., the Maoriland broadcast-
ing concern runs an unpayable paper, but
at least the financial showing is not con-
cealed from Parliament on the ground
that it is none of Parliament’s business.
On an outlay of £30,400, £12,300 was lost
on the “Listener” last year. The circu-
lation is said to be 40,000. A.B.C.’s
“Weakly” started with a guaranteed cir-
culation of 350,000, but oh, what a dif-
ference at the end of a quarter!
Though it has slipped from the George
Turner standard, the Victorian Govern-
ment has not lost all feeling for the tax-
payer. When Judge Wasley retired from
the County Court, it decided that the
amount of court work offering did not
warrant another appointment. N.S.W.
Justice Boyce dying about the same
time, the Sydney Government promptly
ccessor ’ thou S h 11 is doubtful
1 b ? , war ' t ™, e cases
enough to keep seven Judges fully occu-
pted let alone 10. In the same spirit,
S * P
pa f!" », as dfduc-
ions from income subject to ordinary
tax. The Sydney Government makes its
victims pay on what they paid for
“unemployed-relief and social services”
and interest on loans for unemployment.
With the possible exception of stale
beer nothing could be flatter than Min-
ister McEwen’s speeches on foreign
affairs, but it is not altogether true that
he gets all his information from news-
papers. In the latest of his dreary
reviews, he said that “the Japanese Gov-
ernment made arrests of Britons before
any action was taken against Japanese
nationals.” He was reminded that the
newspapers had announced that a
Japanese and a German wife of another
had been “detained” in London two
weeks before British subjects were
“detained” in Japan.
Returning to its amazing plan for mak-
ing a wilderness of the British possessions
in China and then taking on the Japanese
(“on the line running from Singapore
south and then east”), the “Yorkshire
Post” “discussed the possibility of Japa-
nese retaliation against Australia and
New Zealand,” and kindly pointed out
that “distance lessens the risk.” Any-
way : —•
It would be unjust to suppose that Aus-
tralia and New Zealand would not face
the possibility for the good of the Empire’s
cause and the ultimate security to be at-
tained thereby.
Ultimate security; and that in a war
with Japan added to the wars with Ger-
many and Italy! There is an obvious
job for an alienist in the “Yorkshire
Post” office.
It was asserted in Melbourne and Syd-
ney dailies that McEwen had had a' go
at Cameron at the C.P. meeting ; accused
him of having been disloyal to the Minis-
try when he came out strong for an
election. One paper, which has no use
for Cameron, mentioned Thompson as
having swarmed in behind McEwen, and
wound up by saying that “the failure”
of Mac’s “attack” had “ended, at least
for the time being, any ambitions he
might have had for the leadership.” Next
day Thompson indignantly denied that
there had been any such attack or raising
of the leadership question. Thompson
himself has been a bit of a leader —of
the anti-election party. It has been well
and truly dished.
Duff Cooper confided to the world last
week that he hates Hitler, always has
hated him and always will hate him. In
ordinary circumstances the world might
have been thrilled ; but narks interposed
with nasty inquiries as to why Grade
Fields, C.8.E., and her new husband, a
gentleman of disputed ancestry, had been
to leave for the U.S.A., taking
huge swags of dollars, and why Noel
Coward, aged 40, had been authorised by
Duff Cooper himself to proceed to the
same haven. It was Seymour Hicks who
suggested that British actors in the U.S.A.
were engaged on a super-masterpiece,
“Gone with the Wind Up.”
Melbourne “Argus” reports that
Quezon, the Filipino, has been given
extraordinary powers in a bill that con-
templates creating an army of 5,000,000
to 7,000,000. Brown Brother in the
10,000 islands of the archipelago runs
to 10 millions, including aboriginals,
some of whom have cannibalistic ten-
dencies ; so all the males will have to
be conscripted, babies included. But the
“Argus” solemnly asserts that only males
between the ages of 16 and 60 will be
accepted.
By way of supporting or making a
show of justifying Molotov’s threats to
Finland, Friends of the Soviet have been
staging street riots in Helsingfors.
Friends of the Soviet. Where has Can-
berra heard that name before?
“Mac Hoots”: If there wasn’t a war
on, and if Stalin wasn’t Hitler’s pal, I’d
be moved to profound admiration at the
cheek of Sydney New Theatre League
in kicking up such a fuss about the ban-
ning of Clifford Odets’s “anti-Fascist”
play. I was at one of its shows in which
the singing of “The Red Flag” came into
the play; the whole audience joined in,
ruining the play, but making a fine
demonstration of “solidarity.” Apropos,
the Los Angeles District Attorney, who
is conducting a campaign against Com-
munism in Hollywood, has got Odets on
his list. The young man is one of those
clever, bitter Reds who, until Stdlin and
Hitler twisted in August, 1939, would do
anything to the Nazis except fight them.


KIDSTAKES.
“Numbers Cermans in the occupied territories have been specially detailed to try to win the confidence of the local populations.”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders' Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE REVIVAL IN SHARE PRICES.
PROGRESS OF WAR FINANCE.
August Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Richardson Cuain Hotel
i
m
»>: il'\
If rfi^f*fe4ss4l2J
I
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street. Melbourne
(Opposite Kail way Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
'Phone: M 4 14 1 (10 lines).
PERSONAL ITEMS
Former N.S.W. Agent-General A. E.
Heath becomes chairman of the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce in succession to
Archibald Howie. A much-travelled
man, stockily-built and of decided views,
Heath represented Australia at the
Seventh International Chamber of Com-
merce held in Vienna in 1933, and at the
Empire Congress of Chambers of Com-
merce the same year. A Queenslander,
he served with the A.I.F. in the sth and
18th Battalions, and was invalided out
in 1916. He is 53.
Laid down his palette at 49 in Mel-
bourne, Carlyle Jackson, who shared with
Harold Herbert most of the patronage
of connoisseurs of water-color painting
in the southern city. He was a pupil of
Dattilo Rubbo, of Sydney, though born
in Melbourne.' Jackson’s favorite hunt-
ing ground was the Kiewa Valley. In
his last exhibition he took some excur-
sions into oils and was experimenting in
this medium when pneumonia got him.
Examples of his work are in most Aus-
tralian galleries.
When Tom Church, late of the National
Bank, was an inspector, he spied in
one of the Westralian branches a square-
jawed young chap, and remarked to the
lad’s manager “That’s a likely-looking
youngster if ever I saw one.” Later on,
when it came to selecting a manager for
Goomalling (W.A.), Church recom-
mended the square-jawed ’un. So
REGINALD HEMINGWAY.
Reginald Hemingway started to climb the
bank’s ladder. Last month he suc-
ceeded Church as boss of the bank’s
affairs in N. S. Wales. Hemingway
joined the bank in Perth in 1910, did his
bit in the war from 1914 to 1918 (Galli-
poli and France; Military Cross and
mentions in dispatches), became a branch
inspector in 1931, and is still climbing.
Tano Fama, well known in Austra-
lasian theatrical and film circles, died
in Hamilton (M.L.) hospital recently: In
his younger days he took small parts in
the Firm’s shows, then turned to writing
and contributed mightily to the “Xriad.”
Went to the 1914-18 war with the Fifth
M.L. reinforcements, and after being
gassed and wounded in the first
battle of the Somme looked after
the entertainment of the troops at
Etaples. After the war he toured
with Pat Hanna’s Diggers, and lat-
terly he had managed various theatres.
A guileless, lovable soul, whose optimism
was unconquerable. His name, often
mistaken for Maori, came from an Italian
father; his mother was British.
Murray Fastier, newly-appointed organ-
ist at St. Stephen’s (Presbyterian), Syd-
ney, was organist and musical director
at Waitaki High School (M.L.). He has
travelled extensively, and while in Paris
studied under Marcel Dupre, who gave
recitals in Australia some months ago.
It was Dupre who directed Sydney’s at-
tention to Fastier.
Died at Perth, in her one hundredth
year, Mrs. John Fairfax Conigrave, who
arrived as a girl of 12 at Adelaide from
Ludlow, Shropshire. The old lady until
the end had a facile pen, and was a
remarkable correspondent. Three years
ago she published her reminiscences of
early life in South Australia. One of her
sons is Price Conigrave, of Sydney.
There are few more picturesque clerics
in Australia than Dom Anselm Catalan,
Lord Abbot of New Norcia, which
Spanish monks established in Westralia
nearly a century ago. A hidalgo by
birth and an ’exceptionally cultivated
man, he elected to go to his remote
bishopric and link up his fate with the
cause of Binghi 25 years ago, after he
had served the Benedictine Order in
Manila as professor of mathematics for
several years. Before that he was pro-
fessor of Greek in the monastery of
Montserrat in Spain. Dom Anselm was
born in Navarre in 1878. During his
incumbency at New Norcia the number
of Spanish monks has declined, and eight
of his helpers are today Australians,
while a new building is being constructed
to house 20 fresh Australian novices.
The abbot revisited Manila recently and
found the Filipinos pro-British almost
to a man.
Dr. R. S. Rogers, who retires at 78
from the Medical Board of S.A., served
in the S’African and the 1914-18 wars,
and has been president of the Royal
Society of S.A. and of the Public Library
and National Gallery of Adelaide. He
has also a really strong sideline in orchids,
about which he is an authority of literally
world-wide repute.
The family of L. T. Woolley, who has
been arrested at Kobe, live in Geelong
(Vic.). Mrs. Woolley had 23 years’ ex-
perience of Nippon, where her husband
runs the Yokohama end of the Shell Oil
Co.’s business.
After keeping Melbourne warm for 20
years, Dr. Hyman Herman is retiring.
As engineer-in-charge of Briquetting and
Research for the Victorian State Elec-
tricity Commission, he has been mainly
responsible for providing out of Vic-
toria’s vast brown-coal deposits the queer
little bricks which hubby fills the grate
with every evening, and which leave the
queer red dust which his wife tries to
remove next morning. He was born at
Bendigo in 1875, educated at its High
School and at Scotch and the Melbourne
University, mainly on bursaries and
scholarships. Joining the Mines Depart-
ment in 1895, he dropped the chance of
State director to manage the Mount
Bischoff mine in Tassie, but returned to
the public service as director of geologi-
cal survey. When Monash 'started to
make a great public enterprise of the
Yallourn deposits Herman’s knowledge
was useful, and he was sent to Europe
to study German methods. The Austra-
lasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy
gave him its medal for outstanding con-
tributions to national development, and
some of his books on the mineral re-
sources of Australia are standard.
New Supreme Court Judge in N. S.
Wales is R. S. Bonney, K.C. After pass-
ing through Sydney High and Sydney
University, he was admitted to the Bar
j n 1907, and has since conducted a wide
practice in Equity jurisdiction, appearing
before the Privy Council in the paper
sacks case in 1935. For some years a
me mber of the Bar Council, he is presi-
0 f the Law Council of Australia.
COL. E. LONGFIELD LLOYD, Aus-
tralian Commissioner in Tokyo.
Pat Hugo, a 24-year-old seaman of
Wallsend (N.S.W.), is the latest winner
of the Clarke Medal for bravery, an
annual award of the Australasian Royal
Humane Society for the most outstand-
ing case of bravery brought under notice
each twelvemonth. Hugo risked his life
to save a shipmate from falling from the
funnel of the Iron Prince.
Captain Ervine-Andrews, awarded the
first V.C. to go to the army in this
war, was in Australia in 1935, on
his way home from an Asiatic
station. He took part in the annual
camp at Seymour (Vic.) that year, as the
59th Battalion (Coburg) is affiliated with
the East Lancashire Regiment, to which
Andrews belongs. He was a popular
figure at that camp with both officers
and men.
Passed away at Mosman (Sydney), well
over 90, Dr. L. J. Fitz-Patrick, of
Walcha, the lone-hand miner’s friend.
Fitz-Patrick spent most of his early holi-
days and week-ends on old western gold-
fields of N. S. Wales, looking into the
doings of single-handed miners, prospec-
tors and fossickers. He could tell a de-
pendable man at a glance, and if there
appeared a chance of gold he would
assist generously and continuously. He
understood both reefing and alluvial gold-
seeking, and piloted many lone workers
to success.
Youngest military man in Australia to
hold the rank of captain is believed to
be Captain John Hodgetts, Brigade Head-
quarters transport officer at Woodside,
S.A.’s main militia and A.I.F. camp. He
is Father is Charles Hodgetts, the
Adelaide sharebroker; an uncle is Harry
Hodgetts, sharebroker, Cricket Control
Board member and Don Bradman’s em-
ployer. It’s only a couple of years since
John was going to St. Peter’s College.
“Wattie,” as Archibald Watson (B.
7/8/’4O) was known in Adelaide, where
he was the first Prof, of Anatomy and
held the post for over 30 years, had be-
come a legend even in his lifetime to those
who knew him only by his occasional
revisits during the last 20 years. He
was reputed to have had when in his
prime an odd liver or other organ usually
in his pocket, even on social occasions.
On the other hand, the end of a vacation
was liable to find him missing if there
was a war on —away in Asia or else-
where studying new and interesting
wounds. On official duty he was con-
sulting surgeon to Australian soldiers
in S’Africa and again at Helio-
polis. Born in the shadow of Kos-
ciusko (N.S.W.) and educated at Scotch
(Melbourne), he had some years of
trading in the Pacific Islands before
settling down to study medicine in
Gottingen, Paris and London. He
claimed to have seen in his 91 years the
world from Iceland to the Falklands and
to have been up the Amazon five times.
Appointment of Adelaide’s City Engi-
neer, Lieut.-Col. W. C. D. (Bill) Veale,
to command the 3rd Pioneer Battalion,
Bth Division, A.1.F., helps to leave two
sons of engineering prof. Robert Chap-
man in undisputed sway over the heftiest
engineering jobs of the city and State.
J. D.. Chapman becomes Acting City
Engineer for the duration. Brother Bob
was already the railways chief construc-
tional engineer. Lieut.-Col. C. W. Coombe,
chief clerk at the City Engineer’s Depart-
ment, is now C.O. of the 43rd Battalion,
A.M.F.
S.A. has news of the death in Edin-
burgh, at 81, of one of its most dis-
tinguished sons, Thomas Hudson Beare.
When the University of Adelaide was in
its infancy he was a student there, and
in 1880 he went with a scholarship to
Britain. Within seven years he wag prof,
of engineering at Edinburgh, and he has
since held almost every possible honor in
that subject either in Scotland or in
London plus the usual knighthood.
Australia saw him again in August, 1914,
as a delegate to the Science Congress that
was meeting here when war broke out.
Medical knight Cedric Stanton Hicks,
of Adelaide, recently appointed Inspec-
tor of Canteens for the Commonwealth
Military Forces, is a Maorilander. by
birth, and is much travelled. Graduated
at Otago University (M.L.); studied also
at Cambridge and Zurich. Was a staff-
sergeant with the N.Z.M.C. in the 1914-
18 war and has been ship’s doctor on
The Inspector of Canteens.
liners, including the old Mauretania. Had
a spell as Government Analyst in his
native land, then went to Cambridge as
demonstrator in bio-chemistry. Is now
prof, of human physiology and pharma-
cology at Adelaide University. Was
knighted in 1936. Plays tennis and is
a keen yachtsman.
Four soldiers were admitted to the Vic-
torian Bar by the State Full Court the
other day. Second-Lieutenant T. M.
Butler and Bombardier H. M. Jackson
(Second Medium Brigade Artillery) and
Lance-Corporal J. F. Patrick (First Aus-
tralian Corps Signallers) belong to the
A.I.F. Sergeant W. T. Alcock is in the
University Rifles (militia).


m
l
\\
■iCU
% *
:: v i
:
■
mm mm
SSM
*
y >*>
■
• v ;
“MEGGITT’S” IS THE BEST DROUGHT
FEED FOR RESULTS AT LOWEST COST!
Absolute proof that Meggitt’s Linseed Sheep Nuts give
uniformly good results at very low cost is provided by the
experience of leading breeders and graziers throughout
Australia in the feeding of flocks through drought.
Experiments have shown that Meggitt’s Linseed Sheep Nuts
absorb in the stomach a very large quantity of moisture and
in this respect have the same effect as the consumption of
a large bulk of succulent pasture. This characteristic,
combined with their content of medicinal linseed oil, is
responsible for the mildly laxative action of “Meggitt’s, ’
which enables the digestive system to function normally, and
which prevents digestive derangements such as impaction.
Sheep are thereby enabled to make maximum use of any dry
fibrous feed which may be available.
Meggitt’s Linseed Sheep Nuts are, of course, rich in digestible
protein, and have a very high conditioning value. This
unique combination of highly nutritive and medicinal
qualities is the reason for their outstanding value as a drought
feed for all classes of sheep. Good results are assured by
their use, and the cost of feeding is* low because only a small
ration is required for maintenance.
Young growing sheep in particular benefit from the use of
“Meggitt’s” because they are most susceptible to digestive
troubles during drought periods and also because adequate
protein is absolutely essential to provide for growth. In the
feeding of ewes with lamb at foot also, “Meggitt’s” finds
first place because it is the best of all feeds.
H CONTINUITY OF SUPPLIES ASSURED
Meggitt, Limited, can assure graziers of continuity of supply. If desired',
agreements can be entered into whereby a given tonnage will be supplied
monthly. Cancellation of orders will be accepted free of penalty
provided nuts are not actually in transit.
MEGGirrs
MEGGITT, LTD., HEAD OFFICE: 67 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
Box 1555 E, G.P.0., Sydney
WORKS: PARRAMATTA, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE
4(£ GI T7
S *RAl\*


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: Just on dark one cold,
rainy and gusty night Mat carried his
knot into a small N.S.W. town. Hunting
shelter, he found a deserted hall, tested
a window and found ingress easy, then
withdrew to wait for a later hour before
entering the place and putting down his
nap. A little gentle skirmishing round
the only pub got him some tucker and
a few' drinks, and at the due time he re-
turned to his camp. Inside, he struck
a match and nearly threw a sixer. Sit-
ting on a chair regarding him with some
alarm was a young woman naked to the
waist. “Strike me roan, miss,” he stam-
mered as the match went out. “I didn’t
know you was here. Fair dinkum, I
didn’t!” And Mat went through that
window without bothering about his swag.
He spent an uncomfortable night on the
railway station, and next morning diffi-
dently approached the hall to retrieve his
swag. Of a stranger near the door he
queried, “What’s this, one of them
women’s camps?” “Do y’ wanter earn
a coupla bob?” asked the stranger. Mat
did. “Then give us a hand t’ get these
waxwork figures o’ mine packed,” came
the Order, and a mightily-relieved Mat
walked into the hall.
❖ * * H:
“Lespy”: “Yairs, I got rid o’ the utility
truck wot I ’ad,” said old Ben the handy-
man, “on account o’ the petrol rations
wot’re cornin’ in. An’ a rare job I ’ad
t’ get rid o’ ’er, too. When I first ’ear
o’ the rations I put an advert, in the
papers askin’ ten quid for ’er. I get no
replies, so I drop a coupla quid, but that
don’t ’elp neither, so I keep droppin’ two
quid at a time, until I’m down to two
quid. When I don’t get any results I do
me block prop’ly, and I puts one more
ad. in sayin’ if anyone wants a utility
they can ’ave the one wot’ll be parked
outside my ’ouse on Sat’dee night. When
I get up on Sunday I ’ave a look t’ see
if she’s gorn, an’, spare me days, there’s
four more parked there with ’er!”
* * * *
“Mei”: Doolan and I were discussing
life on a farm. “Yairs,” said he, “the
family was a great help to me for a start.
Me first wife’s family, I mean. Didn’t
yer know this was me second effort?
Yer see, I used ter drink heavy once, and
after one big bender I wakes up at
Brady’s pub to find me cheque cut out
an’ that I’d married the washerwoman
at the pub. Well, she wasn’t such a bad
sort, a widder with one kid about four,
so I makes the best of it an’ takes her
off out ter me selection. The next week
another kid about six comes on the train.
“Aw,” ses she, “did yer ferget? I told
yer about little Jack.” A week or two
later a boy of eight comes along. “Is
this all?” I asks. “Well, there’s Jenny,”
she ses. “Fancy yer fergettin’.” Jenny
comes soon, an’ then Alfie, who was
thirteen, an’ last there comes young
Kitty, a flash little piece of about fifteen.
Well, I takes one look at me grocer’s
bill the next month, an’ then I gets the
bank to buy me thirty milkers (me selec-
tion was good fer that much). I sets all
them kids on the job. They jibs a bit,
an’ the old woman goes on about makin’
slaves of ’em, but they sticks it out fer
a few months, an’ then Kitty gets a job
as housemaid. By the time the, others
gets a bit restless an’ their mother an’
me has a real bust-up an’ she does a
bunk with the rest o’ the«kids, them cows
is paid fer, so I marries Sarah.”
% jfc He %
“The 0.D.”: Most horse-copers agree
that the average pony is far more intelli-
gent and tricky than the full-sized horse.
One I had could be caught anywhere in
the paddock by advancing upon him with
a piece of bread held out. But he soon
learnt to suspect the other hand holding
the bridle behind my body, and I was
forced to hang the bridle at the back of
my belt and walk up to him with both
hands in view. It didn’t take him long
to wake up to that, and he took to
circling round to see what I had behind
me. So I had to wear a coat to hide the
bridle! This didn’t last long, for he re-
fused to associate with me if I wore a
coat. I took to hiding the bridle inside
my shirt. He woke up to that. Just
when it began to look as though I’d have
“This power alcohol's got it ail over metho.”
to go after him naked, some bloke offered
me a gocd price, and I sold the cunning
blanker.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: I’ve never had an/ real
liking for crows, but the most criminal
specimen of the breed that I’ve come
across so far is a tame one named Hitler
who belongs to a hian who makes a crust
at shooting them for.the council reward.
A sullen and sombre-minded bird, Hitler
perks up whenever his owner fetches out
the gun and cartridges, and hops quite
cheerfully into his travelling cage. Arrived
at the scene of hostilities, usually a
slaughteryard, he waits until the gun-
man is safely ambushed and then bursts
into heartrending shrieks for help from
the whole crow world. To do them jus-
tice they are loyal to their kind, and
before long mobs of crows are assem-
bling to commiserate with their unhappy
comrade in distress. After both barrels
have left the ground strewn with dead
and wounded, Hitler caws triumphantly
and hops about pecking at them. I’ve
suggested that he be rechristened Quis-
ling, but his owner reckons that Adolf
will rat on his mates just like his black
namesake, once things start to go wrong.
* * * *
“Wang”: The family was seated at
breakfast when Dad remarked with a
grin, “I s’pose we’d better start polishin’
up our manners a bit as we’re havin’ the
parson f’r dinner on Sunday.” Dave
looked up from his plate. “That ain’t
right, sayin’ we’re havin’ the parson f’r
dinner. It serjests we’re going to eat
him. We ain’t cannibals,” he said, with
what he hoped was a disarming grin as
he noted the sudden glint in Dad’s eyes.
“Oh! It ain’t right, ain’t it?” bellowed
Dad. “Yer gettin’ a bit spruced up in
yer knowledge since yer been trackin’
with that new girl teacher. Well, Mister
Smart Alec, I say we are goin’ to have
the parson f’r dinner on Sunday, an’
we’re havin’ him here to eat, too. That
fat goose I brought over from Grogan’s
yest’day. Some of it, anyway. So put
that in y’r pipe an’ smoke it.” Young
Joe, who had been on a message to the
township, came in and handed Mum a
letter. “Mrs. Goodly give it to me when
I was passin’ their place,” he said. Mum
opened it. “It’s to say the parson won’t
be here on Sunday,” she announced;
“he’s met with an accident.” “Humph!”
said Dad, glaring venomously at Dave.
“Well, if we can’t have him f’r dinner
we can still have the goose.” “We can’t
have that neither. I’ve just had a look,”
said Joe. “The foxes got it!”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: I never fail to read Will
Lawson’s Bulletin- stories, particularly
when he sets them on the Murray River,
because he generally gets his atmosphere
right and stirs me with memories of an
old and well-loved stamping-ground. So
I turned to the “Black Dingo” (B.
7/8/’4O) with some joy, never having seen
or heard of a nigger among the species,
but when I found that a drought be-
tween the Lachlan and Darling had even
wiped out bandicoots and wombats I
felt that Will was making it too hot.
I’ve seen some queer things in that coun-
try, but never, while sober, either of the
fauna mentioned. Now, if he’d said rab-
bits and wild pigs
* * * #
“Coral”: The female sea-eagle (B.
31/7/ ’4O) is not only a great fighter but
a wonderful hunter. At Port Essington
(N.A.) I was pursuing a wallaby. He had
just broken into a patch of cleared coun-
try when there was a swoop, and an
eagle volplaned down at great speed,
settled lightly on him for the fraction
of a second and dug her beak in between
the shoulder-blades. That done, the bird
soared up to a tree and awaited results.
A few moments later the wallaby began
to move aimlessly around, and in less
than ten seconds collapsed. The eagle
dropped slowly on her victim, but before
she could begin the meal a dose of No. 1
shot sent her down for the count. A
post-mortem on the marsupial revealed
that the nerves along the spinal-cord had
been severed. Since that experience I
scorn the theory of so-called experts that
sea-eagles won’t eat the flesh of animals.
* * * *
“Raorut”: “You fellers talkin’ about
yer deep-sea fishin’,” snorted Sid the
Sailor, “oughter bin with me in the Whist-
lin’ Canary down in the Antarticles after
whales a few years back. Y’d seen
somethink then. None uv yer ’arpoons
an’ payin’ out cable while the brutes
sounds below fer us. No. When I wus
a kid up on the Mitta, we useter bring
the cod up with a stick or two uv jelly.
That’s a bonzer idea, I reckons, so when
we sets orf in the Canary I buys up a
coupla ’undred uv them death charges
wot they ain’t usin’ after the war. ’Struth,
it works beautiful. We’d drop a coupla
charges right over a school uv the big
fellers an’ they’d come belly-up in scores.
Wot with droppin’ charges an’ cuttin’
whales up we’re goin’ so ’ard we got to
strip ter the buff right in the middle uv
a blizzard. We’d made a fortune outa
them whales orlright only fer one whale
that blows up just as we snake it erlong-
side and scatters the Canary over ’arf
the South Pole. Lucky there’s one life-
boat left ’ole, an’ that saves us. We’re
nilly back to ’Obart before I works out
wot ’ad gorn wrong—that whale ’ad swal-
lered a charge with a blasted delayed
action! ”
* * * *
“Skinner”: If “Mine-Tinkit” still re-
members a par. he wrote in June, 1938,
about “a genuine outback ballad” he
found scribbled on the wall of a butter-
wagon at Cairns, tell him I did the
scribbling. The masterpiece about the
ragged rattler-jumper whose
.... battered body lies beside
A lonely railroad track,
His worn-out billy in his hand,
His swag torn oft his back—
was composed by a mate of mine, now
in a job at Darwin. I’ve only just seen
“Mine-Tinkit’s” par., as I’ve been on a
prospecting trip to the Red River in the
Gulf country.
* * * *
“H.H.”: “Murrinji” (B. 24/7/’4O) errs
slightly in his discussion of Condamine
bells. The original maker, Christy Ander-
sen, was a well-known figure in the early
days around Miles and the Condamine,
where he had a sawmill and blacksmith
shop. The bells were, actually made of
black sheet-iron brazed with brass and
copper. As Christy’s son-in-law, I helped
to make dozens of them. The old man
has passed on, but one of his sons still
makes them. Jones bells were made of
the same material, but were of different
shape.
* # * *
“Bad Australian”: “Every bloke wot
’as ter work on ’is own in the bush,” said
Bill the splitter, “is li’ble ter find ’imself
in a tight corner, like me old cobber
Dinny Sullivan. Dinny ’ad a contrack
burnin’ orf fer old Cassidy at the Wattle
Range about a mile frum the road an’
a bit further frum the nearest ’ouse. One
night w’en ’e’s goin’ round stokin’ ’is
fires ’e’s passin’ a tree wot ’ad bin smoul-
derin’ at the roots fer a coupla days
w’en it falls on ’im quite unexpected an’
pins ’im ter the ground be ’is right leg,
an’ the more ’e tries the more ’e can’t
git clear. The poor cow keeps cooeein’
time an’ agen, an’ meantime the log is
burnin’ to’rds ’im slow but sure. Losin’
’ope o’ ’elp reachin’ ’im in time, ’e takes
out ’is terbaccer knife, ’acks ’is leg orf,
an’, usin’ a len’th o’ deadwood a
crutch, ’ops ’ome ter ’is camp.” “But,”
objected the new hand, “what you claim
is quite impossible. Any man who am-
putated his leg in the manner described
by you would bleed to death.” “Any
other bloke might, but not Dinny,”
retorted Bill. “The leg ’e ’acked orf ’ad
no blood in it—it was ’is wooden one!”
BLACK SWANS AT NIGHT.
The frost is on the city,
The great white towers flare,
The hard, strange, savage streets are seething
In their blinding glare.
From the outer silence
Beyond the wash of light,
As the voice of some sweet, secret song,
Thin bugles thread the night,
Call from the bends of the rivers,
Call from the sweeping plains,
Call from the foothill forests, flinging
Wet limbs to the kiss of the rains.
The Cross, on high and wheeling,
The vast star-peopled skies,
The slow, dark, drowning depths of distance,
Hold my eager eyes.
Child of lonely places,
Son of the plains am I,
And the stir of strong, swift, surging wings,
The breaking bugle cry,
Call to the heart of the bushman,
Call to the old desire,
Call to the long-held longing, lying
Like coals in a hidden fire.
The frost is on the fallow,
The great white stars ablaze,
The long, cold curlew call is crying
Down the quiet ways.
Earth and space in silence,
And time no more unkind,
And the pulsing, far, proud pinions beat,
The far, faint bugles wind,
Call to the dark on the gilgai,
Call to the black lagoon,
Call to the sharp-etched shadows, shaping
In the eye of the rising moon.
The swag is on the shoulder,
The wind is in the west,
The old, warm, welcome ways are waiting
Where the hatters rest.
Grass and tree and campfire,
The wide horizon round,
And the rush of high, free, homing hearts,
The high, free bugles’ sound,
Call to the life of the open,
Call to the heart that glowed.
Call to the singing senses, stirring
To answer the waiting road.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“D.Mc.”: “We’d have made a fortune
out of the Murray Cod D’velurpment
;o only fer an accident to the promoter,”
temarked Joe Staggers regretfully. “Me
cobber Ned Chalker was always potterin’
about with ideas, an’ he invented a divin’
suit wot didn’t need no pumps or air-
pipes. Y’ see, just the act of runnin’
along under the water with a appyratus
on y’r back made air. Well, we were a
bit s’prised to see Ned put on a pair of
spiked runnin’ shoes before ’e walked
into the Darlin’ River near Wilcannia,
but he didn’t leave us wonderin’ long.
Murray cod started to fly out of the
river in all directions. It cost a bit to
keep Ned in spiked shoes, but in no time
we’d captured the Sydney market. Then
one day the cod stopped gettin’ heaved
out and a terrible silence indercated that
somethin’ had gone wrong. All hands
started divin’ an’ the police dragged the
river, but poor Ned had disappeared. A
few weeks later we’re all down at the
pub fer a taste after the memorial ser-
vice when all of a suddin Dan the Bite
lets out a yell an’ dives through the
bar winder. There was Ned Chalker
standin’ in the doorway lookin’ terrible
disgusted! He tells us the co. could go
to hell an’ all hands was sacked. It
seems that a huge cod had grabbed Ned
an’ headed downstream at a tremendious
bat. Ned fought an’ kicked but the cod
just surged ahead. By the time Ned
could start thinkin’ an’ chucked a big
yabbie out of his pocket to distract the
fish’s attention he was down near Poin-
caira, an’ even then the cod chased him
halfway up the bank, only Ned’s spiked
shoes savin’ him. He’d had to walk
all the way back. Yair, he’s give up in-
ventin’.”
* * * *
“Carapace”: Does “Nor’-west” want
us to believe that any man, or men, can
hold a turtle on its back in the sea (B.
26/6/’40)? When a lady novelist sprang
that idea some years back I tried it. As
I wasn’t satisfied with my own failure, I
asked many lugger boys about it. They
reckoned it was the joke of their young
black lives. According to them, not only
was it impossible for a man to hold a
turtle on its back in the water, but also
was it out of the question to turn one.
On the land, yes, provided it is more than
about six weeks old ; up to that age a
turtle turns itself as easily as a politician
dropping to sleep on the front benches.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: It’s surprising how well
green timber will sometimes burn —when
you don’t want it to. Two old chaps
in my S.A. district went out and felled
a big bluegum, splitting 37 posts out of
it by sundown. Packing up to get back
home to do • the milking, they put the
tools under what was left of the tree
trunk. Just before he hopped into the
dray one of* them raked together the
litter of sticks and leaves which had
collected under the tree and tried his
best to light it “to clear it up,” eventually
abandoning his efforts when the rubbish
did little more than smoke. Next day
they returned to find that all the posts,
the better part of the trunk and the axe-
handles were completely burnt and the
crosscut saw ruined, with nothing re-
maining of the maul save the rings.
Ironically, the stump around which the
green posts had been stacked was no
more than blackened a bit.
* * * *
“Pedes”: Of all animals man is the
safest on bog. He can walk without
breaking the crust where almost all others
will sink and stick. Even a dog, on
his four feet, cannot follow a man over
touchy silt. Some birds, of course, can
go where a man can’t. They are excep-
“You look SO different in uniform , Bert."
tions only—such as the lotus bird. The
usual fowl is as helpless as an animal
when the ground is soft and sticky. It
may be a matter of balance. Possibly
it is only a question of spread on the
ground. And this doesn’t refer to any
splay-footed city-pavement pounder with
his number tens and over. The bush-
man averages size six. Admitted he is
leaner and lighter than the city cove ;
but his insignificant spread of hoof more
than balances that lot. And among the
worst in wet ground is the donkey. Fol-
lowing him close is his son and non-
heir the mule. The donk’s pin-point
hooves are made so they just naturally
prick the surface, sink without resistance,
and bog the fellow they’re supposed to
carry. The donk knows it, too! Have
a look at that bloke’s sensitive ears when
the ground beneath him is a bit damp
and spongy.
* * * *
“Colbun”: The heavy odds offered by
“Naturala” (B. 24/7/’4O) against finding
ambergris on Australian beaches will
leave him a bad loser. A lump which
returned over £2OOO to its finders is
recorded from a Tasmanian beach, and
there have been other lucrative finds on
mainland coasts. Nor are giant squid
and sperm whales “scarce throughout the
South Seas” —quite the contrary. The
South Pacific was the chief hunting-
ground of the Nantucket fleets, which
specially sought the sperm whale. Her-
• man Melville’s Moby Dick, written from
his own experience in that perilous trade,
gives vivid descriptions of it. Sperm
whales have certainly not died out since
then; less than four months ago I saw
a “pod” of more than a dozen from a
Brisbane-bound steamer 20-odd miles off
the N.S.W. north coast. The single for-
ward-flung vapor “spouts” clearly identify
the species from all other whales. And
the record for giant squid arms comes
from the east coast of Maoriland —nearly
80ft. long and incomplete at that, 2ft.
6in. diameter at the base and studded
with claw-fringed suckers, each the size
of a straw hat.
“Flight”: Though the scrub turkey is
most famed as a mound-builder, the
scrub hen of N.Q. has it all over his
larger uncle for neatness, size, better
construction and finish. I’ve seen those
nests up tp 12ft. high, with a base of
well over 30ft. When a man remembers
that a little dickybird has done it all
the thing rather staggers the imagination.
The best nest ever I saw was on Planton
Island, in the Whitsunday Group. The
goannas there made some form of pro-
tection necessary for the eggs in the nest.
Apart from a symmetry that was near
perfection, that nest had a finish I’d never
seen elsewhere. The whole thing, from
base to apex, was covered in a layer
of dead leaves three to five inches deep.
At first sight that was needless ornamen-
tation. On second consideration the
reason was obvious. Any man who has
ever seen an ant trying to climb out of
an ant-lion’s pit will understand how a
go. would slip and slide when he essayed
to get to the top of that nest to rifle
the eggs. It was really an ant-lion’s pit
inverted. It took me fully 10 minutes
to get to the top of it, and then I had
to use the brain the go. isn’t supposed to
have—l cleared a path of leaves before
I could find a footing.
* * * *
“Swanlo”: The fish’s sense of location,
which brings it back in spawning season
to the stream or lake where it was born,
is not so phenomenal as its sense of time.
Periodically rivers of south-west W.A.
enjoy a run of tailer. Usually beginning
about October, this run lasts well into
the following May, ending when heavy
autumn rains bring muddy floodwater
into the streams. For years the Swan
at Perth lost its tailer, its waters being
too polluted to suit the clean, swift fish.
Two years ago this pollution ceased,
sewage being diverted to the ocean.
With clear tide water running again, back
came the tailer. But this year in south-
west W.A. not enough rain has fallen
to muddy any of its streams. With the
waters still clear and salt one might have
“Damn un, I been an' lost me notes!”
expected that the tailer would linger. But
punctually they departed. One day in
May a trolling launch lifted them by the
dozen. Within a week of that day not
one was to be got. Many other fish are
just as punctual in their coming and
going, notably the big salmon trout of
the W.A. coast. These will appear sud-
denly in April. For about a month great
hauls may be made ; then they are gone,
whither no man knows. The migration of
fish in Australian waters is a study for
the scientist of tomorrow.
* * »* *
“N. Sylvester”: An odd feature of the
semi-arid belt that runs from the Murchi-
son right up to the Nullagine (W.A.) is
the sectional thunderstorm. One may be
standing in country absolutely parched
and see far away dense banks of cloud,
lightning flashes, and hear distant rolling
thunder. But not a drop will fall where
one stands, though presently the river
may come down, a tearing crest sft. or
6ft. high, rolling over and over all the
debris that has gathered on its bed dur-
ing months of dryness. Travelling tq-
wards the thunderstorm one will sud-
denly enter a sort of paradise. Earth
will be sodden, streams running, every
waterhole full, life stirring everywhere,
frogs croaking, even fish to be caught;
birds in the trees miraculously appear
from nowhere. A day, and grass will
begin to shoot; a week, and it is tall
enough to graze a herd ; a month, and
one begins to worry about fire. Such a
strip may be 10, 20 miles ; seldom is it 50
miles wide. One will step out of it into
dryness with all the abruptness of scenes
shifted in a theatre. Back in the old
overlanding days more than one herds-
man found disaster through this thunder-
storm illusion. Grazing his herd slowly
through such a recently-watered strip he
would confidently attempt the recurrent
aridity, believing that not so far on he
would strike just such another oasis. And
often he drove too far on into country
absolutely waterless, where he would be
forced to abandon the cattle, glad to
escape with his own life.
* * * *
“Saltwater Fellah”: I have concrete
evidence that a shark hunts by smell.
With an abo. in a N.T. bay, I went out
in a rising-tide channel to hunt stingrays.
Drove a spear into a huge one, which
bolted away, zigzagging around the sand-,
banks. The movements could be traced
by the shaft, which darted along and
looked like a periscope, then it camped.
By that time the rising water was up to
our necks, and as a dorsal fin a few
hundred yards away streaked towards
us we stood back to back yelling and
splashing. The shark circled around us
and then dashed away to where the sting-
ray had first been speared. Like a dog
it followed the identical course of the
speared one until it tracked the quarry
down. The stingray was trying to dig
in and make a sand screen. Then sud-
denly it volplaned along the surface. The
shark leapt upwards, grasped a flopping
wing close to the body, and they both
disappeared over the edge of the reef
into deep water.
•fa
“Nor’-west”: The drovers camped by
the river left behind a couple of dead
marines. Old Warrigal retrieved them
with the air of one gathering undreamt-of
treasure. With his tools of trade
assembled he began. Taking a lump of
diorite about the size of a fist he bumped
a bottle sharply on the bottom. There
was a knack about it, for presently he
had not useless fragments but half a
dozen sizable slices. With a block of
wood as an anvil and a small sharp-edged
stone for mallet he began to trim the
potential spear-point into rough shape.
Mallet is a misnomer; he used only
pressure. The stone pressed on to the
concave edge of the slice dislodged a
fragment, then another, until he had the
whole round nibbled away. The convex
edge then had a turn, the flakes being
smaller. Again the concave edge. Again
the convex, the idea being to work the
curved slice of bottle to a desirable flat-
ness. From the end of the slice that
initially gave promise of a point, double,
treble layers of flakes were taken off.
Roughing-out completed, a 9in. length of
fencing wire, ground to a point, came
into play. This gave smaller flakes, the
spear-point rapidly taking
shape. Finally came a
lighter wire, which gave
that fine serrated edge so
much admired on a perfect
Kimberley spear-point. War-
rigal’s forebears would have
used a splinter of bone as
a finishing tool, and a quartz
chip instead of glass. But
they could turn out a kill-
ing job even from such
material. A quartz spear-
point would transfix a man.
Glass is even more deadly.
GUM LEAVES.
Scent of gum leaves on the air,
Like a benison of God,
Tells of Freedom everywhere,
Pathless tracks through trees untrod—
Treetops waving in the sun,
Shady slopes of fern and grass
Where the little lizards run
And the snakes in silence pass.
Burning gum leaves take us far
Down the years and down the vales—
Campfires red ’neath silver star;
Acrid-sweet, its scent assails,
Bringing back the talk and jests
And the horse-bells in the nights
Where the heavens, in splendor drest,
Curve their glorious jewelled heights.
Gum leaves! Crush them in your hand,
Soldier out in Palestine,
Dreaming once again you stand
Where the leaves like banners shine —
Treetops waving in the sun
Shouting freedom to the skies,
Arching over lands that run
Where that freedom never dies.
Sailor on the rolling deeps
Where the world-winds sing and go;
Airman over northern steeps,
Banking swift to face the foe.
Do you catch the scent, maybe,
As you dream of bushlands fair?
Scent of gum leaves? ... All that’s free —
All Australia’s soul is there . . .
Scent of gum leaves in the air!
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL. PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESEItVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman):
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Dividends, Written
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 637,619 473,901 50,000 4,385,226
84 p.c.
1931.. 441,816 402,816 4,424,226
54 p.c.
1932.. 253,866 260,646 4,417,446
5 p.c.
1933.. 259,077 236,950 20,000 4,419,573
1934.. 256.731 236,951 20,000 4,419,353
1935.. 263,937 236,951 25,000 4,421,339
6 p.c.
1936. 298,227 284,341 25,000 4,410,225
64 p.c.
19'37.. 342,041 308,035 25,000 4,419,231
7 p.c.
1938.. 365,975 331,730 35,000 4,418,476
1939.. 377,454 331,730 35,000 4,429,200
74 p.c.
1940.. 389,492 355,426. 35,000 4,428,206
Australia has much for which to thank
its trading banks. They have played an
important part in shaping financial
policy, and their soundness was a pillar
of strength which meant much to the
national effort during the war of 1914-18
and again during the slump of the early
1930’5. And now that war, in which
we are engaged once more, has come to
mean not only mobilisation of the armed
forces but mobilisation of the entire
national resources, the trading banks,
buttressed by a strong central bank,
promise to play a still more important
part in the planned and flexible war eco-
nomy of today. A strong and efficient
banking system greatly facilitates produce
tion of goods and materials essential to
the conduct of the campaign, and this
production is a vital factor to success.
The struggle in Europe has already clearly
demonstrated that courage and skill alone
are of little avail against an enemy who
is much more heavily equipped. With re-
markable speed Australia has raised the
personnel of an army which, adequately
equipped, can be relied upon to give an
excellent account of itself. In production
of war goods the tempo has quickened,
too, and continues to do so, but more
ginger still needs to be put into this sec-
tion of our effort to ensure that our
fighting forces strike with irresistible
strength.
On the financial side Government
planning has been along the right lines,
the immediate aims being cheap and
plentiful money, the direction of invest-
ment into essential and away from non-
essential production, and conservation
of our overseas funds, especially dollars,
in order to pay for essential imports
and other things. Also, to prevent a
runaway movement in costs, legislative
control of prices has been introduced.
A few months ago Australia’s estimated
war expenditure for the current financial
year was figured at over £110,000,000,
of which £50,000,000 was to be raised by
local borrowing and £36,000,000 by taxa-
tion, leaving £24,000,000 apparently to
be found in London. Much has hap-
pened since to suggest that the amount
from each source will have to be in-
creased substantially.
Thus far the incidence of taxation has
not been fully felt, and the Government
has refrained from mopping up all the
surplus money that has become avail-
able through defence expenditure and
better prices for our chief exports, which
have been taken by Britain under con-
tract. Hence the growing liquidity of the
banking system. The following compari-
son of C.B.S.’s balance-sheet figures
shows what has happened:
1932. 1939. 1940.
Notes .. .. £13,815 £13,602 £13,590
Bills .. .. 1,158,933 1,154,948 1,476,896
Deposits* . . 44,466,426 53,713,813 55,457,470
Liquids . . 18,952,981 20,895,574 24,621,625
Advances . . 34,643,037 42,114,246 40,488,339
Premises, etc... 1,318,090 1,206,620 1,182,982
* Including- provision for contingencies.
As cheques in payment for wool, wheat,
dairy produce and local contracts
came in, advances (down £1,625,907)
were reduced and deposits (up £1,743,657)
and liquids (up £3,726,051) increased.
When the books closed, liquids amounted
to 43.2 p.c. of the liabilities to the public
as against 38.1 p.c. a year earlier. Ad-
vances were 73 p.c. of deposits as against
78.4 p.c., and the co. was holding
£6 4s. 3d. of the public’s money for ev,ery
pound of its own (4s. 3d. more than at
the previous balance). The co. is thus
very well equipped to support Australia’s
war effort; and that means much from
the public point of view.
The year’s increased business, after
allowing for taxation and other contin-
gencies, is further reflected in a spring
of £12,038 in declared net earnings. The
£389,492 of profit claimed was 8.2 p.c.
on the £4,739,013 of share capital, com-
pared with 7.9, 7.7, 7.2, 6.2, 5.5 and 5.4
p.c. back to 1934. On capital and. re-
serves combined the profit was 4.2 p.c.,
so neither the excess-war-profits tax nor
the undistributed-profits tax seems likely
to hit the co. The div. was lifted half
a point, making 1\ p.c. for the year, the
average over the last decade being
6.3 p.c.
What the future holds for the business
nobody can say at the moment. Much
depends upon the extent to which our
exports to Britain have to be curtailed
and upon the course of events in the
Pacific. Costs can be expected to con-
tinue on the up-grade, and so can taxa-
tion.
The market prices the £25. shares paid to
£l2 10s. (the balance is a reserve liability
callable only in the event of liquidation)
at £l6 13s. as against £lB 17s. a year ago.
At the lower price the return is 5.6 p.c.
on a 1\ p.c. div. basis, which is a very
good yield from a sound bank stock.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves— serves.
1930.. 62,657 9 p.c. = 45,000 17,657 226,763
1931.. 65,251 9 „ „ 45,000 20,251 247,014
1932.. 66,195 9 „ „ 45,000 21,195 268,209
Loss.
1933.. 6,627 6 „ 30,000 231,582
Profit.
1934.. 63,168 7 „ „ 35,000 28,168 259,750
1935.. 65,123 8 „ „ 40,000 25,123 284,873
1936.. 72,364 9 „ „ 45,000 27,364 312,237
1937.. 57,569 9 „ „ 45,000 12,569 324,806
1938.. 59,437 11 „ ~ 55,000 4,437 329,243
1939.. 62,640 11 ~ „ '55,000 7,640 336.883
1940.. 65,420 11 „ „ 55,000 10,420 347,303
Milling is the backbone of earnings,
which are supplemented by returns from
a fine wad of investments (£406,562)
outside the business and from refining.
Refining (about 13,000 tons of whites)
is done under contract with the Govern-
ment, and the profit therefrom is
moderate, and always has been. The in-
vestments consist of Australian Consols
(in at £329,588, or £2682 less than face
value), shares in the Bundaberg Distillery
(valued in the books at £64,951, equal to
60 p.c. of face value, and they are worth
a lot more than par), scrip in other
cos. (£2023) and £lO,OOO on fixed deposit.
The distillery, in which Millaquin holds
a 72 p.c. interest, netted £15,795 on a
capital of £150,000 and paid 10 p.c. last
term, as against 8 p.c. for some years
previously.
Last season’s sugar output was a
record for the Commonwealth, as the fol-
lowing table shows:
Total
Purchased, Export, Australian Average
Season. Tons. p.c. Price. Price.*
1931.. 605,000 50 £26 19 0 £lB 6 6
1932.. 533,000 37 25 2 3 19 6 1
1933.. 667,000 48 23 18 6 17 4 3
1934.. 642,000 51 24 0 0 16 10 11
1935.. 647,000 48 24 0 0 16 17 0
1936.. 782,000 54 24 2 0 17 1 4
1937.. 810,000 55 24 0 0 17 11 0
1938.. 822,000 56 24 0 0 16 19 1
1939.. 928,000 58 23 12 6 16 19 7
* Excluding excess sugar.
On the outbreak of war the British Gov-
ernment bought the export surplus at a
price higher than the open-market aver-
age had been for some years previously.
Besides temporarily solving an awkward
export situation, this gave the miller and
grower about the same average return per
ton from a slightly-reduced base price for
raws for home consumption —the home
price is fixed at a high level to give a
satisfactory average return for the entire
output. The bigger tonnage bumped up
millers’ and growers’ cheques, of course.
The co. doesn’t disclose the quantity
of cane it puts through the rollers. But
after providing for all known contingen-
cies, including £18,664 for depreciation,
declared net earnings were £2780 better
at £65,420, equal to a bit over 13 p.c.
on capital, compared with 12.5, 11.8,
11.5, 14.4, 13 and 12.6 p.c. back to 1934.
The div. was kept at 7 p.c., and a 4 p.c.
bonus was again added, making 11 p.c.
for the year, the lot free of Queensland
income tax and State development tax,
The bonus was paid out of returns from
investments and subsidiary interests.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the solid
financial structure:
1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. . . £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
S'undry creditors . . 102,814 104,617 141,530
Freeholds, refinery, etc. 333,580 329,360 341,983
Plantation, etc... .. 58,036 58,181 58,547
Railways and tramways 33,213 32,542 33,893
Stocks 88,541 89,143 100,382
Book debts .. .. 9,909 10,085 8,079
Investments . . . . 426,762 396,562 406,562
Cash 7,579 63,127 76,855
Though the more or less liquid surplus
(£450,378) was £3922 less than at the
previous balance, owing to the outlay on
fixed assets (up £14,340), it was equal
to 18s. per f.-p. pound share.
With costs and taxation still going
upwafds, the possibility of sugar ex-
ports to Britain having to be curtailed
a little, and the general uncertainty of
international developments, it is difficult
to forecast the outlook for the co. and
others in the industry. All that can
be said definitely is that the co. is in
an excellent position to gather whatever
profits are to be had from the industry.
At 40s. 6d., the same as a year ago,
the scrip returns 5.4 p.c. on an 11 p.c. div.
basis. The net tangible cover is 335. 1 Id.
Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. • serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1930*. 11,887 15 p.c. = 11,770 117 73,883
Premiums on shares, £BBOO .. 82.683
Written off, £6OOO 76,683
1931.. 14,275 10 p.c. = 17,380 73,578
1932.. 13,064 7 „ „ 12,320 744 74,322
1933.. 20,929 10 „ „ 17,600 3329 77,651
Written off, £5O .. .. .. 77,601
1934.. 18,251 10 p.c. = 17,596 655 78,256
Share premiums, £BBOO .. .. 87,056
1935.. 19,717 10 p.c. = 18,607 1110 88,166
Bonus scrip issued, £48,400 .. 39,766
Special depreciation, £20,400 .. 19,366
1936.. 22,305 8 p.c. = 19,360 1 IQl c 91911
Staff fund, £lOOO j 194i> ’
1937.. 25,578 9 p.c. = 21,780 1 „ qR 04 109
Staff fund, £lOOO 5 2798 ’
1938.. 22,655 9 p. 6. = 21,780 1- o 7 = 24 484
To staff fund, £5OO J j
1939.. 27,554 9 p.c. = 21,780 1 71 28 758
To staff fund, £l5OO J ’
1940.. 26,206 9 p.c. = 21,780 1 92 184
To staff fund, £lOOO ] 3426 32 ’
* Half-year.
Though black coffee is the most potent
brew dispensed, the Victoria in Mel-
bourne, besides being a popular inter-
state rendezvous, is the Mecca of the man
from the Mallee and other rural pro-
ducers. State of the export industries
therefore has an almost direct influence
on the co.’s takings.
Thanks to better returns for most
primary products and the concentration
of defence spending in Melbourne, busi-
ness held well last year. But costs proved
a snag, and to maintain profit margins it
was necessary to add something to tariff
rates, which, however, are still highly
competitive. In the result, net trading
earnings (£57,681) were £54 lighter, while,
including £13,269 (down £1002) for de-
preciation and maintenance and £14,200
(up £2820) for taxes of> one sort and
another, general charges (£31,475) bit off
£1294 more.
At £26,206 the final showing was thus
£1348 lower at 10.8 p.c. on capital, as
against 11.3, 9.3, 10.5 and 9.2 p.c. for the
four preceding years. The 9 p.c. div. was
repeated, and after sending another £lOOO
to the staff fund £3426 remained to lay
by. The div. is not worth as much as
it looks to most holders, owing to the
premium, which has made profit-earning
easier, that much of the share capital has
carried.
Consisting partly of freehold and partly
of leasehold, with accommodation
together for 900, the properties adjoin
Melbourne Town Hall, with a frontage
on Little Collins-street and an entrance
from Collins-street, The freehold is the
centre block. It was largely rebuilt in
1934, and now figures at £235,884. The
building lease, held from the Baptist
Church till 1993, is a nine-storeyed ex-
tension put up seven years previously.
Provision for the redemption of the
£96,538 at which it now appears has been
made through a sinking fund. The
ground-floor lease of the Clyde building,
used as a cafeteria, ran out last year and
was apparently not renewed.
Reduction of the debt, incurred mostly
during the rebuilding of 1934, goes on,
with beneficial results on the interest
bill:
1930. 1935. 1939. 1940.
Capital . . £174,857 £193,600 £242,000 £242,000
Liabilities . . 56,230 117,141 83,591 70,802
Freeholds . . 165,617 264,637 240,654 235,884
Leaseholds . . 102,984 102,692 97,805 96,538
Plant & furniture 41,024 39,757 17,655 15,663
Stores . . 607 952 1,041 1,944
Debtors . . 505 101 289 203
Investments & cash 6,000 1,819 12,810' 11,554
Of the £70,862 at which liabilities now
figure, £56,073 (down £14,421) is on
mortgage. The balance of £14,793 in-
cludes an unstated tax provision. A tan-
gible contribution to the national effort
is the co.’s offer of an interest-free loan
of £2OOO.
With a sidelong glance at the very
successful past, the market prices the
10s. shares at 15s. 3d., or very little less
than 12 months ago, notwithstanding that
9 p.c. looks like being a more difficult
business this year. At 15s. 3d. the imme-
diate yield is 5.8 p.c. Visibly, the net
tangible backing is 11s. 4d. per share, all
represented by the equity in the property.
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£j £ £
1930.. 19,695 7 p.c. = 19,713 12,262
1931.. 14,168 5 „ „ 14,081 87 12,349
1932.. 18,651 5 „ „ 14,081 4,570 16,919
Surplus on liquidated subsidiary, £23,556.. 40,475
1933.. 15,984 51 p.c. = 15,489 495 40,970
1934.. 23,411 7 •„ „ 19,713 3,698 44,668
1935.. 29,491 8 „ „ 22,529 6,962 51,630
1936.. 22,575 8 „ „ 22,529 46 51.670
1937.. 37,617 8 ~ „ 22,529 15,088 66,761
1938.. 33,071 8 „ „ 23,428 9,643 76,407
1939.. 24,638 8 „ „ 24,000 638 77,045
1940.. 24,710 8 „ „ 24,000 710 77,755
Custom of the N.S.W. steam cos. these
days appears to exhibit profits little or
no more than sufficient to cover the div.
Port Jackson’s interim was cut back from
4 p.c. to 3 p.c., but a final of 5 p.c.
maintained the full term’s rate at the
level of the past half-dozen years. The
interim reduction therefore brought the
board criticism by some whom it
prompted to sell out on a depressed
market. Certainly, the announcement
might have been qualified by a statement
as to the * reason therefore, though it
should be anything but a cause for censure
to conserve a cothpany’s finances midway
through a term in times like the present,
when increased taxation and other un-
certain war-time costs have to be pro-
vided against.
Plying between the Quay and Manly,
the co.’s vessels have long provided one
of the cheapest and most efficient trans-
port services in the metropolis. The fleet
numbers eight:
Gross Year
Vessel, Tonnage. Built.
South Steyne .. .. 1200 1938
Dee Why . . . . 800 1928
Curl Curl . . . . 800 1928
Bellubera . . . . 500 1910 !
Balgowlah . . . . 500 1912
Barrenjoey .. .. 500 1913
Baragoola . . . . 500 1922
Burra-Bra . . ■ • 460 1908
Permanent traffic, which is, of course,
the backbone of earnings, continues to
swell with the development of The Vil-
lage, but road competition and counter-
amusement attractions have been affect-
ing casual excursion takings. However,
attention to passengers’ comfort, costs
and the speeding-up of services—an-
other of the older craft, the Bara-
goola, has been converted to Diesel
drive —have combined to minimise the
effects of these influences, while the co. s


This
is what
you need
msxxtm&m
" •
m
4
■:::<•
WA
m
m
wxwxvxWStf
®ISS£4
■■lll
for long, sound sleep
pOR the mind that is anxious and finds no rest, there is calm and friendly
comfort in Wliite Horse Whisky. This noble spirit, full of years, is famed
for a deep and gentle glow that gives tone to the tired body, new strength to
the overstrung nerves. To-night, at your usual bed-time, take some White
Horse Whisky in a glass of hot milk. Sleep, that you have sought so long,
will come and stay till morning.
WHITE HORSE
WHISKY
The millions of gallons of finest Scotch whisky matured and
maturing ensure that the quality of White Horse never varies.
Screw-cap flasks on sale everywhere.
Buy War-winning War Savings Certificates


The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
fgfgfg
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and-all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SSPS3B33S&«:
m '■■■ '
i-
m
YOUNC MAN!
A word in your ear!
When your hair is
touched with silver
will your purse
be filled with gold?
WHEN you get to retiring age, will you have enough to
live on? Will you be content, and at peace, and free of
money troubles?
In the event of your early death, will your wife and children
be able to live in reasonable comfort?
The younger you are, the easier to arrange such matters:
the less the cost of such protection.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send a man to talk over
your particular financial anxiety. You’ll find him helpful. If
you prefer, ask that we send you a copy of “Peace of Mind,”
a book that may give you a new outlook. Send to-day. You
won’t regret it.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sir S'amuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary,
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout All States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & CQLLISON, Patent Attorneys. 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
Auction Sale.
TUESDAY, 20th AUGUST, at 11 O’Clock
Sale by Public Auction in our Mart,
Nat. Mut. Building, 293 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Under Instructions Trustees Estate Jane
Costigan, Deceased.
Solicitors to the Estate: Messrs. Thynne and
Macartney, 293 Queen Street, Brisbane.
PLOUGH INN HOTEL
FREEHOLD
285 Stanley Street, South Brisbane, adjacent
to a large industrial and shipping centre.
A two-storey brick building, having a frontage
of 53ft. Ground-floor bar 20 x 24, lounge
23 x 22, storeroom and cardroom, parlor 20 x
24, various other rooms, kitchen, servants
quarters and laundry. Upstairs 12 bedrooms,
2 bathrooms and sitting-room. It is in good and
substantial repair.
Subject to lease, particulars of which will be
supplied to bona fide prospective purchasers.
LAND—Sub. 2 Allots. 8 and 9 of Sec. 7,
Parish of South Brisbane, having a frontage
of 64ft. by 148}ft. depth.
ADJOINING VACANT LAND—Sub. 1 of
Allots. 8 and 9 of Sec. 7, Parish of South
Brisbane, having a frontage of 68ft. to Stanley
Street by a depth along Ernest Street of 148;tt.
TERMS MAY BE ARRANGED.
SHARP AND MUSGRAVE,
Auctioneers,
293 Queen Street, Brisbane.
fine free bathing enclosure next to its
Manly jetty remains a handsome in-
direct revenue-raiser.
Last term the hot, dry summer
kept the turnstiles clicking briskly, while
a bit extra was tacked on to season
fares—the first lift since the substantial
depression concessions. Still, the higher
level of outgoings left only £62 more
available for shareholders after writing
off £22,982 (up £982) for deprecia-
tion. The £24,710 was just over 8 p.c.
on capital, compared with 8, 11.2, 13.3,
8, 10.4, 8.3 and 6.2 p.c. back to 1933. The
8 p.c. div. left £7lO for the visible lay-by,
now £77,755.
Whether the result was any better than
admitted is doubtful; it partly depends
on whether any capital expenditure was
debited against earnings:
1932. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £281,616 £281,616 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 3,611 13,819 64,198 49,092
Ship property 185,683 185,723 285,637 271,227
Freeholds, plant,
etc 50,972 76.245 71,985 74,234
Investments.. 64,138 97,442 84,270 83,046
Stocks . . 5,941 8,118 9,248 11,597
Cash, debtors,
etc 7,203 5,9'36 2,103 1,744
Depreciation exceeded capital outlay on
fixed assets, all reported efficiently main-
tained, by £12,161 last year. The net
growth of £85,504 in ship property since
1937, reflecting commissioning of the South
Steyne and conversion of the Baragoola,
has been accompanied by an addition
of only £35,273 to the debt. When the
books closed, the surplus of more or less
liquids over liabilities was £15,872
stronger at £47,295.
At the moment continuance of 8 p.c.
is in some doubt; and, considering the
public-utility nature of the undertaking,
better than that need ever be expected.
At 125., the market therefore asks for
an immediate return of 6.6 p.c. from
the 10s. shares, for which the net tangible
backing is 12s. 7d. A new Manly wharf,
similar to the Sydney berth, is expected
to be taken over from the Maritime Ser-
vices Board in nine months’ time.
Outstanding feature of the Gt. Boulder
change -of - domicile proposals share-
holders are being asked to accept one
f.-p. 2s. 6d. share in a new Australian
co. for each 2s. stg. share now held —is
the £520,000 “compensation” to be
handed the present directors for voting
themselves out of a job, although three
of them —De Bernales, Campion and
Westall —will continue to draw fees as
members of a local transfer committee
in England. The £20,000 will be shared
De Bernales £BOOO, Campion and Collier
£3500 apiece, and Westall and Turner,
newer members of the board, £2500 each.
All a very debatable act of generosity—
to the directors —faced as shareholders
are with some cut in their dividends this
year. Certainly the “compensation” is
out of step with recent economy avowals
of the management. Proposed board of
the new local co. looks promising,
and will have the advantage of
being right on the spot. It comprises
Hal Colebatch, Westralian M.L.C. and
formerly Agent-General in London
(chairman), Chamber of Mines president
Richard Hamilton (a former g.m. of Gt.
Boulder), ex-W.A. Under-Secretary for
Mines M. J. Calanchini, T. S. Wilson,
company secretary of Adelaide with long
association with mining, and E. Faye.
Hamilton, who has been the old
board’s local rep., is also associated with
Triton, Western Gold and Western
Mining Corp.
The suggested change is an effort to
elude the English taxgatherer, particu-
larly the unjust 100 p.c. excess-profits
impost, which makes practically no allow-
ance for the great expansion of mill capa-
city over the last two years or so or for
the fact that a mine is a wasting asset.
Assuming an annual outturn of
114,0000 z. gold, last term’s figure, and net
earnings, after allowing for Common-
wealth gold excise, of £A374,500, it is
reckoned that under present conditions
only £63,250 would be left for share-
holders after satisfying the Australian
and British tax demands. Formation of
the Australian co. is expected to save
£238,300—£201,550 excess-profits levy and
£36,750 ordinary income tax. Not all of
that will represent savings to the British
shareholder, however, who will still have
to pay English taxation on his divi-
dends ; but, obviously, those on the Aus-
tralian register stand to benefit substan-
tially. If the Gt. Boulder move is taken
as a precedent and is followed by pro-
posals for wholesale emigration by other
English-Australian cos., it is difficult to
imagine John Bull refraining from using
his war-time powers to stop the threat-
ened leak in his revenue. But mining cos.
have special grounds for pleading a touch
Of bodyline bowling about the English
e.-p.t.
Attached to the 1939 accounts is a record
of the mine’s achievements from the be-
ginning of production in 1895 to
December 31 last. In all 5,834,619 tons
was treated for 5,171,7970 z. gold, valued,
after deduction of realisation exes., at
£17,840,574 stg. Out of profits of
£8,465,809, shareholders got £6,714,090
in dividends. In 1895, £64,000 was dis-
tributed. Gradually increasing, the
amount topped £284,000 in 1904, and for
the next 13 years £262,500 was paid
annually. In 1918 the total was £196,875,
followed by £131,250 for 1919-20-21. Dis-
tributions fell to £87,500 in 1922, and to
£29,166 in 1923, and then cut out alto-
gether during the next five years. The
1939 aggregate (£125,000) has been the
best since payments were resumed with
£21,875 in 1929. Manager J. R. Hylton
says an attempt is being made to re-treat
at a profit some of the sands utilised to
fill in the old main lode stopes. Whilst
these sands are not anticipated to be
worth rehandling of themselves, it is
thought that in some instances they may
have -been materially enriched by the
“fines” of the exceedingly rich ore then
mined or by falls of ground which re-
putedly frequently occurred and were
buried in the fill. Furthermore, it is
known that ore was often left in the walls
either because it was then considered
too low-grade to be profitable or because
the existence of higher-grade spurs was
not appreciated. A geological examina-
tion of the mine is being made by J.
Finucane to determine (1) probable ex-
tensions of known ore-bodies ; (2) pos-
sible lateral extension of old lodes, and
possibility of re-stoping sections where
ore has been left in the walls ; (3) pos-
sibility of spurs existing off these lodes ;
(4) potentialities of virgin blocks andl
of the western leases. Indications that an-
other alluvial channel exists on the prop-
erty are now being investigated.
Wiluna (W.A.) estimates net revenue
for the June quarter at £A217,913, total
expenditure at £129,874 and surplus at
£88,039. Best ore exposures were: Main
workings, East lode, 1915 ft. level, payable
length 200 ft., average width 14ft;; Happy
Jack area, 800 ft. level, length 47ft., aver-
age value Bdwt. over sft.; 1000 ft. level,
length 100 ft., similar width and values.
Moonlight Wiluna, whose holdings adjoin
Wiluna’s northern blocks, has surrendered
several of its areas. The whole of this
co.’s issued capital is owned by Gold
Fields Australian Development, Ltd., in
which Wiluna is the largest individual
shareholder.
* * * *
C. A. Whitfield, North Kalgurli’s chair-
man and a sick man for some years, has
passed on. He was a big shareholder in
North Kal., and was also on the board of
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Kalgurli Ore
Treatment Co. and Komata Reefs G.M.
He had capital invested in South African
mining ventures as well.
* * * *
A question on the old Croydon gold-
field, Gulf country (N.Q.), is whether the
Magenta will make the grade. It was
worked by Italians, later abandoned, and
is now under exemption while cash is
sought to get it to commercial produc-
tion. In places the reef has made a
couple of feet, and it should get beyond
the “prospector” stage. But when will
officialdom realise that it’s no good
quoting mere bullion values from this
field? Thirty-seven ounces bullion from
31 tons, the last crushing, means exactly
nothing, for Croydon bullion may be
70 p.c. or 80 p.c. silver. Croydon was
“the best field ever” for the grass-eating
prospector. The gold on the Golden
Gate and the True Blue grew on the
very grassroots, and could almost be
scratched out with a penknife.
* * * *
Herberton (N.Q.) tinfield reports that
the local price for 70 p.c. tin concen-
trates is £lB4 per ton. With the chief
mines easing off production, the neigh-
boring Irvinebank field is occasionally
claiming bigger turnover, both in ore
and concentrates. The State treatment
works’ success in handling lower-grade
concentrate containing pyrite by flota-
tion of the sulphide will be a big help to
a number of producers who in the past
have found their tallies below 70 px
Both the Canberra and the Cornishman
—mainstays of the Herberton pipe de-
posits—have been humbugged by faulting
and consequent*loss of ore, and are using
the diamond-drill for its location. The
Cornishman reports some success in its
north-westerly holes.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.S.: Impossible to say. Only certain thing
is that the returns you were led to expect
were nothing more than fanciful thinking
G.J.J.: (1) Though no harm has been done
to the bacon side of things, rather doubtful,
owing to luxury nature of many of the co.’s
products and the continued uptrend of costs.
(2) Hold. (3) C, p, k, r and n look most
interesting. (4) Hang off temporarily. Jolts such
as the one recently experienced, although perhaps
not so severe, can be expected to provide
opportunities from time to time. (5) Spread
of interests would be preferable.... V.E.M.:
Very reasonable spec., taking the long view.
Fall has been due mainly to the uncertain
div. policy and the general decline in gold-
share values... .L.S.J.: Leave alone. Far better
investments in your own State —Ballarat
or Carlton Brewing, for instance... .J.D.N.:
Co. refuses information, but the outlook
generally for this type of proposition is any-
thing but as glowing as bond-salesmen made
out.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
m
»
ft
le
ClgllilßlsflEllEl
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
jManager W. G. Bulfm
SMOKE-OH!
“Defendant was fined for selling adulterated
tripe.”
The conviction has amazed the editor
of one of our flapper dailies, who had
no idea tripe could be adulterated.
•b *l* *r
“We can turn your old love-letters into cart-
ridge wads.” —Supply Minister Morrison.
Many men have had theirs turned into
bombshells.
+
“A standard motor-car contains 15,000 parts.”
— “World’s News."
Amateur mechanics who have taken
their bus to pieces at the week-end will
regard this figure as conservative.
■J* 4*
“It is well known that Beethoven threw
eggs at his cook.” —Melbourne “Sun.”
While rehearsing his Battle Symphony?
4* 4* 4 1
“While watching the lions being fed at the
ZO6 a visitor had his pocket picked.”
Then he roared!
“Mothers attending daughters’ weddings in
parts of New Guinea are greeted by arrows shot
into their legs.”—“ World’s News.”
A way of warning them to quit
looking daggers at the bridegroom.
•5* *l* v
“ ‘Torrid Zone,’ tale of showgirl who drops
in on banana industry.”— ‘‘Sun.”
First thing she wanted to do was peel
off and exhibit as much skin as possible.
4* 4 1 4*
A fortune may be simply spent! So
why not just forsake it? You have to
work so flamin’ hard you’re spent before
you make it.
4* 4* 4< 4*
“There is a story in almost everything you
see.”— Writer’s guide.
Except at the talkies.
The Mercenary Touch.
“Some Oriental authors strive to make ends
meet by running page advertisements through
their novels.” —Literary note.
Think of what struggling authors could
do with dialogue.
The Stain That Vanished.
“ ’Tis false!” cried Gaston Twerp-
socker. “Wouldst sully the honor of the
woman I love, thou villain of the deepest
dye?”
“Ha! ha!” sneered Sir Richard Mulli-
gatawny. “A villain of the deepest
dye, maybe; but, remember, ’tis Dippo
Dye, the Dye That Never Runs!”
“Fool to dare pit thy flimsy Bullworth
blade ’gainst a Super-forged Block and
Derby steel, selling at thirty shillings for
“Whatever it may be We must accept it, gentlemen. Remember, We
laughed at the tanks!"
one week only! Thy blood be upon
thine own head!”
“Bah! The arm behind this blade was
reared on Crunchy Crisps, the Breakfast
Food Full of Snap, Pop and Bang, obtain-
able at all grocers. Have at thee! ”
“Hold! ” cried the lovely Gertrude,
springing between the enraged men with
the swift grace characteristic of star
pupils from Bendum’s School of Physical
Culture, prospectus on application.
“Wouldst save this villain who so
foully stained thy name?”
“Yes, dearest Gaston. Have I not this
very hour used Rubbo, the Wonder Stain
Remover, sold by all leading chemists!”
“Heaven be praised!”
“Aye, beloved, I now face the world
as pure as a pound of Gulper’s Tea, the
Tea Without Dust!”
“Go, foul wretch,” quoth Gaston to
Sir Richard, “and mend thy ways with
Stickit, the Stickfast, That Never Lets You
Down! ”
(To be continued with valuable in-
formation regarding home furnishings,
baby foods and reputable divorce
lawyers.)
D. McM.
•Jr 4* 4* i*
“Many housewives spend their lives bending
over the stove.” — Women’s paper.
Home on the range.
•I* 4*
No Luck.
She was very self-reliant and a little
bit defiant. But he thought she could be
pliant, though her lips had told him
“No! ” So he tried again to win her and
to promises to pin her. But the woman’s
heart within her made her stubbornly
say “Go!” Though his technique was
perfection and he’d overcome objection
one by one, and said protection she would
have she snapped “No more will I listen
to your tales, man, and my patience
herewith fails, man!”
So the poor insurance salesman sadly
tried the house next door.
Elm.
Most women have an improvised com-
plexion these days. They just make it
up as they go along.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Yellowstone Fails Punters.” — “D.T.”
Gold that didn’t glitter.
Germanisation.
“Hundreds of beautiful German girls are
being sent to ‘Germanise’ Holland. German
soldiers are urged to marry Dutch girls.”
Gretchen van Vetchen, you so fetchin’
look
Your name 7 must down put in mein
leedle book;
Mein courtship I make on cler best Blitz-
krieg lines,
Mit bomb und tnit bayonet I’ll make you
meins.
Und iff you vill lofe me, I tell you for
true
Mein sister vill marry der brother of you,
Und, standing mid Dutchmen whose
corpses you see,
Ve’ll ‘ Heil’ all together und goot Sher-
mans pe !
V.C.K.
The Day of Rest.
“Women should influence their husbands to
observe the sanctity of the Sabbath, which
should be regarded as a day of rest and not
desecrated by sport.” —Sydney clergyman.
Maria does her best.
. “You ought to be ashamed of yourself,
Aitchem,” she said. “Planning to go
fishing on Sunday! Don’t you realise
it’s the day of rest?”
“Oh, the fish have all the rest of the
week to rest in,” I said smartly.
“You will try to be funny,” said Maria
sharply. “You ought to be ashamed of
yourself, desecrating the Sabbath and
going with that horrible fellow Fagg.”
But on the Saturday Fagg wasn’t at
the pub. I heard from Jenks he’d got
the German measles.
Now, when a man is by himself fishing
gets very monotonous after the first
bottle. It seemed to me an opportunity
of acquiring a halo, so on Sunday morn-
ing I told Maria that I had decided not
to go fishing. After all, Sunday is the
day of rest.
“Oh, I thought you’d think better of it.
Well, as you’ll be at home you might
mow the lawn —it’s disgraceful. And
you can fix the kitchen taps and paint
the washhouse.”
“The day of rest” I began.
“Fiddlesticks! Another day you’ll
say you haven’t the time. And there’s
the vacuum cleaner to fix, too ; and I’ll
ring the Smiths to come over for a game
of bridge tonight.”
I groaned. The hardest work of all is
playing bridge with Maria.
H.M.
Try-on.
“She even tried to infatuate her tailor, but
he was too wary.” —Short story.
Though other men with passion blind
Were victims of her pleasure,
’Tis only natural to find
Her tailor had her measure.
T.W.N.
Mystery.
Life is mostly froth and bubble —
That’s what makes it queer:
No one seems to know exactly
Who gets all the beer.
SKEAN SHU.
“The world’s my oyster!” Blondie said,
And pearls she slyly stalked.
The world her oyster! Pearl’s ahead —
But how the oyster talked!
EVE.
Women Talking.
The Emancipated Women’s Club was
in stormy session. A motion had been
introduced by Mrs. Desdemona Dogs-
body that the strongest support should
be given to the agitation to secure wet
canteens for the soldiers. Her nephew,
she said, had become dreadfully ill on
drinking six iced strawberry milkshakes
after a long route-march. A doctor had
told her that an equal quantity of beer
—though she knew her nephew would
never indulge to that extent —could not
have had such deleterious effect on his
health. The Emancipated Women’s Club
would have to review its traditional
opposition to strong liquor if the health
of the gallant men who were defending
our homes was at stake.
The president of the club, Mrs. Basil
Bloggs, had the subsequent debate well
in hand.
“Well, ladies, you have all heard Mrs.
Dogsbody’s proposal”
“The idea! Just because this Mrs.
Dogsbody’s nephew goes and gets sick
through gorging himself like a big kid
she wants to”
“Well, / think it’s a good idea myself.
I’m sure I'm broadminded enough not
to wish to deprive a poor soldier who’s
been marching all day of a —what do
they call it? —a double-header of beer or
whatever he fancies”
“Ladies, if you will please give me your
attention for a”
“H’m! I suppose if thg truth’s known
her husband’s got shares in a
brewery”
“Mind you, Ethel, my husband has
often said that depriving the soldiers of
their beer while civilians can get as much
as they want is a disgrace, not that I
take any notice of what he thinks. Still,
we ought to examine the proposal”
“I’d like a seconder, ladies, to the
mo”
“Yes, she’d make you sick the way
she’s always getting up trying to be im-
portant introducing some crackbrained
scheme or”
As the president, after a terrific vocal
struggle, succeeded in announcing that a
seconder had been secured and would
make a few remarks in support of the
motion the meeting toned down from
an uproar to the steady drone of high-
pitched voices choked down to half
throttle. Against this background boomed
the baritone of Miss Agatha Whizz,
the seconder.
She contended that this should be con-
sidered purely as a war-time measure.
Moreover, they should support it on
principle; after all, it was men who
refused wet canteens in the first place.
“Mind you,” the lady went on, “if I
had a son or a husband —though thank
Heaven / was never a slave to any sel-
fish man —I would certainly not allow
him to go into any wet canteen. But,
as I said before, this has become a ques-
tion of principle.”
After the seconder had dwelt for
another half-hour on the unassailable
rights of woman the president mad£ it
known that the matter was now open for
general discussion.
Miss Roberta Thunderclap then
jumped up and said she thought greater
strength would be lent to the agitation
if other women’s organisations were
approached.
Mrs. Euphemia Slabb protested. Was
it compatible with the dignity of the
E.W.C. that they should crawl to other
organisations which never went out of
their way to consult them ?
After three days of hard talking
opinion in the E.W.C. was still indecisive,
but it was the brilliant speech of the presi-
dent that finally swung the tide of
opinion. By the fourth tin of throat
lozenges she haxl completely convinced
the majority that they should back Mrs.
Dogsbody’s motion to the limit, and the
wild enthusiasm with which she was ac-
claimed when, flushed with triumph, she
announced the overwhelming majority to
fight for wet canteens for the troops was
manifest in the photo, which appeared
in the society columns of the next morn-
ing’s “Blah,” which also gave splash
headlines to the write-up.
A week or so later the members of the
E.W.C. were summoned by the secretary
to - attend a specially-convened meeting.
Miss Agatha Whizz, as senior vice-
president, was in the chair, and an-
nounced that they were gathered to elect
a new president, Mrs. Basil Bloggs hav-
ing resigned.
It was Mrs. Desdemona Dogsbody who
explained things afterwards to her friend
Alice Angles.
“You know, Alice,” she said, “I never
thought that Mrs. Bloggs was very brainy,
though she always talked a lot. But
fancy any woman talking herself out of
her bread and butter! Everyone knew,
of course, that her husband had a print-
ing place or something in the city. Weil,
the very day that photo, of herself talk-
ing us into supporting that wet-canteen
stunt came out in the papers Basil Bloggs
was to sign a big contract with the tem-
perance people for printing about a mil-
lion tracts or pamphlets or something at-
tacking the Demon Drink traffic. Of
course, they cancelled it!”
BO.


s
_
BULLETIN OF COMMONWEALTH BOLLING
!
I
MILLS PTY,LTD., PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
- /////r
/v
3
.. **•
I 1
y.i
I %
■
ARMCO— EiYSAGHT
ENAMELLING IRON
# Australian Enamellers who use Armco-Lysaght
Enamelling Iron demand—and get —an iron of
uniform analysis; an iron that fabricates accur-
ately and bonds tenaciously; an iron that enables
them to hit top production speed and turn out
consistently fine and profitable work.
Armco-Lysaght Enamelling Iron plus a high order
of enamelling skill gives a smooth, glossy, life-
time finish that is the best possible insurance for
all investments in porcelain products.
j For more information about Armco-Lysaght |
J Enamelling Iron or for technical advice on J
your problems write to us.
■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■
Y.
(THE ARMCO-LVSAGHT ORGANISATION)
KEMBLA
ROAD, PORT KEMBLA
O.S.K. LINE
. OSAKA SYOSEN KAISYA
BUSINESS MEN AND TOURISTS
should travel by
NEW, FAST MOTOR VESSELS
to
JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA and AFRICA
Also Special Round the World Trip
European Cuisine and Accommodation
For Particulars,' Fares, etc., apply
BIRT AND COMPANY (PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
8W1421.
Our Service Department
A Spell of Uncertainty
The sharemarket became uncertain
again in tone last week. There was a
slight decline all round, the internal as
well as the external position having an
influence on the active investor. Apart
from the rather ominous lull in Europe,
the intrusion of the Italians into
British Somaliland and aerial attacks on
Palestine, the Japanese arrests and the
arrests of Japanese helped to produce,
for a time, a Britain-against-the-world
atmosphere that weighed heavily on
impressionable minds. And though
harder-headed investors may have been
able to take a less emotional view
of the position, they are mostly
shrewd enough to wait on the more
timid sharemarket follower showing
his anxiety to sell before making their
bid. Summed up, last week the general
atmosphere was sufficiently charged with
possibilities of sudden developments that
potential buyers were inclined to hang
off and await possibilities of more bar-
gains such as were offering _in June. It
ls cr ent . l ]^ e \° k e h °P ed tkat tkese hangers-
off will be disappointed, since the low June
prices have since been shown to have
been quite unjustified, and another col-
lapse would be equally unwarranted.
The June affair was caused partly by
bears, partly by weak-kneed and panicky
shareholders, and partly by pressure of
financial houses which had been “carry-
ing” dealers in shares. There were quite
a number of forced sales among the turn-
over that took place when France col-
lapsed. The effect of this “cleaning-up”
° f weak shareholders should have built a
fi J mer foundation for the present level
°* P lices -
In realising how much stronger the
position is now, it may be remembered
that on June 19 the Sydney index of ord.
shares in general had crashed to 102.13.
By the end of July it had recovered to
110.58. Last week it had slipped back to
109.61. But there was still a consider-
able recovery “cushion” between that
figure and the June “low.” It would
seem, therefore, that a substantial fall
in market prices would have to occur
now before forced selling would have
any appreciable influence in the down-
ward direction of prices, since clients
taken on a “carry” basis over the past
two months would be rare amongst share-
brokers, and in any case they would have
to put up a much wider margin of
security than that which now exists on
loans made on the basis of January price
levels.
While the market now should be thus
buttressed against further shock develop-
ments overseas, there are some internal
happenings of an unsettling nature,
Britain is cutting down her meat pur-
chases from Australia, surplus wheat is
difficult to sell, barley exports are in the
air, and the outlook for canned fruits is
described as “obscure.” On the other
hand, Britain is bound to take our wool
for the duration and a year thereafter
whether it can dispose of it or not, and
more dairy produce is wanted from this
country by reason of the German occu-
pation of Denmark and Holland. v Dried
fruits are assured of a market for the
present, and, among the smaller fry, flax,
cotton and tobacco from Empire sources
are wanted particularly. Australia so
far doesn’t produce much of any of these
last three items.
The seasonal outlook in the Common-
wealth just now isn’t good, especially in
N. S. Wales. That, however, is some-
thing that has still time to change quickly
if spring rains arrive soon. Business
generally is still at a fairly high level,
though profit-margins aren’t as wide as
they were, by all accounts. The general
run of balance sheets now coming to
hand show lower profits but steady divs.
In a few cases increased profits have been
shown, and there have been some in-
stances of lower divs. But these cases
represent exceptions to the general rule.
Employment was affected by the coal
strike in such a way that it is hard to
make comparisons. Indications now are
that there has been a slight decrease in
the number of those in work since Feb.
28. Whichever way it is, the movement
is not great. The ' June-quarter figure
(taken on May 31), which showed a sharp
increase in unemployment, was abnormal
because of coal-strike effects. But it is
likely that, after nearly a year of war,
the first rush of war-time production has
now come nearly to an end, and that
some process of readjustment as between
trades will be occurring. For instance,
arrears of production of army khaki-
uniform material, blankets, boots, hats,
etc., should now be overtaken. There
will be increasing activity in the muni-
tions industry and those allied to it, but
the motor trade will be affected by petrol-
rationing—it is already feeling the pinch
in anticipation—and there will be other
forms of activity influenced by the neces-
sity to spend more money on defence
and less on non-essentials and luxuries.
Notwithstanding the hardships and dis-
location of war, however, there is no
good reason for shares to be sacrificed
by investors unless there is evidence that
other forms of investment are going to
be favored at the expense of shares. So
far there is no such evidence, especially
where excessive profits are not being
shown by companies.
The Great Boulder board can be
relied on to provide shareholders with
astonishment, even if divs. aren’t very
nourishing. Witness the announcement
that £20,000 is to be paid as compensation
to the retiring London directors when the
co. shifts its head office to Australia to
avoid double taxation. The idea of
directors’ fees in ordinary cases is to re-
compense them for out-of-pocket exes.;
their office of itself does not entitle them
to a salary.
* * * *
The position of Malayan tin stocks in
the market is to a large extent governed
by the proximity of the m’ines to the
Japanese war zone, to the fact that they
are in Asia, and also to the fact that the
near-by Dutch East Indies have been
isolated from their parent country. Some
of the mines on the Malay Peninsula are
in Lower Burma (British), some are in
Siamese (Thailand) territory, while others
are in the Federated Malay States, and
belong to Britain. Most of the mines are
on the western side of the Peninsula —
the side closest to India—of which Singa-
pore Island, narrowly separated from the
mainland, is the extreme tip. The fol-
lowing are some familiar tin-bearing
localities on the Peninsula grouped
according to their political locality:
F.M.S. —Bentong, Ipoh, Jelapang, Kuala
Lumpur, Kedah, Kamunting, Kinta, Karan-
gan, Kalumpang, Kundang, Larut, Negri
Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Puchong,
Ramong, Rawang, Selangor, Serenban,
Serendah, Taipang.
Thailand (Siam). —Chelong, Katu, Lang-
suan, Pungah, Puket, Pangnga, Ronpibon,
Rangeng, Renong, Songkhla, Takuapa,
Tongkah Harbor..
Burma : Mergui, Thabawleik.
The question that is really agitating in-
vestors in tin scrip is: To what' extent
will Britain be prepared (or able) to
defend its interests in the Malay Penin-
sula, whoever the enemy? In seeking an
answer to that question it can be said that
Singapore is one of the key positions in
the Empire defence system, and that the
rest of the British portion of the Penin-
sula is not much behind Singapore in
importance, since the possession of one
helps to protect the other. Therefore the
F.M.S. can be regarded as a jewel not
lightly to be interfered with.
* * * *
Deliveries of tin to the United States
rose by 65 p.c. (in- comparison with the
same period of 1939) during the first five
months of 1940. Other countries appear
to have been stocking up, too, though,
some of the increased deliveries may
have gone into consumption. There has
been a swift increase in visible world
supplies over the past two months, and
full production is now permitted in the
F.M.S.; nevertheless the forward price
in London still holds at very near the
spot price of £266 a ton, which is above
the old pool basic price of £230. The
statistical situation is rather complicated
by war and war causes, and it has
aspects disturbing to the investor in tin
shares outside Australia. The economic
position of the metal perhaps gives more
ground for concern than the political. As
it happens, the Australian sharemarket is
paying no fancy prices for tin scrip in
any case.
$ $ $ *
Army-Minister Street said last week
that the cost of Australia’s defence and
war programme for the four years to
June, 1942, was now estimated at
£453,750,000.
Carreras, Ltd., the Craven “A” con-
cern, for control of which British
Tobacco paid 225,861 6| p.c. prefs.,
618,737 ords. and 618,737 B ords. re-
cently, has shown a profit of £149,521
for the year to June 30. Allowing for
Carreras’s pref. requirement, the profit
a little more than covers the div. that
will be paid annually (present rate) on
the share consideration handed over by
British Tobacco.


guaranteed
FOR TWO YEARS
FREE SETTING
fgfgfg
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 11
P lum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle
bxtra quality steel, xylo. handle
Blade size gin.
ALL POST FIiEE.
.. 12/6
.. 15/6
CRAIG
AITKEN,
Plum Razor Guards, 3/6 extra.
654 George St., Sydney
OLYMPIC TYRES ARE
100% AUSTRALIAN, EVERY
PENNY OF WAGES AND
DIVIDENDS REMAIN IN
AUSTRALIA
mm •;
itmm
mi
■
mmt
FIT
«S
W
■ ■-»
TYRES
AVAILABLE AT ALL LEADING GARAGES AND TYRE DEALERS
4kcmeJ inhere the
ACJA COOKER
U a u> at time bleAAing
IMrs. A. is buying War Savings Certificates with the
• money she saves with her AGA Cooker. She knows
that no matter how much cooking is done, her AGA
Cooker is guaranteed to burn not more than £3 worth of
fuel (with coke at 30/- per ton) in a whole year. Figure
out how much you could save.
2 Mrs. B’s. husband is the manager of a factory making
• munitions, and is liable to get home at all hours. But
there is always a hot meal ready for him, for the
AGA Cooker is always “in,” day and night, and has a
wonderful simmering oven that keeps food hot and un-
% spoiled for hours on end.
3 Mrs. C’s. husband is on military service and she has
• three children to look after. The meals she cooks
are both nourishing and satisfying. Because her
AGA Cooker makes cooking a pleasure, there is no sug-
gestion of “making do.”
4 Mrs. D. proposes to care for 3 English children. Her
o AGA Cooker will provide the extra meals at no extra
fuel cost, and because of its simplicity and efficiency
will permit ample time for her to look after the needs of
her new guests.
The AGA Cooker shown here is
the Model “C” with its fast boil-
ing hot plate, simmering plate,
roasting or baking oven and
simmering oven.
If you cannot call to see the
AGA Cooker in operation at our
Showrooms, send for a copy of
Catalogue R.B. No obligation.
LEVIN & CO., LTD.
Est’d 1852. (Inc. in N.Z.).
45,King Street, Sydney;
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and
Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer and
Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster and
Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
7konmdikatSimm
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
:
i*.
'= %
Oil-hunting in Victoria
Victorian Premier Dunstan, prodded
by Melbourne “Age,” has announced that
bis Cabinet will discuss the question of
drilling in east Gippsland to establish
once and for all whether there is payable
oil at Lakes Entrance. Mr. Dunstan is
satisfied that a good deal of work has
been done, but largely by “unsatisfactory
plant, incapable of boring to great
depths.” He could not forecast his
Cabinet’s policy.
Meantime knight Edmund Teale,
geologist, working for Austral Oil
Drilling Syndicate, N.L., says that data
so far available aren’t sufficient to show
with any accuracy how much oil is avail-
able or the best means of getting it out
if there is enough there. All the same,
he regards the evidence of “proved and
potential oil” as encouraging enough to
back up an endeavor to work the area,
though he wants more geological in-
formation on the character, extent and
contour of the glauconite zone, the nature
and thickness of the underlying for-
mations and the nature and contour of
the floor upon which they rest.
Since 1936 two State-owned scout-
boring plants have sunk 36 bores —a total
of about 39,000 ft. They, and a Common-
wealth deep-drilling plant capable of
going to 5000 ft., are still hard at it. So
far, apparently, a fair amount of money
has been spent and hard work done, but
up to date oil struck in Victoria has had
to be pumped out of wells. It doesn’t
gush.
No better time could be found for
stimulating public interest in oil. Even
a minor oilfield at fhis juncture would
be something to write home about,
though whether to continue to spend
good money o.n the gamble is something
Mr. Dunstan’s Cabinet may prefer to
leave to someone else.
Movements in some of the leading
shares last week:
Jan. June Aug. Aug.
31. 29. 2. 9.
Bank of N.S.W. .. £29.0 £24.9 £25.8 £25.0
National (£5) .. £6.1 £5.1 £5.4 £5.5
Carlton Brewery .. 68/- 55/- 60/- 57/9
C.-Perkins .. .. 22/- 17/9 19/6 19/6
Tooth .. .. 52/3 43/9 47/6 46/3
Metropolitan Gas ..£13.5 £12.8 £13.5 £13.4
Q'land Insurance .. 58/- 49/- 49/- 49/-
Associated News .. 16/6 10/6 10/7 10/8
Melb. “Herald” ... 57/- 43/- 47/9 47/6*
Adelaide Steam .. 36/- 27/6 32/6 31/
Huddart, Parker .. 59/9 48/6’50/6 51/-
Australasian Paper.. 34/3 23/-* 27/1 26/9
A. .. .. 38/3 30/9 33/6 32/6
Bradford Cotton ..37/6 28/ 33/- 33/-
B. Prop 49/6* 39/9 41/9 40/-
Bums, Philp .. 54/- 49/6 50/- 49/-
Colonial Sugar .. £50.6 £46.2 £47.0 £46.2
David Jones ..33/6 23/6 28/6 28/6
Drug Houses .. 26/6 23/- 24/3 24/3
Electrolytic Zinc .. 58/9 40/6 46/- 45/-
Fairymead Sugar .. 37/- 31/6 34/ 33/6
Felt and Textiles .. 38/9 29/6 34/6 34/-
G. J. Coles .. .. 74/3 52/6 59/6 60/-
Henry Jones .. 56/6 48/- 51/6 51/3
Howard Smith .. 24/3 19/- 19/9 19/3
Kandos Cement .. 29/9 24/- 28/- 27/6
Meggitt .. .. 29/- 24/6 28/6 27/6
Winchcombe, Carson 28/- 23/6 24/ 23/9
Woolworths.. .. 22/9 13/4 15/- 15/-
W. R. Carpenter .. 45/6 32/6 35/- 35/-
Yarra Falls .. .. 42/- 37/6 38/6 39/-
North B.H 47/6 30/6 34/6 34/3
B.H. South .. .. 29/9 20/3 23/6 23/3
New B.H .. .. 20/- 10/- 12/8 12/6
Mt. Lyell .. .. 32/- 22/6 25/6 25/3
* Ex issue.
The drop in the Sydney index of ord.
share prices between Aug. 2 and Aug. 9
was from 110.39 to 108.71. The indus-
trial ord. share figure moved down from
116.6 8 to 114.7 in the same time.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government has
found that Britain has neither the need
nor the storage capacity for further ship-
ments of some Australian primary pro-
ducts, and Canberra is to “rationalise”
exports of these things. Britain is now
our only important market for many
land products, so internal demand in
Australia is to be stimulated where pos-
sible, and a changeover in some forms
of land production, if it can be done, is
to be encouraged. Meat, wheat, fruit
and barley are at present principally con-
cerned. More dairy produce is wanted
on the other hand, owing to the position
of Denmark and Holland. We must be
prepared to look out for trade difficul-
ties as time goes on. The sweeping-up
of France by Hitler, as well as Belgium,
has closed two big markets for our wool,
and wheat may be a particular problem,
though the present season isn’t favorable
to excess production.
* * * *
Mainly because of war scares and
yarns about “capital conscription” spread
by people who should know better, there
was a fall of £9,677,000 in savings-bank
deposits throughout Australia between
April 30 and June 30 this year. Sub-
scription to war loans and war-savings
certificates also had something to do with
the movement, but the large growth in
the note issue held by the public during
the same period indicates that “scare”
had a good deal to answer for. The
jitters period has passed now, and the
note issue has ceased to bulge. In April
total s.-b. deposits were £246,675,000. At
June 30 they stood at £236,998,000.
* * * *
Australian Newsprint Mills, which has
no connection with any listed paper-
making concern, expects that its mill
buildings at Boyer (near Norfolk), Tas-
mania, will be finished by August 31.
Plant is already going in, and preliminary
production is aimed at in November,
though commercial quantities of news-
print aren’t expected to start coming
from the mill until early in 1941. A
railway, estimated to cost £48,000, is to
be run from the Government line into
the Styx Valley to tap further timber
resources. The co. is also burdening its
finances by importing emergency reserves
of sulphite pulp stocks to mix with
eucalypt pulp. (The Burnie mill of Asso-
ciated Pulp, making a different type of
paper, also imported long-fibre pulp to
start with.) The additional capital out-
lay involved in A.N.M.’s programme is
partly responsible in causing the chief
shareholder, Melbourne “Herald,” to ask
its own shareholders for £275,000 of 6
p.c. second pref. money. There are
newspaper shareholders in the newsprint
venture in nearly every State, the
“Herald” and “Sun” in Sydney being
cases in point.
sp v * * *
Melbourne “Herald” 6 p.c. pref. rights
at 3s. last week (about 35., 2d. when
brokerage, etc., is included) were bought
readily by thoughtful investors. There is
strong coverage for div. requirements,
and the fact that new issues are in many
cases an embarrassment just now to those
primarily entitled to them is responsible
for the attractive price of the rights. On
the basis of 235. 2d. for the fully-paid
shares the yield available would be
£5 3s. per cent., as against £4 18s. per
cent, from Australian Paper Manufac-
turers’ 6 p.cs. and £4 11s. per cent, from
the “Herald’s” own 6£ p.c. issue.
# * * *
In most States unemployment in-
creased during the June quarter of this
year, figures for which are taken in
May. N. S. Wales, with a coal strike
on its hands, had the worst experience;
excluding striking miners,- but including
workers in industries affected by the
strike, the percentage of unemployed
trade-unionists rose from 9.7 p.c. to
15.9 p.c. Queensland industries were
also hit, and the average unemployment
over the Commonwealth increased from
7.9 p.c. to 10.5 p.c. In view of the wide
dislocation caused by the coal stoppage
it may be taken for granted that most
of the growth in idleness was prompted
by the strike, and not by any general
dropping-off in business activity or de-
fence production. Figures for the Sep-
tember quarter should compare favorably
with March figures in the absence of any
further difficulties of a special kind.
* * * *
The life of Tooth shares is one of
ups and downs of late. Early this year
they went as high as 545. In June they
were down to 43 s. In July they re-
covered to 495. 3d. Then for a few weeks
they were dealt in mostly at prices above
48s. Last week they dropped back to
455. 9d., yielding 5.2 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis. In Melbourne, Carlton scrip
was changing hands at a price giving a
similar yield.
Australian Gas, the big Sydney con-
cern that was refused permission this year
to increase the price of gas in order to
offset increased production costs, has
reduced its interim from the statutory
maximum rate of 6 p.c. p.a. to
4 p.c. p.a. The coal strike was a
special cause of trouble during the
half-year, so that the final div. may
be higher. The cutting of 1 p.c. off the
div. (making 5 p.c. for the year) would
save £48,600. It is possible, of course,
that costs have increased beyond £50,000
p.a. Consumption of gas and electricity in
Sydney is at present heavier than last year.
North .Shore Gas paid a 5 p.c. interim.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WHY FRANCE COLLAPSED.
[The complete tale of the collapse of France will
not be told until the tumult has died away, present and
pressing events have fallen into proper perspective, and .
the leading actors have been called, not before the French
Supreme Court or any court at all, but before the bar of
history, and their evidence in full and that from a
thousand other sources pieced together. But enough has
already come out to make clear that explaining it all
away as due to Fascist agents in France, as some Aus-
tralian newspapers have tried to do, is a misleading
over-simplification. It is much more complex, and as a
study or a lesson extraordinarily interesting. A good
deal of fresh light is thrown on it by the articles here
condensed, most of them written by eyewitnesses of the
collapse. The first is from a Manchester “Guardian”
letter by Horace John McLaughlin, a former British
resident in France.]
France Politically Divided
It is not easy to pass a decisive judgment on
events which have their root in a remote past. I have
lived continuously in France since 1924 and have fol-
lowed closely the quickly shifting political events
since then. When returning to Paris in 1924 I was
struck by the renewal in the country —under the
Ministry of M. Herriot —of the demagogic, revolu-
tionary agitation. The transfer of Jaures’s remains to
the Pantheon, with the endless procession of revolu-
tionary sections, with their red flags, along the streets,
was the signal for a rebirth of internal strife, of class
warfare, at a time when Frenchmen were entitled to
reap the fruits of peace and good understanding of
their hard-earned victory, a victory which had cost
them the sacrifice of millions of their kin in dead and
wounded.
At the same time the Communist movement in
France, with the multiplication of its cells and its infil-
tration into the Labor syndicates, together with the
pronounced hostility shown to the ex-servicemen of
the war, contributed to divide France into two enemy
parties, alienating the conservative elements in the
country. The demagogic swing given to the political
machine in the last six years dug still deeper the
chasm between the two Frances —on the one side the
Catholic, conservative and traditional France, on the
other the revolutionary France, of which the Front
Populaire and the Communist leaders were typical
representatives. The Stavisky scandal in 1934 and
the mire it stirred up were a revelation of the rotten-
ness and corruption of the political regime of France.
It may be that the classes that possess, the indus-
trialists and the financiers, in despair of seeing their
country free from the political vampires, turned a sym-
pathetic eye towards Fascism, but to them alone cannot
be ascribed the downfall of France. The causes are
various, multiple—logical in effect and cause —and
perhaps one day history will discern impartially the
guilt both sections of French life have incurred in
losing sight of the welfare of the nation at large.
*****
(From an article by London “Sunday Times” Paris
correspondent, just returned to England.)
The Radical-Socialist Republic, with its Daladiers
and Gamelins, its complacency, its easy optimism and
its unwillingness to listen to the words of warning
uttered several years ago by men like Reynaud and
Colonel de Gaulle, that the whole structure of their
army was out of date —yes, the Radical-Socialist
Republic bears a fearful responsibility for what hap-
pened.
There are also other military reasons for the col-
lapse. As already said, the men in power like Daladier
would not listen to those who claimed long ago that
the whole structure of the French Army was out of
date ; and, worse still, they did not take the trouble to
study the grim lessons of the Polish campaign. With
unbelievable frivolity they simply assumed that the
Poles were “a poor lot,” and that this sort of thing
could not happen to France. But had the French
soldiers been trained and equipped to parry the mass
attacks of tanks and dive-bombers? The answer is
“No.”
*****
Causes of the Capitulation
(From an article by London “Daily Express” war
correspondent Geoffrey Cox.)
History in time will add up the motives that
brought about this capitulation—desire to check the
fearful blood-letting at the front; desire to save the
refugees from the horror of their fortnight-long Cal-
vary ; desire of businessmen to get back factories
from the Germans ; ambitions of second-rate men,
anxious to shine in a pro-German Government; even
the fears and weariness of exhausted politicians who
had not gone into politics for this sort of thing.
Certainly the scenes of refugees winding past the
windows of the council chamber in Bordeaux played
their part. The politicians wanted to stop that ter-
rible human suffering, even though the mass of French
people were prepared to go. Another big factor which
led to capitulation was that the French had never pre-
pared at home for total war. The French General
Staff had made no organisation for dealing with the
three great home problems of modern war —morale,
evacuation and air defence. These three weaknesses
culminated in the debacle of the flight from Paris.
The first blow to morale came right at the start,
when a rigid, clumsy military censorship was clamped
down on all papers. France, which had always been
a country enjoying political discussion, suddenly found
its morning newspapers were little more than mono-
tonous echoes of official opinion.
At the same time the whole burden of waging
war on the home front was thrown on to the clumsy
French bureaucracy. The result was that France went
down with her arms bound to her side by red-tape.
Inadequate news organisation was another great
danger. The censorship not only crushed free dis-
cussion. It choked up the news channels. Instead of
honest news, the French people were told little, and
that little was usually a story of successes. Then, sud-
denly, a radio speech would be sprung on them, per-
haps by Reynaud or some other politician, detailing
yet another disaster.
The flight from Paris was almost directly the
result of this sealed-lips policy. The people saw lor-
ries drive up to the Government offices, saw official
cars drive away with Ministers in them, and saw the
papers being piled aboard. They searched in vain
in the newspapers for some reason. They found none,
feared the worst, and fled.
The French people throughout this war were full
of fight and are still, I believe, full of fight. It is
one of the tragedies of our time that they had no Gov-
ernment which could give them a lead in that fight.
* * * * *
Work of Spies and Traitors
(From a Manchester “Guardian” article by a corre-
spondent just back from France.)
A French artillery battery pulled into a copse a
good distance from the line. At midday a gnarled old
Frenchman strolled out. He lived, he said, in a farm-
house near there. He would sell them some wine. A
little later a private told the captain he had seen
the Frenchman drive away in a car bearing a French
license. The captain was puzzled, but he thought no
more of it until 25 Heinkels appeared and blew up his
gups and killed three-quarters of his men. You ask the
French how the Germans knew they were there. You
are informed that “they” told them.
I walked along a road leading to the front with a
British major. A French captain appeared and de-
clared that the order to advance had been counter-
manded. The British officer said it was impossible.
He demanded the order in writing and the Frenchman
left. The order was never received.
An R.A.F. officer was forced down behind the
German lines and hid in the loft of a barn when the
Germans entered a French town near the border. As
he watched, a German intelligence major walked up
to a French civilian and patted him on the shoulder.
“Well done,” he said.
These isolated instances, which would seem to
have been plucked from a spy melodrama, are only a
tiny part of the acid that ran through France’s de-
fences. There were rumors. Refugees appeared in the
midst of French troops and begged a supper. In
payment they declared that they had heard that “a
hundred thousand Germans had broken through.”
Workers in aircraft factories let the fellows know
that “the dirty Boche has this place picked out for
bombing. We will all be killed if we don’t get out.
To hell with making aeroplanes.”
Who told French troops that an armistice had been
signed the morning after the Germans took Brussels?
Who buoyed up civilians with false hopes so that their
feelings against the Government would be more bifter
when the full truth was learnt? Who told the French
the British were deserting them on the very morning
when British troops drove forward into Belgium? Who
told the credulous and scared that M. Reynaud had
shot himself? That M. Daladier had appeared in
Berlin? And that France’s fleet had been sunk?
Who?—“They.”
Headquarters after headquarters was bombed.
Troops moving silently and by night were machine-
gunned. Columns of refugees suddenly appeared on
military roads. They had been directed there by
“French” officers from side roads allotted to them.
“They” did their work well. The means were
there and the Germans took advantage of them. The
result is a terrible warning to Britain and any other
nation resisting aggression on its doorstep.
* * * * *
Fear of Another Commune
(From a London “Daily Telegraph” article by Alan
Houghton Brodrick, who got out of Paris in one of
the last trains to leave the capital.)
For weeks refugees had been kept out of Paris,
being directed around the city through the suburbs ;
but on Saturday, June 8, they began to stream right
through the centre of Paris: farm carts, women on
foot pushing perambulators, women on bicycles with
babies strapped to them, men trudging along with their
belongings on their backs, and crowds of cars all with
mattresses tied to the roofs as a slight protection
against machine-gun bullets.
The Government had allowed people to slip back
to Paris after the great exodus of last September.
M. Reynaud and his collaborators should have realised
that the political implications of a last-minute evacua-
tion and the consequent presence in the city of hun-
dreds of thousands of the poorer classes who could
not but feel that they had been abandoned by their
leaders were full of menace.
Bismarck’s clinching argument in forcing the
Provisional Government of 1870 to do his will was the
threat to treat with the Emperor or with the Commune
extremists. In appraising the French decision to give
up the struggle it must be borne in mind that not only
had the French been fighting gallantly for weeks
against overwhelming odds, numerically inferior to
their adversaries and crushed down by new and ter-
rific engines of war, but that they had probably been
threatened with a puppet Government, perhaps of
Communists, whose advent would plunge the country
into fresh horrors.
People on the train out from Paris were much
quieter and more silent than usual; in fact,
for long periods nothing could be .heard but the
almost continuous crying of the babies. The
roads as far as the eye could see were jammed
and black with human beings, pushing, trudging, shov-
ing, driving and staggering along. One saw here none
of the visions of physical horror that met one’s eye
anywhere to the north or east of Paris, where the long,
winding crowds of evacuees were repeatedly mown
down from the air in order to block the roads. I had
seen this some days before. Total warfare. No town
in the battle zone was spared. It will probably be
found that the damage to buildings, to works of art
and utility has been greater than anything since the
Mongol invasions. The cathedrals of France have
been sorely maimed.
What impressed the French themselves the most
was the silent exodus of the farmers with their carts
and horses —all the cattle have been left to the in-
vader. It was apparent to them that the most sacred
thing they know, the soil of France itself, was being
stripped bare by the enemy.
* * * * *
Jeers for Heroes
(From articles by E. A. Montague, Manchester “Guardian”
and London “Daily Express” war reporter.)
A war correspondent who saw the last week of
the war in France and the weeks which preceded Dun-
kirk must be forgiven if he feels a trifle heated. No-
body who has seen the British troops and airmen will
accept a word which seems to slight what they have
done since May 10. They have fought under handi-
caps which were not their fault. Their shortage of
aeroplanes and tanks is common knowledge, and one
need not now go into the reasons for it, which are
well known to all soldiers. The retreat from Dunkirk
entailed the sacrifice of hundreds of guns, tanks, trans-
port and equipment of all kinds. Before that short-
age could be made good another British force had to
take up the battle on the Somme.
Inevitably it was short of essential supplies. The
unbroken pressure of the enemy on the Somme front
made it impossible to service our fighting vehicles, and
many broke down. Our front was long and confused,
and we were heavily outnumbered by the Germans.
In addition, we had the old problem of the refugees
crowding the roads. In the circumstances our force
fought gloriously and withdraws from France with
all honor.
We have to face the fact that for the moment
the British contribution is not being appreciated by
the French. One cannot blame the French for that.
The ordinary man judges by what he can see for him-
self, and the French civilian could not see the British
Navy or the British bombers operating over Germany.
Moreover, the French were bitterly depressed by the
loss of Northern France.
I saw thousands of French refugees and they
were not in the same mood as those whom I had seen
earlier in Belgium. The unhappy Belgians are used to
being thrust out of their country, and they accepted it
stoically as something which had happened before
and would not last for ever. To the average French
civilian expulsion was something like a mortal blow.
Families left parents or children dead and unburied
by the roadside while they struggled on their agonising
way. But the worst thing of all for them was the
knowledge that inviolable Paris had fallen and that the
German tanks were trampling over the proudest streets
of France. Where the Belgian refugee was quietly
enduring the French refugee was in a state of dumb,
bitter despair.
The evacuation from a French port left an un-
happy taste in all our mouths, and not only because
it was our second from France within a month. Ger-
man propaganda influences had already begun making
the most of the situation and telling the French that
the British were deserting them. There were black
looks for British soldiers in the streets, our applica-
tions for hotel rooms were contemptuously refused,
and there were actually cries of “embusques” (dodgers)
when the R.A.F. pilots walked past —the pilots who,
with their pitifully few machines, had for more than
five weeks been fighting for France and Britain with a
headlong heroism which has never been surpassed.
Marshal Ney would have saluted our pilots as
men after his own reckless heart, but they were jeered
at by his countrymen as they left the soil which even
their valor had not been able to save.
* * * * *
Maginot Folly
[All the following items have been condensed from
long articles in London “Times,” written by corre-
spondents who had lately got back from France. One
of these articles, carrying in the “Times” the heading
“Maginot Madness,” recalls that the “Times,” 16/10/ ’39,
had an article with the heading “Maginot Wonders,” in
which its Paris correspondent declared: “After a visit
which included a couple of hours with an isolated battle
outpost on the edge of a forest well inside Germany
and a detailed inspection of a fortress in the Maginot
Useless Gibes.
From London “Daily Herald”:——
Mr. Duff Cooper made great play with “the dis-
graceful flight of the Italian army at Caporetto.”
He said that Mussolini’s action “would increase the
number of ruins for which Italy has long been
famous.”
What was the object of these cheap gibes? Was
it to encourage the British people? We do not
require such encouragement. Was it to intimidate
the Italian people? If that was the effect intended,
it will have the opposite.
Then Mr. Duff Cooper’s junior at the Ministry
of Information, Mr. Harold Nicolson, gave vent
to a series of comforting generalisations. His subject
was the German people. “The German possesses no
self-confidence, and seeks to fortify the uncertainty
of his nervous temperament by transferring that
confidence to some mythical leader.” When “the mists
of autumn begin to gather the German people will
look forward with terror to the winter,” and “a sense
of inevitable doom” will spread through Germany.
From such assumptions Mr. Nicolson draws
“unflagging confidence.” It is necessary to say this:
We have learned with bitterness the folly of under-
estimating our opponents. We intend henceforth to
base our confidence, not on the real or imagined
weaknesses of the enemy, but on our own efforts.


Line, I left with the conviction that the moral and
material defences of France are such as to defy any
imaginable attempt at a frontal break-through.” This
sort of spoof was, of course, common currency in pretty
well all newspapers at that time.]
Monstrous crimes have been committed against
the French Army both at the front and behind, but
the greatest folly of all was an amazing underestima-
tion of the enemy and the failure of superior officers,
even with the example of Poland before them, to see
what was coming. I would call it Maginot folly ; the
very strength of France, an almost fanatical belief
shared by every individual in the country that the
colossal Maginot forts were invincible, brought her
undoing. The soldier during long months of in-
activity, beset by the rigors of a cruel winter, began
to think that all he had to do was to sit tight behind
his chain of fortresses and the war would be won.
After the October retreat from the Saar the offensive
spirit that traditionally courses through the veins of
the French soldier began to dwindle, until, with rare
exceptions, the entire initiative even in border raids
was left to the Germans.
I found during those days curiously little hatred
of the Germans. Many officers from the last war
would tell you that this was not the enemy of 1914.
The Chief of the Deuxieme Bureau of the Seventh
Army once told me that the enemy’s advantage in the
air was offset by his disadvantage in tanks, an extra-
ordinary statement from a French intelligence officer.
1 remember asking the general who commanded the
Maginot group of armies why he had fallen back to
the French frontier in October and, moreover, had
relinquished the hill-crests already in French hands
that dominated the frontier. The answer was “Because
we were too far in front of the Maginot Line” —and
this from a man who had spent his young soldiering
days in the Foreign Legion and was the only officer in
ffie French Army who had earned an air pilot’s certi-
ficate as a general.
But he talked also of the formidable propaganda
with which the army was being assailed from the
rear—Communist propaganda that bore all the marks
of Nazi agency, of chain-letters suing for peace pre-
sented to soldiers’ wives in the villages, and the penalty
for a refusal to sign would be an anonymous accusa-
tion of infidelity addressed to the husband in the
trenches. There existed everywhere an amazing com-
placency, overconfidence among the army’s leaders,
largely old men who still looked at the conflict in the
light of the infantry engagements of the last war, and
yet, such was their faith in concrete, let the months
go by without constructing adequate trenches.
Probably the greatest blunder of all was the absurd
belief fostered in the public mind that the Maginot
Line extended from the Channel to the Mediterranean,
and here a rigid military censorship was entirely at
fault. It was forbidden to state that the defences
along the Belgian frontier consisted of little more than
thin field fortifications, which were at their weakest
along the Meuse valley ; that it was physically impos-
sible to construct the great undergroupd fortresses of
the Lorraine uplands across the northern plains. Here
was another grave form of Maginot folly ; everyone
thought he was safe behind a vast wall of forts. Dis-
illusion was all the greater when the Germans brushed
aside the flimsy defences on the Meuse and poured
fanwise through the breach.
The truth of Sedan may never be known. Some
people say that the order to blow up the bridges was
never given because they were crowded with refugees,
and mingled with them were Germans dressed as French
officers who ordered the men to abandon their posts.
It is incontestable that the weakest sector of the
frontier was being held by the weakest army—the
ninth. General Corap, the man to whom Abd-el-Krim
surrendered in the Riff, had only the elements of an
army, even with insufficient motor-cars to maintain
his staff liaisons. One division alone was holding a
sector of nearly 20 miles.
Many examples have been narrated of the heroism
of the French armies before the pitiless steel battering-
ram that assailed them night and day without relief.
Far beyond the limit of human endurance men fought
tanks throwing flame and shell; unexampled bravery
was shown by such units as the 14th division of
General de Lattre, holding the junction of two armies
at Attigny. Who knows that they might not yet have
conquered?
Leadership Lacking
The men of France were ready to fight, the people
to suffer and endure. But the supreme leadership was
lacking. Lack of foresight, fear of responsibility,
divided counsel, outmoded military thinking, and, in
some cases, a total inability to understand what Nazi
Germany stands for and intends —all played their part
in bringing France to her knees. Week after week
moral failure led to material failure ; material failure
reacted upon moral resistance ; until at last the vicious
circle of defeat was complete.
When the war began France was still in the throes
of internal political dissension and not altogether
united on the question of fighting. It was, in fact,
evident that a section of French opinion was against
the war and inclined to blame England for involving
her in support of Poland. The eight months of blood-
less war left the troops grumbling at their inactivity,
the generals comfortably convinced that their strategy
which had ignored the lesson of Poland—was fool-
proof, and the politicians happily pursuing their usual
games.
The breakthrough on the Meuse, revealing the
inadequacy of the French military preparations, forced
Reynaud to call in General Weygand and entrust him
with the wellnigh impossible task of stopping the rot.
That was fair enough. But he also called in the 84-
year-old Marshal Petain, and a fresh and most
grievous joint in the French armor lay open. Marshal
Petain had rightly won a great reputation in the last
WJ \ r ' j Ut - that was over 20 years ago. Now he was
old and tired, yet stubborn, none too friendly to the
British, and, above all, steeped in a military tradition
or tne past. He had been launched as a figurehead to
breast the seas of successful resistance ; he remained
to command a wrecked hull on the bitter waters of
defeat.
Nevertheless, for a time things seemed to go
better; the Weygand system of defence in depth
slowed the enemy advance and exacted a heavy toll.
Gradually, however, the weight of numbers and ma-
terial, above all material, began to tell. Tanks, artil-
lery, machine-guns cannot be handed over in the
middle of a hot engagement. The result was that the
same men day after day had to fight on, a sleepless,
nerve-racked, an ever-dwindling but glorious band,
while fresh troops by the hundred thousand were held
idle behind the lines.
Exodus
People who had walked from Paris and farther
north were falling from sheer exhaustion, but the
exodus was resumed. Happily the military orders to
keep the roads free were being enforced, though here
and there we still encountered great traffic blocks two
miles long—they had done their damage days before.
So across the vineyards, with the indescribable
caravan heading towards the ocean, we came into
Bordeaux in a wild crimson sunset. Bordeaux was in
turmoil and already contained about a million more
people than it could cope with. British people were
everywhere, and with them Americans, Belgians, Poles
—everyone for whom the port was the last escape.
The cafes and restaurants were thronged with the most
cosmopolitan clientele they have ever seen —diplomats
and generals, statesmen and journalists—and only one
subject was discussed.
Perhaps they saw the situation more clearly than
the man at the front; the atmosphere was less
"Daily Mirror,” London.
VIVE LE FUEHRER!
courageous. At midnight came the announcement of
the Petain Government. The martial character of the
Cabinet at first raised high hopes that at last the rot
would be stopped ; and when Marshal Petain delivered
his tragic order, doubly agonising for a soldier, many
citizens of Bordeaux wept. There was now little
time to talk, but I could not doubt that the bulk of
opinion in the street felt itself betrayed.
The quay at Verdon, where some embarked, was
strewn with dozens of motor-cars that had to be
abandoned after many an adventure. Hundreds of
the refugees were English families who had lived com-
fortably in France for many years, others came from
business houses, and many, especially the large parties
of French and Belgians, were almost penniless. Every-
one was leaving a part of his life behind ; most people
had lost everything and now despised possessions. No
praise is too high for the splendid help given by the
ship’s crew, by a voluntary aid committee at our small
port of landing, and by the passengers who had
already spent two months at sea since leaving East
Africa. Apart from the attentions of German aircraft
before we sailed, the voyage was uneventful, though
the presence of a British warship was a reassuring
sight at dawn. It all seemed unbelievable, just as it did
on the crowded terraces of Paris cafes with the Ger-
mans 30 miles away or deep down in the Maginot
forts. Such is the price of underestimating the enemy.
Germany from Within.
[The article here condensed from “Harper’s
Magazine” is by Hans Schmidt, who, after childhood in
Germany during the last war, went to the U.S.A. and
returned to be in Germany from August, 1939, to the
spring of 1940. Whether the peace terms he sets forth
are at this moment supported in Germany may be
questioned.] 1
The outstanding trend in German sentiment dur-
ing the first half-year of the war was, beyond any
doubt, a trend away from Hitler and National Social-
ism. The large majority of the German people today
would gladly sacrifice Hitler, his entourage and most
of National Socialism if by doing so they could obtain
peace, that is, an economically sound and morally
justifiable peace.
Before qualifying this statement in several direc-
tions and adding a warning note against any rash
peace dreams, I should like to say that I was never
one of those who during the past seven years pre-
dicted an earlv overthrow of Hitler. On the contrary.
I maintained—and it was a very unpopular truth in
America —that, by and large., Hitler had gained the
support —if not the confidence —of the vast majority
of the German people. Had the truce of Munich
developed into a strong Four-Power Pact and been
made a' stable basis for peace in western Europe, had
the Nazis in consequence relaxed the tension in which
they held the nation spiritually and economically, the
attitude of the German people toward Hitler person-
ally as well as toward his regime would certainly be
very different from what it is now.
A Swiss paper once stated that among the Ger-
mans there are from 10 to 15 per cent, full-fledged
National Socialists, men who would go with Hitler
“durch dick und diinn.” On the other side of the
scale there are from 10 to 15 per cent, equally deter-
mined anti-Nazis: Catholics, Liberals, Communists,
Monarchists. The “people,” that is the remaining 70
to 80 per cent., fluctuate back and forth according to
the seasons. This is probably as good an analysis as
any, though one has to keep in mind that within each
single German —-including even many German Jews—
the “pro” and “anti” elements are in a state of con-
stant conflict and fluctuation. The spring and autumn
of 1938 were especially good seasons for Hitler ; there
was something saintly and miraculous about “this man
who harvests so much and so peacefully.” The autumn
of 1939 and the spring of 1940 were bad, very bad
seasons for Hitler, and if one looks through the
weekly “Stimmungsberichte” (reports on political feel-
ing) that are drawn up by the Gestapo in minute
detail for each district and village one realises that
the Nazi high command is fully aware of the trend
of public opinion.
There has been much speculation as to whether
the National Socialists
“staged” the Biirgerbrau
explosion on November 9.
I doubt it, for one good
reason: If the Nazis put
the time bomb in the pillar
in order to arouse public
sentiment to a high pitch
of fury against the “pluto-
cratic English warmongers”
they would have shown
themselves far below their
usual standards as clever
mass psychologists. There
were no indignant out-
bursts of any sort —except
for the official outbursts
on the radio. I walked
among the crowds that
gathered near the debris
of the. ill-fated Biirger-
brau; here were the solid,
stocky, beer-drinking folks
of Munich. None of them
showed any excitement or
anger. During these past
25 years they have lived
through so much, the
World War, the revolu-
tion, inflation, depression
and the various spring and
autumn crises and then
war again. They had
learned to detest the Mus-
covites as the incarnation
of all evil—and now read
about the deep and lasting
friendship between Ger-
many and Russia. “We
don’t care a damn—as long as we live and eat” —this is
the basic and potent formula of living to which 25 years
of frantic activity, worry and suffering, including
seven years of totalitarianism, are tending to reduce
the Weltanschauung of a people that once upon a time
was called a nation of poets and thinkers.
The sentiment toward Hitler and toward the war
varies greatly of course from region to region, from
class to class, from age group to age group. In Aus-
tria, for instance, where, at the time of the Anschluss,
a majority of the people, according to my impressions
and the judgment of qualified observers, were for
Hitler, sentiment is now outspokenly hostile. Munich,
too, and its general vicinity are considered rather hos-
tile territory for the Nazis. Whereas the popularity
of the Nazis has decreased most in the big cities and
in the Catholic rural areas of the south, it is, obvi-
ously, very great in the cities and towns of central and
eastern Germany. Hitler’s particularly strong posi-
tion in the industrial, atheistic cities of Saxony seems
significant in view of the powerful position the Com-
munists held there prior to his rise. The proletarian
districts of northern Berlin, on the other hand, equally
strongly Communistic under the Weimar Republic,
have —according to the Gestapo’s own reports —pre-
served their hostile attitude toward the Nazis, even
after the Moscow pact, which should prevent us from
drawing any too definite conclusions.
It is not so generally true either, as many assume,
that Hitler’s word is law with the young people. There
is often a surprisingly critical and even cynical atti-
tude among youth between the ages of 18 and 25.
There is among the young, however, considerably less
tendency to oppose Nazism for reasons of principle
than among the older generation that had formed a
political philosophy before Hitler came to power.
On the material side the hardships of the war:
the blackouts, the rationing of food and clothes, the
almost complete sell-out of non-rationed consumption
goods,' from harps to shoestrings, the uncomfortable
traffic and travel restrictions, the prolonged working
hours, the increasing taxes, the growing threat of in-
flation, the complete disruption of ordinary com-
munity life by the holding of five or six million men
under arms—all this is too well known to need descrip-
tion in detail. What weighs more heavily, however,
are the spiritual forces—and this is perhaps the only
encouraging message I took out from Germany.
The blackouts and food rationing are not the
things that make people really bitter; they tend only


to make them think and turn their minds towards some
fundamental questions. During these many months
in Germany I became convinced of one thing, and it
is this one conviction that enables me to go on hoping
for a German and a European future: Liberty, Chris-
tianity, Decency are the three fountains from which
spring the force that some day will defeat Hitler.
Personal liberty, sheer human decency, Christian
charity and love—these are non-existent in the Nazi
totalitarian State ; millions of Germans have begun to
yearn for them since Hitler’s spell as a miracle man
of peace and eternal prosperity is dissolving.
“Remember—the Fiihrer is always right” is the
last of ten commandments posted in every restaurant.
To half of the Germans it is positively revolting. They
remember the Reichstag fire, the Rohm killings, the
concentration camps ; the£ feel ill at ease, especially
in the Catholic rural south, about the Soviet pact.
Whatever temporary success the propaganda tirade
against England may have had, a good many people
realise, and reluctantly confess, that Hitler had given
his word at Munich to leave the Czechs alone, and
that he broke this word on March 13, 1939. The
impression that Chamberlain and Daladier made on the
Germans who saw or heard them in September, 1938,
could not be erased completely; it was an impression
of decent and reasonable, sincerely peace-loving men.
But let us not deceive ourselves. Much has been
written about underground organisations in Germany.
I am inclined to disbelieve all sensational stories about
them. The Gestapo works so efficiently, and there is
so much distrust among individuals because of the
many agents provocateurs whom the police have placed
in factories, offices, restaurants and lecture halls, that
any underground organisations have been discovered
and destroyed before they could accomplish much.
There have been conspiracies of various kinds ; but
Heinrich Himmler has always kept them under con-
trol. Heinrich Himmler, the pale bureaucrat with the
eyeglasses, “Reichsfiihrer S.S. and Chief of German
police,” and his terrible machine constitute probably
the major reason that the dissatisfaction and anger of
the German people are not yet heard. The Nazis
realised that, with the outbreak of war, the political
power of the army was bound to grow, so they in-
creased the S.S. Guards, the special black troops
under Himmler, by possibly as many as several hun-
dreds of thousands. It is on the loyalty, or rather the
desperation, of these desperadoes that the fate of Ger-
many and of Europe hangs.
There are of course several other important
reasons, besides the power of the S.S. and the secret
police, why the strong feeling of discontent does not
and probably for some time to come will not break
through. One of these reasons is the lack of private
courage ( Zivilcourage ) among the Germans, especially
where the State or a uniform is concerned, a trait by
which even Bismarck was angered and amused. An-
other reason is the loyalty and soldierly discipline
that is deeply inbred in the German nation. The full
weight of Prussian-German traditions comes to Hitler’s
aid. The Nazis believe that this side of the German
character will make them win the war, just as Hitler
once before, in January, 1933, won a decisive struggle,
although his star had been on the decline for some
time. Yet the traditional soldierly loyalty to the State
would probably quickly give way to more practical
considerations if the majority of Germans could be
convinced that there is a basis for an economically
sound and morally just peace without a struggle to the
bitter end.
I have talked with a large number of Germans
about what is to be considered a just and sound basis
for peace, and systematically have tried to test out
their feelings. A peace programme, as it appeared to
be acceptable to the majority of the German people,
could be built about the following specific points:
Germany’s Contribution Toward European Peace:
Restitution of Poland as a completely independent
State, with Danzig and the basically German regions
of the Corridor and Upper Silesia remaining with Ger-
many. Poland should be granted access to the sea by
an extraterritorial rail- and auto-road and a free
port in Gdynia. Poland should be indemnified for losses
sustained through the change of borders.
Restitution of Czechoslovakia as one or two com-
pletely independent. States, according to the will of the
Czech and Slovak populations, the .basically. German
,Sudeten regions remaining within Germany. Czecho-
slovakia should maintain a free port at Hamburg.
A plebiscite in Austria as to whether the Austrians
wish to form an integral part of Greater Germany or
an independent State. (In the latter event possible
establishment of a federal Habsburg empire, comprising
Austria, Hungary and Czechoslovakia.)
The Allies’ Contribution Toward European Peace: —
A recognition in principle of Germany’s right to her
former African colonies.
Joint Undertaking: The Formation of a European
Union: —
The heads of the Governments of all European
nations (including Great Britain as a European Power,,
regardless of her overseas Empire, but excluding Soviet
Russia as a non-European Power) should meet immedi-
ately to work out a programme for a European Union.
As to the powers and functions of the organs
of the Union, German opinion appeared to tend
towards extending rather than restricting them, in view
of the failure of the League of Nations.
The major functions of the European Union, carried
out largely by the Council and its permanent staff,
would be: (a) The carrying through of disarmament and
subsequent arms supervision in all European nations.
( b ) The organisation, maintenance and command of a
joint European defence force on land, sea and in the
air to which all States contribute, (c) The guaranteeing
and safeguarding of internal European boundaries and
their revision, in case of need, through peaceful means.
(d) The supervision of the rights of national minorities.
(e) The establishment of a joint system of European
mandates in Africa, in the administration and develop-
ment of which all European nations have a share, (f)
The lowering of European tariffs, (g) The preparation
of a comprehensive Economic Plan for Europe with the
final aim of a unified credit and currency structure,
joint supervision of raw materials and basic industries,
joint undertaking of public works, joint development
of backward regions, and a system of international
loans, (h) The working out of a comprehensive cultural
and educational programme that will, however, respect
fully national cultures.
It would go considerably beyond the limits of
this article to analyse and discuss the problems and
difficulties inherent in such a peace plan. It suffices
to state here that such thoughts and plans are dis-
cussed in Germany, and I repeat that it is my sincere
and well-founded conviction that the German people
on the whole would joyfully accept such a plan if it
were put before them in the right manner and if they
were permitted to voice their opinions.
Threat to Britain.
(G. Ward Price, in London “Daily Mail.”)
Britain’s eastern and southern coasts are now
confronted everywhere by enemy bases. From Narvik
in the far north of Norway right down along the
French coast the Germans possess a number of well-
equipped harbors as possible starting-points. At its
greatest width the English Channel is only 120 miles
across, a distance that might well be covered, as Mr.
Churchill said, “on a dark night or a foggy morning.”
If Hitler’s plan is invasion, it will no doubt take
the form of converging attacks from the 1000-miles
arc of enemy-controlled territory which threatens the
whole of Britain’s eastern and southern coasts from
John o’ Groat’s to Land’s End. The task is far more
formidable than any the Germans have yet accom-
plished. Their military genius lies in thoroughness and
the painstaking adoption, on a large scale, of schemes
already tested. There is no precedent for this problem
of shipping, transporting and landing an army, with
all its equipment, in the face of a resolute adversary
having a great Fleet and efficient Air Force with which
to harass its transit, and H million trained troops to
oppose it on arrival.
Failure in this difficult undertaking might bring
about disastrous discouragement in Germany. It is
therefore possible, though perhaps not probable, that
the next German move may be to try to ring Britain
about with occupied territories. From these they
could keep all parts of the coastline under constant
threat, and thus divide the attention of its defenders.
Chicago “Tribune.”
THE COMING FIGHT TO THE FINISH.
They might also hope to impose an even closer
blockade than we could maintain against them.
From Sweden news has been coming of the con-
centration of German warships and armed transports
in Trondhjem and other Norwegian fiords. If the
German plan is investment rather than immediate in-
vasion, these forces may be intended for an attempt
to seize the Faroe Islands, that isolated, rocky archi-
pelago belonging to Denmark, situated 200 miles
north-west of the Shetlands and 400 miles west of
Norway. There might be an attempt to seize Iceland,
a country dynastically joined to Denmark and lying
on the edge of the Arctic Circle.
There is yet another, much nearer and more for-
midable potential enemy base, whether for the pur-
poses of attack or of blockade, to which we are also
compelled to give attention. It is the State of Eire,
or Southern Ireland. Though belonging to the British
Commonwealth of Nations, Eire has proclaimed her
neutrality, which we have hitherto respected, at great
risk to ourselves. This war has shown, however, that
the maintenance of neutrality does not depend solely
upon the Government which declares it. Yet at present
the first place where a German Army landing in Eire
could be opposed would be on the boundary of
Northern Ireland, and there only with the forces avail-
able within those six counties.
Japanese and Chinese Propaganda.
[From Hallett Abend’s Chaos in Asia (Bodley Head);
reviewed B. 31/7/’4O. Other extracts were given in last
week’s “Uncabled Additions.”]
The Chinese are masterly in their handling of
propaganda—and are also utterly unscrupulous. Many
will still remember with aversiQn and horror the hun-
dreds of ghastly pictures of the victims of bombings in
Shanghai that were circulated all over the world as evi-
dences of Japanese wanton atrocities. But the truth
of the matter is that most of those photographs showed
the results of Chinese bombs which, because of the
panic or ineptitude of Chinese airmen, fell in the Inter-
national Settlement or French Concession at Shanghai.
The pictures of the results of Japanese aerial
bombings at Nantao, the old “native city” of Shanghai,
were authentic, but some of them were posed. Earlier
photographs were taken after Chinese airplanes had
bombed Nanking Road and the Palace Hotel, had
killed and wounded upward of 2000 people (most of
them Chinese) at the junction of Avenue Edward VII
and Tibet Road, and had killed and wounded nearly
1000 more civilians when the Sincere and Wing On
department stores on Nanking Road were wrecked by
an Italian-made bomb dropped from a Chinese airplane
from a height of about 12,000 feet.
I hold no brief for Japan’s air force, but merely
cite these cases to show the Chinese cleverness, and
the Japanese clumsiness, at propaganda. Even during
the height of world-wide censure of Japan for shower-
ing death fronv the air upon thousands of helpless
civilians, the Japanese did not once point out that
for several years General Chiang Kai-shek’s own air-
planes had ruthlessly bombed Chinese cities and
towns. This bombing began at Foochow, when the
Nineteenth Route Army, the heroes of the fighting
against the Japanese at Shanghai early in 1932,
mutinied and rebelled. It was continued for several
years through half a dozen provinces while Chiang
Kai-shek harried the Chinese Communist armies.
Politically there is a distinction to be made be-
tween aerial bombings by an alien invader and aerial
bombings carried on by an established Government
against armies opposing it in a long civil war. But
from a humanitarian viewpoint there is no distinction
to be drawn, and the humanitarians for years viewed
Chiang Kai-shek’s bombings of Chinese civilians with
silent equanimity.
In general, anything that the newspapers cor-
rectly quote as an “official announcement” by a Japan-
ese Army spokesman may be accepted as a fact,
whereas fully half the time Chinese official military
communiques are far from the fact. When the
Japanese announce that they have captured a town or
a city, that announcement may be believed. Chinese
headquarters in Chungking will vociferously deny
the loss of the place for about three days, declaring
that all Japanese attacks are being beaten off, and then
will deceivingly admit that “for strategic reasons” they
have temporarily withdrawn. What good these Chinese
evasions and false denials are expected to accomplish
I do not know, but I do know that in the long run
they have had the effect of making most foreign cor-
respondents in China so distrustful of Chinese official
communiques that Chinese claims are usually cabled
abroad gingerly and with qualifications. Some day a
Chinese spokesman will make a truthful statement
about something of major importance —and will not
be believed.
Senator Pepper on U.S.A. Policy.
[The article here condensed was written by Senator
Claude Pepper for the New York “Post" and reprinted
in London “Daily Express.” It would make better
reading if a majority of Americans endorsed every word
of it and if no Presidential election stood in the way,
but at least it expresses views now held by many
Americans.]
Last August, with the world still at peace but the
sky rapidly darkening, President Roosevelt called to
the Senate to amend the Neutrality Act so that war
might be averted. This proposal was greeted with
contempt. The President was told his sources of in-
formation were inferior to those possessed by isola-
tionists. He was told there would be no war unless
America made the war. He was told that he was
simply an alarmist and that the Neutrality Act could
stay as it was.
Within a few weeks war was declared. The armies
of Poland were annihilated and her cities razed to the
ground before we in the U.S.A. had time to gather
our senses.
The President reconvened Congress and pleaded
with it again to amend the Neutrality Act. Once
more he was declared to be an alarmist when he
warned the U.S.A. of the imminent danger of Hitler’s
ruthless military machine. He was told that amend-
ment of the Neutrality Act would be a step towards
war. After weeks of costly delay the Act was finally
amended, too late to save peace, too late to save the
destruction of Norway, Holland and Belgium.
Despite President Roosevelt’s warnings, the
Senate watched these terrible acts with complacency.
It denied that America, in self-defence, should under-
take every peaceful action to give aid to the Allied
armies. During these months I repeatedly declared
that America’s security was endangered by Hitler’s
barbaric assaults.
I therefore introduced in the Senate on May 21
the resolution authorising the President to sell to the
Allies army aircraft that we could spare and take in
return the equivalent number of aircraft now under
construction on the Allied account. I discovered to
my sorrow that some of our Senators had evidently
learned nothing from the appalling events. They in-
formed me that I was an alarmist.
A few days after my resolution was defeated the
German Army slashed and bombed its way to the
English Channel. It moved with a speed and ruth-
lessness which astounded our military experts and
must have shaken even the most complacent of
Senators. Our people showed that they at least were
not complacent. My office was flooded with letters
urging me to press forward in my action. I conse-
quently reintroduced my resolution iij the Senate in a
broader form.
Hitler’s pitiless advance over the bodies of help-
less refugees, bombed and machine-gunned to death,
has gone on. Today only the Allied Air Force [now,
of course, only the British] stands between continued
resistance and inevitable capitulation before an in-
human aggressor. Its destruction would be a disaster
to the United States. If England were defeated
America would be next.
Only the prospect of such immediate destruction
by Hitler could lead this country to war with Ger-
many. True peace lovers will never allow that situa-
tion to arise so long as we may prevent it. The issue
is simple—either we make decisions which affect our
destiny as a nation or our enemies make them for
us. We still have power to decide for ourselves, but
we may not have it for long. We must make our stand
for peace now, when the front is still 3000 miles away,
or never. We must learn from the mistakes of the
British, for which they are now paying so dearly in
human lives. Never can we let it be said of us that
we did too little too late.


SPORTINF
NOTYONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "P ILOT ")
It’s never too late to learn. Dark David,
a disappointing flat galloper in Mel-
bourne, not an outstanding success as a
hurdler, and now 11 years old, won the
Australian Steeplechase at Flemington on
Saturday. It was his first race over
fences, and, “hurdling” them like a spec-
tacular youngster, he clipped 2\ seconds
off the previous record, which was held
by Blackford and Redditch.
* • • • • •
Few backers gave Dark David a
second thought, but trainer Des McCor-
mick is doing everything right with his
team of jumpers, and anything can
happen when a stable is in luck. McCor-
mick, a young man, and one of the most
capable in the game, has enjoyed a won-
derful innings this winter, and it was fit-
ting that he should land the Australian
Hurdle-Steeple double with Kevastar and
Dark David. He now has designs on
the Adelaide Grand National Hurdle with
Kevastar, who will contest that race if
his owner considers the weight allotted
him satisfactory. Dark David was a slow
beginner as a hurdler, but he could have
gone to the front early on Saturday had
his rider desired. He moved up second
after going about seven furlongs, chal-
lenged Lacus for the lead to the last
fence, then drew away and withstood a
strong challenge from the hunter Col-
lier, with Koke King third.
Dark David, who adds to the notable
jumpers sired by David, has stood up to
hard work and racing remarkably well.
Bred in N.S.W., he began his career as a
juvenile in W.A., and has done his share
of racing in each subsequent season. He
had won 20 races before J. M. Niall
bought him less than two years ago, and
brought him to Melbourne with the 1939
Australian Cup in view. Dark David
finished second to Pageant in that race,
for which he was prepared by his present
trainer’s brother, the late Roy McCor-
mick, and that performance was his chief
claim to fame before Saturday. Twenty
years ago Niall won an Australian Hurdle
with Kinlark, who was presented to the
Prince of Wales, now Duke of Windsor,
and was sent to England to be used as
a hack by the Prince.
Blackford went to extremes with a bril-
liant win in the G.N. Steeple and a hope-
less last in the Australian Steeple. Ridden
by F. Douglas, who substituted for L.
Meenan after the latter had been injured
in the first race of the day, he moved
freely early, but hit the fence near the
sheds the first time round, and seemed to
be off-balance for the rest of the trip.
Supporters of the G.N. Steeple runner-
up, Man of Ayr, fared little better. Man
of Ayr finished second-last, but there
was obvious excuse for his failure. Dis-
mounted after the winning-post, he
limped back to the enclosure. He had
been under suspicion for tendon trouble
since he hit his near foreleg in a race at
Moonee Valley two weeks earlier, and
it was only after a veterinary examination
on the course that he took his place in
the field.
Historian, one of the most promising
handicap horses in Melbourne, enhanced
his spring prospects when, backed from
9 to 2 down to 9 to 4, he outstayed the
English horse Moonray in the Malakoff
Stakes. Moonray looked like winning
for a stride or two when he drew level
with Historian inside the last furlong,
but the latter raised another effort and
won by half a length. It was a game per-
formance, and, as Historian was having
only his second race since a spell, im-
provement seems certain. A four-year-
old by Beau Fils from Parchment, His-
torian finished fifth in the last Caulfield
Cup, but, although that performance
pointed to his having a fair chance
in the Melbourne Cup, owner Darcy
Eccles, considering the latter race too
much of a strain for a three-year-old,
scratched him. Historian gave promise
or better things to come when he beat
Early Bird and Amiable in the mile
Brunswick Stakes at Flemington in the
autumn, and, having been given every
chance to develop, he might be a big
danger in whichever of the big handicaps
is chosen for him this spring.
The Trump, also owned by Eccles, won
the Malakoff Stakes before going on to
two Cups success in 1937, and no doubt
Eccles hopes that Historian will be good
enough to follow suit. Historian is en-
gaged in the Metropolitan, Caulfield Cup
and Melbourne Cup, and occupies a for-
ward position in the market on each of
those races. Already he has been backed
in doubles, but Eccles stated on Saturday
that he himself had not been associated
with any betting moves, that he had not
yet mapped out a definite spring pro-
gramme for his horse. “With Gladynev
in the Caulfield Cup with 6.7, it’s a bit
early to make definite plans,” was his
comment.
Moonray, though beaten, did well
enough to indicate that he will pay his
way during the spring meetings. He is
engaged in the Cups with 8.11, and per-
haps the Caulfield Cup will give him his
best opportunity. His race on Saturday
was only his second in Australia, and, on
their performances to date, Moonray
seems likely to make a bigger name for
himself than Greenwich, who races in
the same interests. Latter came from
England with the better reputation, and
is handicapped above his stable-mate in
the Cantala Stakes and Cups, but seem-
ingly Moonray has acclimatised better. At
all events, no excuse was possible for
Greenwich’s failure to finish closer than
third to Carpentier and Burrabil in the
first division of the St. Aubin Welter on
Saturday. He had a big weight, 10.4, but
had the run of the race also. Pure Gold,
also from the Holt stable, was a runner
for the Malakoff Stakes, but finished a
long way back after being second to the
home turn. He looked above himseif in
condition, as did Landlaw, who was
never dangerous.'
Velocity carried only 7.8 against the
8.9 of the topweight, Damocles, in the
Chatsworth Plate, but he showed' speed
and gameness in winning by a neck from
Dark Felt, and more will be heard of
him. He is by Veilmond from Mooch
Along, and was bought as a yearling by
trainer S. B. Ferguson for 600 guineas
for E. J. Kennon and H. G. Allen.
Velocity, who had prejudiced his chance
by running greenly in previous races, was
always favorite on Saturday, but there
was also good money for his stable-
mates Warbird and Corredor. Warbird,
backed from sevens to fours, lost ground
at the start and finished only sixth, but
Corredor (Harinero-Radiosa) drew atten-
tion to his immediate prospects by a
fast-finishing and close fourth. Dark
Felt’s form was the best he has shown,
and he will win races for owner Frank
Musgrave. Latter’s son trains Dark Felt,
who is by Spearfelt, and probably will
improve with age. General Havelock
shaped well in third place, and Damocles,
who has developed considerably since
last in work, showed up well at the
finish in fifth position.
Harold Badger recorded his fifth
metropolitan win for the new season
when he survived a protest after Car-
pentier had beaten Burrabil half a neck
in the first division of the St. Aubin
Welter. The two horses fought a duel
from the half-mile, and although Burra-
bil, on the inside, did appear to suffer
a slight check about half a furlong from
home, stewards did not consider the inter-
ference, if any, serious enough to affect
the result. Carpentier, who had won the
corresponding race a year earlier, is
leased for the duration of his racing
career by trainer Elwood Fisher. His
most important spring engagement is the
Cantala Stakes with 7.13, and he might
improve sufficiently to better his third
with 7.9 to Manrico and Landlaw in
that race last year.
*••••#
John Dory, hitherto a maiden per-
former, upset the Scarlet Toi applecart
when, favored by a rails run, he out-
stayed the Irish horse and beat him in the
last stride in the second St. Aubin
Welter division. Scarlet Toi was sup-
posed to have a mortgage on the race,
but there were some good winners over
John Dory, whose price shortened from
15’s to eights. John Dory is a four-year-
old by Marconigram from Trevally, and,
like many Marconigrams, probably will
improve with age. Originally raced by
A. W. Thompson and the late E. L.
Baillieu, he was sold for 825 guineas
last year, but still races in Baillieu and
Thompson interests. Trained by Frank
Musgrave, John Dory paid an unsuccess-
ful visit to last autumn, but
he will be a much better horse this
spring. His engagements include the
Cantala Stakes with 6.13, Caulfield Cup
with 6.7 and Melbourne Cup with 7.0.
Laurie Meenan, star cross-country
rider, was involved in a nasty fall with
Bridge of Dee in the Arkaringa Hurdle,
thus necessitating rush engagements of
other jockeys for the Australian Steeple
favorite Blackford and for Tornarsuk
ip the Knowsley Steeplechase. A. Dris-
coll substituted on Tornarsuk, but,
although the latter finished second, he
had no chance with Dornford. Always a
clear-cut favorite, Dornford ran to the
front three fences from home, and was
not afterwards headed. A good hurdler,
he looks like being an equal success as
a ’chaser. His record over fences is
three starts for two wins. Deckard,
racing for the first time since the spring,
tailed off early, then weakened under
his 12.0 after throwing out a challenge
in the straight. It was not a lucky day
for owner “S. A. Rawdon,” who had
run second with Collier in the Australian
Steeple, but £3OO for that placing, plus
£5O for Deckard’s third, was some con-
solation.
Atticus, costing 450 guineas last
March, won his second race for Abe Silk
when he led throughout the Arkaringa
Hurdle, and wound up with lengths to
spare from Bozzago. Both his wins have
been at cramped prices, but Silk bets
well, and has found him a splendid pro-
position. Atticus had nothing much to
beat on Saturday, but no horse could
have won more easily, and, being only
five years old, he should keep on im-
proving. Silk is fond of jumpers, and
not so long ago remarked that he “would
have plenty of fun with his horses” this
winter. He has had plenty of fun —and
profit. Between (hem, Kevastar and
Atticus have won him four races in recent
weeks.
* * * *
At Saturday’s Rosehill meeting seven
of the eight races were productive of
double-figure fields. The August Handi-
cap was the exception, and that was re-
sponsible for the most exciting finish of
the afternoon. Gimme and Highborn
did the pacemaking, but Mischief and
Bristol were practically level over the last
furlong. From where I viewed the race
Bristol appeared to make the dead-heat
with Mischief.
In the Flying Handicap the Maori-
lander Nightbeam gave a taste of his
quality, and his form must have surprised
even his owner and trainer, seeing he
started at 10 to 1. Sir Regal, Samurai
and Tarn were the leaders at the top of
the straight, where Nightbeam was sixth
or seventh, but Sir Regal and Tarn weak-
ened, and though Samurai hung on
gamely he was outstayed by Nightbeam,
with Sethia a' moderate third. It was
stated recently that Jocular had been
backed for the Epsom, but his form
scarcely tended to optimism on the part
of his supporters for that race; and
though Jazbeau could not have looked
better he never ran worse. Fearless Fox,
though very bright, did not show up.
Considering he carried a pound over
weight-for-age, and beat a useful field, it
is a pity Nightbeam’s engagements do not
include the Hobartville Stakes, at seven
furlongs. As a yearling Nightbeam cost
Mrs. W. D. Graham 325gn5., and she
sold him to F. W. Hughes for £l5OO
and an additional £5OO if he wins the
Derby.
Backed as if he were a certainty for
the first division of the Granville Novice
Stakes. Panabil made an indifferent
showing. I thought he moved in slightly
cramped fashion in his preliminary, and
in the race, after commencing well, he
was unable to hold his position. Revelry
was the early leader, with Cumberland
well placed, but the winner turned up in
Moocher. He narrowly defeated Paul
Muni, who a furlong from home.
Under his light weight Cumberland
stayed fairly, and Macduff, Revelry and
imported Burhan Ali were nearest the
place-getters. The last-named, who had
one unplaced run in England last year,
is a shapely colt by Umidwar, and,
though he rates as a four-year-old to our
time, is actually a little over six months
short of that age. He is now to be given
a good chance of acclimatising, and may
not be raced again until next year. Dur-
ing his absence he will be given a few
mares at his owner’s stud.
-Dunkerry’s good run at Moorefield
prepared backers for her success in the
second division of the Granville Novice.
After Elson and Sanpam had cut at each
other up to the turn Dunkerry came
through and won easily from consistent
Dicktom and the heavily-backed Trump
Card, who was being hard ridden at an
early stage, and is seemingly not as good
as supposed. Gas, who did well down
the straight, was fourth, and should
shortly pick up a race. Dunkerry, who
is raced and trained by L. A. Haigh, is
by Dunnottar from Booralie, by Rose-
worthy from Burletta.
In the Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap Brazen Lad proved that his attack of
bleeding in the Moorefield Handicap the
previous week did him no harm. Run-
ning past Novice along the back he was
not troubled to win from the latter and
Pannade, who will be useful this season,
even if not quite up to first-class handi-
cap standard. Irish Sea, though fourth,
did not at any stage look better than a
minor-place possibility, nor did Metallic.
His excellent condition did not enable
Shem to give any trouble, and Two Ton
Tony, who has furnished into a fine colt,
can stand more racing to get him into
form.
Scientist, the popular selection for the
first division of the Maiden Handicap,
could not get near the front, and Hydra,
who led past the half-mile post, had an
easy win from Happy Lass, who was his
nearest follower most of the way. The
Beau- Pere colt Beauregard (575gns. as a
yearling) was third, then Mentor, Resign
and Olive Branch, who has yet to live up
to his relationship to Manolive. Decelea
showed her two-year-old pace, and at six
furlongs should win a race of this class.
Hydra is by Bullhead from Eager Air
(Redfern-Diamond Hill), and is raced
and trained by W. A. Ross.
B. Payten, who will be strong in three-
year-olds this season, won the second
division of the Maiden Handicap with
the compactly-built colt Evergreen, whom
he owns and trains. After going half a
mile Evergreen led from Pierce and John
Halifax, and they finished in that order.
Racing will improve John Halifax and
Pierce, but Payten has a useful colt in
Evergreen, a son of Chatham and
Emerald (Constant Son-Kilkenny Lass).
It is a good sprinting pedigree, and Ever-
green may prove a genuine bargain at his
yearling price of 250gns. Canvasser was
fourth most of the way, but was scarcely
doing as well at the finish as Mabonga,
who was nearest him. O’Raklo and
Pinero are nice colts, and will improve.
The Parramatta Mile gave Rathlin his
third successive win, and he again led all
the way. At the turn Baveon, Sign On
and Sologram were within striking dis-
tance of Rathlin, but he went away again
after turning into the straight. Spear-
dale and Baveon dead-heated for second,
and close behind them Sologram, Will
Rogers, Hope and Osculum were fairly
bunched. As the last-named was doing
better at the winning-post than any other
of the unplaced division he may be worth
backing when he next runs in a nine or
ten furlongs race.
* * * *
High Caste’s half-mile in 48sec. at
Rosehill demonstrated that he was for-
ward in condition and will be ready
to give a good account of himself in the
Warwick Stakes at the end of this month.
Of course he did not carry his Epsom
weight in Saturday’s spin, but he had a
little over Bst., and, as he was not pushed
out, his time did not compare unfavor-
ably with Nightbeam’s 1.13 in the Flying
Handicap. High Caste’s massiveness is
as pronounced as ever, and, while his
trainer has never taken his girth measure-
ment, his height some time ago was 16. H.
He has grown a little since then. His
Warwick Stakes opponents will probably
include Beaulivre among the older horses
and Nightbeam of the younger division,
and the result should give a fair idea as
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Laluma Handicap: Pandect, 1 ;
Sun Valley, 2 ; General Havelock, 3.
Trial Handicap: Isambard, 1;
Manu Ford, 2 ; Manurere, 3.
Melrose Steeplechase: Deckard,
1 ; Dornford, 2 ; Koke King, 3.
Glenara Handicap: Mac Rob, 1 ;
Sir Grey, 2 ; Pantoon, 3.
Kiata Handicap: Aurie’s Star, 1 ;
Chatsbury, 2 ; Bursary, 3.
Argyle Welter: Spearwings, 1 ;
Tranent, 2 ; Burrabil, 3.


to the prospects of each v in their
A.J.C. spring engagements. The seven
furlongs course at Randwick provides
a good run, and little excuse will be pos-
sible for horses beaten in the Warwick
Stakes. Each of the three named will
carry weight-for-age, the conditions pro-
viding for allowances but not penalties.
Defaulter won last year.
Evergreen, Moocher and Hydra, three-
year-old winners at Rosehill, are in the
A.J.C. Derby, but in view of the recent
failures of the last-mentioned two in han-
dicaps for horses of their own age, they
will have to do a lot more during the
next few weeks to be seriously considered
as classic propositions. Evergreen looks
as if he might stay, though his pedigree
does not appeal greatly in that respect;
nor does that of Hydra, and if there is
a Derby surprise jt is improbable it will
come from either. John Halifax, third
in Evergreen’s race, is in the Derby, but
while he is a stylish colt he will have
to make marked improvement in a few
weeks to put him in line with John,
Lucrative, Nightbeam, Pandect and Tidal
Wave.
Fearless Fox has done well since last
autumn, and though his showing in Night-
beam’s race was not impressive, it is too
early to say that he is not going to be
up to Derby form. Tidal Wave may be
given another race before the Hobart-
ville Stakes, in which Lucrative and John
are also engaged. The last-named is the
form horse of Randwick’s Derby candi-
dates, but the Victorians Lucrative and
Pandect, on A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
running, will be formidable opponents.
Pandect is generally expected to stay
better than Lucrative —this, in a measure,
because he is by Pantheon, and the other
colt is by Gay Lothario. Still, others
bred on the same paternal and maternal
lines as Lucrative have shown form up
to two miles, and it is therefore reason-
able to expect him to get a mile and a
half.
* * * *
During the past week there have been
more alterations in Metropolitan than
Epsom betting. Beaulivre and High Caste
axe equal favorites for the Epsom, with
El Golea, Gold Salute and Mildura next;
while Reading is a definite favorite for
the Metropolitan. He is succeeded by
Beau Vite, Gundagai and Pantler ; with
Beaulivre, Beaupartir and Mosaic on the
third line.
* * * *
With the possibility of reduction in
fixtures hanging over them, the Asso-
ciated Racing Clubs —Ascot, Rosebery,
Kensington and Victoria Park —have
made a diplomatic move in proposing to
hold a meeting each quarter for the bene-
fit of war funds. It is left to the Chief
Secretary to decide which war fund shall
benefit, but it is suggested by the clubs
that before any meeting is held the
particular organisation to receive the pro-
fits should be named. A good idea, as
it will mean the addition of many willing
workers to make a success of a fixture
in which they interested.
* * * *
The Beau Pere-Banita colt, owned by
A. E. Cooper, is to race as Beau Son.
At last season’s yearling sales at Rand-
wick he topped the list at 3500gn5., and
is being trained by J. T. Jamieson. An
owner plucky enough to pay that price
for a yearling deserves to get hold of
something good, but two- and three-year-
old races in Sydney and Melbourne—the
two Derbies alone —give the opportunity
for a return of considerably more than
Beau Son cost.
* * * *
Hurdlers have won at their first attempt
at steeplechasing over other Melbourne
courses, but success in a V.R.C. Grand
National Steeplechase in those circum-
stances was something decidedly unusual.
Dark David, who accomplished that feat,
ran second in last year’s Australian Cup,
but recently all his racing has been done
over hurdles. As a yearling he was
bought for 55gns. by the well-known
Sydney racing broadcaster M. Ferry on
behalf of A. E. Cockram.
* * * *
Pantheon, with 44 winners of 80 races
and £30,423 prize-money, headed, the
winning sires’ list in Australia last season.
If Beau Pere’s Maoriland winners were
included his total would have been
£31,295. In addition to Pantheon im-
ported stallions in the first 12 in the list
were The Buzzard, Marconigram, Gay
Lothario, Ronsard, Brazen, Bulandshar
and Constant Son. Heroic, fourth on the
winning list with 36 winners of 84| races
and £23,859, did better than any other
Australian-bred stallion.
* * * *
Time in races at any meeting is not
always a good guide in the selection of
winne'rs at subsequent fixtures, but it is
always interesting for purposes of com-
parison, and where middle or long dis-
tances are concerned gives a fair idea
as to whether a race has been truly run.
There was only one middle-distance race
at Rosehill on Saturday, that being the
August Handicap, in which Mischief and
Bristol dead-heated in 2.6 —a second and
three-quarters worse than the track
record. There were two at a mile, and
in these Brazen Lad and Rathlin recorded
the same time, the former carrying 8.2
and the latter 8.11.
Each won easily, and if any handi-
capper allowed time to enter into his
calculations he would, if dhey were en-
gaged in the same mile race —welter pre-
ferably—during the next three or four
weeks, be justified in putting 91b. between
them. However, the class of horses
beaten naturally counts more with handi-
cdppers than time, and Rathlin had
stronger opposition than Brazen Lad.
Rathlin’s owner now has his eye on the
Metropolitan, and, so far as staying is
concerned, the chestnut’s sire, Glenariff,
is a half-brother by Valais to Belgamba
(V.R.C. and A.J.C. St. Leger winner), and
his dam, Tibbie, won two Tattersall’s
Cups and ran third in a Sydney Cup.
Epsom and Metropolitan doubles end-
ing with Historian were recently taken
in Sydney, but that horse’s owner denied
he had anything to do with the business.
Historian, with 8.0 in the Metropolitan,
is more favorably treated than in either
the Caulfield Cup (8.4) or Melbourne
Cup (8.6). Looking at the matter in that
light, the backer who took doubles
ing with Historian thought the risk was
warranted. If Gladynev shows form dur-
ing the coming month, Eccles may prefer
to avoid him in the Caulfield Cup, and
may give serious thought to the Metropoli-
tan, with its £3BOO first money and bet-
ting opportunities. If Historian misses
he can still tackle the Caulfield Cup or
Melbourne Cup with the weight origi-
nally allotted him.
* * * *
Old Rowley’s close second to Tel Asur
in the Rosebery Handicap was a sur-
prise. Now seven years old, and out
of the winning list since April, 1938,
he was meeting Tel Asur only a pound
better than weight-for-age, and, with the
assistance of another 50 yards, might
have beaten him. Old Rowley has Bst.
in the Metropolitan, and, if he continues
sound, may enter into calculations. He
was backed for the last Sydney Cup,
in which he had 8.4, and ran fourth.
Two days later he was similarly placed
in the City Handicap with 8.11 to the
8.1 of the winner, Own Folk. In the
last twenty years there have been two
aged winners of the Metropolitan-
Laddie Blue and Strength.
* * * *
Entrants for the Metropolitan suggest
that The Buzzard is the sire whose
progeny receive most credit as either
proved or potential stayers. His repre-
sentatives in that race are Buzalong, Own
Folk, Tragopan, Early Bird, Katanga,
Seven Fifty, True Flight, Old Rowley,
Six Fifty, Buzzal, Anpapejo, Yuvoh,
Buzmond, Serenade and Aristocrat.
Pantheon, who died recently, comes next
in numbers with Feminist, Bristol,
Pantler, Vestal, Baveon, Gundagai, Sir
Regal, Copreus, Pierce, Tinker Bell,
Pannade, Cronus and Edifice. The dif-
ficulty of selecting yearlings that are
likely to make stayers is emphasised by
the fact that in the last 26 years Chief
Ruler is the only sire with more than
one winner of the Metropolitan. Sir
Regent and Royal Chief won for him,
and they were not bred in Australia.
*■* * *
To trainers there are few greater pests
than owners’ advisers —individuals who,
when the owner is not winning races, are
ready to tell him his trainer’s methods
are all wrong. Their knowledge of track
work is gleaned from reading the gal-
lops in papers, and they have no idea
of the feeding or general treatment of
horses. Still, that does not prevent them
from posing as authorities, and owners
who are comparatively new to the game
may be disposed to take notice of them.
In consequence this occasionally means
change of trainers, the man who is
getting his turn of luck, and temporarily
most in the limelight, receiving prefer-
ence. There are owners who are stickers,
and are prepared to take the bad with
the good, but there are others who, re-
garding racing as a “get-rich-quick”
business, are disappointed if their hopes
are not realised, and accordingly change
their trainers, reduce their teams or go
out altogether.
* * * *
There are only two turf tracks in
America, one at Arlington Park (Chicago)
and the other at Hialeah Park (Miami).
They are not used regularly, but if the
Arlington Park people adhered to their
original intention there was one race a
day on the turf at it's recent meeting, in-
stead of only two or three in a week, as
in previous years. The circumference of
the track is a mile. Canada has one turf
track; Sydney had one dirt track which
was raced on regularly. That was the
old Driving Park at the present show-
ground.
“■ * * * *
H. Dulieu was Maoriland’s most suc-
cessful trainer during the recently-con-
cluded season. He won 51 races, 20 of
his team being successful. His biggest
earner was Footloose, whose return for
five wins, three seconds and a third was
£1195. Dulieu’s total in prize-money was
£7BlB. W. J. Broughton led the jockeys
with 59 wins.
* * * *
Following are the names of some of
the four-figure yearlings sold at Rand-
wick last autumn: Beau Port (Beau Pere-
Grey Port), 2200gn5.; War Ace (Hall
Mark-Euglena), 1400gns.; The Cham-
pion (Spearfelt-Sere Vale), 1300gns.;
Goldbrook (Medieval Knight-Helens-
brook), 1300gns.; Yarrala (Buzzard-Even
Keel), 1200gns.; Beau Coureur (Beau
Pere-Nirriti), llOOgns.; and Truewit
(Harinero-Truest), 1 lOOgns.
* * * #
The idea of introducing novelties at the
Red Cross meeting at Randwick next
month evidently appeals to some mem-
bers of the committee. Well, why not
go a little further than at present pro-
posed? The monkey and marbles, goose
and tickets, three-card trick, under and
over seven, etc., on the lawn would be
decidedly unusual though common
features on the flat at many old-time race
meetings in Sydney. They provided
amusement and experience the latter
occasionally costly for many people.
Owners, trainers and bookmakers intent
on business might not be altogether
pleased with such an innovation, but
still “Who are they?” by comparison with
any society notabilities —male or female
—who might wish to appear in unusual
roles in the photographic section of news-
papers. So far as regular racegoers are
concerned, good horses and the prob-
ability of interesting racing will attract
them without stunts of any kind being
necessary.
# * * #
It has often been suggested that
racing in New South Wales would not
suffer if the minimum in handicaps were
made 7st. against the present 6.7.
Jockeys, as a whole, would have no
fault to find. Of the 102 jockeys licensed
by the A.J.C. for the current season only
three can go to scale at less than 7st.
—C. J. Findlay and J. E. Duncan 6.13
each, and J. White 6.12. Inclusive of
these three only eight can go to scale at
less than 7.5. There are 18 apprentices
who can ride at 6.7, the lightest of all
being A. G. Mulley, whose weight is
given as sst.
* * * *
Interesting items in the A J.C.’s balance
sheet for the past season are: Donations
to aged trainers and jockeys, £2272 125.;
maintenance of Canonbury Home for
convalescent children, £4783 10s. 4d.;
subsidies to country racing associations,
£4878 10s. 6d.; and donations for war
purposes, £13,370 18s. Whatever profits
are made by the A.J.C. they are dis-
tributed in commendable fashion.
* * * *
Licenses issued by the A.J.C. for
trainers at Randwick and those who
train elsewhere are nearly the same in
number as last season. There has been
a great reduction in training permits,
which suggests that applications were
fewer than usual, or, which is more
likely, the licensing committee had arrived
at the conclusion that the privilege was
being abused. In the March A.J.C.
Calendar permits totalled 200; but in
the one issued this month the number
was reduced to 142—since increased by
three. A few “permit” trainers have
been added to the No. 2 division, but it
appears as if most of those who have
been dropped did not possess even the
qualifications in the way of horses or
stables necessary for a permit.
* * * *
Bookmakers’ licenses issued by the
A.J.C. for Randwick for the current
season are as follows: Saddling paddock,
105 ; leger reserve, 120 ; flat, 124. Book-
making is not as good as business as
it was, but these figures point to there
still being a satisfactory living in it.
Licensed bookmakers’ clerks total 332.
* * * *
It was surprising to read that a section
of Maoriland farmers took exception to
the continuation of racing—they are sup-
posed to benefit through growing feed—
and intended putting their views before
the Government. They must have done
so, as it was cabled last week that the
Minister for Internal Affairs (Mr. Parry)
said the Government could not see any
reason for abruptly interfering with
horse-racing. Incidentally, we have not
heard anything further with respect to re-
duction of racing in and about Sydney,
and perhaps the idea has been tern-
porarily dropped. Racing would lose
nothing if some meetings were dispensed
with, but there is no sound reason for
depriving metropolitan clubs of Wednes-
days or Saturdays.
* * * *
The Jockey Club of South Africa has
taken over the control of stipendiary
stewards in that country instead of leav-
ing it to the individual clubs that pre-
viously employed them. In this month’s
Australian Jockey Club’s Calendar the
South African ruling body is advertising
for four stipendiary stewards at £lOOO a
year each. Applications must reach
Johannesburg by Sept. 30. The salary
should appeal to some of those racegoers
who are always ready to criticise Sydney
stewards. If you took heed of some of
those faultfinders who are always ready
to query “What are the stewards doing?”
you might think those officials had a soft
job ; they haven’t.
* * * *
As jockeys’ ages go, A. Knox is ap-
proaching the veteran class, but recently
he has been riding with all the vigor he
displayed a few years ago, and his ser-
vices are again in strong demand. At
one period of his apprenticeship a horse
named Earl Derby, trained by the late
J. Barden, did more to bring Knox under
notice than anything else he rode. Knox
has some important races to his credit,
these including the Caulfield Guineas
(Palphar), two Caulfield Cups (Denis
Boy and Journal), Maribyrnong Plate
(Rapsonia), Victoria Derby (Talking),
Cantala Stakes (Dermid), Williamstown
Cup (Yarramba), V.R.C. Produce Stakes
(L’Elite), V.R.C. St. Leger (Allunga), Aus-
tralian Cup (Topical), A.J.C. Derby (Talk-
ing and dead-heat on Homer), A.J.C. St.
Leger (Allunga), Challenge Stakes
(Golden Gate), Anniversary Handicap
(Satmoth and Topical) and Summer Cup
(Sir Ross). Perhaps some are omitted,
but sufficient are enumerated to show
that Knox has had a full share of racing
plums. Last week he rode two winners
at Victoria Park, one at Menangle, one
at Maitland and two and a half at Rose-
hill.
* * * •*
The A.J.C.’s new rule debarring horses
from running in jumpers’ flat races unless
they have completed the course in three
hurdle races or steeplechases within the
preceding two years meets with general
approval. It was absurd that one run
over the jumps should have qualified a
horse for jumpers’ flat races.
* * * *
The Aga Khan recently sold Bahrain
for £40,000 sterling to go to America.
If Turkhan had won the Derby instead
of running second to Pont l’Eveque it is
probable Bahram’s buyers would have
had to pay more for him. Evidently the
Aga Khan has decided it is little use
attempting to carry on as a breeder, and
is selling his horses as opportunity offers.
* * * *
Tote betting was light at Newmarket
on New Derby day, the turnover for the
six races being £31,202 ss. Of this
£11,347 was put through on the Derby,
Pont l’Eveque, paying nearly 23 to
1 against his 10 to 1 with the bookmakers.
The best price bet against him on the
course was 14 to 1. He paid slightly over
5 to 1 on the place tote. Backers were
evidently influenced by the fact of Rich-
ards being on the stable’s other represen-
tative, Tant Mieux. Touching on Derby
day attendance one London writer ex-
pressed doubt whether it greatly ex-
ceeded 30,000. Decidedly different from
the tremendous crowds that witnessed the
Derby at Epsom in pre-war years.
* * * *
At latest many English trainers were
combining farming with training. They
were turning their pastures into arable
land, growing wheat and other food-
stuffs. Referring to this, an English
writer says trainers and farmers have
much in common. The weather is hardly
ever right for either. It’s the same all
the world over. There is something
wrong with a trainer who hasn’t a griev-
ance of some kind.
* * * *
Few stallions improve after they are
five, but at six years it seems as if El
Golea is going to be better than at any
previous time. Manrico ran well in some
w.f.a. races last season, but in the Moon-
dah Plate run recently at Flemington El
Golea gave him 51b. and a few pounds’
beating. El Golea is to oppose Ajax in
the Underwood Stakes at Mooijee Valley
on the 24th of this month, and the result
may determine whether he visits Sydney
for spring racing. He is a great weight-
carrier, but in the Epsom Handicap he
has a tidy load in 9.8. In the Doncaster
he was third with 9.4, and will meet
Beaulivre 71b. better, but only 51b. better
than when the latter again finished ahead
of him in the All-Aged Plate, won by
Ajax. Since their last meeting the w.f.a.
scale allows for 81b. improvement on the
part of Beaulivre by October, and 21b. by
El Golea. High Caste, who was un-


Business for Sale.
VETERINARY PRACTICE FOR SALE
in Deceased Estate.
Established for Many Years.
Comprising freehold land containing approxi-
mately half acre with a frontage to two streets
in Forestville, South Australia, and situated
within three miles of Adelaide G.P.O. Improve-
ments : substantial freestone and brick bun-
galow, 5 rooms, sleep-out, servery, electric
stove, laundry, electric washer, attractive bath-
room with all latest appointments, tiled floor,
etc. “Terrazo” verandah and paths, 4 horse
shelters and pens, galv. iron fencing, 3 loose
boxes, sand patch, brick fodder shed, stone
office with 6 brick-floored loose boxes, attached
brick garage, mixing room, modern laboratory,
tar-paved courtyards. Fitted as veterinary
hospital, veterinary instruments and medicines—
all m excellent condition.
This is an unequalled opportunity for any
veterinary surgeon interested.
Appiy by letter for particulars from the
Executor of the Estate,
H. A. ALDERSON,
a xV 4° £ J.C. & L. M. HOGAN,
A.M.P. Building, King William Street,
Adelaide.
w
m
§
mm
$
<<<:■:
•Xj.XvX
*
<yyy
■mm
m
IVSROBT'S
R ED ° B
.tttVftN** 110
IRON
\ ptv.
«rttT P
3H h sbGHT melboOT „, — e '
sydn «. *»»&$&!*
® For a roof that is both
rigid and permanent
that can be erected
quickly and cheaply,
there is no satisfactory
substitute for Lysaght's
Red Orb Galvanized Iron.
Over 175,010 tons sold
within the Commonwealth
every year.
placed in the Doncaster with 9.0, will
meet El Golea lib. better in the Epsom.
* * * *
Without the usual heavy contribution
by owners in the way of forfeits, the
English New Derby at Newmarket was
of much less value than the Derby regu-
larly run at Epsom. Nevertheless it was
a stake worth winning. Its total value
was £7050, of which the winner’s share
was £5892 10s. The New Oaks was of
much less- value than the Derby, being
worth only £2950, of which £2407 10s.
went to the winner.
* * *
The Canterbury Park Club’s pro-
gramme for Sept. 7 carries £2025 prize-
money, but the committee announces
that it reserves to itself the right of re-
ducing the amounts of the prize-money
—Canterbury Guineas excepted—and
acceptance fees advertised. Unless the
seriousness of the war should tend to
that end, Canterbury is unlikely to have
reason for cutting down its stakes. Its
recent meetings have been particularly
well patronised, and such races as
the Canterbury Stakes and Canterbury
Guineas should attract a large crowd.
* * * *
Among those killed on active service in
France this year was Lieut. J. K. Muir,
one of England’s keenest and most cap-
able riders over the jumps. At last year’s
Grand Military fixture he won the Grand
Military Hunters’ Steeplechase and Grand
Military Handicap Steeplechase the same
afternoon. At the time of his death his
team was under the superintendence of
his sister, Miss Jill Muir.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Hockey Gets Square
Fighting at Leichhardt almost as well
as the welter champion of Australia
ought to fight, Hockey Bennell squared
a slight debit balance he had outstanding
with Jack Brander.
At the same address a week or two
back Jack staggered all hands and
Hockey by outfighting the champion and
knocking him cold. On that occasion
Hockey seemed a trifle cocky, and as
well looked short of a gallop; he hadn’t
fought for about six months. For last
Thursday night’s title engagement Hockey
pranced into the ring looking as fit as
Ajax. He hasn’t the phiz of a scrapper,
being deceptively endowed with youthful
good looks, unmarked, and topped by a
backflow of long tawny thatch. He
tipped the beam at 10.2 y, giving Jack
3ilb., and from the first bell went out
to give Jack a lesson not only in the
lighter line of the art, but in the solid
stuff as well.
Jack owns a useful straight left and
left hook, but mainly he’s what he looks
like—a fighter—and he, too, went into
it right away. For three rounds it was
very even, packed with action, nothing
much between them, but, if anything, a
shade Hockey’s way. Jack’s plan was
to hustle Hockey, and,- crowding him to
the ropes, he got in some hearty hitting
to the tummy. But Hockey—as clean a
piece of work bodily as he is a boxer —
was as strong and fit as he looked. He
took the body stuff and a fair left hook
or two without inconvenience, flashing
his fast left out and catching Jack with
troublesome short rights as he was com-
ing in. In the fourth round Hockey let
himself go, fighting furiously but
cleverly^—for half a minute every inch
of a champion. It was a clinking round ;
the pace a cracker, the hitting by both
fast and hard. Towards the end of it
Jack dropped his right hand and shook
it, but fought on.
In the fifth Hockey was well on top.
He had Jack retreating and showing
signs of distress. It looked then as if
Hockey would wear the challenger down,
but the end was near without that effort.
Jack’s right hand was patently troubling
him, but there’s a whole family of these
Branders, and there’s fight in the lot of
them, and when ref. Pearson walked
over to Jack’s corner to ask after
the health of the damaged mitt
Jack still chose to fight. He might
as well have turned it in, for he had
to do so two rounds later, when Hockey
nearly outed him with a right uppercut,
and by then the damaged hand was a
heavy liability. Jack fought out those
two rounds gamely with his left, but,
apart from the crook paw, he’d struck
Hockey in the very best of nick and
fighting at his top.
The Leichhardt people, with their cus-
tomary good sense, did their best to make
the whole night’s scrapping worthy of a
championship encounter. Among the
prelims, they had two other champs, in
action —Jack Deakin, the Australian fly-
weight title-holder,' who took a beating
from Jackie Ryan, out of Hop Harry
Stone’s stable ; and Jimmy Dundee, the
N. S. Wales lightweight champ., who dis-
posed of Tiger Parkes per technical k.o.
in five rounds. Jackie Ryan deserves a
special mention in these dispatches. In
the second round he was down for nine,
and then took so much that the ref.
wanted to know if he was fit to carry on.
He made a fine recovery and steadily im-
proved to emerge a clear winner. As for
Jimmy, he stalked the Tiger in his usual
determined manner, and in the third,
fourth and fifth rounds had him on the
canvas so often that present scorer lost
count, as no doubt also did the Tiger.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
The short game—loo yards or less to
the hole—is a different proposition in
the United States from what it is on
Australian and British courses. Peculiari-
ties of the American courses make the
pitch-and-run shot, used extensively in
England and to a great extent on our
own courses, a stroke rarely seen in the
U.S.A. In its place the high pitch-shot
is nearly always played ; this shot, a
more spectacular one to watch, has been
developed by the Americans to a high
degree.
This difference in the play can be
directly traced to the fact that the season
here is held during the summer months,
from May to September, on courses
where, by extensive watering, the grasses
become much softer and more luxuriant
than in Australia. Unused during the
winter months, they receive close atten-
tion in the spring. By June they are in
perfect order, and in the middle of
summer are just as soft as our courses
are in the winter.
Sown mainly with Kentucky blue grass,
which must have plenty of water, the
courses with this turf all have under-
ground watering systems capable of soak-
ing the whole course nightly with thou-
sands of gallons. With the fairways hav-
ing such a depth of grass on them right
from the tee to the edge of the green,
there is only one way from the fairway
to the putting surface, and that is by
the “all-air route” ; the ball must be hit
up into the air and dropped safely on
the green, as “running” the ball up safely
is nearly impossible.
Since getting used to these local con-
ditions I have discarded my chipper and
have added an extra pitching club to
handle these higher-flying shots. So soft
is the turf around the greens that the
leading players use their sand-irons to
pitch to the flag ; the bump on the sole
prevents the club from slipping too easily
under the ball that lies so comfortably on
these fairways. This shot is very seldom
played on the harder Australian fair-
ways, because of the grass being thinner
and harder, but I have found my sand-
iron most helpful off the fairway when
close to the green on the American
courses.
Our milder climate may produce more
even greens. Anyway, the greens at the
Australian Club in Sydney, at the Royal
Melbourne and Royal Adelaide clubs
are very much superior to any I
have yet seen in this country. Not
only have these clubs true and fast
greens, but they are all of uniform
strength, a feature that most American
greens lack. Downhill putts here are
very fast in pace, but an uphill
putt against the run of the turf is the
exact opposite, for the ball has to be
driven to the hole and not stroked, as
it should be. The U.S. Golf Association
has a rule preventing players from
running their putters or hands along
the green to determine which way the
grain runs.
The average putter used by American
professionals is }oz. to heavier in
weight than those used in other countries.
With the lightest possible shafts, these
putters usually have a fairly heavy head
for their weight. One sees very much
deeper blades on the putters over here ;
compact, with only the barest of loft,
they are built to suit the bigger bail. By
concentrating on hitting the ball with the
maximum of top-spin the successful pro-
fessionals have overcome the irregulari-
ties of the various greens; also, they
always give the hole a chance, because
they are mostly bold putters.
* * * *
Moore Park, Sydney, has for over 70
years been a “permanent common.” Part
of it is the city’s only public golf
course, which is under the jurisdiction of
the City Council. The council, however,
appears to view playing on one of the
best parts of the links—a natural amphi-
theatre that is .a golfer’s joy—as a sacri-
lege ; such a depression between hills was
simply made to be a depository of the
city’s incombustible rubbish. So the
council now proposes hacking some of
the best of the course about to save haul-
age to other areas —and there are many
low-lying places within a few miles which
could be profitably reclaimed by the
dumping of such rubbish. It will take
only 25 years’ steady dumping before the
links are completely spoiled. What M.P.
golfers are saying of the City Fathers
threatens to scorch the practice greens.
Footbrawl
All three leaders in the V.F. League
competition were beaten on Saturday,
and the rejuvenated Fitzroy side pushed
its way into the four, with Footscray
knocking at the door.
Fitzroy had to beat Essendon to get in,
and did it in a ding-dong game that
was in doubt to the bell, both sides stav-
ing off attacks well and keeping the scor-
ing low. In the end Fitzroy had the
edge in behinds, 10-15 to 10-12. Win-
ning form is good form in football as in
racing, and ’Roy is now tipped for the
pennant.
Melbourne, having won 11 of the 14
games, looked odds on to make it the
round dozen against Carlton, but the
Blues had other ideas which they pro-
ceeded to put into effect with strength,
determination and precision. Though
the astonished Demons hit back with
everything they had, Carlton prevailed,
20-13 to 14-12.
Wounded and seriously affronted by
both Melbourne and Hawthorn, Rich-
mond Tigers tore into their opponents in
the “patriotic premiership” and were
stoushed in the last breath. They re-
tired, did some hard thinking, and set
out for Geelong with 21 men on Satur-
day. They had to win or lose a place in the
four. Geelong, a rung behind Melbourne
in the climb, suffered casualties from
’flu and couldn’t withstand the Tigers’
onslaught; 16-11 to 12-15.
For the first time in seven years Col-
lingwood may miss a place in the four.
At home to North Melbourne, this year’s
weakest side, ’Wood galloped to an easy
victory by 12-21 to 6-17, but the match
did nothing to restore its supporters’
failing hopes.
St. Kilda, notoriously hard to beat at
home, went down before Footscray,
which seems to have recovered some of
its earlier dash, by 15-22 to 13-9, the
Footscray kicking being a let-off for the
home side.
At Hawthorn the locals had an inter-
esting argument with Sowths, landing the
bacon after a close go by 10-19 to 10-13.
* * * *
Randwick, St. George, Manly and
Drummoyne are in the Sydney Rugby
Union semi-finals. The winner of Rand-
wick v. St. George will go into the “grand
final,” the loser is to meet the winner of
Manly v. Drummoyne.
Randwick made a certainty of its place
as minor premier with a sterling 28-6 win
over Gordon. Gordon held the pacy
Randwick men for the first half. After
that, thanks chiefly to Towers and Ran-
kin, Randwick made it a rout. Rankin
contributed 16 points—a try, two con-
verted and three penalty goals.
Victory over West—24 to 9 —brought
Parramatta level with Manly and Drum-
moyne on competition points, but per-
centages kept it out. Drummoyne got in
by defeating North, 22-6, and Manly,
though not at full strength, by over-
whelming East. For the Villagers Bid-
dulph capped a number of fine displays
at full-back with two clinking good field
goals, and the margin was 32-10. St.
George, certain of second place on the
table, took a licking from University, the
Students scoring 20 to 11.
* * * *
There was some good honest Rugby
at North Sydney, where combined G.P.S.
played Air Force. It was 13 all at lemons
and 19 all later ; then condition told, and
the schoolboys ran out easy winners,
37-19.
Scrymgour, president of S.A. Cricket
Association—-he succeeded Harold Fisher
in 1928 —has had wretched health for
years, and has now resigned. He is suc-
ceeded by Harry (so christened) Blinman,
who was chairman of the Board of Con-
trol all through the last war. Both were
fine batsmen in the long-ago Giffen-
Lyons-Jarvis era, and helped to put S.A.
on the cricket map ; indeed, Blinman was
always considered unlucky not to have
got an English tour.


Here ’s HEALTH and STRENGTH
for Australia’s
war effort
o
It,
?
V*
o
M
o
■ r
jh'j
2
O
t
p SdOH
& nviM y < §i
?■*
-V
Mr?
*
*voui
fey
y
Vj
IV
jy
n
v =? * 1
:7
a pu
Vi
vrf^
M
n
vs
<».
)/r^
Liiii,
N
iinnip
Ctf^
Oi
7
vr
7-
/
hr~^
Laois
VIMS
7
z
■*>
Ls&
V
fe
a
/r~
w
r
mm®. aa
s§»»
Sla
FTC
AUSTRALIA’S good earth yields a rich harvest, and it is from the
fruits of the soil, whether they go to feed the people or to feed the
machines of industry, that a nation draws its strength. “SheaP’
Stout, brewed from fine barley malt, sugar and fragrant hops, typifies
the “goodness” drawn from Australia’s sunlit fields. “Sheaf” ministers
to health and well-being, and is the product of an industry which is
a tower of strength to Australia’s economic defence. In war, as in
peace, “Fitness Wins!”
'flu
LORO MAYORS
loiid' ;
urgently needs
GIVE ALL YOU CAN
TOOTH’S SHEAF STOUT
IN BOTTLES HALF BOTTLES AND BABY BOTTLES
SS. 125 PP.


u
THE
LOCAL
LOBSTER
SEASON
is here
and the
HOTEL PLAZA
buys 'em alive
They are cooked by our Fish ExpeN:
and served in many appetising ways.
LOBSTER CURRIED
with Java Rice 2/3
Lobster Plain 1/9
Lobster Mayonnaise .... 2/3
Lobster Newberg 2/3
Lobster Mornay . . .. . 2/-
HOTEL
V; £3 W
4091
fgfgfg
The House of Better Food,
Wynyard Station.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Beecham’s Sydney Concerts
At Sydney Town Hall, for patriotic
funds, Sir Thomas Beecham last week
took the A.B.C.’s orchestra through the
overture to Nicolai’s “Merry Wives of
Windsor,” the “Scheherazade” suite of
Rimsky-Korsakov and selected parts of
the Berlioz “Faust.” All very delightful.
Soprano Lisa Perli, an English singer,
who, it has been explained, adopted an
Italian name for professional purposes,
sang an excerpt from Mozart opera, an
old English ballad and “Knowest Thou
That Dear Land” from “Mignon.” The
third item was very wistful, appealing
and artless, the others not notable. Why
such a relatively small voice should be
considered worthy of an orchestral set-
ting is one of those mysteries.
On Thursday night the A.B.C. orches-
tra, under the Beecham baton, showed
its mettle in works of varying calibre —
Boccherini’s pretty collection of graceful
dances known as his Third Symphony,
Mozart’s “Haffner,” splendidly presented,
the too-lengthy “Golden Spinning Wheel”
of Dvorak, the “Fa?ade” suite of Walton,
full of giggles and sniggers, and the unc-
tuously suety “Good Friday Music” from
“Parsifal.” Something for all tastes, amid
which the Mozart offering towered like
a tall rock in a wide desert.
* * * *
Markan and Neate
The dramatic soprano from Iceland,
Maria Markan, in association with
Kenneth Neate, Sydney’s “singing police-
man,” filled Sydney Town Hall on Satur-
day night. Miss Markan’s Icelandic
songs were disappointing, but she atoned
for them with a well-selected bracket of
Grieg lyrics. To Puccini and Verdi she
brought no warmth.
The tenor showed his paces in a group
of modern songs and in excerpts from
“Le Cid” and “Turandot.” He has the
raw material of an impressive singer, and
may go far once he makes up his mind
whether he wants to be a Caruso or a
Richard Crooks.
* # * *
The Menuhins
Yehudi and Hephzibah Menuhin
looked a well-adjusted couple when they
made their first Australian appearance
in concert at Melbourne Town Hall. The
young lady obviously lacked her brother’s
familiarity with the concert plat-
form. The thing they shared in com-
mon was complete absorption in the
music, which comprised Mozart’s sonata
in A major, Schumann’s in D minor, op.
121, and«the “Kreutzer.” This was about
as exacting a test as two young virtuosi
could be given. The audience decided
that they got through it with flying colors.
The excellent Yehudi gave his usual
dazzling display of bowmanship in the
Mozart and Schumann, and violin and
piano chased one another through the
intricacies of the Beethoven to an excit-
ing conclusion. Yehudi appears with
orchestra at a War Funds concert on
August 22.
* * * *
Balanced Ballet
If the corps de ballet (or body of the
ballet) has lost weight in Australia the
coherence of the performances and the
standard of individual dancing have
gained weight. Last week’s “Swan Lake,”
with Toumanova a model of tragic grace,
was as fine an effort as Sydney Royal has
seen.
Jasinsky, looking and leaping like the
incarnation of the Greek ideal of athletic
youth, excelled himself in “Protee” and
“The Gods Go A-begging,” and received
notable support from Osato in the one
and Riabouchinska in the other.
“Thamar,” having its first airing in Syd-
ney by the present company, made up a
finely balanced programme. Based on a
legend of the most respectable antiquity,
this drama of the wicked lady who waves
a red scarf from the top of a tower
and lures her lovers to destruction is a
perfect subject for ballet. * Balakireff’s
music is damnably doleful, but the danc-
ing of Petroff and Tchernicheva was the
reverse.
“D CoU^> nt those rocking-horses in
Protee be quietly done away With?
ihey spoil the fine simplicity of the whole
thing, and they always look as if they’re
going to snort.
Earlier in the week there was a pro-
gramme made up by “Sylphides,” “Sym-
phonic Fantastique,” “L’Apres-midi
d’un Faune” and “Les Cent Baisers.”
Toumanova, dancing in all except
“Faune,” was at her most expressive
dramatic best; she and Paul Petroff cut
a straight, clear path through the
macabre jungle of “Symphonie,” also
notable for some good dancing- from
Riabouchinska, Olga Morosova and
Jasinsky. Toumanova and Petroff figured
again in a lively, colorful “Cent Baisers.”
Lichine and Grigorieva danced a rather
inarticulate “Faune,” but “Sylphides,”
with Toumanova, Riabouchinska and
Panaieff, was the loveliest “Sylphides” of
this season.
* * % *
Gilsullivan
In the repertoire of J.C.W., Gilsullivan
has always been regarded as a box-office
certainty, and they have made no mistake
this time at Melbourne His Majesty’s,
“You do as you're told!”
where a& many addicts have been turned
away as have got in on some evenings.
“Trial by Jury” . and the melodious
“Pirates” were added to the procession
last week.
Maxwell Oldaker gives a deliriously
handsome Frederic to the cast of assorted
characters, but he is well-drilled rather
than inspired in voice and deportment.
Viola Wilson, as General Stanley’s ama-
tory daughter, is in the true tradition,
has a splendid voice and an attractive
appearance. If Bernard Manning and
Ivan Menzies hadn’t been available for
the parts of the Pirate King and the
Major-General, they would have had to
be invented, in the opinion of most Gil-
sullivan experts. Sara Gregory is a gay
and lightsome Edith.
But why do theatrical electricians light
their shows so badly? The bevy of
damsels in the ruined chapel have the
illumination flung straight at them, and
the absence of contrasts completely de-
taches them from their environment,
making them look like figures cut out
of paper and gummed on to the back-
ground.
* * * *
“The Housemaster”
lan Hay’s simple, sentimental, slow-
moving school play “The Housemaster”
turned up at Melbourne King’s on Satur-
day. As the nice, kindly type of teacher
who, unfortunately, acclimatises the
young to the general injustice of the
world just as effectively as the one who
whacks them, Frank Bradley carried the
burden of the piece with his usual pol-
ished suavity. Reginald Newson heavily
underlined the repressiveness of the Rev.
Edmund Ovington. Measles kept the
leading lady away, and Puckapunyal
throat played havoc with a couple of
voices, but a quiet performance was
quietly enjoyed by a good-sized audience.
* * * *
“George and Margaret”
This Gerald Savory comedy, put on
at Sydney Conservatorium by the
Dajonians, was good enough to run for
two years (799 performances) in London.
It is modern comedy, with lively pace,
good smart dialogue and a generally
sophisticated, free-and-easy depiction of
a modern family who, while waiting for
George and Margaret (who figure only
by report and never appear on stage)
to turn up, have their affairs ruffled by
one of the somewhat uppah-stratah sons
falling for the maid.
O. D. Bisset, one of the best amateur
players about Sydney, was father of the
family and, with his natural, unruffled
acting, was a night’s entertainment on
his own. Joan Hitchcock was mother
of the brood, Aileen Violet and Michael
Lake the maid and son who start the
pother, Kevin Collins another son (a
neatly-played comedy role), Gwen Logan
a sophisticated daughter trading on sex-'
appeal, John Martine a son-in-law, and
Marjorie Griffiths another maid —all of
them just about perfectly cast and turn-
ing in excellent work.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Gunner George”
George being George Formby, and
Formby being a jazz-band mandolin-
player caught up in a network of spies
and secret-service work and then cast up
somewhere in Bergen to help a bewchus
female spy prevent shipping information
being wirelessed to U-boats, it goes with-
out saying that this current offering at
Sydney Lyceum is a roar from start to
finish —the bloke in the pew behind
nearly blew this commentator and pew
from their foundations with a continu-
Qus gale of guffaw.
How George gets into the bother
matters not; suffice that while he’s in it
he gets mixed in a dough-making
machine and emerges like a bleached
Frankenstein monster; takes control of
a U-boat and has it looping loops, barrel
rolling and performing other stunts un-
known to aeronautical science ; and con-
cludes his adventures by being shot out
of a torpedo tube fair into the arms of
his beloved. A tiptop Formby comedy.
* * * *
Supporting Formby, “Return to
Yesterday” has Clive Brook as renowned
Hollywood star impulsively leaving the
glitter and glory to return to a small sea-
side resort where he first got his kick-off
in dramatics. He is drawn into a small
repertory society and saves the day for
them when their leading man walks out;
he falls for the leading lady and nobly
leaves her for young playwright.
Film has its moments, and there are
several seasoned English support players
turning in good work. Brook, though a
good actor in his proper sphere, is too
frozen to make a good fist of an actor on
the loose.
* * * *
“Serenade”
This French film doing the rounds
is another attempt to cash in on
the life of Schubert, the composer
who appears never to have had a real
love affair in his short existence, so can
have any old romance fathered on him
without fear of comment. In this ex-
ample an English dancer (Lilian Harvey)
in Vienna falls for the young composer
(Bernard Lancret), but is imprisoned for
bathing in the Danube in the altogether
by the chief of police, who incarcerates
her in a golden cage, tries to make love to
her, fails, and then makes a sentimental
gesture of renunciation in favor of
Schubert. But she wants to go back to
her dancing and is deported.
There is a sudden thrill when the com-
poser pays his celebrated visit to Beet-
hoven, strikingly portrayed by Boverio.
The old man of Bonn give- the young
musician some sound advice about divert-
ing himself with young ladies and going
back to his music, and the picture closes.
There is nobody in it to sing the lovely
melodies as well as Tauber, and nothing
is added to our knowledge of a genius.
ARTBURSTS.
The Melbourne Contemporary Society,
originally a revolt from the National
Gallery, has its second annual show
housed in one of the gallery’s very best
rooms. Whatever the artistic merits or
otherwise of the exhibits, there is one
good thing about the Contemps.—like
the Salon des Independents in Paris, it
is practically non-selective, except that
what may be called current common-
place in art, which is the mainstay of
the regular societies, is rigidly excluded.
There are surrealist confections, cubist
notions, adult painters trying to be child-
like, symbolists and vorticists and even
a conchologist, who has cut a hole in
a piece of board, revealing a geometrical
design on another board behind it, and
has gummed on the outside a battered
sea shell.
The society accepts bookseller Gino
Nibbi as its art adjudicator, and he
divided the £5O prize offered by an
anonymous donor equally between two
Sydney stalwarts —Eric Thake and James
Qleeson.
* * * *
The Kodak people gave their Melbourne
showrooms over to an exhibition of De-
partment of Information photographs last
week in aid of the Comforts Fund. The
pictures give the official version of the
rise of Hitler to power, his bamboozling
of the European diplomats, his rearma-
ment of Germany, his abrogation of the
Versailles Treaty step by step, the over-
running of Austria, Czechoslovakia and
Poland, the endeavors of Mr. Chamber-
lain and others to avert catastrophe, and
the resurgence of England and, later, Aus-
tralia as military Powers in their effort to
counter him. The exhibition shows
vividly events that most daily newspaper
editors have forgotten.
* * * *
Arnold Shore has put brush to a num-
ber of canvases at Tye’s Velasquez Gal-
leries in Melbourne with up-and-down
results. Some of his pictures seem to
give back the raddle of light and shade
of the bush and the glare of sunflowers
in the open air; others look like paint
and nothing more. But Shore is nothing
if not direct, and the absence of formulae
is something to be thankful for.
* * * *
Edith Wall, a Maorilander who has
settled in Melbourne after travelling in
Europe and England, is showing sketches
at the Riddell Galleries. They strongly
suggest art fashions current in London
and Paris. When she applies her methods
to the Australian landscape, she is up
against the fact that a couple of genera-
tions of untravelled painters have delved
pretty deeply into the secrets of the Aus-
tralian scene.
* * * *
John Rowell hasn’t very much new to
say in his current show at Melbourne
Athenaeum. He paints in his usual style
studies of the Gippsland bush, one or
two Cornish sketches and a picture of
paddy fields in Ceylon. The most inter-
esting of his portraits is one of a
young Chinese lady, Miss Lew Ton. He
gets more sunlight into his small sketches
than he does in larger pictures.


Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come ' chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes. Remember
the name DOAN’S.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The public will now have a chance to
see the complete story in pictures of the
King and Queen’s Canadian visit. This
belongs to the Government of Canada,
and can be shown only in a good cause.
Seventy-five per cent, qf the takings goes
to the worthy object, this time Air Force
House, and 25 per cent, is retained by the
Canadian Women’s Auxiliary.
The Premier, Col. Moore Cosgrave,
Canada’s Trade Commissioner, Sydney’s
Mayor Crick and his wife (Charlie Lloyd
Jones and his wife received them), a few
Air Force House importants, and a group
of schoolgirls all turned into David
Jones’s late one afternoon last week to
have first peep at the screening. Flashes
of wild and grand scenery, of stately
buildings, of wide and sweeping roads
follow in succession as dazzling as
the Queen’s smile. There can be no
doubt of the welcome that Canada gave
the royal guests when you see this
picture. Everywhere streets, windows,
railway stations were dense with humans,
cheering, calling, sometimes in French,
sometimes in English.
Always when the King or Queen
spoke, they did so first in the one and
then in the other tongue. Strangely
enough, the little halting in his speech
is not so noticeable in French. The
Queen was radiant throughout. With her
brilliant complexion and her flowing
white frocks, she must have looked a
little Dresden-china figure. But, heavens!
the steps she had to climb. Every city
hair seemed to be mounted at the top of
long flights of marble or stone. One
wonders how many pairs of gloves and
shoes were used in the tour. If you like
history and recall General Wolfe and
his determination, you’ll feel a special
stir over the Quebec part of the visit.
There are a grand race meeting and
splendid pageantry in the trooping of the
colors. There are the famous Canadian
Mounted, and small girls and boys —in
fact, it’s democracy as we know and love
it! Now on public view in David Jones’s
auditorium.
Nine hundred pounds in the house,
the swing of well-cut naval capes in the
aisles, and the jaunty youth of R.A.A.F.
lads made an exciting overture to the
Beecham patriotic concert. Above the
stage were the emblems of sea and air,
the Union Jack, and Australia’s flag.
Midway down the hall were rows of
leather chairs for the vice-regals and their
party. In the vestibule pretty girls in
a flutter of chiffons, taffetas and organza
sold programmes and badges. Among
them Rosamund Stephen moved tall and
fair. Betty Wharton and Sandra Jaques
did good trade. June Bracken, Jessica
Chard, the Gordon lady, who was presi-
dent of the committee, Mrs. Walter Swin-
son, Ida Leeson, of the Mitchell Library,
and Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar, her chif-
fons all watermelon pink, were on the
spot by eight; so were hundreds of others,
a human tide sweeping through the Town
Hall’s many doorways.
Lord and Lady Wakehurst, the Hon.
Henrietta Loder and Peter Lubbock were
in the vice-regal group. Lady Wake-
hurst’s ground-length coat was blue and
silver. Her daughter’s chiffons were tur-
quoise, very long and full. Admiral Sir
Ragnar Colvin and Lady Colvin were in
the official aura. Her lace frock was black.
Black also was worn by Mrs. Crace, who
was squired by her Rear-Admiral. Keith
Smith, who is president of Air Force
House Committee, had with him his lady
and Mrs. Massey Burnside, of Melbourne.
Persistent concert-goers Mrs. Harold Bott,
Mrs. Hope Gibson, Mrs. Macartney and
Mrs. Denmark formed a group. One of
the night’s best-lookers was Mrs. Salenger.
Her evening wrap was collared in sable.
The Rupert Scammells were there. Her
flowers were orchids grown in the family
plot. Miss N. Veitch, the Claude Read-
ing knight, A.B.C. chairman Cleary with
daughter Betty, the C. L. Jones couple, a
sprinkling of Fairfaxes, the Jordan lady,
Mrs. F. Searight, Mrs. Rex Bennett and
Maria Markan were others in a house
that was dazzling with color and lush
with furs.
Sir Thomas, who made an appeal in
the middle of the concert, lived up to
expectations. His musicianship was
superb, his wit not quite on the same
level. He gibed at the newspapers, rather
like a young coquette who seeks notice
by provocation. In short, he had a night
out. But, heavens, how he made that
orchestra play! And how the listeners
applauded Lionel Lawson in the lovely
violin passages in “Scheherazade.” Lisa
Perli lifted a smooth, sweet and beauti-
fully-trained voice. It is like a cool spring
on a hot day. She was a slim song queen
in glittering array.
The girl in the flat opposite puts the
1940 line on an old joke of Lord'Tweeds-
muir, who was John Buchan: The Italian
navy has given up drinking Chianti; it
has been ordered to stick to port.
You don’t expect service at a bazaar,
but you get something for your money
at The King’s School fete on Saturday.
The committee has collected experts and
implements to run a children’s play-
ground so that parents can dump their
offspring while they enjoy themselves at
the main show ; toys and orange juice are
thrown in. Lady Wakehurst is opening
the fete at 3 p.m. The affair is to help
the school’s Red Cross effort.
All the doings and the progress of
the baby born since he went away fill
the letters of Mrs. Steigrad to her hus-
band overseas. He is Colonel Steigrad,
and he is in command of the First
Australian General Hospital in Pales-
tine. Before he went off to the war
Colonel Steigrad was probably one of the
most popular doctors visiting the kiddies
in the Royal Alexandra Hospital for
Children at Camperdown. Photograph
by Falk.
Back in Sydney is pretty Mrs. Harry
Hardy, who was Fay Ainsworth. Fay
married Seymour Hicks’s personal
manager, and has spent the years
since in England or touring with her
husband. Since her husband’s death,
just after the beginning of the war
(he developed ’flu while in France
with a theatrical co. sent to enter-
tain the 8.E.F.), Mrs. Hardy has been
busy with war work. She became a
volunteer tirewoman (A.F.S.), and at the
Surbiton fire station had wide experience
in the taking of ambulance and fire calls.
Part of the drill was learning to climb
skyscraper ladders. With sister Bette
Ainsworth, who was studying dramatic
art with Elsie Fogerty, she remained in
England till about six weeks ago. Then,
as Bette was returning to Australia to
take over classes at Frensham, she trekked
for the home folk, too.
When the two left, London parks were
radiant. St. James’s, in spite of war
delvings, was a blaze of color. The Eng-
landers themselves seemed dauntless.
With the children father and mother
strolled in Whitehall on Sundays gazing
at the barbed-wire entanglements, or took
the air on Hampstead to have a good
look at the pits for parachutists. The
shops were gay with summer wear. * Hats
were saucy little flower-pieces, and they
and frocks and suits had not noticeably
increased in price. Dominion apples —
beauties —could be had for fivepence a
pound. Butter was Is. 7d. a pound.
Meat, always dear to Australian eyes,
showed a noticeable increase. Midday
concerts were crowded, and the Reper-
tory cos. in the provinces were doing a
roaring trade owing, it was thought, to
blackouts keeping many residents from
seeking all their amusements in London.
Bette studied first at the London Cen-
tral School with Miss Fogerty, and then
when that lady moved her classes to
Exeter, in conjunction with the univer-
sity extension there, Bette went, bike and
all. to Exeter. With her bike she got out
of Switzerland and into! France just as the
war broke. But she has a lovely holi-
day in Europe to look back on. One of
her gayest memories was a day at the
Great Fair at Zurich.
Tonight the Forum Club will resound
with good music and entertainment. Mrs.
Arthur Scrivener has arranged a pro-
gramme, and a group of Sydney s stars
will scintillate in the cause of the Ladies’
Home Mission Union. Archbishop
Mowll and Mrs. Mowll will be the guests
of honor. Hostesses are the Parker lady,
Mrs. Eva Rutherford and Betty Marr.
Cranb rook’s new headmaster Hone is
nearer heaven by some inches than Arch-
bishop Mowll; so they’ll be a pair of
mighty Christians before the Lord. Adel-
aide is his home town, and he has built a
pyramid of knowledge on the foundation
of a Rhodes Scholarship.
Another Beecham concert brought
seemingly all the carriage folk in Sydney
to the Town Hall last Thursday. Sir
Thomas made no speech. He did ques-
tion Lionel Lawson about a gleaming
object on the floor. “Is that a nail
or my stud?” The music was of a
charm that laid its spell on all. Lisa Perli,
having had a good recovery from Tues-
day night’s illness,- when she was too ill
to give an encore, was with Mrs. C. L.
Jones.
Lisa was wrapped in ermine of prima
donna quality; Mrs. Jones’s coat was
sable. Ivie Price is proving a Beecham
fervent; so is Mrs. Salenger. Bertie Kelly
and his wife are among the addicts. But
then, of all Sydneyites, it must be given
to them that they do support the arts.
They are to be seen not only at profes-
sional fireworks from overseas, but
wherever amateurs are lighting a candle
to music, drama or dance. Mrs. Gordon
Tod, down from Queensland, was with
her parents the Tom Bavins. Mrs. Blake
Pelly, down from Bowral way, was noted ;
so were the Roland Fosters. She, by the
way, is the newly-elected president of
the women’s committee of the Musical
Association.
“Thamar,” with all the savage beauty
of the Bakst decorations, was the un-
usual ballet offering of last week. The
heroine was sinister and sinuous, and is
a warning to any young gentleman to
beware of a lady who waves a fuchsia-
pink scarf at him. Coming after “Swan
Lake” it was like a swig of vodka on top
of fruit juice. Ballet audiences are thin-
ning out a bit, though no doubt the
opening of “Coppelia,” just as this Letter
was preparing to make another public
appearance, would draw the balletomanes
from far and wide.
The Oberon president of the C.W.A.,
Mrs. R. E. Wilson, greets you from this
Falk picture. Mrs. Wilson is a real
countrywoman, who lives on the land and
by the land. She is also one of the most
amusing recounters of a good story on
this or the other side of the Blue Moun-
tains. Should you meet her, and one hopes
you will, ask her to do an imitation of
the description of Oberon as given by
the very “jammay” imported voice whose
owner sat at the hotel table next to hers
in Orange last year.
Prince’s was bright with flowering
peach and plum for the Red Cross Ball.
This, to aid the Lady Gowrie fund, was
organised by Phyllis Parkinson, whose
ivory chiffons topped by a scarlet bolero
were a gay touch ; and had for president
the Alexander Gordon lady. Without fuss
or clash of cymbals it had gone about its
affairs, had a capacity house at one guinea
a ticket, and when the final tot is added
hopes to have £5OO or so for the cause.
Prince’s was generous. The proprietors
gave all —floor, supper, band. This Letter’s
nominees for the night’s most attrac-
tive women were Mrs. Roy Buckland,
who had her usual air of springlike fresh-
ness, all in white, and Mrs. Alan
McGregor, whose pale hyacinth-pink
laces swirled a two-tiered skirt. Mrs.
Venour Nathan’s slimness wore its
violet satins long and sweeping. Two
tall women who bustled in together were
Mrs. James Dickson and Marie Burke.
The Gordon lady entertained a party
which included the Mick Fairfaxes, of
Merriwa. Ivie Price’s frock was golden,
her cloak red. Mrs. John Collins was a
wearer of pale pink. Mrs. Cecil John-
son’s grey chiffons were among the even-
ing’s. admired. Mrs. Harold Bott wore
almond-green laces, and was in a group
of Adamless Eves: Mrs. Hope Gibson,
Mrs. Macartney, Mrs. Roland Foster
(her cornflower-blue frock swung a short
cape), Mrs. Denmark, Mrs. Moses. Mrs.
J. Normoyle, Kathleen Clayton, Eve Play-
fair, Annette Stogdale, Annette Thomp-
son, Heather Macleod and Ursula
Barton were hard workers of the night.
With Mayor Crick and his wife were the
Senator Foil couple. The Charlie Lloyd
Joneses brought a party with a nice-look-
ing trio of women in it —the hostess wear-
ing a creation in blue from one of the
famed French houses, Phyllis Hughes and
Justice Roper’s wife. Major Frost made
up the group. Colonel Moore Cosgrave
and his wife were a graceful couple.
The crowds of women who with their
children have had to leave their husbands
and homes in Hong Kong must be Aus-
tralia’s special care till things right them-
selves again. Since they had to leave in
a hurry the finances of many are in an
unsettled condition, and the British
Settlers’ Welfare Committee is seeking
reasonable accommodation for the
women and children. The president of
the committee, the Reverend Dr. R. Mac-
intyre, would like to receive offers of
homes at 30s. a week for women and 15s.
for children. The first arrivals tell a
story of a journey full of privations.
Sydney should do its best to wipe out this
memory.
The clubhouse of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron has an unrivalled view.
Last Saturday afternoon spring took a
hand in adorning the waters of the
harbor, the tent of blue sky and the craft
coming and going about their affairs. The
Squadron Women’s Auxiliary looked as
pleased with the day as with the array
of gifts brought by the guests to the
American tea which will mean more
comforts for the naval war auxiliary.
When all the gifts had been bought up
one reckoner said there would be about
£lOO clear. President Mrs. Don Taylor
looked cheerful; so did Mrs. Toby
Browne, who was trading a
waistcoat, and the lady who was running
a competition whose prize was a dinner
hamper suitable for six giants. One
of the club members, Mr. Bartholo-
mew, turned an honest penny for the
cause with the wool-winders he makes.
The latest design has a clever gadget or
two.
The much-looked-forward-to Women’s
All Services Canteen opened its doors at
the smiling command of Mayoress Crick
last Saturday afternoon. The scene was
one of cheery excitement, hundreds
packed the canteen, and hundreds more
viewed proceedings from the ramp. The
canteen is under the ramp at Central rail-
way. Its equipment cost £6OO. Meals
will be served free, day and night,
to members of the Services. Four
thousand women have enrolled for volun-
tary work. Among these are groups
of businessgirls who are giving Saturday
night because they can rest on Sunday.
For 27 years the Anti-T.B. Association
has been carrying on a work that has.
perhaps, not received the reward it should
in general support. Its task is so vital
to our national health that every one
of us should feel compelled to some
small contribution in the year. During
the 12 months just ended the Govern-
ment has given £9OO for building exten-
sions at 169 Albion-street. Here only
patients unable to pay for private atten-
tion are treated, and in the last year there
were 13,225 attendances. There are X-
ray examinations on two mornings a
week and on one evening a month.
Gallons and gallons of milk for the
patients are donated by one city firm.
All these matters and a lecturette on
“arrested” cases were discussed in the
Lady Mayoress’s rooms on a pleasant
afternoon last week. Lady Wakehurst
was present.
Picton Lakes Village T.B. Settlement
will benefit from the McWilliam con-
cern’s ninth annual ball, to be held in
David Jones’s ballroom on Saturday.


Personal and Missing Friends.
Anyone knowing whereabouts of FLORENCE
LOUISA HALL (or BOYDEN), last heard of
some years ago at Berriga Road, Bellevue Hill,
Sydney (formerly of Hobart and Launceston),
kindly communicate with H. J. BARTIER,
Solicitor, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2156 of 1939.
BETWEEN MINNIE EILEEN DORAHY, Peti-
tioner
And JOSEPH JOHN DORAHY Respon-
dent.
NOTICE to JOSEPH JOHN DORAHY late
of Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
MINNIE EILEEN DORAHY has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of your desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
thirty-first day of October One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not so doing within that time or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit will be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this 6th day of August, a.d. 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
C. P. WHITE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
(Divorce.)
TO MARY TERESA BEATRICE CLIFFORD
formerly of St. Helens in Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been filed
in this Court endorsed with a notice to you to
appear and answer the charges in the petition
of JOHN HENRY CLIFFORD of Priory in
Tasmania Mill Hand praying for a dissolution
of marriage In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce judgment in
respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid within
thirty days after the date of this publication
an appearance must be entered at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie
Street Hobart.
R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Melbourne
Chatter
A roaring success at the R.A.C.V. ball
was the lucky dip, a mysterious business
of hands stretched through portholes and
hidden forces behind the scenes thrusting
parcels forward from the unknown
country behind. Ball organiser E. H.
Scott-Clarke, commissioned from home
to collect 35 purchases, brought a sugar-
bag as his carryall. He said he didn’t
mean to label the parcels; his clients
could have an all-in scram. Dip organiser
Mrs. E. W. Cox, wife of an ex-president
of the club, had the assistance of Mrs.
A. J. Turdich and other capable workers.
Mrs. Cox got in early on her dip by
running a dance at the R.A.C.V. rooms.
For the same expenses Mrs. J. Leslie
Gillon and Mrs. J. A. Campbell ran
bridge parties. Mrs. Campbell -also
managed a raffle for a clean and crisp
£5O-note, which plum, with the bloom
upon it, fell into the hands of Clifford
Book, K.C.
Among guests at the dance were the
Lord Mayoral couple, the club president
and Mrs. R. A. Rowe, and the Alfred
Hospital president and Mrs. G. J. Coles.
Mrs. Coles worked as hard as anybody
for the party. She was down at the
Palais as late as 6.30 p.m. decorating
an official table. Among flower-sellers
were Mavis Warrell, Mavis Barrie and
Trixie McConkey. Nigel Robertson
Teague was something special in well-
turned-out lieutenants. Among frocks
which held their own upon the dance
floor was Mrs. Wilfred Race’s chalk-
white crepe. Proceeds from the ball
go to the Comforts Fund and the Alfred
Hospital,
Lady Gowrie has reason to be pleased
at the success of her appeal through
the Y.W.C.A. for “the women behind
the men’’ in Britain. The urgent call to
the Dominions for help came from the
British Y.W.C.A. It is not for luxuries but
for necessities —roofs for the heads of
workers, mattresses, blankets, cookers for
canteens, etc. The Y.W. lost all its
equipment in France. In Australia in four
weeks £2500, nearly all by private dona-
tions, has already been raised of the
£5OOO asked for. Yehudi Menuhin’s
concert in the Town Hall on the 22nd
will give considerable help. The violinist
has been living very quietly in Mel-
bourne, and this is his first concert in this
city for charity.
Though canine and feline forms of
animal life are prohibited from travel-
ling as passengers, either openly or
smuggled, on Melbourne trams, there
seems to be no hard-and-fast rule about
well-behaved birds. No one objected to
a cockatoo riding on Mrs. Lena Bryans’s
shoulder in a tram for a few blocks along
Swanston-street to the Town Hall, where
he is spruiking for the flagometer. The
bird belongs to Larry Davey’s Travellers’
Hotel, and is alleged to possess many
attainments, including a repertoire of
forceful expressions in several languages.
A brother-bird assists in relays. He’s the
property of C. G. Babidge, of Prahran,
and he’s an accomplished rider on the
handlebars of a bicycle.
The flagometer’s first cockatoo has for
the time being gone out to grass. He’s
the property of a small boy, Clive Meyers,
of Brighton, and though he talked loudly
and often on his first two days on duty
he has not said a word since. Clive hopes
that the bird’s ego has not been impaired
by so much limelight. The flagometer
has been raising an average of £lOO per
day.
Life’s full of surprises, even pleasant
ones, in days of strife. Last week’s bit
of good news was the cheque from the
American Ball. The secret got out that
it was a fat cheque, and there was a
rumor abroad that it topped last year’s
noble effort of £950, but the Latham
lady, as president of the Children’s Hos-
pital, thought her eyesight was tricking
her when she saw the figures £1275 upon
the scrap of paper in her hand. The
presentation of such a cheque was worthy
of some ceremony. Mrs. Jimmy Clymer
did the official handing-over after a tea-
party preliminary at the Australia, with
Mrs. luddy Holt and Mrs. Earl Moser
as hostesses and the ball organiser, Mrs.
Norman Picot, a lap ahead of the com-
ing spring in a giddy little white hat
loaded with flowers. Mrs. S. J. Prytz
?. s ii?i, SU [ er ’ ,^ s Permitted an “I-knew-
lt-all-the-time look in her eye.
Mary Saenger and her sister, Mrs.
Mark Graham, were there knitting a
militia sock apiece for Noel Armstrong,
surely a lucky young man with a fiance
and a prospective sister-in-law pacing each
other’s work stitch for stitch and sock
for sock. At the meeting and tea party
also was Mrs. Gerald Bacon, newly
arrived back in Melbourne after 10
years in New York (her husband went to
that city as J.C.W.’s representative). Mrs.
Bacon loves Melbourne and seeing her
friends again, and will be delighted when
the winter’s over and her particular pal,
Mrs. Harold Clapp, comes south from
her annual migration to Queensland.
Peggy, only daughter of the Ted Tron-
sons, has become engaged to a tall lad
in khaki, Lieut. John Davis, now of the
2nd A.I.F. and previously a militiaman
of great enthusiasm. He’s the younger
son of Dr. J. L. Davis, of Richmond, and
the late Mrs. Davis. Good wishes are
being offered on all sides, but no one
is surprised at the engagement, for a
staunch friendship has endured since
schooldays and through two of Peg’s
trips abroad. Her photograph from
Spencer Shier.
A night out with “The Sons of the
Sea” can be had in Menzies ballroom on
August 31. This dance-and-doings will
write a line in naval history, for it’s the
first public function to be held for Navy
House. On the dance committee is
Lady Colvin as president, with Lady
Hyde and Mrs. Russell Grimwade as
vice-presidents. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell,
who is hon. organiser, has promised her
husband to “go bush” for six months
after the party is over. The hon. treasurers
are W. V. Scott and Louise Lovely, and
Reg Collins and Essie Fraser are hon.
secretaries. A large committee is already
on the move selling the tickets at a
guinea a pop. Four hundred is the Plim-
soll mark.
A good omen on the day of the first
meeting, which was followed up by sherry
and biscuits, was the announcement of
the smoothing out of Governmental
frowns at lotteries and raffles. The
scheme is not yet cut and dried, but it
seems that even “chocolate wheels,” for
some reason considered the devil’s own
playthings, might not be mixed up with
iron bars and bread and water. No one
has ever taken any notice of the raffle
prohibition. Raffles have flourished for
every charity, though some pernickety
workers for good causes have resorted to
camouflage with lucky numbers, guess-
ing competitions, etc.
The Naval Appeal will cover both the
R.A.N. Relief Fund (which in times of
peace and war ministers in certain cases
to the needs of naval officers and men
and their dependants) and Navy House,
to arise on the. south-east corner of Wil-
liam and Collins streets when some walls
are knocked down and others built in
that particular part of the Western
Market block. Admiral Colvin is patron
of the appeal, Lady Colvin is president
of auxiliaries, David York Syme is chair-
man, K. N. Stonier treasurer, and Reg
Collins secretary. He’s a brother of
Captain Collins, of the victorious Sydney,
and of writer Dale Collins.
Mrs. Mortimer Robb, as hon. organis-
ing secretary, has secured rent-free office
space at 16 Queen-street, temporary
premises until Navy House is opened.
Her equipment is not extensive, but it in-
cludes a filing cabinet and office table
and the wherewithal for storing dona-
tions. Anything from table-tennis
equipment to jams and jellies for the
sailor boys’ larder is welcomed.
Yehudi and Hephzibah Menuhin cap-
tured their audience to a man and a woman
at their concert in the Town Hall. Their
entrances and exits hand in hand, Yehudi’s
attentive brotherly love, Hephzibah’s
sisterly adoration, her tremulous manner
and white schoolgirl frock with shirred
waist and puffed sleeves won the hearts
of the listeners more surely than the
tricks of any sophisticated virtuoso. If
Yehudi is the genius of the pair, Hephzi-
bah is the draw. She’s young and dewy
and unaffected (in spite of being the
mother of a bonny baby). The audience
went home with a “bless-you-my-
children” light in its eye after three en-
cores. For the last the crowd was stand-
ing around the piano.
The house of Nicholas, with Mrs.
Norman Cozens and some other friends,
occupied a row or so of seats. Yehudi’s
wife Nola listened from the artist’s room
offstage. It was a day of sunshine in
that home, for only that morning Dr.
and Mrs. Edmund Alcock arrived from
abroad with their family and vast quanti-
ties of luggage (Mrs. Alcock is Nola’s
elder sister Betty). In the packed house,
which was social, musical and a cosmo-
politan mingling of many nations, were
Mrs. A. B. Cumming, of Mortlake;
Valerie Purves, feeling sentimental about
Paris and another concert where Yehudi
and Hephzibah had also walked on to
the stage hand in hand; the W. G. Mc-
Beaths, she in ermine wrapped over
black velvet; the Lance Cunninghams;
Hilda Corbett in silver and severe coif-
fure ; the Bradford twins, for once in
the same color, a soft Patou-blue ; and
Clare and Nancy Graham, brunette in
burgundy and blonde in ice-blue and
furs.
Art exhibitions of the week were John
Rowell’s at the Athenaeum and Arnold
Shore’s at the Velasquez. The Lord
Mayor opened Rowell’s show on a very
successful afternoon, with red seals much
in evidence, particularly on the small
pictures. Some were only 6in. by
Mr. Rowell said they were painted on
sections of a piece of board, long and
narrow, but too good to waste.
Russell Grimwade, who was introduced
in the north-of-the-Tweed accent of J. T.
Tweddle, opened Arnold Shore’s show,
even more varied than usual, for the
artist has gone in for landscapes and has
made Mt. Macedon his happy hunting-
ground for brilliant colors. A plump
young man of seven months was on the
point of stealing the Tweddle-Grimwade
limelight but thought better of it. He’s
the young son and heir of Mr. and Mrs.
W. James. Mrs. James is a niece of
Arnold Shore.
Mary Saenger and Noel Armstrong
have placed a seal upon their friendship
of long standing with a diamond ring.
Mary, who possesses all the attributes of
personable young American women, is
the elder daughter of the George Saen-
gers, of Linlithgow-road, and her Aus-
tralian fiance is the youngest son of the
late W. L. Armstrong and of Mrs. Arm-
strong, of Adam-street, South Yarra.
There was no visitation of angels with
flaming swords when the surrealists came
to the National Gallery. Perhaps at dead
of night the spooks of the great departed
masters drift restlessly into the upper
McAllan Gallery horrified at the pass
that has been reached in this age.
The Contemporary Art Society show
of 168 pieces was opened by Vance
Palmer, who announced a £5O prize, to be
divided between Eric Thake and James
Gleeson, for the picture “showing new
expression of thought in art.” Although
the donor is anonymous there is a
general agreement about guessing his
identity.
Tom Challon is home again after
widening his experiences overseas, includ-
ing holding down a black-and-white
artist’s job on several English papers.
He was in the South of France when war
broke out. Another Melbourne artist,
Moya Dyring, now on her way home,
was also in France last August. Tom’s
domiciles were many and varied, but one
in London was in a house haunted by
the spirits of Isadora Duncan, D. H.
Lawrence and Blamire Young. Unfor-
tunately there is no record of the three
meeting on the stairs and exchanging
views on the art of life and living.
Marjorie Morris, who lives in the
little crooked cottage known as Lollopy
Lodge, tucked away in a crooked lane
off Park-street, South Yarra, has found
the sort of job she’s been wanting—her
own line of work, in which she naturally
feels confident, and which is also war
work of 100 p.c. usefulness. Miss Morris,
who is a highly-qualified chiropodist,
has been attending to the feet of the army
at Broadmeadows Camp, a job made pos-
sible not through the commonsense of
the Government but through a gift from
an anonymous and practical-minded
philanthropist. The troops are enor-
mously appreciative.
Miss Morris works long hours, and last
week arrived for a brief late call at a
cocktail party with her coat wrapped
over her uniform, for such frivolous
things as getting into festive clothes are
hardly part of her life any longer. She
wishes that endowments would come the
way of all camps, and is sure that the
C.Os. therein would welcome with open
arms financial offers from generous-
hearted citizens.
“C.Q.”: A young Melbourne musician
joined up with the A.I.F. and was drafted
off to one of the camps. On his first
Saturday afternoon he had nothing to do
and was wandering about the place
lonely and disconsolate. He happened to
glance in at a large room which looked
comfortable and he was delighted to
observe in a corner a nice-looking radio.
Thinking it would be pleasant to sit in
an easy chair and listen to the race re-
sults, he went in and proceeded to tune
in. Odd individuals looked in, glanced
at him, decided it was none of their busi-
ness and passed on. After he had satis-
fied his curiosity he strolled out of the
empty room into the sunlight outside, and
the first man he met was his sergeant.
“Oh,” said the sergeant. “I think I know
you. You’re the man who turned up
late for drill yesterday and said he was
sorry he was late for the rehearsal. What
might you have been doing in there?”
“Listening to the races, sergeant,” said
the musician, adding hopefully, “Why?
Do you object?” “No,” said the ser-
geant. “I don’t object but the officers
might. That happens to be their mess-
room, my lad!”


SECURITY FOR
YOUR SAVINGS...
If you have only about £2O to Invest
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
will solve your problem as it has
done for other small investors. It
gives you an interest in 20 leading
Australian companies and your
funds are safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees, Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Free Booklet No. 1 is yours on
request to the Managers of the
Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £30,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,500,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
llanaging Director.
THE SERVICE MAN
Six Thousand Miles of Battle
Line.
“Ek Dum”: About the time the first
A.I.F. reinforcements —all Westralians and
many of them goldfielders—were passing
peacefully through the Red Sea on their
way to Palestine, the first signs of stir-
ring war on a larger scale were seen in
the Mediterranean and North Africa,
where the weather is becoming cooler.
It is a widespread theatre in which
blood already has been shed along lines
more than 6000 miles in length, i.e., from
Dakar, on the French West African coast,
where —much to the perturbation of the
Americans —Germans have arrived by
air, to the Aden region.
A powerful British fleet guards the
straits of Gibraltar and the western
Mediterranean. The only belligerent
forces on land which directly threaten
the Rock are Spanish newspaper
editors, who, like many other editors,
are more bellicose than an army
with banners. There are reports, how-
ever, of Germans massing along the
Pyrenees, and maps published in Ger-
many in 1938 to outline future conquests
certainly showed the proposed invest-
ment of a strip of Spain along the north-
ern and western coast, and all Portugal,
as well as Gibraltar.
Two hundred-odd miles east of Gib-
raltar lie the wrecked French warships
of Oran. Another 500 miles with a slight
turn north, Cagliari, chief town of Sar-
dinia, sitting at the base of the island, has
become a practice ground for British
bombers. Another 300 miles or so and
Pantellaria Island looms up, a peak in
the middle of the strait which divides
Sicily from Italian Tunis. Both Sicilian
and African shores are visible from its
top. The straits on both sides of it are
within reach of Italian heavy guns most
of the way. A little more than 150 miles
east again is Malta, full of naval activity
and suffering its almost daily raid ; still
another 400 miles and there are the
Cretan waters where H.M.A.S. Sydney
and her kind patrol.
And almost due south from Crete is
the border of Libya. For the moment
it is here that the new war has its germ.
Libya divides off from Egypt at the
Gulf of Solium. On its western side is
the port of Bardia, and within 60 miles
the other Italian naval ports of Derna
and Tobruk. These have been the main
centres of Italian activity. Since the war
broke out they have been busy with the
unloading of stores and troops under the
frequent fire of the Gloster-Gladiators
and the other types of British R.A.F.
machines which are peculiar to that part.
Not 150 miles inland from the coast,
roughly on the 30th parallel, in country
which resembles some of that back from
the Great Australian Bight, stands the
Italian border fort of Capuzzo, recently
besieged ; below it, Jarabub ; below that,
just over on the Egyptian side, the great
Siwa oasis. Jarabub and Siwa are the
junctions of many great caravan routes.
Italy’s colonial border is over 400 miles
from Port Said and the Suez Canal. And
the Canal and the Nile must be the main
objectives of any war in the region.
It is reported that 250,000 Italians are
massed on that colonial border. Prob-
ably an exaggeration, but very probably
an attempt will be made to reach Suez.
The country between is mainly arid and
useless, most of it rough, with deep wadis
scoring across it to slow up mechanical
transport. The routes run a little back
from the coast, but link to it at Mersa
Matruh, about 200 miles from the border,
whence there is a railway to Alexandria
and Cairo and thence down the Nile. Tre-
mendous as are the difficulties, the prize
is worth a mighty effort. Success would
mean control of the Canal, main artery
of the British Eastern and Pacific Empire,
of the Asian, African and Australasian
air routes ; it would secure the isolation
of the British armies in Palestine; it
would bring the Arabs virtually under
Italian suzerainty ; it would turn Turkey,
Palestine, Irak into the meat in a sand-
wich for an Axis banquet.
In Africa it would give the enemy all
the Egyptian railheads and the rich Nile
delta, force the British fleet out of Alex-
andria, seal the fate of Malta and
Cyprus, and place Greece in a completely
helpless vassal position. Control of the
Nile would open the way to Central
Africa. A dazzling prospect, but far too
great a job for Italy.
With the assembling of the Italian
armies on the Libyan side, another attack
has begun at the other end of the Red
Sea, 2000 miles away from Libya. Below
Port Sudan, the port of the Nubian desert
and the Lower Sudan, whence a railway
runs to join, at the junction of the Niles
at Atbara, the Cairo-Khartoum line, the
Red Sea territories of Italy, France and
Britain begin—Eritrea, French Somaliland
and British Somaliland. Eritrea is a
narrow strip joined to Abyssinia. Its
main port is Massawa, whence a short
length of railway runs into the interior
to Kereu. But the main line into the
Abyssinian capital at Addis Ababa goes
from the French port of Djibuti, which is
outside the Red Sea, on the Gulf of Aden,
cheek by jowl with British Somaliland
and overlooking the entrances to the Red
Sea and Aden.
Special conditions regarding this port
were forced on the French by the Italian
armistice terms:
For the duration of the Italo-British hos-
tilities and the armistice the French Somali-
land coast shall be demilitarised. Italy is
to have full and constant right to use
Djibuti, with all equipment, also the French
section of the Djibuti-Addis Ababa rail-
way, for all kinds of transport.
British Somaliland is an enclave entirely
surrounded on the land side by Italian
Somaliland on the east, Abyssinia and
Italian Somaliland on the south, French
Somaliland on the west. It is a protec-
torate, not a possession, has been under
British control since 1884, and under the
Colonial Office since 1905. Its area is
68,000 square miles. Its exports are
next to nothing—hides chiefly—its popu-
lation entirely nomadic and Moham-
medan —about 350,000. The coastal
region is as arid as Sturt’s Stony Desert.
The main centres of population are round
Berbera (20,000, which increases con-
siderably in the cold season when the
tribes come in with their dates), Hargeisa
(about 20,000) and Zeila (5000 to 7000).
The Italians launched a three-column
attack on this uninspiring country, obvi-
ously aimed to make their communica-
tions with interior Abyssinia safe and to
blot out the organisation which works
from Berbera to stir up trouble among
the Abyssinian tribes. A Queenslander,
Arnold Wienholt, is one of the Law-
rences of this movement. A letter from
Berbera, received last week, told stories
of universal disturbance and unrest in
Abyssinia; of conditions round Addis
Ababa so violent that Italians dare not
venture out of it without military escorts.
Two of the Italian columns started
from the base at Diredawa, on the Addis
Ababa railway, which has frequently
been bombed by the R.A.F., and the
ward bases of Harar and Jigajiga.
One column reached the coast and
took the dreary port of Zeila —annual
rainfall 3^in. —just inside the border. The
British made the invaders a gift of it.
The second column aimed at populous
Hargeisa ; the third came in from Italian
Somaliland on the east, striking at
Oadweina from Bohotleh and Garraro in
the border country. The three attacks
form an enveloping movement to take
Berbera and blot out British rule, which
would suffer little from being blotted out.
However, defensive lines were long ago
formed in the hill country 30 miles from
the sea.
The Italian position in the eastern
African area is a central one, much like
that of Germany in Europe, but it has not
Germany’s advantages. The Italian naval
force in Massawa is small and has been
heavily bombed. It is cut off from Italy,
but there are points of attack which are
also remote from British help.
Italian Somaliland lies along the Indian
Ocean coast. Until 1925 the border was
along the Juba River, but Britain made
a gift of part of northern Kenya to the
Italians, and the French gave them a
small section of southern Libya.
Italian territory now runs from about
100 miles to the west of the Juba in
spots to Cape Guardafui and makes a
solid block with Abyssinia and Eritrea.
The Juba River is not an easy river to
cross, and almost at the beginning the
S. African air force began a series of
attacks on the posts at the fords —Gob-
wein, Bardera and Alexandra. It also
dropped bombs on the deepwater port of
Kismayu, which was part of Britain’s gift
and which the Italians had contemplated
turning into the capital.
The northern part of Kenya is stony
desert, but an encircling movement by
large forces would be no joke. An army
which has been let down out of Abys-
sinia, roller-blind fashion, into the
Moyale and Lake Rudolf country,
suddenly swinging westward north of the
ranges, would threaten Uganda and the
narrowest bottle-neck in the great chain
of British possessions which run the whole
length of Africa from the Sudan to the
Cape. General Smuts was right in
declaring that in defending this region the
S. African expeditionary force would be
protecting the “outer ramparts” of S.
Africa.
In the operations against Kenya and
Uganda the Italians have much on their
side. Motor tracks run across the nor-
thern Kenya desert. The shape of the
north-eastern part of Kenya (B. 24/7/’4O)
makes it difficult to defend, since it is
held in an angle which places it in an
Italian pincer. And Italian Somaliland,
with its wild, nomadic population, is
virtually the camel farm of Africa. Its
oonts are numbered in millions ; their
owners are among the world’s best
cameliers.
The new movements bring Australian
troops, who have already been in action
at Haifa against Italian aircraft, into the
battle zone and the Commonwealth itself
on to the very fringes of the fighting line.
The War at Sea.
“Nobby II”: There is an incessant
dribble of small casualties at sea, apart
from those caused by major attacks on
Channel convoys. The capital naval
manoeuvring continues to be confined to
the Mediterranean.
The Italians, presumably reporting to
the end of July, admit the loss of a light
cruiser, three destroyers, seven sub-
marines, a minesweeper and 45 aero-
planes. “II Trevere,” a semi-official
Rome newspaper, and Rome Radio de-
clare that Mussolini’s forces have de-
stroyed one British cruiser, seven de-
stroyers, 11 submarines and 295 ’planes,
and damaged the battleship Resolution,
eight cruisers, three destroyers and two
submarines. The Admiralty denies that
any ship of the Resolution class has been
hit or any battle-cruiser damaged west
of the Balearics. Italian claims are no-
thing if not optimistic.
The loss of two British submarines in
the Mediterranean was announced last
week. There were sister-ships, the Oswald
and the Odin, 1475 tons. The Italians
report that both were sunk and that five
officers and 50 ratings of the Oswald are
prisoners of war.
The Germans announced on August
11 that they had sunk 1,000,000 tons of
British and allied shipping in three weeks
—275,000 tons from the air and the
balance by naval action. They had previ-
ously claimed 229,000 tons sunk during
the week ended July 28. The Admiralty
made the figure 72,691 tons —18 British
and two Allied ships, saying that the
enemy consistently multiplies sinkings. At
the beginning of the week it reported the
submarining in the Atlantic of a troop-
ship, the Mohammed Ali El-Kebir (7290
tons); 120 British soldiers and seamen
are missing.
Nine million tons deadweight of
former foreign ships are now under
British control, vessels under 500 tons be*
ing excluded from the calculation;
5,500,000 tons are Norwegian, 3,000,000
tons Dutch and 500,000 tons Belgian and
Polish. Besides this Britain seized 500,000
tons of Danish ships and requisitioned
500,000 French tons. And in addition to
the 9,000,000 extra tons, 1,250,000 neutral
tons are under British time charter all
over the world engaged in non-
contraband trade.
Despite sinkings, Britain controls the
greatest mercantile marine fleet in history.
Westralian reinforcements for the
A.I.F. arrived in Palestine in lonely
morning darkness nine weeks to the day
after they left Australia. They reached
camp in time to hear reveille sounded,
and were greeted with cries of “Where’s
our beer and mail?” Non-arrival of mail
has been a sore point with the boys in
Palestine and Britain, and, though allow-
ances have to be made for losses by
enemy action and other difficulties,
there is obvious need for improvement.
Many soldiers and their families can-
not afford to pay air-mail rates. It would
not be too much to arrange for carriage
at ordinary postal rates. Indeed, there
would be few protests in Australia
if all mail for men of the fighting forces
and the merchant navy, going and
coming, were carried free and, as far
as possible, by air.
* * * *
The French Government in Syria has
closed the frontier to all persons of mili-
tary age. Britain’s Palestine link with
Turkey by the Islahiyeh-Taurus route is
thus broken, the use of the Taurus
trains being denied. But Turkey can
still be reached directly by the Mosul
rail from Bagdad.
* * * *
Most of the British troops in North
China were withdrawn some time ago in
accordance with a decision made before
the outbreak of war. The last 1500 are
now on the move from Shanghai. They
could be of much greater service at Hong
Kong or Singapore.
* * t *
The British forces in Palestine, of
which the A.I.F. is part, have acquired
a new commander —Lieut.-Gen. Philip
Meame, V.C., a Royal Engineer, 52
years old. He was a lieut.-col. at 22,
and a divisional commander at 37, his
record in the last war being eminent. He
became deputy-chief of the Imperial
General Staff last September.
* * * *
An explosion at munition works at
Piacenza, Italy, about 30 miles from
Genoa, was one of the biggest of the war.
The works were completely wrecked and
over 600 workmen and soldiers were
killed.
5? * * *
“Ek D.”: The unchanging English!
Turn back and read old Stow’s descrip-
tion of the British citizen armies assem-
bled to deal with the threat of Spanish
invasion:
It was a pleasant sight to behold the
soldiers as they marched to Tilbury, their
cheerful countenances, courageous words
and gestures, dauncing and leeping where-
soever they came, and in the camp their
most felicity was hope of fight with the
enemy, where oft-times rumors ran of
their foes’ approach. Then they were as
joyful at such news as lusty giants were
to run a race.
England then raised 87,000 trained and
nearly 40,000 untrained men, with 14,000
horse —“pioneers, launces, light horse and
petronels”— apart from the Yorkshire
levies which were to keep the Scots in
hand. They had 15 muskets to a com-
pany of 150 foot, and for the rest were
armed mainly with pikes and bills. The
“invincible” Armada had 130 ships,
against the 80 commanded by Howard,
Drake and Hawkins. There were no
Churchill and no Duff Cooper ; but an-
other Queen Elizabeth was there:
Let the tyrants fear! 1 know I have
but the body of a weak and feeble woman,
but I have the heart and stomach of a
King, and of a King of England, too,
and think foul scorn that Parma, or Spain,
or any prince of Europe should dare to
invade the borders of my realms; to which
rather than any dishonor should grow by
me, I myself will take up arms.
After a series of sharp fights, of which
the hottest was on July 27, 1588, Drake’s
fireships went among the Spaniards on
July 29. By August 6, which had been
fixed as final assembly date for the
forces, the danger was over. Then, as
now, British seamen knew more about
Blitzkriegs than any Continental dictator.


SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
CHAMPION™**
PLUGS
Bring GREATEST
ENGINE EFFICIENCY
Throughout your car’s life,
Champions will keep the engine
up to its best power, speed
and economy ready to serve
you dependably—because
Champions provide the strong
hot sparks that ensure fidler
combustion of the fuel.
Champions save you money!
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Can.
THE FLTING COLUMN
Fierce Attacks on England.
“Aileron”: It seems every day to be-
come clearer that the German attack on
England will be primarily an affair of
the air.
General Sander, one of the chiefs of
the German Air Force, in a broadcast
said late last week that the Luftwaffe
stood ready on a wide crescent stretching
from Trondhjem to Brest. In the centre
of the crescent lay the main objective,
the small island of England. The main
weapon would be the bomber and the
attack would be made in continuous
waves. The organ of Hiitler’s Black
Guards also rushed in with the announce-
ment that “not the eleventh hour but the
twelfth hour has passed and the clocks
are now striking one.”
As an earnest of his intentions, the
enemy livened up the war in the air with
a bang. On August 8 huge forces of
Germans appeared over the Channel fly-
ing in waves of 80, in the new formations
—Junker bombers in the van, stepped-up
tiers of fighters, some near their maxi-
mum ceiling at 30,000 ft., behind and
around them.
In the darkness of the morning a
horde of the new fast motor torpedo-
boats dashed out from French Channel
ports. Air and sea attacks were directed
at one of the large convoys of small
ships which incessantly range the British
coast.
Spitfires and Hurricanes went up in
a cloud, and, while a hail of bombs lashed
the Channel to spray, the sky formations
split up into dogfights which wheeled and
turned from horizon to horizon in a
continuous chatter of machine-gun fire,
through which, occasionally, bomber or
fighter hurtled into the sea in a sheet
orf flame.
The operations were so large and the
area covered so vast that the accounts
of the fighting are disjointed.
The number of German machines in-
volved in the daylong series of battles,
which ceased only with the failure of
daylight, is variously estimated at from
300 to 500. They dropped 2000 bombs.
But the R.A.F. again demonstrated that
aggressive defence against mixed forma-
tions of attackers is always at an advan-
tage, especially when it has the benefit
of more adaptable machines and better-
trained men.
Sixty German machines were shot
down in three encounters which covered
nine hours —24 bombers and 36 fighters.
The R.A.F. admits the loss of 16
machines, but three pilots were saved.
One Hurricane squadron, which included
three Australians and Maorilanders,
accounted for 21 machines —nearly twice
its own number.
The estimates by the British and
German authorities of the damage done
by the raiders differs widely. The Ger-
mans claimed to have sunk or damaged
28 ships during the day; to have hit 49
British ’planes, including 39 Spitfires;
to have attacked numerous aeroplane
factories and aerodromes and to have
mined the entrances to many British
ports. They placed their loss at 10
machines.
The British answer was that the only
damage done to convoys was by the
motor-boats, which torpedoed five vessels
totalling 5039 tons. It is admitted that
there was sporadic land bombing which
killed several people and did some
damage.
There was a second great air battle on
Sunday morning, when the English
Channel and the air above the south
coast were again black with German
machines, and ports, towns, barrage bal-
loons and naval piers were attacked. The
enemy claims that 30 Dornier bombers,
with an escort of Messerschmitts, wrecked
I ortfend pier and sank most of the ship-
harbor, and that in the series
i no S over Channel the British
• , , mac hines; they 17. The
A miralty s reply was that, while 40
ombs were dropped at Portland, only six
1 among the ships and little harm was
done; and the R.A.F. reported 60 Ger-
wf i m ™ e casualties when the British
An,i - aircra£t ® uns <“■> «-
inteniu v \ C '! CaF l 1 s tha . l fi B hliD 6 of great
y has been in progress since
the British attacked Le Bourget on
August 8 and later strafed the Guernsey
aer^ om e ; It is admitted that some
Bntlsh P ° rts have been closed b y mining
for up tQ 2 4 hours, though the facts
i au gh the enemy suggestion that great
ports are wrecked or immobilised.
The Germans themselves obviously
consider that the main attack on Eng-
iand has begun. One of their spectacular
communiques refers to “the destruction
G f two British convoys, totalling 75,000
tons, and damage to seven other ships
an d the annihilation of 51 British ’planes
i n o ne day” as “proving that the attack
on England has not only started in its
most deadly form, but the most decisive
hour is now approaching ”
0n August 8 Italian and British
a j r f orces were in action on a large scale
on the Egyptian-Libyan border. The
British machines were mainly the useful
Gloster Gladiators ; the Italian were
large-type bombing Capronis. The Italian
version of the fight is that 16 Italian
machines fought 27 “chasers” the
Gladiators are comparatively slow—and
brought down five, against a loss of two
Italians. R.A.F. Cairo headquarters,
however, report the destruction of 15
Italian machines in an encounter in which
the Italians had a two-to-one superiority.
British losses were two machines.
"Paratroops."
“Aileron”: England is being swiftly
familiarised with types of German
’planes, especially with troop-carriers.
Most of these are military versions of
peace-time passenger transports all
heavy stuff:
Engines three or engines four,
There’s a Nazi at the door!
sings the Air Ministry mellifluously. The
Junker JUB6 is the only two-engined bus
among them. Like all the rest, she has
a greater breadth of wing than the
double-engined Lockheed Hudson, longer
span (73ft. Bin. to Lockheed’s 65ft. 6in.),
and greater length —57 ft. 4in. against
Lockheed’s 44ft. 2in.
The JU9O, biggest of the buses, has
about the same as the Short
Sunderland seaplane. It is four-engined,
with a very pronounced backward flare
of the wing leading edges. Like all the
others it is very square in wing tips and
tail planes.
Among all the other things,
Nazis go for square-cut wings.
But the big Focke-Wulf 200 —familiar
in outline on all civil air routes of
Europe as the luxurious Condor pas-
senger machine departs from normal
practice. It might look like a Wellington
if it had only two engines and two gun
turrets in nose and tail.
The most * popular parachutists’
machine, however, is the three-engined
JUS2. One of the engines sticks out of
the nose like a fly’s:
If a fly’s head comes to view
May be paratroopers, too.
It is plain that Germany is well off
for heavy land types adapted for drop-
ping men, who can be landed from 300
feet in close formation. The ’chutes used
are larger than normal, without a pilot
’chute, and scalloped. They seem to
open automatically. Their Germans are
dressed in uniform which bears three
pairs of wings on the tunic collar. Over
the uniform a grey gabardine overall,
fastened in front with zippers, is worn.
A close-fitting steel helmet, like that of
a dirt-track rider, clamps tightly over the
ears and comes well down over the nape
of the neck. It has two chin straps. The
parachutist has binoculars slung on his
chest, a pistol at hip and capacious
bomb pockets on each side of his
overall. His boots are laced at the sides
—an easy position to reach with one
hand in case of injury. This method of
fastening also has landing advantages.
On his back the invader carries a rolled
cape, a full haversack and a water
bottle. His sleeves are clamped to his
wrists; his long three-quarter trousers,
like shooting plus fours, fit into the tops
of his boots. He is watertight and
crash type.
But not bullet-proof.
“Zedo”: Beaufort bomber production
in the Commonwealth is expected to
reach one per day by the middle of 1941.
The prototype machine is being put to-
gether in Victoria. After the first 20
machines have been built the remainder
will be all-Australian, including the
engines, which will be twin-row Pratt
and Whitneys manufactured in a million-
pound Sydney (N.S.W.) factory. If
nothing else, this war is certainly going
to give the Commonwealth the aeroplane
industry which it would have had 10
years ago if it had not been for the
dilatoriness of politicians.
* * * *
As Minister Fairbairn discovered to
his satisfaction during his round-Australia
flight, Westralia is rivalling its wonderful
1914-18 war record in the matter of
enlistments; but this time the Air Force
is first favorite. Only natural, for avia-
tion has meant more to Westralia than
any other State, with the possible ex-
ception of Queensland; moreover,
Norman Brearley, Kingsford Smith, Mc-
Intosh and R. N. (“Peter”) Drummond
were heroes to all Westralian schoolboys
who were in short pants in the early
1920’5. The Minister was told that just
on 15,000 had applied for Air Force
enlistment, and that the number of
eligibles in the State was only 70,000 or
so. Apropos of Drummond, a dashing
pilot in the last war, who as Chief of
Staff has done a great deal to organise
the R.A.F. Command in the Middle East,
he has been promoted from Air-
Commodore to Air Vice-Marshal.
* * * #
Two R.A.A.F. men were killed on
August 8 at Narromine (N.S.W.)—Flying-
Officer Herbert Smales, instructor, aged
30, and Aircraftsman Arthur Edward
Alderson, 29, both of No. 5 Flying
School. Their Tiger Moth went into a
spin and crashed in a wheatfield. Smales
was taken out alive, but died on the way
to hospital; his companion was killed
instantly. Maoriland also had a crash
near Blenheim, when Aircraftsman
Denbee was killed.
The Air War Day by Day.
August 5: Points in s.-e. England and
Wales bombed. British report: no
casualties, no damage; four German
machines destroyed. Germans claim two
British reconnaissance ’planes shot down,
and six other machines in other battles.
R.A.F. raids Dutch and German
military objectives; all British machines
return. Duisburg, west of Essen, suffers
its twenty-eighth raid. German claim
little damage, no casualties.
August 6: A.I.F. troops in action dur-
ing an air raid by Italians on Haifa,
Palestine; little damage, and Australians
suffer no casualties. Pilot-officer Worces-
ter, whose flight of five Gladiators shot
down nine Italian machines, crashes
when returning from the Libyan frontier
and is killed.
Germans raid Bristol Channel area and
wreck a farmhouse; other sporadic
raids. Germans claim to have attacked
Tynemouth, St. Athans (Wales), the
Vickers aeroplane works at Chester and
armament factories at Swansea.
August 7: Admiralty denies Italian
claim that 30,000-ton battleship Resolu-
tion was damaged by air attack near the
Balearic Islands. Third air raid on
Haifa; Italians assert fuel tanks fired,
destroying 100,000 tons of oil, and
other military objectives hit without loss
to themselves. British report a few
casualties, little damage. Further raids
on Britain, Germany, Holland and
France. Thirty German pilots and
mechanics leave Balboa (Panama) on
Japanese Yasakuni Maru.
August 8: British bombers raid
Massawa (Eritrea) and score direct hits
on. submarine and another naval vessel;
also damage ammunition and petrol
dumps and dockyard; a cruiser and
other craft driven to sea. No British
machines lost. Walrus from H.M.A.S.
Hobart bombs and machine-guns Zeila
(British Somaliland), damaging military
headquarters and other targets. Italians
raid Aden Harbor. Short Sunderland
’plane makes forced landing on sea at
Tobruk, Libya; crew, including Flight-
Lieut. Wetherall, who was awarded
D.F.C. foar rescue of crew of Kensington
Court in S. Atlantic last September,
taken prisoner.
August 9: Sixty German ’planes—24
bombers, 36 fighters—brought down in
three battles over Channel ; in attack
on a convoy E-boats sink three small
ships and damage seven others. British
’planes lost number 16, but pilots of
three rescued. Germans claim to have
hit 49 British machines, including 39
Spitfires, and to have lost only ten of
their own; assert also factories and
aerodromes in s. England attacked and
harbors and ports mined. R.A.F. re-
ports further isolated raids over Dover
Straits, Bristol Channel and n.-w. Eng-
land ; several people killed. Tobruk
bombed, ship set on fire. R.A.F. and
French bombers attack Hargeisa and
Turbargan positions (British Somaliland).
S. African A.F. destroys tw'o grounded
bombers at Neghelli, damaging others
and firing lorries. Heavy air fighting on
Libyan border; 15 Italian machines
brought down, British losing only two,
though outnumbered by enemy. Italian
report is that 16 Italian machines fought
27 British chasers and shot down five,
against their own loss of two machines.
R.A.F. bombs Guernsey airport; Ger-
man machines there damaged or
wrecked.
August 10-11: Heavy German raids
on British shipping, ports and barrage
balloons. British fighters shoot down
60 German machines. Germans claim
to have brought down 73 British
machines against 14 of their own, later
raising the numbers to 98-17. They
say they sank most of the shipping in
Portland Harbor, wrecked Portland pier
(“two . warships slightly damaged”—
British report) and hit “several warships”
in attack on Channel convoy. They also
declare that leading British harbors were
again mined, aircraft works at Norwich
and buildings at St. Ives (Cornwall)
damaged. R.A.F. in relays bombs fac-
tories near Cologne and Ludwigshafen,
Ruhr railways, ’dromes and oil tanks
in Holland. R.A.F. bombs Italian Con-
centrations at Sabraslea (Libya), the
aerodrome at Barentu (Eritrea) and
Karim Pass (Italian Somaliland). Italians
raid Sudan landing grounds without
damage.


’’RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimental radio.
The Annual Subscription is £l/6/8
(2 years, £2/5/8), payable at “The
Bulletin” Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. Ggorge’s Tee.. Pertl
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The N.T. was the first part of the
Commonwealth to find its A.I.F. quota.
The second draft, in camp in N.S.W.,
ranges from goldfields veterans —the Ten-
nant is almost stripped of eligibles—and
men from the stations, down to a large
leaven of youngsters in their teens who
are a grand advertisement for what the
bush can produce in the way of white
humanity. The Bulletin has been asked
to convey their greetings home and to
report “all well and fighting-fit.”
* =t= * *
“Norther”: R. J. Warren, who has
passed out at 71, was an Agrarian M.L.A.
for Murrumba from 1918 to 1932. Born
at Ballarat (Vic.), he grew wheat and
wool in N.S.W. for some years, then took
on grazing and dairying at Chinchilla.
He was seriously wounded on Gallipoli
with the 26th Battalion, was invalided
home, and went fruit-farming at Elimbah,
whence he entered Parliament.
* * * *
“23-5”: It looks as though Mackay
City Council will get its charter to reticu-
late light and power from its electricity
plant to district centres. The State Elec-
tricity Commission has looked the out-
fit over, and there is talk of linking up
the power plant of a local sugar mill as
an auxiliary against a repetition of the
episode last. February, when the council’s
plant failed, industries were stopped
for a day and citizens rushed the local
candle supply.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: Queensland Taxpayers’
Association has entered a protest against
borrowing by State and local authorities,
and has invited Spender to clamp down
on all works other than those for de-
fence or to protect existing productive
utilities. According to the association,
Queenslanders are the highest - taxed
people in Australia ; the State land tax
alone is equal to the taxes on land of
the same unimproved value in all the
other States put together, and Brisbane
municipal rates are far higher than those
of any other State capital. Spender has
promised “full consideration.”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Twenty years ago any
proper southern Tory was prepared to
eat his hat if Australia’s Tropic North
ever saw a homegrown third generation.
Now the Anning family, of Reedy
Springs station in the Pentland (N.Q.)
district, has got into its fifth and shows
no signs of stopping. Alexander Anning
took up the property in 1864. Frank
Anning—he won the first race ever held
at Charters Towers on a horse named
Bracefire —was northern-born. Frank’s
son Stephen saw the light first at Reedy
Springs and took a turn at cutting-out
in Townsville shows of the 1890’s. Now
Stephen is a grandfather several times
and still attends Townsville Show every
year. He lives at Cornelia, and Reedy
Springs is still held by the family after
76 years.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: The lights of Bris-
bane’s Story Bridge, set across the night
sky and reflected in golden glory from
the river below, have added a new
beauty to the city. Their effect upon the
human visage, particularly when it carries
lipstick and other facial make-up, is quite
otherwise. Even the undecorated male
dial shows up in a sort of decomposing
violet hue, to which feminine make-up
adds a ghastly purplish red in irregular
splotches. Mascara’d eyelashes come out
green, and a well-powdered nose turns to
a genuine drunkard-red. It is emphati-
cally a place to be avoided after night-
fall by any girl who wants to retain the
admiration of her boy-friend.
* * 3: H=
“Darwarb”: Canberra has been “pre-
sented” with a report of the North Aus-
tralia survey, in operation five years. The
report claims that a “vigorous search” is
going on for minerals of war value, in-
cluding gold, copper, antimony, tin, man-
ganese, mica, silver-lead and wolfram.
“Attention” is being paid to manganese
deposits in the foothills west of Cairns ;
to gold, mica and other showings around
Potallah and Alice Creek ; and a 300-
square-mile copper area on the Chillagoe.
N.T. wolfram possibilities at Hatches
Creek, Wauchope Creek, Mt. Doreen and
Delny and gold on The Granites are
being “examined,” and Zinc Corporaton
is looking over some copper suggestions
around Tedbank, near the Gulf on the
Q.-N.T. border. Cloncurry and Duchess
copper, too, are under the microscope.
Tennant Creek test bores showed values
"You'll catch it for springing on the clothesline, Dad."
ranging from bare color to over 17dwt.
to the ton.
* * * *
“X.T.”: As a rule, Darwin criminal
cases are dreary affairs of abo. murders
and opium sellings, but sometimes the
little courtroom rises to a bit of drama
which would have set old Bland Holt
clapping in his day. One recent case
was that of a soldier charged with hav-
ing caused grievous bodily harm to the
brother of his best girl. Best girl’s mother
told how she had tried to prevent a
conversation between accused and her
daughter. There was an argument, and
she called her husband and son. She
saw her son try to push accused
away; then she heard two shots fired
and saw her son on the ground. The
soldier said that in the scuffle his arms
were grabbed and held by several men.
He was struck, and he drew his gun from
his left-hand pocket. He had no inten-
tion of shooting, but somebody jerked
his wrist. The thrill arrived when the
young woman went into the box and
swore that she had married the young
man secretly since his arrest. The
mother collapsed and there was what a
more sophisticated press than Darwin’s
would have described as “sensation in
court.” The bride will have to do with-
out the company of her husband for
some time —Judge Wells sent him to
Fanny Bay for three years.
“Clayfield”: For a city of its size, Bris-
bane is badly off for public baths. Many
a country town makes the Great Wen’s
ablutional facilities look like duck-
paddles. But the council seems to be
waking up, and the water has been boil-
ing in several ponds as the result of
recent criticism. Of the Valley baths the
city health officer, Dr. Weaver, says he
wouldn t risk his foot in the water Ithaca
baths, serving a closely-populated area,
have no treatment plant, though some-
times somebody sprinkles the water with
lime chloride. At Spring Hill, the water
is changed once a week (there is no
filter); at Davies Park, S. Brisbane, it
comes from a point in the river only ten
yards from the effluent of a stormwater
sewer into which septic tanks are allowed
to drain. Mowbray Park, according to
the health officer, gets polluted water
from the river. Filtration systems are
being overhauled for the first time in a
decade. Still there has been improvement
since the day, more than a generation
ago, when Barney Kieran suggested that
a diving-for-dead-cats championship
should be inaugurated in the old Metro-
politan Baths.
* * * *
“Balander”: Parties unknown raided
the North Ipswich railway workshops and
left with £5lO worth of tin. The loot was
in ingots and weighed more than 30cwt.
The raiders got in through a window,
broke open a heavy door into the ingot
store and then loaded 46 of them—each
weighing 831 b- on to a trolly which they
had pushed along a radway line. The
loaded trolly was shunted down the track
to within 50 yards of a high iron fence,
over which the ingots were pitched and
then loaded on to a motor-truck. The
job must have entailed a fair amount of
work, and the nature of the booty in-
dicates a market waiting for it.
* * * *
“801 l W.”: Last year Queensland had
a cotton crop of 9000 bales. The best
it ever had was 17,000 bales. Next year,
with the aid of the Commonwealth
bounty, it hopes to harvest upwards of
25,000 bales, and ultimately to reach a
figure between 30,000 and 50,000. As
part of the' State’s cotton expansion
plan, a combined road-bridge and weir
is to be built over the Dawson at Moura.
It will provide irrigation for cotton
and be a link in through-communication
by road from the south to the west.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: In Brisbane for the Show
during a trip south to buy mining
machinery for his Golden Bar (N.Q.)
show, F. W. (Freddie) Cuthbert bears his
83 active years lightly. London-born, he
worked his passage to Australia in sail
62 years ago, mined in Victoria and
N.S.W., ran a store at Croydon (N.Q.),
with mining ventures as a sideline, and
retired at 64 a wealthy man. Feeling
bored by inactivity, he went up to
Misima Island, off the Papuan coast, and,
w *th G. O. Wilkinson, opened up a show
became one of Australia s mining
classics with its ortgina yield of £lOO,OOO
wor i h ,° f 8° d “ d a of £98,780
“ ViT*! ih T
Hin mine near Georgetown (N.Q.) and
in five years cleaned up £12,000 worth of
gold, 40 p.c. of it clear profit. Freddie
wants to get back north as soon as pos-
sible—his opinion is that the southern
climate isn’t fit for white people,
* * * *
.. Qwert Yu iop”: With a probable war-
time election loomi ahead early ,
Ano „„ J 3
yfr Queensland s Forgan Smiths have
dec,ded *° compromise on them total,,
tarian grab at unexpired motor-registra-
tion f ees - Any of the motor-using vote
fodder which cancels its registration will
now receive credit for the unexpired
portion of the prepaid twelve months on
re-registering. Whether de-registration
took place on account of enlistment, in-
creasing costs and decreasing petrol
supplies, war depression of business,
bridge-toll banditry or otherwise is all
one to the champion tax-collectors. It
provides another convincing reason for
early abolition of the six rapacious and
redundant State Governments.
“Mataranka”: It made a paragraph
for the press, but it’s no joke—troops
stationed in the North have asked the
Australian Com£orts Funds for , akum
, x . . ...
and ! ‘P st,ck - T .hey are sensible acces-
sones In a perspiring country, but there
are a f ew others which are more needed,
P ne I s the loose type of short uniform
in vogue in India, with the legs of the
trousers particularly wide open at the
knees. Another is a type of helmet which
gives more shelter to the back of the
neck than the ordinary military types in
vogue—the heavily-pithed Bagdad kind
used along the Tigris is the best one I
have struck. And spine-pads. The ordi-
nary civilian working under stand-at-ease
conditions does not feel the need of them,
but troops drilling on parade-grounds,
marching on open roads or perched up
on the top of mechanised transport are
a different matter. Seasoned regiments like
the Black Watch, accustomed to Indian
conditions which are no worse than
some of our own, used to make them
compulsory and probably still do, though
a special headgear along Arab lines to
protect both ears and neck is much cooler
and more comfortable. And the double-
felt hat of Ceylon, something like the
wide-brimmed German headgear which
used to be fashionable in old New
Guinea, is a good bet.


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6% per £lOO
Minimum Premium £ 1/2/6
The New Zealand Insrrance
Company, Limited
(Incorporated in New Zealand)
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
</. Harrison, Manager
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
ON ALL FRONTS . . .
0.
&
n
yy
cSS
A
//
ALL MEN OF SELF-RESPECT USE
GILLETTE
The Army knows well that smartness and self-respect
go hand in hand—and one of the first steps to both is
to be well and truly shaved. And since the most econ-
omical way of shaving is by the Gillette system, it has
been made the “official issue” to the armies of Britain,
Canada and Australia. Which is all right by the troops,
too, because Gillette is the most comfortable shave.
Q GILLETTE SETS 2/6 to 45/- • BLUE GILLETTE BLADES 5 for 1/6
„\V^ TtE
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
W.McN.: “To the Border” has a long way
to go W.M.: Some of your rhymes are as
atrocious as Sandy’s grog M.S.: Try “Bed-
time” on a women’s paper W.K.S.: Neat,
but tame E. 8.: Elsew'hure perhaps
L.P.K.: “Australia and the Southern Cross”
is a large subject... .D.J.C.: Nothing to lift
it out of the fair-enough class... . G.L.8.:
Parodies need to be very g00d... .D.F.: Like
the epigrams; rhyme would improve them....
P.S.. Lightweights... .L.S.H.: Its an oration
rather than a poem W.D.W.: We’re death
on dying drovers E.R., R.J., R.A.G., E.M.,
V.U.8., E.L., X-ray and P.K.: Not much
chance of anybody in this shindy going unsung.
....R.H.: Four rousing lines then:—
S&> come, you Aussie Diggers! Attention.! Stand at
We won’t forget the Army that brings Germany to
her knees.
We’ll cheer about the armistice that’ll end this
awful fight,
We’ll live again the grand old days of Nelson at
lus height.
P.R.L.: If that was “inspired by a dream,”
you would be wise to take hot-rum nightcaps.
. ...T.R.N.: Gave “Old Cart Horse” a feed
and shooed him home G.8.R.: You’ll need
to improve a good deal T.H.P.: Flossie re-
jected “Clark Gable and Other Stars I Have
Met” because it wasn’t autographed N.H.R.:
Only merit is its brevity... .W.L.D.: Nobody
laughed at the man who kept falling over the
doorstep... .8.R.P.: Couldn’t you try to write
about something other than homeless orphans?
... . Anon: “If this poem can help you to
fashion for yourself out of the Universal Mind
that continuing bias toward the Ideals of
Decency and Democracy which is for ever
fixed in our race and collectively bend that
achieved Power against the Black Magic of
Hitlerism copy it and then send it on its
necessary mission through your particular busi-
ness channels as well as your intimate social
circles.” Gladly, brother:
Oh, Paw’r Supreme, thy aid extend—
If England falters, Freedom dies—
Thy former succor still recall:
Confound thy foes before her eyes.
Oh, let thine Everlasting arms
Her shield and sure protection be,
Embattled with celestial fire
In azure space, on land and sea.
. ...F.G.T.: It’s not funny, it’s vulgar....
H.R.N.: The same old sad story... .P.R.T.:
Don’t tell us that we’re to be invaded by
another crowd of suicides who do the dirty
deed before hearing that they’ve won the lot-
tery. .. .G.R.8.: No use for that kind of essay.
... .H.R.: Off our beat, but it has possibilities.
H.R.S.: It wanders 8.R.A.: Your tropic
islands seem to have come from tourist folders.
F.P.R.: Might be a paragraph in it
D.S.B: Come again with something lighter....
P.R.: It wouldn’t be spring without a “Spring
Idyll.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.L.: No “spare corner” to accommodate
your masterpiece F.R.: Pen drawings show
some promise; others are wide of the mark.
N.D.: Pictorial argument for wet canteens
fell by the wayside V.G.: What’s the old
cove doing waist-deep in the swamp?
M.J.K.: Cow looks as if it were made of card-
board ; and What we think of the bagpipe
player is better left unsaid... .E.J.W.: Suggest
that you devote your talents to designing
chicken coops A.S.M.: Faint pencil marks
on grubby notepaper won’t pay the rent
G. : About as illuminating as a half-completed
jigsaw puzzle... .G.H.A.: Phil May presented
that fisherman to the world over half a cen-
tury ago H.W.: You made a hash of a
perfectly good idea....M:R. Crowded with
non-essentials... .S.M.C.: Sketch of two crows
perched on dead tree arrived minus the gag.
A-B.: Searchlight gag was used by Lock
about a year ago... .N.M.G.: They did the
trip across the continent all for nothing
H. : When you draw in charcoal again don’t
forget the fixative... .R.S.S.: A maimed and
mutilated effort S.T.: Dismal joke labori-
ously illustrated.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Nobby II”: Brassey’s Naval Annual
(1940) gives the first clear account of
the sinking of H.M.S. Royal Oak on
October 14 in Scapa Flow. In the small
hours of the morning darkness a U-boat
came in “on the surface or half-
submerged at high water.” Her first
salvo of torpedoes scored a hit—it did
little damage—but so certain was every-
body that the anchorage was U-boat
nroof that it was believed that the ev
prool that it was believed that the ex-
plosion must have been inside the ship,
and the raider was able tn lie ealmlv
he r ider was able to lie calmly
r A°n d tUb f' u J h£re
erval of ~0 minutes between the first
salvo and the second, which made three
hfis-of such a nature that no bulges
could have given full protection. Even
then, while Royal Oak was keeling over
with two-thirds of her complement, she
was so far from other ships that they
did not realise what had happened, and
the U-boat was able to leave the Flow
before the search for her began.
TT * * * . . *
Unbeknownst to the majority of the
populatTon, Australia is represented in
the Chinese National Assembly at Chung-
king —by Wopg Siang-wong, of Little
Bourke-street, Melbourne, where he runs
a fruit business. He is 63, and has spent
40 years in the city. Three years ago he
was elected in absentia to represent the
Chinese in Australia at the seat of Chiang
Kai-shek’s Government. He left the
other day to take his place in the
Assembly.
•i* H 1 *l*
“Craiser”: A Melbourne suburbanite
has an ingenious device for dealing with
unwanted callers. His doorbell rings only
when a coin is put in a penny-in-the-slot
machine. If the visitor happens to be
a friend he gets his brown back.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Mention of Guthrie-Smith,
dead in Maoriland (B. 24/7/’4O), reminds
me. “He’ll never make a farmer,” neigh-
boring station-owners used to say. “He’s
all theory and no practice.” But many
of his theories became practice. He was
obsessed with the study of his environ-
ment and the changes that had come
about when the white man imposed his
flora and fauna on the native. He would
go into a station-owner’s parlor and ask
questions that seemed of no possible
interest to a farmer. But what he was
doing was trying to trace the influence
of foreign birds or plants on the im-
memorial balance of Nature, and often it
would turn out that what the farmer was
doing was destroying his holding. G.-S.’s
novel was one of the most fascinating
pictures of Maoriland ever printed. The
copy I read carried the author’s own
illustrations.
* * * *
Reginald John Verco, M. 8., B.Sc., now
president of the B.M.A. in S.A., is
a member of one of Adelaide’s greatest
family hierarchies of doctors. He is a
nephew of knight Joseph Verco, who was
for long the doyen of S.A. physicians
(also one of Australia’s leading concholo-
gists), and who helped a kindred pro-*
fession for many years as dean of the
faculty of dentistry at Adelaide Uni.
Other Verco medicoes are Alfred (gradu-
ated 1890), Stanley (1913, radiologist),
Ronald Lister (1928, John’s partner),
Geoffrey (1937, John’s son), all of Adel-
aide, and Clement (1902, John’s cousin),
of Enmore (N.S.W.). There was also
Sydney Verco, John’s brother, who died
a dozen years ago. The new president
is a surgeon of 33 years’ practice.
* * * *
A young Australian musician to make
good in war-time London is Noel J. B.
Nickson, of Melbourne, violinist, com-
poser and conductor, who went to
the Old Dart on a Clarke Scholarship.
The R.C.M. has found time to award
him the annual prize for conducting.
He is a son of Arthur Nickson, an organ-
ist and one of Melbourne’s leading judges
at musical contests, whose white hair is
seen at all big concerts. He is the
“Age’s” musical critic. -
* * * *
“Beeruso”: I don’t see why dead-bottle
collecting (B. 24/7/’4O) should be a
melancholy pastime, unless it be for the
fact that the bottle-oh (save perhaps for
a stray rabbit-oh or two) is the sole sur-
vivor amongst the street-vending fraternity
to proclaim his coming with a cry. Time
was when such merchants made Sydney
re-echo to the music of their business
calls: “water-cree-esses,” “pies, all hot,”
“p-r-o-p-s,” “milk-oh” and “buttermilk
for ladies’ complexions.” “Rock oysters”
was another familiar cry, and the dust-
man announced his arrival by the ringing
of a handbell.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: A.B.C. has lately been
patting itself on the back for having so
centralised music in Australia that there
is almost dead silence outside the official
organisation. Why? Centralised control
is always as bad for the artist as it is for
the public. Almost all the seats at the
Melbourne Town Hall at the celebrity
concerts with imported conductors are
now taken by subscribers, so much so
that it is no longer necessary to put out
posters or advertise fixtures. Nothing
could be more pernicious. In the great
days of English music, when such com-
posers as Purcell and Byrd flourished,
music was a domestic affair. Friends met
in one another’s homes, sang and played
instruments, chorused beautifully in inns
and in the streets for the love of it. But
so ingrained is the Australian idea that
music should only be allowed inside a
public hall, and preferably under A.B.C.
auspices, that a young woman with a
beautiful voice who sang in a Melbourne
s t ree t last New Year’s Eve for the sheer
j oy of it nearly got herself arrested. •
* * * *
“Matelot”: There is a popular legend
that the three tapes on the broad collar
of a naval seaman or stoker rating were
introduced to commemorate Nelson’s
three great victories—Copenhagen, the
Nile and ; Trafalgar—and the legend is
such a pleasing one that it seems almost
sacrilegious to cast doubts upon its
authenticity. But it is questionable
whether the committee which decided
how many stripes were to be worn con-
sidered Nelson’s triumphs at all. The
three tapes were introduced as regulation
pattern in 1888, before which date there
was only one, or sometimes two, on the
collar. The black silk handkerchief worn
round the neck has been part of the sea-
man’s kit for very many years. It is said
that at Nelson’s funeral the hand-
kerchiefs were draped round the neck as
a sign of mourning, and that they have
been worn in this way ever since.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Woolclasser, N.S.W. qual. and exp., avail-
able October shed.—7Bo7.
Worker for patients’ library in large Sydney
hospital would be pleased to hear from persons
willing to donate books by Australian authors.
—7827.
To buy English-Hawaiian dictionary and
Hawaiian grammar.—7773.
To buy, second-hand, numbers of “Time”
(American) from May, 1940, onward.—7Bl2.
To buy The Moods of Ginger Mick, by
C. J. Dennis. —7802.
To buy Geoffry Hamlyn, by Henry Kings-
ley.—7Bs9.
To buy early Australian books autographed
by their authors.—7Bs6.
Lady, Sydney, typist, own machine, used to
handling manuscripts, seeks typing work. —
7791.
Copies of magazines published by units
of the Second A.I.F. in Australian or overseas
camps or aboard troopships.—7BsB.
JWords of poem “Mulga Jim.” —7816.
Words of verse by “Augustus Blowfly” (H.
C. McKay) regarding a brawl in a fish shop.
—7803.
Words of David McKee Wright’s poem
“Gallipoli,” which won the Rupert Brooke prize
in Melbourne about 20 years ag0. —7799.
Author and title of the following lines:
The sheep are on the slopes around.
The cattle in the meadows graze,
And moulderers turn the crumbling ground
Or drop the yellow seed.
—7776.
To get in touch with old Cobb and Co.
ccpachdrivers in N.S.W. and Q’land. (Reply
direct to Philip S. Whelan, Camp Hill, Carew-
street, Dee Why, N.S.W.)
Information Sought.
Some particulars concerning the Singapore
naval base? —7Bl9.
The Singapore naval base and its neigh-
boring airport lie along the Strait of Johore,
east of the Johore Causeway. An elaborate
system of coastal defence works, which has its
headquarters at Changi, a rocky headland at
the eastern entrance to the Strait of Johore,
protects the base from attack by sea or air.
Batteries of heavy guns are mounted there and
on neighboring islands. One of the features of
the base is a graving dock 1000 ft. long, 130 ft.
wide and 35ft. deep at low water. It is excelled in
size only by the King George V graving dock
at Southampton, and can accommodate the
largest warships ever built. > There is also a
huge floating dry dock capable of taking ships
up to 50,000 tons, which was towed out from
England in 1928. The base has a tidal basin
with 5000 ft. of wharf walls with depths of
30ft. to 40ft. alongside at low water, pro-
viding berthing space for many warships. There
are ammunition and store depots, railroad
sidings and huge reservoirs for storing fuel oil.
* * Hi H!
Details concerning German gun known as
“Big Bertha,” which was used in the Great
War of 1914-18, and how many casualties did
it cause? —7795.
“Big Bertha” was the nickname of the
specially-prepared long-range German naval gun
(or guns) which fired on Paris from the neigh-
borhood of Coucy, a distance of 76 miles,
during 1918. The name was in allusion to
the fact that Frau Bertha von Bohlen was one
of the proprietors of Krupp’s, which firm made
the gun. Twenty-one shells, of over 2001 b.
each, were fired ‘on March 23, 1918, the first
day on which the gun was used against Paris,
and thereafter there was intermittent firing for
several months. It is difficult to estimate the
total casualties, because sometimes the firing
synchronised with bomb-dropping, but the
deaths are variously given at between 100 and
200 for the whole period of firing.
* h= * *
How many vessels did the Union S.S. Co.
lose by enemy action during the war of 1914-
18? Particulars? —7796.
It lost eight vessels totalling 54,716 tons.
Of these the Wairuna (3947 tons) was captured
and sunk by the German raider Wolf at the
Kermadec Islands in June, 1917, on a journey
from Auckland to San Francisco. The Aparima
(5704 tons), under requisition by the Admiralty,
was -torpedoed in the British Channel on
November 19, 1917, with a loss of 54 lives.
The Limerick (6827 tons), in May, 1917, eight
lives being lost; the Roscommon (7381 tons),
in August, 1917; the Waihemo (4283 tons), in
March, 1918; and the Waitemata (5432 tons),
in July, 1918, were all torpedoed about the
coasts of the U.K. while running under requisi-
tion by the British Government. In addition
to these vessels, which had been actually en-
gaged in the co.’s service, the Avenger (14,744
tons), which was being built for the Vancouver
service when the war broke out and which was
completed in 1916, was torpedoed in June,
1917, while on Admiralty service as a cruiser.
H* H*
(1) Up to I what proportion can alcohol be
added to petrol to give a good mixture for car
engines? (2) Can commercial methylated spirits
be thus used ? —7686.
(1) Alcohol can be added to petrol in any
proportion. The most widely used blends range
from 10 p.c. to 20 p.c. of alcohol. Such blends
are quite good fuels and give approximately the
same mileage per gallon as straight petrol.
(2) Methylated spirits can be used, but often
give rise to troubles owing to the constituents
separating in the mixture. The power alcohol
most commonly used is a special product con-
taining a minimum percentage of water.
* * * . H= ;
What goods did 'Australia import from
Netherlands East Indies for the year 1938-39 ?
—7BBO.
Foodstuffs of vegetable origin and non-
alcoholic beverages, £1,670,010 (including tea,
£1,622,624); tobacco and tobacco preparations,
£ 14,561; vegetable substances and fibres,
£362,143 (including raw cotton, £127,043, and
flax and hemp, £206,518); apparel, textiles,
£9193; oils, fats and waxes, £4,895,107 (in-
cluding kerosene, £288,601, crude petroleum,
£198,453, petroleum spirit, benzine, gasoline,
etc., £3,431,054, residual, £636,288); rubber
and leather, £138,473 (including crude rubber,
£137,475); woods and wickers, £10,831; drugs,
chemicals and fertilisers, £5374; miscellaneous,
£14,045; total, £7,119,785.
*i*
King’s Cup ( aviation ) winners for the last
six years ? —7869.
1933, Capt. G. de Haviland, 139.51 m.p.h.;
1934, Flight-Lieut. H. M. Schofield, 134.16
m.p.h.; 1935, Flight-Lieut. T. Rose, 176.28
m.p.h.; 1936, C. E. Gardner, 164.5 m.p.h.;
1937, C. E. Gardner, 237.7 m.p.h.; 1938, A.
Henshaw, 236.25 m.p.h.
* * * *
Particulars concerning Attila ? —7777.
Attila, King of the Fluns, succeeded his
uncle Rugilas with his brother Bleda in 433.
He claimed for himself divine origin and de-
scent, and from the finding of the so-called
“sword of Mars” claimed the domination of
the earth. Bleda was put to death in 445,
and Attila was able to proclaim himself King
of the Barbarians from the North Sea to the
boundaries of China. He ruled over the
Vandals, Ostrogoths and Gepidae. He invaded
Maesia and defeated the forces of Theodosius
11, and devastated the whole of tfie eastern
portion of the empire; Constantinople saved
itself only by its impregnable fortifications.
The whole of the Balkan peninsula was at his
mercy, and he forced peace terms on Theo-
dosius. He prepared to invade Gaul and be-
sieged the town of Orleans in 451, but an
alliance of the Romans and Visigoths forced
him to raise the siege and defeated him at
Chalons, where 200,000 men are said to have
perished. Forced back into Hungary, he in-
vaded Italy in the following year, place after
place falling into his hands. Rome itself was
only saved at huge expense. The next year
(453) he died, and with his death his empire
fell to pieces.
H= * Hi H=
(1) How many men are there in an A.I.F.
division ? (2) Any difference between the
number of men in one division and another ?
(3) How many battalions to a division? —737s.
(1) Approximately 16,000. (2) No. (3) Nine.
* * * *
Occupations of those who ejnbarked as
members of the A.I.F. and the Australian Naval
and Military Force during the Great War of
1914-18?—'7826.
A.1.F.: Professional 15,719, clerical 24,346,
tradesmen 112,452, laborers 99,252, country
callings 57,430, seafaring 6562, miscellaneous
14,122. A.N. and M.E.F.: Professional 160,
clerical 192, tradesmen 1323, laborers 664,
country callings 105, seafaring 83, miscellaneous
107.
* * * h=
Principal countries of birth of foreign-born
residents in U.S.A.? —7846.
Great Britain and Northern Ireland
1,402,032, Irish Free State 744,810, Norway
347,852, Sweden 595,250, Denmark 179,474,
Germany 1,608,814, Poland 1,268,583, Czecho-
slovakia 491,638, Austria 370,914, Hungary
274,450, Russia 1,153,628, Italy 1,790,429,
Canada 1,278,421, Belgium '64,194, Switzerland
173,010, France 135,592, Lithuania 193,606,
Finland 142,478, Yugoslavia 211,416, Rumania
146,393, Greece 174,528, Holland 133,133,
Japan 70,993, West Indies 106,241.
* * * *
Whereabouts in England is the residence
known as Chequers, and by whom is it
occupied ? —7797.
Chequers, a country residence for Prime
Ministers (from . January 1, 1921), was pre-
sented to the nation (with an endowment to
maintain the estate, etc.) by Lord and Lady
Lee of Fareham as the official country resi-
dence for the Prime Minister of the day, and
the gift was approved by Parliament in the
Chequers Estate Act, 1917. In 1921 the
Chequers Estate of 700 acres was added to the
gift by Lord Lee. Chequers is a Tudor mansion
in the Chilterns, about three miles from Princes
Risborough, Bucks, and contains a collection
of Cromwellian portraits and relics.
* * * He
Some particulars regarding Blondin, the
French tight-rope walker ? —7BOO.
Charles Blondin, the, rope-walker, was born
in 1824 at St. Omer, France, and his profes-
sional career began at the age of five, when his
talents earned for him the title of the “little
wonder.” Trained at Lyons, he devoted his
abilities to rope-walking, and on his successful
attempt to cross Niagara Falls on a rope 1100 ft.
long and 160 ft. above the water achieved in-
stantaneous popularity. He performed the same
feat many times, varying it with different accom-
paniments, among which were those of carrying
a man across on his back, performing blindfold,
wheeling a barrow, and on stilts. Vast crowds
flocked to his performances, the gathering
at his first attempt over Niagara Falls number-
ing 25,000. He died in 1897 at Ealing, London.
* * * *
What is a fireball? —7573.
Ball lightning is a slowly-moving ball of
fire which finally explodes. It occurs when
both the electric potential and the quantity
of electricity are great. Ball lightning can be
produced experimentally by sending the cur-
rent from a dynamo through, water contained
in a glass. Ball lightning occurs during a
thunderstorm, mostly in wet places along the
ground, and only at times when there are
great downpours of rain. It consists of a globe
of incandescent rarefied air and gas from the
decomposition of vapor of water. The ruddy
hue is due to the hydrogen, this being charac-
teristic of electrical discharges through hydro-
gen. The least current of air changes the
spherical shape or form.
* * * *
Details concerning the statue known as the
Apollo of Rhodes? —7873.
A colossal bronze figure of the sun-god
Apollo, reckoned among the seven wonders of
the ancient world. It is said to have been the
work of Chares of Lindus, and to have be'en
set up by the Rhodians about 280 b.c. in grati-
tude for the successful defence of the city
against Demetrius. The height was probably
about 90ft., and the work is stated to have
occupied the sculptor 12 years. In 226 b.c. it
was overthrown by an earthquake, and the
metal was sold by Arabs when they captured
Rhodes in a.d. 653.
H: * * *
What are liqueurs made from?— 7B76.
This term is applied to beverages which have
been sweetened and flavored in such a way
as to be highly palatable. Three ingredients
are essential in the preparation of these
beverages, viz: (1) a powerful spirit or alcohol,
(2) sugar or syrup, (3) some flavoring matter
such as aniseed, coriander, lemon, cloves,
citron, peppermint, etc. Kiimmel is the popu-
lar liqueur of Russia and is flavored with
cumin or caraway seeds. Noyau, or Creme de
Noyau, is a French cordial flavored with
bruised bitter almonds. Kirschwarrer is a
favorite liqueur in Germany, whilst Benedictine
and Chartreuse are highly favored liqueurs in-
vented by ancient monastic communities.
H= * * Ht
What work does the Carnegie Corporation
perform ? —7861.
The Carnegie Corporation of New York was
established by Andrew Carnegie for the ad-
vancement and diffusion of knowledge and
understanding among the people of the United
States and the British Dominions and Colonies.
The present programme of the Corporation in-
cludes the support of educational and scientific
research, publications of scholarly and profes-
sional societies, fine arts education through
educational institutions and national organisa-
tions, adult education, library service and train-
ing, and support of various related projects
which give promise of providing new know-
ledge.
* * * *
What would be the procedure in running a
military boxing tournament? Name the dif-
ferent divisions, weights, and number of
rounds each contest in such a tournament is
limited to ? —7859.
The camp commandant’s permission would
have to be obtained. Entries for the eight
divisions —flyweight (8.0), bantamweight (8.6),
featherweight (9.0), lightweight (9.9), welter-
weight (10.7), middleweight (11.6), light-heavy-
weight (12.7) and heavyweight (all over 12.7) —
are then received, and the first draw made so
that 32, 16 or eight boxers are. left, including
byes, in each division. The 32, 16 or eight
meet, and the winners keep clashing until there
are only two left to contest the finals. Con-
tests in all the preliminary rounds are limited
to four two-minute rounds, but the semi-finals
and finals are usually extended to six rounds.
H= * H- *
Names of members of the Victorian State
Ministry ?— 7864.
A. A. Dunstan (Premier, Treasurer and
Solicitor-General), A. E. Lind (Lands and
Forests), F. E. Old (Water Supply and Electrical
Undertakings), E. J. : Hogan (Agriculture and
■ Mines), H. S. Bailey (Chief Secretary and
Attorney-General), E. J. Mackrell (Labor),
H. J. T. Hyland (Transport), John Harris
(Education and Health), George Goudie (Public
Works and Immigration), G. J. Tuckett, Henry
Pye and N. A. Martin.
* * * *
What is the Mason and Dixon line in the
U.S.A. ?—' 7788.
The boundary line (lat. 39deg. 43min.) separat-
ing Maryland from Pennsylvania. Mason and
Dixon were two English astronomers who sur-
veyed it between 1763 and 1767, and thus put
an end to the disputes between the Balti-
mores and the Penns, the respective proprietors
of the two colonies. This line was part of the
boundary between free and slave (Northern and
Southern) States. Since 1820 it has been a
popular name for the whole of that boundary.
* Hr H= #
(1) Size of Lord Howe Island and distance
from Sydney ? (2) Number of inhabitants ?
(3) Occupation of inhabitants ? (4) What farm-
ing is carried on ? (5) Frequency of ships
• and mails? (6) Area of palm plantations? (7)
Are inhabitants poor or otherwise? (8) Recrea-
tional facilities ? —7655.
(1) 3220 acres. The island is seven miles
long, varies in width from half-mile to \\
mile and is crescent-shaped, with a coral reef
on the western ■ coast stretching from point to
point of the crescent. Distance from Sydney
is 436 miles north-east. (2) Approximately
130. (3) The islanders have obtained their
living mainly from the proceeds of the sale
of the seed of the Kentia palm and returns
■from tourists. Besides tilling their own gardens
and earning from the sources mentioned, small
funds have been available to them from under-
taking such public works as may be required;
the handling of merchandise between the ships
and the island; bonus (formerly 6d., but now
reduced to 2d.) in respect of each rat killed,
and very small amounts from the export of
some island products such as bananas, oranges,
etc. (4) Farming as is known on the mainland
has not been practised on the island. There are
no large cleared areas suitable for general
farming purposes, and the class of work is
governed by this fact. Good soil occurs in
“pockets” which are not extensive in size.
The islanders grow nearly all their own
vegetables, including potatoes, and they also
cultivate bananas in a small way and a limited
number of orange-strees. (5) The frequency of
ships visiting the island has been seriously cur-
tailed owing to reduced shipping facilities con-
sequent upon the war. At the moment the
arrangement is for a ship to go to the island
from Sydney about once every six weeks. The
vessel then goes to the New Hebrides, and calls
at the island again en route to Sydney. (6)
The Kentia palm seeds are not cultivated, but
grow in their natural state in many places
on the island. (7) In past years the inhabi-
tants have been afforded a comfortable living
from the sources which have been mentioned.
But through war conditions the sale of palm
seed has almost entirely ceased, and through
the reduced shipping facilities the tourist traffic
is at a standstill. The outlook of the islanders
for the time being at any rate is not very
cheerful. (8) Swimming, sailing, boating, fish-
ing, tennis, cricket, bowls, dancing and
mountaineering.
Brief Answers.
E.C.T.: No reason why the two should not
be taken together. Molasses are said to con-
tain iron salts and so to be of value in main-
taining the blood cells in proper condition, and
olive oil is easily assimilable, though it has not
the nutritional value of animal oils. Any im-
provement you may have noticed is probably
due to general toning-up of the system. Neither
molasses nor the oil is a recognised cure for
arthritis... .P.P.: “Catarrh” is the name applied
to any watery discharge from mucous mem-
branes, particularly those of the nose and other
air-passages; the causes may be trivial or
serious. See your doctor and let him find
the source of your trouble. Smoking is not
likely to improve the condition... .F.0.N.:
Write Director, National Art Gallery of
N.5.W.., Domain, • Sydney... .L.P.: Write
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research,
314 Albert-street, East Melbourne W.M.8.:
(1) Particulars posted. (2) Suggest that you
get in touch with Dept, of Agriculture, Bridge-
street, Sydney V.E.8.: Except for employ-
ment of ex-inspectors in a temporary capacity,
the appointment of stock inspectors in N. S.
Wales is restricted to those holding the degree
of Bachelor of Veterinary Science of Sydney
or other approved university C.L.: Details
not obtainable... .F.H.D.: When certain stand-
ards are laid down as necessary to meet the
position at any particular time, it is important
that these standards should be adhered to.
The present position is that the required
numbers of air observers and wireless air
gunners are forthcoming from men within the
age limits laid down. .It is not possible to
state at this juncture whether the age limits
are likely to be varied... .0.E.: Write to Secre-
tary, Department of Supply and Development,
83 William-street, Melbourne, stating require-
ments. There is a State representative in
Perth, but it would be just as convenient to
write to the head office. Crewe and Sons,
North Perth, have contracted with department
to supply, under department’s guarantee, pro-
ducer-gas units for £5B 16s W.A.L.C.: As
there is now a recruiting office at Rabaul, you
should get in touch with that office to ascer-
tain your prospects of enlistment... .R.H.:
Write to Department of Supply and Develop-
ment, 83 William-street, Melbourne... .E.W.:
(1) and (2) By joining the A.I.F. as a private
and exhibiting qualities which may be con-
sidered by the commanding officer to warrant
advancement J.N.H.: (1), (2) and (3) Yes.
(4) On enlistment a soldier can express
a preference for any particular arm of the
service, and, subject to there being vacancies
and he having the necessary qualifications, he
is normally allocated to that arm....H.D.:
Write headquarters, Eastern Command, Vic-
toria Barracks, Paddington, Sydney, when you
will be fully advised on the matter... .N.R.C.:
Write Headquarters, Eastern Command, Vic-
toria Barracks, Paddington, Sydney, and for
information in regard to reserved occupations
apply to the Man-power Officer of the same
command... .M.A.: A model of a producer-
gas unit can be seen at the Technological
Museum, Harris-street, Sydney... .S.’C.: Try
reducing the charging rate by moving the third
or regulating brush against the direction of
rotation. Connections are apparently correct if
the ammeter shows charging rate. Overheat-
ing does not matter a great deal in a car
generator C.E.R.: Danger from lightning is
very remote, but would suggest earthing guy-
wires and pole, and making a secure connection
to portion of the roof. No necessity to in-
form insurance c0....H.M.: Demand, for De-
fence, by W. C. Wentworth... .J.M.: (1) Can
find no such list of names and addresses. (2)
, Various overseas press directories can be in-
spected at the Public Library of N.S.W., Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney.... .R.J.M.: Write Dr.
R. B. Madgwick, secretary, N.S.W. Rhodes
Scholarship Committee, University of Sydney.
D.P.D.: You are an Australian of Irish
parentage J.0.R.: You would need to be
on the spot and well known to persons who
run such services in order to secure a posi-
tion. Vacancies are never advertised, and are
not difficult to fi11... .E.M.: Having matricu-
lated he would have to serve articles of clerk-
ship with a solicitor and during their term pass
the prescribed examinations. It is not incum-
bent on him to be a student at the University,
but it has the advantage that the terms of
clerkship are shortened for University students.
A letter addressed to the Solicitor-General,
Hobart, asking for full details of the steps to
be taken would probably meet your require-
ments 8.H.: You should receive your pro-
portionate share after the deduction of death
duties.. . .T.D.: “Sunflower” tobacco, sold in
2oz. tins at most of the larger tooacconists,
will meet your requirements W.H.S.: (1)>
(2) and (5). No. (3) Possibly, by their dis-
ciples. (4) Can’t say. If they were, the results
haven’t been , very impressive T.E.: Write
Dept, of Labor and Industry, Sydney..
G.W.8.: A N.S.W. liftdriver’s certificate is
obtainable from the Department of Labor and
Industry, 53 Martin-place, Sydney. Certifi-
cates are granted only to applicants who
have had two weeks’ actual driving practice.
No fees are chargeable.. ..J.M.E.: Write Dept-
of Supply and Development, Canberra...-
R.G.A.: The British Government has decided
to postpone the scheme... .F.S.R.: The ques-
tion of whether an Indian enactment applies to
persons of Australian nationality temporarily
resident in India depends on the terms the
relevant Indian law and is not affected by Aus-
tralian law.


FEED
BETTER RETURNS
Q^AjL-Gx^O^L
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
FOR MINERALS FOR WINTER PRODUCTION.
Tri-cal-os supplies calcium and phosphorus in the form which stock
most easily digests and assimilates. Regular feeding of Tri-cal-os
prevents deficiency diseases and bone troubles, increases the milk yield,
ensures early maturity and maintains good all round condition.
Containing over 70% tricalcic phosphate, Tri-cal-os has a guaranteed
minimum of 32.5% phosphoric acid and 40% lime.
. All particulars front
Davis Gelatine (Australia) Pty., Ltd., G.P.O. Box 35835, SYDNEY-
G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE.
or
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
afrjs
m
o
Heals , soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1 -gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’EAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
11-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Loss on Held Lambs.
“Gumeraka”: The S. Australian lamb-
growing season is short and finishes
abruptly. The bulk of lambs produced
must be treated within two to three
months. Each year the treatment period
is marked by an embarrassing “glut” at
the abattoirs at the onset of hot, dry
weather, and there are necessarily some
delays in slaughtering. Roseworthy Agri-
cultural College recently investigated
probable losses through delayed slaughter.
There were five treatment classes of
33 lambs each, matched according to
weight. The mean farm liveweight of all
lambs was about 631 b. Lambs were
slaughtered six, 24, 48, 72 and 96 hours
after removal from their mothers.
Although the mean farm liveweights
of the lambs were practically identical,
the hot carcass yields were 54.96 per cent,
for lambs held six hours, 54.96 per cent,
for those held 24 hours, 53.72 per cent,
for those slaughtered after 48 hours, 52.43
per cent, for those at 72 hours, and 51.99
per cent, for lambs killed after 96 hours.
Lambs of 631 b. farm liveweight lost
7.081 b. liveweight in 96 hours; of this
7.081 b. it was shown that only 1.971 b.
was lost from the carcass itself, whereas
the remaining 6.111 b. was lost from the
offal fraction either by excretion, respira-
tion or assimilation.
The 165 lambs treated were carefully
graded and points allotted for bloom and
condition. After analysing the points in
relation to the various treatments, it was
impossible to detect any visible differ-
ences. The loss of fat covering and
bloom, if any, was not assessable by in-
spection, even in the carcasses of lambs
held as long as four days.
A Lesson from Queensland'.
“H.W.”: Compared with some of the
dairying districts in south-east Queens-
land, my part of the N.S.W. North Coast
is still in the feudal ages. The only con-
spicuous sign of progress is the co-opera-
tive butter factory, and for that we have
to thank businessmen and technicians.
In the Queensland districts referred
to the general practice is to build several
stacks of fodder every year, whether they
are needed or not, thatching them like
a house, insuring them against fire and
keeping them as a security against an
overdraft or to sell when prices soar, as
well as for feeding the herd in a drought.
One farmer showed me one or two
of his stacks nearly as old as myself and
as good as the day they were built. He
had about 40, and his system was to keep
that average on hand, selling when he
had a growing surplus. As a result, he
was still hand-feeding his herd of 60
studbook milkers at the end of a four
years’ drought, and had made a hand-
some profit from the stacks he had sold
to dairymen in N.S.W.
In my district you can drive 40 miles
through dairy farms and you won’t see
60 tons of haystack all the way. There
is only one silo visible, and herds look
more like scrubber beef cattle than dairy
cows. The policy is to crowd every pos-
sible beast on the paddock, let them eat
the grass down to the roots and then
squeal for Government aid when there
is a month or two's drought.
The same indifference applies to pigs.
While there is difficulty in finding accom-
modation for the growing numbers of
exhibits at the show, visiting judges weep
in private because breeders refuse to con-
form to the export-bacon type, for which
there is an excellent market overseas.
Until this kind of economic waste and
incompetence is at least partly eliminated
it is reasonable for the consumer to
wonder whether the farmer is the back-
bone of the country or the wishbone.
Give the Farm a Chance.
“R. Ney”: It is often forgotten that
in its natural state (before clearing and
fencing) the Australian soil was never
capable of carrying the head of stock
“One and a half, please!"
P er acre that ' n now carries in the closer-
? ettled P arts - If . the . P resent r ate of stock-
ing is to be maintained year in, year out,
the soil must receive attention, pastures
mus t be renovated or improved and a
store of conserved fodder put away every
flush season.
Constant grazing reduces soil fertility
as mU ch as constant cropping. It may
d 0 fl even more quickly, seeing that most
crops are sown with the benefit of arti-
flcial manure and dead roots and stubble
g Q towards making humus. The best
wa y to res tore fertility to pastures is by
topdressing and resting the paddocks,
Pasture improvement, desirable in
itself, may spoil a paddock if the stock
are allowed to flog the pasture out
or the pasture itself is allowed
to take everything the soil can give
it. Judicious stocking and control
of pasture are essential. Fodder con-
servation, too, should be regarded not
merely as an insurance against drought,
but as a part of the farm programme to
maintain stock in good condition through
lean months.
Thus, in addition to normal farm work,
on the average farm there will be top-
dressing, renovating and sowing of new
pastures in autumn, a putting-away of
excess growth and special crops in the
form of silage or hay in spring and early
summer, and in winter a judicious feed-
ing out of this fodder not only to keep
the stock going, but to save the pastures
from excessive grazing.
Gloom in the Mallee.
“Ben C.”: In the 1933 census the popu-
lation of the Victorian Mallee and Wim-
mera was set down at 124,000-odd.
Except in the lower Wimmera, an area
of mostly-extinct goldmines, vineyards,
sheep runs, orchards and mixed farms,
and Mildura, a huge irrigation settle-
ment of vines, citrus and other fruits,
with a population of possibly 20,000
within a 20-mile radius of the town, the
territory depends almost exclusively on
wheat for its existence. There is a fair
amount of wool grown, with some mutton
and fat-lamb raising, but wheat is the
axis around which a district comprising
roughly a fifth of the State revolves.
The Wimmera, older and more solidly
established than the Mallee and with a
surer rainfall, is in a bad enough state
at present; the position in the Mallee is
nothing short of disastrous.
Rolling down and clearing of the low
scrub, followed by single-crop farming
on the shallow, sandy soil, reduced the
Mallee within 20 years from what was
grandiloquently described as “the granary
of Australia” to a place of denuded
acres, almost perpetual duststorms and
steadily-mounting debt. In recent years,
by running water channels into the coun-
try from north and south, by efforts at
erosion control, altered farming methods
and debt-adjustment schemes, frantic
efforts have been made to stop the rot,
but a drought two years ago and an-
other this year have brought the place
to the verge of ruin.
In 1938-39 Victoria got a crop of
18,000,000 bushels of wheat, less than
half its normal average. Last season it
got 45,000,000 bushels—and the Aus-
tralian total was over 210,000,000 bushels,
a large proportion of which nobody
wanted. This season, even if rains come
now, the Victorian wheat crop must be
a poor one.
Even in the Donald district, well south
of the Mallee proper, the rainfall has
been 70 p.c. below normal; there is little
seeding, there is an absence of green
pastures and there are few fat lambs.
Further north storekeepers have reached
the limit in credit, and the banks have
long since turned the Mallee down.
In Melbourne dailies there has been
a plea for immediate financial assistance
in the form of a fixed price of 4s. a
bushel for the first 3000 bushels, the
farmer to produce more at his own risk.
For their part, wheatgrowers and store-
keepers are unanimous that nothing short
of a further advance of Bd. a bushel on
the wheat acquired by the Common-
wealth can be of any use. All this may
help, but nobody has asked what good
a guaranteed “stabilisation” price of 4s.
a bushel for the first 3000 bushels, or
any other form of “stabilised” price, is
to men who haven’t got 3000 bushels.
Dry seasons in the Mallee are increas-
ing in frequency, and every year millions
of tons of the soil in the lighter country
is being blown away. Sanded-up water
channels, roads and railways are com-
mon every summer. It is not poor wheat
prices that have reduced the Mallee to
its present pass; that is only the culmi-
nation of a disaster that has been gather-
ing through years of soil loss, dry seasons
and shifting sand.
What the Mallee needs is a sturdy
policy of rehabilitation, something similar
to the scheme which brought the Okla-
homa dust-bowl back into production in
U.S.A. There will have to be a complete
discard of old, bad farming methods and
an effort to save, if not restore, the land’s
capacity to produce crops and stock,
Stabilised prices or further advances
won’t do anything more than keep the
farmers’ credit good for another season
or two ; beyond that, unless Victoria, or
Australia, insists on a bold and compre-
hensive rehabilitation scheme, there is
nothing but sand and a rapid depopu-
lation of once-thriving centres like


COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
FEDERAL LAND TAX RETURNS NOW DUE.
~ Returns of land lield at midnight on the 30th June, 1940, are required to be lodged on or before
the 31st August, 1940.
Land Tax Returns must be submitted by persons resident in the Commonwealth when the total
unimproved value of land held is £4OOO or over and by or on behalf of absentees when the unimproved
value is One Pound or over.
Where change of value or holding lias taken place since the 30th June, 1939, form “C” should be
used. IVhere no change has taken place, a declaration (form “CA”) to that effect is sufficient.
Yi here land is held in more than one State the returns Should be forwarded to the Deputy Federal
Commissioner of Taxation, Box 769 G., G.P.0., Melbourne.
'Forms of return and full information may be obtained at the principal Post Offices or at Federal
Taxation Office, Third Floor, Government Savings Bank Building. 21-23 Elizabetli Street, Sydney-
postal address: Box 4046 AV., G.P.0., Sydney.
Penalty for late lodgment 10% Additional Tax —minimum £l.
Penality for failure to lodge returns, £lOO.
NOTE: Perpetual Leases (from the Grown), without revaluation or with the right of purchase, must be
included in the return. Form “A” should be used.
N. GERRANS’,
DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF LAND TAX.
S3F
M
mw.
3W*
I*'
rt-s
STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, larceways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day!
£9 / 9 / -
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
The New and Improved
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE, CHARGER
Kir
mm
SBB
See it at
DANKS #
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder .
Victorian Distributors:
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
1 3 33
TisTr
y*<i^Nwir , 4sC r> < ,~.. i
s
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11 /-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room —All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Ouyen, Sea Lake, Murrayville, Hope-
toun, Rainbow and similar and smaller
ones from Kerang to the border and
north to the Murray.
Better Pastures.
“Bogaduck”: The Waite Institute
(S.A.) suggests these rules for the quick-
est and most profitable tyoe of permanent
pasture- *
n , , .
Break up the land, then leave it as
fallow until the following autumn, work-
ing it in the interim just as carefully as
if you were preparing for a wheat qrop.
Seed it down early in the season with
clover seed and up to five pounds per
acre of Phalaris tuberosa, but never on
any account use more than half a pound
of Wimmera ryegrass seed,
If in your district sub. clover doesn’t
seem to do as well as it might, in spite
of sufficient rainfall and heavy dressings
of super., use only a little s.c. seed and
replace with clustered clover, barrel
medic or some other legume. It is 10
|.° that the land is too rich in lime
°* S-C ' , ,
Give the pasture every chance to set
seed in the first year. Thus, you won’t
ge t a mass G f capeweed and other near-
rubbish within a few years; you can
carry a lot of stock in the second season,
and thereafter the land gets steadily
better with topdressing,
There are men who have fluked a two-
sheep-per-acre pasture by .breaking all
the rules, but for every man who pulls
it oft’ there are a hundred who curse the
day they tried it.
Hints for the Farm.
“Brewongle”: To rid poultry-pens and
-houses of mites and lice (which breed
prolifically in the warmer weather) use
this mixture: Shred |lb. hard soap in a
gallon of water and boil till dissolved.
Lift the mixture from the fire and while
hot stir in two gallons of kerosene. Use
one part of mixture in 10 of water. A
spray with plenty of force is preferable
to push the mixture into the crevices of
broken timber; but it can also be
splashed on with a brush. Protect the
eyes while doing the job.
“Mt. Boppy”: When pasture paddocks
are small, use them in turn as night
paddocks to get an accumulation of dung
from the dairy herd. Use pasture harrows
freely to break up the droppings, and soil
fertility will increase. Repeat the opera-
tion two or three times. Artificial manures
cannot provide organic matter, but
animal droppings can.
“Zedo”: Adelaide R.A.S. cancelled its
show without question when its grounds
were needed for military purposes. Syd-
ney R.A.S., whose secretary is State
Director of Recruiting, followed suit, but
there has been an outcry, not from the
country, but from commercial interests.
The Army has now decided that it may
not be necessary to hold the ground
unless recruiting is begun again on a
large scale. Few country exhibitors
would be sorry to see the show aban-
doned during war years ; quite a lot of
them are shorthanded and worrying more
about finding war taxation and rising
costs than about shows.
“Canbelego”: In 1933, when pastures
were all paspalum, the 126 Jerseys on
Norman Johnston’s farm at Bonalbo
(N.S.W.) produced 15,0001 b. of butter-
fat a year. Pastures on the 320 acres
have since been improved, and the same
number of cows now yield 30,0001 b. of
butterfat yearly. Hill country carries
Rhodes grass, and the flats are sown with
mixtures of Italian and perennial ryes, red
and white clovers. Silos are kept full of
maize and sorghum, but only in driest
years is handfeeding necessary. Johnston
rugs his cows in cold weather. He has
augmented natural timber by planting
additional shade-belts of trees.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXX.
DOING YOUR BIT.
You decide that things being what they
are, and it being necessary to save
wherever possible, you will not take the
sheep to the depot shed this year but
will shear them yourself. You know you
can borrow Sid Jordan’s two-stand plant,
and a few hurdles on the barn floor will
serve for holding and branding pens.
The boys don’t seem enthusiastic about
the idea, and Tom produces figures to
show that shearing at the depot shed
will be cheaper than shearing at home.
“We got eight hundred sheep,” he points
out, “and that means sixteen quid alone
to the shearers, as well as feedin’ ’em
while they’re here.”
“What shearers?” you ask.
He looks a bit blank. “Well, if y’ have
a two-stand plant somebody’s still got to
use the hand-pieces, haven’t they?”
“Too right,” you come back at him,
“but it’ll be me an’ you, an’ Jack can
pick up f’r us.”
“But I can’t shear, Dad.”
“Well, it’s about time y’ learned. I’ll
teach y\”
“Well, but who’s going t’ class the
wool?”
“We’ll get young Jimmy Tyson over.
He’s been down at that college learnin’
all about wool, an’ he’ll be glad of a bit
of practice.”
“He couldn’t class my foot. He’ll mess
the whole clip up.”
“Aw, maybe he ain’t as big a chump
as you think, Tom. Anyway, we can
always get it reclassed in store.”
Tom thinks of a lot more objections;
so does Jack when he finds out about it.
But your mind is made up.
So the barn is cleaned out and the pens
put in, and Sid Jordan’s plant chocked
into place, and the day dawns at last. The
sheep are held in the horse yard, and
Jack has the pens full.
In flannel and pants, your feet wrapped
in old sacking, and with the eyes of your
progeny upon you, you start the engine,
hitch your pants, step into the pen, seize
a ewe and drag her forth.
“Watch me, Tom,” you grunt, holding
the struggling ewe with one hand and
reaching for the cord with the other.
You tug the cord, the hand-piece leaps to
life and so does the ewe. One of her
flailing hind legs rakes your shins, she
squirms, there is a flurry of wool, legs,
feet and profanity as Tom leaps forward
just in time to stop the jumping hand-
piece from shearing off your left ear.
Order restored, you once more take
hold of the ewe —which Jack secured
with a flying tackle as she raced through
the bam —bump her down hard, grip
her with your knees, grab the hand-piece,
tug the cord and say, “Now, watch,
Tom.”
Then an awful doubt assails you.
There is the ewe’s belly, there is the eager
hand-piece, in your mind are crowding
memories of twenty years ago when you
shore the Lachlan run, but you cannot
recall whether you go down or across the
belly with the first cut.
Jack has moved to stand beside Tom.
You feel their youthful eyes, you know
the gravity on their young faces is false,
you know their hearts are leaping with
anticipation. Rightly or wrongly, you
open up the belly with a cross cut.
Ah, now it’s coming back. You peel
off the belly, open up the throat, clean
the shoulder and leg and down the side
to the tail and turn the ewe. The
machine is singing the old familiar chorus
and your blood and muscles are beating
time to it.
“This is the long blow, Tom,” you
say as the machine lays aside the cream-
ing fleece in fold after fold along the
back. The ewe is lying quiet, and you
think of your old contention that well-
shorn sheep enjoy it as much as a man
getting a thick head of hair cut by a
good barber.
You’ve turned her again, cleaned the
other front leg, and the wool is falling
away before you. Sweat is salty on your
lips, and you blink it away from your
eyes and give the final blow along the
taut hind leg.
“Wool away,” you roar happily as you
throw the ewe between your legs into the
branding pen and go to straighten up.
Knives plunge into your back, your
legs. Somehow you get upright, know-
ing that the same thing will happen if
you bend to another sheep. Jack gathers
the fleece, and you lean against the wall
and gasp weakly that that isn’t the way.
He doesn’t hear you and you let him go.
“Now, Tom,” you say, while odd
knives continue to prick you here and
there, “let’s see y’ grab a sheep an’ bring
it out.”
Tom drags out a sheep, dumps it be-
tween his legs and looks at you. The
lesson begins.
In the late afternoon you walk in a
peculiar stilted way to the house. You
feel that if you don’t force your will to
hold your body upright the whole thing
will collapse.
Somehow you get to your room, shed
your soaking flannel and greasy pants
and crawl into the bed shivering. Your
wife bustles around with hot water,
sponges you and applies liniment.
“Such mad ideas,” she says. “A man
of your age thinking he can do work
like shearing.”
“I could do me hundred an’ forty a
day without effort,” you croak, “an’ I’ve
only got t’ get set an’ ”
“Bosh,” says your wife calmly, tuck-
ing you up.
Next day you decide that it is your
duty to provide employment for 'the
nation’s man-power, and you send Tom
into the town to see if he can pick up
a couple of good shearers.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MOND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
Names —though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don’t object.
For dealing energetically with one feature of the taxation ramp, a Quirindi
(N.S.W.) writer is placed first this week.
The Last Drop
Every year at this time I am stricken
afresh with a bewildered admiration for
the colossal nerve of the N. S. Wales
Government. The furnishing of income-
tax returns is never a pleasant duty, but
most of us do it cheerfully enough. What
fills me with awe, however, is that, for
purposes of State taxation, wages tax is
not an allowable deduction.
Paying taxes of any kind to unneces-
sary Governments is galling enough, but
to have to submit to a piece of bucca-
neering every year is past a joke. The
State Government is not satisfied to col-
lect the tax once, but has the nerve to
make us pay taxes on our taxes.
The sting is made worse by the fact
that the Federal Government, _ which
could do with the money and might be
able to make a case for disallowing the
deduction, recognises the principle that
a man can hardly be taxed upon his
taxes, and allows the deduction. —N. J. G.
(N.S.W.).
Petrol Rationing
As usual, the needs of the man out-
back were overlooked when the petrol-
rationing proposals were formulated. To
us petrol isn’t a luxury.
First comes the monthly or fortnightly
trip to the town or siding for stores and
other goods. If we live only 50 miles
from the nearest centre, there’s a high
proportion of our ration used. Horses?
We use them whenever we can; but
there are jobs which horses cannot do
unless we are prepared to take days over
a job which the truck does in as many
hours. Some farmers would have to go
out of business if petrol supplies were
cut off; beekeepers are among them.
It is only the motor-truck which makes
modern beekeeping possible.
Producer-gas units are all right for
those who run about on made roads or
hard tracks, but to the man who has to
travel through sand or over rough
country they are an added source of
exasperation.
Cut down all city joy-riding, but give
the outbacker the petrol that he can’t
get on without. — Bogaduck. (S.A.).
Hiking and Petrol
Now that it is known that petrol-
rationing will keep many motor-cars off
the roads at week-ends there is an out-
cry of “Well, let the people walk.” Quite
right, too, in any country in which vote-
chasing Governments have not made
themselves accomplices to a conspiracy
to turn the motor-car into a thing to be
worshipped.
Ten years ago, in this State at least,
there were many young people who
walked at the week-ends. Since then
most of them have given up. Wherever
they walked they began to find shade-
less, tree-denuded roads, with bitumen
spread over most, and often over all,
the walkable surface. ,On the perfect
surfaces high-powered cars rushed by,
making hiking a nerve-racking, almost
dangerous pastime. Away from the roads
there were “Trespassers Prosecuted”
notices and threats of legal proceedings.
In countries such as England and
Germany, where there are footpaths over
all the countryside, it is an easy matter
to encourage walking. In a country
where the pedestrian is treated as an
outlaw, as a worm not to be compared
to the lordly motorist, as a no-one
whose needs should not be considered,
the cry of “back to bootleather” is a
cruel and deluding catchcry raised in
the hope that those who protest against
the petrol regulations will be put in the
wrong.— Bunions (S.A.).
Charcoal Gas
A little inventive foresight could have
done away with much of this clumsy
preamble in regard to the changeover
from petrol to charcoal gas for trans-
port. As I understand it, the process is
to bury fresh timber for a few days to
prepare it for its metamorphosis into
charcoal; what that amounts to is that
75 p.c. of the tree’s fuel potential, to wit,
the natural gases, is “gone with the wind,”
and the ultimate charcoal represents only
the remaining 25 p.c.
There is no reason why the figures
should not be reversed. If the timber
that is to be used could be processed in
the same way as coal is processed by the
gas companies, the gas would be saved
for industry and charcoal residue would
be available in the same way as coke is.
Thus 75 p.c. would be saved and only
25 p.c. lost in the conversion.
Moreover, efficient gas-producers are
not necessarily confined to the mere burn-
ing of the residue fuel. I am informed
that English gas-producers are designed
to do a complete job by burning coal in
the first place, extracting therefrom all
of the gas content and then proceeding to
devour the coke thus created. It can
be done equally well with wood fuel.—
Washington (Vic.).
Petrol and Dollars
How much Australian money goes to
U.S.A. for the talkies? Our local M.H.R.
tried hard to get particulars but failed.
The latest communication from Senator
McLeay, which I have before me, is a
political gem. It evades the question,
but states that the Hollywood bosses have
agreed to leave half the picture royalties
in Australia for the duration.
A friend of mine, a Dublin medico,
was in Bergen, Norway, in ’36. Bergen
has a population of 100,000, but only
one picture show, not very elaborate
either. On inquiring why the Nor-
wegians didn’t like the talkies, they said:
“We do like them very much, but they’re
bad economy, and we can’t afford to
export money to America.” Why no talk
of rationing Hollywood trash instead of
petrol?— Hush-Hush (N.S.W.).
Women and War
I can’t see any grounds for “E.O.S.’s”
assertion (B. 17/ 7/ ’4O) that women’s
causes have received a setback owing to
the war. After the last war women’s
causes went well ahead. After this war
it will be the same.
“E. 0.5.” forgets that in this war
women have already died in action in
auxiliary services, and that they are tak-
ing their chances of being bombed in
munition and ’ aeroplane factories. In
Australia the women are ready to do the
same.
Here’s something extra to think about.
As proven by the Scandinavian countries,
where equality of rights between the sexes
exists the birthrate goes up. In con-
trast here take my own case, one of
many. Marrying (a farmer) I had to
resign from the Education Department.
My two sons, born under pioneering
conditions, I educated myself, one gain-
ing a scholarship, the other going to high
school. For first-class service both domes-
tically and in educating my sons, I receive
food and indifferent shelter. Any cloth-
ing or other necessities I earn by writing.
There are going to be no more children.
Were I, the laborer, allowed to be
worthy of my hire and teach for an ade-
quate salary again, with time off for
motherhood, I would build a weather-
proof house, install help and a nursery,
which I would gladly proceed to fill
again. Besides being intelligent my chil-
dren are 100 p.c. physically fit. But if
the nation has no use for my brains it’s
not going to use my body under slave
conditions.—Zamia (W.A.).
As “A Woman” (B. 31/7/’4O) says in
her reply to me, “there are various types
of men, just as there are different kinds
of women” ; but I have never heard of
a type of men who boast that they are
equal to women just because a few rare
exceptions among them can knit, cook,
design dresses or nurse babies.
Mentioning the French Air Force was
rather unfortunate for her, since it in-
vited a comparison with the opposing
air force, which did not employ women
pilots. Characteristically, “A Woman”
has tried to sidestep my point, which is
that in a state of emergency women
cannot hold the position which a tolerant
and indulgent civilisation may have
granted them in the easy times of peace.
Feminism is a frill which is discarded
when the armor is put on.
Now women have to choose between
going back to the home, where they are
the natural, respected partners of' men,
or doing war and other work of a routine
nature which places them in a position
of subservience to men.
Still, it must be stated to the credit
of women that, while they don’t run our
wars, neither do they start them—apart
from the rare exceptions which “A
Woman” is so fond of quoting. —E. O. S.
(N.S.W.).
£lO Bombs
Enlisting the sympathies of housewives
in Britain by appealing to them for cast-
off aluminium pots to use in making
R.A.F. ’planes was paralleled by the origi-
nators of the Clarence River Diggers’
Thousand (B. 24/7/’4O), who appealed
for “£lO bombs.”
The letters accompanying the 100 £lO
bombs left no doubt about the donors
being anxious to “take a smack at Hitler.”
Many of the letters from women were
“And there, me Lud, is the entire case for the defence.”
more fierce than those from the men,
and some were positively bloodthirsty.
The main attraction apparently was ike
fact that the first. 12 subscribers of a
£lO bomb each were all Diggers with
fighting records, who talked to the rest
through the press in the active-service
language of the old A.1.F., and empha-
sised that every shilling received was for
the purpose of killing Germans and
thus preserving Australia’s liberties. The
result" was that the subscribers, women
and children included, regarded them-
selves as bombers, in the financial front
line, mopping up Germans with their
money.
To complete the evidence of the real
win-the-war spirit, a tarpaulin muster
amongst the members of the committee
at every meeting made it possible' to do
without a penny charge for working ex-
penses against the fund. O’Toole
(N.S.W.).
More Childrern!
Hitler, so far victorious, managed to
get Germany into a formidable position
by means of birth-boosting, so why
should not Australians protect their land
by native-born people? The basic wage
assumes that the family numbers four.
People who would very often make the
best parents avoid the responsibility be-
cause of lack of security. Other capable
parents avoid the responsibility because
road boards, shires, etc., enforce rules
that residences must be of a certain
value.
If we spend money on buildings
and on imported motor-cars, plus im-
ported petrol, imported parts and im-
ported oil, we cannot have it to spend on
children also. A tax on cars payable into
the Treasury for distribution to those
with over four in the family might assist,
and a public-spirited man or newspaper
might offer a decent-sized prize for the
best-designed residence of three, four and
five rooms, etc., having great regard to
economy in cost.
Mental troubles have increased tre-
mendously of late years, and these
troubles have coincided with the period
where birth control and its relative abor-
tion have been practised. More chil-
dren, less mental trouble, and probably
less cancer, for cancer has also immeasur-
ably increased in the last few years.
To stop undue extravagance a bachelor
and a spinster tax might well be operated,
and at the same time consideration might
be given to the payment into the
Treasuries of, say, the basic wage in the
case of all unmarried men, the amount
to be released immediately after mar-
riage.—Renmark (W.A.).
To remedy the decline in the Austra-
lian birthrate (B. 24/7/’4O), the sale of
all contraceptives should be made a
criminal offence, and all books on birth
control be placed on the banned list.
The basic wage for single men should
be reduced by 30s, and a corresponding
increase be made in that of married
men. Married men should be . given
preference in all Government positions
and women removed from men’s jobs,
while a quota of juvenile as to adult
labor in industry
would help to
stop the practice
of putting young
men off at 21 and
replacing them
with juniors. Put
those suggestions
into operation and
the pram-makers
would be work-
in g overtime. —
Pierrot (N.S.W.).
Honor to Whom
Honor. . . .
Just for once I
want to change
my tune and com-
pliment the
fl app e r press.
The “Women’s
Weekly” has de-
voted a full page
of type and
photographs to a
woman worthy of
the honor. A
husband and 16
children are also
in the picture, but
it is the mother
who occupies the
centre of the
stage and steals
the whole play.
Without any aid
from make-up or
“lighting effects”
she faces the camera as calmly as any
star, her only cue being the long queue
formed by her progeny, and ranged be-
hind her in chronological order.
From the greatest years) even
unto the least (a recent arrival) the kids
—three of them in khaki like their dad —
are a credit to their country and to their
mother’s care. The stardom of the
Dionne Quins, State subsidised and press
publicised, pales into insignificance com-
pared with this constellation.
It is safe to say that no syndicated
article or Hollywood reprint has ever
created more “human interest” than this
“slice of life” served up in such a whole-
some manner. —Hats Off (S.A.).
Real Help
The W.A.N.S. have chosen a uni-
form, the price of which will be
a mere £3 16s. 6d.—almost as much
as it costs to clothe a member of
the A.I.F. If the unit aims at doing
any real war work a light-grey uniform
will be rather out of place—in fact, the
ideal uniform would be a pair of over-
alls, but that would detract from the
glamor of the business. Three pounds
sixteen shillings and sixpence is a lot of
money. With the cost of extras thrown
in it would buy five war-savings certifi-
cates. This, multiplied by the number
which will ultimately join the W.A.N.S.
and added to the £30,000 which the Sun-
day “Telegraph” proudly announced has
already been spent on such uniforms,
would be a real contribution to Aus-
tralia’s war effort. — Paddy M. (N.S.W.).
Private War Budget
Quite a number of Other Fellows have
had a cut at modern youth lately, and
I respectfully claim the right of reply.
I am 25 years, unmarried, living with
my parents and in constant employment


at the basic wage (£4). Here’s my
budget for one week:
Board and lodging, 305.; tram fares to
and from work, 2s. 6d.; clothing (club and
lay-by), 55.; entertaining best girl (two
shows and one dance; chocolates, suppers,
etc.), 10s.; sport (wrestling, footie, racing,
bets, fares, pasties, etc.), Bs.; cigarettes
for smoking and giving away), 3s. 6d.;
office friends’ wedding and leaving presents,
average Is.; insurance (endowment), 25.;
income tax, 45.; holiday fund, 25.; bank
(when convenient), 55.; occasional drinks,
soft and otherwise, plus shouts, 65.; war-
' savings certificates (collected at office), Is.
Even one week of unemployment
would leave me dependent on my parents,
and there is no margin for books or
education of any kind, or even for Christ-
mas presents. Indeed, occasional borrow-
ing is necessary, or the banking is dis-
continued, sometimes both.
None of the items can be dis-
pensed with, or I would lose my girl
and my standing in our set. It is obvi-
ous that marriage could not be planned
except on the t.p. principle, as the com-
bined funds of myself and dancing part-
ner would scarcely cover the cost of the
ceremony. How any man could support
a wife and family on such a wage beats
me. — Midnight Son (S.A.).
Air Force Recruiting
I met a youth a few days ago who had
come down from the country to join
the Air Force. On making inquiries he
was told that as he had not passed the
junior and senior public examinations he
had no hope of acceptance.
The average family cannot afford to
keep its sons at school until they have
passed senior. They have to go to work
after junior, or even before, and help
to support themselves. Isn’t it time our
Defence Department investigated these
matters and demanded more efficiency
from the authorities concerned? — True
Aussie (Q.).
When the Time Comes
Why is it that in Australia today there
are still thousands of able-bodied unem-
ployed? The answer for some is simply
that they have been unemployed since
they returned from the 1914-18 war.
Others have had only casual work since
depression hit the country in 1929. And
with the depression came the declining
birthrate, which has not even yet started
to swing to the other side.
The thought of another depression is
in the minds of many people. Can’t we
take a leaf from the book of experience?
It’s up to the women to make a sacri-
fice similar to that which their men are
making today—the sacrifice of giving up
their jobs when the time comes. — Geoff
Powell (N.S.W.).
Keeping Fit
I’ll allow “Sneezy’s” contentions
against physical exercise for the chroni-
cally overworked, but I won’t have it that
it is unwise for anyone over 35 to em-
bark suddenly on a routine of daily exer-
cises. I made the start myself when 45,
and my “inspiration” was a Canadian
medico who dug himself back out of the
grave to which a colleague had con-
demned him when already in the fifties.
He built himself up to a superb standard
of fitness and strength in a few years, and
now, at 82, still follows a regimen that
would shame most men half his age.
He may be an exceptional case, but his
achievement still challenges the defeatist
attitude that excuses slack habits and re-
luctance with “too old at forty” propa-
ganda.
There may be some misunderstanding
of the scope and nature of the exercising
I recommended. Strenuous physical jerks,
skipping-rope sessions, parallel bars, etc.,
are not for those who are trying to take
up the slack late in life. Such activities
are mainly useful for working off sur-
plus steam in puppyhood. But there are
many non-strenuous, even gentle, “cura-
tive” and corrective movements designed
for spine, abdomen, etc., which leave the
exerciser with a pleasantly enhanced
sense of well-being, a “set-up” feeling
that does not add to his load, but helps
him to carry it. — Tinmuth (S.A.).
Sydney’s Royal Show
A lot of rot is being talked in Sydney
about the loss to the nation and so forth
because the show has been abandoned
for next Easter. One paper kicked up
a great fuss about the economic loss to
the State, but didn’t explain how the fact
that the country people will keep their
money in the country instead of spending
it in the city becomes a loss to the State.
The argument wasn’t helped by dragging
in a few wealthy politicians and rag-
store merchants to point out how their
bank-accounts would suffer. Nobody
seems concerned about the effects of the
drought, only now relieved by rains that
are too late to do much good for the
wheat crop, nor for the effect of the
abandonment on stockowners who look
to the show sales for a turnover in stud
animals.
Hardest-hit will be the sideshowmen,
who lost their Melbourne harvest last
September and will lose it again next
month. For them, no show next Easter
may mean putting up the shutters. A
great many workers, male and female,
who look to the show for a few extra
quid, will also lose. So will the railways
and tramways, but as they are always
losing it doesn’t make that much differ-
ence.
As for the R.A.S. itself, perhaps the
decision was a little hasty, seeing that
Easter is eight months away. It seems
strange, too, that a Sydney surrounded
by thousands of unoccupied acres should
have to give up its showground for a
military camp. All the same, the howls
of pain emanating from big advertisers
in the daily press won’t get much sym-
pathy from the back-country.— Wester
(N.S.W.).
Sidelines on the Farm
“Two Strand” (B. 31/7/’4O) says that
we cockies should, but don’t, make pay-
ing sidelines from poultry, pigs, bees,
tung-trees, timber trees, production of
pure seeds of grain, grasses, clovers,
vegetables and flowers, also vegetables
for market.
Regarding bees and pigs, many farmers
do keep them and make a profit out of
them. Bees, however, must be kept welt
away from all stock ; and pigs cannot
be kept profitably unless gone in for
on a large scale, which means there must
be a factory handy where buttermilk can
be procured, all separated milk being
generally reserved for the poddies.
Usually every farmer has a few poultry
which keep the household in eggs. “Two
Strand” tells us all feed can be grown
on the farm. Show me an Australian
or any other farm that grows rolled
oats and bran and pollard mash. Corn
certainly, and the farmer doesn’t mind
the bit that a dozen hens consume, but
a couple of hundred eating all our corn
when the stores give us Is. and Is. sd.
a dozen for their eggs is a different
matter. Also, what you are offered for
poultry in large country towns isn’t worth
the trouble involved.
Tung-trees? Yes, I’ve tried them too,
but the cattle have a quaint habit of
consuming all I put out, and those I
fenced off the drought killed. Vegetables?
This means a slice of the most fertile
land in the cultivated portion, constant
planting, weeding, watering, and you are
lucky then if insects, drought or frost
aren’t there before you.
Timber planting, production of pure
seeds, etc., need acres of fertile soil,
too, and if a farmer has this besides
plenty of paddocks for grassing his cows
he shouldn’t have to worry about side-
lines. Anyway, while the poor cow of
a cocky is racing round looking after
his poultry, pigs, bees, tung-trees, grain,
grass, clover, vegetables and flowers,
what’s going to happen to his farm? —
Farmer Cracker (N.S.W.).
Touching sidelines, any kind of produc-
tion now requires specialisation in order
to achieve efficiency and a low cost of
production. Any sideline consequently
has to be carried out on such a large
scale that it requires a big outlay of capi-
tal and heavy expenses in wages before
it begins to yield returns. Most farmers
haven’t got the money.
There are a few standard sidelines, such
as pigs on dairy farms, but most of the
others mentioned by “T.S.” would prove
uneconomic because of limited markets.
Poultry on wheat farms sounds good, but
establishing a worth-while flock would
cost hundreds of pounds, counting in
buildings and equipment. Even if the
war lasted four years the profits would
not repay expenses. If it were done
extensively the crash after the war would
be terrific. Many poultry-farmers would
be ruined, and the wheat-farmers would
be worse off than they are now.
As for the small sideline farmer, he is
generally the most pathetic spectacle on
earth. He is always desperately busy and
generally desperately poor. His produc-
tion and marketing costs are out of all
proportion to his returns. He is in con-
stant dilemmas because seasonal and
other circumstances force him to sacrifice
one sideline in the interests of another,
and very often another turn of circum-
stances proves that he has sacrificed the
wrong one.
I have often seen them hawking their
vegetables, fruit or eggs from door to
door in the towns. They are the closest
to a peasant type we have in Australia,
and are the despair of every rural organ-
isation. —So (N.S.W.).
Heidelberg (Vic.)
Heidelberg (Vic.) Council is changing
the name of Heidelberg-road to
Church ill-parade for one quarter of
a mile, leaving the remaining 81
miles with its original half-century-
old title. I don’t know what effect
this gesture will have on Hitler, but
Heidelberg got its name when an old
German settler, coming over the brow
of Eaglemont Hill, surveyed a lovely
vista of bush, rolling downs and moun-
tains, through which the Yarra
meandered untouched by modern pro-
gress, and was reminded of its European
namesake. Subsequently Tom Roberts,
Streeton, Norman Lindsay and other
artists inadvertently founded a school
there and generations of artists have
loved and painted it from every angle.
All the local bumbles have done is to
despoil it. Eighty years ago one of Mel-
bourne’s leading citizens, a member of
the Leg. Assembly, built a magnificent
estate there which was the pride of the
district. He planted orchards, vineyards
and magnificent avenues of pine-trees,
and he left behind him a hillside covered
with glorious cryptomeria and other rarer
trees which he had acclimatised with great
effort.
Bumbledom allowed the area and half
the surrounding country to be subdivided
into suburban allotments. Scores are still
unoccupied. Farmers were forced off
their holdings, fences fell to pieces and
acres of country that could have been
used for dairying have been left to the
blackberry and the briar.
The parts that have been built on have
been turned into gimcrack-looking neigh-
borhoods served by ridiculously expensive
roads and other amenities of civilisation,
and people who are looking for a bit of
rural charm and beauty have to go out
further. But even here the work of
spoliation goes on unmolested, for gangs
of freelance woodcutters buy magnificent
old gum-trees from absentee owners of
blocks, chop them down and cut
them up for firewood. Burley Griffin,
the designer of Canberra, laid out one
garden suburb and took extraordinary
precautions to see that the things Heidel-
berg was renowned for should be pre-
served ; but officialdom was too much
for him. It tore down the avenues
of pines overnight and put up telephone
and electric-light poles, and the last state
of his garden suburb is likely to be worse
than the rest of the district. — Chevro-
ford (Vic.).
Cross Words and Crossings
There’s dirty work at the crossroads
all right, and if you emerge from the
fray with ribs unbroken and forehead un-
bruised you deserve a free taxi-ride. A
law-abiding citizen, you join the other
98 people on the corner, and keep your
eye on the cop at the intersection until
he briskly waves to you to cross the
street.
Overjoyed, you go for your life, the
entire 99 of you, and are met by what
appears to be the same number of eager
pedestrians travelling in the opposite
direction. Result is head-on collisions
and side-to-side dances in the middle of
the street as one mob tries to avoid the
other, and traffic held up for needless
extra seconds.
Why not, as is done in Brisbane, mark
pedestrian-crossings with lines to divide
them into a left and a right and keep the
mob moving briskly and comfortably?—
Elm (N.S.W.).
Authors or Professors?
The sequel, if not the last word, in
the Commonwealth Literary Fund con-
troversy has been supplied by the S.A.
press. A par. states that 10 lectures will
be delivered at the Adelaide University
—five by Prof. J. I. M. Stewart on
“Aspects of the Australian Novel,” and
five by Mr. B. R. Elliott on “The De-
velopment of Australian Poetry.” The
public will be charged ss. for a season
ticket. The textbook recommended is
by another professor.
According to another press statement,
each university received £lOO (a year) to
stimulate its interest in home-grown
' literature; therefore each lecture is cost-
ing £lO, and even then is not being given
away.
Apart from the fact that only a very
restricted circle of enthusiasts will benefit
from the oral efforts of the lecturers,
please note that the generous fees were
intended for the employment of indigent
authors, and not for pocket-money for
already handsomely paid teachers.
The par. states that the course has
been made possible by a grant from the
Commonwealth Literary Fund as part of
the Government’s attempt to “foster a
national literature,” but that is simply not
true. The fund was created to give work
to honest and clever but poor writers.
The lectures are really being financed
by depriving poverty-stricken intellec-
tuals of the jobs and cash that belong to
them.
If any reasonable explanation is forth-
coming, the O.F.M. would be a very
suitable place for it, as the column is
read by most of the “indigent writers'’
concerned. —His One Ewe Lamb (S.A.).
Receipts and Duty Stamps
The other day I asked a businessman
to make out a receipt in duplicate, and
he refused. Not because of the extra
paper, ink and trouble involved, but be-
cause the Government maintains that, so
long as a receipt is a receipt, whether it
be the original or merely a copy, it must
bear a duty stamp.
My businessman explained that he is
so often asked for duplicate, and often
triplicate, receipts that to comply with
the law would cost a good deal in stamp
duty. He therefore invariably refuses to
issue copies of receipts for any amount
over two pounds.
I was forced to send the original to my
partner, who later had to return it to
me, adding postal expenses and risk of
losing the document. Stamp duty is a
tax on turnover. It seems unjust to
penalise a man for obliging clients with
facilities to make a business deal simpler.
—Loulalo (Vic.), v
Something In It
I can see more behind Edward Wind-
sor’s appointment as Governor of the
Bahamas than merely getting him out of
the way. With the Court of St. James
closed by the war and Roosevelt’s ukase
on European travel, the dollar duchesses
of Fifth-avenue must turn somewhere.
So I am tipping a big increase in tourist
traffic to Nassau, bigger even than in the
days of the prohibition drought. And
it won’t hurt American pride any that
“our Wally,” though she missed a throne,
has at least reached vice-royalty.
Edward Windsor always was a favorite
with the Yanks, and. in his new position
he should be able to do some good work
for Britain. For there is still no ques-
tion but that the Anglo-Saxon blood of
the Atlantic seaboard controls the poli-
tics of the big Republic. According to
Vanderbilt in his Farewell to Fifth
Avenue, the feminine element of such
blood desires nothing better than a
presentation at Court. Perhaps the Duke
will be able to provide some sort of a
consolation for present deprivation.
The male element, which in the Ameri-
can style is largely under the female
thumb, has a large say in munition
works, aeroplane factories and financial
institutions, all of which can be very
helpful to Us.—W. C. C. (W.A.).
Improving Australian Culture
One of the strangest grounds for
.optimism over the present situation yet
is that given by “Momus” when he says
that Australian drama was given an in-
calculable fillip in the last war by the
visit of Marie Tempest and Graham
Browne, and might be given another by
a team of actors from the Old Vic.,
whose coming here would, also ease the
burden of feeding the beleaguered popu-
lation of the Cold Land.
In what way has Australian drama
been improved by the visits of Miss
Tempest or Mr. Browne or the hundreds
of other imported actors who have come
and played and left this country? In
between the seasons of imported drama
the Australian people went back to the
American pictures, and they show every
intention of staying there until some
fresh Big Reputation comes here to lure
them momentarily back to the legitimate
theatre.
Evidently “Momus” thinks that Aus-
tralian drama is sitting looking at actors
acting. It isn’t. That is merely enter-
tainment. The only way to improve
Australian drama is by writing better
drama. — Cauboy (Vic.). »
Prisoners
If prisoners at Pentridge (Vic.) have
been granted permission to drill so that
they can join up when they are released
(B. 12/6/’4O), why not make the move
nation-wide?
One politician recently , stated that
prisoners would not be released to join
the A.1.F., but if the position became
really acute the country might be glad
of their services. And why not? There
are nearly as many hard cases out of
gaols as there are in them, and hard
cases make good soldiers. Witness the
Foreign Legion.— Edro (N.S.W.).


Issued by The Pelman Institute
for the scientific development of
Mind, Memory and Personality .
A Course of
Pelmanism will
1. —Train you to remember names, faces,
appointments, figures and useful data of
any kind, and to call to mind promptly
the apt word or argument.
2. —Strengthen your power of Concentration.
3. —Give you a Strong Will.
4. —Give you a definite Aim in life and the
ability to achieve that Aim.
5. —Enable you to develop Initiative and the
power of accepting Responsibility.
6. —Strengthen your Self-Confidence.
7. —Remove all trace of Inferiority Conscious-
ness.
8. —Make all your contacts with other people
—social, business, and casual—easy and
comfortable.
9. —Develop your conversational ability.
o.—lncrease your energy, direct it into the
most profitable channels, and so enlarge
your earning capacity.
IT—Broaden your mind and improve your
judgment.
12.—Give you a stronger and more effective
personality.
Pelmanism is the most comprehensive system of
scientific Mind-Training and Personal Development in
existence. It has won the unqualified endorsement of
many of the most brilliant men and women of the
day, and has been successfully adopted by over half
a million men and women of every type, occupation
and station in life. 44,000 of these are in Australia
and New Zealand.
m
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
Canon Hannay says:
“Pelmanism is valuable to
all men and women. ...
the results endure. Habits
of mind are formed which
are of the very highest
value in life.”
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisa-
tion of 40 years’ standing. Its headquarters are
in London, and its address in Australia is
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, C. 1, where it has been established
for 33 years.
Telephone: MU2355.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
liiege - - 1930. Paris - - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1933. Geneva.- - 1933.
IN COMPANY
Reference Nos. 7, 8 and 9 effects
in panel alongside.
Unlike the birds, man is self-conscious,
and unless there is a true psychologi-
cal explosion he may at any time
find himself tongue-tied and awk-
ward in the company of others.
Pelmanism, by approved scientific
practices, delivers the Pelmanist
from the bonds of self-consciousness
so that he ceases to be aware of
himself as an object of observation
by others .
The Jays’
Corroboree
SOCIAL EASE and
Conditions To-day
For most of us, men and women alike, social ease has nowadays become
almost a supreme qualification. In camp, on committees, as workers in
Red Cross, Comforts Funds, First Aid, A.R.P., War Savings and in
numerous other activities, to say nothing of our everyday employment, our
capacity to get on good terms quickly with many people, to understand
their point of view and to express our own easily and agreeably, but
impressively too, is tested over and over again.
Much is forgiven to ability and energy, but the capable and energetic go
further and faster, and get more done willingly and happily, if they get on
well with other people.
Social ease, too, makes decisions more immediately effective. It wins people
over, disarms criticism, meets objections before they are raised, and makes
things go with a swing.
Apart from the many other effects of Pelmanism it should be seriously
considered by every adult because pf the training it gives in meeting other
people with easy confidence.
The Pelman Institute.
Men and women of the fighting forces are asked to indicate the fact
in their inquiries. In 1914-18 160 admirals and generals and nearly
100,000 other ranks went through the Pelman Training. Pelmanism
has the approval of the Army Council in London.
NEW ZEALAND INQUIRERS
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank,
has made arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions and
enable residents of New Zealand
to enrol for the Pelman Course
of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send
readers of The Bulletin a
copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free.
You can write us fully, or
you can make just a bare
application by using or copy-
ing the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be re-
garded as a confidential
communication ; we have no
outside representatives.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
120
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fgfgfg
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia * and ' 'New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
. . delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
by Brian _ 0
*>*£«•*
Australian National .« 4+lSi /*
“LANDT AKERS/
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts q.
the building up of the C ,
' * S e ',^
Character.
500
4®
pages. Prices/- -.41^
.o-
/
TP*
# S ‘
0*
C' 1
■ * * A. ot


m
L '• * i
j
'■ i,* \ \
m
ON June 2, 1915, the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.,
began the manufacture of iron and steel at the Newcastle
Steel Works. Developing remarkably, the massive plant
today is the vital source of the iron and steel which gives
Australia industrial strength and security. Behind every ton of
B.H.P. Steel lie actual experience, knowledge and skill built up
during
YEARS OF IRON
& STEEL MAKING
fgfgfg
, oX \ S Q i 01 w
, \tems °\* ooeo-ncSJ, oi
■* ot <** Tot # atvl fcoarfr t*»
hs» “**• K
itoft
CVl<^ W ■
mills •
EVERY Australian can take pride in the
passing of this quarter-century milestone
in the history of the B.H.P. Newcastle
Steel Works, because the progress of
this all-Australian enterprise is insepar-
ably linked with the nation’s industrial history,
prosperity and development. Established with a
definite purpose—to manufacture quality iron
and steel for the needs of Australian industry,
and thereby supply at reasonable prices the
essential materials for the development of the
Commonwealth —the B.H.P. Newcastle Steel
Works have more than justified the spirit that
launched the enterprise.
From the outset unwavering determination and
confidence in the Australian workers’ ability to
master the difficulties of steel production were
s®WtsiBli
mm
i«
i&
1940
The vast Newcastle Steel Works plant of today is
symbolised by the huge mass of steelwork (shown
above) forming the blast furnace exterior. Main
items of plant now consist of three blast furnaces, 13 open-hearth
furnaces, 161 coke ovens and augmented rolling mills. Output; More
than a million tons of iron and steel per annum.
maintained. This was backed by a courageous
policy of plant modernisation and extension,
which has culminated in Australia possessing one
of the world’s most efficient iron and steel works.
Purpose has been backed by performance, the
Newcastle Steel Works today supplying great
tonnages of the iron and steel so vital to the
nation’s development and defence.
PRODUCT OF
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Iron and Steel Masters - Mine Owners Colliery Proprietors - Ship Owners.
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Iron and Steel Works: Newcastle, New South Wales.
Branches at: Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and London.
Iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob, South Australia.
