

A
{
o
W4k
"/A
u
r*
i
CL
»%•
A
COMMONWEALTH
NATIONAL LIBRARY
Stamina Counts
in the Long Run
MODERN life is only a hard, long race in which the unfit
drop out early, leaving the stayers to thrash out the finish.
Absolute fitness of mind and body is so essential to success
that the adoption of sane measures that will ensure increased
staying powers is absolutely necessary. The moderate use of
Wolfe’s Schnapps is one such measure, for Wolfe’s is both a
stimulant of the highest order and a medicinal beverage with
pronounced benefits to the system. Wolfe’s stands pre-eminent
as a diuretic, assisting the kidneys to function more thoroughly
and easily in their task of cleansing the system. Thus Wolfe’s
is directly responsible for bringing about a greater resistance
to disease, greater powers of endurance.
WOLFE'S
(zJhcmdbcSLkwdam
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
ŕ
The Bulletin
"Hie Bulletin,” Vol. 61.— N0. 3137.
Wednesday, March 27, 1940.
R.A. SHOW PICTORIAL SUPPLEMENT
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
“Sory Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 340
The Red Page
Door Knockers.
To the old portals rank
With ivy we came
And knocked.
In our bodies our hearts shrank
And a flame
Leapt to our lips and mocked.
The slow doors slammed
In the devilish sepulchre
So we knew how damned
We were.
Who, treacherous, told
Of our approach to these
Spirits and riches immured,
Solitary, unprepared?
Us hither our hopes lured
But the great stone doors rolled
Slowly over and covered Calvary’#
Infinitude unshared.
All our foundering rages
Looped in their going down
White laws of the sages,
Black laws and brown.
Not even desire, not even hate.
Not even to be destroyed;
Only an anonymous spate
Scouring a void.
Door after slamming door,
Pigmies locking the tides;
Who ventures now?
Who rides?
How shall the botchers cease?
(How? O thou
Gaunt unanswerable “how?”!)
Except in a hurl of bloody war
Or a gorge of bloodier peace.
Victoria.
Furnley Maurice.
Fire Over Ezra.
Hoei the Slider: Yeliu apaoki
, ,
Ouanyen akouta.
Tchinkis of Tartary: I see you have
been reading the famous Chinese
economist Ezra Pound again. Have you
the faintest notion what it means?
H. the S.: It may be the password to
a pak-a-pu school in Campbell-street,
for all I know. Pound explains that the
foreign words and phrases he uses
merely repeat what has already been
said in English, so that it doesn’t really
matter if you don’t understand them.
Thpv are a Qort of for
tney are a sort oi sounaing ooara ior
a note struck.
T. of T.: That’s apaoki by me then ;
but I wonder if it matters that I can’t
make head or tail of all the 71 Cantos
he has so far produced. I have read
the early poems and understood them
and rather liked them; likewise Homage
to Sextus Propertius; but I have read
A Draft of XXX Cantos and the next
book and the Fifth Decad and now the
ru>\xr C*nntryv TJI 7 YYJ frnm Pa her and
new Cantos Lll-LXXI from Faber ana
Moore s Bookshop, and all I know is
that I have read a very large number
°“ S, I. will never he easy to
understand the Cantos, for Pound, I
believe, once defined poetry as “a means
of communication between intelligent
men, and an intelligent man to
Pound is a man who has read the same
books as he has. For a full understanding
you will certainly have to read Con-
fucius, Major Douglas, a biography of
John Adams and I don’t know what
else. On the other hand, the Cantos
are still “a work in progress,” and when
it is finished the intention and the
method may become clear. The labors
of commentators will help; and—just
as one can now accept The Waste Land
as poetry and more or less understand
it without the trouble of reading Miss
Jesse Weston’s From Ritual to Romance
—familiarity with Pound’s symbology
will remove much of its apparent
obscurity. If poets hadn’t been talking
of roses for centuries, and if the image
of the Rose wasn’t widely known, a
line such as “Rose of all roses, Rose
of all the world” would seem meaning-
less.
T. of T.: All that I admit. But I
begin to think that criticism should
establish some canon of “justifiable
obscurity”; that one should be cryptic
only within the limits of the European
cultural tradition and of traditional syntax,
Because of his verbal juggling, as well
as for other reasons, it is impossible to
understand Finnegans Wake, so I would
say that James Joyce is beyond the pale,
I suspect that it is impossible for any-
body to understand Pound, both because
of his syntactical outrages and because
he drags in so many minutiae
of Chinese and American
history.
H. the S.: A good work
will justify the breaking of
any rule of criticism. We shall have
to wait until this work is completed
before we decide about Pound’s irregu-
larities. In the meantime, without
understanding the whole, we can
admire the superb qualities of both
humor and poetry in many of the parts,
taking these qualities as an indication
that Pound is not wasting his time or
our time. For humor I give you the
rich Chaucerian interlude of the sailor
in Canto XII; or the Indian Army
wallah sighing for the girls of Kashmir
in Canto XIX; or the other story from
the same Canto about the patent com-
pany that squashed the invention:
Sabotage? Yes, he took it up to Manhattan,
To the big company, and they said: Impos-
sible.
And he said: I gawt ten thousand tew mak
’em
And I am a goin’ tew mak ’em, and you’ll
damn well
Have to install ’em, awl over the place.
And they said: Oh, we can’t have it.
So he settled for one-half of one million.
And he has a very nice place on the Hudson,
And that invention, patent, is still in their desk.
And the answer to that is: Wa’al he had the
ten thousand.
T. of T.: Do you remember Eliot’s
introduction to the Selected Poems in
which he solemnly debated with himself
whether or not Pound’s epigrams “came
off”? I always wonder if Pound’s
humor is funny; and when I am certain
that it is funny, as in that bar-room yarn
of the sailor, I am still not certain that
it is very funny. It may be. Can you
quote me something you maintain is
of high poetic quality?
H. the S.: Can a duck swim? The
funeral of Borso in Canto XX:
the heavy cars, as a triumph,
Glided, heavy on wheel,
and the panthers chained to the cars,
Over suave turf, the form wrapped,
Rose, crimson, deep crimson,
And, in the blue dusk, a color as of rust in
the sunlight,
Out of white cloud, moving over the plain,
Head in arm’s curve, reclining ...
The soft pad of beasts dragging the cars;
Cars, slow, without creak,
And at windows in inner roadside:
le donne e i cavalieri
smooth face under hennin,
The sleeves embroidered with flowers,
Great thistle of gold, or an amaranth,
Acorns of gold or of scarlet...
And at last, between gilded barocco,
Two columns coiled and fluted,
Vanoka, leaning half naked,
waste hall there behind her.
“Peace!
Borso ..., Borso! ”
T. of T.: Yes, if it were all like that,
or like the passage “That the grass grow
from my body” in Canto XLVII, I might
be with you. But such passages are
extremely rare, and there are yards and
yards of stuff such as:
Mr. Bicker:, that I shld/ consider what houses
were connected with England
and also which had ‘other connections’
equally likely to hinder the loan or
defeat it
(meaning, I found, the French
ministry)
and which not of credit sufficient
(particularly Neufville)
provision for negotiating the capital 2%
for undertakers to furnish the capital 2%
Brokerage 1/2% expenses stamped paper 1/2
amortization 2 1/4
for 3 million guilders.
H. the S.: For matter equally dull
and meaningless (if this is dull and
meaningless) I refer you to Dante. The
list of the gentlemen his enemies in hell,
their crimes and their stupid punish-
ments are boring in a different way, but
not less boring, than Pound’s lectures on
economics and his obscure personalities.
You must take the poem as a whole,
T. of T.: But I know that Dante is
about to burst into a blaze of light. I
do not know, on the evidence of a few
passages of good poetry, that Pound is
moving towards any illumination. I
feel that he rambles. Moreover, Dante
is dull in a way that I understand. I
agree that Pound’s Chinese are no more
unimportant than Dante’s Italians, but
Dante does explain himself —unless, of
course, his commentators did it for him.
I regard it as immensely significant that
Eliot, obscure in The Waste Land, has
progressed to the simplicity of The
Family Reunion, whereas Pound and
Joyce have both travelled from the cleai
statement to mud. It is said of Joyce
that a disappointed minor poet hides
like a mouse in the mountain ol
Finnegans Wake, and of Pound and the
early Eliot that two Yankees came to
Europe and were terrified by Kulchur.
I do not say it, but I note the saying.
H. the S.: Let Ezra himself reply,
from Canto XLVI: —•
And if you will say that this tale teaches...
a lesson, or that the Reverend Eliot
has found a more natural language... you
who think you will
get through hell in a hurry...
Tchinkis of Tartary: Yeliu apaoki
Ouanyen akouta.
Hoei the Slider: I see you have been
reading the famous Chinese economist
Ezra Pound again. Have you the faintest
notion what it means?
T. of T.: I think it is the password
to the honorable hostelry on the corner.
Shall we adjourn?
H. the S.: Apaoki by me.
Dunne on Dragons.
Perhaps because X and Y, mowing a
field at different speeds or trying to catch
up with each other along the highway,
have a touch of whimsical insanity, or
because the highest flights of science
make you feel, as D. H. Lawrence put
it, that “space is alive, like a swan,”
there is a peculiarly close connection be-
tween mathematics and art. Most great
mathematicians are reputed to seek relief
from their theories, or confirmation of
them, in music; and. Some, like Lewis
Carroll, turn to poetry or prose fantasies.
W. J. Dunne, whose theories about time
expressed in An Experiment with Time
and The Serial Universe have had an im-
portant influence on modern literature
(not merely in the later plays of J. B.
Priestley, but in The Childermas of
Wyndham Lewis and possibly die poems
of Eliot and Pound), enters into com-
petition with Carroll in An Experiment
with St. George (Faber), a book primarily
for children, but also for adults in the
way that Alice in Wonderland is a book
for both children and adults.
An Experiment with St. George is no
Alice : it is not mad enough ; but it is
a delightful fantasy all the same, and it
has an undercurrent of satire at once
simple enough to enchant the child mind,
subtle enough to amuse the adult. There
is a dragon drive, organised on the lines
of an English pheasant shoot There is
Phelan the fisherman, who sold his soul
to the devil on the condition that every-
thing he contrived to hook within 50
yards of the stream —from a water-rat to
one of the castle scullions —should be-
come a fat, fighting salmon. There is
the story of the dragon that was dis-
gusted with mankind because the king
had tried to trick him by offering him a
common girl disguised as the princess.
There is the bashful captain of the guards
who talked to his girl about delphiniums
for three weeks until she was changed
into a white rabbit.
For children it’s an exciting adventure
story telling how St. George and Prin-
cess Cleodolinda and the king defeated
all the witches, warlocks and demons in
the world. There are hair-raising encoun-
ters with Howling Harriet; a nightmare
account of Giggling Gertrude, who lived
in a dark swamp and giggled so that
everyone who heard her had to go to her ;
a description of the way the heroes held
the hordes of the underworld at bay with
dinner forks—for witches can be killed
only with silver weapons; a thunderous
climax, when an erupting volcano de-
stroyed the enemy. This is a straight
fairy story, humorous, but to be taken
literally by the young; at the same time,
it is a satire on itself. For a change from
books about Hitler, or for a change from
books by W. J. Dunne, it would be hard
to beat.
Wyndham Lewis and Hitler.
Wyndham Lewis, whose energetic
mind keeps propelling him into political
somersaults, is turning round and
round like a cartwheel in The Hitler
Cult (Dent). He had never any sym-
pathies with Fascism, he is at pains
to state; “boy scouts are not my
cup of tea.” He says that an
American publisher to whom the present
book was first offered wanted to publicise
it as a recantation from Hitlerism similar
to Andrd Gide’s revolt from Communism,
but that it would have been truer to say
that he, like Gide, only more platonically,
had once succumbed to the charms of
Communism.
Mr. Lewis has only himself to blame
if nobody correctly interprets his views
on politics, for he has never yet shown
that he fully understands them himself.
The Hitler Cult is full of qualifications
that amount to contradictions. In his
introduction, for instance, he scouts the
idea that the present war is a war of
ideologies; it is a simple matter of
physical struggle between Britain and
Germany:
It is an “ideological” war we are told.
But there are precious few ideas there for
us to fight, I am afraid. To make war
upon ideas, when they are unsuitable, is
the “highbrow’s” only recognisable func-
tion in the modern State at war, and I can
hardly find any there, good, bad or in-
different, to attack.
Then, after a prolonged discussion of
the idea of Hitlerism and the complex
ideas of democracy, he comes unblush-
ingly to the conclusion that this is purely
a war of conflicting cultures —that is to
say, an ideological war:
No, the argument does not lie today be-
tween a nation of shopkeepers and a nation
of musicians and philosophers. There are
none of the latter left beneath the Swas-
tika, nor have there been for many a
day. Bismarck saw to that before Hitler was
born. It lies between the French and Celtic
culture generally, allied to the genius for
tolerance of the Anglo-Saxon, on the one
hand, and the most efficient exponents of
machine-age barbarism —camouflaged be-
neath a bosky peasant homeliness —on the
other.
He is again absurdly contradictory in
his chapter on the possibilities of a
European or world federation after the
war. From an earlier book, he quotes
his unanswerable argument against the
League system. If we followed the
Geneva road, he had said, “the destiny
of England, perhaps for centuries to
come, is to be decided in a Swiss city
by a motley collection of gentlemen
whose names most of us are unable to
pronounce.” Since he wrote that, how-
ever, he says he realised that England’s
oligarchic Government is not really rep-
resentative of the people, so that he be-
lieves it wouldn’t matter so much after
all if the country was ruled by unpro-
nounceable foreigners.
Of course that is nonsense. English
Parliamentary government, as he pro-
ceeds to admit, is much more likely to
give at least some attention to English
needs than any remote international
authority. But he believes an experi-
ment in federation should nonetheless be
tried. But will it work? he asks; will
people agree to it? He answers no to
both questions and then still plumps
for federation! That sort of argument
is all very well from the idealist (like
Aldous Huxley’s pacifism it has a cer-
tain moral value), but it is silly stuff
from a writer who poses as the satirical
realist, arch-enemy of the romantic
dreamer.
This is wishful thinking; but, as in
all Wyndham Lewis books, there are
passages of clear thought and brilliant
analysis to make it worth reading. When
he says that you would have to wipe
out three-quarters of the nation to stage
an anti-bourgeois revolution in England
he faces a plain fact that no intellectual
Communist will ever admit. Good, too,
is his examination of the theory that the
German people are not to be blamed for
the crimes of Hitler: he points out that
the Germans are much more responsible
for Hitler than the English are for Mr.
Chamberlain, for he feels that he merely
“inherited” Mr. Chamberlain from his-
toiy, whereas the Germans of today
created Hitlerism. Discussing the Nazis’
race theory, he observes that it is a
boomerang: by stressing their difference
from other people, by their treatment of
those they regard as their inferiors, the
Germans have indeed come to be looked
on as a race apart —but as barbarians
instead of supermen.
Nazism he regards as a relapse into
barbarism, bound to collapse because of
its essential falsity ; we are living, he says,
in the petrol age and it is impossible for
Germany to put the clock back. As an
indication of barbarism he points to the
“blood and soil” mysticism (with a nice
piece of theorising about the processes
by which the Nazis persuade themselves
that neighboring soil, and its inhabitants,
are evil). Germany, he says, is an in-
dustrial country and there is no enduring
basis for Hitlerism’s peasant mysticism.
Hitler himself, whose character he dis-
cusses at length, and whom he compares
interestingly with Rousseau, Mr. Lewis
considers a much less vital personality
than Napoleon —a piece of Gothic roman-
ticism surviving precariously in an age
of steel and concrete. Hitler belongs to
the feminine artist-type, and “that is
why big masculine chaps, like Major
Yeats-Brown, feel sorry for Herr Hitler.
They want to protect him.”
On Sailing the Sea: Hilaire Belloc
(Methuen). Collection of Belloc’s essays
and extracts from his other writings on
sailing the sea in small boats.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTlSlNG’’ —bearing strictest scrutiny.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
STRONG AND RELIABLE IMPLEMENTS
FOR ALL FARM REPAIR WORK
ŗ
A strong and durable forge for repair work around farm
or station, or for any class of heavy work. Weight
1501bs. The Blower is conveniently fitted, so as one man,
if desired, can watch heat and turn handle. Pan made
of 12-gauge iron; 30in. x 24in. x 6in. deep, with hood,
£l2'io'-
door attached to side. Can be closed or opened if necessary to get glow in fire.
Legs made of angle iron, with cross stays. Extra heavy fire iron provided.
Advisable to lay a layer of clay on bottom of pans.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS', Price
£l2/10/.
ř
SEE DISPLAY
AT THE SHOW
In our Agricultural Sec-
tion at the Showground,
opposite our Pavilion,
we are displaying a
very comprehensive ex-
hibit of various types
of farming implements
suitable for both small
and large landowners.
Th© Rapid Hand Crank F OlCf©
This forge is made in Australia, and will compare favour-
ably with any portable forge on the market. 18in. pan
and machine-cut gears, weight 801bs. Can be taken to
pieces and assembled in two minutes —no spanner required.
£8 s ; -
Scientifically constructed to give the best possible blast. Duplicate parts are
always obtainable. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. Price £B/5/-
r
Best English make. All steel "Nash" Brand.
Up to 281bs. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. Price, each 57/6
Up to 401bs. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. Price, each 657-
Up to 501bs. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. Price, each 707-
Up to 601bs. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. Price, each 75/-
6libs, up to 841bs. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. Price, per lb. 1/-
851bs. up to 1121bs. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. Price, per lb. lid.
9,Z1/J3
ŕ
The “Dawn” Hand Drill
has two speeds, and is
back-geared so that crank
turns forward on both
speeds. Two feeds —hand
£5)2 6
and automatic —are provided. Automatic feed is
adjustable to three speeds. A square slotted table is
provided. Spindle diameter, i-3/Bin.; run of feed,
siiin. ; run of table, loin.; length over all, 38m.;
diameter of pulley, 6in. Gross weight, i7slbs. AT
ANTHONY HORDERNS’. Price £5/12/6
©
e
3in. jaw. Price 58/-
3iin. jaw. Price 69/6
4in. jaw. Price 72/6
4iin. jaw. Per lb. 1/5
£2ia-
sin-6in. Price, per lb.
1/4
'Dawn' Ball-Bearing
Post Drill 611
Fitted with both hand and
automatic feed and has
two speeds. Drills to centre
of I2in.''circle, drill holes
up to ij4in. ; run of feed,
£3*
3in.; run of table, nin.; chuck bored for iin.
shank drills; weight, 961bs. Will give long
service. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS’. .. 66/-
UNILLUSTRATED. Ball-bearing Post Drill
No. 61. A well constructed light type drilling
machine, similar to No. 6n in construction.
Weight Silbs. Price 57/6
• Farming Implements —4 lll Floor. Freight not
paid on these goods, but they are delivered free
within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
Day and Night
'Phone M 2401
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


COMPETITION
By A. C. HEADLEY.
DIRTY streamers swung ill
arcs towards the centre,
striping and dimming the
lights. There was a “No
Smoking” sign, but the hall was
full of tobacco smoke. The music quickened,
but the monotonous sound of shoe-scrape remained
the same. Then abruptly the music was over, and
the shoe-scrape was feet walking. Couples were
threading back, stopping, swelling into groups, and
the rhythm of talk bubbled and burst into a hundred
voices.
In the far corner she saw Don and the girl. He
was talking, and she watched his mouth break into a
smile. When he moved she saw the number on his
back, No. 4. It was for the competition, and the
competition dance was next. But her attention was
fixed on the girl. With a small misery in her heart
she conceded that the girl was pretty, and she was
abruptly aware of her loneness.
At the end of the hall groups were standing com-
fortably. They were patterned, all of them, the boys
with their smooth greasy hair ; the girls overpowdered,
sharp-mouthed and confident. She looked back to
watch Don. He was like the rest of them, his hair
flat and shiny with grease, the set of his face solid
.and broad. He was like the rest of them, but the dif-
ference was that he was Don.
The M.C. was moving forward to announce the
competition. It was a signal for the groups to spread
in a circle around the hall. She moved to take her
place in the circled audience. The four couples came
out on to the bare floor space, and abruptly the
orchestra was playing a quickstep. She watched Don
and the girl swing expertly into the beat of it. They
were fast and smooth. He could dance, and the girl
had the facility of making her steps as one with his.
The carriage was perfect, bodies playing a slower
rhythm to the quick-quick of their steps. It was good
dancing. In the spell before the slow foxtrot, she
watched Don wipe his hands on a handkerchief. And
then they were moving rhythmically to the music again.
They were close to her when it stopped. Over his
partner’s shoulder Don saw her, and nodded. “Third
from now, Netta.”
“Third from now.”
The girl was looking at her curiously.
Then the orchestra was lilting a waltz, and they
were sliding away from her. She dropped back from
the circle and resumed her seat by the orchestra.
Third from now. It was a long time since she had
danced with Don. She sat still trying not to think
about it.
The competition was over at last, and she heard
the few scattered claps. Now the circle was breaking,
couples joining ready for the sudden surge of the
orchestra. Music was playing. They were dancing,
and the dance floor was a mill of moving bodies.
She rose abruptly as the tall boy moving along
the row of chairs paused expectantly before her.
Then they were dancing, swinging into the hurrying
circle.
This dance and the next, and then it was the
third from now. She was conscious of a small glow
of excitement. She was back in her seat by the
orchestra. Music started, and couples commenced
to circle the hall. She was looking for Don and try-
ing not to show it. Her mind held the certainty that
he would come. Then suddenly she saw him dancing
with the girl. She was conscious of a surge of anger
and of a desire not to let him see her waiting. She
rose and moved towards the door. There was a
touch on her arm. It was the boy she had danced
with before. She was dancing suddenly, finding it
an escape from the humiliation of waiting.
When they stopped at the break, they were near
Don and the girl. Don saw her. “I couldn’ find y’.”
She knew he was lying. “I looked everywhere.” She
could tell by the forced earnestness of it. “Third
from now.”
“It’s booked.”
The music took her away from him. After that
she had another dance with the tall boy. She knew
he was going to ask if he could see her home. He’d
wait outside the hall, standing on the footpath, watch-
ing for her, and then he would be walking down the
street by her side, and it would either be yes or no.
If it was yes there would be a dark lane and he
would want to kiss her. She thought of Don and the
girl. She didn’t want anyone to see her home tonight.
There was no room for anything except the crowding
thoughts about Don and a bitterness that was aimed
at herself.
She was glad when the dance was over. She
donned her coat and joined the rush to the doorway.
An attendant was distributing tickets for the voting on
the competition. Near the ballot-boxes she saw Don
and the girl. They were watching the voting. He
saw her coming, and grinned. “You know who t’
vote for, Netta.”
She ■ stopped and looked at him, and in that
moment she was conscious of the hatred of a million
things. She looked down at the slip of cardboard in
her hand.
PS ON, particularly earnest because he was telling a
lie. “I been trampin’ all over, lookin’ for a
job, Netta.”
It came almost on top of her father’s words. “I
see Don playin’ cards in the park. ’E’d do better
playin’ with a pick an’ shovel.”
Now because Don was lying about looking for
work, she said nothing, but the tingle of it was stored
in her soul. “It’s hard, I know.”
“Hard! It’s bloody hard.” He believed it now,
trying to bolster himself into martyrdom. “The fore-
man at Crane’s tol’ me to come back next week.”
Sometimes it was the foreman at Crane’s, some-
times a dozen other places. “I gotter see ’im next
week.” You could feel the truth of it even when
he was lying, when you knew that he hadn’t even
attempted to look for work. But because he was
“I do believe a returned soldier lives here.”
Don she said nothing, and when he
kissed her she was prepared to
believe him in anything. Some-
times she wanted to tell him that
she knew he was lying, but she
never quite got to it. It seemed somehow like destroy-
ing everything he stood on.
She had met him at a dance, and let him walk
home with her. At the corner of the street, in the
darkness, he had kissed her, and they had stood a
long while talking about dances and dancing. There
had been no talk of another meeting. It was un-
necessary ; there were dances. After that there were
a few dances when he walked home with her, and
abruptly he was her boy. It was a transition to the
shabby couch at home. It wasn’t till then that she
found out he was out of work. It didn’t matter.
There was always the tomorrow he was talking about.
That was all he needed —a chance, opportunity.
“I’ll ’ave a job before Christmas, Netta.” He
made you believe it, and then it was weeks and weeks
and nothing done. “I’ll ’ave to go easy on your
Christmas present, Netta. I’ll make it up in the new
year. There oughter be a few jobs goin’ then.” Some-
times she thought about it and worried, but near
him that spirit of something turning up would seep
in, and make her belief in him almost as strong as
his own.
J T was her idea about the competition dancing. They
' danced well together, and at the shilling dance halls
there were competitions and money prizes for the heat-
winners. He was taken up by it. “We could prac-
tise, steps and things. It’s easy money, Netta, easy
money.”
He was nervous that first competition. She
could feel the shake of him when he held her. When
it was over they stood outside the door watching the
voting cards being dropped into the tins.
Don was angry. “It ain’t fair. We was the best
couple. They got all their friends votin’ for them.”
He believed it, but she knew it had been bad dancing,
dancing with the hurried nervousness of uncertainty.
“Yes,” she said, “we should have got it ”
Then suddenly competition dancing was com-
monplace, and with the edge of his self-consciousness
dulled he was dancing with confidence. They won a
couple of heats at different halls.
“We oughter win a final, Netta. Twenty-five
quid. We could start a dance studio.” It was one of
his just-around-the-corner ambitions. But sitting in
the darkness on the shabby couch his nearness gave
a stability to it.
“If we did any good we could git married.” It
was a concrete basis to that something hovering in
airy promises of tomorrow. He kissed her swiftly, his
lips hard to her mouth.
They came through the semi-final heat, and
abruptly the final was a glowing and immediate pros-
pect. They were working for it in the dance halls,
practising steps and, when she had enough money,
taking an occasional private lesson. Don was con-
fident. “Dance studios make good money, Netta.”
He told her father, using it as a sort of apology
for not looking for work. “Look at it, Mr. Heddle,
five bob a ’alf-hour for a private lesson. They cop
the coin orright.”
Her father didn’t like Don. She knew it, not
from the things he said but the things that were left
unsaid. “It’s time,” he said, “you thought about
coppin’ some kind of coin.”
Don was ready and earnest. “This is
what I been waitin’ for. There ain’t no
sense slavin’ your guts out when there’s
easier ways of makin’ dough.”
THE final, and the judges standing in
the middle of the floor, the M.C. call-
ing their names, Don looking splendid in
the hired suit of tails. Then music was
playing and they were dancing, and the
competition was dim and far away; they
were dancing because the rhythm of it was
in their hearts. They were dancing well.
She could feel it in the smooth confidence
of the way he held her. Then the quickstep
was finished ; Don, wiping a handkerchief
across his face, was smiling. “We can’t
miss, Netta.”
The slow, then the waltz, and they were
standing waiting for the judges. She could
feel the beating of her heart and the
tightness in her throat. The judges were
talking together, comparing notes. One of
them broke the group and called a couple.
Her heart almost stopped, but they were
in it, too. Another of the judges was
beckoning them to the centre. They came,
standing quietly, uncertain. The announce-
ment came as another breath of life. They
were to dance against the other couple in a
quickstep. The strings of her nerves were


S. B. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1940.
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL,
BIOGRAPHY OR OTHER PROSE
WORK.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is offered as
a practical encouragement of Australian writers
and Australian literature—“ Australian” being
adopted as a convenient term to include Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands. All
writers born in these parts are included, no
matter where now residing; so also are bona
fide residents, no matter where born.
The prize is an annual award of £lOO, which
may be withheld if no entry is considered
worthy. With accumulations from years when
no award was made the amount has built up
to £3OO, and an entry of sufficient merit in
the present competition, closing June 6 next
year, can qualify for the £2OO accumulations in
addition to the ordinary award of £lOO.
This 1940 Competition is open to Novels,
Biographies, Autobiographies and all other kinds
of works in prose. Each MS. must be submitted
under a pen-name, with full name and address
in an accompanying sealed envelope.
The winner will be free to have his or her
winning work published in book form by any
publisher preferred. Serial rights will be a
matter for arrangement between “The Bulletin”
and . the winner and the writers of any other
entries selected, payment for such rights being
in addition to the Prize. All other rights—
book, stage, radio and the like—will belong to
the author.
Any further details required can be had on
application to the Secretary, S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office, Box 252 188,
G.P.0., Sydney.
tied for that quickstep. They danced, and it was over.
She heard the announcement of their names, and it
was as though things inside her collapsed. She could
feel the hard, intense pressure of her throat. Don
was smiling. “I told y’, Netta.”
That was the night she told the thing that had
been insistent in her mind for weeks. It was com-
forting to have the darkness around her when she
spoke, to feel the touch of him next to her. “Don,
we ought to get married.”
“Sure, Netta, jest soon’s we get the dance studio
goin’ proper. We oughter be able to get a few pupils.”
“Now, Don, I mean. We ought to get married
now.”
“Now?” The incredulity of his voice sharpened the
darkness.
Then she told him why now was important.
She waited for him to break the silence. When
he spoke it was as though he was throwing his anger
at her.
“When things are right somethin’ always crops
up to spoil it. Christ, I can’t marry y’ yet, Netta.
Not yet. We gotter git it fixed up. There’s ways, ain’t
there?”
There was a girl at the factory who knew all
about things. “It costs money.”
“When I git clear there’s always somethin’.” She
could feel the heaped resentment against her in his
voice. “I s’pose we gotter get it done.”
She was thinking of girls who sometimes died.
IT cost money, but it didn’t cost twenty-five pounds.
1 But when it was over the money was mysteriously
gone.
“I been to the races,” Don told her; “I tried to
make it up.” It was almost as if he was accusing her
of that, too.
Her father wanted to know when the dance
studio was opening. She told him that Don was
looking for a place.
Then suddenly Don was talking in a different
strain. “You oughter give me up, Netta. I ain’t
gonner do you no good. Where’ll I git y’? We’ll git
married an’ on the dole —that’s all I’m good for.”
“Something’ll show up.”
“Nothin’s gonner show up.”
It was not for a while that she realised that he
wanted to be rid of her. This was a beginning. The
sacrificial attitude was all part of it. Then suddenly
they were through.
“You’re the on’y girl for me, Netta. If I git a job
I’ll be right back.”
She saw him sometimes at the dances, and she
knew he had a job, but he did not seem to see her.
Then he was dancing in the competitions again, and
she was watching him with that girl, his new partner.
LJ E was standing close to her now. The slip of
1 * pink cardboard was in her hand.
“You know who to vote for, Netta. Me an’
Molly.”
The sleekness of his hair shone under the light.
The flat of his face was drawn into a grin. In that
moment he was one of a thousand slick-looking, shiny-
pumped dance-hall men. Yet it was like seeing some-
thing new and strange for the first time. She looked
at him and her eyes were level; then slowly she moved
over and dropped the vote into his box. Behind her
she heard the dropping of his voice. “So long, Netta.
Save me a dance next time.”
At the bottom of the stairs the air was swift and
cold. Along the street she heard the footsteps moving
in beside her. It was the tall boy from the dance.
“See y’ home?”
She felt herself nodding. “If you like.”
Their shadows lengthened away from the light.
NOISE
By LES ROBINSON.
“Aw, tell her I'm the charwoman.”
AS though our miseries were not already excessive,
there has been talk of inflicting daylight-saving
upon us again. My annoyance, unless these
daylight-economists are thwarted, will be irre-
pressible and therefore, perhaps, even declamatory ;
my gloom, as well, is likely to become abysmal or
Stygian, and if you, too, are a noise-hater you will easily
understand why. You will know, perhaps even better
than I do, that quietude rarely if ever sets in before
nightfall, and even then in certain remote and favored
portions of the continent only. Having neither dwelt
in one of them myself nor encountered, so far, any-
body who has, I can scarcely be blamed for suspecting
sometimes that there aren’t any such places at all but
only mythical Utopias the noise-weary dream about.
The sound of the sea is a soothing and musical
one to some people. To others, on the contrary, it is
a distracting and depressing uproar. There are also
those to whom the sound of bells is hateful. If, at
the top of your voice, you were to ask a man in an
iron-foundry how he managed to tolerate such a
hideous din, his reply, it is not at all improbable, would
be “What din?” “We, by that which we make our-
selves,” as some philosopher has sagely remarked, “are
undisturbed.”
Although there are supposed to be several anti-
noise and commotion-quelling societies in existence,
I have never been able myself to discover what, if
anything, they have ever done. There still seems to
be nothing whatever to prevent the man next door
from attacking an iron tank with a sledgehammer and
both hobnailed boots, or from filling it with stones
and trundling it, if he wants to, up and down the
garden path ; nor does there seem to be anything to
deter him from dumping buckets or boards about
at an unearthly hour of the morning either. Noc-
turnal revelry and roistering can still continue un-
checked, and do in some suburbs, ours being one of
them. You can still keep a pup, and, if you are thick-
skinned enough, can still leave it chained up at home
while you go to the pictures. You can still keep as
many cats, if you like them, and female cats, too, as
your backyard or roof will hold. You can still make
atrocious sounds at all hours yourself, if you feel in-
clined, with so-called musical instruments in the so
often vain (both senses of the word) endeavor to
become a skilled performer. Cacophony, in fact, as
übiquitous as it is rampant, continues unquelled.
One of the noisiest nights of my whole life was
spent in an ancient weatherboard accommodation
house or boarding establishment some few minutes’
walk from the railway station along the dusty and
squalid main street of a depressingly unattractive
country town. The arrival and departure of trains
all night long resulted in a lot of other turmoil and
clamor. Heavily-booted travellers banged on the
front door to be let in, or slammed it after them when
they went out. Up and down the creaky old staircase
they stumbled and clumped. More and more dogs
barked ; more and more doors slammed as bedrooms
were entered or vacated ; more and more windows
were flung up or flung down, flung up again, and then,
savagely, as though the flingers harbored a grievance
against them, were flung down with more finality and
harder than ever. Never before had I even dimly
imagined that so much noise could be made at
such a time.
Boots hit bedroom floors with a force which indi-
cated, I should say, that their owners hated the sight
of them and were “fed up” with everything, probably,
as well. The night being a sultry one water was in
great demand, and the clatter made with jugs and
basins whilst obtaining or discarding it was both exces-
sive and incessant. The coughing, sneezing, wheezing,
clearing and gargling of throats, grunting and snoring
were positively Gargantuan.
Trains pounded in, stayed panting awhile, then
pounded off again. There was the constant hissing of
escaping steam. Whistles blew, bells clanged, bullocks
bellowed, chains clanked, trucks banged into one an-
other, and every now and then the boarding-house
trembled to its foundations as lorries laden with
country produce rumbled by. At about 3 a.m., just
as a brief respite seemed likely, the heat culminated
in a thunderstorm, which, with hurricane and hail
attached, did its utmost to wreck the town.
Let us be thankful, however, though we do swelter
occasionally, that we don’t live in the Polar regions,
where, scientists tell us, the audibility is so remarkable
that the ordinary speaking tones of the human voice
can be heard with ease at a distance of more than
a mile.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Jf uclt mm of tote meucumcdd andMcuqtud
In Bunhill Fields, that unpretentious
burying ground in Finsbury, repose the
remains of the “Great Dreamer” of the
English-speaking peoples, John Bunyan.
Used as a pest-field during the Great
Plague of 1665, Defoe has left a terrible
description of the place —it was soon
after formed into a cemetery for Dis-
senters, and so it has remained. Great
men’s mortal ashes here rest, for ex-
ample, Daniel Defoe, author of Robin-
son Crusoe, Dr. Isaac Watts, George
Fox, the founder of the Quakers,
Thomas Stothard, R.A., Lieut.-General
Fleetwood, son-in-law of Cromwell, and
Dr. Thomas Goodwin, Cromwell’s chap-
lain, but the greatest of all is* John
Bunyan, of gipsy blood, the immortal
allegorist. Here he was interred in 1688,
and three years later the first edition of
his works, including the Pilgrim’s Pro-
gress and some 60 treatises, was pub-
lished as a “first complete edition.” All
human time belongs to the poverty-
stricken, ragged tinker, son of a mechanic
at Elstow, near Bedford, of such obscure
origin that even the Christian name of
his father is unknown. Of his parents,
infancy and childhood, little is recorded.
All definitely known is from his own
account, principally contained in his
doctrine of the Law and Grace, and
in the extraordinary development of
his spiritual life under the title Grace
A bounding to the Chief of Sinners.
His pedigree is thus narrated by him-
self : “My descent was of a low and
inconsiderable generation, my father’s
home being of that rank that is
meanest and most despised of all the
families in this land.” Bunyan alluded
to this very pointedly in the preface to
A Few Sighs from Hell. An American
admirer, almost a century ago, wrote
that in proportion to that degradation of
birth over which Bunyan had no con-
trol, he manifestly ranks with those
described by the Psalmist (LXVIII, 13):
“Though ye have lien among the pots,
yet shall ye be as the wings of a dove
covered with silver, and her feathers with
yellow gold.” From all parts of the
world “pilgrims” wend their way to the
tomb of one of the most illustrious of
the sons of men.
WHERE JOHN BUNYAN, THE “GREAT DREAMER,” RESTS.


TRANSATLANTIC EASTER EGG.
“It is not for individuals living in countries far from the seat of war to suggest that Britain and France failed to do their utmost for Finland.”— Mr. Chamberlain.
“And you’re the bird that laid that noble egg in nineteen-seventeen!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man,”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
Da.vid Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch (/4ms.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp . G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE COMMUNIST "PARTY."
Trade-unionists who tolerate the “party” and
acquiesce in Red leadership of their unions, and
Parlor Pinks whose subscriptions have helped to build
up its subsidiary bodies (all with high-sounding names),
would be astonished if they knew what they were
backing.
The Communist “party” is part of a foreign
conspiracy whose darling object is the downfall of the
British Empire. Its flag is not the flag of Australia,
but the red and yellow banner of Russia. Its head-
quarters are not in one of the Australian capitals, but
in Moscow. Its full programme is revealed only in
its own inner circles. The programme outlined for
its dupes is a domestic programme, designed to cap-
ture support which can be gradually diverted to the
main purpose.
It is operated mainly through the unions by
men specially trained. Some of them have spent a
year or more in the Lenin school in Moscow. Others
have been trained in local training classes. The
teaching is based on a 92-page book of ten
lessons, backed by a study of specified textbooks,
largely by Russian authors or by Comintern com-
mittees. A complete set of textbooks costs £7 6s. Bd.
The Party Training Manual bears on its cover a
seal with the words “The Communist Party of Aus-
tralia —the Communist International —All Power to the
Workers,” and the hammer-and-sickle emblem. The
preface says it contains “the main points in the de-
velopment of the revolutionary struggle of the work-
ing class” and is “a guide to correct revolutionary
activity within Australia.”
There are preliminary hints to group leaders, an
essay on intensive teaching methods and definitions.
The “dictatorship of the proletariat” is defined as “the
chief fulcrum of proletarian revolution, first of all to
wipe out the resistance of routed exploiters, to con-
solidate the conquests of the revolution, and then to
lead this revolution to the complete victory of social-
ism.” Lesson 2 deals with “imperialism.... the stage
of capitalist development when the social revolution
becomes an immediate practical question”:
The struggle passes from the older form of sec-
tional strikes of trade-unions and Parliamentary action
to large-scale mass actions and general strikes The
struggle for power between leading imperialist States
leads to war, which weakens the position of capital in
general by the destruction of productive forces.
Lesson 3 outlines the Communist conception of a
capitalist State. A capitalist State is “primarily con-
cerned with the maintenance of power in the hands of
the capitalists” ; it “defends the interests of the proper-
tied class against foreign States” by means of an army,
a navy and an air force. These “bodies of armed
men, in conjunction with the police and legal institu-
tions, form its protection against the working class
internally.” And there is “a parasitical bureaucratic
body—the civil service.”
The political Labor conception of the State as
“standing above society as a conciliator of classes” is
denounced. Political Labor “deceives the workers with
the belief that they can be emancipated by voting
for Labor candidates” ; but experiences with Labor
Governments have “demonstrated quite clearly the
necessity to break up and destroy the capitalist State
machinery of bureaucracy, courts of justice, military
and police apparatus, and to replace it with a self-
governing mass organisation of workers who would
combine legislative and executive powers.”
A capitalist State, in fact, is “the organ of oppres-
sion of one class by another.” Its organs consist “not
only of armed men but also of material additions in
the shape of prisons and repressive institutions of all
kinds, the standing army and the police being the chief
instruments of force.”
Therefore, the working class must “break up and
shatter the State bureaucratic and military machine as
a preliminary condition to the workers’ revolution.”
Meanwhile, of course, it is permissible for Com-
munist mob-orators to invoke the aid of “bureaucratic”
policemen when their preaching of sedition is resented
by Australians and Maorilanders.
The first task of the Communist “party,” students
are told, consists in convincing “the proletariat” that
its programme and politics are correct, a step which
“clears the way for the conquest of power and the
institution of the Workers’ State.”
The working class are compelled to seize power in
order to shatter the resistance of the former ruling class.
The struggle for power “ultimately passes from
the defensive to the offensive, and a period of insur-
rection marks the period of revolution.” The “extent
of the violence is determined by the degree of political
organisation and leadership of the working class.” The
Communist “party” is “essential for the proper co-
ordination, consolidation and guidance of the struggle.”
In the course of “the struggle” Parliament is wiped
out —though before the insurrectionary stage is reached
the “party” “makes use of Parliament to expose the
fraudulent character of democratic policies,” to
“secure points of vantage to harass the ruling class”
and to “formulate immediate demands on which the
masses can unite for the struggle.”
Communist members “enter Parliament not so
that they may take the machine into their own hands
but that they may help the masses to destroy it. The
centre of gravity must be outside Parliament, in strikes
and other forms of mass struggle.” Local government
on British and Australian models is regarded in the
same light. The “party” is taught that it must use
municipal machinery to “assist workers in strike time” ;
it must “prevent councils from being used for patriotic
and anti-working-class purposes.”
The “party’s” immediate programme is taught in
detail. It includes “arming the revolution to break
the resistance of the landowners and capitalists.”
Special tasks for Australian Communists are “the
exposure of arbitration as the tool of the boss” and
the prevention of British immigration ; also they must
“oppose any attempt on the part of reactionary ele-
ments in the Labor movement to raise the color
question” (no White Australia policy for Corns.!) and
“urge support of all liberation movements in the
Orient” —movements, of course, started by Moscow.
The driving force behind all this is the Third
International. The Third International is “a fighting
organ....the fundamental principle of which is to
subordinate■ the interests of the movement in each
country to the general interests of the international
movement as a whole.”
It is emphasised that the Communist “party” is
“neither a sect, a propagandist body, nor a study
circle.” It is “essentially a party of action,” repre-
senting the workers “not as miners, railwaymen,
dockers, engineers, etc., but as a class.” And “by
its clear revolutionary policy it must be able to see
further than the masses, always urging them, guiding
them and participating in the daily struggle”—that
struggle which is to reach the point of trying to
“transform national war into civil war.”
Communists have signally failed to enter Parlia-
ment, or even to save their deposits ; but they have
been startlingly successful in capturing key positions
in trade-unions, particularly those concerned in mining,
transport and metal trades, and in digging in on
Labor Councils and the like. They have been equally
successful in inducing “intellectuals” and other middle-
class mugs to join their Leagues for Peace and
Democracy, Leagues against War and Fascism,
Friends of the Soviet, Societies for the Promotion of
Cultural Relations with Soviet Russia, and so forth.
They caught university professors and bishops
with the “promotion of cultural relations” birdlime.
They tricked an astonishing number of good people
(one Judge’s wife) into believing—and in many
cases backing their belief with Australian money—
that the parties to the Spanish civil war were (1)
enlightened “democrats” and (2) a foul military caste,
backed by “Fascist murderers,” and that the Cham-
berlain Government’s refusal to intervene on the side
of the “democrats” was a capitalistic crime. They
even gulled a former Governor-General with their
tale that a Communist-directed wharf strike, planned
to embroil Australia with Japan in the interest of
Moscow, was another Eureka Stockade affair.
While Australia was tardily preparing for war,
Communists and their friends on Labor Councils and
the like demanded a boycott of the national register,
and threatened that if the Government proceeded
with it they would hold up the production of arms and
munitions. Their publications meanwhile fulminated
against the Chamberlain Government, insisting in
their vituperative jargon that “Chamberlain” should
bow “to the will of the people” and enter into an
immediate alliance with the Mighty Soviet, extended
to the Far East. The Nazi-Communist pact found
them busy denouncing “the Fascist beast of prey, drug-
addict Goring,” and Nazi rule (“the rule of the head-
man’s axe and the midnight strangler”) and bespeak-
ing Australian sympathy and support for the Poles.
Sure of their abject devotion to the Cause, Moscow
hadn’t let them into the secret of its impending
treachery and of its plans for grabbing Poland—
including parts never held by Russia—when the Nazis,
those “dehumanised thugs, the dregs of humanity,”
had beaten the Poles to their knees.
Before liaison had been re-established the Com-
munist executive assured Australians that the Nazi-
Communist pact contained an anti-aggression clause
that would save Poland and other threatened coun-
tries. Even after the German invasion began it was
urging Australians to join an expeditionary force, if
one was sent to help “the Polish people in their
struggle for independence against the savage Nazi
Fascists.” Within a few days, the Russian invasion
having commenced, it was stigmatising the Poles as
oppressors, and glorying in what it had called their
“enslavement to a foreign Power.” Another couple
of months found it glorifying the Russian invasion
of Finland and cheering the setting up of “the Fin-
nish People’s Government,” formed) by the great
Comrade Kuusinen under the protection of the
workers’ champion Stalin, borrowing for the occasion
the “arguments” (though not the epithets) it had
hurled against Franco.
And now we see this Red mob working up a
bogus peace agitation, throwing mud at “the British
and French imperialists,” and gloating over the fate
of the Finns as well as that of the Poles. All silent
now about the beauties of collective security and the
crimes of “the beast of prey Goring” and “the rule of
the midnight strangler,” they have turned insolently
on the Governments which remained in the League
from which the Red Brigand was expelled, and which
are defending the democracy that Moscow was pro-
fessing to champion only last year. We see them
fomenting war-time strikes, trying to foment others
by making extravagant claims amounting to sheer
blackmail, and repeating their threats that they will
sabotage the production of arms and materials neces-
sary to the prosecution of the war. And the rain of
propaganda, for which there seem to be unlimited
funds, never ceases, in Australia and Maoriland alike,
In Maoriland, Communist anti-war stickers have been
surreptitiously placed on cargo boxes in the holds of
vessels about to leave for Britain, and members of the
“party” have been advised to “get arms into your
hands and use them against your own bosses in this
country.”
The Communist conspiracy should have been out-
lawed in Australia from the moment Poland was
invaded. It is not too late to do it now, but in view
of the insolent contempt that Communists have shown
for the laws and the necessities of the Common-
wealth, in its struggle for existence, any further delay
may be dangerous. Co-operation between the Aus-
tralian and Maoriland Governments in this essential
matter would strengthen the hands of both ; but judg-
ing by the speeches of Mr. Semple, the Labor Minister
of Works, the Maoriland Government will be the first
to act. It has always been a few jumps ahead of the
Commonwealth Government in its war measures.
The Peace Offensive.
For the best part of a month the Great Peace Offen-
sive continued unabated. Not a day passed with-
out some peace move or other, or propaganda in
favor of peace, or defeatist propaganda, being aired in
the press—including those sections of it which gave
their columns as freely to propaganda in favor of war
only seven months back, and were prone to fly off
the handle at supposed affronts or acts of aggression.
What might for convenience be termed the War
Offensive reached a peak in February. The Finns,
regarded as allies, were making a magnificent stand.
A British naval squadron, with ’planes, was reported
to be blockading Murmansk. Heliogoland was raided.
Pointed publicity was given to the arrival of the new
Anzacs in Egypt and Palestine, where the Allies had
already amassed a huge army, and where also their
combined air strength was declared to be “sufficient to
provide backing for any strategy.” Mr. Chamberlain
and then Lord Halifax made speeches reaffirming
Britain’s war aims—including a new one introduced
by Mr. Chamberlain: securing independence for the
Czechs —and reasserting Britain’s resolve to see the war
through or perish in the attempt. And the British
Labor party published a series of pamphlets, among
them its Declaration of Policy, the purpose of all
of which was to back up the Government war effort
and doubly underline the familiar war aims.
Through all this there was emphasis on the in-
creasing strength of the Allies. The public mind —es-
pecially in Britain, but to a fairly solid extent also
in Australia —was brought to a point of expecting the
war to break loose at any moment, and being ready
for it, and confident. Instead, President Roosevelt
sent Mr. Sumner Welles off on his mission to Europe,
and the Great Peace Offensive was launched.
Its highlights were the daily reports and specula-
tions on Mr. Welles’s visits to Italy, Germany, France
and Britain in turn, and then back to Italy. His
return to Italy coincided with the meeting of Hitler
and Mussolini near the Brenner Pass, “stated to be for
the purpose of Mussolini receiving the German peace
terms from Hitler and transmitting them to President
Roosevelt.” Mr. Welles was further reported to have
postponed his departure for the U.S.A. pending the
result of the Hitler-Mussolini meeting. His own
statement is that he received “no peace plan or
mediation proposals” from any Government, nor did
he convey any.
But in the midst of the peace offensive, and not the
least remarkable item of it, came the “terms secured
by Lord Tavistock upon which the German Govern-
ment is prepared to at once declare an armistice and
open peace negotiations.” Those terms —declared by
Lord Tavistock to have been submitted by the German
Government through its Legation in Dublin—included
a reconstituted Czech State, full independence for
Poland with an outlet to the sea, a plebiscite for
Austria, and disarmament; in short, practically all
the declared British war aims, except the overthrow of
Hitlerism. The Tavistock terms promptly met with
denial and refusal all round ; but even if there was
nothing to them —which seems highly improbable—
they served their turn in the peace offensive.
In trying to get at what, if anything, was behind
this persistent offensive several circumstances asso-
ciated with it might be well kept in mind. One is the
censorship. This is an institution, imposition or in-
fliction foreign to the normal democratic way of life,
but the necessity for it is admitted and the purpose of
it well understood. It is a war measure designed—or,
at any rate, to be a fully effective war instrument it
ought to be designed— not only to prevent information
from reaching the enemy, but also to curb subversive
propaganda withiq the gates.
The fact that the peace offensive and defeatist
propaganda filled press columns in spite of official war
policy—and the Allied pronouncements, by Mr. Cham-
berlain, Lord Halifax, the British Labor leaders and
M. Daladier, give anything but support either to peace
hopes or to defeatism—may be taken to mean that
the censorship actually is not strong enough for


the force it aims to restrain—the British press. When
the war came the whole Left was for it, as the
Left had been for years previously. Since then the
Left, for reasons that need no repeating, has turned
its somersault. It is mistaken to believe that this acro-
batic performance has been restricted to confessed
Communists. The intellectual Left is very largely
in it, too, and the intellectual Left is a powerful influ-
ence' in the British press. Hence, to a large extent,
the phenomenon of war-thumping before the war and
peace-thumping since.
But if the peace offensive and the accompanying
defeatist propaganda were merely a manifestation of
democracy’s easygoing ways, they represent the very
height of folly. If there is not, and never was, any
hope of peace until Hitlerism and the German army
—“brute force, bad faith, injustice, oppression and
persecution” —are defeated and destroyed, then the
U.S.A. Government, chiefly responsible for haying
raised false hopes, may be able to soothe a flexible
conscience with the thought that it was better to have
tried and lost than never to have tried at all.
That is, again, if it was trying. This Mr. Roose-
velt denied, official pronouncements from Washington
insisting that Mr. Welles’s trip to Europe was wholly
one of exploration, not expected to find peace. But
the U.S.A. Government provided the inspiration or the
excuse for the Great Peace Offensive, piling con-
fusion on confusion. Similar explorations should
not be encouraged unless there is some better ground
for making them. In war any confusing of the public
mind as it has lately been confused is extravagant
luxury or madness. What needs to be achieved is
singleness of purpose and national unity backing the
will to win. Wars have to be fought; they can’t be
talked out.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Moscowmania Triumphant.
For organised Labor in different parts of the world,
Easter is a time for introspection and the making of
policy decisions.
In Britain at Easter the annual meeting of the
powerful Co-operative Movement —very pro-Russian
before the Great Betrayal —gave overwhelming sup-
port to the war ; and the annual conference of the
Independent Labor party heard its president denounce
Moscow’s “mendacity and perfidy.” At Auckland the
annual conference of the Labor Federation, divided
on other issues, not only commended the Savage Gov-
ernment’s war policy to the people of the Dominion,
but appealed to young men to “offer themselves in
their thousands for military service anywhere, whether
in New Zealand or abroad, for the place where free-
dom can be best defended is the place for our fighting
men to be.”
At Easter also British coalminers voluntarily cur-
tailed their holidays by 50 p.c. —a real sacrifice to the
vital national necessity for increase of exports after
the hardest winter for generations. In N. S. Wales,
on the other hand, the wicked coal strike, aimed at
bringing Australia’s war effort to a standstill, con-
tinued, and Communists gleefully predicted its ex-
tension to the iron and steel industries. And Moscow
Radio delightedly reported the exultation of Mr.
Nelson, president of the Miners’ Federation, Mr.
Wright, vice-president of the Sydney Labor Council,
Mr. Thornton, secretary of the Federated Ironworkers,
and Mr. Chappie, secretary of the Railwaymen’s
Union, at the conquest of Finland. “The war in
Finland,” Mr. Nelson said, “was indirectly caused by
British imperialism, which is not particularly worried
about how many lives are destroyed.”
Because Labor men in all States are sick of Mr.
Lang and weary of losing State and Commonwealth
elections with Mr. Lang as N.S.W. leader, the Nelsons
and Thorntons and Wrights and their associates gained
control of the N. S. Wales A.L.P., and their power
and folly—were signally demonstrated at its Easter
conference. With many expressions of devotion to
Moscow, the faction they dominate or dupe carried
a wordy resolution in favor of stopping “the imperial-
ist war,” alleging that “the war is being pursued in
the interests of big finance and monopolists.”
It came out that a clause of the wordy resolution
had been omitted at the instance of Mr. McKell, Mr.
Lang’s tame successor. The omitted portion was to
the effect that “the conference, while opposed to Aus-
tralian participation in overseas conflicts, is also
opposed to any effort of the anti-Labor Government
to change the direction of the present war by an
aggressive act against any other country with which
we are not at war, including” (of course!) “the Soviet
Union.” Now full of arrogance, the triumphant fac-
tion had this Moscow stuff restored to the wordy
resolution, which was passed by 195 to 88.
National emergencies always find N.S.W. Labor
wanting. It went to pieces during the Great War
and during the 1931-33 depression. Now it is going
to pieces again.
Not Like the Riverine*.
“Old-timer”: That convention of local governing
bodies which met at Narrandera (N.S.W.) on March
15-16 was summoned to “consider proposals for wider
powers of local government, with a view to the
country districts gradually taking a greater share in
the government of the State up to the eventual
assumption of all powers not of purely national
character, and so pave the way for the abolition of
State Parliaments.” It fizzled out like the punctured
carcass of a ewe blown on Riverina lucerne.
Addresses were delivered by Eric (“Little by
Little”) Spooner, M.L.A., and Prof. Bland. Both
were from Sydney, and both in different ways set
out to show "that abolition either couldn’t come for
generations or wouldn’t come at all. Whereupon the
delegates, perhaps bemused, resolved that: This con-
vention request the State Government to take action
to establish a regional council for Riverina, or any
suitable modification as may be agreed upon, and that
the Government set up an expert committee to recom-
mend the number and boundaries of regional councils
in N.S.W.” , , + ,
So that a movement to pave the way for the
abolition of State Parliaments” is to begin by plead-
ing with the worst of them to begin the work. Mr.
Chamberlain might as well request Hitler to establish
a Polish Legislature.
Not the Old American Spirit.
Lines published at the end of 1938 in a magazine
called the “New Yorker”:
Here’s to Hitler, the Nazi thug,
And Mussolini, the Fascist mug,
And every other moral eunuch
Who had a hand in the pact of Munich.
This spirit seems to be rampant among the Children
of the Melting Pot. They hate the dictators, but won’t
fight them, being too high-minded or something. They
hate John Bull also, and despise him because he hasn’t
done all the fighting that they called upon him to do.
To the ancient sport of twisting the Lion’s tail they
have added taunts of cowardice.
John Bull was a coward because he didn’t fight
the Japanese in 1931, when a Mr. Stimson indulged
in some verbal shadow-sparring, and in 1937 (and
afterwards), when Mr. Roosevelt spoke vaguely of
“quarantining aggressors.” J.B. showed his cowardice
again when he failed to fight Italy in 1935-36 for the
sake of the Abyssinians. John should have gone to
war for the Chiang Kai-sheks and their Communist
allies, and didn’t; ergo, he was yellow. He should
have intervened in the Spanish war on the Communist
side and taken on Germany, Italy and Nationalist
Spain at the same time—yellow again. He should
have saved Czechoslovakia (which an American
President did more than any other man to set up),
and had a smack at Germany, Italy, Poland and Hun-
gary ; but scurried away once more. Goaded at
length into guaranteeing Poland, he hid in his island
dugout while the Poles were getting it in the neck.
And now he has deserted Finland, the coward!
With that sort of writing, American novelists,
editors, foreign correspondents, magazine contributors
and reporters have stained paper for years ; and the
British Commonwealth is fed up with it. Bored to
the back teeth.
One of the American sooler’s excuses for non-
participation in the German war, which is, in effect,
a sequel to a peace treaty in which an American
President had the largest share, is that Britain and
France did not pay their war debts. This did not
apply to Finland, yet 130,000,000 Americans left the
little Republic to its fate. Forty-five million British,
though at war with 80,000,000 Germans, sent to Fin-
land substantial supplies of weapons and munitions
that they could ill spare, and, in association with
France, were ready to send 100,000 soldiers —which
would have meant war with 180,000,000 Russians as
well as the 80,000,000 Germans —conditionally only
on the Finns asking for them and on the Swedes and
Norwegians permitting the passage of the army. The
appeal never came, and the permission was not granted.
Well might Mr. Chamberlain say that “it is not for
individuals living in countries far from the seat of war
to suggest that Britain and France failed to do their
utmost for Finland.”
It is recorded that the House of Commons cheered
the old P.M.’s protest for a minute and a half. And
“On, Stanley, On!” was the sentiment of the whole
British Commonwealth —Communists excepted —when
the Minister of War took up the parable:
All over the world, even in America, people are
asking why we are fighting and saying they can’t
understand it. Yet, if we had not fought in September,
the same people would be asking, equally frequently
and loudly, why we were not fighting.
Senator Borah, now with God, complained that
it was “a phony war,” and that cry has been taken
up by other Fireside Fusiliers on the safe side of the
Atlantic. Mr. Stanley, in reply:
We are fighting for our lives, not for the enter-
tainment of others. It is not “a phony war” for the
crews of destroyers, minesweepers and the battle-fleet,
nor for the airmen who gallantly bomb German bases,
nor for the millions whose ordinary lives have been
torn up and their professions, businesses and careers
destroyed.
What makes this American attitude harder to
bear is the unconscionable lying in which American
publications indulge or of which they make them-
selves the willing instruments. A choice example was
the “Hitler peace plan,” published as genuine by the
New York “Times” and alleged to include a pro-
posal for “an anti-Bolshevik policy aimed at the
liberation of Russia—by force of arms, if necessary
—from Communism.” It was asserted that the Vatican
was privy to the plan ; the Vatican immediately denied
it. Mr. Roosevelt himself said with just scorn: “The
report seems to come from some tipster no more re-
sponsible than the man who scrubs the steps of St.
Peter’s.”
An earlier lie related to the removal of mail for
Germany from one of the Clippers, whose first stop
is Bermuda. It was positively stated that the mail was
seized by British soldiers “at bayonet point,” and
the tale went round the world, Washington, for its
part, presenting the familiar spectacle of Congress-
men leaping with rage and uttering dark threats to
J.B. The truth is that the job was done by a party
of the Bermuda special constabulary got up in khaki
shirts and riding pants. Asa preliminary, the colonel
of constabulary and the commander of the Clipper
drank each other’s health in lemonade. One of the
passengers —a lady, whose baby was a centre of atten-
tion —has placed it on record that “the whole affair
was one of the jolliest imaginable.” The only thing in
the picture remotely resembling a lethal weapon was
the lemonade bottle.
What’s the matter with the Children of the Melt-
ing Pot? Has there been too much Melting Pot or
too much Hollywood or too much Communism?
"Time, Gentlemen !"
Extracts from report of N.S.W. Licenses Reduction
Board: —
Sly-grog selling is not diminishing. There were 212 cases
in 1939 compared with 208 in 1938.
The board again invites attention to the fact that well-
known sly-grog “clubs” carry on, despite all efforts to suppress
them.
The whole of the Liquor Act would be better for careful
examination and revision.
Extracts from report of average N.S.W. publican:
I can’t sell a bottle of beer over or under the price fixed
without becoming liable to prosecution. I mustn’t sell a
bottle after 6 p.m., yet the man who wants one can go
and get it at any sly-groggery for 2s. 6d.
This idea of fixing hours universally is idiotic. Where
I am I seldom sell a drink before 10 a.m., but I must open
up, and I must close at 6 p.m., though my customers haven t
time to get from their work, have a drink and get home. 1
ought to open .at 9.30 a.m. and close at 8 p.m.
If I had a pub near the markets or any other place
where they work all night I’d want to open about 3 a.m. and
close about 10 a.m. Opening hours ought to be fixed accord-
ing to the nature of the locality.
Duty and taxes must be paid on all liquor sold, which
means that taxes and duty are collected from illegal sales
after hours.
In England, where pubs are open late, I never saw as
much drunkenness as you can see in Sydney on a Saturday
afternoon. I’d be satisfied to give the worker a chance to
get his drink in comfort up to 8 p.m., and then have a
lounge license to (say) 11 p.m. for the occasional late drinker.
There’ll always be after-hours trading and sly-grog selling
under the present laws. Sometinies I wonder whether the
“heads” wouldn’t sooner have it that way. As for the
wowsers, what do they know about the desires of ordinary
sinners, anyway?
The board is right about the necessity for revision.
Extracts from report of average N.S.W. citizen:
I’ve been married ten years and haven’t been what you and
call drunk since the boys gave me a stag party before the
wedding.
After tea on a hot night my wife and kids can go and
drink lemonade, squash or malted milk up to midnight. But
I can’t have a beer without going to a lot of trouble and
sneaking round side lanes and so forth, though I m the bird
that does the work and pays the taxes.
It’s all right for politicians. They don’t have to look
at the clock before going for a drink.
I leave work at 5.45 p.m., rush to a pub, fight with
hundreds to get to the bar, down one, then realise there 11
be no more that night and down a couple more before
rushing for my train. If I knew the pub in my suburb would
be open until 8 p.m. I wouldn’t have to risk heart failure.
It’s a funny thing that we’re fighting a war to stop rule
by minority, while all the time a minority rules us on this
question.
Extract from report of visiting Scot who
examined early closing in N.S.W.:
Australians have no guts!
Another Professor.
Profound observation by Professor F. A. Bland at
that Riverina (N.S.W.) conference:
Is it conceivable that one Parliament would be able to
legislate, even today, for the varied social and economic
conditions of the Commonwealth? Even with seven
Parliaments it is obvious that even crucial national
questions are not properly considered. If there were but
one Parliament we should soon be faced with the diffi-
culty of keeping Parliamentary representatives in touch
with the real thought and ideas of the people.
“Varied social and economic conditions” were
created by the multiple-Parliament system. Australians
are Australians from York to Zeehan, Gabo to
Broome, and a single Parliament would not need to
legislate differently for any part so far as social ser-
vices are concerned. Minor matters should be the
responsibility of provincial councils.
As for “economic conditions,” the present con-
fusion is almost solely the fault of conflicting and
overlapping State and Federal laws. State and Federal
awards governing hours and wages differ, though only
an imaginary border may separate two groups of
workers doing the same work ; thus living costs in
one State are higher or lower than in its neighbor.
Taxation varies in the same way, and again economic
conditions are affected. This applies to a multitude
of things.
The Commonwealth does not vary its old-age
pension, taxation or postage rates according to locality,
nor its laws. Yet one State closes its hotels at 6 p.m.
and another closes them at 10 p.m. ; one State charges
more than another for a license to drive a motor
vehicle ; one State prohibits petrol sales on Sundays,
another permits sales at any time; and so on ad
infinitum.
To suggest that because seven Parliaments cannot
properly consider crucial national questions a single
national Parliament could not do so is absurd. As
well say that instead of one manager every large busi-
ness should have at least seven, or that Australia should
promptly create another couple of dozen State Par-
liaments and then sit back to enjoy the millennium.
The Professor sees difficulty in making members
of a single national Parliament keep in touch with the
real thought and ideas of the people. Well, the national
Government recently got an idea of public thought
when it almost blundered into giving one firm a manu-
facturing monopoly, and its subsequent actions indi-
cated that it didn’t need telling twice.
There are no solid grounds for the argument
that the disappearance of six State Parliaments would
place the members of the National Government on a
pinnacle aloof from the electors. The vote is still a
mighty weapon, and the ballot-box could bring down
a Menzies, were he even on the topmost peak of Par-
nassus. Professors who gabble about the real thought
and ideas of the people should know what the people
think of State Parliaments, though both professors and
politicians are trying to talk them out of it.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“'Ow kin y' expect to 'old a bloke's love if y' don't doll yerself up a bit?”
i , t HrAirio
Zedo : Our local Communist holds
forth every Friday night on the corner
and when he gets properly going normal
life ceases in the flats round about. Walls
shake as the words “proletariat” and
“capitalist” slap up against them. And
nobody had ever been able to do any-
thing about it till the old lady with the
gramophone turned up. She occupies
rooms right beside the noise, and she was
not long in acting. As our Communist
broke loose the other evening, her gramo-
phone got into its stride inside an open
window. It was a loud gramophone, and
its tune was “Land of Hope and Glory,”
which completely drowned an exposition
of the Finnish situation. “God Save”
followed, plus “Rule Britannia.” It was
not long before the old lady won. And
she was derisive in victory. Her fare-
well as the foe packed up his traps and
moved further down the street was “The
Donkey’s Serenade.”
“II Vecchio”: I learn from my favorite
astrological journal that nobody can be
blamed for the downfall of Finland ; it
was predestined. Russia has “a badly
afflicted Neptune” in its birth chart and
“astrologically there was no other
alternative” to the smashing of the Finns.
The birthtime of the U.S.S.R. was
October 27, 1917, at 5.15 a.m., so that
its sign is appropriately the scorpion. I
hope Stalin takes my star guide, which
gives day-to-day advice for every birth-
sign period. Some of it should be useful
to the Soviet Union. Easter Monday, for
instance, was to bring “deceptive influ-
ences,” together with “opposition from
somebody with whom you have been
closely associated.” As for March 27,
it is “well aspected for Scorpios
for enjoyment and romance, though both
harmony and friction are generated by
planetary vibrations.”
* * t- *
“Adelaide”: S.A. is getting married
at a great rate. Even last year’s figures
show an increase of 181 over the previous
year, and of 2600 over the depression
total; the rate per 1000 was 9\, which
is, with only one exception, the besl
since 1914. And the altar rush, so far
untabulated, of the current months is
tremendous.
* * * $
“Avon”: Maoriland’s picturesque
Public Works Minister, Bob Semple, has
always been a bit of a puzzle to his
MloW-Laborites mainly because when
enunciating his ideal of a fair day s pay
for a fair day’s work” he puts as much
emphasis on the work as on the pay. It
can ’t retorted that he has no experi-
ence of work. As boss of a co-operative
contract team, he put up a world’s record
for tunnelling speed, and worked as hard
r
any of his gang. At Christchurch lasi
week he watched some relief workers
who were supposed to be remodelling a
suburban golf links. After five minutes
he h off and shi
bogged I f n himself wilh shovel and wheel .
FarroWj an( j demonstrated that he could
do as much work in one hour as the
average man on the job was doing in
a week. He then sacked all 57 men,
after lashing them with a tongue, always
bitter, that gets bitterer every year-
and he’s now 67. Bob suspects Commu-
nist tamperings with his workers, and
proposes to stage what he calls “a
round-up and a showdown” before
he’s much older.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A much-travelled artist in
crime has admitted in an Adelaide court
to 12 convictions in N.S.W. and Victoria,
although he is only 27, and to using the
names Bourke,, Elliott, Jackson, Deeley
and Williams. Yet after all this experi-
ence he knew no better than to acquire
at an Adelaide racecourse, and then to
keep in his room, a gold-mounted pencil
and fountain-pen, both plainly engraved
with the owner’s name. So he goes to
gaol for four months as (for a change)
Clifford Jones.
* * *
Gerald Dillon: The analogy which
“Spokeshave” (B. 13/3/ ’4O) tries to estab-
lish between a cottage which might have
housed Henry Lawson and a cottage
which could not have housed Captain
Cook appears to me rather far-fetched
Cook’s home is still in London, in Mile
End-road, in the midst of the Jewish
quarter. The old house contains
a plaque telling the world that Captain
Cook lived there. Cook was never home-
less, even though he was more at home
on sea than ashore. All that need be
preserved in connection with Lawson is
his literary output. Keeping his cottage,
his boots, his umbrella or his prayer-
book won’t assist anyone or anything.
There is a live job which Lawson totem-
ists can do in connection with syndi-
cated rubbish which is gradually turning
a considerable proportion of semi-literate
Australians into complete nitwits. Let
them focus their attention on that. Law-
son’s memory can look after itself.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A Melbourne daily has
been speculating as to why heahwaves
make people so friendly. They sit about
on their doorsteps in pyjamas and chat
with perfect strangers, take their coats
off in hitherto unheard of circumstances,
and don’t mind exchanging views on the
weather with the office-boy, of whose
existence they were formerly unaware.
The explanation is quite simple. An
isolated misfortune tends to separate
people, but a universal catastrophe draws
them together, and there is nothing so
completely universal as a heat-wave.
Even millionaires can’t escape it. An
extreme example was the behavior of a
Melbourne hostess who had arranged a
dinner at which a distinguished Finnish
actor was to be present. When she read
in the paper that Finland had capitulated
to Russia and was out of the war zone
she cancelled the dinner.
* * * *
“Old A.W.U.”: The N.S.W. Labor
party ran a slogan competition for its
jubilee celebration. “Labor Means Busi-
ness,” “Unite and Fight and Win Your
Rights,” “Workers of all Creeds, Unite
against Capitalistic Greed,” “Only Social-
ism can Give Permanent Peace and Pros-
perity,” were among the entries. There
are fights on between mineowners and
coalies and between the Railways Com-
missioner and railmen. I couldn’t help
wondering what sort of effect Father
Divine would have were he suddenly to
appear with “Peace —It’s Wonderful!”
:*c % :jc *
“Lao-dah”: I am not as impressed as
some of the dailies with the “wit” dis-
played by our Mr. Casey at an Ameri-
can feed where he said that America
was founded by the Pilgrim Fathers and
Australia by Prodigal Sons. This may
pass as a wisecrack in the American
manner, but historically it is inaccurate.
Captain Cook, Phillip, Joseph Banks,
Flinders, Admiral Bligh, Macquarie ana
Wentworth and the other real roundel s
of Australia weren’t prodigals. Mr.
Casey ought to re-read the Bible story.
The joy of the father over the return or
his offspring was similar to the jov
amongst the angels over a repentant
sinner. But the founders of Australia
had no need of repentance. They were
justified in their works, as, mayhap, Mr.
Casey will be.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Next year will be a
theatrical centenary of sorts, for it was
in 1841 that Francis Nesbit McCron
reached Sydney and got a job as an
actor at the Victoria Theatre, where (but
not until long after his arrival) he made
a hit as Pizarro in Sheridan’s play. That
in itself was nothing ; but McCron pos-
sessed himself of some vehicles, organised
a company, and toured the smalls.
Maitland, the centre of the mailcoach
lines radiating in the northern districts,
hailed him ; he did Parramatta, Penrith
and Bathurst; and he actually overlanded
to Victoria. Thus he was the pioneer
of travelling theatricals in Australia.
McCron collapsed during a performance
of “William Tell” at Geelong and died
in his dressing-room. The monument
over his grave in Geelong Cemetery was
erected by G. V. Brooke.
% * * *
“Ike Holler”: The refugee inrush is
affecting the keepers of libraries, too.
The one who entered our local book-
shop said he had advised been o study
the conversational in classic English
books. “Haf you Eric, or Less by Less ?”
he asked. He took away Dean Farrar’s
masterpiece.
• • « • • •
“Jamwood”: A young Digger to his
mother in Sydney: “The cobber and I
are back in camp after a day in Jeru-
salem. There’s a fine pub there —the
King David. And talk about Jews! We
saw almost as many as you can see in
Bondi or King’s Cross.”
* * * *
“D.E.”: The old nobility has been
represented in Australia by a skirt-
dancer, a tenor, a pianist, several
cricketers, more mining investors, still
more colonial-experience Johnnies and a
pug —amateur, of course. The pug has
just become the Duke of Hamilton. As
the Marquess of Clydesdale, he came to
wSydney about eight years ago with an
American Rhodes scholar, Eddie Eagan,
and the pair put on a fight night at the
Stadium for charity. For Eagan, a
heavyweight, they picked the tallest
fellow in Sydney, a seven-footer in the
cheese trade, who had become amateur
champion of N.S.W. by dint of pushing
out an arm “like a telegraph post” from
which none of his opponents could get
away. Eagan, a smart boxer (he had
visions of challenging Dempsey, but
wisely thought better of it), ducked under
the long arm and doubled up the seven-
footer with body punches. It was all
over in two minutes or so, and the cheese
champion was carried to his corner, so
“out” that he couldn’t hear a strident
voice passionately denouncing him as
“the worst in the world,” though it nearly
fused the A.B.C. land lines. When the
skin and hair had been swept up, the
Marquess ducked through the ropes and
warmly saluted the adversary who had
been picked for him: a veteran middle-
weight, quite bald. The heir to the duke-
dom was willing enough, but his science
was far below that of his Yankee pal.
Baldy evaded his rushes and picked him
off with neat lefts, and though the crowd
was denied the spectacle for which it
hungered, that of an enormously stout
referee counting ten over the prostrate
form of a Douglas, there was only one
in it. The Douglas, by the way, married
a Percy “out of Northumberland,” and
was in Parliament for ten years. In his
career as bruiser, he was encouraged by
the example and advice of the aged Lord
Lonsdale, of whom it was written in a
Sydney paper recently that he knocked
out John L. Sullivan in five rounds. The
historian didn’t mention what the rounds
consisted of —drinks, perhaps.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Mt. Gambier (S.A.) has
added another monument to that com-
memorating Adam Lindsay Gordon’s
leap over the Blue Lake fence. That
extinct volcano overlooking the town
has several crater lakes, close together,
and by one of them Stephen George
Henty built a hut in 1841. The family
was later much more closely associated
with Victoria, but the S.A. centennial is
to be marked by a basalt and dolomite
column. Mt. Gambier, by the way, has
just celebrated the eighty-sixth birthday
of one E. J. Locke, who claims to be the
only ma n remaining out of the many that
rode with Gordon. And, as the poet has
been dead close on 70 years, this seems
likely.
AS YOU WERE.
“Victoria’s unwanted general election settled no-
thing. not even the faction fight which was its
cause.” —Daily paper.
They stultified the country from end to end;
they yelled like Bedlamites,
Dunstan and Cain and Doc. Argyle and all
their satellites,
The U.C.Ps. and the U.A.Ps. and the doughty
Laborites.
They scuffled for votes like dogs for bones.
They yammered early and late,
Wherever an audience could be induced to
congregate,
That each should be placed atop the poll in
order to save the State.
The air was thick with their rhetoric. Bellows
and brays and bawls,
Crude substitutes for logical appeals and
clarion calls,
Rang out from a host of street corners and
many a hundred halls.
They laid their hands upon their hearts and
vowed that never a one
Who heard their words would e’er have cause
to doubt that he had done
Best for himself if he helped to spike the
other fellow’s gun.
They painted the future, were they returned, a
rich couleur de rose.
But dull, drab times they forecast ahead if
the verdict went to their foes,
As candidates have always done —and ever will,
I suppose.
They sought a mandate—or said they did—
And TaighS the‘ravelled 6 tangle out in which
affairs have got,
A ruling to settle who was who and indicate
what was what.
There were venomous missiles flying round and
sadly jagged bricks ;
They dealt one another lusty blows and equally
a J v i cio . l i s klcks .- , , , , . i,
And to those who ask what s come of it all,
the onlv answer’s “Nix!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bill O’C.”: The remark of the late
Archbishop Kelly (B. 13/3/ ’4O) that “as
a boy he longed to be a sailor” recalls
a very different declaration from another
dead - and - gone prelate. Archbishop
O’Reilly, of S.A., whose speech never
lost its flavor of the brogue, was speak-
ing at a send-off to Admiral Bosanquet
when that seadog relinquished the Gov-
ernorship of the State. Declared his
Grace: “Whin 1 was a young man I
might have been a far-r-mer if I hadn’t
become a priest, but for-r-ty teams of
wild bullocks could not have dragged
me to sea to be an admiral.”
* * *
“M. Urray”: The reappearance in the
flesh of a former Albury (N.S.W.) citi-
zen who five years ago was “found
hanged, buried as a pauper and con-
victed of suicide” gave his former mates
such a shock that they bolted for the
nearest bar. Various people tried to
convince the resurrection that he had
been hanged and was dead, but he
wouldn’t believe it, and finally estab-
lished his identity to the satisfaction of
all. He confessed to the local police
that he was “very annoyed” by the whole
thing, but his feelings must be mild com-
pared with those of the force, which is
now faced with the maddening job of
trying to establish the identity of the
man who has been dead five years. Who-
ever he was, he must have been the
image of the living citizen, for three of
the latter’s closest mates had identified
the body in the morgue as his.
* * * *
“Rokko”: There was a long altercation
going on in the far corner of the corri-
dor carriage, and everyone was listening.
“I tell yer,” a stout lady was saying bel-
ligerently, “I give Percy here the tickets
to hold. I ses to him you wus coming
and I got ready. I can’t help it if Percy
goes on like he does. It’s one of them
complects they have nowadays.” The
guard did his share of expostulation.
“I’m sorry, madam,” he concluded.
“You must produce tickets or I’ll have to
put you off the train.” “And expeck me
to walk twenty miles, and Percy with a
sore foot? Not me! ” said the lady. “It’s
not my fault if Percy will eat tickets.
And there’s plenty of witnesses that saw
’im eating ’em.” A murmur from the
crowd endorsed her statement, and the
guard retired to think the matter out.
Before he got back the lady had disem-
barked. Then an elderly man spoke up.
“I wasn’t looking for trouble,” he told
the crowd. “She told that kid to eat
those tifckets —a couple of old ones she
had kept to work a free trip with.”
* * * *
“Busai”: Clergymen attacked the
drought in N. S. Wales in many churches
with prayers, and slight falls were re-
corded. But the Presbyterian meenister
at Moree wasn’t having any. He de-
scribed such supplications as “ignorant
travesties and disastrous to true religion.”
Next day Moree got the best rain it had
had for two years.
* * * *
“S. Piel”: It has long been a cherished
belief of the public that bookmakers
“Just as I thought, Prendergast — borers!”
“What did you get for your steers?”
never lose. One of their clerks, being
examined in a Sydney court, stated that
neither bookmakers nor punters show a
profit. “Then who does win?” he was
asked. “The Taxation Department,” was
the gloomy answer.
* * * *
“B. Leg”:. Sydney’s Labor paper has
announced the winner of a Labor song
competition. The song is unique in that
it has two choruses and one verse:
Labor’s fight is nearly over,
Man will soon be free.
So let us celebrate with fervor
Labor’s Jubilee.
Let us close our ranks in union,
Pledged to Liberty.
One watchword over all the world —
SOLIDARITY.
The spectacle of Lang and Heffron, to-
gether with their opposing cohorts, beefing
this out together would do much to lighten
a war-darkened world, especially when
they thundered the last word.
* * * *
“T.”: In this odd age deadly blows
have been struck at romance by the sex
that specialises in the article. The first
was delivered when
women began going
round in slacks,
habiliments in
which not one in
fifty looks really
attractive. More
shattering still was
the shock when
they started to dis-
card their stock-
ings. It has been
brought home to a
generation taught
to expect a leg-
show in every
populous street
that stockings, be-
sides enabling
colorists and dyers
to improve on
nature, cover a
multitude of un-
si gh 11 y things:
bones, sinews,
overdeveloped calf
muscles, expanses
of cracked skin,
hair and veins—sometimes varicose. I
suppose this distressing publicity can be
defended on the score of economy, and
if it goes on —which is doubtful —it may
help to promote saner relations between
the sexes. There has always been too
much faked illusion about this love busi-
ness. Moreover, hygiene comes into the
picture, for the young female who ex-
poses so much of her anatomy has to sec
that it is well washed.
* * * *
“X.S.”: During the late Victorian bush-
fires “blackout” was declared in certain
areas, mills being closed and evacuated,
presumably because the Government had
neglected to make dugouts compulsory.
Things could have been worse if it had
not been an exceptionally cool summer.
The outbreak occurred just on the eve
nf the State election at which the Gov-
ernment which said “Never again! ” after
the 1939 holocaust was asking for an-
other spin of office.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: The N. S. Wales Railway
Department showed an unsuspected
streak of humor during one of those
idiotic regulation strikes, when it suddenly
asked a senior shunter to pass a “regs. ’
examination. The A.R.U. complains bit-
terly that the poor victim of oppression
needs time to study the regulations before
his knowledge is probed, because “even
the officers themselves would not pass
the examination on a few days’ notice.”
Too right. Seven years ago I asked the
department to say under what regulation
leave passes were granted to employees.
The department looked blank. The Re-
search Department of the Public Library
weighed into the search without success.
And the answer hasn’t been supplied yet.
* * * *
“Hedza Wright”: There are some inci-
dents that could happen only at, say,
King’s Cross, Collingwood or Marble
Bar ; but a brawl at Dee Why, one of
Sydney’s outlying surfing spots, contained
features that might have manifested
themselves anywhere from Cape York to
Albany. Except for the sequel—a man-
slaughter charge. The national game had
been in progress for some time “at the
back of the pub.” Then, as the school
gazed heavenward at the flying browns,
the cry of “The Johns!” brought panic,
but not so much that the stampeding mob
didn’t dive on centre and side bets before
seeking sanctuary. At the bar, to which
the school naturally gravitated after the
alarm, some nasty remarks were made
about “Wingie Joe,” who was alleged to
have hoisted coin indiscriminately and
with outstanding success. Words flew,
and someone stoushed “Wingie.” There
stepped forward instantly a chivalrous
champion of the afflicted. The attack,
diverted, was pressed upon the c.c., who,
in his own words, “ducked punches” until
forced to strike out in self-defence. With
one blow he floored his man, and the
fall was fatal. The jury, full of understand-
ing, and hearkening also to Crown Prose-
cutor McKean’s admission that accused
was of excellent character, didn’t bother
to wait even for counsel’s address before
acquitting.
* #
“Yapper”: A Sydney journalist who
wandered into the dog section of the
Royal Show when the poodles and lap-
hounds were on exhibition barely es-
caped with his life when he sought to
interview the owner of a champion.
Immediately they discovered his mis-
sion, practically every beaten competitor
crowded round, all trying to tell him how
little the judges knew and how unfairly
treated their darling had been. Making
a hurried exit, he was heard to murmur
something about a flamin’ editor who
could come and have a go at the blanky
things himself.
HORSE AND HOUND.
“Australian broadcasting stations hull racing
renorts through the ether every day except Sundav
Ind tin-hare"reports two or three jrights^a^week.”
In various arts and crafts and cults and graces
We may be just a bit behind the times,
Compared with other and more serious races
In infinitely less salubrious climes.
But here’s one claim the radio endorses;
We feel we lead the world, whene’er it sounds,
In information relative to horses
And touching the performances of hounds.
What though the world be rent by war’s grim
thunders, ...
With millions arrayed in hostile camps,
We’ve still the time to spare for equine wonders
And leisure to consider canine champs.
Amid the twists and turns, the whirls and
eddies
Of world affairs, their quaking swamps and
bogs, . .
One’s fancy yet may turn to sprinting neddies,
And metal hares chased by deluded dogs.
In distant Europe realms may crash and
crumble
And dynasties incontinently fall,
And statesmen, weighed and counted wanting,
tumble,
Even as Humpty Dumpty from his wall.
But neither these nor any other forces
Need ever constitute sufficient grounds
To stop us studying the form of horses
Or weighing the capacity of hounds. •
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


GRAVEN A'
are kinder . .
to the throat
MADE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SORE THROATS
M
mm
:
W,
WM
mm
ms
mms
Mi':
%
mk
£2
!j3e*
if
2819
9 iL Jo * 001 9/1 "10 Z
6/C J# l OS a 6 Jo * 01
POLITICAL POINTS
A “Stop the War!” and “Hands Off
Russia!” resolution was carried at the
N. S. Wales “Labor” conference. The
verdict of the electors will be “Suicide
while suffering from Moscowmania.”
One of the growing collection of mys-
teries is ihe inclusion of Czech independ-
ence as a British war aim. It is quite a
recent addition, and it has never been
mentioned in the Australian Parliament,
though stress has been laid there on the
British commitment to the Poles. It
was, however, mentioned as part of the
offer which Lord Tavistock claimed to
have got from the enemy, and for the
publication of which his Lordship was
snubbed, though not severely.
When Cameron joined McLeay and
Mcßride in the Ministry it was stated in
every capital, even Adelaide, that S.A.
had never before had three Ministers.
The fact is that it was represented by
Batchelor, McGregor and Hutchison in
the first Fisher Government (Nov. 13,
1908, to June 1, 1909). As there were
only six other Ministers, it had one-third
of the representation then as against
three-sixteenths now.
Victoria’s two Assemblywomen, Mrs.
Weber (Nunawading) and Mrs. Brown-
bill (Geelong), have been re-elected. The
like of this happened only once before
—in Westralia last year, when Miss Hol-
man and Mrs. Cardell-Oliver were re-
turned ; and death came to Miss Holman
two days after the election. She was
the first woman member to have more
than one term. Now three other lady
politicians have developed staying power.
The one Victorian U.A.P. Assembly-
man who substantially increased his 1937
majority was Zwar, of Heidelberg. Zwar’s
score rose from 14,666 to 18,326; the
Labor total fell from 13,387 to 10,555.
Preston, in which Zwar had a balance
of 3000 or so, is part of Heidelberg. It
is also part of the Federal electorate of
Batman, and on October 23, 1937, it gave
Frank Brennan, Labor member, 11,306
votes to 6959 for the U.A.P. man. Even
though Northcote and North Fitzroy are
parts of Batman, Zwar is trie obvious
U.A.P. choice for an opponent to
Brennan.
When Britain weighed in with the
guarantee to Poland, “S. M. Herald”
hailed it as a “return to collective re-
straint against aggression.” Poland hav-
ing become an embarrassment, Granny
has been considering the guarantee to
Rumania in the light of “the return of
the sinister Iron Guard,” and has come
to the conclusion that “Rumanian invo-
cation of the guarantee” would make
“the task of the Allies unenviable,” be-
cause, for one thing, the Rumanians can’t
fight. In fact, “Rumania’s assistance
would be a liability rather than an asset.”
The Old Lady has been learning a lot
of things since she warned the Japanese
that her “ally” Russia would bomb their
naval stations if they refused to be good.
Colin Fraser, president of the Aus-
tralian Mines and Metal Association, has
made out a strong case against the inci-
dence of the tax on gold, which was
decided on and then altered in a hurry.
The Commonwealth Government takes
50 p.c. of the amount received by the
producer in excess of £A9 a fine ounce.
So with the price at £lO 10s. the tax is
15s. an ounce, and that amounts to 2s. 3d.
a ton on 3dwt. ore., 3s. on 4dwt. ore
and 4s. on average grade worked in
Westralia—which pays most of the tax.
The effect is to make mining of very low-
grade ores unprofitable. And as if that
wasn t bad enough miners’ wages vary
with the price of gold ; mineowners are,
in fact, bound by State arbitration
awards to pay wages on the basis of a
price they re not getting. Obviously Mr.
Spender will have to think up something
else.
In ten years, 1929-39, gold-production
in Westralia increased from 377,176 fine
ounces to 1,214,238 fine ounces. The
revival began with the offer of a Com-
monwealth bonus to assist the mining of
low-grade ore. Though events made the
bonus unnecessary, the moral effect was
great. It would be a tragedy if mining
of low-grade ore were now to be snuffed
out by a Commonwealth gold tax.
The McEwen-Paterson C.P. (called
“Liberal”) ran six candidates for the Vic-
torian Assembly, and none of them
polled badly. Indeed, considering the
little time they had for campaigning and
the DunstamLab. combination opposed
to them in four electorates, they did
rather well. Cook held Benalla without
difficulty, and McFadyen made Dunstan
Down with the Old Idol; up with the New!
travel in Rodney. Still, it is plain that
the C.P. can’t afford the luxury of faction
fighting, in Victoria or anywhere else.
Since Lyons’s death Tasmania has been
without a Minister at Canberra, and Tas-
mania is not pleased. Still, its one U.A.P.
member in the House is Speaker, and
one of its three Senators is President, so
the islet can scarcely maintain that it
has been neglected.
It’s a long time since there was a Ma
State P.M. Hughes was, of course, the
last, and it is 17 years since Billy had
to make way for Bruce. He was P.M.
from Oct. 27, 1915, to Feb. 9, 1923, and
from May 5, 1917, to Dec. 16, 1922, he
was member for Bendigo. If that period
is omitted, Lyons (Jan. 6, 1932, to April
7, 1939) had a longer innings than ail
the N.S.W. P.Ms. —the others were Bar-
ton (Jan. 1, 1901, to Sept. 24, 1903),
Watson (April 27, 1904, to August 17,
1904) Reid (August 18, 1904, to July 5,
1905) and Cook (June 24, 1913, to Sept.
17, 1914).
During the Great War there were two
Australian Labor parties, and if the anti-
recruiting resolution of June, 1918, had
been implemented there would have been
three. In September, 1918, nine anti-
conscriptionist Federal Labor members
from N.S.W. repudiated the anti-recruit-
ing resolution. There will be at least
two N.S.W. Labor parties before long—
Red and anti-Red.
Delegates to the N.S.W. “Labor” con-
ference were asked to sign a pledge to
the effect that they were not members
of the Communist party or any organi-
sation affiliated with it. Those delegates
who signed in all good faith were regaled
with stuff that might have been written
by Molotov and Dimitrov. No pledge
will stop a Communist. In accordance
with the doctrine of Lenin he must resort
to “anything” to enter trade-unions,
Labor parties and Parliaments and carry
on “Communist work” inside them.
Sydney “Sunday Sun,” sniping at Educa-
tion Minister Drummond, quoted him as
saying there were more teachers than
ever before in the State schools, then
added:—
Ipso facto, there are more children in
the schools than ever before, to account
for the increase in teaching appointments.
The fact is that enrolments fell by nearly
11,000 between 1936 and 1939, a subject
upon which the “Sun” could employ its
columns with possible benefit to the
nation.
Sydney’s Milk Board is to have a
“public inquiry” about putting another
penny a quart on milk —7d. in jugs, Bd.
in bottles, and 9d. for a special brand.
The excuse is that suppliers are feeling
the dry spell.
Thousands of dairy cattle are losing con-
dition, and farmers have very little hay
stored.
Yet they have been advised, even im-
plored, for years to lay in fodder re-
serves. Under board control the con-
sumer has never been allowed to benefit
from flush seasons. To expect him to
pay for wilful neglect is too thick.
Sydney Milk Board Chairman Nesbitt,
trying to justify a move to increase the
already-exorbitant price of milk:
We have had requests from farmers
and from many private individuals asking
for a review of farmers’ prices.
There had been thousands of requests
from consumers for a review of their
prices, but Nesbitt was busy, or away on
leave or something, then.
Down to 1865 stealing of letters by
post-office employees was liable to be
punished with hanging ; in the case or
every other form of theft capital punish-
ment was abolished long before. Now,
in nine cases out of ten postmen who
pinch letters are not even imprisoned.
Adelaide’s first structure in memory of
Langton Bonython is a new building
behind the School of Mines. Bonython
gave £16,000 towards the cost, and the
Government is finding the rest of the
£40,000 needed. It is only a fraction of
what the Government is getting from the
Bonython estate in an otherwise indif-
ferent year for revenue.
“Captain Pintle”: By letting contracts
for new wireless beacon stations at Cape
Schanck (Vic.) and Cape Wickham on
King Island, Bass Strait, the Common-
wealth Lighthouse Service has adopted
a suggestion here made three years ago.
Ships with radio direction-finding gear
will, when the stations are completed,
be able to check position in thick or
foggy weather within a minute on the
three bearings which they and the present
Cape Otway installation will provide.
When similar facilities are provided for
the western entrance to Torres Strait and
the approach from eastward to Sandy
Cape, Australia will begin to lose its
reputation as the Empire’s worst-served
coastline in such matters.
While a special committee of N.S.W.
Government is preparing a “master plan”
for decentralisation, the country move-
ment for abolition of State Parliaments
gathers impetus. Grafton and South
Grafton Chamber of Commerce has in-
vited delegates to a meeting on March
29 to discuss abolition.
A poll clerk’s conclusions:
My work on absentee votes at the Victorian
State election convinced me that nine-tenths of
the voters had not the slightest interest in the
thing or in State politics. Apart from 74
people who came to vote not knowing there
were no elections in their districts, I dealt with
220 who wanted to vote as absentees; only
those with electoral cards knew their divisions
and subdivisions. Fifteen knew the names of
their retiring members; a whole seven knew
the names of the candidates. They were not
uneducated people, either; among them were
accountants, clerks, engineers, managers and
travellers. It is reasonable to assume that this
lack of interest is the same throughout the
State, so that our State “Parliament” is elected
by 10 p.c. who know what they are doing and
90 p.c. who neither know nor care.
“0.T.”: “S. M. Herald,” examining
Priminister Menzies’s position in the
light of the Corio bonfire, found occa-
sion for praise and for blame:
The Government’s real failure, a failure
for which Mr. Menzies must take personal
responsibility, has been to arouse the nation
to a sense of its danger, to publicise what
has been done, and to stress the need for
tremendous national exertions.
Whatever their sins of commission and
omission Menzies and the members of
his U.A.P. Cabinet never failed to ex-
press their emphatic conviction that the
war is a life-and-death struggle calling
for every possible effort by Australia and
the rest of the Empire. But warnings
and appeals fell on ears that for years
had been hearing from the daily press
and radio stations wild and absurd shrieks
about the dangers of a conquered Abys-
sinia, a conquered China, a Francoist
Spain; about the betrayal of Munich,
the failure to make an ally of the Mighty
Soviet War Machine and so on. And
neither Menzies nor the “S.M.H.” nor
anybody else can overcome the effects
of all that sensationalism, at least until
something breaks loose such as a big
land battle or an air raid of alarming
proportions.


REUNION.


Tlie Kicliardson Chain Hotel
/M
!
vd
1 7
fcj
If
.2sl! < f
J' T.
]■» 1.1
11 il
Hi »
"! lUi
I
i lorn nriflYlWtWfttViiiii Ii '
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: M 4 14 1 flO lines).
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
MONEY IN THE BANK—WOULD IT BE SAFER
IN SHARES OR PROPERTY?
FACTS, FIGURES AND COMMENT ON THE
MONTH’S FINANCIAL HAPPENINGS
March Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all Stares
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House'
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Knight Lavington Bonython, only son
of knight Langdon Bonython, has de-
cided to stand for the Lord Mayoralty
of Adelaide at the election in the middle
of this year. He has previously served
many terms in the office ; says he doesn’t
want to monopolise it, but so many
people have asked him to offer. He must
be pretty well a millionaire now, be-
cause old Langdon left £2,000,000 in
S.A. —the Treasury recently reaped
£300,000 from it, making the month’s
revenue an all-time record. Property in
other States and in Britain amounted to
about the same sum.
Sydney Jewry has secured a Palestine-
born Rabbi, Israel Porusch, for its Great
Synagogue—there has been a tempor-
ary appointment since the death of Rabbi
F. L. Cohen. The new Rabbi had his
early education in Jerusalem, but finished
it, secularly and otherwise, in Germany
—the Rabbinic Seminary in Berlin has
been put out of existence by the Nazis
since he took his diploma. He was for-
tunate enough to get an appointment as
Rabbi in Britain in 1933. He is only 33,
so has a good chance to emulate the
long terms of his predecessors, Rabbis
Davis and Cohen.
Coventry has done justice to Lloyd
Dumas without showing him much
mercy. He is one of the little band of
newspaper men who were on the inside
of things in the last war, after he had
graduated from the Mt. Barker
“Courier” (S.A.), which his father
founded, and the Adelaide “ ’Tiser” to
the “Argus.” In the second conscription
campaign he was filched from the
“Argus” by W. M. Hughes as a publicity,
man, and he was one of the small, select'
band who saw the Warwick egg thrown.
He was at the Imperial Conference at
the end of the war, and returned to the
“Argus” in 1921 as chief of staff. Three
years later he became editor of the “Sun
News-Pictorial,” then had a couple of
years as editor of A.P.A. and in 1929
LLOYD DUMAS.
became managing editor and a director
of his old paper the “ ’Tiser.” He calls
his main recreation “golf.”
All Melbourne knows the dynamic,
smiling figure of Frank Beaurepaire—
Francis Joseph Edmund to the Registrar
of Births. When he bounces into a meet-
ing, he lights it up with his energy and
vitality. He is and always has been a
mental and physical tonic to his associ-
ates. In his youth, he was the world’s
greatest swimmer, holding eight records
for various distances. He might easily
be taken on sight for a first-line boxer,
but the hard knocks which have influ-
enced the outlines of Frith’s model were
FRANK BEAU REP AIRE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
sustained in playful hours. Frank does
everything thoroughly. He began his
commercial life in the tyre business, and
is now managing director of the all-
Australian Olympic Tyre Co. He
founded the Victorian “Learn to Swim”
organisation, which is responsible for
15,000 freshly- wet ears every year. He
entered the Melbourne council as if he
were leaving a springboard, and all his
fellow-councillors took his backwash
until he climbed out on to an eminence
from which he is likely to dive into the
Lord Mayor’s robes next year. His in-
fluence is felt strongly throughout Vic.
commerce. He holds the N. S. Wales
Humane Society’s Gold Medal, and if
there were a gold medal for good citizen-
ship he would have that, too.
Lieut.-Col. P. G. Bice, nicknamed
“Chunda” after the dark little fellow
with a prominent nose who used to figure
in a shoe-polish ad. and then as The
Bulletin’s war-time cartoon character
Chunda Loo, has completed a year’s
sound work as Civil Defence Commis-
sioner in S.A. Former commander of
the 27th Battalion, he has co-operated
closely with Brig.-Gen. R. L. (“Bull”)
Leane, a great fighting leader of the old
A.1.F., now Police Commissioner, in
home-front measures, and has marshalled
military turnouts in the city.
Soap is almost as intimately associated
with the name of Kitchen in Victoria as
it is with the name of Lever in England,
and it was, in fact, as the result of a
visit to Melbourne of Lord Leverhulme
that Lever Bros, and Kitchen’s became
partners in spreading washing materials
over the whole of Australia, Maoriland
and the South Seas. F. W. Kitchen,
managing director and chairman of
J. Kitchen and Sons, who collapsed last
week in his office in Melbourne and died
later in his home, took the business over
from his father, who took it over from
his. F. W. Kitchen helped as much as
any man in the founding of the Victorian
Chamber of Manufactures, of which he
was sometime president. In 1935 the
Commonwealth Government appointed
him employers’ representative at the In-
ternational Labor Convention at Geneva.
He raced many successful horses.
This year’s £lOO Crouch Prize at
Ballarat went to Nutter Buzacott for
a “Scene at Doncaster.” Buzacott is
a young Melbourne painter of the
modernist persuasion who lives at the
artists’ colony at Warrandyte, which was
burnt out last year in
the bushfires, Ballarat
Art Gallery comes in
for the picture, the first
modernist example to
enter its portals.
Colonel S. R. Burs-
ton, Assistant Director
of Medical Services,
who received the gift
of a mobile blood bank
from the Red Cross in
Melbourne on behalf of
the Second A.1.F.,
served in the 1914-18
war with the A.A.M.C.
at Gallipoli, where his
father, Major-General
James Burston, com-
manded an infantry
brigade. For his work
in France S.R. was
mentioned in dispatches
and gained a C.B.E.
After the war he was
Deputy Director of
Medical Services in
Adelaide. Melbourne-
born, he was educated
at Melbourne Gram-
mar and the University.
The new equipment,
which will enable
blood transfusion to be
effected much farther
forward and much earlier than ever
before, is largely the brain-child of the
staff of the Walter and Eliza Hall Insti-
tute in Melbourne.
A dramatic end was that of F. W.
Reid, principal of Adelaide School of
Mines. The new £40,000 annexe bear-
ing the name of Lang-
don Bonython was
being opened, and
Robert Chapman, the
new president, had
started his address,
when Reid fell back
in his official chair,
dying almost at once.
Inspection of the
building and refresh-
ments for the 200
visitors were aban-
doned as soon as the
formal opening had
taken place. Reid
was born and edu-
cated at Riverton
(M.L.), had a success-
ful career in Adelaide,
and then was director
at Zeehan (Tas.), man-
ager of the New Era
mine (Q.) and lec-
turer at a Maoriland
school of mines before
settling in Adelaide, in
1914, in the post
which he held to the
end.
Oxford - born H
Rutherford Purnell is
S.A.’s newly-constituted Libraries Depart-
ment head. Began his library career as
a boy at the Bodleian. Came to Adel-
aide in 1913 to take over the reins from
W. H. Ifould. He is also Commonwealth-
adviser to Rhodes House, that great
storehouse of Empire books. Having
harried the enemy with A.I.F. artillery
during the last big strafe, he is well fitted
to direct S.A.’s camp library service,
which is doing a good job for the sol-
diers. He will preside at the conference
of the Australian Institute of Librarians
which will be held in Adelaide this year.
His brother Christopher is the London
Library’s chief.
“Qwert Yuiop”: Some 60 years ago
three small boys in Ipswich (Q.), two
Jimmies and a John, became close
friends. As they grew older the friend-
ship survived, although their ways of life
diverged widely. One of the Jimmies
took up law, then politics, and ultimately
became Chief Justice and Lieutenant-
Governor of his native State. John
qualified brilliantly as an engineer, and
the Sydney Bridge, also the Story Bridge
in Brisbane, will bear lasting testimony
to his genius. The other Jimmy became
a highly-successful comedian and
eventually proprietor of the largest vaude-
ville circuit in Australia until the movies
spoiled business. Now the three friends
hold pleasant reunions in Brisbane and
recall old days. They are knight James
Blair, Dr. John J. C. Bradfield and James
C. Bain.
“Taswegian”: Dr. Gilroy, in succeed-
ing Dr. Kelly in the Archbishopric of
Sydney, is not the first Australian to
reach such ecclesiastical rank (B.
13/3/ ’4O). That distinction belongs to
Dr. Justin Daniel Simonds, R.C. Arch-
bishop of Hobart, a native of Glen Innes
(N.S.W.). Dr. Simonds was consecrated
Archbishop of Hobart on May 6, 1937.
When James Duhig was appointed
R.C. Bishop of Rockhampton (Q.) at 34
in 1905, it marked the dividing line be-
tween the old church policy of an im-
ported hierarchy and the modem one of
promoting Australians. The new bishop
was an Australian in all but birth —he
was born in Limerick, but brought to
Australia at an early age. In Rock-
hampton he worked round the town as
a small boy. Sheer ability sent him to
the Irish College in Rome, and he was
ordained in 1896. He moved from
Rockhampton to Brisbane in 1912 as
coadjutor to Archbishop Dunne, and in
1917 became Archbishop. He has always
taken a leading part in public move-
ments in Queensland, is a senator of the
ARCHBISHOP DUHIG.
University, has been president of the
Queensland Royal Geographical Society
and is as much a landmark of the
northern capital as the Town Hall. His
ambition is to build a cathedral in Bris-
bane which will make all other Australian
cathedrals look like St. Patrick’s first hut.


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/t>
Double Room, from 11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water.
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney.
«£» k-
rr
T
a
-
If TWifT
i -B J
mmm
M
SMOKE-OH!
“Don’t make your sentences too long.”
—Literary course.
Judges, please note.
b b
“There is nothing funny about crime.”
—Psychology article.
Although the humorous crook may be
a crook humorist, it must be admitted
that he lives by his wits.
b b b b
“Chiropodist, qualified, with knowledge hair-
dressing, country town.” — “S.M.H.” ad.
In other words, they want a man who
can make both ends neat.
b 'I- b
“Slang spoils our speech.”— Women’s paper.
Particularly if during a speech the
slang comes from the back row.
b b b b
Advice to wives: It’s no good trying
to put your husband on the spot when
he’s on it already.
•b b *l*
“Young husband loafs at home.”—“Sun.”
An occasional loaf is expected of a
breadwinner.
b b b b
Requiem.
“Until I viewed the Hollywood version of
the story of Stanley and Livingstone I had
no idea that the finding of the famous mission-
ary was the outcome of a bitter feud between
two newspapers eager to beat each other to a
‘scoop.’ ” — Film critic.
“This is station GUFF. We are now
crossing over to the Colossal Cinema
for a broadcast direct from the sound-
track of a trailer of Horner-Goldbrick-
Box’s stupendous coming production,
‘The Death of Julius K. Caesar.’
“As the scene opens Caesar, the big
shot, is lying dead on the sidewalk, hav-
ing just been bumped off by Brutus,
played by Razzle Fishbone. Caesar’s
stooge, Mark Antony, alias Tony the
Dag, portrayed by Cyclone Tower, is
busy spilling a bibful to Brutus and his
gunmen whilst Tony’s girl, ‘Legs’ Devine,
commands an almost respectful atten-
tion from the gang with a sub-machine
gun nestled in her minx coat. Now stand
by for a flash of the dialogue.”
“Lissen ’ere, youse mugs. Me and
‘Legs’ are ’ere to make sure the big shot
gets a swell funeral, see, an’ I ain’t
jest ’andin’ out no boloney. J.K.C. was
a swell guy, and ’im and me was buddies,
see? We both played hookey from the
same school and beat up our first cop
within a day of each other. If Brutus
reckons the Big Shot was chisellin’ in
on his territory ’e’s a liar! ....”
“Station GUFF. That concludes our
radio preview of this year’s most out-
standing film. Don’t forget ‘The Death
of Julius K. Caesar’ has the exotic Lotta
Hooey in her first stellar role as ‘Legs’
Devine. Watch for its screening date
at your local theatre.”
Melton.
. b b <b b
Attainment.
The horses circled round the ring,
arching their necks and flashing their
eyes. The dapple grey attracted him
from the first. Its silvery mane rippled
along its neck like the play of wind
in wheat, its black and polished hoofs
were raised with that daintiness that sig-
nifies breeding, and the proud carriage
and fine head marked it apart from the
other horses.
He sighed, realising that this would be
his last chance, and he would probably
have to pay at least twice as much as
he possessed. Rather miserably he
turned away, forcing himself not to
look back at the grey. Then he came
face to face with one whom he knew.
Swiftly he confided his ambition and,
suddenly happy, took the 2d. his father
gave him and made for the merry-go-
round.
Poppa.
“Might as well try and save it, Jim! ”
Poetic Injustice.
“Their love affair was indeed poetical.”
— Women’s paper.
There was no rhyme or reason in the
affair, but he just loved to metre, so
they could sit there scanning each other
in rhapsody while he called her his idyll.
He praised her beauty in lyrical terms.
In due course they got the necessary
license, and then she discovered that
he had feet of clay and ode money all
round the place. Some epic struggles
followed, and things went from bad to
verse. “A good woman stanza lot from
a bad husband,” she said, “but if he
keeps this up it will strain my loyalty.”
The end came when she saw him at
a cabaret one night. He was doing some
wild rhythm with a red-hot line.
T. W. Nathan.
❖ b b 5*
“Women aren’t marble statues.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
But many are just as costly and soon
become just as cold.
b b v
Suiting the Men.
“Why not a fashion parade for men?”
—Fashion note.
“Our first number, worn by Mr. Mug,
is our special Punter’s Suit, in misery-
grey. It is always worn with a shirt-
front of oilskin, so that the wearer’s tears
will not soak through to his skin.
“Our next number, worn by Mr. Beery,
is known as the Closing Time Suit. The
coat is specially padded and spiked on
the shoulders, enabling the wearer to
fight his way to the bar with greater ease.
“Now here are some very smart busi-
ness suits. For respectable married busi-
nessmen there is this shabby little serge
in the well-known shade of gloom-black.
Note the lovely shine on the coat and
the artistic fray to the cuffs. Price:
Whatever money is left over after buying
the wife’s outfit.
“And here’s a suit for the man who
has to wait hours for his girl-friend.
Nicely done in fidgety-blue, the back of
this coat is upholstered so that the wearer
may lean comfortably against the sharp
edges of buildings.
“You will note this tripe-colored dinner
suit, absolutely d la mode for the an-
nouncer. It is worn with a special asbes-
tos-lined boiled shirt to withstand the
blasts of hot air.”
Elm.
•b "I* 'I- b
Sports Models Preferred.
“Opera should be streamlined to meet
modern requirements,” says a well-known
critic.
Quite. As a matter of fact, some
opera stars can be improved out of
sight merely by fitting efficient silencers.
Unfortunately the average female
operatic singer isn’t designed properly;
her body’s too large for her chassis and
her brakes need adjusting. Then she's
apt to generate too many revs, when
climbing, which invariably causes over-
heating and a consequent danger of
seizure of one lung.
Anyway, opera’s doomed to the junk-
heap. Highbrow warblers who chew up
a gallon of spirit to the meal have had
to give way to the crooners, who can
run on hot air and mush.
P. O. M. C.
q. .j. q. >!•
“Onions affected by sunburn.”
-—Melbourne “Sun.”
Most housewives won’t shed any tears
over this.
♦l* b *l*
“Scrap-iron gifts sought for Hitler’s birth-
day.”—Heading.
French papers, please copy.
•!* -I* •I* b
“There is nothing artistic about rubber sand-
shoes.” — Women’s paper.
Why not? They draw the feet, don’t
they?
Melpomene and Muscles.
“Large feet, big-knuckled hands or muscular
legs would ruin even the most talented actress,”
says a critic.
Admittedly, it doesn’t inspire the audi-
ence with a romantic sympathy for the
heroine to see her long, bony figure clamp
across the stage with a stride like a ham-
strung buffalo, the knobs of muscle on
her bottle-shaped legs bobbing up and
down like an agitated Adam’s apple. And
it certainly is no joke to the juvenile lead
when the leading lady suddenly flexes
a set of biceps like Joe Louis’s just as
he bends down to kiss her arm.
Being a lifelong sufferer from Duck’s
Disease—l go sft. 3in. and might have
been a good flyweight if I could fight —
and possessing the ability to stroke a
flowing moustache with a cynical and
minatory air, it is natural that during my
theatrical career I have mostly had heavy
villain parts, and I have been stiff enough
to strike a fair proportion of these raw-
boned heroines
The last time our .company went on
the road with “The Lights o’ Limehouse”
the leading lady, a dainty little thing
whom I could even sneer at without get-
ting the usual kink in the neck, eloped
with the cashbox.
The next night, as I was making up
and gloomily pondering what her sub-
stitute would be like, my dressing-room
door was violently kicked open and a
very tall, heavily-built person in slacks,
collar and tie, smoking coat, high-heeled
shoes, and wearing bobbed hair, strode
in, ruffled my hair, and in a deep bari-
tone said: “Jasper Murgatroyd, the
gentleman crook, I believe —shake!” and
thrust out a red leg-of-mutton fist. A
second later I leaped off my chair as I
vainly tried to break the bone-crushing
grip.
After what seemed about five minutes’
pumping, she released my mangled mitt,
helped herself to my only cigar, ex-
plained that she was the new lead and
warned me not to yank her along by the
wrists too hard when I grasped her in
the wharfside scene. As she pulled the
door after her with an energy that
brought a hinge clattering to the floor, I
resumed my preparations, a prey to a
deeper gloom than before.
Nor were my prognostications of
trouble proved astray. In the first act
I had threatened the heroine, Lasiandra
Lorgnette, who has fallen in love with
a Thames bargee’s son, that if she didn’t
procure for me the famous Lorgnette
diamonds I would denounce her to her
fiance, Lord Sardine, whom her father,
Sir Plantagenet Lorgnette, was black-
mailing into marrying her. In the first
scene of the second act, having failed
to secure the jewels, she was to plead
with me not to denounce her. On my
refusing, she was to become defiant, to
dramatically order me out and then to
sink, sobbing heartbrokenly, on to the
divan.
As the scene progressed she flung out
an arm as thick as a wait-here-for-
trams sign, and boomed, “Go, Jasper
Murgatroyd, and if you darken my
father’s doors again I will have the fourth
under-footman thrash you within an inch
of your vile life!” It was after the third
time she had delivered these lines that,
seeing me make no move to depart, she
looked down and whispered sotto voce,
“Don’t you know your cue, idiot—beat
it!” “Take your boots off my feet and
I will,” I replied with fierce resentment.
Although she had been standing a foot
away from me, her shoes had held me
prisoner.
As I flung away in a rage more genuine
than any the author had envisaged when
he wrote the play, she reached the divan
upstage in three strides, and, leaning her
elbow on the occasional table, buried her
face in one hand and burst into sobs
which, powerful as they were, were
almost drowned in the shrieks of the
convulsed audience.
But, though she had ruined my per-
formance, she did the company a good
turn as it happened. The manager, sens-
ing the audience’s reactions, thereafter
turned the play into a burlesque. We
didn’t have to alter the play in the
slightest, not even the acting. We’ve
been cleaning up on it ever since.
80.
The Paradox.
Her name’s a magic spell. Her eyes,
black-blue,
Are pools of mystery alight with fire.
Her hair is chestnut-brown and glossy,
too,
And ne’er did maiden favor more her
sire.
Her symmetry attention would arrest,
Her legs are rhapsodies of supple
grace.
She’s smart and by perfections nobly
blest ;
But—blast the filly !—she can’t win a
race!
PERCY.
Declension.
“Stalin frequently kills time with a harm-
less game of cards.” — Communist paper.
After the comrades numberless
He’s freed from life and crime,
It must be dull for Joseph S.
Just to be killing time /
T. W. N.


ABOGIGINALITIES
“M. Urray”: Humor in a fish is hardly
to be expected, but it’s there. Sitting
on a log on the Murray, I had about five
feet of clear water under me, and was
watching a yabbie idling about. Then it
shot backwards behind a tree root, and
a cod about 51b. weight drifted along.
The cod eyed the muddy disturbance
where the yabbie had been, appeared to
cogitate, then swam round the end of
my log. Minutes passed. The yabbie
reappeared ; so did the cod. The yabbie
disappeared; so did the cod. More
minutes passed. Then the yabbie
cautiously pushed its whiskers and eyes
out of the root. That cod poked its head
round the log as though to say “Boo!”
and as ihe yabbie vanished again I’ll
swear the cod grinned before it made off
upstream.
* * * *
“Mac”: I’ve got some stringybaik
slabs that can give “White Ibis’s” redgum
slabs (B. 6/3/’4O) a decade in age. Over
70 years ago they were carved out of a
large vegetable in the Picton (N.S.W.)
district, and they’ve been in use ever
since. They still keep my pigs from
unlawfully trespassing, and they look
good to last out the century. But one
thing I’m hoping—that they’ll have
crumbled back to Mother Earth long
before The Bully passes into limbo.
❖
“The 0.D.”: Every year without
fail Sydney daily papers display their
ignorance of rural life by numerous
blunders in their articles and pictures of
Sydney’s big Show. For long Sydney
“Sun” has always been first to make a
bloomer, and this year it won again
with a picture of a group of apparent
Shorthorn culls above the caption:
“These Brahmin cattle have been
specially selected for the steer-riding con-
tests at the Show.” If they are Brahmins
I’m a triple-humped dromedary.
* * * *
“Flight”: Despite the idiot with the
gun, the ibis recognises the value of
making friendly overtures to man. After
a good season in W.Q. these birds march
in countless thousands across the plains,
scrutinising every tussock of grass in
their search for ’hoppers. Though a mob
moves a lot, in a general sense it takes
up its own beat and works its own coun-
try. If a thousand or so happen to
select an area near the station they soon
accustom themselves to men, buildings,
vehicles, etc. I’ve seen them after a
week or two foraging about the stock-
yards, then go to the blacksmith’s shop
and cartshed, work through them, and
finally stream through open doors of the
men’s hut and kitchen. And if a mere
man or a dog wants to walk through
them, that’s nothing at all. They’ll open
their ranks, give the right of way, and
almost stand to attention and salute as
the person passes.
❖ * sjc
“Gryllus”: A sunray from a hole in
the roof of the old shed revealed a tiny
shining wasp less than a third of an inch
long busily engaged with some round
brownish objects set in a tangle of spider-
web. They were the egg-sacks of a red-
backed spider, most dangerous of all
Australian arachnids. Less than a week
before I had read of the death of a man
from its potent venom. Hundreds of
eggs are laid each season by every
female, each batch protected by a stout
waterproof bag hidden in a mesh of web
set in some dark place and watched by
the jealous mother. But for those tiny
winged heroines the braconid wasps, the
redback would be a far greater danger
to life and health than all our poisonous
snakes put together. Eluding the mother-
ogre, they stab through the egg-bags with
the sharp ovipositor and plant their own
eggs inside. The braconid babies hatch
out first and eat the spider eggs, then
safely and comfortably undergo pupa-
tion inside the well-guarded silken bag.
When they have attained adult form they
cut holes in the silk and fly off under the
very eyes of the deluded redback ogress.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Dillinger’s young son,
up to now a totally useless and extremely
destructive pup, has suddenly broken into
the producing class. His trouble through
a brief life has been teeth, not the pas-
sive kind attended to by dentists, but the
active sort which demand expression in
the gnawing of slippers and the tearing
up of everything in sight. This wet after-
noon I began to tease up some old coco-
nut fibre wherewith to alleviate the dis-
comforts of the driving seat in the old
“Yes, YOU can ’ave the wishbone or any other bone when I get this
wing off.”
utility. Ten minutes was enough to cure
me of the idea, and I dumped the tangled
nail-breaking balance on the floor. The
pup woke up, nosed it with evident de-
light, and within the half-hour had the
whole lot teased to perfection as a highly
enjoyable teeth-exercise.
“Bert”: The hound would have taken
first prize anywhere as a thorough mon-
grel, but it hurled its half-starved body
after the rabbit like a battler making for
a free feed. Blind with fear, the rabbit
ran plump into the netting, which gave
a little and then shot the bunny back
into the hound’s face. The startled mong
skidded to a stop, looked dazedly at the
rabbit, which had been almost knocked
out and now stood wavering on its hind
legs, then stuck its tail between its legs
and bolted, ki-yiking to the world its
horror of rabbits that stood up to fight
honest dogs.
* * * *
“Nap”: Jolliffe’s amusing sketches of
that lanky leadswinger —I’ve seen his like
many a time —and his crazy farm are true
to life except in one respect: Never
in all my years outback have I seen a
bush humpy, be it ever so humble, that
wasn’t surrounded by at least half a
dozen falling-down sheds and their ac-
companying vehicles of all ages and
descriptions, from iron-tyred sulkies to
horse- and bullock-jinkers.
* * * •'
“Kingsman”: The American visitor to
Yallourn (Vic.) was exuding contemp-
tuous snorts at the saplings which resi-
dents of Gippsland had the neck to call
trees. He expressed himself on the matter
to Peter Smith, one of the oldest inhabi-
tants. “Well,” Peter admitted, “we
haven’t any trees round Yallourn now.
Real trees, I mean. But can you see
that chimney over there?” And he
pointed to the pride of Yallourn, the
328 ft.-high stack over the briquette fac-
tory. “There used to be a bit of a tree
there,” Peter went on. “An old dead
one. When they decided to build the
chimney, to save scaffolding they put it
up inside that tree. Then, when they’d
finished, they cut it down and sold it for
firewood.”
* * * *
“Pedes”: Weight for age, I’ll back
young whistlers against “Walkabout’s”
waterhens for pace on the hoof (B.
31/1/ ’4O). In my younger days I mixed
with the blacks a good deal. I never
saw a waterhen that could get away from
a buck, but I’ve seen a clutch of young
whistlers, just short of the flying stage,
that left a string of young bucks as if
they were standing still. Moreover, those
birds didn’t need to use their wings, as
the waterhens do, as an aid to get over
the ground. It was square heel-and-toe
stuff that took them to safety in the
lignum.
* * * *
“Odd Pint”: In these days of smart
press writers all you have to do is get
into their hands and you’re made. Take
young Colin Moreland. Sick of play-
ing round the station, he walked seven
miles into Moree (N.S.W.). It was hailed
, a , „ a
by the flapper press as definitely a feat,
though kids his age-he s six-frequently
walk as tar to school and home again,
and it was added that he passed through
country “infested with snakes, dingoes
and wild pigs,” any one or all of which
would have taken particular care to
keep out of his way. Now a Melbourne
woman has started sending him toys,
which won’t stop him wandering while he
has no other children with whom to
play, and others will likely follow. Me,
1m going on a walkabout through
country infested with dingbats, willy-
willies and wild wombalooras, and,
what s more, I m taking a press photo-
grapher with me. It ought to be worth
a case of beer from somebody.
* TT . * , * ~
Dmky-Di : Hardest outbacker Ive
struck was “Hungry” Mac, out Hunger-
ford (N.S.W.) way. Contract crutching
for him, we had just started on some big
woolly wethers when he comes up to me
and says “How much extra to wig them?”
“Three bob a hundred,” I replied. He
glared at the board for a bit, then came
back with, “Well, how much for only one
eye? ’
* * *
“Atrax”: The pair of magpies that
own our place and bring up an annual
family in the gnarled old grey gum
have taken the youngsters off on the
yearly autumn jaunt. Until May they
will be touring the country with a holi-
day party of their own kind, the old
birds holding concerts and probably ex-
changing experiences concerning food
and family matters, the younger set get-
ting acquainted and learning to look
after themselves. It is the social season
for them and for several other species
of birds which remain in pairs about
some given area for the rest of the year.
Peewees follow the same fashion ; so do
the little thornbills, and even that in-
domitable individualist Willie Wagtail
likes to get together at this season. Family
cares are over for the time, food is
plentiful and the weather is neither too
hot nor too cold for pleasant vaga-
bondising. The experience teaches the
last-year brood to fend for themselves
during the winter and also after being
summarily kicked out when preparations
are begun for the new family in spring.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Well blithered, and with
the remnants of his cheque from a clear-
ing job, Big Tom struck the town in the
midst of its show festivities. To his in-
coherent request for accommodation the
publican replied that all beds were full,
but if he liked he could doss in the old
Customs store on the river, where several
others had sought shelter for the crowded
night. Tom was guided to the place and
entered. With others there he shared a
couple of bottles and dropped off to
sleep on the floor, disdaining the
blankets the publican had supplied. In
the sickly dawn Tom awoke, and the first
thing that met his eyes was the dusty
window and outside the panes the old
iron bars that had helped to keep goods
in bond before Federation came. Tom
studied the bars intently, then, “In again,”
he sighed and, assuring him-
self that he had enough for
bail, went back to sleep.
* * *
“Bad Australian”: “Lao-
dah’s” par. on the witch-
doctor and his trade in
amulets (B. 13/3/ ’4O) reminds
me of the enterprising Queens-
lander who drove a roaring
trade in furnishing Tommy
Tanna and other “civilised”
kanakas with a charm which
ensured the owner a seat in
Paradise. It was a small square
of cardboard with a few Hiero-
glyphics inscribed on it, and
the fakir’s fee was half a
sovereign. It was strongly im-
pressed on the recipient that
he should keep his celestial
passport in a secret place, and
that its existence should not be
revealed to any other indi-
vidual, otherwise it would be-
come a curse and a sure in-
strument of damnation and
everlasting torment. The pro-
position made a strong appeal
to the savages, and they came
at it in dozens. Eventually
some doubting brother blew
the gaff, but the prophet of
the new revelation, suspecting
a schism among his disciples,
had by then packed up his ill-
gotten gold and departed.
“B. Wing”: Recent R.P. comment on
James Bonwick, pioneer historian, re-
calls a story. When the Bonwick family
migrated from High Camp (Vic.) to
Nagambia in the ’sixties, there was an
acute shortage of water. They put down
a 40ft. well, which later dried up. One
of the Bonwick womenfolk dropped a
potato down the shaft. Taking root in
the moist bottom it grew a stalk to the
top of the well.
* * * *
“G. Roper”: W.A. redgum may carry
an even lower ash content than jarrah
(B. 28/2/’4O), but would it burn to a
good sound charcoal? Redgum is the
most worthless timber in the Groperland
forest. Given a cut with the axe it
pours out gum in a crimson flood. It
really should be named bloodwood.
Sawn into planks it shows myriads of
gum veins, many wide enough to take
the palm of the hand. Passing through
the saws it clogs up everything: saw-
teeth, bench, rollers, all messy with its
rubbery gum. Dangerous, too, for a
sticky bench is perilous to the sawyer’s
hands. The flitch sticks, he pushes hard,
it goes then with a jerk, and if he isn’t
wide awake it’s good-bye fingers. Use-
less even for fruit-cases, since the gum
dries slowly and would ooze out and
contaminate the fruit. Have seen it tried
as crates for crockery, but even there
it failed owing to excessive shrinkage.
So if “G. Snatcher’s” contention is cor-
rect and it approximates to a nearly
ashless fuel, then it should be the A 1
stuff for producer-gas. Ash, which en-
tails the frequent cleaning out of scrub-
bers, is just the fly in the ointment that
will militate against that kind of engine
being extensively applied to the motor-
car.
BONDED STORES.
Homeward-bound cargoes and fine foreign
freights
Entered and passed through the high iron
gates;
Hard-bitten carters with lorries and drays
Came for their loadings and went on their
ways.
Coopers and gaugers, the Customs in braid,
More-or-!ess sober, their daily parts played.
Tight oaken barrels, trim octaves in tiers,
Stood in cool cellars, where, mellowed by
years
Quarters of sherry and burgundy rare
Filled with aroma the underground air;
Rum in great hogsheads, red cases of gin
On manifests scribed were checked out and in.
Captains! my captains! your deep holds are
full —
Merchandise, inward, or outward-bound wool —
Heave on your shorelines and let go the
springs!
Cast off the tugboats and spread your white
wings!
Ho for the trade winds that blow without rest,
Ho for the brave winds that blow north and
west!
The imports swing out, the exports swing in—
Chanteys are rising o’er clamor and din;
Flutters the house-flag as Blue Peter flies.
Oft-times 1 see them; and oft will uprise
Far foreign coastlines as rough stevedores
Break out the cargoes again for the stores.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Aratta”: “It’s funny how some
blokes like the limelight,” said Junee
Joe. “Take Terry Foley, f’rinstance,
Terry wus a little runt who nobody ever
took notice of. He won a wad at the
races once an’ started lashin’ it about.
Roamin’ round Ryan’s he sees Mary the
cook in the kitchen an’ grabs her. Map'
squeals, an’ when her husband rushes in
Terry crowns him an’ clears orf. Next
thing he knows he’s up before ole Jones,
the J.P., charged with unprovoked assault
an’ unrightyous behavior. Appearin’ for
Mary an’ her husband is a young solici-
tor new to the town, an’ he plays it for
all he’s worth. He turns to the crowded
court. ‘This bewcolic gay Lothario,’ he
ses, pointin’ t’ Terry, ‘this rustic Don
Jewann, this would-be dishpoiler of fair
womanhood who molests a lady in the
sacred privacy of her kitchen an’ assaults
her justly-incensed husband’ an’ con-
tinyers on fer another ten minits, findin’
new things Terry is. Ole Jones, who has
been knocked sorta stunned by the
word-spinnin’, recovers an’ ses t’ Terry,
‘Fined ten bob!’ Terry has stood
grinnin’ while the lawyer’s been havin’
his say, an’ when he hears ole Jones
his face drops. ‘What!’ he ses, ‘Ten
bob?’ ‘Yes,’ ses ole Jones, snappish.
‘D’yer think that’s too much?’ ‘Too
much!’ cries Terry. ‘Why! Ten quid
’d be cheap if I’m all them things ’e
says I am!”’
“John Maconikie”: If the war lasts
as long as its prophets forecast there’s
just a chance that Australia will be able
permanently to establish fish-canneries.
Prices of imported salmon, etc., are
going up, and will go higher. Where are
the fish to can? If we can do anything
with sardines, then the W.A. nor’-west
coast is the place. From Onslow to
Derby is a matter of about 800 miles.
I have seen the
sea over that dis-
tance black with
fingerling fish for
20 miles out from
the beach. And
not merely pass-
ing schools ; the
run would be on
for months at a
stretch. These
probably were
true sardines of
the Mediterranean
type ; tinned with
any kind of edible
vegetable oil they
would be the thing. But there are two
essentials which that part of Australia
lacks; one is a plentiful supply of fresh
water, the other labor that wouldn’t be
rarin’ to go on strike directly the indus-
try got started.
* * * *
“Wabbalee”: Foraging for tucker
among a heap of empty burrawang-nut
shells is a pretty risky business for a
young snake. There’s sure to be a shell
or two with both ends rotted away.
If young Joe attempts to crawl through
one, and he is a bit on the big size, he
is doomed ; the tough shell will tighten
on his throat like a steel band. From
then on, as the days and miles go by,
it is slow strangulation. I have come
across several young Blakes done to
death in this fashion on the N.S.W. far
south coast.
* * * *
“Lucullus”: I fancy I can supply the
reason why in England a coursed hare
is preferred to one brought down with
shot (B. 28/2/’4O). Culinary experts
there hang the hare until it just about
drops from the hook: it is then con-
sidered “high.” In this condition the
punctures left by the shot are naturally
more than a trifle higher: striking them
in an already high dish will just about
lift the lid off. Per contra, with a coursed
hare the highness is uniform.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: The classics of over-
landing are, of course, the journeys of
the Duracks, Nat Buchanan and a few
others driving their cattle from C.Q.
across the Territory to the Kimberleys.
But here’s another that surely must stand
alone in its class. Coolgardie was young
when Gunny Khan, camelier of Bourke,
decided that his teams could do better
in the West. On June 26, 1894, the
caravan set cut: 108 oonts, 17 ’Ghan
drivers, all under the command of Pat
Green, guide and interpreter. The first
600 miles ran west via Milparinka to
Farina, a tough little stretch that got
the camels in trim. Then south to
Port Augusta. From that verdant jump-
off-into-the-wilderness the procession
hoofed it right around the rim of the
Bight to Israelite Bay, no tougher jour-
ney anywhere on the continent. At
“Wha's the road like, Simeon?”
“ Impassable, Cap'n; I've joost come over un.”
“Must be engine trouble.”
Israelite followed a month’s spell while
awaiting the arrival of a schooner with
stores. Off again early in October, the
caravan tripped up Bayley-street, Cool-
gardie, on Nov. 3, each beast carrying
an average net load of 600 pounds. Well
over 2000 miles in a trifle more than
four months of actual marching, with
slender rations and mighty little to drink
most of the way. The Duracks took
over two years to do their walk from
Cooper’s Creek to the Ord River.
* * * *
“Rex”: “These blokes that think
they’re well eddicated sometimes turn
out bigger mugs than yer’d think,” said
Biniee Ben. “Take that new districk
schoolteacher. Crazy about ’istoric
places an’ relics an’ things, ’e was, so
one day we ’as ’im on. Know that old
bushrangers’ cave up at the back of Tim
Ryan’s place? Well, we spun a yarn
about a tin of sov’rins supposed to bin
’idden up there somewhere by Ben ’All.
We’d previously drew a map showin’
the location o’ the treasure, an’ put this
in an old terbaccer tin w’ere ’e’d find
it in the cave. To make things look
dinkum we belted a nail through the tin
to make it look like a bullet ’ole. Of
course ’e stumbles on it accidental like
while he was fossicking around and,
dead excited, gets a diviner cobber of ’is
on the job, and we all strolls along to
see the fun. Well, fer a while nothin’
happened; then all at once the wire
bends double right over the spot where
we had a big X marked on the map.
It kept doin’ it, an’ in no time somebody
gets some shovels an’ we’re all diggin’
like blazes —all except the teacher and
the diviner. After about an hour we’ve
got a hole about nine feet deep, an’ we’re
just thinkin’ about givin’ up when water
starts to ooze in. For ten minits the
language around there is somethin’
terrible. Then the teacher shoves ’is hand
into ’is pocket, looks at the tin in a
thoughtful kinda way an’ tell us that
when the bushrangers were roamin’
around there was no such stuff as Log
Cabin terbaccer on the market.
* * * *
“Mulga Ned”: It is odd that the
East never devised anything better than
the trumpery nose-button
for controlling the work-
ing camel: a bit of a
wooden stud that pulls out
if the beast hangs back a
bit and the conductor gives
an extra-hard jerk. Old
Jack Rollins, of Kanowna
(W.A.), did better. “I
don’t see why the blank-
ards shouldn’t take a
bit.” A handy saddler
soon fixed up a bridle, but
the bit had to be of wood ;
not on any terms would
the oont tolerate the taste
of iron. To see Old Jack
work his team of wagon
camels was a treat,
especially when loading a
stamp-battery or some
similar weighty article.
Putting the rest of the
team aside, Jack would
concentrate on Tarl, the
big shafter. Under the
guidance of bridle and bit
Tarl worked trace-chains
and loose swinglebar just like a horse,
backing and hauling without a protest.
First Jack propped up the axle-beds o*:
one side, then took off that pair of wheels.
This gave that side of the wagon a clear
deck. A couple of stout skids, the big
shafter pulling across the wagon from the
other side, and up came battery standards,
stamper shanks almost as if the oont
hauler was automatic. When it came to
the tons-weight stamper-boxes, Tarl
naturally received assistance from his
brethren, they too taking kindly to the
control of bridle and bit. With the load
on Tarl went into the shafts, the rest
strung ahead, the leader under the con-
trol of rope reins. “They’re civilised
camels,” was Jack’s comment.
sjc *
“Mutt”: “Some blokes have got a poor
sense o’ humor,” said old Bill. “ ’Member
Kola Charlie? He blew into Widgemurra
homestead about sundown, an’ after
givin’ him a feed the cook sends him to
the woolshed for a camp. It bein’ hot,
he drags a coupla woolpacks in front of
the door an’ coils up on ’em for the night.
Next he knows is somethin’ tuggin’ at
his nap, an’ he opens his eyes to see in
the half-light of dawn what he reckoned
was a mile of flamin’ snake wrestlin’ with
his bed. He don’t wait for no more but
hops out of the joint like as all the devils
in hell was after him, an’ don’t pull his
freight till he hits the cookhouse, where
Tommy’s makin’ the corfee. Kola rushes in,
grabs the babbler’s arm and starts to beef
out his trouble, but he don’t get no sym-
pathy, as Tommy only larfs, an’ the more
Kola talks the more he larfs, so much
he falls over. This was more than Kola
could stand ; forgettin’ about his snake,
he grabs a meat-chopper an’ begins hop-
pin’ round like a Injin, cursin’ an’ threat-
enin’ to chop the cook’s block off. This
was how I found ’em when I lobbed in,
an’ just as I’m gettin’ Kola to cool down
a bit Tommy yells ‘Cripes, ’e only bin an’
shook old Billy’s bed,’ an’ goes off into
another spasm. Kola goes so snaky then
we has to dump him in the brine barrel.
Even when we tells him his mile of rep-
tile was only Billy, our pet carpet-snake,
cripes, I’m damned if he could see the
joke.”
'k -k 'l* ; k
“Turoar”: “Tarry Tom’s erbout the
activest bloke I ever knoo,” Old Bob
said. “A circus comes ter Binnaloo one
night, an’ me an’ Tarry goes erlong.
There’s a bloke there they calls ’Urtlin’
’Arry, the Yumin ’Urricane. Cripes, ’e
c’n ’url ’imself erbout orlright on the
paralysed bars —you know, a coupla
wooden bars runnin’ the same way—an’
when ’e’s finished doin’ back somersaults
an’ flyin’ catches an’ in-an’-out-the-
winder with them bars ’e challenges the
audience ter immertate ’im. Puts down
a fiver fer any bloke wot c’n repeat ’is
performance. Well, Tarry’s got enough
beer in ’im ter make ’im reckless an’,
though I tells ’im not ter be a fool, out
’e goes an’ ’as a lash. Spare me days,
Tarry’s the Yumin Rocket. ’E makes
’Arry look like a school kid. Never seen
anythink like the way ’e whizzes round
them bars. But ’Arry’s a sport, an’ when
Tarry comes up fer the fiver ’e compli-
ments ’im ’andsome an’ reckins ’e
oughter be in the circus ’imself. ‘Aw,’
Tarry says, ‘that’s nothink. I’d er bin
kerlectin’ a tenner frum yer if the middle
bar ’adn’t of cracked on me first turn.
Coulden put me weight on it after that.’
Then we all goes down an’ busts up the
fiver at the pub.”
DUSTY’S RIDE.
Y’ve heard about John Gilpin, an’ Dick
Turpin’s ride to York;
Y’ know about that Yankee cove Revere,
An’ other rides, I reckon, that’ve made them
poets tork;
Did y’ ever hear of Dusty’s ride f’r beer?
Well, Dusty’s pumpin’ water for the sheep on
Guthulgul—
Y’ have t’ go by Prungle t’ the place—
When a big thirst hits his whiskers an’ the
engine has a lull
While Dusty dreams o’ foam against his face.
Next day before the sun is up he mounts his
piebaT prad,
An’ heads out through the saltbush, makin’
south.
There’s eighty mile o’ plain an’ scrub —’twould
make a wowser glad —
Between the pub an’ Dusty’s yearnin’ mouth.
The day turns out a scorcher. From the fur-
nace doors of hell
A burnin’ wind is blowin’ o’er the land,
But Dusty shoves the nag along, an’ only
stops t’ spell
When the neddy looks like sinkin’ in the
sand.
At Wintong he dismounts an’ leads his piebaT
to the tank —
Good bushmen place the horse’s welfare
first —
But, though he’s spittin’ chips hisself, he
nacherally shrank
From anythin’ t’ spoil that lovely thirst.
There still lie thirty blazin’ miles from Wintong
to the town —
That Wintong mob they think him somewhat
queer.
They couldn’t see the vision hid in Dusty’s
eyes of brown,
The vision of them foamin’ pots o’ beer.
And so to Swinglebar he comes that hot an’
breathless night.
A piebaT horse lies pantin’ on the ground.
They hold the mumblin’ rider up beneath the
red stars’ light,
An’ bathe his blackened face an’ bring him
round.
An’ as he croaks one urgent word each sadly
shakes his head,
An’ Dusty hears the awful thing they say.
“Burnt down! ” he echoes with a groan and
falls like he is dead
Beside the pub—burnt down that very day!
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


MEN
ARE
MARCHING
SW
WE MUST BACK THEM UP WITH OUR SAVINGS
No doubt you have asked yourself "How can I help
win the War—and when?"
One way, and a' very valuable way, is by purchasing
War Savings Certificates now. All Australians are
urged to do their bit immediately by providing hard
cash, one of the greatest of all weapons in a modern
war. And it is so easy—l 6- buys a £1 Certificate,
while the larger amounts of issue, £5 and £lO, are
purchasable at £4 and £8 respectively, from any Bank
or Money Order Post Office.
PERCY C. SPENDER, Treasurer.
X WAR f SAVINGS
Certificates
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age f If the answer
is “No," fust consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO,, LTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VicTOTtu: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Huddart Parker, Ltd.
, —Dividends i
r |> re f To Ne- De-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ *
1929. .132 077 30,000 10 p.c. = 75,000 27,077 740,801
1930. .103,969 30,000 8 ~ ~ 60,000 13,969 754,770
1931.. 70,644 30,000 5 „ ~ 37,500 3,144 757,914
1932.. 71,860 30,000 5 ~ „ 37,500 4,360 762,274
1033.. 73,078 30,000 5 ~ ~ 37,500 5,578 767,852
1934.. 85,740 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 3,240 771,092
1935.. 78,059 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 766,652
1936.. 91,108 30,000 71 „ „ 56,250 4,858 771,510
1937. .116,468 30,000 11 ~,,82,500 3,968 775,478
1938. .132,164 30,000 14 ~ ~105,000 772,642
1939. .139,216 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 4,216 776,858
1 Excluding specific reserves, £690,906 at December
31, 1938.
The co. now puts more in the window
than it used to, thanks to the new Com-
panies Act in Victoria ; and a pleasing
revelation it is for shareholders, too.
Assets and earnings are both shown in
more detail, and consolidated figures of
the parent and subsidiaries are also pre-
sented for the first time.
Here is the position so far as H.P.’s
own published accounts show it:
1937. 1938. 1939.
Freeholds, etc. 1 f £184,077
Ships, etc. t £1,268,313 £1,318,0711 699,481
Shares subsids. j l 242,241
Investments .. 1,405,922 1,469,529 1,497.764
Cash . . . . 43,978 34,721 27,890
Hook debts .. 107,290 116,658 319.049
Stores . . • • 37,840 38,207 45,804
Total assets .. £2.803.343 £2,977,186 £3,016,306
Less liabilities.. 350,507 399,733 *231,041
Net assets .. £2,506,836 £2,577,453 £2,785,265
* Including tax provision, previously lumped with
specific reserves.
Apparent contraction of £191,272 in
the book value of freeholds, ships,
etc., and shares in subsidiaries com-
bined and the growth of £202,391
in book debts are interrelated, being
due mainly to inclusion of amounts
owing by subsidiaries (£173,182) with
debtors’ balances in the latest ac-
counts. Investments (up £28,235) con-
sist of Government stock (£1,149,640),
listed shares (£154,675) and shares and
debentures in other cos. (£193,448), the
lot—in at cost less depreciation—being
£247,764 in excess of paid capital.
The contraction of £168,692 in liabili-
ties, which now include provision for
taxation (previously lumped with the re-
serve for contingencies, repairs, main-
tenance, superannuation, etc.), is due to
transfer to this reserve (£690,906, up
£211,096) of “amounts for anticipated
liabilities which did not eventuate.” The
amount thus shaken out of the family
stocking accounts for most of the in-
crease of £207,812 in the book value of
net assets. Excluding shares in subsi-
diaries, more or less liquids exceeded
liabilities by £1,659,466 when the books
closed. Paid capital is £1,250,000 in
500,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and 750,000
ords.
The consolidated sheet shows a still
stronger position, net tangibles amount-
ing to £3,339,207 at the end of
December. That includes with liabilities
the interests of outside shareholders
in subsidiaries, but leaves out of the
reckoning £144,900 arrears of divs. in
a subsidiary. It also includes as a reserve
£370,037, being the difference between
the par value and book value of shares
in subsidiaries.
As for earnings, after charging £80,252
for depreciation and sending £33,000 to
the reserve for contingencies, etc. (some
or all of which may be genuine profit),
H.P.’s own accounts show the return
from trading at £56,866, subsidiaries
£24,080 (approx. 10 p.c. on book value
of shares) and general investments
£97,725 (= 6.5 p.c. of book value).
Deducting directors’ fees (£5000) and
provision for taxation (£37,980), the net
return (up £7052) was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 14.5 p.c. on ord.
capital, as against 13.6, 11.5, 8.1, 6.4,
7.4, 5.7 and 5.5 p.c. back to 1932. The
div. was kept at 14 p.c.
After allowing for depreciation
(£103,859), contingencies (£33,000), taxa-
tion (£54,014), directors’ salaries, etc.
(£8180), and outside interests in pro-
fits, etc. (£37,482), combined net earn-
ings of the parent and its subsidiaries
were £151,582, or enough to pay
16 p.c. on H.P.’s capital after meeting the
pref. charge.
Though war affected inter-State pas-
senger bookings, there has lately been a
revival in this section of the business, no
ships having been lost to the enemy in
Australian waters. The co.’s new cargo
steamer Barwon took up the running
in November, and the fact that the Navy
has taken over some coastal craft has in-
creased the volume of business available
for the remainder. Costs continue to
climb, and the trouble in the coal trade
will affect earnings of some of the subsi-
diaries.
Still, the market doesn’t expect the
14 p.c. div. to be interfered with. Since
the beginning of 1939 the price of
the ords. has fluctuated between 495. and
60s. 3d. At 555., the figure last week-end,
the return is 5 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at 255. 6d. yield 4.7 p.c.
The net tangible backing (combined
figures) is £6 10s. lOd. prefs. and £3 14s.
ords.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
t Dividends
Pref. Writ-
Dec., Loss. 7 p.c. Ordinary, ten Off. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 47,943 Nil Nil 29,869 460,585
Profit.
1930.. 13,782 Nil Nil 28,716 475,519
Loss.
1931.. 24,566 Nil Nil 24,915 525,000
Capital written off, £525,000 ..
1932.. 14,839 Nil Nil 14,191 29 030
Profit.
1933.. 15,672 Nil Nil 15 317 98 675
1934.. 12,873 Nil Nil 12,025 27’827
Loss.
1935.. 16,603 Nil Nil 16,610 61,040
Profit.
193 »" T 316 Nil Nil 10,353 70,077
1937.. 42,632 Nil Nil 10,468 37,913
6 p.c.
1938.. 10,249 15,000 Nil 10,147 52,811
1939.. 21,338 10,000 Nil 10,099 51,572
Among other things, the figures in the
table tell a doleful story of the run-
owners’ gamble with Nature in far-
western Queensland. The co. holds
seven leaseholds, aggregating 10,900-odd
square miles, and three freeholds—Yabba
(16,409 acres), Taromeo (15,128 acres)
and Milton (14,715 acres)—in the Kilroy,
Blackbutt and Gladstone districts. The
leases, which extend from Lake Nash
(N.T.), about 100 miles west of Mt. Isa,
south-westerly past the back of Long-
reach, run out in from five to 35 years.
Of the £325,000 of capital, £250,000
is in £1 prefs. and the balance in 2s. 6d.
ords.—the other 17s. 6d. (£525,000) was
struck off the ords. in 1932 to wipe out
accumulated losses. In August, 1938,
the prefs. agreed to forgo arrears of
divs. (£192,500= 15s. sd. per share) to
the end of 1936, and to reduce the rate
of div. from 7 p.c. to 6 p.c. cumulative.
Although the prefs. have thus had a
thin time, the ords. have had a much
thinner and more disastrous one.
Last year opened with the co.’s western
runs very dry. But early rains relieved
the position, a strong demand lifted
cattle sales to a record level, and, though
the price of wool was down, the clip
was bigger. After allowing for losses
of livestock, gross earnings (£ll 1,895)
improved £4777. Trading exes. (£90,557)
were got back £6312, and, after allowing
£10,099 (down £4B) for depreciation,
shown as written off in the table, the
net result was £11,137 better at £11,329,
or £3671 short of a full year’s pref. re-
quirements. The prefs. were handed 4
p.c., leaving their arrears of divs. at
£20,000 at the end of December. There
was then £51,572 of the ord. capital un-
represented by tangibles in the books.
As for the current term, the season
has opened well. This and the British
meat and wool contracts promise to put
a further lift in net earnings, which is
encouraging from the prefs.’ point of
view.
However, some pref. shareholders con-
sider that the co.’s profits have been
understated, and have nominated A. E.
Cameron, who enjoys a high reputation
in pastoral and agricultural circles on the
Darling Downs, to represent them on
the board. Previously two existing direc-
tors had been elected as representatives
of those on the pref. register. It is now
pointed out by Mr. Cameron’s backers
that (1) the deficit on capital account
(£51,572) could be wiped out by writing
up the book value of livestock, which
is claimed to be undervalued in the
accounts, and (2), although the leases
were extended for 10 years in 1932, no
addition appears to have been made to
their book value on this account.
To write up the book value of the
leases would not affect earning capacity
one way or the other. The leases are a
wasting asset, and the management has
not yet been able to invest anything
outside the business to provide for re-
payment of actual capital represented
when the leases expire. Undervaluation
of livestock is an alternative method ot
providing for amortisation and other
contingencies by way of a secret reserve.
The real worth of this reserve depends
upon the number and the net value of
the cattle, sheep, etc., when they are sold.
The board says “livestock have been
reasonably valued. .. .having regard to
existing conditions.” The co.’s history
as revealed by its published accounts
suggests that the board has done no more
than is commercially prudent; and it
should not be long before the prefs.
begin to benefit from the policy pursued,
subject, of course, to seasonal conditions.
Consider these figures: —-
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Capital . . £325,000 £325,000 £325,000 £320,000
Liabilities . . 231,130 157,425 191,563 142,501
Freeholds .. 68,774 28,083 28,083 28,083
Leaseholds . . 154,857 139,050 133,947 1»1.262
Plant, etc. .. 60,569 62,823 60,131 60,743
Livestock . . 198,648 202,649 218,809 189,804
Wool. . .. 10,338 10,542 14,245 6,002
Debtors, cash, etc. 1,904 1,364 8,537 9,480
The outside debt, mainly to the bank,
has been worked down from £231,130
in 1935 to £142,501 last term, when the
contraction was £49,062. The book value
of livestock was reduced by £29,005.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£63,340, including
livestock at book value) was £13,312.
The prefs. at 10s. give an immediate
return of 8 p.c., with prospects. The
cover is 21s. lOd. in net tangibles (book
value). For the more speculative ords.
buyers offer 6d.
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd. (Vic.)
Towards
Net , Dividends Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Old. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 12,823 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,255 1568 5,873
1931.. 2,853 4 „ Nil 2,738 115 5,988
Loss.
1932.. 3,683 Nil Nil 2,305
Profit.
1933.. 2,082 Nil Nil 2082 4,387
Added patent rights, £2l .. .. 4,366
1934.. 274 Nil Nil 274 4,640
1935.. 8,501 9*p.c. Nil 6,252 2066 6,706
Deficit.
Reserves capitalised, £14,500 .. 7,794
Written oil' intangibles, £7l .. 7,723
1936.. 13,727 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,475 2252 5,471
Added intangibles, £25 . . . . 5,496
1937.. 14,172 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,475 2697 2,799
1938.. 15,923 6 „ 6 „ 13,992 1931 868
1939.. 10,773 6 , 5 „ 14.075 4.170
1940.. 6,420 6 ~ Nil 5,220 1200 2,970
special payment of £725.
It’s a disappointing showing, covering
the 6 p.c. pref. charge with a margin for
the ords. of only 0.6 p.c., compared with
3 p.c. in the preceding term, and for the
sixth time in the last decade ord.-holders'
investment has again been unremunera-
tive.
Trading in Victoria and Tasmania
was “satisfactory”; the trouble, aggra-
vated by seasonal conditions later in the
term, occurred at the N.S.W. end, where
an undisclosed but “considerable” loss
is admitted, apparently mostly in connec-
tion with the wholesale and importing
business taken over a couple of years
back. This problem is being overcome
by resale to the old proprietors of prac-
tically the whole of the co.’s interest on
the basis of the terms of the original
purchase, which looks like a very satis-
factory settlement for D. and W.
That will leave the old-established busi-
ness with three selling branches in
N.S.W. and eight in Victoria, mainly
in country districts. In addition, there
is a subsidiary at Launceston (Tas.). Two-
fifths of turnover comprises the co.’s own
manufactures, and, though the board ex-
presses concern as to the future stock
position, the co. should be favorably


The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ë
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
placed to extend its manufacturing
activities, particularly with lessened
competition from imports.
But builders’ hardware and agricultural
implements are slow-moving lines even
in the best of times, and the former
will become increasingly difficult to shift
under present conditions. Still, Britain’s
purchase of most of our surplus primary
produce brightens a rather mixed out-
look, and there are going to be con-
siderable fire ravages to repair. For
Chandlers much will depend on the ex-
tent to which costs can be controlled.
Including £2782 from divs., etc., last
term’s gross earnings showed fractional
improvement at £102,031. The £4353
profit-slip reflects higher exes. (£95,611,
including £2176 for depreciation) —de-
spite economies, they managed to get
away with an extra £4896, largely in re-
spect of wage lifts, etc.
W. R. Hart and Sons Pty. (paid capi-
tal £44,739), the* Tasmanian subsidiary,
netted £2040 in the same period—2.B p.c.
on its ord. capital after satisfying the
prefs. At balance day net tangibles
amounted to £46,836 ; there was an in-
vestment of £26,539 in the holding co.’s
shares among the assets.
Payment of the preceding year’s final
divs. weakened the parent’s finances:
1935. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £176,750 £191,250 £266,754 £266,754
Liabilities . . 64,903 95,590 125,197 129,033
Freeholds .. 43,000 65,873 71,906 71,906
Plant, etc. . . 22,123 25,757 32,838 32,902
Stocks. . . . 148,554 148,787 175,795 167,436
Book debts . . 25.761 35,198 73,353 81,515
Cash, etc. . . 825 2,964 3,625 3,010
Shares other cos. 16,000 16,000 42,916 42,906
The figures are sound, however, more
or less liquids showing a surplus of
£122,928 (down £4648) over the debt.
Stocks are an item the size of which
might be disconcerting in normal times,
but which should be a source of strength
at the moment in view of inflated replace-
ment costs.
Renewed sharemarket weakness in the
scrip followed publication of the
accounts. Over the last 12 months the
ords. have fallen from 16s. to 12s.
(sellers), the prefs. from 21s. to 18s.,
at which the latter now yield 6.7 p.c.
Visibly the book value of the net tan-
gible cover is 19s. lOd. ords. and
£3 os. Bd. prefs.
Prefs. are entitled to participate with
ords. in new share issues and divs. above
6 p.c., but value of the income-partici-
pation right is doubtful at the moment,
particularly with reserves in need of
strengthening. It is 15 years since better
than 6 p.c. went out.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
it £ £
1930.. 19,651 7 p.c. = 19,337 314 20,000
1931.. 4,949 2i „ „ 6,906 18,043
1932.. 12,207 4 „ „ 11,050 1,157 19,200
1933.. 18,283 6 „ „ 16,575 1,708 20,908
1934.. 25,027 7 „ „ 19,337 5,690 26,598
1935.. 35,506 7 „ „ 20,410 15,096 41,694
Profit on sale of property, £13,121.. 54,815
1936.. 45,868 7 p.c. = 25,640 20,228 75,043
1937.. 49,786 8 „ „ 29,454 20,332 95,375
1938.. 51,746 10 „ „ 37,033 14,713 110,088
1939.. 52,853 10 „ „ 37,371 15,482 125,570
1940.. 56,101 10 „ „ 37,681 18,420 143,990
A commendable performance. Share-
holders averaged 8.1 p.c., sweetened with
£54,514 of bonus scrip, during the dozen
years to the close of accounts in 1921.
For the next decade it was a struggle to
pay an average of 5.6 p.c.; that was
because the board’s attempt to widen the
co.’s connections in the country, largely
on a t.p. basis, failed to produce the
results expected. So it was decided to
concentrate on city turnover. But slump
interfered with the new plans, and the
management had to mark time with its
programme. Meanwhile shopping began
to concentrate around the Queen-Albert-
Adelaide-Edward-street block, in the
centre of which is Finneys. With every-
thing ready for expansion the manage-
ment made the most of its opportunities,
and earnings have responded in fine style.
Those on the register have averaged 7.7
p.c. over the last nine years, with a
steady 10 p.c. and widening margins for
the last three of them.
Despite low prices for wool and wheat,
turnover reached a record level last term.
The spring in gross earnings (£270,016)
was £24,830. Trading exes. (£177,662)
were up only £6760, which suggests that
the management is keeping a tight hold
upon controllable outgoings. But an
extra £14,822 was set aside as provision
for taxation and contingencies (£36,253),
leaving the improvement in the declared
net result £3248. The £56,101 of
profit was 14.8 p.c. on capital as against
14.1, 14, 13.5, 12.5, 9, 6.6, 4.4 and 1.8
p.c. back to 1931. The div. was kept
at 10 p.c., and £18,420 was visibly put
in the cupboard, raising the support and
assistance for capital to £143,990, the
highest yet.
Balance-sheet figures reflect all-round
expansion of the business and a steadily
strengthening financial position:
1934. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Capital .. £276,243 £370,328 £373,713 £376,811
Liabilities .. 102,057 42,082 29,991 52,367
Freeholds . . 153,940 263,188 263,463 277,101
Plant, etc. . . 38.828 81,127 77,940 78,372
Stocks . . 158,039 176,350 179,253 213,005
Book debts, etc. 39,156 53,358 49,467 54,197
Cash and in-
vestments . . 44,505 10,708 14,630 15,590
Outstanding movements last term were
the growth of £33,752 in stocks, of
£18,941 in the overdraft (£26,305) and
of £3435 in the amount coming to trade
creditors (£26,062). To stock up in the
face of rising costs and other difficulties
is a sound move, provided stocks have
been well bought, and recent history of
the business is encouraging in this re-
spect. Shopping facilities were further
increased by the expenditure of £13,638
more than was written off on freehold.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£230,425) was
£17,066.
As for the current term, costs, in-
cluding taxation, continue on the up-
grade. But there promises to be plenty
of money about, thanks to a good
seasonal outlook, defence expenditure
and satisfactory prices for all ou* most
important exports. Prospects of the co.
making a still better showing at next
balance are encouraging.
At 28s. 9d. the f.-p. pound ords. re-
turn 6.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. It
is a very satisfactory yield; but Queens-
land stocks are not very popular on
southern ’Changes owing to the probate
question. The net tangible cover is
275. Bd.
The Gold Excise
Rumblings against the Commonwealth
gold excise—since Sept. 15 the Federal
Administration has been taking 50 p.c.
of the price of the metal above £A9 an
ounce —are becoming louder in the West,
and there has been a suggestion in Can-
berra that the impost is likely to come
up for review. Knight Colin Fraser
offered some criticism at the annual
meeting of the Mines and Metals Asso-
ciation in Melbourne last week:
The severity of the tax on low-grade
mines should be clearly recognised. A tax
of 15s. per ounce means 9d. per dwt. —
i.e., 2s. 3d. a ton of 3dwt. ore, 3s. a
ton of 4dwt. ore, and, say, 4s. 4Jd. a ton
on the average grade of ore [s.BdwtJ
treated in Western Australia last year. An
impost such as this must, in many cases,
render low-grade ores —they represent a
great part of our resources—uneconomical.
For this reason the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s scheme should have included
provision for the appropriation of portion
of the tax for financing or subsidising
sound plans to raise gold output by in-
crease of plant capacity and by expending
prospecting and developmental work on
our low-grade ore deposits.
To emphasise, as the authorities are do-
ing daily, the scarcity of dollar credits,
and at the same time to employ a policy
which in certain directions definitely makes
for checking the production of gold, is an
anomaly which calls for prompt correction.
A cry for dollar exchange is a cry for
(Continued on next page.)
The Australian Sugar Producers
Association Ltd.
ANNUAL CONFERENCE, 1940
OPENING ADDRESS BY THE PRESIDENT
(SENATOR T. W. CRAWFORD).
Gentlemen,
It affords me great pleasure to extend
a cordial welcome to all attending this
session of the Council of the Australian
Sugar Producers Association. This is our
thirty-second Annual Meeting, and it is
worthy of record that after thirty-three
years of service to the industry our
Association retains its vigor and influence,
a statement emphatically endorsed by the
presence this morning of delegates repre-
senting every sugar centre from the
Northern Rivers districts of New South
Wales t'o those situated at the base of Cape
York Peninsula, the latter constituting the
spearhead of agricultural settlement in
our Australian tropics. The financial
statements to be submitted for your con-
sideration furnish further proof that the
A.S.P.A. occupies a leading position
amongst Australian primary producers’
organisations.
The war, in which Australia is shoulder-
ing her full share of responsibility, has
already had an adverse effect upon the
sugar industry. When the terms were
announced for the purchase by the British
Government of the unexported balance of
our 1939 output it was hoped that the
return to producers would be substantially
higher than had prevailed for some years.
Experience has shown, however, that the
enhanced oversea price will be largely
absorbed by many Australian increases
in costs of production in field, mill,
refinery, and transport. In addition, de-
terioration due to storage of raw sugar
for long periods will in some cases entail
heavy loss.
At the moment the outlook is certainly
not encouraging. The rationing of sugar
in England will involve substantially re-
duced consumption, and other Empire
producers will, of course, be given their
share of this restricted preferential market.
In the circumstances there appears to be
no alternative to rigid control of output.
However repugnant the idea of restriction
may be, upon reflection we are bound to
admit that a measure of control is better
than producing in excess of requirements.
Other countries have steadfastly limited
production, outstanding examples being
Cuba and Java. Even the insular and
mainland U.S.A. producers were compelled
to conform to officially allotted quotas,
and thus permit imports in large and
regulated quantity to assist in supplying
the requirements of an annual American
consumption of six million tons. Shortly
after the outbreak of war, however, the
quota system was temporarily suspended
and the tariff preference on Cuban sugar
removed by Presidential decree.
Our hopes were not fulfilled regarding
the beneficial effects expected from the
International Sugar Agreement, which
was designed to check over-production,
and by this means restore prices to re-
munerative levels in the world’s free
markets. ith the outbreak of war this
agreement ceased to operate before it's
purpose had been achieved. It is impos-
sible to forecast what may occur regard-
ing sugar production under war conditions.
Present circumstances, however, appear to
indicate that Australian sugar interests
demand that our 1940 output be restricted
to market requirements, which, so far as
export is concerned, will be governed to
some extent by transport facilities. Thus
export trade depends upon conditions
beyond our control, which serves to em-
phasise the need for promptness and vigor
in setting our house in order.
Sugar has been the subject of Govern-
ment control to a greater extent than
almost any other commodity. The reasons
for this in most countries have been en-
tirely economic. But in Australia the
production of sugar, apart from its
economic value, also serves the great
national purpose of settling and develop-
ing, as no other industry could do, terri-
tory which, owing to its fertility and vul-
nerability, might be, in circumstances
readily conceivable in these days of
national covetousness, a tempting prize to
a powerful aggressor. Sugar, it may be
observed, is easier to control than many
other commodities because in its market-
able form its quality and value are accu-
rately assessable, and it reaches consumers
through a few well-defined channels.
The Queensland industry has received
its full share of legislative control. Acts
of Parliament have respectively provided
for the erection of co-operative mills,
owned and controlled by growers; for the
introduction, supervision, and repatriation
of field labour; for conditions of employ-
ment and remuneration of Australian
workers engaged in the industry; for the
acquisition, refining, and distribution of
sugar; for the establishment of experi-
ment stations, and the suppression of cane
pests and diseases; for the equitable
division between grower and miller of the
proceeds of the sale of sugar; for the
strict reservation of the domestic market
for the home product at a price leaving
no room whatever for slackness or in-
efficiency; and lastly, quite recently, for
the revision of mill and farm peaks by a
tribunal on which the industry is directly
represented, and whose findings are sub-
ject to approval or otherwise by the
Governor-in-Council. Ours may be re-
garded as a formidable system, but I
venture the opinion that since the modern
trend became so generally and emphati-
cally in favour of legislative control of
industry our methods have been far from
unique. If at times such control appears
irksome it is surely wiser to survey the
situation as a whole than to declaim
against some aspects that are more or less
affected by individual point of view. The
fact that Queensland sugar production in-
creased from 517,877 tons in 1929 to
approximately 890,500 tons in 1939 does
not appear to indicate that a measure of
official control has seriously hampered
the efforts of those engaged in the in-
dustry.
The war has imposed upon the people
of Australia obligations which will de-
mand an increased volume of production
so far as markets will permit. Industry
alone is the basis of national wealth, which
by means of various methods of taxation
is continuously conscripted in the form
of private income to satisfy the nation’s
financial needs, as distinct from individual
necessities. This statement will be con-
tested, perhaps, in some quarters where
the view is held that all financial opera-
tions can be transacted by means of in-
trinsically worthless instruments. But as
in the final analyis goods and services are
exchanged for other goods or services, the
medium of exchange, if not of intrinsic
worth, must be supported by something of
marketable value. On this basis, with
the help of a banking system, possessing
general confidence, the wealth produced
in the sugar districts of Queensland may
be transferred in normal times to practi-
cally any part of the world. Fortunately,
in these days of stress there are so many
Australian-made commodities on the
market that most of the country’s wealth
circulates as it is produced within our
own borders, being turned over again and
again in ever-widening circles, till the
original twelve million pounds or so repre-
senting the value of a season’s sugar pro-
duction grows into many millions more.
Hence it is that the money spent in the
Commonwealth is so much greater than
the value of production as recorded in
official statistics.
Our motto may be “Business as usual.”
But the war is ever uppermost in our
minds. I regret that I am therefore un-
able to conclude on an optimistic note.
I have no doubt that victory will crown
the efforts of the Allies, and that in all
that Australian troops are called upon to
do the spirit of Anzac will prevail. But
a long and bloody trail may have to be
trodden before peace is finally achieved.
Meanwhile we have our duty to perform
as citizens of this important part of the
Empire. I am certain that all present,
and those whom they represent at this
Conference, have a deep sense of their
obligations, and will loyally fulfil them
to the utmost.


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL 11. DOYLE
E. V. T. WHITTLE,
Directors'.
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
£. s IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
m
mm
mb
m
£8 a month
FOR LIFE
A Woman's Bid for
INDEPENDENCE
MISS NANCY BROWN is a business girl who has an eye on
the future. Whether she marries or not, she is determined
to have a measure of independence.
To ensure this independence she is investing part of her
wages in an A.M.P. policy that will give her £8 a month when
she reaches 55; an income guaranteed by the A.M.P. that will
arrive as regularly as the moon, come wars, depressions, strikes,
or whatnot.
Eight pounds a month is not a large income, but there are
hundreds of thousands of women who would be mighty glad to
have it coming in regularly.
You can arrange to have just what monthly income you wish,
to commence at any age you select.
Enquire. Enquiry costs nothing. Ask the nearest A.M.P.
office to send a man to tell you how to give yourself this com-
fort. If you prefer, write for a copy of “Peace of Mind,” a book
that you will enjoy reading. Write to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sir S'amuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout All States.
New Zealand Office; Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals. — Advt.
At * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
GOLD
WHERE AND HOW
TO FIND IT
Two practical new books by
lON L. IDRIESS
PROSPECTING FOR GOLD
The Likeliest Country to Try—Dishing, Banjoing
and Cradling—Water Power and Boxing—Hand
Sluicing and More Power—Sluicing and Cleaning
Up—Gold Saving and Dam Building—How to Make
Water Work —River Work: Osrniridium: Platinum—
S’ecrets of Alluvial Gold —Dry-stacking—Wet Season
Claims—Prospecting for Old River-beds—Hydraulic
Sluicing—Elevators—Dry-blowing and Nuggets—-
Prospecting for Reefs—-Erecting a Battery—Amalga-
mation —Cyanide Process —Opal Mining—Prospecting
for Oil.
Price 5/- (post 3d.)
CYANIDING FOR GOLD
Sampling Sand and Slime Dumps—Treating Sand by
Leaching—Treatment of Slime —Care of Zinc Box:
Cleaning Up—Bullion: Fluxes: Direct Smelting—
Apparatus for Solution Testing—Testing Solutions:
Free Cyanide and Protective Alkalinity—Air-slaked
Lime Discovery—Acids in Material: “Cyanicides”—
Copper Troubles —-Treatment of Concentrates—Diffi-
culties—Amalgamation-—-Assaying—Flotation—Simple
Chemistry—Testing for Minerals.
Price 10/- (post 5d.)
POST ORDER NOW
Angus and Robertson. Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me the book(s) I have marked.
Enclosed is £ : :
PROSPECTING FOR GOLD
CYANIDING FOR GOLD.
Name
Address
B. 27/3/’4O
YOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL .. .
But even with approx. £2O you
can have a stake to-day in
Australian industry . . .
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
A Free Booklet is yours on
request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
BOX 4028 V.V, 0.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 529«
more gold, or, in other words, for the
Commonwealth U 'and^ d
policies should aim at this as a common
objective.
The second par. is the crux of the
matter. In 1939 the Commonwealth, ex-
eluding New Guinea and Papua, pro-
duced 1,644,257 fine ounces of the
yellow metal, which provided us with
overseas spending money to the equiva-
lent of £A15,943,000. Unquestionably
removal of the tax would considerably
increase this fitrnre n) hv hrineinp low
increase this figure (1) by bringing low-
grade producers into product.on-Ora
Wl,b
730,000 tons assaying 3 Bdwt„ and
S”, Gold Mines, at Nevona, with
400 000 tons of low-grade stuff, are eases
in the West in point; (2) by extension
of existing treatment plants, and (3) by
greater exploitation of old tailings
dumps. Economically, the question is:
Would loss of the million and a quarter
revenue the excise would bring in
on the basis of 1939 production be coun-
terbalanced by the greater employment
provided and the impetus given to our
war effort by the provision of increased
dollar-exchange facilities?
Deducting the tax, mining cos. are
now getting around £9 16s. a fine ounce
for their output; that is 11s. more than
the average for the eight months of 1939
prior to the outbreak of war and 19s.
more than in 1938. The margin here
Ca P abl <; ' aki "® ,°f a "y
cost increases mat have so far arisen.
In the long run the wisdom of any
large-scale war-time expansion of low-
grade production is largely wrapped up
with what happens to the price of gold,
And there is no certainty that it will keep
lts P res s n t level in terms of sterling at
* e ces sahon of hostilities, though further
"? p F?. ia . tl< ? n of tha P ound as the result
sh Id !u S W l ar e ° l } a U cal ' s P lo bable.
should there be any fall in the return to
Australlan producers, such as would be
caused were (he England-Australia ex-
change rates to come closer together, dis-
ruption bordering on chaos b
likely to prevail when the main producers
in the indust were mini £ , ers
grade of ore economically possible
y F
• nrnr i llf stP d ß producers are selling
t nn Hn n t u ritau * a * 40 p.c. unaer
t h2v gold pro-
y aie getting little, if any, bene-
h m lT P ar "J? nces ‘ tbe . otber
hpi ’ n" J pr copper and fin are
r „ § fr, PP* sometbing b p
1 ... 1 J f ir ™ etals - The
eq - mty of the P osltlon has become very
Investment qualities of the Sons of
Gwalia, the Leonora (W.A.) mine with
a 40-year record of gold extraction, are
being pointed to in London. On each
of the 325,000 issued 10s. • shares an
average ss. stg. has gone out for six
years now; interims in respect of the
current term have totalled 35., and a
final of 2s. at least is looked for in May.
There is six years’ ore in sight, and the
most encouraging aspect of recent opera-
tions has been the way values have lived
with depth. It looks promising for pros-
pects below No. 30 horizon, to get at
which a start on a new internal shaft is
expected to be made towards the end of
the year. British taxation is a snag for
Australian investors, though, divs. of
English-registered cos., mining or other-
wise, being taxable in the hands of the
recipients, albeit there is some rebate
for Dominions.
* ■ * * *
Reserve ore in the Comet mine, Marble
Bar tW.A.), at June 30 is set down
at 62,700 tons of an average assay of
18.9dwt. —49,500 tons going an ounce to
the ton in the Comet lode, with 13,200
tons of foz. stuff in the Alexander gold-
carrier. In the upper levels the Comet
reef, which, on the side of a hill, has been
proved to a vertical depth of 260 ft., is
30ft. wide ; the Alexander has been traced
for 400 ft., average width 3|ft. Plant
capacity has now reached 1000 tons a
month, and crates of new equipment—
£4s7o worth last month—are still arriving.
* * * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines’ annual
report shows that the record quantity
of 4,095,257 tons of gold-bearing ore was
treated in the State during 1939 for a
yield worth £A5,047,518 at the old price
of gold. The grade of ore at s.Bdwt.
was o.44dwt. below that for 1938 ; it
compares with 21.62dwt. for 1903, the
peak period of production.
Lake View again headed the list of
producers with 171,623 fine oz. Gt.
Boulder followed with 110,3230 z. and
Wiluna came next with 90,1690 z. The
best of 33 other, leading contributors were
Big Bell 59,7270 z., North Kalgurli
49,4760 z., Sons of Gwalia 45,6170 z.,
Boulder Perseverance 37,6810 z., Central
Norseman 35,2550 z., Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie 34,4190 z., Triton 33,7760 z.,
Lancefield 32,0410 z., Norseman Gold
Mines 31,0460 z., Golden Horse Shoe
(sands re-treatment) 28,8100 z., Moonlight
Wiluna 26,8160 z., South Kalgurli 24,836
oz., Yellowdine Gold Development
23,7030 z. and Youanmi 20,6960 z.
In Australian currency the price of
gold for the first eight months of the
year averaged £9 ss. and for the re-
maining four months, after deduction of
the Federal gold tax, £9 16s. Dividends
totalled £1,337,111, an increase of
£233,867 on 1938. Average number of
men employed in the industry was 14,961,
a decrease of 122. The biggest em-
ployers were the biggest producers—Lake
View and Gt. Boulder. Over 60 cos.,
with an aggregate paid-up capital of
nearly £12,500,000, carried on active
operations in the West last year. Of
these, 22 were British, with a paid-up
capital of £7,950,000 ; there was also one
American, with a capital of £400,000.
Most of the remainder had their head-
quarters in the eastern States.
During 1939 25 cos. were on the divi-
dend list. Gt. Boulder is the oldest
operating co. and has paid most i,n
dividends. To date it has distributed
£6,750,000. Of the others, Lake View
has paid away £2,121,000, and then
follow Boulder Perseverance £2,054,336,
Sons of Gwalia £1,596,562 and South
Kalgurli £880,637. Of the cos. formed
in the last 10 or 15 years, Wiluna
has distributed dividends totalling
£808,421, Lancefield £362,500, Norse-
man Gold Mines £357,555, Yellow-
dine Gold Development £346,887, Golden
Horse Shoe (New) £284,167 (including
return of capital), Triton £249,000, Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie £106,750, Ora Banda
Amalgamated £70,000, Paringa £63,257,
First Hit £37,285, Gold Fields Aus-
tralian Development (Moonlight Wiluna
mine) £27,500, Princess Royal £18,725,
Mt. Magnet £17,712, Linden £9499,
Ora Banda Mines £6250. No account
has been taken of dividends paid or
declared after January 31 last.
* * * *
Knight Lewis Fermer, the mining ex-
pert who recently investigated the
industry on behalf of the Straits Govern-
ment, estimates Malaya’s known metallic
tin reserves at 1,000,000 tons —17 years
supply at the annual rate of extraction
over the past five years or so. Of this,
609,750 tons, contained in 2,988,803,000
c.y., is definite; the balance is largely
guesswork, some cos. being reluctant to
estimate their reserves, while few Chinese
miners keep any records at all. As yet
unknown and unleased resources are
estimated to contain a further half-
million tons of metal, but this figure can
be only sheer speculation. At the end
of 1938 tinmining cos. in Malaya num-
bered 762. The previous year, which
was one of peak production, dredges
accounted for 48 p.c. of the output,
gravel pumps for 38 p.c., lode-mining
for 4 p.c. Though the development of
bucket-dredging over the last decade has
been outstanding, an oxide recovery of
80 p.c. is still looked on as good prac-
tice. It is a problem on which most of
the leading mining groups have their
own research staffs at work.
* * * *
Western Queen (W.A.) is still dogged
by failure. A year ago it sold most of
its assets at Warda Warra, Mt. Magnet,
and took the rest to Norseman. This
proved an out-of-the-pan-into-the-fire
move. Later, on the strength of en-
couraging reports, it returned to Mt.
Magnet and took an option on the
Evening Star. Now the manager re-
ports that a shoot which was expected
to be encountered is not there. Co. is
now looking for something else.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; P. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. P. E. Wall, M.L.C. ;
Wm. White; Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
'Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
if.
c
.X
bl
-2/
£w^*v*sS
MSS BOOK
J
0*
H@W2S£2
vNEMPIOYh/
ent
§jg
/-St*-'.
*J2,
»
yjt
rymrjs,,
■WI . v f - . >*.
Of all the ills to which man
is prone so many can be defeated
by financial resources, that the
necessity for their provision needs
no emphasis.
Few of us can build, inherit, or even fortuitously
acquire fortunes but all can provide against misfortune.
The Savings Bank way is the easiest, safest, surest way
of all.
Open your Savings Account to-day.
Cbmraonwealtb Savfnosßanli of Hustralla
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Great Interest Burden
One of the vexed questions of this
age —and perhaps of many earlier ages —
is that of interest, sometimes called usury
with or without correct regard for the
term. On Australia’s national debt is
paid something like £50,000,000 a year in
interest, and it calls for a bit under half
of the total taxation revenue collected
by the Commonwealth and State Gov-
ernments. These figures do not include
local government outgo and income, nor
the many millions involved in interest on
private borrowings from banks, other
financial houses or private lenders.
“Why should Governments have to
pay interest on credit created by
the nation?” is the cry of many
a body that has sprung up with the
object of introducing “currency reform.”
Well, why should Australian Govern-
ments have to pay £50,000,000 a year in
interest? Apart from the portion of the
interest that is payable overseas —and,
since we have mentioned overseas bor-
rowing, a counter-question arises, Why
should other countries lend us money if
they are not to get interest out of it? —
it is largely an internal matter, it is said.
The Government has to pay 4 p.c., per-
haps, for borrowing national credit.
Preposterous! Credit should be costless
to a Government, and so on. The more
the question is considered, the more
freakish the suggested remedies are likely
to be. Economics become a maze,
especially for people of volatile tempera-
ment, and it is such people who usually
make most noise about these things.
Interest does appear to be a fly in the
economic ointment. Superficially the
practice of charging interest may seem
at odds with nature. A squirrel or
some such animal works during the
summer storing up food for the
winter; he gets no “interest” on his
stored-up labor. An island community
having no currency system has to keep
its “capital” in the shape of goods,
chattels, livestock, etc.; no “interest”
is received on this capital. Again,
in a civilised community, a man whose
wealth is in goods and chattels may have
to pay storage charges on his property,
and certainly gets no return on his capi-
tal in such a case.
But in all the foregoing instances (even
in the case of the squirrel, we may
assume) had the owner of the goods lent
them to anybody he would have expected
some sort of premium on repayment.
While the goods were in his own posses-
sion he knew, or believed he knew, how
to exercise proper care and control over
them. Risked with someone else, he
wouldn’t feel so sure, especially as the
borrower might aim to put the goods
to reproductive use, and take all the
chances that the sowing of crops, the
breeding of livestock and ventures into
commerce invariably entail.
The owner of a flock of sheep would
not be expected to “lend” them to some-
one else free of charge. And, as with
goods and other property, so with
money. Money in a person’s name
in the bank is little different in
the long run from a flock of sheep
of equivalent market value in the
same person’s name. Money should be
freely convertible into sheep, and sheep
into money. And where the money isn’t
readily convertible into sheep or other
commodities, something is radically
wrong with the money. Where the sheep
are not readily convertible into money, as
may happen during a slump, something
may still be wrong with the money.
“Credit” may have been unduly extended
in the past, extended beyond the value
of the goods, etc., on which it was
created, and the whole economic gear
may now be out of order. During finan-
cial depressions, therefore, goods seem
to have a depreciated value. But that is
merely the freak result of freakish
finance. Finance is only a handmaiden
to industry; when finance is regarded as
having extraordinary “powers,” trouble
is imminent. The sheep, etc., represent
the substance, finance the shadow. But
badly-managed finances of a country can
play havoc with industry. When financial
organisation is wrong, an essential cog
in industry also goes wrong. Then we
have people cursing “bondholders,”
bankers, etc.
Modern methods of finance, credit-
control, etc., are merely a convenience
necessary to modern industry; to be
sound they must have as their foun-
dation the acknowledgment that all
credit has to be backed by something
“May I have the pleasure of this dance ?”
that is of real value to the people
as a whole. It would be no use,
for instance, of raising credit on the
“value” of the water in the Pacific Ocean,
because nobody has use for that water.
The idea of a Government raising
“costless” credit depends entirely on the
willingness of the people to lend money
free of interest. It is a question of
giving something to the State for the
common good. If interest on Govern-
ment loans is wrong, then the whole prin-
ciple of interest is wrong, since Govern-
ment undertakings are supposed to
belong to the people as a whole, a
mortgaged house belonging to one of the
people as an individual.
If Australian Governments had issued
£1,300,000,000 worth of notes in the past
100 years or so instead of incurring that
much national debt, about £1,250,000,000
of the notes would be “unpopular,”
assuming that absolute depreciation of
our currency had not occurred. At
present we know that Australia finds
£60,000,000 or thereabouts of currency
notes adequate for till-money. The
£1,250,000,000 extra would therefore serve
no useful purpose as currency.
But, it may be asked, why not insist
that, instead of allowing private banks
to “create” credit, they should only ad-
vance money in the form of Government
notes issued, interest-free, in payment of
public works? There has always been
a great outcry against banks being
allowed to make money out of credit
“creation.” If “Government-note” credit
were practicable finance the banks would
make no less profit than before. With
the Government paying no interest on
loans, banks would be able to borrow
the notes at 1 p.c. and lend at, say, 2\
p.c., and maintain their former margin
of profits.
But the issue of thousands of millions
of notes by a Government, free of in-
terest and with no responsibility for re-
payment, is not practicable finance. We
have seen what poor value Governments
get in return for their spending even
when they have to face stiff rates of in-
terest on their borrowing. With their
credit-raising powers limited only to the
speed of the printing-presses—and the
confidence of the public—they would get
poorer value still. The currency would
be thrown into the gutter eventually.
Like Beauty, credit has to exist in the
eye of the beholder.
Borrowing by Australian Governments
in the first instance most likely began
with the idea that not only would revenue
be forthcoming from the “works” estab-
lished by the loan money sufficient to
pay all interest as well as other charges,
but enough also to provide a sinking-
fund for redemption of the loans. In
actual fact most Australian public loans,
when repaid, are so met only by the
raising of a new loan, and so on. Since
the end of the 1914-18 war not only have
the debts incurred during that period
not been appreciably reduced, but the
total national debt has risen from
£l5O 13s, 9d. a head to £lBB 4s. 4d.
a head. Even growth in population has
been unable to keep pace with increase
the debt. And debt, not merely in-
terest, seems to be our biggest respon-
sibility. We are able to overlook the
size of the debt only because, so far, we
have been able to keep “renewing” it
by borrowing again.
No, the problem of national interest
burdens isn’t merely one born of “money
systems.” It is born of Government
waste, war waste and inequality of con-
tributions to the cost of national under-
takings. It isn’t a problem of mathemati-
cal solution. The solution rests with how
much acknowledgment of realities a
nation governs itself. In fact, the person
who objects to Governments paying in-
terest on loans really has a grouch
against Governments borrowing at all;
and, as the Americans say, perhaps he
has something there. The idea of “pay-
ing as we go” may have to become more
acceptable all round.
B.H.P. shares sank to 455. 3d. at
the beginning of last week, the lowest
price touched since the bonus distribu-
tion was made. At this level they repre-
sented 745. 3d. on a cz/m-bonus basis.
The slipping-back in the price of the
stock was in keeping with the general
trend of the market, and it is hard to
say how the cc will fare if the coal strike
goes on. This disgraceful stoppage, news
of which must have been received with
satisfaction in Berlin, is in defiance of
an arbitration award ; the miners wanted
arbitration, got it, and now won’t abide
by it. The coal strike has been just an-
other of a series of labor troubles that have
embarrassed the country since it became
involved in a war against the Nazis.
Coalminers, good citizens as most of
them are, are showing a singular lack
of national intelligence in allowing them-
selves to be led into giving Australia an-
other punch in the face
just when every effort is
needed to carry our de-
fence programme
through. We have a
very serious problem
ahead of us, and strikes
like those on the coal-
fields are childishly silly.
The miners will do no
good for themselves by
their action ; they never
do.
* *
Howard Smith’s 5 p.c.
div. (unchanged) had
already been declared
when accounts disclos-
ing the highest profit
since 1928 were published last week. At
£149,505 the result compared with
£141,821 and £146,073 in the two pre-
ceding years, and represented 6.7 p.c.
on ord. capital, compared with 6.3 p.c.
in the preceding term. Consolidated
accounts of the co. and its subsidiaries
disclose a net profit of £198,711, Howard
Smith’s equity being £181,160, equal to
8.3 p.c. on ord. capital. Sellers asked
235., ex div., for the scrip last week. At
225. 6d. the yield would be £4 9s. per
cent.
(Continued on page 23.)


BRITAIN WILL WIN
AGAIN !
It is a British habit to fight for right. For many, many
years it has been Britain who won the last, the
decisive battle. So it will be this time.
Because Lloyd’s have become a synonym for British
dependability, British integrity, this world-famous firm
has followed the fortunes of Britain, in war and peace,
for over two and a half centuries.
Bennie S. Cohen 8C Son (N. S. W.) Pty. Ltd. are
proud to be Australian representatives of Lloyd’s—
proud of an honour that is both international and
commercial proud that their services embody and
reflect the Lloyd’s tradition.
This is an organisation that offers long years of
experience in all phases of insurance business; a repu-
tation for painstaking attention to ALL policy-holders,
and the prompt, equitable adjustment of all claims.
BENNIE S. COHEN & SON
(N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
Insurance House, 263 George Street, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 8W2131 (14 lines).
NEWCASTLE REPRESENTATIVE:
P. W. Saddington & Sons Pty., Ltd., 6 Bolton Street.
’Phone: Newcastle 985.
Offices in Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Canberra, Darwin.


SYDNEY ROYAL, 1940
The handsome head of the leader of the Windsor Hereford stud, Windsor Puritan, the young bull awarded premier honors
at Sydney Royal Show. By Paunton Layman (imp.), he is a splendid Hereford type.
Five dairy champions being judged for the Peters special prize. El Rimal Winsome, F. A. Mclntosh’s splendid Ayrshire
cow which won the Peters test prize. She won the same prize in 1939, when she was also Ayrshire champion. She was
reserve Ayrshire champion this year to a stud mate. E. B. Carr, managing director Peters Delicacy Co., and F. A. Mclntosh
congratulate each other.


Silver Lining (imp.), by Beneficent from Misty Cloud, champion Clydesdale stallion. Bred in Scotland and now owned
by Amos Dickins, of Corowa (N.S.W.), this horse was also champion in 1938.
The noble head of Silver Lining (imp.), twice a
Sydney Show champion.
The massive legs and firm hooves of the champion Clydesdale
stallion.


Wollongbar Karama (Wollongbar Hopeful ex W. Bel Air
14th), champion Guernsey cow from N.S.W. Dept, of
Agriculture’s Wollongbar Experiment Farm.
F. A. Mclntosh, Woodside Park, Berry (N.S.W.), showed this
Ayrshire cow champion, Denbigh Periwinkle (Denbigh Factor
ex Denbigh Princess).
Judging the groups in the N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co.’s challenge gold cup section for dairy groups. Won by
F. A. Mclntosh’s Ayrshires for third year in succession, thus giving him trophy outright.
Glen Belah Reuben, F. A. Mclntosh’s fine old Ayrshire bull,
added another championship to his list. From Woodside
Park, Berry (N.S.W.), he is by Kyby Robin from El Rimal
Surprise, and was bred in S.A. by E. O. Hancock.
Cambraie Olinda’s Girl, champion Jersey cow. She was bred
on Jersey Island and imported to Australia by Navua Pty.,
Ltd., of Richmond (N.S.W.).


Possibly the best Aberdeen-Angus bull in Australia,
Booroomooka Hector, by Bar Quality 2nd (imp. U.S.A.)
ex Booroomooka Elfrida, won the championship for
H. G. Munro, Booroomoooka, Bingara (N.S.W.).
N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture’s Trangie Eurotia 2nd (Brave
Edward Glencarnock, imp. Can., ex Glencarnock Eurotia 4th,
imp. Can.) was champion Aberdeen-Angus cow for the
second time in succession. She was bred at Trangie
Experiment Farm.
Judging mixed breeds in the export steer section of the fat cattle classes.
Windsor Puritan (Paunton Layman, imp., ex Windsor Purity),
champion Hereford bull. Rising three years, he was bred by
W. Mcllrath, Myall Creek, Delungra (N.S.W.).
Junior and senior Polled Hereford champion, Milton
Ambassador (Woodrow Ist, imp. U.S.A., ex Golf Hill Doreen
3rd). Bred by Mrs. U. M. Hordern, Milton Park, Bowral
(N.S.W.).


%
sr
. 'vsos'a
W.
m
r
■ '
X
I I
m
<
3U/s
TR
Tooth
Whether you collect or not you’ll enjoy
a "K. 8.” Its smooth, clean flavour lifts your
spirits, fills you with energy, makes life
worth while. For dividends in enjoyment
call for Tooth’s "K. 8.”
TOOTHS
IN BOTTLES AND
LAGER
HALF BOTTLES
K. 178 F.P.


COOPER HOUSE
Cooper’s Sheep Dip was perfected in England, after much research work, by the late
William Cooper, M.R.C.V.S., in 1843.
As sheep men migrated from England to Australia Cooper’s Dip followed them, and in
those early days, over 60 years ago, the distribution of this famous product was done through
agency arrangements with leading wool firms in various States.
Steadily the business grew, and about 40 years ago William Cooper & Nephews (the title
by which the Firm was then known) opened the first “Cooper” office at 3 Bent Street, Sydney.
Subsequently this office was transferred to 10 Bligh Street, and over 30 years ago it was
transferred to 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
In 1920 the Australian “Cooper” business was formed into a limited liability company,
and large chemical works were established at Phillip Street, Concord, where Cooper’s Dip
and a large range of “Cooper” products are now manufactured.
The steady growth of the Cooper business in Australia has necessitated a steady increase
in the “Cooper” Staff, so that it eventually became necessary to acquire new premises in
Sydney. When the Orient Steam Navigation Co., Ltd., auctioned their 9-1 1 O’Connell
Street premises, at the end of 1938, the Management of William Cooper & Nephews
(Australia) Pty., Limited, were successful in acquiring the property.
Cooper House has been modernised internally to house the Cooper Staff, but it is one
of the oldest buildings in O’Connell Street, and is a fitting background to the Firm of
Coopers, which will shortly celebrate its centenary.
MEAT
The Remington Saleyards and
The Homebush Abattoir
Secure
FULLEST VALUES FOR THE PRIMARY
PRODUCER!
FOR LOCAL AND EXPORT TRADE
, . Equipped with
The Largest Single Killing Unit in the World .
Modern By-Products Machinery.
Extensive Cold Storage and Refrigeration Accommodation.
Spacious and Hygienic Meat Markets.
.. v
m
m
zmmm
m
V -r
% S> m qPF
r~, - | §B§ \ a
t«ii *i jaggl Hf~Z3Li>. Isf i || |
. P
Htt'in
«i*li*
i»;,' iSSI
Section of Sheep Slaughtering Hall
•. mKm
THE VAST WORKS AT HOMEBUSH
provide the utmost facilities for
CORRECT. CAREFUL & ECONOMICAL HANDLING
BY-PRODUCTS
include TALLOW, NEATSFOOT OIL, Stock and Poultry Foods,
Fertiliser, Glue and Glue Pieces, Sinews, Bones, Hooves and Horns.
Recovery of Glands for Medical Articles.
VISIT
Fat Lamb Exhibit, Meat Industry Hall,
Royal Agricultural Show
m.
m t
m
v
mm
a
SS
H
1
Section of Cattle Slaughtering Hall
UNDER STATE CONTROL—VESTED IN
THE METROPOLITAN MEAT INDUSTRY COMMISSIONER HOMEBUSH BAY, N.S.W.


Clydesdale stallions, four years old and over, facing the judge. Nearest to the camera is Silver Lining (imp.), ultimate
champion.
P. and R. Allan’s Parkview Standard (Daphne’s Defiance of
Hillview ex Daisy 7th of Parkview), champion A.I.S. bull.
He was bred by Dudgeon and Son at their Albion Park
(N.S.W.) stud, and is nearly 10 years old.
Dudgeon and Son, of Parkview A.I.S. stud, Albion Park
(N.S.W.), won the A.I.S. cow championship for the second
time with Parkview Eva 15th (Jean’s Monarch of Blacklands
ex Eva 6th of Hillview).
This group of Clydesdales, including the champion mare and other prizewinners, won the Commonwealth District Groups
prize for Narrandera (N.S.W.).


INC[?] OF THE
OFFICIAL [?]NING DAY
His Excellency [?] Wakehurst inspects
the Guard of H[?] [?] left). At centre
top are the [?] most popular
performers on [?] At right of them
marches the [?] veteran Diggers of
1914-18, now on [?] duty, who formed
the Guard of [?] In centre are
Premier M[?] [?] Mininter Menzies,
Lord Mayor [?] Sir Sam Hordern.
On one side is [?] a stylish mover,
and on the [?] contenders in a
trotting heat. [?] Glimpses of the
Grand Parade [?] premier live


[?] OF THE
[?]NING DAY
[?] Wakehurst inspects
[?]p left). At centre
[?] most popular
[?]d At right of them
[?] veteran Diggers of
[?] duty, who formed
[?] In centre are
[?] Mininter Menzies,
[?] Sir Sam Hordern.
[?]n a stylish mover,
[?] contenders in a
[?] Glimpses of the
[?]lia's premier live


MODERN
TILLAGE
IMPLEMENTS
by John Shearer & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
EMBODYING ALL THE LATEST DEVELOPMENTS
AND CONSTRUCTIONAL IMPROVEMENTS.
'\\\\
W
V/A
A
SHEARER SCARIFIERS: A model for every type of country.
The “Austral” has scattered tynes, with adjustable Tynes and powerful
Spring Steel construction —11 to 25 tynes. Also Top Draught Scarifier,
10 to 22 tynes
m
i
22
SHEARER MOULDBOARD PLOUGHS:
Extra powerful
construction and remarkable light draught are the chief characteristics of
Shearer Mouldboard Ploughs. P Foot or D Foot. Team or Tractor levers.
Plain or 2-prong boards. Two to 10 furrows.
m
1
it
I
SHEARER TWIN DISC PLOUGHS:
The most improved
Disc Ploughs in the World. Frame built with powerful Spring Steel (special
formula) beams. Features include Patented Self-aligning and Adjustable Spindle
Bearing Blocks, Patented Chilled Semi-steel Disc Bearing and Improved Draught
Fixing for straight running and light draught. Will work hardest land. Sizes,
6 to 24 furrows. Also 2-furrow reversible Hillside Disc Plough and Royal
Single-jump Disc Plough.
m
%
i
n
SHEARER COMBINES: The two Shearer Models —the “Eife Tyne,”
each tyne independent jump, and ordinary “Spring Tyne.” Both models have
patented even sowing grain and super feeds, reversing stars, and firm seed-bed
attachment. Exceptional clearance. Proved greater yields. Extra strongly
constructed —means long life and low upkeep. Sizes, 8 to 28. Also hoe and
disc drills; sizes, 7 to 28.
1
I
mm
SHEARER HANDICULT STUMP JUMP SCARIFIER:
Particularly suitable for renovating land for growing lucerne and paspalum. Will
work hardest land. Overhead draught gives exceptional clearance. Spring steel
frame. Heat-treated spring steel tynes, arranged on scattered principle for
thorough, even cultivation. 10 and 12 tynes.
Write for details of FARM MACHINERY.
Please mention “The Bulletin.”
JOHN SHEARER & SONS
PTY.
LTD.
(Incorporated in South Australia)
GEORGE STREET, HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
Agents and depots throughout country districts of Australia.
THE
M.LC.
FOR YOUR
LIFE ASSURANCE
The Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Go. Ltd.
Founded 1886
Assets exceed
£30,000,000
Payments to Policy-
holders exceed
£37,000,000


Comrade, entered by F. and Miss M. Wood, Warra (Q.), performing in a ladies’ hunting contest,
Percherons are not widely known in Australia, but this fine
stallion, Foxlow Lord Terrance, owned by J. D. Phelps, of
Lake Bathurst (N.S.W.), created much interest in the breed
when he paraded at Sydney Show.
This young mare, Glenelg Lass, rising three years, won the
Clydesdale mare championship for Longmire Bros., of
Narrandera (N.S.W.). She is by Craigie Cameronian (imp.)
from Aitken’s Lass.
A big class of handsome young Hereford bulls facing the judge.


Sturdy axemen send the chips flying in a heat of the Woodchop Contests at Sydney Show.
In the Ring.
Garoo, first prize police horse at Sydney Show, ridden by
Constable Watts.


Judging the 1½ to 2 years Shorthorn bull class. First place
went to Peel River Co.’s Peel Pageant; Mrs. H. M. Carter
(N.S.W.) showing second and third bulls.
Champion Friesian bull, Bodalla Echo Julian (Echo Domino
of Oakview, imp. N.Z., ex Numba’s Pride Juliana), owned by
V. J. Lamond, Willowglen, Nowra (N.S.W.).
Saddle hacks competing in the 14 hands to 14.2 class.
Coonong Hector (Calrossie Red Baronet, imp., ex Calrossie
Flossy Virginia), which won the Shorthorn bull championship
for D. R. McCaughey, Borambola Park, Wagga (N.S.W.).
Navua Volunteer (imp. in dam), Jersey bull champion for the
second year in succession, was shown by Navua Pty., Ltd.,
Richmond (N.S.W.). He is by Dreaming Royalist from
Wonderful Fairy (imp.).
Havilah Delegate 54th, champion Devon bull from Hunter
White’s Havilah stud, Mudgee (N.S.W.). Eighteen months
old, he is by Ham Mill Delegate (imp.) ex H. Apricot 303rd.


The prolific North Coast and Tablelands area of N.S.W. once again won the honors in the Commonwealth District Exhibits
competition. A glimpse of the winning court.
Hunting in fours. Laurel, Bonnie Ander, Comrade and Hero
go over together.
Novice hacks, with lady riders, go through their paces for the
judge.
LEFT.—This handsome buggy horse, Innes Stepper, was imported by Harald Baker, and was only three weeks out of
quarantine and hardly acclimatised when he won a first and other prizes in the Harness Horse section. RlGHT. —Gundibri
Laddie 2nd, snow-white young Polled Shorthorn bull, which won both junior and senior championships and the Antrim
trophy. Bred by Gundibri Estates, Ltd., Merriwa (N.S.W.), he is by Oakwood Resolution (imp. U.S.A.) from Meadow
Lassie 3rd (imp. U.S.A.).


A PRACTICAL TEST OF CO-OPERATION
has been provided by
THE FARMERS & GRAZIERS CO-OPERATIVE
GRAIN INSURANCE & AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
Since the year 1919 the Company
HAS DISTRIBUTED CASH BONUSES
AMOUNTING TO
£233,676
Convincing proof of clients’ appreciation
is shown by the fact that
THE FARMERS & GRAZIERS COMPANY
SELL MORE WOOL, STOCK AND PRODUCE THAN
ANY OTHER COMPANY IN SYDNEY
Primary Producers are assured that
OUR EXPERT STAFF
IS CONSTANTLY AT THEIR SERVICE
CONSIGN TO
“THE FARMERS & GRAZIERS/’ SYDNEY
TWO SPECIAL PURCHASES
reserved specially for country customers!
m
u
fD
■
0
LO
-D
CN
E
ZD
'O
o
SfiK!
Htf
00
m
m
0
i
m
>
m
r\ o
m
ZD
sm
00 I ~ L ~
10
m
'M
00
c
■
CD
WM
m
O)
*SS
u
fes
ru
u
With winter not far off, you can’t afford to miss these super
values! All pure wool and a good sturdy knit in jacquard or
overcheck designs, also quite plain, in a wide range of colours.
Basques and cuffs are “linked” on . . . not just overlooked.
Good, roomy fittings, too, in S.M. to E.O.S. sizes. Special at
Ground Floor, George and Market Street Stores
é
PURE
WOOL
UWEAR
Just what you’ll want for
cold winter days! Cosy
winterweight short sleeve
Vests or long leg Pants,
Guaranteed unshrinkable,
with strong, flatlocked
seams. 34 to 46in. chest
sizes in good, roomy cut.
Ground, Floor,
both Men's Stores
Be sure to give your
chest measurement
when ordering!
m
Y t'-i *
Ipyn
y
DAVID JONES'
Send your order to
Box 503 AA, G.P.0., Sydney


YEARLINGS
AT THE
EASTER
SALES
1. —Bay filly, by Marconigram—Corbiere.
Bred by A. W. Thompson and Co. Pty., Ltd.
2.—Chestnut filly, by Brueghel—Aulone.
Bred by A. W. Thompson and Co. Pty., Ltd.
3.—Bay filly, by Melfort—Woorambie. Bred
by H. Thompson.
4.—Grey colt, by Beau Pere—Grey Port. Bred
at St. Aubins Stud.
5.-Chestnut colt, by Brueghel—Trevally. Bred
by A. W. Thompson and Co. Pty., Ltd.
11.-Bay colt, by Brueghel—Lady Canberra.
Bred by A. W. Thompson and Co. Pty., Ltd.
6.—Brown colt, by Beau Pere—Banita. Bred
at St. Aubins Stud.
7.—Chestnut colt, by J. R. Smith—Moab Star.
Bred by H. Thompson.
8.—Bay colt, by Beau Pere—Awaken. Bred
at St. Aubins Stud.
9.—Bay colt', by Piccadilly—Chatterbox. Bred
by P. Miller.
10 —Bay colt, by Piccadilly—Kowulka. Bred
by P. Miller.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £28,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,200,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £1,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout;
New South Wales, ' Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
FOLLOW THIS
LINE OIH
I
y.; 1
r^p-
I*
★
11
i; im
Sfi
SSI
SEEQr;
London g\h
1
t
w
(2//M
m
i/p'Sir
feaaia£@/»331h
1
so
Po
£°c*
Gordon’s
Gin
IS DISTILLED
GENUINE
LONDON
GIN CAN
ONLY
COME FROM
LONDON
ENGLAND
where
If maq cosf a
little more buf
its WELL worth it!
£uptown
THE HEART OF A COOP COCKTAIL
TANQUE RAY, GORDON 4 CO
LTD. LONDON. ENGLAND.
3he lahgeSt qlti distiileAi in the iwiLet
At the Sydney Show official luncheon
on Wednesday of last week Prime Min-
ister Menzies spoke of Australia’s part
in this war, particularly the economic
side—a subject which, as he said, does
not lend itself to oratory, but which is
of first national importance. Mr. Men-
zies emphasised that, although Austra-
lians must be prepared to carry their full
share of the losses involved in this war,
so far we had achieved “two economic
triumphs”; retail prices had been con-
trolled so that they had actually fallen,
while in practically every other country
they had risen, and interest rates had
gone down. But if Australia is going to
pull its weight in this war, said the Prime
Minister,
we must be prepared to tighten our
belts; to lose something, and to suffer indi-
vidual loss and individual inconvenience,
and, in some cases, material ruin in order
that we may not lose all. The real busi-
ness of government is to see that our
economic losses are as small as possible,
and are as fairly distributed as possible.
That means that we must each bear some
portion of the other man’s burden.
Mr. Menzies asked what did the people
of Australia know of food rationing,
of import reductions in any real sense,
of reduced standards of living, or of re-
duced industrial progress? Australians
had, to an almost dangerous extent, gone
along hugging to their bosoms the belief
that they could keep practically every-
thing to which they had been accustomed,
and could go on living in the best pos-
sible of worlds and at the same time
help to win the war. That was impos-
sible.
In the main the Prime Minister’s re-
marks were perfectly right and appro-
priate. We are spending over £70,000,000
on war this year alone, and we have had
very little extra taxation on this account
so far, although defence outgo now rep-
resents nearly 60 p.c. of our total taxa-
tion revenue, Commonwealth and State.
Looking at the position in another way,
there are thousands of Australians now
engaged in nothing else but defence pre-
paration ; millions of pounds’ worth of
raw and manufactured materials is
being absorbed by defence ; millions of
pounds’ worth of equipment is being
bought overseas. The rest of Australia
has to provide for the welfare of the
men engaged in defence ; it has to pay
for the equipment. There can be no
sidestepping of the issue, no passing of
the buck. And the sooner we pay,
without upsetting anything, the better it
will be for everyone. If we try to defer
the day of reckoning we shall pay twice.
% * %
Up to March 15 2,750,000 bales of
Australian wool had been appraised
under Britain’s war-purchase scheme. The
total clip for the year may be 3,400,000
bales, a record. Proceeds should be
£70,000,000 Australian. Of that, over
£60,000,000 will be coming from abroad.
Once upon a time we should have re-
ceived more than two-thirds of that in
foreign currency. For the duration of
the war and one year thereafter we shall
have to be content with sterling. We are
in Britain’s hands in this matter; our
wool was sold by the Australian Govern-
ment to Britain without any public dis-
cussion, and the whole transaction has
an aspect of hasty action, with Australia,
from a purely monetary viewpoint, the
loser. With Britain grappling with the
much-boosted German war machine in
the last four months of 1939 we were
glad to think that we were making some
contribution to the Old Country’s effort
m letting it have our wool at a price
.ess than 30 p.c. above last season’s aver-
age. We voluntarily sold our lead and
spelter at prices nearly 70 p.c. below the
current market in London. True, we
may see lower world prices for both wool
and metals before the war is over, and
in any case Australia is entitled to half
the profit on resales of wool. Also, prices
we are getting for wool are 3d. a pound
better than for last season. But we
shouldn’t, in our modesty, overlook the
fact that we have made a definite con-
tribution to the cost of this war already
in these emergency contracts. In par-
ticular, the transfer to Britain of dollar
credits established by the sale of our
wool is particularly useful to the Old
Country and quite inconvenient to our-
selves.
* * * *
New Broken Hill Consolidated shares
came back further, to 175., in last week’s
slippery market. Barrier stocks gener-,
ally were weak, in spite of the fixed prices
of lead and spelter; Souths sold at 275.
3d., Norths at 435. and Zinc Corps, at
78s. On last week’s quotes the market
valued New B.H. at £1,730,000 and B.H.
South at £4,360,000. As a longish-term
silver-lead investment, N.B.H. has decided
attractions, even though latest reports
haven’t fully supported some previous
forecasts.
* * * *
South Australian Brewing Co., the con-
cern that looks after most of South Aus-
tralia’s beer consumption, disclosed a
profit of £96,045 for the year to Feb. 29,
which compares with £90,374 shown in
the preceding term. The Walkerville
brewery was absorbed as from Aug. 1,
1938, and profits have shown consider-
able expansion since. Adelaide pays
48s. 6d. for the scrip, obtaining a yield
of 4.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
The Oil Search people calculate that
at least £1,850,000 has been spent by
Governments and private cos. in search-
ing for oil in British New Guinea up
to the end of 1939. The Vacuum Oil-
Oil Search ventures contributed £780,000
to this total since 1936 ; the Shell co.
spent over £430,000 between Sept., 1936,
and April, 1939, when it threw in the
sponge.
* * * *
R. H. Gordon and Co., a pioneer of
the cash-order business in Sydney (it also
retails furniture), has shown lower profits
for 1939. At 16.2 p.c. on ord. capital
they compare with 17.6 p.c. in 1938, and
the 1 } p.c. bonus is cut out, leaving the
distribution at 15 p.c. This is the second
successive decline; the bonus for 1937
had been 2\ p.c. The business is excep-
tionally well handled, and the scrip is
tightly held.
* * * *
Britain’s cost of living rose swiftly
after the outbreak of war, the level of
commodity prices alone lifting 25 p.c.
between Dec., 1938, and Dec., 1939.
Food as a class has risen most, cereals
particularly ; among “materials,” cotton
has rocketed in price, and textiles gener-
ally lifted nearly 50 p.c. during 1939.
The actual rises between the outbreak of
war and Dec. 31 was 32 p.c. in food and
20 p.c. in representative materials.
Cereals, which between Dec., 1938, and
August, 1939, had declined 10 p.c. in
price, rose 49 p.c. between August and
December, 1939. This lift has been re-
flected in the improved price for Aus-
tralian wheat.
❖ * *
The market for sterling in New York
has been decidedly temperamental since
a tightening-up in the British control
of exports took place. Now a British
merchant exporting to the U.S.A. has to
insist on payment in dollars in New York,
and these dollars are earmarked by the
British authorities. Previously the
American importer paid in sterling, which
he could acquire in the open market at
a rate lower than 4.03 dollars to the £1
(the official quote). Since the market for
free sterling in New York has been
closed as a source of payment for British
imports, American holders of sterling are
in something of a panic, since only
Americans travelling to England can use
these sterling credits, unless a loophole
is found through France or some other
country. The unofficial market for ster-
ling in U.S.A. looks like “freezing-up”
for all practical purposes so long as
British exporters are precluded from
accepting anything but dollars for their
goods. The only free sterling available
in New York is that in respect of which
Britons and others were unable to satisfy
British officials of the necessity for
changing into dollars; hence it was sold
through unofficial channels at under the
fixed rate of 4.03 dollars.
* * * *
Australia depends on freedom of enter-
prise, with certain checks and restrictions
in the shape of tariffs, taxes, etc., in the
conduct of its economic affairs. If one
section of industry gets over the odds, its
sins are expected to find it out in time,
and this almost invariably happens. Be-
tween them, miners and owners did their
best to kill the N. S. Wales coal trade
in years gone by, though neither could
perhaps see it; and where an industry
is overprotected it usually grows so lazy
and weak-kneed that competition springs
up and brings about reduced prices,
Where there are disputes between Capital
and Labor, each side has its rights. But
in exercising these rights, unless both
parties are prepared to abide by an Arbi-
tration Court’s decision, much time and
value may be lost. Labor, unproductive,
becomes a drone in the hive. Drones
slow down the national effort. Further-
more, so far as Australia is concerned,
all these squabbles tend to upset the
national economy. Working calmly and
in full co-operation, a nation can do
wonders. But let industrial disputes stare
and you get waste and disorganisation.
Costs commence to rise and confidence
begins to depart. Then slump arrives,
and the house divides against itself. So
the necessity for a firm national policy in
this war becomes clearly apparent. We
are fighting legimentation, and we cannot
afford to be less efficient than the enemy.
* * * *
Gordon and Gotch shares remain one
of the most depressed stocks of the better
type. Shipping difficulties are interfering
with supplies of overseas periodicals, and
a number of British publications have
gone out of existence since war began,
Altogether the distribution of periodicals
has an uncertain atmosphere about if.
But G. and G. handles a large quantity
of Australasian publications, it has an
entensive printers’-supply business, and
its organisation is worth something,
especially when it is remembered that
the war must finish sometime. The
present ord. div. is 14 p.c. p.a. If the
rate should fall to 10 p.c. the yield from
the ords. at 40s. each would be quite
satisfactory at 15 p.c.
* * * *
“Boyer”: The increasing price of
newsprint (B. 28/2/’4O) has accelerated
the construction programme of Austra-
fian Newsprint Mills. With about 350
m en at present working on the site near
New Norfolk (Tas.), production at the
ra t e 0 f 24,000 tons a year is now planned
for September of this year. Two more
units are to be pushed on to increase
production to 72,000 tons a year in
another 18 months.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WAR’S SOCIAL UPHEAVALS.
C From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by Demaree
Bess.)
The British seemed bored with blackouts, with the
evacuation of their families, with Government inter-
ference in all their business. They heartily applauded
the British humorist who described this as the
“Second Bore War.”
This British attitude is echoed everywhere on the
Continent. Frenchmen shrug their shoulders when
the war is mentioned. In a German railway carriage
I overheard two army officers disgustedly describing
the war as “silly.” Italians complained about “this
monkey business.” Swiss protested about being
“pushed around” by all the belligerents.
Europeans act bored because they are bewildered,
even dazed. Most of them don’t know yet what has
hit them. They do not realise that they are in the
midst of gigantic social convulsions so vast that they
overshadow the war itself.
As the war sucks in one country after another,
the speed of social change accelerates. In the whole
of Europe the system of private capitalism is being
violently squeezed. Neutral countries as well as
belligerent countries feel the pinch. Some of them
have been engulfed by the totalitarian flood. Others
cling to their independence only by keeping millions
of men under arms and providing them with the ex-
pensive toys of war. Hundreds of thousands of big
and little business enterprises have become the war’s
earliest casualties. Already every Government in
Europe is totalitarian in the sense that it dominates
the economic and financial activities of its people. No
individual may buy or sell, spend money or invest it,
without some Governmental intervention.
The war machine swallows capital at an enormous
rate. England hurls £6,000,000 every day into the
maws of war. Neutral countries like Holland and
Belgium and Switzerland expend proportionately
almost as much for defence, and lose at least as much
in trade. Countries which use up half their income
and dig into their capital for war must inevitably
compel or persuade their people to consume less. The
standard of living has fallen so swiftly that I have
seen it tumbling wherever I have gone in Europe. It
plunged downward in Germany and Italy long ago,
and now it is slipping in France and England and
the neutral countries.
War whittles down the fortunes of well-to-do per-
sons through taxation and disruption of industry and
trade. Earning groups at all levels, with a few excep-
tions, receive less and spend less. The millions of men
under arms get nominal pay, and Governments sup-
port their families near subsistence levels. French
soldiers home on leave drive taxi-cabs or become mes-
senger boys in order to earn a little extra money for
their families. The whole of Germany eats bad bread
and worse butter and very little meat. Italians forgo
their beloved coffee and economise on fuel. For-
merly prosperous Swiss turn over their automobiles
to their army and take to bicycles. The English
housewife is feeling the painful pinch of rationing.
Everywhere Governments eat into private enterprise.
The destruction of capital, when it has reached a
certain point, means social revolution. Countries
without capital inevitably become totalitarian because
that is the only way they can keep going. That has
happened, in varying degrees, to Germany and Italy
and Japan, to say nothing of Russia. Now it is hap-
pening gradually to all European countries.
I asked an intelligent Englishman how many of
his educated countrymen understand what is happen-
ing to them. He answered: “Not one in a thousand.”
But he may have been exaggerating. I talked with
some statesmen, both in England and in France, who
had gone into this war with their eyes open to all
these implications. They know that they are facing
the double task of prosecuting their war against Ger-
many and at the same time of controlling the social
changes which war speeds up. They realise that no
country will come out of this war in the same form
in which it entered it. But they don’t want social
revolution to become confused with Bolshevism, which
means violent class warfare.
An American on America.
[This caustic examination of Uncle Sam’s part in
the last war, and the fictions regarding it with which
he has since fooled himself, is made by an American,
Lawrence Hunt, in New York “Times,” reprinted in
London “Daily Telegraph,” from which this article is
condensed.]
For the last 20 years we Americans have been
fooling ourselves when we’ve talked about America’s
foreign policy. We still are. It’s not surprising. We
have been deluged with a constant stream of propa-
ganda about the “Crime of Versailles,” “We won the
war and what did we get?” the pathetic spectacle of
a gullible America caught in the wily intrigues of
Old World diplomacy, England expecting every
American to do his duty.
Today there’s a new but equally polluted stream
of propaganda luridly warning us against propaganda.
The upshot of it all is that as a nation we have man-
aged so far to escape from reality and the tough re-
sponsibilities of being a first-rate Power. 1 don’t
mean that we have lost the Puritanical vice of preach-
ing to others, but we have failed to exercise the Puri-
tanical virtue of doing our share—and more, if need
be —of the hard work our very greatness requires of us.
Long before Hitler made the “Crime of Ver-
sailles” his favorite bedtime story to the German
people many of our “intellectuals” were talking and
writing about it in the fevered manner of a town
gossip. Pseudo-historians, irresponsible journalists and
disgruntled liberals all did their bit. As a treaty it had
imperfections, having been drawn by imperfect men
representing imperfect peoples, most of whom for four
years had endured a war that was not exactly perfect.
True, Germany lost some rather unprofitable colonies
(in 1914 they accounted for less than one-half of 1 per
cent, of her foreign trade). Alsace-Lorraine was
restored to Frahce. Any objections?
Then there were the reparations. Much too much.
At any rate, machinery was set up whereby they could
be scaled down to a reasonable figure, and that was
shortly done.
Voluminous tears have been shed over the war-
guilt clause. Through all the fog and smoke of con-
troversy one thing is clear. England and France did
not invade Belgium. The war was not fought on Ger-
man soil. “But —but —the Germans are a proud
people.” Since when has such pride become a car-
dinal and cleansing virtue?
Do you remember what the German leaders said
they were going to do to the rest of the world if they
won? If you don’t and are really interested, I sug-
gest that you dig back into the official documents and
the files of newspapers of 25 years ago, and also
read the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. Suffice it to say
that, had Germany won, the Treaty of Versailles, in
comparison with the German peace terms, would have
seemed like the Sermon on the Mount.
There was one magnificent attempt in the Ver-
sailles Treaty for a better world—the League of
Nations. Our President, Woodrow Wilson, fought
hard for it. Those awful European nations, our recent
associates, accepted it. America turned it down. We
wanted to preach, not work, for a world of peace and
ordered liberty.
The fairest summary of America’s participation at
the Versailles Peace Conference was made by Clemen-
ceau’s right-hand man, Tardieu: “A war won by
-“De Groene,” Amsterdam
DUTCH VIEW OF THE WELLES TOUR.
“Roosevelt’s Missionary in the European Jungle.”
four could not end in a peace dictated by one.” But
“We won the war.” Sure we did. Almost single-
handed. Almost. Let’s remember that England and
France and our other associates fought the war for
three years while we remained neutral and waxed rich
at their expense. England, with a population one-
third of ours, lost in dead alone nearly 1,000,000 men ;
France, with a population less than one-third of ours,
more than 1,500,000; Canada, with a population less
than New York State, about 100,000. In other words,
had the United States suffered relatively as France
did, our dead alone would have exceeded 4,500,000
men. As it was, we lost about 75,000.
We never knew the horror of an air-raid, the
terror and degradation of an invading army destroying
our towns and cities. My point is that when we stop
to think the propaganda we have been fed for several
years seems a bit indecent.
There is something “phony” in the contrast
between our noisy pride in our fighting prowess and
our self-abasement as diplomatic morons. America
entered the last war for many reasons. The most
compelling was simply that Germany, after repeated
warnings and protests, continued to sink ships with-
out warning, with a loss of American lives. If Ger-
many had not sunk our ships and if American lives
had not been lost in those actions, we would not have
entered the war.
English people, French people and American
people believe in their hearts that individual freedom is
one of those few things worth fighting for and, if need
be, worth dying for. The German ideal in the last war,
as in the present one, was different, and—what is im-
portant for us to bear in mind —really endangered our
ideal then as it does today. Despite all the effusions
of Nazi-Communist philosophy, of flabby intellectuals
and of demagogic politicians, materialism is not the
only driving force in American life. It wasn’t in 1917
and it isn’t now.
Nor did we fight to pull England’s chestnuts out
of the fire. We never have. The propagandists who
say we have done so cannot prove a single instance
in our entire history as a nation to support their false-
hood. And yet by using the Nazi-Communist tactic
of repeating a falsehood again and again they have
deceived honest, well-meaning folk. Have you
observed how these same propagandists will scream
with rage because England is at moments reluctant to
do the hard jobs of civilisation which they urge us
to shirk?
Consider some of the present-day pitfalls that
constantly threaten our thinking.
“They’re all alike.” Who says so? Such strange
bedfellows as Molotov, the Soviet Minister of Foreign
Affairs, Hugh Johnson and our milksop intellectuals,
who only yesterday were screaming at Chamberlain
and Daladier for their “cowardly surrender” at
Munich and their “betrayal” of Republican Spain.
The conquest of Austria, the ruins of Czechoslovakia,
the massacre of the Poles, the attack on Finland, the
torture of concentration camps, the bestial crimes
against race and religion, purges, “blood baths,” Mein
Kampf and the Communist Manifesto —they are not
English or French or American. No —we are not “all
alike.” We know all about that. But how long shall
we let these propagandists help us delude ourselves?
Perhaps the loveliest self-delusion we are enjoy-
ing at the moment is the picture of America acting as
a sweet holier-than-thou peacemaker when the war
ends. Our former associates will have gone through
the hell of a war they desperately tried to avoid ; they
will be suffering, poor and tired out. Therefore we
can do some more preaching, tell them what sort of
peace they should make (not too harsh on the Ger-
mans, because they are “a proud race”), and how they
must behave if they are to be like us.
Wait a minute. Suppose the Nazi-Communists
win? Well, brothers and sisters, if that happens, we’ll
have to do an awful lot more than preach—far more
than if we frankly and actively aided England and
France now. It might be that we are counting
a little too comfortably on the Maginot Line and
the British fleet. And, despite the peace-at-any-
price propagandists, we do count on them.
We are asked to shut our eyes to the most
blazing truths, to avert our gaze from the plain
facts of our contemporary life, to stuff our ears
and to harden our hearts so that somehow, in
some way, we can escape from the tough realities
of this world and, as a nation, evade the tasks
which nature, our moral traditions and the un-
compromising forces of destiny have set for
us to do. These peace-at-any-price people who,
consciously or unconsciously, are giving daily aid
and comfort to Comrades Hitler and Stalin will do
some harm and create more confusion before the
courageous commonsense of America says, “Enough
—you’re a fake.” They won’t succeed, because we’ll
stop deceiving ourselves when the hour of decision
is at hand.
J. Bull’s Home Front.
[Here condensed from acknowledged sources are
brief items of interest throwing light on various aspects
of the home front in Britain. The first item is from
a London “Daily Mail” report.]
Night clubs and bottle parties are springing up
in the West End at the rate of two or three a week.
At least 600 such places are now flourishing in the
West End, Soho and Bloomsbury —an all-time record
for London.
The hectic days of the last war have been sur-
passed ; the present night-club figures beat by more
than 200 the number of all-night drinking dens which
brought Scotland Yard’s “West End Squad” into
furious activity four years ago.
* * * *
(From the “News-Chronicle,” which holds exclusive
rights to publish results of the “fact-finding” surveys
conducted by the British Institute of Public Opinion .)
That many new listeners have tuned-in to foreign
broadcasts during the past two months is shown by a
British Institute of Public Opinion survey. Whereas
in December 57 per cent, answered “Yes” to the
question “Do you ever happen to listen to foreign
stations?” in a February survey 65 per cent, answered
“Yes” to the same question.
In the earlier survey 62 per cent, had last listened
to Hamburg or other German stations. In the second
survey this percentage had risen to 77.
The questions and the answers are:
“Do you ever happen to listen to foreign
stations?”
“If ‘yes,’ which was the last one you heard?”
Listening.
65 per cent, said Yes. 35 per cent, said No.
Stations.
Hamburg, Berlin, Zeesen, etc. .. .. 77 per cent.
Paris .. .. .. .. .. .. 4,, ~
Rome .. .. .. .. .. .. 4 „ „
Moscow .. .. 2 „ „
Schenectady .. .. .. .. .. 2 „ „
Hilversum .. .. .. .. .. 2 „ „
Athlone .. .. .. .. .. 2 „ „
Miscellaneous .. .. .. .. . • 7 „ „
“Lord Haw-Haw” is the chief broadcaster in
English from the German stations.
* * * * *
(.From London “Daily Express”)
Poor little rich people! They think they have a
big income, but it may be a minus quantity. A
Treasury statement shows that income vanishes at
£20,000 a year after taxation and provision for death
duties.
A person with an unearned or investment income
of £20,000 pays £7349 in income tax, £5706 in super
tax ; while insurance against death duties on his estate
will cost him £B4OO. So if he aims at leaving his
estate intact on his death, he will have to spend this
year £21,455 out of his £20,000.
The wealthier the steeper. A person with £50,000
a year of investment income would have to pay


Attlee on Communists .
C. R. Attlee, British Labor and Opposition
leader, in a London “Daily Herald” article:—
None clamored more loudly for resistance to
Fascism than the Communists. They urged us to
ally ourselves with Liberals and Tories against
Hitler and in defence of liberty and democracy.
Now, at the bidding of their Moscow masters,
they swing right round and applaud everything
which they formerly condemned.
It is time the workers saw through these people.
The Labor party was blamed by some of its
own supporters for refusing to make a common
front with the Communists. Events have proved
that it was right.
The Communist party cannot be trusted. It
has no will of its own. It takes its orders from
whoever rules in Moscow.
In Lenin’s time there were nine members of the
Politbureau. We were told then to admire all
these true leaders of the working class. Today
Lenin is dead. Trotsky is in exile. Five have
been executed as traitors. One committed suicide.
Stalin remains.
If Stalin were denounced as a traitor and
replaced by someone else with a different policy
the Communist party would turn round again as
before. It has no principles.
Uncle Sam’s Interest.
From a London “Daily Express” leader:
America comes to see. Mr. Sumner Welles is
sent to study conditions in Europe.
Of course, this visit does not involve any
departure from American isolation. The vast
majority of Americans still want to keep out of
the war. But they want to know what’s going on.
America criticised us bitterly for not fighting
Hitler in 1938, so she gives us full sympathy
in fighting Hitler now. American interests are
involved as well. America has markets and invest-
ments in Europe. In peace she sells over
£100.000,000 worth of goods a year to Britain,
nearly £30,000,000 worth to France, with a total
of nearly £210,000,000 for all the Northern
European countries. Only £21,000,000 for Ger-
many.
£81,243 a year out of his £50,000 to meet taxation
and insurance against death duties.
There are 1685 of these “unfortunate” persons in
Britain with incomes between £20,000 and £50,000.
The case is not quite so bad where the income is
divided equally between investments and earnings. In
this category a person with an income of £50,000
would need to pay only £49,083 in taxation and in-
surance against death duties, which would leave him
£917 a year to get along on. He might sigh for the
days of 1913, when he would have had to pay only
£6092, or 1923, when the payment would have been
£29,073, or even 1933, when he paid £36,340.
* * * %
(From a London “Daily Express” article by George
Millar.)
One of the shocks I had on returning to England
from the Continent was to find just how much the
women’s army is doing for the country, and how well
they seem to be doing it.
I was surprised to see so many obviously tired
faces and feet in the women’s army, and to hear
of rich, formerly indolent women at my home town in
Scotland who have breakfast ready in the seamen’s
hostel for men coming in from the minesweepers at
five in the morning.
After six months in Paris and no previous sight
of London in war-time I was amazed at: —•
The blackout.
The gaiety behind the blackout.
The number of sandbags.
The large number of people who still carry gas-
masks.
The youth of the men in uniform.
The drastic terms for meat rationing.
In Paris we still have street lights. Most Paris
restaurants and bars send out a faint glow into the
night streets. But in London behind the black fa9ades
there is more music, more laughter, more dancing and
romancing. The British are facing another historic
time of trial with their historic optimism. The French
face it with reasoning and determined commonsense.
The British want dancing and soft lights—another
Brussels ball before the Waterloo begins. The French
don’t feel inclined to dance, and with six and a half
million men mobilised there are not many dancing
partners around.
Perhaps the London blackout is necessary ; the
air defence of Paris is an entirely different problem.
It seems, though, that the French have found a much
more rational meat-rationing scheme than the British.
In France the whole thing is simplified to this —that
on three days of the week no beef may be sold in
shops or restaurants. In the Paris Smithfield alone
this system is saving over 8,000,000 pounds of meat
a month.
In England I got an impression of terrific effort,
of increased vitality, and a quickened tempo of
national life. I got an impression of a big, cheerful
country turning itself into a big, ruthless war machine.
It is entirely different from the French war machine.
But that is good, because the one is complementary
to the other. Together the two will be unbeatable
*****
(From a “Times” report.)
The desperate situation of traders and profes-
sional and business people in London who are suffer-
ing hardship brought about by the war was discussed
at a press conference arranged by the London Traders’
Uetence League.
The statement that thousands of shops in London
had closed their shutters and thousands of people had
gone out of business was made by Mr. C. Esam-
arter, who said that thousands of Londoners were
facing ruin as a result of evacuation, the blackout
and the restriction of traffic. All these the league con-
sidered to be necessary measures of national defence,
the cost of which should be borne nationally. The
people left behind were being left to pay. He added
that the population of London had been reduced from
8,000,000 to 5,000,000 and that those who had gone
away were the people with most money.
The league did not demand exemption from sac-
rifices or compensation for the thousands of pounds
lost. They demanded that people should not be ruined
while those in other places were making more money
than ever before, and that there should be equality of
sacrifice. One suggestion was that, instead of telling
customers to come back, traders should be given the
opportunity to go where customers were. Government
money spent in assistance would help people in recep-
tion areas who were short of distributive services, and
it would have a considerable effect on the building
trade. Other suggested remedies include the reduction
of rents up to 75 p.c.
Blockade Alone Not Enough.
(Condensed from a “Nineteenth Century” article by
M. Littman.)
There is a widespread opinion that all the Allies
need do to secure victory is to retain a defensive
policy and wait for the blockade to starve Germany
into submission. The policy is at first sight attractive
and plausible: attractive because it appears to avoid
the heavy loss of life involved in land offensives and
the material destruction of great air warfare ; plaus-
ible because it seems reasonable to suppose that the
German supply problem will become more acute as
time goes by. In fact, however, the blockade is not
likely to work in this way at all. The German short-
ages are of particular kinds and are only likely to be
decisive in specific circumstances.
There is no reason to believe that the German
food shortage need become acute however long we
wait. In 1939 Germany was virtually self-sufficient
in bread grains, only 12 per cent,
of her wheat and 3.5 per cent, of her
rye being imported. These small defi-
ciencies can easily be made up from
the Balkan countries. In feeding-
stuffs Germany’s greatest source of
danger is maize, importing as she does
73.6 per cent, of her supplies. There
is also a lack of cattle cake made from
vegetable oil seeds. Yet the greater part
of the maize could still be imported
from Russia and the Balkans if trans-
port were satisfactory. The present
bread ration is quite adequate for the
needs of the ordinary German, and
there seems no reason why it should
not be maintained.
Germany normally imports 44.7
per cent, of her fat requirements, her
imports being mainly vegetable oils
(imported in the form of seeds) and
whale oils. She can obtain, at the
most, about 43 per cent, of her nor-
mal imports, and much of this would
have been extracted in neutral coun-
tries from oil seeds brought from
overseas and hence partly subject to
British contraband control. Her sup-
plies of whale oil are certain to decline,
since many of the fishing grounds are
now closed to her, while tne wiiole ui
this season’s Norwegian catch has been
purchased by the British Government. The seriousness
of the total fats deficiency of about 20 or 25 per cent,
depends, however, upon the size of the demand for war
purposes ( e.g., explosives and lubricants). If no major
military operations take place most of the fats can be
consumed as food. At the moment, for example, the
ration is not appreciably below the average German
consumption of recent years. Under the strain of
major hostilities the position would be much worse.
The deficit in meat supplies need not exceed 10
per cent, of recent peace-time consumption, while the
number of livestock is big enough to permit a high
rate of slaughter (necessitated, anyway, by shortage
of fodder) for about three years without causing
anxiety. The shortages of eggs, fish and fruit and
the poor quality of the coffee substitute make the diet
extremely dull, but the supplies of potatoes are ade-
quate, and there is no question of starvation either
now or in the future. As time passes transport be-
tween Germany, the Balkans and Russia will be de-
veloped, and in this way the position may from their
point of view improve rather than deteriorate.
Fortunately, however, the German economic sys-
tem is extremely vulnerable in fuels and raw materials,
and particularly in those materials used directly in
the manufacture of instruments of war. The demand
for such materials varies considerably with the scale
of warfare, so that, while the shortages will not be
acute so long as the present inactivity continues, they
would under the strain of great hostilities soon prove
decisive.
The really critical commodity is oil. War con-
sumption is variously estimated at between two and
five times peace consumption, and the total amounts
are so large that it is impossible to store the supplies
required in any considerable length of time. We can
safely assume that owing to economies in private con-
sumption Germany will be using about 20 per cent,
less oil than in peace-time, or about 400,000 tons a
month, as long as the present inactivity continues.
If major hostilities commence, consumption will rise
to at least 1,000,000 tons a month, and the drain on
stocks will be enormous. Nobody knows just how
large these stocks are, but Germany does not seem
to have been hoarding on a large scale before 1937.
At the beginning of the war in September they were
probably not above 4,000,000 tons, or nine months’
peace-time supply. Even this is an enormous figure,
equivalent to 1,000,000,000 gallons of petrol, and
would be even more remarkable if true, because of
the high costs of import and the difficulties of safe
storage. Much of this 4,000,000 tons must have gone
during the Polish campaign, a war of great movement
and vast air activity.
If major operations now develop, Germany must
gain a decision by July, or her position is hopeless.
After July consumption will have to be reduced to the
level of current supplies, a level utterly inadequate for
the needs of modern warfare. Germany may of
course be tempted to annex the Rumanian oilfields,
and if she succeeded it would undoubtedly be a severe
blow to us. We can only hope that adequate arrange-
ments are being made for the destruction of the wells
in the event of a German invasion.
To sum up, the major deficiencies of supply in
Germany are in materials used directly in the produc-
tion of armaments and the prosecution of war. There-
fore the decisiveness of these shortages depends
upon the scale of warfare. If major hostilities develop,
especially in the near future, Germany’s position will
quickly become desperate. Oil is the crux of the
matter, and we have seen that her supplies of oil
could not last more than four or five months. Since
Germany is not likely to gain a decision in that time,
her most rational policy is to do absolutely nothing
and to wait for the Allies to start asking “What are
we fighting for?” From an economic point of view
it is, however, perfectly clear that the only war Ger-
many can afford is a long one. She would run a great
risk if she were to attempt a “Blitzkrieg.”
Poland Under the Yoke.
[The terror in Poland, as reported to and com-
mented on by the Vatican, was described at length in
“Uncabled Additions” 13/3/’4O. Here are some further
edifying items.]
(From "Time and Tide.”)
No abomination comparable with what is hap-
pening in Poland has been perpetrated in modern
times. There has been massacre in the Balkans, in
—“Daily Minor,” London.
“Himmel! This is certainly news to me!”
Armenia and in Russia, but nowhere has a tyrant-
conqueror struck with such ruthlessness at all that is
best in a nation that was for years a friendly neighbor,
became a courageous foe, and went down fighting
against overwhelmingly superior forces. It is impos-
sible to say how many have perished through want
and exposure—certainly tens of thousands, perhaps
hundreds of thousands.
* * * jk *
(Earlier reports referred briefly to the Nazi treatment of
the Cracow University professors; in this item a
“Times” Polish correspondent gives details .)
On the pretext that their presence was required
at a conference, the 170 professors were summoned to
the University Hall. The chief of the Gestapo, one
Meyer, addressed the professors in the German lan-
guage. He declared that since they had tried to re-
open the university without authority, had continued
their work in its scientific institutions', and were
arranging for examinations of the undergraduates with-
out German permission all professors present in the
hall were arrested.
The professors were deported to concentration
camps in Germany, most of them to the camp of
Sachsenhausen, near Oranienburg. The cavalcade was
headed by one of the most famous Polish scientists,
Professor Ignacy Chrzanowski, the greatest living
expert on Polish literature and author of many books.
He died in Sachsenhausen recently, after having been
cruelly treated. Among the others detained are men
of such distinction as the famous jurist Professor
Kutrzeba, a former rector of the university ; 76-year-
old Professor Kostanecki, an eminent anatomist and
a former rector; and the present rector of Cracow
University, Professor Lehr-Splawinski, one of the
foremost authorities in Slavonic philology, who was
especially maltreated when arrested. Nine of the pro-
fessors imprisoned in Sachsenhausen have died, but
there is every reason to fear that the death-roll will
not end with these nine victims of oppression.
The University of Warsaw, established in 1818, in
which as many as 10,000 undergraduates were pursu-
ing their studies before the invasion, has not been
permitted to reopen. In this campaign against the
mind the Nazis show themselves as ruthless as they
were when overrunning the body of Poland.
* * * * *
C From Manchester “Guardian.”)
A Polish woman doctor who escaped from
Poland the day before war broke out came to the


Air-war Reports.
“Janus,” in his weekly notes in London
‘ ‘Spectator”:—
The complaint current in Australia [in January ]
that Royal Air Force communiques are over-
optimistic and unreliable, and that the full truth
about encounters with the enemy ought to be
told, is, I believe, quite unjustified. I myself
made full inquiry and reached the conclusion
that the R.A.F. communiques could be accepted
without hesitation.
In one case, as I learned from three or four
different informants, an inaccurate figure was
published. An air battle had taken place, and
when the first British machines returned to their
stations the first inquiries led to the belief that
we had lost x aeroplanes and the Germans y.
The papers were clamoring for news, and these
not completely verified figures were released. Later
it was found that the British loss was more than
x and the German loss more than y, the ratio
between the two not being greatly altered. In the
circumstances it was decided, I think unwisely, not
to issue revised figures. But the original state-
ment was made in entire good faith, and I
believe, as 1 say, that this is the only case in
which there has been any inaccuracy at all.
Manchester “Guardian’s” London office to urge that
the 2000 or more Jews from the Reich, Poland
and Czechoslovakia who have been for three months
wandering in barges and boats on the Danube, should
be allowed to go to Palestine. The Rumanian and
Yugoslav Governments, which did not prevent food
and other relief from being taken to them on sledges
by Jews in those countries, would not allow the
refugees to land. It was a terrible situation.
The position is, however, if not quite hopeless,
extremely difficult. In July Mr. MacDonald said that
because so much illegal immigration had been going
on the issue of certificates for the legal quota of immi-
grants to Palestine would be suspended till the end of
April. He said that the economic condition of
Palestine made further immediate immigration unde-
sirable. Meantime it is said that illegal immigration
continues, and that it is the refugees who travel in
open boats who have caused such difficulties.
The matter is one for the Jewish Agency and the
Palestine Government to decide ; if there is any hope
for the Danube refugees their entry would have to be
both organised and public. There still remains the
question whether Palestine could absorb so large a
number. If it cannot, what is to become of them?
Where are they to go?
*****
C From a bulletin of the Polish Press Bureau, London.')
The “Polish Reservation,” into which 18-20 mil-
lion people are to be squeezed, is an area of about
32,000 square miles, or little more than the area of
Latvia, a country of 2,000,000 inhabitants. The very
idea of driving the Polish nation from a large part of
its ancestral homeland is a crime never before recorded
in the history of Europe. Nevertheless the Germans
are attempting to carry out such a scheme as speedily
as possible. Over 100,000 Poles, expelled from
Gdynia and Orlowo, are slowly dying in the region of
Kielce and Radom, owing to lack of food and cloth-
ing, and endless railway transports are carrying tens of
thousands of Poles from Poznan, Bydgozcz and other
Polish cities into the central district of Poland or to
the interior of Germany. These homeless people of
Poland are being abandoned anywhere, doomed to
misery or death from starvation and cold, or to
forced hard labor somewhere in Germany.
* v # * *
fFrom the “Polish Information Bulletin,” New York.)
Official statements issued by German spokesmen
as to the ultimate fate of German-occupied Poland
make it obvious that the announced scheme of re-
settlement is nothing but a systematic programme for
the extermination of the Polish people. Whatever the
slogans under which this campaign is being conducted
the fact remains that some nineteen million Poles, in-
cluding about two million Jews, are or will be exposed
to death either by executions, starvation or by disease.
*****
{From a “Times” Polish correspondent’s report.)
Signs of famine have already been noticed among
children, who are the first to suffer, and the death-
rate of the babies has increased enormously. The
little food which is available for the babies is entirely
lacking in vitamins and there is a growing need of
cod liver oil.
The misery is especially great in Warsaw, which
is an overcrowded city. The total destruction of
nearly 4000 houses with a capacity of about 400,000
living rooms has created a large army of homeless
persons ; the destruction in the Jewish quarters of
Warsaw and in the suburbs of Praga was particularly
extensive, and the poverty of the homeless in those
districts is beyond description.
The transfer of the Polish population enforced
by the Germans contributes to the growth of the
misery. According to official German sources, the
Germans intend to expel from the Polish territory in-
corporated into the Reich altogether about 2,500,000
inhabitants, including 500,000 Jews, into the territory
of the so-called General Government. These 2,500,000,
of whom only a few may find refuge with relatives or
with friends, will constitute another large army of the
homeless. Among them there are about 100,000
children in need of care and total support.
British and French Differences.
[Differences in British and French war aims and
peace objectives and the question of future Anglo-
French co-operation are being widely discussed in
Britain; the contribution to the discussion here given
is a digest of an article by R. H. S. Crossman in the
“New Statesman.”]
Common English beliefs which offend the French
are: (1) All our troubles are due to the vindictive
character of the Treaty of Versailles; (2) the French
demand for strategic security is reactionary ; (3) once
the Nazis are turned out, we can and should treat the
new Government in Germany on terms of complete
equality ; (4) unless we set the example of disarma-
ment ourselves, we have no right to compel Germany
to disarm ; (5) the establishment of a Federal Gov-
ernment in Europe will lay the foundations of per-
manent peace. These beliefs are fairly widespread in
Britain: it is also fairly widely recognised that they
are not acceptable to any section of French opinion.
Let me consider them one by one .
(1) The French consider that the Treaty of Ver-
sailles failed not because it was vindictive but because
it was half-way between the Carthaginian peace they
themselves wanted in the interests of security, and
the “just peace” which the Anglo-Saxon world desired.
Not the Treaty but the years subsequent to the
Treaty were fatal to European peace. The crucial
moment in international affairs was the British retire-
ment from Europe between 1919 and 1923, and refusal
to guarantee French security after the American with-
drawal. The French built a grand security system
which fell to pieces when it was tested, while we
pinned our faith on peaceful change but refused to
collaborate fully in guaranteeing it. Each of us pre-
cisely negated both our own and the other’s objec-
tives. Both peaceful change and security fell between
the French and British stools.
The true lesson of Versailles, therefore, is two-
fold, that justice for Germany is impossible unless
Britain guarantees French security ; and that French
security is unattainable so long as it is made an ex-
clusively French policy.
(2) The French search for security will be “re-
actionary” so long as France has to rely on Con-
tinental expedients instead of British co-operation.
The French, with justification, regard the Left and the
—“Daily Mail,” London.
BALKAN GAME.
Right in Britain as in sentiment isolationist. With a
few exceptions Conservative statesmen are “insular
imperialists.” They rely on sea and air power to keep
their island safe and are not prepared to take on pre-
cise European responsibilities. They only stand by
France when war is unavoidable. The Left, in French
eyes, seems to believe far too readily in a natural
J t• * . U koiimipo in
harmony of interest between nations, and believes in
the power of morality and public opinion 1
backing of force. Whereas the French wanted Collec-
tive Security, the British Left seemed content with a
Collective Pacifism which fervently supported the
Covenant, but opposed conscription, although this
was the supreme test of Britain’s willingness to share
the burden of maintaining peace. Seen from a Euro-
pean point of view, collective pacifism is just as iso-
lationist as insular imperialism: and France will be
forced into a selfish search for security so long as
they are the prevailing moods in Britain.
(3) Here again France provides a useful antidote
to facile British optimism. If it is untrue that the
Germans are eternal barbarians, it is equally untrue
, • u r u „ xr„,-„ a
that there is any sharp line between Nazis and
German people, or that a liberal democratic regime is
likely to succeed that of Herr Hitler. We cannot
assume that, after years of Nazi education, a revolu-
tion would turn Germany overnight into a peaceable
people. Anyway the younger generation will be diffi-
cult to handle ; and the French are only reasonable
in asking for realistic guarantees against a renewed
threat of aggression. It may be argued that to admit
this is to remove one of our most valuable propa-
ganda weapons in Germany. If we cannot promise
more lenient terms than Versailles, how can we per-
suade them to give in? But the reply to this is simple:
“Do not promise what you know you cannot, with
any sense of responsibility to your own peoples,
fulfil.” Far better to tell the Germans frankly that we
cannot again give their nationalists perfect freedom
to threaten our liberties than to make sentimental
statements of goodwill. To deceive them might pos-
sibly shorten the war, but it would certainly produce
once again the evils of Versailles which British ideal-
ists are so fond of denouncing.
(4) With the problem of disarmament we reach
the heart of Anglo-French misunderstanding. The
British attitude to disarmament is partly the result of
an insular security Britain has long since ceased to
enjoy, and it is influenced by the prejudice agaxns
armies of an overwhelming naval Power. In Frenc
eyes the issue of this war is how many of the pe°P es
of Europe are to be battered into shape by Flier
or Stalin and how many will be able to co-opera e
in reconstructing the social order on the principles
of Western civilisation; and they know that the
second alternative is only possible if France an
Britain co-operate in providing the force without
which security is impossible. They are prepared to
take the initiative in construction as firmly as Hitler
has taken it for destruction. But this seems to them
impossible so long as Britain thinks of demobilisa-
tion as the immediate consequence of victory.
(5) The French are suspicious of talk of Federal
Union, which seems to betray the British belief that
machinery is a substitute for responsibility. They
fear that once again we shall content ourselves with
setting up machinery and then pulling out of Europe.
They know that for a considerable period the
machinery will only work if Britain is prepared to
take the lead in working it, and they have still to be
convinced that the British Left or the British Right
has really changed its spots.
Soldiers Seen in Sussex.
(From Harold Nicolson’s regular “Spectator” notes.')
Sleeping in Sussex the other night I was aroused
at dawn by the sound of a bugle, and in the field
across the road I could see men in battle-dress hurry-
ing over the snow in twos and threes hoisting their
great straps across their shoulders as they ran. The
khaki of their uniforms seemed dark green against the
glimmer of the snow. I should have expected it to
look black or deep brown. They fell in, and while I
still watched them they swung down together across
the field and out by the gate into the lane below.
Away they swung, great green bodies and pink faces,
still hitching at their straps and
helmets to make them settle
easily. I crept back to my bed,
hating being middle-aged, won-
dering what all these young men
were thinking as they swung, in
the winter dawn, down the
Sussex lanes:
What of the faith and fire within us,
We who march away,
Ere the break of day,
To hazards whence no tears can win
us?
These men were marching to no
hazards; they were marching
in the direction of Eastbourne.
Yet it seemed to me, that Febru-
ary morning, as if in their faith
and fire they had in fact swung
out along the Menin road.
What are they thinking of,
these men, as they crunch along
the English lanes or kick their
heavy boots against the doorstep
of their billets, jerking off the
snow which has wedged between
the nails? Even then the trail
of snow follows them along the
wet boarding of the passages,
into the little rooms where the
smoke of their breath steams
upon the window-panes, and the
instructor spreads his praying-
mat of canvas and lies down to perform his liturgy
upon the Bren, or Lewis gun. Place the palm of the
hand.... They sit round on benches, gazing
down upon their instructor, craning over each other’s
sOU rs ‘ , . , , ,
, What do these young men thmk about when they
a ! and *e>-e looking out upon the snow falling? Is
there any faith within them or any fire? Or is it lust
a dumb acceptance of the snow fa y lling> and the in J ter .
minable sound of boots upon wooden flooring, and
srne jj 0 f s t ew bubbling all afternoon upon the
kitchen stove? Even boredom has become a matter
G f discipline and routine. How little space remains
for them between the fear of forgetting any of their
duties and the exhaustion which remains when once
their duties have been done. How little time in which
to step aside from it all, to recall the days when their
thighs moved independently of the thighs of others,
when there was some choice between alternatives,
w^? n have sat there without a pressing time-
*ab'e a " d ' h * P° ss \ b ' e ou .<-
o£ ,hls Un J ust Necesslt >' whlch holds them
T ,, £ . .
1 am amazed by the acquiescence of this genera-
tion Yet were the y en of 1914 so ve g dif .
ferent? Was there really SQ much faith and fire ; bout
us ? j do not reco ]] ecd th a t the men who marched away
j n the autumn dawns of 1914 were in any sense con-
scious that their purpose was to make the world safe
for democracy or to fight a war which should end all
wars. They went off much as the young men of todav
go off, patient, bewildered, acquiescent. Yet if we
compare the two states of mind there are certain dif-
ferences which certainly can be observed. There is the
difference, in the first place, in the nature of their
experience. The young men of August, 1914, felt that
within a few short weeks they would be chasing
Uhlans across the fields of Flanders, or routing out
Hussars from the coverts of the Ardennes. The young
men today have no such expectations, and their anti-
cipation of war is of something far less adventurous,
less heroic, less individual, less fluid. In 1914, again,
it was believed that victory would be both rapid and
overwhelming, after which we should return imme-
diately to exactly the same life as before. Today there
is no such certainty. Today they swing out across the
snow, hitching their heavy straps over their shoulders,
a profoundly faithful generation without a faith. There
are moments when the thought of them is an agony
which I can hardly bear.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The decrease in the attendance at the
Show pointed to the possibility of a
drop in Randwick patronage on Satur-
day. It fell to 55,000, as compared with
a little over 61,000 last year, but the
tote turnover was £55,397 against £53,456
a year ago. An additional race would,
in a great measure, account for that.
Mildura gave E. J. Watt his second
successive win in the Doncaster Handi-
cap. Gold Rod scored for him last
year, starting favorite, and, following
on his Newmarket victory, Mildura was
always well in the market. Since Wind-
bag won the Melbourne Cup, I cannot
recall G. Price being so confident of suc-
cess in a big race. He also gave Beau-
livre a good chance, though a week
before the race I heard him say: “It
would be better for him if the meeting
were a fortnight further off.” However,
during last week Beaulivre did wonder-
fully well, and strode along in such
great style in his work on Saturday morn-
ing that he prepared his trainer for the
excellent race he ran.
The course backing of High Caste was
something of a sensation. From 7 to 1
(very little of it) he rapidly shortened to
3 to 1. It was announced during the
week that whether he started depended
upon his trainer’s opinion of his condi-
tion. This, of course, was regarded as
a “hold-out” by many racing men. It
was not. On the return trip from Mel-
bourne High Caste had his tail injured in
the horse-box. It became septic, and, as
the horse repeatedly developed a tem-
perature after working, his trainer did
not know how things would be with him
until almost the last moment. Unfortu-
nately, the decision to run him was
costly for his connections.
The owner and rider of Geebung were
very hopeful, and it was the same with
the owner of Gold Salute. He based his
ideas on the good showing that colt
made after getting away badly in Denis’s
race the previous week. El Golea’s
trainer was a trifle uncertain as to
whether he would be suited by the reverse
way of going from that to which he was
accustomed in Melbourne.
Contrary to expectation it did not
prove a really exciting race. Royal
Routine surprised by dashing to the
front from Beaulivre after going a
quarter of a mile, others prominent being
The Albatross, Breeze and Mildura. At
the turn Royal Routine was passed by
Beaulivre, with Mildura going easily in
third place. Beaulivre led when fairly
on the road home, but a furlong from
home Mildura ran to him, and from that
out there was no doubt as to the latter’s
success. El Golea finished well to get
third, and Cherry Bar, who headed the
unplaced division, also did her best work
after turning for home.
Over the final three furlongs High
Caste was never doing well enough to
be a winning possibility, nor was Gold
Salute. Both had a little more weight
than they could handle in a fairly good
field. Geebung found the early pace too
lively, and though he made a dash in the
straight could not keep it up. Never-
theless, he was probably a little closer to
the front at the winning-post than at any
other stage. Denis, Breeze and The
Albatross ran well for a long way, though
without ever quite having a winning
chance. Feminist was doing better at
the end than at any other part, as was
Rodborough.
Mildura, with wins in the Newmarket
Handicap and Doncaster, has more than
compensated for his failures on other
occasions when a lot was expected of
him. The track was in first-class order,
but, though the time, 1.36 J, was faster
than for the two previous years, it was
1937 118 kehind Sarcherie’s 1.35| in
Dubonnet tried to win the First Hurdle
Race all the way, but tired it the home
turn. Jack Mac then took charge, but
had nothing to spare in winning by a
. length from Mag Mort, who was a long
way from the leaders after going a mile.
In fact, it seemed to me that the backers
of Mag Mort were a trifle unlucky in
not collecting their bets. Spearbine did
well to get third under his big weight.
Valhalla blundered after commencing the
final half-mile, but there was sufficient
merit in his fourth to suggest that he will
yet make a fair hurdler. Phil did not
run up to the form he showed when he
won at Victoria Park the previous week,
and Winning Post is seemingly far from
being as good as he was last season.
The Melbourne representative, King
Arthur, cut up badly.
Maikai won the Autumn Plate by only
a head from Mosaic, but he would have
been unlucky to lose, as, after being
in danger of being shut in, he had to
shift about in the straight to get a clear
run. When Mosaic shot to the front
from Old Rowley after turning for home
he looked to have the measure of his
opponents but could not stall off the
more seasoned Maikai, who was not
within cooee of w.f.a. form when racing
in Sydney this time last year. Old
Rowley as pacemaker was something of
a surprise, and that he should have fin-
ished ahead of Royal Chief and St. Con-
stant indicated a return to something
like the form he displayed when he won
the Cumberland Plate and A.J.C. Plate
two years ago.
Mitsui, after being a long time out of
the winning list, returned to it in no
uncertain fashion in the first division of
the Vaucluse Handicap. Brown Baroness
and Brazandt were the early leaders, but,
after following the former into the
straight, Mitsui ran past her at the leger.
Over the last bit Mitsui made a runaway
affair of it, the minor places going to
Anne and Überous, who were separated
by a head. After getting away badly
Anne ran a rattling race.
Bradford and Pen Name were again
disappointing, but nothing ran worse than
the favorite, Tel Asur. His third at a
recent Rosehill meeting, and his subse-
quent track work, suggested a possible
return to his two-year-old form, but he
was not going well at any part.
“Our two-year-olds are not really
good” was an opinion I heard expressed
by a Sydney trainer on his return from
the Melbourne autumn meetings. “The
Melbourne youngsters are better,” he
added. The correctness of that idea was
borne out in the A.J.C. Sires Produce
Stakes, for which Flying Knight was
favorite, with Trueness next in demand.
There was good backing for the Mel-
bourne colt Lucrative, while there was
money for Ensign, though form did not
give him a better chance than his stable-
companion Dark Elegance.
Dark Elegance and Flying Knight
quickly got to the front, but, though they
led into the straight from Lucrative and
Ensign, with Trueness next, they gave
place to Lucrative commencing the last
furlong. The last-named went on to win
comfortably from the other Melbournite,
Pandect. Trueness was a close third,
but she cannot be quite as good as when
she won the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes.
In finishing fourth Rimveil upset cal-
culations, as he was meeting Ensign, Fly-
ing Knight and Dark Elegance on’ very
much worse terms than if the race were
a handicap. Patrician and Beauregard
acquitted themselves fairly considering
that, on anything they had previously
shown, they were not of their class. Lucra-
tive is by Gay Lothario from Balkan
Star, and as a yearling was sold for
450gns. As M. McCarten has not re-
cently been in luck it was a pleasant
change for him to be on a good winner
Pandect is in today’s Champagne Stakes
and, as he is not penalised, he should be
hard to beat.
It was anticipated that the St. Leger
would be little more than a canter for
Reading, but after he joined Dashina
Cavalier at the six furlongs the latter
hung on to such purpose that Munro
had to ride Reading hard half-way down
the straight. Of course Reading was
too good for Dashing Cavalier at the
finish, but the latter’s showing proved
him better than previously supposed.
Reading is the first winner of the two
Derbies and St. Legers since Phar Lap,
and has given his joint owners, G. S.
Luscombe and F. P. J. Manusu, a great
return for the 400gns. he cost as a year-
ling. The time, 3min., was the second
best for the race, the record being Lady
Valais’s 2.59*.
In running third Bronze Flight earned
£125. Considering the bad luck he has
had with Pen, H. E. Russell could not
be begrudged a little easy money. The
race added to the many St. Legers not
worth the prize-money attached to them,
and it always seems to me that it is one
classic we could do without.
Guinness is evidently far from being
as good as supposed when he won at
Randwick a few weeks ago. Favorite
for the second division of the Vaucluse
Handicap he flattered his backers when,
in company with Nebraska, he was going
comfortably behind Fly turning into the
straight. However, he failed to respond
when pressure was applied, and finished
sixth or seventh.
*-••••
Rex, who was running fourth in the
early part, settled Fly inside the last fur-
long, but had to be ridden right out to
beat Knight Folly, with 11-year-old
Dermid a good third. Fly demonstrated
that she retained all her two-year-old
pace, and she should not have any
trouble in crediting owner R. Wootton
with a race at one of the suburban
tracks. Aristocrat and Scarlet Circle were
too slow in finding their legs in the first
quarter-mile to ever be winning possi-
bilities.
Burdened with 9.3, including a 101 b.
penalty, the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
winner Trueaess was never in the hunt
in the Easter Plate, with which Randwick
racing opened on Monday. The event
was easy money for Session (Marconi-
gram-Manumit). Lady Neith led the
small field from the start, but Munro
raced Session early to the front, and she
was never headed, winning easily from
Lady Neith and Sally Rich. Trueness,
well back all the way, finished a poor
fourth.
Similar tactics tried by Munro on
Trimmer (8.11) in the La Perouse Handi-
cap (six furlongs) were undone by the
lightly-weighted Penthides (7.1), ridden
by J. Duncan. Penthides was one of the
first to show out, with Denis, but Munro
quickly took the lead on Trimmer, and
held it from Penthides and Radical to
the last furlong. Penthides ran about a
lot in the straight, and had to be twice
checked. Nevertheless he won easily by
two lengths, with Adios in third place.
The result was a good advertisement for
Pentheus, both Penthides and Trimmer
being by that Australian sire.
An even field of 15 faced the starter
for the Biraganbil Handicap for three-
year-olds, and Munro continued his suc-
cessful meeting by getting the top weight,
Katanga, home the winner in a stirring
finish. Katanga drew the extreme out-
side position, was away well, but then
dropped back to about the middle of the
field. Changes in the lead were fast and
frequent. Gallop led by three lengths
nearing the turn, but there Asnazu and
Good Morning raced past him, with
Katanga, Dollar and Thunderclap and
others coming fast. Munro had Katanga
in front nearing the post, but right to
the judge it looked anybody’s race,
Katanga beating Dollar three-quarters of
a length, with Thunderclap half a length
away.
Munro and Mosaic, together with
Mosaic’s two fellow-topweights, domi-
nated the Sydney Cup. It gave Mosaic
his second Sydney Cup, the Posterity-
Inlaid horse having won it as a three-
year-old last year. It brought Munro’s
successes for the day up to three wins
and a second out of the four races de-
cided up to then, and six wins from seven
successive mounts. The other Cup places
went to Royal Chief (9.5), second;
Maikai (9.6) third. Mosaic carried 9.1.
Gold Spark and The Blizzard were pace-
makers ; Yours Truly well up in third
place for most of the journey ; the ulti-
mate place-fillers fairly well back. Of
these Royal Chief was the first to move.
Beginning his run approaching the turn,
he ran past Yours Truly, with Mosaic
trailing him. In the straight Munro got
Mosaic up alongside, disposed of Royal
Chief in a few strides and went on to
win by two lengths, with Maikai coming
late on the scene in third place. Time,
3.25 L
Eights (tens here and there) could be
got about Mosaic, and the dividends
for ss. were £2 13s. 3d. and 18s. 6d.
A shapely brown turned out in splendid
condition by J. H. Abbs, he races in the
nomination of that Sydney trainer.
* * ■* *
It was thought that High Caste’s Don-
caster failure might cause him to be a
non-runner for the All-Aged Plate, but
up to yesterday it was intended to start
him. Saturday’s race did him no harm,
and 8.6 in a w.f.a. race is a different
matter from 9.0 in a first-class handicap.
Ajax is bound to be favorite, and pre-
sumably runners in addition to Ajax and
High Caste will be El Golea and Beau-
livre. Compared with Doncaster weights
El Golea will meet High Caste 51b.
worse, and Beaulivre 21b. better. The
small field should help High Caste
against the last-mentioned two, but Ajax
may be too much for him. In the Don-
caster, High Caste was No. 15 at the
barrier, and Bartle could not get him
over near the rails in the early part,
with the result that all hope of High
Caste’s success was gone by the time the
straight entrance was reached.
* * * #
Few bookmakers attempted to bet on
the A.J.C. St. Leger. “Why, it's giving
money away, no matter what odds are
laid on,” commented one member of
the Ring. It undoubtedly looked that
way, but some backers managed to lay
12 to 1 on Reading, though at the finish
14 to 1 was asked. The last time a
supposed “couldn’t lose” chance went
down in the St. Leger was when Artil-
leryman, at 12 to 1 on, was defeated
by Millieme in 1920. The latter then
ran in the Sydney Cup with 7.13, but
was beaten into third place by two great
horses in Kennaquhair (9.5) and Poitrel
(9.9.).
* * «= *
The A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes has
been a good race for Melbourne-trained
two-year-olds, Lucrative being the
twelfth winner from the south in the last
seventeen years. The others were The
Monk, Los Gatos, Cyden, Royal Feast,
Mollison, The Doctor’s Orders, Hall
Mark, Dark Sky, Young Idea, Ajax and
Nuffield. For the past 20 years Heroic
has a better record than any other sire,
his winners being Hall Mark, Ajax and
Nuffield. For the same period Limond
has had two winners in Honour and
Ammon Ra, and Absurd a similar
number in The Monk and Los Gatos.
* * * *
Dark Elegance’s effort in the Fairfield
Handicap at the meeting held at Rand-
wick on March 16 pointed to her having
trained off, and this was confirmed by
her running in the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes. It was thought the seven fur-
longs might worry her, but not to the
extent of causing her to finish last. How-
ever, she has done great service for W.
H. Mackay, and he will be lucky if he
is represented by another as good during
the coming season. Dark Elegance’s
five wins carried a total of £2275, that
sum being increased by three minor
placings. In nine starts she has only
once been out of a place.
* * * *
Melbourne punters, resigned to their
fate after so many setbacks in recent
weeks, can console themselves with the
thought that “form” horses are at least
consistent in their inconsistency. Not for
years has form been so hard to follow,
and the temporary cessation of the book-
makers’ stereotyped plaint, “we are a
dying race,” is evidence that punters are
“getting it in the neck.”
Alleged “good things” are being
toppled at every meeting, and Kaolin’s
defeat of Manrico in the Seaside Handi-
cap at Flemington on Saturday was hard
to take. Big punters backed Manrico
as if there were no settling day, but,
while they would have expressed surprise
had Hilton or Operatic beaten him, they
were dumbfounded when Kaolin upset
calculations. Kaolin is nothing if not
consistent, as his four previous races since
his return from a spell had yielded a
win and three seconds, but the seconds
FOR RANDWICK.
(By "PILOT.”)
THIRD DAY—WEDNESDAY.
All-Aged Plate: Ajax, 1 ; High
Caste, 2 ; Beaulivre, 3.
Champagne Stakes: Pandect, 1 ;
Ensign, 2 ; Lucrative, 3.
Cumberland Plate: Reading, 1 ;
Mosaic, 2 ; Maikai, 3.
FOURTH DAY—SATURDAY.
A.J.C. Plate: Reading, 1 ; Maikai,
2 ; Mosaic, 3.


ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
!l NEW
CHAMPIONS
-o\Ss^
mm
Ml
flew
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring
GREATER POWER
Worn-out spark plugs are the
thief of power. Install new
Champions and see the dif-
ference in speed, acceleration
and power. They soon pay for
themselves, too, in the fuel
they save.
An Empire Product—made in Windsor, Can.
were in restricted company, and it was
difficult to visualise his defeating one of
Australia’s greatest sprinters, even with
341 b. in his favor. But he wore Manrico
down at the finish, won going away by
half a length, and evidently is about to
live right up to earlier expectations. A
brother to Feldspar, winner of the 1935
Victoria Derby, Kaolin (Thracian-
Quartz) finished second to Nuffield in a
two-year-old race at Caulfield, but he
went amiss at that age, and was off the
scene for about 18 months before making
a successful reappearance in a Trial Fly-
ing Handicap at Woodend in January this
year. He was favorite for that race, and
also for the three succeeding races in
which he finished second, but on Satur-
day 10 to 1 was available after twelves
had been bet. Now four years old, he
is trained by “Snowy” Wolters for S. O.
Wood, and more will be heard of him.
It’s easy to criticise from the grand-
stand, and a big majority of Manrico’s
backers were not pleased with A. Breas-
ley’s handling of the gelding. They
might have been right in contending that
Breasley appeared to rate the opposition
a bit too cheaply after his mount
looked to be travelling well with a
lead of a couple of lengths about two
furlongs from home, but against this is
the fact that Breasley’s style of riding is
often deceptive. He sits very quietly,
and this sometimes gives the impression
that his mount is doing better than is
actually the case. Maybe it was so with
Manrico, who obviously is not so good as
early this autumn. At his best, he would
have made short work of Kaolin on his
favorite track.
Trainer Harry Freedman was at Rand-
wick on Saturday to saddle Lucrative for
the latter’s success in the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, but Dignitas kept the
home fires burning by winning the Sea-
ford Trial Hurdle at Flemington. Dig-
nitas went to the front early, and was
not afterwards headed to win easily from
hot favorite Conandale. Latter preju-
diced his chance by making several faulty
jumps, but the probabilities are that he
will improve. Notwithstanding that he
won over hurdles at Ascot and Moonee
Valley early in 1938, he is still compara-
tively inexperienced. His race on Satur-
day was only his fourth over jumps, and
this gelding, about whom Cup and
weight-for-age hopes once centred, might
yet be a National possibility.
Jack Fryer, like Freedman, hoped to
win races at Flemington and Randwick
on Saturday, but, while Prairie Prince
acted up to expectations by winning the
Maiden Two-year-old Handicap, El
Golea was beaten into third place in the
Doncaster. Both horses are owned by
Archie Crofts, who paid 1000 guineas
for Prairie Prince as a yearling. First-
prize money on Saturday was only £2BO,
but Prairie Prince, who is a fine stamp
of colt by Manitoba from Strepera, was
backed from 10 to 1 down to sixes, and
won well enough to indicate that he will
soon repeat the dose in better company.
He finished gamely to upset a plunge on
Exactly, who was backed from fives
down to favoritism at threes, while Gold-
smith weakened into third place. Gold-
smith, however, should be worth follow-
ing. Few horses are able to keep a
straight course down the middle of the
straight six and win, and Goldsmith evi-
dently is returning to the form that en-
abled him to finish third in the Mari-
byrnong Plate. A colt by Hall Mark-
Trasina, he may be worth the 600 guineas,
paid for him as a yearling by C. B.
Kellow.
Melbourne’s leading apprentice, J.
Purtell, moved to within one win of H.
Badger on the winning jockeys’ list when
he landed Mollie Con (Great Star-
Humoresque) a narrow winner over
Lucky Hoot in the first division of the
Novice Stakes. Purtell’s riding has been
one of the features of the season’s racing,
and, considering that an accident de-
prived him of the winning Caulfield and
Melbourne Cups mounts on Rivette, he
thoroughly deserves the subsequent suc-
cess which has come his way. Everything
points to his leading the jockeys’ list at
the end. of the season, but before then
he will have completed his apprentice-
ship. His indentures to Ted Temby ex-
pire on May 7. Mollie Con’s win was a
tribute to the judgment of her trainer,
F. Manning, jun., who, rather than run
her in maiden company at Ascot three
days earlier, benefited by the larger prize-
money and longer price in the stronger
field on Saturday.
Owner A. E. Kimpton has enjoyed a
good innings lately with Gladstone and
Lady Montague, and some nice bets at
remunerative odds were landed when
Lady Montague beat Rose Princess and
Bankshaw in the Easter Stakes. She had
tired at the end of a mile and a half at
Caulfield a week earlier, but, with two
furlongs less to travel on Saturday, fin-
ished too well for her opponents. As the
win was worth £450 in prize-money
alone, Kimpton continues to have reason
to congratulate himself on reconsidering
his decision to retire Lady Montague to
the stud last season. Lady Montague has
had a different rider in each of her last
five races, and she went more generously
for Ted Preston on Saturday. Preston
was not perturbed when Lady Kooringal
raced away to a lead of at least 12
lengths. He reckoned on the pacemaker
coming back to the field at the top of the
straight, conserved his mount as much
as possible to that stage, and then let her
have her head.
Difference between weight-for-age and
handicap form was reflected in Amiable’s
failure to finish closer than fourth in the
Easter Stakes. At her previous start she
had staggered the racing world by beat-
ing High Caste and Ajax in the C. M.
Lloyd Stakes, and hanging up new Aus-
tralasian figures for a mile, but 9.9 in
handicap company on Saturday, when
she was racing over 10 furlongs for the
first time, proved beyond her. Bankshaw
(8.1), also owned by W. R. Kemball,
started at a point shorter price than
Amiable, and beat her about two lengths
for third money. Amiable, however, ran
on nicely at the finish, and evidently will
be at home over a middle-distance. She
did much better than Crojick, who was
backed like a certainty. Crojick’s price
shortened from sevens to favoritism at
7 to 2, but his ability to get 10 furlongs
was open to question, and, obviously
upset by the fast pace set by Lady
Kooringal, he was never really dan-
gerous.
High expectations centred around
French Gem (Beau Fils-Fission) after
her success in the Oaks of 1938, but it
was not until the Werribee Highweight
Handicap on Saturday that she won an-
other race. Owned in Adelaide by G. W.
Badman, but trained in Melbourne by R.
Sinclair, she had been a costly proposi-
tion between times. Always around 12
and 10 to 1, her chance of overtaking
the favorite, Carpentier, appeared far
from bright when the latter held a cleat-
lead halfway down the straight, but
Carpentier weakened under his steadier
of 9.7, and was passed first by French
Gem, and right on the post by Fear-
nought. French Gem has taken a long
time to recover form, but, having done
so, further success may come her way
shortly.
Bill Burke deserved his success with
David Innis in the second division of
the Novice Stakes. David Innis had
started only twice previously for a second
at Moonee Valley and a similar placing
after losing on protest to Royal March
at Werribee. The upholding of that pro-
test was one of the most controversial
subjects in months, 7 to 1 having been
freely offered, without takers, against
the stewards upsetting the judge’s plac-
ings. Burke, however, got his own back
on Saturday, when David Innis, backed
from sixes to favoritism at 5 to 2, went
to the front early and fought on gamely
to withstand a determined challenge by
Windfelt. David Innis is by David from
a Woorak mare, a combination of
stamina and brilliance, and, being only
three years old, he seems certain to im-
prove. Good wins should be ahead of
him on the flat, but as Burke has a fond-
ness for jumpers, and as most of David’s
stock are natural jumpers, the chances
are that David Innis will eventually be
tried over hurdles.
* * *
The ruling of the A.J.C. relative to in-
creased prize-money, as well as
entrance and acceptance fees, will give
provincial racing a necessary uplift. Only
one club stood out against the 10s. ac-
ceptance, but it will not be a loser by
the new order of things. Supporters of
provincial meetings will have early know-
ledge of post positions at the various
tracks, while course scratchings are un-
likely to be as numerous as in the past.
After being attracted by the possibility
of fair fields it annoyed racegoers when
many fields were reduced to less than half
the number of horses figuring in the race-
book. They reckoned they had been
cruelly misled. Naturally some owners
will not appreciate the heavier payments,
but greater prize-money than in the past
is compensation.
* * * *
If the concluding day’s results at
Randwick are as favorable to the books
as those of last year they will be satis-
fied. Aureus led off with a win at 20
to 1 in the Rous Handicap. He was
followed by Knight Folly at 12 to 1 in
the Woollahra Handicap, and, though
Ajax and Feminist then came in as win-
ners at 3 to 1 on and 2 to 1 against
respectively, Tel Asur, 12 to 1, gave a
satisfactory profit. Defaulter and Mosaic
shared favoritism at 5 to 2 for the A.J.C.
Plate, the former winning, and, though
Malagigi (5 to 1) won the Final Handi-
cap, Fakenham and Cooranga were in
greater demand.
* * * *
It was greatly through the influence
of G. Price that H. Hanley got the mount
on Indignity in the Australian Cup.
Successful jockeys occasionally forget to
make any acknowledgment to those who
have done them a good turn. Hanley did
not. He wrote a letter of thanks to the
Sydney trainer.
* * * *
The yearling sales at Randwick will be
continued to-morrow and concluded on
Friday next. The following week
W. Inglis and Son will hold a sale of
racehorses in training, stallions and
brood mares, and Reg Inglis, for one,
will probably be glad when it is all
over. A testimonial from him as to the
efficacy of somebody or other’s voice and
throat lozenges should be worth a sub-
stantial fee.
* * * *
A Sydney trainer ascribes the improve-
ment in one of his team to beer and
carrots being portion of its menu. What’s
wrong with some other trainer giving
beer and prawns a trial? It is a stimu-
lating diet —at times —for human beings,
and might be responsible for an extra
sparkle on the part of a horse.
% * *
Two Ton Tony, winner of the first
division of the Two-Year-old Handicap
at Ascot last week, should be a staying
possibility. Sired in England to Aus-
tralian time, he is by Truculent (Teddy-
Saucy Sue) from Princess Rose (Rose
Prince-Corn Silk), who was a good
stayer, winning up to a mile and five fur-
longs in France. As a yearling Two
Ton Tony was bought by W. J. Smith
for 700 guineas, and knight H. Denison
gave 450 guineas for Princess Rose when
sjre was sold at the same time. The foal
tnat followed Two Ton Tony was a filly
by Chatham. Macleay, winner of the
third division of the Ascot two-year-old
race, is bred to gallop, being by Melfort
from that brilliant mare Whitta. He
made faster time in his division than
either Two Ton Tony or Celebrity (win-
ner of another division), and won in
easier fashion.
* * * *
Reading gave D. Munro his first
A.J.C. St. Leger win. Munro has a long
way to go to reach M. McCarten’s per-
formance in that race. McCarten had his
first St. Leger success on Limerick in
1927 ; since then he has won on Veil-
mond, Gold Rod and Mosaic, and on
John Wilkes dead-heated with Cathartes.
Other riders with more than one A.J.C.
St. Leger winner during the past 20
years are J. Toohey and J. Pike with
three each. The former rode Lady
Vaiais when she made the time record
for the race, and his other winners were
Harvest King and Winalot. Pike won
on Strephon, Phar Lap and Peter Pan.
* * * *
Kathbella, winner of the Thompson
Handicap of £lOOO, adds to Beau Pere’s
many good gallopers. She is a four-
year-old mare out of Royal Line, and is
trained by S. J. Reid, who won the
Thompson Handicap on Ladoga in 1915.
Kathbella, who carried 8.4, was fifth
favorite on the tote, the popular selec-
tion being Old Bill. After getting away
indifferently Old Bill never got close
enough to the front to raise the hopes
of his backers. Winners on T P a
Handicap day included Lamo > - s
two-year-old by Bulandshar.
owned by T. H. Lowry.
* * * *
it i s only natural that, in attempting
to select potential stayers, buyers should
favor some sires much more than others.
However, the uncertainty of breeding in
t h a t respect is emphasised by the results
G f Sydney Cups from 1915 up to last
y ea r. In those 25 years the only sire
w ith' m ore than one winner was Treclare,
successful runners being Johnnie
j ason and Broad Arrow,
* * * *
Reading is to run in the Cumberland
Plate and A.J.C. Plate, and in the former
wiU b£ in recei t f ’ l2lb . fro m Maikai
and Mosaic A.J.C. Plate Maikai
and Mosaic con££d£ him lslb . a nd 14ib.
respectively> Applying the handicapper’s
s £ Cu p figures, Reading should
b j[ £ F ln the Cup weights he was
in recei tof 10 i b . from Maikai and
51b f £ Mosaic so he i s favored by
f a s f ale . ast year Mosaic won
th£ Sydney Cup with 8.2, but was beaten
in t h e A.J.C. Plate by Defaulter and
Spear Chief. Reading’s Cup weight was
R . Chief is & in the Cumberland
P i ate and A.J.C. Plate.
, , *
Glenacre, in 1920, was t
B et below 1.26 4 in the A.J.C. 1 .
Stakes. Four years a r L.
Wallace reduced that time to . 2 ’ q --
Hall Mark did 1.24 in 1933. In 1935
w ° n ven tbl hfna°itime
to the idea hat there anything in time
™ ust acbnit that an imp ,
3 * sec - at fu rl°ngs suggests that
wo-years-olds of recent years are faster
‘ han thos f ° £ 20 V ears
be something m the contention that,
generally speaking, hors s
n ? £ aS consistent or s , ol .‘ d “
° £ the old-timers, but that is also open
to argument-
* * *
Up to 1924 the fastest time recorded
in the A.J.C. Champagne Stakes was
Heroic’s \.\2\. In 1925 Manfred won
in 1.11, and it was not until Pandava
was successful two years ago that
Manfred’s time was equalled. During the
interval Hall Mark won in 1.1 li, and
Kuvera in 1.1 I|.
* * * *
The V.R.C.’s new betting rule, which
nullifies bets made in running on a
winner that weighs in light, is one with
which no fault can be found. It was
hard luck for a backer to lose his money
on a horse that at the time he wagered
actually had no chance of getting the
race, even though it might be first past
the post.
* * * *
Ajax won the last C. W. Cropper
pj a te with 9.5, easily beating the minor
p i ace -getters Gold Rod (8.9) and Amiable
(7.12) in the fast time of 1.23|. The
ot her runners were King’s Head and


A Distinctive Winchester!
ê
WINCHESTER HAMMERLESS
REPEATING MODEL 61
known Winchester Model, made with all the precision and fine workmanship for which
lidded! r°,f t ® r^ eopl ? 1 h r e 1 1< i ,lg b ee . n f am op. -22 cal., 24in, round barrel, pistol grip stock.
, , ea i sight, gold bead from sight, slide action. Magazine handles 20 short, 16 lono - or
i* ‘ ,n £~ n “ e cartridges. This rifle will handle adequately and safely the new high-pSwer
i > R P [CR P <i ,22 RF - £B/15/-
(Carriage Paid.)
llhatever your Shooting problem, be well advised by LIONEL BIBBY, Australia’s recognised
Autn<»uy. on Firearms and Ballistics and expert shot, who is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department at Haymarket Headquarters.
Write for comprehensive Shooting Catalogue , Free and Post Free!
MICK SIMMONS LTD
712-722 George Street,
Haymarkat, Sydney.
3 h.p. Model “R”
INVIUCIBLE
Four-cycle
Rowboat
Motor.
t
INVINCIBLE
<§^
One of the 18
“INVINCIBLE”
MARINE
MODELS.
mOTORS Piy LimiTED
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
ESTABLISHED IN 1906.
Write for new 16-page illustrated
catalogue to-day. The 1940 line of
“Invincible” Marine and Industrial
Engines comprises 18 sizes: 3 to 170
h.p. in 1. 2,4, 6, 8 and 12 cylinder
models, all four-cycle. Over 300
engines always in stock.
Creditor. Ajax appears certain to again
have the maximum handicap weight of
9.5, and principal interest will attach to
how the others are weighted, the mini-
mum being 7st. From G. Price’s stable
Beaulivre, Adios, Denis, Mildura and
Gold Rod are engaged, and possibly a
couple of those will start. High Caste,
Reading, Gold Salute and Radical are
three-year-old entrants, in addition to
Beaulivre. Even if he receives the mini-
mum Radical is unlikely to have many
supporters, but the fact of being en-
tered suggests that in the near future a
return to his two-year-old form is ex-
pected. However, if Ajax wins the All-
Aged Plate this afternoon the probabili-
ties are that he will again start a warm
favorite no matter how favorably those
below him may appear to be treated.
When Ajax won in 1938 the race was at
weight-for-age at six furlongs, with penal-
ties and allowances. Ajax had 9.2, but,
though Pandava (7.4) was given a chance
of beating him, he finished two and a
half lengths behind the chestnut. King’s
Head was third, and the unplaced run-
ners were Mohican and Gold Rod.
* * * *
Flemington must have been in good
galloping order on Saturday. Lady
Montague won the Easter Stakes, 1}
miles, in 2.3|, and finished only half a
length ahead of Rose Princess. Dignitas
won the Trial Hurdle Race in for
the two miles, and Kaolin, in disposing
of Manrico in the Seaside Handicap, did
the six furlongs in 1.1 Of. The Fleming-
ton record for that distance is Regular
Bachelor’s 1.9}.
* * * *
Many Australian racing men have
read of “Parson” Parkes, who resigned
from the Church in England in order to
take up horse-training. Among the horses
he had in his care was Orange William,
who later won three Viceroy’s Cups in
Calcutta. The “Parson” was a remark-
able character, and Meyrick Good in his
memoirs in “Sporting Life” has the fol-
lowing anecdote concerning him:
I cannot absolutely vouch for its cor-
rectness [writes Good], but it is said that,
on deciding to forsake the “Cloth” for a
trainer’s career, Parkes delivered a fare-
well sermon with such eloquence and
pathos that half his congregation were re-
duced to tears.
Whereupon he leaned over the pulpit
and terminated his oration with the start-
ling remark: “Now, I will take 6 to 4
most of you go to .”
* * *
The other day a jockey accused a
starter of being unfair to him. Since
then the same official has shown that he
is no respecter of persons, fining three
leading riders £5 each for disobedience
at the post in a race. A little severity
now and then would unsettle the belief
of some jockeys that it pays to try to
beat the starter.
* * * *
According to Maoriland critics the
last couple of months have done a lot
for Beau Vite. He is credited with hav-
ing furnished in marked fashion, and
though he had 9.4 when he recently won
the Taranaki Stakes, six furlongs, in 1.13
it was an easy race for him. No other
six-furlongs race at the meeting was run
faster. Less than a week later he made
light of winning the N.Z. St. Leger at Wel-
lington, and, if he continues to do well,
he will be an interesting contender for
the spring w.f.a. races in Sydney and
Melbourne. Although a failure in the
Victoria Derby he ran well in the Mel-
bourne Cup.
* * * *
A Wellington exchange says that
Agreeable, dam of Amiable, Australian
mile record-holder, has had several
changes of ownership. Agreeable was
bred by Mr. T. H. Lowry, but all her
early progeny, including Amiable, were
bred by Mr. W. R. Kemball. Subse-
quently she was bought by Mr. E. J.
Ussher, and now, resultant on another
change of ownership, she is at the Flax-
mere Stud, Hastings. If that is so, per-
haps G. P. Donnelly will try her with
his new sire Theio (Tetratema-Thyene,
by Sunstar), whose oldest stock are year-
lings. It is a mating that should make
for speed.
Defaulter’s retirement is definite. As
previously mentioned he broke down
badly after his Hazlett Gold Cup win at
Wingatui (Dunedin). It was quickly de-
cided there was not the slightest use
attempting to put him through another
preparation, and a Maoriland friend in-
formed me that he had been leased for
three years to Ken Austin, who has a
stud farm about 16 miles from Christ-
church. Defaulter was a great three-
year-old, winning from a mile to two and
a quarter miles. The only disappointing
race he ran at that age was with 8.12 in
the Sydney Cup. His failure was ex-
cusable, as he struck trouble from the
first furlong. In Sydney this season he
“If you do that agin y ’ can chase it y’self.”
won each of the races in which he
started—Warwick Stakes, seven furlongs,
and Chelmsford Stakes, nine furlongs.
In the latter he had 71b. penalty, and
those behind him included Beau Vite,
Royal Chief, High Caste and Reading.
* * * *
A matter of special importance to have
been decided by the South African Jockey
Club during the current week affected
stipendiary stewards. It was recom-
mended that the control of the system
should come under the supervision of the
head executive —as in the various Austra-
lian States —instead of, as at present,
under the authority of the racing clubs
employing those officials. There are
now only three stipendiary stewards em-
ployed in South Africa —one at Durban,
another at the Cape and a third at the
Rand, the clubs acting independently of
each other and of the South African
ruling body.
*l* H*
Brisbane owners should be well satis-
fied with the Queensland T.C. and Bris-
bane A.T.C. (Doomben) in respect of
prize-money. The Q.T.C. is giving £3OOO
for the Brisbane Cup, £2OOO for the
Stradbroke Handicap and £l5OO for the
Moreton Handicap in May. The B.A.T.C.
races in July, and £3150 is attached to
the Doomben Handicap and £2OOO to
the Doomben Cup. The added money
for the two days totals £7650, and, while
the B.A.T.C. is certain of some Sydney
support, several of the better-class horses
may be absentees owing to being rested
after autumn racing. The Doomben
straight six has recently been remodelled,
and whether horses start from the inside,
centre or outside the distance from the
barrier to the winning-post is exactly the
same. Brisbane is not a large city by
comparison with Sydney, but racing must
be in a flourishing condition there when,
between them, two clubs can put up
£12,300 for five handicaps.
* * * *
It is recognised that it is bad business
to back horses not in form, and the same
applies to jockeys. Some jockeys cannot
stand anything approaching a turn of
bad luck. They become overanxious,
for one thing, and in consequence run
into trouble they might have avoided.
Others temporarily lose their nerve, and
hesitate in trying for openings of which
they would have been quick to take
advantage when things were going well
with them. If they get into a bunch
they will remain there sooner than take
anything approaching a risk in attempt-
ing to get out. It is easy for an on-
looker to criticise, but there is no getting
away from the fact that some jockeys
quickly lose heart when they get it into
their heads that they are out of luck.
* * * *
All. going well, the substitute English
Derby will be run at Newbury on June
12. Original entries for Epsom were
cancelled, the race being reopened.
Nominations closed on February 29, 78
being received. The crack French colt
Djebel, who beat the best English young-
sters at Newmarket in the autumn, was
an entrant. He was not in the Epsom
Derby. Djebel is to be trained by
S. Donoghue and ridden by C. Elliott.
Other good ones that were not among
the original entries have also been nomi-
nated. The Aga Khan, with five, was the
principal subscriber to the new race.
* * * *
In a speech in England R. C. Morn-
son, Labor MP. for North Tottenham,
offered to bet the war would finish this
year. Thereupon a Tottenham book-
maker wrote to Morrison offering him
£250 to £5O against. No business resulted.
* * * *
The Grand National will be run at
Aintree (Liverpool) on April 5. The top-
weights are Royal Mail and Airgead
Sios, with 12.1 each, and 18 horses are
on the minimum, 10.3. Of the 57 entrants
only one is as young as six, and five are
seven. The others range up to 14, that
being the age of Lazy Boots, who has
10.3. There are 17 of 10 years or over.
With many English owners and trainers
the idea obtains that a steeplechaser
cannot be “made” before he is eight.
* * * *
Ivor, Owen and Jack Anthony, who
have had marked success in England as
riders and trainers of jumpers, are sons
of a Welsh farmer. Ivor twice headed
the winners’ list of amateur riders under
National Hunt Rules, and the winners’
professional list once. He trained Grand
National winners in Kellsboro’ Jack and
Royal Mail, and also Brown Jack, winner
of the Queen Alexandra Stakes at Ascot
six times. Owen trained Music Hall,
winner of the 1921 Grand National, but
in connection with that race Jack
Anthony has done better as a rider than
a trainer. He won on Glenside, Ally
Sloper and Troytown ; but his nearest
to a win as a trainer was when Easter
Hero ran second. With Thomond II he
scored two thirds.
* * * *
The English General Stud Book in-
cludes many horses whose ancestors,
under present conditions, would not have
stood any chance of insertion. Touching
op this “Audax” wrote as follows in ?
recent issue of the “Horse and Hound”:
Some time ago I stayed with a friend
who is very keen about breeding the race-
horse, and who considers that all should
come from ancestors to be found in the
first volume of the General Stud Book,
when he told me this: —
“Having gone very carefully through my
27th volume of the Stud Book, I make
out that certainly over 900, and I think
actually 920, horses are to be found
therein which, but for their ancestors having
got there prior to Lord Jersey’s amend-
ment being passed, would not be eligible
for admission.”
* * * #
English breeders have no time for old
mares. Among those disposed of at the
Newmarket sales at the end of last year
was 15-year-old Lilyon (Hurry On-
Golden Lily, by Persimmon). She was in
foal to the French Derby winner Pearl-
weed, and realised only 10 guineas,
though at three years she was sold for
3000 guineas. She was followed into the
ring by Allumette, an eight-year-old Son-
in-Law mare, who made only nine
guineas. Next came another eight-year-
old in Sandmaiden (by Sansovino, 148
guineas fee), and she realised 25 guineas.
She and Allumette were catalogued as
covered by Cuttlefish. The three came
from the Kingsclere stud. Other prices
for many mares were correspondingly
low, and some Australian breeders could
have had a great time at Newmarket at
a low cost.
* * * *
At the December sales at Newmarket
(Eng.) 124 lots were purchased lo go
abroad, the total cost being 48,355gn5.
L. Lawrence gave 14,380gn5. for 14
horses for America. Forty were bought
for the Argentine for 8535gn5.; and
there were 14 purchases for South Africa
and India at 3779gn5. Two were bought
for France for 1240gns.
* * * *
Doping would appear to be almost a
thing of the past in America. At the
annual conference of the National Asso-
ciation of State Racing Commissioners
at Miami last month—l 4 States were rep-
resented—it was stated that out of 3850
swabs analysed from tracks in five States
only 10 showed they contained drugs.
o Continued on next page.)


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting the
Australian equivalent of S American dollars
through “The Bulletin” Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ESTATE, OF WALTER PITT.—WiII
Florence Helen, daughter of Arthur Edwin
Dare and Rose Anna Pitt, or anyone knowing
her whereabouts, please communicate with the
Public Trustee, 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney?
DOUGLAS, DAVID ROBERT—WiII this
brother of Mary Ann Watson, deceased, or
anyone knowing his whereabouts please write
to the Public Trustee, 14 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney?
YEO. —Harry George, formerly of Clayfield,
Brisbane, is requested to communicate with
the A.M.P. Society in Brisbane, when he will
hear of something to his advantage.
STRINGER, Alec M., who in 1937 carried on
a hawking business in Central and Western
Queensland (with James Petersen), last heard
of at Clermont in December, 1938, or any
person knowing his whereabouts since that
date is requested to communicate as early as
possible with J. M. STRINGER, P.O. Box 96,
Childers, Queensland.
GRAY, William John and Georgina Alice,
children of William James Ernest Gray and
Georgina Gilchrist Gray (nee McKay).—Any-
one knowing the whereabouts of the above-
named kindly communicate with the under-
signed.—Estate of JOHN M. McKAY, C/o
W. B. GEDDES, Public Trustee, 14 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
The Bankruptcy Act 1924-1933.
Notice.
IN the Court of Bankruptcy District of the
State of New South Wales and the Aus-
tralian Capital Territory.
No. 137 of 1939.
Re ERNEST SCANLAN a bankrupt.
Ex parte ARNOLD VICTOR RICHARDSON
Official Receiver.
TO ERNEST SCANLAN formerly of Leura
TAKE NOTiCE that a motion for your
committal to prison for failing to comply with
the requirements of the Bankruptcy Act was
adjourned and the Court has ordered that the
publication once each in the Commonwealth
Gazette published at Canberra and the Sydney
Morning Herald and the Bulletin newspapers
published at Sydney of notice of the adjourned
hearing of the said motion shall be deemed
to be good and sufficient service upon you on
the completion of such publications as afore-
said AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
the adjourned hearing of the said motion will
be held at the Federal Bankruptcy Court
Seventh Floor Commonwealth Bank Building
112 Pitt Street Sydney on Monday the 15th
day of April 1940 at 10.30 o’clock in the fore-
noon and if you do not appear the Court may
make an order for your committal in your
absence. The notice of Motion and Report of
the Official Receiver may be inspected by you
on application at this Court.
DATED this 19th day of March, 1940.
(L.s.) L. G. BOHRINGER,
Deputy Registrar.
The greatest number from any State was
three from Illinois. If half we hear is
true, doping still goes on at Sydney meet-
ings. There may be exaggeration con-
cerning the amount that takes place, but
it would be interesting to learn who sup-
plies the dope. As a rule, the chemical
knowledge of trainers does not run to
compounding anything that would be
effective in that respect.
* * *
Irish horse-dealers are said to be hard
to beat, and on that score the following
clipping from an English exchange is de-
cidedly good:
Unbeaten as a two-year-old, The Tet-
rarch, “the rocking horse,” as he was
known because of his peculiar markings,
was a popular idol, and set a fashion in
splashy greys and roans.
An astute Irish dealer exploited this
by selling a curious piebald yearling to
an innocent buyer. Before the animal
reached his new quarters heavy rain had
washed out most of The Tetrarch mark-
ings.
The angry vendor protested to the dealer,
who, with mock contrition, replied, “By
japes! There was a waterproof blanket
went with the horse, and I forgot to give
it ye. I wouldn’t have had this happen for
the world!”
* * * *
This year the Dublin Government’s
grant to racing in Eire is £9500,
against £lO,OOO a year ago, when a couple
of clubs declined to accept the amount
allotted them. Races subsidised by the
Government are confined to Irish-trained
horses.
* * * *
Miss Dorothy Paget does not do things
by halves in racing. She has paid very
high prices for yearlings, jumpers and
brood mares, but has never received quite
the return she deserved. In addition to
those being trained in England, Miss
Paget had 31 hurdlers and steeplechasers
stabled at Phoenix Park Club racecourse
(Ashtown, Co. Dublin) at the beginning
of last month.
* * * *
When the latest papers to hand left
America Kentucky breeders were fight-
ing a bill against the taxation of stallions.
It was then before the Kentucky Legis-
lature, and provided for 20 p.c. of the
greatest sum charged for the services of
each registered stallion. Two years ago
a similar law was repealed. At that time
it was pointed out that the tax was
preventing owners of stallions standing
them in Kentucky. If a horse stands
at a fee of £A375 its owner would be
required to pay £A7S yearly.
* * *
In France trainers are encouraged to
do all that is possible in gaining oppor-
tunities for their apprentices. The
Societe Sportive de France gives a pre-
mium at the end of every flat-racing
season to the trainer whose apprentices
win most races. Last year the Maisons-
Lafitte trainer Charles Bariller again
came out on top, his lads scoring 114
wins. This was four times as many as
any other trainer’s apprentices recorded
during the year.
*
Another starting-machine now used
in America is the Santa Anita-Westing-
house Magnetic Control Gate. It is
worked by electricity, and does away
with the handling of horses by assistant
starters, which was an undesirable feature
of some other American starting-
machines. On the opening days of the
Santa Anita meeting the time averaged in
getting the horses away after they went
to the post was less than a minute. Offi-
cials were loud in its praise, principal
steward C. J. Fitz Gerald commenting as
follows: “This new gate works perfectly,
and is one of the most beneficial contri-
butions racing has ever had in America.”
* * * *
It is not anticipated the war will make
any difference to racing in America. It
is so far removed from the scene of
activities that, unless there are unexpected
developments, those who should know
most concerning its possibilities, are look-
ing forward to greater interest being taken
in it this year than at any time in the
past. The following clipping from the
“Thoroughbred Record” is distinctly
optimistic:
Never in the history of racing in America
has the ownership of horses been spread
over so many different interests, and never
in America have so many people been
breeding thoroughbreds. Never in America
has such a large percentage of the popu-
lation been interested in racing as there
is to-day, and never in America has there
been such a wide dissemination of news
about the sport as there is today. Breeders
cannot ignore these features in making
their breeding plans for the yearlings of
1942. If breeding to race, more racing
and higher purses can be expected; if
breeding to sell, more buyers and higher
prices.
* * * *
It is unusual to hear of a church
refusing money because it came from an
alleged “tainted” source. The Presby-
tery of Los Angeles, however, recently
decided it could not conscientiously use
money derived from racing, and returned
a cheque for £A37 to the Hollywood
Turf Club.
* * * #
In America time in races has always
counted even more than in Australia,
but there, as here, old-time racing men
will not have it that horses now compet-
ing in the States are as good as those
of an earlier period. In reply to that
contention one of the younger school
recently wrote as follows in the “Thor-
oughbred Record”:—
Granting that speed-inducing tracks are
constantly being improved, it remains that
Sysonby, Colin, Roseben, Artful, Peter
Pan, Fair Play, Hermis and Burgomaster
were some of the “greats” prior to 1910.
But on examining the record on oval
tracks, between five furlongs and two miles,
there is only one name still on the books,
and that is Roseben’s, whose world record
has since been equalled.
If these horses were so superior to the
modern group, how is it they did not
create records which would have defied the
speed of those which came later? But ten
world’s records have been written into the
books since 1925, so, even though it may
be claimed our tracks are pasteboard, what
was it that caused bowed tendons and
other leg troubles to the horses of 30 or
40 years ago? Until someone straightens
me out on those points, I refuse to turn
the other cheek or ear when some oldster
says “Tut, tut, kid, if you think you are
looking at good horses, I wish you could
have been around when they were running
at Sheepshead Bay.”
M.Q. and Rafferty
Not much of a crowd inhabited Syd-
ney Stadium for the latest Richards-
Sabatino encounter, so maybe present
scribe’s opinion of the respective merits
of the pair are shared by most brother
addicts, despite what happened in Bris-
bane and the persistent over-boosting of
Sab by newspapers, coupled with an in-
ability to appreciate just how good Ron
is at the present time.
After their previous Sydney encounter
this scribe, with thought for Sabatino’s
easily-damaged eyes, suggested that a
further bout between the pair should not
be allowed. After that they met in
Brisbane ; Richards lost and was on the
canvas in the last round. That extra-
ordinary result notwithstanding, Richards
made short work of the Puerto Rican
last week, gaining the verdict on a
technical k.o. at the end of the third
round, after having opened Sab’s eye
with a left hook early in that round.
A pity Sab is so vulnerable there-
abouts ; he might be done tragic damage
if he goes on, and he’s a nice style of
boxer and looks a very decent sort of
chap. Certainly he should not be stacked
up against Ron, who has never fought
better than he’s fighting just now.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
After a week’s golf in and around
Los Angeles on all types of courses and
with different partners, I am convinced
that the American golfer is a vastly
different player from the Australian. Not
only do types of players differ, but also
the game itself does to a great extent.
While some consider golf in Australia
a “well-to-do man’s” game, it is without
doubt a rich man’s game in the United
States. Private clubs such as our own
Royal Sydney, Royal Melbourne, etc.,
are just about doubly “exclusive” in the
U.S. Not only do they keep to them-
selves very much in regard to allowing
local players who are not members to
play on the course, but they are similarly
strict on visitors. While I have had
every courtesy extended to me during
our stay, I can realise what a compliment
it is here to be made honorary members
at these rich clubs.
At many courses I have played on
there is an entrance fee of 2500 dollars,
annual subscription 275 dollars. Had I
to pay the visitor’s fees of four to five
dollars a day in addition to paying my
caddie two dollars a round my stay here
would be greatly curtailed. On the other
hand, public courses give reasonably
cheap golf. They charge from a dollar to
50 cents for a round, which is at the
moment 6s. 3d. to 3s. 2d. These figures
will give you some idea of the high cost
of the Royal and Ancient Game in this
country.
Those whom I have played with since
arriving are interesting for their playing
methods alone. I would say that, no matter
how keen Australians are on their game,
the Americans as a whole are keener.
Long-handicap players take the same time
and patience over their play as do the
champions. Whether it be a drive from
the tee or a simple 2ft. putt, the Ameri-
can takes his time and studies that stroke.
Golf is played at a much slower rate, too.
An average round takes 20 to 30 minutes
longer than on any similar Australian
course.
The American player, whether he be
good or bad, generally has a much higher
opinion of his play than his game de-
serves. He really thinks that his golf
is the most important thing in the world ;
and he is consistent in his thinking by
paying attention to the little details that
count so much.
Professionals that I have met in Los
Angeles earn a great deal more than
those in Australia. For lessons they get
from 12s. to 15s. a half-hour. Some
of the famous mentors, such as Mac-
donald Smith and Harry Cooper, com-
mand high fees, and, as there is a tre-
mendous amount of teaching done, pro-
fessionals depend upon this source for
the major part of their income. Some
pros, famed for their teaching receive
fabulous sums for a few minutes’ work.
Walter Hagen has taken up teaching
of late, and I understand is one of the
best at imparting knowledge. Assistant-
professionals are important assets at clubs
here, earning anything from 30 to 50
dollars a week on an average, and con-
siderably higher at the large clubs. Their
job is looking after the running of the
pro.’s shop and caddies, as well as teach-
ing while the professional himself attends
to the more important lessons and play-
ing.
Clubs and balls are a good deal dearer
compared with Australian equipment.
At the present rate of exchange top-grade
balls are about 4s. 6d., while wooden
clubs are £5 each, and irons £4. I have
noticed that overhead expenses in the
golf business in the United States are
exceptionally heavy. In comparison with
British and Australian standards, the
American makes his golf unnecessarily
dear.
Amateur golf is on a high plane.
Encouragement is given to anyone likely
to develop into a high-class player. Un-
like Britain and Australia, there is
keener competition here, with oppor-
tunities for rapid advancement for a
player coming on. Sporting-goods manu-
facturers employ leading amateurs as
travellers and “goodwill” men ; they play
in all the tournaments, keeping in touch
with the best professionals and leading
clubs, from where they get their busi-
ness. Many of the amateurs follow the
round of the tournaments, as it is con-
sidered here the best way of improving
one’s play and also of finding out the
extent of one’s ability against the world’s
best players on their own courses.
There is 200,000 dollars in prize-
money this season to be played for all
over the country, and the way the year
has started points to a bumper one for
professionals and golf in general. The
open championship is played in Cleve-
land, Ohio, in the first ten days of June,
while the amateur championship opens
in New York at Craig Woods’s club in
September. The latter event is late this
year, and for me it may mean a hurried
return to Australia after it is over.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT .”
(Formerly of the "Referee")
There was some brisk batting in Mel-
bourne on the opening day of the Pen-
nant semi-finals. North and Melbourne
rattled up 336 runs ; North 296 (Dempster
51, Meikle 115), Melbourne four for 40.
And St. Kilda and Fitzroy put together
357 for 15 wickets. St. Kilda’s strong
batting lot went down for 183, Fitzroy
replying with 5 for 174. Last season
Fitzroy took the Pennant with two first-
innings wins in the last matches —against
Collingwood and Richmond.
Jfc sfc % *
Alan Kippax took some of the Syd-
ney men to Tamworth for Easter. Pepper
hit 10 sixes in his 150, and belted up
the last hundred in 35 minutes. D. James,
Waverley’s hard-hitting colt (74), and
Seddon (51) were the only other Sydney
men to get a start.
* * * *
Ives’s team was at Mackay (N.Q.).
Mackay was sent right-about for 111,
McCool’s slows netting him five for 32
and O’Reilly taking three for 13. After
tea O’Reilly switched over to the oppo-
sition to get rid immediately of Chegwyn
for 25 and McCabe for a duck. He
finished with two for five, and five were
down for 144.
* * * *
Percy Marr, dead recently at Arncliffe
(N.S.W.), played for N.S.W. v. Victoria
57 years ago. In 1884 in Melbourne,
when Victoria had one of its greatest
wins, Marr played a prominent part.
N.S.W. led off with 403, and felt rather
confident about it. But the Southerners
rattled up 482, then outed the invaders
for 74 (Georgie Palmer, six for 26).
Marr made 69 and 12, and put on 61
for the last wicket with F. Downes (9).
In that match Marr was also the most
successful bowler.
* * * *
Sydney clubmen will finish their
second-last round next Saturday. Waver-
ley has 244 on the board, and has got
rid of five St. George wickets for 107.
Saints are hoping that young Morris (57
n. 0.) will carry them through. During
the holidays Morris put together 158
against Paddington in the Poidevin-Gray
competition for colts of district clubs.
“S.T.S.”: S.A. is steadily losing the
men who might give it supremacy in
tennis. Quist went, Schwartz went, and
now Newcombe has been farewelled on
moving to Melbourne. It leaves Turn-
bull again the best local player, with
Warhurst challenging.


ē
1.'.l Jl:*.' M:H. U
Twice Daily -2J5-&
AT THE
TIVOLI
ĕ
New Variety Revue, “EUCKY STARS
featuring MARIE BURKE and
New Oversea Variety Acts.
“SPICE OF PIPE” Variety Revue,
by New Company Oversea Stars,
lEA SONIA, EDWIN STYLES,
FIVE CLEVERES, GEORGE WALLACE
SUNDRY
SHOWS
THE R.A.S. ANNUAL.
There was only one person left in
Sydney; certainly not more than two.
And in all of N. S. Wales there couldn’t
have been more than four people at
large. The rest were herded together
in a seething mass at the Sydney R.A.S.
Showground. At least, that’s how it
seemed when a tram belched out present
innocent and a hundred or so others at
the gates of the ground.
The most difficult thing about the Show
is getting into it. You can, if you have
Impersonate an Aberdeen Angus.
an artistic soul, impersonate an Aber-
deen Angus bull, a Persian cat or a
Dalmatian dwarf and walk in unharmed ;
otherwise the only method is to pay at
the gate, stalk back fifty yards and then
pelt forward at the barrier with all of
what little energy the tram journey has
left in you. Maybe by the third attempt
you will crash through and finish up
about one foot deep in the seething mass
inside. By the time you’ve pulled an
all-day sucker from your hair and
struggled upright you will have been
sold a refrigerator, a chair that follows
you about like a faithful dog and 17 bags
of samples. Then you’re at the Show.
Stand still for five minutes and the
panorama slowly sorts itself out to a
kind of Disneyan nightmare. The Friday
bun rush at a bargain sale is an effete
affair compared with what goes on. There
are more people walking on one another’s
corns and bunions and being very friendly
about it than Joe Stalin ever liquidated
in all his life ; above them is a stratum
of the queerest feminine headgear ever
seen inside or outside of Hollywood;
sticking out above the layer of hats is
a forest of polished black canes mounted
with celluloid ballerinas and fluffy what-
nots ; and above all of that, against a
clear blue sky, are the flag- and streamer-
decked buildings, windmills, grandstands
and tunnel-mouthed salesmen imploring
you to 'take one of their pencils-cum-
pocket libraries or an automatic toenail
clipper and shaving brush, all for the
measly sum of ten and a half guineas.
Somewhere about nor’-east of the chap
who turns inside out for sixpence are a
couple of pavilions wherein every one
of a thousand young wenches, done up
Sold a refrigerator.
as bravely as the Show itself, is selling
everything from motor-cars and grand
pianos to a cup of tea or three bottles
of sauce and three tins of curried snag-
gers, all for a deener. If, by some super-
human effort, you manage to tear away
from those, or if you are suddenly
chucked out on an unexpected surge of
ë
District exhibits.
in its sty, and while you’ve still got the
smell of that in your nostrils you’re in
a lofty pavilion where a soldier is ex-
plaining what his anti-aircraft gun would
do to a Messerschmitt, though it seems
far more likely to blow the middle out
of the P.M.G.’s mammoth telephone in
the opposite corner.
When your belt starts to loosen you’ll
steer a course to the district exhibits to
whet your appetite. There’s everything
here —parsley, thyme and sage ; pumpkins,
melons and marrows ; wheat, cotton and
maize ; honey, cheese and jam ; pickles,
preserves and chutneys ; fruit, vegetables
and sugarcane—and there was never
better evidence of a land flowing with
milk and honey, and never more pungent
criticism of the fact that anybody in the
same country should go hungry.
It would need a substantial part of a
lifetime to see the Show properly. There
is machinery for a thousand different
jobs, police exhibits and ring parades
of cattle and horses that look like a
bangtail muster on a 5000-mile station ;
there are sideshows with snakes, mer-
maids, fat ladies, dwarfs and giants;
there are people from every part of the
State, and you can rub shoulders pleas-
antly with everyone, from Bob Menzies
to the bleary-eyed bloke trying to buy
the brewing apparatus.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Amphitryon 38”
Not the name of a speedboat, but of
the 38th version of the triangle between
Greek warrior Amphitryon, his missus
and Jupiter Jupiter favored Mrs.
Amphitryon to be the mother of one
of his children, but neither she nor her
husband was that way inclined. By
Jean Giradoux, the play has excellent
dialogue and some fine comedy
moments ; the first and third acts are
brief and scant of much amusement, but
the second act is a night’s laugh on its
own.
Doris Fitton’s Independent Players are
presenting the play at the Independent
Theatre, North Sydney. Miss Fitton as
Mrs. Amphitryon, Thomas Parramore as
Jupiter and Sumner Locke-Elliot as Mer-
cury have the play in their hands; there
is tiptop support and remarkably clear
diction from the whole cast.
* * * *
Highlights of a performance of
Handel’s “Messiah” at Sydney Town
Hall on Good Friday night by Sydney
Philharmonic and Hurlstone Choral
Society were good choral singing and a
clear, resonant declamation of the lower-
Being very friendly.
voiced male solos by Stanley Clarkson.
Vern Barnett and V. W. Peterson shared
the duties of conductor. The orchestra
was a weak reed to lean on.
* * * *
The pioneer of sponsored programmes,
Schweppes’ oratorio performance in the
Burma Pavilion at Sydney Showground
was again a feature on Good Friday,
the menu, as usual, being Rossini’s
“Stabat Mater” and the second part of
“Messiah.” Vern Barnett conducted.
Clarkson’s singing and the choruses were
strong points.
* * * *
Schneevoigt, at the concert of all-
Finnish music at Sydney Town Hall last
week, had his audience and his orchestra
with him heartily from the start. There
were life and lift in the playing to a de-
gree not even approached at the first con-
cert, and such works as the Sibelius First
Symphony and “Finlandia” and Klami’s
“Karelian Rhapsody” were declaimed
with eloquence and fervor.
Associated with the bigger works was
music in a more intimate vein and more
easily understandable idiom —Palmgren s
“Pastoral Suite” and the well-known
“Valse Triste” of Sibelius. The Sydney
orchestra has never played more grace-
fully than in Palmgren’s “Evening.”
“Valse Triste” and the concluding move-
ment of the “Karelian Rhapsody” were
repeated in response to insistent applause.
* * * *
Harold Williams, the Australian bari-
tone, was launched on the Melbourne
public by the A.B.C. at the Town Hall
with an impressive programme. On the
light side, his baritone is beautiful in
the middle voice, and his enunciation
is delightful. What his voice lacked
in volume he made up for with
dramatic feeling, and his singing of
the “Arm, Arm, Ye Brave!” of
Handel stirred the audience, as did
the lyrical tenderness of the “Silent
Worship” of the same composer.
He delved deeper into the dramatic
with the two tremendous arias from
Moussorgsky’s “Boris Godounov”
which tell of the remorse of the
false Czar who waded through blood
to a throne and found himself being
ridden by a bad conscience instead
of riding an empire.
Dorcas McClean, another returned
Australian, who is depicted on the pro-
gramme playing her violin under a gum-
tree, made a weighty contribution with
the Handel Sonata in A major. John
Hannell, of Newcastle, was a sensitive
accompanist. The Town Hall could have
been fuller.
* * * *
Harold Williams provided the Mel-
bourne Philharmonics with a magnificent
Elijah for their 61st rendering of Men-
delssohn’s oratorio at Melbourne Town
Hall on Good Friday. Previous Elijahs
have been louder, but few have enunci-
ated the prophet’s burning words more
lucidly or with more conviction or put
more feeling into the “I am not better
than my fathers.” Nor were some of
the other soloists far behind Williams.
Elizabeth Coote was a tall, distinguished-
looking Jezebel who equipped the re-
vengeful queen with one of the best con-
traltos in local circulation. Thea Phillips
made nice work of the soprano role,
and the Youth was in the hands of a
pleasant-voiced newcomer, Edna Esnouf.
Lewis Dawe’s tenor was hard in places.
Bernard Heinze controlled the musical
tornado.
* * * *
Ballet is all the rage at Melbourne His
Majesty’s. Last week “Paganini” held
the stage, with “Les Sylphides” and
“Aurora’s Wedding,” a full feast of music
even without the liquid refreshment of
the dancing. New ballets were promised
when this paper went to press, including
“Pavane,” whose inspiration is said to
be Velasquez’s famous picture “Las
Meninas.”
* * * *
The Minerva’s starting a Shakspeare
season on April 1 with “Twelfth Night” •
plays scheduled to follow at weekly in-
tervals include “The Merchant of
Venice,” “Julius Caesar,” “The Tempest”
and “Hamlet.” The programme’s not
definite yet, but it’s hoped to do six
plays. They’re to be matinee perform-
ances, with the usual lighter fare run-
ning at night.
AT THE TALKIES.
Anyone in Sydney with time to spare
from the annual R.A.S. festivities at
the Showground, Wirth’s tented show off
Oxford-street, Gilbert and Sullivan at
the Royal, Schneevoigt and Royal Phil-
harmonic at the Town Hall, comedy at
the Minerva and vaudeville at the Tiv.
could take a pick of a very mixed talkie
bag. Of the talkie offerings new ones
released over the week-end (to be re-
viewed here later) included “Gulliver’s
Travels,” at the Prince Edward ; Ed. G.
Robinson in “Blackmail,” at the Capitol;
Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell in
“His Girl Friday,” at the State ; “Day-
time Wife,” at the Plaza; “Little Old
New York,” at the Century; “Drums
Along the Mohawk,” at the Mayfair;
and a Paul Robeson opus at the Embassy.
Artbursts.
Denes de Holescb, a Hungarian
painter, who has a show of oils at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, has started
his Australian experience on the right
foot by making pretty portraits of many
pretty ladies in High Society. Apart
from his facility in these pleasant exer-
cises he can paint a head crisply and
firmly, as witness “Aboriginal” (No. 19),
and can wield a bold brush in landscape
as demonstrated in “Sunlit Garden,”
painted on coarse sacking,
* * * *
In an exhibition of works voluntarily
contributed by Victorian artists towards
Red Cross funds, opened at Melbourne
Athenaeum, pretty well all the leading
Trying to buy the brewing apparatus.
painters are represented, and the show
comprehends all schools, from the
academic to ultra-modern. The largest
canvas is a picture by the late Phillips
Fox depicting a mother attendant on
her naked baby on the seashore. The
rest are largely landscape and still-life.
Valerie F. Cohen and Yvonne F. Cohen
send two effective tropical sketches from
Bananaland, and there is an Olinda land-
scape by Max Meldrum. Amalie Col-
quhoun has an arresting study, “In the
Path of the Bushfire,” and Polly Hurry
shows a fresh-looking flower piece.
Arnold Shore’s Macedon landscape is a
striking piece of work.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
!3S
V'-
" l Vf.
’
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
ECZEMA
Sensitive people feel eczema
acutely. The continued irritation,
the unsightly eruptions and the
uncertainty where the trouble will
next spread makes them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact
that certain skins react badly to various
forms of irritation (internal or external)
and poor general health increases the
liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema
to spread and to become chronic, early
local treatment is imperative, and the best
salve for this purpose is DOAN’S Oint-
ment. It penetrates to the true skin where
t-he inflammation lies, is antiseptic and
healing and quickly allays the irritation.
DOAN’S Ointment is also good for other
itching skin complaints and for the relief
of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but, be sure
you get DOAN’S.
JJ
LUfe..
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Died suddenly after a fortnight’s illness
that had started out as a rest cure, one
of the kindest women in Sydney, Mrs.
S. H. Prior. Mrs. Prior was the widow
of The Bulletin’s former loved chief
and mother of its present managing direc-
tor. She died in her home on Bradley’s
Head on Sunday morning after a life
every milestone of which was a record
of thought for others. Three sons, H. K.
Prior, Phil (of Brisbane) and Bruce (of
Mosman), and one daughter, Edith, in
particular will feel her loss. Mrs. Prior
had seven grandchildren, and many rela-
tives and friends in other States. Two
sisters, Mrs. A. Healing and Miss Annie
Marsh, live in Melbourne.
The only touch of autumn at Rand-
wick on the first day of the A.J.C.
meeting was the hat. This had been
plucked from the new season’s fruit-
age of fashion, and was small and tur-
banish, was postilion and topper, Foreign
Legionish and beret. It was hooded,
snooded or wimpled. But these hats were
worn, as the day was blazing hot, with
silk frock and suit, and therefore had not
really come into their own. The same
bits of nonsense when worn with winter
suits and furs will look 50 per cent,
better. But in spite of the calendar hav-
ing laid its Easter egg early, the parade
at Randwick was crisply smart, even
though all sensible women wore the sort
of thing they’ve been cool in all the
summer.
Lord and Lady Wakehurst were in
their places for the first race. Poppy-
gold was the lightweight coat over Lady
Wakehurst’s sheers that were printed in
two tones of amber. Her brown hat
was of felt, high-crowned, and had a dash
of orange. The Hon. Henrietta Loder’s
linens were in soft greens. Morna Mac-
kenzie’s white frock was sashed in
Chinese red.
The stands were gorged with punters —
and what a day they had! Favorites,
favorites all the way. Mrs. George Main,
wife of the A.J.C. chairman, was one of
the lunch-spreaders. Lady Wakehurst
was one of her guests. Two were from
Brisbane —Mrs. A. H. Whittingham and
Ella O’Shea. Nice composition of petunia
and blue was worn by the last-named.
The frock was blue, hat, bag, coat and
sunshade petunia.
If you’re really smart and a not more
than thirty-seven hipline, you should have
one of those full skirts, pleated for pref-
erence. Marcelle Bishop showed how
attractive they can be. Her color scheme
was grey. For this writer the brass-
foundry type of neck adornment has no
allure, but truth to tell it’s all the rage.
Positively hundreds of black frocks were
clamped about the collarless neckline
with this heavyweight “costume” jewel-
lery. Wine tones are still with us. Mrs.
Sam Hordern contrasted them with
powder blues. Printed silks and a small
hat of bronze-green were worn by
Noreen Dangar, who was with Mrs.
Giblin. Bertie Kelly was there, his hat
a straw boater. Son Carleton favored
A.I.F. headgear—looked handsome in it,
too.
Handsome in her black-caped frock
and a hat that was mostly a small blob
of flowers, walked Mrs. Malcolm Mac-
kellar. Brimmed, black and high of
crown was the McKelvey lady’s felt.
Her frock was black, and had a collarette
of mother-of-pearl beads. Never have
gloves been more varied. Pale blue,
cyclamen, tipped with gold kid, many
of them were elbow-length. Long
pale-blue ones were worn by Mrs.
Doug Levy. Mrs. Salenger, Margaret
and Patricia were a pretty family
group. Mrs. Salenger’s black hat with
its mist-biue satin bows was one of the
day’s attractive. Valerie Purves, from
Melbourne, was all in white. Up from
Melbourne were the Luxton lady, Mary
Luxton and the Captain Luxton couple.
Talking to Mrs. Joe Coen, who was all
in grey, was pretty Pat Murray, whose
golden hat toned in with her red-gold
hair.
Up from the South Coast were tall
Midge Nelson and her father and
mother. Lorna Bowen, from Trundle,
and Janet McPhee beat the books to-
gether. Delicate blue from the ostrich
fronds of her toque was Mrs. Sidney
Ayres, from Adelaide. Phillipa Stephen’s
navy silks were closely scrolled in
white. Navy was Barbara Knox’s out-
fit. Mrs. Graham Body, of Inverell, was
there ; so were Mrs. Tom Baillieu, the
McMasters of Dalkeith, with lieutenant
son lan. Add everybody else you know
or have ever heard of, sift over with
hundreds and thousands of others,
imagine them tramping up and down the
stairs to the stands, and you have the
picture.
This is a photograph of Mrs. Crace,
wife of Rear-Admiral Crace. She re-
cently flew from England, and expects
to remain in Sydney for some months.
Already she has known the joys of
Bowral and its surrounding country
Photograph from Norton-Trevaire.
Catching their president, knight Robert
Garran, on the wing between Maoriland
and Canberra, the P.E.N. Club had a
before-Easter dinner. This was at the
Carlton, and the roll-up was about 30.
There were four guests of honor —the
Alan Mickles, John Townend and Mary
Atherton. Sydney P.E.N.’s former presi-
dent, Elliot Napier, is still in Gordon
private hospital, and every fresh arrival
to the dinner last week commenced his
conversation with an inquiry about the
popular Elliot.
There was a grand display of the latest
in hats at Denes Holesch’s show in the
Macquarie Galleries. This was distinctly
the most fashionable art show since
Christmas. Everybody you read of in
the social razzle-dazzle was there. Many
of the women had been painted by the
tall, good-looking artist, who comes from
Hungary, and they and their friends had
great joy in their particular bit of the
wall. Mrs. Doug Levy’s berry-red pos-
tilion hat was in felt, and looked dashing
with her black frock.
Her portrait, however, was not on
view; neither was that of Mrs. Oscar
Paul; and both, Mrs. C. Pfeiffer said, are
charming. Mrs. Pfeiffer wore a radiant
smile, a white frock and a straight-
brimmed white hat. With her was Mrs.
Anker-Simmons, whose small black hat
was hedged with tiny black wings. She
was one of the painted, and justly
pleased. Tilted high and forward was
the small emerald-green hat of her who
was the original of “The Beauty Spot/’
Mrs. Ernest Watt, Betty Considine (pic-
tured in pink) and Mrs. Claude Flemming
helped to crowd the Bligh-street gallery.
The Kater lady, her black frock and
pearls mounting to a postilion hat,
opened the show.
From London Margaret Baxter writes
to say how greatly the gifts of clothing
and jam sent to England by the Women
Fellows of the Royal Empire Society m
Sydney are appreciated. Margaret, who
is a valued member of the R.E. in Lon-
don, is chairman of the Empire Social
Services group and chairman of the com-
miUee dealing with the distribution of
gifts. Margaret, once a Sydneyite, says
it makes her proud and happy to be so
intimately associated with these gifts
from Sydney women. With Mar-
garet in these R.E. labors of love is
Edith McLean (another Sydney woman).
Princess Helena Victoria and Princess
Marie Louise are interested in the work.
Packages of clothing and jam are being
sent to the organisations in which the
royal ladies are intimately concerned.
Princess Helena Victoria, in a letter to
Margaret, expresses her grateful thanks
to the Sydney senders.
All last week you couldn’t see Sydney
for the Show. From its sacred domain
it threw up a barrage of Ayrshire and
Hereford, Clydesdale and Percheron,
fabulous pumpkin and giant green cab-
bage (these from Queensland, and prob-
ably the sort the Quins grew in), and
the skyscrapers, spires and towers of
Sydney were lost to sight. From the pre-
vious Saturday crowds had been stream-
ing out to the Showground. From mid-
morning the pavilions were crowded with
family groups. Many of the men, with
their wives and children gazing at the
pyramids of apples or standing before
the spreading silvery bomber in the Hall
of Manufactures, were in khaki. Later
many such groups could be seen eating
lunch, picnic-fashion, on the grassy plots
close to the pavilions.
The judges are so fair it’s a wonder
they ever get through their job. A small
Australian silky, well-known to this
writer, got above itself and tried to bite
a finger off one of the women judges.
Did she retaliate by saying he was an
“ill-bred hound”? Not at all; she handed
the little wretch second prize. You
should have seen the cheese judge. He
didn’t turn up his nose at the most pro-
nounced Gorgonzola. Into the hearts of
tall cheese, flat cheese, red cheese or
golden, irrespective of class, he thrust
his little scoop (academic name is “trier”).
With ope dexterous turn of the wrist he
drew forth a round plug of the dairy
essence, looked at it, and pushed it back
so neatly you could never guess it had
ever left home.
This Letter didn’t visit “The Invisible
Man,” nor yet the birds. It took a three-
pavilion flat to house their thousands.
The air thereabouts was shattered by
cocks crowing, hens squawking, and
smaller birds shrilling curses. Horses on
the merry-go-rounds pranced gaily, and
in the “bride’s pavilion” a composition
girl in wedding raiment was completely
surrounded by sewing machines, washing
machines, electric cookers. “Well,
Mother, if she uses half of them I guess
she don’t ever get a chance to hit that
fine bed opposite,” twinkled a sunbaked
old chap to his companion.
The lady glass-blower would weave
from thin gleaming strands a ship of
magic, and for next to nothing you could
gaze on the girl in the goldfish bowl, or
see a nice girl not only given the cold
shoulder but frozen alive. Canned music
and bottled peaches caught the fancy in
one pavilion, while amid the flowers
great tawny dahlias suitable for a Brunn-
hilde’s bosom demanded attention, but
the heart was given to the small sister
with the purple centre and the petals that
shaded to almost white tips.
The touch of a woman’s hand is seen
in the district exhibits. The rising sun
that beamed in such splendor above the
West Moreton and Downs display was
the work of Mrs. R. Watson and Mrs.
A. Smith, both good Queenslanders.
Thousands of pieces of corn and hours
of patient work went into the making.
Mrs. Dyball, of Taree, who was respon-
sible for over 100 kinds of pickles ana
chutneys, and Mrs. G. Trevitt deserve a
cheer. Maybe the war had something
to do with it, for there were only 900
entries in the women’s handicrafts. How-
ever, there were a blue knitted dressing-
gown, a tapestry evening bag and a table
centre that would win prizes anywhere
the world over. The table centre with
its crocheted and tasselled border is
worth a place in the National Gallery.
The C.W.A. put on a nice little show.
There’s a length of the blue woollen
material of which one of Mrs. Roose-
velt’s frocks was made for the royal
visit to U.S.A. In the same case is a
dress length of white wool and silver,
woven for Mrs. Frank Albert. In her
hand the Snowden lady, who was as
fresh as a newly sprung daffodil in her
yellow smock, held for all to see a piece
of the white and gold cloth which Mrs.
R. G. Casey had specially woven for her
American wardrobe. At their hand-
looms Mrs. Box and Mrs. O’Connor
worked before many fascinated eyes, and
near by Miss Ruddock made cuddly toys.
The most interesting people this Letter
talked to at the concert for Finland were
the A. M. Pooleys. They had lived four
years in Finland wTien it was under the
heel of Imperial Russia. In their days
at Helsingfors the Governor was a Rus-
sian grand duke. The Sibelius work
“Finlandia,” with its strong patriotic
urge, was not allowed to be played in
public. But, nothing daunted, the Finns
played it in secret. The whole pro-
gramme was of Finnish works, and new
to Sydney was the “Karelian Rhapsody.
Bright, gay and spirited it sounded. In
contrast, the mind called up pictures of
the snow and icefields of the war ca^^s
and the bitter struggle for freedom.
The vice-regals sat in the gallery , so
it was the socially correct thing to
aloft. Lorelei green were Lady ,
hurst’s lames, emerald green her =
ter’s coat, which was worn over no
chiffons. Above the stage hung an 1
mense flag of Finland —a blue '
a white ground. The galleries were J?
with blue and white pennants and a
wreaths. By the end of the coac ,
everybody was eager to throw a an
grenade for Finland.
In the interval everybody drank coffee,
admired the pretty programme- and bu-
ton-sellers with their rose-white an
palest-pink tulle or organza frocks. An-
other who held the glance was the sma
boy of about three who wore a blue
blouse with his red velvet suit. He is one
of Finland’s babies, and now lives witn
his parents in Sydney. Esmey Burritt, in
hibiscus red, was with mother and sister
Helen. Helen, the baby of the family,
has just signed up for a course of Agri-
cultural Science at Sydney University.
Mrs. Victor White, the Douglas Miller
couple and Mary Whidborne were there.
The Charlie Lloyd Jones couple had with
them the padre of one of the ships of war
and Gordon Jones. Her frock a Lanvin
model in deep blue—was one to make the
eyes shine. The Consul-General for Fin-
land and his wife were noted. Mrs. Walter
Swinson, the Alexander Gordon lady,
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, Mrs. Robert Dix-
son, Mrs. C. P. Johnson and Mrs. Hope
Gibson were congratulated on the suc-
cess. Mrs. Harold Bott, her flowered
chiffons caped in white ostrich, and Mrs.
McCartney, blue-eyed in blue crepes,
were together. Miss N. Veitch, Mrs.
Searight, Mrs. George Duncan also
clapped for Finland.
Mrs, Jacques Fourlinnie (she was Pat
Collins, of Neutral Bay) is an Australian
girl married to a Frenchman. She has
made plans to go overseas to be near her
husband when he goes off to fight for
France. He was one of a group feted
by the French woolbuyers recently. All
the guests of honor received a gold wrist-
let watch with their names engraved
thereon.
Once a year the Town Hall reception-
rooms burst into flowerful decoration in
honor of Sydney’s presswomen. Shortly
after she comes into office, each new
Mayoress honors the precedent. Last week
Mayoress Crick was at home to women
scribes, and by four-thirty the drawing-
room had its circle of tea-sippers. Hazel
Wedlock helped in the entertaining. What
do newspaper women talk about when
they have a corroboree? It might sur-
prise you.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 379 of 1940.
BETWEEN ELLEN MARGARET MARY
KENNEDY Petitioner
And LAWRENCE WILLIAM JAMES
KENNEDY Respondent.
TO LAWRENCE WILLIAM JAMES KEN-
NEDY late of Wilcannia in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLEN MAR-
GARET MARY KENNEDY has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court
and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion by reason of
your non-compliance with a decree for Resti-
tution of Conjugal Rights dated the Twenty-
eighth day of April One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-nine made in Suit No. 1043
of 1938 AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twentieth day of June
next and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED the 20th day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
„ . Registrar.
JOHN J. AUSTIN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 83 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 370 of 1940.
BETWEEN PHYLLIS MAY KERIN Peti-
tioner
And FRANCIS MICHAEL KERIN Re-
spondent.
TO FRANCIS MICHAEL KERIN late of
Broken Hill in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PHYLLIS
MAY KERIN has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for the
dissolution of her marriage on the grounds that
you have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted the Petitioner and without any such
cause or excuse left her continuously so de-
serted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Eighteenth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition in
this suit may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 21st day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. C. BEERWORTH, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Broken Hill; by his Agent, JOHN H.
PEOPLES, Solicitor, 77-79 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREMI COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 237 of 1940.
BETWEEN JANE SEFTON Petitioner
And ORMOND ALLAN SEFTON Re-
spondent.
TO ORMOND ALLAN SEFTON late of
Gunnedah in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JANE
SEFTON has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
Divorce on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the 14th day of June
1940 and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solicitors
free of charge.
DATED this 21st day of March, 1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
R. W. FRASER & PARKINSON, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 51 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Flemington bristled with uniforms for
the Williamstown Easter meetings, held
on Flemington through the Defence
Department’s occupation of the Williams-
town course. A.I.F. men were every-
where, making the best of their six days’
leave and having their flutters on the
ponies. If there are donkeys in their
future terrain the men will be laying
wagers on which ones might or might
not move backwards when a route march
starts. The militia were also at the races,
one or two of the lads keeping their
knees cool in shorts. One of the most
popular officers present on Saturday was
Major John Moy, the commandant from
the showgrounds, who, however his other
bets went during the afternoon, won a
handful of the best over Lady Montague.
Mrs. Aubrey Gibson, in blue lilac with
a nosegay of hyacinths on her giddv
little hat, also rejoiced over the paces
of the same chestnut mare, which is
owned by A. E. Kimpton.
Mrs. J. J. Liston, wife of the Williams-
town president, wore a pastel-pink frock
and black hat. A young medical student
punter who couldn’t go wrong was
Queenie Crooks, who picked a winner
in every race. Naturally enough she now
believes that all-black as she wore it on
Saturday is her lucky color. Nancy Alder-
ton was also in black, her only bits of
frivolity being nail-head ornamentations
around her shoes. Peggy Mollard wore
white and a shrimp-pink hat with velvet
bow. Mary Peppard’s black skirt and
figured tunic were accompaniments to
her black coachman’s hat. With her
mother, Mrs. D. H. Dureau, was Mrs.
Keith Whitehead, of Uranna, in a simple
silk-gingham frock of white and candy-
pink checks. Claude Harfield, of Hor-
sham, swelled the crowd of countrymen
in to\vn for Easter. Hugh Mcßeath was
there in his uniform for overseas, which
had the honor of coming from a tailor
and not a mass-production shelf.
At a party at Menzies Mrs. Jim
Clymer entertained a number of her
American friends, among them several
new arrivals from the other side of the
Pacific. They will not be strangers very
long, and will doubtless find themselves
in no time members of the American
Women’s Auxiliary which runs the year’s
‘A Plus” Ball, and which does such good
work for the Children’s Hospital and
the M.D.N.S. The Americans are gamely
sticking tighter than ever to their “Help
the Children” slogan, which isn’t easy
in these days of feverish patriotic
appeals. For the duration of the war
the Children’s Hospital (which is always
in a bit of bother about keeping its head
above water) has pledged itself to care
free of charge for the sick children of
soldiers.
Among those who were welcomed at
Mrs. Clymer’s party were Mrs. J. B.
Burnett (wife of Dr. Burnett, of geolo-
gical fame), who wore a cocoa-brown suit
and a maize felt hat speared with gulls’
quills. Other new arrivals included Mrs.
F. I. Rock, from Chicago, Mrs. A. B.
Paddock, of New York, singer Grace
Angelau (otherwise Mrs. Hutchinson) and
Mrs. F W. Jandrey, in a crop-of-spots
frock in fuchsia, the skirt of a deeper
shade than the corsage. Mrs. Claude
Deem also greeted old friends after her
lecent trip, as did Mrs. Leslie Perrott,
who chose a scarlet fob watch as a bit
of decoration for her olive-green suit.
Mrs. George Saenger was there, remem-
bering the same date just a year ago
on which she sailed for England via Java.
Joan Cornforth, wearing a Persian
lamb coat and a rebel-red feather in her
black hat, shared a chaise-longue with
Mrs. Tom O’Connor, all in green. Violet
Dunn, who persuades the inhabitants of
the six capitals to eat cheese, salmon
and pineapple as canned by her firm,
was in a tweed suit and small hat. Mrs.
Chas. Hartman, looking very well after
her recent Joss of an appendix, wore
black with cunning bows and noose
fastenings of jade-green. Mrs. Jud Holt,
Mrs. Welker and Mrs. Herbert Allen
were already plotting with their heads
together for their picture night in aid
of the American Ball expenses, to be held
at the Village Theatre on April 29.
Victorian artists gave generously to
the exhibition of pictures, sculpture and
other works of art shown last week at
the Athenaeum for the Red Cross. If
they ran a collection for themselves no
one would blame them, for it takes cash
and not lOUs to buy paint for the
palette and bread and cheese for the
inner man. The artists’ ambition is to
raise £lOOO, for which they are selling
20,000 shilling envelopes, a lucky dip of
magnitude, for every ticket means a
prize of some kind. A number of
pictures included among these prizes are
to be on view at the Town Hall and
the Vic. Artists’ Gallery during this
week. But the pictures are not the only
bait. The young contingent of artists
in smocks and berets which sells tickets
m the streets gets the hard nuts with
a week-end at the Coffee Palace,” a
more original prize than any number
of Pomeranian dogs.
For last week’s silver-coin-admission
exhibition Lady Dugan zippered herself
into a navy-and-white suit with a pencil-
striped jacket and wisp of white veil on
a sailor hat. She was taken for a tour
of the Athenasum walls by John Rowell
and purchased her own fancy, “A Back
Street,” by W. Kerr. Inquiries and sub-
sequent sales were plentiful. Among
the pictures that went early was James
Quinn’s “An Old Basque Woman.” Mr.
Quinn said his sitter was aged 101, was
quite blind and was as strong as a
hardy mountain pony. She lived alone
in a stone cottage, did her own foraging
for leaves and bark, and at intervals
during the night the tap of her stick
could be heard on the stone floor, her
method of frightening the rats away. As
a result of Mr. Quinn’s interest in the
old peasant woman, a patron of the arts
in London provided the wherewithal for
the rest of her life, which drew to a
peaceful close in an institution.
Guelda and Molly Pyke, Val and
Yvonne Cohen, Lena Bryans and Mabel
Pearson (she recently returned from
England) are among the artists who,
with berets at a flippant angle, carried
their flags, or rather their lucky enve-
lopes, into the holiday hub of the city
from the market on late-shopping night
to the foyers of theatres during intervals
and the lounges of hotels where every-
body was buying everybody else just
one more little drink for the road.
Working at the canteen at the Show-
grounds they received much encourage-
ment from the men of the R.A.A.F.,
who parted with handfuls of the precious
“bobs” for the sake of the envelopes.
This week Professor and Mrs. W. E.
Agar are awaiting with interest a cable
from their second daughter Olive, who
is to be married in Singapore just after
Easter. Her bridegroom is an English-
man, Captain Thomas Sydney Taylor, an
army man. Olive has not yet had the
pleasure of introducing her “Tim” to
her parents—she met him while she was
abroad—but she knows his mother well,
and became acquainted with some of his
other relatives while staying in Bourne-
mouth last year. Olive took with her
a frock and hat suitable for an after-
noon bride, but her mother would not
be surprised if she changes her mind at
the last moment and wears instead one
of several cool little linen sports frocks.
Though plans for the young couple’s first
home have not been completed, it will
be somewhere in Asia, and the honey-
moon will be spent in Malaya. Miss
Agar’s photograph comes from Antoine.
“Elijah” at the Town Hall on Good
Friday night received the packed house
and the approbation which such a tre-
mendous job deserved. It wasn’t a
fashionable audience; no one wore a
fur coat of vast magnificence or lilium
aratum in her hair, and there were no
faces present that go to places just to
be seen. The house was filled with
people who can absorb such feasts of
sound and not feel stunned, with friends
of the performers, and with those who
want to go abroad on the night of a
public holiday.
Harold Williams was the star soloist;
others were Lewis Dawe, tenor,
Thea Phillips and Edna Esnouf’
who matched the orchestra in black, and
Elizabeth Coote, in the white of the
massed feminine element of the Philhar-
monic Choir. Conductor Bernard Heinze
had a strenuous evening. Mrs. Harold
Williams was there with twins Veronica
and Vernita, who honored the solemnity
of the Easter music with black frocks
quite unrelieved but for collars of angel-
skin pink studded with diamente. At
one of their father’s recitals earlier in
the week they wore inky-blue, at another
white net frocks with bon-bon frills upon
the corsage that only the very young can
get away with. Another pair of sisters
who looked particularly attractive at this
last-mentioned concert were Noreen and
Margaret Heath, both in black with bar-
baric bits of jewellery around their
throats.
Pat Leary, who is the second daughter
of Dr. Garnet Leary, of Sandringham,
and the late Mrs. Leary, is newly engaged
to Kinney McCaughan, only son of Mr.
and Mrs. Ernest McCaughan, of Sand-
ringham. So far no plans have been
made for the date of the wedding. The
photograph of the bride-to-be comes
from Broothorn.
To welcome their daughter Phillida
Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Cooper called up
the troops, otherwise the members of
the committee which worked for Miss
Cooper’s recital some 18 months ago. The
party was at 7 Washington-street in the
late afternoon, and there were congratu-
lations in plenty for the young dancer,
who has her name on the Ballet pro-
grammes as Lydia Couperina and who
appeared in each ballet on the opening
programme. At 19 Phillida has returned
still fresh and unspoiled, though she has
grown up in the sense of acquiring poise
and self-assurance. Amongst those who
came to the party were the Ross Grey
Smiths, she hatless and in black. Mrs.
Fred Dennett and Sue arrived minus
husband-and-father Fred, who got lost
en route and rang up for road-map
explanations. The John Schnukels were
there, Mrs. Schnukel in a black woollen
cocktail dress; also the W. Sainthills
(their painting son Louden still lingered
in Sydney).
Shirley Marshall Andrews came in
coral-pink and a black splodge over her
arm which came to life as a very young
but much alive puppy. Georgia Rivers
(otherwise Marjorie Clarke) wore black
with violet hat and scarf. The Harry
Heys with daughter Bubbles were there ;
also the Arthur Vales and the Alfred
Dunstans, the last-named couple being
Mr. Cooper’s only relatives in Australia.
He, by the way, is coming in for some
reflected glory, though he isn’t quite sure
that he likes being hailed as “Mr.
Couperina” by flippant friends.
Mrs. F. A. Tennant (of Adelaide) was
the soul of amiability at her own party,
an achievement of mind over matter, for
the guests of honor did not arrive. A
shipping delay was responsible for the
trouble. Even greater than Mrs. Ten-
nant’s perturbation must have been that
of Lawrence Power and his wife Annun-
ciata Garrotto, on the high seas when
they should have been in Menzies’ lounge.
As a result of the missed connection
they had to travel to Adelaide “hard
class,” there being no sleepers available
on the express. Mrs. Tennant (who is
Lawrence Power’s aunt) and her niece
Mrs. H. Knuckey received the guests with
the assistance of Mrs. A. E. V. Richard-
son.
Although the “lions” were absent there
were so many musical people present
with tastes in common that the time
passed all too quickly. Grace Angelau,
who will next be heard over the air on
April 4, and John Hannell, who is Harold
Williams’s accompanist, were among
those who lingered till dusk had fallen
out of doors.
Louise Burton is acclimatising herself
to her new job as secretary to the
Y.W.C.A. She is finding Melbourne
girls much easier to understand than
Melbourne’s climate, for after having
worked with girls in many different places
she believes that young people are much
ihe same the world over—but with the
climate of this city it’s a different story.
Miss Burton had few complaints of the
heat-wave and she has no fears of the
winter, but she does like to know what
to wear when she gets up in the morning.
Speaking of sports most favored by
the girls of Toronto, she mentioned ice-
skating and ice-hockey in winter and a
short three months’ season of tennis
in the summer. But by far the
most popular game among the Y.W.
girls is badminton. Two courts are
always in play in the association’s
gymnasium. There the heated swimming
pool is also popular. Last year it was
only out of use and commission for 10
days for special alterations and cleaning.
Miss Burton also mentioned the
Y.W.C.A.’s camp at Georgia Bay, a gift
from one of the big stores in Toronto.
The property includes several acres, a
cottage, a lodge for collective activities
and a number of log cabins. Canoeing,
fishing and swimming are at everybody’s
disposal. The camp seasons throughout
the year are divided into fortnightly
camps for girls who can’t quite manage
their own holiday and who must be
helped ; camps for High School girls;
camps for business and professional
women.


SUPERCHARGED PRODUCER GAS UNITS
Manufacturers of the Latest Type of Charcoal Gas
Producers.
Supercharged Producer Gas Units are designed to embody latest principles and
combine maximum efficiency with economy of weight.
Most modern Producers are of the Down Draught type, as the tendency to-day is
towards the concentration of the combustion and reduction zones into a small space.
In extensive tests held yearly by the Automobile Club in France, Charcoal gas
generators of such type have been the most successful, and produce a gas or high
calorific value. The whole plant is constructed from the best material obtainable
by an engineering company of the highest repute, and leaves nothing to be desired,
and will with reasonable care give long years of service with few or no renewals.
Cooling is effected by Thermo-Syphon Action. 27% greater power is obtained
without raised compression.
SUPERCHARGED PRODUCER GAS UNITS,
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
.■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■l mi ■ ■ rrnmi ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■■«■■■■ ■ ■ ■ m ami rm «■■■*■ l
Please send me particulars and literature of your Gas units for
CARS ( ) NAME ..
TRUCKS ( ) ADDRESS
TRACTORS ( )
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth,
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimental radio.
The Annual Subscription is the Aus
tralian equivalent of 3
American, acceptable at T^ e ®' l et
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly the
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues y« ar l>
including special annual, number, the
August and September issues (which
would normally, appear m July ana
August) are omitted. airpef
Copies are mailed to subscribers di
Read Radio” regularly and keep 111
advance of the times. . a ii
“Radio” is the fastest selling of an
radio magazines—on the book
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
THE FLYING COLUMN
Retaliation.
“D.8.K.”: In that Nazi air attack on
the Orkneys on the night of 16 /3 / ’4O
(B. 20/3/’4O), a civilian lost his life —
the first to be killed on British soil in
this war. He was speedily avenged,
though not by the killing of any German
civilian.
Seventy-two hours later the Prime
Minister, speaking in the House, gave
an account of the raid, incidentally
glancing at the “explanation” of a Berlin
radio speaker that “cottages looked like
aeroplane hangars when seen from the
air.” The P.M. said that only 20 Ger-
man bombs had fallen in the Flow itself,
one of them inflicting minor damage
on a warship. On land it was a very
different story ; the Nazis dropped more
than 500 high-explosive and incendiary
bombs over an area of 100 square miles,
an area which is anything but a military
objective.
Here a note was handed to Mr. Cham-
berlain by Sir Kingsley Wood, the Air
Minister. “At this moment our ’planes
are bombing the German air base at
Sylt,” the P.M. dramatically announced,
the information having come direct by
radio from the leading ’plane of the raid-
ing squadron.
Sylt is a strict military area ; the civil
population was removed months before
the war began. Great damage was in-
flicted by the R.A.F. raiders, whose re-
ports were substantiated by air recon-
naissance and by intelligence from Danish
territory, where observers had a grand-
stand view.
For seven hours or so 50 bombers
attacked Sylt, dropping 42 tons of
bombs. They kept it up in relays, and
scored direct hits on hangars, ammuni-
tion stores and workshops.
Half the pilots and crews were from
the Dominions: 35 p.c. were Australians
and Maorilanders —one of the Austra-
lians, Flight-Lieut. Cosgrove, is a son
of the Labor Premier of Tasmania.
British and Dominion lads alike must
have been delighted to demonstrate that
the R.A.F. has not trained crews for
years solely with the idea of scattering
paper over the landscape. One ’plane
did not return ; all the others, a con-
siderable number, came home safely to
roost.
On Wednesday, by way of reprisal,
German bombers attacked a North Sea
convoy, damaging five small ships—four
neutral —and bombed a British vessel off
the south coast of England, killing three
officers and two seamen. But they lost
a Heinkel, the crew of which—two in-
jured —were rescued.
The daring raid over Sylt was a practical
Warning to those who order the actions
of the Luftwaffe that hammer blows will
surely rebound. Whether or not the
initial blow at Scapa and the return
punch at Sylt signify the commencement
of aerial war on a vast scale, it is certain
that, whatever move the Nazis may make
against Britain and France, the R.A.F.
and the F.A.F. are prepared for it.
The Link Trainer.
“D.8.K.”: The Link trainer, employed
for primary pilotage training at R.A.F.
and R.A.A.F. establishments, is a stub
fuselage with wings and tail surfaces.
The machine faithfully reproduces the
motions of actual flight, and in the
original design is used solely for in-
strument or “blind” flying training. The
latest type differs in that the cockpit is
open and that the whole machine is
surrounded by an aerial panorama of
mountains, sunny countryside, smoke-
laden towns, clouds, seascape and misty
horizon.
Flying height between 2000 ft. and
3000 ft. is represented, and illumination
may be varied to produce the effects of
good or bad visibility. The impression
of seating in a Tiger Moth is given by
addition of a top plane and centre-
“And if you'd, a load of bombs on you'd pull this lever.”
section. The propeller disk is represented
by a disk of celluloid on which abrasions
are made to give the illusion of swift
rotation. Cockpit controls include every-
thing that the modern war pilot needs
to handle. All the instruments give
appropriate readings for the position of
controls and altitude, and bumpy flying
can even be simulated by the action of
a series of valves.
The time taken for training in this
new machine is about eight hours, and
instructors claim that they can pick out
the men who are certain to make good
pilots. It saves a fair amount of petroi,
a not inconsiderable advantage in war-
time.
“Ailo”: Early in the air war a Heinkel
11 IK bomber was shot down by Spitfires
near Edinburgh. It was riddled by bursts
from the Brownings, but enough of it
remained to enable the R.A.F. experts
to dissect it thoroughly. Recently an-
other 11 IK was bagged near Berwick
on Tweed, and this time the capture
appears to have been complete. Press
photos show the ’plane nosed over after
landing, and it is evident that whatever
damage occurred in the process, was
superficial. No doubt the job will be
put into flying order and direct com-
parison with some of our own bomber
types will be possible, actual air tests
being used.
* * * *
“Don”: The Air Ministry, realising
the value of air gunners, is to grant them
commissions in future, a decision which
will spread a glow of satisfaction through-
out the R.A.F. and Dominions air forces.
Hitherto commissions have been granted
only to pilots and navigators. The lone
air gunner has a beast of a job, par-
ticularly in the “sting” of the big long-
range reconnaissance ’planes. All he
knows of his colleagues in the nose of
the craft is by telephone, and if that
goes “dis” he is isolated. In areas where
enemy fighters might show up out of
the sun at any second he cannot quit
his post to ascertain anything he might
wish to know, for that rear-gun position
is one of vital security. There is a case
on record of a leaflet ’plane that landed
miraculously in France with an engine
blazing furiously, after pilot, navigator
and front gunner had taken to their
’chutes. It landed with the lone rear
gunner blissfully unaware that anything
for’ard was amiss. His telephone had
gone dead and the pilot assumed that he
had jumped.
* * * *
“Arenas”: A Messerschmitt Taifun
light monoplane was flown at Mas-
cot (Sydney) last week by Captain
Van Messel, of K.N.I.L.M. A daily
described it as “similar to German
single-seater fighters,” but it is far
removed from that class. The Taifun
was one of the earliest Messerschmitt
designs, and to compare it with the 109
fighter is akin to a comparison between
a Moth and a Spitfire. Years ago the
“Aeroplane,” commenting on the Taifun,
said Messerschmitt had given the world
a light monoplane par excellence for
civil use. Many Taifuns were flown
privately in England before the war.
* * * *
“Aldis”: When a service ’plane crashes
too badly for repair or is lost in action,
it is, in Air Force parlance, “written
off.” A Wellington costs £30,000, a Mes-
serschmitt 109 about £6OOO, a Messer-
schmitt 10 about £lO,OOO. So after the
engagement over Heligoland Bight on
December 18 £210,000 had to be written
off by Britain and about £95,000 by the
enemy. Doubtless a coarse commercial
way of looking at what was a tragedy
for intrepid young men and their fami-
lies ; but there you are.
* * * *
“Querex”: In cabled news of Nazi
raids on Britain reference is seldom made
to the balloon barrage system of defence.
The barrage now extends over more than
700 miles of land and sea. Balloons flown
from floating platforms are playing a part
in preventing Nazi seaplanes from laying
mines in shallow waters and estuaries.
There was no lack of volunteers for the
job of tending the balloons on the plat-
forms in bitter winter weather, and on
land increasing numbers of balloon
squadrons are being raised. So far there
is no evidence that any raiders have
been “netted” by the balloons, but they
would undoubtedly be effective in the
case of mass night air raids. A year
before the war Goring sneered at the
British balloon idea, but such balloon
defences have since been adopted by the
Nazis.
* * * *
“Enno”: A regulation affecting civil
air transport overseas ukased that pas-
sengers must not be able to see out of
the windows. Accordingly windows were
sprayed with grey paint. K.L.M. has
now adopted “one-way glass,” a decided
improvement. The glass does not ex-
clude the external light from the cabin
and removes the unfriendly feeling of
being blacked-out. The cabin can be
seen only faintly from the outside, but
from inside the passengers can see little
or nothing.
* * * *
“Don”: Some of those excellent
ohotographs of Nazi fortifications
brought back by R.A.F. reconnaissance
fliers were taken with German cameras.
And why not? In war every belligerent
uses gadgets that the enemy thought of
first.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Latest novelty in weapons,
so my morning journal says, is a bomb
which a Yankee has invented. It con-
tains liquid oxygen and can “kill every-
thing within two miles by concussion
alone.” Civilised peoples would think
twice about using it even if it does all
that is claimed for it, since there are
plenty of civilians within two miles of
most objectives which call for bombing.
If it does come into use, it will make
the R.A.A.F. and R.A.F. far more
elevated institutions than they have ever
been before. Two miles is 8560 ft., and
unless the flier who drops the new marvel
is that distance away from the point of
explosion he will be a goner with the
rest. And, since 8000 ft. is usually well
above cloud level, bomb-aiming will
have to become a blind guess unless the
weather is perfect.
The Air War Day by Day.
March 19-20: Sylt bombed for seven
hours by relays of British ’planes in the
biggest raid of the war. Extensive
damage inflicted on hangars, ammu-
nition stores and other objectives. One
machine lost—shot down, Germans
reported. Subsequent photographic
reconnaissance by two R.A.F. ’planes
revealed wide extent of damage.
March 20: Fleet Air Arm ’planes drive
off Heinkel 111 bombers attacking con-
voy. Another convoy attacked; five
ships damaged ; Heinkel brought down
—crew rescued.


r c t
A e/. V > •V/yy. • , '
k 0< K ts -“ »/>£?4' J
'■{>.•"</ > ''lf,;. * „
v *sShSsi*
**r
T.JO ME SB CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
LUDOWICI PIONEER
WATERPROOF CEMENTED
LEATHER BELTING
ě
PRICE LIST
Plus 10% increase authorised by Price Fixing
Commission.
Width of Belt.
SUPPORT YOUR PRIMARY
INDUSTRIES
Write for Catalogue showing other sizes, grades, and types of belting, also pulleys.
bearings, shafting gears, V Belt Drives, etc., etc.
Stocked by most leading stores throughout N.S.W., and retailed at above prices.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL STOCKIST.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
Established 1858.
117 YORK STREET
SYDNEY
THE SERVICE MAN
Sundown in Finland.
“Ek D.”: The last chapters of the
Finnish war are ended, though there may
be a second volume more extensive than
the first.
The Finns admit the loss of 15,000
dead and 35,000 wounded. Russian dead
are said to number 300,000, but no Rus-
sian casualty lists have been issued. It
wouldn’t do to permit invidious com-
parisons with the losses incurred in the
promenade through Poland after the
Nazis had done all the work.
The Finns have evacuated the Karelian
Peninsula. The Reds have marched into
an empty and shattered Viipuri. The
roads east and west have been full of
trailing women, with their few house-
hold goods and their farm stock, some-
times with their dead.
The Hango ports have been occupied
by the Red Army, their 12in. guns taken
over. Finland is now not only unde-
fended by any fortified line, but men-
aced by the Mannerheim Line, which
the Finns built.
The little Republic is not even allowed
to join in an alliance with her neighbors:
at the first mention of a Scandinavian
defensive bloc, Moscow clamped down
on the little countries. Nevertheless,
though Sweden and Norway have said
that there never were preliminaries for
the bloc, there are more ways of killing
a cat than one. And no Swede is likely
to forget that the points of the bayonets
in the Russian divisional badges and
banner emblems rested not on Helsinki
but on Stockholm.
Sweden has called up 10,000 more
conscripts, and the Swedish military
command has been changed. It was in
the hands of Ore Sylvan, who had been
Director of Engineering and Chief of the
Fortifications Department before the war.
His successor as C.-in-C. is Ivar Holm-
quist, who has held commissions in the
Swedish Army for 39 out of his 60 years,
but who is better known outside Sweden
as one of the greatest Swedish athletes of
past days and president of the Inter-
national Ski Federation.
The ill-informed Professor Roberts,
who is under the impression that the
Australians “breached the Hindenburg
Line” on August 8, 1918, declares that
“the Muscovite terms have brought pur-
gatory to Finland and dishonor to Nor-
way and Sweden.” Presumably the only
way Norway and Sweden could have
won “honor” in the professor’s eyes
would have been to allow passage to
Finland of a Franco-British army, thus
breaking all the declarations of neutrality
issued by the Oslo bloc of nations and
involving their nine million people in a
war on two flanks with 260,000,000 Nazis
and Bolshies who have been preparing
for world carnage for years.
Sweden gave Finland £30,000,000 in
credits and £12,000,000 worth of arms.
The Swedes have since granted a further
credit of £18,000,000 for restoration
work. The combined sums amount to
a subvention equal to nearly £10 per
head of the whole Swedish population.
John Bull, for his part, sent the Finns
101 aeroplanes, 114 guns, 185,000 shells,
100 Vickers guns, 400 marine mines,
15,700 aircraft bombs, 10,000 anti-tank
mines, 48 ambulances, 200 anti-tank
rifles, 60,000 respirators, 100,000 great-
coats, 50,000 hand grenades and 100,000
battle-dresses. All over seas sown with
mines and torpedoes and patrolled by
aerial bombers, and exposed to other
perils in the severest winter on record.
And, in association with the French,
Britain was ready to send 100,000 soldiers
if the call came.
The Allies were in constant communi-
cation with the Finnish Government. In
mid-January Field-Marshal Mannerheim
said he did not then require men, but
would welcome 30,000 in May, provided
they were trained soldiers. No doubt
the Scandinavian countries were told the
same thing. With the tactical line of
defence short, and food supplies a seri-
ous problem, it was necessary to keep
forces at a minimum. Every surplus man
increased the load on transport, the com-
missariat and the ordnance and arms
supplies.
Fevered patriots who would like to
have seen the small Scandinavian nations
fling themselves against the giants, though
it meant certain destruction, should re-
member that there are something like
4,000,000 tons of Scandinavian shipping
carrying cargoes for the Allies, including
large quantities of Australian materials,
and that in this traffic thousands of
stout Scandinavian sailors are risking
their lives. A war in Scandinavia would
certainly have diverted that shipping from
our uses.
Russia’s so-called Parliament meets on
March 29. Molotov’s speech to the
“members” may give some indication of
“'Eads won schilling!”
what the future holds. Meantime, the
spirit of Finland is unbroken. The little
Republic has not uttered a squeal.
The queer unofficial armistice ended
with the departure of Mr. Sumner Welles
from Britain. While he was on his return
journey the U-boat war was savagely re-
sumed at the expense of decent little
neutrals: in two days seven ships (six
Danish and the seventh Norwegian) were
sunk with the loss of nearly 100 lives.
Denmark alone is mourning 83 seamen.
So there was no indignation among the
Danes when a British sub., operating off
the Danish coast, sank a German ship
laden with Swedish ore —the first inci-
dent of the kind during the war. Con-
trary to U-boat tradition and practice,
the British commander gave the crew
time to man lifeboats, and not one of
them went down with the ship.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Brudenell White becomes
the first Australian on the active list to
be promoted to the rank of general.
John Monash and Chauvel were lieuten-
ant-generals while in active military life,
becoming generals afterwards. White’s
salary has been fixed at £2OO0 —niggardly
pay for a man of his ability. The Com-
missioner of N.S.W.’s insolvent Govern-
ment railways gets £5OOO p.a.
The decision to send another division
abroad means, among other things, that
Blarney will be a corps commander. His
generals of division will be Mackay (6th)
and Lavarack (7th).
* * * *
“Zedo”: In view of the Soviet Union’s
earnest assurance to the Scandinavian
countries that it has no more territorial
ambitions in the north of Europe, the
banner of the 18 th Yuroslav Rifle
Division captured by the Finns is a
curious exhibit. In one corner is the
Red Star of the United Front; across the
top the inscription “Central Executive of
the U.S.S.R.” In the other corner is a
map of the Scandinavian countries, with
a bayonet stretching across the Baltic
and intertwined with the hammer and
sickle. The point of the weapon rests
on Stockholm. On the obverse side of
the banner are the words “Proletarians
of All Countries, Unite.”
* * * *
“Racca”: It was a sight to stir ancient
hearts when old Diggers of the 1914-18
stoush marched on to Sydney Show-
ground to form a guard of honor for
Governor Wakehurst. The old-timers
marched with a verve and went through
the various routine actions with a snap
that would have led the ringside crowd
to believe them young men. It was only
when close that grey hairs and lined
faces could be seen, though at that range
the typical glint in their eyes showed that
time had not condemned nor age wearied
them, and a few weeks’ training had
taken away 20 years of civil slackness.
Around the Army.
XX.
THE SNIPER.
Ensconced in his fastness he sits,
His eye on the sight telescopic.
His method of regist’ring hits
Comprises his favorite topic.
His rifle, unlike that of sig.
Or engineer, never goes rusty.
It’s when he hears “Miss again, Dig.?”
That he’s likely to go rather crusty.
Contrary to popular belief, the most
exacting part of a sniper’s life is when
he is away back from the lines in billets.
From force of habit he sits perfectly
still for hours on end, talking out of
only the smallest slit on one side of his
mouth—it was from this habit of the
Aussie sniper that the American film
gangster developed the technique. Com-
ing straight from the line, too, he will,
after vainly trying to suppress a sneeze
and before the “atish” is halfway out,
be already sliding on his way, head
tucked between his knees, towards shelter.
He may find doing his pay in on pon-
toon or crown-and-anchor a tame affair
compared with stalking a quarry who is
perhaps stalking him ; still, as he avers,
he likes doing something tame for a
change.
The necessity of dissolving himself into
the surrounding landscape makes the
sniper a master of make-up and
camouflage. From springtime onwards
he has an easy task—a matter of using
a leafy branch as he would an umbrella
held close to his head, with a bit of bark
around his middle. Give him these and
he’ll defy a landscape gardener wearing
dark glasses to detect him.
In late autumn and winter, however,
his ingenuity is fully tested. To make a
noise like a deciduous tree as he creeps
forward an inch at a time, perhaps in full
view of the enemy’s advanced posts,
and while holding a rifle that he hopes
looks like a dead branch, is something,
he’ll tell you, to keep you alive. There
are plenty, however, who doubt the
recipe.
When it comes to camouflage the
absence of mirrors renders mutual help
among snipers desirable. After liberal
applications of green and brown paint,
done over uniform, tin hat, face and
hands, in a pattern that would give even
a surrealist dauber a nightmare, the vic-
tim will ask: “Do I look invisible yet,
Blue?”
“Blime, yes!” says Blue. “Why, I’ve
bin gropin’ around now for a coupla
minutes tryin’ to find your dial! I knew
I could make a good job of y’—a clock
like yours makes it dead easy.”
In the line sniping as a business isn’t
allowed to interfere with its sporting side.
When working in pairs the score is by
golf count. Bets are arranged before-
hand, with a miss a stroke to the other
fellow.
“Got him! A clean hole in one. That
makes me four up on y’, Tosser.”
“Got ’im be damned! He just chucked
up his arms to trick y’. There he is now
takin’ aim behind that mound. It’s my
go, now. There! That settled his hash.”
“Garn! He was mine. Didn’t y’ hear
him cough after my shot?”
“Well, we’ll halve him. That makes
y’ still three up.”
For the non-sniping enemy the sniper
reserves his lighter moments. Thus, if
he is feeling in a particularly
benevolent mood through
having just received a photo, of
his girl, or if he has heard that
his name’s down on the next
batch for leave, the sight of a
fat fellow bending down some-
where in the lines opposite may
cause him to change his mind.
“Think I’ll give this bloke a nice
Blighty,” he will say to himself ;
“the poor old blankard looks
as if he could do with a bit of a
holiday. I’ll give him an issue
in the stern —he’s got plenty of
it to spare, by the looks of him. Catch
this, August.”
Only one thing mars his enjoyment of
picking off his opposite numbers. The
necessity of keeping a perfectly immo-
bile face means that he has to eat what
sketchy meals he can get without mov-
ing his jaws. Not only must he suppress
a full-blooded hiccup to a strangled
sort of squeak, but the red nose that this
martyred dyspeptic consequently culti-
vates is too often unjustly misinterpreted..
The necessity for a steady hand makes
him nobly forgo his rum issue, which ex-
plains why the sniper’s friendship is so
assiduously cultivated by the rest of the
platoon.
It is during the open type of warfare,
especially where a battle rages around
farms whose livestock and poultry have
had to be abandoned, that the sniper
gives his most valuable aid to his bat-
talion. Many a fowl or pig that has
ended its career in the cookhouse might
have escaped, perhaps even towards the
enemy line, only for his deadly marks-
manship.
S. W. K.


NE W S
I T E
'fff
a
\
ft
\
\
\
IN factories, homes and offices, you will notice that more and more
floors are constructed of Masonite Tempered Presdwood . . . the
steel-strong, wear-resisting board manufactured from Australian hard-
woods by a unique process. Such floors not only have a perfect
modern appearance but a practically unlimited life. They never wear
out; never lose their sleek, long-lived beauty of surface.. Masonite
Tempered Presdwood can be used in its natural colour (a rich brown)
finished with non-slip wax, or stained in any desired colour. For
flooring. Masonite is sold ready beveled in two sizes . . . 23f x Ilf
and 47 x 23f. It can readily be applied over existing floors.
Write for full details of Masonite Tempered Presdwood and its three
sister boards —Presdwood, Temprtile and Quartrboard De Luxe.
[Cane-ite Structural Insulation is now being produced in Australia.]
rm.itra
iMfiun
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD • TEMPRTILE • QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth MA4-40
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Taylor Patrol
“Kaloa”: There has been a tendency
in Australia to treat the Taylor patrol
through central New Guinea lightly, but
it was a big job.
The patrol covered the whole of the
mid-line of the central plateau, from Wau
across the north-eastern branches of the
Purari. to the headwaters of the Kikori
basin. It crossed the source-region of
the Strickland to the Star Mountains. It
passed round the n.-w. end of the Victor
Emmanuel Range and down the May
River, following the Sepik down to the
Karawari. Then the expedition worked
its way through the ranges via Wabag
back to Mt. Hagen.
J. L. Taylor, the leader, has been fami-
liar with much of the country since 1933,
but on this trip he added a good deal
of the plateau features to the map.
He visions the future policy as one of
parallel native and European develop-
ment. Natives are to grow their own
indigenous food and, in addition, coffee,
soy beans and pigs, which, he says,
could be cured at co-operative bacon fac-
tories. Europeans could grow quinine,
coffee and vegetables and grains for
coastal use and raise cattle on small
holdings. Some of the country is suitable
for dairying, which the coastal country
is not.
Tea is also mentioned as a possibility.
Much of the country resembles the
higher parts of inland Ceylon, and there
is plenty of native labor. Taylor de-
scribes it as “something between a second
Java and a second New Zealand,’ and
declares that New Guinea, with its fer-
tility and its rainfall and the temperate
climate of its high interior lands,
promises to be a far greater asset than
most people imagine.
The sooner the Mandate is
ated in the Commonwealth the better.
It is capable of carrying industries as
big as those of east-coastal North Queens-
land.
“Atrax”: Looking at the busy streets
and thronging crowds of Brisbane, which
has had a 27 p.c increase in its popu-
lation during 20 years, it seems impos-
sible that it should not go on growing at
an even faster rate during the next 20
years. City Planner Mclnne thinks
otherwise. He has given the City Coun
cil uncomfortably solid reasons why m
1960 Brisbane’s population will probably
be smaller than at present. Natural in-
crease _births over deaths—is the mam
and only reliable source of population
supply. In 1922 this yielded 3504, in
IQTB onlv 1447. The other dominating
factor? the deathrate, has shown a rise
since 1930. Immigration from outside
provides a slight gain, but insufficient to
balance any substantial proportion of the
deaths. And the same conditions obtain
in other Australian capitals. Freedom
from war possibilities and return of
financial stability seem to afford the only
prospects for substantial and continued
birthrate increase, according to Mclnnes.
“Surely y' remember Wot the burrow looks like, Ma.”
“Dick Tafone”: Strange tales come <
out of Queensland at times, but the
Commonwealth Savings Bank has re- ;
vealed one of the strangest on record —
money belonging to two societies run
by Scots, and left so long that it has
been transferred to the Unclaimed Fund.
One of these unnatural bodies is the
Coolumboola District Caledonian Society,
with £2 3s. 6d. in the Dalby branch. The
other is the Townsville Scottish Associa-
tion, with £1 9s.
* * * *
“Wet Bill”: Two-thirds of Queensland
had a needle bath from the latest cyclone.
To Mackay, Premier Forgan Smith’s
town, came a 60-m.p.h. wind and 12in.
of rain; other towns registered up to
14in. Creeks and rivers throughout the
central coastal regions ran bankers;
’planes were delayed everywhere, and the
Brisbane-Sydney express was held up.
And “Cracow Still Isolated” has become
a standing heading in the papers.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: I. D. Story, Vice-
Chancellor of the Queensland Uni. and
godfather of the new Kangaroo Point
bridge, considers that he has a fifty-fifty
chance of salvation. When he was State
Public Service Commissioner he was
walking along Brisbane’s Queen-street
and met a lady for whose daughter he
had found a job as typist. The mother
thanked him warmly, adding that she
had just been to church to offer up
a prayer for him, to ensure that so good
and kindhearted a man should go to
heaven. Bidding her farewell, he re-
sumed his walk. As he passed two men
talking on the next corner one of them
remarked: “There goes Story. Threw
me out of the public service. T’ hell
with ’im!”
* * * *
“Nkanai”: One resource of New
Guinea which yet has to be fully meas-
ured is timber. The Germans had begun
to do something with it when the last
war broke out, and cutters with North
Queensland experience were at work in
the Bainings, while expeditions were sent
up the Sepik, where, it was whispered,
there is teak. Lately, the business has
had a new fillip: the Kerawat, Bainings
and other districts are turning out logs
from the huge eucalypts of the hillsides,
and the mainland is being explored for
pines and cedar.
“Aileron”: Qantas shows another bit
of enterprise—while airliners fuel at
Groote Eylandt passengers will be able
to do a little quiet fishing, lines and bait
sport"i/hkdy TJ be boring
thinks fe P otherwise Anywhere
rQunc j t h e Gulf the technique of fishing
involves throwing out any old bit of
s^r j n g s with any kind of bait, from a
j am _ t i n jid to a red rag, and starting
to k aul as the lure hits bottom. Fisher-
man ’ s bicep is an occupational disease
round Carpentaria. *
* ~ * _ * nsj m
“K.P.” : In the Rock Hampton OJ.Q.)
botanical gardens is a small B ro P
handsome evergreens long,
greyish-brown seeds wit They
agreeable smell and acr cvnncardia
are the chaulmoogra o\ - j f
odorata in botanist Img > , f or
in ancient ,A si atm lore, g
its beneficial effect on sufferers trom
leprosy, provided their g
could withstand the nauseating and irri-
tating effect of the seed oil. Thirty years
ago Heiser got better results from intra-
muscular injection, but even then the
treatment was so painful that few would
submit. Leonard Rogers improved this
by injecting sodium salts of the oil’s fatty
acids ; Dean and Holman used the ethyl
esters, and carried the work to a stage
where 53 p.c. of those treated recovered.
Muir and Rogers made a further advance
by means of its hydnocarpates, with still
better results in great numbers of cases.
The modern form of the drug is “Anti-
leprol,” which produces no ill-effects in
increasing doses. Curiously, it does net
attack the leprosy organisms, but breaks
down the defensive tissue with which
they shield themselves, enabling the white
corpuscles of the blood to destroy them.
* * * *
“Dip”: Rev. William Chaseling, of
Yirkala Mission, near Cape Arnhem,
must feel that a couple of his native
charges have repaid him for watching
over their welfare. Mr. Chaseling’s
launch caught fire and sank in Yirkala
Bay, and he was badly burned. One of
his boys, also badly burned, swam with
him to a sandbank and held him up while
another boy swam a mile to shore for a
canoe. The patrol boat Kuru brought
missionary and native into Darwin.
* * * *
“Scat”: When Territorians saw the
Menzies-Cameron coalition looming on
the horizon they hoped McEwen would
get the Interior portfolio. Instead, he
is Minister of External Affairs. Still, he
may find time to remind his colleagues
that there is a Northern Territory.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: Nobody can say that the
Queensland Government is feeling the
pinch of war-time penury. The Public
Works Department has under construc-
tion 20 buildings to cost £3,700,000 and
upwards. Brisbane Dental Hospital
(£109,000) heads the list. Country
schools, police stations and Government
offices account for another £160,000.
* * * *
“Gain”: Several divisions of Papua
have been swept by influenza in the pasi
couple of months. On Vailala River and
in adjacent regions the deathrate was
heavy, but the results were far different
from what they would have been before
the days of efficient medical control. The
; Black Plague was nothing beside some
of the measles epidemics in the German
; time.


REWARD
76
•
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
omit WORLD "®'«
COMMONWEALTH
"AUSTRALIA
SPECIALIZED.
PARENTS, TEACHERS, SCHOLARS
NOW READY
NEW EDITION of PHILIP’S “New School
Atlas of the World, with the Commonwealth
of Australia specialised,” including
1940 double map of Europe—Political Distribution,
coloured illustration of Coral from Great Barrier
Reef, coloured illustrations of Clouds, four coloured
illustrations of Early Explorers, the Ship that
made Anniversary Day, 1788, and the “Empress
of Britain,” in Sydney Harbour, 1938, in colour.
Price, 2/6; Posted, 2/9.
GEO. B. PHILIP & SON, 451 Pitt Street, Sydney.
c*pr
fe DellciouA.
THERE IS SOMETHING
Very Fascinating About
the Atmosphere of the
HOTEL PLAZA
(At Wynyard)
that induces you to come back again
and again. Perhaps it is the witchery
of Jim Donlevy’s Band or the glorious
singing of our Artists. Maybe the
delicious meals entice you, for where
else will you obtain beautifully cooked
and well-served food at such reasonable
rates? Or is it our new cover charge
system, permitting two persons to dine
at the cost of one meal, plus the small
cover charge of 3d. per person, which
provides for extra plate Bread and
Butter? Thus a Rump Steak costing 2/-
may be divided into two portions, and
the cost to each patron would be only
1/3 each.
Truly there is no other place comparable
with the Hotel Plaza for all that makes
life pleasant and sweet.
Dinner is served each night from 5.30
to 9 p.m. and liquor is available with a
two-course meal until 8.45 p.m.
HOTEL PLAZA
The Most Popular House in Australia,
WYNYARD.
$
Sip
M
fM
STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost —and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day I
£9 / 9 / -
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on tho
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
DtAuxu-
iVUwVW*
l\_ KlB*xJ»4t
1 t +7 -vr*, V. • IT |v
The New and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Cfill or Write for Descriptive Folder ,
Victorian Distributors:
/J-r\s. > L. TL2.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily tubmitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J. 8.: Wouldn’t advise giving up the farm
vet E. 8.: Close A.J.H.: “The Gum
Tree” falls M.F.S.: Inspiration seems to
flag when “energy revives” H.P.: Only in
a women’s paper could you talk of a Digger
as “Little Boy Blue” P.M.W.: “My oath!
Can’t he fight!!” Our oath! Yes!! But
it’s a rough bit of verse 0.P.: Not quite
swept off our feet by
The unparalleled example of a great and flowing force
Which refuses absolutely to be deflected from its
course.
J.C.G.: “Shylock of the minutes” is the
only phrase with a spark of originality....
G. : Those “jingles” are jangles
T.G.McK.: Missed on the footwork M.S.:
Too exclamatory J.H.8.: Not here K.P.:
Count the cliches in the first stanza... .J.H.:
An ancient wheeze... .C.E.: The bard you’re
replying to would never write such a line as
“An era of peace cannot commence”... .1.A.:
Close D. 8.: Four lines of “Leave It to
Uncle,” then:
Remember ev’ry man you slay
Used goods we make in U.S.A.
Sit down and reckon out the cost —
Put down in dollars w'hat you’ve lost.
T.L.S.: No, but they both have their
points U.L.: If you keep at it you might
see the bright blue eyes a-twinkling in a
women’s paper G.C.G.: Burns said some-
thing like that very much more effectively
H. : Oversentimental.... G.T.E.: Send
“The Berlin Butcher” to Hollywood G.8.E.:
Swap your typewriter for a soapbox
H.E.L.: “Chief Chucker-Out” met his match.
C.F.: It’s nicely set out H.T.D.: That
was grandfather’s favorite bedtirqe story
L.J.P.: No hitching-post for “The Stalking
Horse”... .H.R.P.: Characters and scene are
grossly exaggerated L.R.8.: “Australia as I
See It” seems much the same as 6,000,000
other people see it R.8.E.: Finishes all
right, but it’s pretty groggy at the start
T.8.R.: “The Only Clue” led nowhere....
H.S.P.: Its sole merit is its brevity... .L.T.W.:
Where did you see a horse that bucked like that?
G.P.R.: “Farmer Come to Town” is home-
ward bound... .C.D.J.: No use at that length.
L.T.H.: People neither act nor talk like
that... .H.P.R.: Idea fair, but you don’t make
a yarn of it... .8.R.T.: That’s the fifteenth
“Idyll” this month 8.G.P.: Cut, and try a
daily... .C.P.R.: As “a rebellion against con-
vention” it’s not even a disturbance
H.N.R.: Have seen worse; come again....
8.T.W.: Bone of Contention” needs more
meat on rt; • •-p-N.R.T.: That plot went out
of date with the dodo K.C.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.8.L.. Didn twe toss that one out a few
months back? C.M.C.: Linework is slick
•and assured, but drawing is badly balanced.
.... M.D. : Lacks both originality and artistic
ment... .T.J.S.; Landed in basket E.G.R :
A libel on a noble animal F.S.: More
suited for an undertakers’ journal WH •
Awaiting rem0va1....8.5.: A hopeless jumble
of misplaced lines... .C.C.: A few years at
an art school might help you J.L.G.:
Decorative drawing, dull joke A.P.: Found
the gag highly amusing—away back in the
’nineties 8.W.: Your ambition has out-
stripped your talents....J.B.M.: They all look
as if they had been having a grand time in a
mud-pond... ,E.R.: You work better with
the pen than the brush S.L.M.: Charcoal
drawings need to be sprayed with a fixative.
. ...M.A.C.: “No shave” gag dates back to
the Crimean War W.W.: A hopeless mis-
fit.... F.M.: Surely that old wheeze reached
your part of the world long before this
A. 8.: No chance for the lady with the de-
formed left arm.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“7th Day”: A great truth was wrapped
up in a howler by a Manchester (Eng.)
schoolgirl who wrote: “Armistice Day
occurred on Nov. 11, 1918, and since then
there has been two minutes’ peace every
year.”
# * *
“Eton and Poonah”: There is nothing
new or strange in the idea of forbidding
side-pockets in juvenile pants (B. 6/3/’4O).
Our ordinary service uniforms at Sand-
hurst in my day were made without any
trouser pockets. The idea was that a
gentleman did not lounge about with his
hands in his pockets.
* * * *
The third echelon from Maoriland
will take as chaplain a militant and sport-
ing prelate. Bishop Gerard, of Waiapu,
saw considerable active service in the
1914-18 war as a combatant officer in the
Buffs. For silencing a German machine-
gun post he collected a M.C. Ordained
in M.L., he was curate at Timaru for
a while before going to England, where
he engaged in slum work. Returning
to the Dominion in 1929, he was vicar
of Pahiatua, Petone and Auckland till
he was consecrated Bishop of Waiapu
in 1938. Cross-country running, boating
and football were sports he excelled in.
He played in All-Black trials, but wasn’t
reckoned heavy enough.
* * * *
“M.H.”: Rudall, S.A.’s Minister for
Lands, when a Rhodes scholar at Oxford
lived in the room occupied up to about
10 years before by Charles L. Dodgson
(Lewis Carroll), and inherited Dodgson’s
ancient “scout.” Anyone might be par-
for thinking that the creator of
“Alice” would have been sweet, lovable
and jolly with all-comers. But according
to his old servant he was for the most
part a morose, unapproachable man who
hardly said a friendly word to his asso-
ciates from one year’s end to another.
* * * *
Georg Schneevoigt, back in Australia,
was born 68 years ago at Viborg,
so recently introduced to Soviet culture.
His services to European music have
been considerable. He founded the
national orchestra in Riga, and later
founded another in Helsinki which was
subsequently taken over by the munici-
pality. He has an ardent temperament
and a temper which, however, didn’t
lose him the respect of Australian in-
strumentalists for his capacity as a con-
ductor.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: The little man
emptied his beer, hitched up his pants in
proper and seamanlike fashion and broke
abruptly into the bar argument on Hitler’s
New Weapon. “Wot abart Hold Heng-
land’s noo weapon?” he demanded
aggressively. “Never ’ear of the mag-
netic flyin’ battleship wots done ’er trials
already? Blime, you colonial coves don't
know nuthink. ’Undred thousand ruddy
tons she is, carries forty-hinch guns wot’ll
shoot a ’undred miles hunder water wiv
shells wot’ll foller a henemy ship rahnd
like dogs after a sossidge barrer. When
the capting presses a button she turns
hinter a ’uge magnet attractin’ hevery
submarine for miles rahnd and stickin’
’em to ’er keel. Then the bloke presses
another button, an’ she tikes orf inter
the air an’ does five ’undred blanky miles
a ’our through the ruddy stratosphere ter
the nearest, volcaner. Then ’e just
switches orf the current, drops the blink-
in’ subs dahn the crater, an’ goes back
fer another load. Yuss, ’ltler’s goin’ ter
get a ’eadache orl right.”
* * * *
Will Lawson reminisces:
Tom L. Mills makes an error on the Red
Page (B. 28/2/’4O). Archibald and Edmond
were never in M-L. together. The occasion re-
ferred to was when Edmond and his daughter
visited the Dominion and The Bulletin writers
in Wellington gave them a luncheon, among
those present being Arthur Adams, just back
trom the Boxer campaign in China. A writer
there whose work Edmond admired for its
dry humor was Claude Jewell, who wrote good
verse. Jack Barr also came under Edmond’s
notice at the luncheon, and later crossed the
Tasman to join the “Telegraph” in Sydney;
afterwards becoming a sub-editor under
Edmond. It was about that time that Maori-
lander C. A. Jeffries was writing his “By Rail
and Semaphore” and “Shepherd Kings of
Canterbury” series for The Bulletin. Henry
Lawson’s great friend in M.L. was Edward Tre-
gear, Secretary of Labor, who got him his post
as teacher at the native school near Kaikoura,
after introducing his wife to Dick Seddon.
At that interview Seddon said, “Why should 1
give an Australian a post when we have scores
of our own people wanting work?” Mrs.
Lawson’s reply was, “But you have not a
Henry Lawson ”
* * * *
New records of output, profit and divi-
dends were set up in 1939 by the Rand.
Forty-three producers, including three
newcomers, won over 1,000,0000 z.
a month. Working profits exceeded
£3,000,000 a month. Dividends approxi-
mated £20,000,000.
* * * *
“Gadder”: Rightly or wrongly, the
French have always been regarded by
Anglo-Saxons as a somewhat naughty
nation, probably because they have never
suffered the inhibitions inflicted by the
wowser. It is chastening to learn that a
19-year-old girl, Madeleine La Pierre,
has been awarded 300,000 francs for
being “the most virtuous girl in the Laval
region” under the will of a widow who
died last year. A jury made the award.
One could imagine the horror of Aus-
tralian wowserdom if 12 good men and
true were called upon to examine the
evidence and select a winner from can-
didates for such a prize.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD.. Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., G.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, also lepresentation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the ,
Bank offers the fullest faciMties for the transaction of all general banking business.
If any illustration in “The
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
■eaders.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Journalist, Sydney, will revise and type
manuscripts; moderate charges.—6s29.
Gentleman, Sydney, invalid, good typist,
own machine, seeks typing work, urgent. —
6540.
To buy numbers of the “Triad” prior to
1910.—6581.
To buy or acquire by exchange a pair of
earphones in good condition. State price.—
6528.
Words of poem “Song of the Prodigal,”
published in Australia about 20 years ago.—
6385.
Information Sought.
(1) Is it a fact that in 1917 a telegram was
intercepted and deciphered showing that Ger-
many was trying to arouse Mexico to military
action against U.S.A. and that Mexico was
offered the States of Arizona, New Mexico and
Texas? (2) Did British interests buy up in-
fluential newspapers in America prior‘ to the,
U.S.A. coming into the 1914-18 war? If so,
particulars ? —6404.
(1) Yes, an order to this effect from Zim-
merman at the Foreign Office, Berlin, to the
German Minister in Mexico was discovered
and published in the U.S.A. on March 1, 1917.
(2) No evidence of it.
* * * *
(1) What is the age limit for military ser :
vice overseas? (2) Wliat is the age limit for
the Army Service Corps? (3) What is the
chest measurement for A.S.C.? (4) What
are the duties of a member of the A.S.C. ?
6328.
(1) and (2) 20 to 35. (3) 33in. (4) Duties
in connection with supply and transport.
* * * *
What was the charge against Harry Morant
(“The Breaker”) and Handcock, tried under
martial law during the South African War ?
6411.
They were charged with 20 murdfers of
civilians and prisoners of war, of 12 of which
they were adjudged guilty. According to Lord
Kitchener, there were no extenuating circum-
stances. They were shot at Pretoria on Feb-
ruary 25, 1902.
* * * *
Is it possible to join the navy for the dura-
tion of the• war, or must* one sign 1 on for a
certain number of years ? —6568.
Recruits may sign on for 12 years or for the
duration of the war and for six months there-
after.
* * * * ,
Where can I obtain blueprints for charcoal-
gas units for use on motor-cars? —6344. ,
The Department of Defence has recently
published a photo-lithographed brochure, “Pro-
ducer Gas Vehicles,” which contains much
useful information in addition to a number
of illustrations of various types' of producers
and their accessories. The Department •of
Supply and Development at 83 William-street,
Melbourne,- has recently-established an infor-
mation service to provide inquirers with qny
information required in the producer-gas field.
* * * *
Meanings of-kthe .following Australian native-
named towns: (1) Yarrawonga, (2) Carrathool,
(3) Barnawartha, (4) Moorabool, (5) Narrabeen,
(6) Parrawee, (7) Kirribilli, (8) Bulahdelah, (9)
Warialda, (10) Kangaloon, (11) Coolangatta,
(12) Tambaroora, (13) Wollondilly, (14) Uran-
quinty, (15) Barrenjoey, (16) Milparinka? —
6531. '
(1) Stony mountain, (2) native companion,
(3) deaf and dumb, (4) , curlew or cry of the
curlew, (5) name of a young gin in the neigh-
borhood, J 6) parrots’ roosting-place, (7) good
fishing spot, (8) meeting of the waters, (9)
place of wild honey, (10) kangaroo hunting-
ground, (11) a splendid view, (12) home of the
ibis, (13) water trickling over rocks, (14) much
rain, (15) young kangaroo, (16) find a well
there.
* * * *
In “resort,” “resound,” “resolve,” “reservoir
and several similar words the dictionary says
that the “s” is pronounced as “z,” and
although the dictionary says the “s” in resource
should be pronounced as “s” and not “z” Mr.
Menzies and one A.B.C. announcer pronounce
resources as “rezources.” Is it “resources” or
“rezources,” and what is the grammatical rule
applying to such cases? —6526.
The latest Webster and the latest Oxford
Dictionary are in favor of the “s” sound in
resource. Can find no authoritative statement
of a rule governing such pronunciations.
* * * *
Is there anything that could be put in a
refrigerator watertcmk to stop the pipes from
rusting? The water is never changed. —634l.
The use of phosphoric acid as a rust-removing
and rust-preventing agent has received con-
siderable attention, but results have not quite
come up to expectations. An antirust com-
pound described by E. A. Waters in French
Patent 776,283 (22/1 /’35) contains iron sulphide
(140 gr.), soda (40gr.), phosphoric acid (400 c.c.)
and water (600 c.c.).
* * * *
(1) In what years wus goldmining at its
height at Beechworth, Vic.? (2) Value of gold
obtained during this period ? (3) Is the story
about a miner riding a horse shod with gold
into the White Horse Hotel bar authentic ?
(4) Names of books on life of the goldfields ?
—6486.
(1) The most prosperous years were prob-
ably 1852 to 1862. (2) No reliable estimate
of the yield of alluvial gold can be made, as
results were rarely divulged. (3) A miner
named Cameron, an aspirant for political
honors, who had a claim in the Woolshed
Valley, had his horse shod with gold shoes
and rode for a short distance through the town
of Beechworth, but it’s doubtful that he entered
the hotel. (4) “Reminiscences of the Early
Diggings” in Progress-Report No. 111, Part 111,
Is. 6d., gives an.insight into events. This pub-
lication is obtainable from the Secretary for
Mines, Melbourne.
* * * *
How many stock' saleyards in N. S. Wales
are connected to town water supplies? —6515.
Only means of ascertaining this would be
to circularise all town and shire councils in
the State. It can be taken for .‘granted') how-
ever, that’.where the saleyards are-under, the
control of a council some'-prbvisionHor* water-
ing the stock is made. This ..ranges, from carting
water on sale days to connection- with . the
town supply. In. the • larger' centres there is
generally a pipe to the yards from the town
mains. .
#
(1) Population of -the ,20. largest cities in Aus-
tralia? (2) By what ' percentages have the
■ populations of Sydney ' and Melbourne in-
creased during the past 10 years ? —6534.
The latest date for which the information is
available is December 31, 1938, and is as
follows: Sydney 1,288,720, Melbourne l;035,600,
Brisbane 325,890, Adelaide 321,410, Perth
220,330, Newcastle 115,660, Hobart 64,990,
Geelong 40,050, Ballarat 38,430, Launceston
33,120, Rockhampton 32,530, Townsville’ 31,410,
Bendigo 30,030, Toowoomba 29,060, ‘Broken
Hill 28,100, Ipswich 22,*510, Kalgoorlie: 17,330,
Wollongong 16j.800. Goulburn 15,360 and
Cairns 14,600. (2) During-the last 10 years
the populations of Sydney and Melbourne
increased by 20.8 per cent, and 4.5 per cent,
respectively. i 1 •
* , H= ' . ■ ■ *
Treatment for hives?— s9s9. !
Treatment depends upon the discovery of the
cause of the eruption. Delicate tests may
have to be performed in' order to determine
the nature of the irritant which; is responsible.
This, may be due to some article of diet, to in-
fection in teeth, gums, tonsils, urinary tract,
or to certain abnormalities in the blood. The
basic cause once found, treatment is usually
satisfactory. Very -often, acid fruits must be
forbidden and preparations .of calcium pre-
scribed. Modern methods, by which the patient
is “desensitised” to any one of a number of
irritants, are very successful. ' ’ v
* * - * aV ’* & * '' ' J ' ❖
What flux or fluxes are required, in melting
wornout .car batteries and battery plates?
What heat is required in a reverbatory furnace
to throw> the oxide of lead in the battery plates
back into..metallic Jea.d ? —6170.
Remelting and smelting of battery-plate resi-
dues still offer considerable technical and eco-
nomic difficulties, particularly with regard to
the oxide present. The process may be carried
out either in a blast furnace or in a rever-
batory furnace. If carried out in’ the latter,
the slags obtained ustially are rich in lead,
which can only be recovered by * subsequent
treatment of the slag in a blast furnace. Bat-
tery residues can be advantageously recovered
in reverbatory furnaces of two to five tons
capacity. . These. furnaces must be built in a
steel plate box, as this is the only means of
preventing loss of metallic lead by leakage.
It .is important to smelt the oxides over a,bath
of' molten lead, the latter usually being pro-
vided by the metallic lead content "'of the resi-
dues. After melting down the metallic con-
stituents of the residues, the-dried oxides, mixed
with 3 p.c. or 4 p.c. of coal fines, are charged
at a furnace temperature of abhut 1500 deg. to
1800dSg. F. (approx. 815 deg. to 980 deg C.).
Very frequent rabbling of the charge is highly
essential throughout the process. An alterna-
tive process, involving the use of fluxing mix-
tures, requires higher 7 temperatures and pro-
duces larger quantities of slag than does the
direct reduction* just described. It has the
advantage, however, of requiring less-closely-
controlled conditions and possibly less experi-
ence on the part of the operator. A useful
and relatively inexpensive mixture is as fol-
lows: Iron scale 100 parts, calcined soda ash
15 parts, fluorspar 50 parts, coal fines 150 parts,
lime 50 parts and sand 75 parts. 12 p.c. to
18 p.c. of this flux is used. If the furnace
cannot be maintained at the minimum tem-
perature of about 2000 deg. F. (approx.
1095 deg. C.) required for this slag the lime
and iron scale may be reduced in quantity and
the fluorspar, if anything, increased. The fluxing
constituents and the oxidic battery residues should
be dried and thoroughly mixed before charging
to the heated furnace, while.the fluxes are most
effective when used in a finely-ground con-
dition.
* * * *
Names of the N.S.W. Ministry that went to
the country in 1904 and was replaced by the
Carruthers Ministry ? —6386.
Thomas Waddell (Premier, Treasurer and
Justice), John Perry (Colonial Secretary), J. C.
Gannon (Attorney-General), E. W. O’Sullivan
(Lands), Walter Bennett (Public Works), J. L.
Fegan (Education and Labor and Industry),
John Kidd (Mines and Agriculture), J. A. K.
Mackay (Vice-President, Executive Council).
* * * *
(1) Is Archie Moore, the colored boxer who
recently reached Australia, highly rated in
America ? (2) What are his age, weight, height
and reach ? —6499.
(1) Moore is rated sixth in group five,- but he
should be ranked higher than that, as knock-
out wins over Irish Bob Turner, Johnny
Romero, Sammy Slaughter and Dominick
Ceccarelli entitle , him to be .in group one.
(2) He was born at St. Louis, December 13,
1918. He weighs 11.5, is sft. 11 in. tall, and
has a reach of 76in.
* * * *
Some details about Les Darcy 3—6480.
Les Darcy at, Woodville (N.S.W.)
on October 28, 1895, and died at Memphis
(U.S.A.) on May 24, 1917. After winning
several tournaments in Newcastle, Darcy had
44 important contests, of -which he won 4t)
and lost four. A full list of his performances
is included in the Australian Boxing Annual,
Is 6d., obtainable from Jack Read, 89 Ridge-
street, North Sydney. .
* * # *
(1) Who are ’ the present world's boxing
champions in all divisions ? (2) Has Australia
any boxers likely to win' any of their cham-
pionships ? —6338. ,
(1) According to the U.S.A.'National Boxing
Alliance? the present world’s champions are:
Flyweight,. Little Dado; .bantamweight, Georgie
Pace; featherweight, Joey Archibald; light-
weight, Lou Ambers ; welterweight, Henry Arm-
strong ; middleweight, disputed betweep A 1
Hostak and Ceferino.Garcia; light-heavyweight,
Billy Conn; heavyweight, Joe Louis. (2) Ron
Richards is regarded by admirers, as of world
championship calibre, and good judges who have
seen the three in action think him a better
fighter , than either _ Hostak . or, Garcia.
* * * *
(1) -How long was Tommy Uren actively en-
gaged in boxing? (2) What is his record, and
what Australian championships did ■he hold.
—6409.
(1) Sixteen years, 1914 to 1930. (2) He
took part in 98 contests for 66 wins, 28 losses
and four draws, holding on occasion the Aus-
tralian lightweight, welterweight and middle-
weight championships.
* * * *
(1) What, briefly, is the footfault rule in
.tennis? (2) Must both feet be in contact with
the ground at the moment the ball is hit?
(3) If a player makes contact with the net
while the ball is in play, even by his hat
blowing off, does this count to the other
side? —6413.
(1) The server shall not by the following
movements of his feet be deemed “to change
his position by walking or running,” viz.: (a)
• Slight' movements of the feet which do not
, materially affect the location originally taken
up by him; (b) an unrestricted movement
of one foot so long as the other foot main-
tains contact with the ground. (2) 'At no
time during the delivery of the service .(/.e.,
. from the taking up of the stance to the
moment of impact of the racquet and the ball
1 —see Rule'6) may both feet be off the ground
• simultaneously. The word “feet” means
; the extremities of the legs below the ankles,
and at all times during .the delivery of the ser-
• vice (as before described) every part of ' such
extremities. must be- behind .{i.e., further from
: the net than) the base line. Rule'(a) (11) ex-
- pressed in simplified' form means that -the
server may take a step with his front foot
provided he does not lift his back foot (or he
may lift the back' foot if it does not take
him on to the base-line or into the court).
■ (3) If. a player -makes -contact with the net while
the ball is in play in any way whatsoever the
point is given to' the opponent or opponents.
Hs .• • * ;*. *
j (1) Where can I buy entomological, require-
' ments ? (2) Where can l sell and buy butter-
flies? —6489. .
(1) Cherry and Sons, 23.1 Sussex-street,'Syd-
ney. (2) There does • not appear to be any
firm in Australia interested in the sale of
butterflies—the-late F. P. Dodd, of Kuranda,
N. Queensland, was formerly the. only dealer
in Australia. .
;**- * • *
Some details concerning the cricket career
of J. B. Hobbs ? —5899.
He appeared in English county cricket-for
the first time in 1903 at the age of 21, playing
for Cambridgeshire. In 1905 he joined the
Surrey eleven. He scored 15 centuries in
Test matches, and reached his hundredth cen-
tury on May 7, 1923. He is acknowledged
as one of the greatest cricketers who have ever
lived. He batted finely for England in the
Test matches in Australia 1924-25, and eclipsed
in 1925 W. G. Grace’s record of 126 cen-
turies. With Sandham, he made 428, then a
first-wicket record, for Surrey on June 25, 1926.
Played, in the five Test matches in 1926 with
brilliant success, and made the highest record
for Lord’s—3l6 runs—in August, 1927. In
July 1927, he made his hundredth century for
Surrey. At his retirement from first-class
cricket in 1935, he had attained an aggregate of
61,221 runs and 197 centuries in first-class
cricket. • . , - ,
Does Anybody Know?
Biographical details concerning an Austra-
lian writer named E. J. Dempsey?—6ssl.
Titles of novels or short stories in which
jazz music is prominently featured? 6542.
Brief Answers.
A.R.: Until you know the whole of the
factors in connection with the sale you will have
to make a rough estimate for yourself. The
council will look to you for the rates, and
for your own security you should pay the
insurance.... F.M.: There is no imprisonment
for debt, as such, in Australia. The imprison-
ment in question was “detention” until the
order of the Court was complied with. The
term does not as a rule exceed 12 months.
The creditor having obtained judgment once
could not take action a second time....
F.GiC.: Write International Correspondence
Schools, 140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney... .H. 8.:
No market for such material 10ca11y....
C.D.: The “Angel of Mons” was probably
a subjective experience such as is liable to
occur to men under strain. It was certainly
not objective. Never heard of the other inci-
dent. . . .C.G.D.: Write Colonial Sugar Refining
Co., O’Connell-street, Sydney... .E.M.: Diffi-
cult to say these times, but should say that
venture would be reasonably safe....A.J.S.:
Suggest you send it to Angus and Robertson,
89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .G.T.: Cannot
trace quotation in any of the standard refer-
ence books H.M.: The Bulletin is always
pleased to consider original short stories with
an Australian setting and to pay for those
accepted at £2 2s. per column of 1100 words.
Type stories and address to the editor, and
enclose postage for return in case of rejection.
....N.K.S.: Write Dept, of Supply and De-
velopment, 83 William-street, Melbourne....
H.S.S.: The number referred to identifies the
engraved slug used on the postmarking machine,
it has nothing to do with the location of post-
ing of the article....A.B.C.: Your suggestion
that petrol or oil might burn on the surface of
the water might be correct because the emission
of gases or steam in relatively high pressure
from the hot engine under the water might force
this burning material up into spouting smoke and
flames. Your other suggestion might also be
correct, the ignition of the jet of inflammable
gas ar the surface being due to floating burn-
ing- oil, possibly quite small in quantity
The considerable pressure due to the hot pro-
aucts : of combustion might stop the water for
a time from getting access to the fuel....
E.A.M.: See Alexander’s Who’s Who in Aus-
tralia... .H. 8.: Suggest that you drop a line
to any whose work appears in the pages ot
The Bulletin Z.V.W.: Entries for this
year’s S. H. Prior prize must be in by June 6.
. .v.H.T.: Write Director of Lighthouse Ser-
vices, Customs House, Circular Quay, Sydney.
A.P.: Write Sane Democracy League, Mc-
Ewan House, 343 Little Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. .. .D.G.C.: Vigilans et ciudax means
“watchful ! and bold,” and Virtute et veritate
“By virtue and truth”... .C.C.: Bulletin re-
views of the more important books of Aus-
tralian verse published since the beginning of
1938 were as follows: “Poems by Douglas
Stewart,” by Ronald McCuaig (B. 15/3/39);
•“Moonlight Acre” (review of R. D. Fitz-
Gerald’s Moonlight Acre —B. 18/1/ ’39); Aus-
tralian Verse” (reviews of Hugh McCraes
The Mimshi Maiden, John Shaw Neilson s
Men of the ’Fifties, Victor K e nnedy s Light
of the Earth, and T. Inglis Moore’s Adagio in
Blue —B. 28 /12/’38); “Rex Ingamells’s Poems
(B 14/12/’38): “Shaw Neilson’s Verse (B.
19/10/’38); “A Sydney Vaudeville” (review
of Ronald McCuaig’s Vaudeville —B. 28/9/’38);
“Verses from Melbourne” (review of Mary
'Finnin’s' A Beggar’s Opera—B. 3/8/38).;
/“Verses by Mora McAuliffe (B. 26/1/ 38);
review of E. V. Barton’s The Hidden Face
(B 13/12/ ’39); review of Mary Gilmore’s
Battlefields (B. 4/11/’39); review of H M.
Green’v Chris Brennan (B. 20/9/ 39); Hugh
McCrae and His Poetry,” by Kenneth Mac-
kenzie (B. .6/9/’39); review of Kenneth
Slessor’s Five Bells (B. 23 /8/’39); “Kenneth
■ Poetry” (B. 9/8/’39) P-B.: Bio-
graphical details concerning Norman Lindsay,
Frank Dalby Davison and Dorothy Cottrell
will be found in Who’s Who in Australia. De-
tails concerning the others may possibly b e
‘ obtainable - from Angus and Robertson, Syd-
ney J.V.C.: (1) H, M. Green’s An Outline
of Australian Literature, Zora Cross’s An In-
troduction'to, the Study of Australian Liteia-
■ ture Nettie Palmer’s Modern Australian Litera-
ture, M. Barnard Eldershaw’s Essays in Aus-
tralian Fiction and Hartley Grattan’s Austra-
lian Literature. (2) Would not care to choose
. such a list. Your reading of books men-
tioned in answer to your first question should
indicate what is worth while S.R.H.: See
books, by H. M. Green and M. Barnard Elder-
sha\y mentioned in reply to J.V.C. See also
articles printed on the Reci P a S®. of , T jl E
Bulletin on November 7, 1928 ; March 12,
1929 - July 29, 1931; and December 28, 1938,
and an. article by M. Barnard Eldershaw
printed- on October 27, 1938... ,E.W.: As in
each - case where a letter was written you had
allowed the 'interest to become overdue the
professional ■ fee was justified. The Mora-
torium Act does not apply R.J.P.: lney
would need to be seen before an estimate ot
their value could be given C.G.: Literature
is obtainable from Canadian Govt. Trade Com-
missioner, City Mutual Building, Sydney... •
W.H.T.: Write Chief Quarantine Officer, Com-
monwealth Health Department, Customs
House, Circular Quay, Sydney P.C.r,
warra, by Charles Barrett (10s. 6d.), and Music
for the Multitude, by Sidney Harrison (IDs.
6d.)... .J.J.O’S.: Write Under-Secretary,
Department of Labor, Edward and Margaret
streets, Brisbane... .J.D.: Write Department o
Agriculture, Bridge-street, Sydney, for pamphlet
“Ants and Their Control” G.E.H.: The
Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act provides
that a pensioner’s income, including pension,
must not exceed the sum of £B4 10s. per
annum. The Act provides further that, where
a pensioner has property other than the home
in which she permanently resides, the rate or
pension otherwise payable shall be subject io
a deduction of £1 for every complete tW
by which the net capital value of such accumu-
lated property exceeds £5O. Cash in the bank
and in hand comprises property within the
meaning of the Act.... J.A.L.: (1) A S
separation does not operate as a divorce.
She is still his wife, and in the event of her
husband predeceasing her intestate would ne
entitled to the usual widow s portion. (2) tne
fact of the separation is not in itself a ground
for divorce.


l^ cu
pS
a —^
LA^P J
r
A*
4 <&/^
(CJ&M
<9^
f. .cA**'
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
s f-B/
m
o
£
%pC^
Heals , soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus 01 s an
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coa ar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stam eece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
w. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Beef Cattle at Sydney Royal.
“Bulago”: Although beef-cattle entries
were smaller than last year, most of the
well-known studs were represented.
Many animals had to be prepared foi
show without any green grass to top
them off.
Shorthorn, Hereford, Angus and Polled
Hereford entries were all fewer, but there
was a bigger roll-up of Devons to chal-
lenge Havilah stud. A new stud, Boo-
looroo, Moree, added interest to the
Polled Shorthorns, while Red Polls also
needed more stalls.
The veteran Queenslandei R. Bach,
of Salopian Park, judged the Shorthorns.
There was still a decided tail, but the
tops were magnificent. Again, the pro-
geny of Calrossie Red Baronet met with
marked success in the bull classes, with
Coonong Hector champion. He is a
typical Baronet —deep red, very evenly
fleshed, though carrying a little too much
condition, and of tremendous scale for
a bull of two years and five months.
Shorthorn awards were fairly well dis-
tributed, but, after Coonong, most of
the ribbons were contested for by Nalpa
(S.A.) and Peel River. These two studs
showed some excellent cows and heifers.
The S. Australians prevented Abbotslea
Maid from winning the female cham-
pionship for three years in succession.
The Peel cow, which had to be content
with the reserve ribbon, is wearing re-
markably well. She was shown with
her second calf at foot, and the heifer
calf which was shown with her last year
has fulfilled her promise of a fine matu-
rity. The red Nalpa heifer Dorothy
26th carried off both junior and open
championships. She is a fine, compact
red, excellently bred.
Polled Shorthorns continue to show
great improvement. Imported animals
featured largely in past prize lists, but
their locally-bred progeny are now show-
ing the way. Gundibri’s success was well
deserved. Gundibri Laddie 2nd is a
good-handling creamy white bull. Some
nice Antrim heifers were paraded, and,
on the whole, there is every evidence that
the swing to hornless cattle will bring
even greater support to the breed. The
polls have not yet reached the stage
where they could compete with the
horned cattle, but the gap is being
bridged.
The display of Herefords was one of
the finest ever. There was very little tail
and the tops were magnificent. Prizes
were distributed among a dozen studs,
with Golf Hill and Timor the chief win-
ners. Fenwick Bros.’ cattle also showed
well. The bull championship needed a
close decision between Windsor Puritan
and Hobartville Bim Boy. It was hard
to fault either animal, but the Windsor-
bull was a shade better in the thighs
and shoulder. He is a beautiful animal
—a typical Hereford full of breeding,
splendid top and underline, a wonderful
handler and well prepared. The reserve
bull headed a small class' under two years
which contained five of the best and most
even bulls ever seen in one class in
Sydney.
Hereford cows were also very good.
Hays Bros.’ Bexley Cup Day 3rd deserved
the championship ribbon, but there was
little between her and the Golf Hill
heifer which won the open reserve and
the junior championship.
Polled Herefords are steadily improv-
ing. The Milton cattle collected the
majority of the ribbons, with Cudgeena
next in favor. A particularly good young
bull was shown by Hilton Doyle, who
was making his first appearance in Syd-
ney show-ring. This bull, Merawah Cana-
dian 2nd, is an attractive youngster, and
took reserve and junior championships.
As might be expected with a fairly new
breed, there was a very evident tail, but
the tops show the sound work of
breeders.
A few years ago Havilah was the sole
representative Devon breeder at Sydney,
but competition has gradually increased.
This year five studs supported the breed,
and although Havilah was easily the most
successful competitor margins were very
close. Table Top showed a very good
“I told you to put up a rabbit fence.”
“ Wot's Wrong? Ain't it 'igh enough?”
bull. This was an imported animal, two
years and under three, full of quality
and a typical Devon.
Aberdeen Angus breeders combined to
give one of the best displays of the breed
seen in Sydney. Competition .was keen.
Abingdon black polls added to their
excellent reputation for quality, and their
young bulls were a very fine lot. Boo-
roomooka produced the champion bull
a very typey animal, one of the best
Sydney has seen. Kahlua was strong
on the female side, and gave unmistak-
able evidence that this is a stud to be
reckoned with in future. Kahlua Taurus
was the pick of its bulls, a fine-fleshed
youngster with splendid lines. Depart-
ment of Agriculture won the female
championship with last year’s winner,
Trangie Eurotia 2nd, a great cow of the
Canadian type.
Bundure struck a lot of opposition in
Red Poll classes this year. Bundure
Magnus, which took championship
honors, carries the dual-purpose charac-
teristics evenly. It was a great day foi
Yammatree polls, however, and these
cattle deserved the honors that came their
way. This breed has attracted much
notice of late as a result of the fat bul-
locks that have come off the grass under
dry seasonal conditions.
Is 13.4375 d. Enough?
“Wilga”: A point often overlooked is
that most wool comes from small
growers whose properties carry 2000
sheep or less; not from the comparative
few on stations whose large operations
can allow them to accept the purchase
price of Al3+d. per pound as “fair and
reasonable.” These smaller men in
N.S.W. particularly mostly occupy
properties restricted in size by the Lands
Department to “Home Maintenance
Areas.”
Inquiries, both Government and
private —Wool Commission, Payne, etc.
—during recent years have settled the
cost of production of wool at Al2d.
per pound. As 2000 sheep produce in
an average season 60 bales of wool of
a rough average weight of 3001 b., the
Hd. per pound profit over cost of pro-
duction allowed by the appraisement
price amounts to £ll2 10s. Surely this
is not a fair return for 12 months’ work,
especially considering that at least £7OOO
to £BOOO is invested in each such property
fully stocked.
During the last war the British Gov-
ernment fixed the price at 15£d. per
pound sterling—equal to 19d. Australian
on today’s exchange rate. Actually it
represents a difference of As|d. pound
less. In the interim costs, over which
the grower has little control, have risen
at least 25 p.c. and are still “rising.”
This old price was generous, and the
splitting of the profit on resales was in
those circumstances equally generous.
Another matter of concern is the high
cost of wire-netting, steel fencing posts,
etc., all manufactured in Australia by
industries under tariff protection. These
and other protected industries do not
deal direct even on a cash basis with
graziers, who have to place orders
through middlemen-agencies and store-
keepers. The retail price of steel fencing
posts has been increased from
to Is. each during the past year.
Last year’s average of was an
unfair basis to adopt in fixing this year’s
price. A fairer method would have been
to take the Commonwealth average of
Al3d. for the past five years —or, as was
done in M.L. the 10-year average. Aus-
tralia this season receives only per
pound more than the past five years’
average; M.L. actually will get 3.65 d.
more than the past 10 years’ average.
“S.M.H.” (10/11/”39) remarked:
No wool producer, surely, should require
warning against killing the goose that lays
the golden eggs in the different conditions
of today.
At present the woolgrower is not the
goose-killer but the goose.
The Buffalo-fly Menace.
“Atrax”: An Order-in-Council pro-
claiming buffalo-fly areas extending up
to 200 miles eastward of Normanton
(N.Q.) contains a grave warning to
dairying and cattle-raising industries
throughout the Queensland coastal areas.
Should the fly extend to the Atherton
Tableland and thence to the coastal low-
lands, it will cost a good deal more than
the tick. Dipping and spraying have
proved useless against it, and there is as
yet no known method of control.
The buffalo-fly is allied to the also-
introduced stable-fly, larger than the
ordinary house-fly and possessing a
powerful rigid proboscis. It is a native
of Java, and was first introduced to
North Australia more than a century
ago with buffaloes brought to Port
Essington. Spread was very slow at first.
It reached Wyndham and Broome
(n. W.A.) in the early 1900’s, and was
first reported from n.-w. Queensland in
1928. During the heavy wet seasons of
the iast two years, it has increased in
numbers and has spread rapidly east-
ward. , . ,
In hot, humid weather, such as coastal
Queensland experiences, the fly is
especially troublesome. The buzzing
hordes drive cattle wild by their painful
stings, then settle and feed on the sores
caused by injected poison until a beast
may show half a dozen raw areas each
the size of a dinner plate. Fattening
becomes impossible, herds stampede
blindly, cows slip their calves, and
calves born alive soon die. Horses aie
also attacked, though not so seriously.
Even human beings suffer from the con-
tinual stings and torment during a bad
fly spell.
The situation calls for active and
immediate attention from the C.S. and
1.R., as well as from Stock Departments.
The’ most hopeful line of investigation
so far attempted is the introduction and
widespread development of a species of
parasitic wasp from Java, where it acts
so effectively as a natural enemy that the
buffalo-fly is not there regarded as a
pest. Unfortunately, here the fly has
had more than a century’s start and has
acquired immense breeding grounds.
’Hopper Control.
“A.A.D.”: N.S.W. Graziers’ Confer-
ence has again resolved to ask the State
Government to repeal the Noxious
Insects Act, in so far as it applies to the
destruction of grasshoppers. The view
of big landholders was that poison-bait-
ing was so much waste of time and
money. A Riverina man contended that
the plague would die out if no action
were taken to destroy. Conference urged
further investigation and propagation of
parasites as a means of destruction.
This does not represent the attitude
of farmers with crops and pasture to
save, in which bran bait has proved effec-
tive. The Government is determined to
continue the poisoning campaign, backed
by the report of Entomologist T.
McCarthy, who last year investigated in
U.S.A., Canada and South Africa for the
C.S. and I.R. Mechanical bait-spreaders
are to be introduced to simplify methods
of control. McCarthy is emphatic that
there is'no hope of controlling the pest
by parasites.
Grazing Oats.
“Yarrunga”: A change in farming
practice in relation to oats is developing
in the main wheatbelt of N.S.W.,
especially on farms that combine wheat
and export lamb raising.
The plan is to grow separate crops of
oats for grazing, grain or hay. The old
method of getting two or three grazings
from a crop and allowing it to recover


1308.
There’s a great satisfaction in really knowing that you are getting value for
your money.
We are certain that we can satisfy you with this working Cossack.
Heavy double soles, full and half sizes, in Black or Brown. Price .... 29/6
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
THE IDEAL FODDER
in time of Drought.
At such a low cost, too .
Sheep owners are now realising the great importance of proper and scientific feeding,
also the necessity of supplementary feeding.
Riverina Sheep Nuts are made from the richest foods only. Two ounces daily
will keep a sheep alive, four ounces daily and sheep will gain strength and show
a marked improvement in condition and growth of wool.
For lambing ewes, a few weeks before and after lambing, Riverina Sheep Nuts are
the ideal fodder. Better and stronger lambs —healthier ewes—better-quality wool.
Riverina Sheep Nuts are scientifically prepared and are obtainable in a “handy-to-feed”
form.
Sold by all Wool firms and Stock and Station agents. Write for descriptive literature.
RIVERINA SHEEP NUTS LIMITED
NARRANDERA
TELEPHONES:
Narrandera 29
Sydney, 85533, 85178
Tocumvval 35
SYDNEY OFFICE:
10 Martin Place, Sydney.
BRANCH OFFICE:
C/o Wise Bros., ltd., Tocumwal.
TELEGRAMS:
Riverina Nuts, Narrandera.
Wise Bros., Ltd., Tocumwal.
Purity, Sydney.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations . . ~ 15
Sheep bought ~ 20
Wire netting „ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
“CARBOX” is an Australian product for Australian conditions.
“CARBOX” embodies only the finest materials in its ingredients, providing not
only a surehealer of the highest quality, but a superlative cleansing ointment,
and has well earned its place as the farmers’ friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”: —
HORSES. For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE. For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, milk fever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP. For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
marking, etc.
PIGS. For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DOGS. For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses, cracked
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
“CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites—lt Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, and tins
Full particulars obtainable from:—
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributers:
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Houses in All States. When writing mention “The Bulletin.”
to make grain or hay does not fit in
with the principles of more diversified
farming and efficient rotation. The new
idea is the utilisation of the grazing crop
entirely for that purpose until eaten out,
and then, say in August, to fallow the
land.
In a four-year rotation the plan is:
Wheat on fallow, grazing oats on stubble,
wheat on spring fallow, and fallow. Oats
for grain may take the place of the
second wheat sowing. Proved varieties
of oats for continuous grazing are
Fulghum, Algerian and Kareela, the first
being outstanding for tablelands, slopes
and western plains.
Apart from other considerations there
is growing recognition of the value of
oats in relation to wheat from the stand-
point of soil tilth and fertility. Also,
there is a swing away from the over-
worked and bare fallow, which increases
the liability to erosion and depreciation
in fertility. Grazing crops are part
corrective.
“Goulburn”: In a paddock where
Kikuyu grass has been planted in spring,
broadcast and harrow in 31b. of white
clover per acre. Kikuyu is a perennial,
drought-resistant grass, and produces
green feed well into the winter if soil
fertility is maintained. Don't plant
Kikuyu on alluvial flats likely to be used
for cultivation; once in it is difficult
to get out.
“Canbelego”: L. L. MacDougall,
Binnaway (N.S.W.), says he has saved
£l3O in a year by using a charcoal gas
unit, costing £l2O, on his tractor. Char-
coal cost less than £2O compared with
£l5O for kerosene. Cost of sowing 500
acres of wheat, ploughing 100 acres, and
the equivalent of 100 acres in contour
drains was £5 for home-burnt charcoal
and £1 4s. for engine oil. Harvesting
cost £1 per 100 acres. MacDougall
burnt his charcoal in a pit 18ft. long,
sft. deep and 3ft. wide, tapering to 18in.
at the bottom. A fire was placed in the
pit, and hardwood thrown on till there
was a mass of coals level with the top.
It was then covered with old sheets of
corrugated iron, and the joints sealed
with dirt. It cooled down in three to
five days, when the charcoal was screened
through an old wire mattress with a iin.
mesh.
“Carrick, A. 8.”: The Queensland Gov-
ernment pays 3d. per head bonus on all
flying-foxes shot. It should be cheaper
to bomb the pests and kill thousands of
them at one shot. The Americans are
doing it with their crow pest. Bombs used
are simple and cheap to make. The
bottom of a length of stovepipe a foot
long is bent together, a stick of dynamite
is hung in the centre and the tube is filled
with steel shot about the size of peas. These
tin bombs are hung in all the roosting
trees in the daytime, when the birds are
away feeding. Wires from the detonators
are led to a central battery. After dark,
when all the birds are on the roost, the
pressing of a switch can kill thousands —
200,000 were destroyed in this way in 1937.
There is no reason why the same stunt
wouldn’t be equally successful. with our
flying-foxes, which roost in huge colonies
in the daytime. The bombs would have
to be placed in their camps at night, but
that’s no great difficulty.
Outback Occupations.
No. XI.
Finishing with Bees.
The bee is a noble, useful animal, and
is very popular as a provider of examples
for moralists, of proof of the wisdom of
Yiddish kings, and to keep horses from
falling to sleep.
It is much admired by small boys for
the peculiar sticky substance it makes.
Youthful admirers of the bee cover their
fingers with the stuff and then turn over
the leaves of valuable books or grasp
their sisters’ hair.
The Italian bee is widely known. It
wears the Richmond (Melbourne) foot-
ball colors, and is credited with origi-
nating the war-cry, “Eat ’em alive,
Tigers!” so frequently heard in the un-
charted South Yarra and Toorak jungles
on a winter’s evening.
Bees will not desert a friend—nor an
enemy, for that matter. People who’ve
been touched by tales of dogs wailing on
their masters’ graves should have been
at our church the day old Sam came in
and his herd of bees followed him. The
minister was overcome, and the rest of
us couldn’t get outside quick enough.
Generally the bee is happy. He has
no wife, no taxes, no Noxious Weeds Acts
to worry about. Up with the dawn, he
works away all day, and at eve puts his
head beneath his wing and goes into the
dreamless sleep of the hardy bushworkcr.
Of course, there are drones in every
community, and bees are not exempt.
Instead of worrying about it, however,
they just up and kill the blankards, a
lesson which democracy has yet to learn.
The foregoing gives some idea of the
make-up and character of the bee, and
with this knowledge the farmer is well
equipped to launch out as a beekeeper.
The matter of finding good boundary-
riders is a problem, as most of the ex-
perienced ones were in the old A.1.F.,
and have since taken up less arduous
occupations. Still, bees are not so apt
to wander as in the old days, most of
the gum-trees having been cut down and
the bees being compelled to graze on the
homestead geraniums or the lucerne.
Place your hives some distance from
the house. This makes life easier for the
man who has to yoke the horses on sunny
mornings. Moreover, you yourself are
less likely to be disturbed by the young
bees bumbling about in their innocent
play.
A great advantage of bees over other
livestock is that there is no trouble at
lambing. The bees simply seal their
babies up in cells in which a bit of
bread has been shoved, and leave them
there to do the best they can. Thus the
keeper hasn’t to worry about docking,
marking or the Mules operation.
If there should be a T.S. and C.R.
near the hives, keep your eye on the
stock inspector, or you may find your-
self with a summons for trespassing. A
travelling stock permit is unnecessary
when moving bees from one paddock to
another, but they must travel at least six
miles a day, and adequate notice must
be given of intention to pass through
leaseholds.
Bees should be clearly branded and
earmarked. We were pushing a swarm
across open country one foggy morning,
and they got boxed with bees from an-
other farm. We had to corner the lot
on a fence and hand-draft them. None
of us will ever forget that day.
Pioneer beekeepers faced a laborious
time when harvest came around. They
had to dress in mosquito netting, and,
choking with smoke, had to seize the
pieces of comb, remove the bees and
squeeze out the honey with their bare
hands, then strain it, pick out the dead
bees and bits of stick, pour it into kero-
sene-tins and cart it to market.
Today a machine called the extractor
does the lot. There is promise, too, of
an improved model that will extract,
grade and weigh the bee-juice and record
the productive capacity of each bee.
The usual Russian surgeon is in the
news, too, with a scheme for grafting
pelican bills on to bees so that the honey-
gatherers will simply fly from the flower
and upend their bills into glass jars with
automatic sealing lids.
In N.S.W. the honey is sent to the
Honey Board, a body created by Parlia-
ment to prevent beekeepers from supply-
ing the local stores or their neighbors
with honey at profitable prices.
Once his honey is consigned to the
board the farmer at once forgets it—so
does the board—and goes about his other
work. In time, of course, he’ll get a
debit note for the balance of the freight
or the commission or something, but this
is seldom large and not worth worrying
about. States without Honey Boards
should note this lack of worry and set up
boards of their own. It’s a good way to
provide jobs, and it stops the bee-
keepers from developing into arrogant
plutocrats.
Little has been said here of the queen,
who is the head and fount of every bee
colony. These ladies are rather loose in
their morals —few bee queens can state
with any certainty their number of
children or name the fathers—but they
do their job well, and so far have not
taken to such inanities as painting their
nails, sucking cocktails and trying to
horn in on the workers’ jobs.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
For a capital statement of the case for curtailment of imports from a country
which has elected to remain neutral, a Victorian is awarded double rates.
He Can’t Have It All Ways
Anyone of reasonable mental age
should realise by now that a factor of
almost overwhelming importance in this
war is the ability to obtain, and pay for.
munitions and raw materials from neutral
countries. It is merely childish to pre-
tend that either Australia or Britain can
afford to dissipate holdings of foreign
currency by the purchase of non-essen-
tials. To say, as one of our flapper papers
is saying, that Australia has less need
than Britain to curtail her imports from
America is ihe same thing as saying that
Australia is less concerned than Britain
in winning the war.
The flapper press has done its best
in one way and another to get the
Empire involved in practically every
international dispute that has occurred
in the past few years. Now that war has
come it might at least refrain from pan-
dering to the less intelligent sections of
the community who think that something
less than the maximum effort will be
good enough.
That f.p. asserts that “our last year’s
trade with the United States resulted in a
balance in favor of the Commonwealth
of nearly £1,000,000.” The truth is that,
out of total exports of £A 19,562,376, no
less than £A15,948,338 represented gold
specie and bullion shipped to the United
States to adjust the adverse commodity
balance. Our Government would be in-
sane if it frittered away Australia’s gold
on the purchase from foreign countries of
anything that we can possibly do with-
out or can buy from sterling countries.
During the previous war purchases of
munitions and war materials by the Allies
from the United States were paid for
to some extent with gold and with the
proceeds of the sale of British overseas
investments; the balance was put on the
slate. This time there is to be no slate.
The country whose press, in September,
1938, vilified Britain over what it termed
the “betrayal” of Czechoslovakia (for
whose separate existence America had a
greater degree of responsibility than
Great Britain) is not only neutral, but
refuses to help the Allies with loans as
she did in 1914-18. As a result Britain
is compelled to retain markets she lost
to America during the previous war, and
to displace America as a supplier of many
commodities to Empire markets. In no
other way can America be paid for the
vast purchases of war materials which
the Allies must have if they are to func-
tion efficiently as an international police
force —which American newspapers con-
sidered they should have done a year
earlier.
Uncle Sam can’t have it all ways. He
wanted us to fight, and we are fighting.
He can grab the Allies’ export markets
and vastly increase his sales to the Allies
themselves—if he lends them money. Or
he can stick to his cash-and-carry policy
and accept the inevitable loss of much of
his ordinary trade to offset his increased
sales of munitions. But he mustn’t expect
us to keep on buying non-essentials from
him unless he wants us to lose the war.
—Cy Cyclone (Vic.).
Syndicated Comic Strips
When “Sam . Square” (B. 21/2/’4O)
berates “depraved comic strips” he falls
into the same rut as nine out of ten anti-
syndication-par. contributors.
The psychology is simple. The writers
are obsessed with the undoubted evil
of syndication as it affects themselves
in pounds, shilling and pence. To
make the case watertight, they then
fall on the comic strips involved, and
label them with the old standbys of
“tripe,” “trash” and “bilge.”
Have we a comic-strip artist in Aus-
tralia who is capable of reproducing the
delightful humanity and middle-class
humor of Chic Young’s “Blondie’s
Family”? Can you think of one good
reason why we should be deprived of
the incomparable Disney and his “Mickey
Mouse” and “Donald Duck” strips? Or
the late Segar’s “Popeye the Sailorman”?
There is a case against syndication,
hut it relates to the matter of hard cash
and not artistic merit. When papers
like the “Sun” and the “Telegraph” syn-
dicate the comic strips I have mentioned,
it is not from any altruistic motive to
give the people of Australia the best that
money can buy. Actually, they pay less
for them than they would be compelled
to do for local work.
The obvious solution is to bring syndi-
cated comic strips into line with A.J.A.
rates. Our newspaper combines would
then regard local black-and-white stuff
without that peculiar, jaundiced outlook
that has its origin in share dividends and
general reserve accounts —and should a
Chic Young or Walt Disney arise from
our midst there would be no monetary
drawback to his recognition as a comic-
strip artist. — Judge (N.S.W.).
Our Pacific Friends
What is really being done by Gov-
ernment or private enterprise to consoli-
date our Pacific relationships? Excellent
markets for our primary products exist in
Pacific countries, but none has attempted
to exploit them. A deliberate effort to
understand how the national economy of
such countries as America, China, Japan,
the Dutch East Indies and the South
American republics works should benefit
Australia enormously.
Take Argentina as an example. Enter-
prise enabled her to beat us in our own
field. In many ways Argentina is placed
in the same position as an exporter as
ourselves. Yet her trade in primary
products nearly trebles our own in all
branches except wool. The main point of
quality, deliberately created and rigidly
adhered to, is one from which the Aus-
tralian producer could learn much.
Australia must benefit from extended
cultural and trade relations with her
Pacific neighbors. Such activity would
consolidate friendship. A resolute and
planned programme undertaken without
delay could ensure a peaceful Pacific—
and upon that condition the future and
prosperity of Australia inevitably rest.
—Pacifica (N.S.W.).
Straight Talking
“I never thought that there would be
living in this country and enjoying its
privileges and protection people low
enough and contemptible enough to en-
deavor to justify butchery, robbery and
murder. These people form hypocritical
organisations called Anti-Conscription
Leagues, and thus get money from the
public under false pretences. They stand
for the doctrine of force, hatred and
violence, and every man who knows the
underlying principles of modern world
organisations is aware of this. Spain has
been driven to chaos, war and bankruptcy
by these same people, and dictators have
risen in Germany and Italy as a result
of their actions. God help this country
if Great Britain goes under, and yet these
same people demand our withdrawal
from the war. This same influence that
destroyed Spain and almost caused in-
surrection in France is at work here and
in every British country.”
Maoriland’s Bob Semple said that of
the Communists. Perhaps he has not
quaite the naice accent and degrees of
learned-professor Parlor Pinks, but he
has the right idea, and lets his people
know just what the anti-Christian up-
holders of the attackers of Finland are
really like.—B. V. (M.L.).
Compulsory Saving
Before putting the Keynes plan of
compulsory saving to finance the war
into practice in Australia (B. 28/2/’4O),
why not give us loyal Australians a
chance to show that we are not so black
as some O.F.M. contributors paint us?
In the Great War I remember reading
while with the A.I.F. abroad that this
country pledged the last man and the
last shilling, without compulsion, and
since returning I see no reason to doubt
that the pledge was kept.
The success of the first Commonwealth
loan in the present war suggests that
we are as good as ever in this respect.
While there is no danger to our freedom
we may be a bit casual, but my experi-
ence of Australians tells me that if the
hard word were put on those at home
to weigh in with everything they could
scrape together in order to back up the
Di'fgers there’d be plenty killed in the
rusti to buy bonds or certificates. And
the result would make compulsion a silly
j0ke.—2315 (N.S.W.).
What Electors Want
Why must elections be fought on party
lines? What electors want is men, not
cogs in a party machine. They want
somone who can make his own election
pledges on every matter of interest to
the electorate, and who can use his own
judgment on unforeseen matters that
may arise later. They want a represen-
tative who is responsible to the electors,
not to a party Whip. South Australian
electors demonstrated that clearly in the
landslide to Independents at the last
general election in that State.
It has been suggested that every pros-
pective candidate for Parliament should
have to take a special course of training
to fit him for government, and that only
then should he be eligible for election ;
that Parliament should consist of, say,
20 such trained men, or perhaps four
from each State ; and that they should
be answerable only to the electors, who
would have the right to recall any mem-
ber who failed to keep faith with them.
The plan has much to commend it.
In what other sphere would a man be
given a position of such responsibility
without training of any kind? No man
would be put in charge of even the
smallest branch bank without a practical
knowledge of finance ; no man would
be placed at the head of any organisa-
tion without an intimate knowledge of
the problems he might be called on to
solve. Yet the chief qualification for the
right to take charge of the nation's
finances and the nation’s problems seems
to be adherence to the party in power!
E. Muirhead Giles (Vic.).
N.S.W. Government Schools
N.S.W. teachers generally are tired of
seeing education as the plaything of inept
State politicians. They favor complete
abolition of the Macquarie-street control
and the placing of education on a broad
national basis. They are disturbed at
thp tender treatment of certain areas to
the exclusion of the urgent needs of
others. Armidale, known throughout the
service as “Drummondville,” seems to
have been particularly fortunate in ob-
taining well-equipped schools, a Teachers’
College and a University College. Other
Country party centres, notably Coffs
Harbor and Lismore, have recently bene-
fited, although, through typical lack of
vision, Coff’s High School, completed last
year at a cost of £40,000, already requires
wooden huts to house the overflow.
The palatial Technical College at New-
castle cost £700,000; £5OOO is being
expended on the grounds alone. Two
miles away, the Junior High School car-
ries on in a dilapidated building with
portable wooden adjuncts. The plans for
Maitland’s sadly-needed new High School
have been in the process of preparation
and revision for nine years, but Howarth,
M.L.A., seems to be unable to do any-
thing for a school which houses portion
of its student body in an ancient rented
building called Cumberland Hall.
Sydney Technical High, which is
slowly falling to pieces, utilises veran-
dahs as classrooms, and in other schools
there is a shortage of seating space, gym-
nasia, shelter sheds and staff accommo-.
dation. Teachers, jammed cheek by
jowl in inadequate, dimly-lit staffrooms,
endeavor to work in conditions that
would earn prosecution under the Factory
Acts for a private employer. At schools
such as Manly, Newtown and Padding-
ton, urinals have constituted a menace to
students and residents and a worry to
health inspectors. Teachers who com-
plain of these revolting conditions are
fobbed off with the usual alternatives—•
“plans are being prepared” or “no funds
available.” If they allow newspapermen
in they are threatened with summary
action. — Barwon (N.S.W.).
Experts
I am with “Cynic” (B. 13/3/’4O) when
he turns the spotlight on experts and
specialists and claims they are not always
an unmixed blessing. The need for
them arises, of course, through the con-
tinual extension of knowledge. .Each
year sees fresh advances in practically
every department until mastery of even
one science is a full-time job. The in-
dividual, it is held, can serve the com-
munity better by becoming expert in
one branch of knowledge than by know-
ing a little of everything and all of
nothing.
That is all right up to a point, but
what of the expert who has concentrated
so much on his own subject that he is
a complete ignoramus in all others? We
have all met such men. In sciences like
medicine and engineering it may not
matter, but in others economics and
politics particularly—the resulting dis-
proportionate development must render
the expert valueless as a practical man.
In these the specialist must first be a
whole man in the educated sense before
he can see his own department in true
perspective. There is plenty of evidence
of the damage done in the field of
economics alone by specialists who, not
being whole men, have lacked per-
spective.
Until our educational system teaches
men to think rather than to parrot text-
books, go for the specialist who has
proved himself in the practical field.
And treat with profound suspicion those
who, when describing themselves, need
to fall back on academic degrees and
titles. It may mean that they have no
other qualifications.—T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Open Discussion?
“Pawang” (B. 13/3/’4O) asks too much
when he suggests an open discussion on
v.d. Does he realise the difficulties that
would arise? The clergy would have to
take their attention off that horror the
State lottery, and drink would only be
in third place, with smoking right off the
map. Then it would embarrass parents.
Does “Pawang” realise, too, that an
open discussion would mean that some of
the shame of v.d. would vanish, and
that sufferers might therefore submit
themselves for treatment? They might
even run away with the idea that the
world viewed their case with sympathy,
that the complaint was physical and not
purely moral.
Why, in time, people might come to
regard syphilis as an illness with more
devastating complications than consump-
tion and asthma, and quacks would lose
their “secret” trade, and watch it sail by
to the nearest public hospital.— Frank
(N.S.W.).
The Greatest Enemy
For benefit of “Pawang” and other wet
campaigners, allow me to quote from
an article in the “Saturday Evening
Post” (25/11/’39) dealing with the cur-
rent drift towards Prohibition in the
U.S.A.:
The arrival of that moment [the next
dry move] may be hastened, as it was
before, by the war. Considerable dry
capital is already being made of the re-
ported increase in British drinking since
the outbreak of hostilities. Likewise the
unsuccessful effort of Lady Astor to impose
war curbs on liquor selling has come in
for attention as proof of the liquor handi-
cap under which Britain is fighting. In
the event that the United States should be
drawn into the war, it is a safe assump-
tion that the full force of dry pressure
would once again be brought to bear on
Congress.
There is no doubt whatever that drink-
ing has increased in Australia since the
war. This Commonwealth spent over
£30,000,000 last year in drink, and this
year the expenditure will be higher. Is
it fair to the men whom we ask to fight
for us to imperil their lives and our
own cause in this way?
“Pawang” should also know that no
amount of discussion about v.d. will be
of the slightest avail so long as all this
drinking is allowed to go on. This talk
about “moderate” drinking is all moon-
shine.—Ex-Imperial Officer (N.S.W.).
The N.S.W. Marketing Bureau
An example of how State Governments
go in for useless expenditure is afforded
by the £BOOO a year which the Marketing
Bureau costs the N. S. Wales Department
of Agriculture. The Bureau supplies
reports of Sydney markets to newspapers,
most of which cover the same news them-
selves. It issues a few graphs and charts
which are of limited value, and a review
of crop and pastoral conditions covered
weeks before by other branches of the
same department.
For less expenditure ten field officers
could be maintained. Farmers are con-
stantly asking for more field officers in
all branches of stock and agricultural
work, only to receive the stereotyped
reply that “no funds are available.” The
Marketing Bureau, which is of no benefit
to the man on the land, is still allowed
to absorb its £BOOO a year.
It is such waste of money that has
awakened Australians to the fact that
they would be better off without State
Governments. — Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Wool
Everyone interested in the wool in-
dustry—and that should mean every Aus-
tralian —will agree with The Bulletin’s
“Bradford Is Still Bradford” (6/3/’4O),
especially the part that refers to the pos-
sibility of Bradford holding accumulated
clips over Australian growers’ heads to


manipulate prices to the advantage of
the British manufacturer. The truth is
that, although Australia produces the
fleece, Bradford controls the wool trade,
and is determined that its control shall
not be shaken by a war.
A great opportunity for Australia to
obtain more control over its wool was
missed by the Federal Government in
negotiations with Britain. It is border-
ing on the absurd for us to ship un-
treated greasy wool overseas. It would
be just as ridiculous to ship cream abroad
so that it could be manufactured into
butter, or fruit to be made into jam. We
should at least decarbonise and scour the
wool ourselves.
There is much in favor of scouring
the whole of the clip in Australia. In
normal times it would provide work for
at least hundreds of workmen here, and
in war-time the work would be particu-
larly valuable, as scoured wool takes up
considerably less shipping space than
does wool in the grease. With shipping
a great problem, any saving of space is
an advantage—it means that the ship-
ment of wool would be expedited, more
space would be available for the other
products that we have and Britain wants,
and it would ultimately mean that con-
voys would be smaller.
It is probable that Australian scour-
ing plants would be unable to handle the
whole of the clip expeditiously at present,
but they could treat a lot of it, and if
they knew that they were to get the work
expansion would be certain. Instead, the
scouring works are now operating on a
restricted basis. Bradford would not wel-
come the news that all wool was to be
scoured before shipment, but Bradford
must have wool and could do little else
but protest. If Bradford wanted to do
the scouring, there is nothing to stop
firms fiom that centre from establishing
their own scours in Australia.
Botl Bradford and our own Govern-
ment will eventually have to face the
fact that it is to the advantage of the
Empire for Australia to embark on treat-
ment of wool even more extensively than
scouring.— James Mahoney (N.S.W.).
The Little Fleas
Like “Washington” (B. 6/3/’4O), we all
know the “on approval” and “credit”
woman, but who is to blame for the fact
that these women generally get away
with it? The storekeeper and assistants
have a lot to answer for. One only has
to stand beside a woman who says largely
“Charge it” to see how much more defer-
ence she receives than a mere cash
customer.
The floorwalker, the department
manager and the assistants vie with
one another in paying attention to the
least detail of Mrs. Charge-it’s order.
She is never expected to carry her par-
cels, and it is taken for granted that the
smallest purchase will be “sent out.”
The cash customer gets quite a different
reception. She has to ask if her large
parcel can be “sent,” and a bored assist-
ant grudgingly takes address details.
People who prefer to pay as they go
could stand this attitude if Mrs. Charge-
it paid her account in full each month.
She never does; she only reduces it
enough to order more; and even when
she is back in the books quite a substan-
tial sum she will receive far more cour-
tesy than the cash buyer.
If stores would stop giving credit some-
thing might be done to give more
balanced treatment to all clients and let
the storekeeper balance his budget.
Statistics prove that the firm that sells
only for cash can pay a far bigger divi-
dend on its shares. Also, that firm is in
a better position for improving the con-
ditions of its workers.
Credit-seekers don’t even respect the
businessmen who let them book goods,
and they certainly never cut down any
of their whoopee to pay any debt. —On
the Nail (S.A.).
Character Reading
We don’t believe in Santa Claus, but
we still put our faith in slot-machine
fortune-telling, chain letters, astrology
and the reading of character in hand-
writing. The latter is now being spon-
sored by a section of the press which is
generally well informed regarding the
aspirations of a discerning public, and
fills its valuable columns accordingly.
All the inquirer has to do is send an
example of his writing to receive a full
account of his abilities and propensi-
ties. He will be lost in admiration of
the hitherto unhonored and unsung
virtues and powers of his personality, or
will be humbled by the thought that he
had never observed them before during
years of introspection. He can then con-
sult his horoscope to find which days are
most propitious for the exercise of his
great qualities.
If he sends three samples at discreet
intervals he may receive three sets of
characteristics, all different. This is a
distinct advantage.
If most of the readings published are
even approximately true, we need have
no fear for the future of the nation, as
the mental and moral standard must be
very high. The only danger is that the
“expert” may run out of adjectives before
our fate achieves fruition. The readings
prove one of two things—that there are
no really criminal or silly people in the
community, or that really criminal or
silly people don’t ever send in samples
of their handwriting for character read-
ings. Only the “expert” can tell which
conclusion is correct. —S. Kribble (S.A.).
Nationalisation
One man and his family need food,
water, clothing, housing, light, fuel and
transport if they are to live in accord-
ance with normal life in a civilised com-
munity. The Government is careful to
see that the working man is paid a wage
sufficient to keep him off the street, but
that is not enough. All industries and
services supplying the absolute necessi-
ties of modern life should be under Gov-
ernment control.
It is because there is no such super-
vision that our cost of living is so high.
Private enterprise has no interest in the
working man beyond his spending capa-
city, but a Government having the best
interests of the worker at heart would
be able, by direct supervision of essen-
tial industries, to reduce the high cost
of living while maintaining the standard
of living. Of course, with six other Gov-
ernments yapping at its heels, the Federal
body could not cope with a scheme of
even limited nationalisation, but with the
six parasites in the discard Federal Gov-
ernment could do much to make Aus-
tralia a “worker’s paradise.” Nairb
(Vic.). .
Divorce Laws
Why can’t mistaken marriages be
remedied in a decent civilised way with-
out unhappy husbands and wives having
to enter into all the deception, lying,
collusion and chicanery associated with
the divorce court?
Russia, Scandinavia, Cuba, Mexico and
some other countries consider they have
partially solved the problem by permit-
ting divorce by mutual consent —the same
terms, by the way, under which marriage
is contracted. But the more civilised
peoples of Europe and the British and
American countries steadfastly cling to
the archaic belief that unhappy couples
should be forced to commit adultery or
sling saucepans at each other before they
are legally entitled to a separation.
The main argument of the anti-mutual
consenters seems to be that (a) society
must protect its family life, and ( b )
mutual consent would make divorce too
much of a round-the-corner business, and
lead to a mad rush by scores of couples
who ordinarily might have tried to make
a go of it. If the first is true, then society
might begin by making family life econo-
mically happy, for it is a recognised
adage that when poverty flies in the door
love goes down the fire escape. As for
the second argument, the Scandinavian
experiment gives it the direct lie. If a
husband or wife finds that their married
life is intolerable, where’s the sense in
having them ruin each other’s lives by
continued fighting? And if there are
children of the union, what chance have
they got in life, reared in such an un-
wholesome atmosphere? As it stands
today, men and women cannot come
honestly out and admit that a mistake
has been made and ask for another
chance to be happy. They must commit,
or claim to have committed, adultery, or
otherwise force the divorce issue by the
sordid measures provided by our anti-
quated divorce system. W. Lynch
(N.S.W.).
Trams v. Buses
If any Australian ever thought that
replacement of trams by buses would
reduce taxation, transport costs or any-
thing bar Australian employment (B.
24/2/’4O), it’s proof that there are better
legpullers than Joe Stalin about. I am
possibly the only Sydneyite, present or
prospective, who objects strongly to this
change, and my objection to the buses is
based not only on the increased noise,
vibration, stench, danger, interference
with my comfort as a road-user, damage
to the public road and general discom-
fort —you can’t read in them —but also
on the fact that, regardless of its other
merits or demerits, the tram is the
cheapest form of street transport.
J. Citizen, unable to read his favorite
daily on the way to work, may now pon-
der on the facts that his ticket is no
cheaper—in both the U.K. and India
I’ve generally found it dearer —that
whereas his tram ticket covered the cost
and maintenance of not only the tram
track, but all too often of the only traffic-
able part of the road as well, his bus
ticket covers none of the construction
cost, and is only a token payment to-
wards the maintenance of the track.
Finally, when the wreckers have robbed
him of possibly the finest mass transpor-
tation system in the world, he’s still got
to pay, and go on paying, for it. If he
adds it all up and finds that, directly
and indirectly, he’s paying no more than
twice as much as before for progress, he’s
luckier than I think.
I’ll say nothing about the wisdom of
using imported transport and fuel to
replace the less convenient home-grown
article, but I am rather curious to know
how long it’s going to be before State
Parliaments introduce severe measures
against anyone found guilty of using
Australian fuel.—Ex-Loco (India).
Message-bearers
The world has got that way now that
when you meet a person for the first
time you feel certain that he has got
some sort of an “ism” to expatiate upon.
Hazlitt’s definition of greatness “great
power producing great effects” —cuts no
ice with the message-bearers; they go
blithely along, fondly imagining them-
selves to be a reincarnated Marx or
Wycliffe or Plato and having about as
much in common with those thinkers as
the dandelion has with the oak.
This man would cure all the ills of
the world in a single stroke were he
given the power; that woman would
sack all men holding responsible posi-
tions, and probably exterminate them
into the bargain, and place the reins of
control in the more capable feminine
hands. One thinks that money is the
root of all evil; another that religion
(or lack of it) is the cause. But, one and
all, they have located the disease and
have the, specific all neatly tied up wait-
ing for the patient to peg out.
It is useless trying to tell such people
that it is of such stuff as themselves
that dictators are made; that mankind
progresses by the innumerable tiny shoves
of its millions and not by the isolated
gigantic heaves of the few ; that since
the year One, and long before that, com-
munities, searching for the ideal State,
had tried and discarded most of the
formulae now brazenly served up as new
ones.
If I had my way (which God forbid)
I should insist that all political can-
didates first pass a severe test in history,
ancient and modern, with special refer-
ence to the “great effects” produced by
the so-called great personages in history.
They would then learn that most of the
world’s major progressions were effected,
not by the Cromwells, the Napoleons,
the Hannibals, the Luthers, the Marxes,
the Hitlers or the Miltons, but by the
Smiths, the Browns, the Joneses and
the remainder of the common herd,
whose simple doctrine makes no pro-
vision for getting way out in front with
ambitious schemes for national self-
aggrandisement and personal power-lust.
Humanity would plod along all right
if the “leaders” would only let it, but
they won’t. Every time I bump a
man with an “ism” in his brain I am
tempted to call a policeman and give him
in charge for being a public menace,
or for obstructing the public, at least. —
Plain Bill (N.S.W.).
Inland Exchange
In condemning the system of exchange
on cheques “Sandpatch” (B. 31/1/ ’4O)
confuses the issue when he brings in
the note issue and the fact that gold is
not in circulation. For all practical
purposes notes are equivalent to gold,
and all banks will pay notes for cheques
provided the drawer has sufficient funds
or credit to meet the payment, and this
has always been the practice.
But that has nothing to do with the
exchange charge on cheques, which is
actually the charge for the trouble of
swapping a cheque drawn on one bank
for one drawn on another. There are
clearing houses in all States where this
swapping is done, and “Sandpatch” must
agree that there will be more trouble
in clearing a cheque drawn outside a
State than one drawn within it.
There are two alternatives —one clear-
ing house for the whole of the Common-
wealth, with consequent delay in the
clearing and payment of cheques, or a
number of small clearing houses to suit
the convenience of border folk; this,
however, would mean more expense,
which, no doubt, the banks would pass
on by increasing the exchange rate.
Surely “Sandpatch” realises that there
must be clearing houses. A cheque is
merely a promise by a bank to pay the
amount stated thereon provided the
drawer is in credit to the amount stated,
and until the cheque passes through the
clearing house and reaches the drawer’s
bank it is not known whether the amount
will be paid or not.
But what is “Sandpatch growling
about? If he is in business and handles
many small cheques for his customers
he should be making an extra profit on
the exchange by charging his customers
the full rate on individual cheques and
himself paying only on a percentage
basis.— Jesmond (Vic.).
Australian Books
By suggesting the formation of a book
club with several thousand members who
would subscribe to buy the best six Aus-
tralian manuscripts available, Professor
J. I. Stewart, of Adelaide University, has
hit on an idea that should provide much
needed stimulus to Australian literature.
As the professor points out, the enter-
prise would be half a book club and half
a return to the eighteenth century of pub-
lishing by subscription. Members of the
club would have to pay a certain amount
to receive a book a month for six months,
which would ensure a reasonable return
to the six authors.
It should be neither difficult nor costly
to organise a club on the lines suggested,
and it would be a means of developing
greater interest in Australian literature.
The Bulletin’s Prior Memorial Prizes
have proved that the material is avail-
able, and an assured market would be
an encouragement to authors.
Success of the Left and Right
book clubs, which have many subscribers
in Australia, indicates that Professor
Stewart’s suggestion is worthy of serious
consideration by those interested in the
development of Australian culture.—
Paul Pilgrim (N.S.W.).
The Film Censor
On one page of my daily paper I read
that Mr. Cresswell O’Reilly has banned
“Of Mice and Men,” the picture based
on John Steinbeck’s novel, and on the
next page I see an advertisement for
“Hitler, Beast of Berlin.”
It cannot be denied that the novel has
merit above the ordinary and the produc-
tion of the film has aroused great interest
in the minds of literary and theatre-going
people. The same cannot be said about
“Hitler, Beast of Berlin.” Cowboy
(Vic.).
The Wrong Outlook
Until the last few weeks both the press
and various radio babblers have given
us to understand that this war was to be
a walkover for us. We were told that
Germany could not stand the economic
strain, that her aeroplanes were of in-
ferior quality and easy meat for the
Allied ’planes, that Hitler was on the
verge of lunacy, and that Goring was
ready to fly at the throat of Ribbentrop.
The sooner people realise that this war
is not going to be any picnic the sooner
we’ll be able to settle down to winning
it. Hitler, in Mein Kampf, admitted
that German propaganda in the last war
was unsound, while he expressed admira-
tion for the British idea of representing
the German as a human monster stalk-
ing across the face of Europe. The Ger-
man press, on the other hand, held the
Allied soldier up to ridicule as a stupid,
inept person whose fighting abilities were
conspicuous by their absence.
If we’re not careful we’ll find the re-
verse of that state of affairs obtaining in
this conflict. — Pierrot (N.S.W.).
Employment for Juniors
Many private colleges have employ-
ment agencies, and positions are found
for many of their students. Why doesn't
the Education Department conduct an
employment bureau along similar lines?
Nobody should know better than the
Education Department the qualifications
of the boys and girls who pass through
the schools.
By the establishment of such an agency
the right boys and girls could be sent to
the right jobs. Employers would look to
the Education Department to supply
them with their junior labor in an effi-
cient manner without the necessity for
all these advertisements, interviews, in-
spection of references, and all the delay
that such a process of employment
entails.
Such an agency would give boys and
girls a little courage in their work at
school. They would know that if they
studied hard they would not be placed
on a labor market already crowded to
seek out jobs the best way they could.
And there would be no need for separate
public service examinations, examinations
for admission to banks, examinations
for admission to the postal service or
any other service.
And if the agency included all schools,
outback ones, too, many lads with special
aptitude and knowledge for a bright
business career would not be milking
cows or following ploughs. —W. P.T.
(N.S.W.).


è
Pelmanism
is the
Accepted Scientific Method
of Training Mind,
Memory and Personality
Pelmanism is the Science of Successful Living. It deals with fundamental
personal attributes and qualities which, when developed, establish mental
and physical health, increase resistance to the pressure of outside influ-
ences, and make possible adjustment to conditions that might otherwise
destroy happiness and success.
Fortunately the qualities are inherent in every normal man or woman*
The most important are
Self-Confidence Self-Control Tact
Concentration Judgment Initiative
Decisiveness Will-Power Social Ease
and a Good Memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
IELMANISM is so universally success-
A ful largely because it sets out to train
rather than to teach. It knows that,
according to the nature and the strength
of the individual’s habits of mind and
will, so are his personal efficiency and
his standing with his fellows. If these
habits are bad he will be ineffective
personally; if they are good he will be
strong.
A Doctor writes: “Pelmanism has shown
me how to observe instead of merely seeing.
That alone is worth the price of the course.”
A Clerk writes: “I have been able to get
a definite aim, and have abolished drifting.
I feel happier and 1 better in myself. I can
concentrate much better. I am losing my
horrible self-consciousness.”
A Salesman reports: “Results gained—a
healthier state of mind and body, more self-
confidence, a better memory, a feeling of
ability and keenness in business, a desire
always to employ my spare time to some use
and a systematic style of working.”
A Secretary writes: “I am forming
good habits and choking bad habits. I have
more self-control or self-reliance. I enjoy
life more. I feel better physically and men-
tally. I am easier to live with. I do not
brood.”
A Nurse writes: “Fits of depression are
far less frequent, and these are soon over-
come. Certainly much happier.”
A Musician writes: “I have a brighter
outlook on life, and I am not as apt to
become easily depressed as formerly. 1 realise
my aim, and have more self-confidence in
my work.”
A Shorthand-Typist writes: “I have
energy enough for two, and the will to carry
out to the finish that which I pursue.”
A Draughtsman writes: “When I
started the course I was suffering from
severe worries. I have completely got over
these.”
A Motor Mechanic writes: “I now
gratefully realise that without a sound know-
ledge of the principles as set out by the
Pelman Institute we cannot hope to make the
best of ourselves. I myself have overcome
Shyness, Lack of Confidence, Mind-wander-
ing.”
A Teacher writes: “Increase in my
powers of Concentration and Memory. In-
crease in Self-confidence. Great interest in
people and in my surroundings.”
A Bank Officer writes: “Self-conscious-
ness has given place to Self-confidence. I
am able to work harder and concentrate
more.”
A Builder writes: “I have developed
confidence in myself and a broader outlook
on life. My life has changed from a listless,
drifting one to one of purpose. I now have
a mental and bodily health I did not have
before.”
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU23SR.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confi-
dential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions,
and enables residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay.
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to the Pelman Institute.
Liege- - 1930. Geneva- - 1933.
Nancy- - 1932. Paris - - - 1933.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
r
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
103
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ŕ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS ...
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
5d. extra)
0 6 >
.f'l'V
,tf s
’ N o' v '
, 4$
.•** .•*’ v se o#«^ V 01
.,s-° .-••■ o'*? >» \" 4 S^,o'-


DIESEL OPERATORS
ty
■
,T /o
0$
J
-
■
WHAT THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE HAS DONE FOR
OTHERS IT CAN DO FOR YOU
File No. 4Ia.—APPOINTED SECOND ENGINEER
ISLAND TRADING BOAT. SALARY
£25 PER MONTH AND KEEP.
Had no previous experience before taking
course; obtained Government Diesel
Engine Driver’s Certificate after 9 months’
training by Diesel Engineering College.
File No. 40a—OBTAINED POSITION AS DIESEL
TRACTOR DRIVER BEFORE COM-
PLETING COURSE, EARNING £7
PER WEEK.
Had no previous training before com-
mencing course.
File No. 37a—SINCE TAKING DIESEL
ENGINEERING COLLEGE COURSE
IS EARNING £6/16/- PER WEEK AS
DIESEL OPERATOR.
Was earning £4/15/- per week before
commencing course and had no know-
ledge of Diesels.
WANTED
BIG SWING TO DIESEL
ENGINES SINCE THE WAR,
OPENS UP STILL MORE
WELL-PAID POSITIONS
For several years now, the number of Diesel engines being installed has been
growing bigger and bigger each month as thousands of truck, bus and tractor
owners, power plants, mines, ships, etc., change to Diesel, the more economical
and more efficient engines. Now the war is making still more power users
Diesel-minded, for Diesel fuel is not only more economical but safer and
easier to transport when shipping space is restricted. The result is that there
are more positions for Diesel operators than there are trained men to fill them.
Why shouldn’t YOU have one of these jobs that bring you six, seven or
eight pounds a week? Don’t go on envying those who have a trade in which
there’s always plenty of well-paid work! Become a Diesel operator and you
will always be able to command higher pay yourself.
YOU
GAN QUALIFY AS A
DIESEL OPERATOR IN YOUR
SPARE TIME AT HOME
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering and you don’t need any high
educational standard. The Diesel Engineering College course teaches you the whole
subject in your own home, covering both transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and
stationary Diesel (mining and other power plants). The course has been prepared with
the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the Diploma awarded you on
completion is recognised by employers all over Australia. Post the coupon below and
full details will be sent you by return.
NEW
LEARNI
DIESEL EASY
This College does not sell you a pile of textbooks and leave you
to wade through them, nor does it fill you up with a lot of compli-
cated mathematics. By a simple home-study course, the Diesel
Engineering College teaches you just what you need to know to
operate and service Diesel engines efficiently. As soon as you enrol,
practical coaches take you in hand. You are guided step by step
with the aid of easily-followed instruction papers and diagrams.
Everything is made clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly
you become familiar with the workings of the Diesel. Many
students have qualified for positions in as short a period as four
months. The fees are low and payments easy.
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE, NO HIGH EDU-
CATIONAL STANDARD NEEDED
tk&u/IOKA'o I
AND GET THIS FREE BOOKLET.
r
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation,
so don’t put it off! The best intentions in
the world are useless if you don’t ACT!
RESULTS PROVE OUR
TRAINING THE SURE WAY
TO SUCCESS IN DIESEL
A wonderful future lies ahead in Diesel engineering for ambitious men who get
in early with the proper training. But you must be properly trained. The success
of Diesel Engineering College students at Government examinations tells its own
story of the thoroughness of training at this College. As the Diesel Engineering
College maintains branches at Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane students are
assured that they will obtain individual attention wherever they live.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 27/3/ *4O.
DIESEL ENGIN EERING
COLLEGE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ŕ
