

' ' ?;, A
jgS •* * .*, :, ;
r A
m
t:
*
m
we jo
born
SHOR
WOVEN
U S T
RALIA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/ 5 VoL 61. —No. 3163.
Wednesday, September 25, 1940*
e
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor lransmission by lost as a Newspapci.


e
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
please send, without obligation, particulars of your
Home-Study Course in BOOKKEEPING, as advertised
in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.U. 510 ,
The Red Page
LAWSON'S COLLECTED
PROSE.
By publishing the whole of Henry
Lawson’s prose in one volume, a great
red book as big as a barn called Prose
Works of Henry Lawson, Angus and
Robertson have done his reputation the
best of good turns, for the only way to
appreciate his genius is to read him in
his entirety.
He had more than his share of faults ;
he could shed tears of sentimentality by
the bucketful ; he falsified the bush
atmosphere by dwelling too much on
hardship, defeat and despair; he
wrote careless prose, occasionally good
in dialogue but often astonishingly in-
sensitive ; his stories were far too fre-
quently vague, weak, haphazard, lazy in
construction. S. H. Prior wrote of him
that he didn’t dash off his sketches
impetuously, that he wrote and rewrote
and would turn up at The Bulletin with
“corrections” for a month after he’d sub-
mitted a story, but that seems to mean
only that he had the grace to be dis-
satisfied with his shortcomings, for Prior
also wrote:
So far as his prose was concerned, few
writers have owed more to their editors.
In them Lawson was singularly fortunate —
until his later years, at any rate. J. F.
Archibald, an incomparable sub-editor and
a man of infinite patience when he had
a manuscript which he cherished, did not
grudge the hours he spent in preparing
Lawson for market; and A. G. Stephens
greatly aided and abetted him in those
days. Simultaneously, and for years after-
wards, he had to deal with James Edmond,
who encouraged his contributor to mix
. more quiet bush humor with his tragedy.
Yet Lawson stands head and shoulders
above his faults as a writer, and there
are flashes of inspiration that make the
shoddiest of his sketches Worth reading.
The sob-story of “The Selector’s
Daughter” touches the depths of senti-
mentality:—
Mary sank on her knees by her mother’s
side, crying “Speak to me, mother. Oh,
my God, she’s dying! Speak for my sake,
mother. Don’t die, mother; it’s all a mis-
take. Don’t die and leave me here alone.”
But the poor old woman was dead.
But it lifts suddenly into a glimpse of
landscape as charming as it is authentic:
Bob stood with , his back to the fire, his
pipe in his mouth, and his hands clasped
behind him. The fire lit up the undersides
of the branches above; a native bear sat
in a fork blinking down at it, while the
moon above him showed every hair on
his ears. From among the trees came
the pleasant jingle of hobble-chains, the
slow tread of hooves, and the “crunch-
crunch” at the grass, as the horses moved
about and grazed, now in moonlight, now
in the soft shadows.
Similarly in the slum stories which
(though drawn from Lawson’s own early
experiences in Sydney) are no more than
imitation Dickens, there are redeeming
moments of comedy or genuine pathos.
Arvie and his mother are too tearful for
these days, but Arvie’s cobbers “moving”
the old lady at dead of night to dodge the
landlord while the sympathetic cop looks
the other way are a genuine “push,” as
convincing in their humorous virtue as
are Louis Stone’s older larrikins in their
villainy.
The incentive to plough through these
inferior stories, however, is not so much
their oases of good writing as the faults
themselves. One doesn’t want Words-
worth without his wet Sundays of
“Ecclesiastical Sonnets” nor Burns with-
out the absurd elegancies he stole from
Gray when he wanted to impress the
snobs of Edinburgh, and Lawson at this
date should be enough of a “classic” for
his literary lapses to be one of his attrac-
tions instead of the reverse. Lord knows,
the Brontes had monsters as strange as
the selector’s daughter, even when she
cried “Mother’s gone! I’m going now!
Good-bye! Good-bye! I’m going away
from the bush!” and jumped over a
cliff into a rocky pool, scaring hell out
of three grey kangaroos. Period pieces
have their charm.
Lawson’s lapses into sentimentality,
moreover, occur only on the compara-
tively rare occasions when his humanity
ran away with his sense of proportion.
That he was a “man of sentiment” is one
of his greatest merits, one of the chief
attributes that will cause him to grow in
popularity as the years go by. This is
an age when sentiment is out of fashion
among the leading novelists and when
morbid psychology is used to undermine
and belittle human values.
could psycho-ana-
lyse with starting penetra-
tion, but he never let it
destroy his faith in the
human decencies. Mitchell, the bush
philosopher whom Lawson uses to con-
vey his own observations on human
nature, sees quite as far into the dark
sources of behavior as Aldous Huxley.
In “That Pretty Girl in the Army,” for
instance, a comedy of the Salvation
Army in Bourke, Donald Macdonald,
shearer, knows all about religious hys-
teria—“ Whenever he saw a circle of plain
or ugly dried-up women or girls round
a shepherd, evangelist or a Salvation
Army drum, he’d say ‘Sexually
starved!’” —and Mitchell suggests that
either she’d had some great trouble in
her life, or else that “it might only be a
craving for notoriety, the same thing that
makes women and girls go amongst lepers
and out to the battlefield.” But having
said that, Lawson goes on with his
comedy. He’s a storyteller and a human-
ist, not a doctor or a muckraker.
Pretty few writers of any standing
these days would dare to write as Lawson
does in a story defending the outcasts of
the petty criminal courts, “The Heart of
Man says ‘Thou shalt not!’” (to the
penalties society imposes), but Lawson,
like Dickens and like Burns, was great
enough to say without being abashed that
man has a heart, that ,he feels sorrow,
feels joy, and fundamentally is brave and
kindly. When he mingles comedy and
pathos he mirrors life with unfailing
accuracy. There’s “The Story of Mala-
chi,” “the greatest ass on the station.” At
first it’s just a comedy—and a good one —
about the “pranktical jokes” they used to
play on him: they sent to him a phreno-
logist—with Jimmy Nowlett’s head (a
pumpkin) in a bag—who persuaded
Malachi that he was about to remove his
skull with a tomahawk. Then Lawson’s
humanity comes to light, and you learn
that Malachi is supporting a blind
brother. Maybe Lawson needn’t have
made him blind, but this isn’t sentimen-
tality. It’s the plain truth. Practical
jokes always have their grim side; and
in life there does come a moment when
you suddenly realise that the butt is a
man and a brother.
There’s a lovely touch of humanity at
the end of another comedy, a reminiscence
of Mitchell’s of his father and mother
trying to catch a swarm of bees. The
old lady, until a bee stung her in the
eye and she had to retire, took charge
of the operations to the great annoyance
of all concerned, including the bees.
With the father laughing his head off, it
could have been just a brutal outback
farce, but at the end it becomes in a
flash real and moving:
When he went to the house, mother’s
other eye had bunged for sympathy. Father
was always gentle and kind in sickness,
and he bathed mother’s eyes and rubbed
mud on, but every now and then he’d
catch inside and jerk and shudder and
cough. Mother got wild, but presently
the humor of it struck her, and she had to
laugh, and a rum laugh it was, with both
eyes bunged up. Then she got hysterical,
and started to cry, and father put his arm
round her shoulder and ordered us out of
the house.
They were very fond of each other, the
old people were, under it all—right up to
the end ... Ah, well!
Often enough to make the total highly
impressive, Lawson pulled off one of the
hardest feats a writer can attempt a
straightout pathetic story without sen-
timentality. Beneath the rugged exterior
there is a tenderness nothing short of
beautiful in the way the dead man’s
mates broke the news of her husband’s
death to Mrs. Baker, concealing the fact
that he had died on the most squalid of
sprees. The story of a man’s midnight
ride through the bush to save the life of
a sick child hasn’t a false note, and is
intensely dramatic into the bargain. The
bush parson, McLaughlan (confound
him!) is convincing enough to drive any-
one to water. When One-eyed Bogan,
saving the life of a policeman so that
he’ll get lenient treatment in court, loses
his other eye and takes the loss cheerfully
but becomes quiet in his ways, you feel
the same grief and admiration for him
that Lawson did. Mitchell, building the
fantasy of “The Lost Souls’ Hotel,” where
the wicked will cease from troubling
and the swaggie be at rest, isn’t funny ;
he gives most moving expression to one
of humanity’s oldest dreams.
There’s the core of Lawson’s
philosophy in that story; the fine doc-
trine he wanted his writings to preach,
even if they didn’t always practise it.
In that heaven of the down-and-out the
only books are to be “good cheerful
books of the best and brightest sides of
human nature Charles Dickens and
Mark Twain and Bret Harte, and those
men.” Mitchell philosophises:
The man that’s always canting about the
world’s ingratitude has no gratitude owing
to him as a rule—generally the reverse —
he ought to be grateful to the world for
being let live. He broods over the world’s
ingratitude until he gets to be a cynic.
He sees the world like the outside of a
window, as it were, with the blind drawn
and the dead cold moonlight shining on it,
and he passes on with a sour face; where-
as, if he took the trouble to step inside
he’d most likely find a room full of ruddy
firelight and sympathy and cheerfulness
and kindness and love and gratitude.
That contrasts oddly—pathetically—
with the wail about the rewards of the
literary man Lawson wrote for The
Bulletin, when he said that he’d received
only about £2OO from his books, “the
cream of 12 years’ literary work,” and
advised the Australian writer either to
get out to England or to shoot him-
self. It clashes directly with Lawson’s
defence of his gloomy stories:
I have been accused of painting the
bush in the darkest colors from some
equally-dark personal motive....! might be
biased, having been there; but it is time
the general public knew the back country
as it is, if only for the sake of the bush
outcasts who have to tramp for ever
through broiling mulga scrub-and baking
lignum or across blazing plains by endless
tracks of red dust and grey, through a land
of living death....No one who has not
been there can realise the awful desolation
of outback in ordinary seasons.
It clashes with his too-often-repeated
picture of all bushwomen as broken,
uncouth naggers and of all bushmen as
remorse-ridden boozers (always the
atmosphere of the hangover; never the
probably deplorable but nonetheless
genuine pleasure of the Night-Before). It
clashes with what is well known of the
gloomy side of his own nature.
Yet the tender, humorous philosopher
is the true Lawson. As has been pointed
out before on the Red Page, the
legendary Lawson of Lambert’s statue—
the dreamy, gentle bushman —is the real
Lawson. It isn’t altogether supported by
the facts, nor even by some of the
writings, but it is supported by the spirit
of what he wrote, and that is a better
guide to the true character of the man
than the surface of things. When it
romanticises him as time has romanticised
Burns, posterity will show good sense as
well as good taste. Lawson’s cele-
brated gloom, as it happens, has been
greatly overemphasised: on the whole,
the statement of his prose works is as
cheerful as he wanted' it to be, with
stories of courage and humor, manliness
and friendship easily predominating over
the melancholy.
One of the things that have caused
his gloom to be so widely advertised is
the fact that Lawson (however iconoclas-
tic it might sound, and though there are
occasional passages that could be quoted
in refutation) rarely showed any real love
for the earth his beloved bushmen trod.
Where, in the whole of his prose, is one
reference to the beauty of the morning
light on the gum-trees? He has a few
sunsets —“the sad Australian sunset”! He
seems to have been too close in spirit to
the pioneers who hated the trees and
called the forest “scrub” and “bush” to
express their contempt of it. Only when
he could describe the trees as “ghostly”
did he show any affection for them. Here
is a vivid little description written out
of pure hatred:
I got some sticks together and made a
fire and put the billy on. The country
looked wretched —like the ghost of a
burnt-out land —in the moonlight. The
banks of the creeks were like ashes, the
thin, gnarled gum-bush seemed to be dry-
rotting fast, and in many places the sur-
face of the ground was cracked in squares
where it had shrunk in the drought. In
the bed of the creek was a narrow gutter
of water that looked like bad milk.
In the moonlight it looked “wretched”!
Lawson reminds you of the poets of the
eighteenth century who described all
mountains as “horrible.” Compare the
corrosive hatred of his description of a
cowshed with the ecstasies, not unreason-
able, of any of the English rural roman-
ticists the Powys group over their
“lovely muck”:
The cowyard is next the house and is
mostly ankle-deep in slush. Having made
the cow fast, the youngster cautiously
takes hold of the least sore teat, yanks it
suddenly and dodges the cow’s hock.
When he gets enough milk to dip his dirty
hands in, he moistens the teats, and things
go on more smoothly Every time the
cow kicks, a burr or a bit of grass-seed or
something else falls into the milk, and the
boy drowns these things with a well-
directed stream —on the principle that
what’s well out of sight is out of mind....
He seizes a calf by the nape of the neck
with his left hand, inserts the dirty fore-
finger of his right into its mquth, and
shoves its head down into the milk. .. .His
hand feels sticky, and the cleaned finger
makes it look as if he wore a filthy,
greasy glove with the forefinger torn off.
This—this hard, cruel, sardonic realism
—is the peak of Lawson’s achievement.
When he attains it —as he does in about
a score of stories —he is magnificent. Then
he is not just a companionable moralist,
a faithful painter of bush types, a
humorous yarn-spinner: he is unques-
tionably a genius, and when you look for
a master of the short story to equal him
you think of De Maupassant. If only
Lawson could have kept it up! These
are the stories that give him license to
sentimentalise, moralise and play what
tricks he likes with his form. One such
is “The Little World Left Behind,” a
merciless study of a small town ; another,
slight on the surface but powerful in its
implications, is “Drifted Back,” an essay
in disillusion when a man revisits his
native village; “A Rough Shed” is
strong enough to justify the concluding
sentence, “A lost soul laughs (mine) and
dreadful night smothers us” ; some grim,
macabre stories of “hatters,” especially
one about a mad old man who, having
a “lucky day” in his solitary existence,
found the corpse of a mate and took it
home and talked to it, take one’s breath
away ; nobody has ever written a story
about the Maoris to touch his comedy of
“The Daughter of Maoriland” who
taught the schoolteacher not to meddle
with the simple savage.
Probably his best story, and one of the
great, short stories of all time, is “The
Union Buries Its Dead,” in which the
simple account of an unknown dead
man being shoved into a hole in
the ground by people who don’t
care a damn about him—except that
he happens to be a “union man” —
becomes a terrible symbol of the
loneliness of man and the indifference of
fate. Only Burns’s “Holy Willie”
matches in savage contempt the interlude
in that story when the fat publican,
currying favor, holds his hat over the
priest’s head to save him from the sun.
After all, especially in these unregen-
erate days, one doesn’t go to a writer
for moral edification, but for amusement
or for a representation of the mighty
dramas of human existence. Lawson —
this is the breadth of his genius—gives
all three: the acceptable sermon, the
high tragedy, and the comedy. Just as
“The Union Buries Its Dead” should go
into any anthology of great stories, so
“The Loaded Dog” and “Bill, the
Ventriloquial Rooster” belong in any
world anthology of the best humorous
stories. Lawson’s dogs are always ex-
cellent ; his rooster is superb:
Wc watched Bill, and sure enough he
was a ventriloquist. The “ka-cocka”
would come all right, but the “co-ka-
koo-oi-oo” seemed to come from a dis-
tance. And sometimes the whole crow
would go wrong, and come back like an
echo that had been lost lor a year. Bill
would stand on tiptoe, and hold his elbows
out, and curve his neck, and go two or
three times as if he was swallowing nest-
eggs, and nearly break his neck and burst
his gizzard; and then there’d be no sound
at all where he was—only a cock crowing
in the distance.
And pretty soon we could see that Bill
was in great trouble himself. You see, he
didn’t know it was himself —thought it
was another rooster challenging him, and
he wanted badly to firtd that other bird.
He would get up on the woodheap and
crow and listen —crow and listen again—
crow and listen, and then he’d go up to
the top of the paddock and get up on a
stack and crow and listen there. Then
down to the other end of the paddock
On top of these farces are his charac-
teristic “yarns,” all the Steelman and
Smith escapades, the humorous philoso-
phisings of Mitchell and “The Oracle,”
the glorious lunacies of Brummy and
Swampy, the absurdities of Uncle Abel
(who appears to have been founded
irreverently upon Lawson’s grandfather).
They are not great short stories, but they
are the best of entertainment and a re-
minder to all story-writers that their first
job is to tell a story.
It has been said of Lawson that he had
the makings of a great novelist and
shouldn’t have been diverted by Archi-
bald into short story writing. That’s
nonsense. He hadn’t the stability of
temperament for the grind of novel-
writing, and he hadn’t the gift of con-
struction. His Joe Wilson series, which
add up into a short novel, are among the
dullest of his writings, gloomy, moral-
ising, self-conscious. Like Katherine
Mansfield, Lawson was an autobiographi-
cal writer, and autobiographers don’t
make the greatest novelists. They make
good essayists and, as The Prose Works
of Henry Lawson shows, the most con-
vincing of short story writers. Lawson is
going to last, and it’s good to see him
brought out at a price that doesn’t forbid
readers making his acquaintance.


••TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"— plain facts, open dealing .
"THE SENIOR STORE'
1
t.
M
(i
-Jj
\
a
0
o
ri
s>
$
>ff
4i^
m
m
m
m
m
m
2A°'
.
•** 0
ess
V'"' . w oi» ' so ft
i\v» v . c ottV
fo° x
*• %^ V iT%' 0 5-
*>■; i %*
m*
V' c
o> s
*<*■
s 9
\tvtV*
f\o
pc
Ct'
VaV*
,O 9* e
t ot<'
Ae \**° a
e . „v V\ ea
tv 1
*ot* a
fete
ko°
X*
10
m
e»*
ijo® l.
® 'n*V&* Z \t\& -r *
• y „ v ' fcee*
*«* c *s e
„ * o o* *~\ K to**
a« 4 '-et^' ,a . t*
a* c
ve^-
i'9 t\a' * c< \ ? xO A^ cCJ
k \\oO-
s e*
a*
A ‘°
.«**•
tO s
• v ’ , C '*’ s u< c *^^o9• v\ot Ae
. N 0...
-,\VO«-
6
S
CO'
a t© _ .?>*
,0"’
OTS*
Ot®.
a CO*'*:; a*
\. '*> A *f£ e U »<*> “V
~s t%Ae. a S* a? p3*
m a.c*£^tf s '
" s;«, «jp xz-sfs* s»»*
' ***-*<£#■'
>a*
** a*
G^J
s* v7 r^^
v<e
Co**
**»?,.• ,
*s*»*•
'°® ~ \>©°' "t>A c ®
4©»* s *
Y>°*
y- f,„*> n;VfctfS*"*' s»« ,t - Ss»**
**»',,’e ***«» r: V«"' 0 Geo' 9 ',,. t C°<"o>
>"»' o» *» SU- M , floor, Osorio
*<>” G to“?W a " a
, J S f° o^
O
to al
&S 4
\G* S
O>N
vAO^ s


BUSH DOG
"Accused Wants to know if y'r Honor could do a pint while counsel delivers his address?"
By CHARLES SHAW
WHILE Cohuna slept the cattle were loaded into
the trucks. The three men loading swore
frequently and fervently, yelled incompre-
hensible words at one another and the beasts,
swallowed dust and sweat and toiled like slaves, while
the dog slipped silently in and out of the race and
yards, almost invisible in the shadows, seen in the
electric light as an eager bundle of vitality.
Occasionally the noise died as the men gathered
by the waterbag on the rail, took long draughts, wiped
their eyes, rolled and lit cigarettes and puffed for a
few precious minutes of relief. These times the dog
disappeared into the darkness, to return when called
dripping wet from wallowing in the little creek that
ran past the reserve.
When the last truck was loaded, the boss looked
at his watch. “Ar-phew!” he exploded. “Just on two
o’clock. Be dawn in another coupla hours.”
Yorky, his leathery face rimed with dust, pushed
the old hat from his forehead, revealing a fringe of
grey round a bald dome. He looked up at the swim-
ming stars, licked his lips and glanced narrowly at
the sleeping town.
“Crikey, I could do a beer,” he said wistfully.
“How about you, Jack?”
Jack, a lanky youth, spat concurrently, then eyed
the spot on the ground where the spittle had gone.
“Just chips,” he marvelled humorously ; “that’s all I
kin spit now, just chips. It’s hot, boss!”
“Yair,” answered the boss. “Better boil the billy,
Jack, an’ make some tea.”
They walked over to the wagonette on the reserve.
Yorky released two dogs chained there, whereupon
they described an ecstatic circle round the camp, bark-
ing hysterically, then raced to the empty cattle yards,
smelt, thought hard and, sure that nothing had been
left undone, vanished towards the creek. Jack kicked
up the fire and swung the billy.
The boss spread himself on the ground and rolled
a cigarette. “You blokes can take y’ time goin’ back,”
he said. “The train’ll be in Melbourne t’morrow.
I’ll leave there on the express Monday night an’ pick
y’ up in Cootamundra. Y’ ought t’ be there be then.”
“Yair.”
The boss stretched himself. The dog, Bluey, came
out of the darkness. He trotted to the boss, gave him
a grin, then sat on his rump and concentrated on
important business to do with his left hip.
“Here, Blue,” murmured the boss, clicking thumb
and forefinger. The dog dropped flat beside him and
allowed his tongue to 101 l as the man’s hard hand
stroked his head, tickled the hollows behind his chest,
rubbed the hair on his chest the wrong way.
“You’re a good ol’ sooner, Blue,” murmured the
boss.
The dog was blue-grey in color, with darker blue
speckles scattered over his body. There was a lean,
aggressive cut about the head set on a body rather
slim, but strong like whipcord, about eighteen inches
high. The legs were splotched with red and sturdy,
with disproportionately large paws. Eyes were brown
and alert, the black and pointed ears placed wide on
the skull that narrowed quickly to a forthright muzzle.
In him was a combination of breeds, but the kelpie
and the dingo predominated. The boss was his god.
For the boss he was mate, fellow-worker and guard.
He was ready for duty at any time, anywhere, fed or
hungry, fresh or tired.
The tea made and disposed of, the camp stirred
with the imminence of departure. Yorky brought in
a half-dozen horses, removed their hobbles, and
placed the cart harness on the heavy mare. Jack was
rolling blankets and throwing camp gear together. The
boss shaved himself, standing before a tree from
which dangled a mirror.
All three dogs knew what was going on. Two of
them made tentative sorties north and east, pretend-
ing they knew which way the outfit was to travel,
then returning in a great hurry, looking important and
anxious, hanging round the men as though to say
“What’s the holdup?”
Bluey lay flat, hind legs stretched behind him,
head on his outstretched forepaws, watching every-
thing and never losing sight of the boss. He didn’t
trust this business of standing up before a tree, mak-
ing passes at your face. It portended something im-
portant, more than the mere breaking of camp before
sun-up so as to travel before the heat set in. Besides,
the cattle were gone. Why, then, this anxiety to be
away?
The boss wiped his face slowly, watching the dog.
“Yorky,” he said thoughtfully, “better put Bluey on
a chain now. Y’ll never get hold of him after I’m
gone.”
“Righto,” said Yorky. He threw a dogchain to
the boss’s feet.
The boss clipped it to Bluey’s collar and fastened
the other end to the tailboard of the cart. “After y’
get away a bit,” he said, “y’ better lift him inter the
cart; I don’t want him knocked up.”
He glanced over at the railway yards, where an
engine was marshalling the cattle-trucks on to the end
of a mixed goods. Bluey gave a couple of tentative
jerks at the chain. He thought it extremely foolish
to treat him as a pup that didn’t know how to conduct
itself. His eyes slewed round to the boss. A slow
fear grew and he whined slightly.
Jack, mounted, started the loose horses north-
east, farewelling the boss with a casual “Keep outa
gaol.” Yorky mounted the cart, gave the boss a nod
and clucked to the horse. Bluey, pulled into action,
ambled off on his chain, twisting to watch the boss.
One of the other dogs came up to him, full of sym-
pathy, but retired at a warning growl.
The boss watched the outfit move off. He ran
forward, gave Bluey a thump of affection, and stood
back. The morning sun gilded the tiny dust-cloud
raised by the horses’ hooves. The boss picked qp his
bag and made for the station.
BOTH doors of the van were open. The boss lit a
cigarette, spoke briefly to the guard and sat on a
box. The guard signalled, the engine shoo-shoo-
shooed importantly, a rattling bump ran down the
train, and a dusty blue dog, with about a foot of chain
hanging from his collar, shot into the van from the
platform, was shaken off balance by the jerk of the
train, and might have rolled through the door again
had not the guard hooked a boot under his belly and
dragged him back.
“Your dog?” he asked, passing across the van to
slide the doors shut.
The boss muttered something and stuck his head
through the window, trying to look back in the direc-
tion of his outfit. Fence-posts began streaming past
the train. “Y’ll have t’ pull up!” he cried, above the
roaring, to the guard.
“What for?” the guard yelled.
“This dog o’ mine ; he broke away ; he
can’t come!”
t “He’ll haveter come ; I can’t stop a train
to put off a blanky dog!”
“But I can’t take him t’ Melbourne!”
shouted the boss, finding it hard to keep his
balance in the swaying van.
“Y’ can get off at Elmore an’ send him back!”
“But Yorky—where—how can I? Where can I
send him?”
“I dunno ; he’s your dog!” shrieked the guard,
climbing to his eyrie in the lookout.
Then the train gave a fierce jerk and the boss
danced a wild jig across the van, tripped over some
milk cans and dived among a pile of tomato cases,
threshing like a stranded fish. There was a yelp near
his left foot. Bluey, badly frightened for once, was
jammed in a corner among a tangle of cans, crates
and sacks.
“Poor ol’ Blue,” said the boss, getting carefully
to his feet, hanging grimly to hand-rails, knobs, ledges,
anything that offered a hold. He made a careful
passage to the dog, sat down with his back to the
van wall and took Bluey in his arms.
“Steady, son,” he crooned, “Ain’t used to trains,
are y’? Serves y’ right f’r cornin’. Steady, ol’ boy.”
The dog lay quiet, shivering.
The boss saw that the chain had snapped at a
worn link. Bluey must have tugged fiercely. Yorky
was still driving along the north-east road, he guessed,
thinking Bluey was still under the cart. “He’ll get
a shock when he goes t’ lift y’ aboard, Blue,” he
grinned.
Bluey tried to lick his face.
“Damfino what t’ do with y’,” mumbled the boss,
perplexed. “Can’t have y’ traipsin’ round Melbourne
after me. That’s no place for y\”
The problem didn’t bother Bluey. He was where
he wanted to be. He stopped shivering and his tongue
lolled.
IT HE train rattled southward, the van swaying at
* the end like a cork on a piece- of string, while
the boss and the dog sat hunched against the wall.
At Elmore the boss slipped across to the town, downed
a beer, bought a couple of bottles and a pound of
steak. The steak and Bluey they put in the dog-box
at the rear of the van, then the boss looked over
the cattle. They had been held on water before loading
and were doing well. At Seymour he watered Bluey,
still uncertain what to do about him.
The stock-agent to whom he delivered the cattle
at Newmarket solved the problem by sending man
and dog to a quiet pub in a quiet suburb on the
Dandenong foothills. The pub had a large pen, once
used for poultry, at the rear. It was enclosed sides
and top with netting, and here, with some bags and a
dish of water, Bluey was turned loose, the boss arrang-
ing for his feed.
Morning and night for three days the boss visited
the prisoner, tickled his ears, talked to him, examined
his water, assured him they would soon be travelling
back to rejoin the outfit.
During the day odd small boys, semi-drunks and
others passing through the hotel yard peered at the
blue dog behind the netting. They saw a lowering,
scowling, dangerous hound that showed his teeth
and balanced lightly on his toes. But when the
boss came the dog became like a great pup. He raced
round the enclosure with short barks, leapt up on the
boss, rushed to the gate and stood expectantly, sat on
his haunches and grinned.
On the fourth day the boss blundered. It had to
do with a pair of bright eyes and a pair of red shoes
and numerous drinks. Late that night a policeman in
West Melbourne, growling about the heat, almost fell
over the boss, who, festively clad in an old overcoat,
underclothing, boots and socks, reposed ungracefully
in the shadow of a deserted factory. His only out-
standing mark of identification was a large, purple
lump behind one ear. He had been trimmed clean.
He was still breathing. And that’s all he was able to
do for that night, next day and night and part of the
next day, when he recovered sufficiently to tell them
who he was and take refreshment. When they told
him how long he’d been in the hospital he said.
“Gawd, me dawg!” and wanted his pants there and
then, but they refused to gratify him.
EDLUEY became restive as darkness came. After
ambling round the netted walls he would lie, un-
wavering brown eyes on the back door of the pub,


then get up and ramble some more. He watched the
night life of the pub die out. Shortly after the last
light went out, he whined, flitted to the door of his
pen, sniffed at it, raised his head and analysed the
smells on the air, sat on his haunches cogitating,
plainly worried. He whined again, reinspected the
gate, then gave a couple of short, inquiring barks.
No movement from the dark hotel, no voice in
response. Bluey barked twice more, the second all but
breaking into a howl. Silent, he passed round the
four walls of the pen and back to the gate, his nostrils
working delicately. A short, miserable half-bark, half-
howl announced his baffled worry to the night. Some-
thing was wrong, and Bluey knew it. He sat on his
haunches, raised his nose to the stars, and a deep,
full-throated, penetrating baying burst on the silence.
After a time he began to dig feverishly at the
earth at the foot of the wire-netting. Garden soakage
had made the ground soft and rusted the bottom of
the netting. In a few moments Bluey was outside his
prison. He surveyed the closed door of the pub,
edged forward and sniffed at it. It offered him no-
thing. He drew off warily and investigated the yard.
Disappointed, he passed down the open passage to the
street. He trotted along the pavement, stopping fre-
quently to test various signs and portents. The ground
under his pads was hard and unyielding. He was
hemmed in on all sides by fences, houses, walls. It put
him on edge. He peered into dark alleyways, then
moved off, growling. A car’s headlights rushed at
him and he fled a short distance.
Something moved in a dark doorway and he
charged. The cat, spitting, shot past him and away.
He watched it go, grinning slightly, then resumed his
search. But everything here baffled him ; street led
into street and lane into lane. He kept bearing north-
ward by instinct, thus putting the pub further and
further away.
The dawn and the sun and the morning came and
the day approached its noon as the blue dog, tired
and hungry, found himself lapping water from a spray-
ing hose in a public gardens. He shook the water
vigorously from his
coat and pushed his
way into the heart
of some camphor
laurels, where he
found fresh earth,
turned round a
couple of times and
lay down to sleep.
Beside the laurels a
notice said, “Dogs
are prohibited in
this park except on
chain or leash.
Penalty, £2. By
order.”
Shouting chil-
dren awakened
Bluey. He emerged
from the laurels,
shook himself and
surveyed this strange
world. Two young
women and some
small children were
grouped some yards
away. Bluey knew
children, white, half-
caste and black. He
seldom allowed
them to get near
him, and disdain-
fully he turned and
loped off.
Ever bearing
northward, he passed
through the heart of
the city and became
entangled with the
crowds. Confusion
and then fear took
him. He was lost in a
maze of human feet,
and when he struck
for the open great
vehicles bore down
on him. There
seemed no escape.
Beaten and panicky
he croached against
a wall, cringing from
the throng. Here he
stayed, his brown eyes flitting fearfully about him.
Sometimes he left the wall to dart after a figure, sniff
eagerly at its heels with interrogative tail signals and
then drop back, disappointed.
Later, when the sun was set and the crowds
thinned, he trotted along the streets, much of his fear
gone as he became familiar with the bustle and the
noise. He stopped frequently to investigate all sorts
of scents, went off at tangents, had small adventures
with youths, with dogs on the lead, but ever he moved
north, driven by an instinct as old as the hills, a blue-
grey wraith in the evening.
The night came, and the dawn, and in a small
paddock north of the city a dairyman bringing in the
cows saw a blue dog of a kind he had never seen
before loping along the fence. Bluey was making for
his home country.
SPRING
BY MARGARET TRIST
THE old man raised his walking-stick and twirled
it several times in the air. The air was so soft
and dry and warm that the stick seemed to part
it and push it away in little scurrying flakes. The
old man chuckled and went on with his walk, leaning
heavily on the stick and shuffling his heavily-booted
feet among the clover flowers and grass. He had
a mind to go outside the big gate and poke about
a bit on the reserve. It seemed somehow important to
know if bluebells were flourishing in the shelter of old
grey logs, or if the dandelions had turned out in lull
force to carpet the patches of bare ground. But when
he reached the fence he was tired and had to content
himself with leaning against the tightly-drawn wires
and staring into the distance, or looking back towards
the house and clustering outbuildings from which he
had come.
There was a brown road leading down to the
reserve: a hard, flat road, very clearly defined in
the bright afternoon sunshine. The trees were sparse
and each one stood out distinctly, very still and
vividly, glisteningly green. The silence was soft and
warm and dry like the air. Again the old man haised
his stick and twirled it, and again he chuckled and
felt oddly pleased with himself. Then, not quite sure
why he had ventured so far by himself, he started
back towards the house.
The house was low on the ground and painted
white. At one side of it were three square red tanks
on raised stands. Along the other side were four tall,
thickly-foliaged orange-trees, behind the orange-trees
a squat mandarin-tree overweighted with fruit.
Beyond the house was the pale green of the corn-
paddock, and beyond that again the pile of buildings
that were garage and barn and shearing-shed. As
the old man ambled closer he could hear the mutter of
machinery from the shearing-shed and the troubled
murmur of the yarded sheep. Above the yards a
“We're just ’avin' a browse around."
faint haze of dust hung. “They’re getting a hustle
on with that shearing,” he thought. “And likely as not
there’ll be another cold snap before the real warm
weather comes.” He pushed his cap forward over
his eyes and scratched his head reflectively. “Well,
it’s none of my business now,” he said aloud, and
went on slowly through the sun-warmed, clinging air.
“I was looking for you for your tea,” his
daughter-in-law told him reprovingly as he hobbled
into the kitchen.
“I just took a little walk,” he answered apologeti-
cally, seating himself near the doorway and fumblingly
pushing his cap and his stick under his chair.
She poured him a cup of tea from the big brown
pot on the stove and cut him a slab of bread and
butter, carefully slicing away the hardest of the
crusts. “You take too many little walks,” she said
severely. “You’ll crock yourself up for good one
of these times. Heaven only knows I’ve enough work
on my hands now, without having an invalid, as well.
The old man looked troubled. “You’re a good
woman, Emmie,” he said vaguely.
He sat by the kitchen doorway, looking out over
the paddocks and listening to the throb of the engines
from the shed. The sunshine had turned from clear
golden to dusty yellow, but the air was still warm
and dry about him. He was conscious of the activity
in the kitchen, of the chatter of his granddaughters
and the crisp, decisive movements of Emmie, the
gurgle of the big pots of vegetables cooking on the
stove and the sizzling of meat from the oven. Now
and again Emmie spoke, and though the purport of
her words did not reach him her tones cut clearly
through the drowsiness of his mind. Emmie was
a good woman, a real good woman, he thought. She
had come to his assistance when his own daughters
had failed him.
EVEN when the sun had completely faded and the
light had to be lit in the kitchen the air was still
balmy. It gave the old man a buoyant feeling and it
sent his blood spurting warmly along his veins. It
loosened his tongue and put him into a reminiscing
mood which plagued Emmie and delighted the
shearers. The shearers ate with the family at the long
kitchen table. There were only five of them and they
were all respectable. Emmie saw to that. For the
most part they had holdings of their own and were
available only for the small sheds of the district. The
old man had known them as children and known their
fathers and grandfathers before them. “They’re not
the men their grandfathers were,” he thought, looking
round at them as they ate. “They stop too long in
the one place these days.”
He told his tales swaggeringly with a hint of
patronage in his rumbling voice and many vaguely
contemptuous interspersions of “Of course, you
wouldn’t remember. Long before your time.” By the
time the meal was over he had begun to brag of his
age: “Every limb sound,” he said, “eyesight good,
hearing better than the ordinary, and I can eat as
hearty a meal as the rest of you.”
“You can that,” retorted Emmie. “It takes as
much a year to feed you as I could have a real com-
fortable holiday in the city on.”
Everyone laughed, the old man loudest of any,
but there was a funny little lost look in his eyes. He
put out his hand and patted Emmie’s shoulder.
“You’re a good woman, Emmie,” he said. Then he
fumbled under the chair for his cap and his stick and
got up from the table. There was an old wooden
bench on the kitchen verandah, and he went out there
to the soft nigbt air, and his old black pipe sent the
warmth tingling through him again.
“He’s been a bit of a blade in his time,” said one
of the men in the kitchen laughingly.
“That’s if all his tales are true,” said another.
In the darkness the old man chuckled with grati-
fication.
Then came Emmie’s voice. “Don’t mind his tales.
There’s no truth in them. His mind wanders these
days.”
Resentment welled in the old man. Mind wan-
dering, indeed! And since when had he taken to
telling lies? He crushed out his pipe and put it in his
pocket and by the aid of the stick got to his feet.
He’d tell that Emmie a few things, and while he was
about it he’d tell the shearers the uncensored account
of his adventures! He lumbered to the door. Once
there, standing shakily in the patch of light cast by
the lamp, a sense of futility overwhelmed him.
What would be the use of telling Emmie “a few
things”? What chance had an old man of telling a
good woman anything? Besides, he was in a way
dependent. It was Emmie’s world now, not his. And
the shearers —what did they care for him or his stories?
It didn’t matter to them if they were true or false.
No doubt they’d think him an old fool. Perhaps, too,
he was. He turned away from the doorway and
fumbled his way down the narrow steps to the brick
path, then along to the gate and out into the paddock.
It was very dark there, but the ground was flat and he
knew every inch of it minutely.
He walked very slowly, sometimes twirling his
stick in the air, sometimes pausing to look back
towards the kitchen. The sound of clattering crockery
came out after him and now and again a short, mirth-
less laugh reached him. The air about him was warm
and dry and soft. It had the bouquet of the wines
he had once loved. It got into his nostrils and pene-
trated into his being, erasing tiny, smarting wounds
and giving him back his buoyancy. The light wind
blew the air about him, and with the wind there came
the scent of newly-awakened flowers from the garden
around the house. The reserve was a black swirl of
shadows. The stars were white in the high, black sky.
The old man stopped and all the night about him
seemed to seep into him. He was aware of his eyes
seeing more clearly and his ears being more alert. He
stood leaning lightly on his stick, exuberantly aware of
his surroundings. He chuckled to himself, then looked
towards the house and chuckled aloud. He felt deep
pleasure and an infinite superiority to the stolid group
in the kitchen. The spring had come and he was the
only one who really knew it.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
j 4 c jiin^^f / uihe mell(MneJdundJ/miq/Uct
THE MARBLE ARCH SITE.
Those whose recollections of London
extend back thirty or forty years will
not require to be reminded of the
striking “surface changes” which
have marked that period. Extend
the time to a century, or a century
and a quarter, and when engravings
are placed in comparison with
modern photographs of similar sites,
in most cases the change is so striking
as to present a twentieth-century
site as unrecognisable with its past
appearance. This is peculiarly notice-
able in the illustrations, taken from
practically the same spot, the junc-
tion of Edward Road, Oxford Street
and Park Lane, almost opposite the
n.-e. corner of Hyde Park. The
engraving is of 1819, the photo, of
1939. The Marble Arch, a “feature
of London,” was, when the sketch
was made, non-existent. It was a
fancy of George IV (1820-30) and
known as “George’s gateway at
Buckingham Palace,” a nice orna-
ment, and removed to the Cumber-
land Gate entrance to Hyde Park in
1851. Its utility ceased, if utility as
a “gate” it ever possessed, many years
ago, and traffic necessities have led
to a readjustment of the site, so the
Arch now stands in “splendid isola-
tion.” The locality, the ancient
Tyburn Turnpike, is “rich” with
gruesome memories, and the metal
plate close by informs all and sundry
that here stood Tyburn Gallows,
closely associated with our civil and
religious history. Still fashionable
Park Lane was once called Tyburn
Lane. The Marble Arch was de-
signed by Nash, who drew his
inspiration from the Arch of Con-
stantine at Rome.


IT’S A LONG, LONG WAY TO ALEXANDRIA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
j. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.O.),
Wellington.
London : Lincoln’s Inn Chambers, 40-43 Chancery
Lane, London, W.C.2.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, 8s. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America. 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
WHAT'S WANTED NOW.
Election over, and its cheapness, shoddiness and
meanness already half-forgotten, Australia looks to
Canberra for something that has not hitherto been
forthcoming from the leafy capital—dynamic leader-
ship ; positive direction; decisions thoughtfully
reached and firmly enforced. There has been enough
vacillation, enough cringing to and accommodating of
interested parties. Above all, there has been enough
of apologising and protesting and explaining. Poli-
ticians, flapper sheets, Pooh-Bah professors and radio
oracles to the contrary, this isn’t a kindergarten. It is
an adult nation, too small for what it has to hold,
inclined by a fortunate and happy past and a luxury
standard of living to be unrealistic, but still grown-
up, alert, ready, waiting to be told what to do.
The weakest point in this Australian democracy
—as in all democracies for 20 years past, until they
changed, like Britain, or were gobbled up, like France
—has been the slackness of control and direction, the
reluctance of leaders to lead, the rubber-stamp con-
ception of statesmanship, persistent avoidance of re-
sponsibility, resolution in nothing except in taking no
step one foot in advance of what appeared to be public
opinion at the moment. The Australian Governments
that lasted longest in those 20 years lasted principally
by virtue of doing nothing. All was well with this
Utopian continent; let well alone. Delegate the un-
avoidable to the several hundred boards, commissions
and the like. Meet at Canberra for a few days a
week in the pleasantest seasons, and carve bits out of
the herbage taking corners on one wheel in order not
to miss the first available train out of the place.
Otherwise disturb nothing.
It is a distressing picture, but not more distressing
than the late efforts of cheapjack windbags to get
themselves elected by hawking it about. No more dis-
tressing, either, than the current popgunning by
scapegoat-hunters, seeking to shoot it all home to the
politicians of the period. True, these appear to have
been a poor lot, but surely no worse than might have
been expected, and must still be expected, so long as
the legislative talent of this country’s meagre popula-
tion is spread over seven Parliaments. There are good
men in every one of these places, but the watering
down, the thinning and spreading out have resulted in
none of them being able to muster an outstanding col-
lective body to make a Government.
The Canberra House has been additionally han-
dicapped. In all the other centres the bulk of the
Parliamentarians live, or stay, near at hand. Only
Canberra has seen the inglorious week-end rush, with
travel-tired men getting back again in time for a few
yawning days before tearing off once more. Under
this ludicrous arrangement there has always been a
lack of continuity in the functioning of the legislative
body. This has not affected and undermined only the
work of the Parliament as a general assembly for dis-
cussion and debate ; no Government, no Cabinet, has
continuity in its functioning. They have hitherto
done little, it is true ; but under such a jerky, spas-
modic, interrupted existence that could hardly be
otherwise.
That, however, has been only one of the handi-
caps. It is at least open to remedy, the simple right
one being obvious. Parliaments elected to Canberra,
and particularly Governments established there, should
be under compulsion to remain continuously on the
spot, except in special circumstances, until their work
has been carefully and thoughtfully done. With the
special compulsion of war added, there is now all the
stronger reason for continuity of assembly, with the
continuous contact among the legislators which this
ensures.
Another of the handicaps which have operated
against leadership from above in the past is not
peculiar to Canberra or to Australia. It is deep-rooted
in what has become the accepted idea of democracy,
touching the relations between Government and gov-
erned. Instead of Government governing for the good
of the people, the accepted notion is that it should
govern only according to the will of the people. The
idea is that the collective intelligence of the majority,
not the selected intelligence of the elected representa-
tives, should have and enforce control. This notion
of democracy—the one generally held —accepts that
fluctuations in the popular will, due to the influences
of war, peace and other temporary events, are some-
how synonymous with wisdom. It completely over-
looks the extraordinary extent to which the popular
will, the nature of public opinion at any given moment,
is influenced and very often formulated by two com-
paratively new and growing forces—the popular press
and radio, with their interminable oracles, windbags,
alleged “authorities”—in action all the time, seeing two
feet ahead of them at the most, as changeable as
weathercocks.
Did these forces over the past 20 years influence
public opinion towards understanding the shocking
defencelessness of this country throughout that period?
Did they egg the public will on to demand compulsory
national service as an elementary essential in this
country’s defence establishment? Instead, they saw
the defence vote whittled down to a bare three mil-
lions, they saw national service suspended, warrant
officers and others of the permanent force—a thousand
or so strong—sacked in the midst of depression ; they
saw what was once the makings of a good navy broken
up: they saw these things and more without a protest.
At the same time, while ceaselessly yelping for war—
Abyssinia, Spain, China, Czechoslovakia ; anywhere
—they encouraged the delusion that Geneva should
be pronounced “security.”
That, then, has been the vicious circle surround-
ing what is called democracy. A legion of voluble
irresponsibles, seeing what is immediately under their
noses and nothing else, attains to an unprecedented
and increasingly powerful influence over public
opinion. Its information is nearly always as shallow
as its conclusions are wrong and its advice is bad. And
under these terms the collective intelligence of the
majority is supposed to work wisely.
There have been recent instances, during the elec-
tion and shortly before, of the colossal effrontery of
this modern force in action. There have been in-
stances of its dictating to Government and Government
meekly shelving measures held to be vital. It is time
the elected Government of the people took control
again and legislated for the good of the people. Even
if there were no war calling for wise decisions strongly
enforced, the day of mere rubber-stamp legislating
should be over. What this country tried to insist on
in the election was firm direction and strong leader-
ship. There is no need for any further apologies,
excuses or explanations. There is no need for any
further talk at all. There has been a surfeit of that,
a great deal of it sickening. What is impatiently
awaited is strong, determined and unswerving leader-
ship—from the top.
Hitler—Blunderer.
Not all the miscalculations and mistakes have been
on our side, although those for which the French
leaders were responsible, of a piece with the follies of
the Popular Front, of infamous memory, completed
the ruin of their republic. Hitler and his fellow-
barbarians fell into the worst blunder of the age when
they summed up the British as degenerate, and the
British Empire as a loose arrangement of autonomous
States and weakly-held colonies and dependencies
which could not withstand the shock of another world
war.
Their information about the state of Europe was
excellent. In fact, their European intelligence-service,
propaganda and diplomacy were immeasurably
superior to the British efforts in the same field, and
in the darker domain of sedition —as witness the for-
mation of Fifth Columns —they beat the Russians at
their own dirty game. But their impressions of Eng-
land and their calculations as to how the people of
Britain and the British Commonwealth and the other
parts of the Empire would react to the Russian alli-
ance they brought off and the invasions they had
planned were utterly false, and the consequences to
their country are already serious.
Ribbentrop seems to have been the worst
blunderer. Sir Nevile Henderson found him “a com-
bination of vanity, stupidity and superficiality,” and
likened him to Berchtold, the Austrian Minister for
Foreign Affairs, who was “more responsible than any-
one else for the war which began in August, 1914.”
A yes-man, sent to Britain as “Ambassador at large,”
and believed by his master to be an authority not
only on Britain but on Canada, in which he had lived
for some years, Ribbentrop made a grotesque failure
of his mission, at which Sir Nevile was in no way
surprised.
From the beginning I felt that his vanity, his resent-
ments and his misconceptions of England and English
mentality were a serious bar to any prospect of a better
understanding between the two countries, and in the
end I realised that, as far as lay in his power, no one
had done more than he did to precipitate the war. For
that there is no hell in Dante’s Inferno bad enough for
Ribbentrop.
“To the last” Ribbentrop “continued to assert that
England would never fight.” He was “all the time
saying so, to Hitler and to everyone” ; and of this —
though, in Sir Nevile’s opinion, he did not believe it
himself—he persuaded Hitler, “who needed little per-
suasion.” Indeed by the middle of July, 1939, when
in England “extra fleet exercises had been announced,
extra ships were placed in commission and some naval
reservists were called up” Hitler was “too intoxicated
by success and by belief in his own greatness and in-
fallibility to care what England did.”
Hitler’s own “great mistake” was “his complete
failure to understand the inherent British sense of
morality, humanity and freedom.”
He failed to realise why his military-cwm-police
tyranny should be repugnant to British ideals or why
he should not be allowed a free hand in Central and
Eastern Europe to subjugate smaller and, as he regards
them, inferior peoples to superior German rule and
culture. He believed he could buy British acquiescence
in his own far-reaching schemes by offers of alliance
with, and guarantees for, the British Empire.
He came to believe also that he could forestall the
blockade with his Russian alliance and master the
Royal Navy with his air force, and that Britain, its
allies defeated, would accept a peace leaving him
master of Europe and in a position to reward his
junior partner with bases and colonies.
How wrong this megalomaniac was! He is not
ignorant of English history—he once mentioned to
Sir Nevile that Cromwell was the only dictator who
died in his own bed —but how utterly ignorant he has
shown himself of the qualities the English have mani-
fested at every crisis of their history —the strength to
endure reverses and suffering, the unity of all classes
that danger brings, the courage that shines brightest
in the darkest hour! How completely he deceived
himself when he imagined, as he must have done,
that the old spirit of the island race was extinct; that
stubborn resolution was no longer a characteristic of
the people who fought the French for 23 years and
went on fighting when all their allies had been struck
down, and that their genius for invention and impro-
visation had deserted them!
Hitler fancied he had a trump card up his sleeve
—the magnetic mine. Inside a month a few unknown
men —unknown even yet —had produced the answer
to it, and ships fitted with the simple apparatus they
invented traverse the seaways unharmed by that par-
ticular product of scientific barbarism. In imagina-
tion Hitler saw his aerial bombs sending battleships
and battle-cruisers to the bottom. Ships of the battle-
fleet have been hit by heavy bombs, but not one has
been sunk or even seriously harmed. When the Bel-
gians gave in and the French gave way, the German
High Command announced that the British Expedi-
tionary Force had been “annihilated.” It was saved
by prodigies of valor and miracles of resourcefulness,
the latter for the most part the work of humble men
who, not themselves warriors, brought to a grand
conclusion perhaps the noblest episode in the history
of war.
Since September 7 London has been bombed
ferociously and almost incessantly on a scale without
precedent, hideous as were the bombings of Warsaw
and Rotterdam. The attacks are inspired by the hope
that the population, maddened by the explosions, sleep-
lessness, bloodshed and destruction, will turn on the
Government and force it to make peace. In this they
have failed and will continue to fail. Though there
may be unstable elements in some of the foreign com-
munities, the “mighty heart” beats strong and true.
London is bleeding ; the homes of thousands of its
working people are pathetic ruins ; many of its his-
toric buildings have been damaged or destroyed;
bombs have fallen on or in the neighborhood of
Buckingham Palace, Somerset House, St. Paul’s, the
Abbey, other ancient churches, aristocratic mansions,
great department stores, gasworks, watermains, rail-
ways, docks. But the spirit of the people is such that
they would see their old temple of Liberty, the greatest
city in the world and the home of some of the great-
est men who ever trod the earth, razed to the ground
rather than yield to the barbarians. And it has been
sustained by the knowledge that a heavy toll has been
taken of the murderers and vandals. The Royal Air
Force has retaliated smashingly on Germany itself,
and on the German-occupied Channel coast, where a
fleet of small craft has been massed for the invasion
on which the elements themselves, it may be the God
of our fathers, have frowned.
For upwards of three months Britain has stood
almost alone against Germany and Italy and has held
off both. Circumstances have prevented Greater
Britain from contributing more than a small portion
of its strength to the common lot, though such aid as
it has given has been useful, and, in the case of the
sea fights with the Graf Spee and the Bartolomeo Col-
leoni, gallant and glorious. This period is passing.
At any hour, Australian and Maoriland soldiers may
come to grips with the Italians in the difficult and
perilous invasion of Egypt which Mussolini’s legions
have been forced to undertake in the desperate hope
of shortening the war, blockaded as Italy is in “our
sea”; and we know that the Young Diggers and
Old Diggers will acquit themselves as did the men of
Gallipoli, Pozieres, Polygon Wood, Villers-Bretonneux,
Mont St. Quentin and the Esdraelon Plain. Many
more soldiers are being trained in both Dominions,
and many more will be sent to support their mates as
the need arises.
And the Empire air scheme is beginning to take
shape. When it is in full operation, the Dominions’ air
effort will dwarf Italy’s and may rival Germany’s.
American pilots and aircraftsmen are pouring into the
Canadian Air Force, and American machines are
reaching Canada and Britain in ever-increasing
numbers, for the American Government stands com-
mitted to support the Empire by every means short of
going to war. For war the U.S.A. is not yet ready, but
it is getting ready fast, and there must have been
sick hearts and trembling lips in Rome and Berlin
when the news came to Europe that Congress had
passed a conscription law.
Meanwhile, the Royal Navy and its associated
squadrons and the merchant navies of the Empire
carry on. For nearly 13 months Germany has been
cut off from its markets in North and South America,
Asia, Africa, Australia and Oceania. For the same
period Hamburg and Bremen, which did most of the
immense trade with Britain, have been idle, and the
deserted wharves, warehouses and docks have been
sorely battered by the R.A.F. For nearly four
months Italian shipowners, exporters and workers have
learned in suffering what an unnatural war with the
mistress of the seas means. It is autumn in Europe, and
with winter will come famine, and probably pestilence.
But the blockade cannot be broken and will not be
relaxed. The old sea dog has a firm grip on a vital
part of the Axis hound, and he will hang on. Let
those who cannot themselves fight support the fighters
with everything they have and can do and be of
good cheer.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Menzies Still P.M.
In the last war Australia had three Prime Ministers.
In the present war, unless something unpredictable
happens, it will have only one. The short campaign,
ridiculously confused in N. S. Wales, has resulted in
the people confirming the choice of Mr. Mfenzies as
P.M., supported as it was by the Country party. Mr.
Menzies vainly invited the larger Opposition group
to be represented in a national Government. This
offer will no doubt be renewed, and extended to the
Beasley group, and it should be accepted.
Mr. Menzies proved himself a very able cam-
paigner. In some quarters it was thought that he was
in danger in his own constituency, but Kooyong gave
him an overwhelming vote of confidence, four of his
five opponents losing their deposits. Victoria in general
stuck to him nobly, and in South Australia and Tas-
mania—Tasmania especially —the Ministerial vote
shows a decided increase. In S.A. the forthright Mr.
Cameron was a very useful lieutenant; but the strong
support for the Ministry in the three small States is
no doubt attributable in part to memories of 1916
and 1931 and to fears that Labor, if entrusted with
office, would go to pieces again. In Westralia, this
feeling has cost Mr. Curtin his own seat.
In Queensland the Government may possibly lose
Maranoa, but it has gone very close to gaining Grif-
fith and Brisbane. The indications are that, if the
question of a national Government had been put to
the vote in Queensland, there would have been a great
majority for it.
Only in N. S. Wales was there a noticeable swing
to Labor. Yet in the State with 1,679,862 of the
4,257,732 electors, the division of that party into three
mutually hostile groups would have been regarded
by an old-time political organiser on the other side as
the answer to prayer. No doubt Dr. Evatt could have
captured Barton in any circumstances —he got a five-
figure majority over the U.A.P. member —and in Mac-
quarie Mr. Lawson virtually settled himself; but the
loss or threatened loss of other seats would not have
happened if the able campaign of the Prime Minister
had received intelligent support from the Sydney dailies
and the U.A.P. organisation.
Instead, the two Sydney morning papers not only
“constantly decried the Government’s war effort,” as
Mr. Menzies says, but ran office pets against Minister
Stewart, ex-Ministers Perkins and Harrison and Mr.
Gardner, singling out their aversions for boisterous
attacks and giving their favorites the “benefit”
of outrageously one-sided reporting. Prompted
by the same ridiculous ideas of their own
importance and influence, they drew up lists
of “outstanding candidates,” among whom was
the exploded Mr. Stevens. He and nearly all the
other “outstanding candidates” were horribly defeated.
Surrendering to this sorry attempt at government
by newspaper, the U.A.P. organisation meekly con-
sented to what it called “multiple endorsement.” That
done, it went in for election advertising which was
by turns fatuous and offensive, and which culminated
in the vociferous assertion that a trade-union’s
summons to a stop-work meeting amounted to “Sabot-
age of the Nation” and “Treachery by Labor’s Real
Leaders.” This must have infuriated thousands of
workers who might have been drawn to the Govern-
ment by an intelligent publicity campaign stressing
what it had done in the way of keeping down the cost
of living.
The Government may lose part of its majority in
the House and possibly all of its majority in the
Senate ; although that now seems unlikely. What is
certain is that it will be strongly represented in both
Chambers. All the same it is morally bound to invite
the leader of the larger Opposition party, whoever he
may be, and Mr. Beasley, whose personal poll was
one of the impressive features of the election, to take
their proper share of responsibility for the direction of
the war effort, and, now that the people have spoken,
those gentlemen should bow to what is obviously the
people’s will.
Barbarism and Heroism.
Written by “El V.”:
The vandals who have been bombing London seem to
have a penchant for hallowed historical places, whose ruin
would serve no purpose but to enrage the British people.
They bombed St. Giles’s, Cripplegate, by London Wall,
where Milton’s statue fell. They damaged St. Swithin’s,
over Cannon-street underground station. In its walls are
embedded London Stone, which in Roman times was the
starting-point of all the military roads in Britain. It was the
stone on which Jack Cade—in Shakspeare’s “Henry VI” —
struck his staff and sat as he ordered that for a year the
sewer should run claret and cried: “Go set London Bridge
on fire; and, if you can, burn down the Tower, too! ”
They attacked St. Paul’s. For three days a great bomb
lay 28 feet in the mud almost at the feet of Queen Anne,
whose semblance stands before the western entrance as a
reminder that the great building was finished at the end of
her reign.
Had the bomb not been removed, it almost certainly
would have pulled down the great building, and with it would
have gone much that is part of London tradition —Great
Paul, the bell whose voice is familiar to the whole
metropolis; the altar before which Queen Victoria gave
thanks for her jubilees; the tombs of Nelson and Wellington,
and the memorials set up by the city to William Bede Dailey
and Richard Seddon.
St. Paul’s is accustomed to destruction, however, and
it would have risen again. It stands on the site of a
Roman Temple of Diana. The first of its line of churches,
built in 223 a.d., was destroyed in 302 during Diocletian’s
persecution of the Christians. Constantine the Great rebuilt
it. The pagan Saxons destroyed it about 600. It was
partly burnt in 962, destroyed completely in 1086, rebuilt over
140 years, partly burnt again in 1444. Its spire was burnt
in Elizabeth’s day, and then it fell into disrepute and
dilapidation, in which it remained till 1666, when it was
completely destroyed and the body of Robert Braybroke,
its bishop at the beginning of the fifteenth century and Lord
Chancellor, was discovered amid the ruins “dried up like
a stockfish, having hair on his head, nails on his fingers and
his body in perfect symmetry.”
Wren’s original plan was for a perfect Greek cross, equal
on all sides. In Macquarie’s day, Francis Greenway pro-
posed that the discarded design should be adopted for Sydney s
cathedral, but the Colonial Office did not believe that the
time had arrived for cathedrals in the Antipodes.
London’s bishop ranks next in precedence in the Churcn
of England to the two archbishops. The long line of those
who held the see include five saints of the Catholic
Church, nine Lord Chancellors, seven Lord Treasurers and
a Chancellor of the Exchequer. On the roll are the names
of Ridley, Laud and Juxon —who stood by Charles 1 at his
execution.
Londoners may not know of these things; but to them
London would not be London without the great dome soaring
365 feet into the sky, and surrounded by the patterned spires
of Wren’s other churches, each designed to form part of a
definite scheme of skyline decoration.
It is horrible to reflect that weapons of barbarism have
reached such deadliness that a cylinder eight feet long which
looks like an enlarged carbonic-acid-gas container can hold
the power to wreck in a moment a great church which it took
35 years to complete and which is 764 yards round. But there
is a thrill in the story of its rescue. In any other country
but Britain, had such a temple been in danger, the whole
engineering resources of the country would have been applied
to the problem.
In London, they sent Lieut. Robert Davies, R.E., a Canadian,
with six workmen to do the job. For three days they lived with
death in the shifting mud, 28 feet down, below burst gas
mains, while they dug the terror out, gripped its slippery
surface with their tackle and hauled it to a lorry. Then
through streets which had been cleared of people, Lieut.
Davies drove it to Hackney Marshes, a public park in East
London out by the River Lea, and blew it up, leaving a crater
100 feet deep in the ground and the houses for miles around
rocking.
Young engineers face these dangers every day in England.
And a people which has such confidence in the universal
strength of its own fibre that it can entrust tasks like that
performed by Davies to young lieutenants must be unconquer-
able.
Skull and Crossbones Campaigning.
The most scandalous piece of electioneering—worse
than the clandestine Communist pamphlets issued to
help the member of Stalin’s E.C.C.I. who was allowed
to stand for the Senate —was the spate of propaganda
from a body called the Victorian Automobile Chamber
of Commerce, H. A. L. Allibon, secretary.
At a time when death has a very real meaning to
all of us, this concern headed its leaflets and pamphlets
with a hideous drawing of a skull and emphasised the
word death in its endeavor to drive it home that
“ANY petrol rationing must undermine the economic
structure. Petrol rationing will kill industry and
through it the all-in war effort and the Australian
standards we know, perhaps the Australia we know.”
Electors were told that “nothing any Government
could do to Australia would be so disastrous as to
arbitrarily ration its lifeblood —petrol.” And they
were asked to “vote only for candidates who opposed
petrol rationing.”
Mr. Menzies referred to the circulars as “terrify-
ing” ; but they were more than that. They were
iniquitous, shameful. It is lucky for Mr. Allibon
and his confederates that they cannot be brought to
book under any law or national-emergency regulation.
The issue of the pamphlets was followed by dis-
claimers from many motor firms and bodies. And the
Liquid Fuel Control Board was able to advertise that,
among 340,000 Victorian applicants for consumers’
licenses, the “vast majority of private users” had been
“modest in their requirements” ; industries also. One
motorist had endorsed his application with the remark
that the scheme was more liberal than that operating
in England and Maoriland, and so it is.
Petrol rationing was imposed in Maoriland —as
in Britain —as soon as war broke out, the Government
stating its purposes clearly—to build up reserves for
defence, to conserve dollars and to release tankers for
war purposes. Cars over 14.5 h.p. now are allowed
eight gallons per month, those from 9.5 h.p. to 14.5
h.p. six gallons, cars under 9.5 h.p. four gallons,
though earlier the maximum was 12 gallons and the
minimum six gallons.
For a 9.5-h.p. car, six gallons per month means
a maximum of about 240 miles per month, or under
the 3000 per year fixed by the Australian quota.
Special cases, as under the Commonwealth scheme,
are treated specially, and the system is under con-
tinual review.
Has there been “death” to industry in Maoriland?
No sign of it. Tradesmen have pooled their deliveries.
In some cases the co-operation has resulted —as in
the case of milk in some cities —in a reduction of
prices to the consumer. A great proportion of
mechanics who have lost their jobs through rationing
has been absorbed in mechanised military units. Car
registrations have fallen scarcely at all and garages
are carrying on because cars still have to be serviced.
Those who have suffered most include the picture-
theatre owners. But the railways do a roaring business.
Unlike the skull-and-crossbones propagandists of
Melbourne, the traders of M.L. —car-selling firms,
petrol resellers and garage owners —patriotically
agreed among themselves that, in the interests of the
country, they would not enter into any public debate
about the matter, but would discuss grievances with
the Government privately.
-O
Job for Parliament.
A job awaiting the Commonwealth Government is the
disbandment of the futile Australian Agricultural
Council, which isn’t agricultural and has done nothing
to justify its existence since it was created.
It consists of State Ministers of Agriculture and
representatives from the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research, this last a body with many fine
achievements to its credit and of far too great a value
to be wasting time.
The A.A.C. has had several meetings in various
parts since the war came, and has made various reports
and recommendations. The worth of these can best
be assessed by the fact that all they amount to is
recommendations from State Ministers of Agriculture
to State Ministers of Agriculture.
Not long ago the team met in Sydney. There was
much preliminary press puffing about how it was going
to solve the problems of farmers and how local
Departments of Agriculture had made surveys of each
State’s farms, orchards, stations, strawberry plots and
mushroom cellars.
After a few days the powwow ended, and the
waiting farmers were told nothing more than they
already knew. Few of them had expected anything,
knowing that such a body, stiffened though it was by
Federal Commerce delegates, could no more solve
their problems than grasp them.
The whole useless thing costs a great deal in
travelling and secretarial expenses, to say nothing of
time lost by departmental officers working on useless
surveys, and it should be stopped at once.
Of course, primary production should be brought
under a single control, but for that a constitutional
amendment is necessary. Without full Commonwealth
powers not even a master mind could co-ordinate the
whole thing this side of 1960, though he worked seven
days a week.
Two Millions for Milk.
Though lost sight of in the general concentration of
attention on assaulted London and the Federal elec-
tion, Sydney’s umpteenth inquiry into milk, the one
conducted by Justice De Baun, has actually concluded
and a report has been made.
After a full consideration of all phases of milk
distribution under the Act, one circumstance seems quite
clear, and this is that the consumer is paying quite
a high price for milk.
“Quite” a high price!
Under the present system of milk distribution in the
metropolitan area no reduction in price is possible.
Almost all distributors, with the exception of the Dairy
Farmers’ Co., which is in a specially favorable position,
are operating on margins only sufficient for the main-
tenance of their business. Owing to the policy of
expansion by the agent companies, most other operators
have little chance of increasing their business.
Everybody who buys milk will agree that there
is something wrong with the “present system,” and that
means the monopoly companies and the Milk Board.
The Royal Commissioner found that within easy
distance of Sydney ihere was normally an oversupply
of milk and that large quantities were frequently sold
by the producers for other purposes at about half the
price. Usually, oversupply means reduced prices for
a commodity, but milk is different.
The Royal Commissioner is satisfied that present
maximum prices should not be increased, an opinion
that stirred Mr. Binks, M.L.C., Dairy Farmers’ chair-
man of directors, to his shoe-soles:
I would like to direct the attention of the Govern-
ment to the amount of money people are spending on
non-essentials —neither food nor clothing.
In other words, cut out your picture-shows, your
smokes, your beer, your penny to the kids for ice-
cream, your week-end golf and so forth, and then
you’ll be able to buy milk at the price fixed by the
board.
Then Mr. Binks dragged the poor old producer into
it, with some reference to him (the p.0.p.) not being
able to pass on the costs. But the glaring fact remains,
Milk Board, Royal Commission and Mr. Binks,
M.L.C., notwithstanding, that the producer gets lid.
and the consumer pays 2s. 4d. a gallon. This, while
the company of which Mr. Binks, M.L.C., is head
reports a record turnover of more than £2,000,000 for
the past year, a year of drought and distress in the
dairying districts, and during which Mr. Binks’s com-
pany increased turnover by £86,000.
In case someone wants to know where the profits
go, let us quote Mr. Binks:
The whole of the profits made, apart from £BOOO,
which averages about £2 10s. each, paid in dividends
to shareholders, and £144 split up in fees between 11
directors, are used to give a better service to the public.
Not cheaper milk, but prettier containers and more
elaborate delivery wagons appear to be the contribu-
tion of Mr. Binks, M.L.C., to the solution of the milk
problem.
Milton and Thurloe.
“D.E.”: One of the unforgettable London air-raid
pictures brought to Australia by flying-boat was a
photograph of the statue of Milton lying on the
ground in front of what remains of the old church
of St. Giles, Cripplegate, which houses the poet’s
bones and those of his father. If there is any shame
left in the composition of any German writing man,
he will hang his head when he sees it. “Milton, thou
shouldst be living at this hour,” sang Wordsworth
when another invasion was threatened by another
conqueror of Europe —“England hath need of thee.”
And England could certainly do with a poet such as
the blind man who wrote the sonnet beginning
“Avenge, O Lord, thy slaughtered saints!” In the
most heroic hours of its history it is short of even
second-rate poets.
England is also short of a man like Thurloe, who
was Cromwell’s Secretary of State, as Milton was his
Latin secretary. Of Thurloe, “the quiet little Essex
lawyer,” John Buchan wrote in his last serious
volume:
He was the greatest intelligence officer that ever
served an English ruler. In the words of a speaker in
a Restoration Parliament, he “carried the secrets of all
the princes of Europe at his girdle.” His agents were
everywhere. No plot was hatched in the back streets of
Brussels or The Hague, but Thurloe knew of it at its
inception: the Cabinets of Paris and Madrid might
meet behind guarded doors, but Thurloe in a few days
had the record of their decisions. Whether he was
tracking a plot against Oliver’s life or following the
movements of a Spanish plate-fleet, Thurloe had the
same subtlety and precision and success. Penniless
royalists, broken Highland chiefs, simple-minded
fanatics, young rakes on the windy side of the law,
condemned men reprieved for the purpose —he had
them all on his working lists, and many of them never
knew that they they were in his service.
And Thurloe did it all on a vote of £70,000 a year.
In these latter years Britain has probably paid fifty
times as much for bad work. For if there is one thing
certain about the present historical period it is that the
Old Man has been let down by his intelligence ser-
vice as well as by the Stunt Press, with its credulous,
and withal venomous, American reporters.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Spokeshave”: The Independent in my
district was a doctor. I asked my char-
lady if she intended voting for him. “You
don’t mean to tell me he’s going in for
Parliament?” she queried in blank aston-
ishment. “Certainly he is,” I said, hand-
ing her a pamphlet setting out his
many qualifications, “I can’t understand
it,” she murmured as she painfully
perused the document. “I simply can’t
understand it!” “What can’t you under-
stand?” I asked. “Dr. X going in for
Parliament,” she answered. “Why, he
used to be such a nice man! ”
* * * *
“Oran”: That Solomon was right
when he said there was a time to keep
silence was realised by a Sydney artist
when a very wealthy citizen called
on him with a commission. The visitor
explained that he had some years ago
picked up a delightful little oil by an un-
known painter, and wished to have it
copied as a wedding-present for a
favorite niece. The artist called to
inspect his subject. “Beautiful, isn’t it?”
asked the proud owner. “Wish I could
find out who did it.” The painter, star-
ing at one of his early efforts, which he
had sold for 30 bob, revealed nothing.
With masterly presence of mind he sup-
ported the owner’s high opinion of the
picture, and set about copying it in the
happy knowledge that the shillings he had
originally got for it would now become
guineas.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The Federal Government’s
War-time Salvage scheme received a
severe setback when only 13 tons of
waste paper was obtained from all the
varied secretariats and other clerk-roosts
on Molongloside. A yield of at least a
hundred times that amount had been
confidently anticipated, and grave sus-
picions of paper-hoarding have arisen.
They are strengthened by the fact that
a mere house-to-house clearance yielded
six tons, and confidential inquiry re-
vealed that files, memoranda, or carbon
copies of communications are seldom
used in clerical home-life unless in the
course of domestic differences.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The story of a
tragic disappointment undergone by some
unknown soldier during the 1914-18 war
was related by Queensland’s Archbishop
Wand when opening the C. of E. hut at
Grovely camp. He had been spending
a few days on the H.Q. ship H.M.S.
Aragon, alleged by the thirsty and
jealous soldiery on Gallipoli to be
aground on an extensive reef composed
of empty champagne bottles. Landing at
Suvla Bay he found that his entire kit
had gone missing. It was found com-
plete with the exception of a case branded
“Whisky—H.M.S. Aragon.” The archi-
episcopal eye twinkled as he speculated
on the thoughts and expressions of the
swiper of church property when he
opened the case (marked, evidently, by
some joker) and found it to be full of
hymnbooks!
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: Two prizes went to
A.B.C. last week. One to its Professor
Roberts for standing before the spectacle
of London being bombed and “feeling
like a man in the presence of childbirth,”
and the other to a weather reporter for
the best mispronunciation of a N.S.W.
town name, Cudal being rendered as
“Cuddle.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: The amok is traditionally sup-
posed to be a prerogative of the Malay
race. As a matter of fact, its motivation
is no different from the homicidal im-
pulses that sweep individuals of other
races, and it has declined in direct ratio
to the increase in the prestige of the
white man’s law and the efficiency of the
police force. There has been a case in
Melbourne. An Australian french-
polisher who had lost his job with a
Chinese cabinetmaker in Little Lonsdale-
street called on his late employer on
the plea of looking for other work and
emptied part of the contents of an auto-
matic pistol into him. Then he dashed
across the street through a crowd of terri-
fied Celestials and discharged two more
bullets into the body of the white fore-
man who had succeeded him. Then he
blew out his brains. Detectives say that
this desperate man and his twin brother
had lost their jobs simultaneously. One
joined the A.I.F. The other, a taciturn
individual, sat about and brooded.
Arrest on a charge of disorderly conduct
did not improve his mental state, and six
months after his dismissal the murder
and suicide were committed.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Sydney G.P.O. is letting a
jubilee pass without any particular
notice; it is 50 years since the tower
was completed and the chimes placed in
it. Sydney was very proud of the event;
there was then a warren of narrow streets,
lanes and courts (afterwards swept away
by the great fire of Sydney) around the
Post Office, but the tall tower was visible
all over Sydney and afar off. Returning
from England after a few years there as
a child, I rose early as the old Ballarat
was approaching the Heads and through
the Gap saw the lighted clock of the
G.P.O. clearly enough to read the time.
But the tower, which the “S. M. Herald”
declared would be “a monument for ever
to the statesmanship of its builders and
the chief ornament of a growing city,” is
now penned in by tall buildings, making
it look a mere pigmy; even from their
roofs it can be sighted only here and
there. A blanket of masonry and modern
city din have taken the spirit out of the
chimes, too, blocking the reverberations
that could formerly be heard distinctly in
Paddington, Redfern and on the North
Shore.
* *
“N. Shore”: One of the most historic
spots on the northern side of Port Jack-
son lies where its n.-e. pylon helps to
support the Bridge. There in 1804 James
Milson received a grant of land from
King that stretched inland as far as
Middle Harbor and built a cottage by the
waterside, where he made a garden and
planted an orchard. He used to supply
ships in Sydney Cove, across the water,
with vegetables and fruit, as well as fresh
meat and milk. One of his assigned ser-
vants, Martin Regan—los when he died
—erected the cottage for Milson. Cot-
tage, farm and orchard were all swept
away in a bushfire in November,
1826. Ever since 1804, of course, this
bit of Port Jackson’s coastline has been
Milson’s Point.
* * $: *
“Cauboy”: Unless they are too busy
fighting the wet canteen and the
chocolate wheel used at Red Cross
rallies, the enormous success which
has attended the showing, behind
a barrage of screens, of Chloe (B.
11/9/40) ought to arouse the wowsers.
A constant stream of feminine visitors
was paying its sprat last week to see the
hidden goddess. One old lady, on learn-
ing that the proceeds of this baneful
traffic were to go to a club for soldiers,
waxed intensely indignant. “Are we to
“And don't LEAVE it down there — it's a borrered one!"
ask our boys to risk their lives for us,”
she said to the attendant, “and then allow
their morals to be ruined?” Neverthe-
less, she went in and satisfied her curi-
osity by surveying a nude whose counter-
part can be seen in a hundred respectable
art galleries.
sfc * * *
“Kopoli”: Three loud cheers for the
Sydney Younger Feminists, who have
come out flat with the statement that
they’re dead against this rash of uniforms
that has suddenly afflicted the female
form in Australia. “Uniforms may be
necessary in England,” said their presi-
dent, Lillias Dow, “where women are
practically on active service, but in Aus-
tralia ordinary dress is quite adequate
except where overalls may be necessary.
Girls on small incomes, anxious to serve,
may have to deprive themselves of essen-
tial things if compelled to buy a uniform.
Money spent on uniforms by women
since the war began could have been
used for the purchase of aeroplanes and
ambulances in their name, with less per-
sonal glamor, but with much more value
to Australia’s war effort.” Her words
probably caused some twittering among
the uniformed females and in the sales
offices of rag stores catering for them ;
but I’ll bet that thousands and thousands
of Australians of both sexes will be
taking a mighty big interest in the Young
Feminists after this. I’ve never met their
president, but she can go and chalk up
a pot in my name in any hotel she
chooses.
•T * *
“Pinter”: According to a N’Yoik
report, there is a slight chance of this
war being settled in the good old-
fashioned way of having a champion
from each side meet in single combat, as
did David and Goliath. Super-Marshal
Goring, who these days weighs 22 stone,
has, says the report, accepted the chal-
lenge of the American “ace,” Col. Hubert
Fauntleroy Julian, to single combat
10,000 ft. above the Channel, with neutral
correspondents as referees. What, never
heard of Julian? Why, man, don’t you
read your papers? He’s “The Black
Eagle of Harlem, the Hero of Abys-
sinia,” of whom an Australian war corre-
spondent proudly recorded that they
exchanged shirts. Fat Goring isn’t likely
to take on an air duel with anyone, but
the idea of doing it with a coon would
bring him perilously near death by
apoplexy.
* * ' * *
“Say Bo”: According to an article on
page 3 of the “A.B.C. Weekly” of
21/9/’4O, “one of the great things which
broadcasting has to offer is the chance
to widen the range of good talk.” On
page 21 of the same issue, under a pic-
ture, I read: “It’s an ace! Mrs. Jack
Crawford, interviewed by John Tate,
highlights Front-page Wives with some
new angles on husband Jack.” Un-
doubtedly this would widen my range of
good talk but for the fact that I’m so
ignorant. What sort of illuminant the
lady uses for this “highlighting” per-
formance, and the exact definition of a
“Front-page Wife,” I leave to Mr. Cleary
or the editor of the “Weekly.” My wife,
however, insists on knowing where she
can buy or borrow one of these husband
jacks, with or without angles, declaring
that the thing would be most useful for
lifting a certain person from his bed
every morning before the chops get cold.
* * ❖ Hi
“Bo”: There was a look of keen dis-
approval on the sharp features of the
long, angular female customer in the
butcher’s shop as with a bony forefinger
she prodded some steaks in a tray on the
counter. “This bladebone doesn’t seem
too tender, butcher,” she announced in
a vinegary tone. “If it’s no better than
the piece I had Monday I won’t have any.
Are these short loins tender?” —this as
she tested a few of the chops between
thumb and finger. As the butcher looked
stonyfaced at her, and then glanced at me
with a look of deep understanding, a
bull voice shattered the silence that fol-
lowed her question. It came right along-
side her ear from an outsize, hard-bitten
gent, whom I had seen sitting on the
kerbstone having his lunch during the
midday surcease from his municipal toil.
“ ’Ere, keep y’r paws off them chops! ”
he bellowed. “D 5 you expect a man to
eat them after you’ve mucked about with
’em? An’ y’r mitts ain’t too clean either
be the look of ’em.” The lady spun round
as if she’d been shot, her traplike mouth
opening and shutting like a fish’s as she
struggled to overcome temporary obmu-
tescence. “Why, you—you” she
gasped at last. “The idea! talking to
me like that! I’ve never been so insulted
in my life. That’s the last time I’ll come
in this shop!” and with nose tilted
sharply she stalked out. “Thanks,
Herb,” said the butcher calmly as he
went on skiving and flattening my cutlets.
“I thought that’d fix her.”
THE REIGN OF THE REDHEAD.
“Redheaded 1 heroines are now the reigning favorites
at Hollywood.”— WomeJi’s papev.
The sweet brunette with the eyes so stunning,
And the raven tresses to correspond,
Has done her dash and is out of the running;
The spell is gone of the platinum blonde.
Where Hollywood experts plan their pieces
And choose which dames shall on screens be
stuck,
They’re harking back to the age-old thesis,
“Ginger for pluck.”
They may be locks of the shade that Titian
Favored, for ever to artists dear,
Or the auburn hue that some dim tradition
Assigns to the erring Guinevere.
But a redder topknot, it’s my idea,
The Roman legionaries struck
When they gazed on the captured Boadicea.
Ginger for pluck!
No more need schoolgirls admit depression,
Or debit Fate with an unkind job.
When the mirror shows that they’re in posses-
sion
Of what is known as a carroty nob.
All competition they yet may beat as
Their radiance into the films they chuck,
And be stars as bright as your Maes and
Gretas.
Ginger for pluck!
A horse that’s good was never, never,
A color that’s bad, so sportsmen swear.
And I suppose that one might assever-
Ate much the same of a woman’s hair.
Brown manes and golden may both enamor;
Now red, left all too long in the ruck,
Comes into the lead for glow and glamor.
Ginger for pluck!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“She says Prendy’s sick and she'll run things while he's away!"
“El V.”: The public having ceased to
;ake any real interest in “glamor” girls
and “personality” misses, those loath-
some Hollywood expressions which
these days form such important tools
in the kits of reporters have been
enlisted for active service. “Syd-
ney is Ship of Glamor,” sings a
Sydney evening rag’s headline-writer.
Webster says that glamor as a noun
means a “deceptive or enticing charm,”
and as a verb “to bewitch, fascinate or
enchant.” One would need to own a
romantic and receptive mind to be en-
chanted or bewitched by 600 ft. of grey
steel, with war-battered funnels and
guns and black pompoms poking
up all over it. A warship in war-
trim is about as grim and unen-
chanting an object as there is on
the face of the globe, especially when
she is peopled with matlows in active-
service dress —no jackets and shirt-necks
cut away as if the wearers had been pre-
pared for the block. But Sydney, it seems,
is also a “personality” ship. Webster
doesn’t yet admit that “personality” is
an adjective, but, if it is, what is a per-
sonality ship? It must be one which
shows “distinction or excellence of per-
sonal or social traits.”
* * * *
“K.P.”: Curious are the self-protective
abilities of the human mind. A friend
of mine, on a visit to her mother, wor-
ried because the old lady takes no interest
in the exciting events of these days and
wanted to know whether she should be
left to live alone, as she insists on doing.
I had a chat with mother, who is 76.
“I can’t see what Helen is fussing herself
about me for,” she said. “I’ve got a
good wireless, and I get the papers every
day, and plenty of interesting books to
read. I do feel a little bored sometimes
because there seems to be so little of any
real interest in the news. Do you think
it would do any good if I were to write
to the A.B.C. and ask them to give us
something dramatic or exciting now
and then?” I suggested that there is
quite a lot of drama and interest.in the
news of today. She looked slightly
puzzled and then smiled compassionately.
“You mean all this talk about another
war, I suppose? I have never listened
to or read anything about war since
Harry passed over. I think it is a lot of
cruel, silly nonsense that I am better with-
out, and so I pay no attention to it.”
Harry, favorite amongst her six children,
went west with many another A.I.F.
man in France in 1917.
* * . * *
“Pawang”: Prisoners of the iron lung
could not die in Victoria as a result of
a failure of the, electricity supply. In
the infantile paralysis ward at Fairfield
it has been found that the Electricity
Commission’s current is liable, to be
cut off at times, and provision has been
made for it. If the public supply fails
an automatic apparatus is brought into
play which switches the respirator on to
a local installation. A mechanical defect
is another matter. Staff would have to
transfer the patients to another lung, but
there are people on hand to do it.
* * *
“Bo”: Some weirdly-spelt and awful-
sounding place-names have been slung
over the cables since the Bigger Rumpus
started, but the stark nomenclature of
one Western Desert
hamlet that has
fallen to the Wops
in their advance into
Egypt threatens to
start a minor sub-
editorial war among
Sydney dailies.
Granny, nobly sup-
pressing a shudder,
joined with the
“Sun” in plumping
for Bug Bug. The
“D.T.,” just to be
different, insisted it
was Bag Bag. The
fact that the rain-
fall in that area is
about iin. every 10
years precludes the
likelihood of its
being Bog Bog, or
even Big Bog. Old
Diggers who know
the country would
consider Beg Beg a
distinct possibility;
but as one who has
dossed in Gyppo
villages I nominate
Bug Bag. If it isn’t
that it should be,
and it would effect
a compromise be-
tween the rival rags.
* *
“Zake”: The war
god’s call for ever
greater tempo has
brought the inevit-
able crop of sugges-
tions to eliminate
waste time. Some statistically-minded fiend
has computed that the men of Britain
waste 2\ million hours daily in lopping
their face-scrub. On a 15-million-male
basis—a high estimate —that works out
at 10 minutes a scrape. Upshot is that a
“Beaver” Club has been formed to forgo
the daily once-over. Argument of the
organisers that industry will greatly gain
is blown to blazes with one salvo. Firstly,
anyone who takes more than three to
four minutes to shave is either half-
paralysed or quarter-witted ; also, shav-
ing is performed, not in factory, office,
mine, shop or field, but in the short pre-
breakfast rush that is useless to the
nation ; some workers who start at 7.30
shave the night before. For the second
burst, putting up with a growing face
mat would cause more irritation, physi-
cal and mental, than the combination of
high taxes and bombing. I’ll back the
Beavers to start a Donnybrook among
themselves after a month of it.
* * * * ’•/
“A. Turncock”: Sydney’s gorgeously-
housed Water Board gets the boodle to
splash on unnecessary tons of paper (B.
18/9/ ’4O) by means which by compari-
son make the Barbary corsairs seem
clumsy amateurs. Quite apart from the
fact that the board insists that a house-
owner rent at an exorbitant annual fee
a meter which he will have paid for
several times over during his lifetime, it
has a beautiful way of soaking the citi-
zen who possesses a civic spirit. In
“That Y.M.C.A. joint ’e mentioned —is it worth crackin'?”
drought-time the householder who con-
siderately economises in the use of water
may at the end of the year be as much
as 30,000 gallons under what he is en-
titled to use. But let his meter read
even a few miserable thousands over his
quota the next year and he’ll be socked
Is. 2d. for every such thousand gallons.
It’s one-way traffic all the time with the
Moguls of the Mains.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A good deal could be learned
about the art of the successful politician
from Viscount Horne, just dead in Lon-
don, when he was here (as Sir Robert)
early in 1928. A shipboard acquaint-
ance from Colombo on, he was always
picking up information about the land
he was to visit. Thus he could soon
venture to a girl at the tea table, Where
do you live? Sydney? Ah, yes, a fine
city, but not so nice as Melbourne, I
believe.” And then, when the hot argu-
ment he desired had started, he turned
to me with “But neither can compare
with Adelaide for culture, I understand.”
At Fremantle he showed me a telegram:
“A man named Bonython wants me to
lunch with him in Adelaide. Should I
accept?” To anyone knowing Adelaide
there was only one reply to that. Then
for the next three days he busily acquired
from me all possible information about
S.A., its possibilities and people ; thus
at a banquet when passing through he
amazed everyone by his detailed local
knowledge. He had even prepared a
brilliant “impromptu” verse. There was
original Chaos:
Then God the listening world surveyed:
“Let there be Light —and Adelaide!”
(Loud applause.)
One could not wonder at Horne’s poli-
tical success; and, to earn his reputed
£12,000 a year in directors’ fees, he must
have had the solider qualities as well.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: From time to time when
I have nothing better to do, I ask myself
why politicians bother to spout obvious
blah—stuff that they can’t believe them-
selves if they’ve half the intelligence of
a fowl, stuff that everybody knows is
twaddle. Take N.S.W. Premier Mair
trying to argue that people don’t want to
pay their State income tax by weekly
instalments: “For a considerable time ar-
rangements have been made at the Taxa-
tion Department to enable voluntary
payment by instalments. So far this
machinery has not been used, indicating
quite clearly that people do not desire
to pay their taxes before they are due.”
Premier Mair (for I am sure that he has
the brains of a fowl) knows darn well
that there are only two reasons why
people don’t use his voluntary system —
first, because we’re naturally lazy;
secondly, because we hate paying taxes
so much that no normal citizen would
ever stump up voluntarily. But I’m
blowed if that “indicates quite clearly”
that it wouldn’t suit us better to pay ’em
by compulsory weekly instalments. It
does indicate quite clearly that Mr. Mair
hopes this half-hearted claptrap will get
him out of an awkward situation.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The usual uproar has
arisen in Melbourne over Ivan Menzies’s
attempts to gag “The Mikado.” “I sug-
gest that Mr. Menzies is not only failing
in his stewardship, but is destroying for
the present and future generations unique
works of art, which, once the spirit in
which they were created is destroyed, can
never be restored,” remarks an indig-
nant lady in the “Argus.” If the little
mummer can perform this feat he is a
magician. If it is a fact
that the operas are works
of genius, and if Mr.
Menzies is imposing his
allegedly inferior person-
ality on them, he can no
more affect them than the
trustees of the National
Gallery can affect the Rembrandt self-
portrait by the shocking way they light
it. In 1818 the late lamented Dr. Thomas
Bowdler set out to make Shakspeare safe
for the English high-school girl by issu-
ing an expurgated edition which persisted
for generations. He did not succeed in de-
stroying Shakspeare. He only succeeded
in providing the language with another
word for a particular kind of idiot.
* * * *
“F.S.”: A movement is afoot in Mel-
bourne to have all German and Italian
music banned from the air. As only
the best German and Italian music is ever
transmitted, and only the worst American
music, Australian listeners would be put
at a disadvantage if the ban were im-
posed. Listeners would be injuring them-
selves, not the German and Italians. The
people who want their music banned are
victims of faulty reasoning. “German”
and “Italian” are words that at present
are associated with bombings and all
sorts of other horrors, but the music of
Bach, Beethoven, Mozart and Rossini
has no such associations.
UNWELCOME VISITORS.
There’s many a lusty alien,
Beyond the faintest doubt,
That on these shores Australian
We well could do without,
Like those imported hither
From wrestling holds to slither
Or, ’mid the bleachers’ blither,
To stage a fistic bout.
Of many a race and shade is
The would-be champion. Some
Are black as soot in Hades,
And some the tint of gum.
Huge hunks of meat and muscle,
Round rings they tear and tussle.
Is there no law to hustle
Them back from whence they come?
With quaint fantastic labels
They lob across the sea,
Lured by persuasive cables,
In quest of £ s. d.
For smart promoters’ proffers
They fill the stadium coffers,
And, when occasion offers,
They sock the referee.
When times are so chaotic,
Wise men would term us mugs
To subsidise exotic
Traders in grips and hugs.
Out with these cestus-users,
Victorious or losers,
From lemon-tinted bruisers
To coffee-colored pugs!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


*£2
.. *£
m
10 for 9d* 20 for V 6.
E 1865
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
m
m
MADE
SPECIALLY
PREVENT
T
A
T 0
POLITICAL POINTS
The Government has definitely lost
Barton, Watson and Macquarie (N.S.W.)
and gained Wakefield (S.A.) and Fre-
mantle (W.A.), where Curtin admits
defeat, though there are about 3000
preferences to be counted. Doubt-
ful seats are Calare, Eden-Monaro,
Hume, Riverina and Robertson (N.S.W.);
Ballarat, Wannon and Wimmera (Vic.);
Brisbane, Griffith and Maranoa (Q.);
Adelaide (S.A.); Denison, Wilmot, Bass
and Franklin (Tas.). In Eden-Monaro,
Hume, Riverina, Robertson, Ballarat,
Adelaide, Denison and Wilmot the
balance inclines to the Government; in
Calare, Wannon, Brisbane, Griffith, Bass
and Franklin it inclines to Curtin Labor.
Preferences may make a difference in
all the “doubtfuls,” but it seems impossible
for the Government to lose its majority.
To retain control of the Senate the Gov-
ernment needs to carry five States. Vic-
tories for its teams look certain in South
Australia, Westralia and Tasmania, and
likely in Victoria and Queensland, though
in both States Curtin Labor may gain
seats. In N. S. Wales anything may
happen. Apparently many electors have
repeated their 1937 performance of giv-
ing their No. 1 to the first name on the
ballot-paper (in this case, Allen, the
Douglas Credit Non-Com. man), and
before the first 700,000 primaries had
been counted there were 76,718 informals.
Exit Stevens for a political Kathleen
Mavourneen. “S. M. Herald” presented
him to the electors of Lang as not only
a moving mountain of “ability, courage,
experience, vision and administrative
capacity,” but as “the most adequate of
N.S.W. thinkers on war and post-war
policy.” The “Telegraph” was almost
equally effusive and equally contemp-
tuous of Dan Mulcahy. Stevens ran
second, 7000 votes behind Dan and 3000
ahead of Metcalfe, the Curtin Labor man.
At that he did a lot better than Cowper
(Wentworth), Nott (East Sydney), Louat
(Eden-Monaro), Rydge and Wallace
(Parramatta), all recommended by the
fatuous prints as “outstanding candi-
dates.”
The N.S.W. “industrialist” or Hands-
Off-Russia group put up 18 candidates
for the House. Eight will recover their
deposits, and a ninth may.
Dr. Evatt had an easy passage from
the High Court to the House, via Barton.
Old Parliamentary hands are already
muttering that when the roses and rap-
tures are over he won’t find things half
so comfortable in caucus. Still, after his
experience with Lang in 1925-30 he ought
to be prepared for anything.
Put it to the credit of Menzies that
he fought as clean and courageous a
campaign as any P.M. has done. Told in
Tasmania that Curtin had gone through
the islet promising fixed annual grants
for the State Governments that are
always holding out their paws (£1,250,000
for Perth, £750,000 for Adelaide and
£650,000 for Hobart), he said at Hobart
that he hadn’t come to offer political
bribes.
If there is a vote for sale in Tasmania,
I don’t want to buy it. This is a time for
sacrifice and service, not for promises and
bartering of votes.
A glance at the election figures suggests
that Tasmanians really like to be talked
to in that fashion.
Maine has gone Republican by a sub-
stantial majority, which augurs well for
Willkie. That gentleman, by the way,
has been blaming Roosevelt for Munich.
This is poaching on the preserves of the
Stunt Press, which blames Chamberlain,
not only for Munich but for everything
that has happened since. It handsomely
allows that the Royal Navy and the
R.A.F. are magnificent, that London’s
anti-aircraft defences and air-raid shelters
have surpassed expectations, and that,
although there has been wicked destruc-
tion of churches, hospitals and dwellings,
the loss of life has been astonishingly
small; but it would rather destroy itself
by swallowing its “sensations” than give
any credit to Chamberlain.
During the three years 1937-40 the
electoral population of the Riverina de-
clined from 53,436 to 52,922, and that
of Calare—which is in what Sydney calls
“the west”—from 53,156 to 52,724. On
the other hand, there were massive iru*
creases in the electoral population of
“The result in N.S.W. is to be attributed not to the Government’s avowed enemies,
but to some of its supposed friends —important sections of the Sydney press.”— Menzies.
“This is for your ‘outstanding candidates’ — they’re standing outside in the wet.”
Sydney suburban divisions —7288 in Lang
(total 66,512); 6555 in North Sydney
(67,852); 6123 in Wentworth (69,680);
5985 in Warringah (69,438); 5866 in
Watson (67,067) and 5791 in Barton
(65,691). It is all a result of the old
congestion policy, which Stevens and
Spooner claim to have knocked on the
head.
Sydney dailies have no use for
Cameron, but when he chooses to say
something nasty he makes their own
efforts look feeble. Witness his crack
at Curtin —“he has displayed the habits
of a mocking bird, the outlook of an
ostrich and about as much backbone as
an oyster.” When the Stunt Press has a
go at Cameron it has to fall back on cheap
American expressions such as “hillbilly,”
“muddlepate,” and “go jump in the lake.”
With sublime self-confidence or some-
thing, the editor of “S. M. Herald” in-
structed 1,679,862 N.S.W. electors how
to vote in his order of preference for
135 candidates for 28 seats in the House.
In eight cases he chose certainties —
Hughes, Spender, Page, Anthony, Wat-
kins, Beasley, James and Sheehan. In
two others he picked hot favorites (Mc-
Call and Marr), who found the going
exceedingly uncomfortable, though both
should win. In five others his selections
(Thorby, Collins, Nock, Abbott and
Spooner) have been reduced to an
anxious dependence on preferences. In
the remaining 13, the electors flatly re-
jected his advice, and most of his nags
(Batchelor, Hardwick, O’Connell, Huie,
Louat, Wallace, Cowper, Brown, Nott,
Lane, Stevens, Lawson and Jennings)
pulled up badly. So much for sublime
self-confidence or something.
“The world knows nothing of its
greatest men”; and N.S.W. didn’t know
what a great man it had in Mr. Norman
Cowper, one of the six candidates for
Wentworth, until it was so informed by
the two morning papers. They con-
veyed the information in copious articles
and reports, ridiculing the U.A.P. mem-
ber, Harrison, and almost completely
ignoring the great man’s other oppo-
nents, and both rather suggested that
their idol’s brief experience in camp
(after seven or eight weeks he was dis-
charged as medically unfit) was one of
the heroic episodes of the last war.
Before polling-day arrived half the “Tele-
graph” staff seemed to be electioneering
for Cowper.
None of the parties issued a better
advertisement than the handbills distri-
buted by John O’Carroll, the Balmain
(N.S.W.) man who stood for the Senate
as the “only Non-Nazi candidate.” Mr.
O’Carroll published a picture of himself,
wife and nine children, as happy and
nice-looking a family group as one would
wish to see. The proud father’s election
slogan was “Population, not Politicians,
will save Australia.” Whether in or out
of its Senate, Australia could do with a
lot more O’Carrolls.
U.A.P. zealots are cursing the Sydney
dailies vehemently. Not only did the
“Herald” and the “Telegraph” damn the
Government’s war effort with faint praise
and features of it with loud dispraise, but
they ran tickets against Minister Stewart,
two ex-Ministers and the party Whip
and went in for grossly unfair reporting
at their expense. The “Sun,” for its
part, helped the enemy by jeering at
Cameron and Ryan, the U.A.P. candidate
for Flinders (Vic.), and by repeatedly
prophesying a swing to Labor. It is
lucky for the offending sheets that
national-security regs. forbid the starting
of opposition papers.
“Y. Tell”: My Sydney Sunday paper’s
astrologer gave the stars a shake-up on
the election and winnowed out these
grains:—
Two things are clear: (1) The campaign
will be more bitterly if subtly fought than
any previous. (2) The result will mean
the probable end of State Governments.
The second point won me. I voted
Taurus, 1 ; Virgo, 2 ; Leo, 3 ; and for
the Senate, Saturn, Jupiter and Aries.
State politicians had better start looking
for jobs.
Westralia was the first State to elect
an Assemblywoman, and it is the only
State in which Assemblywomen have
served more than one term Mrs.
Cardell-Oliver is completing her fourth
year and Miss Holman was entering
upon her sixteenth when death struck
her down. On polling day Westralian
Labor gave it out that it was about to
elect the first Senator of her sex —Miss
Tangney. Unless there is a heap of
cross-voting in the lady’s favor, it is
extremely unlikely.
George Dankel, German by birth, was
returned for Boothby (S.A.) as a Labor
M.H.R. in September, 1914, and re-
mained till 1917. Now Hubert Peter
Lazzarini has found his Italian ancestry
no insuperable handicap in Werriwa
(N.S.W.). Australian-born, Lazzarini is
the son of a Florentine. His brother,
Carlo Camillo, is M.L.A. for Marrick-
ville, and for once the explosive pair are
in the same Labor group —Curtin’s.
As the horribly-narked “S.M.H.” saw
it in a leading article:
For these and other omissions, one of
the worst of which was the Prime
Minister’s failure to encourage the move-
ment for leading men to come forward to
recruit the depleted strength of the Cabinet
and the obvious weaknesses of the Parlia-
ment, the penalty was paid in Saturday’s
poll.
“S.M.H.” itself thrust forward a lot of
“outstanding candidates” and shattered
its tradition of fair reporting in the
process. Doubtless it was natural for
the Old Girl to give way to disappointed
rage, though why the P.M. should be
blamed for what the electors did to her
favorites is a mystery.
Sydney’s latest Royal Commissioner on
the milk industry:
Milk is a primary need of the people
and, as with other necessary commodities,
it is most important that.... all increases
in cost should not be passed on to the
consumer. The present Milk Board will,
no doubt, direct its attention to this.
That Royal Commissioner is Australia’s
greatest optimist.
From a Vaucluse (N.S.W.) lantana
hedge:—
Decorum and expectant glances at a sky
that promised rain marked the early movement
to the polls, and the steady patronage en-
joyed by the Harrison stalls presaged a change
in whatever plans had been made by the two
morning papers for a victory social for
their wonder-boy Cowper. As time passed and
the rainclouds thickened, the Harrison stalls
were hidden behind an umbrella barrage, and
there was a bored look in the Cowper camp
as idle pencils drew idle designs on unwanted
wares. What looked like a “S.M.H.” scout
appeared once, gave the booth a horrified look
and disappeared. A dear old soul, holding her
skirts gingerly aside from the first raindrops
on this bush, remarked, “There, the fellow can
go back to Wahroonga now.” She had done
her duty, and the Cowper person was con-
signed to the wilderness whence he had come.
Every subdivision in Wentworth went solidly
for Harrison. Only in Bondi North, which
has blossomed from a waste of heath and
sand to a waste of flats and modern homes and
concrete, did Harrison receive a threat, and
there it came from the Labor man, Smith.
Resolutely and absolutely the electorate refused
to accept Cowper. With postal and absent
votes to t>3 counted, the board made it Har-
rison, 23,962; Cowper, 11,136. Such is the
Power of the Press.
[For matter referring to the Commonwealth
election, responsibility is taken by J. E. Webb
and Cecil Mann, 252 George-street, Sydney.]


THE CHANNEL “SWIMMER.”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family,’ and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria- A C.A Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
O.S.K. LINE
OSAKA SYOSEN KAISYA
BUSINESS MEN AND TOURISTS
should travel by
NEW, FAST MOTOR VESSELS
to
JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA and AFRICA
Also Special Round the World Trip
European Cuisine and Accommodation
For Particulars, Fares, etc., apply
BIRT AND COMPANY (PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
8W142 1.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Vlanager, who will quote you price
for the original.
ll PERSONAL ITEM
Canberra will be sorry to lose Curtin,
if it has to lose him ; but Roy Lee, who
looks like beating the Labor leader, will
be a welcome guest. When secretary to
the Associated Chambers of Manufac-
tures, Lee was a frequent visitor, and
he generally had a new yarn to tell. He
is a cheerful, good-looking fellow in the
fifties. He and Curtin have known one
another since 1918 or thereabouts, when
both were Perth editors, and they have
always been pals.
Lt.-Col. Arthur Seaforth Blackburn,
V.C., back in the A.I.F. in command of
machine-gunners, is an Adelaide lawyer,
a graduate of Adelaide Uni. Now 48,
LT.-COL. A. S. BLACKBURN.
he joined the original 10th Battalion in
1914 as a private, was at the Gallipoli
landing and won his V.C. and a com-
mission on the Somme in 1916. Three
years in the Assembly as member for
Sturt cured him of political ambitions.
Son Richard, S.A.’s Rhodes Scholar last
year, is a sergeant in the Second A.I.F.
“El V.” farewells a Queensland poli-
tician: —
I took part in the campaign in Herbert in
which the late Percy Pease, Forgan Smith’s
offsider, earned his seat in 1918. There seemed
to be some chance that he would be beaten,
but a sudden access of Italian votes came
when somebody issued a pamphlet in Italian
full of florid adjectives which grandiloquently
proclaimed Percy, among other things, un uomo
piu ricco —“a very rich man,” an imputation
which he frantically denied. He turned out
a good but unimpressive member, always with
one eye on the North and on his electorate.
His mind worked well with Forgan Smith’s,
and one of his virtues was that he had a clear
idea of what constituted Ministerial and what
administrative functions. He was a success-
ful Lands Minister, largely because he got on
excellently with the competent departmental
heads. He was deputy leader of Labor for a
number of years, but failing health would have
denied him the Premiership had Forgan Smith
retired.
Edwin H. Peake, elected president of
the Rejected Volunteers’ Association in
S.A., is Clerk of the Leg. Council and a
leading light of Adelaide’s Common-
wealth Club. He was vice-president of
the R.V.A. at the end of the 1914-18 war
and wants to see the useful help given to
war causes then by the rejects’ organisa-
tion repeated in 1940-?. Son of the late
Premier Peake, Edwin was once on the
Agent-General’s staff in London.
A link in friendly relations between
Japan and Australia will be supplied by
Harry W. Freame, half Japanese him-
self and born at Osaka ; he is to be inter-
preter at the Australian legation in
Tokyo. His father, W. H. Freame,
established himself in Japan as a teacher
of English and married a Japanese, one
of the distinguished house of Kitagawa.
The son joined the A.I.F. and won the
D.C.M. on Gallipoli, where his work was
noted and praised by the Official His-
torian. Leaving a fruit farm in the Ken-
tucky (N.S.W.) settlement to try to enlist
again for this war, he failed ; but the
authorities were glad to hear of a man
with his lingual qualifications.
Alma Baker, of Malaya, who has just
handed to the British Government
£20,000 for four fighter ’planes, sug-
gesting that in their names be in-
corporated the words “New Zealand,”
“Australia,” “Malaya” and “Baker,” is
a native of Oamaru, M.L. He married
a daughter of onetime Premier Frederick
Whittaker, and went to British North
Borneo as Commissioner of Lands. Later
he amassed wealth from tin mines and
rubber in Malaya. Baker and Zane Grey
were bosom friends and many deep-sea
fishing expeditions were taken together.
Zane’s yacht Alma was named after
Baker. Baker’s only daughter has a
cattle- and sheep-run in northern M.L.
Major-General T. R. Williams, C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., Belgian C. de G., is the first
Master-General of Ordnance Australia
has had. He has the job of supplying this
country’s troops scattered around the
world in every sort of climate with every-
thing from sunhats to cures for frost-
bite. He was born at Bundaberg (Q.)
amongst the sugar, and so were his
parents, so he is a crying example of the
enervating effects of the tropics on the
constitution of the white man. Williams,
educated at Maryborough Grammar, got
a diploma of engineering at the Ballarat
School of Mines, and worked at Mt.
Morgan before he joined the Royal
Australian Engineers at Chowder Bay
(N.S.W.), where he received his commis-
sion. He went to the 1914-18 war with the
MAJOR-GENERAL T. R. WILLIAMS.
2nd Field Company, and served through-
out Gallipoli and in France, where he was
assistant director of army signals. In
1932 he built the forts at Darwin. Then
to England for mechanisation study—he
was the first director of mechanisation in
Australia. At headquarters in Mel-
bourne he goes by the name of “Tanks.”
Donald Alexander Swanson had more
to do with the present look of Melbourne
than any other single person. The biggest
master builder in the city for half a
century, he put the stamp of his fine
workmanship on some of the most majes-
tic stone-carved buildings in it. He built
the Public Library dome, the City
Courts, Trinity College, ‘‘Scotch,” one of
the wings of Parliament House, the
Athenaeum Club, the first A.M.P. building
and the latest Commonwealth Bank. The
tall white Century Building housing Air
Force administration was his final effort.
Born at Bendigo and educated at St.
Paul’s School, he is dead at 82. For
eight years he was stone blind, but he
worked up to the last minute.
Major-General John Gellibrand, hav-
ing been forced to resign through bad
health, Brigadier-General C. H. Foott
becomes commander of the Victorian
R.S.L. Volunteer Defence Corps. Foott
saw service with the old crowd on Gal-
lipoli, in Egypt and France, got seven
“mentions,” a C.B. and a D. 5.0., and
was Base Commandant in Victoria from
1929 to 1931. He was leading a fairly
quiet life at Upper Beaconsfield when
the new call came. He will have about
20,000 veterans under him, who do about
four hours’ training a week.
Passed over in Melbourne at 42,
Group-Captain Thomas Anthony Swin-
burne, of the R.A.A.F. He went to the
1914-18 war with the Army Service Corps
and transferred to the air arm in 1917.
After that affair he made a study of elec-
tricity and wireless and was appointed
Director of Staff Duties. A course at
Andover Staff College in England fol-
lowed, and when Europe went mad last
year he got the job of Director of
Organisation at JLQ. in Melbourne.
Burns suffered when rescuing a fellow-
flier from a wrecked ’plane 11 years ago
hurried his end. Ballarat was his birth-
place.
Percy Phipps Abbott, M.H.R. for New
England (1913-19), Senator (1925-31) and
original commander of the 12th Light
Horse, A.1.F., passed out at Tamworth
recently, aged 71. He was a lawyer by
profession, and a keen one. Once he
appeared for a man charged with
attempted breaking and entering. A felt
hat was to have been an exhibit, but
all the police could show the jury was
small squares of felt fished out of a drain
leading to a septic tank. P.P. put it that
somebody had destroyed the hat and
stowed it away. Judge Mocatta refused
to believe that police would do such a
thing. “You know it is not a nice job
digging up dirty old septic-tank drains,”
said his Honor. “I will take your word
for it, your Honor,” was P.P.’s suave
reply.
Unknown to members, tragedy hung
over the exhibition of the Twenty
Melbourne Painters, opened with song by
Ivan Menzies last week, for outside news-
boys were calling the evening paper in
which was the account of the death of
Carl Hampel, one of the foundation
members, his wife and 12-year-old son.
Hampel was apparently painting in his
studio at Hampstead Heath when a Nazi
bomber laid it in ruins. Carl was born
at Bendigo and began his career as a
post-office official. Then he went farm-
ing with his brother in the Mallee. After
the 1914-18 war he chucked the plough
for the palette, and got a considerable
public in Melbourne for his Mallee land-
scapes. Ten years ago he trekked to
London and scored a hit when Queen
Mary bought a picture from his first
Bond-street exhibition. He was an
assiduous worker and a very pleasant
fellow.
Dubois seems to have caught J. H. C.
Phillips, the new secretary of Australia’s
oldest public company, the Bank of N. S.
Wales, in a moment when he was bowed
down with the weight of all his 48 years
and responsibilities. He is usually the
J. H. C. PHILLIPS.
most cheerful and sunny of persons. Born
in Maitland (N.S.W.), he was intended
for the law, but fate stepped in before
a good banker could be wasted, and 32
years ago he started on a grand tour of
’Wales branches. At 40 Phillips became
an assistant district inspector, was whirled
into the chief inspector’s office, was in
turn assistant manager in Melbourne and
sub-manager at head office, and finally in
charge of the big Sydney O’Connell-
street branch. There the rising tide of
business enabled Bruce Dellit to design
a palace round him which makes the
new Canberra Government House look
like Stanley Bruce’s late lamented dog-
kennel. Apart from friendship, for which
he has a genius, his hobbies are banking
and his flowers.
Captain Hector Macdonald Laws
Waller, commanding the Australian de-
stroyer fleet in the Mediterranean, who
recently got a D. 5.0., went from his
birthplace, Benalla (Vic.), to the R.A.
Naval College and joined the R.A.N. in
1913. He was aboard H.M.S. Agin-
court during the 1914-18 war, and
specialised in signalling. He also ac-
quired special knowledge concerning the
Dodecanese —he used to go cruising
round and shooting over them in peace-
time.
All but 50 years ago one of the two
first torpedo-boats N.S.W. —and Australia
—possessed was blown up off Middle
Head, and a public subscription was raised
for what remains one of the most
imposing monuments in Waverley
cemetery, erected to the memory of the
men who “died in the service of their
country.” James King, who has died at
Mosman, where he was an identity
for decades, was probably the last sur-
vivor of that old-time harbor tragedy, so
moving to a community to which war
casualties were then unknown. He had
been mixed up in most things in the dis-
trict since Mosman grew from bushland
to suburbia, and for a long time he was
manager of the Sydney Masonic Club.


mm®,
m
mk
■■■»
sisgiss
m
m
I»
. .
Sags
mm 1 ■
/, ' ' S X * '
mmßh
Ibßß|
?Ef~— j
WMmm
WM&BvXi
mmmms
sSaßggafl
m
Wmm
M
or
• •
This is White Horse—
I could tell it Blindfold
'JpHE aroma whispers it. The flavour says it
plainly! You can tell by that softness and
smoothness, by that mildness like milk on the
/
tongue, by that afterglow with no trace of fire.
This is the whisky fine as a fine liqueur.
WHITE HORSE
Scotch WHISKY
The millions of gallons of finest Scotch whisky matured and
maturing ensure that the quality of White Horse never varies.
Screw-cap flasks for your medicine chest on sale everywhere.
w
Buy War-winning War Savings Certificates


ABORIGINALITIES
“ Sorry!”
“ Don't mention it, lady.”
“Dungeness”: Popular opinion around
Mooville regarded Dinny O’Shave as
well up amongst the world’s worst
barbers, but handsomely admitted that
the place was lucky to have a barber at
all. “Here, Tommy,” shouted Mrs. Flan-
nigati, of the Post Office Store, to her
youngest hopeful, “you run down to the
barber’s and tell Mr. Bullswool that ’is
missus wants ’im to ring ’er up about
something she forgot to put on the order
list. ’E went by a bit ago, an’ ’e’ll be
gettin’ a shave from the looks of ’im.
’Urry up now and don’t dawdle.” Tommy
scowlingly interrupted his perusal of the
latest adventures of Yandrake the Yahoo,
sauntered the fifty yards to the doorway
of the tonsorial studio, leaned against
the wall outside for a minute or two and
sauntered back. “Ain’t nobody there,”
he announced. “Yer lazy young liar,”
exclaimed his indignant parent, “yer
never looked tersee —I was watchin’ yer
and yer never even stuck yer ’ead in the
door!” “Ain’t no need ter look,”
mumbled Tommy. “Nobody wasn’t roar-
in’ or rousin’, so I knoo nobody wasn’t
gettin’ shaved.”
* * * *.
“Komediak”: The slick city salesman
has got to be pretty wideawake to put
one over the outback dweller nowadays.
One glance at the spruce appearance of
the talkative visitor and Woolbales shies
away like a scared foal. All the palaver
and soft soap in the world won’t con-
vince the average bushman once his sus-
picions are aroused. One salesman of
my acquaintance, however, has adopted
a new and to date successful system.
Before approaching a prospective buyer
in the Mulga he pockets his false teeth.
“Never known it to fail yet,” he confided
to me. “Bush blokes are shrewd, as a
rule ; but there’s something about a joker
without his fangs that knocks all their
suspicions kite-high.”
* * * *
“First Blue”: Out from Mungawallah
(Vic.) I saw what horrible damage the
modern craze for change can wreak on
one of our most cherished institutions.
Walking along a back road I espied a
tough, wire-whiskered bullocky steering
his plodding cavalcade up a steep rise.
Instead of the usual verbal Blitzkrieg,
however, my ear was greeted by the
strains of a jazz orchestra. Going over
to investigate, I found that the teamster
had mounted a six-valve radio with loud-
speaker on top of his load. Yair, he
replied to my query, “it seems a bit
sissy, I s’pose, but she works jakaloo—
ain,t got 80 much work outa the cows fer
years.
* * * *
“Mac”: Gender trips up all the
, +1
" natlVeS T when they adde the
English tongue, I met a grey-haired old
fellow strolling down the track one even-
ing. Beside him strutted a tiny miss
, ,• . . ~ 3 ,
swinging her grass skirt in the approved
manner. His daughter, I thought, but
the old chap contradicted my question
on subject. “No, sar. No my daugh-
!f r .- His fat !? er ” y sister. This one unde
belon « me - Yes < the Piccanmny was
1S me * e - .
. ' *
. Tracechain : The solar halo with
P^ lB^ abc . ccdors seen b Y. B.A.A. (B.
4/9/ 40) is not a rare thing in winter,
though generally it is seen in sections of
arc, and if he checks his dates he 11 find
that snow fell upon them thar mountains
that day. High cirrus cloud, wispy-
looking stuff, is always associated with
the halo—a business of refraction—and
when it so happens that two sides of the
hexagonal ice crystals in the cirrus cloud
are vertical then the phenomenon parhelia
occurs, just off the halo or arc of it.
Generally there are two mock suns visible
(the halo will be particularly brilliant),
though Europe has recorded seven and
Antarctica, I fancy, ten. From latitude
26deg. 25min. I observed sections of halo
as frequently as twice a week during one
severe winter (though colors were mostly
faint), and upon three occasions mock
suns were also seen. Mock moons also
occur when ice clouds are in certain
positions. Last summer at the peak of
the heat-wave a pair were visible for 20
minutes. A brilliant solar halo, or arc
of it, is well worth observation: the
mock suns, 22|deg. each side from him-
self, pop out for a few minutes and can
be bright enough to deceive a casual
glance, as they are invariably parallel to
the horizon. And they certainly dance!
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: There is cause for con-
siderable concern about the bushfire
situation in Victoria. The year of the
great disaster when 70 were killed opened
after a drought of long duration and a
dry winter. There have already been
fires this year ; one, significantly enough,
occurred at that scene of recurrent
tragedy Noojee, which has been burnt
out so often that it is a wonder the
inhabitants ever rebuild the place. It
was put out by a providential snow-
storm. There will be no snowstorms this
summer; nor is there as yet a single
central authority controlling fire preven-
tion.
# # * *
“Naturala”: Why and how Mother
Nature sets to and builds one particular
family of her creatures to staggering pro-
portions, then suddenly issues a decree
of destruction, is a problem of never-
failing interest. For years the locality
in a radius of 50 miles out from Perth
has suffered a plague of snails, particu-
larly a small pink variety, said to have
been brought back from Egypt in bundles
of fodder at the finish of the other Big Dis-
turbance. So prolific were these shellbacks
that on neglected lawns they crunched
beneath the grass like thickly-spread
gravel. Along the cliffs of the coast one
might find cascades of dead shell where
millions had reached the brink and fallen
over to die of starvation. Gardens agri-
culture were threatened. Now this season
hardly a pink shell is to be found What
happened to billions of eggs that lay in
the ground and should have hatched to
become this season’s scourge? Fish too
present a similar problem. As far back
as the memory of the oldest fisherman
whiting along the Groperland south-west
coast yielded every season a wonderful
harvest. Seaside resorts were able to
guarantee visiting anglers their bags,
Then, in one season, the whiting
vanished. That was three years ago—and
the schools haven’t come back. What
happened? The sea is the same ; other
fish still hold their numbers. Only the
whiting have gone.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A Barcaldine (W.Q.) dog
of variegated ancestry and undis
• , , u , } .. . . „
ttngmshed career lias by its selection of
a deathbed acquired posthumous fame,
A member of the Shire Council had con-
sistently and strenuously condemned the
practice of allowing animals to wander
at large about the town streets. As a
beginning he sponsored a council by-law
providing a penalty against any person
who allowed his dog to be in any public
place otherwise than when held in a lead,
On the day that advice was received from
Brisbane that the by-law had been
approved and gazetted its proposer’s car
was standing near the council chambers.
The devoted martyr in the cause of
canine liberty deliberately crossed the
road, lay down under the car of the
oppressor, and, after a brief struggle,
breathed its last.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Even when edu-
cated at pakeha schools, Maori children
sometimes lapse into pidgin. The teacher
of an outback Hawke’s Bay school asked
his class to fill in the nouns in such
sentences as “the baker bakes the bread.”
Young Henare’s paper had every sentence
commencing with “Te” ; his best effort
was “Te gobbler mends my shoes.”
* * * *
“Edjudina”: When a man hasn’t
looked a green vegetable in the face for
months (B. 21/8/ ’4O) he is heading for
Barcoo rot as the least of his complaints.
And he not only will hoe into scurvy
grass, but he won’t turn up his nose at
pigweed, or pigface, as some call it.
Boiled pigweed isn’t too bad, though it is
the last vegetable one would voluntarily
choose to eat. It has the advantage that
it grows nearly everywhere on this con-
tinent. Again, samphire is not to be
despised as an antiscorbutic. Growing
plentifully on W.A. dry salt lakes, es-
pecially after a drop of rain, it is not dis-
similar to the samphire of the seashore.
It goes best boiled with a lump of
fresh meat. Parakeelia is another good
desert standby. And don’t forget the
best of all—those litle yams, shaped just
like a white icicle radish, that one finds
growing in the light sandy drifts after the
rain.
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: An almost exact
simulacrum of the action in diver’s para-
lysis is the drawing of the cork from a
bottle of sodawater. Although the soda-
water is loaded with absorbed gas, not
one bubble can be raised so long as the
cork maintains the pressure. Release of
pressure sets free countless expanding
bubbles. Breathing compressed air at
depth, the diver’s blood vessels become
filled with retained nitrogen. This
gaseous charge remains passive so long
as the diver keeps below 10 fathoms
(60ft.). Thus he can rise quickly to that
level, but for the remainder of the ascent
must go slowly. At every 10ft. up to
20ft. he should rest on his lifeline for
three minutes; at 20ft. seven minutes;
at 10ft. ten minutes. A wise diver also
works arms and legs to stimulate the cir-
culation and bring the absorbed nitrogen
to the lungs, where it can be dealt with.
And it really is paralysis. Have seen
cases, bound for the decompressor
chamber at Broome, absolutely incapable
of any movement below the hips. Nor
have the nether limbs any feeling.
* * * *
“Naturala”: With the exception of the
rare sea hawk, seafowl do not prey on
one another. The limit of predaciousness
is the filching of food. So, favored by
Nature, sea birds increase to incredible
millions. Off the W.A. coast the outlying
Abrolhos and, farther north, the smaller
of the Lacepedes, low sandy islands that
barely rise above the ocean, can be
sighted from afar. As one approaches,
the smudge that looked like a huge cloud
resolves itself into myriads of birds, males
for the most part, hovering over their
mates, which are diligently sitting on the
precious two or four eggs. On such
islands every scrubby bush will be bur-
dened with nests, the earth beneath
packed. One marvels at such a prodi-
gality of life and at the ocean larder that
keeps so much life supplied. For there
are no weaklings ; all are strong, power-
fully pinioned, capable of flying leagues
across the water.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: “A man’s always got
company if he’s got a dog” is a bush
truism. But whether it’s good company
depends on the mong. A nervous dog
will give a lonely man the jitters quicker
than a nervous mate will. And some
dogs are nervous. Many are afraid of
thunder, and I once saw a table leg that
had been nearly chewed through by a
terrified hound during a storm. But to
know really what it is to have the wind
up, you want to be camped alone with
a nervous town-bred canine. When the
mong growls, rushes snarling to the tent-
flap, bristles his neck and whines, backs
away, then cringes whimpering under
your bunk, it’s marvellous how a fellow
thinks of all the ghost stories he ever
heard. Of course in the morning investi-
gation reveals the tracks of a ’roo or
wild pig, but by that time you’ve either
put in a sleepless night or shot the
neurotic hound.
A BUSHMAN IN KHAKI.
Plovers pierced the silence out in the young
spring night;
The lamplight held our table in a yellow lake
of light;
The soldier guest was merry; his cheek and
eyes were bright.
The moonlight clouded over; there «ame a
drift of rain,
But we scarcely heard the gusts that, shook the
windowpane
With his words around us falling like a light
and golden chain.
He spoke of scarlet raogcs enslaved by a
savage sun,
Of scarred and wrinkled vales where no rivers
ever run;
Few journeys ever ended where many were
begun.
He told of ferny gullies, a lake, a palmy
place;
Austerity of silence; of mystery and space,
And the lure surpassing woman’s writ on a
desert’s face.
He told of ruby mornings and dusks of tour-
maline,
And gold that streaked a mountain where grew
no blade of green,
And a ghost-voice through the tree-fern deep
in a black ravine.
His hair was silver-sprinkled and at the
Hfa eyes’ turquoise against cheeks
dark and bare,
And his smile white as a snowdrift, but fugitive
and rare.
He spoke with curious languor, each word a
vague caress
For all he had left behind him in the red-
* wilderness, .... ,
And I thought as I leaned and hstc::;d among
the company’s press:
Here is a mort to remember; a Land with a
tale yet dim
Has taken a son, still tameless, and steeled him
heart and limb,
And sent him forth as a warrior, to sing her
battle-hymn.
Queensland.
E. M. ENGLAND.


“Bad Australian”: “Yer can’t tell me
as a snake ’asn’t got no interleck,” said
Tommy the Hermit. “I’ve a little ’en
’atchin’ out a settin’ of eggs in a close-
slatted coop so’s the native cats an’
goanners can’t git at ’er. One day I goes
out ter give ’er a bit o’ corn an’ finds
’er crouched down in a corner o’ the
coop with the fear o’ death on ’er dial
an’ a ten-foot carpet snake coiled up
alongside o’ the empty nest, with nine
or ten bulges in ’is body indicatin’
w’ere the eggs ’ad got ter. W’ile I’m
wunderin’ w’y ’e didn’t tackle the chook
instead o’ the eggs ’e pokes ’is ’ead
through the slats, but w’en ’e gits as
fur as the first bulge ’e’s jammed. ’E
pulls ’is ’ead back an’ tries agen in
sev’ral other places, but the bulge beats
’im every time. All on a sudden ’e
upen’s ’imself an’ starts slammin’ is
carkiss ’ard agen the slats, an’ then I
unnerstan’s w’y ’e ’adn’t swallered the
little ’en instead o’ the googs. W’en ’e’d
got the eggs beat up ter ’is likin’ ’e
slides out between the slats as easy as
dammit, on’y ter find me waitin’ f’r
’im with a five-foot waddy!”
* * *
“Nagheer”: A mystery of Queensland’s
far west which has for 50 years defeated
all attempts at solution or explanation is
the Min Min light. Scores of people
have seen it on a particular area of
Warenda station, not far from Boulia,
sometimes looking as bright as a motor-
car headlight, and always seemingly mov-
ing toward the observer. Approaching
to apparently within 100 yards or less it
suddenly goes out. No sound or smell
accompanies it, and examination, a few
minutes later, of the place where it ex-
tinguishes itself has shown nothing. Most
occasions on which it has been reported
have been from 1 a.m. to 4 a.m. in cloudy
weather. Any Councillors struck it?
* * * *
“Thorn”: “I’ll have to get an electric
torch to read by at night,” Monaro Mick
told the boss. “A man can’t stay out
there in the back country without read-
ing at night. The howling of the dingoes
and the loneliness would drive him mad.’
“What’s wrong with the kerosene lamp
or the candles I sent out to you?” the
boss asked him. “They’re useless out
there,” Mick replied. “As soon as you
light a candle or lamp the flamin’ mos-
quitoes chew the wick away.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat rushed up to me
in the Mildura (Vic.) bar. “Hey,” he
said, “there’s a cove on Eighteenth-street
wants someone t’ sink a drainage shaft.
Come on.” When we got to the place
the cove showed us the site and reckoned
we’d strike the drift at 60 to 70 feet.
We’d have to timber as we went, the
ground was clay and limestone, and
Mat reckoned it was worth £1 a foot.
“Fifteen bob is what I’m offerin’, not
a penny more,” snapped the cove. It
was slavery, but we needed the money
and took it on, though I could see Mat
was pretty narked. We were down about
four feet when he dropped the pick and
said, “Hold on. I’ll show this bloke
somethin’.” He wrote on a sheet of
paper, “We hereby contract to sink a
6 by 4 shaft, timbered, for 15s. a foot.
Mr. Guessit contracts to pay that
amount. As witness our three sig-
natures.” Up at the house we told the
boss we believed in having everything
down in writing, and he duly signed.
A week later we were down five feet.
The boss, expecting it to be at least 25,
nearly had a fit when he saw it. He
fumed, exhorted, threatened. He wanted
that shaft down before the next irriga-
tion and unless we “We got y’r
signed contrac’, boss,” said Mat. “It
don’t say how long we have t ! do the
job in, but it does bind you and us.”
Followed a long barney, till Mat finally
agreed to speed up the job in considera-
tion of an additional ss. a foot. I never
saw anyone pay a cheque in such dead
silence as that bloke did when we
finished the job.
* * * *
“Tired”: “Me Too” (B. 11/9/’4O) used
up far too much energy in practising his
system of rabbit-hunting. When I was
a kid I used my brains and widened the
potential field. A little jam from the
larder (molasses from the cowshed would
do, but it wasn’t so effective) and an
occupied burrow were the essentials. I
used to smear a little jam around the top
half of the burrow at its narrowest point
and then hide in bushes near by and
wait. Presently out they would come, one
by one, and, of course, each one would
have the fur on its back smeared with
the jam. As they toppled over stone-
dead (six from one burrow, I remember,
was my biggest haul) I would collect
“Pull for your life, Bill!"
“Speak up! Don't stand there starin' at me like damn' fool!"
them. How did they die? Broke their
necxs licking the jam off their backs.
* * * *
“Kriz”: The old-timers in the pearl-
ing game weren’t slow jn the uptake. I
was on a lugger out from Broome when
old Talboys, the owner, was opening
shell. He had picked out a pearl and
was washing the slime away in a bucket
of water when the treasure slipped out of
his hand, bounced on the deck and went
overboard. The lugger happened to be
sailing along at the time, and the skipper
threw a buoy overboard, and followed it
up by pitching the leadline also. A Jap
diver was promised £25 if the pearl was
recovered. He was below nine minutes
altogether and returned with the gem.
Put on the scales at Ellies, in Broome, it
weighed 47 grains and was sold to a
French buyer for £lO6O.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The new boss was a
decent enough sort, but he was com-
pletely under the domination of his
missus, herself a decent enough sort ex-
cept for her belief that the hands needed
the influence of beauty and culture to
uplift them. She took one horrified look
at the cookhouse, threw everything out
and had it burnt, and replaced it with
new stuff, most of which she herself
ducoed with the reluctant cook’s help.
Then she swooped on the men’s hut.
Our palliasses went to the flames ; so did
the bags, old pants, ancient moccasins
and other gear that had accumulated on
the floor for years. Fly-spotted prints
and tattered Bulletin cartoons were
torn from the walls, and the place nearly
had convulsions. New palliasses, a
second-hand lino on the floor and duco
on the walls somewhat awed us. Then
she sent us down three framed prints
of English hunting scenes, a small table
and a vase. Every morning the wood-
and-water joey brought a big bunch of
geraniums and gum-leaves down and put
them in that vase, and we dusty, saddle-
sore, sweat-boiled, profane and sun-
burned sons of toil realised what we
were in for. Jimmy the Governor, who
lived in a hut on the back of the run,
came in for rations, saw the cookhouse,
turned white, made for the men’s hut,
and nearly fainted. Somehow he man-
aged to make his horse, climbed aboard
and headed for his hut. There he
gathered his dog and blankets, remounted
his nag and didn’t stop riding till he
reached Balranald, 58 miles north-east,
where he sold the horse, bought a ticket
by rail to Moulamein, picked up a drover
there going north and within a month
was over the Queensland border, “safe/’
as he put it, “t’ live an’ die in as much
dirt as I can find.” Ever since he shud-
ders violently at sight of a woman with
a broom.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: In the teamster days of
Coolgardie (W.A.) considerable rivalry
existed between horse conductors and
cameliers. Unwritten road courtesy, not
infrequently enforced by stoush, decreed
that the camel when meeting a team on
the track should draw aside. If the
whites were in force this decree was
obeyed, but if the ’Ghans held the bal-
ance of power the oont procession kept
right on; and, of course, they plodded
right down the centre between the wheel
ruts where shod hoofs kept the ground
soft and comfortable for unshod splay
feet. The result of this lack of courtesy
quite often was disastrous. Unable to
tolerate the scent of the approaching
monstrosities, the team, strung out in
single file, would hastily swerve at right
angles, as often as not bringing the
shafter down, perhaps upsetting the load,
even stripping the spokes from a wheel.
The ruts were generally so deep that
only at selected spots could the wheels
leave them. On the other hand, if the
camel procession was drawn aside from
the track Dobbin and his mates never
made the slightest objection to trudging
on over miles of dirt that must have
carried many pungent reminders of their
unsavory rivals.
* * * *
“Conk”: The argument about the twist-
ing tendrils of plants could be extended
to the animal kingdom. Take the sea
snail, for instance. The whorls, almost
without exception, take a turn to the
left. The snails that take the wrong
turning are so few that they are prized
as much by conchologists as are rare
stamps by philatelists, and fetch a good
price. The shells are perfect works of
art in color, pattern, polish and symmetry.
It is clear that the snail builds its house
to plans and specifications from materials
set forth in an unwritten formula. The
plant and the snail both produce archi-
tectural and chemical marvels, certainly
not by chance. Mechanical action may
be ruled out. Science is tending more
and more towards granting the vegetable
an intelligence equal to that of the snail.
Though the brain has not yet been
located, the presence of a nervous sys-
tem is proved. A “mind” there must be,
either as an individual entity directing
growth from within, or as a universal
essence guiding it from without. In any
case it is restful to relax from the study
of modern miracles to wonder about
snails and creepers in their courses.
SANCTUARY.
There is a white road leading
Into a bushland fair,
Through depths of shade receding
Until it loiters where
In aisles that rich lights merge in
And bird-songs chime like bells,
A bushland vestal virgin
In her hushed temple dwells.
The white road leads us to her;
Wherever else it goes,
The skies could not be bluer,
The dawns more rich with rose,
The sunsets know more splendor,
The midnights hold more stars
Than where this priestess tender
Heals hearts of bitter scars.
No traveller by the highway
Has seen this shy priestess;
He needs must take the byway
And woo the wilderness,
To feel her fingers quiver
His heart with magic touch
And his chained soul deliver
From bonds which bind too much.
Through her white road she calls us
By road and river bends.
Whatever fate befalls us,
This priestess makes amends,
For when the twilight whispers
And light and shadow part,
In the sweet hush of vespers
She folds us to her heart.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Auctralia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M438 - _____ 86371.
A Safeguard Against Poor Administration of Your Estate
in selecting the Executor who is to administer your Estate after you are gone is wisdom.
l ‘ suffered grievously because the dead father’s executor was lazy, or too old
uhen the responsibility fell on him, or because he was dishonest.
v hl S appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. It
wiotT K, „^^^• i , , ~ a rr v;i,, l' -*■ ti IJclUdl 1 I UhLct? VjUIULM.II y, Ju
Th b o pZ" ! a l So ,il Exccutol ; and trustee, or jointly with a relative or friend.
n ap ' tal f a ! lc l assets are security for its integrity. Ask that a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee”
be posted to you. It will tell you of the risks to be avoided. Ask for it to-dav.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS•
T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair. M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
IT „ _ , Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; J. P. Abbott.
H. V Douglass, Managing Director p. Curetcn, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
, . , Administrator, etc.
the financial security the company offers comprises its own assets and unc-a’lcd capital exceeding
£1,250,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re— Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
& £ £ £
1930.. 148,184 9 p.c. = 108,000 40,184 631,518
1931.. 78,050 64 „ „ 78,000 50 631,568
1932.. 72,027 6 „ „ 72,000 27 631,595
1933.. 72,659 6 „ „ 72,000 659 632,254
1934.. 84,426 64 „ „ 78,000 6,426 638,680
1935.. 92,751 7 i„ „ 90,000 2,751 641,431
1936.. 108,819 8 „ „ 96,000 12,819 654,250
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 754,250
1937.. 120,136 9 p.c. = 112,453 ) „ 7r „ Q „„
Staff fund. £5OOO .. .. j 2,683 706,933
Share premiums, £70,000 . . . . 826,933
1938.. 151,973 9 p.c. = 131,905 1 . , nra
Staff fund, £5OOO .. ..f 15)068 842,001
Share premiums, £89,051 . . .. 931,052
1939. . 152,287 9 p.c. = 144,327 ) 9 QPn Q „, m ,
Staff fund. £5OOO .. .. t 2 - 960 934)012
1940. . 170,213 9 p.c. = 155,843 ( q
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. } 9)370 943)382
The official taboo on “wet” canteens
in A.I.F. camps still remains a monu-
ment to political ineptitude. A soldier
in what is known as the permanent forces
can enjoy a glass of beer, if he wants
to, at the regimental canteen, and the
profit remains in the family. But a mem-
ber of the A.1.F., or one of the “old
and bold,” who wants a noggin of good
ale has to do a marathon to the nearest
pub before it closes, as well as forgo
any subsequent benefit from the profit
into the bargain. It’s an anomalous posi-
tion screaming for somebody with cour-
age enough to put it right.
The consumption of beer in N. S.
Wales hasn’t been checked: it has
stepped along briskly, as the following
table shows:
t Expenditure—,, Consumption,
Per Head Gallons Per Head'
Ended Total Popu- ———^
Dec. 31, £’ooo. lation. Beer. Spirits. Wine.
1932.. 10,380 £4 0 6 6.99 .24 .49
1933.. 10,500 4 0 9 7.27 .24 .57-
1934.. 11,490 4 7 7 8.22 .27 .59
1935. . 12,530 4 14 9 8.98 .29 .61
1936.. 13,320 4 19 10 9.83 .29 62
1937.. 14,520 5 7 9 10.72 .31 .62
1938.. 15,870 516 8 12.59 .31 .60
1939.. 16,620 6 011 12.87 .32 .60
Expenditure on beer, spirits and wine
combined increased by £750,000, or 4s.
3s. per head of population, in 1939. It
was the highest per capita expenditure
since the boom years 1927-29, when
the average was about £7 2s. per head.
There was no slackening, either, in con-
sumption between the close of 1939 and
the end of July last, when the co.’s books
closed.
Partly because of this and partly be-
cause of the board’s policy of expansion,
which takes the form of buying up hotel
freeholds, thus widening and anchoring
turnover, gross earnings increased by
£114,104:
1936. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Gross earnings £615,283 £780,887 £821,557 £935,661
Ex es 506,464 628,914 669,270 772,647
Net profit. . £108,819 £151,973 £152,287 £163,014
Gross earnings were written after strik-
ing off £32,527 (down £1417) for depre-
ciation and making an unspecified pro-
vision for bad and doubtful debts, etc.
The larger trading, rising costs and in-
creased taxation added £103,377 to exes.,
leaving the declared profit £10,727 better.
Taking £7199 previously slipped into re-
serves into account, the net result repre-
sented 9.8 p.c. on average capital, com-
pared with 9.5, 10.3, 9.6, 9, 7.7, 7 and
6 p.c. back to 1933. The div. was kept
at 9 p.c., making the average 7.6 p.c.
over the last decade.
Balance-sheet movements augur well
for future earnings:—
1929. 1934. 1939. 1940.
£ A it.
Capital . . 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,725,301 1,732,500
Sundry
creditors.. 497,220 245,933 438,145 563,469
Loans* .. 325,773 790,024 795,301
Brewery,
hotels, etc. 1,593,197 1,891,053 3,195,395 3,339,178
Stocks . . 161,886 77,354 101,503 101,876
Book debts 584,413 437,784 616,858 623,858
Cash. etc... 24,059 7,146 18,544 13,491
Shares in
other cos. 39,050 39,212 39,212
* Advances by subsidiary.
To finance a net addition of £143,783
to the book value of fixed assets —the
brewery has recently come in for a lot
of attention—the board went to sundry
creditors for an extra £125,324. Since
1929 the net growth in fixed assets has
been no less than £1,745,981, which has
gone largely into hotel properties. Leav-
ing loans to subsidiaries and shares therein
out of the figuring, the more or less
liquid surplus (£175,756) was £123,004
less than at the previous balance, owing
to the outlay just referred to.
For the half-dozen years to the close
of accounts in 1936, Tooheys obtained
most of the additional finance it required
through its controlled associate, Tooheys
Standard Securities, at a cost of 5£ p.c.
Having served its purpose, this practice
has been discontinued ; the parent’s re-
quirements since have been met by issue
of its own ords. at a premium.
As for the current term, dispatch of
the A.I.F. overseas isn’t likely to inter-
fere seriously with consumption. The
upward trend of costs, including taxation
—land tax alone has been doubled —is
the point at which the shoe will pinch
most.
Since the beginning of 1940 the price
of the f.-p. 16s. shares has fluctuated be-
tween 30s. 4d. and 225. in the market. At
28 s., the figure last week-end (the
price shot up in anticipation of the
accounts), the return is 5.1 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis. Visibly the cover is
245. Bd.
Carreras, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends To
Net Pref. Re- Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Share premiums, £33,794 .. .. 32,467
1931.. 6,083 4800 Nil 1,283 33,750
1932.. 8,292 *4BOO Nil 3,492 37,242
1933.. 11,273 5800 25 p.c. = 2,500 2,973 40,215
1934.. 18,558 6800 43.7* „ 4,379 7,379 47,594
Bonus scrip issued, £40,000 .. .. 7,594
1935.. 21,720 6800 124 p.c. = 6,250 8,670 16,264
1936.. 31,823 6800 20 „ „ 10,000 15,023 31,287
1937.. 45,130 6800 33J „ „ 16,666 21,664 52,951
Obsolescence reserve taken in, £10,000.. 62,951
From contingency reserve, £25,000.. 87,951
Reserves capitalised, £75,000 .. 12,951
1938.. 81,452 6800 33J p.c.= 41,666 32,986 45,937
Surplus subsid. investment, £6052 .. 51,989
1939. .119,707 6800 33J p.c.=66,667 46,240 98,229
1940. .156,404 6800 52| „„ 105,000 44,604 142,833
* 10 p.c. on ord. capital and share premiums
combined.
It has been a remarkable development—
over the past four years especially
so —since Carreras, the prosperous Eng-
lish Craven A manufacturer, became
interested a decade ago. Control has
now passed to British Tobacco with the
purchase of the 800,000 issued ss. ords.
for £1,463,335 in scrip—225,861 6j p.c.
prefs., 618,737 ords. and a like number
of B ords., deferred as to return of capi-
tal only.
On this parcel present rates of B.T.
div. will call for £138,420 annually, or
£ll,lBO less than Carreras’s latest surplus,
allowing for its own pref. charge. At
the moment the deal is therefore some
direct benefit to B.T. shareholders, and
earnings of both cos. should profit from
elimination of competition and possible
overlapping of lines, administrative sav-
ings and more favorable buying—all this
at a time when economies are particularly
welcome.
When the English co. came in, acquiring
a controlling ordinary interest at a sub-
stantial premium, ord.-holders had lost
90 p.c. of their capital and the backing
for the prefs., both for income and capi-
tal, was slender. Now Craven A, Turf
and Piccadilly “tailor-mades” are so en-
trenched in public fancy that pref.-
holders can see net earnings equal to 23
times their annual div. requirements and
net tangibles over £6 per share. The ords.’
reward has been £115,000 of bonus
scrip, some extremely fat divs., and now
the B.T. deal.
Vigorous management has been helped
by assistance from the English parent on
the buying and finance side, and a smokes
consumption which has moved up this
way:
Cigarettes, Tobacco, Total,
Year, Pounds. Pounds. Pounds.
1928-29 .. 6,357,779 14,116,648 20,474,427
1931-32 . . 4,084,046 13,557,325 17,641,371
1934- .. 4,770,064 14,088,562 18,838,626
1935- . . 5,190,065 14,598,251 19,788,316
1936- .. 5,733,307 14,997,391 20,770,698
1937- . . 6,204,114 15,751,695 21,955,809
1938- . . 6,891,258 15,776,449 22,667,707
1939- . . 7,148,053 16,019,834 23,167,887
In Sept., 1938, customs and excise on
cigarettes and pipe and roll-your-own
tobaccos was fixed at 12s. 2d. and Bs. Bd.
per pound respectively. Another 10 p.c.
duty increase has now been tacked on
to imported leaf, but a decrease in size
of some cigarettes has been permitted.
The higher cost has been met instead by
lifting the proportion of Australian leaf
in the blend in other cases.
More money went up in smoke last
year, and gross earnings of the whole
organisation stepped up by £69,220
to £432,085. Including £14,168 (down
£2284) openly written off, the extra busi-
ness was handled at only £24,023 more
cost, which suggests rigid economies in
view of the tax slug. Allowing for £3OOO
(£11,500 in 1939) unobtrusively slipped
into reserves beforehand, that left the
final surplus the bulkier by £36,697.
After providing for the prefs., the
£156,404 left 74.8 p.c. for the ords., and
their div., sent up from 33 1-3 p.c. to
52| p.c., was covered with £44,604 to
spare.
Anticipating importing difficulties, the
management built up stocks (higher by
£81,934):
Carreras
Carreras and Subsidiary
i* A x ,
1933. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £78,000 £268,000 £268,000 £268,000
Overdraft .. 13,083 631
Creditors . . 134,773 36,108 63,017 190,503
Taxation, etc. 53,330 59,819
Freeholds .. 64,093 56,995 57,970 67,470
Plant, , etc. .. 30,427 29,486 38,008 38,551
Stocks .. 137,242 190,019 315,504 397,438
Book debts .. 43,019 75,725 106,968 141,874
Cash, etc. .. 894 52,466 1,489 19,222
Subsidiary co. 20,000 20,000
Longer sight is evident in the purchase
of adjoining land to care for future
growth. To carry an additional £34,906
of debtors, bolster the cash, etc., holding
by £17,733 and pay the increased ord.
handout, it meant adding £126,855 to
the debt. Notwithstanding, the surplus
of more or less liquids (£368,031, exclud-
ing tax, etc., provision) lifted £7718.
At 38s. 6d. yield from the solidly-
protected prefs. is 5.2 p.c. Book values
can stand considerably stretching.
Moreheads, Ltd. (Brisbane)
a .pj _ . Towards Re-
Aprii, i Dividend. Reserves, serves.
8 P- e -= U. 233 794 33,272
1931.. 10,677 6 „ „ 9,599 1078 34,350
. Profit on sale of shares, £22,097.. 56 447
1932.. 7,987 54 p.c. = 8,797 55’,637
1933.. 8,093 5„ „ 7,998 95 55,732
Unexplained addition to reserves, £2365.. 58 097
1934. . 10,790 6 p.c. = 9,598 1192 59^289
Unexplained addition to reserves, £2000.. 61 289
1935.. 6,399 4 p.c.= 6,399 6L289
June,
1936.. 8,220 4i*, „ 7,200 1200 62,309
Transferred to rebate account, £2000.. 60,309
1937. . 10,854 6 p.c. = 9,600 1254 61,563
9 - 779 5 „ „ 8,000 1776 63,339
ioan" 5 . » » B>ooo 8 > 000 1211 64,550
1940.. 10,781 54,, ~ 8,800 1981 66,531
* £3 17s. id. p.c. p.a.
This woolbroking, pastoral - finance,
agency and merchandising co. does not
broadcast turnover, physical or financial,
for the various sections of the business;
but an all-round increase is reported for
the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts. Some of the wool previously
shipped direct to London for sale now
passes through the co.’s stores. Also the
clip was heavier, owing to a better season,
and a higher price was obtained for the
staple, thanks to the British-purchase
scheme. Though little business was done
with either properties or store sheep,
satisfactory sales of store cattle were
reported at good prices, thanks again to
the British-purchase scheme, this time for
meat.
It all largely explains the spring
of £4785 in the co.’s commission
earnings, etc. (£38,693). Interest, rents,
etc. (£20,926), turned in an extra £353.
The growth in exes. (£48,838) was £3568,
mainly on account of heavier provision
for taxation (£6500, up £3500). The net
gain was thus £1570, making the profit
claimed £10,781, equal to 6.7 p.c. on
capital as against 5.7, 6.1, 6.7, 5.1, 4, 6.7
and 5 p.c. back to 1933. Half a point
was added to the div., the final being
at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1927. 1934. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £90,000 £159,9.19 £160,000 £160,000
Liabilities .. 01,282 91,033 154,004 295,827
Properties .. 91,719 91,730 84,414 81,732
Plant, etc. .. 1,341 5,802 4,500 4,356
Advances . . 47,044 219,441 297,194 446,739
Shares in other
cos 40,810 1,024 38 38
Cash, etc. . . 2,289 2,486 2,092 2,331
Outstanding features last term were the
sharp expansion of £141,763 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors and
the growth of £149,545 in debtors’
balances. The former was chiefly money
due to clients on account of two final
appraisements, concluded on June 30, and
in respect of the 10 p.c. retention money
and the amount (about 8| p.c.) by which
the average appraisement price fell short
of the contract rate. The growth in
debtors’ balances was mostly money due
to the co. from the Central Wool Com-
mittee on account of the appraisements
and other matters just referred to. The
more or less liquid surplus (£153,243) was
£BO2l stronger than at the previous
balance.
Although the British wool-purchase
contract is for the duration of the war
and one clip thereafter, which means
much so far as the current term’s earn-
ings are concerned, the market notes the
steep climb in taxation and other costs
and the fact that the future is too uncer-
tain to form reliable judgment on a long-
range investment policy. It therefore
prices the co.’s pound shares, covered
by net tangibles with a book value of
28s. 3d., at 18s. 9d. The return at 18s. 9d.
is 5.8 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis.
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd. (Syd.)
t To Re- Re—
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 47,872 8 p.c. = 34,090* 13,182 41,717
3 931.. 39,451 54 „,, 27,459 11,992 53,709
1932.. 22,257 4,, „ 19,970 2,287 55,996
1933.. 42,810 0 „ ~29,955 12,855 68,851
1934.. 56,666 74 „ „ 37,444 19,222 88,073
1935.. 52,134 7„ „ 34,948 17,186 105,259
1936.. 42,973 7£ „ ~33,450 9,523 114,782
1937.. 44,881 8„ „ 31,952 12,929 127.711
1938.. 59,853 10 „ „ 39,941 19,912 147,623
19.39.. 48,233 10 „ ~39,941 8,292 155,915
1940.. 41,147 9} „ „ 37,943 3,204 159,119
1 p.c. on deferreds.
This co., which kicked off in 1926 with a
Government contract and a 100,000-ton-
p.a. plant, which it put up on the Mudgee
line about 150 miles from Sydney, shares
the N. S. Wales market with four other
producers—a fifth, in process of incuba-
tion when war broke out, has not been
heard from for some time. The aggre-
gate plant capacity of the four is over
720,000 tons p.a., or nearly double the
State output for 1939, which was 60,000
tons lighter than for the preceding 12
months.
The big source of demand for cement
is public works, including dams, road-


WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES.
COMFORTABLE-
euidAo&ononucal
iotiml"
m
;< A Chevrolet Utility is definitely
V today’s greatest value. Comparison
v proves that it offers you the
greatest comfort, smartest styling
and the most modern Utility fea-
tures, including an amazingly
economical 6 -cyl. Overhead Valve
Engine, which will give maximum
mileage from your petrol ration.
THE OUTSTANDING COMFORT Of Chevrolet’s roomy Coupe Cab is far ahead of anything offered by
competitors. Wide, deep, luxuriously cushioned seats accommodate 2 adults and 2 children easily. Exclusive
vacuum-assisted steering-column gearshift and under-dash handbrake leave the floor clear. There s a big parcel
shelf behind the seat, an attractive instrument panel with lock-up glove box, wide angle Pilot Seat Driving
Vision giving real passenger car comfort in a hard working Utility. In addition, Chevrolet is built and priced
to give you the only kind of economy that will show you a profit: Overall Economy which means lowest
possible first cost, amazingly low running and upkeep costs, and high resale value!
CHEVROLET 10-12 CWT. UTILITIES
Chassis Prices from . .
Available with a wide
range of body styles from
£277
£353
15 CWT. COMMERCIAL UTILITIES
Chassis Prices from . . .
Available with a wide
range of body styles from
£267
£321
tAt Chevrolet's famous 6-cyl. Overhead
Valve Engine on both Utilities and
Commercials is fitted with an
Octane Selector (instantly adjust*
able for second grade fuel).
Easy Terms Available Under Confidential G.M.A.C. Plan.
CHEVROlET^utilities
CHEVROLET IS A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT BUY PROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LTD. C731.T8
Ol
BUY ELECTRICITY BONDS
AND HELP TO INCREASE THE INDUSTRIAL WAR EFFORT.
In war or peace electricity is vital to industrial expansion. The Sydney County Council, operating the
largest power centre in Australia (Bunnerong), and supplying electricity to an area of nearly 900 square
miles, now offers you
A GILT-EDGED INVESTMENT
ISSUED AT PAR.
at
3q/
4 /O
CURRENCY: 12 YEARS.
HERE IS YOUR SECURITY! Your capital and interest are secured
upon
Assets exceeding £22,000,000
Annual Revenue £3,225,000
Unlimited rating powers over improved
property valued £376,000,000
The Loan is an authorised Investment for Trustees in New South
Wales.
In twenty years the number of customers served by the Sydney
County Council has increased from 33,000 to over a quarter of a
million. It utilises nearly 5000 miles of electric mains. Its annual
revenue has increased from £600,978 in 1919 to £3,224,429
in 1939!
The Council’s first Public Loan in Australia of £600,000 was over-
subscribed and closed well before the due date.
Interest is payable half-yearly and Principal repayable at maturity,
free of exchange throughout Australia.
IMMEDIATE APPLICATION ADVISED
Allotments will be made daily in order of application.
APPLICATIONS
The minimum amount that may be applied for and allotted is
£5O in Debentures or Inscribed Stock.
Prospectuses may be obtained from and applications lodged with
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
(BANKER FOR THE ISSUE)
At Head Office or any Branch throughout Australia, or at the
Head Office of
THE SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL, SYDNEY
or through any Members of a Recognised Stock Exchange.
LOAN UNDERWRITTEN BY
J. B. WERE & SON
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
making, etc. In this respect the States
have had to curtail their activities slightly
on account of more urgent defence needs.
These needs consist partly of a demand
for cement, but it has not been great
enough to offset the slackening on State
account. Partly because of this and
partly because of increased taxation,
there was a contraction of £7086 in the
year’s declared net earnings. That was
after setting aside £30,000 (£lO,OOO less
than for the previous term) for deprecia-
tion. The £30,000 was approximately
8 p.c. on the book value of freehold and
plant at the close of accounts in 1939.
Much of the co.’s success has been due to
the board’s liberal allowances for depre-
ciation, which have enabled a programme
of plant modernisation to be followed, to
the benefit of both costs and sales.
The £41,147 of profit, the lowest for
the last eight years, was 10.3 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 12, 14.9, 11.2, 10.7, 10.4,
11.3, 8.5 and 4.4 p.c. back to 1932, the
worst of the slump years. Half a point
was chipped off the div., reducing it to
9i p.c., the final being at the rate of
9 p.c. p.a. The £3204 that remained
lifted free reserves to £159,119.
But what counts for most in this class
of business is the efficiency of the chief
earning asset, plant:
1927. 1937. 1939. 1940.
•Paid capital. . £466,691 £399,406 £399,406 £399,406
•Creditors .. 169,248 43,150 40',046 35,767
• Freeholds and
plant . . 522,335 328,711 375,659 397,061
Investments . . 35,009 35,009 35,009' 35,009
Stores and
' stocks . . 35,774 38,399 43,794 53,459
• Book debts and
. cash .. 22,160 209,439 160,875 126,736
Last term plant was further modernised,
£21,402 more being spent on fixed assets
'than was written off. To meet the out-
lay and add £9665 to stocks, etc., and
•reduce the amount coming to outsiders
by £4279, the board drew upon cash and
book debts for £34,139. The year’s con-
traction in the more or less liquid surplus
•(£144,428) was £20,195.
Uncertain as to what the future holds
,for this class of business, the market
prices the 165.-paid shares at 19s. 6d., as
'against 225. 6d. a year ago. The return
'at 19s. 6d. is 7.8 p.c. on a 94 p.c. div.
'basis. The cover is 225. 4d. in net
tangibles.
Peters’ (Sydney)
The parent Peters co. showed a profit
of £87,537 for the year to June 30, com-
pared with £96,813 in the preceding
term. Additions to the depreciation
reserve are now covered up in the
accounts of a subsidiary; in 1938-39
£26,434 was added to this account. The
div. of 8.93 p.c. called for £72,991. Owing
to the existence of the subsidiary, Peters
Ice Cream Pty., in Sydney, to which the
freeholds were transferred last year, it is
difficult to say whether or not profits are
shown on the same basis as hitherto.
The directors express satisfaction with
the year’s results, which, visibly, have
been on a decline since 1938. It is a
remarkably solid business, however, and
the product it turns out has come to be
regarded as a food rather than a con-
fection. The management is not one to
throw money about, and seems to
employ effective methods in coping with
competitors. The fully-paid 14s. shares
at 20s. yield 6.3 p.c. The year’s lowest
price was 15s. lid.
{“The Wild Cat Column” continued on
next page.)


%
IMPW,
wmi
"111,
W !/
<6
o»'' w\wv >:>
**•' * * ‘
~
•SU--
e
s;
VN\\
ft
it BRID !
MILEAG:
with the
mi,
Shell’s extraordinary economy under all
driving conditions, its instant starting and
pick-up—and its unfailing power; all combine
to give those added miles per gallon.
It is Shell’s exceptional performance in every
type of car or truck engine that makes it
so outstanding against all other petrols—
coloured or otherwise.
The Shell Company
of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in
Great Britain)
/ '
50.27
e the ‘Drag-Free’ SHELL MOTOR OIL for further Motoring economies
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLTSON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
“Wild Cat” —(Continued)
Sydney County Council Loan
Sydney County Council, which sup-
plies most of Greater Sydney’s electric
power and light, is making its second
local loan offer—£soo,ooo at par, 12
years, in stock or debentures carrying
3| p.c. The rate is 15s. p.c. below that on
the last public borrowing (£600,000 at
4? p.c. in October, recently at £105), but
compares with an average redemption yield
of £3 3s. 6d. p.c. from Consols. A trustee
investment, the issue is secured upon the
revenue of the council —£3,225,000, as
against loan interest of £687,000, in 1939
—a cumulative sinking fund of 17s. Bd.
p.c. will be provided towards redemp-
tion, and the council is further em-
powered to levy a rate in the district
served to meet its loan commitments, if
necessary. The issue is needed for ex-
tensions to Bunnerong, largely made
necessary by war-time industry’s require-
ments. The underwriters are J. B. Were
and Son.
Great Boulder
Perhaps it would have worked out
more smoothly had Westralia or London
never heard of De Bernales. Several
London papers always have a knife
sharpened for Claude, and he is disliked
by a number of shareholders in his own
cos., so that whatever move a De Ber-
nales concern makes it is sure to
attract attention, which often as not
means hostile criticism.
The proposal to shift Great Boulder’s
office from London to Australia to avoid
double taxation on the face of it is not
without justifiable grounds. The co. pays
Australian gold excise, Australian taxa-
tion and English taxes. Now it has be-
come subject to English excess-profits
tax. (Australian-domiciled gold cos. have
been made exempt from Australian e.-p.t.
—if any—because they pay gold excise,
itself a war tax.) How Great Boulder
shareholders would fare after all income-
tax rebates, etc., as.between Australia and
are , ta^en i nto account the “Wild
~ at doesnt profess to know. But De
Bernales has said, “No dividends unless
we transfer to Australia.” If that is truly
the case, then Great Boulder has every
right to shift its domicile. It isn’t likely
that the Bank of England will be pro-
hibited from paying divs. because of
taxation anomalies. Differential taxation
treatment is bad politics, war or no war.
But seme people would like an inde-
£ end <; nt °P inion <>" just how Great
Boulder s shareholders will be affected
by double taxes - De state-
ments have not always been reliable. The
Chancellor of the Exchequer considers
the proposed shift as “contrary to the
na,ional interests >” and asks for an
assurance that it will be abandoned. By
a vote of 51 to 12 shareholders agreed on
a lransfer ‘° Perth - The minority of a
dozen was particularly hostile, a woman
shouting t 0 Bernales > “We are not going
t 0 be Hitlerised by you.” The proposed
payment of £BOOO sterling to Bernales
and £12,000 to be split up amongst the
other London directors for loss of office
as a result of the transfer was also
noisily contested. Not surprising, either.
When Norseman (W.A.) put out
100,000 new ss. shares last year it spoke
of being able to maintain the div. rate
at 4s. a share, and shareholders forked
out a 220 p.c. premium. Quarterly divs.,
however, were subsequently cut from
Is. to 6d. a share, and now the Septem-
ber distribution has been passed alto-
gether, the assumption being that profits
just don t justify a payment. Since the be-
ginning of the year monthly throughput
has risen by some 7000 tons, most of
which has admittedly come from the low-
grade Iron King, yet the working surplus
has declined by £7600, that for August
being down to £3610. It looks another
instance of plant before adequate de-
velopment, and work is now being fever-
ishly pushed ahead to open up a half-
mile length of. ore between Nos. 9 and 10
levels to rectify matters. Despite official
assurances that nothing has occurred at
either Norseman or Iron King to affect
the co.’s future prosperity and that the
last estimate of reserve ore has been
checked and found conservative, the
market, more concerned with immediate
than long-run prospects, remains none
too happy.
* * * *
Metropolitan Mining (W A.), a small
concern in which several Perth and a
few Eastern States mining men are inter-
ested, shows latest profit? after chipping
off £5218 for special development and an
unspecified sum for goldmining profits
tax, at £11,995. Two dividends, each of
Is. 6d„ absorbed £BBB9, and the balance
goes to reduce the debit in profit and
loss. Reserves, assured and prospective,
are estimated at 4360 tons of loz. ore.
At June 30 there were £7807 of gold pro-
ceeds outstanding and £728 in the bank.
The co.’s holdings are considered to have
possibilities and of becoming bigger pro-
ducers-only 2683 tons was treated last
year. So far mining has been carried
on to a depth of 300 ft
* * * *
Gold Fields Australian Development,
which operates the Moonlight group at
Wiluna, is hopeful of proving Timoni, at
Mt. Ida, worthy of inclusion in its West-
ralian golden assets A recent crushing
of 303 tons yielded 1360 z. Timoni’s
former owner was a Melbourne co.
which issued 135,000 ss. shares, later
raised to 7s A treatment plant was
erected, but refractory ore hurried the
co. into an early grave.
* * * *
Westralian Mines Department proudly
announces that since their inception in
1898 State batteries have milled 2,429,689
tons of gold ore for a production worth
£10,923,486. Treatment of tin ore
yielded metal valued at nearly £lOO,OOO.
Exclusive of leased batteries, 19 depart-
mentally-operated mills are giving pros-
pectors and small mineowners efficient
service.
* * * *
Paringa (W'.A.) in the June quarter
crushed 24,091 tons for £A53,424; in
the 10 months to that date it extracted
£A171,148 from 76,617 tons for a profit
of £71,653. Development between the
200 ft. and 400 ft. levels on the Main and
Croesus lodes is claimed to have opened
up a lot of additional ore. Highest assay
was 10.23dwt., lowest 3.67dwt. The aver-
age was mostly between sdwt. and 7dwt.
* * * *
Giving judgment in a Westralian test
case at the end of July, Chief Justice
Northmore ruled that three plaintiff
tributors on the Great Boulder mine had
entirely failed to establish their claim that
the skips used for hauling their ore held
at least three tons and that the defen-
dant Great Boulder co. had demonstrated
that, in allowing the plaintiffs 2\ tons per
skip, they had fully and fairly accounted
for all ore delivered to them. Now 29
other tributors who brought similar
actions against the co. have filed notices
of discontinuance. A win for the
tributors would have involved Great
Boulder in a big sum.
* * * *
“Old Jack” comes back:
As one of the early birds of the Croydon
field, I’ll say that Slattery, of the Magenta
(B. 18/9/’4O), is pretty right about the re-
spective bullion values in the granite and fel-
site reefs, but does he know that some of the
best gold out of the field came from parts of
the Golden Gate, which is in granite? No. 9
north on the Gate was up to 755. per ounce
standard gold, and True Blue touched 765.; on
the other hand, the Queen of Croydon lode
produced bullion worth only 10s. an ounce.
Cuthbert, of Misima, as a young man worked
the Content, which was not far from the True
Blue; yet its bullion was often not worth
£2 an ounce, and I’ve seen native leaf silver
out of that mine. I think the Content nearly
broke Cuthbert at one time, and it’s one of
the biggest unbroken lodes now lying under
Croydon. It was 20ft. wide in places, but
was cursed with “half-price” bullion.
* * * *
The flotation of the Mt. Chalmers
mine, near Rockhampton (C.Q.), has
been delayed by a Stock Exchange for-
mality. It was considered by some Com-
monwealth authorities to be one of the
main chances of increasing Australia’s
limited copper production for war pur-
poses, with its half-million tons of
copper and 2dwt. of gold. While things
are being straightened out the co. has
a few men working on the oxidised
section, the ore being railed to Mt.
Morgan works for treatment. Besides de-
watering the deeper workings, it is in-
tended to try out an opencut on the
lOOft.-wide outcrop. This is admittedly
low in values, but makes up in grade
where the adit workings meet the sul-
phides.
* * * *
One of the best prospecting yields on
the Charters Towers (N.Q.) field since
the big mines closed down has come from
the Greek Extended North, taken up by
C. R. Gordon and party last May. It
is a first crushing of 20 tons for 4oz.
smelted gold per ton. Even if the shoot
is a bit on the thin side at present, there
is another crushing in sight, and the party
can take heart from the fact that a rich
leader of a couple of inches led Dick
Craven on to the famous Brilliant shoot.
* * * *
The Blue Mountain auriferous area
in the Cooktown (N.Q.) district reacted
favorably a few years back to prospecting
efforts, and got a timely boost from Dr.
H. I. Jensen. It has hung fire, but an
interesting item is a recent trial crushing
of 15 tons from the Orion reef for 21dwt.
per ton.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
jManager W. G. Bui fin
VBBii
»■
HI
/rl
V*
0
K
3b
&
sw
SMOKE-OH!
“That car I hired yesterday—Was it insured?"
w
“Politicians are usually too busy to bother
about birthdays.” —Radio talk.
Still, many appreciated the happy
returns last Saturday.
* * * 4*
“Many well-known movie stars got into films
by accident.” —Talkie guff.
Bad accidents mostly.
•S> ®i> 4"
“A tourist visiting Mt. Kosciusko took a
radio receiving set to the top of the mountain
to try it out.”
Needless to say he got a cold recep-
tion.
•f• •J*
“I would appreciate a recipe for Red Indian
cake.” —Correspondent in women s paper.
And when her husband uses the hatchet
on the finished article she’ll probably go
on the warpath.
4 1 4* 4 1
“To a charge by her husband that he had to
get all the meals, a woman in divorce admitted
that she sometimes allowed her husband to get
her breakfast in bed.” — “Truth.”
Allowed! How some women do
pamper their husbands!
•5* 4* 4* 4 1
Plain, humble bread may be the staff
of life, but you need dough even for
that.
“Read your character by your teeth.”
—Toothpaste ad.
What if they’re false?
•I"
“She was always clamoring for new clothes,
for travel, for excitement.” — Women’s paper.
A real clamor girl.
•J* 4* *1*
Calculating Wives.
“A knowledge of mental arithmetic is valu-
able to every wife.”— Women’s paper.
It’s useful to Maria, anyway. She
thinks of a number of things she wants,
halves it as a means of approach to the
subject, then halves it again as a con-
cession to me; then, having won a
promise, she adds two or three other
items, and finally puts back all she has
taken away, doubles the number she
first thought of, subtracts my cash, multi-
plies her demands and divides what she
should pay the tradespeople by two.
The result of this little sum is invari-
ably the same : I’m broke.
H. M.
“Petitioner in divorce said his wife was a
waitress when he married her.”
She served him right!
•P f * .
“Pearl decided that Harry Price was un-
worthy of her. She would divorce him.”
— Women’s paper.
She wanted to be a Pearl without Price.
•J*
Too many purple patches are liable
to make one feel wornout.
t + + ‘i* '
A man is no sooner adrift on the sea
of matrimony than his mother-in-law
launches her bark.
«|a
“Explosions which many thought were bombs
were barrels of tax exploding, because of the
intense heat.” — “Courier-Mail.”
Usually when the tax gets too hot it’s
the taxpayer who goes off pop.
4*
“Hungry miner threw gelignite to call his wife
home for tea.” —News item.
She probably went home and made it
hot for him.
Pre-sessional.
(To be sung in chorus by those anguished
candidates still sitting on the multi-pronged
fork of preference-vote indecision.)
The tumult and the “shouting” dies;
The noisy underlings depart;
Must we be made a sacrifice
To party blurb ? Ah, have a heart!
O second votes, be with us yet,
Then we’ll be set, then we’ll be set!
If, drunk with sight of power, we loose
Wild tongues, despite our aching jaws,
Recall that our long suit’s abuse;
It puts us not without the laws.
0 second votes, be with us yet,
And soon a cushy job we’ll get!
With touching faith we put our trust
In those we hoped would vote “the
card”
Shall valiant blah be brought to dust ?
Can’t we in comfort Demos guard ?
Our frantic boast and foolish word
Forget—but not our prefs., O Lord!
S. W. Keough, 252 George-street, Sydney.
e
"S.M.H."
All Waive Set.
“How to Listen to Election Results.”
—Wireless paper.
I packed the kids off to Aunt Agatha’s
for the week-end. On Saturday morn-
ing I overhauled the wireless set and
replaced a faulty valve. Slept soundly
all afternoon.
After she’d prepared tea I gave the
wife two bob and told her that “All Bliss
and Hell, Too” was showing at the local
flea-hatchery. Then I ’phoned five pals,
warning them to bring their own bottles.
On their arrival I chucked the aspidistra
out of the window, spread a blanket on
the table, and set the radio dial on my
favorite station. Next I produced a pack
of cards, six glasses and a shallow bowl
for kitty. Then I suggested sixpenny rises,
and started the game off with a jackpot.
But I didn’t switch the wireless on.
PERCIVAL.
Nocturne.
Your head upon your pillow lies,
And moonbeams touch your hair;
Which prompts my soul to poetise
Your beauty, rich and rare.
Like Love’s sweet ministress reposed,
You dream as midnight chimes,
While I have not so much as dozed,
What time I search for rhymes.
But if the so-and-sos above
Us decent hours would keep ,
I’d skip this lay to you, my love,
And yawn myself to sleep !
P. O. M. C.
A Matter of Psychology.
“More and more the psychologist is in de-
mand in the working life of the community;
his is a profession with a future.” — “D.T.”
In the modern industrial sphere the
psychologist’s work is now more or less
stereotyped, but the pioneers of the pro-
fession, who were willing to take it on
in all its branches, had no easy spin.
I was one of the first to embark on
what was then an almost unknown voca-
tion. My father wished me to become
a famous surgeon ; my mother’s choice
was an eminent divine. Certainly I must
have attained distinction as either, for as
a boy I had not only successfully pulled
a tick out of a cat, but had once pricked
my finger without fainting at sight of the
blood; as for ecclesiastics —well, my
uncle once took a clergyman’s niece to a
picnic; also, if, as my
friends say, I argue
like hell, then I
could easily argue
about it. But my
own preference for
a profession was to
run a fish-and-chips
shop.
The three choices
before me, however,
were professions
already crowded, so
I determined to put
my academic
achievements and
wide knowledge to
other use. At school
I had obtained one B
in the intermediate
(I’d have got two
only for the selfish-
ness of the fellow
sitting next to me,
who deliberately
covered his paper up
with his ha n d).
Later I had rounded
off my education by
wide rea d i n g—a
constant perusal of
the Band of Hope’s
periodicals, railway
timetables and my
handbook on fret-
work had given me
a broad knowledge
of life. After ex-
hausting psycho-analytical tests upon
myself 1 decided to become a psychologist.
Fortunately there was no Psychologists’
Board to issue penalties for unprofes-
sional conduct, so I was free to let the
public know just how good I was. After
an intensive advertising campaign I sat
back to await the stream of clients.
The first to respond to my modest
avowal that I could solve any personal
problems by psychology was a small,
elderly man with a furtive air who con-
fided to me that he had a large wife and
larger family—all girls, mostly not so
young, and unmarried. He had long been
a martyr to melancholia, and lately he had
become a prey to superstitions. This
latter had been heightened when, imme-
diately after cutting his nails one Sun-
day, his wife had announced that they
would have to economise—his shilling a
week tobacco allowance would thereafter
be cut out. Next day, on arriving
home after passing a wall-eyed Chinese,
he had learned that his eldest daughter,
upon whom his high hopes of starting a
matrimonial run had been pinned, had
broken off her engagement.
As the following Friday fell on the
13th of the month, I strongly advised
him to select that day to walk under as
many ladders and kick as many black
cats as he could see, and when he got
home to smash his wife’s hand mirror
and with it his fears. Then he could
boldly announce that in the future he
would be sole master in the house and
he would handle all the finances and that
all proposed spending must first meet
with his approval. Out of my knowledge
of women 1 knew that such a display of
masterliness would cow them imme-
diately.
I sent him the bill for my fee the next
week. It came back the following day
with a note saying that when he got
home his wife’s two unmarried sisters
had arrived for an indefinite stay, that
she had given orders that the wireless
must not in future be used for listening
to wrestling matches and that bowls was
an extravagance she would no longer
tolerate. Still, my psychological advice
was not wasted. My client had plucked
up courage to finish up by telling me I
could whistle for my fee.
My next client was a chap who not
only had a bad inferiority complex but
was allergic to all forms of sport. This
was dead easy. I told him that a certain
cure would be to rush in, the next time
he was passing a park in which children
were playing football, and kick the ball
as hard as he could. It would not only
prove a mental tonic, and help to imbue
a love of sport, but put him on a plane
of equality with other human beings/
A few weeks later I saw him limping
along on crutches ; an enormous bandage
encircled his right foot. From what I
could gather from the welter of abuse
which took up most of his explanation
of the circumstance, he had selected a
ball filled with cement which the kids
had specially prepared for those adults
who insisted on spoiling their game.
A bit of advice, unfortunately miscon-
strued, led to my abandonment of the
profession. One day I had a visit from
a huge fellow with a receding fore-
head, prognathous jaw and a worried
look. I shrewdly appraised him as a
teller or cashier who had been gambling
with his employer’s cash. His opening
words confirmed my swift summing-up
of his mental state.
“Can y’ do Anything to git a man some
sleep?” he said. “I ain’t ’ad a decent
snooze f’r days. I know what it is—l bin
worryin’ me guts out about me next”
“Listen!” I interrupted him sternly.
“Why don’t you face up to the struggle
like a man? Put your chin out, stand
flush on your own two feet and take
everything that is coming. You can do
it. After that I’ll guarantee you’ll sleep
like a top, free of all worry.”
He burst unceremoniously into my
consulting-room a few days later. “I
took your advice, y’ blasted wart!” he
growled savagely. “You and your pokin’
y’r chin out an’ takin’ what’s cornin’.
I stopped the ’eaviest right-cross ‘Tiger’
Murphy’s ever let fly. I was out f’r
twenty minutes. Now have a sleep yer-
self, y’ cow, an’ dream of the fee y’
won’t be collecting”—and he gave me
what technically, I believe, is referred to
as an uppercut.
I slept like a top.
BO.


Vf
it:m
■
*
>! |' ' *>, „ ** * j .'* v
: : -
WifmW
m%
mmm®
m
n\m
m
Harvesting on hilly ground,
this "Caterpillar" D 2 Diesel
Tractor , with a 16 foot header , operates at a fuel
cost of 1/- per hour. The owner claims a saving
of 60 % on fuel since he bought the D 2.
Farming is a business, and the farmer is in business to make
profit. That is why thousands more farmers ecch year are
turning to “Caterpillar" to reduce their operating costs.
Ask your nearest dealer to demonstrate right on your own
property "Caterpillar's" versatile, low-cost power, or write
us direct.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Victoria and Tasmania:
William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
521 Collins Street, Melbourne.
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
Unwin’s Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
102 Melbourne St., Brisbane.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Wigmore’s, Limited,
613 Wellington Street, Perth.
Public Notice.
Tongkah Harbour Tin Dredging, Ltd.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
CABLED advice has been received from Kuala
Lumpur that a Dividend of Twenty per cent.
(20%) has been declared by the above Com-
pany payable on October 16, 1940, in respect
of the year ended June 30 last, and that for
the above purpose the Share Registers of the
Company will be closed from the Seventh to
the Sixteenth of October inclusive.
WISE, LORD & FERGUSON,
Australian Secretaries.
Hobart, September 14, 1940.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
This Excess-profits Question
Excess-profits tax is a problem in
several countries. Not only Britain and
Australia have had difficulty in legis-
lating for this feature of war finance ;
the world’s biggest neutral, the U.S.A.,
in August was very voluble about it.
Taxing excess profits fairly is difficult,
and because it is difficult Canberra
has shelved a half-baked proposal that it
made. It has been freely prophesied that
the proposal to tax all earnings in excess
of 8 p.c. on “capital employed” would
be abandoned and some other basis sub-
stituted. It was even stated that the idea
of an excess-profits. levy would be
dropped altogether and an addition to
the general tax rate made. It shouldn’t
be necessary to point out that there is
no substitute for excess-profits taxation
in the economic plan now in force in
Australia. If the general rate of tax
should be lifted, that is something entirely
apart from e.-p.t., which aims to enforce
equality of sacrifice and to prevent exces-
sive income passing to particular sec-
tions of the people shareholders in
monopolies handling essential com-
modities, for example.
The revenue side, in fact, is only one
aspect of e.-p.t. In the Commonwealth
it aimed to raise £5,000,000 a year for
defence. But if an extra windfall of
£5,000,000 came in from, say, Customs
revenue, the need for e.-p.t. doesn’t dis-
appear.
When war broke out price-fixing was
introduced to this country, and it has
worked very effectively. The cost of
living has risen only 3 p.c. since August,
1939. This price-fixing doesn’t in any
way increase Government revenue, but
it is considered an essential to defence.
Why? Because profiteering would pro-
duce inflation, and inflation would create
disorganisation and dispute on all sides.
Effort would be frustrated, and Govern-
ments would have to pay more for war
materials, and therefore would have to
tax more. The country would be no
better off for the inflation ; on the other
hand, much energy would have been
wasted in the confusion it created, with
the rich richer and the poor poorer.
In a more restricted sense, taxation
of excess profits aims to do much the
same job as price control. It takes up
where price control leaves off, since
fixation of prices by itself cannot prevent
unduly high levels of profits being made
in war-time industries. It has been ex-
plained to us repeatedly that, as war
begins to grip us closer and consume
more of the national income, it will be
necessary for us to go without a num-
ber of things (excessive joy-riding, for
instance), and to contribute more of our
money, as loans or taxes, to the Govern-
ment. As a result of this readjustment
of our economy it will be found that
there will be much less money spent in
certain industries (the motor trade, for
example) and much more in others (steel,
textiles, etc.), so that, by reason of lower
turnovers on the one hand and higher
outputs on the other, earnings in various
types of business will tend to become
out of proportion directly as a result
of the war. While little can be done
to help those industries which have suf-
fered, the excess profits of the others
can be at least taxed heavily in order
to assist the general effort and bring high
and low incomes closer to each other.
The original Australian proposal of
this year laid down a scale of tax be-
ginning with earnings in excess of 8 p.c.
on capital employed. From 4 p.c. of
earnings between 8 p.c. and 9 p.c. on
capital the rate rose to a maximum of
60 p.c. of earnings in excess of 22 p.c.
“Capital employed” was a term intended
to cover reserves, but there was con-
siderable argument about capitalising the
value of goodwill, it being acknowledged
that book values of capital and reserves
were, at best, only nominal figures in
many instances. The case of the small
company with comparatively little capital
but proportionately high earnings was
another aspect that called for quali-
fication.
For our own purposes it is interesting
to consider how far the problem has
been thrashed out overseas. In the
U.S.A. it has been proposed to treat
excess profits really as excess profits.
What is considered a normal pre-war
profit has first of all to be ascertained.
Thus earnings are averaged over three
or four preceding years, and the
co. has the option of taking the actual
earnings or their percentage to capital
as a base. This base, exemption or
“credit”’ then becomes the standard for
e.p.-t. If a co.’s excess over “normal”
profits in 1940-41 is equal to 10 p.c. of
average profits over the past three years,
the e.-p.t. rate is 25 p.c. on the excess ;
on the next 10 p.c. excess the rate is
30 p.c.; on excesses of more than 20
p.c. the rate is 40 p.c.
Where a co. has had losses in the
base period these loss years cannot be
excluded, but they may be taken as
“zero years”—no profit and no loss, but
the year represents a dividing factor for
averaging purposes. Where average
earnings represent under 4 p.c. on capi-
tal then 4 p.c. is the exemption rate.
(The rate is 6 p.c. on capital under
500,000 dollars.) In the tentative shape
it took last month the U.S. measure
contemplated allowing borrowed capital
“evidenced by a written promise to pay”
as portion of the equity capital “under
a graduated limitation at varying per-
centages.”
The Americans have recognised in their
scheme the necessity for encouraging
defence production—the proceeds of
e.-p.t. are for defence—and thus a liberal
scale of depreciation allowance on new
plant installed for aircraft and munitions
manufacture is to be For a
while the measure in hand held up ex-
pansion in defence production, but manu-
facturers were assured that they would
not be penalised for assisting in rearma-
ment, and contracts with the Govern-
ment were then taken freely.
In the United Kingdom the e.-p.t.
provisions are wide and drastic. There
is a base period preceding the outbreak
of war for ascertaining average normal
profits, and anything above the average
is taken in full by taxation. This 100
p.c. tax applies even where average profits
have been only 2 p.c. or 3 p.c. on capital,
though a later Finance Bill, it has been
intimated, may introduce a minimum of
4 p.c. As the law stands, where, say, a
coalmining co. which has made losses
for several past years now earns 2 p.c.
on its capital the whole of those earnings
is confiscated.
One thing is particularly clear from a
study of the foregoing. Both Britain and
the U.S.A. establish a base from past
experience on which to calculate excess
earnings. The Australian suggestion is
simply a “high-profits tax,” not an ex-
cess-profits levy. And the U.S.A. option
of choosing standard average earnings
or standard rates to capital has much to
commend it.
The Standard Oil Co. of Australia,
Adelaide, which has a lot of windbagging
to its credit, is threatening to sue some
dismayed shareholders who haven’t paid
up in full. There is dark talk about
the co.’s ability at law to recover unpaid
calls as long as 20 years hence. All very
dispiriting to those who cheerfully paid
application and allotment money and
then expected gushers to gush.
* * * *
Sydney has been the source of most
activity in the sharemarkets since re-
covery from the June depths. Nearly
every day Sydney prices have been slightly
above Melbourne levels. Thus Kandos
Cement 16s. shares in Sydney rose to
above 305., the equivalent of 375. 6d. per
£1 of capital, whereas Australian Cement
£1 scrip in Melbourne last sold at 365.
Though the relationship between the two
issues at those prices is probably fair
enough, in the past the Melbourne stock
has nearly always been at a premium
over Kandos. This stimulating force
entering the sharemarkets from Sydney
has been mainly influencing industrial
shares. Melbourne has a larger turnover
in gold issues, better-class mines being
bought into because of the freedom of
goldmining divs. from income tax. Vic-
toria itself has a number of div.-paying
gold shows, and in addition there are
Westralians, Fiji’s and some Queensland
stocks to pick from. Sydney is more
interested in tin and Barriers.
After a setback to the market follow-
ing the intensified night bombing of
London, investors took a more hopeful
view when the anti-aircraft defences were
reorganised to some effect. From 123.52
on Sept. 12 the Sydney industrial-share
index stepped up again to 125.06 on Sept.
17, passing the high point of 125.05
touched on Sept. 7. On the 18th there
was a setback to 124.90 following heavier
damage to London. Immediate results of
the aerial war have had a decided in-
fluence on day-to-day market prices. This
market attitude is not entirely rational,
but it is probably natural enough. A
strong tone carried the index up to 125.20
on the 19th.
There is always the danger that
the spectacular aspect of things may
distract attention from other aspects just
as important. The internal position of
Australia is still of great consequence to
investors. In this respect it shouldn’t be
overlooked that the season is bad, that
taxes are heavy and increasing and
that, owing to some redistribution of the
national income because of concentration
on munitions production, all industries
aren’t likely to have identical trading
experiences under war conditions. Some
types of investment will probably benefit
from war spending, while others vill per-
haps suffer. Although trade restriction will
apply particularly to motor and petrol
firms and engineering concerns depen-
dent thereon, there will be many other
classes of business affected. Nearly all
importing concerns have already been
marked down on the share lists—Gordon
and Gotch, William Adams and Arthur
Cocks are examples—and some manufac-
turing and distributing concerns will find
that they are working in circumstances
that have changed for the worse. Build-
ing activity has fallen off rather than
increased since war broke out, and ship-
ping cos. have adverse conditions to
operate in ; though the cos. plying within
their own States seem to be doing well
still, inter-State concerns have had many
troubles to contend with, arising out of
Government charterings, fallen passenger
traffic and increased running costs.
Textile cos. are a class which is bene-
fiting from war expenditure. The share-
market has taken these cos. to its heart,
though most of them it usually avoids
unless the scrip is going cheap. Even
Warrnambool Woollen and Amalgamated
Textiles have been sought after, the latter
stock rising to 7s. 3d. last week, though
the average div. over the past 10 years
has been under 2 p.c. Better-class shares
like Yarra Falls, Australian Knitting
Mills and Valley Worsted have had more
solid support, Y.F. being the leading stock
of its class. It sold fairly freely at 435. 6d.
lately, coming back to 425. 6d. last week.
In the cotton section all scrip is above
par except in the case of Bond’s In-
dustries. Bradford Cotton commands the
highest premium (at 38s. for the £1
shares), while H. B. Dickie, Davies Coop
and Stirling Henry are all active and
buoyant. It shouldn’t be forgotten that
for ordinary peace-time requirements
Australia is oversupplied with woollen
mills, especially those making flannels,
blankets, rugs, etc. The position in re-
gard to worsteds is perhaps different, but
Yarra Falls is one of the few cos. in its
class that have had a consistent and re-
munerative div. experience over a lengthy
period.
So far as cotton-mills are concerned,
there has always been a shortage
of locally-made stuff, and Bradford
Cotton made good money for a
lengthy period before the war. Over
the last twelve months the Commonwealth
Government has conferred both a bounty
and a duty on certain parts of the in-
dustry,- and these aren’t likely to be
dropped immediately the war is over.
Still, renewed competition is something
to be prepared for later on.


I
*
■ j
3P
Bm i
m.
xms
-5: „ ',«■■ *
DUNKIRK
“QO LONG as the English tongue survives, the word Dunkirk will be
O spoken with reverence. For in that harbor, in such a hell as never
blazed on earth before, at the end of a lost battle, the rags and blemishes that
have hidden the soul of democracy fell away. There, beaten but uncon-
quered, in shining splendor, she faced the enemy.
They sent away the wounded first. Men died so that others could escape.
It was not so simple a thing as courage, which the Nazis had in plenty. It
was not so simple a thing as discipline, which can be hammered into men by
a drill sergeant. It was not the result of careful planning, for there could
have been little. It was the common man of the free countries, rising in all his
glory out of mill, office, factory, mine, farm and ship, applying to war the
lessons learned when he went down the shaft to bring out trapped com-
rades, when he hurled the lifeboat through the surf, when he endured
poverty and hard work for his children’s sake.
This shining thing in the souls of free men Hitler cannot command, or
attain, or conquer. He has crushed it, where he could, from German hearts.
It is the great tradition of democracy. It is the future. It is victory.”
THIS INSPIRING TRIBUTE IS REPRODUCED FROM "THE NEW YORK TIMES’*
BY GILLETTE INDUSTRIES LIMITED, ISLEWORTH, ENGLAND,
MAKERS OF RAZORS AND BLADES FOR THE
BRITISH AND DOMINION ARMIES.
(Copies of this announcement, printed on art paper, may be obtained free of charge on application to Vhipson Company (Tty) Ltd., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.)
Associated Pulp and Paper, Burnie,
Tas., is behind with its accounts this
vear. In 1939 they were made up to
April 30 and presented at the annual
meeting on September 7. In the 1938-
39 term a loss of £51,823 was shown
... t a om ; n „ anH pv
without charging degroiat ° n . and eX
eluding £7773 of administration exes
charged to plant account After some
mind-changing the Federal Govern-
ment granted the co. a duty ; the Tariff
Board’s recommendation was a British
preferential tariff of £3 10s. a ton (general
£7 10s.) on printing, writing and type-
writing papers (not mill-glazed) “the fur-
nish of which includes up to 25 p.c.
mechanical pulp.” The board based its
recommendations on pre-war conditions,
and said that they might not apply in
later circumstances. As it turns out, the
war has given Associated Pulp much
greater protection than what the Govern-
ment granted. Paper prices overseas
have soared (Scandinavia being cut off
from the non-Nazi world now), and
demand, helped by licensing of dollar
imports, has been extremely keen.
Associated Pulp started off in April,
1936, and made paper- from imported
pulp in August, 1938. Preliminary
manufacture from the co.’s own eucalypt
pulp began at the end of 1938. Capacity
of the paper mill is now 75 tons a day.
For a time output of the pulp mill was
behind that of the paper machine. After
the first 12 months’ operations paper-
making was well under control, spoiled
lots being rare. Provided full capacity
of the plant is now being worked, the co.
should be making profits good enough
to provide for all contingencies and pay
satisfactory divs. Before disclosing pro-
fits for the year to April 30 last it may
clean up some of the deferred expendi-
ture of preceding years, and before
declaring a div. attention may be given
to finances—the co. owed £341,692 on
30/4/’39. North 8.H., B.H. South, Zinc
Corp., Electro. Zinc and A.C.I. have
priority over any new issues (up to
300,000 shares) until the end of 1943.
Present paid capital is £1,200,000, and
the £1 ord. shares are priced at 265.
* * * *
The coal strike notwithstanding, J. and
A. Brown-Abermain Seaham disclosed a
profit of £94,964 for the year to June 30,
against £94,911 in 1938-39. The div.
rate, unchanged at 5 p.c., called for
£95,000. Before arriving at the profit
£60,000 was visibly set aside for depre-
ciat’ion and £5OOO for contingencies.
* * * *
Davies, Coop and Co., the Victorian
cotton concern that has not been back-
ward in pushing forward these last few
years, showed a profit of £91,350 during
the term to June 30, compared with
£63,197 in the preceding 12 months. A
jx p.c. ord. div. represented an un-
changed rate, and, after payment of the
6 p.c. prefs., £50,159 of the year’s profit
remained in the business—more than the
div. requirements (£41,191). On capital
as it stood at June 30 (£562,094—£150,000
in prefs.) a full year’s div. at present rates
would call for £44,540, which is still
less than half the 1939-40 showing. The
co. owed outsiders £273,348 (up £88,356)
at balance day, and as there is so far no
slackening in the expansion of the cotton
textile industry more additions to the
share-register may be contemplated. The
future is not guaranteed, however,
Present demand has been stimulated in
a great degree by war. Defence demand
itself has called for big quantities of
cotton drills, ducks, canvas, underwear,
etc., and the cutting-off of overseas sup-
plies has encouraged greater Australian
production of yarn for other mills,
Davies, Coop has subsidiaries in Adelaide
and Sydney, in which it has invested
£162,000; the S.A. co., already in pro-
duction, is interested in heavy water-
proof coverings, amongst other things,
and the N.S.W. pup will turn out naval
uniforms and various cotton cloths. One
of the parent’s latest interests is tyre
cord. On this product, duck, canvas,
etc., an additional duty, plus bounty, was
recently granted.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
BLOCKADE TODAY.
[Condensed from London “Economist,” this article
reviews the position since the collapse of France and
with all Europe blockaded.]
It should be emphasised, before going into detail,
that the power of blockade, as an instrument of mili-
tary success, has been consistently overstated since last
September. It could never be more than a means to
the end of victory in the field. The aim of blockade
and other methods of exerting pressure upon the
enemy s war economy is simply to weaken his powers
of attack and endurance. Without parallel steps to
strengthen those powers on this side of the battle, by
the full mobilisation of economic resources, the effi-
cacy of blockade is a mirage, a delusion comparable
to the Maginot-complex that bemused and enervated
France.
Nevertheless, blockade remains a major and in-
dispensable weapon, which will play a crucial part in
the further stages of the war. Its use is based upon
the enemy’s lack of materials which his war indus-
tries and fighting forces need —metals, alloys, textiles,
rubber, vegetable oils, animal feeding stuffs, farm fer-
tilisers and oil. The index of striking power in modern
war is power to produce, and the first question now is
whether Germany’s conquests have yielded supplies
of the basic materials of production to make up her
former deficiencies. The answer is an encouraging
one, except in the important instances of iron and
steel and aluminium.
By the conquest of Norway, the Germans ensured
their supplies of Swedish iron ore and Scandinavian
timber. From the industries of Southern Norway,
engaged in processing imported metals and alloys, they
gained nothing but accumulated stocks. By the occu-
pation of Denmark, they seized an option upon stocks
and current supplies of Danish farm produce, but
simultaneously the Danes lost the overseas supply of
feeding-stuffs and fertilisers upon which their farm-
ing relied. So, too, with invaded Holland, whose
agriculture is peculiarly dependent upon imports. The
usefulness of the textile factories and secondary indus-
tries of the Low Countries and France will be sharply
limited by the cutting-off of imported materials —
cotton, wool, copper, zinc and oilseeds. The coal
secured in Holland, Belgium and Northern France is
not needed now (except perhaps to eke out Italy’s
meagre supplies), since both Germany and conquered
Poland normally sold large quantities of coal abroad —
though, if the Germans attempt to make full use of the
industrial capacity they have captured, they will find
themselves short of coal for either domestic or factory
use, or both.
The case of iron is, unfortunately, very different.
There should be little difficulty in producing, with the
aid of French and Belgian steelworks, all the crude
steel that Germany needs. However, munitions steel
requires alloys—manganese, nickel, tungsten and
chrome. Both Germany and German-controlled
Europe are seriously deficient in all of these, and it
does not seem likely that Soviet Russia (or Yugoslavia,
Greece and Turkey in the case of chromium alone)
will be able or willing to reduce this gap appreciably.
To the large but qualified gain in steel, aluminium
must be added. Germany herself has no bauxite at
all for making aluminium, but France is the world’s
largest producer. Until France collapsed bauxite
might have been scarce ; now, there should be no
shortage of aluminium for Hitler’s warplanes.
Nevertheless, on balance, Germany’s vulnerability
to economic pressure has been little altered. War-
planes and tanks need oil and petrol, and apart from
captured stocks Western Europe has yielded no oil
at all for the invaders. Italy, too, has very little oil
apart from what was accumulated during the months
of her non-belligerency ; and from every accessible
source of supply (excluding Russia) Germany can
obtain no more than 12 million tons a year, even
assuming that every ton of Rumanian oil goes to the
Reich, and that adequate transport facilities are avail-
able. The normal peace-time consumption of Europe
(without Russia) is considerably more than twice that
amount.
The food position, too, will be serious. Blockaded,
German Europe is potentially worse off than Ger-
many was before. Normally, Europe is a net im-
porter of all the basic foodstuffs except potatoes. For
all kinds of animal feeding stuffs and many fertilisers,
as well as for edible oils, European agriculture is very
largely dependent upon imported supplies. In addi-
tion, the mobilisation of peasants and farm workers
and the ravages of actual warfare, coming hard upon
an abnormal frost, have gravely diminished the chances
of a good harvest all over the Continent.
In sum, therefore, Germany’s economic gains by
conquest are not enough to weaken Britain’s blockade
weapon very much. The invaders have, admittedly,
captured stocks of food, oil, war equipment and raw
materials, as well as scrap of all descriptions. But
most of these stocks cannot be replaced in Europe.
They are short-term gains only. While they last,
Germany is undoubtedly stronger than she was before
the campaign of Western Europe began, but it is now
the task of blockade to ensure that she will never
be so strong again, to make quite certain that, encom-
passed by her conquests, she will become progres-
sively weaker.
Before the Blitzkrieg started, the Allied blockade
was hampered by the existence on Germany’s borders
of neutral countries whose right to trade with the out-
side world was fully recognised. Countries like Italy
and, to a lesser extent, Holland were inevitably corri-
dors for trade with Germany. Within their frontiers,
stocks heaped up for the Germans to seize when they
choose. There remain Portugal, Spain, the Balkans
and Soviet Russia. For the moment it is not Russia’s
interest to hew wood and draw water for the Reich,
and it should be well within the capacity of seapower
and firm diplomacy to seal the gaps and starting
holes still left.
At bottom, it is a simple strategical problem. So
long as the British Navy can command the Atlantic
sea routes, the Mediterranean approaches, the Western
Mediterranean and the Levant, Hitler’s military suc-
cesses make very little difference to the pattern of eco-
nomic warfare, unless they lead to decisive changes at
sea. As Napoleon found, the British blockade cannot
be beaten on land.
The final question, then, is: Has the strategical
position at sea been altered, can the Axis Powers
effect any decisive change in the balance of power at
sea? There is nothing to suggest that they can.
German submarines and bombers have failed to dis-
turb the carrying-out of the Navy’s daily duties. The
British blockade is based upon control of the high
seas, which is not perceptibly in danger. It is a long-
distance blockade Ships can be intercepted and
cargoes sifted long before a European landfall is made.
Tactically, Germany with more ports and bases is
better off than she was. Strategically, she has made
no advance, unless she can turn the tables, either by
invading and subjugating the British Isles themselves
or by isolating them, cutting off vital supplies by sink-
ing ships and blocking ports. Germany cannot beat
the blockade. She can only try to defeat the
blockaders.
It is a question of seapower and air strength ; and
it will be decided in battle. Meanwhile, Britain’s
superiority in the economic war remains. Britain is
cut off from most of Europe’s trade. She has lost
—Philadelphia “Inquirer,” U.S.A.
THE CONQUEROR CASTS A LEAN SHADOW.
Sweden’s iron ore; Norway’s refined and processed
metals ; Scandinavian timber; food from Denmark
and Holland ; Belgian steel; and bauxite, fruit and
vegetables from France. Trade in iron ore and
copper from Spain and North Africa is uncertain.
Trade in the Mediterranean is temporarily cut off. But
these are not lasting blows, because the resources of
the entire world outside are accessible. More steel
can be shipped from North America to make up for
lost iron ore, and more oil; more food from the
Empire; more bauxite from North America and
Dutch Guiana ; more timber from Canada and the
United States. The real limiting factors, unless and
until British seapower is significantly shaken, are the
tons of shipping space available, the amount of foreign
exchange and, above all perhaps, the capacity and
accessibility of British ports.
The Battle of Britain will be a battle for the seas
as well. While it lasts, the blockade will hurt the
enemy very little. But, if and when it is won, economic
pressure will tell progressively as the months pass.
Hitler has not broken out of Europe and the grip of
Britain; and there is every reason for the most
rigorous blockade of all Europe, without exception,
to the end of that unhappy continent’s eventual
enfranchisement, prosperity and peace.
*****
(American pro-British view on the blockade advanced
by New York “Herald Tribune.”)
It is obvious that in the measure in which the
British blockade weapon is successful, the food prob-
lem in Europe is, sooner or later, bound to be acute ;
it is also obvious that the occupied territories will
be the first and Nazi Germany the last to suffer under
the pressure. It cannot be helped. The prospect
represents simply another horror of the war which the
Nazis chose to unloose upon the world, and another
illustration of the fact that totalitarianism permits
none to be neutral toward it —it forces those who do
not oppose it to become its accomplices.
The French, Belgians and others who laid down
their arms before it will now be starved to support
its victories ; a humane impulse in America is to be
used as an instrument to break the blockade, to tap
American resources on Hitler’s behalf and to bring
the United States into economic and political alliance.
No halfway point is possible. The Nazis have made
their New Europe, with all its potential horrors and
deprivations. Unless the United States wishes to par-
ticipate in and consolidate their achievement it has
no option save to leave the Nazis and all their unfor-
tunate victims to lie in the bed they have made. The
safety of the United States admits of nothing else,
and it is well that the fact should be understood by
all those who raise their voices here, before it is
clouded either by the enticements of trade which may
be held out or the plays which will certainly be made
upon humanitarian emotions.
Britain Ready.
[This brief item, condensed from an article by a
New York “Times” correspondent with the defending
forces in Britain, broadly indicates Britain’s prepared-
ness to meet invasion.]
Here is a general summary of what has been
done:—
Coast: Harbors, beaches, cliffs—all have been
fortified. Millions of miles of barbed wire stretch
along the shore line, -sometimes to the sea itself; where
it would be possible to land tanks from barges there
are tank blocks and traps. Invaders would be met
with a blast of enfilading fire from weapons ranging
from Bren machine-guns to heavy guns firing from
blockhouses, pillboxes and rifle pits.
Tucked away in the countryside miles from the
coast are batteries of big guns. The army depends on
these and on Royal Air Force bombers, “artillery of
the air,” to prevent the Germans from establishing a
“bridgehead” through which heavy material could be
landed and reinforcements moved.
Inland: Roads leading to the coast and running
laterally to it are swept by guns and ceaselessly
patrolled by R.A.F. ’planes, armored cars and truck-
loads of infantry. Every hill with a commanding
position has been fortified. Many barns and houses
of tactical importance have been turned into minia-
ture forts, easy in England, where many houses are
built of stone. The roads present a problem. They
stagger through the countryside, often have a dozen
sharp turns to the mile. At each turn the army has
a position, or the makings of one.
Airfields: Prime defence against parachutists and
troop ’planes are batteries of machine-guns sweeping
fields. Mobile infantry detachments are posted near
by for counter-attacks. Miles away batteries of heavy
guns are trained on the fields. The anti-aircraft guns
of the aerodromes also can be trained on landing
‘planes.
Mobility: Buses, trucks, carryalls, leased from
civilians, have been added to the British Expeditionary
Force’s already large supply, and mobility, in the words
of a divisional general, is “100 per cent.” Mobile de-
tachments of motor-cyclists, bicyclists, Bren-gun car-
riers and small, fast trucks will precede the regular
infantry. These units have high fire power and will
spearhead counter-attacks supported by bombing and
strafing.
Armored fighting vehicles: Latest of these is the
“Beaverette,” a small armored car of considerable
speed that is well adapted to the narrow roads and
rolling countryside. The Beaverette has an open top
that makes it an easy target for strafing aircraft. But
it is faster and more manoeuvrable than other armored
cars.
London by Blackout.
(Condensed from the New York publication “PM,”
and written by one of its staff correspondents in
London .)
The depth of the London darkness in the black-
out is so profound that for the first night or so you
do not dare to venture into it; you just sit in your
silent room and look at the heavy draperies, tightly
pulled over the windows.
You read the notice on the mantel: “Visitors are
requested not to interfere with the curtains and blinds
once they have been drawn by the staff. It is impera-
tive for the safety of the country that the blackout is
strictly enforced and the police will act if any light
whatsoever is visible from outside.” You wonder how
does the staff know that no light is showing from
your window —you ask yourself, “Are they sure?”
and you start to pull the curtains together a little
tighter but decide against it; you had better leave
everything alone.
Next you see a notice on the bureau which states
that in the event of an air raid all guests will be
awakened by the telephone operator and also by
members of the staff knocking on the door, and that
you will be allowed five minutes to dress, after which
you will be escorted by the hall attendant to the
shelter in the basement. That really gives you the
willies. It makes you begin to hear things—the
sounds of the buses in the streets begin to take on
immediately the purr of Messerschmitt motors.
You wonder, too, what would happen if the staff
forgot about you, if they overlooked you in the rush.
So you ring the hall attendant and ask him how loud
does the London air-raid siren sound, will it wake
you? The attendant, who has been shining your
shoes, just grins and says the siren is as loud as
destruction and no bloody fear, sir, you’ll hear it.
“But will I know what it is?” “You’ll know,” he says.
He shuts the door, and you begin to make your
final preparations for a night that you have abso-
lutely no faith in.
You put a flashlight on a chair, you get out
your gas-mask, you place your bedroom shoes so you
can step into them in darkness or in case you are up
in a panic. You put the room key and your money and


passport and identification cards in a pocket, and
with that you turn out the light. You listen for a
while to the heavy steps of soldiers in the streets, to
the lighter taps of civilians on their way home from
the movies. You listen to the buses changing gear,
and the next thing you know it is morning and you
have a feeling of being awake in a world you never
expected.
After about the second night you venture boldly
out into the darkness, picking your way like a blind
man, and as you are an American alien and are not
allowed out after curfew, you do not go very far from
your hotel. You walk about just a little, watching the
policemen in white coats directing traffic. The traffic
lights are red, green and yellow crosses —slits placed
well back in heavily-cupped lamps.
As a journalist you get permission to be out
until 6 a.m. You begin to learn a new London —the
London of the blackout, the city that navigates through
darkness. You begin to realise that London as a sil-
houette goes on for ever —miles and miles and still
there is London against the sky. In the darkness,
against the clouds, you see the chimneys and cupolas
that you had never noticed before —you see how much
it owes to Sir Christopher Wren, how curving, how
rounded it is as a city. New York in a blackout would
be a straight line, but London is domed against balloon
barrages and Venus.
You get more passes and you travel into other
areas and you eventually yourself hear the sound of
destruction —the siren and the drone of ’planes and the
guns sounding and a bomb dropping. You come back
to London after that and you say to the hall atten-
dant, “Well, will tonight be the night?” He says, as he
always says, “You never can tell about Jerry, sir.”
Liquidating the Middle Class.
(Condensed from a ‘‘Saturday Evening Post” article
by Peter F. Drucker.)
One of the major victims of Hitler’s Blitzkrieg
has not even been mentioned in the headlines or by
the radio commentators —the European middle classes.
Dive bombers and tanks kill poor and rich alike, but
on the economic and social front the main attack is
directed against the middle classes. It is not only
against their livelihood —their incomes, their savings,
their properties, which are being used to feed
the insatiable war machines. Their mode of life, the
material and intellectual independence of the small
man, his freedom in choosing a profession for him-
self, and his children’s chance to get an education are
threatened as never before.
The German middle classes have been attacked
economically and socially right from the beginning
of Nazi rule. Today they are weakened and exhausted
to the point of destruction. The Nazi slogan for the
war, “Down with the plutocracies,” is not only a
smoke screen for the Nazi aim of military and poli-
tical domination at home ; it is also the camouflage
for the social revolution against the middle classes
all over Europe. In the small countries in Western
and Northern Europe which have either been overrun
by the German armies or which, like Sweden and Fin-
land, live under the shadow of swastika and Soviet
star,' this aim seems very near realisation. Although
the position of the middle classes in England and
France had been maintained largely intact before
France turned totalitarian, their economic position
had deteriorated more in nine months of war than
it had in the preceding ten years of intermittent
depression.
England today is clearly aware of the danger, but
unable to do much about it. For the totalitarian
drive against the middle classes has as an ally the
economic and social realities of modern warfare. They
have forced the British to fight total war with total
war, dictatorship with dictatorship; the attack upon
the middle classes from the outside with an attack
from the inside.
Every one of the European belligerents spends
currently between one-half and two-thirds of his total
income on the war. However popular it would be
to soak the rich, they can obviously be made to
contribute only a minute fraction of the fantastic
sums required. English liberal economists, anything
but friendly to “economic royalists,” figured recently
that the complete confiscation of all incomes above
£2OOO would not bring enough to pay for ten days
of war. Yet England has more rich men than any
other European country, and they are richer too.
Nor could the working classes in Europe pay
for the war; their incomes are already close to the
subsistence level and they have no savings. Their
sacrifices must take the form of longer working hours.
But, obviously, there is a physical limitation to the
number of hours a man can work. It had been
leached in Germany even before the war began, and
is rapidly being approached in England. The class
which must bear the main economic burden of the
war is the middle class.
The dictatorial powers voted the British Govern-
ment in May have already been used to close numer-
ous small businesses. Their equipment and labor
forces are being transferred to big business or to
Government-controlled authorities. But even more
serious for the English middle class than this discrimi-
nation against the small man is the transfer of the
whole fabric of international trade to the Govern-
ment—another inevitable step in total war. Exports,
imports, international shipping, transport insurance,
international credit and money movements have all
become Government monopolies. It is the Govern-
ment that buys wheat in Australia or cotton in India,
ships it in bottoms chartered “for the duration,” in-
sures it with a Government-controlled insurance pool,
sells it to the consumer at home and finances it with
loans from the Treasury. All this was formerly done
by .private small businesses. And on the proceeds of
these businesses lived one-third of the British people
and virtually the bulk of the British middle classes.
Europe’s neutral countries were predominantly
middle-class countries. Extreme poverty and great
wealth alike were rare, and social tension was corre-
spondingly low. In all other parts of Europe the
farmer is essentially a peasant, but in these small
countries he belonged to the middle classes and
regarded himself as a small businessman.
The German invasion constitutes a lightning
attack upon the foundations of this middle-class
society in the small countries. Ail of them are com-
pletely dependent upon foodstuffs and raw materials
from overseas. Between 80 and 100 per cent, of the
wheat they need must be imported. Three out of
four cows in Denmark, two out of four in Holland,
must be fed with imported fodder. Belgium is the
only small neutral that has enough coal, Sweden the
only one that has enough iron ore and timber for her
own needs ; none has any oil, copper or wool. And
all of them —even Sweden, though not yet invaded —
are now completely cut off from the outside world.
Already the Danish farmers are slaughtering cows
and hogs, since they can no longer feed them ; they
are being forced to change from prosperous middle-
class farmers back into peasants on a subsistence basis.
The shipowners in Norway, the importers and ex-
porters in Holland, the insurance brokers in Gote-
borg, Sweden’s cheerful and busy North Sea port,
were completely thrown out of business overnight.
Their dependence upon reasonably free inter-
European trade on a basis of private business makes
the outlook very dark for the middle classes in the
neutral countries. The French farmer, the English
banker and the German manufacturer can perhaps
still survive if all European international trade is put
on a Government-controlled barter basis ; they have
their home markets to fall back on. The neutrals
— "Daily Mirror,” London.
THE NEW LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
have almost no home market; they must export and
import or die.
That democratic government in Europe rests
upon the middle classes is obvious, and explains the
reluctance with which the democracies have introduced
anti-middle-class measures. But with the exception
of the “brown Bolsheviks” —the small group of con-
firmed Nazi revolutionaries who believe in “perma-
nent revolution” and “permanent war” —the Nazi
leaders are also scared when they consider what will
happen after the middle classes have been destroyed.
They know that the stability not only of the democ-
racies but of their own regime in Germany as well
rests upon middle-class support. And even the “brown
Bolsheviks” realise that the technical, engineering and
economic organisation of Germany under Nazi rule
was only possible because there was a huge reservoir
of middle-class knowledge, experience and savings on
which the Nazi State could draw. Certainly Hitler
himself is well aware of this ; all close observers of
his policies agree that he was opposed to every single
one of the anti-middle-class measures in Germany,
which were, nevertheless, enacted and enforced.
The real explanation of the attack upon the Euro-
pean middle classes lies in the nature of total war —
the Nazi theory of warfare, which every European
country has been forced to adopt in self-defence.
Europe has no future unless total war can be over-
come. But will it be overcome soon enough for the
European middle classes to survive?
Modern British Pilots.
(Condensed from a New York ‘‘Times Magazine”
article.)
It is almost impossible to pick a type of modern
British pilots. They differ as all men differ, but there
are certain characteristics common to them all.
First, they are thin. Second, they are apt to be
comparatively small —especially fighter pilots. There
is no room for a big man in the cramped cockpit of a
Hurricane or Spitfire. They give the impression of tre-
mendous physical fitness. While waiting to take off
they are apt to go to the airport courts for a game of
squash tennis.
These boys are far different from the hard-drink-
ing aviator popularly considered as typical after the
last war. They don’t stay up all night on their infre-
quent leaves. The days when an aviator took off
half-drunk, with a bottle of champagne in the cock-
pit, are definitely over. There is no room for the
bottle ; and in a modern ’plane there is no chance for
any pilot who has not got his nerves under perfect
control.
Aerial tactics today differ widely from those of
the time when Bishop, Ball and other famous World
War fliers operated. Those airmen were primarily
individuals. Once they left the ground they were
pretty much on their own. Today even a fighter
squadron operates as a unit. Each pilot is in touch
with his squadron-leader or flight-lieutenant by radio.
Should he show signs of deviating, he is quickly called
to order. The squadron attacks as a unit. The
squadron-leader in turn is in touch with the home
base and operates according to orders. He makes
frequent reports to his superiors. The earphones and
mouthpiece which are part of every pilot’s headgear
ensure that the old days of individualism are almost
gone.
Above all, the impression these pilots leave is one
of youth. They seem so pathetically young and fine
to take off into a blue summer sky and never return.
One expects young men to die blindly as part of great
armies. But that these highly-trained and highly-
skilled youths should leave their peaceful deckchairs
and fly out to death on a sunny afternoon brings the
waste of war close home.
These fliers are accepted only between the ages
of 18 and 28. And the best pilots are the younger
rather than the older ones. The captain of a huge
Sutherland flying-boat, with a crew of seven or eight
under him, is probably under 24. Only a lucky lot
become pilots. These men receive intensive training
in flying and groundwork and enough drill to make
them military. Finally the best of them get their wings.
In conversation with these pilots one thing stands
out. That is their completely impersonal attitude
toward the enemy. Talking to them is like hearing a
gunner tell of a day’s success in the duck blind. They
never refer to “him” ; it is always to
“it,” or more usually to “them.”
Away in the sky with only the
impersonal radio giving you orders,
with only yourself to talk with, the
war takes on a different aspect from
the hand-to-hand conflict which sol-
diers know. You leave your quiet
lunch for a patrol. Then you fight
for your life against tremendous
odds. If you are lucky you may kill
an indeterminate number of the
enemy. If you are unlucky you are
killed yourself. But within two
hours, if all goes well, you are back
home —you haven’t fuel for more
than that. Then you are probably
off again.
The speed with which this
modern war in the air is fought
makes for tremendous nerve strain.
The only way a man can stand it is
by training himself to watch it im-
personally, do the job he is trained
to do and shoot down German
’planes with the same coolness and
unself-consciousness with which in
poace-time he aimed his camera-gun
at another ’plane of his own squad-
ron. Only one thing—the offensive
spirit which these boys possess in the
highest degree —is as important as
technique. The two really are
complementary. One is useless without the other.
No one, not even a member of the royal family,
can wear wings unless he is a qualified pilot. The
insignia are given only to those who have actually
flown ’planes, and given regardless of rank. At present
they are a full license for flight and fight until you’re
red-eyed, weary and strained ; they are tantamount, if
you are a young Briton, to a certificate of willingness
to fling yourself and your ’plane—in some cases your
crew —full into the face of an enemy who outnum-
bers you incredibly. The Elizabethan ancestors of
these boys took on in a different medium the far
greater fleets of Spain, relying solely on the strength
and speed of their sailing-ships and on their own
strong hearts. The parallel is inescapable today.
* * * * *
(From a New York “Times Magazine” article by
Robert P. Post.)
The thought of human and economic wastage
involved in the explosion of tons of bombs does not
occur to the average pilot. He thinks purely in terms
of objectives. If he didn’t he would not last long in
the air force. A rough rule-of-thumb is that when
more than 40 per cent, of a single unit has been killed
it is best to break up the squadron and transfer the
pilots to other stations.
Mercifully, the ’planes which the Coastal Com-
mand flies require so much concentration and so much
technique that there is little time for any thought
beyond the immediate task in hand. With such a com-
plicated mechanism under their control it is no wonder
that the crews of the Coastal Command aircraft work
more like teams than other military groups. There is
no question of leading or driving the men in the air
force. All of the crews are highly trained and highly
skilled and the lives of them all depend on the way
each one of them does his job. It is not surprising
therefore that the discipline of the air force, though
adequate, is not anything like that which exists in
either the army or the navy. The distinction between
commissioned officers and the enlisted men virtually
does not exist.
The most famous illustration of the “family”
atmosphere of the Coastal Command is the story of
the 12 lones boys. The Coastal Command has a
highly-developed system of “compassionate transfers,”
whereby a man wherever possible is stationed near his
home. The result is that one of the huge Sunderland
flying-boats based on Wales had 11 men named Jones
in its crew of 12. In a Sunderland every member of
the crew must be able to do every job. Even the cook


can pilot the ship in an emergency. Therefore, the
commander of the base combed the air force until he
found another Jones who had had some of the requisite
training. This man hurried through his remaining
courses and now the Sunderland goes out with 12
Jones boys.
British sailors have come to feel better when
“Monty,” as all Coastal Command ’planes are known
to the navy, appears in the sky. Why they are called
“Monty” is one of the minor mysteries of the war.
Nobody seems to know, but the navy even uses the
word in official reports. An instance of the friendli-
ness existing between the two services was given the
writer at an airfield which is used as a base by both
arms. A flight of comparatively slow torpedo bombers
of the fleet air arm were carrying out a “show” over
Holland when German fighters came up from a cer-
tain airfield and shot down three of the British ’planes.
The fleet air arm couldn’t do anything about it, but the
next day a squadron of Lockheed Hudsons from the
same airfield, without consulting the navy, went over
and laid that airfield very low indeed. Of course, no
British raids are ever carried out for revenge. Cer-
tainly not. They are all made for military reasons.
Nevertheless all drinks in the mess that night were on
the navy.
Gollancz on France’s Communists.
[Last week’s “Uncabled Additions” included a forth-
right denunciation and exposure of the Communists’ part
in France’s collapse, made in a speech by Mr. William
Bullitt, American Ambassador to France. The further
denunciation of that sorry performance contained in the
letter here condensed from London “New Statesman”
has special point in having been penned by Mr.
Gollancz, the Left-Wing publisher.]
Since the fall of France, there has been a ten-
dency for Communists to say to people like myself
“I told you so. What has happened in France has
proved up to the hilt how correct Communist policy
has been since the outbreak of the war. It is now
plain to everyone that, in the line you have
taken, you have been a traitor to the working-
class.”
The boot is on the other leg. The French
tragedy shows that we of the Labor movement
who protested against the Communist “line”
were a thousand times right, and that that line
has objectively assisted in the worst betrayal of
the working class in modern history.
A fortnight before the French collapse one
of the most distinguished Communists in Eng-
land said to me: “It does look as if success by
Hitler in France is imminent. But what will
happen in the moment of defeat is that the
French working class, led by the Communist
party, will rise up, turn the war into a real
people’s war of national defence, and ‘find a
way’ to defeat the German and French
Fascists: and the Soviet Union will help them
by at once declaring war on Germany.” I
quote my friend’s remark (typical of what
Communists were saying everywhere) to show
to what depths of folly intelligent men can sink
if they refuse to make a realistic and up-to-
the-minute appraisal of the various forces and
factors in a given situation, and prefer to
theorise in a vacuum of their own creation.
The “Daily Worker” and the rest pursued
a policy which, they calculated, would defeat
Fascism “everywhere”: it failed disastrously.
The French Communists, declaring day in and
day out that this was an Imperialist war, that
the working class had no interest in it, and
that the major enemy was British finance,
undermined the French resistance to Hitler as surely
as did, with a different purpose, the French Fascists
themselves: and the result, as anybody could have
foreseen, was not to create a social revolution in
France, but to make Hitler’s victory over France
inevitable.
The Anti-Axis Near East.
[How the Mohammedan world —Arab and other
peoples of the Near and Middle East, stretching from
the Balkan fringes and North Africa to India —views the
advance of the totalitarians, as outlined in a (condensed)
American “Mercury” article by Edward J. Bing.]
In the main square of Tripoli, Libya’s picturesque
capital, five years ago Mussolini stood up in the
stirrups of his white charger, brandished what he
styled “the sword of Islam,” and proclaimed himself
the protector of the Moslem world. The Moslem
world looked on, unimpressed. In its 13 centuries
it had seen many a middle-sized man stretching him-
self to look bigger and offering to hug the Moslem
world in a brotherly embrace.
The timeless Near East has been the eternal bone
of contention between its Western and Eastern neigh-
bors. Today, 2500 years after Nebuchadnezzar
invaded Palestine, that Near East again finds itself at
the crossroads of history. This time its fate is deci-
sively affected by Hitler’s and Mussolini’s lust for
power, by Stalin’s hopes of keeping the Axis from
outflanking his position in the Balkans and in Asia,
and by the vital interests of the British Empire.
Germany’s pet project, “Berlin-Bagdad,” has come to
life again, with its promise of direct access to India
and to the fabulously rich oilfields of Mesopotamia
and Persia. That project is possible only if Soviet
Russia is forced to stand aside while the Nazis obtain
control of the Dardanelles and through them of the
Black Sea —which would conflict with Russia’s interests
in the Near East. Rome’s eyes are turned towards
Egypt and Suez.
Now, as in the Kaiser’s time, all hopes of volun-
tary co-operation of the Moslems in a political or
economic penetration of the Near East by Germany
and Italy are vain. Only brutal force can achieve
that penetration. But have not the Moslems had one
quarrel after another with England and France?
Surely they would welcome Germany and Italy as
their liberators? Decidedly they would not. It is
part of the psychological riddle of the Near East
WhiC A TC Wes ' em h di P ,omats ' f „ ,
And here is another aspect of that riddle. A
generation ago, when Sultan Abdul Hamid of Turkey,
known as Abdul the Damned, tried to launch a sys-
tematic Pan-Islamic movement, the resentment of the
huge Arabic-speaking population of the Ottoman
Empire aga i n st being ruled bv the Turks was stronger
th Jr it <• f J? . v „ 3 A
k Moslem sohdanty. Yet hardly had
, ® a 1 1 a J 1 x ,? rrit °V eS C f me A to , ? n
e nd, soon arter the first 'y° r hl war, when the Arabic-
speaking inhabitants of the Near East began to turn
tbe Turks with increasing respect, which soon
developed into admiration. Indeed, the entire Arab
world began to look upon Turkey as its spiritual and
political rallying point.
This change of heart was in part due to Turkey’s
amazing political and military resurrection from the
crushing defeat she had suffered in the first World
War. There were also other reasons for the new Turco-
phile attitude of the Arabs, which completely changed
the political complexion of the Near East. Among
these was the foreign policy of the new Turkish
Republic, which proclaimed that the Turks were no
longer interested in conquering their neighbors. Kemat
Ataturk, savior and father of the new and Westernised
Turkey, was opposed to conquest. For centuries, he
emphasised, 1 urkey had been engaged in sending her
kf 8 * sons to Arabia to die of wounds, thirst or tropical
diseases on barren desert battlefields in order to con-
JSt
the Arab world and Persia a feeling of solidarity
with Turkey which may have a far-reaching eirect
upon coming events in the Near East.
. Whatever military and political developments
history has in store for North Africa and Western
—Washington “Post,” U.S.A.
CUTTING UP.
Asia, there can be no doubt about the actual feelings
of the Moslem populations of Egypt, Syria, Palestine
and Iraq. The Moslem revolutionary committee in
Palestine suspended its Fifth Column activities when
war broke out; an amicable solution of the problem
of Palestine had by then become practically certain,
whereas annexation by Hitler or Mussolini would
mean slavery for its Moslems and non-Moslems alike.
Iraq and Egypt were given independence and became
allies of Britain. Their populations are fully aware
that under Fascist or Nazi domination their newly-
acquired independence and improved economic status
would disappear. What conquest would mean to Persia,
one of the world’s richest oil-producing territories, is
so obvious that even the simplest Persian peasant can
visualise it.
Because of similar considerations the anti-British
movement in India has largely abated. A totalitarian
annexation of India would transform the country into
a halfway-house between a concentration camp and
a giant plantation with three hundred million slaves.
Among those who opposed Italian rule in Libya
were the Senussi, a Moslem religious confraternity
numbering about eight million souls which spreads
over the whole of North Africa but used to be most
numerous in Southern Libya. Whatever the future
may bring in North Africa, the Senussi will miss no
opportunity for attacking the interests of the totali-
tarians.
Turkey’s sympathies and interests are entirely
on the British side, because England’s defeat would
inexorably lead to Germano-Italian attempts at domi-
nating Turkey. Nazi and Fascist attempts at sowing
discord between the Arabic-speaking peoples and
either the British or the Turks are doomed to failure.
The peoples of the Near East —Egyptians, Turks,
Arabs, Persians and Indians alike—are certainly in
no mood for voluntary co-operation with Germany
and Italy, knowing that it would be suicidal. If the
dictatorial wolves hope to impress the inhabitants of
North Africa and the Near and Middle East by
appearing in the sheep’s clothing of “liberators” and
“protectors of Islam,” a profound disappointment
awaits them. The conquest or annexation of the Near
East by Hitler and Mussolini would transform the
entire Mohammedan world into one huge anti-totali-
tarian Fifth Column.
Flame-throwing Tanks,
from m ar ,icle by a carry, ponded in
London “Times ”)
Somethin* <Wlv resembling a rehearsal of the
newest armies
smashed through the French lines in Northern France
took olace at Nomonhan on the Manchukuo-Mon-
Lhan border last SenVember
S " ’ e Ptemoer.
K t Newspapers and correspondents can be muzzled
but not returned soldiers. The Japanese War Office
admitted to 18,000 casualties, and the Japanese masses
haye a good idea of what Opened. Just after the
defence line in Northern France had been broken by
similar methods, the story was told to a gathering of
retired officers in Tokyo.
j apanese forces, it was then disclosed, had
b een beaten by huge tanks throwing flames some 30
y a rds farther than the Japanese tanks opposing them
could reach. The effect was irresistible and horribly
destructive. Hundreds of Japanese infantry were
found dead on the battlefield burned beyond recogni-
tion. The Japanese air force, according to Japanese
reports, quickly mastered the Far Eastern army’s aero-
planes, but was mastered by the latter’s tanks, of which
700 were employed along with 50,000 infantry, ac-
cording to the information department of the War
Office in Tokyo. The discovery of the terrific powers
of those new tanks and the knowledge that the flat
Manchurian plain offered opportunities for developing
their maximum power were the decisive factors in in-
fluencing the Japanese army lo accept a truce,
At the time the Soviet Government was prepar-
ing its battle against the Tananese it was deenlv
hypothesis that the tanks may have been acquired
from Germany. Germany was at the time desper-
ately anxious for an agreement with Russia, and if
s he sold tanks to Russia she would obtain an exact
knowledge of their effects on highly-trained troops.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment
condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
With all direct communication cut off
between most of Europe and London, New
York has become the clearing house for news
passing between the belligerents. Correspon-
dents of English papers in New York are busy
daily keeping London informed about Bel-
gium, Holland, Italy, Germany, Norway and
occupied France. Many thousands of words
are thus cabled across the Atlantic every day
and thereupon immediately recabled. —New
York “Herald Tribune."
* * * *
Berlin reports officially that another army
of 600,000 French war prisoners is to be
brought to Germany to work on the farms and
in the mines, quarries and factories of the
Reich. “Probably most of them,” the dispatch
says, “will be used in the war industries, in
arms and ammunition works.” With the
800,000 French war prisoners already working
in the Reich, this will make almost 1,500,000
Frenchmen working in Germany in the war
against Britain, giving Germany a large con-
tingent of highly-skilled industrial workers so
that Hitler will not have to demobilise Ger-
man skilled labor from his own army. — New
York “Post."
* * * * *
What the motor vehicle means to the farmer and
stock raiser in the U.S.A. is emphasised by statistics
revealing that 62 per cent, of the cattle consumed
were taken into market on highway carriers with 61
per cent, of the calves, 29 per cent, of sheep and
lambs, and 50 per cent, of the horses and mules. Not
only have the production territories been widened but
profits have been increased and carriage costs reduced
by this method of transportation. Truck hauls of
farm produce are: Butter, 27 per cent.; eggs, 39 per
cent. ; live poultry, 65 per cent., and fruit and vege-
tables, 40 per cent. — New York “Herald Tribune”;
contrasting with the peace-time motor transport
strangulation policy in Australia, aimed at helping the
railways.
* * * * *
The British have one priceless asset worth more
than all their defences: the calm, steady, disciplined
morale of a free people. In the face of terrors which
are all the worse for having been foreseen, the common
people of Great Britain are giving an inspiration to
mankind. — New York “Times.”
* * * * *
Russia has abandoned its five-day week, with the
sixth day a holiday, for a six-day week, with the
seventh a holiday, also lengthening the working day
and suspending the workers’ privilege of leaving one
job for another. In defence of the latter move,
“Pravda” testifies that, of 110,000 persons employed in
one State factory, there has been a turnover of 84,600;
that 70 per cent, of the workers in a Moscow ball-
bearing plant had been dismissed, presumably for such
offences as reporting late; that 50 per cent, of the
workers in the Stalin automobile plant had been dis-
missed for such causes. And “Izvestia” declares that,
though only 1080 are employed in the Kaganovitch
mine when it is operating at capacity, 1940 workers
quit their jobs there last year. — “Saturday Evening
Post.”
* # Hi *
There are nearly 9,000,000 children in England
and Wales alone of 15 and under. Latest figures are:
Five years of age and under, 2,817,600; five to ten
years, 2,903,100; 10 to 15 years, 3,122,300. — London
“Daily Mail.”


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
SPRING MEETING 1940
FIRST DAY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5.
THE A.J.C. DERBY, of £5OOO, ONE MILE AND A HALF.
THE EPSOM HANDICAP, of £3OOO, ONE MILE.
THE COLIN STEPHEN STAKES, of £l3OO, ONE MILE AND A HALF.
(Standard weight for age.)
SECOND DAY, MONDAY, OCTOBER 7 (Eight Hours Day).
THE BREEDERS’ PLATE, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS.
THE METROPOLITAN, of £5OOO, ONE MILE AND FIVE FURLONGS.
THIRD DAY, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9.
THE CRAVEN PLATE, of £l3OO, ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.
(Standard weight for age.)
THE GIMCRACK STAKES, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS.
FOURTH DAY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12.
THE RANDWICK PLATE, of £lOOO, TWO MILES.
(Standard weight for age.)
GEO. T. ROWE, Secretary.
6 Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The Red Cross meeting at Randwick
was satisfactory in every way, and a sub-
stantial contribution to the fund will
result. There was an attendance of
26,000, a totalisator turnover of £32,185,
and the racing was excellent, though the
overnight rain had made the track suffi-
ciently soft to be prejudicial to the
chance of some horses.
As an owner F. Williams, who retired
as a trainer some time ago, returned to
the winning list with Veiled Threat in
the Charity Novice. J. M. Mitchell, who
is Williams’s ex-foreman, trains Veiled
Threat, as well as Serenade, who started
favorite. The latter, however, failed to
get the jump-off that enabled him to lead
most of the way in the previous week’s
Novice Handicap, and, though third at
one stage, never really threatened danger.
On the other hand Veiled Threat com-
menced smartly, and led from Beau
Frere early in the piece, but turning for
home Marlong was alongside him. He
shook off the latter in the straight, eventu-
ally beating her a length. Veiled Witch
finished strongly in third place, but Veiled
Threat was a sure winner all the way over
the final furlong. Serenade, Indian
Emperor and Pan Pipe headed the re-
mainder. Happy Lass was slow in find-
ing her legs, and, though she made up
some ground, was never a possibility.
Trump Card further disposed of the idea
that he was anything out of the ordi-
nary. Veiled Threat, who took my fancy
as a yearling, when he was sold for
600gns., is by Veilmond from Spear
Belle, by Spearhead from Mist Maid,
sister to Maid of the Mist. Marlong, who,
though beaten, ran well, is a five-year-old
mare by Baralong from Marcigny’s
daughter.
Lucrative’s strong favoritism for the
Rosehill Guineas somewhat surprised me,
as his effort in the Chelmsford Stakes a
week earlier did not give him a marked
call over Pandect. The latter and Tidal
Wave were the only two asked for out-
side Lucrative. From the mile to the
straight entrance Flying Knight and Rim-
veil each had a turn in the lead, but
Lucrative was in charge halfway down
the straight. Pandect and Tidal Wave,
who were together, and near the middle
of the field, three furlongs from home,
could be seen rapidly improving their
positions when the leger was reached.
At first it looked as if Pandect’s run
would carry him to the front, but he was
outstayed by Tidal Wave, who has re-
turned the greater part of the 1450gns. he
cost as a yearling. Scientist ran on
better than any other of the unplaced
division, and, in fourth place, was well
clear of Rimveil and Flying Knight, both
of whom tired. The time, 1.55 f,
appeared slow, but, in addition to the
distance being 27 yards over seven fur-
longs, the track was a trifle sticky con-
sequent on the overnight rain.
Geebung won the A.I.F. Handicap
a fter being second-last early, and again
dropping back after passing the half-mile.
Then he raised a run that took him into a
good position on the outside at the turn,
and over the last furlong he worried Red
Thespian out of it. Rex Felt, who was
always fairly prominent, was third with
31b. more than his Epsom weight, but it
was scarcely a winning run for that race.
Improvement is possible.
Compared with Geebung Rex Felt will
be 91b. better off, but, though that should
give him a reasonable chance of turning
the tables on the latter, there are others.
Creditor made an indifferent showing,
but nothing did worse than Nightbeam,
who could not raise any dash either at
the start or finish. Sir Regal should win
in weaker company, and Anne is com-
ing on again.
Most of Cooranga’s backers for the
Red Cross Cup were probably unhappy
when she was a bad last along the back,
and was still the whipper-in at the half-
mile. Then she put in that run for which
she is noted, and, getting to the front
from Gundagai and Landlaw inside the
last hundred yards, scored her first win
since last year’s Doomben Cup. After
Gundagai appeared beaten he raised an-
other effort, and was only half a neck
behind Cooranga, whom he met 101 b.
worse than Metropolitan terms.
The pacemakers were Gilltown and
Brazen Lad, the former being deprived
of the lead by Landlaw shortly after turn-
ing into the straight. Yours Truly was
going so comfortably behind Gilltown
and Brazen Lad up to the turn that his
chance appeared a winning one, but in
the straight he merely plugged on, he
and Billposter finishing close together
behind the placed horses. Hope, who
did not have the best of luck, ran fairly.
The remarkable part of the Hill Stakes
was the manner in which High Caste and
Beau Vite ran away from their opponents
over the last three furlongs. Reading
was going comfortably in third place
behind High Caste and Beau Vite at the
half-mile, with Mildura not far away, but
from the bend the race resolved itself
into a match between High Caste and
Beau Vite. The first half-mile was run in
491.
Entering the straight High Caste gained
an advantage, and a furlong from home
still looked as if he might pull his backers
through. However, Beau Vite kept com-
ing, and a hundred yards from the win-
ning post his success was practically cer-
tain. Last spring High Caste finished
ahead of Beau Vite in both Derbies and
the Craven Plate, but on Saturday’s run-
ning the latter would now appear defi-
nitely the better at a mile or further.
Buzalong was an indifferent third, suc-
ceeded by Reading and St. Constant.
The last-named, after being one of the
whippers-in along the back, made up a
lot of leeway from the turn. Mildura’s
showing was a shock for his Epsom
backers, but probably the soft ground
accounted for his failure to do better.
It may have been the same with Reading.
He certainly did nothing to uphold the
belief that he is a probable Epsom winner.
Chiswick, favorite for the Diggers’
Highweight, flattered his backers when
he led into the straight, but he failed to
run on. As usual in most of his races
Caesar was a long way back in the early
part, but looked a sure winner when he
struck the front after commencing the
last furlong. However, he tired, and
Peekmond, finishing strongly, won from
Willie Green, with whom Caesar acci-
dentally interfered in the straight, but for
which he might have won.
June and Pen Name, after being promi-
nent at the top of the running, were a
long way back at the finish. Discipline
and Windbrook headed the unplaced lot,
and as the latter was hopelessly placed
after going a furlong it looks as if owner
R. Wootton will have to look to a middle-
distance race for a win with him. At
any rate, it seems little use running him
at less than a mile. Reunion did a little
better than in his recent races, and a
mid-week meeting may shortly see The
Kite a winner. At different times
attempts have been made to sell Peek-
mond, but, fortunately for himself, E. J.
Watt has been forced to keep him.
* * * *
Backed early as the first leg of two
Cups doubles, W.A.-owned and -trained
True Flight consolidated his position in
the Caulfield Cup market by an impres-
sive win in the Mentone Cup on Satur-
day. He carried only 41b. more than his
Cup weight, and met many of his rivals
better than V.A.T.C. terms. He was able
to adapt himself to the muddling pace,
and won at the right end from Hather-
sage and Lord Windburra.
An improving four-year-old by The
Buzzard from Even Keel, costing S. J.
and N. V. Mills 500 guineas as a year-
ling, True Flight was set for the Caul-
field Cup after his defeat of Chatsbury
in the Elms Handicap at Flemington in
the autumn. His race on Saturday was
only his third after a spell, and in the
event of another good showing at his
next start he will seriously threaten His-
torian for favoritism. He is nicely handi-
capped with 7.12, or 161 b. less than w.f.a.,
for, even allowing that Westralian form
may not be up to eastern standards, the
fact remains that many W.A. horses have
shone in big races in Melbourne and
Sydney. A few that come to mind are
Eurythmic, Lilypond, The Dimmer, Man-
olive, Maikai and Maple. All won or
were placed in the Perth Cup, a race in
which True Flight finished second after
hjs success in the W.A. Derby. True
Flight is an attractive type of horse, and,
like many of The Buzzard’s stock, seems
likely to improve with age.
Hathersage ran well on Saturday, but
does not appeal from a Cup viewpoint;
and, although Lord Windburra met True
Flight 31b. worse than Caulfield Cup
terms, he is still a doubtful quantity as a
stayer. Biggest disappointments of the
Mentone Cup field were Prince Ariel
and Mac Rob. Latter ran one of his
worst races on his favorite track, and
seemingly is not as good as he was, but
the muddling pace may have contributed
to his failure. Certainly it seemed to
upset Prince Ariel, who ran his race back
to front. Prince Ariel was left in front
early, and dropped right out in the con-
cluding furlongs. At the moment he is
not nearly as attractive a Caulfield Cup
proposition as his stablemate Maikai,
also trained by Frank Godby. Maikai
has been Melbourne Cup favorite since
the declaration of weights, and that race
was generally supposed to be his handi-
cap mission, but Caulfield Cup support
for him last week indicated that there
might be a switch. In the event of
Maikai contesting both Cups it is reason-
ably certain that Munro will ride him in
each.
With the best of the Melbourne three-
year-olds absent, several lesser lights
among Victoria Derby candidates were
on trial in the Yarraman Handicap, run
over a mile. In winning, The Adjutant
created a good impression among keen
judges, some of whom consider that he
might develop into the best stayer of his
age. Allowing that The Adjutant carried
only 7.9 on Saturday, as against the 8.13
of Distinction, who finished fourth, they
base their contention on the fact that he
won running away after having been
about eight lengths behind the leader at
the half-mile, and that, having raced only
five times, he may improve rapidly. The
Adjutant was not raced as a juvenile, and,
judged on Saturday’s form, the wisdom of
giving him ample time to develop is now
apparent.
Owner A. E. Kimpton makes no secret
of his belief that The Adjutant will im-
prove sufficiently to win the Flemington
classic, and naturally hopes that the colt
will follow in the footsteps of his sire,
Marabou, and win the Melbourne Cup.
Kimpton derived added satisfaction from
The Adjutant’s win by reason of the fact
that he chose the youngster as a yearling,
and was able to buy him for 160 guineas.
No excuse was possible for Positron,
who seemingly is better in private than in
public ; and, although General Havelock
ran home well, he had no chance with
the winner. Distinction’s 8.13 stopped
him at the finish, but Flowing, a Tidal
gelding with an unbeaten record in four
races in Tasmania, showed up well at his
first Melbourne attempt. He led to the
top of the straight, and, although only
fifth at the finish, can be placed to
advantage.
Form followers received a shock when
Judean decisively defeated Magic Circle
and Pure Gold in the Leslie Stuart
Stakes, with the warm favorite, Hilton, a
moderate fourth. Judean returned to
form with a first-up win in fast time at
Mentone on August 31, but at his next
start missed a place when a warm favorite
for a mile welter at Moonee Valley.
Latter form said little for his chance
against a smart field on Saturday, but
the conditions of the Leslie Stuart Stakes
probably accounted for his reversal. A
9st. maximum left Pure Gold topweight
with 7.13 after Aurie’s Star and Manrico
had been withdrawn at acceptance time,
and Judean dropped to 7.4 from the 9.9
(including over two stone deadweight) he
had carried a week earlier. Moving up
second to Pure Gold at the turn, Judean
finished in quite his best style, and
seemingly is as good as when he ran
second to St. Constant in the Cantala
Stakes two years ago. Fie has the same
weight, 8.0, in the corresponding race
this spring.
Pure Gold looked to be travelling so
comfortably in front at the turn that his
success was proclaimed, but he showed
little fight when challenged first by
Judean and then by Magic Circle. He
met Judean 81b. better than Cantala
Stakes terms. Against this is the fact
that a boil under his jaw caused a recent
interruption to Pure Gold’s preparation,
and he might improve. Hilton’s com-
plete failure in a field of six was inex-
plicable. He was forced to cover extra
ground on the bend, but revealed no dash
subsequently. His form was too bad to
FOR HAWKESBURY.
(At Rosehill.)
(By “PILOT .”)
Hurdle Race: Saratoga, 1 ; King
Otho, 2 ; Generous Gesture, 3.
Novice Handicap: Prince
Winooka, 1 ; Gas, 2 ; El Camarilla
or War Trophy, 3.
Quality Handicap: Mohican, 1 ;
Delmestor, 2 ; Ensign, 3.
Clarendon Stakes: Beaulivre, 1 ;
Beau Vite, 2 ; Scientist, 3.
Hawkesbury Grand Handicap:
Seven Fifty, 1 ; Bristol, 2;
Hedonic, 3.
Rowley Mile: Gilltown, 1 ; John
Peel, 2 ; Discipline, 3.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(To be held at RANDWICK)
By “PILOT."
Trial Hurdle Race: The Freak,
1 ; Glittering Flame, 2 ; Generous
Gesture, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Haran,
1 ; Two Ton Tony, 2 ; Don Byrne,
3.
Novice Handicap: Veiled Witch,
1 ; Indian Emperor, 2 ; Marlong, 3.
Flying Handicap: Tel Asur, 1 ;
Denis, 2 ; John Peel, 3.
Green Hills Handicap: Bristol,
1 ; Old Rowley, 2 ; Yours Truly, 3.
Welter Handicap: Asnazu, 1 ;
Jazbeau, 2 ; Guinness, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Pascoe Handicap: Warbird, 1;
Elegies, 2 ; Throttle, 3.
Trial Handicap: Quixotic, 1 ;
Sugarmagundi, 2 ; The Barber, 3.
Lindsay Gordon Steeplechase:
Just David, 1 ; Jangler, 2 ; Dorset,
3.
Quality Handicap: El Golea, l ;
Hilton, 2 ; Judean, 3.
Tullamarine Handicap: True
Flight, 1 ; Marcius, 2 ; Lord Wind-
burra, 3.
Ailsa Welter: Royal Comet, 1 ;
Operatic, 2 ; Bursary, 3.


be true, and maybe he will soon dis-
prove it.
Big money was left with bookmakers
when a plunge on Sir Romeo misfired
in the first division of the Dandenong
Welter. Sir Romeo was racing for the
first time since February, and one bet of
£lOO to £5 was noted about him, but
8 to 1 was the general opening quote.
Weight of money forced his price down
to 5 to 2, but he began slowly, and, not
warming up to his job until the race
was practically over, finished fourth.
Rambler, also having her first race since
a spell, hit the front early, and was not
afterwards headed to win easily from
Con Burn and Grey Dawn. Rambler,
a six-year-old mare by Windbag from
Rosilda, had previously shown an ability
to race well when fresh, and there was
fair support for her at long prices.
Trainer Frank Musgrave was at Rand-
wick on Saturday to see his colt Pan-
dect beaten in the Rosehill Guineas, but
Atlas, another member of his team, kept
the home fires burning by winning the
second division of the Dandenong
Welter. Atlas was backed from fours
down to 5 to 2, and although apparently
beaten when headed by Larissa in the
straight, raised another effort right on
the post, and grabbed a half-head win.
Badger’s vigor was the deciding factor,
although no possible fault could be found
with Preston’s handling of Larissa. Atlas,
a four-year-old entire by Heroic from
White Swan, cost 1700 guineas as a year-
ling, and was a maiden when purchased
for 1150 guineas by Mrs. C. Cook in
August last year. He has won three
minor races for this owner, but, although
engaged in the Cantala Stakes and the
Cups, something easier will be more in
his line.
Aptly-named The Barber (Windbag-
Peroxide) upset calculations by leading
throughout the Hampton Handicap. The
race was popularly supposed to be a tri-
angular contest between French Legion,
Corredor and Grand Tour, but those
horses were run off their legs by The
Barber, who, starting at 15 to 1, strung
the field right out, and won comfortably
from two other outsiders in Melas and
Bianca. The Barber had made no show-
ing in open company at Moonee Valley
three days earlier, but the drop in class
on Saturday made a big difference.
Stipendiary stewards subsequently re-
ported that his rider, O. Phillips, had
been suspended for crossing too sharply
in the Yarraman Handicap earlier in the
day. The unusual term of his suspension,
“until midnight October 18,” means that
he will be able to resume race riding on
Caulfield Cup day.
Minim, a candidate for the Melbourne
Cup, recorded an easy win in the Banyan
Hurdle. Course withdrawals of Gold
Streak and Erua assured him of warm
favoritism, and, starting at 5 to 4, he was
untroubled to beat Restford and Ray-
wood. Minim has raced only twice over
hurdles for a first and a second, and
obviously has taken kindly to this branch
of the game. Another hurdler among
Cup candidates, Cheery Jack, resumed
racing in the first division of the Dande-
nong Welter. Unfancied, he shaped
nicely in fifth position.
* * * *
Saturday’s Randwick runners included
several Epsom candidates, but, unless
excuse is possible on the score that the
soft going was against them, few did
sufficiently weli to enhance their chances
of success in that race.
Geebung’s game finish won him the
A.I.F. Handicap, but he had 7.10 against
his Epsom weight of 8.2, and will be
81b. worse off as compared with Red
Thespian and 91b. with Rex Felt. Red
Thespian is an honest old customer, but
does not appeal as a possible Epsom
winner. Yet, on figures, his chance can
be little imferior to that of Geebung.
Rex Felt looks good enough for any-
thing, but though he was running on at
the finish of the A.I.F. Handicap, after
dropping back nearing the turn, improve-
ment will be necessary for him to win
the Epsom with only 31b. less weight. The
chairman of stipendiary stewards is
credited with saying Rex Felt would
have beaten Geebung in another hundred
yards. I doubt it, though when conced-
ing 91b. less to D. U. Seaton’s horse he
should do so in the Epsom.
In the Hill Stakes High Caste was seen
to greater advantage than Mildura and
Reading. He met the former 41b. worse
and the latter 31b. better than Epsom
terms, but it is not too much to say that
he beat both fully 71b. The respective
riders of Mildura and Reading claimed
they were not suited by the going, and
it is no secret that G. Price has always
held that Mildura is of little account on
a track that is at all soft. It might there-
fore be wise to overlook his showing of
Saturday. As the drought has seemingly
broken it should also be as well for any-
one who fancies Mildura to refrain from
backing him until nearer the day of the
race.
Reading’s trainer was thoroughly satis-
fied with his condition, so, as the horse’s
defeat could not be excused on that score,
I suppose his complete failure must be
put down to the state of the track. If
Reading does not show something like
his true form, if he runs again before the
A.J.C. meeting, he is likely to be much
easier in the Epsom betting than last
week. He does not now read like
beating High Caste. It is not unusual
for horses to lose their dash with racing,
and it may be so with Reading.
Buzalong did surprisingly well in the
Hill Stakes with his Epsom weight, and
perhaps that fact may influence his owner
in starting him for the mile. Neverthe-
less, I doubt whether he would now be
quite suited by the early bustle of an
Epsom. St. Constant’s run in the Hill
Stakes should have pleased his owner-
trainer. Second-last at the half-mile, he
was level with Reading behind the place-
getters at the finish, and, with the excep-
tion of Beau Vite, was going better than
anything else. He had 71b. more than
his Epsom weight, and was meeting High
Caste, Reading, Mildura and Buzalong
several pounds worse than in that race.
The fact of being a slow beginner is
against him, but, failing the Epsom, he
should win some other handicap at the
A.J.C. spring meeting.
Nothing in the Diggers’ Highweight
Handicap did anything suggestive of
Epsom honors. Leaving out Beau Vite
the three that did most to strengthen their
chances of success in the Epsom were
High Caste, St. Constant and Rex Felt,
but a firm track may do a lot for some
of the beaten division.
H'. * * *
Rosehill Guineas running greatly re-
duced the number of A.J.C. Derby
possibilities. Apart from the place-
getters—Tidal Wave, Pandect and Lucra-
tive —Scientist was the only runner that
did sufficiently well to suggest that he
was entitled to enter into calculations.
It would seem safe to wipe off Flying
Knight, Rimveil, Evergreen and Our
Barney as probable stayers, and it would
be difficult to write anything favorable
of the remainder.
Tidal Wave did slightly better than
Pandect or Lucrative at the finish of the
Guineas, and presumably his win will
make him the Derby favorite. I expect
him to stay, but the manner in which the
race is run is bound to have bearing on
the result. Lucrative is probably faster
than either Tidal Wave or Pandect, and
if the pace is at all easy in the early
part it will improve his chance. After
his failure on Saturday, I heard more
than one comment of “No chance of
staying the Derby distance.” That may
be correct, but others similarly bred have
got a mile and a half, and I have an
idea Lucrative will do so.
Tidal Wave and Pandect looked quite
wound up on Saturday, and, apart from
the fact that the latter displayed slight
lameness as a result of being galloped
on, neither showed the effect of the race
as much as Lucrative on returning to
the weighing enclosure. The last-named
looked as if his condition could he im-
proved a little more than that of the
other two. A matter of opinion, of
course, but that is how it struck me, and
I dare say more will now be asked of
him in his work than prior to last Satur-
day.
With Tidal Wave closer to the rails
than Pandect, those two were nearly
level at the half-mile. Pandect then
covered a little more ground than Tidal
Wave, but, though a furlong from home
his chance was a winning one, he scarcely
finished as resolutely as I expected. He
seemed to waver slightly. If the injury
he received in running does not affect
him to any extent he is sure to give
a good account of himself in the Derby,
though it cannot be claimed that his
chance is now preferable to that of Tidal
Wave. If Lucrative beats both it will
not surprise me.
Fur Trader, who ran in the Hill Stakes,
is a stylish colt, but his showing against
the older horses was not as impressive
as that of Pandect in the Chelmsford
Stakes a week earlier. He may stay,
but his appearance lends itself more to
the idea that speed is his forte. His
form on Saturday in some measure con-
firmed that supposition, as, though well
placed to the turn, he lost ground in the
straight. Apart from those mentioned,
Sun Valley seems the only other deserv-
ing of consideration. He has run out
a mile, carries weight well, and against
those of his own age a mile and a half
may not be beyond him.
It is unlikely the field will reach double
figures. Melbourne will be represented
by Lucrative, Pandect, Sun Valley and
Fur Trader, while up to the present
Sydney’s certain runners do not go far
beyond Tidal Wave and Scientist. Stick-
ing to recent form they stand out from
our lot, but owners’ optimism, substan-
tial place-money or the pleasure derived
from running a horse in a Derby may
cause the inclusion of some whose deeds
do not say much for them as stayers.
For that matter so little was thought of
the chances of Reading and Fligh Caste
last year that they respectively started
at fourteens and fifteens.
* * * *
Cooranga did wonderfully well to win
the Red Cross Cup after being so far
back half a mile from home, but when
meeting Gundagai 101 b. worse she may
find him a stiffer proposition in the
Metropolitan. A rise of 21b. may make
little difference to Cooranga, but a drop
of 81b. will mean a lot to Gundagai,
who, not being a very robust horse,
will appreciate a light weight. He has
done so little racing at middle distances
that he should be improved by his last
two runs.
Landlaw made a good showing under
9st. in the Red Cross Cup, and drops
to 8.5 in the Metropolitan, but that does
not make his chance better than that of
Gundagai. In the case of Landlaw many
backers are doubtful whether he will
quite get the Metropolitan distance, but,
while there is no doubt as to Mosaic
doing so, it is expecting a lot of him
to win with 9.11. There was nothing
special in his Hill Stakes effort, but it
was scarcely to be expected that he
would shine at a mile. He was, however,
giving Beau Vite only 31b., as against
71b. separating them in the Metropolitan.
Last week I wrote that I looked to
Beau Vite to do better in Melbourne
than in Sydney. It did not seem to me
that he would be at his best here, but it
is now impossible to do otherwise than
modify that opinion. His finishing run
against High Caste demonstrated a rapid
return to form, but, while the longer
distance will not trouble him, he is
giving away a lot of weight to recent
winners in Gundagai and Cooranga.
Royal Chief’s 8.13 is the record weight
for a four-year-old Metropolitan winner,
though Nightmarch had 9.12 when he
ran second to Loquacious, who was of
the same age, and, with 8.11, had 21b.
over weight for age.
Despite Hill Stakes form putting Beau
Vite ahead of Reading, he may not find
it an easy task to give the latter 41b.
Reading is likely to prove himself better
suited by a longer distance than a mile,
notwithstanding stable support for him
in the Epsom. Own Folk’s run in the
Red Cross Cup did not suggest that a
little over a fortnight would permit of
development enabling him to win the
Metropolitan with 21b. more than he
carried on Saturday ; nor, making full
allowance for the fact that Hope was
carrying 111 b. more than his Metropoli-
tan weight, was his effort very encourag-
ing. He met Gundagai only 31b. worse
than Metropolitan terms. v
Buzalong will be getting 41b. from
Beau Vite against the level terms of last
week. It is certain the longer distance
will help Buzalong, but it now looks
as if he will have difficulty in getting
home ahead of the Maorilander. If the
distance were a furlong less I would have
St. Constant (8.6) on my side, but, not-
withstanding he ran second in a Caulfield
Cup, that last bit is likely to trouble him.
Cable Boy did not impress on Satur-
day, and though Billposter ran fairly he
scarcely did well enough to put his
chance in a winning light when he has
to carry an additional 51b. There were
a few unexpected scratchings on Satur-
day, Binnia Hero and Old Rowley being
of the number. The latter came out
because his trainer thought the track
might be heavy enough to do his trouble-
some tendon more harm than good, and
he did not wish to take any risk with
the chestnut now that he is getting back
to something approaching his old form.
Bearing on the Metropolitan, Satur-
day’s running said most for Gundagai,
Beau Vite and Cooranga, though Buza-
long was not disappointing. This week’s
racing at Randwick and Rosehill may
tend to alteration of opinions.
* * * *
In the Toorak Handicap the V.A.T.C.
handicapper has altered his opinion of
the relative merits of Beau Vite and
Gladynev, but that was to be expected.
In the shorter race Gladynev is getting
271 b. from Beau Vite, against 351 b. in
the Caulfield Cup. Beaulivre is rated
better than Beau Vite and High Caste,
and Manrico, consequent on his recent
moderate form, has only 51b. more than
when he won last year’s Cantala Stakes.
Moonray (8.13) may, however, prove
Holt’s best representative. In England
he was good up to a mile and a quarter,
and recently ran well in Melbourne.
Chatsbury, Judean and Carpentier are
other Melbourne-trained horses likely to
be in the betting, and High Caste, St.
Constant and Early Bird may be a trio
better than the other Sydney horses.
Freckles has not been overlooked with
7.13, considering his wins have been in
ordinary company, and Tel Asur, with
the same weight, has 81b. more than in
the Epsom. Place-getters in last year’s
Toorak were Hilton, Carpentier and Gee-
bung. Hilton is down 81b., Carpentier up
101 b. and Geebung lib. Hilton was dis-
appointing at Mentone last week, but if
he should strike his form of a year ago
a second Toorak win for him should be
possible.
:k # *
In racing a great deal is uncertain. If
the proposed match race between Beau-
livre and Beau Vite had taken place it
is certain backers would have been asked
to lay long odds on the former. The
belief was general that it would prove
easy for Beaulivre, but going upon the
manner in which Beau Vite defeated his
Hill Stakes opponents it would probably
have proved a great race. Still, the com-
mittee adopted the wiser course in divid-
ing the £lOOO between the Hill Stakes
and the Red Cross Fund.
* * * *
A country correspondent has drawn
attention to my mistake in including Hua
among M. McCarten’s beaten mounts in
the AJ.C. Derby. That colt, ridden by
R. Wilson, was at 4 to 1, and ran third
to Avenger and Ajax. McCarten rode
Ajax, who was favorite at 7 to 4. Slips
will occur, but it is better to acknow-
ledge an error and make an early correc-
tion than leave it a possibility for some-
one to make a losing bet on what he
may regard as correct information.
❖
Medmenham (dam of Ajax) broke a
hind leg last week, and her destruction
was necessary. She recently foaled a
filly by Brueghel. Widden is having its
share of bad luck, that brilliant mare
Arachne slipping a Brueghel foal a few
weeks ago.
* * *
A few men were recently fined in
connection with starting-price business in
Sydney, but it seems remarkable that, if
horses can be backed “off the course”
for the great amounts reported, the police
cannot get on the trail of the layers.
According to report, owners who indulge
in starting-price betting, include some
who, for the good of racing, would
scarcely be expected to associate them-
selves with it. The same complaint has
repeatedly been voiced in Maoriland, but
with little avail. Self comes first in most
things, and racing is not among the
exceptions.
:i= * * N=
A contributor who is an upholder
of horses of the past against those of the
present says the much faster times are
principally due to improved tracks, and
instances Caulfield. He is quite right
relative to that track. The reduction of
time from 2.34 f in Poseidon’s Cup (1906)
to the present record of cannot,
in fairness, be entirely attributed to speed
having developed to that extent; but
such tracks as Flemington and Randwick
have not altered nearly as much as Caul-
field. Still, times run on those tracks
would have been considered almost im-
possible 30 years ago. Men closely
acquainted with Randwick, and whose
knowledge of the track goes beyond a
view of the run from the turn, would
be hard to convince that Mosaic’s two
miles in 3.21 y in 1938 did not come out
much better as a speed and staying test
than Tartan’s then record for the race
of 3.27 in 1905. At a mile or less times
that would have been regarded as ex-
ceptional in an important handicap 35
years ago would not now be reckoned
remarkable in a welter. And then, as
now, jockeys did not dally in short races.
* * * *
There are few expressions in racing
misused to greater extent than that of
“good sportsman.” It is repeatedly
applied to people who are lucky enough
to possess sufficient money to buy a good
horse or two, and while their horses are
winning they are rated “good sports-
men.” Over a long period I have known
men to be repeatedly so described both
by their friends and in print, but when
a real test was applied, that of a run of
“outs,” they failed to live up to it-
Trainers were changed, and when results
still continued unsatisfactory teams were
greatly reduced and excuse was occasion-
ally made for dropping out altogether.
Men who can take the bad with the


“CONRIK” Improved
10in. SWING, AUTOMATIC CROSS FEED
LATHE
This latest addition to our comprehensive range of Bench Lathes has
been designed for use in ail kinds of work. The highest standards
of workmanship are maintained and ease of operation is an out-
standing feature.
CASH PRICE, £67/10/-
PRINCIPAL DIMENSIONS:
Size of Face Plate, 82in. diameter.
Height of Centres, Sin.
Distance between Centres, 2ft. 4in.
Length of Bed, 49in.
Width of Pace of Bed, 6in.
Hole through Mandril, 13-16 in.
Diameter of Mandril Nose, ljin.
Length Overall, 4ft. lOin.
Breadth Overall, 20in.
Height Overall, lfilin.
Swing over Saddle, 7Sin.
Swing over Gap, 13*in.
Swing over Bed, lOin.
Dimensions of Saddle, lOlin. x lOlin.
Dimensions of Boring Table, B£in. x 4fin.
Diameter of Lead Screw, Jin. Acme
Thread.
Diameter of Peed Shaft, fin.
Back Gear Ratio, 6 to 1.
Cone Pulley Steps, Sin., 32in., 2Jin. and
fin. drop.
Distance Pace Plate to Edge of Gap, 3in.
Weight, approx. 3201 b.
Headstock Centre Bored, No. 3.
Bushed to No. 2, Morse Taper.
Tailstock Centre No. 2, Morse Taper.
WRITE FOR
A COPY
of our
TRADESMEN’S
TOOL
CATALOGUE
NOCK & KIRBY LTD
417-421, also 188-194 A, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SERVICE
SINCE 1899 the Rural Bank has
assisted 48,761 persons to establish
farms and 39,586 families to acquire
homes on easy terms. It will be
seen, therefore, that the Bank has
played an important part in provid-
ing employment and increasing rural
production. Those who bank with
the Rural Bank know that by so
doing they are enabling it to increase
its useful services. Interest-bearing
Fixed Deposits are received and
cheque accounts opened for all
sections of the community.
R U R Alilß A N K
OF NEW ImrfH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Commissioners :i
ft. McKERIHAN (PRESIDENT)
H. ROGERS
P. KEARNS
hwOfU/'a
n£r
n
u*.
The outstanding quality and smart
shapes of the Woodrow make them
the best value that money can buy.
Wherever well-dressed men meet
you’ll note the increasing popularity
of these high-grade English Hats.
See the latest styles and colours, and
judge their superiority for yourself.
‘t/l?oodib%f
yf Hats
AT ALL FIRST-CLASS HATTERS AND STORES
ENGINEERS
WANTED!
There is now a Big Demand for Qualified Engineers
CIVIL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL DIESEL
and MOTOR
Since 1923 THE AUSTRALIAN TECHNICAL SCHOOLS, Assembly Hall,
.Tamiesson Street, Sydney, have been training students by CORRESPON-
DENCE in Engineering subjects with MARKED SUCCESS.
OUR CORRESPONDENCE COURSES INCLUDE
No. I—Motor Mechanics No. 4—Engine Driving
No. 2—Electric Motor Driving No. s—Producer Gas Vehicles
No. 3—Diesel Engineering No. 6—Aero Engineering
The JOB and the PAY>
£6 to £lO per Week!
Many of our successful students have written and thanked us for what
we had done for them. Here are a few extracts from the letters of past
correspondence students: —
£lowe R ek
“Since gaining my diploma, I have secured a position in charge
of a Diesel power plant at £lO I’EIl WEEK. Your School is
directly responsible for me being able to 011 that position.”
£8
PEB
WEEK
"I must thank you for helping me—since getting my Diesel Cer-
tificate my wages have been OVER £8 PER WEEK, driving
Diesels.”
DIESEL
CHIEF
ENGINEER
"I was recently appointed Chief Engineer to a Factory and Trad-
ing Co. The plant Includes 5 Diesels and 4 Electric Generators."
vavvii
:ihj.
HJ.IAi AVON
“1 thank you tor your help In getting me the position of Cadet
Flight Engineer in the R.A.A.F. If X had not taken your
Course I couldn't have passed the trade test.”
SERVICE
MANAGER
I.H.C.
"I received your Motor Engineering Diploma. I have been
appointed service manager for International Harvester Co. for
the Northern District. I thank you.”
FORESTRY
DIESEL
OPERATOR
"Thanks to my training with your School, I have now a position
with the Forestry Dept., driving a Diesel Tractor.”
£6/6/-
PEK WEEK
‘‘l thank you for putting me where I am to-day. I am receiving
£6/6/- per week.”
GET
THIJ
faw[ R
day
FREE
BOOK
IT TELLS
HOW Y 0 II
CAN LEARN
DIESEL ENGINEERING
IN YOUR SPARE TIME AT HOME
Technically trained men
are in great demand !
Post This Coupon for FREE BOOK
The Chief Engineer, E.B. 910
Australian Technical Schools,
Assembly Hall, Jamiesson St., Sydney.
Please send me (without obligation) your
FREK DIESEL ROOK, and 1 advice, particulars,
and special offer about your correspondence
course.
No dealing with
Name ’
Occupation Age
Address


SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY!
TO INSTALL
ll NEW I
CHAMPIONS.
An Empire product—made
Windsor, Canada
e
somd
mvds
Bring
BETTER ACCELERATION
Spits and jerks when accelerat-
ing put a strain on your car and
on your nerves. New Champions
improve acceleration and ena-
ble your car to pull smooth-
ly. This saves fuel, too. So
much, in fact, that you
soon are repaid the cost
of your new Champions
... and more! Champions
save you money.
good and, recognising that their trainers
are doing their best, stick to them through
thick and thin are certainly much more
sportsmanlike than those who can be
affable winners but grumpy losers.
* * * *
The A.J.C. Derby has been a good
race for Melbourne-trained horses. They
have supplied three of the last seven
winners, and in 1937 they had the three
place-getters—Avenger, Ajax and Hua.
It is somewhat remarkable that Ajax,
high-class horse that he has since proved
himself, was not quite good enough to
win a Derby, while Hua and Avenger
did. In the Caulfield Guineas Ajax
beat Hua, but as the latter turned the
tables in the Derby it can be claimed
for him that he was the better stayer.
In the circumstances special interest will
attach to which will shine most as the
sire of distance horses. Probabilities
favor Ajax getting greater stud oppor-
tunities than Hua, though the latter will
also have some first-class mates.
* * * *
Of trainers who are concerned in the
preparation of this year’s A.J.C. Derby
candidates, F. McGrath has the best
record. He won with Abundance in
1902, Tanami in 1910, and Peter Pan
in 1932. This year he is supervising
Pandect, consequent on the inability of
that colt’s regular trainer, F. Musgrave,
to leave Melbourne. However, he man-
aged to get over to see him run in the
Rosehill Guineas on Saturday. If Pan-
dect should win the Derby, Musgrave
will, of course, go down in the records
as his trainer.
* * * *
In the last 20 years Sir Andrew,
Murillo and Cragford were well-backed
winners of the Metropolitan, but since
the last-named there has not been a place-
getter from Melbourne. One reason for
this is that their representation has not
been numerically strong. Landlaw ap-
pears Melbourne’s main hope this year,
and, though he did not acquit himself
well in last year’s Caulfield Cup with 7.9,
recent form suggests he is now staying
better. Although five years to Australian
time, he is still some months short of that
age, and is consequently not too old for
improvement in him in every way to be
probable.
* * * *
The best two-year-old in Ireland this
year is Fair Ina, who, up to the clpse
of July, had won the six races in which
she started. She is by Fair Trial out of
Solerina, by Soldennis.
* * * *
America’s luckiest of owners, C. S.
Howard, continues on his winning way.
At Washington Park (Chicago) on August
10 his colt Mioland won the
Derby, worth $44,900 for first. Second
money was $7500, third $5OOO, and
fourth $2500. There were only five
runners, and, with the track heavy,
Sirocco, winner of the Arlington Classic,
was regarded as such a “good tiding”
that he started at even money, While
Mioland was at 6 to 1. Howard is re-
ported to have given $15,000 for
Mioland early in the year with a view
to winning the Santa Anita Derby.
Mioland got no closer than fourth in
that, and was similarly placed in the
Kentucky and Hollywood Derbies. He
ran second in the Preakness. Mioland
beat Sirocco three lengths in 2.5 4-5 for
a mile and a quarter in the American
Derby, in which Gallahadion (Kentucky
Derby winner) was fourth. This season’s
American three-year-old form has been
decidedly mixed. Up to August 10
Howard’s horses had won him $230,000
this year, and he was a certainty for
first place in the winning owners’ list.
* * * *
Senator John J. Dunnigan, principal
force in the legalisation of the totalisator
in New York, recently said that the
popularity of that form of betting was
already reflected by the increased attend-
ance at the State’s tracks. New York
used to receive $500,000 a year from
racing. In the first half of the present
season the State had received about
$3,000,000. It was anticipated the total
for the year would be $7,000,000. With
those figures against them the book-
makers can give up all hope of a return
to business on New York courses.
* * * *
As usual at Saratoga (New York State)
yearling sales women buyers played a
prominent part. The highest price real-
ised on any of the first six nights (they
sell at night there) was $lB,OOO, paid by
Mrs. I. D. Sloane for a Sickle colt. Sickle
is an English-bred stallion, being by
Phalaris from Selene. Mrs. Ethel V.
Mars, who won the Kentucky Derbv wth
Gallahadion, paid $11,600 for a colt by
Pharamond 11, a brotner to Sickle, and
a colt by Broadside cost Mrs. E. G. Lewis
$lO,OOO Mrs. Lewis went to $12,000 for
a Blenheim colt, but that was easily
beaten by Mrs. Jane du Pont Lunger
(Christiana stable) who gave $16,000 for
an imported colt by Hyperion. In addi-
tion, the ladies mentioned bought several
other youngsters at prices ranging from
$5OOO upwards.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Tuite
It’s pronounced Toot, like the best part
of the car by the time the instalments are
paid off. Dick Tuite. Heaven knows
what Nature originally had in mind ; but
one thing’s certain —she was in an experi-
mental mood, ending up fitting Dick out
with the supple body of a contortionist,
a jaw hard enough for cracking metal
on, a high diver’s affection for the law
of gravity, a phiz that’d make him pass
for an easy mark in Sunday-school com-
pany, a wild sense of humor and a thirst
for stoush.
Dick blazed into the fistic firmament
a month or two back, from where no-
body seems to know, but, whatever
quarter of the universe he sprang from,
it’s a duller spot since he left. Even the
Tiv. or Taronga couldn’t lose Dick with-
out missing him. He’d be his own sort
of bright particular star in any company.
Not so much a meteor —he isn’t going to
trouble even the talent now holding the
titles. Still, in his way, a star. A falling
star. He can probably fall harder, further
and more often than any other living
human outside the punting profession.
He can take one on the jaw in one
corner, fly through the air with the
greatest of ease, and land on his ear
over under the spittoon in the other
corner. Not figuratively—actually!
Very encouraging to the chap that
clouted him ; highly discouraging to see
Dick undo himself, arise and come over
looking for more. What do you do then?
—as Mr. Headley would say. All right,
you plant a left hook on him that ought
to finish a bullock, and there goes Dick,
floating away through the tobacco smoke
to make a perfect landing over under the
ropes, rest awhile and return. One of
these nights, perhaps, somebody’ll hit
Dick, and he’ll go on and on. He’ll
float away over Europe, and they’ll think
he’s a secret weapon, and turn the Archies
on to him. That should suit Dick. He’ll
come down on the Dome of St. Paul’s,
and provided he hits it with his head,
instead of some vulnerable part, he’ll
spring up like a hurricane refreshed, and
he’ll still be fighting when the bell goes.
Anyway, either that or falling.
Mr. Headley might be able to say
what are the feelings going on inside a
useful prelim, boy engaging Dick. What
he feels when Dick, as usual, hits the
canvas might perhaps be considered ele-
mentary ; but what about when Dick,
arising, so to speak, from a deep dream
of peace, comes weaving across, keyed
up, by the look of him, for a furious on-
slaught, and a foot away stops, throws
back his head with an air of injured in-
nocence, drops his hands and says indig-
nantly to the ref., “I say, why don’t you
wipe the water off him?” What do you
do in a case like that? Or when, say, he’s
leaning on you, with his head over your
shoulder, and some coarse Christian in
the bleachers bawls out, “Aw, why don’t
y’ kiss ’im?” —and, damn it, he does so!
Whatever a serious-minded opponent
may be feeling while that sort of thing’s
going on, one thing, at least, he’ll admit
—that Dick can take it. Goat, clown,
fallabout artist or what have you, he’s
at any rate game. The firmament he
shines in is Leichhardt, Sydney. When
the board goes aloft with his name on
it, a wave of audible good humor spreads
round the tiers. As Dick comes through
from the side in his dressing-gown they
ask the bottle-holders: “Is he turnin’ it
on tonight?” The bottle-holders grin,
Dick grins, everybody grins. Dick gets
up into the ring, looks across at the
other chap like Rodin contemplating a
statue, goes forth and listens to the ref.’s
ritualistic patter as if he’d never heard
it before, and any time thereafter can
be depended on to fly through the air
and land on his ear —either ear ; it makes
no difference to Dick.
And just one final word for the benefit
of shearers, canecutters, stevedores, etc.
If a bloke by the name of Dick Tuite
(pronounced Toot) happens among you,
don’t be misled by that quiet-looking,
unmarked mug of his. You might hit
him over into the next shed, or the next
canefield, or on to the next wharf; but
make no mistake about Dick —he’ll be
back!
The aforesaid Dick fought one of the
prelims, last week to a welter elimination
series of bouts they’re staging at Leich-
hardt. The first saw Ron McLaughlin
outpoint Jimmy Dundee in a tough but
unexciting encounter, in which Jimmy
looked to be giving a rather too-well-fed
Ron the best part of a stone. The idea
is to eliminate contenders for the welter
title, held by Hockey Bennell, or, as
Newcastle stoutly maintains, by Alan
Westbury, Alan being due to meet Jimmy
Day in the series at time of writing.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
Ben Hogan, leading money-winner of
the 1940 season with a total of £3500
since January, is attached to the White
Plains Club in New York. But he told
me that when his contract expires late
this year he will not seek renewal, as he
plans to spend next year touring, giving
exhibitions, lectures and demonstrations.
Hogan is one of the few professionals
with any business acumen.
Last year 56,000 clubs bearing Hogan’s
autograph sold throughout the United
States, but owing to his recent phenomenal
winning run his club sales this year have
jumped already to well over the 100,000-
mark. Hogan expects a total of 175,000
by the end of the year. With an income
last year of approximately £BOOO he will
feel the heavy touch of taxation authori-
ties.
The leading American professionals
who follow the tournaments throughout
the year and who aren’t employed by
clubs to teach will form their own asso-
ciation in the near future in order to try
to regulate the distribution of prize-
money, as well as promote more tourna-
ments. There has been much dissatis-
faction of late among the better players,
who contend that prize-money should be
regulated in keeping with the first prize
and not stretched out to include the first
30 or 40 professionals.
After all, the prize-money for the aver-
age event, which is in the iregion of 5000
to 7500 dollars, is largely subscribed by
competitors, totalling perhaps 250-300,
who pay from five to ten dollars’ entrance
fee. The new association will wield a
certain amount of power, as without the
topliners the clubs are unable to run an
event.
Sam Snead has been suffering from
loss of form this year ; the “hillbilly from
Virginia” has not been prominent in any
tournament for several months. His
game, even in exhibition play, where
there is no strain whatsoever, has lost its
punch. Snead is not the player he was
two years ago. Ever since he took an
eight on the last hole in the American
open championship in 1939, when a five
would have given him the title, his game
has slipped away.
After starting in the open this year at
Cleveland with a 67 to lead the field,
Snead finished up with an 81. He appears
to have lost his tournament concentra-
tion ; he fidgets during his game, and
seems unable to play bold golf any more.
The Keller course, scene of the St.
Paul 7500-dollar open championship, is
the only public course in the world that
holds a major tournament. Owned and
operated by the Ramsey Council, it is ol
championship length and provides a stiff
test of golf. Parred at 72, it is by far
the finest public course I have ever seen.
Its condition during the tournament was
equal to the best club courses in the
U.S.A.
The event at St. Paul is conducted
by the local Chamber of Commerce,
which turns all profits of the tournament
over to the local Boy Scouts, who get a
month’s holiday under canvas from the
proceeds each year. In return for this
the Scouts turn out in full force, acting
as gallery marshals, and during the 11
years the event has been played they ve
schooled themselves into the best crowd-
handlers I have seen.
Scoreboards at the leading American
events are well conducted. A hole-to-
hole note of every competitor’s play is
’phoned back from points around the
course and is immediately chalked up
on the huge boards at the back on the
18th green.
Newspapermen and a large portion of
the gallery usually bring seats and chairs
and never leave the scoreboards. Un-
like the Australian golf writers, who
follow the actual players and get first-
hand information on the play, the Ameri-
can journalists content themselves with
the scoreboard and a word or two with
the players returning the best cards.
Footbrawl
Though Melbourne held the lead all
the way against Essendon at M.C.G. in a
“last-man-standing” contest, it was never
out of danger. It just managed to hold
off a desperate last-minute effort by the
’Dons and won by five points. Players
on both sides did “good” work with
elbows, boots and fists.
Rain fell on an already wet ground
and the game degenerated into one of
bullocking tactics, with plenty of kick-
ing along the ground, hard knocks and
hot tempers. The teams were eager to
make it willing, and there were numerous
incidents of the kind called “regrettable."
Melbourne’s lead was nine points at
quarter-time, three points at half-time,
four points at three-quarter time and
12-18 to 12-13 at the finish. The 52,000
who turned out to watch it ignored rain
and wind and roared themselves hoarse,
especially when two opposing players lay
in the mud and lashed out vigorously at
each other.
So Melbourne is to meet Richmond
in the “grand” final. The Tigers mean
business this year, and Melbourne will
need to play football rather than indulge
in wrestling matches if the side is to hold
the premiership.
The Vic. Football League now has
three Brownlow medals. When Matthews
(South Melbourne) and Fothergill (Col-
lingwood) tied for the honors, the League
decided to strike three medals, keep one
and hand the joint winners one each.
Thus one of the State’s gravest problems
has been met and solved.
Sydney’s grade cricket competition
begins on Saturday. Most of the clubs
will feel the absence of players who are
in khaki. There are to be no Sheffield
Shield games, but inter-State matches
will be played, all going well.


AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD
WHEAT FOR POULTRY AND STOCK
FEED.
ON and after the 23rd September the Board’s
price for wheat for Poultry and Stock feed will
be as follows:
Parcels of 2000 bags and upwards—one
farthing (id.) per bushel over the Board’s price
to Millers.
The price for Railway truck lots will be one
penny (Id.) per bushel over the Board’s price
to Millers to buyers outside the Wheat Belt,
but truck lots will be available to buyers within
the Wheat Belt at one halfpenny (id.) per
bushel over the Mill price and smaller quantities
at one penny (Id.) per bushel over the Mill
price.
Supplies for country buyers will be made
available at or as near as practicable to the
buyer’s town, but stacks cannot be specially
opened. Where necessary such requirements
will be supplied from the nearest station at
which stacks are open for railing.
Buyers will be required to give delivery in-
structions within ten days of purchase, and such
instructions must, provide for the railing of wheat
within thirty days of date of purchase.
Cash must be paid for the total quantity
bought when giving railing instructions for any
portion of the purchase.
In the case of Bagged Wheat, payments will
be required on pro forma weights and railages,
and the Board will adjust with buyers after
delivery.
The price at present for Bagged milling
parcels is 4s. 2£d. per bushel.
G. A. H. HOLBOROW,
State Superintendent.
16-18 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“The Light of Heart”
In this new play by Emlyn Williams,
put on by Gregan McMahon at the
King’s, Melbourne, Maddoc Thomas, a
once-rising young actor, has lost courage,
taken to Bacchus and is drinking himself
into imbecility in a dilapidated tenement
in London, with his lame daughter Cattrin
making her care of him her life’s
vocation. Every bit of consideration she
shows him only makes him feel more
and more guilty, and hence tends to push
him further down the path to perdition.
Comes along Robert, a young man who
knows of his former fame and succeeds
in renewing his daughter’s hope in her
father’s genius. They sting him into a
fresh effort, and he lands the part of
Lear in a forthcoming C. B. Cochrane
production. He dismisses his drinking
companions and devotes himself for four
months to Shakspeare.
Seeing her father once more on the
up-grade, Cattrin begins to dally with
thoughts of love, marriage and children
with her shadowy lover. But she believes
her lameness to be hereditary, which
puts babies out of the question. Robert
tells her that she acquired it when her
father dropped her as a baby — the
hereditary theory was concocted to spare
his feelings. She begins to feel a re-
sentment against her father, and on the
eve of his first-night triumph marries
her lover but defers telling him of the
event till the following morning. Neigh-
bors relieve her of this duty, however,
the father is appalled at her desertion
and makes it an excuse.
He turns up at the flat as blind as
a wombat just as they are all preparing
to go off to witness his triumph. Cattrin
takes reprisals by telling him the truth
about her clubfoot, and he relapses com-
pletely into drink and self-pity. She
then decides to give up all thought of
marriage and to resume her role of
nurse to the defeated genius. He over-
hears her and performs the final act of
revenge by throwing himself from a
window.
There was a sombre ferocity about
the play, and it was in the main well
acted. Margaret Reid relayed the
emotions of the daughter so well that
she surrounded the large boot with
which she simulated her lameness with
a certain spiritual halo. Frank Tarrant
looked and played the part of the de-
feated father to perfection.
* * * *
“The Student Prince”
Williamsons have got together an
Australian group to give musicomedy a
run. The “New Royal Comic Opera
Company,” it kicked off at Sydney Royal
with a brightly-competent performance
of “The Student Prince,” costuming
and staging so good that on the open-
ing night when the curtain went up on
the third act throne-room scene there
was a spontaneous outburst of applause.
The vocal strength of the co. lies in
the male chorus, which meant that the
student songs gave a full-bodied back-
ground to the piece: it will help con-
siderably with “The Vagabond King,”
“The Desert Song” and “Maid of the
Mountains,” which are to come later.
Principals, in appearance and in acting
ability well up to requirements, aren’t
quite so satisfactory vocally, but there’s
an apparent possibility of improvement.
John Howard is the Prince, pleasing but
a little light of voice. Leonora Laye
makes an appealing Kathie except when
she is inclined to overstrain her range.
Joy Parsons, too, as Princess Margaret,
suffers from lack of power. Dot Rankin
makes Gretchen a personality and may
be seen to even better effect in some
more exacting role. Ron Beck (Lutz)
sees that there is no lack of laughs.
* * *
The Menuhin Duo
Yehudi Menuhin, in his Sydney Town
Hall recital with sister Hephzibah,
showed himself as the serious musician,
intent on maintaining a fair balance in
a chamber-music performance.
The extent to which he achieved this
in the opening number, Beethoven’s
E Flat Major Sonata (Op. 12, No. 3),
was remarkable. The difficulty in the
Way of a proper performance of works
of that period is that Beethoven wrote
for the weak-toned pianoforte of his day,
not for the powerful modern instrument
which, as Liszt demonstrated, can
counterfeit an orchestra. The Menuhin
duo arrived at a satisfactory compro-
mise, and both the serene gaiety of the
opening and closing movements and the
profundity of the fine slow movement
were adequately expressed. Hephzibah, as
a pianist, is not, perhaps, in her violinist
brother’s class, but she has a great degree
of skill, and, more important, sees eye
to eye with her brother as to interpre-
tation.
Enesco’s Third Sonata, as interesting
as an exploration of primitive human
psychology as it is in its wild, weird
musical content, probably astonished the
audience more than it charmed it, but
there was a return to the more accus-
tomed channels of great music in the
Albert Dekker and Clark Gable have a few woids over Joan Crawford, Peter
Lorre acting as ref., in “Strange Cargo” at St. James, Sydney.
A Major Sonata of Cesar Franck.
Franck wears well. It seems incredible
nowadays that the French once placed
him below such composers as Massenet
and Saint-Saens. This sonata of his
has more worth-while content to the bar
than the other fellows customarily spread
over a page. The performance was
charming.
* * *
Friedman’s Chopin Recital
Ignaz Friedman’s recital of well-
known Chopin compositions at Sydney
Town Hall last week was an edifying
exhibition of technique, even if some
of the technique was not Chopinesque.
Friedman plays the Polish master magis-
terially, and in avoiding any suspicion
of mawkish sentimentality he sometimes
goes too far and appears unsympathetic.
Despite rumors to the effect that he
has inherited Pachmann’s mantle, Fried-
man is a much better player of Beet-
hoven and Brahms than he is of Chopin.
His version of those delicate veils of
tone-fabric (that under some fingers seem
to have been woven out of moonbeams
and rainbows) too often brings to mind,
rather, a very cleverly beaten-out design
in wrought iron.
As an A.B.C. attraction Friedman
suffers from the fact that transmissions
don’t do him justice. When he is dis-
pensing a three-voice passage (which he
can do with rare judgment) the radio
listener is apt to lose altogether the
highest voice. Gramophone recordings
of him come through much more justly.
Adelaide Rep.
The Repertory Theatre of Adelaide,
laying aside for the moment any preten-
sion to be highbrow, has staged You
Can’t Take It With You” for a crowded
week at the Tivoli for the benefit of local
charities which get overlooked in the
stress of war-collecting. Two useful
recruits, Joy Watson and Jack Mitchell,
have what serious interest there is. Don
Gilham points the moral, and the reck-
less American foolishness is well attended
to by Florence Brown, Beryl Kook and
other experienced hands.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Florian”
At Sydney Lyceum, a topnotch enter-
tainer, but perhaps not to be recom-
mended to punters, for whom the sight
of a horse which does precisely what it s
expected to do would probably prove
too much.
Star of the film is Florian, described
by the blurb merchants as a magnificent
white Lippiza stallion, and for once
these authorities are conservative. It s
well worth seeing just for the uncom-
mon documentary stuff about this par-
ticular line of horses. Born coal-black,
they gradually change till, after four
years, they’re a rich snow-white. This
and other aspects of the development
of a young Lippizan are dealt with in
a series of shots against a background
of beautiful rural European settings, and
the finished product is exhibited in a
display of equine dancing, posing and
cavorting by Florian and an ensemble
of his brethren—a most arresting stretch
of film spectacle, warranted to delight
any onlooker with a real feeling for
horse, which should add up to a tidy
number of Australians.
In addition the two-legged side of the
cast does a good job. The plot is
hackneyed, with a groom in the royal
stables much enamored of a princess of
the Imperial court, and war and a new
social order eventually bringing them
together. Robert Young does a much
better job as the groom than might be
expected, and Irina Baronova makes a
very spirited minx in addition to doing
some lovely ballet stuff in the sort of
setting Hollywood can turn out. Another
interesting incidental is Reginald Owen’s
portrayal of the Emperor Franz Josef.
* * # *
“Our Town”
Oh, Gawd! Oh, Gawd! Does the
small-town adolescent, aged 17, forget
to chop the wood for his hard-working
mother? Yes, he does. When the small-
town adolescent’s tenderly reproachful
old man gives him a pi-jaw about it, does
the great hulking youth put his head be-
tween his hands and remorsefully
blubber? No, sir; no, sir!
When the same small-town adolescent
meets his girl does he invariably look as
miserably uncomfortable as if he were
going to lay an egg? Does his face con-
tort with fat-chopped anguish, does his
lower lip quiver like a leaf in the wind,
does his body squirm like a jellyfish, is
his yearning as inarticulate as that of a
lovesick oyster? The answer again is
No, sir.
It’s almost worth tackling this Sydney
Mayfair slob-story just to see how in-
credibly bad William Holden’s adolescent
is.
Next worst is Frank Craven, who as
the “narrator” has a heart-to-heart chat
with the audience from time to time to
get over gaps in the story and to moralise
about village life. In the character of a
middle-aged rustic bore, with a habit of
waggishly wagging his head, sucking his
pipe and pointing it at the audience as
if it were a water-pistol, he actually tries
to be glamorous. Middle-aged rustics
shouldn’t try to exude charm.
Next worst —or is it the worst of all?
—is the great ghost scene. The deceased
villagers standing up on their tombstones
while Martha Scott, squealing with
baffled delight, recaptures her childhood
probably explain why Thornton Wilder
won the Pulitzer Prize for his play. It’s
ingenious enough, and it could be in-
teresting: but you can’t do anything but
laugh at those glum, dumb spooks.
The film sets out to portray all that’s
best in small-town life. Fay Bainter
and Beulah Bondi are a good pair of
housewives, and the opening scenes are
most promising. But from the moment
William Holden’s blubbering lip bursts
in it gets worse and worse and worse.
ARTBURSTS.
The spring show of S.A. Society of
Arts carries the Alex. Melrose prize to
stimulate figure-painting. The judges,
Hans Heysen and Louis McCubbin, have
selected a hard but striking self-portrait
by Dora Chapman.
Landscape prizes go to Max Ragless
for a careful, almost photographic, view
of the old terraced town of Mannum, on
the Murray, and to Mrs. Marjorie
Gwynne (a much-improved painter) for
a charming old-fashioned garden.
Two bought by the National Gallery,
however, are very different: a cubist city
on a green hill, by Dorrit Black, and a
road by the sea, by Trenerry, both curi-
ously faint and wan and evidently in-
tended to modernise the national collec-
tion.
Elsewhere is some sound work by the
two Rowells, from Victoria, with a fine
mountain study by Travis Webber, an
ambitious war picture by Mainwaring
and a portrait by the said Mrs. Gwynne
of Daisy Bates, veteran friend of the abo.
But the most striking thing in the show
is not in it, so to speak. A family group
by one Milston, lately from Czecho-
slovakia, has such warm, rich coloring
that it might kill anything near it, and
so is hung prominently on the landing
outside.
Westralian Max Ebert, who has a
show of paintings at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, was a Melbourne Gallery
student under Bernard Hall and W. B.
Mclnnes, and developed a very fair
degree of skill as a draughtsman and
painter, as his self-portraits in the present
show demonstrate. He’s now Westralia’s
pioneer surrealist, and paints bad dreams,
repressions, complexes and people chew-
ing ectoplasm. The intellectual giants
who understand this sort of thing say
he’s very good at it.


Notice to Next-of-kin.
ALL PERSONS claiming to be next-of-kin of
ELIZABETH STANNARD, late of Westport, in
New Zealand, Widow, Deceased, are requested to
communicate with the undersigned immediately,
when they will learn something to their advan-
tage in connection with the estate of the above-
named deceased, who was the daughter of
EDWARD DOYLE and JULIA DOYLE, late
of Sydney, New South Wales.
COTTRELL & LOVELL, Solicitors, West-
port, New Zealand.
Legal Notice.
IN THE MATTER of “The Trustee Act 1908"
Section 74 and
IN THE MATTER of the estate of ELIZA-
BETH STANNARD late of Westport in
New Zealand Widow Deceased.
PURSUANT to an order made by a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand on the
20th day of August 1940 NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all creditors next-of-kin and other
persons having claims against the estate of the
above-named deceased person who died at
Westport on the 14th day of October 1931
and Probate of whose will and codicils was
granted by the Supreme Court of New Zealand
at Westport on the 11th day of November
1931 are hereby required to send in full par-
ticulars in writing of their claims to the Execu-
tors ANTHONY CRISPE COTTRELL and
HENRY LOVELL at the offices of their
Solicitors MESSIEURS COTTRELL AND
LOVELL No. 5 Brougham Street Westport
New Zealand not later than 42 days after
the last publication of this notice on the
25th day of September 1940 after which period
the Executors will proceed to distribute the
assets of the deceased among the persons en-
titled thereto having regard only to the claims
and demands of which they shall then have
had notice. _ _ , ,
DATED at Westport, New Zealand, this
23rd day of August, 1940.
COTTRELL AND LOVELL, Solicitors,
Westport, N.Z., Solicitors to the Executors.
A WOMANS
LETTER
Dr. Godsall is forsaking his Mac-
quarie-street rooms this week. He is off
with daughter Betty to Adelaide, where
she is to be married to Lieut. Jim Ryrie
before the week-end. Sue Other Gee goes
with the party. She is to be the only
bridesmaid. ’Groom’s mother will jour-
ney from Michelago for the wedding.
Da Silva Waugh, in her Red Cross
commandant’s uniform, was a proud
woman at the Red Cross race meeting
last Saturday. The 300 Red Cross V.As.
out to pluck the silver lining from purse
and pocket were doing it in the most
angelic way, helped out by skyey-blue
uniforms. The afternoon was soft and
grey, and the rain in the morning had
decided many women that it was a day
for good deeds rather than one for good
clothes. The Governor’s lady was not
of this mind, though. With her pale-grey
suit she wore a small brown hat of the
sailor family. At the front it wore in-
numerable little loops of ribbon that gave
a chrysanthemum effect. She and Lord
Wakehurst enjoyed the afternoon—the
first race meeting they have attended
since the war broke. They had quite a
confab with the jockey who rode Coor-
anga to victory.
The vice-regal party was crusted with
Red Cross importants. The Gordon lady
was among them. Her big push at the
moment is the art union. When last seen
she was off to back Anne, her memory
winging to plucky daughter, who is doing
her bit in England. Cartoonist Jimmy
Bancks’s wife was there, her pleasant
smile beaming beneath a turban that
brought up a vision of Bedouins and
sands of the desert. It had long white
side drapes falling from it. When Tidal
Wave won owner Mrs. Joan Galbraith
was as pleased as she looked. Father
C. B. Quinan, who had given the Maori-
land horse to his daughter, was there to
see the good win. Like other pen-pushers
this Letter fell down over her urge to
back her own craft. To anyone who
potters with sonnets and plays, a finger
of luck itself seemed to point to Serenade
and Pinero. Well, where are they now?
Sue Other Gee, in charge of the V.A.D.
badge-sellers, was doing good business ;
so were the dozens of other attractive
vendors. Nobody loafed on the job, and
many collected £2O and over. The meet-
ing was a big but not a bumper one ;
still, with one thing and another, there’ll
be a good haul-off for the cause. Knight
Tom Gordon and his wife were there,
eager to see Yours Truly step out. Mrs.
Rodney Dangar, neat as a new pin in
navy, was with daughter Roslyn. Roslyn
is a tall girl, and her head was topped
by a blue and grey check beret.
“Summer is icumen in” sang Mrs.
Gregory Blaxland’s pink rose toque, Mrs.
John Collins, of Queensland, in her red,
green and white checks and her green-
beflowered hat, and Mrs. Reg Betting-
ton, in her confetti-gay printed silks.
The Hon. Henrietta Loder’s suit had
purple-blue moorland tones in it. Her
little round toque was tied up with veil-
ing. Mrs. H. Cary and the Chamber-
lains, without daughter June, were
sighted. Premier Mair’s wife was in the
vice-regal group. Betty Considine was
a most successful button-seller. Betty
McCoy was with her just - betrothed
Lance-Bombardier Tony Hordern. Rada
Penfold Hyland was smartness in black.
Perhaps “The Student Prince” is an
old story to you, but to the girl who sat
beside this writer last Saturday night it
has an evergreen freshness. When Karl
and Kathie are bidding each other fare-
well before he returns to his princedom,
she whispered, “I have cried over this
scene every day for a fortnight.” Inquiry
discovered the speaker to be one of the
Firm’s pianists. And Leonora Laye
and John Howard will never in their
careers be paid a more sincere compli-
ment. Leonora, who is a Bathurst girl,
was almost snowed under with telegrams
from the city of the plains. Her mother,
Mrs. Lupp, came to share her daughter’s
triumph. Pamela Darling was a drift
of peach-blossom in swirls of pink
organza. A nice visitor from Perth was
Judith Drake-Brockman, in poinsettia
reds. Khaki and Air Force blue squired
every second girl. Mrs. Garnet Halloran
was one of the night’s attractive. The
first-nighter Brady couple enjoyed the
show.
For good or ill, your vote has been
cast. But, at any rate, an election is not
like a marriage. The noose is much
easier to slip—and you don’t have any
lawyer’s bill. In the suburbs women
tucked Australia’s business in between
buying the week-end roast and the week’s
vegetables. Racegoers filled in their
housie-housie slips before or after Rand-
wick. One soft-hearted girl said she was
going to give her vote to the man who
seemed to have the smallest following—
to help him save his deposit.
With the younger generation march-
ing away to the war the morale of the
nation can be strengthened only by the
knowledge that the children of the ex-
servicemen who died for their country
during or since the last World War are
still being cared for and guided into a
high standard of citizenship by ex-service-
men, themselves being assisted by a
friendly and understanding public. So
remember the musical pageant of the
Legacy Club in the Town Hall to-morrow
night.
There were more than 500 playing
bridge in the Carlton when the week’s
party for Boys’ Town was in full cry.
Well-wishers thronged three floors of
the hotel, and an overflow seeped
into a room in Usher’s next door.
There were guessing competitions for
everything ; a magnificent Lenci doll in
powder blue brought in a shoal of silver.
Lucky envelopes that might hold the
chance of a spring hat, a model frock,
silk stockings and what not all sold out
in the twinkling of an eye. The presi-
dent of the committee was Mrs. M. J.
Slattery. Her chiffons were a sky-after-
rain blue. Mrs. J. Davies, Mrs. Goodwin,
the wife of artist Rodriguez, who had
given one of his pictures to the cause,
Mrs. George Duncan, sleek in black
velvet and silver fox, Mrs. J. M. Dodd,
and Mrs. S. L. Coen were among the
night’s ardent workers.
When Yehudi and Hephzibah Menuhin
gave their matinee last week, the Town
Hall was a deep cool cave filled with
waves of music. The music chosen, if
it didn’t have its beginning quite as far
back, will surely endure as long as the
sea shall last—unless man of the future
is tone deaf from bombings. Hephzibah,
an exquisite little figure in porcelain
white, and brother Yehudi came on to
the platform hand in hand, to the delight
of the big audience. Hephzibah, who
is Mrs. Lindsay Nicholas, of Melbourne,
received many beautiful flowers from
friends in the south as well as from
Sydney admirers. Noted among the
many attractive musically-minded in the
house the pretty Bagnall girls, constant
concert-goer Miss Phillips, and the wife
of Dr. George Duncan in her smart black
Patou suit.
In recognition of her work for Eng-
land Ethel Sullivan has been deco-
rated with the Imperial Service Order
“for meritorious services rendered to the
Crown.” Miss Sullivan has recently
come from England to Australia, and the
order, which came to her after her arrival,
was pinned in place by the Governor of
Victoria, Sir Winston Dugan. The reci-
pient of the honor was pleased that the
ceremony took place in Australia, as it
.links her doubly with this country. Her
first link was her father, who had spent
some of his childhood and most of his
university student days in Melbourne.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
Two widely divergent interests occu-
pied last Wednesday. The first was a
meeting at the Australia to rouse interest
in the £250,000 drive for the King
George V Memorial Hospital. The after-
noon was given over to musings in the
midst of the Max Ebert show at the Mac-
quarie Galleries. Frankly, outside simple
things like “Man with a Pipe” and “Pot
and Leaves,” the show is beyond this
Letter. A surrealist and abstractionist
friend said in disgust, “Does the woman
think art must be as realistic as a hospi-
tal?” And while that is not so, it is fair
to ask should art resemble a hospital
case. Heads without bodies may even
suggest a morgue. Heads with one-half
the face not in plumb with the other do
seem to require medical attention. Still,
don’t think Max can’t both draw and
paint. He can, and this show proves it.
He just likes painting according to this
method. George Finey, in his opening
speech, said many congratulatory things,
and George Finey is a clever artist. He
painted a word-picture of the directors
of the National Art Gallery in invalid
chairs fighting a grim battle for the
chance of purchasing a Max Ebert long
after the artist is no more. Well, this
writer wishes Max better luck than that.
This show was crowded with young men,
all animatedly discussing the work. The
artist’s shirt was green, his smile merry.
Mrs. T. A. Greaves, of Hunter’s Hill,
is one of a group of enthusiastic W.A.N.S.
training for the officers’ course in that
service. The course calls for stern atten-
tion to duty. It comprises home nursing,
A.R.P., map-reading, signalling, military
training and other subjects. Apart from
her W.A.N.S. duties, Mrs. Greaves is a
Red Cross transport driver, and works
for the Signals Comforts Fund. Photo-
graph from Peter Pan.
From the Town Hall and the picture
theatres crowds went to the midnight
ballet at the Royal. Still, it wasn’t a
crowded house, nor did it have the glitter
of other midnight performances. In be-
tween the two entertainments there were
coffee and cigarette parties in the many
restaurants that cluster around the Royal.
All the ballet sketches were down from
the theatre foyer walls, and their color
and movement were missed. Persistent
balletomanes started to arrive at 11, and
at two o’clock in the morning they were
still full of applause. The people of the
ballet, warmed by the thoughtfulness of
many admirers who had subscribed to a
collection that ran towards £3OO, danced
blithely. Nina Verchinina danced one of
her own creations, “Dithyramb,” set to the
music of Melbourne’s Margaret Suther-
land.
The Minerva’s new show, on which
the curtain went up just as this Letter
was opening its eyes on a new week,
was heralded by an intriguing dodger.
The folder was in the shape of two
panels of a door. On the knob was tied
a “Do Not Disturb” sign. On opening
this you came on a sketch of a double
bed, across the foot of which was printed
“Room For Two.” This is the title of
the play. According to London press
notices this is a gay and diverting farce.
The Sydney cast includes Marjorie
Gordon, just back from South Africa,
Lloyd Lamble and Gerald Kirby.
If you want to eat and drink without
causing storms along the alimentary
canal, buy and study Australian Kitchen
Craft. This is a cookbook with a dif-
ference. Scientists and experts have had
their say. Professor Harvey Sutton has
written an introductory chapter on diet.
Dr. Grace Cuthbert, director of mater-
nal and baby welfare in the State’s De-
partment of Health, will be blessed by
mothers for her chapter on “Our Baby.”
Other names that carry weight are Miss
M. Farr, inspector of N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Education, Miss M. Macdonald,
supervisor of cookery for the same de-
partment, Maoriland’s Winifred Sten-
house, Lorna Byrne, Mrs. Olwen Francis.
All the recipes in the book are tested.
The book has been compiled for the
Women’s Auxiliary of the Industrial
Blind Institution, for which cause it is
now on sale.
The concert given by Yehudi Menuhin
and his sister Hephzibah last Thursday
proved that music-lovers in Sydney are
not confined to patrons of the A.B.C.
symphony concerts. The audience was a
tight squeeze for the Town Hall, and it
was the exception rather than the rule to
find orchestral-concert notables. Among
them, however, were Mrs. Hope Gibson
and Mrs. Robert Dixson. The latter, of
course, wore a spray of the famed Castle
Hill orchids. Hephzibah Menuhin
Nicholas was as dainty as a Lenci doll
in white chiffons. The house simply
doted on the looks as well as the music
of the brother and sister. The pro-
gramme, like that of the afternoon con-
cert earlier in the week, was made up of
sonatas, and brother and sister, who came
out to perform as simply as they might
walk across to the piano in their own
homes, looked as though they, too, were
having a night out.
The Hon. Henrietta Loder’s frock was
white, her little jacket rose-red. Ivie
Price wore black laces. lan and Anne
Bevan, not long returned from England,
were listeners. Anne’s frock was pink,
her short coat of mole. Jessica Chard,
having played tennis at the Longworths
all day in the interests of the Red Cross,
was among the enthusiasts. Rada Pen-
fold Hyland, all wrapped in furs, was
another. Noted were Mrs. Sam Jones,
of the Anzac Buffet, and the Justice
Ropers.
St. Mark’s at Darling Point is booked
for another pretty bride at five o’clock
on October 4. Dr. and Mrs. Granville
Waddy have sent out invitations to the
wedding of their Rose-Marie to John
Kenneth Thompson. Toasts and revelry
later at the Royal Sydney Golf Club.
Every woman should read Andre
Maurois’s The Art of Living. Here is a
paragraph that was particularly perti-
nent during the election campaign:
Should women abstain from politics
because they do not like abstract ideas?
On the contrary, 1 believe that they can
render men the service of ridding poli-
tics of abstract ideas. Why confuse prac-
tical politics, which are so close to the
art of housekeeping, with the very useless,
very foggy and often dangerous doctrinary
sort? For women, politics represent good
sense and hygiene. Men are faithful to
ideas. Women are faithful to human
beings.
There is much more that is wise and
discerning in this book, published in
English at the beginning of the war. It
was written for French people, but its
ideals are pretty well universal.
Mrs. Harry Burrell, who is so active
in Red Cross movements, is now con-
valescing from a somewhat prolonged
illness. Friends who visit her are always
taken on a tour of her orchid house. Just
now it is a dazzling array of exotic
beauty. It will be remembered among
Red Cross workers for the 1914-18 war
that Mrs. Burrell and her mother, Mrs.
Hay, were keen spinners. Mrs. Hay had
two spinning wheels which had been in
the family homestead at Manilla. Petrol
being a major consideration during this
world upheaval, Mrs. Burrell has been
public-spirited, and laid up her car in
lavender for the duration.
When Dr. Bertie Schlink, chairman of
directors of Prince Alfred’s, gets tired
of playing with the scale model of the
King George V Memorial Hospital,
there’s somebody would like it for a toy.
And here’s an idea for helping to raise
the wind for the equipment of the new
block. Why not sell these models for
paperweights? The late Chief Justice
Philip Street’s lady is president of a com-
mittee which is launching a series of
entertainments to furnish the King
George V. Jeanie Ranken is organiser.
Two events which are sure to be success-
ful are a table-setting competition in
Anthony Horderns’ Gallery (starting on
Oct. 8) and an afternoon picnic in the
grounds of Yaralla.


HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging',- painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
in the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
*os3 of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness.
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist or store for
WAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years,
khey give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN'S BACK-
nF?-® KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
fcsat SML make you well .and keep you Well,
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1061 of 1940.
BETWEEN THOMAS GEORGE ROBINSON
Petitioner and
HARRIET ROBINSON Respondent.
TO HARRIET ROBINSON formerly of Suther-
land but present address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said THOMAS
GEORGE ROBINSON has commenced a suit
against you for dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Sixth
day of December One thousand nine hundred
and forty and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Twelfth day of September, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
COLQUHOUN & KING, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
AUSTRALIA.
No. 600 of 1940.
BETWEEN ANN JANE DORNAN Plaintiff
and
JAMES HUGH DORNAN Defendant.
TO JAMES HUGH DORNAN.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to JAMES
HUGH DORNAN whose last known address
was at Kinnabulla in the State of Victoria
that ANN JANE DORNAN of 10 Market
Street Adelaide in the State of South Aus-
tralia has issued a writ in the Supreme Court
of South Australia in an action in which Ann
Jane Dornan claims an order for divorce from
her husband on the ground that the said
James Hugh Dornan unlawfully and without
just cause or excuse deserted the said Ann Jane
Dornan at Adelaide aforesaid on or about the
Eighteenth day of November 1930 and has
unlawfully and without just cause or excuse left
her continuously so deserted ever since and is
claiming maintenance from him If James Hugh
Dornan desires to be heard in opposition to
the claim for the order he must file an appear-
ance in the Office of the Master of the Supreme
Court of South Australia within 30 days of the
publication of this advertisement otherwise
orders may be made against him in his absence.
E. J. C. and L. M. HOGAN, A.M.P. Build-
ing, King William Street, Adelaide, Solicitors
for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1474 of 1940.
BETWEEN ETHEL OLIVE BLAKE Peti-
tioner and
ROY ALBERT BLAKE Respondent.
TO ROY ALBERT BLAKE late of Griffith
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ETHEL OLIVE
BLAKE has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Six-
teenth day of December One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of September
1940.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
FRANK J. SOMMERS, Solicitor for Peti-
tioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Saturday’s rain will drop some money
into the new Government’s pocket. As
Government incomes go it will be the
smallest drop in the widest ocean, but a
blow and a moan to the original owners,
those who left their vote to the tail-end
of the day. The rain that then emptied
itself upon the city made little Niagaras
of front steps and rushing rivers of city
streets. Taxis could not be had for love
or bribery ; tardy electors were faced with
the prospects of a fine or sartorial suicide
in the matter of their clothes. It seemed
that in Melbourne this election was more
casual than any of its predecessors;
nobody wanted an election or wanted to
vote, fewer posters blazoned the country-
side and fewer canvassers pushed cards
for rival factions into letter-boxes.
Because the words Victoria League
struck a note of memory in the mind
of a soldier touring the city of Melbourne
he sought out the League offices on the
sixth floor of 167 Collins-street. His
previous association was a pleasant one,
for his best pal back in Queensland had
married a Yorkshire girl brought from
England under the League’s 1926 emigra-
tion scheme. The man with the inquir-
ing frame of mind was interested to
learn that the League has been in
existence for 32 years.
The Victoria League’s young contin-
gent is keeping its Friday night dates at
the club rooms and every second Sunday
at the Australia for entertaining the
R.A.A.F. boys. Alison Syme is the
personable secretary of the young con-
tingent, and Margaret Bell runs the roster
of the girls on party duty. Mrs. Harry
Spry and Helen Speeding see that there’s
music on tap from guest performers, local
talent and the lads themselves, who
occasionally invite the girls to sit back
and be entertained while they produce
the amusement programme.
The Victoria League war service depot,
inaugurated in October, 1939, is staffed
in shifts. Mrs. Walter Carnegie and
Mrs. A. B. Sanders are in charge of
the buying and Mrs. Normand Hill looks
after the issuing of materials. Mrs. E. A.
Machin, Mrs. Sargood and Mrs. J.
Byrnes treat the goods to an inquiring
eye of inspection and dispatch. Mrs.
Francis Syme and Mrs. Linley Smith
organise work parties. Goods are sent
to the Red Cross and the Comforts
Fund. The League does its war job as
well as, not instead of, its other work.
Its Bush Library and magazine parcels
department are as active as ever.
A capacity crowd packed the ice and
the hinterland of the rink for the St.
Moritz carnival in aid of Blarney House.
The young committee certainly got the
skaters of the town interested. One at-
traction was the ice hockey. After the
game, in which no lives were lost, the
players reverted to comedy and skipped
through their hoops in a boys’ ballet with
tulle skirts, hairy legs, smudged grease-
paint, etc. Maxie Horder as one of them
had a white flower fastened to the long
blonde hair that waggled in front of his
eyes.
When things got under way the
sideshows did well. Fay Stoddart worked
up a sore throat spruiking for lucky bats,
but took a few useful minutes off chas-
ing Rosemary Knox to a hoopla to tell
her she’d won silk stockings. Mrs. Simon
Fraser collected a tennis racquet from
Fay’s stall. Sue Fraser and Hazel
Leonard ran poker darts. Paddy Wilkin-
son and Penelope Little stuck to the guns
of the cash desk most of the evening.
Among those who slid past over the ice
were the John Howse couple, clinging
together like a couple of limpets, young
schoolgirl Billy Ince, Gordon Darling,
David Fairbairn and Marjorie Carney,
in grey pleated skirt and blue pullover.
The Blarney House party day exceeded
expectations of even the most hopeful
optimists; £3030 was the fat figure on
the cheque received by Blarney House
president Mrs. J. J. Liston. Of that sum
£750 came from country parties, and the
Metropolitan Fire Brigades raised £350.
The rest is to the credit of bridge and
other parties in town and suburbs.
Tonight (25th) old girls of P.L.C. and
old boys of Scotch are supporting “Indoor
Fireworks” at Central Hall. The Old
Collegians’ dramatic societies of both
schools have combined, with Terence
Crisp directing the Arthur Macrae
comedy in three acts. It’s for the Com-
forts Fund. Inset is Alma Silvester, who
plays the Fay Compton part, that of
Christina, an actress “resting” in rural
surroundings. Miss Silvester enjoys her
dramatic ventures as relaxation from
the responsibilities of her job; she’s
head of the prep, school of Trinity
Grammar. Her photograph from
Dickinson-Monteath.
It was an audience of drowned rats
who came to see “The Light of Heart”
at the King’s on Saturday, play by
Emlyn Williams, production by Gregan
McMahon. Neither the weather nor hang-
ing over the radio listening to electioneer-
ing results kept the crowd at home ; the
place was packed even to the seats on
the side of the circle, where one sees a
corner of the stage and occasionally one
of the actors if he moves into that line
of vision. Dressing on the stage (set as
the top floor of a house in Long Acre,
London) ran to a string of kimonos, for
the housecoat hadn’t arrived in the dis-
trict, but Marie Balfour as Faro made
the best of a frivolous pair of mules and
lacquered toenails. The audience was
rugged up in furs and the cloakrooms
were full of damp umbrellas. The pres-
ence in the stalls of Alec Pratt was
marked by his laugh. Alec has a part
(an actor with a superiority complex) in
the next McMahon production, James
Bridie’s “The King from Nowhere,” com-
mencing on October 5. In the meantime
he’s hugging himself at the thought of
his new possession, Little Croft, up at
Berwick, which he takes over on
November 1. It’s a stud property and
has belonged to Capt. Youngman for
nine years. Bob Hamilton did the archi-
tecture for the house, which contains a
study with something very special in
granite fireplaces.
“A crazy notion” was the verdict of
any outsiders who happened to hear that
the Arts and Crafts Society was con-
templating its usual show this year. But
such pessimism was superfluous. The
show is now over, and as a result the
exhibitors are pleased and the buyers
(there were hundreds of them) are de-
lighted to be in on the ground floor for
Christmas. The three days’ exhibition
at Darling-street was opened by Lady
Dugan, who did the rounds and let her
head go in the matter of purchases. So
carried away was she that it’s not giving
away State secrets to mention that the
momentous decision about several of her
summer frocks and next autumn’s suits
was reached that day. The Armitage
lady, too, succumbed to choice materials.
Mrs. George Stevenson fell for green
kangaroos on a Frances Burke hand-
blocked silk.
With so much talent in Melbourne it
can now be claimed that this city’s
standard of hand-woven fabrics is very
high. Catherine Hardess and Edith
Grove displayed their woollen and cotton
fabrics with skilful showmanship. Some
English weavers now settled here ex-
hibited upholstery fabrics. Miss Veitch
and Miss Tyler displayed their art as
spinners in flax and wool respectively.
Rachael Grieve, who is a master-weaver,
exhibited her handwork and several dif-
ferent looms. On one of these looms
was a navy-blue scarf in course of con-
struction which is going to be a surprise
packet for the neck of Captain Collins,
of the cruiser Sydney. Visitors could
weave a few rows of this scarf and
write their names on a presentation
parchment for the price of a silver coin
(for Navy House).
Potters of note were Mrs. C. G.
Whiting, Miss M. Albiston, John Knight,
Mrs. Sutherland, Gwen Shaddock, Allan
Lowe and Frank Andrew. The two last-
named, owing to visitations of mumps,
were represented by their young wives.
In the needlework section were exhibits
of Miss Lucy Rowe and Thelma Craw-
ford and interesting examples of quilt-
ing by wives of Welsh miners. Their
work, of high standard, was spotless in
spite of its vicinity to coaldust. It was
sent out from Wales for an experimental
market here. This year Lucy Newell
expanded with her hand blocking from
Christmas wrapping papers to handker-
chiefs and babies’ bibs. The toy stall
was cute as ever, little oilcloth animals
winning high marks for utility.
Epidemics of the mumps-measles-
Pucka-throat family smote mightily dur-
ing “Interval,” young Sumner Locke-
Elliott’s brainchild, which ran for a week’s
season at the Little Theatre. Producer
Brett Randall stuck to the job and
coached understudies at a few hours’
notice. The result was that David Reid
wore the doublet and hose of Gordon
Cook as the play’s stage star. Gwen
Vellenoweth played the publicity woman
(all virtue and good temper) in place of
disappointed and stricken-to-her-crib
Joan Denyer. Dorothy O’Keefe did a
choice bit of character acting in Miss
Vellenoweth’s original part, that of the
sexless secretary with hornrims and bun
of hair; Loveday Hills was Edith, a
nasty piece of work. Congratulations
flowed around young brunette June
Percival, who’s the possessor of a melt-
ing pair of brown eyes. Though inex-
perienced she played with skill the role
of the too-successful actress Laura.
October 5 is the date and the Princess
the place for the Cavalcade of Empire
Pageant, for which manoeuvres on a large
scale are in progress. Broothorn’s photo-
graph is of Mina Shelley, producer. Hon.
organiser John Porter, who watched 500
people merge from chaos one night last
week for a complete rehearsal of the first
part of the programme, claims that only
superlatives can describe the achievement
—if anyone disagrees with him after see-
ing the presentation he’ll give them their
money back, that’s if they’re game to take
it from the accounts of Navy, Blarney
and Air Force hostelries. There’s a
matinee in the afternoon, and at the
evening performance the Governor and
Lady Dugan will walk between lines of
Beefeaters, Diggers all in spite of their
paraphernalia. They are members of the
British Ex-Service Legion of Australia,
and all were in the retreat from Mons in
1914.
Roy Grounds, now that the summer is
coming, is looking over his range of rope
sandals and asking his pals down to
Ranelagh to taste a new delectable dish
of mussels, his own cooking and prying
from the rocks. He’s just produced the
snappiest thing in bachelor flats to hit
this city, in Clendon-road, Armadale,
just over the border of Malvern-road.
The first thing that meets the eye at the
entrance is a plan of the building on a
glass wall. Each kitchenette is an alcove
behind opaque glass, and is all one with
a cocktail bar, even to the step for the
imbiber’s foot.
The ingenious doors of cupboards over
the stainless-’Steel sink open downwards,
resting like extra shelves upon their elon-
gated broomhandle doorknobs. One
bed is a divan ; another folds into the
walls, as does the writing desk. A dress-
ing-room is an adjunct to the bathroom.
In one furnished flat there’s a tryout of
coconut matting upon the floor. It’s
thickly felted beneath.
A weekly paper has been born in
Wau, New Guinea. It first saw the light
of morning on July 20, and it sells at
6d. The total amount of newsprint it
uses won’t be a thorn in anyone’s side
despite restrictions. How long it will
survive is a matter of conjecture. The
first issue contains a faux pas worthy of
a scrap album, a bit too full-flavored
to be printed here. There runs a news
item—“ Flue is a very prevalent among
the residents at present; old timer say
that they have never seen such weather
as the beach as been having lately.”
Thirsty Victoria would like to claim the
first of the following statements, but not
the second: (1) “Heavy rain has been
the order of the day lately” ; (2) “While
on the subject of beer why has the price
at the Club jumped to 335. 3d. per
bottle?” Business interests, too, receive
a mention. An Edie Creek voice states
that “Our local undertaker seems to be
doing all right. Last Sunday one of
Allan’s ‘boys’ died. His ‘one-talks’ took
up a tarpaulin muster and got him a
coffin complete with all the doings. It
cost £4. Nothing but the best.”
A reference in Melbourne Chatter
(B. 21/8/ ’4O) to collections for the
British Y.W.C.A. War Service Fund
being apparently all raised in Victoria
has brought from the Sydney secretary
of the appeal a statement showing that
collections in N. S. Wales to Sept. 10
amounted to £3932, expenses being £ll
14s. Id.


FLYING INSTRUCTION. Did you know that you can learn to fly and qualify
for your Pilot’s Licence at between £37 to £4O or on an hourly rate of £3
per hour dual instruction and £2 per hour solo?
NATIONAL AIRCRAFT PTY., LTD., has already trained a number of pilots
to “A” Standard and has a large number now undergoing training at Mascot.
AIRCRAFT REPAIRS AND CONSTRUC-
TION. In the well-equipped factory at
Jones Lane, Rosebery, Engineering Repairs
and Construction of Aircraft are being
carried out.
GROUND ENGINEERS are also trained in
Categories A, B, C and D.
’Phone or Write—
NATIONAL AIRCRAFT PTY., LTD.,
44 Martin Place, SYDNEY. 8W6700, 8W6302.
Factory: Jones Lane, Rosebery. Mas. 115.
RECONDITIONED LIGHT
AIRCRAFT FOR SALE.
NATIONAL AIRCRAFT PTY., LTD.,
has on hand, for sale, reconditioned
light aircraft of various types and air-
craft accessories. Sole Australian Agents
for the famous Rearwin Aeroplanes
“Sportster,” “Cloudster,” etc.
THE FLYING COLUMN
"The Toast Is London!"
“E.D.”: There was a time when war was
a comparatively clean thing fought by
soldiers according to rules as rigid as
those of the duelling field. Civil popu-
lations were respected. Their resources
were not destroyed. The armies of Marl-
borough stopped on their marches to
bake bread instead of pillaging it. At
Fontenoy, English and French offered
each other courteously the privilege of
the first volley.
Now there are no rules. The Germans
have broken every convention which they
signed at The Hague as to the indis-
criminate laying of mines, the destruction
of merchant ships, the treatment of
civilians. They have outdone the bar-
barities of the Indian Mutiny. They have
even seemed to avoid matching them-
selves against armed adversaries where
possible in order to attack Britain through
its women and children, hoping to disor-
ganise civil transport and food supplies,
and leave millions workless, foodless
and shelterless on the eve of the bitterest
months in the year, when destruction can
mean only wholesale disease and death
and madness. Their methods have been
those which would raise an outcry in a
civilised community if employed against
wild animals.
The continuing carnage and destruction
have been made more hideous by every
kind of wile and trickery. After the Luft-
waffe had met its match on September 15,
when IS7 of its ’planes were shot down,
new tactics were adopted. In place of
the heavily-loaded bombers, light, fast
single-engined machines were used for a
time because, having a higher ceiling,
they had more chance of dashing in at
great height and unloading their cargo of
death indiscriminately somewhere over
the 700 square miles of London, which
carries 13,000 people to the square mile.
Later, when the balloon barrage was
broken by a great gale—balloons travelled
as far as Finland —the larger machines
were tried again. The terrifying routine
has been repeated endlessly.
The air-raid sirens scream. The crowds
on the pavement dive for the nearest
shelter or underground station. They
glance upwards hurriedly as they move
to safety. Nothing apparently above
them but a windy sky in which the early
September gales have torn some cloud
formations to ribbons. At most 25,000
feet up, there is a thin trail of white
vapor to mark the course of freezing ex-
haust gases. The heavens are suddenly
split open with the roar of the anti-
aircraft barrage, which drowns the lesser
choruses of engines and chattering
machine-guns.
Now the streets are completely empty
save for the slow-pacing, calm policemen
and wardens in their blue steel helmets,
and the waiting firemen and ambulance
men. A new noise is heard—shell frag-
ments pattering like heavy hail on the
roofs. A dark oblong shoots like a
meteor to the ground, strikes it with
a teeth-shaking explosion. The fire-
engines and ambulances squeal. Some-
thing like a dark match under a mush-
room in the upper air resolves itself into
a man under a parachute tossed about
by the gale as he worms his way to
safety. Hundreds of feet up fragments
whirl as the wreckage of a giant bomber,
torn to pieces by the Spitfires, falls mixed
up with bits of flesh which a few seconds
before have been young men vivid with
life.
Presently the roar of the barrage dies
down into deathly silence. The “all clear”
goes. The crowds in the undergrounds
are lifted on the escalators out of the
stations, which smell for all the world
like laundries on boiling day, into the
smoke-laden upper air. Some go home,
to find the little streets in which they
live turned into graves for young mothers
and toddlers who have been blasted and
crushed and scalded to death. Here the
rescue squads are removing the bodies
of young girls. There they are trying to
succor an old man who must lie im-
prisoned for hours till the thudding
shovels of the tireless workers reach him.
This street has been hastily roped off
because a delayed action bomb lies in
it. A little group of gallant Royal En-
gineers are gingerly reconnoitring it, not
knowing at what moment it will blow up
and reduce them to pulp.
A window is broken in Westminster
Abbey. The firemen are struggling to
save the remains of a great store in
which were merchandise and food and
much-needed warm clothing. The street
outside is ankle-deep in glass. Among
the plane trees of Berkeley Square history
gazes on a leaf-strewn crater which is
still smoking. What do the ghosts of
Priestley, who discovered oxygen here,
of Horace Walpole, of Clive think of
it all? The Air Ministry is now housed
in Berkeley Square, and there the Bank
of N.S.W. on the opposite side has been
damaged.
A great block of Mayfair flats has
lost its upper storeys. Stretchers move
in and out of one of London’s huge,
gloomy, pitiful hospitals. Nurses and
patients have been mangled together,
helpless against the terror from above.
The homeless wander through the streets
aimlessly, cursing the murderers under
their breaths. But the big red buses are
running again, the cross of St. Paul’s still
glitters in the sky above the black and
white city, Big Ben booms out from his
tower and the bass voice of Great Paul
is heard over the city. The endless com-
mentary of the unhurried, unemotional
8.8. C. announcer is carrying the story to
the ends of the earth. Pigeons flutter
tentatively around the fountains of
Trafalgar Square.
The air-raid sirens shrill again. Once
more Londoners are immured like moles
in the underground stations, in the
Arches of Charing Cross, in cellars where,
any moment, the broken hot-water pipes
may shower down scalding liquid, or the
punctured gas mains fill the shelters with
sheets of flame.
It goes on all day. At night the crowds
huddle in tunnels, sleeping on cold
cement. They are too tired to heed the
suffocating heat or the smoke that drifts
in or the rattle of the trains, which must
be kept moving through the city’s
warrens 60 to 100 feet below the surface
in London mud.
The sun flashes up in the smoky east,
where fires are burning. The morning
papers are out and on the streets, the
milkmen push their barrows through the
squares, the ancient taxis pick their way
among the glass and rubble. There is
more ruin, but the essential skyline of
London is still intact as the workers
go their many ways to their offices
and factories, none sure at what moment
his or her power to see it all will be
destroyed for ever.
The mortuaries are a little fuller, the
firemen a little more weary. But after
nearly three weeks of ceaseless blasting
only a tiny corner of England has been
destroyed. During all the terror hundreds
of miles of bays in the factories have
echoed to the thud of machines turning
out aeroplane sections and engines and
shells and guns. The riveters have chat-
tered day and night more loudly than the
machine-gun fire in a hundred shipyards
where the armored flanks of battleships
and destroyers and merchantmen are
taking shape. The big cargo vessels come
and go in the teeth of the gale ; a million
trucks run in and out of warehouses
unloading the produce and war material
of the whole globe. The grim bombers
return from the ravaged French and
German ports in flocks. The guns poke
their muzzles over the cliffs. Three mil-
lion Britons stand patiently to arms,
grimly waiting for revenge. The Navy,
intact, patrols the coasts and the outer
seas.
And the relentless murderers of the
skies, peeping out of their cockpits, must
feel disheartened as they gaze over the
rolling miles of beech and oak, of un-
touched village, port and factory, and
realise how relatively small are the gaps
which they have succeeded in blasting in
the greatness of England.
Soon they will have reason to know
that the fires of anger which they have
lighted in the hearts of Britons are some-
thing far more terrible than those which
burn in the slums of West, East and
South London. It takes more than the
destruction of 2000 houses in one of the
British Commonwealth’s many capitals
and the slaughter and maiming of a few
thousand innocents to daunt a nation
which has weathered 20 centuries of war
and pestilence and tribulation. And it
will take more than German might to
quench the wrath of a people which
still cherishes the ruins of the Residency
of Cawnpore to remind the world how
unforgetful a normally peaceful and for-
giving nation can be of atrocity against
defenceless people of their race.
Tit for Tat in Europe.
It is obvious by this time that suc-
cess in air-raiding depends on three
factors —detailed knowledge of the objec-
tives to be attacked, superior strength
over the defence, and/or the ability of
the attacker to surprise the attacked.
Where one or all of these factors have
operated great damage has been done in
Britain, but only in places which were
approachable because they were only of
secondary military importance and there-
fore not fully protected.
The great railway stations of London —
Paddington, Waterloo, Liverpool-street,
Cannon-street, Victoria, King’s Cross,
Euston are marks which a schoolboy
should be able to hit with a bomb from
10,000 feet or so. But they remain whole.
The huge powerhouse at Battersea, which
stands out in S. London like Marshal
Goring at a mannequin parade, is un-
scathed. Dunlop’s tyre works a few miles
outside Birmingham, in which the bays
are literally miles long, had not suffered
a scratch when last heard from. The
acres of chemical works at Runcorn, the
huge Spitfire and Hurricane works, the
plants of Vickers and Armstrong and
Hadfield, covering acre upon acre, know
bombers as mere passers-by.
Big London stores have been damaged
or wrecked. Mayfair has had its issue
of destruction along with Lambeth and
Limehouse. But nothing has been de-
stroyed worth the lives of 1000 trained
German airmen and some tens of mil-
lions of pounds’ worth of bombers, fuel
and ammunition. So far the defence has
been too deadly, the barrage too thick
and the balloons too high wherever there
was a military post of prime importance
or military, naval or air lives to be lost
in any substantial numbers.
But contrast the record of the R.A.F.
on the Continent. Examination of Ger-
man ’planes all along has shown a superi-
ority of material and fuel on the British
side. The painstaking British reconnais-
sances made by whole fleets of British
machines early in the war have dowered
the R.A.F. with exact knowledge of what
they are aiming at, apart from their more
exact familiarity of northern France
gained in months on the spot in intimate
liaison with the French.
No German armada has yet done even
once what the R.A.F. has done to Kiel.
It has swept there half a dozen times,
invading the very heart of the defences,
blasting the port’s biggest dock, keeling
over Germany’s biggest battle-cruiser,
smashing up the railway fork at the
end of the harbor, tearing holes in the
torpedo works. The Germans have
never yet succeeded in girdling Britain
with fire as the British have girdled
towns and ports along the North
Sea and Channel coast. British forests
still stand while the pines of the
Schwartzwald and Grtinewald and of
Hanover blaze and smoke day in and
day out. Britain’s small craft teem on
harbors and rivers and patrol the North
Sea, and her convoys—and those of most
other seaman nations chartered for her
use —still ride the waves, under the
guns of battleships and cruisers. Most
of Germany’s fleets are sunk or shelter-
ing under land guns. The seas are
thick with the wreckages of her barges
and motor-boats every morning.
Earlier, there was some scepticism
about the damage which was being done
by the R.A.F. raids, but now it is becom-
ing clear to the whole world that, if
Germany is not getting the worst of it
in the air, she is at least getting as much
as she has given, and more.
Sir Archibald Sinclair, the dour Scot-
tish Secretary for Air, outlined British
air policy succinctly and sensibly last
week.
We can win only by clever fighting and
landing each blow where it hurts most
and weakens most. Indiscriminate bomb-
ing of German civilians would only in-
crease misery and suffering and would not
protect our people.
The Minister quoted figures to justify
the policy. From August 8 to Sept. 18
Britain had lost 621 machines and 600
airmen; Germany, 1867 machines and
4000 airmen. German production has
fallen because of R.A.F. daring.
Yet the R.A.F. has undertaken no dan-
gerous widespread daylight raids. It has
used formations only large enough to
justify definite purposes. It has not dis-
sipated its fighters in protecting bombers
whose approach was obvious.
Photographic evidence and neutral
observers confirm the reports of heavy
damage, and confirmation has come from
Germany itself in the urgent broadcast
on the night of September 18, telling Ger-
mans that they must put out their own
fires by private effort.
Across the Channel, at every point
where cloud or land is visible, Britons
can see for themselves the flames and
glare which British airmen, many Aus-
tralians and Maorilanders among them,
leave behind when they turn homeward
each morning after having subjected
troop concentrations, havens, convoys,
barge flotillas, oiltanks and railway yards
and dumps to treatment which Germans
appear to be able to apply effectively only
to civilian English populations and the
more open parts of cities.
The test of R.A.F. success lies in the
fading hopes of Germany for a success-
ful invasion of Britain.
“Volkischer Beobachter,” Hitler’s per-
sonal organ, remarked on Friday:
England, by the unmerited favor of
Heaven, has benefited through bad weather.
This has spurred her on to further mur-
derous arrogance and a continuance of
murderous attacks.
The “murderous” attacks certainly con-
tinue—on the barges moored in French,
Belgian and Dutch and German harbors,
on the warehouses and docks where the
invasion stores are being piled up only
to be blown up, and where port equip-
ment is being smashed into a tangle of
ruin. And, as bad weather is seasonal,
those attacks are bound to continue, and
with every day there will be fewer barges
and ships, fewer men, less armament to
launch against Britain and less chance of
its being launched.
The Air War Day by Day.
September 15-16: All-night raid on
London West End shopping and residen-
tial districts, followed by 4i-hour inter-
val on morning of Sept. 16. Four more
raids follow ; houses, commercial build-
ings and a hospital wrecked before
raiders driven off. St. Paul’s saved by
removal of time bomb. Other parts of
England attacked. R.A.F. raids German-
held ports.
R.A.F. bombs Italians at Halfaya and
Solium, near Libyan border ; also dam-
ages aerodrome at Gura (Abyssinia).
Italians raid Khor Yabia (Khartoum dis-
trict). Raiders damage Government
property in Malta.
September 16-17: Air battle in heav\
gale over Thames between R.A.F. and
200 Messerschmitts and Heinkel fighters.
Small raids at great height over London :
indiscriminate bombing; 10-hour night
raid, mainly on Mayfair and East End.
followed by short raid after daylight
Three Oxford-street stores, a hospital, and
East End residential streets bombed
People killed in raids over Mersey and
Glasgow ; n.-w. town machine-gunned.
R.A.F. pounds s.-e. and n.-w. Germany
and Channel and North Sea coast from
(<Continued on next page.)


FOR TRAVELLING
or Holidays ... or as a GIFT for
lads who have enlisted for Home
Service or Overseas, Pike Brothers
suggest a
“PAK-ALL”
Made in high-grade Calfskin, this kit
will hold such articles as RAZOR,
RAZOR BLADES, SHAVING BRUSH
and SOAP, TOOTH BRUSH and PASTE,
METAL MIRROR and BRILLIANTINE.
These PAK-ALLS are Oiled Silk, water-
proof lined. Neat zipp fasten-
ing. Very compact. Avail- | 7 / 1*
able in Black or Nigger, *I / v
each.
Southern Queensland Agents:
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Le Havre to Antwerp, sinking hundreds
of barges, two ammunition ships and a
tanker. Announced that R.A.F. has laid
30 minefields from Norway to Biscay
since May and thousands of tons of
enemy shipping destroyed.
Direct hits on aerodrome at Asmara
(Eritrea) and on Italian columns east of
Bug Bug, western Egypt. Announced
that casualties in 75 raids on Alexandria
have been 10 killed, 40 wounded. Raid
on Malta driven off, Italians losing three
machines ; Italians claim to have caused
fires and heavy damage and to have
destroyed three grounded R.A.F.
machines at Valetta and two others. They
also report having shot down five
Gloster Gladiators in Libya, but admit
raid on Benghazi (Libya) in which a
barge and a torpedo-boat were sunk;
also slight damage at Derna and attacks
on several Italian aerodromes in Africa.
Blenheim bomber, they assert, lands by
mistake on Pantellaria Island and is
captured.
September 17-18: Daylight raids on
London, followed by 10-hour raid which
ended at 6 a.m. Wednesday. Western end
of Oxford-street badly battered, three
great stores damaged, one burnt out.
Seven daylight raids follow on . Sept. 18,
between 7.16 a.m. and 5.38 p.m. Battle
over Thames during lunch hour; before
9.30 p.m. 46 raiders shot down.
R.A.F. raids on German bases and
cities continue on expanding scale. Two
supply ships sunk at Cherbourg; one
destroyer believed sunk; quarter of a
mile of fire raging round basins at
Calais ; big gun emplacements at Gris-
Nez attacked ; fires started at Dunkirk;
barges and warehouses set blazing at
Boulogne. Zeebrugge, Ostend, Ter-
neuzen, near Flushing, Antwerp docks,
numerous German railway junctions and
aerodromes bombed. R.A.F. continues
harassing of Italian advance into Egypt.
Benghazi again attacked, several hangars
destroyed.
September 18-19: About 90 killed and
350 wounded in nine raids on London,
including all-night attack. Casualties
from raids in other parts of Britain.
Further battle between large forces over
Thames Estuary; 48 German and 12
British ’planes destroyed. London
features damaged included Westminster
Bridge, London County Council Hall, a
hotel, private dwellings and various large
buildings in west and central London.
Further R.A.F. attacks on German North
Sea coast bases and military objectives,
with heavy damage.
September 19-20: Only one daylight
raid on London up to 5 p.m., Sept. 19,
but all-night raid —8 p.m. to 6 a.m. —
with few losses and less damage than
usual. A few casualties from raids in
s.-e. England. Five German machines
shot down during day and night. Heavy
R.A.F. attacks on Germany, particularly
on the Ruhr and on aerodromes. Dort-
mund-Ems canal cut for second time.
Continued bombing of Italian advance
from Libyan border towards Mersa
Matruh in Egypt. Italians claim to have
sunk British submarine and heavily
damaged a merchantman in Mediter-
ranean.
September 20-21: London again
attacked by heavy formations, more
buildings destroyed and lives lost. R.A.F.
attacks railway yards in Germany at
Mannheim, Erbach and Mittenburg, the
railway near Coblenz, and the Moselle
Bridge near Trier. Tidal harbor and
warehouses at Ostend, Dunkirk harbor
works and barge concentrations at Flush-
ing badly damaged. Benghazi further
bombed, three large ships damaged;
also transport communications at Sidi
Barrani. Hangar at Diredawa fired.
September 21-22: London enters third
week of continuous bombing. Exten-
sive raids over 20 towns and villages in
southern England and others in s.-w. and
n.-w. London raid preceded by day of
attacks by single machines. German
High Command states “revenge raids”
continue, many military objectives
bombed along the Thames, and fresh
fires started round Royal Albert Docks
and West India Docks, where old fires
are still raging; also that British failed
to penetrate German territory, but a few
bombs dropped on French and Belgian
coast.
R.A.F. announces biggest raid yet on
German invasion bases during daylight
on Saturday. Boulogne, Dunkirk and
Calais severely dealt with; barge con-
centrations damaged at Rotterdam,
Amsterdam, Ostend and other ports.
Later raids made on Ostend, Dunkirk,
Boulogne and Calais docks and shipping ;
fires and explosions over wide area.
Widespread raids over western Germany
from the southern Rhine into Belgium.
Announced that to week ended midnight
Sept. 20, Germany lost 280 machines,
Italy 11, Britain 69, including 12 bombers
over Continent. Total war losses: Ger-
many 4395 machines, Italy 197, Britain
1313.
Further attacks by Italians on British
in Egypt and by R.A.F. on Italian ad-
vance from Libya.
On Sept. 22 London suffers sixteenth
night raid in succession ; several build-
ings damaged, including churches, raiders
driven off by A.A. fire. Further raids
on n.-w. England.
THE SERVICE MAN
The Sea Is on Our Side.
“Ek Dum”: It was Napoleon himself
who said, during the Great Terror when
England waited for him 135 years ago:
“It is necessary for us to be masters of
the sea for six hours only, and England
will have ceased to exist.” It was also
Napoleon who said: “There is but one
step from a triumph to a fall. I have
seen that in the greatest affairs a little
thing has always decided great events.”
It has curiously so been the same
whenever England has been threatened.
And the little thing has always sprung
from the sea. The Armada appeared
in the Channel, armed and “invincible.”
The best month upon the narrow seas
—July—had been chosen for the attack
on England ; but the sea burst into a
great storm and the only Spaniards who
came ashore were shipwrecked sailors.
The 130 ships, the 3000 cannon, the
galley slaves, were scattered round the
British Isles. In the twentieth century
speculators were still forming syndicates
to dredge for bits of Medina-Sidonia’s
treasure off Tobermory.
In July, 1805, Napoleon stood ready
at Boulogne for another invasion, which
needed only one thing that command
of the sea for a few hours. Nelson, one-
armed, one-eyed, ailing, ordered ashore
long since by the fleet physicians, had
stepped for the first time on dry land at
Gibraltar after two years on the Victory
following Villeneuve round the Mediter-
ranean and the Atlantic. Villeneuve had
come home from the West Indies. Off
Finisterre his fleet bucked for three days
into the teeth of a gale. The storm died.
In a day or two he would junction with
Ganteaume, and, that done, the flat boats
and the rafts, over 2300 of them, with
the greatest army ever transported by
sea, would sally out of Ostend, Dunkirk,
Boulogne, Calais, Ambleteuse, Wimereux,
Etaples, with French sails dominating the
Channel. A great fog fell to cover the
French movements and the thing seemed
done.
But there was a sudden rift in the fog.
Through it for a brief moment the
Defiance, one of Robert Calder’s scout
ships, saw the French topsails. And in
an hour or two British and French fleets
were groping for each other in the mist.
Villeneuve turned south, his chance gone.
A month later Napoleon was on his way
to Austria and Villeneuve bound for
destruction at Trafalgar.
It was the same at Dunkirk in the
present war. When the evacuation of
the B.E.F. began, and there seemed no
hope of getting the men off, a storm
raged. Suddenly a dead and miraculous
calm descended. The sea became alive
with little boats. The B.E.F. was saved.
It happened again this month. All
seemed to be ready for Hitler’s invasion.
Again there was an aggressor who needed
the sea on his side for a few hours. On
the night of full moon and full tides a
great westerly rolled up through the
Channel, compelling the German flotillas
to lie behind their breakwaters, there to
be pounded by the guns of the British
fleet and racked by the incessant bomb-
ing of the R.A.F. Days of turbulent
weather followed.
Invaders of England seem to have no
luck with the sea.
In the Libyan Desert.
“Ente Marid”: Early last week the
Italian forces in Libya, under Marshal
Graziani, commenced a drive towards
Alexandria, and at any moment we may
hear of Australian and/or Maoriland
soldiers being in action. The invasion
's, of course, an act of war against
Egypt, but during the first few days
at least the Egyptian Government made
no sign.
Desert warfare has changed a great
deal since the Duke of Westminster’s
■egion and the A.I.F. went out against
the Senussi in the last war. It has
travelled a long way even since an Aus-
tralian mailman showed T. E. Lawrence
how to double the tyres of his Rolls-
Koyces for sand grappling and the wire-
netting road was laid across Sinai. It
as > in fact, become no longer the flat-
ooted war of the camel and the sand
grappler.
Nowadays giant scoops and bulldozers
ove acr oss the dunes crisscrossing them
with level tracks. The big battalions
of labor follow and put in the side
supports. Then come the spraying
machines, with their mixed sand and
bitumen. Where one day there is nothing
but rolling sand, the next the big guns
and tanks roll over a passable highway.
To this kind of technique no part of
the desert is immune. Already the
British have built hundreds of miles of
track sliding in from Lower Egypt round
Cairo, north-west towards the sea, so as
to menace any advance along the coast-
line, to which it must be confined by the
nature of the country. For while the
British armies have had peace and leisure
for road building, an advancing invader
will have no time or opportunity for such
luxuries.
The Libyan border as the crow flies
is about 300 miles from Alexandria.
For more than 200 miles a railway runs
to Mersa Matruh. The British control
this line, which gives them a vast ad-
vantage in transport. They control the
harbor, which is the only one practicable
and developed along the whole length
of the coast to Libya. It cannot be
attacked by sea because of the strength
of the British fleet, and the R.A.F. and
Dominion forces have so far succeeded
in warding off serious air attack.
From Mersa Matruh a road runs to
the border, part of it bitumenised. It is
a good military road most of the way,
but it runs through waterless, broken
country, with little shelter or cover either
from the sun or from air attack, and
in the clear Egyptian air a tank upon it
must look like a young mountain. Cen-
tralians are familiar with the crow which
on Sturt’s Stony Desert looks like an
emu.
Most of this road is within range of
the naval guns and a few minutes’ flight
from British air bases. And as the only
navy which has a chance of approach-
ing is the British, the situation is very
awkward for the Italians.
The reports of their advance show that
their transport is well organised, their
mechanised units, heavy mobile artillery
and aircraft are abundant, and their
water supply is good, though only able
to provide If pints per day per man.
This sounds ample to anybody who has
not experienced desert conditions. Ample
it is for a very short period, but for any
length of time, especially if there is
blowing sand and those who fare on it
are handling hot machinery, it is totally
inadequate. Indeed, Giuseppe is in for
a severe drought in his interior, even
leaving his begrimed and heat-cracked
exterior out of the question.
“Giornale d’ltalia” declares that the
British armies in Egypt, including 30,000
troops from Palestine, number 230,000,
with 500 ’planes. There had been talk
of the Italians outnumbering the British
ten to one. Recent convoys have
certainly whittled away any such
superiority; moreover, while a large
section of the Italian armies is made up
of excellent North African troops,
pictures which have come forward of
others show them to be of a poor type.
The best are equal to the Senegalese,
and have a long tradition. But on the
British side there is a command highly
experienced in desert fighting, a large
proportion of white troops indigenous
to Australia and Africa who are accus-
tomed to conditions paralleled by those
of Eastern Libya; and there is a large
section of the Indian Army.
The Indian Army has known Egypt
as a stamping ground since 1801, when
dour David Baird —“God save the man
who is chained to oor Davie,” his
mother said when Tippoo tied him to
another captive—brought over a force
of which the staff included Lachlan Mac-
quarie and the ancestor of Australia’s
fighting family of Antills. The British
Sudanese troops, too, are stalwart and
bonny fighters.
British policy evidently has been to
lead the Italians as far from their bases
as possible. The Italians obviously aim
at a swift advance, time being the deter-
minant as to needed quantities of sup-
plies and water. Because of the nature
of the country and of British tactical
dispositions, it will not be possible for
the invaders to employ the fan tactics
of Hitler’s heavy brigades. They will
be faced with the task of driving a
spearhead into a narrow salient which
they must then expand southward, and
they will be connected with their bases
by a line of communication already
attenuated, beaten down by heat, ham-
mered by aircraft and heavy naval guns.
Their first few days of driving put
them in possession of Solium, an aban-
doned harbor inside a dilapidated break-
water, a heat-struck village and some
foothills. Even before they reached it
they were bombed and shelled from the
sea and proceeded under the shadow of
constant air battles.
On September 16 they pushed the head
of their columns 30 miles onward to
Bug Bug and Sidi Barrani, 75 miles
east of Bardia in a clear bit of country
in which there are no crops, no stock
and no civil population to disorganise.
By this time the Italians were in trouble
on both sides, for they had reached the
contact point with the emergency-road
system, and British artillery brought up
on their right flank added to the pound-
ing which the R.N. was giving them
from the other side.
At the same time, the invaders began
to bring flanking parties across the
Libyan border south of the main advance,
into a powdery desert which has been
thoroughly stirred up by sandstorms.
But these parties consist largely of slower-
moving camel corps and native troops.
Italian communiques also reported the
development of livelier war in the deserts
of northern Kenya.
On September 17 it was announced
that the R.N. was attacking Italian naval
bases in Libya, as well as the advancing
army, and that discussions had begun
between the British and Egyptian authori-
ties as to the role which the Egyptian
army would play in the war. The Egyp-
tian forces number about 30,000, and
are mobilised and on manoeuvres,
Sandstorms and extreme heat were
features of the day, and while the harry-
ing increased the Italians announced that
they were “continuing their victorious
advance.” British defence arrangements
were ready, the pivot points commanded
by an old Anzac Duntrooner (unnamed)
who now holds high rank in the British
Army. The Navy and R.A.F. raided
Benghazi, Tobruk ; also Rhodes and a
number of other air bases over a wide
area; and while Marshal Graziani was
apparently settling down to consolidate
his position round Sidi Barrani the
British assaults multiplied. Naval guns,
combined with the artillery and the
R.A.F., appear to have made a sad mess
of communications, which are being
subjected to further hit-run raids from
light mechanised units.
Altogether, at the week-end the Italians
were in an unpleasant position, rendered
worse by their failure to conciliate the
Syrian Government and the French at
Damascus and by the threat of a French
revolt against the Vichy Government in
Morocco. The main brunt of the Egyp-
tion drive, however, has yet to be felt
when Graziani’s concentration has been
completed.


Chosen for its strength—its inexpensiveness
—and because it easily takes the necessary bends—Masonite was
selected in competition with all other materials for the seats and
backs of these modern factory chairs. Thousands of them—sturdy,
yet restful and comfortable—are in use throughout Australia; in
many other types of chair manufactured by the same Company.
Masonite is also extensively used.
This is still another example of the wide usefulness of Masonite.
Whether you are building a home—constructing a book case or a
ping-pong table—you will find that Masonite has been truly
named the "Wonder Board of 1000 Uses."
[Cane-ite —the structural insulating board —is now being produced in Australia.]
For Modernising Homes, lor Furniture, lor Shelves and Cup-
boards . . . Wall Lining . . . Floors . . . Boards . . . Caravans
Store Displays . . . Concrete Forming, Etc.
A
Ilf lIITt
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD O PRESDWOOD • TEMPRTILE • QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth
MA37-4Q
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Strange Reading
“C.Q.R.”: Queensland Primary Pro-
ducers have issued a useful book of
tables giving the rainfall at 110 stations
in various districts over a long period of
years. The records for the pastoral dis-
tricts make strange reading.
Burketown on the Gulf has an average
of 2737 points for 57 years, but in 1902
had a record low fall of 738 points, and
in 1903 was swamped with 5090 points,
the highest on record. The nearest
approach to that deluge was in 1939,
when 4577 points fell —more than double
the figure for 1938. Cloncurry, further
south, had an almost identical variation
in 1902 and 1903 —957 points and 4034
points—and two years later, when there
was another drought along the Gulf, the
Selwyns also suffered. But last year, while
the Gulf made its second record, Clon-
curry had only 1383 points.
The Central District falls show some
curious features. Longreach, on the
Thomson—average 1614 points—in 1901
had only 544 points, jumped to 1500
points in 1902, which was the crucial
drought year in most of the Central Dis-
trict, and fell back to 426 points next
year, when much of the surrounding
country was getting heavy rains.
Longreach offers a good example of
the irregularity of rainfall in the pastoral
areas. Its record was 4237 points in
1894, but 1900 and 1902 yielded only 970
points between them. Two years just
below the average succeeded, and there
was another drought in 1905 ; then eight
years above the average, including one in
which the average was doubled ; then two
more drought years, three good years,
a medium-drought year, three good
years, another medium-drought year, a
bumper year, a medium year, a drought
year, followed by two medium droughts
and another real drought. In the last
decade there have been three real
droughts and only three years above the
average. The mean rain for the whole
ten years has been over 200 points below
average.
The lads along the Thomson must often
wish they could shift Babinda (N.Q.),
where the average water available to mix
with the beverages of the State pub over
26 years has been 16,588 points and
where, in the record season of 1921,
23,811 points fell. That year Babinda
had 2418 points in January, 2528 in
February, 6725 in March, 2921 in April
and 2591 in December. The drought
month was November, when only 422
points fell.
Babinda’s record rainfall for a month
was 68 inches in February, 1922.
Innisfail has several 50in.-per-month
records to its credit, and one month on
the verge of 60 inches. But Tully is the
daddy of them all. In February, 1936,
it had 71.6 inches, and its average for
13 years is just under 177 inches p.a.
“Norther”: It has been publicly stated
that the men on the new strategic road
job in Centralia did not get a vote in
the Federal election because most of
them overlooked the necessity for record-
ing a postal vote before leaving their
electorates. Forgan Smith put it to
Menzies that electoral officers could be
“We can ’ave our dinner in peace before the kids come ’ome."
sent by ’plane to the road camps to take
a vote, and Menzies passed the notion on
to The Chief Electoral Officer, who con-
demned it as “impracticable.” It has
been suggested that, as voting is compul-
sory, the P.M. or the C.E.O. be fined for
depriving the boys of votes, half the fine
to go towards the bottled-beer fund it
is hoped to start.
* * * *
“Angelo Spuri”: My latest paper
from the south informs me that: —
' , . , . • ij
The difficulty of maintaining supplies be-
cause of lack of transport facilities and
scarcity of water will prevent rapid large-
scale development of mica fields in northern
“i,T t ™ l beUe,ld a, in
Canberra
I’ll take a bet or two that “official quar-
ters in Canberra” haven’t the slightest
idea of transport or water in the Centre,
and lay odds that none of them would
know a bit of mica in the raw if they
saw it. The simple facts seem to be that
the Commonwealth needs mica, the field
is within 100 miles of the railhead at
the Alice, and 100 miles across country
is not regarded by Centralians with any
more trepidation than a walk from Red
Hill to the Albert Hall. Private enter-
prise isn’t easily frightened by the diffi-
culties that so easily scare “official quar-
ters,” otherwise there would never have
been goldmines in New Guinea. The
North, had it been left to private enter-
prise and free of these “official quarters”
and their hampering ideas, would be a
better-developed area than it is. And
there must be something in mica if
Italians are prepared to go after it into
what officialdom regards as a lost and
barren land.
* * * *
“Norther”: Melville Island is to have
a new mission as part of what a southern
daily optimistically calls “an ambitious
scheme by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment for the training and education of
half-caste children in the Northern Ter-
ritory by approved missionary bodies.”
The M.I. mission is to be established by
the Catholic Missionary Society, which
has received a Commonwealth grant of
£2500 towards its cost, expected to be
£15,000. In charge will be Father Con-
nors, who will bring 15 years’ experience
among natives in New Guinea and
Queensland to the job, and hopes to
have accommodation for 82 children
within six months. Location is iWt
Dundas, and the “ambitious scheme”
follows recommendations made by E. W.
P. Chinnery, Director of Native Affairs,
“23-4”: According to a Queensland
national broadcast, Tickle, a Jap diver,
once dived straight into the open mouth
of a shark. Tickle got such a fright
that he flung out his arms and pushed
against the shark. The shark jerked back
and Tickle struck out for the surface
before it could attack again. It could
have happened. When I was diving for
old Bully McGee off Friday Island a
somewhat similar adventure befell me. As
I shot downward I found myself aiming
straight at an oncoming shark ana was
so scared I yelled “Look where y’ going! '
Silly thing to do, perhaps, but then a
man is apt to act strangely under such
conditions. Anyhow the shark, prob-
ably astounded at my voice, slewed to
one side and with an apologetic look
said, “Blimey, I thought you was a por-
poise.”
“Nor’-west”: Skin diving out from
Cossack (W.A.) in ’94, a nigger on
Erickson’s lugger brought up a pearl, the
exact replica of a shirt front stud so
popular in those days. As a curio second
only to the famous Southern Cross
Erickson asked £2OO for it, that being
the sum needed to take his wife and her
baby girl on a trip to Norway. Davis,
buyer for Paul Rubin, offered £5O. No
deal. Came the inevitable cyclone.
Erickson anchored behind Depuch Island,
just outside Cossack, a safe anchorage in
J
ordinary blows. The colored crew swam
ashore, but Erickson with his wife and
child stuck to the ship. But nothing could
withstand that blow Within four hours
the lugger sank at its moorings. Down
at the bottom the surge still gripped it,
tearing out anchor bitts and deck g,
rolling the mastless shell over and o\e
along the sea bed, finally casting t
ashore, high and dry, when the storm
passed. The hull was completely gutted,
but wedged in a crack was the shirt-s u
pearl. Davis still offered £5O. And that
was sufficient to give the Ericksons decent
burial. Rubin wouldnt have the pear.,
so Davis, perfoice, kept it. Occasionally
he wore it. His beat was Shark Bay,
Cossack, Broome. In March, 1912, he
boarded the Koombana at Cossack, the
results of his season’s buyings in his port,
the shirt-stud pearl among them. The
Koombana, victim of another cyclone,
never reached Broome. So the shirt-stud
pearl returned to the deep,
* * * *
“Clinton Cape”: Walking overland
from the north in the attempt to reach
Perth has been a fairly common practice
during the century or so of Groperlands
existence. The first pedestrian was one
Henry Wood, member of the crew taken
north by Randlett, headman of the Fre-
mantle Whaling Co., for a spot of seal-
ing during a lull in the cetacean harvest,
seals at that time being plentiful north
of the Swan Riyer. But, skilled though
he was in putting a boat alongside a
whale, Randlett was unprepared for the
terrific surge of the Indian Ocean bea -
ing against the coastal reefs. Capsized,
five of the whaleboat’s crew drowned,
four getting ashore on an island, since
supposed to be Green Island. The miles
to the mainland looked a long swim, an
the sharks were not to be trusted. Bu
Wood tried it, succeeded, and then walked
the 100-odd miles to Perth barefoo
naked. A relief party was dispatc >
but the three men left on the lslan
never found. Or perhaps the island w


Miscellaneous.
International Pen-Friends’ Club.
JWI EMBERS all ages, Schools, Colleges,
XT ,, Canada, U.S.A., S. Africa, Australia and
'. Exchange News, Views, Stamps, Curios.
Membership 5/- per year from date of entry.
Qaai ors I l ot over 18 years 2/6 per year. Stamp,
addressed envelope with inquiries. Write Box
4JJ > Auckland, C.l, New Zealand.
South Seas Stamp Service!
pACKETS or approvals, 1/-, 2/6 and 5/- by
nips® m Mail. Remittance with orders,
ShmnA Mlsslon and office accumulations bought,
faction . envel °pe with inquiries. Your satis-
AucwLh ? ur access. Write Box 660,
Auckland, C.l, New Zealand.
THE QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT, with a desire to assist the Red Cross Fund, has decided to
allot £10,000 from the proceeds of Mammoth Casket No. 37 for this worthy purpose. You can DO
YOUR PART by purchasing your Ticket by return mail and persuading your friends to do likewise.
In successive Mammoth Caskets, same proportion will he allotted to the Patriotic and Comforts Fund.
Special Golden
Opportunity
MAM
To Assist the
RED CROSS
MOTH CASKET
ALL CASH PRIZES
200,000
Tickets at 15/ - Each
Plus 4d. postage for Return of Ticket and Result Slip.
First Prize - £40,000
SECOND PRIZE . £lO,OOO
THIRD PRIZE . . £5,000
FOURTH PRIZE 3,000
FIFTH PRIZE 2,000
SIXTH PRIZE 1,000
SEVENTH PRIZE 1,000
EIGHTH PRIZE 1,000
NINTH PRIZE 1,000
TENTH PRIZE 1,000
ELEVENTH PRIZE 1,000
TWELFTH PRIZE 1,000
THIRTEENTH PRIZE 1,000
FOURTEENTH PRIZE 1,000
FIFTEENTH PRIZE 1,000
SIXTEENTH PRIZE 1,000
SEVENTEENTH PRIZE 1,000
EIGHTEENTH PRIZE 1,000
NINETEENTH PRIZE 500
TWENTIETH PRIZE 500
TWENTY-FIRST PRIZE 500
TWENTY-SECOND PRIZE . . 500
10 PRIZES AT £2OO EACH . . 2,000
15 Prizes at £lOO each . . 1,500
20 Prizes at £5O each .. . 1,000
200 Prizes at £lO each .. . 2,000
2000 Prizes at £5 each .... 10,000
FULL 1 £ / THIRD SHARE £ /
TICKETS lO " TICKETS O
Special Golden
Opportunity
No. 37
INVESTORS
have the oppor-
tunity to assist the
Red Cross Fund
by pure hasing
Mammoth Casket
Tickets immedi-
ately. Do not
Delay!
ALL PRIZES
ARE PAID
FREE
OF FEDERAL
AND STATE
INCOME TAX
Advise Your Many
Friends and Form
Syndicates
The more Tickets You
Buy the more You Assist
REMEMBER
This is YOUR chance to
win £40,000 and your
opportunity to assist the
Red Cross Fund.
32 MAJOR PRIZES—THE LARGEST NUMBER EVER OFFERED.
POST YOUR APPLICATION TO BOX 1008., G.P.0., BRISBANE.
Postal Note No ORDER FORM
Please allot me tickets in the Mammoth 15/- Casket.
£ enclosed herewith.
SYNDICATE NAME (OPTIONAL)
Name
Full Address
Date State Country
Please write plainly.
Subscribers are requested to keep a record of Postal Note Numbers Remitted until Tickets are received.
A MIXED GRILL.
Expressing the hope that his action
would help to “keep English a live in-
stead of a dead language,” Reginald
Roderic Chamberlain, S.A.’s Crown
Prosecutor, recently gave his Tennyson
Medal to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to aid the war effort. He collected
it in 1918, while a student at St. Peter’s
College. The prize was founded by the
second Baron Tennyson in memory of
his father, the Poet Laureate. It is
awarded annually to the candidate who
obtains the highest number of marks in
English at the leaving honors exam.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The usually solemn “Argus”
printed a suggestion that the next Vic-
torian election should be run as a lottery
—a seat in Parliament for two bob, plus
a sixpenny sweep on the Premiership. One
objection is that the new Parliament
elected by chance might turn out to be
so superior to its predecessors selected in
the orthodox fashion that a superfluous
institution would have its life prolonged.
Still, a proviso might be added that
lottery winners should vote themselves
out of existence as their first legislative
activity.
* * * *
“A Mere Woman” has written to
“S.M.H.” urging the abolition of State
Parliaments and the establishment of a
single national Parliament. Her idea is
not remarkable —she shares it with a
majority of Australians —but her achieve-
ment in getting such a letter into
“S.M.H.” is something to crow about
and a significant pointer to the growth
of the desire she expressed. There should
be a referendum on the question when
Parliament is in a position to take
referendums.
* * * *
“D.A.”: As the measured and cultured
tones of the Prime Minister faded to a
serene finish in a coast-to-coast “hook-
up” a blaring, critical-sounding voice
burst through the ether chanting:
You say either and I say either,
You say neither and I say neither....
Perhaps I shouldn’t have tuned into a
B-class station that was overanxious
to be done with politics and to get on
with its cough-mixture-sponsored pro-
gramme.
$ 9
The Westralian Teachers’ Union called
for reports from country members as
to how they are housed, and got 267
illuminating replies. Ninety-nine re-
ported that the shacks hadn’t been
painted for 13 years; 105, that the
kitchens were without water-taps; 60,
that there were no wash-houses ; 26, no
coppers and troughs; six, not even a
bathroom. It’s a wonder the teachers
don’t go for Commonwealth control of
schooling. Living under such conditions
in a poor district with no possibility of
a transfer must be a dreadful existence,
and the invariable reply of State excres-
cences to the legitimate complaints of
teachers and parents is that their financial
necessities won’t permit of improvement.
* * * *
“X.S.”: I am interested in the sugges-
tion of Cr. Woodfull, the incoming
Mayor of Prahran, for an ornamental lake
in a billabong of the Yarra: cost, £40,000.
The worst part of the idea is its lack of
originality. A former State politician
included in his platform a lake much
larger, to extend from Kew about ten
miles up the Yarra. He threw in seven
bridges. This programme did a great deal
to help him to a seat, and a flattered
electorate was delighted when he became
a Minister. About ten years later I asked
him when we could expect to have the
lake and bridges. “Don’t mention those
things!” he snorted.
* * * *
“Morimoto”: Reported that the U.S.A.
has obtained a lease of Cocos Island with
the intention of forming a naval and air
base there. It is hardly necessary now
to state that the Cocos mentioned is not
the island midway between Perth and
Ceylon where there is a cable station
largely manned by Australians, and where
the bones of the Emden lie buried, but
a spot of land 550 miles south-west of
Panama and owned by Costa Rica. The
South American Cocos is reputed to have
been the resort of pirates who buried
treasure there, and several expeditions
have set out to locate it. When the last
was reported several Australian papers
printed full accounts of the Cocos group
in the Indian Ocean, and gravely linked
up its peaceful history with the bloody
doings on the Spanish Main at a time
when the Indian Ocean Cocos was un-
known to Europe. The principal treasure
of the 1.0. Cocos is the coconut-tree and
the landing rights for cables, and its five
owners and Governors have all belonged
to the celebrated Ross family. But on
one occasion there was buried treasure of
a sort on it. That was the set of dupli-
cate instruments which was interred in
expectation of the possible visit of a
German raider in the 1914-18 war. The
only persons who knew its whereabouts
were the superintendent and the electri-
cian, G. H. K. La Nauze, of Adelaide,
and they were careful to preserve no
plan or map of the location. A few
hours after the Emden’s landing party
had destroyed the office equipment and
the Sydney had frightened their ship over
the offing, the staff dug up the spare in-
struments and the cables started working
again as if nothing had happened.
* * * *
The patience of the South African
Government was tested too far by a
sensation-mongering Johannesburg paper
which published a wild story about the
arrival of truckloads of bloodstained
uniforms. It cost the editor £l5, the
writer £35 and the manager £5O in fines.
The writer blandly admitted that no
attempt had been made to establish the
truth of the rumor on which his article
was based.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character i will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re com
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
From this week’s bombardment —E.L:
The open sky seemed an easy road
For the thousand Nazi ’planes;
“Over that paltry island —pooh!
We’ll smash it, bring home remains.”
M.M.:
Come you! clerk from your stool. Come you!
student from school.
Don the khaki, the grey and the blue.
Come you! peasant and pauper. Abandon all torpor !
E.R.W.:
Some made that trip to Dover
In jolly-boats and ships,
But now the epic’s over,
They want to come to grips.
That re-made Tommy Army
Has mended all its bits.
A. :
Awake, Australia! Hearken the Empire’s call.
There’s an enemy pounding at the outer wall,
A fiendish monster of inhuman race cast out of hell —
So vile was he they opened the gate and wished him
well.
Now he’s ravaging great nations far and wide
And mowing them down as with sickle and scythe,
Like a slimy octopus with tentacles bespread,
He’s laid nations in ruins and filled them with dread.
S.L.:
It serves what is just and best for all
And is tolerant to every people.
The Nazis are in for a nasty fall
If they think that its pulse is feeble.
. ...S.K.R.: Just a whiff M.S.: Vernacular
vile T.L.S.: It has atmosphere, but the
rhymes are rocky... .V.L.: “Winter, thou
tottering, aged man, farewell!” Spring song,
thou tottering, ancient theme, ’oppit....J.A.:
“Waves of sorrow, mountains high” won't
break into these pages M.J.M.: “Wraith”
the best. Ever seen a fog with ears?....
0.M.: Last stanza stonkers it... .H.C.8..: Take
away that pun J. 8.: Sorry; not up....
B. : Come again... .8.E.: “Things could
be worse.” Not that thing... .E.M.T.: It
might amuse the goat... .F.8.N.: A woman’s
paper should be interested in soap and socks.
R.G. (Perpignan, France): It’s a bit late
for an ode to Amy Johnson M. 8.: Some-
thing on the camp might click... .A.J.J.: Give
it to the girl with the witching glance....
F. : You’re never far 0ff....J.8.D.: That’s
not the answer... .T.J.D.: Just a statement.
.... M.G.: Oversentimental K.McA.: Don’t
want g100m... .8.A.: Slight, all of them....
V.K.: Can’t include the chicken in our menu.
. ...J.S.D.: Trivial.... R.C.G.: Too red-
blooded for our taste... .1.W.: Thin... .8.G.:
Promising at your age; try it on a daily....
E.M.S.: N 0... .A.M.A.: Mechanical... .R.R.:
No haven for those duellists... .J.T.1.: Not
up....V.H.: Neptune and his mermaids didn’t
interest us at a 11... .H.G.: Still don’t like it....
H.S.D.: Sorry there’s no room for it in our
“precious pages” H.P.: A feeble fable....
R.J.T.: “Enthusiasm” misplaced... .A.M.U.:
“Bitter Sweets” not for u5....A. J. Black
(Bassendean): Receipt acknowledged; thanks.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.M.8.: Is it a nightgown or a sheet of
corrugated-iron? ... .8.R.E.: As you’ve drawn
it the fireman could fall up the ladder....
R.T.: Arty... .S.F.: We’ll admit it’s handy for
a butcher to have a swivelled neck, but it
looks better to have him merely turning his
head... .T.M.N.: Grandpa had an accident
laughing at that gag in ’73 C.A.: If you
were really reckless and used three drops of
Indian ink to the gallon of water you’d get a
better effect with your wash... .F.Y.: Couldn’t
make out whether it was a horse blanket or a
pair of pants hanging over the bedroom chair.
... .L.C.: Your feat in making a road that looks
as wide on the horizon as in the foreground
would interest Einstein... .8.K.N.: It could be
a coon riding a bike in a blackout, but we’re
not certain... .N.L.: A horse with a neck as
short as that would die of starvation R.S.V.:
It might be pardonable to have your general
look like a movie-palace commissionaire, but
not to have him mount a two-legged horse.. ..
G. : A timeworn wheeze.... R.H.G.: The
funeral gag isn’t funny... .P.D.: No good
imitating Jolliffe here... .L.S.: Those fashion-
plates are feeble jesters... .D.A.: The week’s
grimiest effort... .T.H.A.: Lessons at a life-
class might help.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess —no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask vour chemist for A’CORN SlLK—only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbburne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F, E. Loxton, Esq.; tfm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manaoer —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 140 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE ...
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
821
CLAND
WRITE
TO-DAY
T.-JONES £ CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
A.I.F. member would appreciate Australian
books for camp reading.—B269.
Words of verse beginning:
This is the hour when courage knows her own,
When hearts grow stern that else were gay and warm.
—8266.
£1 offered for Bulletin 21 of the C.S.I.R.
“The White Ant.”—B2s4.
Information Sought.
* * * *
Production of (1) petroleum and (2) rubber
in principal countries in 1939 ? —8097.
(1) Figures are in million tons and are as
follows: U.S.A. 173.3, Russia 30.9, Venezuela
29.2, Iran 11.1, Rumania 6.5, Netherlands
Indies 5.8, Mexico 5.6, Iraq 4.3, Colombia 3.1,
Peru 1.9, Argentina 2.6, Trinidad 2.7, British
India 0.3, others 18.5. (2) British Malaya
378,093 tons, Netherlands Indies 379,882 tons,
Ceylon 61,933 tons, India 10,239 tons, Burma
7935 tons, British North • Borneo 12,339 tons,
Sarawak 25,261 tons, Siam 46,691 tons, French
Indo-China 60,657 tons, Amazon Valley 13,968
tons, Mexican Guayule 1964 tons, other
American 295 tons, Philippine Islands 502 tons,
Papua 1609 tons, Africa 16,090 tons.
* * *
(1) Duties of an armorer in connection with
the R.A.A.F.? (2) Possible time of a call-up
for an R.A.A.F. armorer trainee? —7725.
(1) The duties of armorers in the R.A.A.F.
are the maintenance of all armament, including
all types of guns and gun mountings; the
ability to read working drawings and have a
general knowledge of the care which must be
taken when handling and storing explosives.
(2) Can’t say.
Jfc % * *
Brief details regarding operation of the gold
tax in Australia? —8088.
Gold produced in Australia or in any Aus-
tralian territory and delivered on or after Sep-
tember 15, 1939, to the Commonwealth Bank
is subject to tax. Wrought gold and coin are
exempt, and prospectors .get a rebate in re-
spect of the first 250 z. of gold in any year.
Under the Goldmining Encouragement Act
(1940) and amendments rebates are also made
to low-grade producers. The tax is collected by
the Commonwealth Bank, which deducts the
amount from the purchase price payable to
producers or other persons. The rate : is one-
half of the amount by which the price of gold
exceeds £9 per ounce fine. Collections are paid
into the consolidated revenue fund except the
amount derived from gold produced in the
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, which is
paid into a trust account to be expended for
the defence and other purposes of the Terri-
tory.
* * * *
List of the more important anthologies of
serious Australian verse published prior to
1925?—8164.
Australian Ballads and Rhymes (1888), A
Century of Australian Song (1888), and Aus-
tralian Poets, 1788-1888 (1888), edited by
Douglas Sladen; An Anthology of Australian
Verse (1906), The Golden Treasury of Aus-
tralian Verse (1909) and A Book of Australian
Verse for Boys and Girls (1915), edited by
Bertram Stevens; Selections from the Australian
Poets (1913), edited by Bertram Stevens and
George Mackaness; An Austral Garden (1912),
edited by M. P. Hansen and Donald McLach-
lan; The Oxford Book of Australasian Verse
(1918) and A Book of Australasian Verse (1920),
edited by Walter Murdoch; Gleanings from
Australasian Verse (“Poems of Manhood,”
1919, “Nature Poems,” 1920, “Love Poems,”
1920), edited by Mary Wilkinson; The Austra-
lian Poetry Annual, for 1920 and 1921, pub-
lished by the Literary Club, Melbourne; Poetry
in Australia (1923), published by the Vision
Press, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) What is the age limit for university
graduates who wish to enter the public library
department of the N.S.W. public service? (2)
To whom should application be made for such
employment ? —8029.
(1) The age limit for non-professional officers
is 35, but in practice the trustees never nomi-
nate applicants over 25. (2) The Registrar,
Public Service Board, 21-23 Elizabeth-street,
Sydney. Library officers to the State service
are now recruited from graduates of the
library school conducted by the Public Library
of N. S. Wales. The school is not in operation
this year, but will probably be continued in
1941.
* * * *
Brief outline of Charlie Chaplin’s career be-
fore he entered the films? When did he make
his debut in pictures, and when did he adopt
his strange costume and make-up? —Bl36.
The son of Charles Chaplin and his wife
Hannah (professionally known as Lily Harley),
he was born in London on April 16, 1889,
and made his first appearance on the stage at
the age of seven in a music-hall sketch. In
1899 he appeared in music halls all over the
United Kingdom as one of the “Eight Lan-
cashire Lads,” with whom he remained some
time; appeared at the opening of the London
Hippodrome in 1900 in “Giddy Ostend”;
toured the provinces as Billy, the page, in
“Sherlock Holmes”; and made many appear-
ances in other plays and music-hall turns. He
next joined Fred Karno’s company, playing
in “The Football Match,” “Jimmy the. Fear-
less,” “Mumming Birds,” etc.; in 1910 he went
to America as leading comedian in repertory
of Fred Karno’s sketches. In Nov., 1913, he
started picture work with Kersal and Bauman,
playing Keystone comedies —the first was
“Making a Living.” It was in his second
picture, “Mabel’s Strange Predicament,” that
he first adopted the eccentric make-up and cos-
tume which have ever since been associated
with him.
* * *
Details of the Victorian police strike of
1923 ?— 8079.
Shortly after the appointment of Chief Com-
missioner Nicholson a system was introduced
whereby plain-clothed supervisors patrolled the
metropolitan area to see that constables were
properly performing their duties. Many took
exception to such supervision. On October 29,
1923, 29 uniformed men due to parade at
Russell-street station for night duty refused to
fall in for roll-call. The Chief Commissioner
was summoned. After meeting with a hostile
reception, he stated that .he would remove the
supervisors for the night and consult the
Premier, Harry Lawson. The men then went
on their beats. The Premier decided that the men
must return to duty, unconditionally while he
placed their complaints before Cabinet. On
November 1 the same men refused duty. Out-
lying stations had been instructed to send men
to the city, but on arrival these joined the strikers.
After a futile attempt to address the men, the
Commissioner dismissed the two ringleaders and
discharged the others. During the night some
of the seceders travelled by car from district
to district persuading men on duty to cease
work, and informing them that a mass meeting
would be held in the morning. This meeting
was well attended and carried a resolution not
to return to duty. Negotiations with the
Premier were fruitless, and that night the city
went unpoliced. Mounted men and recruits in
training then joined the strikers. On Saturday
evening the city was crowded with visitors for
the spring racing carnival. The rowdy element
took charge of the city. Traffic was dis-
organised, shop windows broken and -goods
stolen. Detectives and plain-clothes men, assisted
by the few remaining uniformed men, made
many arrests, but by Sunday the position was
very serious. Cabinet decided on the formation
of a special constabulary force under Major-
General J. W. M.cCay. Volunteers enlisted
in large numbers, including prominent business-
men and their employees. Depots were estab-
lished, and the specials, armed with batons, for
some weeks effectively patrolled the city and
suburbs. The force was augmented by police
pensioners, recalled for duty. Then recruiting
was begun for the reconstruction of the per-
manent forces. Meanwhile the discharged men
formed themselves into the Discharged Police
Reinstatement Assoc. Overtures made on their
behalf to the Government met with no success.
* * * *
Who was responsible for first publishing
Pepys’s diary? In what form of writing was
the MS. recorded? —B22s.
In 1818 the diary of one John Evelyn was
published with great success. This prompted
George Neville, the head of the Magdalene
College, Cambridge, to achieve similar success
with the diary of Samuel Pepys, which had
long lain in manuscript. in his institution.
Neville took the matter up with Lord Bray-
brooke, hereditary visitor of the college, who
agreed to the idea, and the task of deciphering
it was given to an amateur cryptographer
among the undergraduates of the college, a
divinity student named John Smith. The manu-
script was recorded in a system of shorthand,
much of it Pepys’s own invention, but based
on a system known as “tachygraphy.” Many
passages, apparently considered dangerous to
either the domestic or political peace of the
author, were put into foreign languages, spelled
phonetically, then enciphered and the result
written in shorthand.
* * * *
Is refuse water from the bathroom and
laundry suitable for use on the flower garden
in a hot outback N.S.W. district? How to
apply it ? —8236.
Provided the refuse water does not contain
kerosene, petrol or disinfectants it can be used
once a week. Apply it about 12in. from the
plants in a saucer-like depression; next day
cultivate the soil and cover it with short grass,
leaves or straw to prevent evaporation. A
sprinkling of lime mixed into the soil when
dry will sweeten and purify it.
* * * *
How to. handle gladioli conns? —B2so.
When the foliage has died dig the gladioli
and store them in a dry room to ripen, care-
fully labelling outstanding colors. The dead
foliage should be broken off after about two
months; then separate the corms from last
season’s withered portion and baby corms
which are attached. The latter should be sown
in a corner to make mature bulbs, and in two
years they will have grown large enough to
place in the open garden. All stored bulbs
will require sprinkling with naphthalene or
lime to ward off pests.
* * * *
How to handle poinsettias which have fust
finished flowering? Will this shrub strike
from cuttings? —B243.
Prune back the shrubs to strong limbs, taking
care to cut out all cross-growing and broken
branches. If low-growing shrubs are desired,
cut the shrubs to four strong “eyes” above the
forks. Give each shrub a bucket of rotted
manure in which a little superphosphate is
mixed, and in heavy soils add a little sand.
Pieces of mature wood will root readily in
soil containing sand. Set them at an angle of
45deg. (being careful to place the cuttings the
right away up—this is often hard to distinguish)
and keep watered until new leaf-growth takes
place.
* * * *
What is wrong with the paintbrushes I buy?
Every time I use a perfectly new brush I am
in trouble with the hairs “moulting.” 8238.
It is a mistake to use a new brush without
first “suppling” it. No matter how clean the
brush appears, take the hair end between both
palms and work the brush-head back and forth
through the hands; an amazing amount of
dust and loose hairs will come out. Now place
the hair in water for a few minutes, then swing
and shake it in the open air. It is then ready
to dip in the paint; any loose hairs will work
out within half an hour, and they can easily
be picked off.
* * * *
What is the device known as “sprung rhythm”
in verse, sponsored by Gerard Manley Hop-
kins? Give examples. —Bl7l.
“Sprung rhythm” is a sort of counterpointing
of the ordinary “running rhythm” of English
poetry, effected by reversing the fall of stressed
and unstressed syllables. Writers of running
rhythm often reverse one foot, usually the
first of a line, for the purpose of emphasis:
if you reverse throughout you “mount,” Hop-
kins says, a new rhythm upon the old. Hop-
kins gave himself the license of using “hangers”
or “outrides” —one, two or three slack syllables
added to a foot and not counted in the nominal
scanning. “The feet are assumed to be equally
long or strong and their seeming inequality
is made up by pause or stressing.” For a
full explanation see Hopkins’s introduction to
his Poems (Oxford University Press). An
example is “Hurrahing in Harvest,” a sonnet
in sprung and outriding rhythm—“the outriding
feet are not to be confused with dactyls or
pasons.” The first four lines:
Summer ends now; now, barbarous in beauty, the
stooks arise
Around; ujp above, what wind-walks! what lovely
behavior
Of silk-sack clouds! has wilder, wilful-wavier
Meal-drift moulded ever and melted across skies?
* * * *
(1) Where can lessons in psychology be
obtained in Sydney? Does the Workers’ Edu-
cational Association conduct classes? (2) Dura-
tion of such lessons? (3) Fees? (4) Does the
W.E.A. give a professional training? —8216.
(1) At Sydney Uni. The subject is taught
as part of the Arts course. It is also taught
in the University tutorial classes organised by
the W.E.A. There are also special courses
in psychiatry in connection with the medical
school at Sydney Uni. (2) Particulars of the
course given in studying for the Arts degree
can be obtained from the Registrar of Sydney
Uni or from Prof. Lovell. The W.E.A. tutorial
classes are organised for a three years’ course,
and they are occasionally extended for a
fourth session. Each session comprises 20 lec-
tures given during the winter months. (3)
Particulars of fees in ordinary Uni. courses
can be obtained from the Registrar of Sydney
Uni. The fee for the W.E.A. 20-lecture course
in a Uni. tutorial class is 7s. 6d. (4) Uni.
tutorial classes do not attempt to give profes-
sional training. Training given in the Arts
course at the Uni. is mainly designed for the
teaching profession and for application to in-
dustry.
* * * *
Best method of skinning a shark, with pre-
cautions to be observed? —8190.
First hose the shark to remove all slime and
muck. Then, after cutting off the fins make
the first cut down the centre of the back.
Slide the knife up to the head, down just be-
hind the eye, around the gill-slits, up for-
ward along the heavy lower jaw and repeat
this course on the other side. Back aft a slit
is made along the top of the tail and con-
tinued up the underpart of the ventral fin,
around it and back to the other side again.
The result is that the hide comes away in one
piece, providing the greatest possible area for
tanning. Care must be taken not to make false
cuts in the hide, for this reduces the value
by half. The skin should be stretched taut
when flaying, for leaving it slack will cause
it to wrinkle.
* * * *
I am the executor and trustee of an estate
in Sydney. It is a small affair and I do not
want to pay more than can be helped in legal
fees. What in brief are my duties? —Bl76.
First of all you should bury or cremate the
deceased, without wasting his money in un-
necessary display. You must ascertain and pro-
tect his property, draw up a schedule of it
and then call at the Probate Department,
Supreme Court, Elizabeth-street, Sydney, and
obtain instructions with regard to taking out
probate. Then insert in the newspapers notice
to creditors to send in their accounts; see to
any necessary realisations, and gather in any
money due to the estate. Then pay all debts
due by the deceased, and pay any legacies
given under the will. Attend to any trust under
the will and any bequests of residue of the
estate, pay death duty and any stamp duty that
may be due on the transfer of real estate. At
the end of 12 months you should file accounts.
* * * ’ *
I want to subpoena a certain person but find
it difficult to do as, seemingly, he is never at
home. Could I subpoena him by registered
letter? —8180.
No, service by post is not permissible. You
could leave the subpoena in the hands of anyone
over 14 years of age at the house of the
person you want. If the subpoenaed person
refuses to come to the door or open it you
can affix it to the door and then inform him
of the fact by registered post. If by reason
of the absence of any party, or from other
sufficient cause, service cannot be effected the
Judge in the case has power to make an order
for substituted service or substitution for ser-
vice by advertisement or otherwise.
Brief Answers.
T.H.: The Empire State Building is 1248 ft.
high, the Chrysler Building 1030 ft. —both are
in New York... .S.N.: Claude Flemming, the
actor, was born in Sydney on February -2,
1884, and was educated at St. Mary’s High
School, Sydney. He was working on a sheep
station before he made his first appearance on
the stage at the Theatre Royal, Perth, in 1903
as the Dauphin in “King Henry V” E.M.:
Major-General G. Ramaciotti was Comman-
dant, 2nd Military District (N.S.W.), 1915-17,
and Inspector-General of Administration, De-
fence Dept., 1917-20. He was born at Leg-
horn (Italy) in 1861, and died in 1927....
A.M.W.: Behead and gut the sardines and
place in brine for four hours; then place on
wire trays to dry, and afterwards pack m
barrels or casks with salt, one layer of coarse
or fine salt and one layer of fish alternately.
When required for use the fish can be cooked
by boiling or frying... .K.S.: Any good shoe
polish, rubbed in with a flannel and brushed
with a soft cloth, will be found satisfactory.
The coat must be cleaned before application
of polish... .F.J.: “Bombora” is an aboriginal
word applied to the high-crested wave which
breaks, even on windless days, over submerged
rocks near the coastline, and in some cases
at entrances to coastal harbors and inlets. There
are one or two bomboras near North Head at
the entrance to Sydney Harbor, also one at
the entrance to Botany Bay, which is marked
on Admiralty Chart No. 2179.... W.M.: “Dulce
et decorum est pro patria mori” is Latin for
“It is sweet and becoming to die for ones
country”... .T.F.: Prof. Edgeworth David died
on August 28, 1934... .G.R.: Australian Club,
165 Macquarie-street; New South Wales Club,
31 Bligh-street; Union Club, 2 Bligh-street —
all Sydney....M.A.: Dame Eadith Walker,
well-known war-worker and philanthropist, died
on October 8, 1937 J.G.: Prometheus was
the son of lapetus, and father of Deucalion.
He made a man of clay, and put life into him
by fire stolen from heaven. For this, Jupiter
chained him to a rock, where a vulture preyed
continually upon his liver. From this fate
Prometheus was delivered by Hercules.. . .J.EL:
Elioth Gruner won the 1938 Wynne prize for
an Australian landscape with a painting of
Canberra, scenery... .8.R.: In this case
“worth,” from Anglo-Saxon “worthing,” means
a farm or estate; “Tam” is Celtic, meaning
still or smooth, or maybe a Scottish diminu-
tive of Thomas... .8.J.5.: The office of
admiral, borne by Louis de Torres, was inferior
to that of Fernandez de Quiros, who was
captain-general... .F.N.: The Royal Red Cross
was instituted in 1883 and is conferred upon
ladies of any rank or nation who may be
brought to the sovereign’s notice for acts of
mercy in attending to the sick or wounded in
time of war... .T.H.H.: See Garnett’s Life
of Edward Gibbon Wakefield, Grenfell Price s
Foundation and Settlement of South Australia
and Founders and Pioneers of South Aus-
tralia, Irma O’Connor’s Edward Gibbon Wake-
field: The Man Himself, and A. J. Harttop’s
The Amazing Career of Edward Gibbon Wake-
field E.M.H.: James Francis Hogan, author
and journalist, was born in Tipperary, Ireland,
in 1855. He was brought to Victoria as an
infant, and while in the Education Department
wrote for the press. For some time he was on
the literary staff of the Melbourne “Argus.”
Settling in London in 1887, he was for seven
years a member of the House of Commons.
Author of The Irish in Australia (1887), The
Australian in London (1887), The Lost Ex-
plorer (1890), Robert Lowe, Viscount Sherbrooke
(1893) and other works. He was a regular
contributor to The Bulletin for many years.
A.F.: Inez K. Hyland, the poetess, was
born at Portland (Vic.) in 1863, and died in
1892. She was the author of In Sunshine and
Shadow (Melbourne, 1893) R.J.F.: The
British liner Athenia, carrying 1418 passengers
and crew, including many Americans returning
home, was torpedoed on September 4, 1939,
by a German submarine without warning 200
miles west of the Hebrides. The majority of
the passengers and crew were picked up by
destroyers and other vessels. Germany denied
that a submarine was responsible, but several
on board saw the U-boat... .T.M.C.: Rain
upon GodshiD, by J. B. Priestley F.T.J.:
See Australian Aboriginal Place Names, com-
piled by James Tyrrell (2s. 6d.) 1.D.W.:
Name and address of a contributor are not sup-
plied without permission of the contributor.
A letter sent to the contributor care of this
office will be forwarded R.M.G.: Write
W. H. Paling and Co., 338 George-street, Syd-
ney. .. .W.S.D.: The Charles Mackay Lecture
on medical history was endowed by Miss C.
Mackenzie with a gift of £607 as a memorial
to her grandfather, an educationist who
arrived in Melbourne in 1852, and died at
Kilmore (Vic.) H. 8.: The Commonwealth
Solar Observatory is on Mount Stromlo, a
ridge of hills about seven miles west of Can-
berra. The highest point is 2560 ft. above sea-
level, or about 700 ft. above the general level
of the capital city J.N.: The inquiry was
restricted to those who served with the Aus-
tralian forces during the war of 1914-18. The
numbers recorded at the 1933 census as having
served abroad were 226,438 males and 1844
females, 11 per cent, of the adult male popu-
lation of Australia being ex-members of the
Australian forces with oversea service A.A.:
Copyright is regulated by the Commonwealth
Copyright Act 1912-35, wherein, subject to
modifications relating to procedure and
remedies, the British Copyright Act of 1911
has been adopted and scheduled to the Austra-
lian law... .F.J.L-: Populations were as fol-
lows: Adelaide and suburbs 312,619, Port Pirie
11,677, Mount Gambier 5242, Murray Bridge
3651, Port Augusta 3270, Petersborough 3059
and Port Lincoln 3006.


Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
H
m
O
1
£
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
w. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
•51-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
. SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
BETTER RETURNS
FEED cfiuL-CaJl O*-
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
FOR MINERALS FOR WINTER PRODUCTION.
Tri-cal-os supplies Calcium and phosphorus in the form which stock
most easily digests and assimilates. Regular feeding of Tri-cal-os
prevents deficiency diseases and bone troubles, increases the milk yield,
ensures early maturity and maintains good all round condition.
Containing over 70% tricalcic phosphate, Tri-cal-os has a guaranteed
minimum of 33% phosphoric acid and 40% lime.
All particulars from
Davis Gelatine (Australia) Pty., Ltd., G.P.O. Box 35835, SYDNEY; or
G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Merinos and Pastures.
“R. Ney”: A trial with merinos on
improved pastures in Tasmania has
demonstrated clearly an increase in
carrying capacity and improvement both
in body and fleece weight.
The trial began three years ago, when
merinos of equal standard were divided,
one lot placed on improved pasture and
the other on natural pasture. After the
first year there was an increase of 2lb.
of wool a head and 23|lb. an acre from
sheep on the improved area. On im-
proved pastures six-tooths averaged
slightly more than 201 b. heavier in body
weight and four-tooths showed nearly
the same improvement over sheep in the
unimproved paddocks. The unimproved
area was spelled for three and six weeks
respectively at mating and lambing times,
while the improved area carried its sheep
the whole time.
The veterinary pathologist who watched
the sheep reported, “In body-weight ewes
on the perennial rye and sub. clover
pasture, which carried three sheep per
acre, gained about 81b. per head com-
pared with ewes on unimproved areas
carrying a sheep to the acre.”
Grass Staggers.
“J.R.D.”: In drought areas many
sheep are still in excellent condition, but
losses have recently occurred off shears
which have been put down to various in-
correct causes.
Odd ewes heavy in lamb are found at
shearing lying down in the yards or
within a short- radius of the shed unable
to move. The actual cause of the trouble
is grass tetany, or grass staggers, and it
occurs among 'ewes heavy in lamb where
they are bustled about or subjected to
droving or handling at shearing or dip-
ping. It may also occur when ewes are
taken off dry feed and put on to a green
crop.
The animal lies down, usually with
head outstretched on the ground and
sometimes with the hind legs straight
out behind. Although put on its feet it is
unable to stay there. As time goes on it
develops typical symptoms of tetanus ; the
ears and the jaws twitch till paralysis sets
in. The cause of the disease is a sudden
drop in lime in the blood, and if the
materials are at hand a speedy cure
is obtainable. If expertly treated, the
sheep which appears to be a total loss
will get up and walk away within a few
minutes of treatment.
The treatment aims at replacing the
lime content of the blood by injecting
calcium directly into the bloodstream.
Use a 20-c.c. hypodermic fitted with an
extra stout lyin. needle. A mixture of
calcium gluconate and boracic should be
heated in water until dissolved in the
following quantities:
Boz. calcium gluconate.
2oz. boracic acid.
2\ pints water.
This solution may be kept in clean,
tightly-stoppered bottles for use when-
ever required.
The dose is 60 c.c., given anywhere
under the skin, preferably along the ribs
away from the shoulder blade. It should
be distributed in two or three places for
quicker absorption.
A quicker method is to inject the fluid
straight into the jugular vein, but this
needs skilful handling. The jugular vein
should be located by pressing the animal’s
neck with the thumb between the wind-
pipe and the neck muscle. The hypo-
dermic needle, which should be very
sharp, should be pushed quickly through
the skin of the neck in an upward direc-
tion. After piercing the skin, draw back
the needle slightly. Locate the jugular
with the point, insert the needle into the
vein with a smart jab. This takes some
practice, and care should be taken only
to pierce one side of the vein and not go
right through, making it necessary to
draw back the point of the needle. You
can be sure you are on the right spot
when blood flows from the needle. A
smaller quantity of solution, roughly
about 40 c.c., is enough when it is in-
jected direct into the jugular vein. After
the operation, remove the needle quickly
“Cows like you ought to be had up for reckless waitin."
and press one finger on the puncture
until bleeding stops.
The animal will become rather dopey
and should be left where it lies for about
five minutes. Then it should be helped
to its feet and allowed to move off quietly.
The treatment is only effective where
sheep have been down less than 12 hours.
Selling in the Shed.
“Lion”: Selling in the shed is even
poorer business under the appraisement
scheme than at ordinary times.
This year wool will be lighter, will
carry dust and vegetable matter and will
not look very attractive. Hence the
price offered in the sheds will obviously
be below appraisement levels.
The country agent charges 2{ p.c. com-
mission against the broker’s P - - f° r
small lots and li p.c. for larger parcels.
The country buyer is out for a profit
which should be the grazier’s. He may
tell you it costs l|d. to 2d. per pound
to sell wool in Sydney from, say, 250
miles railage distance.
Our costs for the last 16 years have
never exceeded l|d. per pound —often
not that—and commission charges are
14 pc '
A shed buyer got 8 2 p.c. above h
10 p.c. originally retained by the C.W.C.
And any additional disbursement on
a bale numbers basis will be his should
the sale take place after the war.
Shed buyers do sometimes offer as
much as you could get in Sydney lor top-
fleece lines, but they recoup themselves
from lower lines. I was offered 3d. in
the shed for my crutehings this year.
i v. -».-I in Svrlnev and sot
1 had them pooled . i Sydney and go
a top price of 9d. and an average ot
6ad. over all costs ne .
Pie TvDes
„„ ~ tY, ’ tunP
Pa.PPamosca : These days type is
more important than breed in pig-raising.
It is a good rule to base baconer types
on the Large White and porkers on the
Middle White. Many Australian breeders
fail to strike the happy export medium.
The inclination with bacon pigs is to
select too small a type, and hence the
animals must be overfattened to reach
export bacon weights.
Pig carcasses have a carefully stand-
ardised and measured scale in the trade,
but in the choice of breeders the eye is
still the only criterion which can deter-
mine balance and conformation, though
scales used periodically during the growth
of the animal are a great help. Each
litter should be weighed every couple of
months.
Character and stamina are important
factors in breeders. They should have
strongly-made and well-set-on legs and
feet. Plenty of teats well developed in
both boars and sows are a sound indi-
cation of productivity. Plenty of teats,
also, mean long bodies, which are desir-
able both for breeding and for meat pro-
duction. Fourteen teats is the ideal, and
they should be well and evenly spaced.
Pigs are the most regular of animals
in growth if properly handled. First, their
bones absorb most nutriment until a firm
framework has been developed. Then
Nature turns its attention to their muscles,
and finally they are finished off with a
deposit of fat. And when they have
begun to fatten they are ready for killing.
The porker matures lighter than the
baconer and is a different type. It runs
in the weaning stage in a well-rounded
curve from tail to ears along the back.
A heavy baconer has the same length of
curve but more flattened in the midline,
and the light baconer curves distinctly
over the hindquarters and descends almost
in a straight line from just forward of
the flank to the ears. Light porkers at
killing stage should have developed a
straight back line almost to the tail,
which reaches in a sudden well-rounded
curve T he baconer G f the 1151 b. class
bas developed a real curve along the back
bne wb j cb runs f ro m ears to tail, but a
ver y straight underline.
r
Fodder Conservation,
“Weddin”: Ted Watson of Young
(N.S.W.), reckons conserved fodder as
good as money in the bank, one ot its
j advantages to a sheepman being
lh |f he does „. t h b ave l 0 worry about agist-
ment country, which isn’t always good
and is always costly. Watson wants
pasture improvement, too, claiming that
the one is complementary to the other.
He for phalariSj perennial rye,
sub P lov P and lucerne .
Lucerne was the basis c f his fodder
work He be by stac king it, but with-
Qut j s heds color was lost and leaf-
containing the highest protein, was
wasted So he ba i e d his lucerne, setting
an ob j ect i ve of 10,000 bales, since passed,
average agricultural land,
Watson suggests bales of 601 b. to 701 b.,
stacked eight to nine tiers high, then
gabled and covered with iron or thatch-
ing. An iron roof secured by pegs driven
between the bales and strapped has done
its work for ten years. Next he built
a concrete shed to hold 100 tons of chaff,
which was cut directly into it through
chutes in handy positions for filling. This
was followed by a 3000-bushel grainbin
with submerged pipes in the concrete
floor, fitted with stopcocks to allow of
fumigation against vermin. Several
cylindrical corrugated-iron tanks have
pipes for fumigation let in through the
top.
Cereal hay, phalaris, rye grass and sub.
clover are put down in silage pits. Wat-
son got as much as three tons of green-
stuff an acre off his sub. clover, and what
was left after the cut grazed several sheep
an acre for months. The heavy sub-
merged seeding made more than suffi-
cient regrowth. Sub. clover can be baled,
he finds, and makes a hay high in pro-
tein content and more relished by stock
than prime lucerne. He believes sub.
clover will yet play a more important
part in fodder conservation than many
of the now-popular crops.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mt. Boppy”: Be sure of a clean
muster when dipping for lice or tick, as
one infested sheep left undipped can re-
infest the whole flock. Do the job in one
dipping. Lambs only a month or two old


LONGEST PROTECTION AGAINST BLOWFLIES
N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture Proves Calcium Arsenite
Most Effective for
JETTIN6
Ml
. fe'N isE£i&
'? ’I.***lAfSHT.-V Ev
QUiotts
CALARSENITE
MAKES CALCIUM ARSENITE AVAILABLE
READY PREPARED FOR JETTING
Mixing Calcium Arsenite on the property used to present many
difficulties until Elliotts produced Calarsenite. But Calarsenite has
mgde jetting a very simple matter ... all you have to do is to mix
a 71b. packet of Calarsenite with 30 gallons of cold water according
to the simple instructions supplied and 30 gallons of jetting mixture
is ready. Yet you pay no more for Calarsenite than you would
if you went to the trouble of buying the various ingredients
separately. The production’ of Calarsenite in its ready-prepared form
has again demonstrated the value to the grazier of Elliotts Pastoral
Section, which is backed by all the resources of Australia’s largest
chemical organisation. Calarsenite, like the other Bucking Horse
brand products, is manufactured from the very highest-grade
materials under the supervision of chemists in Elliotts own 18-acre
works and laboratories.
NO WEIGHING—NO HEATING—NO BOILING
PRICE PER CASE,
£3/7/- F.0.R., SYDNEY.
A Bucking Horse
MADE BV ELLIOTTS & AUST. DKUO^
w
EACH CASE CONTAINS
16 71b. PACKETS.
Brand Product
PTY., XTD., 35 BBICH ST., SYDNEY
ORPER NOW THROUGH YOUR
CHEMIST, STORE, OR STOCK AGENT
VICTORIA: D. G. Officer Pty., Ltd., 90-9'2 William Street
S. AUSTRALIA: A. M. Bickford & Sons, Ltd., 12-46 Currie Street ...
QUEENSLAND: Taylors Elliotts & Aust. Drug Pty., Ltd., 154 Charlotte
MELBOURNE, C.l
ADELAIDE
Street, BRISBANE.
I A £»
*yr-vt
p If
«
WP
as-a i,
«WIW»«»
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/*
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. Q. q. C. McKAY, Manager.
can be dipped with safety with proper
precautions. Put unshorn lambs through
the dip before it becomes fouled. Follow
the directions given by the makers of
the dip to the letter. Deaths may result
if the dip is too strong.
“Kyamba”: From America comes a
prescription for footrot. It is a mixture
of 4oz. of copper sulphate (bluestone),
4oz. nitric acid and 4oz. of red or white
lead. Mix in an earthenware or glass
container and apply with an ordinary
paint brush. If possible, keep the sheep
on a clean floor for a few hours after
the application. Experiments here have
shown an average of 50 p.c. cures with
the initial painting, while several applica-
tions were needed to clean up the rest.
Proper trimming of the hoof hastens
cures.
“G. 8.”: In irrigation districts couch
grass becomes a curse, and some patches
defy all attempts at eradication short of
the laborious business of digging the
whole lot out and carting it away. Try
pegging down old manure bags over the
patch, leave them there for some weeks
and, with the sun thus kept off it, the
couch should give up the ghost.
“Bundalinga”: Best method of eradi-
cating couch is shallow ploughing, or
working with a rotary hoe, no more than
2in. or 3in. deep. Follow with surface
cultivations to expose underground roots
and stems to the sun in summer or frosts
in winter. After each working, harrow
the paddock to collect roots and runners
into heaps for burning. If possible, grow
crops, such • as oats, for two or three
years before sowing pastures, working the
land constantly during summer to keep
the couch in check.
“8.N.M.”: If you’ve spread lime on
the paspalum and there’s no apparent
result at once, don’t be downhearted.
Stick a half-ton per acre on every year
for three years and then watch it. Lime
is fairly slow acting, but its results are
pretty certain and lasting.
“P.P.0.”: If not satisfied with the disc,
try the stiff-typed scarifier to rejuvenate
paspalum. The points will go well in,
breaking up the matted root masses and
bringing on a fresh growth of succulent
grass. The disc frequently fails to cut
into the mat of roots.
“W.E.”: A grass-seed plot is a useful
thing on any farm where grazing animals
are kept. Good grasses can be sown in
narrow strips and the seed harvested
when ripe. Cleaned and bagged, the seed
can be scattered at suitable times, thus
helping to restore eaten-out pastures, to
replace poor feed and to improve light
grazing areas. Make sure the seeds
grown are of grasses suitable for the
district.
“Jayem”: Where scalded patches ap-
pear in pastures as the result of wind
action, use the plough. Sow a crop of
oats and cowpeas, with at least lcwt.
of super, per acre. Turn the crop under
as green manure and sow a pasture mix-
ture, including clovers, recommended for
the district. Repeat the topdressing every
year.
“Canbelego”: Don’t include milk from
freshly-calved cows with the bulk milk
for at least five days. Stir the cream
frequently (with a tinned stirrer) and mix
the various separatings in one vessel in-
stead of holding them separately. De-
liver to the factory as often as possible
even if the quantity is small.
“Mt. Boppy”: Buttermilk, if not
diluted with churn washings, has the
same feeding value for pigs as skim milk.
Feed to young pigs—41b. of buttermilk
to lib. of corn. As the pigs**.;t older,
reduce the proportion of buttermilk to
grain, until pigs weighing 1001 b. to 1501 b.
are getting 21b. of buttermilk to lib. of
corn.
“Canbelego”: Use brushes, not cloths,
for washing dairy utensils. Cans washed
with cloths that are not renewed after
each washing are a potent cause of milk
and cream taints. Sterilise the utensils
with boiling water or steam after they
have been thoroughly cleansed, and the
heat will soon evaporate any remaining
moisture.
“Clyde”: An old cove wandered in
here just as I was opening a tin of harness
polish. “Make it yourself,” says he, and
gave this recipe: “2oz. mutton suet, 6oz.
beeswax, 6oz. powdered sugar candy,
2oz. soft soap, loz. indigo or lamp-black.
Melt the soap in | pint of water, add the
rest, melt and mix well, add 1 gill of
turpentine.” We put it on with a sponge
and polished with a brush and it worked.
“Mullengah”: When lubricating farm
machinery, make sure that the oil has free
access to the bearing surfaces. Inspect wick
feeds in bearings frequently to make sure
they are functioning properly. Wipe grease
nipples before applying the gun, or dirt
will be carried into the bearing with the
fresh grease. Clean out all oil-holes and
cups. Oil is much cheaper than new
parts.
First cancelled because the Showground
was being used as a military camp, it
has now been arranged to hold the Syd-
ney Show as usual next year from
April 7 to April 15.
“Zedo”: A Maoriland farmer, V. Wall,
of Koiterangi, has invented a machine
for digging surface drains on grassland.
It consists of a three-wheel carriage—
third wheel stabilising at the rear—mount-
ing a four-blade propeller knife shaft-
driven from the power take-off, and re-
volving at 500 revs, per minute. The
contraption is hauled behind a tractor,
and is said to be capable of cutting a
channel 18in. wide and 9in. deep, scat-
tering the excavated soil in a shower over
the ground for yards on each side of
the channel. On Maoriland soils the
plant digs six miles of drain per day. It
should be possible to adapt it for digging
bore drains, provided the country is clear
of stumps and stones.
“Yeno Ham”: C. E. Prell, Gundcw-
ringa, Crookwell (N.S.W.), a pioneer of
pasture improvement, has stopped soil
erosion. In an unimproved state the
country has many waterways which cut
deep and wide banks in heavy rain. When
grasses and clovers were sown and top-
dressed, the hillsides, carrying a thick
ground cover, retained a greater pro-
portion of the rainfall. The waterways
and creeks were grassed over, the soil
began to build up, and former deep
washouts no longer occurred. Gundow-
ringa is now carrying two sheep per
acre, and last season’s wool clip averaged
261 b. 12oz. per acre.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXXVI.
Relieving the Water Shortage.
“Damn the weather!” is your general
summing-up as you sit wearily on the
verandah edge, light the pipe and review
the position.
The creek has stopped running and has
had to be fenced off to keep the sheep
from bogging, one of the three tanks is
dry and the other two won’t last long.
Unless there’s a few inches of rain pretty
quick you’re going to have to cart water.
The house-tanks are down to the last
few rungs and the missus is beginning to
throw out hints.
There’s only one thing left—to find
water underground. You’d always
believed there was water there, especially
since the lower end of the creek always
seemed to have a clear streak about it
when the rest was low and discolored.
You go inside and get the pamphlet
from the Department of Water Supply
and Conservation. It is called “How to
Locate Water-bearing Strata on the
Farm,” and has much.to say about dome-
structures, limestone and drift sands.
There are several pictures, each looking
like a rasher of bacon and marked off
with scale measurements. There’s
nothing on the farm that even slightly
resembles them except the wall of the
machinery shed where the pot of tar you
threw at the dog last year splashed up,
Still, it’s time to give anything a go.
After a careful study it becomes fairly
obvious that water should be found at
somewhere between 50 and 500 feet in
one or all of three places: just behind
the house, down in the south corner of
the creek paddock or under the haystack.
Some days later Ned Lynch’s boring
plant arrives and goes to work behind the
house. On the fourth day an old coot
with whiskers three feet long arrives,
drops his swag, surveys the plant and
says “Lookin’ for water, mister?”
“Yair.”
“Y’ won’t find any there.”
“No? What makes y’ think so?”
“A kid could see it. Y’ wanter try
along the topside of that ridge over
there.”
You eye the old pest but restrain the
obvious retort that only a fool would
look for water on top of a hill and
say “Ask the missus for a bit o’ tucker,
old ’un, an’ don’t bother us ; we’re busy.”
“Ribuck, boss,” he says; “but y’re
wastin’ y’r time.”
You ignore him and return to the plant.
The drill is now down 465 feet and the
point keeps coming up dry. This is the
fifth test hole, and you’re beginning to
wonder if you really got the hang of
that pamphlet.
“What d’y’ reckon, Ned?” you ask
the owner of the plant.
“Oughter hit it any day now,” he says
enthusiastically ; “never seen more likely
ground.” All ground is more likely than
any other to Ned —he gets paid by the
foot for test-drilling as well as for putting
down the bore if and when the water is
struck.
The old cove appears again, this time
with a contented look, watches the drill
thump away for a while, then strolls over
to a half-dead peach-tree bravely throw-
ing out a few blossoms, suddenly cuts
off a fairly stout branch and departs,
heedless of your threats, towards- the
ridge.
“Too many of these ol’ cranks about,”
you remark to Ned. “Long’s they don’t
get dangerous I s’pose it’s all right.”
Work goes on. Presently the old coot
comes back. “Mind if I camp down be
the creek, mister? I’m a bit tired,” he
says.
“Righto, but don’t get cuttin’ any
more fly-sticks off these fruit-trees.”
“Fly-stick! That was a dowsin’ rod,
mister, an’ what’s more it did the trick.
There’s water on that ridge.”
You look at him. “Yair,” he says,
“water. But don’t worry, mister, I ain’t
askin’ y’ to move the plant up there.
I know your sort. Y’ think there ain’t
anythin’ in this dowsin’. I’ll be camped
down be the crick, mister, when y’ want
me.”
Before you can get your breath he
has picked up his swag and departed.
You debate with yourself about ordering
him off, but forget it as you watch
Ned draw up the point for another look.
Ten days later, with test-holes all over
the place and a hole in your finances,
you give up. There isn’t any water under
your farm and there soon won’t be any
on top of it. When you tell Ned to
pull out he reminds you of the old dow-
ser camped in the creek, and suggests
giving him a try. Reluctantly you agree.
The old coot comes up, the plant is
shifted to a spot on the ridge and the
drill hits good water at 60 feet.
That night, jubilant and excited, you
ring Jordan to tell him about it. “Yair,”
he says, “they got me in the same way
about six munce ago, only a man don’t
skite when he’s been sucked in. That
old coot an’ Ned is partners. He always
turns up when Ned’s borin’ an’ always
puts the plant on the right spot after
Ned’s got all he can outa y’ for borin'
everywhere else. He”
“Then Ned knew he was a dowser all
the time?”
“Dowser me foot! He’s a full-blown
geologist and subterranean water expert.
Him an’ Ned make enough every dry
year between ’em t’ live like fightin'
cocks till the next dry spell comes.”
You hang up the ’phone, bend a
solemn gaze on the butts in your
cheque-book and wonder why you hadn’t
taken on scheming instead of farming.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4!d. per line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
For dealing trenchantly with squandermania, a South Australian scores this week.
The T.P. Life
Marvellous shop displays of furniture,
clothing, jewellery; cars, fashionable
dresses, unlimited leisure, charming
manners —all give a first impression of a
world with which all is well, and in which
even the street musicians are aristocrats
of their kind.
But a glance at the ledgers of the
community would give quite another im-
pression. The gorgeous palaces, the
cloud-capped skyscrapers, and all that
they inherit, streamlined, chromium-
plated and glamorised, are only symp-
toms of a feverish squander-and-lay-by
mania. If a settlement of accounts were
suddenly called for, the seeming wealth
would vanish like the airy fabric of a
dream.
Ever since the flood of borrowed
money raised our “standard of living” the
foundations of public and private econ-
omy have been rotting away. Thrift is
an antediluvian virtue, and insolvency is
called by other names to make it smell
sweet. “Credit” is not only respectable:
it is received in the very best circles.
Cash on the nail, except for the froth and
bubble of life, is replaced by a mortgage
on the future.
The war is with us, but the riotous living
goes on. When peace comes, with its
inevitable aftermath of unemployment
and competition with a world of coolie
wage labor, we shall long for some of the
money frittered away in the years that
the locusts have eaten. —War Savings
(S.A.).
Transylvania—and' Australia
There is a mild warning for Australia
in that Transylvania question. From
various recent news-items (and cutting
out interesting irrelevancies to save
space) it seems that Transylvania was
originally Hungarian, but at the settling
up after the Kaiser’s war was handed
over to Rumania for several reasons ;
the chief excuse being that the territory
had in the course of time become peopled
mainly by Rumanians, and “territorially
homogeneous racial minorities had a
right to self-determination” or some-
thing like that —twenty-two years is a
long time to remember strings of long
words.
The writer confesses to a sneaking
sympathy with Hungary. Apparently the
Rumanians emigrated to these Hungarian
provinces in great numbers in past years,
probably answering a demand for farm
workers, but did not “fuse” with the
original inhabitants, whom they seem
largely to have displaced; probably
because they were better workers or
cheaper livers or both. For these
“Uitlanders” to claim for their Father-
land a large slice of another country
because of the position so created seems
an unfortunate consequence of the liberal
immigration policy of former Hungarian
Governments.
In recent years large numbers of
Italians have emigrated to French North
African territory; and Mussolini, even
before this war, was doing some sabre-
rattling in defence of this “oppressed
minority.”
In Australia we have specially con-
centrated racial minorities which are
already a problem. How will it be if
Italy demands on ethnological grounds *
a lump of Queensland as big as a small
European country? We are going to win
this war, of course; but just supposing?
While we are at war with Italy is a good
time to consider such a question. When
peace terms are being settled, whatever
attitude we adopt towards other countries’
minorities we shall have to maintain
towards our own. We may freely admit
that it is not the fault alone of certain
racval groups in Australia that they are
proving awkwardly unassimilable; but
the admission does not remove the
problem.
Here we have refused admittance to
non-Europeans; but in (for instance) sub-
stituting Italians for Kanakas on our
cane-farms we have not gained much.
We have the same right to dis-
criminate between European, races as
between white and colored folk ; this is
our opportunity to exercise that right
termination. Therefore let us
declare b | un „ y that we will not in future
admit any immigrant of any race or
nationaU unti , (ormer immigrants from
sa(isfactorily Aus _
tralianised , f our p oliticjans cannot
invent a soft phrase to cushion the shock
tQ Mussolini, let us still carry out the
podc y and dispense with the formula. If
- n j mp i er nenting such a policy we tread
on a fgw non -Italian corns—well, that
wdl be j ust too bad.— J. M. (Q.).
.
War Aims
w M jjughes says we are at war to
restore t he map of Europe to its pre-war
condition, and we hear from Britain that
numerous small foreign armies have been
organised and equipped on British soil
to take part in the liberation of their
countries. Are we then going to sweat
blood to put back on the map numerous
“Maybe it's a Left-hand thread."
“Then you have a go — I'm right-handed."
. *
States that are not capable of standin.,
on their own? What did we get tor help-
ing Belgium, Rumania and France.
It is time we realised that the only
thing that carries any weight in Europe is
might, and that the only way of ob ain g
peace in the future is to maintain heavier
armaments SmbTnafion of
potential enemy or combination oi
enemies. , T .
'.IK nation "Uid, in
stands' IXgovernment
h f eo nle by the people, for the
°‘‘||„ pe °£ ’ lo t 0 f petty little local
P e °P le \ J} -enrobed before
J f a^ousies u w , . . . mp!tn .
that can be brought •
j, ime Australia mig P P y
! or such . a u P lon . y rprnpd with future
! ts war aim * s : P° . p w vy
>uternal conditions 1 P • • •
(N.S.W.).
.
Make Maternity Fashionable
The argument upon birth control has
treated it as a modern development, at
] east a s far as British people are con-
cerned. Actually it was well established
among the aristocracy of England when
Queen Victoria came to the throne, and
the habit was working its way down
through the middle classes from the
upper to the lower.
W. T. Stead, in his “Review of Re-
views” obituary of the old Queen, de-
dared that she had saved the Empire by
the change she wrought in this particular
matter. She made large families fashion-
able by force of her own example and
by the disfavor she showed towards the
childless. “The families” had families ;
and “the classes,” which, then and still,
follow the lead of “the families,” returned
to the business of rearing children. The
story of the Empire would certainly have
been written differently but for that re-
markable change wrought by Victoria.
It was by making childbirth fashion-
able that the change was wrought.
Whether children are born or not is
mainly a woman’s question. The reluct-
ance of some men to undertake economic
responsibilities entailed by a - family
would be nothing if women wanted
children.
Woman’s strongest desire is to be
fashionable —interesting in the way that
is most approved in her time. She would
rather be unhappy than uninteresting.
Even her patriotism is mainly a fashion.
It is useless to appeal to her patriotism
merely as patriotism ; but make patriot-
ism fashionable and whatever is wanted
may be got from her.
Our literature and our journalism at
present tend to make the childless woman
fashionable. The mother of children
ceases to be interesting to the novelist;
the social columns of our papers glorify
the doings of flappers or young matrons
who avoid the eclipse of childbirth.
There will have to be a difference in
all that if the nation is to be retrieved
from race-suicide. It can be done by
steady campaigning to glorify the mother
and throw a measure of contempt upon
the childless. Of course some economic
amelioration must necessarily accompany
the campaign.—H. M. (N.S.W.).
Against Radio Advertising
If aggrieved copywriter “P.8.5.C.” (B.
6/9/’4O) would like the opinion of a
family spender of some 30 years’ ex-
perience, it would perhaps help him to
understand the public’s attitude towards
radio advertising, I being one of those
who switch off commercial stations im-
patiently at times.
Firstly, I do not like having adver-
tisements bawled at me over the ether.
The radio in our household is a means
of entertainment, and the family regards
it as such, not as a means of separating
me from my all-too-scanty housekeeping
allowance.
Secondly, advertising doesn’t decide
for me just what “health” foods I shall
feed my family, nor has that radio sales-
man been responsible for my family
washing themselves with somebody’s
soap. Mum and dad picked up the habit,
too, at a tender age, and that goes for
grandad and grandma as well.
Having a static sort of mentality
(frequently met with in females) I look
with caution upon a highly-advertised
product; but, of course, there will always
be some greenhorn or newly-wed who
will fall for the glowing accounts of
somebody’s sure-fire medicine, or for
some new food that needs only a few
minutes to cook. Although there is some
truth in the saying “there is one born
every minute” (sex not stipulated), very
few women are stung twice. Jane
Citizen (N.S.W.).
Iron in the Backblocks
We are being asked to save up our
pots and pans and other likely material
for use in the various theatres of war.
Why not seek out old iron in the most
likely places to find it?
If all the stations in North Queensland,
the N.T. and the Kimberleys were
raided, enough iron in the shape of old
drays, wagons, motor chassis, bore equip-
ment, pumps and the like could be col-
lected to build another Australian Navy.
Along the Darwin to Birdum railway
alone there’s enough scrap iron lying
around and apparently wasting away to
bomb Berlin for a week.
Someone with sense could make
arrangements to shift the equivalent of
three or four Yampi Sounds from the
outback. There are plenty of patriotic
truck-owners to give a hand, and, since
most of us must be patriotic to stand the
railways’ deficits for years, they could
surely flirt with a bit more expense to
shift this mass of metal to a focal point.
—Bagman (Q.).
A Motor-transport Achievement
From the old-timers we are always
hearing that “things are not what they
used to be.” Ancient teamsters are apt
to get scornful about motor traction in
the bush, narrating tales of the “gun”
loads they or their cobbers have carried.
One has to hand it out to them, too, that
they did do some pretty big things. But
there is something to be said for the
efforts of today.
Carrying the wool from Tinenburra
into Cunnamulla (Q.), Arthur Colless,
using a Ford semi-trailer, consistently
lifted 80 bales weighing from 12i to 13
tons. On one trip he took 100 bales
weighing over tons; on another 102
bales (16 tons). He averaged 3| hours
over the journey of 60 miles, and there
are some difficult crossings and bridges
on it, too. I classed the wool and saw.
the loads leave, so can guarantee no
hearsay story about it.
There is something to be said for
modern progress after all. Trepex
(N.S.W.).
If Bombers Come
If what seems now the almost impos-
sible happens, and Australian cities are
bombed, what chance would the average
citizen have to help himself and others?
We have our wardens and other volun-
tary helpers, trained and partly trained,
but is that enough?
The lesson that modern warfare gave
us in Japan and China, Spain and Abys-
sinia against populations untrained in the
elementary rules of A.R.P. was that thou-
sands of lives were needlessly wasted.
If we are caught unprepared, it is
our own fault. A.R.P. training should
not be confined to a few public-minded
citizens, but should be made compulsory
on every able-bodied person in our large
cities and towns. The open country and
small towns are not likely to be targets
for bombers, and training there could
be voluntary.—R. A. A. (N.S.W.).
In Praise of Three Months’ Camp
It is to be hoped that the three months’
continuous camp will be retained when
the war is over. Every young trainee
I have spoken to confessed himself sorry
when it ended, and that seems to be the
general opinion amongst those called up.
Men of the volunteer militia also stated
that they learnt more in their three
months’ camp than in a year of ordinary
drills.
I did service under the compulsory
scheme formerly in vogue. It was very
unpopular and of little value. There was
only a fortnight’s camp a year, hardly
enough for the recruit to settle down.
Parades were held once every few weeks,
sometimes in the employer’s time, some-
times in the trainee’s —in the latter case
on Saturday afternoons. There were two-
hour and four-hour drills, but the
former predominated. Those two-hour
drills that were held in the trainee’s time
were exasperating, as they ruined the
afternoon, being held from three to five.
Not only did the old system not allow
time for sufficient training of the recruit,
but it provided no opportunity for the
development of esprit de corps, without
which no army can be great. —Lyle
(N.S.W.).
Sydney’s Water Supply
The remarks of Jack Zuber anent
Sydney’s water supply are quite correct
(B. 21/8/’4O). No other city in Aus-
tralia lets so much good water run to
waste. Go to Adelaide and you won’t
find as much as a single dwelling-house


without its rainwater tank ; visitors from
Sydney comment about this, and some
even ask us if we have any reservoirs.
The answer is yes, but the water from
them, while quite good for gardens, baths
and so on, is too hard to be good for
washing clothes, and so the rainwater
tanks are kept for washing days.
Provided reasonable economy is used,
and in a spot where the annual rainfall
averages 15in. or more, a couple of 4000-
gallon rainwater tanks, with the roof of
the average-sized home as the catchment,
wili furnish sufficient water for the
domestic needs of a big family. The
average city-dweller, used to getting all
the water he needs by turning on a t-ap,
does not use a lot of water —he wastes
most of it. —H. A. L. (S.A.).
Commonwealth Literary Fund
My thanks to “Drudge” (B. 4/9/’4O)
for his courteous rejoinder. His claim
that critics should be well informed is
quite in order. My information is from
the secretary of the fund, the Prime
Minister and the newspaper advertising
columns.
From the secretary, July, 1940: “The
purpose of the Fellowships is to aid
persons who have proved their capacity
to do creative work in the field of litera-
ture, but are prevented from exercising
their abilities because of financial strin-
gency” Applications, with financial
statement covering three years, were in-
vited.
The Prime Minister’s statement ap-
peared in the press about six months
later, detailing the disbursements for
1940, among them being the allocation
of £lOO to each of the six universities.
The series of lectures has been
officially advertised in the Adelaide press.
The public is to be charged ss. for the
course.
The extended plans for 1940-41 do not
affect the argument, which deals only
with the past and the present. The “corn”
in dispute has already been distributed.
It was intended for poor but clever
writers who were to write for their
rations. * It has been granted as overtime
extras to men who are already in receipt
of large salaries, and the grant is to be
annual.
The question of the value of the lec-
tures to our literature was raised by
“Drudge,” who damns it with faint
praise. Even taking his long view the
fact remains that they will reach only
a very limited public, and if they
are, as he states, within the requirements
of the degree course, they should need
no subsidy. Unfortunately the wolf at
the door cannot be induced to take the
long view. The fund, intended as a
corn issue to emaciated hacks, is going to
feed well-stabled horses. — Ewe Lamb
(S.A.).
Art for Boloney’s Sake
A study of history certainly does not
prove that the art-loving public has
always been the first to stone the
prophets (B. 4/9/’4O). It proves that,
in the Middle Ages, an artist worked
on a picture, not as a work of art, but
as a piece of religion. In those days art
was performing its proper function be-
cause it was connected with the most
serious things which men had in mind
and it was serving ends which were in
themselves serious. Modern paintings are
apt to be only “works of art” and not
connected in any way with anything
which we consider serious.
In the Middle Ages there were no such
things as “artists.” There were painters
and carvers and builders, and if you
wanted a painting you went out and
ordered it just as you went out and
ordered a saddle from your saddler.
There were no exhibitions ; there was no
notion then of going round and looking
until you saw a picture which you liked
and then buying it. You decided you
wanted a picture for a particular purpose
and then went out and ordered it. The
painter in those days was a practical
servant of the public, and was treated
in a practical and exact way. The
customer then knew what he wanted
before he ordered it. Now the artist, hav-
ing defied the public for so long, and cut
himself off for so long from public taste,
finds that there is very little left for him
to paint. Hence “The Lovesick Aspidis-
tra” and “A Sardine Rhapsody in Eden.”
—Wopstein (N.S.W.).
Amateurish Theatres
If “Poor but Honest” (B. 4/9/’4O)
had ever stood a little off from Australian
amateur theatres he would have seen why
all but the few very notable exceptions
fail to draw audiences. Squabbling com-
mittees, general nepotism and cliqueism, .
failures to attend rehearsals, bickering
over parts, attempts by nine-tenths
of most casts to steal most of the scenes,
a pathetic belief that one does not have
to be a genius to combine the functions
of actor and producer, the idea that a
small handful of rehearsals prepares a
cast for a major performance —all these
are handicaps.
Another cause of the amateur failure
is the attitude towards plays. By ignor-
ing Australian plays the amateurs cut
themselves off from the drive and the
inspiration of the literary renaissance now
taking place in this country. Instead,
they are content to dribble along with
borrowings from London and New
York —all the dreary arty plays that
dirty-nailed Bohemians in Soho and
N’Yark’s Greenwich have gushed over.
Worst of all, there are only two am.
dram. socs. in Australia that look on
theatricals as either work or fun. The
others, with self-satisfied eyes and gush-
ing phrases, proclaim it to be Art.
—Aktwun (S.A.).
Professors
I may be prejudiced against professors
but I see red when “Upagum” (B.
11/9/ ’4O) justifies his affection for them
by quoting Quiller-Couch, an English
university man who never wrote a book
of any distinction but who claims some
of the greatest men in English literature
as owing their greatness to their university
education. Shelley certainly went to
Oxford, but he was kicked out by the
professors the moment he wrote some-
thing they disapproved of. In other
words, they thought that one of the great
poets, one of the greatest of all time,
wasn’t good enough for Oxford. To
come to our own times, Freud, who has
made what I consider the greatest con-
tribution to our knowledge of human
psychology, was refused permission to
lecture at Oxford, and Adler, another
“What’s this one?"
“Looks to me like angels’ blush, sarge!"
great psychologist, only got into Cam-
bridge by the back door.
"Upagum” grudgingly admits that
there may be some truth in the conten-
tion that the truest and best in literature
springs from bitter experience. Where
else can it spring from? What can a
writer talk about except his own experi-
ence, bitter or otherwise? He can't talk
about something he hasn’t experienced.
If he goes to a university he can be taught
to reiterate what other men have said
about their experiences, but then all he
is doing is remembering. Shelley, Words-
worth, Byron, Swinburne and the other
writers “Upagum” mentions may have
had university educations, but would he
maintain that they shared the beliefs of
their professors? Imagine Swinburne or
Byron thinking that a university pro-
fessor could teach him anything!
Cauboy (Vic.).
Homework
In secondary schools 5| hours per day
are devoted to lessons in a five-day
week, with one afternoon set aside for
sport. “H.M.’s” article (B. 21 /8 / ’4O)
suggests that an average pupil has to de-
vote more than two hours a day to home-
work. I say (and lam a pupil) that two
hours of conscientious work after 3.30
p.m. will cope with any homework given.
Presuming three hours’ work is done
(which will meet any requirements), then
the so-called neurotic disorders are more
than counterbalanced by the recreational
time offered in school life. Sleep should
not have to be forgone, for there are
six hours from the time school comes
out until 9.30 p.m.
It is not a case of taking the capacity
of the average pupil when assessing the
quantity of work to be given. Rather,
the dull pupil is the one on whom the
standard is set. If pupils were graded,
as “H.M.” suggests, and given varying
amounts of work, different papers would
have to be set for the examination grades,
with a result that certificates would fall
flat in their purpose of indicating
capability.— lnterested (N.S.W.).
Plutocracy or Democracy?
Before Australia can hope to have
democratic government we must, first of
all, have democratic banking. We must
have an Australian bank with no share-
holders but Australia itself.
If the present plutocratic system con-
tinues there will be men in 2040 still
receiving interest on money spent on
bombs in 1940.
I do not seek to deprive men of the
right to save money, but I would, if I
could, prevent them from lending this
money, and would prevent moneylending
being the only available means of credit.
Australia, with its huge surplus of
every necessary commodity, finds itself
in debt to a plutocratic system, which,
while disguising itself as democratic, is
taking the whole of Australia’s surplus
and taking a mortgage over the balance,
so that it can exercise a stranglehold in
case Australia ever wakes up. — Reform
(N.S.W.).
Life’s Ironies
Life might consist “of our own adjust-
ments to our surroundings” (B. 28 / 8 / ’4O),
but our surroundings include our whole
environment, and
that includes
wars, crises,
crime, di v orce,
strikes and un-
employment,
which “A.H.M.”
asks us to disre-
gard as merely
the fretful waves
on the surface of
the great ocean
of life.
The well-inten-
tioned ladies of
Toorak have been
giving to war
funds bottles
emptied by their
lords. From the
point of view of
what society be-
lieves, they are
doing a good
act. But they are
ruining the bottle-
ohs.
It is the same
with all the other
things that
“A.H.M.” thinks
can be disre-
garded by the
individual who wishes to live in
harmony with his surroundings, except
that their effects are more important.
How would he deal with the problem of
a wife who wishes to divorce a husband
who happens to be liked by his children?
She may be glad to get. rid of her hus-
band, but she has deprived him of the
affection of his children, and she has de-
prived the children of the affection of a
father. If they dislike her for it she has
depleted her world of the affection of
her children.
“A.H.M.” extols the quiet joys of
friendly intercourse with our fellows and
the love and companionship of our wives
and families, and thinks we will get them
if we live in conformity with the great
laws. So we will. But what are the
great laws? A law is only a law if it
has no exceptions. What law covers the
instance I have quoted? —L. D. (Vic.).
Make Your Wili
A glance through any daily paper
shows that many people die intestate.
Quite often the result is that their money
goes to relatives whom they would not
voluntarily have included in their wills.
Apart from this, children can suffer as
a result of parental laxity, as those who
assisted in labor or cash to increase
family funds get exactly the same share
as those who were too selfish to help
in any way; the strong, who are well
able to battle for themselves, get the same
as the delicate, who have a harder row
to hoe ; and offspring with big families
receive no more than the brother or sister
with a limited family. There are numer-
ous other ways in which injustices flourish
where no will is left. —P. Radwon (Vic.).
Consolation for the Poor
Clark Gable in the screen production
of “Gone with the Wind” voices the
ambition of about 99 p.c. of the populace
when he says to his wife: “Now, Scarlett,
we have got that much money that we
can afford to tell everybody else to go
to h .” But is that much of an
ambition?
No man in this world, however
wealthy, is independent of his fellow-
men, nor can he well afford to be rude to
anyone. The King on his throne could not
occupy that position were it not the wish
of the average Briton in the street that
he should be there. Neither Lord Nuffield
nor Henry Ford would be a millionaire
today were it not for the support given
their enterprises by the general public
and the efforts of the working men who
produce their output.
Barbara Hutton, one of the wealthiest
women in the world, although twice
married, is still seeking love and hap-
piness. She declares her life has been
unfortunate and unhappy. Lord Nuf-
field says that in order to ensure hap-
piness the best thing to do with money
is to give it away when you get it. Evi-
dently the only joy he has found in
money is the pleasure of giving it away
for the good of mankind.
Happiness cannot be bought nor sold,
but it can be acquired by helping our
fellow-men. Money cannot bring domes-
tic bliss, yet reciprocal love can because
there is a spirit of giving on both sides.
I think if we gave more and coveted less
we should all be happier. Josephine
Scollan (S.A.).
High Cost of Lotteries
When “a certain” State lottery cele-
brated its ninth birthday the other day
709 lotteries had been drawn, in which
the sum of £19,000,000 had been sunk
by the public. Out of this total some
£7,163,048 has been paid into consoli-
dated revenue —allegedly for the benefit
of the hospitals and over £11,000,000
was handed back in prizes to a few
hundred folk who had drawn “lucky"
marbles. Office exes, in connection with
the lottery ran away with half a million.
If this lottery business must go on why
cannot the £5OOO first prize be compul-
sorily invested in war certificates for the
benefit of the winner and the country?
I doubt if any lottery-winner has ever
achieved any greater degree of happiness
or even material stability as a result of
winning this much-coveted prize.—
£ s. d. (N.S.W.).
War-work and War-workers
Arnold Bennett had some pretty sage
advice for would-be war-workers during
the Great War. Bennett offered five
axioms for all war-workers to digest
before starting:
(1) The country can't seek out each indi-
vidual and come to him with a job. You must
find your own job.
(2) When you do find a job to do, it will
be neither like what you expected nor what you
would have wished.
13) War-work entails sacrifice of time. You
can’t join it in with your usual programme.
(4) War-work entails committee work. That
means you’ll have to work cheerfully with
others whom you think are fools or knaves.
(5) Society leaders will get all the kudos for
the work you do. Don’t expect praise. Your
only reward will be in the treaty of peace.
I think Bennett would be pretty near
the truth in this war, too. Minto
(N.S.W.X


m
■»
TAL
nOSP
&
'4
\
4-
Nature has decreed an inflexible rule
that the bowels must operate every day.
They are the main channel which Nature has
appointed to carry away what is unnecessary,
and it is impossible to tell how large an amount
of sickness has been caused by constipation or costiveness; in
other words, by not keeping the bowels regular—it is the main
road to most illnesses; it is the cause of unnatural irritation to
the mucous or lining membrane of the bowels. Having lost their
natural strength they object to doing what is required of them.
Hence the bowels become inflamed, and unless you find a speedy
relief a thousand other complaints are ever ready to drag you
through a miserable and wretched life. Such medicine must be
given as will cleanse the stomach and bowels, and thus help to
restore their natural activity. To accomplish this there is no
compound so valuable as Dr. Morse’s INDIAN ROOT PILLS,
which are purely vegetable and do not gripe.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are also an excellent
medicine for Sluggish Liver, Biliousness, Indigestion, Rheumatism,
and Skin Blemishes due to irregularity of the bowels.
Dr. Morses
n
i
M
Liver
PILLS
They Make You Feel Brighter
Do you examine
your child for
WORMS ?
Unfortunately, many mothers whose
children are afflicted with worms fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress,
and are practically irresponsible for the
outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the. distress. The symptoms of
this disease are somewhat variable, but
generally they are so characteristic that
no mother need have any doubt. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if
the general conduct of the child is such
as to cause the slightest suspicion a care-
ful watch will give ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
and biting, and not infrequently of a
vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this
is a sensation of itching at the nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the
nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often dis-
ordered, sometimes relaxed, as in
dysentery. The appetite is exceedingly
variable, in some cases natural, in
others deficient, craving or depraved,
one condition not infrequently alternat-
ing with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste and a
copious flow of saliva ; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during sleep
are other characteristic symptoms.
NOW PACKED
IN TINS
40
con
2/.
PER TIN
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of Stomach and
Thread worms which infest the. intestines.
They contain specific properties which
destroy the worms but cause no injury to
the stomach or bowels, and do not
weaken the system. The pellets are pre-
pared in the form of a confection, or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but,
on the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, and ,6
Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/- per
box (six boxes 11/6), post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
e
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment,
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,’ by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra).
&
&
Or
6^
V l .
w
0
c 0
w
w
W
&
#
o<f
, 0 e
t .s e y
0 .V - t >S£ >1
. ** . o^v°^toV 6 '


Heres the Radio that gets Results!
Ask the leading Short-wave Experts and Technicians about
ULTIMATE Performance and hear their enthusiastic praise!
ft
798 verified Radio stations were received on a standard “Ultimate” Receiver
——a world s record! Mr. R. N. Shaw uses an “Ultimate” Receiver to compile
the “Wireless Weekly” Short-wave notes! “Ultimate” Receivers hold nine
Champion of Champion Awards in New Zealand! An “Ultimate” Receiver
was used by the Commander R. E. Byrd Expedition to the South Pole! The
official Australian Adviser to the British Broadcasting Commission uses
“Ultimate” Receivers exclusively! Mr. L. J. Keast (Randwick, N.S.W.)
compiled the log of more than 400 Short-wave Stations, published in “Wireless
Weekly, with a standard “Ultimate” 8. “Ultimate” leads everywhere!
ULTIMATE DE LUXE ALL-WAVE CONSOLES
These modern ULTIMATE Models, in addition to several important
exclusive improvements,, retain all the features that have made
ULTIMATE famous. The LIGHT RAV TUNING Device (obtainable
only in “ULTIMATE-' ) is the last word in quick, easy and accurate logging,
especially on Short-wave Stations. Spinner (Flywheel) Tuning for quicker,
surer and smoother operation; Extended Broadcast Frequency to include
new projected Broadcast Stations; Improved Automatic Volume Control;
Photo Process Dial with Selective Illumination; Ceramic Trimmers; Con-
tinuously Variable Tone Control; Beautifully-figured Woods; Artistic
Modern Cabinets; Highest-grade Materials and. Workmanship. . Tone,
volume, range, selectivity, performance can be described in one word—
PERFECTION! “ULTIMATE” has only one quality—the HIGHEST!
Vote cannot but/ a better set!
OBTAINABLE IN 8- and 10-VALVE ALL-WAVE ELECTRIC AND
7-VALVE DUAL WAVE VIBRATOR CONSOLE.
8-VALVE TRIPLE-WAVE MANTEL MODEL
The only Set of its kind obtainable on the Australian market! Gives super-
plus performance with ULTIMATE reputation for dependability. Will
outclass anything you ve ever heard in the way of reception. Tone is
magnificent, with full, rich, deep, mellow volume. Sensitivity of response
has to be heard to be fully appreciated. Featuring LIGHT RAY TUNING
(exclusive to “ULTIMATE”), with Spinner Control, Photo Process Dial
with Selective Illumination and many important improvements. Special
Bin. Rola Reproducer. Compact and very efficient. Specially suited foi
tropical climates and outback conditions. Impregnated against humidity.
Don t decide on a Radio Set until you’ve investigated “ULTIMATE”
there is not a better set tun del
Also obtainable in 10-valve A.C. Triple Wave and 5- and 7-valve Dual
Wave Vibrator Models.
Specially designed for Outback Conditions.
VIBRATOR 7-VALVE MANTEL-PORTABLE
(WORLD-WAVE)
Not an ordinary Portable, but a high-quality, artistic, multi-wave
Vibrator Mantel Model with easily-attached lid. Take it anywhere
—picnics, meetings, dances, boating parties, car outings, etc., etc.
perforin ((lire -trill altrnt/s be superb under all conditions!
There s nothing like it for convenience, appearance, durability, depend-
ability and performance. Fully guaranteed by “ULTIMATE” reputation.
1 he Ideal Dual Purpose Set for Outback Dwellers, particularly in districts
where reception is difficult. Special Features: LIGHT RAY TUNING
(obtainable only in “ULTIMATE”); High Fidelity Push-pull Output
(unusual in Vibrator Models) ; Special Bin. Rola Reproducer (sealed
against humidity), etc., etc.
Obtainable also in 5-valve World-Wave Battery Vibrator, in 6-valve
World-Wave and in 8- and 10-valve All-Wave Electric.
w
ALL “ULTIMATE” RECEIVERS USE ROLA
REPRODUCERS. Listen for Rola Radio
News Reel each Sunday from 2UE Sydney
»„d 3XY Melbourne from 7 to 7.30 p.m.
FREE
LOG CHART OF OVERSEAS ENGLISH SESSIONS
Fill in coupon at side for your free copy.
e
GEORGE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD., 267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
FILL IN AND POST NOW.
GEORGE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD-,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Please scud me without obligation ropy of you*
free Log Clian of Overseas English Session
together with particulars of “ULTIMATE F>
Receivers.
SAME
A DDR ESS
