

e
said
«
*h
c:
<Aasi
h
S
f
°tgQ
s'
I
A,
9
A
Ve
V
\
Pick
rv
<*«
/
%
©of
g
is
/y
a
f
in
e
Sslll
■mf
.
1»
t
' •
I said:
“The whisky I’ve picke
is a fine WALKER!”
K
n
■.y
m is , V
11" hi
m
n
p
\
BORN
1820-
STILL
GOING
STRONG
A horse of spirit is a pleasure to watch. A glass of
spirit, when it’s Johnny Walker, is a treat to drink.
Fragrant in bouquet, delicate in flavour, genially
warming and invigorating, Johnnie Walker is a
sportsman’s drink that has toasted winners and
heartened losers since 1820.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.
JW. 99. FC.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3158.
Wednesday, August 21, 1940.
The Fifteenth of August
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK'S book arcade, ltd.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
freelance
Journalism
° at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL—
Please send, without obligation, yowr New
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit,
advertised va the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 240
The Red Page
GLAMOROUS JOAD.
Just on the outbreak of the present
war, it is nice to know, Mr. C. E. M. Joad,
the philosopher, received an invitation
to go grouse-shooting in the Highlands
and he accepted gladly, for he had never
been grouse-shooting before. In fact,
he had hardly ever caught a trout even,
for, as he wittily remarks, “Fish never
seem to bite when J* am fishing.”
The Scottish adventure involved him,
however, in a long tramp in the most
unpleasant weather. On page 14 his
body was a positive morass of rain and
perspiration:
I was already feeling tired and viewing
with apprehension the remaining 13 miles.
Seventeen miles would have been nothing to
me once, but now I am grown fat and
heavy on my feet, and in summer the least
exertion puts me into a bath of sweat.
Besides, my rucksack was very heavy, and
the road seemed to go perpetually uphill.
A few miles further on Mr. Joad was
sweatier than ever. He took off his shirt,
“which was drenched with perspiration,”
and marched on, “bare from the waist
upwards.” On page 16 he took off his
trousers, bathed, and put them on again.
Happier times came when war had
broken out. On page 23 we find him—hot,
but not, apparently, perspiring seated
poetically upon a grassy bank and undis-
turbed by anything of greater moment
than his meditations upon middle age and
“the buzzing of wasps and the occasional
dropping of an acorn.” On page 33 he
took a farewell glance at the grassy bank,
noting that, “save for the occasional
twitter of a wren in the thicket behind
me, not a sound was audible.”
During the interval between the
grouse-shooting and the twitter of the
wren Mr. Joad had tried to get a job
with the Ministry for Information. All
his acquaintances had soft jobs there—
his description of the scurry of nitwits
into safe billets is most illuminating—and
one cannot but share his indignation at
his own rejection. Xs a pacifist of long
standing, chairman of the National Peace
Council and author of a book in which,
pointing out that Denmark was safe from
invasion, he advocated the disarmament
of Britain as the best counter to Nazi
aggression, his qualifications, if not ex-
ceptional, were at least adequate.
Foiled, Mr. Joad decided to write a
book about the war, and these present
intimate revelations are the result.
Journey Through the War Mind (Faber ;
Angus and Robertson) is a series of
interviews with people holding differing
opinions about the war: the Ordinary
Decent Man; the Selfish Pacifist; the
Mystic Pacifist; the Roaring Politician ;
the Communist. At the end of each
interview the philosopher sums up,
awarding marks for goodwill and intelli-
gence. To the Ordinary Decent Man who
believes that we are fighting to preserve
ourselves and to restore decency to the
world—in Mr. Chamberlain’s words, “to
rid Europe of the perpetual and recurring
fear of German aggression and enable
the peoples of Europe to preserve their
liberties” —Mr. Joad awards high marks
for goodwill, but “I could not give him
very high marks for intelligence ; 50 per
cent, for intelligence seemed to me about
right.”
In a book of this sort it is the sum-
ming-up that matters most. This is the
third time within about the last eighteen
months that Mr. Joad has published a
book to redeem mankind, so that his
own attitude is important. On the whole,
the 100 per cent, intelligence, except that
its lucky possessor is unwilling to fight
for what he believes, reaches much the
same conclusion as the ordinary half-
wit: —
By training and tradition a pacifist, I
had taught myself to believe that no good
thing could come out of war. On the
other hand, the Nazi regime seemed to me
to be the greatest outrage upon human
decency and dignity that had occurred in
the life of civilised man, and I did not
then see how it was to be overthrown
except by force. Hence my frantic efforts
to find a job in a Government department
in which I could take a hand in the work
of overthrowing the Nazis, without taking
a hand too obviously in the business of
killing human beings. A weak, a cowardly
compromise, you may say. No doubt, but
it seemed at the time the only possible
escape from the dilemma in which so many
of us found ourselves.
It is hardly necessaty to follow Mr.
Joad further. Inevitably, he is now work-
ing for “World Federation,”
and calling for a “just
peace” that will give Ger-
many a chance to start
it all over, again. But
there are some further physical details,
reminiscent of the glamorous revelations
Mr. J. B. Priestley offers from time to
time in his “Chapters of Autobiography,”
which ought to be quoted. On page 229,
after his long—almost tedious —journey
through the war mind, he is sweating
freely once more:
I am very fond of winter walking. For
one thing, I can walk farther in winter.
In July, I am in a bath of perspiration
after the first mile, and in need of a rest
after the third. In November, I can still
do nine or ten without a break, and, as
I no longer drown my clothes in torrents of
sweat, I am not put to the trouble of con-
stantly changing them for fear of lumbago.
I feel no need of going to sleep after lunch;
for one thing it is too cold; for another,
I am not sleepy. And so I can sit on a
a tree stump and look at nature.
There, up a tree stump, let us leave
the philosopher. He may convert the birds
to Federal Union.
Maugham Mixture.
As usual with him, a faint flavor of
the magazine hangs about W. Somerset
Maugham’s latest collection of stories,
The Mixture as Before (Heinemann). The
varied portraits—of wife-murderers and
unpardonable scoundrels, prominent
public men, a prima donna, an author,
a Harley-street psychoanalyst and other
notabilities —are portraits only. They are
as finely drawn as craftsmanship can
manage, but flat. Now and then one of
them breaks from the bondage of
Maugham’s cynical outlook and the
brittle chains of his satirical phrase.
When this happens three people seem to
be surprised together—the accidental
Galatea (sometimes male), the reader and,
more than either of these, the author,
who at once knocks the truant flat again.
This is not to say that the portraits
lack interest. Almost every one of them
is striking enough to be intensely in-
teresting. But the impression left is that
human beings as Maugham sees them
lack humanity. Inside their frames —these
could not be more competently fitted to-
gether—they hold the attention ; often
enough they are arrestingly attractive.
That is, as portraits of men and women
by some quality or other set apart from
the ordinary humdrum lot of mankind;
this ordinary run Maugham sketches in
—also flatly—from time to time, but only
to fill the backgrounds and help throw
his selected curiosities into clearer view.
But they come to life only rarely.
She flung back her massive shoulders and
strode home to the villa.
“Ouf!” she roared at intervals. “Ouf!”
Just for that moment one of his gallery
of women gets out of her portrait-frame
and comes to life, but before that she
was a caricature, and it does not take
Maugham any time to put her back in
her place. So it is with pretty well all
his characters. With perhaps one excep-
tion —an Australian girl who does a spec-
tacular high-dive turn at a French casino
—he views them all with amused cyni-
cism. With that singular exception, he
extends to them neither sentiment nor
sympathy. On the other hand, he hates
only a few of them. He is like a scien-
tific collector of insects, dispassionately
pinning down specimens that particularly
interest him. The rest can go hang. Un-
fortunately for Maugham’s place in litera-
ture, the selection is restricted and narrow:
it leaves out pretty well all that is splen-
did and sincere and simple and honest
in human character, and pretty well all
that is deep and abiding in human
emotions.
The presentation is extremely clever
and witty. A Maugham story, for all
the limitations of his outlook, is nearly
always a literary gem. Almost any reader,
taking up this book and reading the first
paragraph of any story in it, will want
to read to the end, and will find the story-
telling craftsmanship about as competent
as could be. There will be no discus-
sion among the reviewing fraternity over
whether any of these is a short story or
not. Maugham is a past master of what
had looked at times in danger of becom-
ing a lost art. Every one of these stories
has beginning and end, plot and theme ;
it says what it has to say, and gives the
impression that that’s all there is to be
said. Plots and themes, and settings, too,
are as novel and picturesque or in some
other way as arresting as the portrait-
people inhabiting them. And should there
be nothing else to hold the interest, there
are still always the excellence of
Maugham’s facile handling of words and
the frosty sparkle and the clarity of his
mind.
He stage-manages the presentation of
the collection as a whole just as com-
petently as he tells a tale ; first, a light
story in burlesque vein, and so on, main-
taining a neat balance between frivolity
and deepening seriousness of theme from
story to story, with the second-last a
grim one set in a French colony penal
settlement —the working out of this seem-
ing to owe something in parts to O’NeiU’s
“Emperor Jones” —and then a mere flip-
pancy to finish off the batch. Every one
of them is good entertainment; such
stories as “The Treasure” and “The Lotus
Eater” are something more.
One aspect of his practice of. the
craft seems particularly worth noting.
He frequently uses the first-person-
singular approach in his narration,
and in that he always figures as
what he is —an author. It may be
dismissed as a trick, but it’s a thoroughly
convincing one. Unlike the bulk of those
employing this approach, he does not ask
the reader to swallow that he (Maugham)
is a middle-aged spinster, a castaway, an
elephant or a ferret. When he writes
“I think the friend I was staying with
was the only person in whom he had
confided,” “I” stands for Maugham,
author of the story, not for some fictitious
impossibility forced on the reader. The
other brand of ‘T’ seems, after the veri-
similitude imparted to the tale by the
Maugham brand, a hoary hangover from
the earliest of English fiction, and in most
instances an incredible and tiresome one.
In a foreword Maugham mentions that
he has now written between eighty and
ninety stories and will write no more.
Well, if he has done nothing else, he has
in a time of literary turmoil and con-
fusion at least maintained the craft of
short story writing clear of entangling
alliances.
Sixty-six Humorists.
“Here is a nosegay of live specimens
from contemporary authors,” says Every-
man’s Library, jubilantly introducing its
957th volume, Modern Humor (Dent).
Jubilantly, but with a touch of scholarly
archness that is liable to be misleading.
A “nosegay”! It has almost the air
of the many-lived Mehitabel telling the
cockroach that yesterday she was
Tutankhamen’s favorite, today the vil-
lage scavenger:
but wotthehell
archy wotthehell
its cheerio
my deario that
pulls a lady through.
If it is cheerio my deario that pulls a
library through, Everyman’s needn’t
worry, for the nosegay is made of
genuinely up-to-date blossoms. The com-
pilers, Guy Pocock and M. M. Bozman,
have called on 66 authors, and 66
humorists can’t go wrong. The only
important complaint that suggests itself
is that the limericks are too pure. The
one about what a wonderful bird is the
pelican is funny enough no doubt—or it
was, years and years ago—but there’s a
much better one about the young person
of Pitlochry.
The editors obviously have excellent
noses for humor. For instance, they print
a selection from Cold Comfort Farm,
that uproarious satire on the love-
amongst-the-cowbyres novels. They give
in full “Beachcomber’s” nonsense about
Mr. Justice Cocklecarrot and the twelve
red-bearded dwarfs whom Mrs. Tasker,
for no discernible reason, pushed into
Mrs. Renton’s hall. From Ten Sixty-six
and All That comes one of the Test
Papers—the one ending with the injunc-
tion to students not to attempt to answer
more than ope question at a time. There
is a J. C. Squire parody of Chesterton’s
billowy prose. . Patrick Barrington’s
platypus lays its egg in the Bulgarian
legation and “the Japanese, in self-defence,
annex the isle of Arran.” Denis Mackail
supplies the perfect satire on the chair-
man’s speech at some tinpot local
function. There’s one of Ruth Pitter’s
verses. From the great unknowns comes
the exquisite:-
Yesterday upon the stair
I saw a man who wasn’t there.
He isn’t there again today—
I wish to God he’d go away!
It’s hard to think of any of the regu-
lars who might have been left out. There
are selections from Wodehouse, Leacock,
W. W. Jacobs, A. P. Herbert, A. A.
Milne, Shaw, Humbert Wolfe, Quiller-
Couch, E. V. Knox; even T. S. Eliot.
It’s a book to be taken slowly—a bit
in bed, a bit in the tram, a bit after
filling in the income tax return. If you
try to read so many styles of humor one
after another you come to the conclusion
that nothing is, or ever was, funny—
except Mr. Justice Cocklecarrot and the
twelve red-bearded dwarfs.
Clune Rolls Over Java.
Frank Clune’s latest, To the Isles of
Spice (Angus and Robertson), records his
impressions of a thoroughgoing tour of
the Netherlands East Indies.
It is in the characteristic Clune style-
blunt and terse, with occasional dips into
breezy Australianese. It has its advan-
tages, that style. It enables the writer to
unload the fruits of a vast amount of
historical research without seeming pon-
derous and without boring the reader,
and it gives the reader who isn’t finicky
in his literary tastes a feeling that this
chap is a sensible observer whose con-
clusions can be relied on. There are, of
course, many sensitive souls to whom the
Clune manner is anathema; but Clune
has a capacity for liking people, and a
Kiplinglike capacity for being interested
in how they make a living. He liked the
calm Dutchmen who fly the K.N.I.L.M.
clippers, and their equally calm country-
men who fusslessly rule a native popu-
lation of 52 millions though outnumbered
250 to one. He becomes as nearly lyrical
as a Clune ever can when describing the
ancient Javanese temples. He smoked
opium and found it a washout —“The
only sensation I could get was a dry
throat, a headache and a pain in the pit
of the pinny.” He went up into the
stratosphere, collapsed at 27,000 feet, was
revived with oxygen and went up to
30,000 feet, “not caring a hoot so long
as I can fondle my oxygen flask and
take a good sniff whenever my nails turn
blue.”
But he couldn’t cotton to the Dutch
tongue. “Hollanders never use words of
less than ten syllables. If they can use
a word of twenty syllables (which in the
end probably means beer or fish) so much
the better.” Clune is disappointing about
the girls of Bali. All he says is “I’ll leave
the gals to the poets.” But he atones by
quoting what some very frank-minded
poets wrote on the subject in the Com-
plaints Book at Jan’s Hotel.
A readable book with a wealth of
photographic illustrations.
Figure Drawing, by Frank Medworth
(Faber and Faber). A worth-while con-
tribution to art technique by the director
of the Art Department at Sydney Tech-
nical College. All textbooks on this
subject enter to some extent into ana-
tomical analysis, but the Medworth
book is the only one in this critic’s ex-
perience that adequately deals with the
skeletal foundation —quite as important
as the muscular functions. The work is
illustrated on every page, and no better
introduction to the study of figure draw-
ing could be asked for.
Educational Studies and Investigations
(Melb. Uni. Press). Summarises investi-
gations undertaken by students in the
second year of the Bachelor of Education
degree at Melbourne Uni. The field
covered is enormously wide. It is per-
haps symptomatic that only one of the
investigators suggests a study of the aims
of education.
Fanny by Gaslight: Michael Sadleir
(Constable ; Moore’s Bookshop). Novel
lifting the lid off the days of good Queen
Victoria, showing drunks, bargees, pugs,
bad girls and a number of other odd-
ments that wouldn’t have amused the
Queen. Sinister high life, and a love
story.
Whiteoak Chronicles: Mazo de la
Roche (Macmillan). The six novels of
the Whiteoak saga, covering just on a
century of Canadian life. Clearly printed
on thin paper, 1390 pages, it is one of
the neatest, best proportioned omnibus
books this Page has come across.
Recent additions to the Readers’ Union,
for which Robertson and Mullens, Mel-
bourne, are Australian representatives,
include David Cecil’s The Young Mel-
bourne ; Stefan Zweig’s Beware of Pity /
and Still: A Photo-folio , unusual photo-
graphic shots from many parts of the
world in page-size reproductions.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the conscience of business.
THE SENIOR STORE”
COMBINED WITH OUR
HIGH STANDARD OF WORKMANSHIP
in
• :• If
1
■ Be
i
! I
"Horrockses" Pyjamas, 16/6
Pyjamas for service and comfort! They are
made of "Horrockses" finest quality Flannel-
ette in our own workrooms. Smart striped
designs. Small, medium and outsizes. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, suit 16/6
'Jumbuk' Underwear
"Jumbuk" Underwear in the new ''Sunglo'' shrinkproof
yarn. The softness of the fabric ensures that the most
tender skin will not be irritated. All wool . ... and
light in weight.
Undershirts, short sleeves:
c-5
•If
mm
’Van Heusen' Country Shirt, \V-
Expert styling and craftsmanship are characteristics of
this famous make of shirt. Made of a reliable British
weave that will give long and satisfactory wear. Plain
shades of Blue, Grey, Green, Cream, Fawn & White. Collar
attached. Sizes 14£ to 18 in. neck. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price, each .' 17/*
f{ 0
1
m
¥
**m
m
% •• \
i\ { \
m
m
m
ii^
t y
7
• 1,: «'•
faSB
Mmm
B*B**mmH
■
■
1
Poplin Business Shirts, 8/11
Excellent Sfyrts for every-day wear. Made of Horrockses'
British Poplin in our own. workrooms. V cased front,
double cuffs, and two detached collars with supports.
Sizes: 14 to 18 in. neck. Blue, Grey and Red striped
designs. At Anthony Horderns'. Price 8/11
Fine Q'lity Wool Neckties, IH>
Thrifty men will buy two or three Neckties at this price.
They are made of a fine quality Wool in a big variety
of striped and check designs. Navy, Maroon, Grey, Green
and Fawn tonings. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, ea.: 2/6
1
f
m
Sleeveless Pullovers, 14/6
Useful any time of the year, these Sleeveless Pullovers
are made with V neck and have a fine Cashmere finish.
Navy, Flannel Grey, Dark Grey, London Tan, Teal Blue,
Bottle Green, Bamboo and Maroon. Sizes: 34 to 42 in
chest. At Anthony Horderns'. Price 14/6
• Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid
to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the
Commonwealth.
I
V
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE: M 2401 (Day or Night). Box 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


GUN DOG
“Quaite an interesting model We have this afternoon .”
By CECIL MANN.
LYING in bed she heard the roosters crowing, chal-
lenging and answering from all the backyards in
„ the straggling little town. It would be about
four o’clock; a little more than an hour to
daybreak. The little town slumbered in its horseshoe
bend across the river, a dozen or two street lights
swimming down there in the mist, which meant a fine
day ahead. The sky, empty of clouds, was lighting
up faintly as she pulled herself across, propped up on
her elbow, and looked out over the rooftops to the
east.
She got out of bed, and in her white calico night-
dress, down to her ankles, went barefoot, silently
round the verandah and across the wet grass to
Trixie’s kennel. * It was a palace among kennels ; a
five-feet-high gable house, built of hardwood weather-
boards, it was nearly big enough for a man to sleep
in. Just now there were four pointers in it;
Trixie and the pups. Trixie, her fine long nose poked
out on her doorstep, lay half on her side, with Mac
and Triplip and Lady coiled asleep in a heap between
her front and back legs.
The girl went down on her haunches, laid her
face on the pointer’s, folded up a long, silky ear in
each hand, whispering nonsense endearments. Her
hair, tied loosely at the back of her neck, fell over
her left shoulder and covered Trixie’s head. She loved
the dog ; the only thing that had stirred feeling in her.
Trixie was eight; she was twelve. She had had Trixie
as a pup ; had known her all the life she could re-
member. But it wasn’t Trixie that had got her out
of bed, and as her left hand went stroking down
Trixie’s side Trixie wasn’t deceived. The hand strayed
across Trixie’s belly, lifted Mac and deposited him in
the lap of her nightdress, and went back again for
another.
Trixie lay as still as if she were asleep. It had
happened before, often, whenever there were pups,
and she didn’t mind. She had known Kit as long as
she could remember, too. Mac and Triplip didn’t
mind, either. They liked Kit stroking their sleek
brown and white bodies back in her bed. They
nuzzled up against her small warm breasts and went
to sleep again. Kit’s eyes feasted on their puppy
heads, oddly big for their bodies.
“If I catch you with those pups in your bed I’ll
skin you.” But she wasn’t frightened of her mother.
“I’ll tell your father.” That wasn’t so good ; she
wasn’t so sure about him. Today, he had said, she
could go with him and Uncle Harry after quail; but
he might change his mind before nine o’clock. He’d
change it all right if he caught her with the pups in
bed with her. Angus had his own ideas about dogs:
their place was the kennel-house, the back seat in the
old Liz, trailing at heel as they went out across the
quail paddocks, and then pointing the birds in the
tussocks ; standing motionless as a statue, front paw
lifted, tail straight out behind. That is, in the days
when he used to go shooting.
Angus was getting on. These days he was never
out of bed much before seven. Kit was a stray end of
the family ; all the others were grown up, were all
men, and were away to the corners of the earth. She
tried to fix how long ago it was that Angus had last
been out after quail; years back. Uncle Harry, up
from Singleton for two days, was going back that
night and last night at tea Angus had said “How
would you like some nice little quail for tea tomorrow
night, Mother?”
“Huh!” Mrs. McFee had known Angus just about
as long as she could remember, too. “You couldn’t
see to hit the side of a house, neither of you.”
“And you can come with us and boil the billy,
Kit. What d’you say to that, now?” Angus said.
“She’ll do nothing of the sort,” said Mrs. McFee.
“She has to go to school, Harry, and he knows it.
And he wouldn’t see a quail if there was a thousand
of them. He hasn’t had a gun in his hands for six
years.”
“Five,” Angus said, without heat. “Cut us some
sandwiches with divilled ham, Mother, and we’ll go
and get you some of those nice little quail.”
Uncle Harry agreed with Mother and agreed with
Angus by nodding his head. Kit said nothing. She
knew the trip was on, if Angus remembered it. She
had never been out, but she knew that Angus had
been a great shot, though it must have been a long
time ago. In the drawing-room there were cups he
had won at pigeon-shooting.
After an hour or more of coddling them, she took
Mac and Triplip back to the kennel-house. Trixie
smelt them over, gave the wall inside a couple of
welts with her tail, and got up and came outside,
Windless Day.
These are the days when time, the unhurrying runner,
Seems to relax and stay his tireless pace ;
The very sun burns dim, veiling his face ;
The dreaming earth takes holy lights upon her.
The surly sea sleeps, skies hang heavy and low ;
Beneath dark sagging clouds one silver shred,
Like boffin-handles, gleams against the lead;
The bird forgets to sing, the rose to blow.
Within the soul is silence, a suspending
Of that continuing flow, hearing and seeing,
Wherein resides the mystery of her being —
One instant of sheer life, all time transcending.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
stretching and sniffing the morning. “You’re not sup-
posed to know,” Kit told her, “but you’re going out
after quail, and me, too.”
She went back to her room, fixed her hair in a
plait about the size and color of a good-sized fresh
rope, and dressed in navy skirt and white blouse. In
the kitchen she started the fire, talking to herself with
happiness and excitement. The sun was coming up
over the hills 40 miles away, throwing its glare over
a fine day. She heard Trixie’s deep voice
and went round the verandah to the
front. Trixie was giving one of her rare
bursts of barking as old Mary Ann came
in through the gate.
“Shut up, you old bitch,” old Mary
bawled, shaking her waddy at the
dog.
“She’s pleased with herself,” Kit said.
“I told her she’s coming out with us
after quail.”
“Listen to her! She told her! An’
who’s us?”
“Me and Angus and Uncle Harry!”
“Him goin’ after quail! He’s as
blind as I am. He’ll blow all y’r bloody
heads off. I’ll bet y’ he shoots the dog
if he don’t pot himself. And serve the
bitch right, yowlin’ at me every time I
come here to cut y’r damn’ knotty
wood.”
She went on round to the woodshed.
Kit went over and stood with her right
hand stroking Trixie’s head, the old dog
belting its tail like a flail. “She’s just a
bloody old wretch,” Kit said, borrowing
from Mary Ann’s vocabulary. “He won’t
shoot you at all, will he?” But she
wasn’t sure about it. When Angus was
last down in Sydney he’d been fitted up
with glasses, but he wouldn’t always
wear them.
She couldn’t bear to think of it, but old Mary
Ann harped on it at breakfast. “She’s like a damn’
old witch,” Kit thought, listening to her cackle. Mary
Ann was enjoying herself. “I’ll bet y’ a pound y’
shoot the bitch, Angie. Y’ couldn’t hit me at ten
yards.” Her wall-eye fastened on Uncle Harry, who’d
only spoken about once in his life —when he said “I
will” —and had regretted it. “An’ if he doesn’t blow
her yowlin’ head off I’ll bet you do it.”
When they were getting Liz ready Mary Ann
came out on the front verandah and stood with her
stubby hands on her hips, still cackling profanity and
prophecy. Kit belted with a spanner against Liz’s
tin side to shut out the references to Trixie. The
pointer was standing outside the kennel-house watch-
ing the preparations without excitement. She was
used now to not going out in Liz any more ; when
they’d gone, Mrs. McFee would come and let her off
the chain. Then, suddenly, she began to dig the grass
out by the roots with her front paws. She whined,
straining to the length of the chain. She leapt into
the air, letting out great barks; drew back and rushed
forward, trying to break loose.
“Look at the silly bitch,” old Mary Ann bawled.
“She’s seen the gun. He’ll blow y’r liver out.”
Kit let her off. She raced across and made a fly-
ing leap over the closed back door of the car on to
the back seat. She smelt at the gun, letting out yelps
of excitement.
Mrs. McFee came out with a demijohn of water
and the fishing-basket bulging with enough to feed half
a regiment. She heaved both in beside Kit’s feet, Kit
sitting in the back with a hand on Trixie’s collar.
“There’s two bottles of beer in the basket,” Mrs.
McFee told her. “Give it to them for their dinner,
and you mightn’t have to. boil the billy.”
f IZ took them across the bridge, through the town
*—' and up the road along the river flats, and then
on through the half-timbered country to the quail
paddocks. Kit opened the gate, Trixie bounding out
with her, and racing off round in a wide half-circle
through the long grass. Three hundred yards in
Angus parked Liz under a bloodwood. “You can
stay here and look after the tucker,” he told Kit. She
noticed that he was as excited as Trixie. His hands
were shaking as he fumbled with the guns, handing
one to Uncle Harry and throwing his own open. He
whistled Trixie, and she came to heel and followed
them out across the paddocks.
The girl, sitting in the car with her knees locked
in her hands, watched them go over the dip out of
sight. Her eyes were wet from the wind cutting at
them in the back of the car coming out. Two kooka-
burras were shouting their heads off over on the fence-
posts. Peewees were planing down into a clump of
ti-tree.
She heard three shots two almost together, then,
shortly, another. A bullock near the edge of the dip
lifted his head in the air and trotted off into the
timber, snorting. There was a scurrying of birds.
Fidgety, she got out of the car and went across to the
edge of the dip. A mile away over the paddocks she
could see them, standing together in the knee-deep
grass looking at the ground. She could see nothing
of Trixie.
She walked back to the car, and huddled in the
back seat. She was there still when Angus and Uncle
Harry returned. They leant their guns against the
running-board. “The damn’ quail aren’t like they
used to be,” Angus said. “An’ we’re not, too,” said
Uncle Harry, making what was for him a speech.
Kit dragged out the basket and brought forth the
beer. Angus took it, knowing as a matter of course
that it’d be there. They sat down on the grass and


ate the ham sandwiches and drank the beer with the
best appetites and thirsts they’d enjoyed for years,
Angus told them, munching away, about the last time
he was at a pigeon shoot. It was a wet day, the birds
wouldn’t rise up ; it was a massacre. He’d given it
up, and taken to the clay-birds.
Kit did not trust herself to speak ; there was
no sign of Trixie. Uncle Harry, after his voluble out-
burst, had lapsed into his habitual silence. Angus
had the floor.
It was hot and drowsy there in the thin shade,
They ate and drank the beer, lay back with their
hats over their faces and were soon snoring. The girl
sat on the running-board looking out over them
towards the dip. She could have been seeing nothing,
because when she did see her Trixie was not ten
yards away, trotting up with a quail in her mouth. She
was holding it as if it was a pup, and it made her
look as if she was laughing. She was nearly breaking
herself in two with her tail swishing. Kit took the
bird from her, laughing too, and Trixie went and
sniffed at Angus and Uncle Harry. Kit threw her a
sandwich and she gulped it down, sniffed against
Angus and Uncle Harry again, then trotted halfway
to the dip, and stood looking out across the pad-
docks and back at the car. She came back and
looked puzzled at the two men asleep. She sniffed
at them again and rubbed her nose against Angus’s
shoulder. Then, when they wouldn’t wake up, she
settled down between them, with her head pointed
towards the quail paddocks and went to sleep, too.
The girl looked at the three of them. With the
grass leaning against their sides they looked some-
how part of the earth and as old as it. The shadow
of the timber was pointing out towards the dip. About
time to be getting home. She let them sleep.
THE EIGHT TWENTY-THREE
By J. A. CHRISTOMAR.
THE grinding, groaning sound of the bus coming
up the hill from the eight-ten was the signal to
Mr. Fewtrell to gulp down the last of his coffee,
lay his serviette, carefully folded, on the small
plate, and scrape his chair back from the table. It
was the signal, too, for his wife to lay down her duster
in the dining-room and come out into the hall.
Every morning—except Sunday, when Mr. Fewtrell
would just at this time be bringing her a tray with the
small teapot, the three pieces of crisp, hot, brown
toast and the blue sugar-basin with the Apostle spoon
(one of the six Aunt Mary had sent them on their
first anniversary ; so alike all the Apostles must have
been) —Mrs. Fewtrell came out into the hall just as her
husband came through from the kitchen. Every morn-
ing she pushed back the little mat which kept any
draughts from blowing in under the front door, and
opened the door just as he took his hat down from
the hallstand. Every morning just as the bus reached
the corner and the bus-driver (the fat one on Mon-
days, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays ; the little
old “relieving man” on Tuesdays and Thursdays)
grated through the change of gears to take it up that
last, extra-steep little bit at the top of the hill, Mr.
Fewtrell said “Good-bye, dear. Be on the half-past
five,” stepped out over the carefully-blackened door-
step, put his hat on firmly and marched purposefully
to the front gate.
Only when it was raining was there any change.
Then Mr. Fewtrell hurried into his coat in the hall,
slid on his goloshes which would be waiting by the side
of the hallstand, picked up both hat and umbrella,
muttered through his good-bye a little more quickly
and skipped to the gate with a few little sliding, run-
ning steps. Wet or fine he walked with the same pur-
poseful, unhurried stride once he was outside the gate.
Every morning Mrs. Fewtrell wondered a little vaguely
why things couldn’t sometimes be a little different;
wondered if it wouldn’t be better if she had breakfast
with Tom ; wondered how it was she hadn’t been
doing so these last three or four years ; and every
morning had given up her wondering almost before
Mr. Fewtrell had closed the gate behind him and she
had closed the door.
Mr. Fewtrell as he turned down the hill to walk
towards the wharf didn’t wonder about anything. He
didn’t really think of anything. If it’s possible at any
given moment for a man’s mind to be completely
blank of thought, then Mr. Fewtrell’s mind was blank
for the eight minutes each morning when he was walk-
ing down to catch the ferry. Certainly there was no
active thought. As he ducked his head a little so as
not to shake down on himself the drops of dew from
the tree which overhung the footpath outside Two-
hill’s he glanced at his watch. He didn’t need to
think to glance at his watch ; he always did glance
at it. He didn’t think “it’s fifteen and a half past
eight; I’ll catch it,” he knew before he saw the evi-
dence of the watch that it was fifteen and a half
minutes past eight and that he’d catch the ferry ; it
always was and he always did. It was all part of the
idea he had that a businessman shouldn’t be bothered
with his wife’s idle gossip about the neighbors at
breakfast-time ; “shouldn’t have to think about any-
thing till he’s in the office and ready for the Prob-
lems of the Day,” he said.
In the same way Mr. Fewtrell didn’t
think to duck his head when he came to
the tree, or think that Twohill should
lop those outside branches. He always
did duck his head and he’d known that
Twohill should lop those branches for
years now. Just as he didn’t think
actively of anything when the girl in
brown screwed herself round the heavy
iron gate—it had been stuck half-open
for so long that rain and wind had piled
a little heap of sand and gravel and
dead leaves behind it —and dodged out on to the
footpath a few yards ahead of him. Anyway, he knew
that the girl in brown always dodged out in exactly
the same manner —if not just in front of him, then
soon after he had passed.
But the girl in brown always thought of Mr.
Fewtrell. It didn’t matter, she thought, if he was
fifty yards or more past the gate when she came out;
so long as she saw “the old dreadnought” she’d be
right. That’s what she always called him to herself,
“the old dreadnought.” Once or twice she’d fancied
it strange she never thought of him in some way or
other at other times, not even in the mornings when
she was hurrying through dressing, sipping now and
again at the cup of tea she never had time for at
breakfast, but carried into her bedroom and put down
beside her wristlet watch on the dressing-table. Then,
always just as she squeezed round the gate, she thought
of him and looked up and down the hill to see where
he was. That was always her first thobght as she
came out on to the footpath, before there came a
rushing, pulling, twisting jumble of other thoughts
into her mind—whether her stockings were straight at
the back ; whether she’d put a handkerchief into her
purse ; whether Millie would be on the ferry (she
was lucky not having to be in at a set time every
morning); whether she had a cigarette for the boat.
And all the others who went down the hill every
morning to catch the eight twenty-three thought of
Mr. Fewtrell. If he was there they were in time!
The young tousled-haired fellow who never wore
a hat thought of him, and had joked about him with
the cheeky-looking youth in the porkpie hat who
usually met him a hundred yards or so further down
towards the wharf. They walked down in the middle
of the roadway every morning and smiled at the girl
in brown, and the other girl who wore three different
dresses, one brown, one brown and white and the other
a dark green, in regular rotation every three days, and
grinned at the girl with the glasses who always wore a
grey tailored costume and a hat like a schoolboy’s,
and always carried three books held together with a
strap.
The perky little man who worked in the Lands
Department and who wrote out receipts for lodge sub-
scriptions on the boat, carrying the little receipt book
and his newspaper (he never had time more than to
read the news summary because he was working on
the lodge receipts at lunchtime) in a large suitcase,
thought of Mr. Fewtrell and nodded to him if he
passed. He always thought the same thing till it was
like two sentences which he said over to himself, “Few-
trell must be doing well these days. Wonder why he
doesn’t get a car?” But, though he’d always dreamt
of owning a car himself, he always thought back to
the lodge receipts and he didn’t think to envy Few-
trell, who could afford to buy a car and didn’t.
The two sisters who lived at the top of the hill
and the boy who came from somewhere along the
side street and who always spoke to them, but whose
name they didn’t know, all knew Mr. Fewtrell. But
they only knew him from the back view, seeing his
broad back in the dark coat and his large head in the
black hat going striding down the hill ahead of them.
Mr. Fewtrell knew the two sisters by the silly,
quick little pattering sound of their high heels on the
roadway, that little rat-tat-tat, rat-tat-tat that always
set everybody else but Mr. Fewtrell running down the
hill towards the wharf. The two sisters, farthest up
the hill every morning, first heard the bus coming
down to the eight twenty-three ; they broke into a
gangling, stilt-legged, quick little run. At the first
sound of it all the others quickened their steps into a
shuffling trot. Some, while running, looked round to
see how close the bus really was, but the girl in brown,
the other girl and the little clerk just began to run
without quite knowing why.
Mr. Fewtrell didn’t change his determined pace
at all. Just then he was always at the end of the
houses, where, as he looked across through the trees,
he could see the ferry halfway across the bay coming
from the wharf farther up the river ; just then he
always fished from his lower right-hand waistcoat
pocket the two pennies he put there to buy his paper.
(There’d been a morning when the boy had been at
home in bed instead of at the wharf ; Mr. Fewtrell had
held out his two pennies and walked up the gangplank
on to the boat, not realising till he sat down that he
had no paper.)
Every morning just as the bus screeched to a
stop behind him Mr. Fewtrell marched across the
wharf and on to the gangplank. He’d caught up with
the girl with the glasses and the tousled-haired youth
and the one with the porkpie hat; the two sisters and
the girl in brown and the little clerk were pattering
on to the gangplank just behind him, and behind them
came the rush of passengers from the bus. Brought
thus into close proximity with them all Mr. Fewtrell
was conscious of them for the first time. Every morn-,
ing he frowned as he thought what a jostling, fool-
headed rush it was. “Like a lot of sheep! ” Mr. Few-
trell always thought of that as amusing, witty, original
thinking. Every morning he smiled a little pridefully
to himself for having thought it. And every morn-
ing as he settled down into the seat just inside near
the engine to read his paper he’d completely for-
gotten there was anyone else on the eight twenty-three.
“ CRIPES!"
No FREEDOM.
No freedom have we found for heart’s confession,
But confusion in these words and. in these moods :
We who have striven to lead the mind’s procession
Out of the town, beyond the last house, through the
woods,
Till the soul comes through its wilderness, and the
world’s fires
Expire on their last hearth ; and laugh heartily again
These people, to music which never tires;
And dance . . . and dance . . . and dance through
heat and rain :
As though this was our dream, played softly, sweetly
sung,
And fancifully led by dancers numbed to pain,
Who, from their feeling, exquisitely wrung
Its ecstasy and fretless heart’s refrain—
But, in our seeking, we have traipsed men down
Mind’s weary pathway, searching out lifds graces :
We who have tried strange doors, and ever this same
frown,
This weariness of words, found on all faces.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
{fyd Hm# cflate meUameJdand\lmq/uet
THE ROYAL COURTS OF JUSTICE.
As the Strand is one of London’s famed thoroughfares, indeed it might receive a world designation of a similar character, it is
appropriate that “along” it should be located the Royal Courts of Justice, commonly referred to as the Law Courts. The ground occupied
by this “headquarters of law” on its eastern side marks the dividing line between the City of Westminster and the City of London.
Here in this important “channel for traffic” stood, until January, 1878, old Temple Bar, and a few yards westward now stands the much
criticised Griffen Memorial, “to mark the spot.” The Royal Courts of Justice previously “sat” in the Great Hall at Westminster, partitioned
off into Courts. During the last century “pressure and growth of business” demanded a change. Thus, in the “ ’seventies,” a site was
considered appropriate for various reasons, not the least its proximity to those great centres “where barristers congregate”—the Inner
and Middle Temples, on the south side of the Strand, and Lincoln and Grey’s Inns, on the north side. Decision having been arrived
at, it was found necessary to embark on a clearance scheme, hence a number of old houses, reaching from Clement’s Inn to Lincoln’s
Inn Fields, a sort of picturesque ramshackledom, were pulled down. On the land thus “freed” arose the present enormous Gothic pile.
It occupies the whole of the north side of the Strand, from where Temple Bar once stood to practically St. Clement Dane’s Church.
This “large and ungainly creation,” as it-has been described, contains some 1100 apartments of one form or another, a statement
smacking of a line from an advertisement of some Gargantuan American hotel. In its building eight years were occupied, 1874-82. G. E.
Street, R.A., was the architect, though he did not live to see the completion of what is regarded as his masterpiece. The Central Hall and
the great clock with its appropriate tower, the latter a conspicuous object when approaching the Courts from east or west, are considered
outstanding features. The clock has an interest peculiarly its own. Designed by an illiterate carpenter from the Midlands, it evidently
embodied some secret of construction which perished with his death. It is related that one constructed afterwards “on similar lines” for
St. James’s Palace could not be made to work! A contemporary chronicler avers the Law Courts clock is the finest public timekeeper
in London.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61. —No. 3158.
August 21, 1940.
AUGUST THE FIFTEENTH.
“Can’t see any sign of a white flag? But I thought you said...."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.Q.),
Wellington.
London: l Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
JOHN BULL TO BEAT.
There would be no sense in not facing the fact that,
with the war now in its twelfth month, the outlook is
grim. It would be worse than grim, it would be
black as night, if there were not good reasons for
sustained confidence.
These are well grounded. They stand on heroic
exploits of the past year: Graf Spee, Narvik, Dun-
kirk —few, but as splendid as any in British tradition,
though one was the opening battle and another the
magnificent end of military failures. As solidly, they
stand on the fighting quality of British and Dominions
airmen and British ’planes, of which Such supreme evi-
dence has been given in the course of the daily assaults
on Britain which began on August 11, and in the
daring counter-attacks on Germany and Italy.
In the situation as it is today, reasons for con-
fidence stand as firmly also on the growing strength of
Britain ; already a powerful island fortress, of which
nothing is more certain than that its garrison' will
defend it with an inspired fervor that will be the Ger-
mans’ greatest surprise in this war if they come up
against it.
There is yet another reason—perhaps not so fully
appreciated—why the future can be faced with con-
fidence, not to be confused with rosy optimism, for
the road is going to be a hard one. So far the war has
gone well for the Germans. It should have gone well
for them. Their very procession of conquest burns on
them the brand of their war guilt. If any final proof
of that were needed it has been provided by the
machines they had ready—the tanks which smashed
through into France and the ’planes which attack
Britain in their massed hordes —the war methods they
have used —the ruthless bombing and machine-gunning
slaughter of fleeing refugees, which cluttered the Bel-
gian and French roads with death and confusion —
and the sinister aid they have had in countries they
have overrun. The native-born traitors exploited and
the spies of one sort and another employed in Nor-
way, Holland, Belgium and France were not dis-
covered or planted overnight, nor even since the war
started: they speak of years of organisation.
Hitherto the Germans have had all these advan-
tages ; therefore they should have done well. They
have had another advantage of the very greatest im-
portance. Through its leader’s record of calculated
lying, broken promises and torn-up treaties, Nazi Ger-
many had sunk so low in a moral sense that nothing
it now did could sink it lower. It had plumbed the
depth when it had accepted its leader’s accommoda-
tion with the hitherto contemptible “scum of the
earth.” The advantage the Germans had in this
against the Allies was that they could forthwith wage
their war where, when and how they liked without
bothering about moral scruples.
■ln peace rightly honored, in war a positive handi-
cap, these scruples weighed heavily on the Allies.
They had weighed heavily on them over the years
when they might have been matching Germany’s pre-
parations for war with their own. The war launched
against their ally Poland, and themselves faced with
the certain terrible slaughter that would result from
attacking the Siegfried Line, their moral standing pre-
vented them from doing anything direct to aid Poland.
It is certain that had they taken the only means open
to them —the violation of a neutral country —they
would have lost, amidst a deafening outcry of moral
indignation, the support of the U.S.A., on whose sym-
pathy and material aid they hopefully depended.
The Germans had no such handicap. Accom-
modation with the Soviet arranged, what any other
country henceforth said or thought of them was of
no account: the Americans, in fact, had already ex-
hausted their vituperative vocabulary, and the Ger-
mans reckoned that their moral indignation would
soon cool down. Free of the scruples that enchained
the Allies, they marched into Denmark early in April;
with the assistance of traitors in numbers that gave
the British Foreign Office yet another of the surprises
to which it was by now becoming accustomed, they
went straight on into Norway, established themselves
there, and about the same date in May attacked Hol-
land and Belgium—violating neutrality in every
instance.
In the waging of war up to the point to which
this war has now been taken these are tremendous ad-
vantages. It would have been extraordinary if, pos-
sessing them, the Germans had done less than what
they have done. Only something of a miracle pre-
vented them from doing considerably more. What-
ever apology may eventually be made out for the King
of the Belgians, the facts that nothing can shake are
that he did call on the Allies to go to his aid, and
when they had responded, and their armies had made
a forced march into what was virtually a trap, he sued
for peace. That he may have given three days’ notice
—as the American Ambassador to Belgium has put
forward in his defence —could have made no differ-
ence : the troops were there ; they had to be got out.
Nothing but their own splendid fighting quality, with
the extraordinary evacuation from Dunkirk to cap it
off, averted the loss —probably the slaughter—of some
335,000 British and French troops. As it was, they
lost some 30,000 killed, wounded and missing, as
well as guns and equipment which it has since cost
Britain desperate extra efforts to replace.
This sort of assistance —fortuitous and otherwise
—the Germans have had since the beginning. Their
advantages added up, and to them added their natural
genius—which includes their utter ruthlessness —in
war, and the disinclination, born of various causes,
among other people to prepare against them or to meet
and fight them with their own methods and accord-
ing to their own rules —everything taken into account,
the Germans should be somewhere about where they
are. With John Bull driven into his corner by the
defeat or defection of his allies, they now face some-
thing different. August 15 past and nothing accom-
plished, save a measure of bloodshed and destruction
for which they have paid dearly in men and machines,
they probably know it. But if conquest has clouded
their thinking, and if that or desperation now leads
them on to attempt invasion, the last and bloodiest
pages of Hitler’s final chapter will soon be written.
The Pity of It!
Since death came to 18 Australians in the Kyeema
crash of October, 1938, the Commonwealth has been
reasonably free from civil-aviation accidents. It has.
been a different story with military ’planes under war
conditions. In this respect all the belligerent countries
have suffered. Witness the smash in which Balbo, the
Governor-General of Libya, his nephew, the director
of an Italian newspaper, the secretary of the
Fascists in Tripoli and five others lost their lives. And
in Tanganyika a few days later 12 British Colonial
officials and others were hurled to death.
On August 1, two R.A.A.F. men, Hopwood and
Monterola, were killed in the Blue Mountains in a
training machine. On August 8, two more, Smales
and Alderson, plunged to destruction near Narromine
(N.S.W.). On August 12, a twin-engined R.A.A.F.
’plane put out from Brisbane on sea reconnaissance
with six men aboard —Matthews, Beeston, Downs,
Starr, O’Gorman and Savage. It was not afterwards
heard of ; machine and crew have been abandoned as
lost.
The culmination of this series of tragedies came
on August 13 when a large official party set out to
fly from Melbourne to Canberra, also in a twin-engined
R.A.A.F. ’plane. It was piloted by a son of Bobby
Hitchcock, who, with Keith Anderson, was lost 11
years ago when their Kookaburra came down, in the
Murrinji desert during the search for Kingsford Smith
and Ulm; the other members of the crew were
Wiesener, Palmer and Crosdale. Gallant Australians
all, and for passengers they had a body of Australians
who had served Australia with distinction in war and
peace —Lieut.-General Brudenell White, Chief of the
General Staff ; Geoffrey Street, Minister for the Army ;
J. V. Fairbairn, Minister for Air and Civil Aviation ;
Henry Gullett, Vice-President of the Executive Coun-
cil ; and Lieut.-Colonel Thornthwaite. There was also
R. E. Elford, Mr. Fairbairn’s private secretary, a
young civil servant of high promise.
The machine left Melbourne at 8.30 a.m. It made
a normal flight to Canberra and began to approach
the aerodrome for landing in the ordinary way. Its
engines were throttled, its flaps let down. Suddenly
it turned away. The only observers who saw it noted
that the left wing was dipping dangerously. Then it
apparently went into a stall and came down on a flat
space on a low hill between two trees, as if the pilot
had attempted to pancake it. It struck a log or stump
either when or immediately after it reached the ground,
and burst into flames.
All on board perished. Rescue was impossible,
and could not even be attempted. All that could be
done was to lift the bodies from the wreckage, which
consisted of little more than the tail unit and part of
the wings and nose. Inquiries were set in motion, but
it will be difficult to determine the exact cause in view
of the almost complete destruction of every salient
part of the machine.
For a loss so sudden and so overwhelming there
is no counterpart in Australian history. To the Army,
the Air Force, the Government and the people it came
with the shock of a battle in which hono’red leaders
had fallen. Messages of sympathy arrived from the
King, from the British Parliament, from all parts of
the Empire. The Commonwealth Parliament ad-
journed in sorrow for the funerals, deeply impressive
ceremonies in which the whole nation joined in spirit
with those who rendered the last offices to the fallen.
The Australians who died in all these accidents
were as much on active service as if they had been
actually facing the enemy. General White had given up
his commercial interests to devote himself to ceaseless
military organisation and to bear uncomplainingly a
strain which was heavy for a man 64 years old, still
suffering from the physical effects of the last war.
Mr. Gullett was carrying on under ffie burden of con-
tinual ill-health. The younger men, including both
service Ministers, were looking forward to joining the
fighting forces in the front line. Australia will not
forget these men when other Australians, fired by the
examples they set and inspired by the same love of
Australia and the same devotion to the cause for
which they gave their lives, finish the work they
began so well.
Shanghai.
It is difficult for Australians to visualise the situation
which has grown up in Shanghai.
If one can imagine half Melbourne as having been
built by aliens who reserved to themselves all their
national rights between Flinders-street and Fitzroy but
were in a foreign country outside those boundaries
one would have something of an analogy. But to
complete it the aliens would have to be in a tremen-
dous minority, both inside and outside their own
domain, and, being dependent on the goodwill of the
Australians who crisscrossed their boundaries in every
direction, they would be obliged to provide harbor-
age for every criminal and every political refugee from
the rest of the country. And floating in the Yarra
there would be a fleet composed of warships from
half a dozen different countries, with the admiral who
happened to be senior in age in command ; and there
would be a militia of Americans, Frenchmen, ..Ger-
mans, Russians, Italians, Japanese, Chinese, Sikha"and
Tommies to keep up some appearance of order in the
polyglot confusion.
In some places the boundaries of the Shanghai
settlement pass through the houses of European resi-
dents, and the ubiquitous Chinese pour back and forth
over the frontiers night and day incessantly. Almost
every happening in Shanghai, from the gunning of a
Chinese magnate to the imposition of a dog tax, has a
commercial motive behind it, or a background of
political intrigue to complicate it. Oriental refine-
ments are sometimes added, as when a Chinese banker
was kidnapped and returned in larger and larger sec-
tions to his relatives, as a method of persuading them
to pay the ransom demanded.
On January 27, 1937, a Japanese squadron drew
up alongside the Bund at Chapei, the great industrial
suburb outside the settlement. After some serio-comic
diplomatic exchanges, an ultimatum was dispatched to
the Chinese Government; then the heavens opened
and rained shells and aerial bombs on the human ant-
heap for three weeks. In countering the attack the
bewildered Chinese airmen dropped more bombs on
their own compatriots and the International Settle-
ment than on their assailants. The tale of ruin in-
cluded the famous Commercial Press and 127 other
schools, colleges and universities, the Japanese ex-
planation of what the Chinese regarded as a crusade
against culture being that these institutions had been
used to poison the minds of Chinamen against Japan.
Thousands of civilians perished and hundreds van-
ished. Chapei, which contained some of the most
modern cotton factories and silk filatures in the Orient,
was reduced almost to a heap of rubble.
But, in spite of its schools and colleges, Chapei
before the outbreak of hostilities was an industrial
slum which neither an intelligent Chinaman nor a
sensible European could contemplate without a feel-
ing of revulsion and of responsibility. Here were
daily to be seen processions of barrow coolies trund-
ling Chinese girls, a dozen to a barrow, to the fac-
tories. Having the crumpled feet of the traditional
national ideal of beauty, the girls could not walk
from their hovels, sampans and lodging houses and
be on time, though they could stand at a weaving
machine and tend shuttles just as well as their Euro-
pean sisters. They stood there for 10 to 14 hours a
day, seven days a week, for threepence or four-
pence a day, and were glad to get it. If they
felt the pangs of childbirth they could retire to a
vacant allotment. Their employers had no cause to
fear that the supply of labor might not be able to
withstand these primitive conditions, for they had
a nation of 450,000,000 to draw on. Although im-
provements were being made by some European
employers, they were so gradual as to be almost
imperceptible, and a flood, a famine or a pestilence
in China proper was always liable to give the humani-
tarians a setback for a decade.
The Japanese were ruthless in destroying Chapei,
but Chapei had been equally ruthless in destroying the
ancient economy of China. The cheap goods it pro-
duced supplanted home industries in tens of thousands
of villages, and the destitute families had no option
but to send their sons and daughters to Shanghai fac-
tories. This vicious circle brought about the Chinese
Revolution, the 20 years of civil war and banditry,
the growth of Communism and the increasing in-
debtedness of the Government to foreign finance.
Its logical conclusion was the undeclared war with
Japan, which had been smouldering and flaring up
periodically ever since the dethronement of the
Manchus. ,.
Now the British soldier is stepping out of this
strange picture, and, after a dispute which has been
“amicably settled,” Americans and Japanese are step-
ping into the vacant place. If American idealism is
to do anything with the chaos it will have to he
better informed about Shanghai than it appears o
be at present. Australia is not involved in this gam
of picture-making in China, and, if Australians ar
wise, it never will be.
Feng-Shui.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
For Tokyo.
At long, last ail exchange of Ministers has been
arranged by Canberra and Tokyo. The Australian
representative is to be Chief Justice Latham, who has
received leave of absence from the High Court for
an indefinite period. Because of his qualities of mind
and heart, his distinguished position, his knowledge of
Japan and the respect in which he is held by the
Japanese people, no better choice could have been
made. His mission will recall the Japanese lugger
cases, in which heavy damages were awarded by an
Australian Court against the agents of the Common-
wealth Government, who had exceeded their powers,
and which made a profound impression in Japan. It
may be that in neutral countries and certain imperial
possessions British justice is doing more for Britain
than even the might of British arms, and as an
impersonation of Australian justice, which Japan has
such cause to admire, the C.J. is likely to command
more attention than any politician could inspire.
But it is to be hoped that he will not be shackled
by instructions. It was given out from national sta-
tions that “an important Government announcement”
would be made by the Prime Minister at 7 p.m. on
Sunday, but when the time came some other gentle-
man, presumably an A.B.C. employee, did the
announcing. Then Mr. McEwen came on the air with
some “Follow Britain” stuff delivered in his earnest
prize-pupil style. It is not in the nature of John Greig
Latham to do anything detrimental to British interests.
But he will go to Tokyo as the special representative
of Australian interests at a time when Australia should
manifestly take its share of responsibility for foreign
policy. As far as the Pacific is concerned, the great-
est of these interests is the preservation of peace. The
Chief Justice can be trusted to do his utmost to pre-
serve it, and he will get along all the better without
the banalities and inanities of Mr. McEwen.
Another Stevens Stunt.
“The big newspapers of Australia,” which “demanded
that Mr. Gullett be sacked, and then jumped in a
body on the gentleman they had nominated as his
successor, have been at it again, working up another
Stevens stunt.
The last time they went stunting with Mr. Stevens
was in October, 1938. Their hero was then Premier
and Treasurer of N.S.W. With surprising unanimity
and vehemence they suddenly discovered that the
dual post was unworthy of him, and that he was
about to make a change, of which they thoroughly
approved. He was to “enter Federal politics” and
straightway become Treasurer or Minister of
Defence. Indeed, a still higher position was reserved
for him, it being “no secret that the last few strenuous
years have taken toll of Mr. Lyons’s strength.”
Roget’s Thesaurus was ransacked for expres-
sions suited to the surpassing merits of Mr. Stevens.
A Melbourne daily rapturously described him as “a
great Parliamentarian, a consummate judge of public
opinion and a master at framing a popular policy.”
Intensely gratified, Mr. Stevens hastened to Mel-
bourne, “to see Mr. Dunstan” it was announced, and
doubtless to set the Yarra on fire. That sober stream
declining to burst into flames, he made his way to
Canberra, which was also singularly unresponsive.
Mr. Lyons stubbornly refused to efface himself.
Neither did any member of his Ministry offer to
make way for “a great Parliamentarian, a consum-
mate judge of public opinion and a master at framing
a popular policy.” Several private members had been
mentioned as willing to stand down for Mr. Stevens ;
all testily declared that “the big newspapers of Aus-
tralia” had done them wrong. Sadly the wanderer
returned to Sydney, and “the big newspapers of Aus-
tralia” turned to another stunt.
Mr. Stevens had meanwhile brought in the Budget
—his last and worst. He predicted a surplus of just on
£7700, and on the strength of the surplus he raised the
salaries of all the Ministers and Assembly members
{they got another £205 p.a.) and officers of both
Houses, dating the increases back to July 1. Then
he divested himself of the Treasurership, becoming a
Premier without portfolio, and waited for the surplus
to materialise. Instead, expenditure exceeded income
at such a rate that he lost his head and started rushing
in all directions for temporary accommodation. He
induced the Loan Council to finance a deficit of
£1,700,000, and then went to Canberra for another
£1,100,000. He borrowed £1,000,000 from the State
Superannuation Board. But at the end of the financial
year he had to admit that; exclusive of the Super-
annuation Board’s million and “ordinary” loan ex-
penditure, reckoned at £9,200,000, there was a loss
of £2,750,000 {i.e., at least £3,750,000) on the trans-
actions that were to have produced a surplus of £7700.
That/settled Mr. Stevens with the N.S.W. public.
Four months later his Government was defeated on
the motion of om of his own Ministers, who made
Stevens finance the basis of his attack, using such
terms as “cowardice,” “trickery,” “misrepresentation,”
“fake” ; and out went Mr. Stevens. Forthwith a
demand was served on the taxpayers for another
£4,000,000, though they were told that things were
in so bad a shape that even another £4,000,000 would
not suffice to balance the Budget. The taxpayers
cursed Stevens finance and paid, only to be told at
the end of the year there had been another loss of
£2,213,000. They had previously been informed by
the Auditor-General that the 1938-39 loss, exclusive
of the Superannuation Board’s million, was £2,895,200,
bringing the accumulated deficiency to £33,539,100,
against which £9,455,600 had been contributed to the
national-debt sinking fund.
In the meantime Mr. Stevens bobbed up now and
then with letters and speeches demanding “vigorous
drives” for this and that, a “bold Commonwealth
Bank policy” and what not. A public testimonial was
suggested by some of his friends, and it was alleged to
be a reproach to Australia that such a man should
be left in the humble position of a private member.
Mr. Stevens was even painfully delivered of a book.
Popular reactions to these manoeuvres were a blend
of scorn and chilling indifference.
Nevertheless, Mr. Stevens and his friends cling
to the belief that the nation will never be happy until
he is directing its destinies. He “dramatically” resigned
his Assembly seat to stand for an unspecified Com-
monwealth electorate, and “the big newspapers of
Australia” started puffing him as outrageously as they
did in 1938. One came out with a column of mush
about his “vision and ability,” his “intellectual
calibre,” his “courage, energy, earnestness,” and so
on. Another had the face to declare that “his proven
ability, particularly as regards finance, must earn him
a place in whatever Cabinet is formed.”
If the Menzies Government is returned Mr. Stevens
will probably become Treasurer and another portfolio
or an overseas appointment found for the present
Treasurer, Mr. Spender.
There was more of this rubbish when death struck
down three Commonwealth Ministers. The same
paper asserted that “Mr. Menzies may co-opt Mr.
Stevens for the Cabinet as a private individual, or Mr.
Stevens may be offered a Victorian seat.” For Mr.
Stevens had made another pilgrimage to Melbourne,
summoned there, it was alleged, by “a telegram frorri
the Prime Minister.” He saw the P.M., but that gentle-
man was reported to have said that “he had not sum-
moned Mr. Stevens; the interview had been sought
by Mr. Stevens.” The Stevens version, given to the
press after his return to Sydney, was that “the inter-
view was the result of a telephoned invitation from
Mr. Menzies asking me to see him at Canberra ; that
arrangement was changed to Melbourne by the Prime
Minister's secretary.” Anyway, there was no “co-
opting,” nor any offer of a Victorian seat.
When last sighted, Mr. Stevens, unaccompanied
by reporters, was mopping a fevered brow in the
vicinity of U.A.P. headquarters, Sydney. “The big
newspapers of Australia” have been singularly un-
fortunate in their stunts, particularly Stevens stunts.
O Genevieve!
Madame Genevieve Tabouis, “the famous political
commentator,” has cast up in New York, as full of
prophecy as ever. Even in that city of soothsayers—
home address of equally “famous” American “foreign
correspondents” whose stories have kept the world
agape for years—Madame should find a niche.
Cables, which for some time had dropped her
name from their opening sentences —unaccountably,
considering the extraordinary nature of her sources of
information, the information itself and its affinity to
prevailing standards—have again taken to serving up
her forecasts.
Late in June cables served Madame up as fore-
casting July 2 as the date for the attempted invasion
of England. Madame then declared that “Hitler
believes the war against England should be success-
fully terminated by the end of July.”
At the end of January the lady had written:
I can now reveal Hitler’s war plans for 1940. They
were drawn up after a minute analysis of special reports
on every aspect of the situation. Hitler laid down this
basic principle: there can be no question of finishing
the war by a great offensive against the Allies in the
present year. He is convinced that he cannot now
succeed in shaking the morale of the Allies by a few
local successes, which are all that can be expected in
1940. Reserves this year would still be totally inade-
quate for a big offensive in the West. All the Nazi
plans concerning the Maginot Line, Switzerland, Belgium,
Holland, the Scandinavian countries and the Balkans,
are known to the Allies, and measures have been taken
to foil them.
Therefore, Madame’s guess was “the spring of
1941.” As recently as March 31 Madame was saying:
Hitler has decided to suspend, for the moment, all
projects for military offensives, either in the West or
the Balkans, but to give a new impulse to the war on
sea and in the air so as not to give the German people
the impression of immobility.
A chief obstacle was “the attitude of Rome,”
Hitler having been for some considerable time “so
worried about the strength of anti-Axis influence in
Italy that he is seriously considering a fantastic plan
for forcing the Pope to seek refuge outside the
country.”
Madame now predicts that the French will revolt
and that “England will never capitulate to the Nazis.”
On one point she should be right— at last.
Cities "Full of Pride."
“Countryman” lets himself go:
About the time the British became empire-minded some of
their wandering seamen landed on shores that had repelled
Portuguese, Dutch and Spaniard. Presently common men
were being sent out to the new land to serve sentences.
This stage passed rapidly. There were bold spirits seeking
escape from aristocratic privilege, monopoly, persecution;
there was grazing country to be had for the taking; there was
gold; there was opportunity. Just when the Old World was
giving up farming and taking to the factory, a vast new
pastoral community sprang up in the South Seas.
But instead of going on to make a new story, the inhabi-
tants of the new country took the wrong turning. Just as
in the days of Sumer and Akkadia, the later times of Egypt
and Greece, there was a herding into cities. Two, Melbourne
and Sydney, developed feverishly, called each other names,
refused to allow their racehorses to gallop the same way,
put up customs-houses along the Murray and sneered at
each other’s pretensions to beauty and culture. Now and
then they talked war. Meantime the vast country they were
dominating halted its onward march.
Patriots who could see beyond the city gates sought
political union, and Federation was the first step. But the
cities fought off all attempts to reduce their power. They legis-
lated to make themselves the centre of distribution; they
monopolised the sea trade and saw to it that all transport
systems converged upon their market-places; they elected poli-
ticians pledged to place city interests first. Even education
was based on a system that would inevitably draw to them the
brainiest and most capable.
Inevitably the two powerful cities reached the point where
neither was prepared to yield the right of being the nation’s
political capital. Out of this bickering was born Canberra, a
cross between a national joke and a tourist resort; avoided
by politicians, hated by civil servants, a hotbed of privilege
and snobbery, the seat of the national Parliament in a spot
inaccessible to the majority of the people who pay for it.
Involved in the second European war in 25 years, the
cities’ old hatred of each other is awake again.
It happened that Melbourne had a proportion of its
citizens in the national Government. Inevitably the nation’s
war effort became centred in that city. Twelve definite war
departments and practically every war-created department are
in Melbourne.
Sydney frothed at the mouth, its newspapers thundered
for revolt or secession or something, its politicians, always
quick to seize on the popular cry, became vociferous.
Yet, so far as straightout war departments are concerned,
anybody able to distinguish between a dairy bull and a
window-shutter must realise that you can’t have them scat-
tered all over the place. Not that Sydney wants that, not
on your life. What Sydney wants is all the departments con-
centrated in Sydney; its rageful branding of the thing as
another injustice to Canberra is just eyewash.
“We don’t want to revive the old parish-pump jealousies
between Sydney and Melbourne. There is a broader national
issue involved—Cabinet’s unwarranted desertion of the Federal
Capital.” Thus a Sydney morning daily. And in the next
breath: “Melbourne has many notable defects as a war-time
capital. Sydney is Australia’s chief naval base and is the
logical base for the Naval Beard.”
On the same reasoning the Minister for the Navy, who
comes from Mt. Barker, South Australia, sh’ould give up his
job to a Sydneysider, or move • the Naval Board to Mt.
Barker. Meantime, the eager young towns beyond the city
gates continue to be drained of their wealth and their best
men, and the population draws ever away from the inland
towards Sydney and Melbourne.
Australia, God help it, has reverted to the time when
Athens was thumbing its nose at Sparta.
Hitler's Fault!
N.S.W. road deaths for May and June totalled 109,
increases of 34.8 and 6.8 per cent, on 1939 figures. The
Minister for Transport, who ought to have more sense,
had the face to assert that “nerve strain and excite-
ment, due to the increasing tempo of the war,” were
responsible. On that assumption, the figures for
August should be appalling.
Mr. Bruxner’s explanation collapses in view of the
fact that accidents for the half-year ended June de-
creased 9.3 per cent. The May-June increase was in
mortality alone.
It is hard to account for fluctuating figures in such
things, and nobody with any experience of road traffic
should attempt it. This is one aspect of modern life
in which such figuring should be confined to state-
ments, not comparisons. Do the traffic authorities
expect the accident rate to remain stable round a fixed
basis each month?
Mr. Bruxner would have been on safer ground
had he suggested that the war and a consequent re-
duction in the rate of old cars passing off the roads
were partly responsible because they added to the
number of unsafe vehicles in commission.
Insufficient attention has been paid to the week-
end driver—male and female —who issues forth once a
week and takes the road with a slight knowledge of
rules and with little roadsense. All experienced motor-
ists admit that week-end driving among the newchums
and the old rattletraps used for the occasion is their
most nerve-racking period. There are more dashing
across intersections or out of side streets, cutting in,
hesitancy, sudden stops and starts and traffic jams be-
tween any midday Saturday and midnight Sunday in
the metropolitan area than for the rest of the month.
Pedestrians, too, are more numerous and more
foolhardy at week-ends, and it is at this period that
the roads are alive with pedal- and motor-cyclists—a
class not noted for obedience to rules or roadsense.
Whatever the real cause of the increase, to blame
the enemy for it suggests that nothing is too inane for
the Sydney Government when it goes looking for
explanations of its failures to deliver the goods.
A Herring and a Half?
“Peter” pleads for his trade:
Australian fishermen are going to be up against it very
soon. Any of the diversely proposed restrictions on petrol,
power kerosene and/or Diesel fuel will finish practicable
access to productive outer grounds in most States. Increased
costs ’"since the petrol tax—originally for roadbuilding—
jumped from 7d. to lid. have already hit the trade hard.
To any landsman’s suggestion that fishing boats can always
go back to sail, the first answer from the men who trust their
lives to them is that most fishing craft today are not built
to carry useful sail areas with even reasonable safety. The
next is that prices of cotton canvas have jumped 125 per cent,
since September, and prices of rope and cordage over 50
per cent. Flax canvas for heavy-weather sails and hard wear
generally is practically off the market. A Split mains’l 10
miles offshore in a gathering southerly is a totally different
proposition from a punctured tyre on land.
But, supposing fishermen did get back to sail, there
are some other details affecting the tools they use. The
bait-men have been hit up for nets and netcord anywhere
up to 100 per cent, and bait prices have risen accordingly—
so have gear-costs to netmen who catch the market’s mullet,
sea-bream, sea-salmon and other netted fish supplies. Nor-
wegian tinned hooks are no longer procurable, and most other
kinds cost about double their price.
To help the industry—or something—the Customs fixed
a quota for heavy Japanese gut lines —essential equipment iat
really marketable catches of Spanish mackerel —which put
them out of reach of the average fisherman both in price and
supply. They are made only in Japan—the Spanish article is
too light. The old-style linen lines require nearly double the
time at sea, with corresponding extra tucker, fuel and the
rest, to take an equivalent weight of fish, even if some of
them do happen to be Australian-made.
A year or two ago the C.S. and 1.R., with the blessing
of Senator MqLachlan, was telling us that the Australian
fishing industry should be able to maintain 50,000 men and
.to produce at the rate of £20,000,000 a year. Most of us
would be glad if we could be really sure of even last
year’s bare living. The rest of the 8000-odd “Australian”
fishermen who average £2 10s. per week per head would be
quite cheered up by a cut at the £20,000,000, lots of them
brought up by Greek, Italian or other foreign boyhoods to
be inured to a wage and living standard that no Australian
would endure.
But the imported tinned article seems to be the only
kind of fish which Canberra recognises. After all, it is a
useful article wherewith to bargain with Canada, the U.S.A.
and Japan. And in Canberric terms the entire fishybloke
vote wouldn’t amount to a single seat even if it were organised,
which it isn’t and can’t be.
The C.S. and I.R. and Senator McLachlan were entirely
right. Australia is within easy industrial and practical reach
of the world’s greatest remaining sea-harvest. The catch is the
three-mile limit dividing territorial from extra-territorial
limits. Canberra hides outside it, the States hide within, and
the offshore fisherman takes his dose unhelped by either, and
preyed upon by both.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“One Rock”: Sydney’s Lud Mayor
Crick, accompanied by a military band
and the full panoply of an evacuees’ re-
ception committee, went down to a wharf
the other night to extend, “on behalf of
the citizens of this great city” and so
forth, an official welcome to a boatload
of women and children from Hong Kong.
The Mayor chatted with members of the
crowd, thoughtfully running over his
speech in his mind, and the band stood
by, licking its lips and ready to blow
the innards out of its weapons. Time
passed. Still stood the Mayor and his
cohorts. Out in the harbor a ship’s lights
gilded the water. It was dark on the
wharf and darned cold. Still stood the
Mayor, etc. More time passed. Out in
the harbor, etc. Still stood the Mayor,
etc., while time, etc. Finally the
Mayor retreated and his committee
went home, the military band retired to
its lair, and the wharf was deserted save
for the lone, faithful figure of the Under-
secretary of the Department for Labor
and Industry. He stood firm till the ship
berthed at last, hours late, and chat-
tering refugees peered all round him for
the reception committee they had been
led to expect. As Tennyson remarked of
a previous occasion, “Someone had
blundered.”
* *
“Pinter”: Queensland’s Minister for
Home Affairs E. M. Hanlon got under
the skin of Sydney “Sun” when he de-
clared that the man in the street wasn’t
getting authentic war news, and was being
deceived by “columns of boloney” and
a “news service jammed in between syn-
dicated stories and censorship.” The
“Sun” wrote a leader in refutation, charg-
ing Mr. Hanlon with dense ignorance, in
its issue of ,13/8/’4O. Right alongside
the leader was a syndicated article from
the American Siamese-twin columnists
Alsop and Kintner, exactly one month
old.
* * * *
“D.E.”: I admire the stern fidelity
with which Fairfax traditions have been
preserved in “S. M- Herald” court reports.
There has been sad backsliding in other
parts of the old paper, but the court
reports have never weakened. The
wimmen’s supplement has published roods
of photographs of fashionables dining
and dancing at a so-called club in Mac-
quarie-street. On the evidence of a Sun-
day paper, even a descendant of John, the
founder of the dynasty, has been seen
toying with a chicken there. No matter ;
every time the joint has trouble with the
police a “Herald” court reporter is on
hand with his trusty fountain-pen and
what the boss of the “club” would no
doubt describe as a dirty look. And
next morning a delighted public has a
full and particular account of the pro-
ceedings, with appropriate headlines, in
which the fact that it is a Sly-grog Case
is emphasised, and accused is unromanti-
cally described as “the proprietor of a
restaurant.” And there is always some
reference to the leading witness for the
prosecution (generally a policeman) hav-
ing been charged siege prices for the
Sly-grog —in the latest case “£2 for a
bottle of champagne and 3s. for a bottle
of beer.” Good old court reporter!
* * H= * i
“Rosa”: “C.B.’s” story of Melba and
the sewing-machine (B. 24/7/’4O) re-
calls student memories of Melba’s
vigorous habit of moving things and
people into action. At the Con.
on bitter cold mornings, when we
huddled in a frozen mass at lectures,
unable to think of anything save numbed
hands and feet, she would blow in, take
a look around, call a halt to lessons,
switch on the gramophone and set us
dancing our blood back into circulation.
She usually picked up a partner from
among the girls and set the dance moving.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Australia should be
tolerant of complaints from women who
have been evacuated from Hong Kong.
Unless they have exceptional qualities of
independence, white men and white
women equally are almost certain to have
their outlook distorted by even a few
years’ living in cheap-labor countries. In
the first place, they bring with them a
conception of racial superiority. In the
country of their adoption they meet only
coolies and servants, and misinterpret the
natives’ deference, which has a sound
pecuniary basis. Everything tends to
confirm their European prejudices.
Almost everything in Australia will tend
to violate precisely the same prejudices.
The only Englishwomen I ever met in
“the East” who did not expect to be
treated like helpless queen bees were the
sturdy wives of some horny-handed
Cornish miners who had been ap-
pointed as overseers of a coalmine
worked by Chinese labor in Borneo.
They insisted on doing their own cook-
“Dan, you oughter be in the War Inventions orfice.”
ing, and I can testify to the fact that it
was five times as good as the cooking the
English ladies suffered from at the hands
of natives. But their Chinese servants
were horrified at such behavior.
* * * *
“Perry”: An old friend called in the
other day to have a word with the boss.
Oswald, licking stamps near by, caught
most of the conversation, which was of
the reminiscent type. “Saw your old
home the other day, Bill,” quoth the
caller. “Nothing left standing but the
chimneys. The orchard’s still there, and
the old medlar tree —you remember those
medlars? —had loads of fruit on it.” The
boss became sentimental. “Ah! the old
medlar-tree. Nobody grows medlars
nowadays. I’d give a guinea for a dozen
of them. They’re things you never see
in Sydney.” Two mornings later Oswald,
wearing an air of suppressed triumph and
carrying a bulging paper bag, knocked at
the door of the sanctuary. “Please, sir,”
he announced, “here’s some medlars for
you.” The boss, slightly overcome, ex-
pressed his gratitude for the “rotten ere
’tis ripe” provender, while Oswald stood
by expectantly. A hush fell, and the boss
awoke to the fact that Oswald wasn’t
standing by for nothing. “Ah,” he said
sourly, “I suppose you want me to pay
for these.” ’Twas then Oswald achieved
greatness. “No, sir,” he said with dig-
nity. “I’d like the bag back. I’m saving
paper for the Lord Mayor.”
* * * *
“Dhas”: If Supply Minister Stewart
wants to ration petrol or doesn’t want to
ration petrol, I shall still sleep sound o’
nights. But if Supply Minister Stewart
continues to use dae word “irrevocable,” I
shall tell Hitler’s publishers to sue him
for breach of copyright. According to
“S. M. Herald,” Stewart said of his petrol
stunt, “The Government’s decision is
irrevocable.” I don’t for a moment suspect
the hon. gent, of dictatorial tendencies,
but that word is peculiarly the Fiihrer’s ;
that was the whole trouble with him —
every time he made up his mind to grab
another slice of Europe h Cj said his deci-
sion was irrevocable and civilised dis-
cussion was impossible. Its the essence
of a democratic Government that its
decisions aren t and can t be irrevo-
Cab C ' * „. * *
“Colbun”: The British Home” Secre-
tary’s refusal to release Oswald Mosley
from internment recalls how one of his
most spectacular Fascist rallies was
spoiled by a low person of alcoholic
habit and frowsy exterior. To muted
music there moved down the darkened
stage the spotlit figure of the Leader,
clothed in close-fitting black fencing cos-
tume, a silver-hilted sword at his side.
Swiftly he swung his right hand aloft in
a dignified salute, the carefully-drilled
applause broke out, ceased at the correct
psychological moment and awaited the
descent of the uplifted white hand which
would prelude the winged words of vie-
tory. Then a coarse, beer-sodden voice
from the back of the hall cruelled the
whole show by remarking in condescend-
ing tones: “Yes, Oswald, you may leave
the room.” And now Oswald may not.
* * * *
“Lachie McHimmler”: I carelessly
mentioned to Angus McParritch, our
corner pub’s sole haggis-fancier, that the
Nazi Bren-fodder was being given mass
instruction in the use of bagpipes for
use when, in captured Scottish uniforms,
it lands in Britain. “Weel,” he said as he
shifted the blade of his penknife down
to the last quarter-inch of his cigarette,
“it might trick a Sassenach, ye ken, wha
ainly speers a Scot’s sporran an’ glen-
garry. But cud ye imagine a Jerry
war-r-rkin doon Sauchiehall-street, Gles-
ga’, an’ gettin’ mooer than seex yar-rds
wi’oot someone speerin’ his knees?
There’s anither test that cudna’ fail. After
the parachutin’ starts every Scot in uni-
form should be gi’en twa feengers o’
mountain dew. All they’d need to do
then wad be tae arrest every mon who
gasped an’ whose ees blinkit! ” It’s a sug-
gestion that’s sure to meet wi’ the en-
thusiastic approval of Highlander and
Lowlander alike.
* * * *
“Audio”: I wonder when these cul-
tured blokes who do the announcing
on A.B.C. are going to stop murdering
Australian place-names. A good Aus-
tralian may snort with derision, but still
he can forgive repeated mispronuncia-
tion of such names as Meekatharra,
Temora, Ariah Park and so on, but when
it comes to Bath-hurst, with the emphasis
on the last syllable, as happened in a
broadcast of the A.I.F. route march, it’s
hard to determine whose “culture” is the
worse, ours or the Fritzes’. .
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Surely “Oxmead” is too par-
ticular (B. 17/7/’4O) when he claims that
“a faithful ally” (rhyming with die) is
“the correct pronunciation of a word
woefully maltreated by the present gen-
eration.” True, he has old custom on
his side. During the last war a London
paper offered prizes for a topical alpha-
bet in verse. An Australian bard who
was there started briskly with
A - s the AllieS) Ws the Bombj
C’s the cloud they drop it, from,
an( j was at once disqualified, on the old
pub lic-school fondness for spotting a
“false quantity.” And yet, why? You
\ m p or t the imports, you contract to do
a con tract, what you refuse is refuse.
wbere one pleases, all around these
combinations of Latin preposition and
verb and the accent is found on the first
syllable for the thing done, on the second
or f die oins \ . Produce, convert,
P er ex P° r > subjec discard, trans-
V or }: Current custom-the present gen-
era ion, in fac must _ decide these
h^ s - IQ Xt 18 a on .§ s,nce n l9l5 ’ aad
I 9 .people in 20 do call friendly
nallom ° ur a/hes-
‘. ‘ '
Ologist : Every man and every
) voma " dl ® ,r P art ln 0- e -> lli e
for Britain). Is that London Daily
Telegraph sentence (B. 7/8/’4O) good
English? There’s a grammatical rule that
decrees that two or more singular nouns
joined by ‘and require a verb in the
plural. But there are two or three excep-
tions to the rule, and one of these is
exemplified in the quoted sentence. Nes-
field’s Aids to the Study and Composi-
tion of English states that if the two
nouns so joined are qualified by a dis-
tributive adjective the yerb is singular,
as in the sentence “Every man and every
woman is gone.” “This,” says Nesfield,
“is really a condensed form of two sen-
tences: ‘Every man (is gone) and every
woman is gone.’ ” Hugo’s How to Avoid
Incorrect English supports the Nesfield
textbook. It corrects the “have” to “has ’
in the sentence “Every book and every
manuscript have been entered in our
catalogue,” and adds the comment: “If
the subject consists of two or more sin-
gular nouns connected by ‘and’ and pre-
ceded by ‘each’ or ‘every,’ the verb is in
the singular.” The “D.T.” sentence would
have read much better and been gram-
matically correct if it had been worded
“Every man and every woman has a part
in it.”
* * * *
“P. Street”: My favorite Sydney book-
seller is fond of decorating his window
with unusual and grin-provoking quips.
His latest, pinned to an ancient volume,
runs: “History of Melbourne, in Derby,
England. There is also a town of that
name in Victoria.”
* * * ?
“Strict Veg.”: There were signs ot
life in Victorian Parliamentary circles
last week. The earnest Rev. Judkins
complained that the attractiveness of
girls was being exploited in the streets
of the metropolis to entice men to
gamble for patriotic purposes. The ever-
gallant Premier Dunstan rushed to the
rescue of the fair by retorting that the
rev. gent, couldn’t have paid the gals a
higher compliment than to say that their
attractions were so potent. If blithering
can win a war Victorian State politicians
won this one months ago.
IN HARNESS.
Serving their land, as many a year ago
Ihey heard the call and stood in arms beside
Men from the ends of Empire, ranged arow
1 o meet the menace of a common foe,
Serving their land they died.
Where bugles sounded and where cannon
roared,
Where aircraft scoured the skies, they stood
the test;
Alike in battle and at council-board,
All tongues will testify, all pens record,
They gave us of their best.
O’er graves they left in France the willows
weep,
In Flanders fields the blood-red poppy thrives.
Now in our midst they sleep the long, last sleep,
These who, for all we have to hold and keep,
As surely gave their lives.
Serving their land they died, by cruel chance!
Untimely perished, yet they leave a name
No tribute, writ or spoken, can enhance,
Graved on our nation’s best inheritance,
The honor-roll of Fame.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“The old man's mad about these early-morning physical jerks!”
“Spokeshave”: An amateur billiardist
in Melbourne thought it would be a nice
idea if he went out to a home for con-
valescing soldiers which used to be a
gubernatorial residence and gave a
demonstration of the finer points of his
game. The soldiers were so pleased that
the secretary asked the amateur to come
again and show them some more trick
cannons. “Well, I’m going into the coun-
try shortly, otherwise I would gladly,”
said the amateur. “But as you’re so in-
terested I’ll give you the address of
Walter Lindrum. Perhaps he could find
time to do it.” The secretary thought it
would be a good notion, called on Lin-
drum and proffered the suggestion. “No-
thing would give me greater pleasure,”
said that worthy. “When would you like
me?” “I’ll fix a date,” said the secre-
tary cordially. “By the way, what exactly
is your standing in the billiard world,
Mr. Lindrum?”
* * * *
“Craiser”: Australian philatelists will
be interested in the report that the world’s
most valuable stamp, a one penny British
Guiana of 1856, has changed hands in
New York for £13,400. It was exhibited
in a glass case at a show in Melbourne
some years since. It cost its previous
owner, Arthur Hind, an American mag-
nate, £12,000 20 years ago. What its
value is to its new possessor, except that
nobody else can have one, since there is
no other, it is difficult to say, but its
arrival in Melbourne created a sensation
among stamp-collectors.
* *
“Pitt-street”: They’re a sensitive lot,
these aldermen. The Sydney City col-
lection, frightened by the howls from
ignorant persons who are indignant that
the Archibald fountain in Hyde Park is
continuing to play while the Sydney
Water Board is .restricting hoses and
talking about a water famine, has de-
cided to cut the fountain off. The foun-
tain wastes no water, as pumps circulate
the same supply through the sprays end-
lessly. Probably it’s all for the best, as
the spectacle of half Sydney cleaning
its teeth and shaving itself at the foun-
tain is likely to be too much for over-
seas visitors when the Water Board really
gets into its stride.
ifc
“Chevroford”: -Victoria’s latest half-
yearly score of 280 killed and 4373 in-
jured in road accidents breaks the pre-
vious highest record. It marks a rise of
20 over the fatalities of the previous six
months and 40 over the six months before
that. Drink or youth was the trouble
with most of the drivers and old age with
most of their pedestrian victims. Chil-
dren still play about the streets, but they
have become car-conscious. The old
people may be just as car-conscious, but
are hampered by lack of agility. There
seems to be only one way in which the
steadily-mounting deathroll can be coun-
tered—by reducing the speed of petrol
vehicles by mechanical means.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Mention
of the mussel gummed to
a piece of board which was
submitted as a work of art
to the Contemporaries’
exhibition in Melbourne
reminds me. During the
period when this type of
“modernism” was in its
heyday in Paris (the
fashion went out long
since) a well-known Vic-
torian artist sojourning in
the French capital went
downstairs to deposit in
his dustbin the relics of the
previous night’s studio
supper. As he approached
the receptacle he observed
a strange, long-haired indi-
vidual burrowing in it and
instantly recognised one of
the leading exhibitors at
the Salon. “What the devil
are you after?” expostu-
lated the astonished Aus-
tralian. “If you’re short of a bit of
food come upstairs and share my break-
fast with me.” The long-haired individual
drew himself up and looked at his ques-
tioner austerely. “I’m not looking for
food,” he said ; “I’m looking for material
for my next picture.” Then his eye fell
on the plate of stale chops the other was
carrying. “Just what I wanted!” he
cried, and snatching them up he wrapped
them in a piece of paper and hurried off
with the light of inspiration in his eyes.
“Nakhoda”: The path of new Messiahs
is strewn with pitfalls in Victoria. James
Frazer, a picturesque figure with a long
beard and flowing hair, turned up in the
Practice Court in Melbourne the other
day to dispute an application from mem-
bers of his church to remove him from
the trusteeship. He claimed that he was
the church and the church could not very
well remove him without removing itself.
It came out that the bank recognises
cheques from the organisation only when
they have two signatures on them —
Frazer’s and another. This snag was one
of the reasons which induced Justice
O’Bryan to dismiss the application on the
ground that Frazer had not shown any
unwillingness to act as trustee;
H» H» H*
“Good-bye Mr. X.”: Getting their man
seems to be the main preoccupation of
the glamorous damsels that troop across
the nation’s talkie screens, but it doesn’t
always work in real life, as a Melbourne
lass found. With all arrangements made
for tying the knot, her intended sud-
denly cooled off and finally stopped call-
ing. Grabbing her mother, she set out
after him to a Western District town in
the best movie style, spotted him and
raised a view halloo. But he jumped
into a car and headed outback. Nothing
daunted, the ladies trailed him to a sheep-
station, but lost him again as he mounted
a trusty steed and galloped off into the
hills. Back in the city the lass sought
£lOOO for breach of promise and got
£375 and costs.
* * * *
“Junior G-Man”: Even the Americans
themselves are waking up to the per-
nicious influence of their colored comics
on the child and the childish mind. The
“Christian Science Monitor” notes that
a crusade against these publications is
getting under way in various parts of
the U.S., and holds that parents have
suddenly discovered the things to be full
of stuff that “makes the old paper-
covered dime novel look highly respec-
table.” The “C.S.M.” quotes circulation
figures that run well over the million
mark, and estimates that £3,000,000 a
year is spent on the trash.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: I don’t want to be
thought either irreverent or disloyal, but
I am getting horribly annoyed with the
people who keep inviting me to march
out into the darkness and grasp the hand
of the Almighty. Even George VI, who
started the business with his last Christ-
mas broadcast, must have regretted his
quotation from Louise Haskins when one
of the London dailies seized on her and
published yards of her appalling verses
under the caption “The Poet the King
Quoted.” The poetess, I admit, rang
the bell all right with the bit the King
used ; but the thing’s rapidly becoming
the most hackneyed quotation in the lan-
guage. Halifax used it in a recent outburst
of dolefulness ; you can buy it framed
and illuminated in Sydney shops ; “The
Botchman” sobbed it over the air ; Holly-
wood, begging us to fight the battle of
the “non-Aryans” in “The Mortal
Storm,” currently showing at Sydney
theatres, has the infernal cheek to use
it for the conclusion of the film. Even
in a war I prefer sunshine, a band play-
ing and the happy roar of a sergeant-
major, and I refuse to go gloomily into
the darkness to please the A.B.C.’s
glamor boy, Louise herself or the non-
combatant warlords of Hollywood.
Hi * * Hi
“Stonker Smith”: by jings i rekkon this
drowt Sydneys having is goodo and the
rest of the kids in our Class say the same
orl, ecksept Cyril Tonkin who parts his
hare in the middle and, skites about the
hot shour he has every morning. Last
nite i am in the dining room after doing
me homey and mum sings out for, me to
put me comics away and cum and have
a bath. She is going lousy about me
nees rekkons she will have to get kereseen
sandsope and the scrubbing brush on to
them to get the dirt off i*ekkons its ground
in and i must of crawled on them all
the way home from skool. Ar these
wimmen must think a man plays bung
rules footy sitting down. I am just going
a bit lousy meself under me, breath of
corse having, to nock off halfway
through a snifter spy yarn, in Crackers
its orl about a navel bloke who tricks
the german airmen gee it is good when
me old man he has been reeding, the
paper, tells mum their rashening water
and she will have to be careful usen it
or she will get find. Rekkons i would
better start haven a bath every second
nite jings I never thought the old man
was such a decent bloke before enyway
i hope it dos not rain for munce it will
do me.
“ They're yours for half a dollar!"
NEW BLOOD.
(With acknowledgments to W. S. Gilbert.)
“The need for infusing new blood into the Federal
Parliament—independent men with experience of
leadership in business life —is widely recognised.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
View not with haunting doubts
Chaps who’ve neglected
Till now with Ins or Outs
To be connected.
New blood involves no shame;
They’ve just as sound a claim
As old ’uns at the game
To be elected.
New blood, new blood,
Should count where votes are polled,
When so much of the old
Is clearly up to mud.
New blood, new blood!
Spare them the bitter woe
Of sharp denials
Who merely ask to show
(If given trials)
That brighter brains you’ll meet
In York or Sussex street
Than back of many effete
Lawmakers’ dials.
New blood, new blood!
Bethink, in taking steps
To nominate your Reps.,
It’s needed, in a flood,
New blood, new blood.
Up with the headsman’s axe
For empty skiters,
For worn-out party hacks
And Bligh-street blighters!
Time they were making way,
These dogs who’ve had their day,
For some more firm array 1
Of sturdy fighters.
New blood, new blood,
Now there’s a war to win,
Must serve for old and thin,
The dinkum for the dud.
New blood, new blood!
N.S.W.
T. THE R


f ■■■■■■ •
m
CRAVENA
item vatiet- Ktetfie,,
alwMfssmocl^^peiff!
10 for 9d 20 for t'6
0
o
E 1867
PREVENT
SORE THRC
POLITICAL POINTS
McLeay and Fadden were tq have been
passengers in the R.A.A.F. ’plane that
crashed at Canberra with Fairbairn,
Gullett, Street, Brudenell White and six
companions. So if they hadn’t made
other arrangements Australia would have
lost five Ministers, as well as the head of
its army, his closest associate, a very
promising young secretary and four
gallant men of its air force. Chances
have to be taken in time of war, but such
a staggering loss of leaders should never
be risked again.
Sydney U.A.P. bosses and the papers
they look to for support have suddenly
become enthusiastic for the “open go.”
In these matters it is never too late to
mend, but conversions for expediency's
sake are apt to make the cynical grin.
And old party hacks whose seats are
threatened are neighing bitterly.
“Why,” wails Sydney “D.T.,” “is this
great State so poorly represented in the
Federal Cabinet?” Before the dreadful
tragedy at Canberra, the Cabinet con-
sisted of five Victorians, five N. S. Welsh-
men, three South Australians, two
Queenslanders and one Westralian. Is
it to be assumed that the “D.T.” is hit-
ting at Hughes, Thorby, Spender, Stewart
amd Nock? Or is “We want Theodore”
to be the election cry?
It was said of some ancient conqueror
—Pyrrhus, perhaps—that the persuasive
eloquence of his Foreign Secretary or the
contemporary equivalent gained more
for him than his victories in the field.
Nobody could say the like of modern
British foreign policy or diplomacy, and
the record of the Secret Service is sin-
fully poor. If the British have had a
hand in stirring up Albanian riots and in
stiffening the back of the Greek
Dictator, there has been a welcome
change for the better in a quarter in
which, for quarter of a century at least,
Britain has been badly served.
Dunstan left the latest Loan Council
meeting complaining, as usual, that
“thrifty States were penalised.” There
are no thrifty States ; but it is true, as
Dunstan says, that the Sydney Govern-
ment gets an undue proportion of easy
money because of its thumping deficits,
which have to be financed out of loans,
and that “the formula” is thus “a
premium on extravagance.” Of this
year’s “allocations,” Sydney is to receive
£5,939,000 and Victoria £2,095,000. And
the more “allocations” the Sydney Gov-
ernment gets the more unemployed it has
-and the more taxes its victims have to
pay.
Present indications are that N.S.W.
unionists will have three Labor parties
to vote for at the elections. The other
side hoped there would be at least four,
but is thankful for small mercies.
“Majority rule must prevail. There is
only one alternative to majority rule,
and that is minority rule, dictatorship
by the few, which history has proved to
lead to wars, knavery, hate and all
manner of injustice and evil.”—Queens-
land Premier Forgan Smith at the Sydney
meeting at which the Reds and Pinks of
the late N.S.W. Labor executive got what
was coming to them. Thereupon Forgan
proceeded to point the moral:
This group in N.S.W. which rejects
Labor’s war and defence policy either de-
sires that there should be no real war and
defence effort at all, or it thinks that war
activity might be postponed till it gets
into power, and that the war should be
fought under conditions it may prescribe.
Said group has “formed another party,”
and is going to tear into Nazis and
Fascists, but not Corns.
Some of Stevens’s friends don’t stick
at trifles like facts when they go log-
rolling on his behalf. It was variously
alleged last week (1) that he was to be
appointed Treasurer in place of Spender
(i he was to be sent overseas or dis-
placed by Parkhill, who isn’t going to
stand); (2) that another portfolio might
be found for him; (3) that he was to
fill one of the vacancies caused by the
tragic ’plane crash, and (4) that Menzies
had summoned him to Melbourne by
“urgent telegram” to (a) offer him “a Vic-
torian seat” and/or ( b ) “co-opt him as
a private individual, as the Prime Minis-
ter can do under the Constitution.”
According to Sydney “D.T.,” Menzies
intimated that “he had not summoned
Mr. Stevens; the interview had been
“The greatest need of the country today is able administrators.”
— Mr. Stevens, announcing his intention of contesting some Federal seat.
“You’ve GOT to. listen to me. Nobody else will!”
sought by Mr. Stevens.” Stevens’s own
statement is he received “a telephoned
invitation from Mr. Menzies to see him
at Canberra,” and that the P.M.’s private
secretary changed the venue to Mel-‘
bourne. Anyway, Menzies is a much
downier bird than the Stevens press took
him for.
Badgered by a Sydney “D.T.” reporter
on the petrol-rationing scheme which
one isn’t clear—Minister Stewart yelled
“I’m sick of chasing furphies! Why
don’t you publish where you get these
reports from?” A good idea. If some
of these dailies were made responsible
for their “official” and “semi-official”
stuff people would get more truth and
less tripe. Heaven knows how much time
Ministers lose answering questions based
on rumors.
The latest about petrol rationing is
that an “amended” scheme may come
into operation on October 1. Still totally-
surrounded by boards, Minister Stewart
heatedly declares that he is “not pre-
pared to slaughter Australian industry to
make an economists’ holiday, nor am I
prepared any longer to be a scapegoat
for theorists, official or unofficial, named
or unnamed.” “And as for the meaning,
it’s what you please.”
The president of the N.S.W. branch
of the League of Nations Union sadly
admits that “the branch is almost bank-
rupt.” In that case, it is better off than
the parent concern, which is not only
bankrupt in every sense of the word but
is without even a home, now that it has
abandoned or been evicted from its gor-
geous palace at Geneva.
The recent juggling of jobs in the Tas-
manian Labor Caucus is expected to help
Grant, Hayes and Hays, the retiring Min-
isterial Senators, in the constituencies;
and they will need all the help they can
get. They are a bit old for strenuous
campaigning, Grant being in the sixties
and his partners in the seventies. Still,
Tasmanians don’t seem to mind Senators
being a bit stricken in years. Darcy is
an older man than any of the Ministerial
trio, and they elected him three years
ago at his first attempt.
Sydney “D.T.” has taken to predicting
every week or so that Spain will come
into the war. Perhaps it will; the swift
collapse of all Britain’s allies has so re-
vived resentments and sharpened appe-
tites that even tenth-rate half-breed re-
publics talk of being heirs to pieces of
the Empire. But it is unsafe for the
“D.T.” to take Moscow as an authority
on Spanish intentions. Moscow has let
it down so often. Didn’t Moscow kid it
into believing that Stalin was the hope
of our side, and, “with the greatest fight-
ing machine the world has ever known,
the Russian Red Army,” would knock
both Germany and Japan rotten?
“Everything possible should be done
to increase our knowledge of the diffi-
culties experienced and the problems
solved by the sturdy pioneers.” So said
Premier Dunstan in reply to a suggestion
that a State Archives Office should be
created at the National Library, Mel-
bourne, with a lot of fresh jobs for civil
servants. There is still room in Vic-
toria for a sturdy pioneer—one who will
abolish the superfluous State Parliament.
He would get a mention in history with
or without an archives office.
As an opponent of Menzies, L. H.
Hollins polled pretty well in Kooyong
(Vic.) at two elections. In fact, at one
stage of the 1937 account he gave Men-
zies some anxious moments, for he was
running second, and his vote and that of
Labor candidate Tom Brennan, of whose
preferences he was sure, nearly equalled
Bob’s. Later boxes put Hollins behind
Brennan, and Menzies beat both on the
first count, with a margin of 1602 in a
poll of 61,778. Labor would be delighted
to see Hollins come out again, but he
got in for Hawthorn at the recent
Assembly election, and it wouldn’t be
fair to Hawthorn, he says, to leave Haw-
thorn with his pledges unfulfilled.
Nature of pledges unspecified. Some-
thing to do with the Egg Board franchise,
perhaps.
' Some N.S.W. Agrarians were hoping
that Bruxner, the Deputy-Premier, would
have a cut at Scully in Gwydir. Wade,
the C.P. member for Barwon, is to stand
instead. Barwon is part of Gwydir, and
Wade’s majorities there have been sub-
stantial, nor is Gwydir normally a Labor
seat. All the same, Scully will take some
shifting.
The Sutherland-Cronulla railway, which
was built to the order of Monro, the local
member, must be eating up heaps of tax-
money already. Anyway, though the line
has been in operation only a few months,
two sidings put in to “accommodate goods
business” are to be closed at the end of
the month, there being no “goods busi-
ness” to accommodate. What the sidings
cost is not stated, but the entire white
elephant was constructed with loan
money. Twenty thousand or so was the
department’s own estimate of the annual
loss on this latest monument to the folly
of State politicians.
Searching for reasons why he should
be provided with a Federal seat and a
portfolio in a composite Ministry—
though he didn’t put it that way—Stevens
found some in the plight of the French.
They, it seems, were short of geniuses
like Stevens, and deficient in the Compo-
site-Ministry spirit; hence conquest and
the advent of “the Nazi puppets of
Vichy.” The truth seems to be that the
Germans have gone very sour on the
alleged “Nazi puppets” because of their
pronounced Royalist tendencies, and of
Laval’s plan for a Catholic bloc com-
posed of French, Italians and Spaniards;
but Stevens knows even less of the French
and French policies than he does of
finance.
“As a matter of grace” Canberra is
paying eight weeks’ salary to 40-odd
journalists engaged for the Sydney “Daily
Mirror,” to which it granted the news-
print import license that was hurriedly
withdrawn. About £4OOO is involved.
Had Canberra known its own mind in
the first place the men would not have
given up good jobs, nor would the people
be compelled to compensate them from
the public purse. Now Canberra is re-
fusing newsprint import licenses to all
projected publications.
Old Petain, broadcasting, gave as
France’s No. 1 problem “the future of
numerous Frenchmen who recently
acquired French nationality.” This is
doubtless causing some hard thinking
among immigrants from Germany, Italy,
Czechoslovakia and Russia, and the
“comrades” who flocked in from Spain
will be wondering whether they wouldn’t
have been safer under Franco’s eye,
which is likely to be more tolerant than
that of a Frenchman looking for someone
to kick.
Melbourne producers of cackle-berries,
through their association, have urged
themselves to oppose the Marketing of
Primary Products Amending Bill, de-
manding that owners of 50 or more
“adult domesticated female fowls” shall
have a vote on the Egg Board constitu-
tion, and that a simple majority of voters
shall suffice to procure abolition of the
board. The fellows must believe in
democracy!


THE ROADMENDER.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also- FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE REVIVAL IN SHARE PRICES.
PROGRESS OF WAR FINANCE.
August Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
YOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL ...
But even with approx. £2O you can
have a stake to-day in 20 leading
Australian industries.
Custodian Trustees for Investors,
Union Insurance Society of Canton,
Ltd.
Informative Free Booklet No. 1 is
yours on request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.0., Sydney.
Telephone: 85294.
PERSONAL ITEMS
General Brudenell White, Chief of the
General Staff, killed in the Canberra air
crash, was recalled to the post when the
Englishman Lieut.-Gen. Squires died sud-
denly a few months ago. White was a
professional soldier from 1899 to 1923,
having joined the Q. Permanent Artillery
at the age of 23. In the 1914-18 war
he was Birdwood’s right-hand man, his
services earning him a bushel of
British and foreign decorations and a
knighthood. In 1923 he became chair-
man of the Commonwealth Public Ser-
vice Board, retiring to join the N.Z. Loan
and Mercantile Agency Co. A first-class
military administrator and every inch a
soldier—in fact, he had a genius for war.
Apart from his administrative achieve-
ments, Minister for Air J. V. Fair-
bairn had a flying record any avia-
tor would be proud of. He was
studying in England in 1914, and
was 19 when he joined the R.A.F. A
daring pilot, he was brought down with
a shattered elbow inside the German
lines; the injury was neglected by the
German doctors, and he had to have 20
operations on it when he got back to
London. Returning to Australia he
bought Mount Elephant station in the
Western District of Victoria, entered poli-
tics and was the first Federal member
to make it a habit to fly to and fro be-
tween Canberra and his electorate. He
flew round Australia in 1935, and in
1936, despite his damaged elbow, navi-
gated a new Dragon Fly machine from
England to Australia. Flying was his
passion till the end of the chapter.
Geoffrey Austin Street, M.C., Minister
for the Army, was an athlete at school, a
soldier, a farmer and a walking encyclo-
paedia of cricket lore. Sydney-born, a
member of a very old Australian family,
he served through the 1914-18 war on
Gallipoli and in France, and came out
as a brigade-major. Latterly he com-
manded the Corangamite Light Horse
with rank of lieut.-col., subsequently get-
ting his step to brigadier. A grazier in
Victoria, he entered the Federal Parlia-
ment in 1934 and became Minister of
the Army last year, after the outbreak
of war. The quality of the man was
shown by the impression he made on
the Opposition. Labor has seldom been
kind to Defence Ministers.
Henry Somer Gullett, dead at 62 in
the air disaster which struck down also
two of his colleagues, was a newspaper
man for many years before he became
M.H.R. for Henty (Vic.) in 1925, going
on to become a Minister under Bruce,
Lyons and Menzies. He wrote the official
history of the A.I.F. campaign in
Palestine, and made a first-class job of it.
Kindly and likeable, he had thousands
of friends.
Flying has brought disaster to the Fair-
bairn family. J. V. Fairbairn’s brother
and sister were killed on May 27, 1935,
when their private ’plane hit telegraph
wires on the Keilor-road, near the Essen-
don ’drome, in Victoria.
Three of the men who met their end
in the Canberra smash were neighbors.
Geoff Street took over the Eildon estate
on Victoria’s western plains when he
married the late Edwin Currie’s daughter.
Lieutenant-Colonel Thornthwaite married
the daughter of the late J. L. Currie, who
owned Larra estate. The two stations
converge on J. V. Fairbairn’s property.
The three often used to drop in on one
another.
“C. 8.”: Dick Elford, one of the ten
killed at Canberra, was a clever, attract
tive young Englishman who came out
to Australia in his boyhood. His father,
A. S. Elford, now deputy-chairman of
the Steamship Owners’ Association, was
in the British Ministry of Shipping in
1914-18. After passing through Geelong
Grammar the son joined the “Argus”
staff. He was contemplating going to
Hong Kong when J. V. Fairbairn offered
him a seat in the ’plane which the late
Air Minister took on an experimental
survey flight to New Guinea. This paved
the way to his secretaryship to the
Minister, a job he found much more to
his liking. His hobby was motor-racing.
He leaves a wife and two daughters.
By possibly more than a coincidence,
Uncle Sam’s new Consul-General in Aus-
tralia, Erie R. Dickover, has had a long
acquaintance with that area of the Pacific
which Japanese call “the South Seas.”
In his early twenties he was sent as a
student-interpreter to Nippon. Then he
was successively Vice-Consul at Dairen,
in Korea, Consul at Kobe and first sec-
retary to the American Embassy at
Tokyo. He was called back to Washing-
ton to sit on a commission on Uncle
Sam’s biggest possession in those parts,
the Philippines. Other visits to Japan
followed, and two years ago he went to
the Dutch islands as -Consul. He was
born in California.
Albert Edward Heath, one of the best-
known businessmen in Sydney—in recent
years he has had a term in London as
official representative of N. S. Wales —
writes to correct a standard Australian
reference book which says of his war
service: “Enlisted for service in Gt. War,
sth Battn., A.1.F.; commissioned 18th
Battn.; contracted enteric fever and in-
valided out.” The Bulletin (14/8/’4O)
A. E. HEATH.
(Modelled by Frith.)
adopted this statement. Mr. Heath’s own
account of it is: “I enlisted in 1914,
finished my training in the Officers’ Train-
ing School at the Showground, and early
in 1915 was posted to the 18th Battalion.
A few days later I was stricken down with
enteric fever; a thrombosis followed and
I was invalided out as totally unfit. I
was never in the sth Battalion. I mention
this because I feel that credit for military
service during that war belongs to the
men who actually got there.” Frith’s
model commemorates the features of a
conspicuously honest man, though
whether A. E. Heath will regard the result
as a reward or a penalty is dubious.
Ken Attiwill, whose comedy thriller
“Once a Crook” was due at the Ald-
wych Theatre in London about the date
which Hitler set for giving himself the
freedom of that city, is a young Mel-
bourne writer who sailed from Australia
in the windjammer Archibald Russell in
1929 on a voyage which gave him the
experience he incorporated in his first
book, Horizon. Since then he has written
half a dozen others. With the assistance
of his wife, a Fleet-street journalist, he
wrote his play in between serving with
an anti-aircraft unit.
Alexander Foulis Bell, dead in Mel-
bourne at 64, was the shrewd-headed,
kindly Scotchman who made the name
of Robert Harper and Co. known
throughout Australia for integrity and
straight-dealing, mainly on a cash basis.
When chain stores and department stores
hit Flinders-lane wholesale warehouses,
Harpers was one of the concerns which
not only weathered the storm, but im-
proved their pace, and the navigation of
Bell was mainly responsible. He was
born in Paisley, came with his father to
Queensland and was educated at Bris-
bane Grammar. He joined Harpers in
1893, became Brisbane manager in 1906
and was transferred to the Melbourne
h.q. as a director in 1917. His financial
knowledge got him a directorship on the
Commonwealth Bank Board, and when
the Government took over the wool clip
during the last war he was appointed
chairman of the Central Wool Committee.
The oldest councillor in Australia must
surely be Cr. D. Gillies, of Daylesford
(Vic.), returned unopposed for the ump-
teenth time to the shire of Glenlyon.
He is 86 and still farms at Yanoit.
Canberra’s corps of advisers has been
swelled by two more Melbourne appoint-
ments. Prof. Ernst Johannes Hartung,
chemistry prof, at Melbourne Uni., goes
on a committee con-
cerned with making
optical glass. He was
born in Melbourne and
educated at Wesley and
the Uni., where he won
the David Syme Scien-
tific Research Prize.
With him is W. Russell
Grimwade, who, as
director of Felton,
Grimwade and Duer-
dins, is on the industrial
side of chemistry. Grim-
wade presented Captain
Cook’s cottage to Mel-
bourne, and his father’s
partner in the original
firm was the Alfred
Felton who gave up-
wards of a quarter of a
million to the Victorian
National Gallery for
the purchase of paint-
ings and other works
of art.
On his forty-eighth
birthday, Lud Mayor
Coles, of Melbourne,
was granted an-
other term as a coun-
cillor, his nomination
for the Batman ward
being uncontested. So a
third term as wearer of
the mayoral regalia will be his for the
asking, but he talks of standing for
Federal Henty. Coles got a commis-
sion in the A.I.F. in the 1914-18 war, and
is managing director of the stores which
bear the family cognomen. Artists like
him to open their art shows, as he always
admits that he knows nothing about art,
and, what is better, says it briefly.
William Thomas Martin, Superinten-
dent of Primary Education in S.A., is,
like almost every other departmental
head in that State, a South Australian
by birth. He’s 57, was a teacher when
he was 20, graduated at Adelaide Uni-
versity in 1914 and was an inspector
of schools at 37. He has held his present
position for 10 years, and at present is
deputising for Dr. Fenner as Director of
Education. Stands high in Masonic
W. T. MARTIN.
circles, is an ex-president of the Royal
Life Saving Society of S.A., and plays
bowls.
Prahran (Vic.) is probably the first Aus-
tralian city to have a Mayor who goes
about on his official occasions mounted
on the humble bicycle. This is not from
motives of public economy, for Prahran
is “financial” ; it is because Councillor
M. G. Sloman regards his vehicle as a
much more dignified method of trans-
portation in these strenuous times than
a petrol chariot. His wife, the Mayoress,
does her shopping on a similar contrap-
tion. Sloman is a director and general
manager of Hoyt’s Theatres, Melbourne.
Mrs. Jeanne Young announces her in-
tention of giving S.A. a chance at last
to elect a woman to Parliament. She
will bear a banner with the strange
device “Proportional Representation.”
There is no local precedent for the elec-
tion of women to Parliament, but Mrs.
Young has already made history for her
sex by attaining to a seat on the Public
Library, Museum and Art Gallery Board
in Adelaide.
“C.R.”: Victorian Bung is likely to
interpret the call of the Rev. R. Ambrose
Roberts to the pastorate of the Con-
gregational churches in the Beaconsfield
district as a sign that the Cold Tea party
is heavily discouraged. As general direc-
tor for two years of the Local Option
Alliance, the Rev. Roberts was the most
vigorous advocate of prohibition the
liquor interests had to deal with. Be-
fore that he was editor of the “Clarion
Call,”.the Alliance’s official organ, for
12 years. All told, he has fought the
Demon Drink in Victoria with his pen
and on the platform for nearly two
decades.
Chemistry, soldiering and literature
are the major interests in life for Col.
George D. Shaw, Adelaide’s Director of
A.R.P. Born at Hindmarsh (S.A.) 57
years ago, he was educated at Whinham
College and the S.A. School of Mines.
During the last war he was known in
the 10th Battalion, A.1.F., as “one of
the gamest officers we ever struck.” A
contributor to The Bulletin and other
papers, he’s also a playing member of
the S.A. Repertory Theatre, where his
“Personal Effects” was produced in 1933.
In 1919 he joined the Chemistry Depart-
ment, and is to be found there when he
is not blacking-out Adelaide.


STATE EXPRESS
Quality
/oM6<i
iiCr ~rmr\w/
m
A
h*
N; v>
m
w
m
m
/
lip
f
THREE SEVENS
>
A STATE EXPRESS PRODUCT
10 for 6d. 20 for 1-
Also Flat Fifties and Round Air-tight Kif:: _s.
V I SCACELLE-W RAPPED FOR FRESHER
FLAVOUR
VI3F-7


ABORIGINALITIES
“Brownie”: Having just concluded a
deal with old Skinner, I dragged him into
the pub to clinch it in the traditional
manner. I ordered the usual depth-
charge, and Skinner, the water-drinker,
took a packet of cigarettes. I emptied
my jug and Skinner broke a rule of a
lifetime by telling the barman to fill-’em-
up-again. “And what will you have this
time?” the barman asked the shouter.
“Well, look here,” replied Skinner; “I
don’t drink an’ I don’t smoke, so y’ can
take these cigarettes back to pay for
Brownie’s drink.”
* * * *
“Halcyon”: Though “Wippegong” (B.
31/7/’4O) ranges over a wide field in his
observations of avian architecture, some
of the inferences drawn by him arouse
the suspicion that he is still a fledgling
in the world of birdlore. His assertion
that “you can’t take the appearance of a
bird as a guide to the kind of house it
makes” ignores an important principle
of nest construction, e.g., air-raid pre-
cautions. It would be no credit to
Nature’s plans for the preservation of the
various species of birdlife if, for
example, a rosella were obliged to hatch
its eggs in an open nest. In cases where
effective camouflage is impracticable,
nests are designed in such a way as will
conceal the hen during the hatching
period. Generalisations, as “Wippegong”
has demonstrated, are not to be trusted
in these matters, but it is fairly safe to
assume that, because birds of bright
plumage offer the most difficulty, when
the need for camouflage is being con-
sidered, Nature has ordained that the
nests of such birds as bee-eaters, king-
fishers, parrots, etc., must not reveal the
brooding bird.
* * * *
“Bunker”: Queensland and N.S.W. tur-
pentine wood may rank high in fire-
resistant properties (B. 24/7/’4O), but if
certain kinds of W.A. coal could be
moulded into a shovel-bladie, via the
bakelite or some similar process, I would
back them as thermite-removers against
all the satinay wood in the Ma Sfate and
her offspring. Which reminds me of a
Groper landowner who, having developed
a coal seam on his property, invited a
possible option-purchaser to come along
and inspect. Inspection over, the G.l.
confidently asked for an opinion. “Waal,”
said the p.0.-p., a shrewd Yank with in-
terests in the Kalgoorlie mines, “I’m not
passin’ too strong an opinion. But I’ll
tell you this, brother: if the Day of
Judgment were to suddenly arrive, when
the earth is to be destroyed by fire, then
the one place where I’d seek refuge
would be in your coalmine!”
* * * *
“Red Devon”: Can the Council tell
me why rabbits at this time of the year
are partial to bracken and wattle suckers?
They’ll be on the protected list if their
good work continues on this Tassie
station, for, from odd leaves lopped off
here and there, their habit has spread to
cutting down patches of fern some square
yards in area and trimming up low wattle
suckers. It appears to be purely a pas-
time, for nothing is eaten.
* * * *
“Colburra Creek”: One of the most
fascinating gambles is the cracking of a
pearl blister. Rising like a flattened
bubble on the inside surface of the pearl-
shell, the blister is usually due to the mol-
lusc’s efforts at circumventing the pre-
datory boring of a different species of
shellfish. To cover the hole thus made
the oyster rapidly builds up layer on
layer of nacre, finally forming the blister.
Blisters usually contain only mud or
sludge, but just once in a while one may
hide a pearl. And the bigger the blister
the bigger the pearl —or at any rate the
chance of uncovering one. But blisters
themselves have a value. Known in
the trade as baroque, they were once
much used in pearl brooches and similar
articles. Some speculators would, per-
haps still will, pay up to £25 for a likely-
looking blister. But it requires skill to re-
move one without damaging it. One ex-
pert in Broome used to go right around
with a fine jeweller’s punch, making a
circlet of tiny perforations which re-
leased the blister with the final tap. One
man I knew used an engineer’s drill. For
years a shell had served to keep the door
of his bungalow open, the blister that
adorned it being considered too scarred
and stained to be worth submitting to the
expert opener. But one idle hour the
owner got busy with the drill, expecting
to find—what he did find —a cake of
dried mud. But on tossing this into the
fireplace it broke —and uncovered a
“stone” that netted him nearly £5OO.
t- * * *
“Boggabri”: When a man hasn’t looked
a green vegetable in the face for months
there’s nothing allays the craving for it
quicker than scurvy grass. That stuff
grows everywhere after rain—here in Q.,
at least —from tide-mark on the eastern
coast to the sandhills of Bedourie in the
west. It’s a convolvulus vine, with a purple
bell flower. It tastes like the essence of
spinach when it’s cooked. Like spinach,
it boils down to a fraction of its original
bulk. A peculiarity is that when a man
has satisfied his cravings, and after the
madness has passed, scurvy grass tastes
like pigswill.
* * * *
“Dowser”: Ma Nature often shows
feminine contrariness when man inter-
feres with her own water-conservation
schemes. Here’s a case in point. In the
mountain country on Warbreccan station
(W.Q.) there used to be a number of
springs, remarkable in that low-rainfall
country. Peculiarly enough, the dryer the
season the more copious the flow. To
induce a bigger flow a few were opened
up a bit. In every case the flow ceased
or withdrew to vanishing point. It’s no
use springing it on me that permeable
strata were tapped, allowing the stream
to get away at a lower level. The open-
ing process didn’t go down deep enough
to tap anything other than the sedimen-
tary deposit. Perhaps some of these
forked-stick addicts can answer the
problem.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Humping the bluey
below Thule (River Murray), Bandy and
I struck a humpy towards dusk and
knocked on the door. It opened slowly
under the weight of Bandy’s hand and we
saw that nobody was within, though there
were signs of occupation. We made
camp near by in a clump of suckers and
had just got a fire going when a proces-
sion arrived. It was led by a bewhisk-
ered little man with the mildest blue eyes
in the world. Several assorted dogs, two
cats, a nannygoat with a kid and four
long-tailed sheep followed him. He in-
troduced himself as owner of the humpy
“But it says here in the book, sarge, cook everythink in their jackets."
and borrowed a bit of tobacco, then ran
his eye over his company and called,
“Hey, Whitewash! Here, Whitewash!”
From the open humpy door waddled the
biggest and fattest goanna on earth.
“That’s ol’ Whitewash,” said our zoo-
logical host. “He’s gettin’ old an’ lazy
now. Too blasted lazy to go f’r a walk
with a man.” He aimed a kick at the
obese reptile, and instantly it and every
dog, cat, goat and sheep in the vicinity
fled. The oldster turned to us. “Ter-
rible thing, bad temper. See how they
done a micky? They know what I’m
like when I’m wild, they do!” “This
blanky Murray of yours,” said Bandy
to tne as we curled up later, “has more
freaks to the mile than Barnum or
Hachenbach ever heard of! ”
* * * *
“Aratta”: Dad came on Dave and the
hand behind the haystack. The hand was
staggering about with his hands to his
face, while Dave stood in front of him
with clenched fists, mouthing threats.
“What’s all this about?” bellowed Dad.
The hand, who stuttered badly, started
to give his version ; but after waiting im-
patiently for nearly a minute while
Choom, made worse in his enunciation
by excitement, strove valiantly to get a
word out, Dad turned to Dave. “Come
on, you!” he roared. “What’s this biz-
ness about?” “I ain’t takin’ none of his
lip,” cried Dave, “so I donged him. He
called me a loud-voiced, lopsided, swivel-
eyed, bullyin’ bandicoot.” “I don’t ber-
lieve you,” said Dad bluntly. Dave red-
dened. “Y’ reckon I’m a liar, do yer?”
he blustered. “1 do,” replied Dad evenly.
“If he’d called yer all that string of
names he’d have had t’ start half an hour
ago, an’ he wus with me then.”
$ # * * .
“B. the D.”: There are bigger creatures
than babies sucked into the yard-long
stomach of the N.Q. python (B.
17/7/’4O). A 17-footer got outside a
newly-born calf on my jungle edge near
Clump Pt. I was drawn there by the
bellowing of the mother, standing by,
and found the snake unable to go home
with its big cargo. I returned to sharpen
an axe, then I operated. Years ago a
similar python curled round a wild goat,
but it started at the wrong end —didn’t
savvy the horns. When it reached there
it stopped. The skeletons of both were
viewed by many sceptics. Here the
python’s chief food is the wallaby.
$ $ $ $
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat had a job on a
S.A. wheat farm out of Gawler and the
boss had gone to Adelaide. Mat was
scarifying a paddock when the team
bolted. He was pitched off the machine,
caught in the tynes and generally
mangled. Somebody collected him and
carted him to the local hospital. When
the cocky called to see him, on the way
home from the city, Mait was conscious
but mighty sore. “Y’ didn’t get the pad-
dock finished, they tell me,” the cocky
said. “No,” said Mat weakly, “but I’m
finished.” “Aw, don’t take it like that,”
urged the cocky ; “you’ll be all right.”
“Maybe I will,” came back Mat, “when
I sprout.” “Sprout?” “Yair, sprout,”
moaned the big fellow, eyeing his ban-
dages. “That team o’ yours ploughed
and harrowed me, an’ when they got me
in here I was sewn. All I need now is a
drop o’ rain t’ germinate.” But he
cheered up when he learned he would
harvest a few quid in compensation.
jJ: sis
“B. A. Ker”: Old Ma Nature is always
thoroughly efficient, but in equipping the
Gouldian finch she excels herself. This
prettiest of all feathered Aussies builds
a very small entrance into its woven-
grass nest, obviously with the idea of
baffling cuckoos and other undesirables.
The architecture, however, has one
serious defect: when the breadwinner
arrives home with the family rations his
figure so completely fills the small open-
ing that a blackout is caused in the
dining-room. Here the dame literally
comes to light with a flash of genius.
The nestlings are provided with a lumi-
nous spot on each side of the beak. All
pop has to do is place the tucker between
the spots and junior does the rest. After
the fledglings leave the nest the spots
gradually vanish and are generally gone
within a week.
* * * *
“T.C.” : Don't know much about Abolia
climbensis or Tendrilla thingummybobia,
but am convinced that the ordinary
climbing plant’s tendrils twist as con-
venience occasions. Have grown a variety
of creepers and vegetables on K wire for
years and found that tendrils go right-to-
left, left-to-right, and all points of the
compass, As they touch, so they twist.
Anyway, all tendrils are clockwise or
anti-clock, according to the way one
looks at them. Partisans can persuade
themselves they are correct by looking
at it from another angle. Natures
troubles about direction, so long as she
gets the support!
DIRTY DICK'S DILEMMA.
Dirty Dick of Yalgobin
Lived in a hut apart from men;
Marked by the years and seared by sin,
He swore he’d never see town again;
Talked to the trees and talked to his dog,
Or the sheep or a snake or a hollow log—
He lived like a dog in his den.
There came a wag to his hut one day
When Dirty Dick was out,
Who chalked on his door ere he went his way
Through the burning, blazing drought,
“Dirty Dick of Yalgobin
Keeps the dirtiest hut I’ve ever seen,
Of that there is no doubt.”
When Dirty Dick came home that night
He saw the message there;
But he could neither read nor write
And he could only stare
And say “It’s something the boss wants done;
I’ll have to find some son-of-a-gun
To settle this affair.”
He pulled the door from its hinges down
And slung it on his back,
And started off for Budgery Town
Along the Budgery track.
Eighteen miles it was, no less,
Of heat and thirst and weariness—
It made Dick’s muscles crack.
“Read what’s wrote on me door,” said Dick
To the boss of the Budgery pub,
Whose heart was kind and whose brain was
quick
To save old Dick a snub.
He said “It says I’m to give you two
Of the biggest beers a man can brew
To sleep off in the scrub.”
When Dirty Dick of Yalgobin,
Who lives in a hut apart from men,
Gets thirsty now, he says with a grin,
“I’d better get back to the pub again.”
He shoulders his door and they yell with fun
To see him coming in storm or sun
Where Budgery’s streets close in.
The message that’s written on old Dick’s door
Has faded in storm and drought;
But he sits and reads it as if he was sure
He knew what ’twas all about. »
“Dirty Dick of Yalgobin
Has had more free beer than you’ve ever
seen”—
That’s how he makes it out.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“They can keep their ruddy charcoal — this'll do us!”
“Dungeness”: Zoological authorities
maintain that Australia has no alligators,
only two species of crocodile, but I saw
one in N.Q. 20-odd years ago. A'Mac-
kay publican with a turn for natural his-
tory bought a six-footer from a visiting
tramp steamer and kept it in a stoutly-
fenced enclosure in his yard. After it
had burrowed its way out a couple of
times he decided to put in a concrete
floor. Having moored the saurian
firmly to a post with a heavy dog-chain
securely padlocked round its middle lest
it might wander away and bite a police-
man, he was busily levelling off the new
floor when Joe McSozzle zigzagged
down the yard comfortably full of Castle-
maine beer. Swayingly he contemplated
the scene for a period, spat accurately at
the alligator’s left eye, and remarked in
reproachful tones: “Never thought yop
wash sush a sush(hic)pishus bloke, Bill.”
“What am I suspicious about?” asked the
alligator’s proprietor. “Chainin’ it up
like thash,” answered Joe, “ ’Oo the ’ell’d
wanner pinsh flamin’ alligatorsh? Don’
trusht nobody, you don’t, tha’sh clear.”
And shaking his head sadly he turned
into the woodshed for a nap.
* * # *
“The 0.D.”: Chickens and eggs had
been disappearing with maddening fre-
quency despite the armed watch set up on
the farm. Opposing schools of thought
argued whether it was snake or goanna.
Then the farmer called softly, late one
afternoon: “Bring me the gun, Tom;
here’s y’r flamin’ chicken thief.” Partly
hidden behind the fowlhouse could be
seen the top-half of a stray yellow mon-
grel, his head out of sight but his busy
body indicating what was going on. The
farmer gave him the right barrel at 25
yards. All walked over to view the
thief. The mongrel lay in the dust, its
lungs smashed by the lead, in its mouth
a large brown snake and in the snake’s
mouth a plump yellow chicken. You
could hardly get a word out of that
family for the rest of that day.
* * * *
“D.Mc.”: “Cripes, that’s what I call
clever,” said Bob Haytosser, looking up
from his paper. “It ses ’ere that one of
them old master
blokes what useter
paint pictures painted
a bunch of grapes so
real that birds ’ud fly
at the picture an’ try
to pick ’em!” “Aw, I
dunno that ’e was any
better than the travel-
lin’ painter bloke ’oo
came to my place ’ard
up an’ reckoned ’e
wanted a job bad,” re-
plied Joe Staggers. “I
’ad a nice clean wall
inside me cow shed an’
I got ’im t’ do a full-
size picture of Dolly,
me champion milker,
on it. You talk about
a dinkum painter!
One mornin’ it
sounded like ’ell ’ad
broke loose in me
cowshed an’ I rushed
over t’ see what was up. There was
the silly coot of a new bloke I’d put
on beltin’ at the picture of Dolly with a
saplin’. ‘What’s up with y’?’ I yelled;
‘y’ gone barmy?’ ‘Barmy nothin’!’ ’e
snorted. ‘lf this blarsted cow won’t let ’er
milk down I’ll find ways an’ means of
doin’ it fer ’er! ’ ”
4 $ $ *
“Flight”: I question the contention of
those who state that the weight of corellas
breaks telegraph lines on the W.Q. downs
country. I’ve seen the single strand of a
telegraph line outlined in white for half a
mile or more, with standing room only
left at the posts, and with birds
squabbling to get on and do gymnastics
on the swaying wire. The breaking
strain of that wire is measured in tons.
The weight of the feathered fools on it
couldn’t exceed hundredweights. What
really does snap it —I saw it happen once
—is when the hundreds of birds perched
on a winter day on that 88-yard single-
wire span with plenty of sag in it sud-
denly decide to leave in the fraction of a
second. The sudden release, the quick
let-go, the instant snap and jerk when
the wire is cold and brittle do the trick.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Re “Nor’-west’s” yarn (B.
3/7/’4O). Why did he have to saw
through the parchmentlike skin of the
turtle eggs? He could have torn them
open with his fingers without difficulty.
Also, abos. never crack the shells; they
usually pinch a tiny hole and suck the
contents out. Perhaps “Nor’-west” con-
fused alligator eggs with those of the
turtle.
* * * *
“N. Sylvester”: I notice that with the
white female of the species the craze
for slimming is de-
parting ; not a few
ladies are permitting
their frames to pile
on a little embonpoint.
Black Sister in her
native environment
was never so lucky.
With her slimming
was a matter of self-
preservation. Round
North Australian
stations one often
finds lubras rolling in
fat yet filled with a
curious dread. Such
dames, even nowa-
days, wouldn’t last
long out in the spini-
fex and away from
the protection of the
white man. Have known more than one
who wouldn’t venture a quarter of a
mile from the homestead without white
escort. Black Brother was always much
of an epicure and ever ready to fall for
a nice plump female. Fat to him was
as whisky is to the white man ; the ’roo
and the emu and most other Australian
game fail to run much to anything other
than leanness. So, with many fat-hungry
males always around, slimming was an
unchanging fashion with Black Sister.
Possibly those skinny, rangy gins of
which one saw so many when meeting
wild tribes were really examples of the
survival of the fittest, the fattest having
long passed into the long oven.
* * * *
“Historical Bloque”: The timber town
of Smith’s Mill in sou’-west Groperland
keeps green the memory of a cousin of
Florence Nightingale. Just a century ago
an adventurous young Englishman, Fred
Smith, arrived in Westralia and joined
explorer Grey’s expedition to the nor’-
west. The party left Fremantle in an
American whaling vessel, and stores were
landed on Bernier Island. Making for
the coast, the two small boats containing
all their provisions were swamped in the
surf. Faced with a walk back to Perth,
the party split up. Grey, at the head of
his few men, struggled on and reached
Perth two months later. Search parties
were sent out to bring the others in, and
“ Don't worry , sir—I'll soon get the hang of it!”
all were brought in alive, except young
Smith whose body was found wrapped
in a blanket on the site of the present
Smith’s Mill, where he was buried.
*’ * *
“Cape Voltaire”: The consistency of
RAF. successes against allcomers leads
me to wonder if just possibly Nature has
gifted the Anglo-Saxon with a flying
fense much as she has oddly endowed
the Nipponese with a striking capacity
for under-water work. No question but
that the Jap stands alone as a deep-sea
diver. Three maladies afflict the diver
as he increases his depth—nose-bleeding,
bleeding from the ears and, with persis-
tent deep-diving, an inflammation of the
eardrums. Practically every man suffers
a certain amount of head-bleeding on his
first dip under, just as every sailor is sea-
sick at least once. And just as some
sailors are sick every time they go to
sea, so some divers are liable to bleed
every time they exceed 15 fathoms. But
the Jap is the other way about; once his
baptism is over, it is very rare to find
one of his race a bleeder, no matter to
what depth he descends. Whites can’t
compete with him. Back in 1912, Federal
Labor having decided that White Aus-
tralia must be complete and the colored
diver pass from Broome pearling banks,
nine British naval divers were imported
as an experiment. They were good men,
but they didn’t last two years. Some
died, some chucked the game up because
of long hours under water.
* * * *
“Dinkum”: Three of us were fooling
around in the chaffshed when Ted, up
near the roof on a stack of bags, dropped
a pitchfork. It fell like a spear, and one
of the prongs went right through Frank’s
boot into the wooden floor, pinning him
to the spot. Poor Frank yelled blue
murder, but didn’t fall because he was
leaning against the wall. Ted, who was
supposed to know something about first-
aid, climbed down and took charge of
the situation. He ordered me to hold
the patient’s arms while he extracted the
prong. With one mighty jerk out it came,
and Frank fainted in my arms like a
girl. Laying him down, we gently re-
moved the blucher boot—there was no
sock —and found that the prong had
“pierced” between the big toe and the
second toe without even breaking the
skin. Now, what made Frank, who was
no sissy, sing out and faint? Nothing
more or less than faith. He thought he
was hurt, therefore he was hurt, and
when he came round we could hardly
convince him that he wasn’t lamed for
life. A slight variation of abo. bone-
pointing.
sp * *
“Edjudina”: I liked that yarn of
“Mt. Mawson’s” (B. 24/7/’4O) of how
Dick Smith, deep in the Tassie bush,
chopped off three toes, yet managed to
last three weeks without attention, work-
ing all the while, and then eventually
strolled 20 miles in for a bit of tucker
and repairs. Would “Mt. M.” mind
telling me if Dick’s toes had healed in
the meantime, and, if so, how did he
manage to get the skin and flesh to grow
over the severed bones without the cut-
ting of surgical flaps and stitching? Or
if healing hadn’t taken place, how had
he avoided the inevitable gangrene and
mortification? Strolling around W.A.
I have struck quite a few abos. who
had suffered similar amputations. In
most cases these, having healed without
surgical attention, had the bone pro-
truding from the withdrawn skin and
flesh. The few exceptions were cases
where the digit or limb had been removed
by fire, either accidentally or surgically.
With these the burnt bone had probably
crumbled sufficiently to permit the skin
to overgrow the wound. I doubt if any
white could survive the gangrene and
suffering that any the a mput^-
tions must have entailed. P> oL y
many blacks had died from just such a
cause and 1 was only viewing the sur-
vivors Anyway, Id love to view tough
Dick Smith.
REVELATION.
Ol’ Boree Bob’s a quiet bloke who works at
Treacle Plain,
Comes inter town two days a month an’ then
goes home again.
He always stays at Doolan’s pub when on his
gentle spree,
Ignoring rowdy roisterers —the likes o’ you
an’ me.
His clothes is always spotless clean, his bluchers
neat an’ trim;
The wimmen praise his manners an’ they make
a pet of him.
An’ if he has a history he never cracks a lay,
But simply has his two-day booze and simply
slips away.
A stranger comes t’ Doolan’s pub, loud-mouthed
an’ pretty flash,
The sort that in their younger days go huntin’
up some lash.
He’s in the bar, all skite an’ fuss, when in
comes Boree Bob,
An’, as they eye each other off, a silence hits
the mob.
It’s pretty plain they’ve met before, it’s plain
ol’ Bob is stirred;
The other gives him look f’r look, but neither
speaks a word
Until ol’ Boree’s blue eyes flash. • “Y’ sneakin’
skunk,” he said.
The stranger whips a beer-pot up an’ shoots it
at his head.
Ol’ Boree ducks the missile quick an’ goes the
stranger hot;
They flounder round Big Doolan’s bar an’
nearly wreck the lot.
Y’ never saw two oldsters scrap as them ol’
roosters fought;
They went each other tooth an’ nail, what time
Big Doolan sought
T’ stop the fight an’ save his bar. We heard
ol’ Boree say,
“Y’ mizzled with ’er, blast y’r eyes, an’ now
I’ll make y’ pay!”
A woman! All them saddened years ol’ Bob
has lived alone!
We guess at what he’s suffered an’ we makes
his cause our own.
We grab that battered stranger; for the sake
of Boree’s wife,
We duck the blankard in the trough an’ warn
him off f’r life.
“He wus me mate long years ago,” says Boree,
breathin’ hard;
“I stuck t’ him through wet an’ dry. I tell
y’, boys, it jarred
That day I found that she an’ him ’ad done
a sudden bunk.
An’ ever since I’ve longed to get me ’ands
upon the skunk.
I never thought he’d do me dirt, he alwiz
seemed content,
And then he ups and marries without askin’
me consent!”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


\\lud vw«W M,tt '
IF you were suddenly empowered lay a deceased
friend’s will to manage his estate, what would
you do?
On the other hand, what would your friend do
if you placed him in a similar position?
These and other perplexing problems are avoided
hy the appointment of The Trustees Executors &
Agency Company Ltd. as Executor or Co-
Executor. The Company has had over 62 years’
experience of estate administration and offers
undoubted security for the performance of its
duties.
Full information will he afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £957,820.
BOARD OE DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
R. O. Blackwood. D. Stuart Murray. John Ford.vce.
Sir Claude Reading:, K.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading-, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart. R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W r . Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M4383. 86371.
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co.
t n , To Re— Re-
June, l ront. Dividends. serves, serves.
£, £■ £, £/
1935.. 13,945 Gi p.c. = 12,324 1,621 2,445
* 93G -- 34,017 10 „ „ 18,317 15,700 18,145
1937.. 55,2;>9 121 „ „ 27,268 27,991 46,136
1938.. 82,346 13-J „ ~ 42,969 39,377 85,513
1939.. 98,220 14| ~ ~ 55,580 42.640 12.8,153
1940.. 75,152 144 „ ~ 59,305 15,847 144,000
The management has good reason to
be proud of its achievements. It has
been a quick development, certainly;
but it has been a sound one, both tech-
nically and financially, With managing
director Frank Beaurepaire as the driving
force, the co., whose business now ex-
tends throughout the Commonwealth to
Maoriland and beyond, set up in the tyre-
manufacturing business at Melbourne as
recently as 1933, and, with the help of
a rising economic tide, turnover has
continued to bound along.
To finance expanding turnover and
extension of the business, £339,072 has
been added to paid capital during the
last half-dozen years, making it £439,072
at the end of June, when there was
£140,928 still to come into the account —
last term 175,000 new £1 shares were
offered at par and snapped. Also, when
the books closed, capital had the sup-
port and assistance of £144,000 of re-
serves—there has been no loading for
goodwill and that after paying divs.
aggregating 71.5 p.c., an average of
11.9 p.c.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts a new rubber reclamation
factory was put up about a mile away
from the main works, at West Footscray,
where further plant was installed and
production of insulated electric cables
(not previously made in Australia, the
board says) begun. And still more plant
for manufacture of rubber belting, floor-
ing, hose, etc., will presently be installed.
Also, the co. took over distribution of
its own products in N. S. Wales, Queens-
land and South Australia. Among other
things, this increased stocks and reduced
debtors’ balances. Stocks were further
increased by heavy purchases of raw
materials to guard against possible in-
terruption of supplies from overseas.
The movements show up in balance-
sheet figures:—
1935. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £173,343 £240,560 £392,500 £439,072
Overdraft . . 15,592 5,125 238,758
Sundry creditors 16,560 95,190 107,929 168,856
Premises .. 18,669 39,887 78,119 130,751
Plant, etc. .. 59,248 76,841 115,707 191,797
Stocks . . 81,099 174,532 244,359 601,740
Debtors, etc... 55,642 124,480 245,448 181,382
To finance the new factory (premises
. were up £52,632 net), additional plant,
etc. (up £76,090), and carry the extra
stocks (up £357,381), debtors’ balances
were reduced by £64,066, the board went
to its bankers for £238,758, to other
creditors for £60,927, and £46,572 of
fresh capital was gathered. The more
or less liquid surplus (£375,508, includ-
ing stocks) was only £6370 lighter than
at the previous balance, despite the out-
lay on fixed assets.
During the year factory production
continued at high pressure, thanks partly
to the development of an export business,
which is expected to expand further, and
partly to equipment of a large fleet of
defence-force vehicles. At the end of
May the number of motor vehicles regis-
tered in Australia was 836,256, compared
with 820,296, 11 months earlier. The
manufacture of lifebelts, gas-masks and
other items for the Defence Department
also helped buoy up turnover. Costs
continued to climb, and the price of raw
rubber shot up from 8.23 d. per pound
in June, 1939, to 13d. a year later. But
the hardest blow to earnings was the
war-time excess-profits and undistributed-
profits taxes. To meet these new im-
posts no less than £45,000 has been set
aside, in addition to the ordinary provi-
sion for taxation (£38,379). In the result
net earnings were down £23,068. The
£75,152 of profit claimed was 18.4 p.c.
on average capital, compared with 25.1,
26.3, 25.3 and 18.6 p.c. for the four pre-
ceding years. The div. was lifted from
14| p.c. to \4\ p.c., leaving £15,847 to
put on the shelf.
An anomalous position has arisen in
connection with the excess-profits tax,
which is calculated on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined).
Thus young cos. like this one, which
have not had a chance to accumulate
large reserves, are called upon to make a
relatively much heavier contribution to
Australia’s war expenditure than older
and equally or even more prosperous
concerns which have accumulated a much
larger store of surplus earnings.
Exactly what the future holds for the
business it is difficult to say at the
moment. While the tax anomaly is to
be reviewed, costs continue to climb,
there has lately been a sharp falling-off
in new motor-vehicle registrations, which
can be expected to decline further before
they rise again now petrol-rationing
is to be introduced. The current
term, therefore, is likely to see a sharp
falling-off in the demand for new tyres,
which might be partly offset by the de-
velopment of an export business and
new lines. All that can be said definitely
is that the co. is well equipped to win a
fair proportion of whatever business is
offering.
At 355. the f.-p. pound shares return
8.3 p.c. on a 14y p.c. div. basis. When
the new issue is fully paid the net tangible
cover will be 245. lid. per share.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
Net To Re- and Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 39,758 10 p.c. = 40,000 621,237
Loss.
1931.. 4,053 3 ~ ~ 12.000 605,184
Profit.
1932.. 12,795 3 „ „ 12,000 795 605,979
1933.. 19,315 4 „ ~16.000 3,315 609,294
1934.. 31,738 6 „ ~24,000 1 r 7 , s fil * n , 9
Provident fund, £2OOO 1 ’ ° ’
1935.. 47,372 7 p.c. = 28,000 1,
Provident fund, £2OOO j- 13,872 628,904
Staff bonus, £3500.. I
1936.. 51,514 8 p.c. = 32,000 1
Provident fund, £2OOO 1 14,514 643,418
Staff bonus, £3000.. j
19'37.. 54,745 8 p.c. = 32,000 l on , ...
Provident fund, £2OOO j 2o ’' 4 ° ° 04 ’ 163
Provision contingencies written
back, £5OOO 669,163
1938.. 62,686 10 p.c. * = 40,000 ]
Provident fund, £5OOO [-13,686 682,849
Staff bonus, £4OOO . . J
1939.. 56.121 9 p.c. = 36,000 1
Provident fund, £2OOO f 13,121 695.970
Written off premises, £5OOO j
1940.. 58,345 9 p.c. = 36,000-)
Provident fund, £2OOO [-15.345 711,315
Written off premises, £5OOO J
•* includes 2 p.c. diamond jubilee bonus.
The Mercantile, which has strong con-
nections throughout the Commonwealth
and agencies in all parts of the world,
continues to make steady progress, despite
disturbed conditions created by the wars
in Europe, Asia and Africa. Australia
has much for which to be thankful in the
fact that it has not —thus far, at any rate —•
become one of the theatres of operations.
No ship has yet been sunk on the Aus-
tralian coast as the result of enemy
action, and the co. had pulled out of the
unsatisfactory London marine business in
the early 1930’5. Further, it promptly re-
insured in full all its overseas war risks
following the outbreak of hostilities, thus
protecting its reserves. Locally, mer-
chants have been building up their stocks
in anticipation of possible difficulties
ahead, while building activity has been
well maintained, and so has the level of
employment. All this and rising prices
have helped to bump up insurable values,
and therefore premium income.
The growth in the Mercantile’s gross
premiums last term (£677,608) was
£34,740. But most of the increase was re-
insured, reducing the expansion in net
premiums to £5601:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate
1900. . £32,658 £9,068 £18,489 27.7 p.c. 56.4 p.c
1920.. 177,683 67,212 94,083 37.8 „ 52 9 ,
1928.. 389,950 211,676 160,894 54.3 „ 41.2
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 53.8 , 43.5 ’
1933.. 232,712 110,573 122,917 47.5 ’ 52.8 ”
1934.. 230,060 87,192 123,211 37.9 ~ 53.5
1935.. 237,374 85,963 125,437 36.2 ~ 52. S ’’
1936.. 250,010 91,517 128,273 36.6 51 3 ’
1937.. 275,763 113,760 130,825 41.2 ’ 47 4 ”
1938.. 294,595 118,702 137,382 40.3 „ 46.6 ’
1939.. 300,940 134,204 135,922 44.6 . 45 1
1940.. 306,541 134,981 137,110 44.0 „ 44,7 ’’
The amount of retained premium in-
come was the best for the last decade.
Another pleasing feature, despite a growth
of £8455 in taxes, etc. (£40,452), was a
slight drop in the loss and expense rates.
This is reflected in an improvement of
£3636 in the underwriting surplus
(£34,450), which was equal to 8.61 p.c.
on capital. The return from investments
(£23,895, down £1412) was 5.97 p.c. on
capital. Here the shrinkage was due to
lower interest rates and a shorter rent
roll, owing to alterations to premises.
Also, as a patriotic gesture, the co. con-
tributed £lO,OOO free of interest for the
duration of the war to the last Federal
loan, and is paying the difference between
salary and army pay to employees who
have enlisted. The net return from all
sources was approximately 14 6 pc on
capital as against 14, 15.6, 13.6, 12.8 'll 8
and 7.9 p.c. back to 1934. The div. was
kept at 9 p.c., £2OOO was sent to the staff
provident fund and £5OOO was written off
V ? lue , of P rem 'ses, leaving
£15,345 to plough in. That lifted the
support and assistance for capital to
£311,315.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
„., ~ , „ 1931 - 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paul capital.. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 202,608 187,075 215,000 222*877
Freeholds, etc. 412.968 436,702 485,384 488,912
Mortgages 19,256 17,094 14,745 23,100
Public securities, ’ ’
t. , •• 319 > 9G3 358,649 364.149 373,970
Book debts . . 67.614 67,257 08,212 74 048
Cash, etc. .. 6,051 41,222 23,479 24,102
Assets can be taken as well worth their
book value. Of the £222,877 coming
to sundry creditors, £164,861 was in re-
spect of reinsurances and claims. When
the books closed, policy-holders could
see net tangibles equal to 232 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is
usually considered sufficient. And share-
holders could be called upon to dredge
up another £lOO,OOO should the need ever
arise.
The market, which lacks buying sup-
port these days, prices the pound shares
paid to 16s. at 255. as against 295. 3d. a
year ago. The yield at 255. is 5.8 p.c.
on a 9 p.c. div. basis, which is a very
satisfactory return from a stock of this
type. The net tangible cover is 355. 7d.
per pound of paid capital.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Dividends and Written
•Tune, Profit. Dividend Tax. Off.t Reserves.
1930.. 39,674 10 p.c. = 29,885 3,789 93,000
1931.. 31.167 8 ~ ~ 23,908 7,259 93,000
Contingency reserve included, £40,973.. 133,973
Tb Re-
serves.
1932.. 21,365 7 p.c. = 20,920 445 134,418
1933.. 20,924 7 „ ~ 20,920 4 134,422
1934.. 22,406 7 ~ „ 20,920 1,486 135,908
Pref. Ord.
51 p.c. 7 p.c.
1935.. 30,265 8,613 20,920 732 136.640
1936.. 33,326 10,957 20,920 1,449 138,089
1937.. 48,417 10,957 36,973 487 138,576
1938.. 53,889 10,957 41,309 1,623 140.199
1939.. 69,792 10.957 55,856 2,979 143.178
1940.. 79,500 10.957 67,511 1,032 144,210
tAdded to contingency reserve.
On the figures presented, the steady
7 p.c. sent out since 1932 has been some-
thing of a pinch ; but the “Wild Cat” is
willing to wager that this Brisbane
brewer could show a little more
froth on its profit figures if pushed.
Since Perkins’s slipped into the shadows
the co. has made use of its oppor-
tunities, and, with. Castlemaine-Perkins,
now supplies most of the amber beverage
consumed in the northern State, Bulimba
Bitter being particularly known in the
thirsty pastoral west and the dairying
south.
The past half-dozen years have wit-
nessed vigorous competition between the
Queensland and C.-P. organisations for
pub properties in an effort to widen and
tie down the outlet for their products.
The manner in which one co. has fol-
lowed the other on to the market for
fresh funds is the striking feature of that
expansion:
Queensland Brewery. [ Castlemaine-Perkins.
Aug., 1934 .. £199,234t| Dec., 1934 ..£156,250
June, 1936 . . 249,043 | April, 1936 . . 260,416
Mar., 1938 . . 249,223 | .Tan., 1938 .. 208,335
Oct., 1939 . . 249,383 | Nov., 1939 .. 250,*000
t Pref.
Since 1932 the Queensland board has
added £1,242,079 net to fixed assets, partly
in enlarging the brewery, etc., in order
to extend the range and appeal of the
co.’s products. In the process £947,815
has been tacked on to the share-register
and £254,804 added to outside liabilities.
Consolidation rather than expansion
was the feature of last term’s figures:
1932. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital £298,851 £747,700 £997,283 £1,246.666
Liabilities . . 97,379 514,478 490,970 352,183
Fixed assets 286.433 1.181.013 1,428,090 1,528,512
Stocks , . 77,055 104,567 116,628 129,813
Book debts. . 167.862 127,261 106,931 114,020
Cash, etc... 8,265 12,586 13,190 12,853
Of the £249,383 of new capital gathered
during the year, only £100,422 went into
freeholds, etc. ; the balance was applied
mainly to reduction of the debt (down
£138,787), of which £301,659 is secured.
It is reflected in a decrease from £254,221
to £95,497 in the excess of liabilities over
more or less liquids.
Last term’s earnings benefited from the
excellent export season, the higher level
of most incomes, the extra money at
work, and, to a lesser extent, from defence
spending. After meeting its own swollen


WORLD BOOKS
The Phenomenal New Booh Club
brings world-famous books, priced
elsewhere at 8/6 to 25/- each, for only
2b
Bound in
Cloth
(English Currency)
sakjdfhkjsadf
in Fine
Buckram
(English Currency)
including Lawrence of Arabia's Masterpiece
SEVEN PILLARS
OF WISDOM
a triumph
T. E. LAWRENCE
VOLUME |
the reprint society
LONDON
SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM
Complete, Unabridged and Illustrated. Price elsewhere 30/- ; but to WORLD BOOKS members only, 5/- cloth, 7'/- buckram (two volumes)
THE five famous publishing houses of Cape, Chatto & Windus,
Collins, Heinemann and Macmillan have combined with the
Book Society in forming the Empire’s finest book-club
WORLD BOOKS, which provides an unparalleled service.
As a member, you receive each month, at the uniform price of 2/6
(or 3/6 in fine bindings) a special edition of a recently published,
outstanding book. This is all you pay to OWN each book.
69'6 WORTH OF BOOKS FOR 15'-!
Huge economies have been effected in production and distribution
making it possible to issue outstanding contemporary books at a
fraction of their cost elsewhere.
The next six books (see right) cost 69/6 in the only other editions
available. By joining WORLD BOOKS you get them for 15/- in
Cloth, or 21/- in Fine Buckram ! This is surely one of the greatest
book-bargains ever offered, in which you can share by signing the
form below.
i'*-*
p IL
Urs
sV£\'
Op
<t!
•« !
: I j i
Tlip, %
U,<-E
iS&i
d uke>-
: :;°Mp
um
1
O‘U\G
lETE
Mp
Rbnce
■ oirs
Op
ii; Sb^ORGE
ft
m
i.^ALLA
:?!CS
SOO!^
:
&wf?st§BssS*s
' I
■:••:•-
How to obtain these books
TT costs nothing to join: your one
obligation is to purchase at least
six monthly books.
New members can also obtain, if
they wish, copies of these past choices,
while still in print: Seven Pillars
of Wisdom by T. E. Lawrence (2
volumes), Brazilian Adventure by
Peter Fleming, The Round Dozen,
twelve long-short stories by Somerset
Maugham, The Duke, a brilliant
study of Wellington by Philip Gue-
dalla, and All This, and Heaven
Too, a long dramatic novel by
Rachel Field. Payment for these, at
3/- or 4/- per volume (including
postage) must be sent with order and
is additional to the membership
subscription.
EDITIONS ARE LIMITED
Immediate enrolment is urged,'as
under war-time conditions the edit-
ions are limited, and cannot be repeat-
ed. So, please post the form now.
THE REPRINT SOCIETY Ltd. 20, HEADFORT PLACE, LONDON, S.W.i, ENGLAND
Ordinary Prices
in Gt. Britain
Famous Books Coming—at 2j6 each !
SEPT. THE GRAPES OF WRATH by John Steinbeck 8/6
OCT. COMPLETE MEMOIRS OF GEORGE SHERSTON 8/6
(Three fine books in one: Memoirs of a Fox-hunting Man,
Memoirs of an Infantry Officer, Sherston’s Progress): 800 pp.
by SIEGFRIED SASSOON
NOV. WATCH FOR THE DAWN by Stuart Cloete 8/6
DEC. CAPTAIN HORNBLOWER R.N. by C. S. Forester 9/6
Three great novels in one volume, 750 pages: The Happy
Return, A Ship of the Line, and Flying Colours.
jan. THE LETTERS OF T. E. LAWRENCE 25/-
Edited by David Garnett
FEB. FOUR PART SETTING by Ann Bridge 9/6
MAR. HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY by Richard Llewellyn 9/6
3'6 FINE BUCKRAM EDITIONS
The special fine bindings of WORLD BOOKS at 3/6 (see illus-
tration at left) are indeed remarkable value. Their strong, good
quality buckram, leather labels stamped in real gold-leaf, well
designed format, clear typography and large print make them com-
parable to limited editions at several times the price.
Gratifying to handle, they are as beautiful as they are permanent.
On the bookshelf they make a decorative array for, though standard
in size and design, the buckram cloth and leather labels are in a
harmonious and cheerful variety of colour.
Also , 3/6 members can reject one out of any four choices on giving
notice when advance lists are published.
JEnrol here.
To WORLD BOOKS, 20, Headfort Place, London, S.W. I, England.
Please enrol me as a member of WORLD BOOKS. I agree to accept and pay
for at least 6 selected monthly books and to continue my membership after the
first six months until I cancel it by one month’s written notice.
I WILL HAVE MY BOOKS IN THE 2/6 : 3/6* EDITION (Cr °„ s t Zuild)
Please post the selected book to me each month.
(★IMPORTANT: ALL PRICES ARE IN ENGLISH
CURRENCY. MEMBERS MUST SEND DEPOSIT AND
REMIT ACCORDINGLY BY MONEY ORDER OR
DRAFT PAYABLE IN ENGLAND).
□ I enclose deposit of 18/- (or 24/- for the
buckram edition) to cover cost of 6 books
and postage.
rn I enclose deposit of £2 2s. to cover 12
books at 3/6 post free.
Name
Address
S.B.
BACK CHOICES
(Optional). I also enclose,
additional to my subscrip-
tion, a remittance (at 3/- per
volume cloth, or 4/- fine
editions, with postage) for:—
Seven Pillars of Wisdom
(2 volumes)
Brazilian Adventure
by Peter Fleming
The Round Dozen
by Somerset Maugham
The Duke
by Philip Guedalla
All This, and Heaven Too
by Rachel Field
(Cross out books not required)
In Sydney you may also enrol through:
ANTHONY HORDERN & SON, Ltd., Brickfield Hill; MORGAN PUBLICATIONS. 26 O'Connell Street.
outgoings and providing for the next tax
bill when it arrives and other contin-
gencies, the board wrote the year’s net
result £9708 better at £79,500. That was
sufficient to cover the pref. obligation and
leave 7.1 p.c. on average ord. capital, the
rate comparing with 7.3, 7.5, 7, 7.4, 7.2,
7.4 and 7 p.c. back to 1933. Depreciation
openly struck off was £19,556, up £2564.
It’s not ?, particularly robust amount in
relation to fixed assets ; but the practice
of these, brewers is to charge considerable
renovation and renewal outlay, as well as
ordinary maintenance, against earnings.
7n the current term the 7 p.c. div. will
call for £4777 more than netted last year,
but the new money will get more of a
chance to show its paces. Costs, however,
may prove difficult to control, and there
are obviously limits, particularly in the
case of excise, to which any further pres-
sure on the tax screw can be translated
into a smaller beerglass.
At 21s. 9d. immediate yield from the
ords. is 6.4 p.c., which would appear to
allow for some shaving-down of the div.
A year ago the price was 275. 6d.
The well-supported prefs., which partici-
pate in new share issues, return 5.2 p.c.
at 20s. lid. Book value of the net tan-
gible cover is just under £7 prefs. and
225. 9d. ords.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1927.. 44,141 10 p.c.'= 24,000 15,000 85,774
1928.. 49,153 10 ~ „ 25,500 20,000 89,427
1929.. 57,403 10 „ ~ 27,500 15,000 104,380
1930.. 24,909 74 „ ~ 21,740 3,169 107,549
1931.. 23,412 74 „ „ 21,745 1,667 109,216
1932.. 22,689 74,, ~ 21,750 939 110,155
1933.. 22,551 74 „ ~21,750 801 110,956
1934.. 34,262 74 „ „ 21,750 12,512 123,468
1935.. 23,218 74 ~ „ 21,750 1,468 124,936
1936.. 29,381 10 „ ~ 29,000 381 125,317
Contingencies reserve disclosed,
£36,716 162,033
1907.. 42,674 p.c.=: 36,250 i o 494 164 457
Pension fund. £4OOO j 104,4.
1938.. 29,404 10 p.c. = 29,000 404 164,861
1939.. 29,628 10 „ „ 29,000 628 165,489
To staff funds, £3OOO .. .. 162,489
1940.. 31,803 10 p.c. = 29,000 2,863 165,352
To staff funds, £2850 .. .. 162,502
It was a highly-lucrative investment in
pre-depression days, the div. averaging
10i p.c. and £235,000 of reserves being,
transferred to capital in the 22 years to
the closing of the books in 1929. Not-
withstanding the greatly-altered con-
ditions since, it has continued a very
stable div.-payer, and the contingency
disclosure in 1937 suggests that the board
keeps a bit up its sleeve when deciding
net takings. An added investment attrac-
tion in these uncertain times is a pile
of liquids that would enable the return
of half or more of the capital, should
the board so desire, without any great
impairment to finances or earning power.
With the season in the grower’s favor,
a record wool clip was shorn last year ;
but commissions of these wool- and
produce-broking and stock-and-station
agency concerns were mainly swollen
through U.K. wool and meat purchases at
enhanced prices. Pitt, Son, which con-
fines its business to N.S.W., doesn’t dis-
close the physical or monetary volume
of its turnover, but the quantity of wool
handled set a new high level and business
in other departments was “well main-
tained.” After handing the staff a bonus
of £3878, net trading earnings lifted
£BBlO to £32,015. However, investment
income (£9849) shrank £1175 owing to
realisation of. securities —any profit or
loss was apparently adjusted through
inner reserves —while the tax provision
bumped up from £2OOO to £lO,OOO.
Allowing for an unexplained reserve
reduction of £2601 in the previous term,
there was thus only £2235 more to show
shareholders. The £31,863 was 10.9 p.c.
on capital, compared with 10, 10.1, 14.7,
10.1, 8 and 11.8 p.c. back to 1934. For
the third successive term 10 p.c. went out
-—with an appropriation of £2850 to staff
funds, visibly calling for all but £l3 of
the year’s surplus. There is no mention
of rebates to clients.
There were changes in the financial
structure:
1935. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £290,000 £290,000 £290,000 £290,000
Overdraft . . 54,304 230,435 169.181
Creditors* .. 69,030 75,399 32,611 30,426
Freeholds, etc. 154,240 154,174 154,421 155,900
Advances, etc. 90,219 161,667 282,480 319,309
Liquid assets 260,382 300,236 301,103 207,005
* Including tax reserve.
Liquids include £lOO,OOO on fixed deposit
(two-year) and £106,018 (book value) in
Government securities, the latter down
£93,982 during the year in order to re-
duce the interest-bearing debt by £61,254
and make an extra £36,829 of advances.
When the books closed advances and
liquids combined exceeded the debt by
£326,707 (up £6170).
To cope with the enlarged turnover,
the co. is erecting a modern woolstore
at Newcastle. The board also proposes
asking shareholders to contribute \ p.c.
of their dividend as a nucleus for a
fund for the benefit of staff enlistments.
This might appear a matter more for
the company itself than shareholders,
but in the ultimate it must come out
of the amount available for shareholders
either way.
For the present the Imperial wool deal,
by stabilising prices, has removed some


PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Security
Economy
Service
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Z O’Connell Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. DIBECTOBATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (Vice-
Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.0.; James Kidd; Hon. Colin A. S'inclair, M..L.A.;
A. E. Heath, C.M.G. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD.
FOR THE QUARTER ENDED BOTH JUNE, 1940.
The Estimated Mine Profit is from permitted quota sales before providing depreciation and overhead charges.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
V * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
Machinery For Sale.
OFFERS will be considered for the cash pur-
chase in situ and in its existing condition of a
quantity of Mining equipment at Black Leads,
Gulgong.
Included in above equipment is a quantity
of steam pipe and galvanised pipe and acces-
sories ; Colonial type boiler and mountings,
etc.; one Worthington Duplex pump; one
brass-fitted horizontal Duplex steam pump;
engineers’ tools; galvanised-iron buildings, etc.
Those interested should satisfy themselves by
inspection through C. Murkins, Black Leads,
and forward offers in writing before September
9 to —
E. G. F. HORNE, F.C.A. (Aust.),
44-46, Martin Place, Sydney.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
of the speculative element from wool-
broking. Chief factor now affecting
earnings is seasons, for which the out-
look at the moment leaves much to
be desired. With the long-term market-
ing position of the staple also shrouded
in uncertainty, the market therefore
prices the pound shares at 345. 6d., as
against 455. 12 months ago. The back-
ing is 31s. 2d. in net tangibles; 14s. 3d.
is represented by cash and Consols.
The Alluvial Tin Maoriland dredging
group, controlled from Sydney’s Jamie-
son-street, had a prosperous time last
year, and all three producing cos. are
now out of debt. Together, Kanieri,
Arahura and Barrytown contributed
£356,720 to the Dominion’s gold yield,
of which £197,190 was profit. J. M.
Newman, also of Tableland Tin (N.Q.)
and Ngahere (M.L.), resigned his direc-
torship of the Pratten cos. during the
year, his place being taken by J. W.
Hannan.
From a profit viewpoint, Arahura has
so far put up the best performance. But
Kanieri, because of better recoveries, is
well up in the race, and is exhausting its
property much less quickly. Here is its
production record from the beginning:
Fear Treated, Gold, Gr., Costs,
Mar., C.v. Oz. C.y. C.y. Profit.
1939 f. 542,000 4,131 3d56 4.72 d. £21,171
1940.. 2.955,000 14,548 2.34 3.76 d. 73,418
1941 f. 980,000 4,638
t Four months.
Owing to large boulders and the tightly-
packed wash, dredge capacity of 400,000
c.y. monthly has not been attained. But
a recovery last year 85 p.c. of bore in-
dications is encouraging. Of the year’s
profit £lB,OOO was absorbed by a maiden
shilling distribution and dividend tax, and
£40,000 was sent to reserves. There have
been two further shilling divs. since the
close of accounts. Boring indicated
55,000,000 c.y. of wash, recoverable
value 3.lgr. gold, so that treating, say,
250,000 c.y. monthly, there is some 17
years’ digging ahead. From 325. earlier
this year the pound ords. have slipped to
20s. buyers. Although. working surplus
for the first four months of the current
term is down to £23,470, it looks an
interesting price. At March 31, surplus
liquids amounted to £28,328.
Arahura did not commence digging
till last August; in the eight months
following the dredge turned over
2,760,000 c.y. for 11,3590 z. smelted gold,
a recovery of 1.97 gr. per c.y. Working
costs were only 2.32 d. Of the £69,789
of profit, £12,419 was used to eliminate
preliminary exes., etc., from the accounts
and £40,000 was earmarked for specific
reserves. That left £17,370 to carry
forward, from which an initial shilling
div. was paid in May. Though the dredge
has done all expected of it in the matter
of turnover, returns have been consider-
ably below the average of the property ;
but as only three bores have been cut
through a comparison between bores
and actual recoveries may be mis-
leading. The co.’s selected area was
estimated to contain 48| million c.y. of
3.2 gr. wash, indicating a remaining
10-year life at the current rate of treat-
ment. That does not include an appreci-
able yardage of low-grade material which
may also prove profitable. At balance
day more or less liquids amounted to
£32,366 and the outside debt to £13,001.
After falling to 18s. the pound shares
have recovered to 265., which is still 10s.
below this year’s high. Net earnings on
operating account this term have been at
the rate of £105,000 p.a.
At Barrytown, the recovery problem—
the gold occurs in an extremely fine state
in heavy black sand —and buried timber in
the overburden have upset original esti-
mates of monthly working profits of
£6750. Last year was the best experi-
enced, the profit of £53,982, before pro-
viding £35,000 for reserves, springing
£33,963:
•Year Treated, Gold, Gr., Costs,
Mar., C.v. Oz. C.y. C.y. Profit.
1935. . 1,3C6,"000 4,701 1.73 3.67 d. £12,102
1939.. 2,469,000 6,842 1.33 2.81 d. 20,019
1940.. 2,055,000 10,402 2.43 3.61 d. 53,982
1941 f. 856,000 2,351 1.31
f Four months.
The rich lead then being dug has since
cut out, however, and working profit for
the first four months of the current term
was only £8894. A revaluation of the
property puts remaining dredging reserves
at 15,500,000 c.y., anticipated recovery
I.sgr. Handling 2,000,000 c.y. annually,
there is thus almost eight years’ work
ahead. With surplus liquids at balance
day of £30,175, the co. is now in a posi-
tion to distribute any profits as they are
earned. A first payment of 6d. a share,
calling for £5OOO, was made in June.
* * * *
Disappointed shareholders think they dis-
cern some encouragement in the Ngahere
return for the first half of August—
-136,500 c.y. for 4560 z. bullion, or I.6gr.
per c.y. That is still well below bore
expectations, but, provided dredge turn-
over, which has also disappointed, can
be stepped up, even that grade would be
very profitable, as the experience of
Arahura Dredging, which is getting very
little better recoveries, shows. Unless
the values early expected commence to
filter through soon, it is unlikely that
they ever will.
* * * $
Ravenswood field (N.Q.) always had
its “mother lode,” which could unfail-
ingly be relied on to weigh in with dirt
carrying a few ’weights of gold. Thirty
head of stamps are now being completed
for this once-busy outpost of Charters
Towers. How the clatter of the 30-
head will please the spirit of A. L.
Wilson, who passed on when peace had
enveloped the field —it looked final —and
who as G.O.M. of the English co. had
skimmed the cream off the place for three
decades! The Sunset Spur dump is being
profitably crushed and concentrated at
present, and Ravenswood dumps are rich,
as they go, because the ore: was very
zincy, and complex, too. The syndicate
will probably reopen some of the Sunset
or Duke line of workings, but dumps are
not running short and there are always
the “buck” and “mother” lodes to fall
back on.
The Mt. Molloy Coppermine, on the
fringe of the Mareeba tobacco lands
(N.Q.), has taken a new lease of life.
Rich blocks of ore are being mined in
the upper levels of what is presumed to
be a faulted continuation of the old lode,
but which may well be a new and
parallel ore-body. Arrangements are in
hand to drill the large outcrop adjacent
to these stopes and determine the under-
ground extension of this new lode.
* * * *
Egretz and party are taking out by
opencut the low-grade chloritic slate
lode with the tiny stanniferous leads
through it at the Summer Hill mine in
the Mt. Garnet district (N.Q.). With tin
oxide around £lBO in northern districts
there’s nothing wrong with 1 p.c. grade
provided it’s big and open, and Summer
Hill is both. The lode is opened up to a
depth of 60ft., but the usual report of
values appearing to improve with depth
may be optimistic. For ores of this
type the only criterion is the mill,
though admittedly every Irvinebank tin-
miner can find the trace of brown tin on
his shovel if it’s in the ore.
■** * *
Last crushing from the New Gympie
mine (Q.) was a little better, 135 tons
averaging 6dwt. per ton. However, the
grade is not good enough for reefs up
to 2ft. wide in this ground. Two reefs,
Nos. 5 and 6, are now supplying a joint
tonnage, but the plumbago formation has
been so light-on that a creep-up in the
grade of ore is not too hopefully looked
for. This tribute group has done great
exploratory work and deserves better
returns. If it fails it is only because the
country—and not the reefs—let it down.
* * * *
During the 32 weeks to August 7
Mt. Kasi, Fiji, milled 25,490 tons for
51700 z., an average recovery of 4.o6dwt.
In the 1939 term the yield per ton was
4.4ldwt. The fall in grade this term is
more than offset by the increased price
of gold. The co. is making a profit on
its low-grade ore, and one threepenny
div. has been paid.
* * * *
Though Claude de Bernales himself
will not be directly interested in the
management of the proposed new Aus-
tralian co. to acquire Great Boulder
(W.A.), the family will be represented
on the board by E. Faye, De Bernales’s
young French son-in-law and boss of his
Westralian mining cos. and several family
enterprises. De Bernales told share-
holders at the recent annual London
meeting that in view of prevailing taxa-
tion there was little doubt that the co.,
its board and management should be in
the country in which the mine was
situated. Discussing taxation, he added
that in his opinion Governments should
waive entirely special forms of taxation
which from the point of view of common
justice were inapplicable to Australian
goldmining and substitute some regula-
tion under which all net profits of any
Australian goldmine be invested in a
special issue of Government bonds. These
could be non-interest-bearing for the
duration of war, but carry, on the de-
claration of peace, the rate of interest
then being paid on Government interest-
bearing securities. Such a provision
would allow of mine ore being graded
to extend the life of the mine, keep all
labor employed and produce continu-
ously large quantities of gold for use of
the Commonwealth Government. All of
which is rather impracticable—many
people depend for at least part of their
income from mining investments —and
quite a reversal of the tax differentiation
against which protests are at present
being made. Although a mine is a wast-
ing asset, there is no moral reason why
an already greatly-assisted mining in-
dustry should not make some financial
contribution to the national effort along
with other branches of industry. The
gold excise is just such a contribution.
* * * *
After nearly 45 years of gold-digging
and ups and downs, Norseman field
(W.A.) is not doing so badly. Upwards
of 25,000 tons is being treated monthly,
of which Norseman G.M. contributes
16,000 and Central Norseman 8000 tons.
Of the 5500-odd ounces gold produced,
these two mines furnish roughly 22000 z.
and 25000 z. respectively. A number of
small Adelaide cos. invaded the centre
some time ago, but most have retreated
in financial disorder. Groundlark, one
of those remaining, has developed the
Lily, and is crushing at regular intervals
at the State battery. In six months it
has put through 600 tons for 3500 z.
* * * *
Tindals has been guaranteed at the
bank by the Westralian Government for
£A30,000 to increase mill capacity from
6000 to 12,000 tons a month. The co.
got similar backing in 1938 to purchase
its present plant, and has since repaid
most of what it then borrowed. About
£lOOO a month is at present being spent
on development, this year’s programme
including deepening of the main shaft
from 750 ft. to 840 ft. A. J. Bensusan, an
Australian mining engineer sent from
London, recently reported on the mine
for the board.
* * * *
Owing to curtailment of ore-production
by its subsidiary Associated and Develop-
ments cos., for which it crushes and which
are concentrating on Government-
financed development, Norseman G.M.
(W.A.) handled a record quantity of its
own ore during Ju1y—16,219 tons, of
which 6190 came from Iron King. But
as ore-treatment goes up profits come
down, the latest month’s surplus being
£5500, as against £6OOO for June, when
2200 tons less was treated. In January a
profit of £11,210 was earned from 9561
tons. While most of the increased
throughput since has comprised low-
grade Iron King ore, the reversal of
results calls for fuller explanation than
the board has so far proffered. The co.,
however, is not ybt getting the full benefit
of recent plant additions.
* * * *
Having won its case for ownership
against Hannan’s Hill Amalgamated, Mt.
Charlotte has begun work on the old
Hannan’s Reward-Mt. Charlotte mines,
adjoining Kalgoorlie townsite on the east.
Drilling proved the existence of large
low-grade formations as deep as 1000 ft.,
which it is proposed to open up. Some-
thing is also said about carting thousands
of tons of ore a month to the Paringa
mill, about two miles away, for treat-
ment when the producing stage has been
reached. Hannan’s Reward and Mt. Char-
lotte separately-owned and -managed
mines then —were among the first worked
on the Kalgoorlie field.


asdgsdg
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gavler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent i A. L. Frost, Fscj., t/aunceston.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C.;
Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) : 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
“Shark caught 69 miles inland.” — News item.
It isn’t disclosed whether a sale was
effected.
4* 4 1 4*
“In a large home, should a husband help
with housework?”
Depends on the size of the wife rather
than on the size of the house.
•i- -b ►!*
“The weight-carrying record for the race is
held by Toxeuma, a high-class gappoler.” _
— “Sun.”
We called in our American interpreter
for this one, but he said it was too fast
for him.
•I*
“Professor Schneevoigt conducts orchestra
in an overcoat.” — “Argus.”
Beecham, of course, is content to wrap
himself up in his music.
+ + 4* t
Safety First.
“Girls should learn to be thrifty.”
— Women’s paper.
A modern miss, her saving grace was
saving costly bits of lace for which she’d
saved a tidy space within her glory-chest.
She saved no money, so, of course, she
had to save her own remorse and, saving
time, begin to force some chap to start
the quest. But soon romance had
done its dash. She could have saved
it but, too rash, she ordered him to save
his cash, and nagged him near to death ;
until, to save his sanity, her suitor left
while he was free. She might have landed
him if she had only saved her breath.
E.
“Clark Gable has grown a beard to play
Chopin.”— Film guff.
The scenario has probably got whis-
kers on it, too.
The great magician sadly said,
“Success has marked my life;
Nevertheless, I don’t expect
Ever to fool my wife.”
E.
*l* n* »!* *l*
“Why don’t picture theatres abolish inter-
mission?” — “D.T.” correspondent.
But surely talkie fans are entitled to
a little respite.
•b 4*
“If a man does not marry he usually has
a chain of loose love affairs.” — Women’s paper.
If he marries he just has a chain.
•I* *!* >l* *!•
“Why had the papers been taken to the old
smithy?”— “World’s News” mystery story.
In order that some signatures could
be forged most likely.
•j* *£* *l*
Question of Motive.
I’ve got no time for these moaners who
are opposed to petrol-rationing..
I consider the system doesn’t go far
enough ; it should be extended to pro-
hibit completely the use of petrol in
private cars. No one should be allowed
to burn this vital fuel for pleasure in
such a time of crisis, and most severe
penalties should be imposed on all who
contravene the law.
If only the Government would take
the necessary action in this matter I’d
have a chance of getting back Sophie
from that fellow who runs the little
coupe,
T. W. N.
Idyll.
You idolise me, eh? I’ve turned your
head
So much (you say) that you’d wax
suicidal
If l backed down ; you’d willingly be led
Through life by me as horse responds
to bridle.
You idolise me. Yes, but I have read
ldolators don’t keep their idols idle!
MISS SMITH.
Although they went to school together
And grew up children side by side,
He never dreamed how much he loved
her
Until her wealthy uncle died.
C. L.
The Forgetful Sex.
“Men are very forgetful.”— Women’s paper.
That is precisely what Maria said the
last time she forgot her key. “See if
I didn’t give it to you,” she said as she
frantically searched her bag for the third
time while we stood in the biting wind
outside our locked house. “Now I come
to think of it, I did give it to you!”
“You didn’t,” T said shortly.
“Well, look in your pockets. I’m
sure”
It wasn’t in my pockets.
“It’s all your fault,” said Maria. “Why
couldn’t you remember to bring your
key?”
I reminded her that the key now lost
was my key. I had handed it to her when
she had mislaid her own.
“If you had remembered to ask me
whether I had brought the key there
wouldn’t have been all this bother,” said
Maria. “Now I remember ; I put it on
the mantelpiece, intending to put it in
my purse. You might have reminded
me.”
“When I didn’t know?”
“I’m sure I told you. Now you’ll have
to climb in one of the windows. I
remember I left the dining-room window
open. You’ll find the step-ladder under
the house.”
When I had nearly broken my head
scrambling under the house, Maria re-
membered she’d lent it to the man next
door. Climbing up, I found the dining-
room window locked.
“It’s no use trying the bathroom. I
remember locking it,” said Maria de-
spairingly.
That gave me hope ; and, of course,
the bathroom window proved to be un-
locked. But before I could reach the
light-switch I bumped against the step-
ladder leaning against the wall.
“You ought to be ashamed of your-
self swearing like that,” said Maria as
I let her in. “Anyway, you needn’t have
worried about climbing in. I just found
both keys in the little mirror pocket in
my bag. You might have remembered
my telling you that I thought that was a
place that I was bound to remember!”
H. M.
The Ruling Passion.
In Charon’s craft, upon the tide
Of Styx, en route for Hades’ gate,
She sat untroubled till she cried,
“Oh, boatman, is my hat on straight ?”
CAEM LACK.
A Matter of Advice.
“It is a good plan to ignore ‘cheap’ advice
given over the back fence. Adoption of it
may cause damage to your plants and shrubs.
In any case, your neighbor probably knows less
about it than you.”— Article on gardening.
I was a victim like that, particularly
when I was first married and didn’t per-
haps know quite so much about garden-
ing as I do now. I remember when
Euphemia and I first went into our place
at Turrawee.
I had decided we would have a hedge
of azaleas. One day I was mulching them
heavily with stone lime, which I proposed
digging in afterwards so that the chemi-
cal action of the soil would absorb it and
so nourish the shrubs’ roots, when
Blather, my next-door neighbor, poked
his head over the fence. He had a most
annoying habit of bobbing up every few
minutes when we were both in our front
gardens and telling me what I was doing
wrongly.
“What’s that you’re putting on?” he
asked, quite rudely, I thought.
I told him.
“Don’t be Uncle Willie!” he said.
“That stuff’ll kill ’em stone dead. You
want to air-slake it first, then dust it
round ’em. A good idea to sling it over
the leaves, too. Then dig it in in a
week’s time.”
I took his advice —all except digging it
round the plants. I didn’t do this be-
cause within four days they were all dead.
Had I stuck to stone-liming I’d have
doubtless had a magnificent show. When
I told Blather so, he informed me they
had died because I planted them too deep.
I had nothing further to do with the
fellow after that until it was time to
prune my fruit trees. It was when I was
borrowing his saw and stepladder that
he told me to be sure to cut the last
year’s growth which carried the buds.
These, he assured me, were water shoots
which, if not eradicated, would kill the
tree. He said to stick to the old, tried
and trusted wood that gave the fruit last
year.
Spring came and my Elberta still had
the three main branches he told me to
leave on. There was plenty of leaves
but no fruit. After this I developed
rather a coolness towards Blather.
Shortly afterwards my cauliflowers got
the fly badly. I put fly-papers between
each plant, but that didn’t seem to stop
them much. I even sprinkled some blood
and bone over the leaves, hoping that the
smell would prove overpowering to the
insects; but apparently they possessed
strong stomachs. At last, in desperation,
I chatted Blather one Sunday morning,
as he was pruning his Iceland poppies,
for a loan of his spray pump. On telling
him what I wanted it for he asked me
what spray I proposed using.
“I’ve heard that lime-sulphur and
washing-soda is good for them,” I said,
“or am I thinking of red mite and white
scale? Anyway, it should discourage the
flies.”
“Too weak!” Blather said scornfully.
“They’d just feed on that stuff. The best
stuff is Black Leaf 40 and strychnine—
I’ve got some here you can have. I’ve
been using it on my strawberries.”
“But won’t the strychnine poison the
vegetables?” I asked.
“Of course it won’t!” he replied with
such supreme confidence that I was con-
vinced. “The little that may cling to the
head will get washed off in the first
shower or with the dew. Do it regularly
each week until the .cauliflowers are ready
to pick.”
It was with considerable pride that
some weeks later I picked the first cauli-
flower I had ever grown. It was a beauty.
It went three-quarters of a pound before
I cut the stalk. I was careful, though,
to flick a cloth over the head before I
gave it to Euphemia to cook. I was
taking no risks on any of the spray being
still left on.
It was not until the doctor had given
us both a strong emetic and eventually
pronounced us out of danger that the
truth of the idiocy in accepting advice
about gardening from one’s neighbors
was properly brought home to me. Blather
still kept it up, though, until, fed up, 1
decided to shift to another suburb.
vSo it was that we came to the garden
suburb of Warramurra. Fortunately, on
one side we have a vacant allotment, but
on the other side is a house. I’ll admit
it has not a bad garden, as gardens go ;
but the very first week-end we were there
I could see what I’d be in for.
I had bought a frangipanni in a pot
and had pulled it out and was belting
the soil from around the roots prepara-
tory to planting it when this next-door
fellow leaned over the fence.
“You’ll excuse me,” he said, “but I
think you’ve the wrong idea. Never dis-
turb the roots of a plant like that. You
want to upend the pot, tap the contents
out and put it in just as it is. And I’m
afraid this southerly aspect isn’t the best
for such a tropical shrub. It likes a
northerly position, preferably against a
protected wall.”
I determined to scotch this cheap-
advice stuff once for all, so that life in my
new place would be no incessant misery.
“Oh, it does, eh?” I barked. “And
what the hell do you think you know
about gardening? Just because you fluke
a few lousy sweet-peas every few years I
suppose you think you can give advice
to a real gardener. It’s smart Alecks like
you who mess up other people’s gardens
with unasked-for advice. I don’t want
any mug telling me how to do things.”
That night, idly twirling the radio
knob, I got on to the tail-end of a broad-
cast address, to hear the announcer say:
“That was Mr. Aubrey Ironbark, Curator
of the Botanical Gardens, giving a talk
on the pleasures of home gardening.”
“Fancy!” said Euphemia, in a thrilled
voice, “that’s the man’s name next door.
I thought I recognised his voice. You’ll
have to get a few hints about the garden
next time you see him over the fence.”
BO.


tZ7&KX?BE>B
A CAR THAT C/IJ/-FJ-7-FX MORE MILES
OUT OF EVERY CALLON OF PETROL YOU BUY
••"uTs.
n e:. i* l ' n • i
55 l« P‘ S * Q A
40 mi*:S
OOjSi-si*-
. Vau*hall
, *»
W»« ‘° or °or ? ea Va^ h3lls Sa ""
D‘ st sS -tf*/’
5\
VAUXHALL
As English as England
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL
VAUXHALL DEALER
728 Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
IfAUXHALL is the outstanding economy car in
■ Australia because it has the basic engineering
designed to extract the maximum power from every
drop of petrol. The overhead valve engine is 10%
more efficient than other types. . . . The octane
selector permits immediate adjustment for any grade
iof fuel. . . . The 6-phase carburettor saves petrol
and steps up performance . . . whilst the double
ignition control and double thermostatic control both
help to give more power from less petrol. Every
Vauxhall model has patented “T.T,” Independent
Springing, Lockheed Hydraulic Brakes, 3-speed Syn-
chromesh Gears and Body by Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LIMITED
lO h.p. ‘Wyvern’ Caleche Roadster - £255
lO h.p. ‘Wyvern’ Caleche Tourer - £259
lO h.p. ‘Wyvern ’ Saloon - - - £328
14 Convertible Coupe from - - £334
14 h.p. Happy Medium 5-6 Seater Saloon £359
Buy on the Convenient, Confidential G.M.A.C. Payment Plan
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Rough Deal
Ihe Sydney gas cos. have been
given hard treatment. Shareholders
in Australian Gas especially are the
maiden-aunt and widow type, advised
once upon a time to buy gas scrip
because it was “safe,” though never
very remunerative. Bonus issues and
other tasty extras in the past per-
missible in the case of Colonial Sugar,
Australian Glass and other concerns in-
terested in what are virtually “public
utilities” are forbidden in the case of
Australian Gas or any other N.S.W. gas
co. Nor do rights to new issues belong
to gas shareholders ; all new scrip must
be sold at auction. Divs. were limited
to 8 p.c. for many years prior to the
advent of Lang ; he had them cut down
to 6 p.c. p.a. Still, there was an all-round
i c ->-»i ■ + i •
reduction of 224- p.c. in fixed-income
- x
securities at that time (with the notable
exception of a debenture over the “Labor
Daily”), and gas cos. were not singled
out for special maltreatment, as they have
been in the preserft case by the Mair
Government
Last week Australian Gas explained the
reason for the reduction in its div. rate
from 6 p.c. to 4 p.c. in the following
t erms .
In August last year the co. exercised its
right under the Gas and Electricity Act,
1935, by making application for an in-
crease in the standard price of gas. This
application was investigated by a Board of
Inquiry, which found that the proposals
for an increase were justified and recom-
mended them for adoption, but Cabipet,
which has the final determination, advised
that the recommendation should not be
adopted.
The management has continued its close
investigation into every phase of operations
with the object of reducing costs, wherever
possible, compatible with general efficiency
and the maintenance of good service to cus-
tomers, with the result that economies have
been effected. These, however, have not
been sufficient to counterbalance the. in-
creasing costs beyond the control of the co.
The market for the shares crashed again,
Before the div. cut (but with full know-
ledge of the Government attitude) there
were sales of the A shares at £5 18s. 6d.
Last week the price was down to £5 Bs.,
yielding £4 9s. per cent. Previous “low”
was £5 Bs. 6d. per share, established dur-
ing the June market collapse. In 1939
there were sales as high as £7 12s. 6d.
It is quite clear that the investment
market considers Australian Gas scrip
under present political conditions to be
an unsafe stock to buy. Par value of
shares is £6, so that it would be im-
possible for the co. to auction new sciip
to ""“““JTmu '? “ S und + akln S;
f‘ nce the highest btd for new shares at
the moment would not be many shillings
jo
over
. . . .. „
e ca ? e Australian Gas is an ex-
ample of inequality of sacrifice. This ban
on a f 1 * P nc f of § as ™ a V curry
me political favor for the N. S. Wales
Government—the gas cos. get their m-
c r om ® nearly every metropolitan
f ami ly but ft is manifestly unfair to
those who have in gas scrip.
Even at last week’s below-par price of
£5 8s - a s hare the of £4 9 /: per
cent, to the investor is below the £4 18s.
per cent, obtainable from Metropolitan
Gas scr jp jn Melbourne, on which a
,• £ .IT • • . „ ,
of 13 p.c. is paid, a rate maintained
without interruption since the beginning
of 1929.
-i- j in- • •
The Federal Prices Commissionei,
Professor Copland, whose work it was
to stop profiteering after the outbreak of
war, h as done a good job in his field,
with the result that the increase in the
cost of living throughout the Common-
wealth has been small since September
last year—a rise of 3 p.c. or so, in fact.
But this authority has found that, in
equity to all concerned, minimum prices
as well as maximum rates have been
necessary with regard to a number of
commodities.
By forbidding the Australian Gas Co.
and North Shore Gas to increase the
price of their commodity so as to main-
tain a 6 p.c. div. —it is not even 6 p.c. to
those who bought new shares at auction
at prices from £6 10s. to £7 10s. a share
—the N. S. Wales Government has im-
posed a special tax on shareholders in
gas cos. The basic-wage-earner has had
his pay increased over the past 12
months in order to meet increased living
costs, but increased costs of gas-making
have been ignored.
In effect, Australian Gas is being
penalised for the extensions it has made
to its services over the past few years.
It has raised £750,000 of share capital,
plus' premiums, since 1936, as well as
about £500,000 of debenture and loan
money. Its chief competitor, the Syd-
ney Council’s electricity undertaking, has
also spent a lot of cash in the same time.
Apparently Australian Gas is quite con-
fident that it could still compete success-
fully with electricity on a higher price
basis. But the two undertakings are de->
cidedly a check on each other. The gas
cos. have no monopoly of power and heat
supply.
Australian merchandise exports
(£116,239,000 sterling) were only £534,000
in excess of imports (£115,705,000) dur-
ing the 1939-40 financial year. Thus the
undisclosed value of our gold production
is the only worth-while contribution to
overseas interest and similar commit-
ments for the period. This table com-
pares 1939-40 figures with those of the
preceding financial year:
Merchandise Trade.
1938-39. 1939-40.
£stg. £st§.
Exports .. 97,033,000 116,239,000
Imports .. 99,313,000 115,705,000
-2,280,000 +534,000
Bad as it is, the position is £2,814,000
sterling better on commodity figures than
in 1938-39, and gold production prob-
ably increased during the year. It may
be, also, that imports will fall during the
current year, and that more revenue
from uncompleted contracts with Britain
will come in. A lot will depend on ship-
ping facilities.
* * * *
Things that were chiefly responsible
for our swollen import figures during
1939-40 were textiles (up £4,735,000
sterling, mostly in cotton, silk and art.
silk), yarns, etc. (up £2,175,000, mainly
in bags, woolpacks and art.-silk yarns),
oils, etc. (up £3,900,000), and paper (up
£1,071,608). Total paper imported,
apart from books, etc., was £5,348,555.
* * * *
Butter exports lifted £2,589,000 Aus-
tralian in 1939-40, and when cheese, eggs,
meat, etc., are included the total value
of “foodstuffs of animal origin” exported
was £6,679,000 higher. Wheat and flour
exports were down slightly. Metals rose
£3,280,000, and wool lifted £11,460,000.
The moderate rise in the value of wool
exported shows that trade figures to June
30 did not include a substantial portion
of the clip, which, nevertheless, has been
sold to Britain.
* * He *
Menzies, the Melbourne hotel with
which Norman B. Rydge, of Sydney,
associated himself a few years back,
apparently found the going harder during
the term to June 30 last. After distri-
butions of IJ-, 2j, 3 and 4 p.c. over the
four years to 30/6/’39, ord. div. for the
latest term has dropped to 1 p.c. Con-
siderable outlay has been made on the
hotel over the past three years.
* * * *
There has been some activity in United
Provisions ords. in Melbourne. A final
div. is due for payment in October. In
1938 and 1939 there were 3 p.c. distri-
butions, and at the current market of
7s. there is a yield of £8 per cent,
on that basis. The co. is interested in the
bacon and food-canning trades, con-
trolling Hutton’s and Foggitt, Jones, and
the possibility of increased business re-
sulting from the provisioning of troops
is being considered by the market. The
co.’s 8 p.c. prefs. at 225. 6d., returning
7 p.c., have a particular attraction for
those who like pref. shares.
* * * *
The Canberra crowd seems to hate
telling the people the facts. The petrol-
rationing business is an example. Dollar
exchange, tanker space, etc., are being
mentioned vaguely and frequently,
especially the former; but only a small
part of our petrol requirements is now
coming from countries that can’t be paid
in sterling. The Netherlands Indies and
the Persian Gulf provide most of our
supplies at present (Abadan is actually
closer to Fremantle than San Francisco
is to Sydney), and during the 1939-40
financial year we imported £7,644,000-
worth (sterling) of petroleum as against
£5,658,530-worth in the preceding year
in spite of the fall in consumption in this
country. . Increased importing costs, of
course, probably added to the total value,
but there seems to have been no falling-
off in volume of imports even if the rise
in value is not entirely what it seems. As
to tanker-space—well, Britain became
possessed of a lot of extra tankers when
the Continent was overrun. It seems
that the real problem about petrol sup-
plies centres in what may happen in the
future to trade routes between Australia
and “sterling” oilfields. If any interrup-
tions occur along those routes we may
have to go to the U.S.A. for most of our
requirements again, and in that case
dollars will be necessary.
Canberra never gets down to bedrock,
otherwise it would force an amalgamation
of all metropolitan retail delivery services
and do something about milk and bread
motor-deliveries. Also it would investi-
gate State transport departments running
buses on imported oil instead of trolley-
buses or trams on electricity gener-
ated from Australian coal. Restric-
tions on pleasure-motoring are not oul
of place, nor are those on driving to busi-
ness where a public conveyance exists ;
but restriction of industrial transport is
a very serious thing. Industrial trans-
port and power-farming will both be hit
by petrol-rationing in the form now offi-
cially favored.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam’s final div. disappointed
the sharemarket. Of p.c., it made
6y p.c. for the year, against 7f p.c. in
1938-39. Quotes fell to the region ot
305., after 335. 3d. The yield at 30s. 6d.
would be 4.3 p.c. so long as the div.
stays at p.c.


LET '
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
pisliiw
jjgr-r-.
in
m§
Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
rl * e or , upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BmLDINGiS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
v' B EAT H, Manager, N.S.W.
_ j Y" ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensla;d Branch; Eagle Street, Brisbane.
«° U ieLn' JS A Bran ch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide
virtmia/if' Esplanade, Perth.
Yictouan Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
NORMAN TRENERY,
juanagtr f or Australia and Npw Zealand.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!. PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0. 0
RESERVE CAPITA!, 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
'General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
EVERY YARD OF HARRIS TWEED WOVEN BY HAND
There is only one place in the world
where Harris Tweeds are made, the
Outer Hebrides, those lonely wind-swept
Islands on the West of Scotland. Here,
hand-weaving has been carried on for
centuries ... an art handed down from
generation to generation.
HARRIS TWEED
BECAUSE of its pure wool content, its sturdy strength and hard-wearing
qualities, Harris Tweed is particularly suited to present-day conditions.
Apart from considerations of utility and economy the wide range of colours
and bright designs now available makes Harris Tweed most attractive..
There need be no misgivings as to the genuineness of Harris Tweed. The
Harris Tweed Trade Mark has been registered by order of the Board of Trade.
All tweed which bears this mark is made to-day in
exactly the same way as before the War. It is a definite
assurance that the tweed has been made entirely in
the Outer Hebrides, the home of Harris Tweed,
from pure Scottish wool and has been hand-woven at
the homes of the islanders.
In the case of garments the label of the Harris Tweed
Association is a guarantee that the garment has been
made from stamped Harris Tweed.
mm
mm
mm
mm
mm
m
m
m
m
m
W
%m.
LOOK FOR THE MARK ON THE CLOTH
LOOK FOR THE LABEL ON THE GARMENT
Issued by The Harris Tweed Association Ltd., 5 Coleman Street, London, E.C.2
Commonwealth Hemp
The Bulletin, at the request of more
than one shareholder, on a past occasion
tried to obtain information concerning
the Commonwealth Hemp Corporation
from the co.’s offices in 14 Martin-place,
Sydney. George S. Hoi burn, a director,
and a man named Spiegel were inter-
viewed. This paper’s representative was
told that the Hemp Corp. and its asso-
ciates were having difficulty in getting
started in paper-production from kuru-
kuru grass near Collingwood Bay, Man-
dated Territory, owing to political and
financial difficulties. “English capital”
that had been spoken of in 1936 had not
come forward in big, round sums. No
balance sheets or other documents relat-
ing to the cos. were forthcoming, though
it was suggested to Mr. Holburn that
copies would be appreciated.
It was explained to The Bulletin that
in the interval of waiting for the paper
venture to “come good” the co. was tak-
ing on refugees from Europe and putting
them to work in new crafts, such as
fountain-pen manufacture. The direc-
tors seemed pleased with themselves
about this aspect of their activities. But
on the matter of financial facts and
figures it was a case of “nothing doing.”
Very little further information con-
cerning Commonwealth Hemp came into
this office for some considerable time
afterwards except in connection with the
investigations made by shareholders and
others into the affairs of the co. Their
investigations were mainly, of course,
from the outside, and when all was said
and done they were very little further
ahead than when they started as to the
value of Commonwealth Hemp shares.
One interested party who looked into
some records at Canberra did mention
interlocking share-interests, big share-
issues for consideration other than cash,
and a connection with the old Australian
and N.Z. Banking Corp.
Last week, however, the co.’s position
broke into the news through the medium
of Sydney Central Summons Court.
Some aspects of the case tried may or
may not be of interest to shareholders
in Commonwealth Hemp Corp. But
three directors of the co. —G. S. Holburn,
Michael Spiegel and Edward R. White—
were particularly concerned. They and
Commonwealth Hemp were fined a total
of £1370 for not making income-tax
returns.
According to R. Ashburner, counsel for
the Taxation Department,
the co. in 1936 had a net assessable income
of more than £35,000, on which the tax
payable was over £7OOO. For the 10 years
1930 to 1939 Holburn had a total assessable
income of over £43,000, and the total tax
payable was over £11,500. During the
eight years he did not furnish returns
Spiegel's total assessable income was about
£22,000, and the total tax payable was
about £6OOO. White’s total income for six
years was nearly £4OOO, and the total tax
payable was about £3BO.
These defendants are company promoters.
They are all directors in a string of com-
panies—the defendant company, the British
Australian Fibre Co., Ltd., the British Aus-
tralian Pulp and Paper Co., Ltd., and
Issuing Houses of Australia, Ltd. They
have made thousands of pounds out of it,
and have extracted tens of thousands of
pounds from unwary investors in country
districts.
Mr. Barwick (for the defendants): That
statement is neither true nor can it be
proved. We are pleading guilty to the in-
formations alleging failure to furnish re-
turns, and these allegations against my
clients are outside the scope of the prose-
cution.
The Magistrate : I am concerned only
with the income and the failure to provide
returns.
Continuing, Mr. Ashburner said:
These men are not simpletons. Carrying
on the business of company promoters, they
have made tens of thousands of pounds and
have failed to furnish returns. Assessments
were made on the incomes of these men
only when they first became known to the
Taxation Department as the result of a
police investigation of the affairs of these
companies.
I press for the maximum penalty, since
the assets of the company are negligible.
It is most unlikely that the State will be
able to recover much from these men as
the result of the arbitrary assessment.
Defendants’ counsel then pointed out
to Scobie, S.M., that police investigations
begun 10 months ago had produced
noth ; ng against the three directors, and
no charges had been made. “During the
difficult years of the co.’s formation de-
fendants had no cash income such ,as is
shown in the informations,” said Mr.
Barwick. “They put back into the co.
£16,000.” He further explained that, after
a consultation with the Tax Commissioner
in 1937, the defendants thought they
could defer making further returns until
the flotation was complete and the profit,
if any, determined.
On these court proceedings The
Bulletin will make only one comment,
and it is that it will be donkey’s years
before the general body of shareholders
in the Commonwealth Hemp group will
need to worry about taxation of their
income from the various ventures.
After touching 108.71 on Aug. 9, the
Sydney index of representative ord.
shares recovered to 109.55 by Aug. 16.
There was a gradual improvement during
most of last week, with a few outstand-
ing rises, though on Friday business was
almost at a standstill. Here is the usual
comparison:
Jan. June Aug. Aug.
31. 29. 9. 16.
Bank of N.S.W. .. £29.0 £24.9 £25.0 £24.7
National (£5) .. £6.1 £5.1 £5.5 £5.6
Carlton Brewery .. 68/- 55/- 57/9 60/
C.-Perkins .. .. 22/- 17/9 19/6 19/6
Tooth .. .. 52/3 43/9 46/3 47/-
Metropolitan Gas ..£13.5 £12.8 £13.4 £13.1
Q’land Insurance .. 58/- 49/- 49/- 49/-
Associated News ~ 16/6 10/6 10/8 11/-
Melb. “Herald” ..57/- 43/- 47/6*47/-
Adelaide Steam .. 36/- 27/6 31/ 30/6
Huddart, Parker .. 59/9 48/6 51/- 50/-
Australasian Paper.. 34/3 23/-* 26/9 26/9
A. 38/3 30/9 32/6 34/6
Bradford Cotton .. 37/6 28/- 33/- 33/-
B. Prop 49/6* 39/9 40/- 40/9
Burns, Philp .. 54/- 49/6 49/- 49/-
Colonial Sugar .. £50.6 £46.2 £46.2 £46.3
David Jones .. 33/6 23/6 28/6 28/9
Drug Houses .. 26/6 23/- 24/3 24/6
Electrolytic Zinc ..58/9 40/6 45/- 45/6
Fairymead Sugar .. 37/- 31/6 33/6 33/6
Felt and Textiles .. 38/9 29/6 34/- 35/6
G. J. Coles.. ..74/3 52/6 60/- 59/-
Henry Jones .. 56/6 48/- 51/3 51/3
Howard Smith .. 24/3 19/ 19/3 19/4
Kandos Cement ..29/9 24/- 27/6 27/6
Meggitt .. .. 29/- 24/6 27/6 27/9
Winchcombe, Carson 28/- 23/6 23/9 24/
Woolworths.. .. 22/9 13/4 15/- 15/6
W. R. Carpenter .. 45/6 32/6 35/- 35'/
Yarra Falls .. .. 42/- 37/6 39/- 40/6
North B.H 47/6 30/6 34/3 34/6
B.H. South.. ..29/9 20/3 23/3 23/6
New B.H 20/- 10/- 12/6 12/4
Mt. Lyell .. ..32/- 22/6-25/3 25/6
* Ex issue.
Breweries have recovered some of their
“spirits,” Carlton particularly. Adelaide
Steam weakened following announce-
ment of the lower div. Aust. Consoli-
dated Industries moved up 2s. during the
week, while Felt and Textiles ords. firmed
Is. 6d. Yarra Falls shares at 40s. 6d.
were Is. 6d. higher. More representa-
tive of the general humor of the market
was a rise of 6d. in Electrolytic Zinc.
*, * * *
“The country might just as well
pay higher taxes as pay higher prices
under inflation,” Professor Copland
said in an address to the Economic
Society last week. Though one is not
precisely the alternative to the other, it
is a fact that financing ,war on inflation-
ary lines instead of through the obvious
method—taxation —means disguised rob-
bery of the taxpayer. In addition,
inflation would not obviate the necessity
for taxation, whereas open acknowledg-
ment of war’s cost through adequate
taxation does counter inflationary ten-
dencies.
The Prices Commissioner, in his ad-
dress, made reference to the type of
economist Sydney “Sun” is fond of hiring
for special articles in its Thursday (shop-
ping-ad.) edition:
It is ridiculous to assume that we can
enter into conflict with past-masters in the
art of total warfare and to imagine that
we can retain and enjoy the comforts and
semi-luxuries of peace-time. Yet at present
determined efforts are being made to pre-
vent these economic adjustments from being
effected.
We are gradually moving towards the
Nazi conception of total warfare. We have
no alternative, even if we must pass through
controversy, doubt and disputation. The
greater part of modern warfare is behind
the lines, and the job of any leader is more
difficult than in any previous war, because
modern fighting forces cannot be main-
tained without a great disturbance of the
whole economic life of the country.
Another reference was made to financial
methods Germany is using in fighting
the Empire:
For the first time in history Govern-
ments are endeavoring to fight the war
without inflation. We have expanded credit
to some extent. One lesson that the Ger-
mans have given to the world is that in-
flation can be controlled if the rest of the
economic system is also controlled. The
Nazis controlled everything, and behind
it they were able to make a successful ex-
pansion of credit to the end of 1938.
After the end of 1938, when Dr. Schacht
pointed out that inflation can be con-
trolled only so long as there are idle men
and idle materials in a country, he was
dismissed.
Wilcox, Mofflin’s div. of Is. 6d. per
13s. 6d. share, equalling 13.6 p.c., took
the sharemarket by surprise. Last sale
prior to the announcement was at ss. 6d.,
but there was business at Bs. last
week. The hides market was thrown
out of gear soon after the outbreak of
war by anomalous treatment of hides
merchants and tanners as regards ex-
ports, but the position improved later,
though with the Continent now closed
to imports the future of prices isn’t clear.
In the term to June 30, 1938, Wilcox,
Mofflin incurred a loss of £91,391. A
profit of £4120 was shown in 1939. Last
week’s div. announcement was ahead of
the 1940 accounts.
* * * *
Berlei, Ltd., the Australian corset co.,
has slightly bettered the 1938-39 profit
in its latest term. Business was main-
tained in all States and M.L., though the
U.K. subsidiary recorded slightly lower
sales. Increased taxation has to some
extent been met by operating economies.
Ord. div. stays at 10 p.c. The shares at
325. return 6.3 p.c.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“AMERICAN WHITE PAPER.”
[This exposition of United States foreign policy as
it affects U.S.A. war attitude and affected President
Roosevelt’s efforts to preserve peace is condensed from a
London “Fortnightly” article by Professor R. B. Mowat,
the author basing his analysis on a book called
American White Paper, by Joseph Alsop and Robert
Kintner, published by Simon and Schuster, New York.]
The British public has never had a clear con-
ception of American foreign policy. A people fight-
ing for existence or at any rate for its “way of life”
—and incidentally for the way of life of all free
peoples —is apt to say, sometimes with irritation,
“Sympathy is not enough.” A timely publication,
called the American White Paper, gives to all who
can read the opportunity of understanding. It is
not an official “white paper,” but the work of two
Washington journalists who are obviously extremely
well informed, and who have made a careful docu-
mentation of Mr. Roosevelt’s policy, not only from
published but also it appears, from unpublished
sources.
United States policy is determined by history.
The American Revolution was made in order to
detach the Americans from the politics of Europe.
Washington and Jefferson advised them, in words
which have become tradition and principle, not to
depart from this detachment. President Monroe’s
Message to Congress erected “non-intervention” into
a doctrine. It is within the limits inexorably set by
these things that the most enlightened statesmen’s
policy must operate.
Mr. Roosevelt labored—as the record indicates —
literally night and day to avert the impending catas-
trophe, but all the time he had to operate within
the limits of neutrality, non-intervention, isolation, of
an age-long political “flight from Europe.” Through
the cables and the telephones he was con-
stantly in touch with the European situation.
Speaking over the wires, “Almost daily he
asked Bullitt and Kennedy, Hugh Wilson in
Berlin and William Phillips in Rome, ‘ls
there anything we can do to help?’ Regu-
larly the answer came back, ‘Not without
making some commitment.’ ” Now, to make
a commitment was precisely what the Presi-
dent could not do. Accordingly, he was
left with just one line of action, of incon-
ceivable difficulty, to undertake and maintain
a “peace-offensive” by persuasion, nothing
but persuasion.
At the State Department, the meetings
in Hull’s room never ceased. From early
morning until late evening, the Department’s
leading men talked over the incoming dis-
patches and asked themselves the same
baffling question the President asked his
ambassadors. Berle, the Assistant Secretary
of State, called them the death watch over
Europe.
Within the limits imposed by “do-
nothingism” the President pursued his peace-
offensive. He gave all his support to the
Chamberlain-Daladier effort to avert war in
September, 1938. Before Tuesday, September
27, 1938, the President had already sent
messages to the European Powers, but
without effect, and by that date “war seemed
as imminent as ever.” It was then that the
President determined to send a personal
message to Signor Mussolini urging him to increase
his pressure for peace, and another message
to Hitler. The President, Hull, Welles and Berle sat
all through the afternoon and evening of September
29 working on the drafts, calling Bullitt and Kennedy
over the Atlantic telephone.
As the President was revising the answer to Hitler, a
report came in that the Germans might march in the
night, forcing a war to no purpose. For a moment the
President showed real anger. But the report was still
speculative, and there was no time to lose. Doubtful
points were rapidly crossed out; phrases were care-
fully pruned which might make the two messages any-
thing but direct appeals for peace. By 9 p.m. Hull,
who was exhausted, was able to go home. Half an hour
later the President had edited and signed both papers.
The late summer evening was just beginning to show
when Welles and Berle crossed the narrow street dividing
the White House from the Department, to go again
to the cable room and watch hopeful words being flashed
across the ocean.
If there are still any Americans who “blame”
Chamberlain and Daladier for Munich they are
singularly misinformed.
Down to the opening of the war the President
and Mr. Hull conducted their peace-offensive on
the base of two positive proposals for reducing tension
and solving the European crisis: reduction of tariffs
and reduction of armaments. The European de-
mocracies obviously could accept these proposals, but
Nazi Germany would not. The basic principles of
Mr. Roosevelt’s peace-offensive were the antithesis
of Nazi principles, for, as Mr. Walter Lippmann has
remarked, totalitarian government must keep its
citizens on war economy otherwise it will cease to
exist. So that approach had no success. Mr. Hull
succeeded in negotiating 21 trade agreements, but
never one with Germany.
Munich averted war in September, 1938, but a
few weeks more showed that to regard it as a long-
term peace settlement was pure illusion. “To the
President, Hull and Welles, our interest seemed clear.
We must prevent war if possible, and, if war proved
inevitable, we must do our best to assure victory for
the other democracies.”
There was no doubt about what we had to do; the
question was how to do it. We had the power to do
anything. Great, rich enough, strong enough, we might
easily substitute a Pax Americana for the seemingly
crumbling Pax Britannica under which we and the world
had known reasonable comfort for so long. Or, safe
at home behind our oceans, we might bolster the
British and French with our naval and air power. Or,
without risking a war, we might throw our vast indus-
trial resources into the balance. Merely by signing a
scrap of paper committing ourselves to one of these
courses we might perhaps keep the peace, and for so
doing exact a splendid price from the democracies of
Europe. But, while we had the power, our people
continued to lack the will. Clear though our interests
seemed, the President dared not assert our influence,
utter a threat or offer a commitment for fear of the
political consequences.
A peace-offensive “short of war” was not much
good against a Hitler Government. The only promis-
ing approach was in regard to the Neutrality Act.
Repeal could make it mean something that Hitler
and his advisers could understand. In November,
1938, the President, Hull and Welles decided to
attempt repeal in the next session of Congress. Yet
they realised that even this was, though important,
not a very big thing ; it did not amount to a really
strong and solid peace-offensive. The peace-offensive
—the effort to cow Hitler into peacefulness on which
the President, Hull and Welles had also decided in
their talks after Munich was strictly an ersatz
policy in which every move had to be carefully calcu-
lated for maximum effect in Germany and minimum
effect in the still-isolationist United States.
To obtain a repeal of the Neutrality Act required
time and much labor, preparatioh, conferences with
Senators and Congressmen. Meantime a day-to-day
peace-offensive could be kept up in Berlin:
Hugh Wilson was instructed to seize every informal
opportunity to instil in the mind of the Wilhelmstrasse
the thought that further German aggression would
cause the gravest repercussions in the United States.
Bullitt in Paris, Kennedy in London, and other Ameri-
can envoys in other capitals were always ready with
the same opinion for any German ear. In Washington,
State Department officials repeatedly warned members
—“Daily Mirror,” London.
PRIDE OF POSSESSION.
of the German embassy staff against miscalculating this
country’s future course. Thus, without any formal
steps being taken, the Wilhelmstrasse was constantly
being worked upon to accept the desired view.
The Wilhelmstrasse, however, had been often
privately worked upon before this, without any
obvious result. Accordingly, the President seized any
opportunity that prevented itself for some public and
striking demonstration of his attitude. When in
November, 1938, the murder by a Jew of an attache
of the German embassy in Paris produced more than
usually frightful proceedings in Germany against the
Jews, Mr. Roosevelt recalled the American ambas-
sador from Berlin. Further, on November 15, he
issued a statement: “I myself could scarcely believe
that such things could occur in a twentieth-century
civilisation.”
On January 3, 1939, the President met Congress
and delivered his message about the Neutrality Act:
Words may be futile, but war is not the only means
of commanding a decent respect for the opinions of
mankind. There are many methods short of war, but
stronger and more effective than mere words, of bring-
ing home to aggressor Governments the sentiments of
our people. At the very least, we can and should avoid
any action, or lack of action, which will encourage or
assist an aggressor.
But it was not until the war had actually broken out
that public opinion was sufficiently stirred and edu-
cated to permit the repeal bill to be carried, and
even then the cash-and-carry clause had to be incor-
porated to meet the isolationists.
The German seizure of Czechoslovakia showed
to the President and his advisers how hampered they
were by the limits of their peace-offensive. Yet they
could do nothing. In private “Welles called the
seizure of Prague the first unshaded instance of open
thievery, confessing to the President that it almost
made him sick to be unable to give public vent to
his feelings.” On April 14 (1939) the President asked
Mussolini and Hitler for an explicit assurance that
they would not attack any one of 31 ccvuntries which
he mentioned by name including Great Britain,
France, Norway, Sweden, Holland and Belgium. He
had to wait for answers. Mussolini’s came first, an
unfinished sentence in a speech. Hitler’s was a long
oration to the Reichstag attacking the President.
As the impending catastrophe came nearer the
White House State Department group could do little
more than watch. The Neutrality Bill was still on
the statute-book; “with embargo unrepealed, this
country’s voice had little authority.” Yet a final plea
for peace seemed “a necessary gesture.” When the
Russo-German pact was announced in Berlin, the
President sent a message to the King of Italy, and
two “last chance” messages to Hitler and Poland’s
President Moscicki, urging them to use every resource
of negotiation to compose their differences. Moscicki
at once answered, declaring complete readiness to
negotiate. Hull, Welles and Berle went over with this
answer to the White House. All realised that now
only one man had the power to decide the future
of the world. They agreed to communicate Moscicki’s
answer to Hitler, suggesting that if he too would
negotiate all might yet be well. The President, how-
ever, expressed what was really in their minds when
he declared: “At any rate, this puts the issue squarely
up to Germany, which no one bothered to do in
1914.”
Since the opening of hostilities the President has
not abandoned a policy which is admittedly aimed at
assisting the democracies by means short of war.
When the repeal of the embargo was going through
Congress there were many arguments for repeal, but
none of them mentioned the core of the matter, that
repeal would help the British and French. Senator
Warren R. Austin, a Republican, remarked to the
President: “If you want my opinion, I think we
should indicate our purpose to support the democ-
racies, and legislate with that in mind.” To this the
President answered: “I’m glad to hear you say that,
but I can’t say it myself.”
Since that time American opinion has
swung further in favor of the Allies. The
terrible thrust into France affected Americans
profoundly. The entry of the Italians into
the war at the most agonising moment for
France aroused Mr. Roosevelt to the plain-
est speaking:
The people and Government of the United
States have seen with the utmost, urgent and
grave disquiet the decision of the Italian
Government to engage in the hostilities now
raging in Europe... .The sympathies of the
American republics lie with those nations
which are giving their lifeblood in combat
against the gods of force and hate....We
will extend to the opponents of force the
material resources of this nation, and at the
same time we will harness and speed up the
use of those resources in order that we our-
selves in the Americas may have equipment
and training equal to the task of any
emergency. All roads leading to the accom-
plishment of these objectives must be kept
clear of obstructions. We will not slow down
or make any detour. The signs and signals
call for speed—full speed ahead.
All-in Nazi Propaganda.
(Condensed from an article in London
“Economist.”)
By playing off groups against each other
—fomenting Communism, for example, to
frighten the business world into submission
and promising to destroy capitalism in order
to content the “little man” —Hitler under-
mined German society before he captured it.
His policy with other societies has been no different.
There is not a body politic in the world whose spiritual
defences are not being felt and tested by the Nazi
propaganda machine. The weak spots of treachery,
cowardice, avarice or honest prejudice are carefully
marked. At the appointed time the flying columns
of bribery, lies, threats and promises are launched and
the bridgeheads fall.
The Nazis do not, in the first place, seek to con-
vince. Their aim is to create an atmosphere in which
half-submerged phobias, hates and fears can be
brought to the surface and there guided towards the
desired end. They play on prejudice, increase distrust,
whisper suspicion, sow doubt. They act as a dissol-
vent force on principle, faith and honest conviction.
It is an incredibly skilful exploitation of psychology,
of the semi-unconscious instincts of the human mind.
The Nazis have probably scored their easiest tri-
umphs by exploiting human vice and weakness. Their
commercial penetration has been powerfully aided by
bribing important businessmen into profitable but
illegal operations and then using the threat of exposing
this illegality to turn the frightened industrialist into a
Nazi agent. There is hardly a Balkan country which
does not offer examples of this method. Dissatisfied
ambition has also played an important part, especially
once the possibility of German domination of Europe
turned to certainty. Many men prefer a position of
quasi-authority under German rule to obscurity under
their own national Government. Major Quisling is
an example of this, and a host of other instances could
be cited in the Low Countries or South America.
The exploitation of vice is not, however, either
the most horrifying or most skilful side of Nazi propa-
ganda. The Nazis have secured their greatest suc-
cesses by exploiting honesty. Any society is divided
and subdivided into different groups of interest or
opinion. Between the various groups, tension exists.
Where the differences go deep, as, for example, with
racial differences or economic cleavages, the tension
can be great enough to destroy social cohesion. It is
the Nazis’ first aim to make use of all these differ-
ences, and by increasing tension to cracking point to
create a moment of anarchy in which the intervention
of extraneous force is welcomed by some while the
rest are powerless to resist. In the early years of
Nazidom, national differences were most fully exploited.


not only among German groups outside the Reich, but
Czech against Slovak, Magyar against Rumanian, or
Serb against Croat. For the last year or so, however,
the differences played upon have been mainly in the
sphere of ideology and of the economic and social
ferment from which the ideologies have sprung.
Two of the strongest motive forces in the Europe
Hitler found were hatred of capitalism and fear of
Communism. He has made good use of both. Right
Wing groups have been encouraged to look to him as
the bulwark of Western civilisation, and Spain and. to
a lesser extent and more cynically, Italy have been
brought into his orbit on this basis. But the Com-
munism from which he offered to protect timid indus-
trialists, Right Wing Catholics, traditionalists and Con-
servatives was, more often than not, being backed by
Nazi funds and carried on by Nazi agents provoca-
teurs. The play on these rival fears was so skilful
that Hitler has actually brought off the tour de force
of keeping intact, simultaneously, the Anti-Comintern
Front and the Pact of Friendship with Russia. France,
today, is a pitiful example of this technique. Since
the beginning of the war, Thorez, the Communist
leader, has been in Germany, and German propa-
ganda among the French troops has followed the lines
of “plutodemocratic capitalist Britain” and “Germany
linked with revolutionary Russia for the destruction of
world capitalism.” On the other hand, the Petain
Government, like the Franco Government, represents
those forces of the Right which prefer the European
hegemony of Germany to collaboration with the
“Liberal-bourgeois-Socialist democracy of Great
Britain, carrier of Bolshevism.”
Nor is the chronicle ended with Right and Left.
The British imperialist who thinks that Ehrope is no
concern of Britain’s finds an enthusiastic response
and more support than he is aware of in Berlin. The
American isolationist who prides himself on his power
of resistance to Allied propaganda is permeated with
Germany’s. The pacifist who, with religious convic-
tion, denounces the wickedness of war may well find
his honest peace propaganda sheet financed out of
Nazi funds. At another level, groups and societies
of every sort —anti-vivisectioners, missionary societies,
health and sports and beauty leagues—can find them-
selves being used as centres for a propaganda of which
they are almost unconscious.
The aim of Nazi propaganda is to exacerbate dif-
ferences, fan hostility, breed distrust and create fear.
Its business is to see that men are divided from their
fellows, that interests clash and differences of opinion
grow into the conflicts of rival fanaticisms. The unity
of democratic society, which is above all a unity of
tolerance and balance, is peculiarly vulnerable to a
propaganda which threatens to destroy both. To sap
our moral resistance first is a condition of any Nazi
victory, but this is a front on which we are all mobi-
lised for the fight. Here, in a valid sense, it is a people’s
war where “nothing but ourselves can beat us.”
Mussolini’s Ambitions.
(From a London “National Review” article.)
When people are disagreeably taken by surprise
they get angry. This has been the case with the Eng-
lish in regard to Italy. They remember the very great
help they gave to Victor Emmanuel and Garibaldi, the
support they gave to Italian arms in 1916, and they
forget the bitter little war of sanctions they themselves
waged against Italy in 1935, an injury which, in the
eyes of Mussolini, wiped out all the earlier benefits.
The folly of our sanctionists has come home to roost;
we are at war with Italy, with whom we would rather
be at peace.
More than this, the rift since 1936 between Italy
and England is the direct cause of a certain amount
of Mussolini’s megalomania. While he was with us
some proportion of aim had to be kept, but once we
had flung him into the arms of Germany all his vanity
was ministered to. It was in 1936 that we saw the
beginning of his loss of judgment. It is now com-
plete. He is the heir of the Caesars, Italy is the com-
ing Empire and all the rest of it.
What are Mussolini’s new ambitions? They are
simple and vast. A writer in the “Times” has given
an analysis of them. The writer thinks that in assur-
ing Switzerland, Yugoslavia, Turkey, Egypt and
Greece, as he did, that he has no hostile intentions
towards them, Mussolini was simply copying Hitler’s
technique of assurances to those he is not —at the
moment —going to attack. The Italian dictator, like
his German brother, does not want to have to fight
on several fronts ; he wishes, therefore, to have as few
enemies as possible at a time.
Yet dominion over the whole Mediterranean,
east as well as west, is known to be one of
the most dearly cherished of Mussolini’s
ambitions ; and exponents of his policy have
openly admitted that he is determined to gain
Dalmatia from Yugoslavia at the first favorable
opportunity.
In the speech in which he declared war,
Mussolini used one very significant phrase:
“We are taking up arms after having solved
the problem of our land frontiers to settle that
of our sea frontiers.” What does this mean?
According to the “Times” article, it is nothing
less than control of both exits of the Mediter-
ranean:—-
Ever since the sanctions period, which
brought home to him his dependence on the
raw materials that come from outside it, it has
become an obsession to him to command the
Straits of Gibraltar or Suez or both; and
the obsession has visibly grown acuter under
the pressure of the Allied contraband control.
Hence his exclamation to the crowd on the
Piazza Venezia that his people were being
“strangled in our sea,” and that “a people of
45,000,000 inhabitants is not truly free if it
has not a free passage over the ocean.” The
words are meaningless unless they are inter-
preted in the sense of Italian domination at
Gibraltar and Suez.
•he Italian claims on Corsica and Malta
have been definitely stated. “Tunis, Nice,
Corsica” is a battle cry, and Mussolini is prob-
ably relying on some arrangement with Hitler
to get these. But he does not trust Hitler too
much. He has powerfully fortified the Brenner.
All the same he believes, says the “Times”
article, that he has a personal ascendancy
over Hitler. So, we may remark, did Mr. Chamber-
lain, but the Italian is shrewder and far more fitted to
deal with the German than our ex-Premier. He is
watching Germany bleed in this war with consider-
able satisfaction: who knows what may happen or
what he may stand to win in a stalemate? Such are
his thoughts. It is well we should try to understand
them.
“Frantic Boast and Foolish Word.”
(Condensed from a London “Weekly Review’’ article
by Sisley Huddleston.)
In this solemn moment I am impelled to make an
appeal for the telling of the plain unvarnished truth
by our newspapers, radio speakers and Ministers. Eng-
land has been fed on a mess of illusions and of lies.
The press has been assailed, with reason, but the
trouble goes much deeper than the press. Once it
was possible, by adopting the appropriate tone, to
repeat the same thing in the Conservative and in the
Liberal press, but suddenly something snapped. The
fanaticism of partisan propaganda seized the press.
It was considered proper to write and to print only
that which served the “cause”—whatever that might
l° regard even news about our nearest neigh-
bors in the light of prejudices, opinions and wishes.
My own feeling is that this is not a result of
commercialisation’ ; editors and journalists are them-
selves responsible for what they have made of the
press. They have not a sufficient sense of responsi-
bility, of duty to the public, to the country ; they
have been given their heads, and have lost them.
I remember, during the reign of the Front Popu-
late in France, when it was obvious that a dreadful
price would have to be paid for this political orgy,
asking a younger colleague who represented a very
important English newspaper of the Left persuasion
why he did not honestly try to inform his readers of
what was happening. (The Conservative as well as
Radical British press was daily filled with eulogies of
this Communist-Socialist-Radical combination.) He
replied: “It is my job to stick up for our side, and to
balance the lies told by the other side.” I did not
notice either lies or truth on the other side. There was
no other side—or it was such a little side. But let
that pass. The point is that this correspondent be-
lieved it was his function to lie, either by commission
or by omission, in the interests of a side. To me that
is the negation of journalism: at least of the journal-
ism I have known.
This view is, I believe, typical. It has not been
imposed by proprietors, advertisers or business
managers: it has been evolved by journalists them-
selves. I think it is one of the reasons —perhaps the
principal reason—why we are at war, and why we
have hitherto conducted the war so badly. But the
roots of the evil, the keeping of the public in ignor-
ance about fundamental things, the pandering to mass
passions, the creation of “ideologies,” the manufacture
of personalities,” run deeper: they lie in the general
acceptance of the morality, and the desirability, of
what is called propaganda. There is no more straight
writing or straight news: there is only propaganda.
And this is a general demand, a universal reversal of
values; and the journalist turned propagandist is
only a symptom, a sign of the times, a reflection
of his age.
After Daladier fell, as every well-informed person
knew he would fall, Hannen Swaffer, one of the best-
known English journalists, returned from France with
first indications of how the French censorship
operates in keeping the British public in ignorance of
France s internal affairs. He asked three experts on
f or f lgn . ai . r . s m London if, before the event, they
kad any inkling of it, and all of them replied in the
negative. Now this struck me as deplorable, but it had
nothing to do with the censorship. It was, as Dr.
Johnson said, sheer ignorance, madam”: and I can-
nelp thinking that it was self-induced ignorance,
— "Star,” London.
"Blimey, Churchill’s secret weapon! Wotcher, Digger!”
for if one persists in closing one’s eyes to the truth it
would seem that one eventually becomes unable to
recognise the truth.
The press did not wait for war, or for censorship,
to cultivate a systematic ignorance. The truth was
never told about sanctions ; there was only propa-
ganda about sanctions. The truth was never told about
the Spanish Civil War; there was only propaganda
about the Spanish Civil War. The truth about Russia
and her hostility to the capitalist countries was care-
fully concealed, and the truth about the Moscow nego-
tiations has not yet been told ; there has only been
propaganda about Russia. Nearly all journalism is
now twisted to propagandist purposes. Everything must
be seen from some “ideological” viewpoint, or be dis-
torted by wishful thinking.
It will be fatal if the press continues to cultivate
ignorance and to disregard realities.. For so we shall
blunder on, and each new surprise will be a fresh fall.
The very lifeblood of our system of government will
stagnate if full and accurate information is not con-
stantly conveyed to the public through the medium
of a discriminating and intelligent press.
Yet it must be remarked that if the newspapers
have been consistently wrong about the war —the “one-
man” doctrine, “time on our side,” the efficacy of the
“blockade,” our superiority in this and that —our
Ministers have been extraordinarily lavish of the
“frantic boast and foolish word.” They seem to
imagine that bombastic language, gross exaggeration,
excessive confidence and concealment of unpleasant
facts, together with vague and vain gestures and un-
prepared expeditions, will somehow do the trick.
Let us make no mistake about it: the Germans
will not be conquered by words, however eloquent,
nor by stupid propaganda. The New York “Daily
News” has remarked on the “all but fatal complacency
in high Allied military and political circles ; bluff and
comfortable self-kidding, we mean, about how the
Allies won last time, and can’t fail this time.” It is not
by superfluous abuse and magnifying of our exploits,
present and to come, that we shall win. By these
methods we shall succeed only in inflicting on the
populations the demoralising shock of sudden disillu-
sion, which will, if repeated too often, break at last
their spirit. No one who loves England can too
strongly denounce the slimy perverse monster that
calls itself Propaganda.
Invasion by Tanks.
[ln the article here condensed from London
“Spectator’ Major-General J. F. C. Fuller, foremost
authority on tanks during the last war and since, gives
some curious information about water-crossing tanks
and touches on the possibility of Britain being invaded
by such means.]
Though it may seem strange, nevertheless it is a
fact that the first tank operation ever planned was
naval in character: it was to use the Mark I tank of
1916 in a landing operation on the Flanders coast.
Though it came to nothing, a year later this project
was revived, vast preparations being put in hand to
carry it out. This operation was to coincide with our
attack at Ypres directly Roulers was occupied, when
tanks were to be landed between Nieuport and Ostend.
As Roulers was never taken, this second scheme was
Grim Winter Ahead.
Extract from a London “National Review”
article written before Mr. John Cudahy, the
U.S. Ambassador to Belgium, expressed views
on the same subject which led to his recall:—
Even at best —at the very best —the peoples of
Europe are going to undergo a winter more
horrible than any they have known since the
Black Death.
Hitler holds almost the whole of Europe in a
new Continental System. He will let no food
out; we can let nothing in. The harvests in
Europe have not been good, and great quantities
of food have been destroyed in war. Hitler holds
the Czechs, Slovaks, Poles, Danes, Norwegians,
Dutch, Belgians / and to all intents and purposes
the Swedes as his slaves. The French once more
know the age-old tyrant Food is short in Ger-
many itself. Once summer turns to winter there
will be still less food inside this vast prison, this
vast concentration camp.
Hitler will make sure that what little food there
is will go to his own people, the “Herrenvolk.”
As for the others, the subject races, they will
■starve. There is no way out, so far as can now
be seen. Little or no food can come from Italy,
even to Germany, much less to any of the sub-
ject races, for Italy—by Mussolini’s own act —
has put herself inside (he prison. We mention
this dark prospect of hunger because the Germans
and the Italians will exploit it. They will say
that Great Britain is starving Europe. The prison
will be of Hitler’s own manufacture. It was
constructed by the Germans’ own avarice, and
it will be ended only when they are defeated.
Since that was published it has been given
out that 18,000,000 people are facing starvation
m 7 1 ® Netherlands, Belgium, Poland and Norway,
t ” at a movement had been started in the
vC m" tQ * n< h ,ce the British Government to relax
the blockade, and allow supply ships to pass
through.


abandoned like the first; yet, as Britain is threat-
ened by invasion, it is of some interest to examine the
problem as it faced us 23 years ago.
Between the points selected for the landing the
water was shallow, the beach was wired and flanked
by a seawall some 20ft. high, which was capped by
a heavy granite coping-stone. Beyond it were the
enemy’s guns and machine-guns in great strength, and
still farther inland were innumerable dykes and canals.
This, then, was what the Mark IV tank —a crude
machine weighing 30 tons- —was asked to do: to land
from the sea, mount the sea-wall at a slope of about
one over two, climb over the coping-stone, which
projected two feet outwards from the wall, destroy
the enemy’s machine-guns, and then haul up guns,
lorries, tractors, and scores of tons of ammunition
and supplies. The initial landing was to take four
minutes. N
To carry it out, huge pontoons —some 600 ft. long
—carrying tanks, troops, guns, vehicles and stores,
were to be pushed by two monitors to the beach. Once
grounded, the leading tanks, each equipped with a
ramp fixed to its nose, were to crawl off their pontoons
and up the sea-wall. Then, directly the forward end
of the ramps struck the coping-stone they became
detached, when the tanks, which had wooden spuds
fitted to their tracks, walked up them like a cog-wheel
moving along a ratchet. It was a clever scheme and
the first of its kind.
Though such an operation is still feasible, from
the naval point of view it would be vastly simplified
could the tank float itself ashore. Consequently,
towards the end of the last war, when we were faced
by the possibility of having to cross the Rhine, this
simplification was tackled' by myself and others. As
it was known from calculations that a hermetically-
sealed tank of 36 tons would just float with its roof
flush with the surface of the water, the method
adopted was as follows. The engine having been
cased in to render it waterproof, two large caissons
were lashed to the sides of a tank, which gave it suf-
ficient buoyancy to be warped over a river. On arriv-
ing at the far bank, once the caissons were unlashed,
the tank took to the shore. Though this method was
primitive it was effective, and in October, 1918, I
crossed over the Brent Reservoir (the Welsh Harp) in
the first tank which ever floated.
Once the war was over, experimental work in
water-crossing machines was carried on by Colonel
Philip Johnson, head of the Tank Design Department.
This resulted in the introduction of an experimental
floating machine —the medium D —which required no
caissons. In 1921, if I remember rightly, it propelled
itself by means of its tracks across Fleet Pond. Then
came economy and it was abandoned. This foolish-
ness —one of scores which dogged our tanks, and for
which quite recently we have paid dearly—put an end
to the water-crossing machine.
Whether the Germans are prepared for mechanised
under-water attack I doubt, because, in spite of all
their thoroughness, they are not an inventive race.
This is proved by the fact that their entire tank tactics
in this war have been evolved from British origins,
which we had not the wisdom to develop. Yet the
fact remains that, in 1931, Messrs. Vickers-Armstrong
designed and put on the market an efficient amphibian
light tank, which could move itself through water by
means of a small propeller ; therefore, Germany may
well have such a machine. Fifty or more could easily
be transported in a specially-built vessel of the whaler
type, and in a calm sea launched on to an enemy’s
coast. Such a vessel demands command of the sea,
but, when this is not possible, these weapons could
easily be transported in fast motor-boats.
One thing is fairly certain —that, should a mechan-
ised invasion be attempted, no medium or heavy tanks
will be landed until command of the sea is won.
Therefore, it is the light tank —amphibian or non-
amphibian—which Britain must be prepared to meet,
and no light tank yet made is proof against existing
anti-tank fire.
French Censorship.
{Condensed from an article by the former Paris corre-
spondent of Manchester “Guardian.”)
As a Paris correspondent who has had to suffer
daily from the censors of Daladier and Reynaud, I
know from experience how destructive a rigorous
and unintelligent censorship can be. Not only does
it do its best to destroy journalism as an honest pro-
fession but it has the most deplorable effect on the
public by (1) keeping it in ignorance and (2) creating
a state of mind which is a mixture of credulity, com-
placency, and imbecile optimism.
The censorship did not merely suppress un-
pleasant truths but it encouraged pleasant falsehoods.
A French journalist who is paid by the line had only
to write columns of cheerful and boot-licking drivel
to get every word of it passed. The censorship would
not have passed the slightest reference to the shortage
of sugar in the grocery shops of Paris. All articles,
however false, suggesting that Italy and Spain were
“basically” anti-German were allowed to pass; any-
thing suggesting that Italy’s or Spain’s attitude to the
Allies was unfriendly was blue-pencilled. The public
was kept almost to the bitter end in a state of pleasant
illusion. All the illusions about Italy’s anti-German
spirit, the impregnability of the Maginot Line, and
the magnificent work that was being done on the
northern “extension” were kept up in the most
methodical way. I do not remember seeing a single
article in the French press during nine months of
war querying the strength of the northern “extension” ;
I remember dozens describing it as being equal to
the Siegfried Line. The troops, at least those in the
front lines, treated the greater part of the press with
great scepticism and disdain.
The worst thing was not the details of the system
but the system itself, which consistently suppressed
disquieting facts, forbade the press to dwell on real
and even potential weaknesses, military, economic,
or any other, and which, on the contrary, allowed
papers to exist chiefly as a means of persuading the
public that all was well and that there was nothing
to worry about. The result of it was eight months
of perfect complacency followed by a fearful shock,
which was all the more demoralising as the public—
and even the troops —had been corhpletely unprepared
for it. The censorship was one of the chief causes
of France’s collapse ; let us not forget it.
Wendell Willkie.
{Condensed from a London “Daily Herald” article 'by
Allan Michie, an American journalist.)
The Republican party’s nomination of Wendell
Willkie as its Presidential candidate is surprising when
it is remembered that he is not even a politician. He
is a highly-successful businessman, the one-man boss
of the powerful Commonwealth and Southern electric
power company, whose holdings sprawl over 12 States
from Michigan to Florida. He already draws a salary
equal to that of the President of the United States—
£ls,ooo a year.
He is not even a well-defined Republican. He has
supported Democratic politicians in the past, and in
1932 gave £3O and his vote to President Roosevelt’s
campaign. Even the American Who’s Who has not
caught up with his amazing career, and still lists him
as a Democrat. He became a Republican in the public
—“Manchester Union,” U.S.A.
IN GAHD’S OWN COUNTRY.
mind only around 1933, when the Roosevelt New
Deal’s programme of cheap electric power came into
conflict with Willkie’s vast holdings in the southern
part of America.
Although many of the delegates were given their
mandates months ago—when America was virtually
anti-Allied in its desire to stay out of war —they
realised that Willkie’s pro-Allied stand was the atti-
tude the American people wanted. In domestic poli-
tical affairs, 48-year-old Mr. Willkie has nothing to
back him but his public and written utterances —
which, on the whole, are commendable. Most impor-
tant from Britain’s standpoint, he is as determined as
President Roosevelt to extend aid to the Allies. As a
World War veteran and father of a 20-year-old son,
Candidate Willkie has no desire to rush America into
war. But he is the one Republican who has insisted
that America does have “a stake in the continuance
of the British and French way of life.”
Democratic political managers say that no one
suits them better than Wendell Willkie as their oppo-
sition in November because they will have no trouble
in convincing the American people that the Presi-
dency is the last place to put an electric power Big
Businessman. But there will be more to the cam-
paign than that. Domestic issues are certain to be
buried under American interest in foreign affairs.
And if —as it now appears —Candidate Willkie and
the Democratic nominee are to be alike as two peas
on foreign affairs, and particularly on aid to Britain,
then the ancient prejudice against the third term plus
a popular feeling that Willkie can do as well as the
President may well tip the scales in Willkie’s favor.
* * * * *
{From Manchester “Guardian.”)
For nearly seven years Mr. Willkie has been the
liveliest and hardest-hitting critic on the “business”
side of the New Deal and all its works. He holds, as
he has said, that “Government regulation, Govern-
ment competition and Government discouragement of
investment are the three elements that compose the
fear which dominates the businessman and the in-
vestor today.” He demands “the assertion of one
more of our neglected liberties—that of free enter-
prise—with the same vigor as we assert our liberties
of speech, of press and of religious worship.”
Dragnet Digest.
{General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Don’t accept without thought the stories that if
we can hold out till the winter the Germans are
beaten. That statement means the threat of German
domination will have passed. But there will still be
the German armies to beat to the point of collapse.
We cannot rely on the winter to do that for us. —
London “Daily Express’ '
* :Jc sfc # #
The wealth of France in France is immense. It
now belongs to Hitler. A huge and highly-developed
industry. Add to it the coal, iron ore, steel and tex-
tiles which are among Hitler’s prime needs. All these
needs will now be supplied. Perhaps most vital of all,
France is a granary and a vineyard. Hitler’s hungry
hordes can eat once more. — London “Evening
Standard.”
* * * * *
England is a great and powerful nation, foremost
in human progress, enemy to despotism, friend of the
oppressed ; and if ever England should be so circum-
stanced as to require the help of an ally, cursed be the
Italian who would not step forward with me in her
defence. — Garibaldi; quoted by London “Daily
Express.”
* * * * *
Only 569 alien enemies (refugees and non-refugees)
were interned by Britain’s Tribunals ; 6782 were kept
under special restrictions as to travel and otherwise, and
64,244 were given “C” certificates and put on the level
of friendly aliens. Indeed, it is said that in certain
places numbers of the refugees were granted their cer-
tificates without having to appear before the Tribunal.
Events in Norway, Holland, Belgium and France con-
vinced most reasonable minds that this way of handling
the alien problem was an error. It is now plain that
not every supposed refugee from Nazi oppression is a
real refugee, and that not every real refugee from
Nazi oppression is necessarily loyal to the British State.
Sometimes (and this was all too common in the case
of refugees for France) the visa was forged or obtained
by corrupt means, and the refugee was allowed to
know it. On arrival in France (or in England, as the
case may be) he or she was thus within the power of
secret Nazi agents on the spot. In other cases pres-
sure was exerted indirectly through fear of ill-treat-
ment of relatives who remained in Germany. — From a
London “Spectator” letter by a pseudonymous writer,
who, however, went on to argue strongly against whole-
sale internment.
¥ * * * *
The British nation will therefore be considered as
the most valuable ally in the world as long as it can
be counted upon to show that brutality and tenacity
in its Government, as well as in the spirit of the broad
masses, which enables it to carry through to victory
any struggle that it once enters upon, no matter how
long such a struggle may last or however great the sac-
rifice that may be necessary or whatever the means that
have to be employed ; and all this even though the
actual military equipment at hand may be utterly in-
adequate when compared with that of other nations. —
Adolf Hitler, “Mein Kampf.”
ifc 5|S ifc
Dear Uncle Sam, I seem to remember
(Was it October or was it November?)
Somebody called it a “phony” war —
Somebody said it was rather a bore.
Dear Unde Sam, is it still so “phony”?
Is the fight for liberty “all boloney”?
And when men speak of the British guts
Does Forty-second Street still say “Nuts”?
—A . P. Herbert; London “Sunday Graphic.”
*****
The peril to Britain of the continued neutrality
of Eire is causing grave concern. Not only is there
a ready-made Fifth Column in the I.R.A. and mem-
bers of the German Embassy, but neutrality forbids
any staff talks with Great Britain (or even Ulster
alone) on the best means of defence. Many recruits
have stipulated that they must not be asked to fight on
the side of Britain so long as partition exists. The
sense of injustice which Eire nourishes is understand-
able, but at any time now she may have/to make a
stand, and, unaided, will certainly fall. It is a self-
evidently absurd pretence that Great Britain is as likely
to invade her as Germany is. There is no doubt that
Irishmen will readily spring to arms in defence of
Ireland. But the fact remains that an alliance between
Eire, Ulster and Great Britain is the only way of
making the defence effective. — London “Economist.”
* * * * *
So long as the English tongue survives, the word
Dunkirk will be spoken with reverence. For in that
harbor, in such a hell as never blazed on earth before,
at the end of a lost battle, the rags and blemishes that
have hidden the soul of democracy fell away. There,
beaten but unconquered, in shining splendor, she faced
the enemy.
They sent away the wounded first. Men died so
that others could escape. It was not so simple a thing
as courage, which the Nazis had in plenty. It was not
so simple a thing as discipline, which can be ham-
mered into men by a drill-sergeant. It was not the
result of careful planning, for there could have been
little. It was the common man of the free countries,
rising in all his glory out of mill, office, factory, mine,
farm and ship, applying to war the lessons learned
when he went down the shaft to bring out trapped
comrades, when he hurled the lifeboat through the
surf, when he endured poverty and hard work for his
children’s sake.
This shining thing in the souls of free men Hitler
cannot command, or attain, or conquer. He has
crushed it, where he could, from German hearts.
It is the great tradition of democracy. It is the
future. It is victory.-—New York “Times.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOCELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Melbourne stables will be strongly
represented in this year’s A.J.C. Derby.
Lucrative and Pandect are certain run-
ners, and Sun Valley practically clinched
a Randwick trip when he carried 9.4 to
success over a mile in the Laluma Han-
dicap at Moonee Valley on Saturday. In
fact, his partrowner, W. V. Manton, has
already booked hotel accommodation for
himself in Sydney.
Manton, who owns Sun Valley in part-
nership with his son, won the A.J.C.
and Victoria Derbies 20 years ago with
Salitros, and naturally hopes that his
Manitoba-Golden Gondola colt, who cost
525 guineas as a yearling and has already
won four races, is good enough to follow
suit. Sun Valley finished behind Lucra-
tive in the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes,
and was beaten four lengths by the latter
for third money in the Ascot Vale Stakes,
but there is reason to believe that he is
an improved colt. He looks the part,
too, and, although a lucky run at the turn
helped him to success on Saturday, he
won decisively. Added merit attached to
his performance by reason of the fact
that the track was rain-affected, and that
Sun Valley conceded the second and
third horses, Elegies and Positron, 281 b.
and 331 b. respectively. Derby candidates
which race during the winter months
seldom shine among the best of their age
in the spring, but trainer Fred Hoysted
gave Sun Valley a brief let-up after he
had run a close second to Sir Richard
at Flemington early - last month, and
staleness does not enter into the colt’s
Derby prospects.
Distinction’s chance of repeating the
A.J.C. and Victoria Derby wins of his
half-brother, Talking, seem to have van-
ished. Earlier in the week trainer Jack
Holt informed the Bulletin representa-
tive that Distinction would have to im-
prove considerably to warrant a trip to
Sydney, but, far from improving, Dis-
tinction’s performance in the Laluma
Handicap was one of his worst.
Opportunity for a “killing” seemingly
was missed by supporters of the power-
ful Lou Robertson stable when Landlaw
won the Glenara Handicap, starting at
16 to 1. The French-bred grey, who was
a foal when imported with his dam, Wire-
away, had shown little form in any of his
three races since his return from a spell,
but it was only a matter of his being
near his best to beat the comparative
moderates opposed to him on Saturday.
He still looked somewhat above himself
in condition, but ran past the pacemaker,
Diaphane, about two furlongs from
home, and was just able to stall off a
strong challenge by the favorite, Pan-
toon, with Ronwin a fair third.
Landlaw now looks like justifying the
high opinions formed of him last spring,
when he ran second to High Caste in the
Caulfield Stakes and C. B. Fisher Plate,
second to Manrico in the Cantala Stakes
and third to Maikai in the Eclipse
Stakes. His engagements this spring in-
clude the Epsom and the Metropolitan, in
addition to the two Cups, and, as there
seems plenty of room for further im-
provement by him, bookmakers have
elevated him in the Cup quotes. He is
better off with 8.5 in the Metropolitan
than with 8.11 in the Caulfield Cup and
8.8 in the Melbourne Cup, but his
trainer, who has a big team to look after
at home, is not keen on a Sydney trip. Of
course, the immediate form of Landlaw
may cause a change of plans, but Robert-
son stated before Saturday that, unless
there were unexpected developments, it
was unlikely he would be at Randwick
with any of his horses this spring.
Australian debut of the English horse
Dhoti in the Kiata Handicap was one of
the attractions of the day. Starting third
favorite at ll to 2, he was beaten a neck
y his stablemate Aurie’s Star, who was
backed from tens down to fives. A fine
ype ot horse, whom Dewhurst elected to
ride in preference to his usual mount,
Star > he chased the latter most
Ime Wa y> and was going on with his
job at the finish. The race is sure to do
a lot for Dhoti, who is engaged in the
Cantala Stakes and the Cups, but more
will be known of him after his tilt with
Ajax and company in the mile Under-
wood Stakes at Moonee Valley next
Saturday.
Aurie’s Star is a marvel among
sprinters. Now eight years old, he
seems to be quite as good as when he
won the Oakleigh Plate and the New-
market in 1937 and the Oakleigh Plate
again in 1939. On Saturday he carried
his 9.11 as if it were a featherweight,
and, even allowing that he won only nar-
rowly after veering out towards the fin-
ish, he was never in real danger of defeat.
It was his fifth win from his last six starts.
Owner G. W. Badman, who lives in Adel-
aide, was not at Moonee Valley to see his
gelding win, and at the time of writing
no decision had been reached whether
Aurie’s Star would be sent to Sydney for
the Epsom. He has 9.4 in that race, and
is better off with 9.1 in the Cantala Stakes.
Doubts still exist about his ability as a
miler, but some people seem to have for-
gotten that he won a mile race at Caul-
field as a four-year-old. Aurie’s Star has
the peculiar distinction of having raced in
Adelaide, Melbourne and Brisbane, but
never in Sydney.
Bill Burke might have the makings
of another National winner in David
Innis, whose 33-to-l third to Aurie’s Star
and Dhoti was an excellent performance.
He might have done even better but for
being hampered on the bend. David
Innis is a likely visitor to Sydney in the
spring, but not for the Epsom, in which
he is engaged. Burke intends to nomi-
nate him for hurdle races at Randwick,
and David Innis possesses so much pace,
and schools so well, that there is every
reason to believe he will excel in that
sphere. He is only a four-year-old, and,
like many of David’s stock, is a natural
jumper.
Westralian-owned True Flight, winner
of the Derby in his home town last
season, pleased his Caulfield Cup sup-
porters by running on strongly to finish
near the place-getters in the Kiata Han-
dicap. True Flight was having his first
race since he beat Chatsbury over a mile
at Flemington in the autumn, and the dis-
tance, six furlongs, was too short for him.
He looks an improved horse, and obvi-
ously is doing everything right in his early
preparation for. the Cups. Saint Warden,
who races in the same interests as True
Flight and won the W.A.T.C. St. Leger
last season, was a runner for the Argyle
Welter Handicap, but was unfancied and
was among the last to finish. Chatsbury
was a disappointing favorite for the
Kiata Handicap, but his form was too
bad to be true. Nuffield, backed from
twelves down to sevens for the same race,
did well enough to indicate the proba-
bility of a return to form over a longer
distance.
Owner-trainer Jack Fryer expected to
land a double with Manurere and Pan-
toon. The latter was just beaten by
Landlaw, but Manurere gained a half-
head win from Macedonia in the Plenty
Trial Handicap. This pair was locked
together for the last two furlongs, and
Manurere had to survive a protest for
alleged interference in the straight. This
was the second middle-distance trial won
by Manurere at the Valley, and, although
the field was not strong, he was bur-
dened with 9.1 on a soft track. He is en-
gaged in the Epsom and Metropolitan as
well as the Cups, but Fryer has not de-
cided whether to take him to Sydney if
he makes the trip with El Golea. It all
depends on his next race, but if Manu-
rere does visit Randwick he might pay
expenses in a minor race. He is only
four years old, and looks like improving.
Popularly supposed to have a mort-
gage on the Argyle Welter Handicap, for
which she started at 7 to 4, with 7 to 1
bar one on offer, Spearwings let her
backers down badly, Failing to repro-
duce the dash which had enabled her to
beat the speedy Atorna at her previous
start, she was never a likely winner, but
should not be condemned because of one
failure. National, who had disappointed
four times subsequent to dead-heating for
first with Hoo Tsai at Flemington in June,
improved considerably to win from
Glaciate, with Atlas, a stablemate of
Ajax, in third place. Apparently the soft
track suited National, but his starting
price of 16 to 1 suggested that his for-
ward showing was as much a surprise to
his connections as it was to most punters.
Jockey F. Douglas gave backers of
Dornford, favorite for the Melrose
Steeplechase, a shock when he eased his
mount down nearing the winning-post.
Tornarsuk ran him to a head, and Doug-
las was subsequently reprimanded by the
stewards. At the same time, Tornarsuk
was somewhat unlucky. Owing to hanging
in, he had to be checked and straight-
ened twice in the run home. Deckard,
a bad last early in the race, moved to
within a length of Dornford coming to
the last fence, but the effort under 12.2
was too much for him, and he weakened
into third place. Dornford has won his
last three races over fences —he has con-
tested only four in all—and his win on
Saturday completed a double for trainer
Fred Hoysted. Latter had won with Sun
Valley earlier.
* * * *
Weather conditions were against Vic-
toria Park on Saturday, and though there
was a large attendance it would have
been exceptional under ordinary condi-
tions. The prospect of seeing some of
the best three-year-olds competing, as
well as prominent horses doing gallops
between races, was a big attraction. The
going was excellent, insufficient rain hav-
ing fallen to affect the track adversely.
The Zetland Stakes was the race of
the afternoon to which particular interest
attached. The field included several
Derby candidates, and Broadcaster was
backed down to even money, which, as it
turned out, proved an exaggerated
opinion of his chance. Commencing
well, he was leading with Ensign to the
turn. He lasted until shortly after the
straight was entered, and that was the
end of him. Ensign was clear a furlong
from home, but Panchio, who was promi-
nent throughout, was too good for him
over the final hundred yards.
Panchio has not grown to any extent
since last season, but he is a sturdy
and good-looking colt, and even if he
should not prove quite up to Derby form
is sure to win other races. This was
his second win since he was bought pri-
vately by O. Triggs. His first was when
he was in L. J. O’Sullivan’s stable, but
he is now trained by J. W. Cook. Tidal
Wave jumped away smartly, but quickly
lost his position, going back near the
rear of the field. A lucky run rounding
the turn enabled him to make up a lot of
ground, but, though he finished third, he
never looked a winner. Insignia ran
fairly, as did Chatoona and Sid Denis,
but Rimveil made an indifferent showing.
Rylstone and Patrician represented B.
Payten’s stable, and of the two the latter
has improved most in appearance since
last season.
Although I heard it claimed that a
couple of other runners should have
beaten Brazen Lad in the Victoria Park
Handicap the honors of the race were
with that horse. He waited on the pace-
maker, Grand Boy, along the back, took
charge approaching the turn and kept
going long enough to win by a neck from
Binnia Hero, who is well forward in con-
dition for his spring engagements.
Yours Truly, who is improving with
racing, was only a length away from
Binnia Hero, and very little ahead of
Cable Boy and Mischief. The last-
named did not have the best of luck in
running, or would have been a little
closer. Sologram was third at the straight
entrance, but the distance was beyond
him.
There were 11 runners for the first
division of the Brush Hurdle Race, but
over the last three furlongs there were
only two in it—Speed King and King
Otho. The former led along the back,
but King Otho headed him before reach-
ing the turn. Then .Speed King came
again, and had no difficulty in defeating
King Otho, third place being filled by
Ti Trol, while Conundrum was the only
other reasonably close to the first three.
She will probably win a hurdle race'
After losing ground at the start Brethren
did fairly and may also pay his Way as
a jumper. It is a big drop in the racing
scale for a horse that won a Gibson Car-
michael Stakes at Flemington and last
year was weighted at 7.10 for a Mel-
bourne Cup. Brethren is now five.
Glittering Flame, favorite for the
second division of the Brush Hurdle Race,
narrowly missed losing his jockey in the
straight the first time round. However,
horse and rider made such a good re-
covery that Glittering Flame was third
to Mab’s Boy and Charis after leaving
the straight, led at the half-mile and then
stalled off Mab’s Boy when the latter
tackled him in the run home. Glittering
Flame’s rider, Kennedy, had his feet out
of the stirrups from the last jump. Charis
was third, and from the half-mile he was
the only runner that had any chance
against the first two. Berowra, who is
in the same stable as Trekster, headed the
unplaced division.
Last Chance took up the running im-
mediately after the start of the first divi-
sion of the Welter Mile, and was never
actually headed, though River Namoi and
Taroo both looked like running him
down at the home turn. River Namoi
hung on until the commencement of the
last furlong, *and, when he weakened,
Baveon and Beaupartir came on. How-
ever, they failed to reach Last Chance,
but as Baveon was beaten only a head
after being one of the whippers-in at the
three furlongs his form should shortly
assure him a win. Beaupartir also did
well under his big weight, running on
after losing a little ground at the turn.
He is of medium height, but very strongly
built. River Namoi is worth following,
and Masterpiece and Chicola are coming
on again.
Creditor tried to win the second divi-
sion of the Welter Mile all the way, but
Forestage was with him at the turn, and
Koorenbeen and Pannade were not far
away. The last-named, who had made a
sharp run to take him up to the leading
division, was first to drop out, and, though
Koorenbeen took Creditor’s measure a
furlong from home, he had no chance
'when Hilarious put in her claim. The
latter went right away at the end, and a
middle-distance race should shortly be
credited her. The style in which she won
suggested she was as good as at any time
in the past. Sigh’s fourth pointed to an
early return to form on her part, and
Light Dragoon again looks so well that a
win for him should not be far away.
Macduff came away from a bunched
field in the final furlong of the Encour-
age Handicap, and won in a quarter-
second faster time than Last Chance
subsequently recorded in the first divi-
sion of the Welter Handicap, but he car-
ried a stone less than the latter. Heiron,
in second place, ran well, and was fol-
lowed by Dunkerry and Windbrook. The
last-mentioned two shared favoritism, but
though both were well placed at the top
of the straight neither ever looked a win-
ner. Dom and Schiehallion showed
pace, but Trump Card’s effort was so
poor that it should be some time before
he again touches a short price for any
race.
The Fourteen-two Handicap saw Lady
Gay add to her many wins of the last
four months. She commenced too
smartly for her opponents, but had to be
ridden right out to beat Shop Girl a head.
Fourteen-two pony racing, with Lady
Gay so superior to most of her class, and
so often a winner, is becoming weari-
some for racegoers. Lady Vallee, a three-
year-old, is the only one that compares
with her.
* * * $
Whether form entitles Reading to be
favorite for the Metropolitan is a matter
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN
(At Moonee Valley).
By “SENTRY.”
Paisley Hurdle: Kevastar, 1 ;
North Cape, 2 ; El Banado, 3.
Manor Handicap: General Have-
lock, 1 ; Procyon, 2 ; Balkan Chief,
3.
August Steeplechase: Tornarsuk,
1 ; Deckard, 2 ; Dornford, 3.
Underwood Stakes: Ajax, 1 ; El
Golea, 2 ; Dhoti, 3.
August Handicap: Landlaw, 1 ;
True Flight, 2 ; Dannevirke, 3.
Truganina Handicap: Aurie’s
Star, 1 ; Manrico, 2 ; David Innis, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
By “PILOT.”
Maiden Handicap: Pierce, 1 ;
Torshent, 2 ; Olive Branch, 3.
Novice Handicap: Gas, 1 ;
Markwell, 2 ; Canvasser, 3.
Three-Year-Old Handicap: Dub-
lin Lad, 1 ; Insignia, 2; Country
Cub, 3.
Carlton Mile: Baveon, 1 ; Sigh,
2 ; Breeze, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Aristocrat,
1 ; Tickle, 2 ; Old Serpent, 3.
Flying Welter Handicap: Table
Talk, 1 ; Tarn, 2 ; Toy Time, 3.


of opinion. He did well against horses
of his own age last season, but he was
not a success when opposing the older
division in the Cumberland Plate and
A.J.C. Plate. He galloped freely enough,
but was outstayed. Possibly he was not
quite in the same trim as in the spring,
that idea being upheld by the fact that
it took him a long time to beat Dashing
Cavalier in the St. Leger. On his show-
ing in the Randwick w.f.a. races it can-
not be claimed that he is really leniently
treated in the Metropolitan with weight-
for-age—9st. Naturally a lot of interest
will attach to the way he runs in his first
couple of races this season, and he will
have to do well to hold his position at the
head of the Metropolitan quotations.
Four-year-olds have a good winning
record in the Metropolitan, but Royal
Chief’s 8.13 is the most successfully car-
ried by anything of that age, Star Stranger
coming next with 8.9.
* * * *
There are non-triers, of course, but I
am still opposed to the idea that they
are nearly as numerous as many people
believe. In the past some of the most
pronounced came from what I may term
“respectable” stables, trainers sheltering
themselves behind the fact that they were
training for men who the stewards
would not like to think could be asso-
ciated with anything improper. In a
lesser degree it may be the same now.
Some trainers are certainly much more
fortunate than others in escaping being
questioned. Possibly they could always
give satisfactory explanations, but that is
not asked of them,
* * * *
H. E. Morriss bought Ponteba when
she was carrying the English Derby
winner Pont l’Eveque, and it was after
the war started that he sold that colt to
F. Darling. In May Darling got Mrs.
Morriss to cable her husband, who was
in the East, that he could have a half-
share in Pont l’Eveque for £2500 if he
won the Newmarket Stakes. As Pont
l’Eveque was easily beaten by Lighthouse
II in that race, a sale did not result. Tant
Mieux was better than Pont l’Eveque in
a gallop shortly before the Derby, and
that, in conjunction with doubt as to
whether the latter would be suited by
the hard going, nearly resulted in his
withdrawal a few days before the race.
* * * *
With two wins in succession—one at a
mile and the other at five and a half fur-
longs—Tel Asur has made a good start
this season. It was thought that, as he
had been racing over longer distances, Tel
Asur might find the distance too short
at Kensington. The reverse was the case,
as he was within striking distance of
the leaders after going a furlong, and was
a sure winner from the turn. The high
scale of weights suited him. It is no
certainty he will stay, but in welter races
at eight or nine furlongs he will always
be worth backing. Reception, though
second, scarcely seems as brilliant as
when he raced in Sydney last year. It is
improbable the price that could then be
obtained for him would now be forth-
coming.
* * * *
Maikai was a good second with 7.11 in
the last Melbourne Cup, but, even mak-
ing full allowance for all he has since
accomplished, it is expecting a lot of him
to go one better this year with 9.4. At
present he shares favoritism with Beau
Vite, but on A.J.C. Plate running he has
no pull in weight over Mosaic. The
latter, in receipt of a pound, beat him
decisively, and will meet him only 31b.
worse in the Cup. From March to
November the weight-for-age scale allows
for 51b. improvement in Mosaic and
21b. in Maikai, who is now seven years
old. As Mosaic is the younger horse it
is reasonable to expect greater improve-
ment in him than in Maikai, and if the
w.f.a. scale is correct, and all goes well
with Mosaic, he should again beat Mai-
kai. Mosaic won the Sydney Cup with
a pound oyer weight-for-age, and, a
proved stayer, he is similarly treated in
the Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
There will be keen competition for this
week’s Newcastle double —Cameron Han-
dicap on Thursday and Newcastle Cup
on Saturday. I am at the disadvantage
of attempting a selection before Mon-
day’s acceptances are available, but I
expect Rathlin, Snow Queen, Tel Asur
and Hilarious to furnish more than one
place-getter in the Cameron Handicap ;
and prefer Yours Truly, Osculum, Buza-
long and Hilarious in that order for the
Cup. The last-named has 31b. penalty in
both races.
* * * *
Historian’s owner may prefer he should
run the way he is accustomed, and conse-
quently keep him in Melbourne for the
two Cups, but, as he is a keen dissector
of weights, he is likely to do some thinking
before he passes over the Metropolitan.
In that race Historian meets Gladynev
251 b., Beau Vite 81b., Beaulivre, Reading,
Binnia Hero 41b. each, and True Flight
51b. better than in the Caulfield Cup. In
the Melbourne Cup Historian has 61b.
more than in the Metropolitan, and in
the Cantala Stakes 31b. more than in the
Epsom Handicap. Historian was re-
cently made the second leg of some
Epsom and Metropolitan doubles, but,
though Eccles denies being interested in
those, there is plenty of time yet for him
to be attracted, especially as there are
liberal prices going against his horse with
some of the most fancied Epsom candi-
dates.
* * * *
Beau Vite galloped a smart half-mile
with Geebung during the course of the
Victoria Park meeting on Saturday. The
time he recorded pointed to his having
done a fair amount of work before leav-
ing home. He does not look as chubby
as when racing here in the spring, but
the general opinion was that he gave the
impression of being stronger and slightly
taller. He is to race at Warwick Farm
next week.
* * * *
Nightbeam, in addition to being an
entrant for the Warwick Stakes, is an
acceptor for the Campbelltown Handicap
the same afternoon. In that he has the
handy weight of 7.7, and, as his owner
may not be in a hurry to try him out
against such horses as Beaulivre, Beau
Vite, Reading and St. Constant at w.f.a.
in the Warwick Stakes, that race may be
chosen for him. As Nightbeam is also
in the Glenlee Handicap, his owner,
F. W. Hughes, is giving himself a wide
choice in the selection of a race for the
Derby colt.
* * * *
Beaulivre and High Caste continue to
head the Epsom Handicap quotations,
succeeded by El Golea and Gold Salute,
and then Mildura and Tetreen. Reading
is the popular pick for the Metropolitan,
then coming Beau Vite, Beaupartir,
Gundagai and Pantler. Next to these are
Beaulivre and Mosaic. Gladynev is a
pronounced favorite for the Caulfield
Cup, with High Caste and Historian
nearest him ; while Maikai is on the top
line in the Melbourne Cup, Beau Vite
and Wilson being next in demand. Mosaic
and Rivette are together on the third line.
* * * *
There were 39 two-year-old races at
Randwick last season, and the sires with
more than one winner were Gay
Lothario, Pentheus, Hall Mark and
Melfort. The first-named was an easy
first in prize-money. In number of
wins Dark Elegance, Roxford and
Flying Knight led the other runners
with three winners each, and figures for
the season at Randwick are as under:
Ist. 2nd. 3rd. Stakes.
Lucrative, by Gay
Lothario .. .. 1 1 0 £3170
Dark Elegance, by El
Cacique .. 3 1 1 2180
John, by John Buchan 110 1990
Flying Knight, by
Medieval Knight 3 0 0 1495
Trueness, by Harinero 1 0 1 1300
Session, by Marconigram 2 1 0 1220
Roxford, by Roxburgh 3 1 0 1190
Lady Neith, by Pentheus 2 1 3 815
Victorine, by Melfort 2 1 0 805
Martheus, by Pentheus 2 1 0 715
Rylstone, by Hall Mark 111 650
Yuletide, by Christopher
Robin .. ..2 1 0 640
Fearless Fox, by Fox-
bridge .. 1 0 2 605
Many Ways, by Spear-
head 2 2 0 560
Chatoona, by Chatham 1 0 2 485
Ensign, by Andrea 1 1 0 440
Rosy Morn, by Melfort 2 0 0 343
Black Art, by Dunnot-
tar 1 0 0 300
Tidal Wave, by Tiderace 1 0 0 300
Black Banter, by Silver-
burn 1 0 0 320
Shem, by Portofino ..1 1 0 310
St. Andrew, by Gay
Lothario .. 1 0 0 225
David Copperfield, by
Hall Mark .. 1 0 1 225
Our Barney, by Brazen 10 1 195
Overjoyed, by Grand
Joy i 0 0 182
Lejong, by Double
Court .. •• i 0 0 182
Pan Pipe, by Peter
Pan .. ... ..1 0 0 155
Most of those mentioned were sold at
auction, their yearling prices being as
under: —
Gns. Gns.
Tidal Wave .. 1450 Yuletide .. .. 325
St. Andrew .. 700 Chatoona .. 325
David Copperfield 700 Our Barney ... 140
Flying Knight .. 600 Black Art .. 150
Fearless Fox .. 600 Victorine.. .. 110
Trueness .. .. 550 Lady Neith .. 75
Pan Pipe .. .. 475 Martheus .. 75
Lucrative .. .. 450
* * * *
Albert Wood, famous as a jockey a
few . years ago, died last week. Capable
horsemanship did not cover all his good
qualities. There were few races of im-
portance he failed to win in New South
Wales, and in Victoria his many successes
included successive Newmarket Handi-
caps on Polycrates and Cetigne. One of
the best races he ever rode was on the
latter when he defeated Wolaroi, Estland,
Desert Gold, Cagou and Prince Viridis
in the Craven Plate at Randwick. He will
always be remembered as Beauford s
rider. Wood occasionally received very
high remuneration for his services. At
Randwick a couple of days subsequent to
an important handicap win by him, the
late W. Booth held out a cheque to me
with the comment: “Not a bad day’s
work for a jockey.” It was for £lOOO in
Wood’s favor, and many people will be
able to guess the drawer. As a trainer,
Wood turned out several winners —his
patrons including the late John Brown,
who had the greatest faith in him when
he was riding—but ill-health caused his
retirement a few years ago.
* * * *
For some reason or other a broadcast
of the English Derby was banned.
Naturally this was productive of a deal of
indignation on the part of those who were
unable to be present at Newmarket, and
it would be interesting to know what was
supposed to be gained by such procedure.
The war has been responsible for absur-
dities as well as tragedies.
* * * *
The principal winning owners in
Maoriland last season were E. R. Davis
and O. Nicholson, who, racing in partner-
ship, collected £5065. They had five
different winners. Beau Vive gave R.
Stewart £5015, and he was followed by
E. Fitzgerald £4624 and R. C. Harnett
£4540. Nine owners exceeded £3OOO.
In Maoriland last season the totalisa-
tor turnover was £5,964,365, or £161,494
more than the previous season. The
Auckland district, with £2,329,983, was
the greatest contributor to the total, then
coming Wellington with £1,063,386. Auck-
land and Wellington were responsible for
the increased total, there being a falling-
off in the other districts. Although it is
illegal, there is a great amount of “off-
the-course” betting in Maoriland, doubles
greatly appealing to backers.
* * * *
Taxation paid to the N.S.W. Govern-
ment by the Australian Jockey Club for
its recent financial year was £94,858,
made up as follows: Totalisator tax,
£58,081 125.; racecourse admission tax
and State entertainments tax, together
with one-half of the fees paid to the
club by bookmakers, £36,776 Bs. The
club’s • revenue for the year was
£249,537 7s. sd. Of that, £128,521 14s. sd.
came from admissions; £14,710 13s.
from members’ subscriptions and en-
trance fees; and £106,305 from, totali-
sator, bookmakers’ fees, catering rights,
racebooks, nominations and acceptances.
* * * *
During the recent season two of the
most consistent two-year-olds in Sydney
were the fillies Dark Elegance and Lady
Neith. The former started 10 times
for five wins, one second, two thirds
and twice unplaced. Lady Neith did
not score as many wins, nor in such im-
portant races as Dark Elegance, but she
finished the season with four wins, two
seconds, five thirds, and only once un-
placed. She is by Pentheus from Tres-
seith, by Tressady from Neith, who won
a Challenge Stakes and beat Trafalgar
in the Cumberland Stakes, then two
miles. W. J. Smith gave 75gns. for
Lady Neith as a yearling, and leased
her to C. O’Rourke until June, 1941.
* * * *
Eight-year-old Aurie’s Star gave Dhoti
61b. and a beating in the Kiata Handi-
cap, six furlongs, at Moonee Valley last
Saturday, but the latter did sufficiently
well to suggest a return of the brilliance
that marked his two-year-old career. He
was so good at that age that at his
second start at three years he shared
favoritism with Blue Peter for the Two
Thousand Guineas. However, he cut
up badly, not finishing among the first
10. Then he ran in the Derby, but did
no better. At his last start in England
he was a 7-to-2 favorite for the Rous
Memorial Stakes, 7fur. 155yds. Carrying
7.13 he ran last in a field of seven, the
winner being Glen Loan, 9.4. That was
in June, and his failure caused him to
be put out of work. He did not race
again until last week.
* * * *
Last season prize-money at N.S.W. pro-
vincial meetings averaged from £4O down
to £29 a race, which scarcely constituted
undue inducement to owners and trainers
to remain honest. Some divided races got
down as low as £l7 first money. In the
event of the winner being a leased horse
there would first of all be 33 per cent,
to the lessor, then probably a “fiver”
over his regular fee to the jockey, and,
with the addition of entrance and accept-
ance fees, a present to the boy who
looked after the horse, and other minor
incidentals, there was very little of that
£l7 left for the owner. Naturally many
had to depend upon the good offices of
a punter and a satisfactory betting
market. We have so much racing in
and about Sydney that, though it is con-
tended “they give the ‘battlers’ a chance,”
Parliament should have no difficulty in
knowing where to start if it is decided
to reduce the number of meetings. Clubs
giving over £lOO a race should certainly
not suffer to any extent in the interests
of those whose stakes would scarcely
be worth racing for without the assist-
ance of the betting market.
* * * *
Writing last week before entries closed
I assumed High Caste would be a runner
for the Warwick Stakes at the end of this
month. However, he was not nominated
for that race, and his first appearance is
to be in the Canterbury Stakes, six fur-
longs, on Sept. 7. He has been sprinting
so well in his work at Randwick and
galloped with such freedom at Victoria
Park on Saturday over half a mile, with
St. Constant as a companion, that next
week he will be ready to show something
approaching his best form. It will be
necessary, as he will have strong oppo-
sition. There are allowances in the race,
but no penalties, so he will carry 9st. At
his last start High Caste was beaten a
length by Ajax in the All-Aged Stakes,
with Beaulivre a head further back. Beau
Vite won last year’s Canterbury Stakes
from Gold Rod and Brazandt, the last-
named being a 6-to-4 favorite. The pre-
vious year Gold Rod, at 6 to 4 on, won
from Stretto.
* * * *
P. Miller’s gift to the Randwick Sport-
ing Patriotic and War Fund Movement
is a yearling bay colt by Piccadilly from
Ornum (dam of Maikai). The youngster
was selected by four prominent racing
men, and if the lucky drawer of the colt
in the art union does not wish to race
him the breeder will give £5OO for him.
At the yearling sales at Randwick last
autumn the half-sister, by Christopher
Robin, to Maikai was sold for 120gns.
The owner of Kia-Ora Stud gave the
visitors a second selection for fear any-
thing might go wrong with the Piccadilly
colt, and their choice was a colt by Pan-
theon from Ribstone (Blink-Russet).
Pennock, a son of Ribstone, won several
races in Victoria.
* * * *
Of the three-year-olds that raced at
Victoria Park none created as good an
impression as Nightbeam in his Rosehill
win. Panchio scored in good style, but
he was getting a lot of weight from
Broadcaster and Ensign, neither of whom
now seems likely to shine as a stayer.
Panchio’s Bst. was the same weight that
Nightbeam carried in open company at
Rosehill. Rimveil’s effort did not put
him in the light of a Derby possibility,
but though Tidal Wave was well beaten
by Panchio and Ensign it is probable a
mile and a half will suit him better than
most of his last Saturday’s opponents. He
looks up to Derby weight, and his sire,
Tiderace (by Fairway), ran well up to
nearly a mile and three-quarters. Tidal
Wave’s dam, My Own, is by Lord Quex
from Tressida, by Tressady, and was
good up to a mile and a half. On the
maternal side My Own runs back to
Princess Melton, a half-sister to that good
stayer Piastre.
When Rylstone was bought by R. F.
Moses he was hopeful he was a Derby
proposition. As he did not look ready
on Saturday it is too early to say any-
thing for or against him. John and True-
ness shaped well in a half-mile dash be-
tween races at Victoria Park. The
Hobartville Stakes on Saturday week will
give us a good idea as to the progress
they have made since the autumn.
The Hobartville Stakes, at seven fur-
longs, does not always give a good line
to the probable result of the Derby. For
instance, High Caste won last year’s
Hobartville, with Reading unplaced, but
the latter took the Derby. However, the
Hobartville may give backers a better lead
this year, as, in addition to those men-
tioned, first acceptors include Flying
Knight, Fearless Fox and Lucrative. Sun
Valley’s win at a mile, with 9.4, at Moonee
Valley last week adds him to the prob-
able Derby runners. He is not in the
Hobartville Stakes. A colt has to be good
to win with that weight. Bred by A. T.
Creswick, Sun Valley was a 525gns. year-
ling, ancl is by Manitoba (son of Manna)
from imported Golden Gondola, by
Golden Myth.
I am writing before the declaration of
acceptances for the Cameron Handi-
cap at Newcastle, but if Flying Knight
runs in that race it may be possible to
form a fair idea as to whether he is a
potential stayer. At present many good
judges are doubtful whether he will be
suited by a distance, this on the score
that his breeding on the maternal side
runs more to sprinting than staying.
Many horses have been left in the
Hobartville Stakes through optimism or
oversight, but unless the result of that
race and the Canterbury and. Rosehill
Guineas greatly alters owners’ present


SAVE MONEY
(V
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
M NEW H
51,
CHAMPIONS
SB
m
m
An Empire product—made in Windsor , Canada
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring BETTER
HILL CLIMBING
Good hot sparks from Champion
spark plugs will give your car the
kind of ignition it needs for a
smooth, even pull up a hill.
Champions allow less carbon to
form, so you get more speed,
more power, more economy.
Champions save you money!
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine' glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS.
319 George St., Sydney.
asdgds
opinions there is likely to be a larger field
for the Derby than last year’s seven.
* * * *
G. P. Nailon was very hopeful of Lord
Valentine’s success in the Exhibition Han-
dicap (£7OO for first) in Brisbane on
Saturday. The previous week, when
carrying 9st., Lord Valentine was easily
beaten by Speeder in the nine furlongs
Winter Handicap. Discussing the chest-
nut’s failure, Lord Valentine’s trainer
said: “A drop to Bst. and an extra fur-
long to travel will do a lot for him in the
Exhibition Handicap.” It was a correct
summing-up, though it was by only a
head Lord Valentine downed Bahwiflg,
who ran out the mile and a quarter better
than his starting-price of 10 to 1 sug-
gested was likely. Nailon has done well
with Lord Valentine for Mrs. C. Ruwald,
winning five races last season, while
seven or eight minor places further con-
tributed towards the payment of expenses.
* * * *
It seems as if G. Price is going to
suffer this spring from an embarrassment
of riches in the way of good milers. He
has Beaulivre, Beaupartir and Mildura,
and as they are in different ownership
there is the possibility of their clashing
on occasions. Each is in the Epsom, but,
as indicated by his price, I think Beau-
livre is sure to be the stable elect for that
race. If he fails he can then tackle the
Caulfield Cup, and as he has won at a
mile and three furlongs in a handicap
there is no reason why he should not go
a furlong further in a similar class of
race. He has won at a mile and a half,
but that was in an indifferent Derby field.
Beaulivre is doing as well as his backers
could wish, and Mildura has gone on the
right way since he resumed work.
Although a winner at a mile and a
quarter, he has not yet really been given
a staying preparation, and perhaps he
may be tried out in that respect in the
coming spring. He did well in one mije
and a half race, that being when, with
8.5, he ran Gold Spark (7.0) to half a
head in the last Anniversary Handicap.
Since then he has made great improve-
ment over shorter distances, and he may
also have progressed as a stayer.
Beaupartir has two St. Legers to his
credit, and defeated Royal Chief at a mile
and a quarter at weight-for-age. In a
handicap his best effort was at a mile in
the Auckland Easter Handicap, when,
with 8.8, he won in 1.36. His form last
season was not nearly so good as earlier,
his only win being with 9.0 in a six-fur-
longs handicap at Woodville ; and his
last placing in Maoriland was a poor
third with 9.0 to Beau Vite (8.2) and
Beaulivre (8.2) in the Clifford Plate, 1|
mile, at Auckland in January. He was
unplaced in his seven subsequent races.
He looked big at Victoria Park on Satur-
day, but he is a good doer, and Price has
not had him long enough to learn whether
he runs best that way. In any case,
with three such horses as those mentioned
Price looks sure of his share of prize-
money in the spring.
Ex-Australian jockey W. Sibbritt was
to have gone to India last month to
ride for the Maharaja of Kolhapur.
Sibbritt’s form last season greatly im-
pressed Royal Calcutta T.C. stipendiary
steward J. Higgins, who is not leaving
Sydney for India until next October.
Unless the war greatly interferes he ex-
pects racing in Calcutta in December
and January to be of a very high standard,
consequent on the number of good horses
that arrived in India from England and
France early this year. Among these are
Bistolfi, Caerloptic, Cosmopolitan, Ful-
ham, Carlisle, Cornfield, Illuminate,
Pierrott, Talma, Carlos, Portmarnock,
Wheatland and Zingaro. All these go
into Class I, and are eligible to compete
for India’s most important races. Only
those so rated can do so. In addition
to the foregoing lot the Calcutta Racing
Calendar of June 15 gives a list of 110
horses of whose export from the United
Kingdom the Royal Calcutta T.C. had
received notification. Twelve of these
were owned by the Maharaja of Kolha-
pur, 13 by Sir Sultan Chinoy, and four
by the Aga Khan, who purposed send-
ing more, but owing to the war may
have had to change his plans.
* * * *
In England last year the total number
of runners at meetings under Jockey Club
and National Hunt Rules was 27,155.
The average number of starters in a race
was 10.53, a slight increase on the aver-
age of 10.40 in 1938. The most frequent
field was eight, 279 races having that
many starters. Up to September 2, when
the war interfered with racing, the totali-
sator turnover was £6,862,946, compared
with £6,662,181 for the same period in
1938. “Off-the-course” betting was re-
sponsible for £2,355,326, compared with
£1,984,666 the previous year.
* * * *
The Aga Khan had a Derby win this
season. His colt Turkhan, who ran
second to Pont l’Eveque in the New
Derby at Newmarket, was made an 11-
to-4-on favorite for the Irish Derby on
June 26, and won easily from Golden
Tiger and Claudius, the latter being
owned by the late Sir Abe Bailey. It was
the Aga Khan’s third Irish Derby, he
having previously won that race with
Zionist and Dastur.
* * * *
Sir Abe Bailey, who died in South
Africa recently, spent a lot of money
on racing in England, but never realised
his ambition of winning the Derby, the
only classic credited him being the Oaks
with Lovely Lady. Of recent years he
was always prominent in the winning
owners’ list. In 1936 his winnings were
£24,566 ; 1937, £23,074 ; 1938, £17,232 ;
1939, £17,104.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Ron Richards had no trouble in dis-
posing of Leon Zorrita (imp.) at Bris-
bane Stadium. He soon had Leon fight-
ing on the retreat, had easily the best of
things in the early rounds, in the sixth
badly damaged Leon’s right eye, and in
the first minute of the seventh dropped
him for the count. Ron scrapped in a
fashion which suggested that there’s
plenty of fight in him yet.
Both Sydney and Leichhardt Stadiums
have settled the Australian bantam halo
on the brow of Eddie Miller, it being
held that Mickey Miller had turned the
title in. Mickey still holds the feather
title. Eddie established his claim by beat-
ing Liam Wilson, a pretty little scrapper
recruited from the amateurs. Mickey
and Eddie are due to meet at mixed
weights at Leichhardt tomorrow (Thurs-
day) night.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
It is not so very long since good
players who didn’t have an orthodox style
were almost outcasts. But times have
changed. Among the champions of late
years, style counts for little ; results are
the thing. Keen competition has been
responsible for many new figures appear-
ing, all with their own styles of play.
After closely watching the world’s best
golfers I am satisfied that, if a few essen-
tial points are acknowledged, the rest
of one’s style doesn’t matter to any great
extent. One of the most striking features
of top-rank golfers is that, no matter what
methods they employ, they all do the same
thing immediately before and imme-
diately after the club has hit the ball. If
the stroke is to be good there is only one
way for the clubhead to make contact
with the ball; but that may be subject
to many and varied swings and styles.
It has been stated that there are no two
swings alike ; yet, with all the different
players, there is only one way to hit the
ball—the club face must meet it
square on the line of flight. If this is
not done the shot can’t be a success. The
clubhead must travel on a straight line
before meeting the ball and must con-
tinue along that line after the ball has
been struck.
Golf has developed into a game where
each player has a much better chance if
he concentrates upon his own style. If
any radical changes are made they take a
considerable time to get used to. Altera-
tions to one’s style, if considered really
necessary, should be gradual.
Take the world-famous golfers that
have visited Australia in the last few
years—Hagen, Sarazen, Kirkwood, Locke
and the team of six American profes-
sionals who toured in 1934. They looked
totally different from one another when
on the course. Each had his particular
methods of play. They couldn’t all be
wrong. In fact, they were the pick of the
best overseas golfers. Any Australian
championship meeting provides great
entertainment in the way of variation of
styles. To my mind, it is basically
wrong that professionals .should teach
their pupils to try to play all the same
way. In America the pros, themselves
are seeing the fallacy of trying to teach
uniform styles.
When one is trying to learn the game,
one sound idea absorbed per lesson
should be the aim. I find that lam un-
able to think of more than one particular
point when playing, so I can readily
appreciate that the newcomer to the game
can easily be overwhelmed by too much
advice in too short a time. Every player
is built on different lines ; therefore, why
should a professional teach the tall man
to swing the same as a player shorter in
height? If a pupil is short and solidly
built his natural swing must differ from
that of a taller For instance, Von
Nida is unable to do things I do during
a round, while I can’t play some shots
as he plays them.
Some golfers make the fatal mistake of
trying to copy another’s methods in every
detail. Sometimes the player they intend
to model their game upon is quite unlike
them in build and style, and consequently
their task is about as easy as a portly
matron trying to get into a flapper’s
evening gown. Unfortunately, too,
after abandoning an attempt at a new
style the player rarely returns to his old
swing, and loses confidence in his play
altogether.
My advice is to pick out the various
essential points in a better golfer’s style
and see if they can be fitted into your
game. If his grip is better than yours, try
it on the practice fairway. A change in
stance may be beneficial. There is no-
thing better the average player can do
than to follow the champions during
their play and endeavor to pick up a
wrinkle or two from that particular
round. That is one of the reasons why
exhibition golf overseas is so popular.
During the open championships in
America and England crowds approach-
ing the 30,000 mark follow the play. Gal-
leries are becoming more popular in Aus-
tralia of late years ; once the argument
was “I’d rather play than watch.”
Everyone can learn at golf, whether he
is the open champion or on a limit han-
dicap. If one approaches the game with
an open mind he has more chance of im-
provement than the other fellow.
Foofbrawl
Fitzroy’s rapid climb into the final four
of the V.F. League competition was
brought to a sudden halt at Richmond,
when the Tigers, grimly determined to
maintain their own position, turned on
the real thing with a dominating ruck and
system that soon reduced the early Fitz-
roy lead and brought the Tigers home
winners by 14-15 to 10-11. Fitzroy’s
trouble was inability to finish off attacks.
Out at Collingwood the Magpies were
nearly run off their legs by the fast and
heavy Melbourne team, and two quick
goals made the barrackers fear a rout.
The Magpies pulled themselves together,
and went for the visitors with such spirit
that by three-quarter time they had a
lead of nine points. In a glorious last
quarter. Mueller put Melbourne in front,
and it went on to win, 16-8 to 12-18.
Few expected Sowths to beat Geelong
at South Melbourne. By half-time, with
Geelong nearly four goals in front and
Sowths not having goaled in the second
quarter, you could have written your
own ticket about the home side. But
Sowths, having imbibed monkey glands
or something, fell on the ball and booted
it to a nine-point lead, and then staved
off the annoyed Geelong boys to win,
12-19 to 13-9. Their frequency thus beat
their own inaccuracy.
Footscray, still sniffing about for a
loophole into the four after dashing their
supporters’ early hopes, went to North
Melbourne and amused themselves by
shooting 17-22 to 8-13.
At home to St. Kilda, Carlton had a
gallop round the field, gave the seasiders
a kick now and then, moodily took pot-
shots at the goals, and then went home
with the scores at 13-14 to 6-16 their way.
Anyone passing the Glenferrie foot-
ball ground on Saturday might have sus-
pected that a “win-the-war rally” had
burst forth in all its awfulness. But it
was only the same old Hawthorn getting
the same old licking from the same old
Essendon, 18-12 to 11-18.
* * * *
Manly ended Drummoyne’s chances
for the Sydney Rugby Union premier-
ship. The Villagers had much the better
of things till the last six or seven minutes,
when Drummoyne came with a rush to
get within two points, 18-16. Manly
was then tiring, but it had been superior
forward and back.
Randwick v. St. George was one-sided
as far as points went but interesting other-
wise. The St. George forwards were
excellent, but the backs, overawed per-
haps by the fact that it was the club’s
first semi-final game, could do nothing
right, and Clifford, the champion goal-
kicker, couldn’t find the range with the
greasy ball. For ’Wick meanwhile Ran-
kin had notched two penalty goals. At
lemons it was 6-nil. Afterwards Saints
still got the ball from the scrum ; but
Harmston went straight along the touch-
line for a try, and Towers cut through
and passed to Rankin, who went over
and converted — 16-nil; Rankin 13, Clif-
ford nil.
St. George has another chance against
Manly on Saturday. Randwick plays the
winner for the title.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide Oval has seen
three popular shows for war charities.
The first Saturday was the “lightning”
football championship (since copied else-
where), in which the eight leading clubs
were all seen in action. The next after-
noon was a match between two picked-
and-mixed sides; rather a frost, since
nobody including, as the newspapers
strongly suggested, the players themselves
—much cared who won, and thus bar-
racking was useless. The last was a
really sporting affair of quite five hours,
in which the crowd could see all three
brands of football and pretty well every
other game there is, including a “strip”
turn in which the players of both sexes
wore burlesque costumes of 1890 pat-
ball, and then shed them to display
strenuous modern tennis.


ELECTRICITY
is no longer a
luxury
For the outlay of only a few pence
per day, Everyone—Everywhere—can
enjoy perfect Home Lighting with the
PHILIPS Home Electric
LIGHTING PLANT
Complete with the World-renowned
Exide Storage Batteries
You and your family can enjoy the great benefits of
SAFE Electricity if you install a Philips Plant —•
yes, brilliant lighting for every room in your home —
and you will find the cost is amazingly low. The
Philips is so very simple—so very safe that a child
can operate it.
For the small outlay of only
£69/10/- (including Federal Sales Tax, F.O.R.
you can own a complete Philips Electric Home
Lighting Plant. This Plant will operate nine 40
candle power lamps.
Particulars of larger Plants on application.
i,
m
m
There Is Nothing to Compare with It at Anywhere
Near the Price
LET US TELL YOU MORE ABOUT IT
Fill In,
Cut Out
and
Post.
Please forward me full details of the Philips Lighting
Plant, without obligation.
Name
Address
Telegrams: “Virtue,” Sydney. 'Phones: FL5214 (6 lines)
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LTD.
dfasd
11-25 PALMER ST., SYDNEY. BOX 15848, G.P.O.
SHOWROOMS: 44 Bridge Street (opp. Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.), SYDNEY
and at Brisbane and Longreacb, Queensland.
“CONRIK” Improved
10in. SWING, AUTOMATIC CROSS FEED
LATHE
This latest addition to our comprehensive range of Bench Lathes has
been designed for use in all kinds of work. The highest standards
of workmanship are maintained and ease of operation is an out-
standing feature.
CASH PRICE, £67/10/-
PRINCIPAL DIMENSIONS:
Size of Face Plate, Biiin. diameter.
Height of Centres, Sin.
Distance between Centres, 2ft. 4in.
Length of Bed, 49in.
Width of Face of Bed, Gin.
Hole through Mandril, 13-16 in.
Diameter of Mandril Nose, lain.
Length Overall, 4ft. lOin.
Breadth Overall, 20in.
Height Overall, IGjin.
Swing over Saddle, Tain.
Swing over Gap, 13ain.
Swing over Bed, lOin.
Dimensions of Saddle, 10a in. x lOain.
Dimensions of Boring Table, B£in. x 4|in.
Diameter of Lead Screw, Jin. Acme
Thread.
Diameter of Feed Shaft, fin.
Back Gear Ratio, 6 to 1.
Cone Pulley Steps, Sin., 32in., 2Jin. and
Jin. drop.
Distance Face Plate to Edge of Gap, Sin.
Weight, approx. 3201 b.
Headstock Centre Bored, No. 3.
Bushed to No. 2, Morse Taper.
Tailstoek Centre No. 2, Morse Taper.
WRITE FOR
A COPY
of our
TRADESMEN’S
TOOL
CATALOGUE
NOCK & KIRBY LTD.
417-421, also 188-194 A, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS
ALMOST every person of
standing in the community
has a cheque account, because
to pay by cheque is safer...
easier ... more modern —and
your cheque-butt provides a
record of income and expendi-
ture. A cheque account may
be opened at any branch of
the Rural Bank.
Fixed Deposits are also accepted.
RUli a n k
OF NEW'sWft WAIES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Commissioners :l
C. B. McKERIHAN (PRESIDENT)
H. ROGERS
P. KEARNS


SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“My Favorite Wife”
The little respect that purveyors of
film comedy seem to have for people’s
ribs and ladies’ whatnots is discarded
altogether in moments of this current
Sydney Regent item. When Cary Gfant
is muttering in court with the Judge
(Granville Bates) and both are bickering
and arguing over his matrimonial troubles
in the barely audible undertones in which
Grant specialises, anyone who can’t
send a roar to the Regent’s ceiling should
have his laugh machinery attended to.
There are many similarly humorous
moments scattered through the film. One
in particular, with a hotel desk clerk
(Donald Mcßride) pondering over Mr.
Grant’s efforts to handle his two wives
in the same hotel, and finally giving Mr.
Grant his opinion on the matter, is
almost certain to be responsible for severe
damage to some of the Regent’s luxurious
pews before the season is through.
The film kicks off with Mr. Grant
getting himself married a second time, his
first wife having disappeared during a
shipwreck, believed dead. On the eve of his
honeymoon, however, she reappears alive
and kicking and fully convinced that Mr.
Grant is her rightful property. There-
after it’s Mr. Grant’s job to straighten
out the mess, which task is not made
any easier by his discovering that his
wife’s seven years on a lonely Pacific
isle were spent in the company of a
bronzed, healthy male.
The narrative of the film is stretched
a bit thin in places—though possibly it
seems that way because a similar story
was shown in “Too Many Husbands”
at the State a few weeks ago—but Grant’s
comedic ability carries it over the worn
patches almost without a hitch. Irene
Dunne as the first wife doesn’t show up
as well as might have been expected,
though, recalling other performances of
hers, it appears that she is not so well
treated in this offering. Gail Patrick
turns in an appropriately snooty job as
the second wife, and Randolph Scott
makes an excellent fist of Miss Dunne’s
barrel-chested island companion.
* * * *
“Serenade”
This French film, mentioned here last
week as being on the rounds and now
showing at Sydney Savoy, is not unlike
a piece of family lace out of grandma’s
old trunk—beautifully made, a little too
pretty and altogether very sentimental.
It fathers yet another romance on to
Schubert, this one dealing with a dancer
who is imprisoned by the Chief of
Police. He locks her up in posh apart-
ments for his own benefit but releases
her in favor of Schubert, whom she even-
tually leaves to give himself entirely to
his music.
There’s some fine acting by Louis Jou-
vert as the Chief of Police, and a brief
but striking portrayal of Beethoven by
Boverio ; Lilian Harvey makes a pretty
dancer and Bernard Lancret a sentimental
Schubert. Music includes “Ave Maria,”
“Impatience” and, of course, “Serenade.”
* * * *
“I Was an Adventuress”
The first half of this current item at
Sydney Plaza builds up an excellent pic-
ture of three confidence tricksters and
their ingenious methods ;. the roles are
played by Eric von Stroheim, Peter Lorre
and Vera Zorina, all of them particularly
good players turning in particularly nice
work. To this stage the film is original
and almdst artistic, but then imagination
seems to have deserted the authors, and
the story degenerates to an ordinary
Hollywooden hotchpotch. Zorina, having
exerted her charms on various wealthy
victims, suddenly falls for one of them,
marries him and then has to shake off
her tenacious partners. The situations
that develop are not new, nor is the
manner of handling them, nor the re-
mainder of the film.
Richard Green figures as the husband
and manages that role with satisfactory,
if undistinguished, ease. Zorina is a ballet
dancer as well as an actress, and the film
winds up with scenes from an imagi-
native but very poorly photographed
“Swan Lake.”
* * * *
There are a couple of red-blooded
shows at Sydney Capitol, in healthy con-
trast to the light, frothy stuff currently
showing at other addresses. “6000
Enemies” has Walter Pidgeon as a suc-
cessful prosecuting attorney, convicted on
a framed charge and consigned to
quod with several thousand of his legal
victims. Plenty of stoush and action
while they make it hot for Walter, though,
of course, he bears up manfully and all
ends well. Support feature, “The Wit-
ness Vanishes,” is a rattling good murder
mystery with three murders and an un-
expected solution. With a good bunch of
shorts they make a meaty programme.
* * *
“It’s a Date,” at Sydney State, is a
light musical hotchpotch, with Kay
Francis as a N’Yark star and
Deanna Durbin her stage-struck daughter.
Without the other knowing, each com-
petes for the lead-role in a new play, and
at the same time Deanna falls for Walter
Pidgeon, who is in turn much enamored
Cary Grant in trouble with his two wives (Irene Dunne and Gail Patrick), while
’Sonah (Granville Bates) wonders why any man should do it twice —“My Favorite
Wife,” at Sydney Regent.
of her mother. All ends well, with
Deanna landing the leading role and Kay
compromising by nabbing Walter.
Deanna particularly tuneful in “Ave
Maria” and a few other numbers.
& * # K
“Lillian Russell,” at Sydney Century,
makes f.a.q. entertainment without hav-
ing much to distinguish it from all the
Hollywood musical histories which have
been flowing out regularly since “Alex-
ander’s Ragtime Band.” Alice Faye,
with customary glamor and easy voice,
makes pleasant work of the title role,
aided by Don Ameche, appearing briefly
as her first husband. Any who saw
Edward Arnold a few years back play
Diamond Jim Brady may be interested
to see him doing that character again.
There’s a sprinkling of old-style musical
stuff.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Oscar Wilde Again
Somebody has said that it takes a
new idea 50 years to get into a univer-
sity and when it does it has become re-
spectable. In present critic’s youth a
performance of Wilde’s “Salome” would
have been unthinkable in the Alma Mater
of his native city, but it was surveyed
quite comfortably by a large audience
at the Union Theatre at Melbourne
University. A play which was banned
and abused in England and helped to
get its author a spell in prison turned
out to be well worth revival. Its artistic
faults, if any, are a tendency to long-
windedness. The audience could have
been spared a good deal of Herodias’s
nagging of her husband when he casts
the glad eye on her daughter, while the
conscience-smitten Herod carried con-
viction but carried it too far and long.
But Yetta Bardas, as Salome, made an
excellent fist of the obsession of the
daughter of Herodias for John the Bap-
tist, and when, out of pique, she de-
manded the prophet’s head on a salver
as Herod’s price of admission to the
Dance of the Seven Veils, the play
reached a high pinnacle of emotional
intensity. The arrival of the head and
her kissing of its lips would have been
too painful a spectacle for the theatre if
it had not been for Miss Bardas’s com-
plete preoccupation with her grisly pur-
pose. In the dance Miss Carrie Loder
deputised for the seductress but was not
particularly impressive. The rest of the
cast were equal to“ the occasion.
Just to even things up the University
lads and lassies made a frightful hash
of Shaw’s “Dark Lady of the Sonnets.
“The Dark Lady” is poor Shaw, but it ;
is not quite as bad as they made it.
* * * *
“You Can’t Take It With You”
The film version of this comedy had
Lionel Barrymore, Mischa Auer and
Edward Arnold, fireworks galore, a
grand fire and a fund of wisecracks ;
Doris Fitton’s Independents for their
stage version at their North Sydney
theatre can’t have the fire or Barrymore
or Auer, but they’ve plenty of fireworks
(offstage) and most of the wisecracks,
plus a gin-soaked actress whom Holly-
wood apparently didn’t like and a Rus-
sian Grand Duchess who’s also a good
cook.
The Vanderhof family, who have de-
cided that the good Lord will provide,
that even if you do make big money
“you can’t take it with you,” and that
they won’t bother about work, are an
attractive lot. Gran’pa keeps snakes, dad
makes fireworks, mum writes plays be-
cause someone left a typewriter by mis-
take eight years ago, and one daughter
makes candies and practises ballet danc-
ing. Their friends —the man who once
came to deliver ice and hasn’t been
away since, the Russian dancing teacher
who always comes to dinner, even the
gin-soaked actress are also a happy
collection. That the businessman Kirby’s
argument, “What would happen if every-
body did the same?” should bear looking
into can’t affect the pleasant atmosphere
of the play.
Sumner Locke-Elliott, his voice care-
fully modelled on Barrymore’s quiet
drawl, rallied the cast around him as
Gran’pa ; Helen Lohan plugged away at
her typewriter assiduously; David Rat-
ner in Auer’s part of the Russian dancer
got his laughs as effectively, but in quite
another manner ; Thomas Parramore was
an earnest Kirby; and Haydee Seldon,
unconscious as the gin-soaked actress,
was the best of the bunch.
=r- * * *
At Sydney Town Hall last week Sir
Thomas Beecham conducted the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra. Programme opened
with the conductor’s own arrangement of
Handelian dance movements, “The Origin
of Design,” and the performance was full
of what Shakspeare referred to when he
spoke of the immortality of his own
“powerful rhyme.” The “Linz” sym-
phony of Mozart was well done,
especially the tart twist in its tail, and
Delius’s “Brigg Fair” (more a threnody
than a carnival impression) was given
beautifully—the first really satisfactory
performance of a Delius work Sydney
has heard at first-hand. Beethoven’s
“Pastoral” lived up to its programme,
with its touches of rusticity, its magni-
ficent storm and its folk-songs.
A couple of nights later Beecham took
the same band to Marrickville to play
music so good that everybody knows it
—Strauss’s “Voices of Spring” waltz, the
first “Peer Gynt” suite, the overture to
“Midsummer Night’s Dream” and the
barcarolle from Offenbach’s “Tales of
Hoffman.” And sandwiched among these
the Delius “First Cuckoo,” which went
as well as anything.
* * * *
In the first performance in Sydney of
“Coppelia” since Genee did it a genera-
tion ago, Riabouchinska danced the
chief role at Sydney Royal. One could
hardly imagine a more graceful Swanilda.
The ballerina seasoned her interpretation
with a liberal dash of humor, and her
mimicry as the animated doll was con-
vincing. Later in the week “Carnival”
saw light for the first time this season ;
Toumanova made a fairly neat Colum-
bine, but Lichine, appearing at short
notice as Harlequin, was far from his
best. The Ballet winds up its season
tonight, and the stage of the Royal will
be frozen over for the opening of the
“Switzerland” ice show next Saturday.
* * * *
In J. Joseph the Sydney Musical
Society has a producer who combines
indefatigability, high skill and enthusi-
asm, and an orchestra which, under Ivan
Nixon’s baton, does good work.
Bolstered, too, by such seasoned cam-
paigners as Stan Buddie, Marcia Scho-
field, Gwen Gillard and Reg Willoughby,
it is well equipped to produce Gilsullivan
on an ambitious scale. “The Sorcerer,”
put on at the Con. on Saturday night,
maintained the standard set in previous
productions. The principals were in
good vocal fettle and acted spiritedly.
Choruses opened somewhat raggedly,
but gathered cohesion later. Pipe-opener
was “Trial by Jury,” in which Bonnie
Judd was the comely plaintiff.
Artbursts.
Roland Wakelin opened Rupert
Bunny’s latest Sydney show of paintings,
which is at the Macquarie Galleries, and
that alone shows that Mr. Bunny has
travelled a long way since the days when
he first became well known, not only in
Australia but abroad. There are traces
of the early, somewhat conventional but
always graceful, style in a girl’s head
(No. 15), and in the figure composition
“Europa and the Bull.” “Narcissus and
Echo,” the biggest canvas, shows a
couple of the old-time Bunny figures
against _ a background wildly Gauguin-
esque. ' Rest of the show is made up
mainly of a series of sketches made in
France hazy, tremulous and wistful;
sometimes tragic. The new manner,
though no one can doubt its sincerity,
appeals to a smaller circle than the old.
“Cauboy” farewells a Showman:
Old Poverty Pointers will learn with regret
of the passing at 69 in Melbourne of William
Anderson, known to Bulletin readers of a
previous generation as Bilanderson. He was
one of the best-loved men in the theatrical
profession, and, although he never attained to
the spectacular heights of Bland Holt, his con-
temporary in the purveying of bellowdrama to
the Australian public, he shared with that
G.O.M. the quality of loyalty to his staff
which made him readier to sacrifice Art than a
dud actor.
Born in Bendigo, he was totally untutored,
and began his' career as a theatrical billposter
in his native city. He rose to eminence as a
producer first in company with Charles Hollo-
way and then with Julius Grant and comedian
Bert Bailey. Being unlettered he never ven-
tured on to the boards himself, but he mar-
ried the talented Eugene Duggan, who learnt
histrionics from that distinguished Shak-
spearean scholar Mrs. G. P. W. Lewis —she
maintained a once-celebrated academy on St.
Kilda-road —and starred in most of her hus-
band’s productions.
Bilanderson started at the Alexandra, the
old showhouse which stood on the site of the
present His Majesty’s in Melbourne. Then he
got an interest in the Princess, and in 1908
opened the King’s Theatre, built to his order.
In his heyday he had companies spreading
the jam of melodrama over every Australian
State and M.L. His last venture was the recent
disastrous season at the King’s, in which he
pinned his faith to some of his old favorites,
but they turned out to be as incomprehensible
to the modern American-movie addict as if
they had been spoken in Chocktaw.
Bilanderson made pots and pots and pots
of money in the theatre and lost them on
the racecourse.


STOP GETTING
DP ,
Don't get up night after night because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unlit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help. „ , , thocn
The longer you have Buffered from tnesa
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, tho
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and da
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When
toe kidneys do not function properly waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen f
ankles, dizziness, puffiness under the ey
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Th f
strengthen and regulate the k . l ! i . ne -’f,f" d s y sU d n i
der, banish pain and aid in ridding th system
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The salon of living pictures set
up house at the Con. last Friday night,
with simply everybody in the social
register posing in masterpieces, ancient
and modern, or sitting in the hall on the
alert. The affair, timed to start at eight,
mooned about in amateurwise, and the
curtain went up much later. The middle
act of “The Corn Is Green” was staged,
leaving the imaginative in the audience
in a maddened condition as to what led
up to it and what it led up to. It must
be said that the act was really superbly
done.
The girls taking part had spared neither
time nor money to achieve effects. Satins
and brocades shone with rich lustre in
the Bouchier, the Romney, the Winter-
halter pictures. Mrs, Harry Hodson, not
long from England, where she has been
living since her marriage, was a
Romney duchess, Mrs. Charlie Lloyd
Jones’s Sheba had an air; and Mrs.
Stening’s Empress Eugenie made quite
a hit. An eyeful of pleasure was Mrs.
H. D. O’Connell’s Madame Pompadour.
The cause is a good one. The King
George V Memorial Hospital for mothers
and babies will benefit. But for the dura-
tion the hospital will be handed over to
the Defence Department. Mrs. Clement
Chapman was not only the president of
the show ; she, with Fred Leist, also pro-
duced a couple of the pictures. Lots of
Philistines in the audience were glad that
the night was not all art and beauty.
Jimmy Bancks gave us a chance to stretch
our lip muscles in a few grins. “The
Vow” and “Pram Prattle” were bits of
nonsense to appeal to vagrant fanciers.
“Land of Hope and Glory” was a spirited
finale. Harold Williams sang it, and the
Navy, Army and Air Force took part in
the picture.
By set of sun, the takings at The King’s
School fete were over £2OOO. The day s
great success was the slippery slide, the
night’s the barbecue dinner on the banks
of the hoary old Parramatta River. The
slide, which had been built by the boys
of the school, was probably the slipperiest
that Learning had ever attempted to sit
upon. However, headmaster Hake
seemed to enjoy his sprint along it. His
partner in this adventure was Peter Lub-
bock. Lady Wakehurst declared the fete
open, and spoke of the hundreds of boys
who had gone from The King’s to serve
their country. There was a non-stop con-
cert in a large marquee. This had been
arranged by Mrs. Venour Nathan.
Joyce Taylor and John McGirr (he is
studying medicine, she taking law at Syd-
ney Uni.) were married during the week-
end. St. Mary’s blessed the partnership,
and the Carlton Hotel supplied the break-
fast. John is a son of the Greg McGirrs,
of North Sydney. Joyce’s father and
mother are the R. C. Taylors, of The
Entrance.
Mrs. W. Kingsford Smith, of Woll-
stonecraft, has organised an art union
that is an art union. Naturally it is for
the R.A.A.F. Comforts Fund. The prizes
are four paintings by Australian artists.
There’s a harbor scene by H. A. Hanke
(Archibald Prize winner), a still-life glow-
ing with light and color by Albert Sher-
man, a Dutch study by the poetic John
Banks and a very topical scene of our
times, “Balloon Barrage Over London,”
by Lance Solomon. He who draws the
first prize will have first pick, the second-
prize winner can have next choice and
so on. The fourth will, of course, have
no choice but will still have a lovely
little masterpiece for his home. The
pictures are on show in Rubery Bennett’s
gallery.
A woman who is always accurate says
that it is 28 years since Sydney saw
Genee twirling her lightsome toes in
“Coppelia.” The ballet had not been
revived here in all the years since till
last week. The opening night saw many
who had delighted in the Genee per-
formance waiting eagerly for the rise
of the curtain. Tatiana Riabouchinska,
as Swanilda pretending to be the doll,
wore a Columbine effect in two tones
of blue, like the waters of some en-
chanted lagoon. “Francesca,” looking
like a page torn from some illuminated
medieval book of romance with its reds
and rose, its burning blues and violets,
ran rampant. Well, well, it was one
way of keeping up the central heating
in those cold medieval castles! Exciting
person in the audience was actress Marie
Ney.
Maoriland will be massing congratu-
lations for Marie Ney, the pretty and
talented. Marie, born in England, spent
much of her girlhood in Wellington,
Enzed. Her acting ability was noted
very quickly, and she was one of the
bright stars of amateur productions.
Allan Wilkie then saw Shakspearean pos-
sibilities in the graceful girl and added
Marie to his Australian tour. She is
still remembered as the young girl of
the family in “Mr. Pym Passes By,”
when Marie Tempest played the harassed
woman whose status as that of a lawful
wife or an unintentional bigamist was
governed by the width of a herring-bone.
Had her former husband choked on the
fish bone, or hadn’t he?
Miss Ney’s last appearance in Syd-
ney was with Emilie Polini in “The Lie.”
Then followed London, marriage with
Thomas Menzies, rubber planter of
Kuala Lumpur, and a great success on
the stage. This Letter recalls her clever
acting in “Touch Wood,” a Basil Dean
production at the Haymarket, London.
She has done much film work. Sydney
saw her not long ago in “Jamaica Inn.”
When it was decided that Ella Caspers
should give a concert for Boys’ Town,
Alicia Inglis was roped in as publicity
officer. She tells that the concert will
be held in the Assembly Hall next
month, and that Ella, who lives in
Taree, will come to Sydney some time
before the event. Ella, before marriage
and the North Coast claimed her, was
one of the city’s big concert draws. The
voice is said to be as rich and true
as ever. When she sang to entertain
soldier lads a few weeks ago at the
C.U.S.A. hut, it proved to have lost no-
thing of its magnetism.
Alicia is pretty good on this publicity
job. She has had grand experience on
St. Vincent’s Hospital Women’s Com-
mittee, and must have a mountain of
clipping-books about the Darlinghurst
institution. Alicia is a war worker, too,
and is president of the “Younger Set”
of the Red Cross at Vaucluse. Norton
Trevaire photograph.
Wednesday’s air crash plunged the city
in gloom. The victims of the Canberra
tragedy had troops of friends, and in par-
ticular the presswomen of Sydney were
touched by the death of Harry Gullett,
Vice-President of the Executive Council.
Harry’s sister Isabel is a popular news-
paper woman, and the thought of her
sorrow aroused a wave of sympathy in
newspaper offices. Harry himself was a
journalist. He was splendid company,
told a story with just that nip to the
sentences that showed he had known the
sub-editor’s hand in youth. His widow,
who was Penelope Bainton, had a clever
writing mother, Barbara Bainton, many
of whose short stories made their appear-
ance in The Bulletin.
With the mental gaze of all the State on
them thousands of manly sons of the A.I.F.
are marching on Bathurst. By the time
this edition is being called on Sydney
streets the people of Bathurst will be
running up the banners of welcome. The
marchers have enjoyed this war-time
practice, and at the end of the perfect day
which brought them to a mountain town
where bright eyes flashed in greeting,
canteens were eager to serve them, part-
ners stepped blithely in the dance. If
you had heard this army singing “Kiss
Me Good Night, Sergeant-Major! ” you’d
know them for sons of the Diggers of
1914-18. Incidentally, one of the
marchers used to sell newspapers on the
corner of Pitt-street and Martin-place.
Since the 2/13 Battalion arrived in
Katoomba they are the richer by the dig-
nified presence of Boris, the Great Dane
given to them as a mascot by Mrs. F. M.
Faunce, of Darling Point.
Anthony Hordern’s brought spring to
Brickfield Hill in spite of the chilly blasts
of last week. You’ll find when you visit
this fashion display that the Australian
fine woollens in pastel shades are simply
a necessity to your wardrobe, between
now and December. The linen suits —
white with navy particularly —have a
magnetic pull. Pockets, tucks and pleats
are featured ; not all in the same frock,
of course. If you’re one of those whose
summer credo includes white muslin
blouses you’ll be happy, for this year
Fashion agrees with you. Do you feel
like “three cheers for the red, white and
blue,” then there’s a white crepe suit call-
ing to you. It has its jacket braided in
red and blue. Of the making of hats,
seemingly, there is no end. They are of
fine straws, coarse straws, straws shiny
as coal. They are wide-brimmed, they
are brimless. The smartest are the
sailors. They say every nice girl loves a
sailor ; well, every sailor must like a nice
girl in one of these.
“Charley’s Aunt” as a matinee for the
Prince Henry Hospital was gala for the
audience and gratifying for the commit-
tee. There will be close to £lOO in the
collection-box. A cocktail set given by
Mrs. John Cuttle and a cushion from
Dr. Poate’s wife brought in a shoal of
silver to swell the total. Mrs. C. A.
Hardwick and Mrs. A. C. Aubry, the
secretaries, and Mrs. F. W. Marks, the
chairman, are pleased with this effort.
Real music-lovers of the city know the
Collegium Musicum. It is up two flights
of stairs, above Hamilton-street, and on
Fridays it is packed with players and their
listeners —the second, members and their
friends. First there is a lunch “in the
hand” —a plate of soup, coffee and cakes.
Then some great work is played. Last
Friday the Mozart Concerto in D was
the one chosen. Into the pattern of
violins, violas, ’cello, oboes, Nora Wil-
liamson played the lovely solo passages.
Neville Amadio conducted. The Col-
legium has been in existence for some
time. ’Cellist Carl Gotsch is one of its
guiding hands. Last Friday Cyril Monk,
Mildred Hill and Mrs. Rex Bennett were
among the visitors.
This Letter twice came into arch-
bishopric aura last week. Once the
party surrounded the Anglican Dr.
Mowll; and the other occasion found her
at meat with his Grace of St. Mary’s.
This latter lunch was set in the Catholic
Women’s Association Clubrooms, a,'nd
nearly 200 women were there to listen to
Dr. Gilroy’s address. This touched on
the care of Catholic children who might
be sent from England. A committee is
being formed in Sydney to attend to this
matter should the children come ; and it
was a typical McGirr touch of grace
which prompted Mrs. Greg McGirr, in
her speech, to make the suggestion that
the Archbishop’s mother might be the
patroness. Miss Kate Egan presided.
Mrs. Geoffrey Marquis made happy
reunion with sister Mrs. Don Taylor, of
ICirribilli, last week. She arrived with
her husband and two schoolboy sons from
England, where the elder has been at
Rugby, the younger at school in Hor-
sham. The Marquis home is in Calcutta,
and there Mr. Marquis returns after a
few weeks. Mrs. Marquis will spend a
holiday with her relations, and then go
back to Calcutta. The two boys will
remain at school in Sydne^f.
Mrs. Scrivener’s music party at the
Forum Club had an archbishop for guest
of honor. With Archbishop Mowll was
Mrs. Mowll, and, as the Ladies’ Home
Mission of St. Andrew’s will benefit,
many of the cathedral’s good workers
were in the audience. One star event of
the nisht was tenor Charles Benson’s
singing" of the song just composed by his
mother, who for many years has been
a part of the Apple Island’s music world.
Mrs. Benson senior has turned into the
street called Eighty. Another event was
pianist Hector Tinkler’s arising and carry-
ing off with a determined air stool and all
after he had failed to win an argument
in the matter of his coat-tails. Valda
Bagnall, whose teacher, Neville Smith,
was there, has both the appearance and
voice to please. Lucille Bruntnell,
Jeanette Rooney and Lorna Rutherford
also lent talent and charm to the night.
Bertha Vickery, newly engaged to Hector
Tinkler, was there. The Parker lady,
Mrs. Eva Rutherford and Betty Marr
were the hostesses.
Apart from the music the exciting hap-
pening at last week’s Beecham conceit
was Mrs. Brian Haynes’s snow-leopard
cape. Mrs. Haynes, who has been in
England and India for the last few years,
was gazed on by all in the interval prom-
enade. There is an exotic film-star look
about the snow-leopard skin, especially
when displayed in shoulder-to-ankle
length.
Another nice coat came from Mel-
bourne. It was a winter-sky blue, and
had on each frontispiece a sort of round
plaque of sequins bordered with pale red
and white embroideries. Like a dark-
red rose were the moires worn by Mrs.
Roy Buckland. The house was crowded
and ran hot with enthusiasm ; and Sir
Thomas looked with fatherly pride at
the orchestra and with content at the
listeners.
If you have been worried about the
wrapping-up of those comforts parcels
to the soldier of the family, or have won-
dered if what you were posting were just
the things he wanted, you might be glad
to know all about the canteen orders
issued by the Australian Defence Can-
teens Service. They can be bought at
all money-order post offices, are similar
to postal notes, and have all the protec-
tion of a crossed cheque. You can buy
a 55., 10s. or 20s. canteen order, and
these are exchangeable for goods sold in
overseas canteens by the A.D.C.S. They
are not subject to any form of duty.
These order forms are sent back to Aus-
tralia, recorded and filed, so that the
sender can easily find if the soldiers to
whom they were sent have received the
goods. This information is passed on
through this Letter at the request of the
A.D.C.S. The method has the Govern-
ment’s guarantee.
One shipload of women and children
from Hong Kong had all the fun last
week. They were met by a band and
by a reception committee armed with
cars and posies. The second ship, how-
ever, did not berth till some hours after
the expected time, and by then its band
had departed; Mayor Crick and the
reception committee also. Late at night
the involuntary visitors lined the railings.
After a look at the bleak night all but a
few were content to snuggle down in their
comfortable quarters (that they had been
comfortable was a unanimous opinion)
till morning, when the band, the flowers,
the Mayor and the reception committee
were on deck again. The early mistakes
when some of the women found them-
selves in unsuitable surroundings are be-
ing guarded against.
Writer Ivy Moore’s son, Lieut. John
Moore, R.A.N.R., married his Eliza-
beth Eadie lately in St. Mark’s at Darling
Point. Elizabeth’s father is also of the
Navy. He is Lieut.-Commander. Donald
Eadie (retired). John’s father, Captain
R. N. Moore, a deepsea warrior too, sent
son a handsome cheque. Best man and
nearly all the male guests were in blue-
and-gold—in short, it was one of those
naval occasions.
You will remember Valma Sullivan,
the young pianist who Was given a testi-
monial concert to help her go to London
to take up a music scholarship. Latest
word of her was that she was still in
London with her friends the Aikens, and
all were busy helping in the evacuation of
children. “I am glad to do what I can
for England, who has done so much for
all of us,” writes Valma.


BRANDAIIERA
G''
t*'*
P,\V<
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not
experiment with imitations
c. BBAHDABBE * CO, Ltd, BIttiUJXUUAM, KXU
Personal and Missing Friends.
ANDREW HARVEY, formerly of Excelsior
and Piamlong, New South Wales, Australia,
or anyone knowing his present whereabouts, is
requested to communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUST OFFICE, Rotorua, New Zealand.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 2099 of 1939.
BETWEEN JOYCE KREMMER McKIT-
TERICK Petitioner
T£lrr E D ORGE J GRATTAN McKIT-
TERICK Respondent.
TO GEORGE GRATTAN McKITTERICK
late of Sydney in the State of New South
Wales.
NOTICE that the said JOYCE
KREMMER McKITTERICK has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the giounds of desertion for three years and
[ ust cause or excuse AND
take NOIICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Eighth day of November 1940 and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A codv
of the petition filed herein may be had on
ap nA C Tcn to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twelfth day of August One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Rc§istr3r
E. W. B. SHERLOCK, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney. f
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 1015 of 1940.
BETWEEN FREDA LILLIAN BALL Peti-
tioner
And ALBERT EDWARD BALL Respon-
TO ALBERT EDWARD BALL late of Bel-
langry and Rollands Plains.
T tTt p?t T t IC u E that the said FREDA
LIEEIAJN BALL has commenced a suit against
you m this Honorable Court and is applying
tor a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
ot desertion for three years and upwards with-
xrrvrfr'c or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Thirteenth day of November One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Sixteenth day of August, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. M. GLASS, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Wauchope; by his Agents, W. S. GRAY &
PERKINS, Solicitors, 375 George Street, Syd-
ney.
ABSTRACT OF CITATION.
TO HERBERT HILLMAN WREN whose
address is unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing date
the 14th day of May 1940 has been issued
out of the Divorce Registry of the Supreme
Court of Western Australia citing you to appear
and answer the petition of HILDA MAY
WREN of Belmont in the State of Western
Australia praying for a dissolution of her mar-
riage with you AND in default of your
appearing the Court will proceed to hear and
determine the said charge and you will not
be allowed to address the Court THEREFORE
TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
you are within Thirty days from the date of
the last advertisement to attend in person or
by your solicitor or proctor at the Divorce
Registry of our said Court and there to enter
an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
T. F. DAVIES,
Registrar.
To be inserted in one issue of the “West
Australian,” published in Perth, and in one
issue of the “Bulletin,” published in Sydney.
GREIF & HARTREY, of Warwick House,
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Melbourne
Chatter
A party for a good cause—comforts
for merchant seamen —was given by Mrs.
Russell Jackson and her daughter Joan at
their home, Elwood. Youth danced in
the schoolroom, mature years sat by
fires and the in-betweens patronised
whirly-wheels and other money-making
diversions. “Refreshments” in the vesti-
bule were popular and were served pro-
fessionally, even to the patronage of
in oils and gilt frame. The dart
board was discovered by Dr. Leon Jona
and Fred Rae, but the latter is not so hot
with feathered missiles as he is with a
rifle. Among those who also came along
and did their bit for the sailors were Mrs.
Rupert Harvey and sister Phil
Fay Stoddart, Darcy Small and Spencer
Farlow. Mrs. V. P. Johnson was sans
spouse, the Government psychologist, so
she came with sister Gwen Hughes. Third
sister, Mrs. Maurice Belz, and her hus-
band were absentees owing to profes-
sorial engagements. They have since
made tracks for Buller and a spot of
ski-ing.
Regimental unit associations are crop-
ping up like daffodils in August. The
personal interest does the trick. A
newly-born association whose address is
100 Queen-street is an attachment of the
2/4th Field Regiment, 7th Division,
A.I.F. The president is Mrs. Ted Mil-
ford, wife of Brigadier Milford, who
commands the 7th Division Artillery. The
chairman'is Mrs. Essington Lewis, whose
son Bob is a lance-bombardier in the
2/4th. The vice-presidents are Mrs.
E - Barker, wife of the regiment’s
G.G., Lieut.-Colonel Barker, and Mrs
Ken Niall, whose son Gerald is now a
sergeant.
The association makes and collects
comforts for the men of the regiment
while in camp or on active service.
Gramophone records, games, tobacco,
woollen goods, etc., are all most accept-
able, and the men have shown how much
they like fruit. One thousand books
have already been collected for the library
at Pucka. At the clubroom depot in
Queen-street there is provision for writ-
ing, reading, etc., and reviving cups of
tea and biscuits can be had for a mild
penny. Anyone willing to help the regi-
ment is welcomed at these rooms.
Wives of members of the English Public
Schools Association in Victoria (which
most people didn’t know existed) met in
the luxurious atmosphere of Mrs. Hamil-
ton Sleigh s duck-egg furnishings and
quilted satin cushions to talk about a
picture night at the Village Theatre on
September 3. Mrs. Sleigh conducted her
meeting with sherry and its accompani-
ments, with the sort of giddy hat she can
get away with, like a mortar-board
askew, with sumptuous blue foxes even
though the room was plentifully steam-
eated, and with an easy manner that’s
an of a good hostess. Bracing
touches from a radical world without were
the two posters on view on the mantel-
piece advertising the picture night, which
is for the Red Cross. Designers were
Yvonne Atkinson and David Strachan.
Yvonne hasn t forsaken art for matrimony
since she became Mrs. Tony Daniel, but
David has given up his besetting hobby
(or sin; according to some critics) and is
now doing hard, honest toil at the air-
craft factory.
Mrs-. Roy Anderson, elected hon. sec.
tor the picture night committee, accepted
a ,°ff er s of co-operation from
Mrs. S. Phillips-Humphreys, Mrs. C W
Stericker, Mrs. B. M. Hicks and H. H.'
Sherlock, who will be treasurer. A bevy
of youth sat upon the floor and pondered
over what it would wear selling pro-
grammes, etc. All-black was suggested ;
so were red-and-white and red-and-blue.
The latter idea came from Bunty Burnett,
who explained that those who had frocks
of a chosen color could wear them. It
was also mooted that the girls should
form a guard of honor for Lady Dugan.
A Grand Variety Entertainment was the
cover-all title given to the show put on
by the Sports Sub-committee of the Red
Cross in the Town Hall. It was a dish
of assorted flavors, but the best bits
were impromptu. Amateur conductors
of the A.B.C. band were Cr. Nettlefold,
Reg Dooley and Conway Nicholls. The
Nettlefold baton took “What Are Little
Girls Made Of” in Salvation Army style
until the woodwinds lost themselves
’mong the “snails and puppy-dogs’ tails.”
The Dooley tempo was slow and cau-
tious, the Nicholls capers all gymnastics
and sudden booms and silences. A
cheque on Ernest O’Sullivan’s old bank
(he’s an ex-general manager of the E., S.
and A.) arrived for the fund in the
morning.
Hubert Opperman’s item went over well,
his props being two bikes, rollers, a time
clock, pal Harry Hopman (to whose
head of hair “Oppie” clung while
waiting to get going), and commentator
Bruce Small, who without notes made a
good adventurous yarn of “Oppie’s” ride
from Mt. Gambler to Lakes Entrance.
Strella Wilson, table-tennis champs. Ken
Adamson and Hec Oakley, the lunior
Legacy Club and the acrobatic Fire
Brigade men contributed.
The Ruyton Red Cross squad (very
taking young things in white silk gym.
frocks made with zippered-up-the-front
bodices and short flared skirts) went
through their exercise routine. Herbert
Browne generated vast quantities of
emotion within himself. The funniest
thing about the footballer comedians was
the face of Bull Adams, made more
impressive by a genuine black eye. The
Wasps wound up the programme with
tonic exercises. Among these willing-to-
work young women were Betty Wallace
Mitchell, Athalie Cuming, Nancy Oehr,
Maxine Portus, Rosemary Matthews and
Margaret Gunnerson.
A young woman of talent and resource
is Joyce Drysdale, herewith portrayed
by Dickinson-Monteath. A Mary Camp-
bell Memorial Scholarship winner, she
is now doing her third and final year
for a Diploma of Music at the Albert-
street Conservatorium. She’s a pupil of
Muriel Cheek, and on Monday night
gave her first recital with a programme
of modern English and old French songs,
lyrics by Liszt and a further gipsy group.
Assisting artist was violinist Milton
Holden.
Joyce, in appreciation of her Mary
Campbell Scholarship, held her recital
for the scholarship fund, for next year
another candidate must be chosen for
this particular bursary. Joyce hopes to
achieve a place in grand opera some
day, but she doesn’t live with her head
in the clouds, and there’s no time in
her busy life for temperament. All
unaided she has looked after her father,
who is a sergeant of police at Malvern’
four young brothers and a small sister
since her mother died six years ago.
Joyce cooks for the family, sews, irons,
spring-cleans the house during week-
ends, studies and practises and yet man-
ages to sing a lot for charity.
The feminine element of the A.I.F. in
Palestine seems to have come off second-
best with glamor stuff. Some other Brit-
ish hospital units have been allowed a
piece de resistance apiece in the form of
a trailing evening gown, whereas the Aus-
tralians received an injunction that they
must not take extra frocks, and that they
would look as good as gold when out
lor dinner in their silk mess uniforms
One masseuse from Melbourne is still
weeping crocodile tears over a dance
where she was the only woman in uni-
form. She says she knows now just how
Cinderella felt.
Victorians say there is at least one
beach in Palestine that’s like the beach
at Portsea, for, although there are no
picked spots, there are many familiar
faces. They also say their bathing-suits
are wearing out at a great rate. The
feminine hospital attachments are wish-
ing they had taken their year-before-last
togs as well as last summer’s. From
varied sources among the nurses come
notes of appreciation regarding their
much-used and -admired crockery, a gift
from the Prahran Patriotic Society, whose
mosquito-proof gaiters are also appar-
ently doing their duty upon many tender
legs.
A recent engagement is that of Mar-
garet Jolly and Wesley Hooper. Mar-
garet (whose photograph is by Broothorn)
is the elder daughter of the A. W. Jollys,
of North Adelaide, and Wesley is the son
of Mr. and Mrs. A. F. Hooper, of
Toorak. Margaret, whose visits to Mel-
bourne are frequent, particularly during
seasons of ballet, possesses, like her
fiance, a more than average span of
inches. She is finding this has at least
one advantage, for she and Wesley will
never lose each other in a crowd.
Tomorrow night’s concert (22nd) means
a lot to the women working for the
Y.W.C.A. fund, to Lady Gowrie, who
launched the collection campaign, and
to Lady Halifax, who sent to the
Dominions an SOS on behalf of women
workers in England who need equipment,
housing, etc. Tomorrow is also im-
portant for the Menuhin family, for
Yehudi and his violin are providing the
concert. Seats are much in request,
whether priced at a guinea or procurable
for a few shillings. Even though they
have no cushions, the “guineas” will
breathe social air, cheek by jowl with
ermine of quality. But the cheap seats
won’t be distressed. They are among
the really musical. And—who knows?—
anybody might be sitting next to an
undiscovered genius.
For achieving the Menuhin concert
the Y.W. fund owes a lot to Mrs. Karl
Kumm. She smiled at the Menuhins and
the Nicholases and they smiled back, but
replied “Yehudi has promised a concert
to the Red Cross.” Regretful, but not
dismayed, Mrs. Kumm retired from the
field to think of something else, when
Lady Gowrie turned up trumps. She said
the Red Cross would stand down for the
time being in view of the fact that the
Y.W.’s need is so urgent that every day
counts. Although the appeal is a nation-
wide one, it’s Victoria which seems to be
collecting all the money. This State
hopes sincerely it won’t also have to raise
the exchange, for another £750 has to
be added to make sterling of the £5OOO
asked for.
To make plans for the Menuhin con-
cert Mrs. Karl Kumm called a meeting
one bright morning at her home in Hope-
toun-road, where the first welcoming ges-
ture was on the doorstep, in the shape
of a wall-holder of daffodils. Also shar-
ing the official table were Mrs. Essington
Lewis, Helen McCrae and Maisie Curtis.
The efficient Maisie, who has had her
wings tangled in so many committees
lately that she has only just time to go to
the races, is for this campaign at least
a Y.W. addict. Among those present
were Lady Armitage, who stepped from
the v.-r. car, Mrs. Harold Brookes and
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, and Mrs. Lytton
Stephen with daughter Mrs. Hal Clapp,
chic brunette, who shared the arm of an
armchair with Pam Faulkner.
A popular pair who have just
announced their marital intentions are
Alison Rickards and Alf Barrett. Both
have that elusive thing known as charm,
and each has a good sense of humdV.
Alison, who is a daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. J. Gellie, of Geelong, is one of the
few people in the world who can get away
with orphan-Susie hair, screwed knob and
all (though this doesn’t mean that her
friends would not like to see her with
something glamorous done to her auburn
head). Her father has joined the A.1.F.;
so has Alf, as an anti-aircraft gunner up
at Pucka. Alf s second name is Ironside
It s as genuine as the Alfred, having been
breathed over him as a squalling infant
at his christening. He’s the fifth son of
the A. O. Barretts, and on his wedding
day will be the sixth of that family of
seven sons to join the ranks of the Bene-
dicts. There remains only Julian, the
youngest, who is in the R.A.A.F.
Mrs. Harold Cohen went off last
week to buy 12 pairs of grey silk stock-
ings, all size 9|. The Colonel wants them.
He’s been out dancing lately. A man
of chivalrous instincts, he’s making a ges-
ture of appreciation to the nurses. Mrs.
Cohen, being a perfect wife, has always
encouraged “the flower for a dancing
partner” instinct in her husband, but as
the Colonel isn’t much of a swing-rhythm
addict she hopes he hasn’t caused ladders
by treading on the girls’ toes.


WE ARE
SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
1 £143/6
DOUBLE RIGGED.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15/- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
N.B.W. Freight on Saddles Paid, for Cash with
Order.
COWBOY BITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
CHAPARAJOS, TAPADEROS, ETC.
WALTHER * STEVEMSOM KS:
395 CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
THE FLYING COLUMN
The War Over Britain.
“Ek Dum”: For the attack on the
Scandinavian countries, the Germans
chose the break of the autumn, when
the descendants of the Vikings annually
relax. For the attack on Britain they
chose what Britain considers to be the
zenith of summer —the week when the
Commons adjourns, when the August
bank holiday is just over, when the
north London stations are packed with
sportsmen bound for Scotland and the
grouse moors, where shooting starts with
methodical regularity on August 12. It
was full moon on August 17. The
season is at the point where the days
are beginning to shorten. And shorter
days are in many ways an advantage to
an invader.
At this time of year the upper air over
the northern portions of the Continent
becomes rapidly colder. Ice forms on
wings at altitude, but at medium heights
over southern England, especially on the
short flights necessary to them, the Ger-
mans have little to fear from this bug-
bear.
The air attacks began in earnest on
August 9. They were firstly directed
against great naval ports, each the
opposite number of a port on the French
coast and reachable by a direct route
from France in a few minutes’ flying.
Weymouth lies about 70 miles from the
Channel Islands, about an equal distance
from Cherbourg. Southampton, beyond
the Solent, is a little more. Portsmouth
is opposite Le Havre, about 105 miles
away; Dover, opposite Calais and
Boulogne.
The first great raids were made on
Portland and Weymouth. They reached
a new level of intensity on Sunday,
August 11, and on Monday they moved
further eastward, 500 machines being
engaged in a running fight which ex-
tended from the Solent to the Thames
Estuary. They began in Kent on the
centre of this line, spread gradually to
Spithead and the Isle of Wight and went
on from early morning till dusk. But
Portsmouth dockyard was particularly
attacked.
Some bombs were dropped oh the
outskirts of the dockyard, streets of
workmen’s dwellings were reduced to
ruins, minor damage was done to a jetty
and two small armored craft were
damaged and afterwards sank. The
railway station was hit, a brewery
caught fire. Seven persons were killed
and 70 injured. In the Isle of Wight a
church and some houses were wrecked,
and along the Sussex and Kent coasts
aerodromes were damaged. Bombs fell
in open country, setting on fire the heath
which carpets many a Surrey and Sussex
hillside.
In some cases the raiders operated
from behind long smoke screens. There
was scarcely a town or village along the
coast which did not see combats over-
head, machines falling, hideously burn-
ing, to earth or into the Channel and
small R.N. vessels scurrying out to rescue
friend and foe alike. All southern Eng-
land shook with anti-aircraft fire. A
few bombs were dropped in the Mid-
lands.
The fighting steadily progressed from
a series of heavy skirmishes into a con-
tinuous war.
The German radio stations kept up
a continual excited chatter of “news,”
some of which concerned the feats of
squadrons which had not had time to
reach the British coast and make contact
with the Spitfires and Hurricanes.
They claimed to have wrecked and
burnt the R.A.F.’s stations at Man-
ston, Canterbury, Hawkinge and Lympe ;
to have plastered Portsmouth with high
explosive ; to have destroyed large power
works and a jetty at Gosport. They
reported the sinking of two ships totalling
5500 tons in a convoy off Southend ; the
blasting of Cardiff and Swansea in Wales
and of two searchlight bases near Ply-
mouth and the Humber. British machine
casualties for August 10, 11 and 12 were
234, they alleged ; their own, 55. The
R.A.F. gave its losses at 55 and the Ger-
man losses at 187 and remarked that the
estimate was conservative.
The R.A.F. was not reduced to the
defensive. It had been busy over enemy
territory all through Sunday. Its objec-
tives included Guernsey airport, airfields
near Dinard and Caen, a synthetic oil
plant at Dortmund (it was blown up), oil
depots at several places—all hit—along
with military objectives at a number of
towns.
As evidence that war on English soil
had really broken out, the Ministry for
Home Security for the first time joined
with the Admiralty and the R.A.F. in
issuing communiques.
Throughout the night of August 12
activity scarcely ceased, and with dawn
on Tuesday, August 13, the attacks were
renewed with a new fierceness. Using
formations of 50 machines, the enemy
ranged over almost all of the British Isles
east of St. George’s Channel. The most
important battle of the day was fought
over Southampton and the Kentish coast
towards evening. The attackers came
in three waves, and were severely
punished. The fighter patrols destroyed
22 German machines over Southampton
alone nine Junker-87 dive-bombers,
eight Melo9’s and five double-engined
MellO’s and coastal and A.A. guns
brought down five more. “At one time,”
the Air Ministry reported, “enemy ’planes
were falling out of the sky at the rate
of one a minute.” In Southampton
nobody was injured, but the Midlands and
north-eastern Scotland suffered some
damage. Another 78 German machines
were counted as smoking ruins on the
ground or in the sea. Thirteen British
were lost, but ten of the pilots were safe,
though some were wounded.
German radio- and writing-men did
a great deal more execution than the
German airmen. Installations and quays
at Wallsend, Hartlepool, Bournemouth
and Plymouth, armament works at Bristol
and Exeter, tank corps camps in the
southern counties, aerodromes at Detling,
Farnborough and Odiham, shipyards and
grounded ’planes, two patrol boats and
two merchantmen, totalling 15,000 tons,
were part of their bag. And they de-
stroyed 132 British fighters, including 74
in actual combats.
That day the Midlands had their big-
gest raid to date, German squadrons
flying so high that in some cases their
engines could not be heard. Houses were
damaged, a factory hit, a few persons
were killed, a few wounded.
Meanwhile a large force of heavy,
long-distance Whitley and Wellington
bombers soared into the upper air across
the Channel. Their engines were heard
above the Alps, and presently Italy was
sharing in the destruction. They flew
1600 miles, and when they climbed
to 16,000 ft. for the homeward Alpine
crossing they could still see behind them
the flares from the blazing Caproni aero-
plane works at Milan and from the Fiat
plant at Turin. Other squadrons made
their way into Germany for the usual
day- and night-long offensive. Sirens were
sounded in Berlin, bombs fell in Dessau,
60 miles from the capital, and the
German radio reported isolated British
machines near Potsdam, the old royal
suburb.
On Wednesday, air effort slackened
somewhat. What raids did take place
early in the day were terrific but short.
South coast towns again suffered ; aero-
dromes were attacked in Kent and
Sussex ; a house was wrecked in Hast-
ings, and there was fighting over Dover.
Three bombers flew over a Welsh town
and dropped an incendiary bomb on a
factory without serious consequences.
Another fell into the sea off the Welsh
coast. Six bombers attacked a lightship
at masthead level. A Dornier and two
Messersehmitts crashed in open country
within a few miles of one another. In
all, according to the British report,
31 German and seven British ’planes
were shot down. The German story
was that British machines fell during
the day like burning torches, and that
the whole Channel coast was in a state
of alarm, 20 British machines and nine
balloons having been destroyed at Dover
alone.
August 15 —Napoleon’s birthday—the
day on which it had been suggested in
Germany that Hitler might make his
triumphant entry into London, dawned
with a rising crescendo of screaming
engines and renewed and louder detona-
tions, and there was fought over Britain
the greatest air battle of the war. While it
was in progress reports came from parts
of Scotland and the north of England of
grey shapes floating down out of the sky.
Parachutes were found, and whole dis-
tricts were cordoned off and searched ;
but no parachutists were discovered. The
thing was a feint, incident to what the
enemy described as “a general action,
carried out according to a carefully for-
mulated plan.”
A thousand machines were hurled
across the Channel and the North Sea
against a 500-mile stretch of coast from
Plymouth to the Tyneside. The attacks
penetrated to Croydon airport, ten miles
from the heart of London ; they scoured
along the Thames Estuary, struck at the
Midlands and hit the Northumbrian in-
dustrial centres.
Town after town faced terror and
flame and screaming bombs from for-
mations which ranged from one squad-
ron to two.
The raids continued into a moonlit
night. Searchlights swung over the whole
sky of England. The ordinary life of
the towns and cities carried on. There
would be the scream of a siren ; then
houses, cinemas, dance-halls would empty
in orderly and phlegmatic fashion. While
the machines roared overhead to the rattle
of gunfire and the explosions of bombs,
crowds sat in cellars or in shelters with
their knitting, their cards or their dart-
boards.
Any objective seemed to be good
enough for the raiders —a village, a mili-
tary port, a heath or wood to set on fire.
They aimed at total war. Their own
communiques mentioned attacks on har-
bors, armarrtent works, barrage balloons
and aerodromes, air motor factories a,t
Birmingham, barracks and hangars in
southern England ; they claimed to have
inflicted heavy damage at Portland,
Scarborough, Bridlington and Middles-
borough—where most of Sydney Harbor
Bridge was fabricated. They said that
100 machines broke through between
Portsmouth and Portland alone. Never-
theless the R.A.F. raided Germany in
its usual widespread way.
British estimates of losses that grim
Thursday were 180 German machines, of
which 153 were shot down by fighters,
and a later official cable suggested that
205 had been destroyed. The British
lost 34 machines, from which 17
pilots were rescued. German reports,
while as usual discounting the damage
inflicted on Germany and exaggerating
that done in Britain, put British ’planes
destroyed at 143, their own losses at 32.
They claimed to have shot down 21
barrage balloons, to have destroyed the
great air force station at Driffield, York-
shire, and to have smashed 11 machines
at Hawkinge, near Dover. Their com-
munique ended with the words:
All these attacks indicate that the great
battle for England has begun. Ever-increas-
ing masses of German ’planes have been
flung against Britain. The climax is near.
But correspondents, neutral and other-
wise, who visited the areas which were
supposedly devastated remarked gener-
ally on the smallness of the damage, the
normality of the life of the ports, the
astonishing smallness of the human
casualties (only 29 deaths were reported)
and the unbroken spirit of the people.
The August 15 battle seems to have
been a definite victory for the defenders.
For the first time the German losses
were double the figure which is generally
assumed as the daily possible production
of German factories. The quid pro quo
was certainly not worth the expenditure
of so many machines and men. At the
end of the day casualties for seven days
were reckoned at 465 German machines
and 109 British.
Towards the end of the week London
became the centre of the attacks. Some
raiders tame m over the south-western
suburbs, witnin eight miles of the centre
of the city, where the green belts of
Wimbledon Common and Richmond
Park touch the edges of Wandsworth.
The strategic roads of the south run
through this region, and another minute
or so of flying would have brought the
raiders over the great Battersea power
station. On the eastern side the Tilbury
and other docks were attacked. But
though a good deal of damage was done
in the suburbs, the defences of London
held.
At least 600 bombers took part
in three raids on Sunday, the biggest
armada numbering 200 machines. Crowds
watched their attempts to penetrate the
ring of London defences. Thirteen were
shot down in the first attack, and 115
were destroyed during the day. The
British losses were 16 fighters; eight
pilots were rescued.
The R.A.F. had machines to spare to
blast a 600-mile-wide strip of German
territory from the North Sea to the
Danube. It hit at the Messerschmitt
works at Augsburg and the industrial
plants of Munich, almost at the front
door of Berchtesgaden. And it dropped
three tons of bombs on piers, ships and
seaplanes on Boulogne harbor.
One thing which seems certain is that
organised mass combat has so far proved
impracticable. It is impossible to main-
tain cohesive action between large num-
bers of linked squadrons or even between
the units of individual squadrons. Their
movements are determined by the need
to avoid balloon barrages, anti-aircraft
guns and other defensive media. And
once the fighters get among a heavily-
loaded enemy formation, the bombs must
go overboard quickly wherever the in-
vaders may happen to be. Otherwise the
raider, as a slow and sluggish target,
finds itself an easy mark for the band-
saw fire of the fast and manoeuvrable
Hurricanes and Spitfires, which can liter-
ally run rings round any loaded bomber
ever built.
“E.V.”: J. V. Fairbairn, like all the
members of the great Victorian pastoral
family—which included his uncle Steve
Fairbairn, the greatest rowing coach of
his day—was a big man physically. Those
J. V. FAIRBAIRN.
who did not know him well were apt
to think, at first glimpse at his strong
visage bent under its auburn thatch,
that he was stolid, but he was a friendly,
equable soul, alert, full of life, generous
in his outlook and tolerant of criticism. He
was a cool hand at the controls of an
aeroplane ; had it been necessary for him
to earn a living in the air he could easily
have got a job as commercial pilot.
Fairbairn played all sorts of games, was
particularly a crack squash rackets
player; but flying was his hobby, and
he put all his energy into the job of
reorganising the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment in the year before the war. When
the Empire Air Scheme came into being
and he had become Air Minister, he
remarked to the writer just before he left
for Canada that this was “the first time
I ever felt any real enthusiasm for
politics.” Just before he was killed he
flew round Australia in record time.
* * * *
The U.S. California Clipper on her
last trip to Maoriland carried two Aus-
tralian and ten American journalists,
including Roy Howard, head of the
Scripps-Howard circuit of syndicate
newspapers, and representatives of Asso-
ciated Press, New York “Times,
“Herald-Tribune,” International Hews
Service, King Features and other syn-
dicates. From ’Frisco to Auckland the}
(Continued third column next page.)


m
s6'
\0
\&l*
noo
fa"'
Sc'"
»4*
iUC
te* 1
»a»
V.
P
A/f s LE(X o^
Next Town Hall Little Collins Street
were seven days aboard the Clipper,
and they made the Tasman crossing to
Sydney by Imperial flying-boat in eight
hours nine minutes. They will have had
five days in Australia before they move
on by K.L.M. to the East Indies and
Singapore.
* * * *
Great Dailies differ:
One German airman, .as he passed into
captivity, exclaimed “We have lost at least
50 ’planes. The war will be over in three
weeks.” One German survivor was aged
15.—' "S. M. Herald
As he passed into captivity one German
airman explained “We lost at least 50
’planes on Sunday. The war will be over
in. three weeks, with one German survivor
aged 15.” —Sydney “Telegraph .”
In these cases you pay your tuppence—
three ha’pence in Melbourne—and take
your pick.
THE SERVICE MAN
On the Italian Fronts.
“Ek D.”: August 15, a bad day for
Germany, saw a renewal of the Italian
movement towards Berbera in British
Somaliland. In this region the Italians
have a considerable preponderance of
strength, thanks to the French surrender,
and Mr. Churchill admitted during the
week that “the news” was “bad.” A small
British force holding Jugargan, north-east
of Hargeisa, found itself unable to stand
up to two full Italian divisions with sup-
porting tanks and armored units.
Along the coastal road from Zeila,
near the French Somaliland border, the
Italians advanced rapidly, so that all three
converging columns from the west, south-
east and south are making progress.
The enemy proclaims that the fall of
Berbera is assured, and perhaps it is ; but
British naval guns and aeroplanes are
harassing him.
The main struggle round Abyssinia has
yet to develop. A British communique
states that the British in Kenya have drawn
on seven colonies for men, including S.
Africa, which is sending ■ its battalions
in increasing numbers. Italians assert
that on various fronts they are facing
Australian, Maoriland, S. African,
British and Indian troops. According to
Gayda, an adept at winning campaigns
with a typewriter, these adversaries “lack
war spirit and have an inferior com-
mand, fighting will and organisation
when facing the manly qualities of the
Italians.” And Addis Ababa’s radio fore-
cast a new attack on the Asian side of
the Red Sea against Aden, followed by a
drive to the Mosul oilfields. The Mosul
oilfields are a long way away.
It was evident at the week-end that
the British in Somaliland were completely
outnumbered. Their small forces were
making the Italian columns fight for
every inch of ground as they pressed
forward through the range of hills which
lie inward from Berbera ; but on August
17 the Italian radio declared that H.M.S.
Royal Sovereign was anchored off Ber-
bera, covering the evacuation of the port.
And an Italian Army communique re-
ported that the battle for the Jerato
pass, on the main route through the
Somali hills, had been won after five
days’ fierce fighting, in which large quan-
tities of materials had been captured and
hundreds of dead Rhodesians and Indians
left on the field. British Army Head-
quarters at Cairo, however, announced
that heavy fighting was going on 35 miles
from Berbera, and that our troops
were inflicting heavy casualties and hold-
ing their reserve positions in the face of
fierce land and air attacks.
The British campaign in Somaliland
has been severely criticised in the British
press, particularly by the “Daily Herald,”
and there may be ground for criticism.
GEOFFREY STREET.
But th,e surrender of the French in North
Africa and the presence of the neutralised
French armies in Syria have been im-
portant factors in the situation which
could not be foreseen. However much
prestige may be lost by the surrender of
the wretched bit of Somaliland desert it
cannot affect the main issue, which is the
maintenance of the command of the
western Mediterranean and the Suez
Canal and the routes down the Nile.
There have been odd skirmishes around
the borders of Kenya and the Sudan
and Widespread bombing of Italian air
stations by the R.A.F. The R.N. on
August 17 appeared off the corner of
Italian Libya, and battleships and cruisers
poured a heavy fire into Bardia on the
coast. Fort Capuzzo, from which the
Italians were compelled to withdraw, was
assaulted.
The R.A.F. meanwhile scoured the
ports of the Libyan coast. The Italians
say that 300 shells were fired into Bardia
and beyond, but that the casualties were
only one soldier killed and 11 wounded,
Italian ’planes, they declare, attacked the
naval squadron and shot down seven of
the fighter escort and “probably” another
two. The Fleet Air Arm, which spotted
for the R.N., reported that many salvos
from the ships hit important targets.
The tally of Italian ’planes shot down
was 11.
Brudenell White.
“El V.”: Cyril Brudenell White, who
died in the Canberra crash with Ministers
Street, Fairbairn and Gullett, was Aus-
tralia’s greatest soldier. His quiet, half-
humorous manner, and an appearance
which suggested the scholar, were apt to
BRUDENELL WHITE.
deceive the uninitiated. Yet from the
beginning of his career his merits were
thoroughly recognised overseas. The
British Army authorities had had their
eyes on him before the last war broke
out, and it was only his staunch Aus-
tralianism which had kept him here.
White came of a good Irish family
of the kind that bred Wellington and
the present British C.-in-C., Alan Brooke.
His grazier father was broken again and
again by drought, and the family moved
from district to district in Queensland.
Young Cyril went to the old Normal
State school under the bewhiskered Kerr,
who turned out so many fine Australians.
He left for a Brisbane private school kept
by an old Eton master, became a short-
hand writer and got a job in a bank at
a pound a week.
The greatest heights which he reached
in banking brought him two pound ten
a week. Much went for coaching, more
than half to his mother. His working
hours were 6 a.m. till midnight. In
Maryborough he met T. W. Glasgow,
another bank clerk, and joined the Wide
Bay Regiment.
The technical side of soldiering ap-
pealed to him, and at 22 he passed into
the R.A.A., by examination, to a lieu-
tenant’s commission; salary, £5 a week.
He was just in time to go to S. Africa
with the Ist Commonwealth Light Horse.
At 29, he was the first Australian officer
selected for special training at Camberley
and to write the letters p.s.c. after his
name. He drew his main inspiration
there from Henry Wilson, who came
of the same sort of Irish stock and in
many ways resembled him.
Charles Bean wrote of White at this
period:
His grasp was so quick, his intelligence
so keen and his personality so attractive
that in the view of some of his British
superiors it was a pity for his career to be
wasted in a comparatively small service
in Australia.
The War Office requisitioned him for
three further years’ service lecturing and
training British troops. He was nearly
killed in a cavalry charge in which the
Horse Guards met other squadrons at
full gallop. Two soldiers were killed. At
38, tall, lean, quiet, self-contained, able
tn ilhimtnf* most solemn moments
to illumine tne most solemn moments
With a flash of Irish wit, he was acting
chief of the Australian General Staff
when war broke out in 1914. %
White’s capacity for quick decisions,
his equable temperament and his lucidity
made him an ideal Chief of Staff The
ranks of the army scarcely knew him.
But he was often the controlling mind
anC l b lr persoaa , y a PP^ a ec ’ , y f
such divergent mentalities as those of
11 a d our Bridges, B 'i , .. g
and Monash. The Officwl War History
said of him. . ...
rather ffiai byTeason ontfto be the Chief
of Staff of a British Army. Towards the
end....his name was often mentioned as
that of the next Chief of the General Staff
in Francej had any m j s f or tune removed the
distinguished officer then holding the
position.
His old masters at Camberley, William
R o fi er t So n and Henry Wilson, were
successive chiefs of the imperial General
Staff Jast of the war . but
whi(e had nQ ambition for p r e ferm ent.
NeverthelesSj honors were st g, wered on
him. He came back to Australia to be
chirf of the General Staff £or three years>
spent the succeeding five years as Chair-
-4n o£ the Commonwealth Public Service
Board and then went into commercial
and remained in it until the present
war called him back to take his old post.
The Air War Day by Day.
August 12: Between 500 and 600 Ger-
man ’planes raid Britain. Officially re-
ported that R.A.F. and A.A. units brought
down 62—26 bombers, 11 twin-engined
fighters and 25 single-engined fighters.
Main attack made on Portsmouth dock-
yard with little damage; seven killed, 70
injured. Other attacks over Kent, Sussex,
the Thames Estuary and the Midlands.
Germans claim to have sunk two
merchantmen (total 5500 tons), to have
fired hangars and barracks at aerodromes
at Hawkinge, Lympne, Manston and
Canterbury, to have plastered Portsmouth
with bombs and to have wrecked power
works and a wharf at Gosport. R.A.F.
bombs Italian columns in Somaliland.
August 13: R.A.F. Whitleys and Wel-
lingtons penetrate 800 miles from home
across the Alps to bomb Caproni works
at Milan, Fiat works at Turin and other
military objectives. All return safe in
early morning. Augusta (Sicily) bom-
barded from the air. Heavy raids on
north-western Germany, Holland and
occupied France. Fires started at Dort-
mund, Schipol, the Gotha aircraft fac-
tory, Junkers works at Dessau (60 miles
from Berlin), Borkum, the Amsterdam
docks, and hangars at Cherbourg aero-
drome. Germans report British ’planes
over Potsdam.
German raids on Britain extended.
High Command claims to have brought
down 132 ’planes and to have effectively
bombed armament works at Bristol and
Exeter, ports (Hartlepool, Wallsend,
Bournemouth and Plymouth) and sunk
two patrol boats and merchantmen
of 15,000 tons total; to have destroyed
numerous aerodrome plants, shelters, oil
depots and shipyards and a number of
grounded aeroplanes. British report raid
in three waves on Southampton and
Kentish coast; fierce battle over South-
ampton. German ’plane losses 78;
British 13.
August 14: Raiding carried out by
Germans all round British coastline and
over Wales, but attacks less heavy than
previously. Balloon barrage at Dover
attacked, also Southampton and Hastings.
A few casualties and small damage re-
ported at widespread points. Germans
claim to have bombed port works at
Portland, Weston and Cardiff, a power
station between Lewes and Brighton,
armament works near Worcester and
Salisbury, Aldershot barracks and vari-
ous aerodromes. British estimate of
losses is Germans 31, R.A.F. 7. Ger-
mans claim to have brought down 28
British machines, losing 12. Parachutes,
apparently dropped as a German hoax,
found in parts of Britain. Further ex-
tensive raids on Germany and France
by R.A.F.
August 15: Very heavy raids on
Britain. About 1000 bombers used along
a 500-mile front from Plymouth to the
Tyne. Raiders penetrate the Midlands
and London suburbs to Croydon, 10
miles from heart of city. German High
Command asserts heavy damage at Port-
land, Scarborough, Middlesborough,
Bridlington, Birmingham. It admits
R.A.F. raids on western Germany, but
claims that they caused little damage.
It estimates casualties at 143 British
machines and 21 barrage balloons, and
32 of its own ’planes. British place
casualties at 180 German machines,
34 R.A.F.
R.A.F. again raids Italy; Italians re-
port bombs dropped in rural districts
and at Turin. Several oil refineries and
tanking plants smashed in north-western
France. R.A.F. bombs Italians in
Somaliland and raids Massawa, Macaca
(Eritrea), Jigajiga (Abyssinia) and Dessye.
Italians raid Malta and Alexandria,
doing little damage ; also Wajir in Kenya.
Italians report having shot down British
fighter at Malta, and another on Zeila
road (Somaliland) and having caused
fires at Malta and damaged the Mersa
Matruh-Zuka railway. They admit four
killed and 12 wounded in raids on Abys-
sinia and Somaliland.
August 16: Heavy raids over England
reaching into London s.-w. suburbs;
machine-guns as well as bombs used.
Forty bombs fall on one residential area.
Tilbury Docks attacked, also a long
swathe of counties ; 75 German ’planes
brought down, 22 British lost. R.A.F.
raids extended across Germany to
Leipzig; hydrogenation plant, the largest
in Germany, apparently set on fire.
Munich raided for fourth time ; bombs
dropped within 60 miles of Berchtes-
gaden. Numerous German ’dromes and
HARRY GULLETT.
docks on the
Helder and am-
munition works
at Lunen, as well
as Krupps at
Essen, strafed.
August 17-18:
Continuous raids
by Germans.
T hree waves
driven off from
London defences
on Sunday morn-
ing. Losses of
raiding craft in
the week ended
August 17 reck-
oned at 492 and
more than 1000
airmen; British
losses 115 fighters,
but 46 pilots
saved.
Italians claim
heavy bombing of
Alexandria.
R.A.F. co-oper-
ates with R.N. in
attacks on Italian
troops and ports
in Red Sea and
Libyan areas.
Italians attack
naval vessels shell-
ing Libyan coast;
no ship casual-
ties ; two Italian
bombers brought down. R.A.F. objec-
tives in Germany include benzine
works at Bohlen, Zeiss optical and in-
strument plant at Jena, Messerschmitt
works at Augsburg, and an airframe
factory at Frankfurt, as well as railways
and other works in the Ruhr. Raids
extend from Danube to North Sea.


MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the books
are published in London. Prices outside the British
Isles must be fixed by the importing bookseller.
Mazo de la Roche
WHITEOAK CHRONICLES
In this giant book of 1408 pages are in-
cluded the six famous novels about the White-
oaks —Young Renny, Jalna, Whiteoaks, Finch’s
Fortune, The Master of Jalna, Whiteoak Flar-
vest.
8/6
Storm Jameson
EUROPE TO LET
“The true spirit of Europe, impotent in
despair, glorious in hope, is in this novel,
Because failure to understand it has brought
us war, we should read this novel now.”
—“Yorkshire Post.”
7/6
Obtainable from all booksellers and
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE AND LONDON, W.C.2.
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam . . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
NORTH OF
TWENTYE-EIGHT
A Hard Life for White-ants
“Clayfield”: I-t is a curious paradox
that Queensland with its wealth of timber
is a country whose population still lives
largely in iron shanties, some of which
are no better than those of Thursday
Island’s Yokohama.
The Queensland Bureau of Industry has
made a survey which shows the position
clearly. In the Cape York Peninsula
40 p.c. to 49 p.c. of all dwellings in various
settlements are of galvanised iron; in
the belt which embraces Carpentaria and
the north-west back of Townsville and
Bowen, 60 p.c. In the prosperous central-
western pastoral areas the proportion is
40 p.c. to 49 p.c. Over the Maranoa, the
Dawson and the inner Burnett the range
is from 10 p.c. to 39 p.c.; in the far
south-west it is from 50 p.c. to 60 p.c.
Only in patches of the Darling Downs
and the 150-mile-long coastal belt which
stretches from just below Gympie to the
Tweed are houses almost entirely wood
or brick. Gympie and Rockhampton, also
Roma in the south-west, are non-ferrous.
Mackay, which has just been sur-
veyed by a town-planner on an elaborate
scale, has more than 20 p.c. of iron
boxes ; ditto Charters Towers —when the
mines failed years ago trainloads of sheets
were shipped away—but Townsville and
Cairns are now less than one-fifth gal-
vanised. While, however, an honest and
hard-working white-ant is hard put to it
to raise a feed in most parts of inhabited
Queensland, landlords, sawmillers and
building-material manufacturers seem to
get along very well.
The Bureau of Industry points out that,
while rents for the whole Commonwealth
fell on an average 9 p.c. in the decade
following 1929, Queensland rents rose by
an average of 4 p.c., and the high cost
of materials has had a retarding effect on
building. Brickwork in N.S.W. in 1938
is stated by the Bureau to have cost £36
per rod, in S.A. £33 and in Queensland
£4O. Hardwood joists, which can be
bought in Sydney at 30s. per 100 super,
feet,, cost 48s. 6d. in Queensland. Plas-
tering cement is 3s. per yard in N.S.W.
and 4s. 6d. in Queensland —actual locali-
ties not stated.
The Bureau remarks that the differ-
ences in timber costs are “most striking,”
since royalty on logs in the northern State
makes up only about 6 p.c. of the price
of sawn timber.
Most important building materials are the
subjects of monopolistic control. Roofing
iron and glass are the subjects of Austra-
lian-wide monopoly. Bricks, cement and
timber are the subjects of local monopoly,
which accounts for their higher price in
Queensland.
In 1937, it appears, an agreement for
raising prices was made between Queens-
land timber merchants and country
millers. The year before, the index level
of timber prices to the Government was
84.5 ; it has since risen to 95. The index
level of other building materials in 1935-
36 was 91.1 ; last year it was 101.2.
Timber prices have increased despite a
big advance in efficiency, which, since the
price-fixing agreement, has put up the
index of output per man —rough-sawn
timber—from 124.3 to 141.7. However,
there has been an addition of one-
eleventh to the labor cost of building a
standard house.
It is remarked that the cement indus-
try is a series of monopolies, each with
a clear field, and the Queensland section
of the business was the subject of “scath-
ing comments” by the Tariff Board a few
years ago. The brick business has be-
come stationary, “largely owing to under-
utilisation of productive capacity, which
itself is due to high prices they are
very high compared with other cities.”
In 1938 the price of bricks was raised to
90s. per 1000 delivered. The State price-
fixer immediately cut the figure down to
855., but in November last the industry
applied to the Federal price-fixer, who
awarded it 955. This represents an
“ ’Ullo, the kids must be comin’ 'ome from school."
increase of £1 per thousand on the maxi-
mum rate ruling at the end of 1937 —thus
“making Brisbane bricks the dearest in
Australia (except for those produced at
Canberra).”
The Bureau says:
This tenderness towards a grasping
monopoly bodes ill for the building trade’s
future.
It is pointed out that most of those who
organise monopolies admit their action
frankly, justifying it on the ground that
their own single commodities represent
only a small part of the cost of a house ;
that the rise does not seriously affect
the cost of the whole building.
On which point the Bureau is driven to
an outburst of cynical humor:
This argument resembles that of the Scot-
tish congregation who resolved to present
the minister with a barrel of whisky, eacn
member contributing a bottle. It occurred
to each that the contents of his bottle
would only be a small percentage of the
whole. When the Minister broached the
barrel it was found to contain nothing but
water.
“Norther”: Frank Wilmer, a Dun-
marra (N.T.) stockman, was mustering
out from Daly Waters when his horses
strayed and left him afoot without food
or water. He battled along in what he
thought was the right direction for two
days without a drink, and on the third
morning moistened his lips from a heavy
fall of dew. That night he found a small
waterhole with a dead kangaroo in it
and the water like peasoup and reeking,
He soaked a handkerchief in the slime
and sucked refreshment from it. By the
fifth morning his feet were sore and
swollen, and he pushed on barefooted.
By this time a grim companion had
joined up with him. It never came very
close, but moved from tree to tree in the
rear as Wilmer walked on. The lost man
dug in a dry creekbed and found water,
but forgot himself and drank too much,
becoming sick. A little later he stumbled
on to a deserted camp and found some
stale crusts and corned beef. Behind him
the grim companion waited, and followed
again as he moved off. When night came
he camped, and at a little distance off
camped that other. On the sixth morn-
ing Wilmer heard dogs and the crow of
a rooster, struck a track and followed it,
and as he staggered into Nutwood Downs
homestead the crow that had followed
him for two days gave a disappointed caw
and sheered off into the distance.
* * * *
“23-4”: Queensland butter men are
finding out the truth of the old adage
about the ill wind. Drought in N.S.W.
and Victoria has so shortened supplies that
H. W. Cheers, who runs the Kingaroy
factory, expects all surplus choice butter
in the North to be bought up for those
States this season. Queensland’s own
supplies are a bit below those of last
season, still the State can satisfy southern
demands until the seasonal break that
usually turns up in September.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Word comes from Boulia
and Birdsville that bush rats are on the
rampage again. Station stores have been
attacked, good grazing country is being
“rat-sickened,” and there are reports of
a falling-off in stock condition. Clunie,
Springvale and Herbert Downs report
plagues of the animals worse than those
of 1930, and old-timers are going back to
1919 for a comparison. Cats, wild and
tame, and snakes are doing their best,
and the night-travelling motor-car is
bowling over a fair number. The dead
don’t litter paddocks or roads, because
the living clean them up. Houses in the
south-west are closely shut by night to
keep the pests out.
* * t *
“Dick Tafone”: A feature of Queens-
land’s record hot summer of 1940 was an
increase of 225 deaths over the figures for
the first quarter of 1939. Only 20 were
officially attributed to excessive heat, but
a marked rise in deaths from heart
disease amongst elderly people accom-
panied the hottest periods to an extent
which precludes mere coincidence. Con-
trary to accepted ideas on the subject,
mortal.ty was scarcely, if at all,
a ec e * . *
„ * * * .. T .
Gro P er : As a convulsion of Nature
a No. 1 north-Westralian cyclone can
have only one possible rival: volcanic
eruption accompanied by earthquake
Quite often the cyclone has its tidal
wave ; but after storm comes calm. And
such calm! Serene blue sky, long rolling
waves sweeping almost caressingly up to
the rain-washed land. But the land is
long in forgetting its desolation. Along
the shore for miles may have grown
beautiful green mangroves, paperbarks
a nd casuarinas, forming a sea hedge 30ft.
high. These will be stripped to bare
• leaves and boughs all* gone,
Further back against the sandhills they
wjll be pi i edj in a f resb dense hedge,
10ft to 2 0ft. high. Beaten into this
hedge will be all the flotsam of the storm.
Wreckage from luggers, if the pearling
fleet has been caught; cabin parts
of boats, floorboards, oars, ships’ fur-
niture, spars, dinghies, kelp, seagrass,
even shells. But the strangest will be the
thousands of sea birds. Snatched up
in myriads from their homes on the out-
lying islands, the fowls are as helpless
as straws in the almost solid wind.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: The average brain-weight
ratios of rat and man are as one to 300,
but throughout history, and for long
before history was invented, rat has used
man as its provider and its beast of
burden. Man regards rat as an enemy
to be killed on sight, but there is no city
in Australia or probably anywhere else
in which the rat population does not
equal or outnumber the human inhabi-
tants. Inquiries made in Brisbane some
years ago proved commercial losses from
rat damage at over £25,000 p.a. In
Britain rat damage costs over a million
pounds weekly. Amongst other blessings
conferred by rats on man and his domes-
ticated animals are plague, trichiniasis,
food-poisoning, rat-bite fever, Q disease,
distemper, equine influenza and tape-
worm. Fires and floodings in houses and
ships through gnawed matches, lead or
rubber pipes and electric wires are other
common rat-efforts. Fossil remains show
that rats have inhabited Europe longer
than man has. Probably rats will be
watching the last human survivor in a
glaciated world —and when he has frozen
to death they will eat him.


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A.).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio • journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting
13/3 (2 years £l/2/9) to “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
“TMs book of photographs.. .should be on the shelves of all
Australian golfers, both for its instructional value and as a
very faithful record of the methods of our greatest player.”
—From Eric Apperly’s introduction to the book.
JIM FERRIER’S “GOLF SHOTS”
contains 118 photographs of the champion in action, selected by I’errier from a special
slovv-motion film made of him before his departure for America.
The essential points of each shot are illustrated and explained in a way that puts
80 off the stick within the reach of everyone.
The size of the page is 10 x 12 inches.
Price 3'
(postage 3d. extra).
From the publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BOX 252188.
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Parachutists dropped into forest areas
in U.S.A. are to be used for fighting
bushfires, and it has been suggested that
they could be used in Victoria. In the
dense bush on Victoria’s rugged moun-
tainscape their chances of landing safely
would be one in a thousand, and their
chances of getting out again would be
one in a million. Victoria’s fire-fighting
equipment is reasonably complete and
up to date. All it wants is centralised
control instead of the overlapping of
bureaucratic departments intermittently
bossed by party politicians.
* * * *
“F.”: A court case begun in the wilds
of Swaziland has ended in an unsuccess-
ful appeal to the Privy Council. A
tribal chief was accused of triple murder.
According to evidence, he had suffered
from bad dreams. With the witch-
doctor’s help he arranged a ban-
quet at which the spirits would have
the opportunity of picking out those
responsible for the nightmares. Amid
riotous ceremonial, cups of liquid were
doled out among the guests. Within
a few hours three of them were dead.
The chief’s subjects were quite satisfied
that this was the work of obliging spirits,
but the Crown held a different view, and
arrested the great man. It was proved
that arsenic had found its way into the
drinks. Failing a reprieve, the mighty
one will have to swing.
* * * *
Michael’’: Mussolini is soon to join
the august army of those whose statues
have been erected in their lifetime ; and
it will be a colossus. The figure alone
will be 282 ft. high from the foot to the
tip of a hand raised in the Fascist salute,
and it will be set on a base which will
increase the elevation to 327 ft. It will
be the tallest statue in the world. New
York’s Statue of Liberty is 151 ft. high,
with a granite pedestal of 155 ft. The
statue of Christ which stands on Cor-
covado Hill above Rio de Janeiro has a
modest length of 135 ft.
* * * *
Australian shipping is doing some
wide ranging during this war. A French
communique from Vichy mentions that
“the British auxiliary cruiser Bulolo” —a
vessel familiar to every New Guinea
traveller—was at Duala, French West
Africa, from June 24 to July 21, when
she was replaced by H.M.S. Dragon.
Dragon was here in 1924, and gave the
complement of H.M.S. Hood one of the
thrills of their voyage when she was de-
tached in a heavy sea in the Tasman to
rescue a Japanese zinc ship which had
burst her bulkheads and was rolling help-
lessly over the horizon. Captain Fair-
bairn took Dragon away at high speed
and some hours later turned up at Jervis
Bay with the derelict in tow. When
Dragon arrived at the West African port
she landed a force which the French
Admiral in command turned back to the
ship.
* * * i{C
There was a typical English touch
about the capture of a German invader
,n England. Lady Buckland, widow of
a newspaper Berry and mother of four
daughters, met him plodding fully armed
along an English road. “Are you a Ger-
man airman?” her Ladyship asked. “Yes,
madam,” was the answer. “Open the
door, James!” said the lady. In got the
armed stranger and they drove to the
police station. The visitor had been
hiding for 10 days living on his iron
ration.
* * * *
Dewey”: One of the first awards of
the V.C. in this war was made posthu-
mously to Lance-Corporal Harry Nicholls,
who silenced three machine-guns,
although wounded himself. He was a
heavyweight boxer. In the 1914-18 affair
a similar award was made to Sergeant
Harry Nicholls for his gallant capture of
a machine-gun post. He, too, was a
heavyweight boxer of note. I remember
him well. He tried to enlist in Brisbane
in 1914, but was rejected on account of
his teeth. He at once went back to M.L.,
his birthplace, and was accepted. Nicholls
was killed a week before the Armistice
was signed.
* * * *
The Americans have discovered, on
the evidence of a school report, that
Hitler was a blockhead at school. This
is the sort of thing that makes dictators
leap with rage. Churchill is different. In
his autobiography the British P.M. says
that he was the dirty, red-headed boy
at the bottom of his class who used to
be pointed out as one of the sights of
Harrow with the comment “That’s Lord
Randolph Churchill’s boy!”
* * * *
“Tovarish”: The human megaphone
who speaks for the Russian Navy is
never modest. His latest boast is that
Russia already has a navy bigger than
thosfe of Germany and Japan combined
and will soon have “the strongest in the
world.” When standard year-books came
out last March, all Admiral Stalin had to
do to catch up to the R.N. was to build
18 battleships from 30,000 tons upwards,
44 cruisers from 7000 to 10,000 tons,
26 under 7000 tons, 24 flotilla leaders,
140 destroyers, 10 capital aircraft-carriers
and a few hundred minelayers, trawlers,
fast motor-boats, sloops and other types.
Actually, modern Russian naval ships
have been designed in Italy, some of
them built there and most of them
machined and gunned from there. And
the Italians took five years to build two
35,000-ton battleships for themselves.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Ship surgeons of the kind
who carve ships into bits and pieces and
splice them together again are having
a busy time. They think nothing of cut-
ting in two —or more—a vessel beached
after striking a mine, towing the sections
to dock and perhaps putting another one
in. One of their more complicated operar
tions concerned a 9000-ton steamer with
a beam of 50ft. which had to be got
through a canal lock 44ft. wide. After
a little pondering, they measured the
total depth of hull and superstructure,
found it was 43ft. Bin., and the rest was
easy. The surgeons divided the ship
vertically from stem to stern, fitted bulk-
heads to each half, closed all ports and
ventilators, ballasted each half down to
trim, and floated them through on their
sides with two inches to spare on each
side. Then they joined them up again,
and the ship is still earning money for
owners.
* * * *
“El V.”: This war seems-to be de-
veloping an unexampled crop of the
famous—those who, according to Web-
ster, are “celebrated in fame or re-
nowned.” The primary qualification for
journalistic fame seems to be to have
earned classification as a “columnist”
or “war correspondent”; or, better
still, two columnists, like Messrs. Alsopp
and Kintner, who have enjoyed much
limelight lately. J. L. Garvin is never
famous in the cables. The only way
some of the samples who plague us with
their opinions are likely to remain famous
is by following the example of Famous
Lasky Players, who legally incorporated
the adjective in their name. To make the
compliment really imposing for use in the
flapper press, a few letters could be added
after the surname—say A.A.W.H. (Ap-
peared at White House) and A.B.C.H.
(Appeared before Crowned Heads). That
would put the owners in line with the
holders of most of the fellowship letters
which grace the title pages of travel
books, and which can be bought for an
annual subscription of a quid or so.
* * *■ *
An Australian girl’s vignette from
greenest Surrey:
Things move pretty quickly these days
Val telephoned last night to say that at 3 a'm.
two magnetic mines had been dropped by the
Germans near the house in Surrey. The Ger-
man had become lost and unloaded in the first
convenient spot. We went down in the after-
noon. It was incredible that they had not all
been wiped out.
The mines fell close to the tennis court, and
there were two craters 50ft. across and 30ft.
deep. The new house was a wreck —not a
window whole, two walls cracked, great holes
in the roof, every room eight inches deep in
plaster and bits, the china and glass all shat-
tered and in the sleeping rooms great lumps
of clay on the beds and pillows. And the
family had only one bruise to show for the
experience. The outside doors—solid oak —
were completely splintered, and the lock and
a big piece of one were found upstairs.
Daddy woke saying “Someone’s hitting me,”
and rushed out and loaded his gun, for the
sound of falling things was like gunshots,
Mum collected the maids and the dogs and
made for the cellar. When we arrived the
place was like Hampstead Heath with the crowd
and the police.
The clay of our subsoil had behaved in a
most extraordinary way and great lumps had
buried themselves a foot deep in our beautiful
lawn. The stable doors were blown off, but
the horses safe. Everybody seemed calm' but
I expect they will all suffer from shock later
The evacuation from Dunkirk was wonderful
I have seen lots of the 8.E.F.; they came away
with nothing save what they could carry. The
men were absolutely done out when they got
over this side and simply couldn’t keep awake,
They even lay down and slept on parade,
Meanwhile production here is really organ-
ised at last and people realise what they are
up against.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile charactei ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
R.F.C.: Peculiar poem apparently about an
onion coming back by the first breeze....
G.M.L.: “On the Radio” sounds like static.
.... V.M.: Put your tonsils into eight lines....
G. Heavy going in “The Swagman”....
H. : Your “virgin literary aspiration” needs
more of a twinkle in her eye C.S.: “Dear
little bushland track, you thrill me so.” Dear
little poem, hop it M.L.: Politicians are a
stale joke... .K.A.R.: Possibilities in Tenny-
son’s Maud in an air-raid, but the treatment’s
weak C.P.: Come on in:
And when it is over and Hitler has g-one,
With Goebbels and Musso and Goring,
The Oval and Lord’s will return to their own ;
Then will Hutton and Hammond be scoring*.
Chapman and Hobbs will resume normal life
From the job of an A.R.P. picket,
And mourn of the time lost in devilish strife
With the people who would not play cricket.
... . J.S.: One among dozens P.K.:
“Chickens” coming home to roost... .L.C.S.:
Those murder yarns are tuppence a dozen
H.T.8.: “The Adventuress” got nothing out
of us... .R.H.S.: Good of its kind, but we’ve
no place for it T.N.R.: A very doleful
“Spring Song”... .M.N.M.: Not a chuckle in
the whole of it N.G.T.: Take it to the
Yarra bank and read it from a soapbox....
G.H.T.: You’re the umpteenth person to tell
us that truth is stranger than fiction, and then
fail to prove it... .8.T.R.: Elsewhere, per-
haps H.P.R.: “Twenty Thousand Women”
too much for u 5.... J.R.L-: Have you ever
heard of punctuation? 8.R.H.: Read it to
the office-boy as punishment for his whistling.
F.R.S.: “I Am a Fugitive.” You would
be if many people read that yarn 8.R.W.:
Material not bad, but the yarn fizzles out at
the finish... .N.R.C.: A flapper mag. might
take it... .H.G.N.: Come again when you’re
not so angry H.G.M.: “Beware!” Begone.
... .N.T.R.: A longwinded stretch of nonsense.
. ...J.P.R.: Dreadful.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.L.: Drawings fair, gags wooden R.T.8.:
Look to your highlights and shading, and use a
deeper wash H. 5.8.: It’s a trifle, but you
forgot to give the lady arms JCC : Play-
on-words gag weak R.KJ.: No welcome
for the dog with telescopic legs and eyebrows*
R.S.: We recognised Musso by his
smoker’s cap D.D.T.: Why not fill in the
point of his nose and make him completely
hirsute from chest to crown? B : Week’s
feeblest gag... .H.S.H.: Is the policeman (or
is he a soldier?) wearing trousers or sheets
of corrugated-iron? ... .T.L.M.: Animals aren’t
your strong suit... .8.F.: Can’t see you ousting
Lindsay... .8.W.: Offer them to a seaside
council... .M.H.: That same drunk again
C.W.S.: An English mag. has already had
that jest about the young man whose car has
run out of charcoal gas C.R.A.: Couldn’t
fault the Union Jack, but John Bull Churchill
looks in need of a rest cure.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Coins have worried you —now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
PILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain 01
i aconvenienee. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
S'ILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GIUMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, also
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, tin
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department=
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
1914-18 Digger (N.S.W.), 6ft. 2in„- slight,
hard up, sorely needs presentable worn suit or
coat and vest. —7906.
Lady, Sydney, own typewriter, experienced
typing MSS., desires work. Accurate and
neat. Charges reasonable. —7887.
To buy old photographs depicting sailing-
ships and shipping scenes. —7908.
To buy The Cask, by Freeman Wills Croft.
—7879.
To buy “Windsor Magazine” for 1895.
—7829.
To buy postcard stereoscope with views.
—7886.
To hear from Maorilanders who formerly
drove coaches for Cobb and Co. in Australia or
M.L. (Reply direct to Philip S. Whelan,
Camp Hill, Carew-street, Dee Why, N.S.W.)
Whereabouts of Perry Bros., circus pro-
prietors, believed to be travelling in N. S.
Wales.—79ls.
Information Sought.
Is a broadside oi end-on target easier for a
naval gunner? —7673.
The general consensus of opinion amongst the
experts is that the broadside target is the easier
for the naval gunner. A naval broadside has
a “spread” of approximately 100-150yds. When
the target is end on, a very small alteration
of course will place the target completely out-
side the area covered by the fall of shot, while
if the target is broadside on a considerable
alteration of course and a longer period of
time are required to put the target ship in a
safe position.
* * * *
What territory was ceded by Finland to
Soviet Russia under the peace treaty between
the two countries last March? —7910.
According to the Treaty of Peace between the
U.S.S.R, and Finland of March 13, 1940: (1)
Finland ceded to the U.S.S.R. the whole of
the Karelian Isthmus, with the city of Viipuri,
the whole of Viipuri Bay with its islands, the
territory west arid north of Lake Ladoga, in-
cluding the towns of Kakisalmi, Sortavala and
Subjaervi, the territory north of Markajaervi
and Kuolajaervi, and a number of islands in the
Gulf of Finland. (2) Finland agreed to lease
the peninsula of Hango to the U.S.S.R. for a
period of 30 years, with the area five miles
south and east of Hango, with all the islands
situated in the area, against an annual pay-
ment of eight million Finnish marks. The
U.S.S.p. will establish in this leased territory
a military base for protective purposes, and
shall have the right to place troops there and
air units. (3) Finland agreed to grant a right-
of-way across her territory between the U.S.S.R.
and Sweden by the shortest route, for which
purpose a new railway is to be built jointly
by the two countries, possibly during this year,
between Kandalakasha and Kemijaarvi. The
area of land and lakes ceded by Finland to
the Soviet Union was 16,173 square miles.
* * * *
If an alien becomes naturalised in Australia
will that naturalisation cover the whole of the
British Empire or does it apply to Australia
only?--' 7691.
A Certificate of Naturalisation issued under
the Nationality Act 1920-36 is effective through-
out the British Empire. Naturalisation certifi-
cates granted by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment prior to December 2. 1920, were only
local in effect and had no force outside the
Commonwealth.
* * * *
Australian note-issue, gold reserve and per-
centage of reserve to notes for the years 1914
to 1920?—7833.
1914, note issue £9,573,738, gold reserve
£4,106,767, percentage of reserve to notes 42.90;
1915, notes £32,128,302, gold £11,034,703,
34.35 p.c.; 1916. notes £44,609,546, gold
£16,112,943, 36.12 p.c.; 1917, notes £47,201,564,
gold £15,244,592, 32,30 p.c.; 1918, notes
£52,535,959, gold £17,659,754, 33.61 p.c.;
1919, notes £55,567,423, gold £24,273,622,
43.68 p.c.; 1920, notes £56,949,030, gold
£23,658,092, 41.54 p.c.
* * * *
I understand that Germany sent an expedi-
tion to the Antarctic last year and claimed a
portion of the land there. Extent and situation
of the territory claimed? —7844.
A German Antarctic expedition, led by Capt.
Ritscher. left Germany on December 22, 1938,
for the Antarctic continent. On March 9,
1939, the expedition claimed for Germany
231,660 square miles of territory in Crown
Princess Maerta Land, which had previously
been claimed by Norway. Two ’planes in 14
flights dropped German flags over the territory
extending from the coast at approximately
70deg. south latitude inland to the 75th deg.
of latitude south, and extending east and west
from the 15th meridian east to the sth
meridian west. The expedition returned to
Germany on April 12, 1939.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning Tanganyika?
—7857.
It was a former German colony known as
German East Africa, and has an area of 366,000
square miles and a population of 5,100,000, of
whom 9000 are Europeans, including about
2500 Germans. The colony is administered by
Great Britain under a League of Nations man-
date. It is an important link in the Cape-Cairo
line. Coffee, sisal-hemp, tobacco and cotton
plantations, cattle-breeding and a limited amount
of gold- and diamond-mining are the chief
industries, but the territory is still largely un-
developed.
* * * *
Who appoints the N.S.W. Auditor-General,
can he be removed at any time from office
and what are his duties? —7853.
The Auditor-General is appointed by the
Governor, and holds office during good be-
havior. In certain cases he may be suspended
by the Governor, but he is removable from
office only on an address from both Houses of
Parliament. He is required to take an oath that
he will faithfully perform his duties, and he is
debarred from entering political life. He is
endowed with wide powers of supervision,
inspection and audit in regard to the collection
and expenditure of public moneys and the
manner in which the public accounts are kept.
He exercises control over the issue of public
moneys, and all warrants must be counter-
signed by him. Matters connected with the
public accounts are subject to special or annual
report to Parliament by him, and he may refer
any matter to the Public Accounts Committee.
... jj.
What is a bronchoscope, and by whom was
it invented ? —7836.
The bronchoscope is an instrument in wide
use in hospitals for the extraction of foreign
bodies, such as open safety pins, nails, coins,
small metal tops and other small objects,
from the lungs and bronchial tubes. It was in-
vented by Dr. G. Killian, of Vienna, and
originally used by him. It consists of a hollow
metal tube with an electric light about the size
of a grain of wheat at the remote end. The
tube is thrust down the windpipe and into
the bronchial passages, and through it the dan-
gerous foreign objects are removed without
subjecting the patient to an anaesthetic. It is
possible to pass tubes and forceps through the
bronchoscope to assist in the removal of the
foreign objects.
-1! * * *
Details of new issue of Pitcairn Islands
postage stamps? —79l3.
The stamps are approximately by 1 in.
in sheets of 60, and the issue comprises eight
designs in each of which a profile portrait of
King George VI and the duty are variously dis-
played with the title “Pitcairn Islands” at the
top. The subject matter and colors of the
design are: Id., green and orange (a cluster of
oranges); Id., claret and pale ( mauve (a view
of Pitcairn Island from the sea; the border
includes a representation of Fletcher Christian
on the stern of the Bounty); red and grey
(the border depicts John Adams, whose house
is shown in the centre, with inscription at the
base); 2d., brown and green (a view of the
Bounty, with inscription at base and a por-
trait of Lieut. Bligh in the border display); 3d.,
blue and green (a map showing the relation of
Pitcairn Islands to other islands in the Pacific
Ocean); 6d., blue, green and brown (a broad-
side view of the Bounty, with inscription at the
base); Is., black and mauve (a view of Pit-
cairn Island from the sea and a portrait of
FleU'her Christian in the border); 2s. 6d., brown
and green (a view taken on Pitcairn Island and
a representation of Fletcher Christian as in
Id. duty).
* * * *
Particulars of the Union Airways ( M.L .)
Lockheed Electra ’planes on the Auckland-
Dunedin air route? —7778.
Carrying 10 passengers and two pilots, they
are two-engined ’planes; nine-cylinder Pratt and
Whitney engines; h.p. at r.p.m. for takeoff,
450 at 2300; cruising speed at sea level,
176 m.p.h. (at 9600 ft., 195 m.p.h.); length,
38ft. 7in.; wing span, 55ft.; fuel consumption
with 300 h.p., 52 gal. hr.; cruising range with
300 h.p. (194 gals.), 690 miles; gross weight,
10,1001 b.; cargo, 6701 b.
* * * *
Origin and significance of the lines:
And even the ranks of Tuscany
Could scarce forbear to cheer.
—7919.
They are from Macaulay’s poetical account
of “how Horatius kept the bridge,” one of
his “Lays of Ancient Rome,” and record the
effect on the foemen of Horatius’s gallantry.
H: * * *
(1) Who was the first breeder of Australorps ?
(2) What breeds of poultry were crossed to
obtain the Australorp type ? —7672.
(1) The original breeder cannot be stated, as
there were a number of utility Orpington
breeders over 30 years ago. (2) The “make-up”
of the breed is the same as the Orpington,
namely, Black Rock, Minorca and clean-legged
Langshan.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible to convert an ordinary elec-
tric-light bulb into an ultra-violet light; or
where could one be bought? (2) Where could
a prism be obtained to get spectra, and for
how much ? (3) Would it be possible to pre-
serve oranges by dipping them in paraffin wax ?
(4) Is there any practicable way of preparing
luminous calcium or zinc sulphide? —743o.
(1) It is not possible to convert an ordinary
electric-light bulb into an ultra-violet lamp.
Both the Osram and Philips companies manu-
facture special black-light lamps or ultra-violet
lamps, and these can be obtained from any
electrical supply house. (2) A prism suitable
for producing optical spectra may be obtained
from an optician or optical supply
house. (3) Oranges may be preserved for a
short time by dipping them in paraffin wax.
The efficacy of the process depends to some
extent on the thickness of the wax coating:
sometimes too thick a coat causes deterioration
of the fruit. (4) The manufacture of luminous
calcium and zinc sulphides involves some
rather difficult processes. There is no simple
method for their preparation.
* * * *
Biographical details concerning Jaroslav
Hasek, author of “The Good Soldier Schweik” ?
—7900.
He was born in Prague in 1884, and had
published 16 volumes of short stones before
1914. Taken prisoner on the Eastern Front,
he spent several years in Russian prison camps.
On his return he began to write The Good
Soldier Schweik. According to his original
plan Schweik was to be completed in six
volumes. He died in 1923, with only lour
volumes written.
* * * *
Particulars of the first stage production in
Sydney of "Raffles,” the theatre it was shown
at, names of cast, and under whose manage-
ment? —7814. . . .
“Raffles” was first produced in Australasia
at Her Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney, on May 21,
1904 under the management of J. C. William-
son. Cast: Raffles, Cuyler Hastings; Captain
Bedford, Hamilton Stewart; Harry Manders,
F L Hare; Lord Amersteth, Edmund Gwenn;
Crawshay, J. B. Atholwood; Lord Crowley,
P Scardon; Merton, R. Staveley; Barraclough,
T. W. Lloyd; Goldby, F. Phillips; Gwen
Conron, May Chevalier; Lady Melrose, Susie
Vaughan; Lady Ethel, Olga Beatty-Kingston ,
Mrs. Vidal, Mabel Lane; Marie, Minnie Terry.
It ran 10 nights. The play has been frequently
revived.
* * * *
What English poets wrote the verses the
first lines of which are as follows: 0) Drink
to me only with thine eyes,” (2) "Come live
with me and be my Love.” (3) “Gather ye rose-
buds while ye may,” (4) "Tiger, Tiger,, burning
bright,” (5) "Ye flowering banks o’ bonnie
Doon,” (6) “Who is Silvia? what is she,” (7)
"Why so pale and wan, fond lover ?” (8) She
walks in beauty, like the night ” (9) It is the
miller’s daughter” and (10) “Of all the girls
that are so smart There’s none like pretty
Sally”?— 7BB4. w ,
(1) Ben Jonson, (2) Christopher Marlowe,
(3) Robert Herrick, (4) William Blake, (5)
Robert Burns, (6) Shakspeare, (7) John Suck-
ling, (8) Byron, (9) Tennyson, (10) Henry Carey.
* * * *
What is the best method of using anthill
earth for a floor? Is it possible to use a little
cement for the surface to harden sufficiently
for constant use and cleaning, etc. ?—' 7868.
A little cement in antbed earth will merely
result in a mixture which will crumble. Try
two-thirds lime and one-third antbed. Mix
thoroughly while dry, add water till like pug,
and mix well again. Cover with wet bags,
leave two davs and mix again, then cover floor
to a depth of at least three inches, trowelling
out all airbubbles and inequalities. Leave till
set and dry.
* * * *
What should be mixed with cement in an
open kitchen drain to prevent acids eating it
away? —74so.
The question of corrosion of an open
kitchen drain is connected with the quality of
the concrete used in the drain. If concrete
is of a rich mix, say one of cement, \\ of
, sand and three of gravel or metal, the ordinary
kitchen wastes and acids will not corrode it.
* * * *
How can / tan a white cotton fishing line ?
What is tanning cutch? What is the difference
between ironbark and wattlebark in tanning a
line ? —7444.
Cutch or catechu is the dried extract
obtained from several Indian trees. There are
several varieties of cutch. The true cutch is the
extract prepared from Acacia catechu, and is
commonly known as Bengal catechu. Cutch
is extensively used for tanning fishing nets and
sails, and in this connection no other material
has been found to give the same beneficial
results. It lengthens the life of the sails and
nets and makes them more resistant to the
action of sea water. The cotton line is steeped
in a. hot solution of catechu (1 p.c. to 2 p.c.),
to which has been added about .6 p.c. of
copper sulphate reckoned on the weight of the
catechu employed. The material is allowed to
remain in the bath as it cools and without
washing is then treated in a warm or boiling
second bath containing 0.2 p.c. potassium bi-
chromate. Finally, it is rinsed and dried.
* * * *
(1) How are beehives built ? (2) How should
bees that have been starved of honey in the
bush and recently brought home be fed? —7511.
(1) N.S.W. Department of Agriculture’s
pamphlet on the construction of a home-made
beehive has been posted. (2) The best food
for a beginner to supply to needy colonies of
bees is a sugar syrup made up of sugar and
water in equal parts by volume, thoroughly
stirred, brought to boiling-point and then fed
to the bees lukewarm. Containers for feeding
bees are available on the market, but a good
makeshift one may be made out of a preserved-
fruit tin. Pour the warm syrup into the tin,
and insert about a dozen fairly thin slats of
board long enough to extend, say, an inch over
the edge. This is to provide easy access to the
bees and prevent their getting drowned. Place
the feeder inside the hive and up against the
wall near where the bees are established. About
a pint of syrup should be given daily until the
colony has built up some reserve of food.
* * * *
Method of waterproofing a khaki coat ? —7863.
Crush 2oz. of sugar of lead and mix well
with 2oz. of crushed alum, add 2 quarts of
boiling water and leave to stand for eight hours.
Lay the coat to be waterproofed on a table
and apply liquid with a sponge till coat is
saturated, then wipe off surplus liquid. Hang
coat on hanger, wipe all over with soft clean
cloth, getting it as dry as possible, then press
with fairly hot iron. This mixture is poisonous,
but will not affect wearer.
* * * *
When was the N.S.W. Rugby Union premier-
ship launched, and what have been the different
phases of it? —7675.
The club system was introduced and played
1874-82; the Gardiner Cup, 1883-89; R.A.
Shield, 1890-93; Union Medals, 1894-96; Nash
Cup, 1897-99. The district scheme was inaugu-
rated and played in 1900-22 (there were no
matches in the war years, 1915-18); the Shute
Shield has been the bauble ever since.
* * * *
Heavyweight boxing champions of the world
since John L. Sullivan ? —7839.
John L. Sullivan (1882-92), James J. Corbett
(1892-97), Robert Fitzsimmons (1897-99), James
J. Jeffries (1899-1906), Tommy Burns (1906-08),
Jack Johnson (1908-15), Jess Willard (1915-18),
Jack Dempsey (1919-26), Gene Tunney (1926-
28), Max Schmeling (1930-31), Jack Sharkey
(1932), Primo Camera (1933), Max Baer (1934),
James J. Braddock (1935-36), Joe Louis (1937
to date).
Brief Answers.
M.G,: Lines are from W. E. Henley’s
“Invictus,” beginning “Out of the night that
covers me”....C.J.: Get in touch with G.
Tyrrell, bookseller, 288 George-street, Sydney.
.... J.H.: (1) Sprinkle French chalk thickly over
the grease spot and leave it on in a warm
place till all the grease is absorbed, then brush
off. (2) Use eucalyptus extract, working from
a ring outside the stain and wiping off with
fluffless rag. (3) Lay cloth on clean blotting-
paper, put another sheet of blotting over and
press with warm iron. This should always be
done as soon as grease is spilt on any material,
. ...R.G.S.: Outfit as you have described it is
correct... .E.M.: (1) and (2) No. (3) Those
that do use ordinary brands. (4) No. (5]
Lighter brands. (6) No. (7) Any retail tobacco-
nist would advise... .P.A.: N0....M.C.: Try
Mitchell Library, Macquarie-street, Sydney
8.P.: The number of refugees in Great Britain
on February 29, 1939, from the countries men-
tioned was as follows: Germany, 4674 males
and 3663 females; Austria, 3440 males anc
2446 females; Czechoslovakia, 357 males anc
169 females, making a total of 14,649... .E.D.:
Boy Scouts’ Association, 38 Carrington-street;
Australian Air League, 23 Macquarie-place;
Royal Navy League, Royal Exchange Building
Bridge-street—all Sydney... .J.T.8.: Fellowship
of Australian Writers (president, Frank Dalbj
Davison; honorary secretary, L. G. Ashton)
Box 3448 R, G.P.0., Sydney. Meets weekly or
Sunday evenings at 38 Clarence-street, Sydney:
subscription, ss. p.a W.K.: Mittagonp
<rr' S . ') * s a N-S.W. abo. place-name meaning
little mountain’’... .W.J.T.: They all pay in-
come tax on their Parliamentary salaries
R-C.: (1) The identity of “Brent of Bin Bin’
has never been revealed. (2) Matter of choice
. ...5.H.8.: Bank states that it does not make
such details public... .W.N.: See Clock Clean-
ing and Repairing, edited by B. E. Jones, ir
Cassell’s “Work” Series (2s. 3d.)... .J.A.C.:
Write Foster Knitting Machine Co., 70 King-
street, Sydney... .L.L.: Basil Harrison, 165
Collins-street, Melbourne E.J.R.: M. J
Savage, Prime Minister of Maoriland, died or
March 27, 1940; Peter Fraser succeeded him as
P.M. on April 1, 1940... .G.V.L.: Poem will
be found in Around the Boree Log, by John
O’Brien, obtainable from Angus and" Robertson,
Sydney.. . .T.V.: Oregon was the name
formerly given to the whole territory west of the
Rocky Mountains claimed by the U.S.A. as
iar north as latitude 59deg. 40min. This claim
was resisted by the British Government, which
asserted a right to the entire territory. The
boundary dispute, which at one stage threatened
to lead to war, was settled by making the 49th
parallel the dividing line... .S.H.H.: The manu-
facture of explosives in N.S.W. is prohibited
except under license and is subject to strict
regulations and supervision by Government
officials. Suggest you get in touch with
Explosives Branch, Mines Dept., Sydney....
J.M.H.: Write Lecturer-in-charge, Tanning
College, Bourke-street, Waterloo (N.5.W.)....
W.A.: “Pelorus Jack” was a solitary whale
which for some years met vessels near Pelorus
Sound, M.L., and which was protected by an
Order-in-Council under the name of Risso’s
dolphin (Grampus delphis). He was the only
member of the species reported from Maoriland
waters L.8.G.: The Bulletin for January
29, 1930, and January 31, 1940, will give you
the data required... .J.A.M.: See Service page
of The Bulletin for February 28, 1940....
A.F.: Proportions at the 1933 census were as
follows: Baptist 1.83 p.c., Roman Catholic
22.30 p.c., Church of England 44.37 p.c., Con-
gregational 1.13 p.c., Lutheran 1.05 p.c.,
Methodist 11.83 p.c., Presbyterian 12.34 p.c.,
others 5.15 p.c 8.W.N.: See How to Make
Clipper Ship Models, by E. W. Hobbs (205.)
... .R.R.: Booth’s Elementary Physics (65.)
M. Impossible to advise without further
information regarding rent, condition and selec-
tion of novels in stock H.D.: The A.B.C.
of the Foreign Exchanges, by George Clare and
Norman Crump (10s.), Foreign Exchange, by
F. J. Docker (215.), and Money, by R. C. Mills
and E. R. Walker (ss. 6d.)... .A.T.: Toti dal
Monte was married in 1928 G.A.: The use
of concrete for lining a charcoal pit is not
advised, as the concrete will undoubtedly be
affected by the heat and also possibly by the
tar acids and other vapors given off during the
burning of the wood. The usual recommenda-
tion made to prevent contamination of the
charcoal with sand and dirt is to line the pit
with scrap sheet steel or black iron. A publica-
tion entitled “Charcoal Burnin’g, Portable Kiln
and Pit Methods” has just been issued by the
N. Forestry Commission and is available
on application... .N.S.G.: A properly-seasoned
hoop-pine table should not split when exposed
to outside conditions on a verandah if it has
been adequately treated with a finish such as
you propose. In order to prevent splitting it
is necessary to prevent moisture absorption by
the timber, and it is therefore essential to coat
the top, bottom and the edges of the table
equally. Very often the underside of the table
is not given a coating of varnish or other finish,
and moisture absorbed from the underside
causes stresses on the top, resulting in cracks.
There is no advantage in treating the material
with raw linseed oil, as tests have indicated that
this oil has very little effect in preventing the
pick-up of moisture by timber J.V.O’L.:
Prices for barytes range from 30s. to
50s. per ton on rail at siding according
to grade. A content of galena is detri-
mental to the value of barytes. Samples
should be submitted to the following
firms for information as to suitability 01
materials and market prices: McLeod and La>
Ralph-street, Alexandria; Minerals, Ltd., 3 18
Botany-road, Alexandria; Nightingale Suppb
Co., Alien-street, Waterloo; Austral Kock
Milling, Ltd., Gladstone-street, Newtown an
c ''dney.


HITS
LYS
PROOf
—«.»■**> war
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
. m
■
M
■■
'
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
LYSAGHT'S" Wl RE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Lamb Season Prospects.
“Gumeraka”: There have been few
lamb losses in N.S.W. and Victoria this
season, but if good rains do not come
soon mortality may be fairly heavy. In
S.A. good rains have fallen over most
of the agricultural areas. Many lambs
have been checked in growth, but a
reasonably satisfactory output is ex-
pected. Losses have not been heavy. In
W.A., losses have been severe in some
districts, but good rains west and south
of Gascoyne and moderate falls on the
central and lower Murchison should help
to relieve the position. Lamb production
in Queensland and Tasmania should be
equal to last year’s output.
About 5,500,000 carcasses were shipped
from Australia during the 12 months
ended June 30 last. This was an all-time
record and shows an increase of 10 per
cent, on the 1938-39 total of 4,954,582
carcasses.
The Meat Board’s export gradings for
the 10 months ended April 30, 1940, show
a marked improvement in slaughtering
standards compared with 1938-39. Tak-
ing the Commonwealth as a whole, 60 per
cent, of the export lambs was first grade,
30 per cent, second and 10 per cent,
third grade. In the previous season 44.86
per cent, was first grade, 39.38 second
and 15.76 third.
Victoria recorded the highest percent-
age of first-grade lambs, namely 72.97.
Only 2.87 per cent, of S.A.’s output was
third grade. N.S.W., the second-largest
exporter, recorded nearly 51 per cent,
firsts and S.A. 44.51 per cent. About
25.7 per cent, of the W.A. output was
firsts, but this is a splendid showing
under the conditions.
The average weight of all first-grade
lambs was 391 b. compared with 351 b. in
1938-39. Seconds averaged 331 b. (301 b. in
1938-39) and thirds 281 b. The aggregate
average was 361 b.
Heavier Bales.
“Murrawong”: Make wool bales as
weighty as possible this year. Last year,
owing to the excessive condition, tightly-
pressed wool opened up heavy and life-
less. Experience in the early sheds shows
that the wool is mostly light this season.
Woolpacks are expensive and may be
harder to obtain in the future. If a clip
can be reduced from 500 to 470 bales by
increasing bale weights, the owner will,
apart from the cost of the bales, save on
broker’s charges, publicity levy and the
like. Storage problems will be more
easily met. And it may be necessary to
store a large proportion of the 1940 clip.
At auction, small lots of wool were
often packed in light bales to make a
five-bale line. Under appraisement, star
lots get as much consideration as big
lines.
If there are a few fleeces over or even
if the bin has approximately 4001 b. of
wool at the cut-out, get as much into
one bale as possible. If you can’t match
the left-overs with the wool from an-
other flock, make them all up into a
heavy mixed bale for reclassing.
Heavy bales mean more strain on the
press, so see that it is thoroughly over-
hauled before shearing. See that the
ropes are in good order and keep spares
in case of breakages. The boards or cam
gear to hold bale flaps should fit tightly
to keep flaps from slipping. Bales split
or give way inside the box if the distance
between the bottom or false bottom and
turned-over flaps is too great. This can
be remedied either by dropping the pack
lower into the press or, preferably, by
building up the false bottom with several
folded packs to give the base of the bale
greater support.
Toxaemic Jaundice.
“Ghanam”: In Victoria toxaemic jaun-
dice has in some cases killed 10 p.c. of
flocks. Merinos seem to be almost im-
mune ; British breeds have suffered most.
Sheep are usually ill for only a few
hours. Pulse and breathing become fast,
temperature high. Mucous membranes
turn muddy yellow or creamy, wool
loosens and stock die in a few hours.
The yellow color is the danger signal.
There is little doubt in diagnosis after
death—body fat, muscles and internals
“Where'd you catch 'em?"
“ Sh-sh! There's a War on! Somewhere in the Pacific."
all show a strong yellow tinge. Carcasses
rot quickly. So far as is known, the
trouble is due to the copper content of
the sheep, and particularly of its liver,
which is higher than that of other
animals. Any excessive liberation of
copper into the blood develops acidosis.
As yet there is no certain cure. Drench-
ing three to four times a day with 2oz.
soda bicarb, dissolved in water has proved
effective. And a lick of common salt
50 p.c., calc. Carbonate 25 p.c. and sodium
bicarb. 25 p.c. helps as a preventive.
Grooming a Horse.
“Inniskilling”: Proper grooming goes
a long way towards keeping horses in
good nick, especially if they are highly
fed and hard-worked.
Rich feeding especially helps to clog
the skin, which consists of a hard outer
covering and a sensitive under layer con-
taining blood vessels. The under skin
is the true skin, and it is the mother
substance from which the outer hide is
built up and renewed as it is cast off in
the form of scurf. The inner or true
skin contains two types of glands—fatty
and sweat. The latter lubricate the
coverings of the joints and those parts of
the animal most subject to strain or creas-
ing. The horse is a heavily perspiring
animal, and gives off a great deal of
waste through the skin. When dirt clogs
the outer skin pores the rubbish is re-
tained and the animal becomes unhealthy.
Grooming keeps the skin clean, the
pores functioning, the oil-lubrication
glands working and the hair—which is
shed twice a year—soft and comfortably
warm through having an even and
natural spread.
A good brush, a proper stance and
plenty of strength well applied in the
right places are the main ingredients of
success in grooming. The brush should
be hard but not too sharply pointed in
the bristles. The groom should stand
well away from the animal so as to use
his balanced weight to the best advantage.
The coat should be thoroughly pene-
trated with brisk strokes which will find
their way through the hair.
To do the job methodically, begin on
the near side where the head joins the
neck, first with a rotating movement to
remove clots and hard patches, then with
a straight stroke, moving the way the
hair lies. Work down to the tail in this
fashion, going tenderly in places where
the skin is thinner and tenderer than on
the exposed sides and outer legs—behind
the knee and particularly inside the
thighs. Perhaps use a softer brush for
these parts, though they most of all are
subject to chafing and the collection of
sweat and dirt, and need careful going
over.
When the near side is completed, work
over the off side in the same direction.
Leave the legs for the next section.
Lastly, clean eyes, nostrils and under the
tail, brush out the tail, lift the feet and
see that there are no stones or dirt in
hooves.
A run over with a rubber brush is a
fine finish to a toilet.
Don’t use a currycomb. A brush has
far more cleansing effect. And don’t
wash a horse down except when it is
necessary to remove mud. Washing is
apt to dry out the oil glands.
A practised and methodical groom
soon finds the work easy. And the
oftener the brush is used the quicker the
job gets done and the better condition
of the animal. A hard-working horse
needs the brush every morning just as
much as a hard-working man needs his
bath.
Test Wheat Yourself.
“N.A.8.”: Wheatgrowers can them-
selves test varieties in a season when dry
conditions are likely to affect maturity
and yield.
Wheat is one of the hardiest of plants,
and some varieties have been known to
make astonishing recoveries after a
doubtful start. Most farmers sow from
three to five varieties, and an examination
of how they are coming along after ger-
mination, with notes on their condition
at certain dates, will give handy informa-
tion.
Note, for instance, how an early-
maturer stands up to dry weather, its re-
covery ability and the length of time it
will stand without rain before beginning
to spindle or hay off. One that comes
through well is worthy of fuller trial;
one that gives in early is obviously no
good to a man in a doubtful district. All
this, of course, provided the wheat has
been given a normal chance by right
sowing methods —depth, working, fer-
tiliser and date.
At this time of year, a walk round the
paddocks with notebook and pencil to
record the state of the crops might not be
wasted. Then, in October or later, ac-
cording to when the spring rain comes —
if it comes —another look round and
reference to the notebook will prove in-
teresting. Plant-breeders make reason-
ably sure of a wheat before recommend-
ing it, but it’s up to the farmer to check
up for himself.
Black Oats in Wheat.
“Ben C.”: If the paddock was heavily
oat-infested last year and few oats have
shown up so far, don’t be misled into
thinking the dry spell has killed them.
Black oats will lie dormant through a
dry spell and then, following early spring
rains and warm weather, will come away


¥.
&
%
im
i
Sf,
■
MASONITE
“SHORTS”
AVAILABLE AT SPECIAL PRICES
CHEAPER than full-sized sheets of Masonite
—grainiest, non-chipping and non-splintering,
yet as easy to work as timber—are the new
"SHORTS" now on sale at most hardware
stores. Standard-size Masonite sheets are
12 ft. x 4 ft. Orders for lengths from 7 to
11 feet mean that off-cuts are left and these
short lengths are now offered at special prices.
They are perfect in every way, and are ideal
for the handyman's small-scale jobs. Masonite
will outwear timber, is easy to work, and takes
any finish. At your favourite hardware store,
timber merchant or builders' supplier, you II
see a display rack filled with Masonite
"Shorts"—cut into just the right sizes for
practically any household carpentering job.
Call and look for yourself.
JL
[Cane-ite—the structural insulating board—is now being produced in Australia.]
For Modernising Homes# for Furniture# for Shelves and Cup-
boards . . . Wall Lining . . . Floors . . . Boards . . . Caravans
Store Displays . . . Concrete Forming, Etc.
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD • TEMPRTILE • QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth ma2s-4S
f sadf
ssdfoil.
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT AFY WATER SI I'PLi
THE HYGEIA OISSOLVENATOR
Matter in .liftsolved, rendered sterile and overflow* Into M»e
Kullv Guaranteed (7 Year* A*nlnjte Corrosion).
NO SMELLS. FLIES OK GEBMS.
The Commonwealth Government ha* been
using them for 12 years and has just
bought 90 more for R.A.A.F., Narronrune.
PRICE, £l7/9/6,
Including sales tax and crating.
llWfe Dv*k IS for Illustrate A Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Cos. Pty., Ltd.,
2C Bridge Street, Sydney, X.S.W.
sadf
with a rush at a time when work is press-
ing and they cannot be dealt with. They
may be tempted into germination by a
deeper working of the fallow, especially
if there has been a drop of rain.
Best means of combating them is to
get them to shoot, when either the disc
° . , . , . .• r u
or the sheep or a combination of both
can chop them out, and best way to make
them shoot is by working the Mow
judiciously. Often a deep waking of
lallow soon after the stubble burn will
turn the oat seeds well in, and so long
as they can be kept well down they will
be partially harmless. But subsequent
workings—as late as three years after-
wards—can bring the seeds up again,
when they promptly shoot and infest the
new wheat.
It is always a good plan in a suspected
paddock to make sure that the workings
immediately prior to and at sowing time
are shallower than the earlier ones.
Potatoes and Plenty.
“Murphy”: Potatoes will again be
scarce in Australia this season, though
why is a mystery to everybody w o
knows our potato soils. The potato crop
goes up and down like a cork on a fish-
ing line. It has been as high as 461,000
tons and as low as 286,000 tons within
the past five years. The area planted
was 140,000 ncres in 1933-34 ; it dropped
to 125,000 acres two years later, rose
five thousand acres and fell away to
114 non arrps *
’ f . * . . u ia
Even this minimum area should pro-
vide Australia with its requirements it
it is the right type of land and properly
farmed. But the fact is that the States
which have been longest in development
and which should have the greatest per-
acre yields lag sadly. Of the average
annual sowings of 133,607 acres for 10
years ended 1938, N. S. Wales and Vic-
toria planted 77,000 acres, but their com-
bined yield was under 200,000 tons out of
351,000 tons for the Commonwealth and
respective ave[ages pel . acre on i y
2.25 and 2.69 tons. The averages of S. Aus-
tralia (5065 acres) and W.A. (4899 acres)
were 3.9 and 4.62 tons per acre The
whole Australian average was 2 63 tons
per acre. Belgium m 1937-38 had
389,000 acres under murphies. The out-
put was 3,258 000 tons-mne times the
Commonwealth s average output off three
times our acreage! It is a poor country
whjch cannot mm out fivi .. tons . per .
average jn Europe .
dQ as as other
countries js shown by tod jvidiial per-
£ormances o£ £armers w ho have adopted
Q ro tational methods, active culti-
yation and thorough fertilising. There
are yj c t o rian cases in the last year or
two j n w hj c h U p to £lOO per acre gross
has been taken off potato land. At Beech
Forest (Vic.) yields of up to 10 tons
were recorded, and the N.S.W. New Eng-
land could probably show figures equally
good.
Other areas suffering from drought
failed to produce crops, and disease as
usual has played havoc in the last few
seasons with the men who will not be
persuaded that certificated seed and fer-
tiliser to produce healthy growth are
is told plainly every year by
tr ; a£s o£ t | ie Victorian Agricultural
Department. At Milbrook “no-manure”
p i ots ave raged 2 tons 18cwt., which is
above normal Commonwealth average,
The addition of 4cwt. of 3-and-l super,
and ammonia lifted the figure to 5 tons
15cwt. Similar results were obtained
with other fertilisers adapted to par-
ticular districts. The department has
recommended 4cwt. of 6-and-l super.-
ammonia for all non-volcanic soils and
4cwt of for volcanic .
Green manur j ng has been neglected,
Trials showed that where 3-and-l was
used Qn hare fallow it yielded 5 tons
g cw t. Green-manured land showed a
41 p . c . increase to 7 tons lOcwt., and
on ground on which no artificial fer-
tiliser was used green manuring made
a difference of 43 per cent. Sunrise oats
are recommended by the department as
the best green manure. They are allowed
to mature to 18in. or 2ft. in height and
then ploughed under.
“Goulburn”: F. N. Bell, Blendon,
Barcaldine (Q.), has established Mitchell
grass on 2000 acres of newly nngbarked
gidyea country. After the scrub was
rung early in 1939 Bell broadcast curly
Mitchell grass in patches of fallen timber,
where it was protected from stock He
paid Is per pound for the 3cwt of seed
he used. Heavy rain fell soon attei sow-
ing, and germination was excellent.
“Bundalinga”: A. H. Power, Wirrilla,
Jugiong (N.S.W.), has designed a distri-
butor which enables him to topdress
pastures in rough country quickly and
with little trouble. Powered by a very
light petrol engine, the distributor is
mounted on a pack saddle on a draught
horse. Hoppers descend on each side
of the saddle, and the engine, by
friction, drive, powers a spreader at the
bottom of each hopper. He topdresses
80 to 100 acres daily with a horse, and
up to 200 acres a day when the dis-
tnbutor is mounted on the back of a
motor-truck.
“Seccy Tours”: When shifting ad-
vanced fruit-trees begin digging level
with the widest of the branches and
remove enough soil to get all major root-
growth. All damaged and broken roots
should be cut away—this will throw the
sap back and help to force quick root-
fibres. If top-growth is excessive, lop
off some of the long limbs; and the
job will be easier to lift by removing
much of the soil attached to the trunk.
Drive in a strong stake to keep the tree
firm and upright, and tread the filling-in
soil firmly giving a kero.-tm of water
before the final spadeful of earth.
“D.RJ”: Concession freights for
fodder for starving stock are now avail-
able on N.S.W. railways, but hay, chaff,
grain meatmeal bloodmeal, sheep nuts
liquid and solid molasses and mineral
licks of any kind are not eligible for the
special rate. Goods should be consigned
at starving-stock rates and the freight
must be paid by the consignee Con-
signees fill in a certificate signed by the
local stock inspector, who forwards the
application to the general passenger and
freight agent, Central Station, Sydney,
Outback Occupations.
No. XXXI.
BREAKING IN THE PUP.
The red pup has been growing
rapidly, and is taking a great interest in
the sheep. Last time the ewes were in
the yard he spent practically the whole
day running round the panels making
faces at them. This activity the ewes
regarded with stolid indifference, though
it was noticeable that their eyes seldom
left the red shadow. Once or twice the
red pup got into the yard, but a volley
of shouts and a well-aimed stick or two
sent him out again.
A Week ago, while the family was down
the paddock trying to get a sick cow on
her feet, all the fowls disappeared. All
that could be seen was the red pup lying
happily near the chaff-house door. You
and the boys searched the ground for
tracks of cart or motor-truck to see by
what means the fowls had been removed.
Your wife wanted to ring the police at
once, but you felt there was some mys-
tery. Nobody can calmly walk up and
collect and remove 23 fowls in broad
sunlight, all within an hour or so, and
leave not a feather nor the echo of a
squawk on the air.
Then you walked to the chaff-house,
opened the door and there they were.
The red pup had mustered them, worked
them through the door as he had seen
older dogs work sheep through a gate.
But how did he shut the door? You
patted him, showed him the released
chooks and urged him to do it again.
He scratched an ear thoughtfully, re-
garded you with a waggish air, then raced
off down the paddock and tried to catch
a magpie.
So it’s time the red pup was trained.
You go out with Boozer, the old
sheep-dog, and the pup, which you dub
Rufe. You tie Rufe and Boozer together,
then order Boozer to “Keep out! ” Away
they go, the pup trying to make a race
of it. They work rather wide of the
sheep, but are coming in nicely to you;
signals when a hare jumps up near them.
Rufe wants to investigate that hare.
Boozer is concentrating on sheep and
your signals. You can see there is some
sort of an argument, and you run for-
ward, cursing the dogs and the hare.
Boozer is not only angry but mightily
indignant. He had suffered this business
of being yoked up with the red pup be-
cause he thought you knew what you
were doing, but when it came to the
blasted animal wanting to fraternise with
lolloping hares it was a bit over the
fence. He was a sheep-dog, not a bloom-
in’ clown, and you could have y’r silly
pup.
Whereupon Boozer, having conveyed
these sentiments to you, trots morosely
homeward, deaf to your calls and curses,
determined that one-dog-one-job is a good
enough motto for any farm.
Rufe’s opinion of this dispute he keeps
to himself, but he isn’t too young to
realise that you are disturbed. In order
to show his fealty he leaps upon you
and shouts exuberantly.
You look after Boozer. All right, you
think, you wait, you old mong., the
bloomin’ pup’ll be a better dog than you
yet.
You pat Rufe and kid to him a bit,
then stand up, fling out your hand and
call “Keep out!” Away goes Rufe like
a shot. Fifty yards off he stops dead,
looks back at you and grins. “Damn’
fool must want me t’ chase him,” you
mutter.
“Keep out, Rufe! Way back!” you
yell, swinging your body towards the
sheep. The pup sits down.
Hoping that nobody is watching from
the house, you sit down, too, and do a
little steady thinking.
Then you walk down towards the
sheep. Rufe cocks his head on one side
and watches with interest. You walk on.
The pup gets up and ambles after you,
plainly trying to fathom what you are
driving at. By this time the sheep are
busy with the same problem. A couple
of the elder matrons of the tribe lift their
heads, regard you with deep suspicion,
stamp their feet and begin to move warily
away. The whole flock suddenly bunches
and clears out.
“Head ’em, Rufe, head ’em,” you yell.
It’s between an order and a prayer. Rufe
makes a tentative rush after the sheep.
“Good boy, keep out! ” you yell. Rufe
barks once excitedly, and rushes on. He
gains on the sheep. The leaders of the
flock baulk and swing round, .and the
flock begins to rush back. Rufe jams
on his brakes, slides to a stop, regards
the oncoming sheep with astonishment,
decides it is no place for him and bolts
back.
You slap your thighs with your hands,
leap in the air and yell “Ho, ho, ho!”
at the sheep. They stop, mill around a
bit and start feeding. Rufe stands, one
eye on the sheep and the other on you.
He thinks it is a game.
You sit on a handy log, fill the pipe
and do some more thinking. Vaguely
you recall some of the things you’ve heard
about training sheep-dogs. You know
it’s only a matter of dropping on the
right plan and Rufe will grasp the rudi-
ments of the thing in no time. He comes
up and tries to lick your face, then flops
down beside you and pants as though
he’s being worked to death.
You decide to find out more about
the process before making another at-
tempt, get up and make back for the
house.
By the time you’ve reached the horse-
yard gate you have decided to try to
Rufe and Boozer to work together once
more. At the gate you look back for
the pup. On your heels is your flock ot
sheep. For a moment they and you stare
at each other in some astonishment. You
never heard of sheep following their
owner like this, except in the old shepheru
stories. The sheep press forward. You
look beyond them. There, busily keep-
ing the stragglers up, is Rufe. His tau
is going, his tongue out; he has tne
intent, sidelong, eager look of the tru-
worker.
“By gosh,” you think, calling him, »
takes me to train a dog.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2%d. per line.
Names—though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don’t object.
Double rates go to an air-raid warden for a blunt statement of his case against
the apathetic.
A.R.P.
I am an air-raid warden in a metro-
politan sector particularly well organised
—on paper. lam one of those fanatics
who have swotted up the subject here
and in English handbooks, given hours
to first-aid, bunged eyes in gas-mask tests,
sweated soulcases out in decontamination
rig, cluttered homes with first-aid and
precautionary decontamination gear, de-
faced walls there with printed notices
offering instruction, and exasperated
families with “this A.R.P. nonsense.”
My charge is two apartment houses
covering 55 home suites and about 100
souls, from an invalid septuagenarian to
a weeks-old infant.
No one responded to my posted-up
notice offering advice, so next I circu-
larised the 55, submitting for filling in
the A.R.P. householder’s form that
records invalids and children requiring
special evacuation service, also those pos-
sessing first-aid knowledge. I also
offered pamphlet or viva voce informa-
tion. Eleven returned the filled-in form ;
two (one an alien) sought instruction.
What does the public expect?—Louis
Mattil (N.S.W.).
The Diggers
There have been several sneers lately
by contributors to the O.F.M. at the
R.S.L. Home Defence Force, tfie latest
by “A.8.F.” (B. 31/7/’4O).
Nobody thinks, least of all the Diggers
themselves, that the force would be of
much use as a regular fighting force, but
there are a thousand and one ways in
which it might be useful should the need
arise. We like to think that, if the
opportunity occurred, we could do some-
thing, such as guarding prisoners or in-
ternees, bridges, railways, etc.
I do not believe that the experience
of men who had three or four years
of war would be of no use in modern
war. Their steadiness under fire would
be an asset, and the very fact of being
organised into units and sub-units would
greatly help in various circumstances,
such as fire-fighting, traffic control, etc.
Sneers should be directed at those who
are content to stand aside and let others
do the dirty work, rather than at a body
of men who are making an attempt to
fit themselves for action in emergency.
—Pozzy (S.A.).
Concentration Camps
During the 1914-18 war there were a
few people in Britain who tried to make
life more bearable for internees by lend-
ing books and musical instruments and
sports materials to the men herded behind
barbed wire. The result was as surpris-
ing as it was pleasing. When the news
reached Germany similar action was
taken there, and facilities for study and
entertainment were supplied to the
“opposite-number” camps. In fact, a sort
of friendly competition was started along
that line that did harm to none and gave
pleasure to all concerned.
The facts were never widely publicised
because atrocities were considered better
“news,” but they are worth recording to-
day for both selfish and patriotic reasons.
They proved that the greatest kindness
we can do our kith and kin who are at
the mercy of the enemy is to do to the
enemy’s kith and kin what we would like
him to do to ours. By being unneces-
sarily harsh here we are only hurting our
friends abroad.— Goose and Gander
(S.A.).
A Potential Ally?
W.K.D. (B. 31/7/ ’4O) takes an atti-
C i!i ls i nc . om Prehensible to me. It
should be obvious to anyone that the
present disposition of the U.S. Fleet in
the Pacific is of great value to Britain.
As regards active American partici-
pation m the war on our side, it can
safely be said that U.S. armed forces,
apart from the fleet, could not at present
be of much use against Hitler’s hordes.
It seems to be fashionable to slam
the Yanks because they haven’t as yet
dived in with their ears back, but that’s
a foolish way to treat a potential ally.—
Freddo (N.S.W.).
For the League
Like most critics of the League of
Nations, “Bouquet” (B. 31/7/’4O) bases
his criticism on surmises which are utter
nonsense. The principal episode that
brought about the League’s downfall was
Italy’s invasion of Abyssinia, and to sug-
gest that Britain was, at the time, as
weak as a vegetarian dog and unable
to stand between Mussolini’s transports
and the Suez Canal is a silly reflection
on the British Navy, which is now doing
“If those cases are too heavy for the ’ plane , porter , I could carry one
on my knee.”
that very job under much more dis-
advantageous conditions than existed in
1935.
It was desire, not ability, that was
lacking. Leadership in world affairs
seems to be Britain’s lot, and a deter-
mined lead by her over the Abyssinian
business would have made the League
Covenant effective and preserved at least
a rallying point for the democracies and
smaller nations of Europe.
As it was they were left easy victims
for progressive destruction or intimida-
tion by Hitler. As he did not attempt
to grab Austria until 1938, it is a fair bet
that he was not ready to take on Britain
and France in 1935, even with Italy’s
help. He merely waited to see what
would happen, and when France’s vacil-
lating attitude caused the failure of the
sanctions issue Mein Kampf ceased to be
a wild vision and became practical poli-
tics for Germany.
France is paying the penalty for her
stupidity. Let us be honest and admit that
a little effort and application of moral
principle in 1935 would have saved us
and Europe from much of the woe of
recent years. The League is almost dead,
but it is we, not it, that failed.—
Crusader (W.A.).
Space for Soldiers
A rumpus is going on now over the
N. S. Wales R.A.S. Show. They say that
it can’t be held next year because the sol-
diers will want the Showground, and,
apparently, it would cost too much to
build another camp. We could still have
the Show and the soldiers could still have
their camping space if we emptied the
gaols in N. S. Wales. There are many
of them quite suitable for barracks with a
little reconditioning.
The present gaol inmates should be
moved out and put to work on some
undertakings of national importance.
Why have all this man-power going to
waste? If we really want a road from
Darwin to Adelaide, then let the gaol
folk build it. Those who worked well
could earn remissions of their-sentences.
And there are plenty of other under-
takings which they could do. — After
You (N.S.W.).
Agents-General
Occasionally a taxpayer reads an item
of news which reminds him that he is
supporting an Agent-General in London,
along with an expensive staff. Why the
States should need such representation,
even in peace-time, is something the aver-
age Australian taxpayer cannot fathom.
He realises that Australia needs some
representation at the heart of the Empire,
but thinks that the High Commissioner
should be able to do the job for all
States. In war, Agents-General are an
expensive luxury, as unnecessary as the
State Governments which appointed
them.
Most of our boards and commissions
have their own representatives in Britain,
or, if they want a special job done, send
over one or more officers. During the
war, comforts and other welfare organi-
sations connected with the A.I.F. have
their own staffs in England, and the
A.I.F. itself could receive no help from
an Agent-General.
Australia has sufficient links with
Britain through the Federal Government
in war as in peace, so the best thing for
the States to do is to recall their Agents-
General, complete with staffs, and devote
the savings to the war effort. — Sam
Square (N.S.W.).
Cyclists
“Eureka” (B. 31/7/’4O) is not a cyclist
or he would not suggest ten shillings a
year tax on that community. My defini-
tion of a cyclist is one who is taxed
directly and indirectly to an extent where
he cannot afford any other medium of
transport.
Why not tax boots and shoes? The
first six months would be the worst, by
which time the skin of the peds. would be
doing the tanner out of a job. As sensible
as taxing the bike, and it would catch
more —even “Eureka.” — Biped (S.A.).
A Lesson in Taxation
To meet war-time needs Britain’s
income-tax rates have reached figures
never before contemplated, but com-
pared with Australia’s six State Govern-
ments Britain’s Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer is still a mere timid amateur.
On the new English rates a married
man with two children will pay £l5
16s. Bd. on an income of £4OO (B.
31/7/’4O). Last year, out of an income
of £350, Forgan Smith’s Government
collected from me in taxation—income
tax and income (State development) tax
—£l3 11s. 9d. (allowance made for wife),
and his Government hasn’t any bill to
foot for battleships, munitions, ’planes or
soldiers’ pay.
If this country ever has to finance a
war, as Britain is doing now, our Gov-
ernments will easily outstrip even those
Chinese warlords who collected income
taxes 20 years in advance. — Wage Plug
(Q.).
State Parliaments
Why shouldn’t a referendum be held in
conjunction with the Federal elections
this year on the question of the aboli-
tion of State Parliaments? Even B. S. B.
Stevens has at long last recognised the
futility of their efforts, which nowadays
amount to that masterly inactivity of
awaiting the next handout from the
Loan Council—W. E. C. (N.S.W.).
Voluntary Poll Officers
As there is a war on and Australia
needs every penny she can get, couldn’t
the Federal Government run its election
with voluntary returning officers and
poll clerks? The individual wouldn’t
miss his usual fee as much as the nation
will miss the thousands of pounds ex-
pended thus.—P. G. K. (Q.).
Pass the Aspirin
That national headache wheat is in
the news again. Professor Wadham, of
Melbourne, has pointed out that, though
J. Bull requires 150,000,000 bushels
yearly, he is naturally getting all he can
from Canada, because the North Atlantic
shipping route is the one that can most
easily be kept open and because wheat
ships can do three trips to Canada and
back while doing one
to Australia. Obvi-
ously true and obvi-
ously important. But
the Australian Wheat-
growers’ Federation
can’t or won’t see it.
The war is a con-
tributing factor to the-
wheat puzzle, but it
had been a puzzle
long before war
came, and its solution
will not be helped by
the attitude of a
federation member
who said that “para-
sites in the pig and
poultry industries are
living at the expense
of the wheatgrower.”
This reveals the com-
plete lack of under-
standing between those
who have wheat for
sale and those who
' wish to buy it.
With the British
market closed, or prac-
tically so, Australia
must do everything
possible to exploit the
home market and whatever markets may
be offering in the Orient.
The industry has never been out of
trouble since it came under the control
of Governments. Growers will have to
rid themselves of the idea that boards
and commissions can save them.
Private industry, if its hands were
freed, might be able to use wheat. Con-
sider the words of the managing director
of Jacketts, the flourmillers: “Australia
has never had a better opportunity of
promoting its poultry, dairying and pig-
raising industries, yet for the whole of
the year there has been a shortage of
flour-mill by-products which are essential
to these industries, because of the idle
flour mills.”
Conferences and threats against Gov-
ernments won’t put an extra penny on
the price of wheat that can’t be sold.
The main problem is to get rid of the
wheat, if not to Britain then to whoever
else will buy it at a reasonable price,
whether in the form of flour abroad
or to local “parasites” doesn’t matter.
And the less State Premiers and wordy
A.W.F. men have to say about it the
better.—B. C. (N.S.W.).
Sidelines on the Farm
“Two Strand’s” advocacy of side-
lines on the farm (B. 31/7/ ’4O) might be
answered by orchardists in the big apple
district round Diamond Creek, Victoria.
Here there was, as in most districts, an
“on” season for apples, and no more
market for them than the Apple Board
allowed, so that apples of splendid quality
carpeted the ground.
Everything, even the Government with
its emphasis on the bottomless Empire
market for bacon, pointed to a profitable
sideline in pigs. But the eager enthu-
siasm which the fruitgrowers took to


the new venture foundered on the rock
of Government regulations. Concrete
pigsties were a liability that the hazards
of the enterprise did not justify. The
apples are rotting undisturbed. — Adam
(Vic.).
There are only 16 hours in a dairy-
farmer’s day, and by the time the cows
have been milked and fed and some-
times watered, sick beasts attended to,
calves fed and provided with shade, a
fence mended or a few postholes dug for
a new one, a few acres of land ploughed
or cultivated or sowed, a bit of corn
picked, a crook engine fixed, a lost beast
found and the cows brought in and
milked again—well, there’s not much time
left except to get a bit of tucker for
one’s self and perhaps end the day with
an argument with the farmer from over
the way on the respective merits of
Friesians and Jerseys.
Sidelines, indeed! — One Who Knows
(Q.). ■
Charcoal Gas
The knowalls tell us that charcoal
gas isn’t going to be a success. That
type of person a couple of generations
ago scoffed at the idea of listening in
to persons talking thousands of miles
away, and they thought the idea of
machines flying through the air extremely
ridiculous. Those who are studying
charcoal gas believe that it will revo-
lutionise farming and make travel cheap
for those who use their cars extensively.
A young Darling Downs (Q.) wheat-
farmer has experimented this season with
charcoal-gas-driven tractors on his 640-
acre farm. Last year his running costs
(on kerosene) were £l6O ; this year (on
charcoal gas) they were £lO 15s.
My brother’s car goes the 200 miles
from here to Brisbane on a couple of
bags of charcoal at Is. 6d. per bag (when
he hasn’t had time to burn it for him-
self) and a couple of gallons of petrol
for starting purposes. A fair average
speed is maintained all the way, includ-
ing the ranges.— Jade (Q.).
Contraceptives
Why is it that day after day writers
and speakers fiddle about pretending to
discover all sorts of logical and accep-
table reasons for the childless or one-child
couple and dodging a bit of straightout
talk on what they must know is the real
cause?
Walk down any business section of a
main street, pick up almost any news-
paper and you will see it displayed for
sale or flagrantly advertised under all
sorts of names. One has only to go far
enough back from the iniquity of present-
day civilisation to get beyond the know-
ledge of the “rubber goods,” etc., and
see old-fashioned tens and dozens in
families as the rule.
I left Sydney 40 years ago for a town
—then classed as wayback—and during
my term there was frequently approached
by the young squattocrats with tempting
offers to tell them how to prevent babies,
a knowledge at that time unknown to
almost all but the medical profession.
Visiting the same town in 1938, I found
almost everyone down to the s.p. man
and the barber carrying contraceptives
quite openly as a very profitable sideline.
Remedy? If we are in earnest we
must treat manufacturers and retailers
of contraceptives exactly as we treat pro-
fessional abortionists and banish from
the ken of the rising generation the
awful simplicity and easiness of obtain-
ing these goods. Stamp out the manu-
facture and sale of them with the same
stern measures that apply to narcotic
drugs.—N. McL. (N.S.W.).
Women’s Uniforms
When the Commonwealth Government
decides to tighten up regulations dealing
with the private sale of army, naval and
air force uniforms it might pay some
attention to the uniforms worn by
women’s organisations.
Several of the uniformed outfits for
women are gaining a measure of official
recognition, which means that members
will be regarded in almost the same light
as the fighting services. At present the
Defence Department has no control over
the women’s organisations or the uni-
forms they wear, and it would not be
difficult for Fifth Columnists and other
undesirables to become members. There
is nothing to stop any woman from buy-
ing a uniform which jwould make her
look like a member. Paul Pilgrim
(N.S.W.).
Sermons or Talkies
My job as a taxi-driver keeps me
moving through the city streets at all
hours, and I have often been struck by
the contrast between the Saturday night
rush to the brilliant movie palaces and
the Sunday evening dribble to the sombre
churches. The reason cannot be “original
sin,” for the parsons themselves patronise
the screen during the week.
The fact is that human beings hate
sermons and love to listen to stories.
When they think they do so, not in
words, but in mental pictures. The
Founder of Christianity “spake in
parables, and without a parable spake
He not” to the common people, who
“heard Him gladly.” He spoke to them
in word-pictures, the only kind available
in that day.
Is there any reason why the only pic-
tures in church must be “silent” ones of
stained glass? The Bible contains the
most dramatic, beautiful, emotional, and
elevating stories ever penned or spoken.
They are not copyrighted. The costum-
ing is both simple and artistic. Advertis-
ing costs would be almost nil. Only a
short “programme” would be necessary,
and the same film could be shown in
dozens of churches hi the same city.
Increased congregations and collections
would easily defray the cost or transport
of projectors.
The question is whether it is logical
to let the world, the flesh and the devil
monopolise all the modern inventions
while our spiritual shepherds try to keep
their flocks in the folds with the aid
only of bell, book and candle.
The majority of preachers, however
conscientious, are prosy. Most hearers,
however religious, are bored. The masses
stay away from church because the ser-
vices are dull. Retain the present service
in all its purity, extend the session to
make time for a picture, and the only
difficulty will be to find sitting room for
the crowds who would “joy” when called
to the “house of God.” — Prodigal Son
(S.A.).
'“Homework”
At boarding-school, in my own young
years, hours were 8.45 to 11.45 a.m.;
playground; dinner at noon; sports-
ground 1 to 3.30 p.m.; school 3.30 to 5
p.m.; playground; tea 5.30 p.m.;
“prep.” 6 to 8 p.m.; recreation to 9
p.m. for younger boys, then bed. Prep.,
which was going over the instruction of
the day in set tasks, took me, a smart
student, about an hour. I could read
at my desk for the rest. Even the dull
had ample time to do their tasks in the
two hours.
But two hours wouldn’t cover the work
that has to be done by our advanced
pupils of today in Australia, unless they
are exceptionally bright. A crop of
adolescents developing various effects of
overstrain is the natural result of sleep
shortage and excessive mental labor in
days of growth. Guardians who wouldn’t
dream of letting their progeny go short
of food don’t mind how they starve for
sleep.
Doctors and educationists should get
together to draft rules for a system that
will meet modern conditions. Perhaps a
grading of scholars might be devised—
exceptionally bright ones could njanage
what are excessive tasks for others who
should be in grades debarred from such
heavy loads. —H. M. (N.S.W.).
Sydney’s Water Supply
The latest restrictions brought in on
the use of water in Sydney are the most
severe in the history of the Sydney Water
Board. A farcical situation exists, how-
ever, for not one house in a thousand in
Sydney’s suburbs can boast a water tank.
Millions of precious gallons of water
a year fall on the roofs of Sydney, only
to rush down drain pipes and street
gutters.
Apart from the value of house tanks
in normal periods of drought, imagine
the disruption if sabotagers could wreck
our main city water pipelines. Even if
it only took a repair gang two days to
repair, practically every home in Sydney
would be without water for that period.
—Jack Zuber (N.S.W.).
Modern “Art”
A return to rationalism in artistic
circles seems overdue. I am one of
many who look in vain for meaning in
works exhibited under the classification
of Modern Art. Squares, cubes, wobbly
lines and all that is contrary to Nature
are clapped together on canvas and
passed off as a picture. I have some-
times doubted the ability of the artist
himself to explain the puzzle he has
created.
Enough beauty and human interest
exist in this country to absorb an artist’s
attention without his having to resort to
childish distortions. Turner, Constable,
Reynolds, Da Vinci, Goya, Rubens and
Raphael, became famed for grace of
line or faithful realism. No drawer of
cubes and circles has yet won the admira-
tion of the genuine art-loving public,
and never will win it. Nearest to im-
mortality are those who go on painting
the diversity of the world scene as it
really is. Wasn’t the original purpose
of pictures to represent life? — Arthur
Falk (Vic.).
Art and Morals
P. Radwon (B. 7/8/’4O) has got art
mixed up with morals. “The chief duty
of any type of art,” he says, “should be
to ennoble and inspire.” The true artist
hasn’t any ethical sympathies at all. And
no critic worth his salt would dare to
criticise a work of art on the basis of its
ennobling or inspiring qualities.
The modern published author is not
concerned with the age-old fallacy that
all virtue is rewarded and all vice pun-
ished. The modernist knows that ruth-
lessness in business, double-dealing, un-
scrupulousness, trickery make for success,
and he refuses to perpetuate the mockeries
of Victorian literature.
The words “right” and “wrong” in the
moral sense are not in the modern
writer’s vocabulary. He takes his char-
acters, adds conflict and then goes on
to say what actually takes place in these
circumstances. If his Little Nell goes
round the place spitting and cursing then
that’s the way he wants her; and if his
Barkis is willin’ to do anything except
marry the girl, then why invest him with
such honorable intentions as no coach-
driver would entertain after only a few
minutes’ acquaintance?
The writer owes nothing to humanity.
The public creates the demand, the author
merely supplies it. If “P.R.” wants inno-
cent, simple and “moral” characters in
stories sthen he’d better start educat-
ing the public along this line. —W. Lynch
(N.S.W.).
How You Speak It
America is too often blamed for spoil-
ing our. language (B. 31/7/’4O). It is
frequently because of our own neglect
that the disease spreads, and laziness in
not stamping out first signs is another
justifiable charge.
How many protests are directed against
one of our radio newsmen, for instance,
when he placidly refers to “baysic ray-
tions,” “belligant” rights and “de-fissit”?
Surely not many.
Then there’s that other gentleman
whose delaightful Oxford accent leads the
uninitiated to accept his version uncon-
ditionally. He cannot even make up his
own mind whether to pronounce foreign
place names as foreigners do, or to give
us accepted 8.8. C. usage. He pronounces
Lyons as “Leeong,” but jibs at “Paree,”
which would be at least consistent.
We should wash our own face and
inside the ears before we buy a fight
with America — Helix (Vic.).
Communists
The Communist party (B. 7/8/’4O) is
not like the ordinary political party.
Membership of the U.A.P., the Country
party or the Labor party, and the
equivalent parties in other democratic
States, can be obtained on payment of
a small fee to the local branch of the
party favored, but admittance to a Com-
munist party is not so easy. The pro-
spective member is first subjected to a
very thorough inquisition, the most per-
sonal questions being asked. That test
passed, a probationary period has to be
served —six months if the candidate is
a proletarian, otherwise two years. Mem-
bership attained, implicit obedience has
to be rendered to the local party chiefs.
They, in turn, take their orders from ihe
Comintern.
As that body is an organ of the Rus-
sian Government, in the words of Arnold
Lunn, “Whatever the nationality of a
Communist enrolled in his national sec-
tion of the Communist party, he is, in
effect, the docile agent of a foreign
Power, committed to a policy of pro-
moting civil war throughout the world.”
The recent history of France and Spain
affords convincing proof of the danger
of tolerating such a party.
Harm cannot be done by the driving
of Communism underground, because
Communism, in countries that do not
ban it, works underground, as well as
in the open. A favorite Communist
practice, for instance, is the forming of
organisations allegedly devoted to peace
propaganda, defence of freedom, social
service and other worthy objects, but
which are, in reality, vehicles for the
furtherance of the Communist plan.
Innumerable sincere non-Communists
work enthusiastically for these move-
ments without realising that they are
being hoodwinked.
There is no freer community in Europe
than Switzerland. Several years ago
Communism was proscribed there “it
might not even be taught, let alone
organised and professed.” Such lovers of
liberty as the Swiss would not have taken
this step if thorough investigation had
not convinced them that the counten-
ancing of Communism would be fruitful
of far more evil than its suppression.—
Lyle (N.S.W.).
New Orders
After knight Thomas Bavin had in-
formed the Australian Institute of Inter-
national Affairs that the Empire should
formulate the principles upon which it
should found a “new order” in Europe,
Mr. W. M. Hughes took him to task:
“I had always thought that we were at
war to restore to Austria, Czechoslovakia,
Poland, Denmark, Holland, Norway and
France the independent government
which Germany has destroyed.”
With all respect to both gentlemen,
their remarks about a new order for
Europe and war aims leave me tired.
No sooner is one new order estab-
lished in unstable Europe than somebody
else breaks loose with a plan for another
one, and all is to do again.
It is the Empire that needs a new
order. Had British capital been invested
in the Dominions to anything like the
same extent it has been invested in
foreign countries the Empire today would
be so strong that it could snap its fingers
at all threats, were any other nation fool-
ish enough to threaten it. Australia,
Canada, S. Africa, Maoriland and the
rest, with four to five times their present
population, would have constituted a
force for peace, together with a Britain
shorn of foreign entanglements, that
could well have been an example if not
an inspiration to the rest of the world.
As for Australia, it’s high time some of
these leaders of ours got to thinking
about a new order at home. A vast con-
tinent, together with rich islands in the
north, is simply shrieking for develop-
ment while a third of the population
huddles- in two big cities whose citizens
know little and realise less of the tre-
mendous importance of exploiting the un-
tapped riches.
Seven Parliaments and their multitude
of departments confuse and hamper trade
and industry, push the primary producer
further towards ruin and collect impos-
ing revenues from taxes —revenues that
are wasted with a lavishness that might
have been the envy of the most profli-
gate king in history.
Towns and townships struggle hope-
lessly against dying populations, whole
families drift in droves into the big
cities, young men go off the land and the
birthrate is within 50 years of stagna-
tion. A country surrounded by sea has
no merchant marine to speak of, a huge
whaling field a few days’ steam away is
the happy hunting-ground of foreigners
who come thousands of miles.
And every year thousands of head of
valuable stock die of starvation or
neglect, thousands of acres lose their sur-
face soil and their fertility, the noxious
weed spreads like a blight, all for the
want of a new order.
In the cities themselves there is a
feverish scramble for money, place and
prerogative. National funds are spent
like water on city roads and railways,
boards and commissions grow and spread
as does the noxious weed outback, and
they choke out private enterprise and
wealth-and-employment-creating indus-
try as the weeds choke out the pastures
and the crops.
New order for Europe, forsooth! No
country in the world either needs or de-
serves a new order better than this. Needs
it because without it there is no other
end than a final concentration of the
people in the cities and a final concentra-
tion of all employment in departments,
boards or commissions. Deserves it
because there is no other place where
the common man might so easily win to
security and a life worth living ; no other
place where true democracy is so strong!}
rooted; no other place where the prin-
ciple of a fair go for you and me is the
principle of life; no other place where
the worker enjoys the power to enforce
a decent wage, decent hours and his own
choice of a job. . . ,
Europe is hopeless. Its civilisation has
not been able to get past its racial hatred>
and national cruelties. It is in the new
lands that the torch burns on, and in
Australia not less brightly than any oi
them. We are in this war and it must re
finished. It will be finished. And after
that the Empire must get out of Europe-
Feed it, trade with it, yes, but fight
battles or attempt to police its squabbles,
no! —O. T. (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
Watch, Stainless
Steel.
15 Jewel Precision
£5/10/-
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Send for Diamond Rina and Watch Catalogue.
DIAMOND
*■ WATCH 1
SPECIALISTS
dsf
112 MARKET ST
SYDNEY,
OPR DAVIDJONES
GOOD AUSTRALIAN
TOBACCO
Direct from the Manufacturer to you.
PURE COARSE CUTS AND FINE
CUTS FROM 6/9 PER POUND.
PLUG TOBACCOS FROM 7/-.
FLAKE TOBACCOS, 8/6.
SAVE 3IONEY—AND ENJOY A
PURE TOBACCO. SEND FOR
PRICE LIST.
SEND TO
HILLMAN TOBACCO Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE.
WAR RAGING
sadf
The DREAD FLY
is spreading deadly
disease germs.
SANI-LID can be
fitted to any lavatory
scat and banishes
flies, odours and germs
for ever. Supplied
with 6 months’ supply
of chemicals for only
47/6. Model C (as
illustrated), complete
with 6 months’ suppl.l
of chemicals, 90/—.
Write for particulars.
Quirk’s Victory
Light Co.,
ma
229 Castlereagh St., Sydney; 48 King
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it develops
personality.
The Pelman Institute
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market St.).
TILLEY LAMPS
sdf
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on lj pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 57/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Etd.,
380 Kent Street, Sydney.
1940 RADIO FOR SALE
£2O below Retail Price.
You can buy direct if no Century
Agent in your district.
Your opportunity to buy your Radio
direct if there is no “Century” Agent
in your district. Buying direct will
save you up to £2O cash on retail
prices. Satisfaction absolutely
guaranteed. Tone and performance
of Century Radio Sets are perfect.
FREE TEN DAY TRIAD TO IN-
TENDING PURCHASERS. 1910
catalogue for Battery and All-electric
sets post free.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
The G-WELL
HYDRAULIC
BAG LOADER
Revolutionises
wheat loading.
Simple,
efficient and
ever reliable.
Write for FREE
illustrated literature.
sadf
PETERS, BRYDEN& PETERS Pty., Ltd.
177 PHIEEIP ST., BEDEEBN, N.S.W.
STOP-A-LEAK STICK
dsf
Permanently repairs Roofs' of
Iron, Slate, Tile, Shingle or
Composition. Stops leaks
around chimneys,.skylights,
windows; mends flashings, gut-
ters and eaves; fills cracks in
troughs, baths, tanks, , tubs,
sinks, metal and- earthenware
pipey caulks- boats* &c. The
Stop-a-Leak Stick is a tough rubbery' material
•like black putty that sticks, firmly wherever it is
|placed -It is unaffected by heat, cold or'moisture,
! never crumbles" or dries out. Better than cement
ior solder for most mends. No skill needed in
.applying, Price 1/6 per stick, carriage, paid.
Obtainable only from
UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth. Street, Melb., Cl.
CL'IMiBING
TO'M'A'TO
liHSlsi
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
dsf
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted.
sadf
15-DAY TIMBER
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DAYS! New method.
NO KINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin, Post Free.
NF.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., Sydney
WINCHESTER
SKATES
17/6—21/-
WITH STEEL ROLLS
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
LAMBS SAVED
I
By Using: the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
. . ment. 100 p.c. efficient—
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/- ; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
TOBACCO
OF QUALITY
is available at 7/- per pound; its honest
value is 10/- per pound. Send 6d. in
stamps tor generous sample.
SMOKERS!
I carry a large assortment of imported
cigarettes, including “SPUD,” “CAMEL,”
“CHESTERFIELD” and “LUCK Y
STRIKE.” For all smokers’ requisites,
call or write.
SOL LEVY
TOBACCONIST,
est. years.
713 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Two minutes from Central Railway,
m
m
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
sdf
J. p.
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
F flaps and skirts.
4Jin. knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 4-Jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
MILITARY SURPLUS STOCKS
N.S.W. FIREMAN’S LEATHER WELLINGTON
BOOTS, part worn. All sizes. Ideal for riding
and heavy farm work. Specially suitable for wet
weather. Only 10/6 pair; 2 pairs, 20/-.
MILITARY BAYONET SHEATH KNIVES, extra
long, 12/6.
TAN OFFICERS’ BOOTS, Leather-lined, superior
quality, only 22/6 per pair. NEW.
ALL-WOOL KHAKI PUTTEES, 8/6 per pair. NEW.
MILITARY POUCHES, 1/- each. BELTS, 4/6.
200 Pairs Military PACK SADDLE BAGS, brand-
new, made of the best English leather; size, 27in.
x 17in. Worth £7/10/-. TO CLEAR, ONLY
£2/5/- per pair.
Also large range of Tents and Flys.
HARRY MITCHELL,
Dept. B, 246 George Street, Sydney.
• (Licensed Govt. Dealer for over 25 years.)
DEAF?
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDI/, E.LB.S.T.,
The Block, 438 George St., Sydney.
THE IMPROVED
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
sadf
TREASURE COTS,
Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
Get rid of
Homs BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAE
DEHORNER
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
W
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27),• 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
Buy at wholesale prices and save up
to £2 or more. Absolutely new
throughout. No rebuilds, no renova-
tions. Full new guarantee of the
renowned Marshall Batteries of
Sydney.
Write for 1940 catalogue, giving you
ail particulars, car, truck, cycle, radio,
home or theatre lighting Batteries.
There is no better battery built than
by the Marshall Battery Mfg. Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
?/
Z-
OILSKINS
for long, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Writ© for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
CHARCOAL CAS
Mr. S. McDonald, of Sydney, has just com-
pleted his home-made Producer Gas Plant
at an inclusive cost of £lO, and it is giving
every satisfaction. Our recently improved
design for a simplified and thoroughly
efficient Gas Producer can be made by the
average handyman. The set of easily
understood blue prints and specifications,
which cost £l, show you how to make
either a stationary or mobile plant. No
alterations to the engine are necessary and
you can run on petrol or charcoal gas at
will. Pree technical advice when building.
Send today.
ECONOMY GAS PRODUCER CO.
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRIfifiS&STRATTON
Air-cooled 4-cycle
SINGEE-CVEINGER
PETROL MOTORS.
A to 5 HORSEPOWEB
From £lB/17/6.
Also Petrol Electric
Generators from £25.
Agents all States.
Illustrated, Bulletin with
piices gladly forwarded.
aMPLIOn (A/SIA) PTY. LIMITED
■' 383 Kent St.. Sydney. N.S.W.
sadf
RUPTURE
ACTS
LIKE THE HMID
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
.flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
15ARHERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27N), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
2118/’4O (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss....,
Cut this out and send with your "Wants” to the Service Department, "The Bulletin "
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


THE
For Your
LIFE AS
RANCE
The Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
Founded 1886
Assets Exceed £30,000,000
Payments to policyholders exceed £39,000,000
