

Purpose and
Performance
A LITTLE more than twenty-five
years ago—on June 2, 1915—The
Broken Hill Proprietary’s Newcastle Steel
Works was officially opened. The enter-
prise was established with a definite
purpose—to manufacture quality iron and
steel for the needs of Australian industry
and thereby supply at reasonable prices
the essential materials for the develop-
ment of the Commonwealth.
From the outset, unwavering determi-
nation and confidence in the Australian
workers’ ability to master the difficulties
of steel production were maintained. This
was backed by a courageous policy of
plant modernisation and extension, which
has culminated in Australia possessing
one of the world’s most efficient iron and
steel works.
Purpose has been backed by perform-
ance, the Newcastle Steel Works to-day
supplying great tonnages of the iron and
steel so vital to the nation’s development
and defence.
■ ;
■
fjjjEjP
i
.'3r;r . •
.
■ ■•: -
piSk f
tag - uj-~ ;
K ; V h ; :: ;
; ,
-
*s_
. =
■ >i
|¥h; iHI
B t•' t «TT;^
■k, :
’ - =
: ■
ffijSjPlHi:;''? s "':
MI*W
\<L ll
ttSf
■■ . ►
: fi:i i
: ".: . .
• » s-. •• >i • •
" %* , ’
4 -
„„• ;
?
"4
£?tvr
-Isjr’u.' ** .
&# «...
|;|ris||a
vV,:
14/ 1 1
•aps
k •■ ..
; !••• '
'•V:
..iSS
I ui-
m
: ■ .
4
'i,: . ...
w
j'liv;' '
I
Above is shown molten steel being teemed
from a huge ladle into ingot moulds
at the B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works,
The Broken Hill Proprietary Go. Ltd.
Iron and Steel Masters, Colliery Proprietorss
Mine and Ship Owners •
Head Office : 422 Litfle Collins Street, Melbourne.
Iron and Steel Works: NEWCASTLE, N. S.W.
Iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob, S.A. Limestone Deposits: Devonport, Tasmania.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3164.
Wednesday, October 2, 1940.
Dakar and Indo-China
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Warning
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
SB. 340
The Red Page
DUNNE TIME.
J. W. Dunne’s theory of time and im-
mortality, although it has been respon-
sible for the later plays of J. B. Priestley,
is both interesting and important. For
“those who wish to know merely, with-
out mathematics, ‘what it is all about,’ ”
he sums it up in fairly simple language
in a new short book, Nothing Dies
(Faber). Nothing, according to Dunne,
does die.
First he sets out to prove that the
human consciousness is immortal: you
can look at a landscape, he says, aware
of the world which is not yourself ; then,
in your mind, you can look at yourself
looking at the landscape; then you can
look at yourself looking at yourself look-
ing at the landscape; and so on till you
go blue in the face. That (“See Fig. 3”)
shows that your consciousness lives in
the four-dimensional “serial universe.”
When you’re awake, because the con-
tinuous problems of your daily life keep
you looking straight ahead, as it were
(“See Fig. 14”), you’re not able to divert
your attention to the possibilities of the
four-dimensional universe; but when
you’re asleep, with nothing to distract
your attention, your consciousness in
dreams travels freely in “past” time,
creating what fantasies it pleases out of
your life experience. And that’s what
Mr. Dunne’s going to do when he dies:
uninterrupted by the problems of
“living,” never waking up, he’s going to
dream eternally.
At first, because we’re not used to
travelling in time, it’s going to be as
confusing as dreams often are. Then, as
you gradually get the hang of it, you’ll
find that you have the whole of your
life experience, like the keyboard of a
piano, waiting there for you to play what
tunes of delight you wish. It will all be
as “real” as living, because dreams,
while you’re dreaming them, are every
bit as vivid as “actual” experiences—it’s
only the memory of a dream that’s
vague.
But, says Dunne, making fantasies on
your own won’t be much fun for long.
You’ll want to get somebody (Maisie, for
example, or Cleopatra) to co-operate
with you and build up a joint fantasy.
Then whole groups can co-operate;
whole communities. That leads Dunne
to an idea of heaven and of God, of
whose existence he is “scientifically con-
vinced.”
This, more or less, is “what it’s all
about.” To pay it full homage one has
to be convinced of Dunne’s mathematical
“proofs,” and, unfortunately, this “non-
mathematical” explanation depends on
diagrams which are pretty well as irri-
tating as x and y. A surfeit of figs is
always troublesome.
A Prophet Owns Up.
The title page of C. R. Benstead’s The
Weather Eye carries the instructive sub-
title: “An Irreverent Discourse upon
Meteorological Lore, Ancient and
Modern, with Many Indiscreet References
to the Art of Forecasting as now Prac-
tised.” Also the old proverb:
Hark, I hear the asses bray.
We shall have some rain today.
And, of course, Hale, Ltd., as publishers.
Away through at the other end Mr.
Benstead somewhat blushfully admits, “I
am a meteorologist myself,” and twists
the proverb:—
Hark! I hear the asses bray:
“We shall have some rain today.”
As it happens he is not there giving
sceptics a jingle to jangle when the next
weather forecast is broadcast; he’s
having a cheerful dig at the heathen in
blindness chanting:
On Thursday at three
Look out and you’ll see
What Friday will be;
or
Onion’s skin very thin,
Mild winter coming in.
Onion's skin thick and tough,
Coming winter cold and rough;
or, with appropriate accompaniment,
When eager bites the thirsty flea,
Clouds and rain you sure shall see.
On the other hand, Mr. Benstead con-
fesses that, though he has himself in a
professional way tasted the sweets of
triumph now and then, there’s been an
element of fluke in some of his most
successful efforts. On one such forecast
which had come off:
I did not explain that I had been look-
ing for frontal rain from the south-east,
whereas the Lord had sent a heavy shower
from the north-west —a direction that had
not entered into my calculations.
Since no doubt the old appeal must
operate to some extent in some form
even among meteorologists especially,
perhaps, renegade meteoro-
logists—Mr. Benstead’s pre-
siding deity on weather
arrangements is feminine,
as capricious as the sex
is commonly supposed to be, but,
it would seem, more discerning than
the average, as when, letting down a
deluge on Ascot, she “clearly revealed
that no agency controlling heaven’s water-
butts could look down upon the dresses
worn by the women on that occasion
and refrain from drenching so horrid a
scene.” As for those amusing compi-
lations the weather charts, Mr. Benstead
spills this from his glass:
I have known a meteorologist of con-
siderable standing to reverse the reported
direction of the wind because, by doing so,
he obtained a neat egg-shaped isobar in-
stead of one resembling a bifurcated radish.
True, he had the grace to explain after-
wards that the Lord, whose confidence he
appeared to enjoy, did not mould the atmo-
sphere to the plan of a bifurcated radish,
but at the time he brushed aside my protest
with the offhand remark that it was only
a ship’s officer who had reported the offend-
ing direction.
He also testifies to a photograph of the
Amazon and its tributaries, taken from
a map, having actually been shown at a
lantern lecture on thunderstorms and
accepted without comment as a picture
of lightning.
A fair summing up on his general dis-
cussion might be that he holds the pro-
fessional weather prophet as at any rate
no less trustworthy than those who make
their prognostications on the behavior
of crickets, cats, leeches, ants, flies, hogs,
dogs and frogs. He is writing of the
weather of England (whose sunshine,
Dumas suggested, would pass for moon-
light elsewhere), but, since he does his
irreverent debunking of both the preten-
tious and the primitive in weather fore-
casting with a breezy humor, he reads
as well in any latitude.
Mr. Maugham Is Mistaken.
When Somerset Maugham skipped
for his life out of France with the
Germans hard on his heels, he must have
rather regretted some of the prophecies
he had just published in France at War
(Heinemann; Angus and Robertson).
For instance:
I think there are few men in France who
do not share the common feeling that this
time they are going to see it through. They
are going to fight now to the bitter end,
and they will never accept a peace that will
expose them again, perhaps in a short time,
to the affliction, loss and inconvenience
of another mobilisation.
Further:
What ignorance of the French temper
it showed when the Germans thought that
in France they were fighting a house divided
against itself!
And so on for 80-odd pages of half-
truths, rosy optimism and colossal
omissions. Maybe Maugham is right
when he pauses to point out that France
became a colonial Power by accident and
doesn’t care two hoots about its over-
seas empire; and there’s sense in this
passage:—
The French are not at war with a band
of gangsters: they .are at war with •
Germany, They are convinced that if the
Nazi leaders were overthrown Germany
would in a short time spawn other leaders
as ruthless and as dangerous. They look on
Hitler as an embodiment of all the instincts
of aggression and the desire of domination
of the German people, and these his
destruction will do nothing to eradicate.
But how on earth, with the evidence of
the Communist and pro-Nazi conspira-
cies plain to see, could a man on the
spot, as Maugham was, have been so
utterly wrong about the state of the
country and the probable course of
events? Maugham should emerge from
his excursion into politics with his
reputation as a fiction-writer considerably
enhanced.
Cads Among the Mountains.
Among the excellent reasons for not
being a mountaineer accidentally out-
lined in C. F. Meade’s Approach to the
Hills (Murray) the chief is that these
days one meets such appalling bounders.
If you don’t climb mountains you don’t
have to worry whether those who do
make use of grappling irons, firemen’s
ladders, portable escalators or any other
modern device to get to the top. But
if you’re one of the old crusties of the
crags who mastered the peaks with no-
thing more than a rope and an occasional
cry of “Excelsior!” the contemporary
cads are apparently a constant irritation.
Mr. Meade: —-
The Alps have been referred to by a
great writer and mountaineer as the play-
ground of Europe. Such an analogy is
disagreeably suggestive of gymnastic appa-
ratus and asphalt schoolyards. Certainly,
if the Alps have become a mere play-
ground to us today, there is some excuse
for the young generation’s rejecting the
hallowed traditional methods of moun-
taineering. The word “impossible” is to
have no meaning to the new mountaineer-;
it is not for him to wait upon the weather.
For him mountaineering is to be the same
thing as war, and as the enemy gives no
quarter all means are fair. Thousands of
feet of rope, scores of hooks, clasps, pegs,
wedges, stirrups, slings, hammers, pulleys,
chisels or anything else that can be dragged
or carried up a mountain may be used:
no manner of mechanical means need be
rejected; this is the new spirit.
Mr. Meade is likely to give you a bad
conscience about taking a bus. He has
good news, however: “It is curious that
no English names are to be found in the
records of this particular school of
mountaineering. It seems that its general
principles do not appeal to Englishmen.”
All this doesn’t seem to matter two
hoots (doesn’t it, by Gad, sir!), but
Mr. Meade is interesting nevertheless on
what he considers the absurdity of Ger-
many and Italy in making the climbing
of mountains a matter of national pres-
tige. He describes Italian mountaineers
pursued by pressmen and photographers,
watched throughout a climb by anxious
patriots with telescopes, awarded medals
for valor by Mussolini’s regime. The
Germans in the early days of Hitlerism
seemed deliberately to seek death:
A further illustration of the attitude of
the modern school is the remark made by
one of the infatuated assailants of the Eiger-
wand when bad weather seemed likely to
prevent his party from starting. “It almost
looks,” he said, “as if Providence wants
to preserve us from death.” A compatriot
of the young Bavarians seems to have been
similarly inspired when he declared, just
before he perished in the desperate attempt
to force a new route up the northern face
of the Morgenhorn, “For us Germans there
is nothing more to lose.”
Mr. Meade is also fascinating when he
goes up in a balloon. Balloons, apparently,
don’t float about like thistledown but
tear across the sky at the speed of an
express train. Mr. Meade spent the night
getting hooked up in trees, but soared up
halfway to the sun when the gas ex-
panded at daybreak, crossed the Alps
and landed with a horrible bump in a
paddock. Whizzing down through the
clouds he chucked out sand to slow the
wild steed, but he caught up with it on
the way down and had the fun of falling,
freezing and a sandstorm all at the same
time.
Most of the book is taken up with
descriptions of mountaineering feats and
tragedies in the Alps and the Himalayas.
Mr. Meade writes of both localities with
expert knowledge and recounts his many
dramas vividly.
Bush Brother.
“For those who delight in statistics,”
writes the Rev. G. W. Lovejoy in Jn
Journeyings Often (published by the
Brotherhood of the Good Shepherd,
Dubbo, N.S.W.),
I had taken services in five different
centres during the seven days I was out,
given Communion to 17 people, cycled 212
miles, been carried by Mr. Yeoman’s and
Mr. Lessels’s kindness 21 miles, walked
seven, taken in collections £3 12s. 2d., and
lost in avoirdupois two pounds!
Which is a fair enough summary of the
book and of the life of a Bush Brother.
In Journeyings Often is a record of the
Rev. Lovejoy’s five years in the bush,
mainly in and around Brewarrina
(N.S.W.). Tt is chiefly of local interest,
but there are touches that, expanded,
would make literature:
His was the loneliest funeral I have ever
taken. We stpod by the grave in the quiet
of the evening, just the undertaker, two
gravediggers and myself. And as I stood,
I thought of many a lonely pensioner
away in the bush, and I could seem to
picture them sitting by their tumbledown
huts by many a tank and many a creek,
too old to work, but eking out a meagre
living watching a few hundred sheep, quite
contented and happy, and glad in their
own queer way to have only themselves
for company, and the silence of the bush.
There’s an oddment Lawson would
have liked in the parson’s interview with
a miner who sat on a box, seeming
ill-at-ease, and clutching tightly a copy
of the Sydney “Morning Herald.” “It
wasn’t till we had been talking for some
time that I realised the poor man’s
embarrassment and the point of the
paper. Jt was very hot and he hadn’t
any trousers on. I left him still clutching
the ‘Herald.’”
Very different in tone, but equally good
as a picture of outback life, is this
vignette of a communion service:
At a quarter to seven that morning at
Mrs. Meer Khan’s we had a Celebration
which for its simplicity and devotion 1
shall always remember. We held it on the
open verandah in circumstances as humble
at least as the Bethlehem Stable, with an
old Singer sewing-machine as an altar, and
with a potato-bag for a kneeler. The cross
and candlesticks, however, were there, and
the silver chalice and paten shone more
brightly in contrast.
No booklet of this kind would be
complete without its bazaar. Of Bre-
warrina’s the Rev. Lovejoy says: “Finan-
dally the Restoration Fund benefited
by over £9O, and socially I can only
say that it was quite the happiest bazaar
I have ever been at.”
For their good works in the bush these
priests of the Church of England, who
take the job on for three or five years
and agree to remain unmarried for the
term, get their keep and £4O a year.
"Andy" Dressed Up.
Following Unk White’s Laugh Parade,
Frank Johnson has published another
collection of illustrated jokes from The
Bulletin, Eric Jolliffe’s Andy. It runs
to 50 pages and, allowing one laugh per
joke-block, offers 74 laughs for a bob.
Thrown in are humorous short stories
by Phil Dorter, K. E. Goulter, Norman
Locke and F. Rhodes Farmer ; and out-
back verses, some humorous, by T. Rose,
T. V. Tierney, Lex McLennan, Edward
Harrington, Will Lawson and Rex In-
gamells—all reprinted from The Bulle-
tin.
Andy, of course, is the bloke from the
outback who appears in The Bulletin
each week, usually scoring off Ma. He
goes well in booklet form, because the
continuity of the jokes does the next
best thing to telling a story. The booklet
is excellently produced, with an attractive
cover in color.
Land Below the Wind: Agnes Keith
(Michael Joseph). American wife of
British gent, living in Borneo. Much
fun about sanitary arrangements, under-
wear, things that are Not Done in
Borneo society, the mentality of hus-
bands and similar trivialities. The apes
are interesting.
Gallows on the Green : Violet Gordon
(Robert Hale). Detailed study of sub-
normal village girl who poisons one hus-
band, then tries to poison a second.
Mine Inheritance: Frederick Niven
(Collins ; Angus and Robertson). Novel
about early Canada —hardy Scottish
settlers, half-breeds, fighting, love. Well
told and historically accurate.
Our Arabian Nights: Ruth and Helen
Hoffman (Angus and Robertson).
Mainly about furnishing a house in
Bagdad, plus a desert journey and a
description of life in a harem. With
screams about pet animals, parties, sani-
tation and Douglas, the English husband.
Though there’d doubtless be howls from
their followers, it wouldn’t be a bad idea
if Douglas delicately boiled ’em alive in
oil.
Color Co-ordination: M. Sargant-
Florence (Bodley Head). A systematic
attempt to lay the basis for a theory of
color harmony analagous to the musical
theory of harmony. For this purpose the
colors are arranged in a scale of 16
notes (music manages with 12). As in
music, the vibration-rates of these “notes’'
are assigned, and their relationship in a
scale put into logical logarithmic inter-
vals. But, whereas with colors you may
build up a whole scale by combinations
of three or four “primary” hues, note
combinations in music don’t make other
notes, but chords. Sargant-Florence recog-
nises this defect in a color-music analogy
and devotes some space to replying to
objections. But his reasoning is difficult
to follow.
The Moving Finger: Harold Cohen
(Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne).
Play in three acts purporting to give life
and substance to an extract from the
memoirs of Prince von Biilow, the Chan-
cellor of Germany previous to the last
war. The young Lieutenant Biilow meets
a pretty waitress in a hotel on the Rhine,
spends the night with her and then goes
off to power and fame. Subsequently
he meets her again when she is a famous
actress and he is terrorising Europe as
the head of a resurgent Germany. He
lets her go with a bit of moralising and
a bouquet of flowers. Emotionally the
play is underweight, but it would make
a good scenic curtain-raiser for an
amateur company.


u
6
%
i
:“0
L^l
■ X f
ifVi
*
V
*SES
****
'*2
«**
&3&js
»~r
«$3
pi*
pi*
**•
85&E
T?*
r?
IPS
m
*m
>v
SS£
I
\
jp**
iff
to*
T*
«n
»S? 5
Ss
*s^
.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BODY MOULDED COMFORT
AND BATHING SMARTNESS
SMART JANTZEN TRUNKS, 16/6
RIGHT; Jantzen Trunks are not only supremely com-
fortable to wear, because of the remarkable elasticity
of all Jantzen fabrics, but they are also the last word
in style. They retain their tailored appearance
throughout the life of the garment. Made of Jantzen's
all wool, permanent fitting, high-tension, barred-rib
fabric, with adjustable White web belt. Colours of
Black, Navy, Grey, and Doon Green. Size 28 to 36.
At Anthony Horderns', Price 16/6
Other qualities, Prices 18/6, 23/6
12/6 MERITAS TRUNKS, 10/6
BELOW: Men's Meritas all wool surf trunks finished
with key pocket, woven belt, and rustless buckle.
Available in the new season's shades of Bottle
Green, Light Grey, Maroon, Navy, Black, Royal,
with contrasting stripes. Sizes SM, M, OS. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price, 12/6. SPECIAL PRICE: 10/6
6/6 WHITE BEACH JERKIN, 5/11
White fleecy-lined Beach Jerkin with smart ribbed
crew neck and long sleeves. Sizes: SM, Medium
and OS. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, 6/6.
SPECIAL PRICE 5/11
• Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight
iaid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in
the Commonwealth.
JACQUARD STRIPE TOWEL 4/3
Surf towel in a smart jacquard stripe design in
colours of Brown/Brown, Orange/Orange, and
Green/Green. This quality towel will give long
and lasting wear. Size 23 x 46. At Anthony
Horderns', Price 4/3
BRIGHT SURF TOWEL, 2/11
Bright and attractive for the beach. Multi-colour
check effect, absorbent and a very reliable wear-
ing quality. Size 23 x 46. At Anthony Horderns'
™ 2/11
• Manchester— Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid
io all railway, stations in. N.S.W. and seaports in the
Commonwealth,
Phone M 2401
Day or Night
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


JOE SAYS SHE'S MAD
BY A. C. HEADLEY
WAY back in 1912 I first met Heppy when she
came to work in the factory. I remember
how Solly, with the black rim of beard show-
ing on his smooth face, brought her down the
alley of machines with their bundles of trousers, sat
her at the one opposite mine, and stood watching for
a few minutes while she squared off the pockets in a
pair of trousers. She sat there with her head down,
and all I could see was the broad flatness of her fore-
head and the sharp piercing point of her nose. You
could see how keen and set she was to do the job
properly.
“You gotter do ’em quicker,” Solly said, “if you
wanter make any money.” He didn’t say it as though
he was trying to drive her ; it was merely a statement
of fact. Tuppence a pair without buttons, tuppence
farthing with. A farthing, that was all, and it meant
stitching every button on a pair of trousers.
Watching Heppy through that first day it didn’t
seem as though she was going to collect much money
at the end of the week. It made me feel sorry for
her the way I felt sorry for all the kids who came
to work for Solly. In the middle of the afternoon I
could see by the way she rubbed her eyes that she
wanted to stop, and the pile of trousers by the side of
her machine was pretty small. You could see her driv-
ing herself to the next pair.
“Those buttons,” I said, “you don’t want to take
too much trouble. All you want to do is make them
look as though they’re sewn on. It doesn’t have to be
a work of art.”
“This is my first job,” she said for something to
say.
“It won’t be far from bein’ your worst,” I said.
Across the table I watched her. There was no
doubt about it, she was ugly. Whenever she looked
up you could see how large her nostrils were, and the
more than faint hangings of hair at the side of her
mouth. But she looked young, and I was surprised
when she told me that she was twenty-three. Twenty-
three and her first job.
“It’s since my brother’s been in hospital,” she
told me. “He got lead poisonin’ from workin’ in a
foundry. He’s been pretty bad,” she added, “but he’s
gettin’ over it. I’m tryin’ to help keep things going
till he gets back into work.”
The two of them had been “keeping the house
going” since their father died. “Me an’ Tom,” she
said, “we git on orright.”
It took time, but gradually she dropped into the
way that Solly wanted things done, and when she
got used to it she didn’t rub her eyes and get tired
any more. For one thing there was no time for it if
she wanted to make any money. There isn’t time
for anything when you get twopence a pair for
finishing trousers.
There were other girls in the place and there was
talking. You get that way after a while you can
work and talk at the same time. Sewing trousers
is something you do with the back of your mind.
And the talk. It’s funny how it is that there doesn’t
ever seem to be anything to talk about but boys. All
day and every day it was talk about how Jim did this
and Tom did that, and for a long time Heppy just
sat on the fringe of the talk and listened. Then she
began to talk about Richard. It was timid talk at
first, bu£ it began to grow. Something I’d say about
my Joe would remind her of something Richard had
said or done. He had a job in a city office, and from
the way she talked you’d have thought he controlled
most of the business of the country.
I remember the Sunday I first found out about
Richard.
It was on Newtown Bridge. Heppy was there
staring across to Hatte’s Fountain watching the Bridge
make a hyphen between the white-blue smoke of a
train. You could almost feel the interest she had
in the cab-horses vin Bedford-street, watching them
stamp themselves into a quiet excitement as the train
thundered past them. Joe and I were in the train
and it stopped for a long time at the Bridge.
“That’s Heppy,” I said to Joe, but Joe was only
interested in how tight his narrow pointed patents were
pulling his feet.
I watched her turn around and walk aimlessly
along King-street looking in at all the shops. You
could sit there and feel how lonely she was.
The next day I didn’t get a chance to tell her
I’d seen her on the Bridge.
“Me and Richard,” said Heppy, “we were at
Clifton Gardens all day yesterday. We had a won-
derful time.”
All I could do was sit there and try to think of
something to say, and in the finish I didn’t say
anything. • I remember how sorry I felt for her, and
I didn’t talk so much about my Joe.
AFTER that there were plenty of ways of finding
her out. There was a time when she showed me a
letter she had had from Richard, and it was filled
up with how much he missed her. I thought of the
writing on her alteration slips and the way she had
of putting twists on some of her letters.
Whenever she talked about Richard it used to
make me feel ashamed. There was something pathetic
about it when she told me they were going to be
married when he got another rise. The way she
said it you could feel that right inside her it was
as true as the day. Joe laughed when I told him.
“She must be mad,” he said.
I could afford to feel sorry for her —I had Joe.
It was comforting having Joe and funny how it made
me feel superior.
Then suddenly Heppy’s brother was out of the
hospital.
“I’ll stay on for a bit,” she said, “till we get
clear.” The way she said it was that it meant only
a month at the most, but she was still there when her
brother went back into the hospital.
“He shouldn’t’ve gone back to the foundry,” she
said. “There was other jobs. I’ve gotter stay now,
stay till he’s better.”
But this time her brother didn’t get better. In
the factory we got enough money together to buy
a wreath, and I took the day off to go to the funeral.
It wasn’t a big funeral. There was a mourning coach
and the hearse and that was all. Heppy, a chap from
the foundry and myself were the only mourners. There
were five wreaths, and the biggest of them was from
Richard. I stood looking at that card, and my eyes
started to get hot at the back. In the carriage the
three of us sat very quiet.
“Richard,” Heppy explained, “has gone away to
the country and he can’t get back in time.” Her mouth
was trying not to cry.
Heppy came back to the factory “for good.” She
sat at her machine working hard and not having
anything to say. No one that day seemed to have
anything to say. I was thinking of how long it would
be before Richard got his rise and he and Heppy
were married, and beyond that I could see years and
years of finishing trousers at twopence a pair. I was
thankful about Joe and the fact that we were going
to be married as soon as he had a few pounds saved
up.
Then suddenly there was the war and people
excited and happy about it. It’s funny that people
can be happy about a war, but they were. Before
the papers came out with the great black headings
you could notice a kind of tensed-up fear, but just
the fact that it ■ had actually happened at last was
enough to fill everyone with confidence. It was a
kind of “well show ’em” attitude. It was only a ques-
tion of time before British troops would be in Berlin.
Yet the war was far away and remote. It didn’t seem
part of our lives, not even when the streets began to
fill with men in khaki. It was merely some kind of
glorified adventure. That, I know, was how it affected
Joe. He was going to see the world, and in all
probability the worst part of the war would be over
when he got there. It was Richard who was filled
with all the high-flying notions of valor and honor.
“Richard,” said Heppy, “considers it his duty.”
Joe grinned when I told him. “If he gets a com-
mission,” he said, “maybe I’ll be able to wangle a
few soft jobs.”
Heppy wasn’t trying to keep the house going any
more. She had taken a room in a shabby-looking
house in O’Connell-street. It was a flat two-storeyed
place with a step that rested on the footpath. Near it,
on the corner, was the ambulance station. “The
horses and the bell wake me up at night,” she com-
plained. But it was cheap, and you needed things
cheap when you worked for Solly.
Richard, she told me, had gone into camp. But
I didn’t have time to think about Richard. Joe wanted
us to get married before he went away. There was
something romantic about being married like that. At
the wedding I introduced him to Heppy.
“Katie tells me your bloke has joined up,” he
said. “What’s his name? I might know ’im. What
mob’s he in?”
Heppy stood there looking helpless, and I could
have smacked Joe across the face. “Joe,” I said, “I
want to talk to you.”
Then suddenly Joe was no longer in camp, and
I went down to see the boat sail. There were a lot of
women there to see the boat sail and plenty of tears,
but the war wasn’t close to us even then.
“Richard sailed,” Heppy told me when I got back
to the factory, and her eyes were actually red as
she looked across from her machine. “He wouldn’t
let me go to the wharf to see him off.”
Then there were years of war that were growing
more real. There were slow letters from Joe and
slow letters from Richard. “He’s a sergeant,” said
Heppy. And then he got his commission. The
excitement of Heppy was real and triumphant. But
the end had to come. She had said too often that
she and Richard were to be married when he came back.
But Heppy and I both knew that he wouldn’t come
back. Every once in a while she would show me a
letter from Richard, and I’d read it, thinking of the
funny twists in the writing. You could feel that
Heppy would be sorry when the war was over.
And then the war was over for Heppy. There
was a day when she didn’t come to the factory, and
when I went to see her she told me that Richard had
been killed. I remember I felt glad and sorry when
she told me. I was sorry because I could see that
she felt the actual grief of the thing. I sat there and
couldn’t think of anything to say. Yet I was glad
because I felt that it must mean the end of her
talk about him. It was getting on my nerves and
making me think about Joe. But it wasn’t the end
of Richard. He came to light again in a “might-have-
been” role. Heppy would sit at her machine looking
miserable and talk about the things they’d planned to
do.
THE war was over and Joe was coming back.
Armistice day and the streets filled with mad
people. Shouting and noise and flag-waving and kids
belting on kerosene-tins, Heppy looking sad and wear-
ing black.
Three years and now Joe was coming back. It
was almost like being married all over again. Joe
looked healthier and better than ever, and it seemed
strange when he got into civilian clothes again. It
almost seemed as though he was out of place in them.
Then it began to seem as though he really was out of
place. There were months when he was hunting for
a job.
“They were going to make Richard manager when
he came back,” Heppy said.
I was still working in the factory. I had to until
Joe found a job. And at last there was a job for
him. It wasn’t the kind of work he’d been doing and
the pay wasn’t much, but it was enough for me to
leave Solly’s.
“I’ll come and see you,” said Heppy.
Because Joe wasn’t making much money we were
living in a couple of rooms in a place in Redfern,
but unfailingly Heppy came over to see us once a
week, and when the baby came there was nothing she
wouldn’t do. It was almost as if the kid was her
own. She’d nurse him and wash him and attend to
everything he wanted. Nights when Joe and I wanted
to go out we could always get Heppy to look after
him. “It makes up for things,” Heppy said, and you
could see her thinking about what might have been
if Richard had returned. If possible, now that he
was dead, Richard had become more real than ever.
I was almost at the point where I was actually
believing in him myself.
“We were going to live at Strathfield,” said Heppy.
It made me think of how different Strathfield was from
these two bare-looking , rooms and the cheap pine
furniture. I used to get sick of looking out of the
back window into the small dirty squares of back-
yard.
“She’s mad,” Joe said. He was sick of his job.
“I’m fit,” he complained, “for a better job than
pick-’n’-shovel.” But if there had been any other jobs
he couldn’t have afforded the time off to go and look
for them. There was the baby to be considered, and
the money he made was barely enough to keep us
going. After a while he forgot how to grumble.
\\J HEN Heppy told me she was thirty-nine it made
* * me think how old I was. You don’t notice age
when there are kids and they keep coming along.
You haven’t got time to notice anything except how
to feed them and wondering how you can manage that
pair of boots at the end of the week. It made things
worse, too, when Joe’s money was light and he came
home rolling and smelling of beer. He was always
ready to argue and quarrel, too. But what was worse
was that it was taking money out of the house. It
was a house now. We had to have a house for the
kids. Rent to be paid and Joe having a couple of
drinks with the boys. It didn’t work, and it began a
passage from one mean house to another. Joe was
getting worse and taking it out on me and the kids.
There was the night he hit me in the face with his
fist, and my mouth was salt with the taste of blood.
I stood there and didn’t say anything, and he staggered
off to bed.
That was a night Heppy came to see me. “It’s
the anniversary,” she said, “of when Richard went
away.”
All I could feel was the smart of cut lips.
“Richard!” I said. “There never was or never will
be any Richard.”
She sat there staring at me, and I began to feel
ashamed of myself. There was a silence, and one of


the kids started to cry. “It’s the anniver-
sary,” said Heppy, speaking as though her
first announcement had not been heard, “of
when Richard went away.” Then she got
up to see what the kid wanted. I sat in the
chair feeling small and ashamed.
Up till then Heppy was still working in
the factory, but suddenly things were begin-
ning to get bad. How bad they really were
I didn’t know till the night Joe came rolling
home drunk and told me he didn’t have a
job any more. It was something frightening
to realise.
“I’ll get a job orright, don’t you fret,”
Joe said, and at first there was that kind of
thinking. Joe would get a job. But jobs
were few and there were plenty looking for
them. For months Joe got up early and
came home tired from looking for work. But
after a while he wasn’t so tired when he
came home, and there was a day when I saw
him playing cards in the park. “It ain’t no
use lookin’,” he defended ; “there ain’t no
jobs.”
Heppy’s job was gone too. “I get a bit of work off
Solly,” she said ; “I do it at home. It ain’t much,
but it’s enough to live on.” She was always asking
if Joe had found anything to do, and whenever she
came there was always something for the kids.
It’s funny how those, kinds of things can grow into
years. It was like that with Joe. Not having any work
made him used to it. There was the dole and the
endowment: where was the sense in looking for work?
He took to going to Communist meetings and laying
the blame for everything on what he called the “boss
class.” These days he didn’t even talk about looking
for work, or if he did it was simply to declare that
it wasn’t any use. He was going grey, and his face
was soft and lined. Things in the business world were
beginning to pick up, but Joe didn’t have any use
for work any more. It was easier to sit in the sun.
We didn’t see Heppy so often. “I gotter work.”
she said. “If I don’t work late I can’t make nearly
enough to live on. Money don’t seem to go so
far these days.” But she always managed to bring
something for the kids.
Sometimes I’d go and see Heppy, and whether
it was night or day she’d be bending over her machine.
The room she lived in was dark and you were always
conscious of the smell of hair. There were bundles
of things in the room and they always seemed to get
more and more untidy. Most times you could find
the remains of a meal- —a boiled egg and a piece of
bread —on the shabby chest-of-drawers. You could
feel that she would be there, bending over her machine,
when she died, bending over a machine in the feeble
light of a candle with the window closed tight as
though preventing Death from coming to claim his
own.
Then suddenly I had no time to think of Heppy.
It was war again and my Johnny was talking about
joining up. Again people were glad that the war had
come. Why are they always glad? Joe was starting
to talk about the good times they’d had in the old
A.1.F., and the streets were filling up with boys in
khaki. More and more Johnny was talking about
“throwing up” his job, and one day he came home
and there was a letter telling him to bring his lunch
and present himself for a final medical examination.
“It’ll make a man of him,” Joe said.
I went to see Heppy. “Johnny’s joined up,” I
said.
She. sat at the machine looking across at me,
and there was a quiet smile on her face. For the first
time in years she looked really and thoroughly happy.
“Richard,” she said slowly and almost shyly, “has
joined up too.”
There was nothing I could do except sit there
and feel hot at the back of my eyes.
When I came home and told Joe he laughed.
“She’s mad orright,” he said ; “there’s a screw loose
somewhere.”
D ICHARD won’t come back from the war and find
1 it hard to get a job that would give people a
decent living. They’re going to make him a manager.
There won’t be any living in rooms in one of the cheap
suburbs where all you can see is dirt and filth. There’s
a house and it’s in Strathfield, and there are trees in
the street, and air. Heppy wouldn’t feel the smart of
cut lips where a fist had smashed into her mouth.
No wondering for Heppy whether there would be
enough money to face the rent collector, or whether
she’d peep through grey curtains until he was gone.
Nor will there be kids without shoes and beds with
too little warmth, nor black-looking gaps in her mouth
because a dentist charges ten and six to fill a tooth.
“She’s mad,” Joe says.
I wish I were mad. I’ve had things that Heppy
has always wanted —Joe, the kids and being married.
But Heppy’s had something that has been far better.
She hasn’t seen the dirt and the squalling kids. She
hasn’t seen those kids without shoes, and a husband
full with drink. All she can see is a grand kind of
Richard. Joe says she’s mad, but it isn’t that. It’s
taken me a long time, but I’ve grown to envy Heppy.
“And I TOLD the missus I don't like pies for lunch.”
G OOD GOLD
BY S. H. COURTIER
I SEE they’re talkin’ of openin’ up the South
Countess United again. Used to be as good a
mine as there was in Bendigo, the old South
Countess. I was workin’ in her when she closed
down, an’ it kind of hurts me when she tuckers out. It’s
bad enough to see a good mine finish, but it’s real crook
when you know there’s still a lot of gold left in her.
It’s mainly Eb Davies’s fault. Eb’s the manager
an’ gettin’ too old for the job. He’s thinkin’ of pullin’
out himself an’ retirin’, so he misses what’s starin’ him
in the face. It makes me wild to see him passin’ all
the chances of strikin’ payable stone.
I used to work like mad, thinkin’ I might do
somethin’ to pull the mine round, but I can’t make the
others out. They don’t seem to care what happens to
the mine. Usually, when you’d see decent stone, you’d
find the men quite excited about it, but these fellers
ain’t. An’ it’s not like as if there’s plenty of work
waitin’ for ’em —all the mines is slowin’ down about
that time.
It has me worried, I c’n tell you. Every payday
there’s another lot of men paid off, an’ a man was
wonderin’ when his time was cornin’. I used to talk
to the other chaps on me shift about it, but all they
does is laugh an’ tell me I’m too young to know gold
when I see it.
At last, there’s only seven of us left on. There’s
two drivers —we’re only workin’ one shift o’ course,
but they got to have a driver there at night to keep
the water down —there’s Peter Johannsen on the sur-
face an’ there’s me an’ Bill Tunstall, who’s the shift-
boss, an’ Jacky Thomas an’ Freddy Baxter down
below.
On the Mondee mornin’ after we starts workin’
one shift, old Eb calls us into the office an’
explains the position to us. Not that it wants much
explainin’, I tells meself, thinkin’ of Eb’s careless-
ness an’ the way he does the managin’ from the office.
“It’s like this,” Eb says. “Things is crook an’
we’ve only got one chance left. See here” —an’ he
sticks his finger on the plan of the mine—“there’s a bit
of a shoot there cut be the shaft at 720 foot, goin’ away
to the south. Well, we’re goin’ to put a winze down
off the 700-foot level about 100 foot in. We ought to
cut the shoot 30 foot down. If we don’t find it, then
we’re done.”
I’m for puttin’ me bib in an’ tellin’ Eb the old
mine’s not done by miles, but I gets a look from
Bill Tunstall, a sarcastic sorta scowl what makes me
hold me tongue.
“So we got about eight weeks’ work left, boss?”
Bill says.
“Yair —if the winze don’t save us,” Eb replies.
“So, if you come on any pretty stone, don’t forgit to
let me see it.”
A real manager would’ye seen the stone no
matter if the men forgot it or not, but old Eb was
tired an’ thinkin’ of his rose garden.
\WE hops into the winze an’ starts pushin’ her
** * down. It’s a slow job, workin’ one shift, firin’
one day an’ cleanin’ out the next. I works like a
tiger, but Bill Tunstall pulls me up short.
“Look here, son,” Bill says, “you want to make
this job spin out. You see,” he says, “if there’s no
shoot below us that’s the end of paydays.”
I starts to argue with him. “There’s still plenty
of gold in the South Countess,” I says, but Bill only
grins patronisin’ like.
“An’ if there is gold here,” he says, “who gits it
—you? No, the blanky directors gits their swag first,
then the shareholders. Why bust yerself for nothin’?”
The other fellers backs Bill up, advisin’ me to
wait till I’m a bit older before I starts tellin’ ’speri-
enced men where to find gold.
All the same, the winze goes down. Jacky
Thomas keeps the jack-hammer jiggin’ an’ we rigs a
winch up over the winze an’ starts bucketin’ the dirt
out fast enough. Old Eb don’t bother us much. About
the only time he looks into the winze is when he’s
got a director with him. The director looks wise an’
pretends to know everythin’ an’ goes off to tell the
papers the South Countess’s noo developments is very
promisin’ so as to pop the shares up sixpence an’ give
him an’ his mates the chance to make a rake-off.
No, Eb don’t worry about the winze, but every
time we shoots a few holes we takes up some speci-
mens an’ puts ’em on the office table for his inspec-
tion. Not that they’ll do him much good, seein’ we’re
punchin’ through mullock all the time.
Then, one day, we comes down after firin’ to
find we’ve struck somethin’. There she is, nice bluey-
white quartz showin’ below the mullock. It’s Eb’s
shoot from the main shaft all right, an’ I’m all for
sendin’ a tally up to him straight away. This ought to
wake him up, I reckons.
“Nothin’ doin’, son,” says Bill. “This ain’t the
shoot. Only a bit of common rubble.”
I’m hot at that. Ain’t I ever seen galena an’
blackjack before? Don’t I know the sign of gold?
But all they does is laugh at me.
Bill still reckons it ain’t the shoot, but he drives
the team for all we’re worth. We carves through that
stone like cheese, an’ he has Baxter up on the winch
droppin’ timber down to us just as if we’re
workin’ in shaky ground. I can’t understand it at all,
for it’s the nicest stone I seen for many a day. You
could take yer oath it goes a ounce or more, but Bill
says it’s worth nothin’ ’cept for road metal, an’ the
other fellers agrees with him. I almost gets to be-
lievin’ they’re bein’ squared to get the old South
Countess closed down. An’ when, one night, I sees Bill
takin’ samples of the day’s work to the office an’ I
seen them samples was mullock I reckons everybody’s
not only downright dishonest, but stark, starin’ mad.
Well, we’re right through the shoot an’ got it
timbered up like a glove, an’ we’re down into the mul-
lock underneath before Eb comes down to see how
we’re goin’ again. He gives the mullock a sad sorta
look, then he says: “Y’re down 45 foot now an’ no
sign of the shoot. We’ll give it another week, then
I’m afraid it’s the finish, boys.”
I could have said a lot, but there’s Bill Tunstall
got his eye on me, lookin’ like he’s goin’ to crown me
soon as I open me mouth, so what’s the use?
We does the week an’, like Eb says, it’s finish.
When we’re walkin’ away from the mine with our
last pay, I turns on Bill.
“I hope y’re satisfied,” I says to him. “Call y’r-
self a shift-boss!” An’ I walks away an’ leaves him,
the thought of all that good gold in the South Countess
weighin’ me down.
A FORTNIGHT later, I meets Bill in the Mall.
“Hey, son,” he says, “doin’ anythin’?”
“No, I ain’t,” I says.
“What about cornin’ in on a tribute with us?” he
says. “Me an’ Peter an’ Jacky Thomas an’ the others.”
“A tribute —where?” I asks.
“The South Countess.”
“The what!” I yells.
“What d’y’ think we left all that good gold be’ind
for?” he grins.
When I’ve got over me surprise, I want to know
why couldn’t he told me from the start.
“Aw, son,” he replies, “y’re young an’ y’re inno-
cent. Y’re not much good at keepin’ a secret yet.
Anyway, are you on?”
On? O’ course I was. What’s twelve bob a
day to eight quid a week as y’r share in a tribute?
An’ that’s what the old South Countess pays us for
nearly two years before she really does peter out.
Yair, there was a lot of good gold in that mine.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
,/ftfcfd c Mne<fWie mellctmeJ4xmdJmimiei/
BILLINGSGATE.
In some respects London’s great central
fish market may be said to be unique
among the markets of the world, or at
least the English-speaking world. It has
enriched the language with a new word,
its own name. Thus, when applied to
speech, it simply means foul and coarse
language. This arose from the fact that
many years ago, in less refined times,
people used to visit Thames-street, where
the market is located practically under
the shadow of London Bridge and the
Monument, to hear the Billingsgate fisher-
women abuse one another. The anecdote
of Dr. Johnson and the Billingsgate
virago is too well known to require
further mention. When the market was
rebuilt in the ’seventies, the fisherwomen
began to disappear, and now they have
in an industrial sense vanished from its
precincts. At a considerably later date
a visit to Billingsgate was regarded as an
indispensable item in the visitor’s itiner-
ary. It is not a pleasing excursion. The
best time for witnessing the market’s
activities is the morning between five and
eight. The extent of London’s fish con-
sumption, as here displayed, can be in
part envisaged. The porters, as the mar-
ket workers are designated, have lost a
certain picturesque, but decidedly smell-
ful, curiosity they may have possessed.
They are great tea drinkers, and their
conversation is as “pungent” as the aroma
their labor exhales. Even in Shakspeare’s
day the coarseness of the porters was
proverbial. Before the Hitler world war
started Dutch fishermen, whose galliots
were a feature in the river at Billings-
gate, enjoyed special privileges. Thus
they had the right of landing their
“cargoes of eels fresh from the Zuyder
Zee” right at Billingsgate, while British
fishermen had to unload their catches at
the mouth of the river. This privilege
was granted by charter several centuries
ago. How it stands today is another
story. In the engraving depicting the
scene in 1829 the Dutch fishing craft are
noticeable.


BLITZKRIEG ON THE BABIES.
“Will all great Neptune’s ocean wash this blood
Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather
The multitudinous seas incarnadine,
Making the green one red.”


The Bulltin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
lIEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: Lincoln’s Inn Chambers, 40-43 Chancery
Lane, London, W.C.2.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
DAKAR, INDO-CHINA AND BERLIN.
While the war with the forces of barbarism remains
in all men’s thoughts, spectacular events, alt related to
the war and all unhelpful to our cause —which is put-
ting it mildly—have been happening in widely sepa-
rated parts of the world.
A French cruiser squadron, with a submarine or
two, made its way out of the Mediterranean. Though
it could easily have been stopped by the Royal Navy
or driven back to Toulon, it was allowed an un-
opposed passage, a fact which gave rise to various
conjectures. One which naturally occurred to wish-
ful thinkers was that its commanders, by arrange-
ment with the British, and possibly with the connivance
of the Vichy Government, were about to join General
de Gaulle. Another was that they were taking their
ships to Indo-China to assist in the defence of that
colony against all-comers.
Actually the squadron was making for Dakar,
the port of Senegal and the seat of government of
French West Africa, which comprises Senegal, Guinea,
the Ivory Coast, Dahomey, French Sudan, Mauritania,
Niger and the circonscription of Dakar. At Dakar
it lay when General de Gaulle suddenly made his
appearance at the head of a Free French expedition
guarded by strong British naval forces. He demanded
the bloodless surrender of Dakar, and sent envoys in
sloops to receive it. They were fired on and with-
drawn, some wounded. There followed a series of
combats, in the course of which ’planes were winged
on both sides and two French submarines were sunk.
While these engagements were proceeding French
’planes from Morocco bombed Gibraltar, causing loss
of life, and they did it again, apparently after the
Anglo-Gallic forces had been withdrawn.
For, like every other amphibious adventure in
which Mr. Churchill has had a hand, the De Gaulle
expedition was a flop. Vichy alleges that three British
battleships were hit —one by a torpedo and one by
shells off Dakar, and the third by a bomb off Gib-
raltar. Be this as it may, it is criminal that British
warships, ’planes and lives should have been hazarded
in a venture based on sinfully defective information
and hence on sinfully defective planning. And whether
Vichy is under Axis control or not, it is a tragedy that
the Royal Navy and the R.A.F. should have had to
fight another enemy, if only for a day or two,
especially when that enemy is an old ally, grievously
as its leaders have let the Empire down. The effect
of the fiasco on world opinion has, of course, been
bad everywhere. It is sure to settle De Gaulle as
leader of the Free France movement, if not the move-
ment itself.
While there seemed to be some prospect of a
successful issue, the attempt to take Dakar was loudly
applauded in the U.S.A., where it is held that Axis
control of the local naval and air bases would be a
threat to South America as well as the Cape route ;
indeed the allaying of American fears was palpably
in the minds of those responsible for the crazy busi-
ness. Failure brought shouts of rage from newspaper
writers on both sides of the Atlantic, albeit every
effort was made to spare Mr. Churchill, so recently
the god of their idolatry.
General de Gaulle’s G.H.Q. and 8.8. C. agree that
Axis domination of Dakar —officialdom, bases and all
—has been a fact for several weeks. This implies, of
course, that the Vichy Government is a consenting
party. Strangely enough, while the French at Dakar
were rejecting De Gaulle and firing on his Majesty’s
ships and ’planes, the French in Indo-China, obviously
with the concurrence of the Vichy Government, were
energetically resisting a Japanese general’s march into
that colony in anticipation or in violation of an agree-
ment granting Japan three air bases and right of passage
for 6000 troops. And at that very time it was reported
that Japan had “agreed in principle” to a defensive
alliance with Germany.
A lame story of the Dakar fiasco was dished up
by the British Department of Information. There fol-
lowed a Washington embargo on exports of iron and
steel scrap, “except to Britain and the Western Hemi-
sphere,” and a grant of financial assistance to China.
Within 24 hours “a military, political and economic
pact,” with a 10 years’ currency, had been signed at
Berlin by Ribbentrop, Ciano and the Japanese
Ambassador. The parties agree to support one another
if any of them is “attacked by a Power not yet in-
volved in the war against Britain or in the Sino-
Japanese war,” which, of course, means the U.S.A.
(the “pact,” it seems, “alters nothing in the political
status existing between each signatory and the
U.S.S.R.”); and Japan “recognises the leadership of
Germany and Italy in the creation of a new order in
Europe,” while Germany and Italy “recognise Japan’s
leadership in the creation of a new order in its great
Asian Lebensraum.” This does not necessarily mean
that Japan is empowered to gobble up Indo-China and
the Dutch East Indies, but it means that the Japanese
have gone into Indo-China with the full support of
their allies, and will have their support also, for what
it may be worth, in their effort to bring what they
call the China Incident to an early conclusion. When
they entered Indo-China Washington’s attitude was
that they had upset the status quo. It was also Wash-
ington’s attitude that Britain should reopen the Burma
Road, a ticklish matter which will come up for con-
sideration again presently in a situation which has
changed very much for the worse.
There have been angry suggestions in Japanese
papers that Australia has been humbly following
American policy. Australia, on the contrary, arranged
to send its own negotiator to Japan, and this arrange-
ment has not been cancelled, though the difficulties of
the task entrusted to the Chief Justice have been
gravely increased.
The signing of the Berlin “pact” was the occa-
sion for a characteristic Ribbentrop harangue. There
was another fling at “the warmongers of the Jewish
capitalistic democracies,” to which was added the
boast that “the power” of these “warmongers” was
“collapsing under strokes from the military power of
Germany and Italy.” The parties to the alliance were
hailed “the three most powerful countries in the
world.” Then came the claim that the “pact” was
aimed at “reconstruction and peace all over the world,”
and an offer to Spain to come and share in the spoils
—“any country that joins the alliance will have a
share in the redistribution of territory after the war.”
The truth is that the instrument was inspired by
a lively fear of American intervention and a great
respect for the latent strength of the United States.
What will come of it time alone can tell. Australians
and Maorilanders can only hope for the best and
prepare for the worst.
One thing is clear: they must have representatives
in an Imperial War Cabinet and on the War Coun-
cil. In advocacy of this representation The Bulletin
stood alone. Its necessity is now realised in quarters
previously hostile or indifferent.
Propaganda Absurdities.
By now most people are aware that this war will have
to be won in the old way, by fighting. When it
started there was a widespread notion that it could
be won in a new way, painlessly, by sitting still and
using propaganda. Hence the “confetti” raids on
Germany early in the war, coupled with strict adher-
ence to the defensive-warfare theory. Combined,
these two delusive methods of waging war throw a
singularly revealing light on the nature and use of
propaganda —an extremely subtle craft, about which
a good deal more is spouted than is yet understood.
One thing about it that does not seem to be well
realised is that producing results with propaganda is
a very slow process. The notion that this war could
be won with leaflets was based on the extravagantly
overrated success of propaganda in the last war,
assiduously boosted ever since. Similarly, the defen-
sive-warfare theorists —Captain Liddell Hart and
others—managed to get their ill-grounded theories
accepted by means of plausible propaganda, but it took
years for them to do it, and they were assisted by the
general revulsion against war lasting from 1918, and
earlier, to the present day. It was easy, with this
assistance, to represent that the hideous mass casual-
ties of the last war were due to mistaken offensives
that should never have been launched. There must
be no more Sommes or Passchendaeles. The right
strategy would be to dig in behind concrete and wire,
and let the other side waste itself attacking. Mean-
while, put implicit trust in blockade, which won the
last war, and in the propaganda department, which
also won the last war.
Being palatable to people sick of war, very com-
forting, and ladled out over a long period, this defen-
sive-warfare theory won widespread acceptance. There
would appear to be fair evidence that it penetrated
into the War Office, took hold on British army leaders,
and in France conditioned the whole conception of
military strategy. A few British and French military
authorities —including General de Gaulle—did their
best to expose it as a fallacy, but that won them
neither ribbons nor promotion. The success of the
Italians, taking offensive warfare into Abyssinia, and
of the Japanese, doing the same in China, was ascribed
in each case to the weakness of the opposition. Neither
was the position of the defensive-warfare theorists
shaken by the success of Franco’s offensive strategy
in Spain, this being ascribed to superior armaments
and German and Italian help. The theory survived
even the German success against the Poles, ascribed
to poor Polish leadership and antiquated defences.
By the time the Germans, after mopping up Den-
mark, Norway, Holland and Belgium by taking the
offensive in those countries, had smashed through
France’s boasted defences, the theorists were beginning
to get headaches. They fell back lamely on the Fifth
Column, blaming it for everything. They still refuse
to admit that the Germans have got where they are by
one means only —by fighting ; by fighting on the offen-
sive all the time ; by doing the very opposite from
what the defensive-warfare theorists advocated for
the past 20 years.
The evident wholesale acceptance of that now
horribly discredited theory is a clear enough illustra-
tion of the power of propaganda when it measures up
to certain necessary requirements. In this instance—
because of the general revulsion against slaughter in
war, and the obvious fact that there can’t be offensive
warfare without slaughter—the defensive-warfare
propagandists had the ready-made advantage of pur-
veying something that was specially palatable to the
public taste: why they were able to convince the
highest military authorities as well is not nearly so
clear. What is perfectly clear is that they had a long
stretch of time in which to employ their propaganda;
and plenty of time is a prime requirement.
The Commonwealth election provided a pretty
example of propaganda turning on clumsy practi-
tioners because they failed to appreciate, among other
things, the importance of the time factor. They also
had to learn afresh that government, or any form of
dictation, by newspapers is one of the last things
people will tolerate ; but given sufficient time they
might not have been quite so ludicrously unsuccessful.
To give only one of their flops as an example, had
they dated their attacks on Mr. Harrison from when
they first discovered the comparative superlative vir-
tues of Mr. Cowper—accepting that as the motive —
they might not now be such a laughing-stock. They
had only three weeks, and, propaganda being a natural
slow-mover, they succeeded only in adding to the
absurdities committed in its name.
In a wider field those absurdities are endless. They
indicate that, though propaganda is now one of the
most hackneyed words in the language, the craft itself
is evidently studied less than any other. A common
notion seems to be that anyone who makes a living
handling words is necessarily a qualified propagandist.
Hence, when propaganda departments are set up, the
belief that journalists are patently the right ones for
the job. The truth is that, while some journalists are
also good propagandists, the bulk of them are sorry
failures. The advertising department of any. big busi-
ness could probably provide much better hands at the
game.
The Australian Department of Information, under
the guidance of a newspaper owner, employs a number
of journalists. One of them —he can be heard regu-
larly in the department’s evening broadcasts —takes
delight in dubbing Mussolini “the bullfrog of the Pon-
tine Marshes.” Seeing that the reclamation of the
Pontine Marshes under Mussolini’s direction is prob-
ably that dictator’s outstanding contribution to the
country he has since stupidly led into war, the epithet
suggests a complete ignorance of propaganda. In-
tended to be crushingly derisive, it leads the listener
to think of Mussolini’s other, better, services to his
country, and therefore defeats the propagandist’s pur-
pose. The same commentator falls into a worse error
in references to the Italians’ supposed cowardice. He
is, of course, not alone in this. It is a common line
among alleged clever propagandists in both Australia
and Britain, especially on the air, though papers like
the Sydney “Telegraph” are given to displays of the
same sort of ignorance—ignorance of the propaganda
craft, even if the charge was true.
The only purpose such a charge can serve is to
help Mussolini in uniting and urging on an evidently
considerably reluctant Italian people. Presently, when
the Australians are in heroic action against the Italians,
the same “Telegraph” and other propaganda-
ignoramuses like it will be draining their dictionaries
for words to describe the Australian heroism and
courage. The Italians themselves, and the Germans
also, have a much better sense of propaganda, having
made it a special study. After any engagement of
their forces they never fail to describe the fierce
courage of their opponents. This —the very opposite
from the “Telegraph,” Department of Information,
etc., brand of propaganda —obviously reacts in their
own favor. It makes the opposition out to have been
formidable ; by inference it glorifies the German or
Italian soldiers in victory. It is no great achievement
to have whipped a coward.
One other glaring example of the profound
ignorance regarding propaganda in places where it
should be better understood is to be seen and heard
every day in press and radio reporting and comment-
ing on German war actions, especially those, like the
sinking last week of the liner carrying children to
America, which are brutal and sickening. Here the
alleged clever propagandists imagine they are doing a
good job when they bitterly write or spout “Hun"
or “Nazi.” What should be evident to the blind, but
certainly escapes this brand of propagandists, is that
those are merely swearwords. It probably relieves the
personal feelings of journalist or radio commentator
to stab down or spout out “Hun” or “Nazi” ; what
all users of this form of bad language overlook is that
what they are really doing in the long run—and
propaganda likes the long run —is about the last thing
they would consciously want to be doing. They are
providing the criminal with an alias. In columns of
reporting on the sinking of the children’s ship, as in
hours of radio commenting, the word German was
hardly once used. The crime was committed by the
Huns, by the Nazis ; not by Germans.
Isn’t it about time those whose part in the war is
directing and using propaganda gave some serious
study to the craft? They seem to be abysmalh
ignorant of it. They would only have to cut out fanc>
swearwords and call peoples by their right names,
and by the time this war was over German would
have a meaning that would last for ever. As it is*
the German can slip out from under his aliases when-
ever he likes. The clever propagandists are very kina
to the German. The revealing thing about them is
that they think they are being devastatingly nasty.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fremantle—and After.
Mr. Curtin is in for Fremantle after all, though he
himself was positive that he was out —so much so that
he left party pronouncements to the reluctant Mr.
Forde. Mr. Clarke, the third man, had asked his
supporters to give their second votes to Mr. Lee, but
many of them had other views, and A.I.F. votes —
very strong for Curtin Labor almost everywhere—
did the rest.
In what must have been the bitterest hours of his
career, Mr. Curtin did not lose his courage or his
philosophy. When his defeat seemed certain, no one
was more concerned than Mr. Hughes, who, quite the
Elder Statesman now, praises chivalrous opponents
and scarifies clumsy supporters like Sydney morning-
paper editors as the spirit moves him.
Counting of Commonwealth-election votes is
always slow, and it has been slower than ever this
year, though it is not the returning officers’ fault.
Allowing that capricious cross-voting may still alter
calculations, it seems probable that the Government
will have a party majority in the Senate, but it may
not have one in the House. But then neither will Mr.
Curtin, who, if he took office without a general under-
standing, would be dependent on the support of what
he was pleased to call “a ‘scab’ party.”
Since September 21 there has been a great deal
of talking on —and round —the question of a national
Government. In view of Dakar and a world situation
so fraught with ugly possibilities, it must come to that,
for another election or government by favor of a
small group or irresponsible units would be a calamity.
Election of the Prime Minister by secret ballot of the
House would overcome an obvious difficulty.
Reform of the Senate.
Something, lots of things, will have to be done about
the Senate.
Ever since that eminent South Australian Josiah
Symon failed of election in 1913, demonstrating from
the bottom of the poll that no man standing alone,
however distinguished, could get in, Senators have
been entirely representative of party. Candidates run
in threes —or in fours, if there happen to be four
vacancies. In 1914, at the only double-dissolution
election, there were groups of six, and Labor, with
little more than half the votes, went very close to
electing all the Senators —that in the first month of a
war prolonged beyond four years.
With States as electorates, compulsory voting and
compulsory exercise of preferences, Senate elections
have become travesties of democracy ; and a system
so seriously challenged in other parts of the world
can’t afford even the appearance of being ridiculous
in any phase.
Three years ago there were 136,841 informal votes
in N. S. Wales, 147,833 in Victoria, 38,502 in Queens-
land, 47,157 in S.A., 30,116 in Westralia and 16,258 in
Tasmania. N. S. Wales elected four unknowns,
chiefly because their names began with the letter “A,”
a peculiarity which gave them the first four positions
on a vertical ballot-paper. The party bosses respon-
sible for their selection had guessed correctly that this
and the large proportion of “informals” —also
reckoned on because there had been 193,612 in 1934 —
would be an immense advantage.
For the election now stumbling to its conclusion
a horizontal ballot-paper was decided upon by the
Ministerial parties, at whose expense the four-A ticket
joke had been worked. Evidently it will make no differ-
ence in N. S. Wales. There the first name on the ballot-
paper was that of a Mr. Allen, a Douglas Credit man
who joined the non-Communist Labor party. With a
great many votes to be counted, he had polled far
more than the total of votes cast for Non-Com. Labor
candidates for the House. Heading the Official Labor
ticket was Mr. Ashley, one of the four-A Senators ;
unlike the other A-Senators, he had been elected for
three years. It looks as if Mr. Ashley will go in again
and take Mr. Arnold, one of his running mates, in
with him ; perhaps Mr. Allen as well. Cross voting
may decide whether the A’s will have it again.
As for informal votes, there may not be so many
throughout the Commonwealth as there were last time,
but in Victoria they are approaching six figures, and
in N. S. Wales they may be 120,000 or more.
Obviously if the Senate is to become the strong
and useful House that the creators of the Constitu-
tion visioned —and in the early years of Federation
their conception was fairly realised —there will have
to be radical changes. Compulsory voting has not
fulfilled expectations, but, even if it is retained, exer-
cise of preferences, the chief cause of the astounding
number of informal votes, should no longer be made
compulsory. If people don’t want to vote for more
than three candidates, or even one candidate, they
should not be obliged to do so. There is a prejudice
against plumping, but plumping might induce able
non-party men to come forward and give them a
chance of being elected which is now denied.
And, as provided for in the Constitution, the
States should be carved up into two or more electorates.
Two for preference, since this would admit of a fairly
exact division being made between city and country
in the mainland States, and between north and south
in Tasmania. One of the grave weaknesses of the
present arrangement is that the voice of the Australia
that exists beyond the boundaries of the Huge Wens
is not heard in the Senate. There is nobody to speak
for regions like the Riverina, Gippsland or the North.
City men select the candidates, and they nearly always
select city residents. In fact, the Senate has, to all
intents and purposes, become a city Chamber.
Australia and Japan.
The “defensive alliance” to which Germany, Italy
and Japan are parties was signed at Berlin on Friday
afternoon. That very evening John Greig Latham
sent “cordial greetings to the people of Japan” by
short-wave broadcast, responding to “the friendly mes-
sage of Prince Tokugawa,” communicated by the same
means. And the Japanese Consul-General, returning
to Sydney on Monday by flying-boat from Darwin,
announced that he was anticipating his early recall
to Tokyo “to make way for the first Japanese
Minister to Australia.”
“Nichi Nichi” had previously declared that Aus-
tralia might be regarded as having “completely fallen
in with the Anglo-American Far Eastern Front.”
While admitting that Australia had made a friendly
gesture in appointing a Minister to Tokyo, it asserted
that the Government had been refusing permits for
wool export to Japan. This Senator McLeay denied. On
the following day Mr. Cameron stated that “because
of the disposal of the wool clip to Britain, the Com-
monwealth does not decide what wool is to go to
other countries,” the position being that “the Central
Wool Committee, as agent of the British Govern-
ernment, sends to Japan whatever wool the British
Government says is to go there.”
According to the Central Wool Committee,
152,000 bales of Australian wool have been shipped
to Japan since January 1, and “negotiations for a
further release of approximately 25,000 bales are now
proceeding.” In short, though Britain has bought the
wool clips for the period of the war and 12 months
afterwards, there has been no refusal of permits ; on
the contrary, the Japanese have received fairly sub-
stantial supplies.
Voters and Children.
Precisely 4,257,732 Australians were enrolled for the
Commonwealth election. An attempt to arrive at the
total population, based on an estimate of 6,929,691 as
at 31/12/’3B and an increase of 63,101 in that year,
suggests that by the end of 1940 Australia should have
7,118,994 people, exclusive of full-blood aborigines.
Thus, on the Electoral Officer’s figures, only 40 per
cent, of the population is under 21 years of age.
Year-Book figures show not only a worse position
but a steadily deteriorating one.
In the years from 1935' to 1938, the pro-
portion of minors to adult population decreased. Of
6,724,304 people in 1935, 4,209,402 were over 21 and
2,514,902 under 21. In 1938 (total, 6,893,083) the
respective figures were: adults, 4,417,642; minors,
2,475,441.
This little table gives the numbers of children
in four age-groups:
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938.
oto 4 years .. 534,052 526,682 533,584 545,985
sto 9 years .. 612,920 565,365 582,271 560,619
10 to 14 years .. 639,337 636,371 631,612 626,131
15 to 19 years .. 603,542 607,317 614,317 611,254
Plainly, there was not only a serious decline in
the number of young children in four years, but the
steady rise in the numbers passing from infancy to
youth as shown in the 15- to 19-years group is far
from being kept pace with by the number of new
infants needed to replace them.
Neither press nor politicians have had anything to
say about this, though they shriek to the heavens every
time there is a big drop in lambing percentages or
heavy sheep losses through drought.
Deathbed Scene.
The Commonwealth Government has just printed
the report of the obsequies of the League of Nations
in December. Australia was represented by Frank
McDougall, formerly of the Dried Fruits Board, and
it was discovered that the credentials of only 28 of the
43 delegations were in order.
The depleted Assembly “solemnly condemned the
action taken by the Soviet against Finland” and
“appealed to every League member to provide Fin-
land with assistance.” The Soviet representative, who
should have been in the chair, was elsewhere and a
Belgian sat in his place. The appeal fell on deaf
ears —most of the countries which had sent delegates
had enough troubles without adding to them. The
unfortunate Dutch and Belgians hurriedly dissociated
themselves from a decision to place the services of
the secretary-general at Finland’s disposal.
Doubtless for reasons even more pressing, the Latvian,
Estonian and Lithuanian delegates reminded the
Assembly that, having taken no part in the discussion,
they would abstain from voting.
The Bulgarian and Chinese delegates said they were
not voting either.
When the Cuban delegate rose to support an
Argentinian demand for “forcible action” against the
U.S.S.R., the Belgian chairman hurriedly sat him
down. Somebody mentioned something about eco-
nomic sanctions, but the Assembly metaphorically
dived under the chairs.
The Argentine delegate now proposed the expul-
sion of the U.S.S.R. ; but it was at once pointed out
that this called for a unanimous vote of the Council.
And Latvia was on the Council and its position “at
this time was necessarily one of some embarrass-
ment” —like that of the rabbit being slimed for swal-
lowing by a carpet snake. China was in about the
same box. However, the election of a new Council
solved the matter. Then Russia was solemnly
“expelled.”
Afterwards, the Assembly passed its Budget—a
mere million sterling, a reduction of 32 per cent, or so.
Almost every member but the British countries was in
arrear. Abdul Fattah Assal Bey said Egypt found it
necessary to reduce its contribution by 60 per cent.
Mr. McDougall followed with a plea for further cuts.
Discussion of the report of a committee on “inter-
national co-operation in economic and social affairs,”
of which S. M. Bruce had been chairman, was the last
conscious act of the Assembly before rigor mortis set
in. Australia is still helping to pay for the upkeep
of the grave.
«>
September in Sydney.
From a former spring poet:
Spring came to Sydney’s million-odd inhabitants in a
new guise this year. Instead of the proverbial grasses and
flowers in her hair, the goddess carried the skeleton of a
golf-club greenkeeper shot at dawn for watering the greens.
Instead of singing, she wailed that she was as dry as a
wooden god.
All round the city lay dusty paddocks, innocent of grass,
and the president of the Water Board had left his marble
palace and was out at Cataract Dam, or some similar place,
measuring the depth and making sacrifices to Jupiter Pluvius.
Jupe, however, though frequently seen dashing up the coast
in search of the original of a “D.T.” beach-girl photograph,
kept strictly away from the Water Board’s dams.
Undaunted by these signs and portents, Spring deter-
minedly came on, probably because she could think of nothing
else to do. When you’ve been coming on for millions of
years it’s hard to break the habit. On she came, and strange
voices floated over the city’s radio sets urging the peop e
not to wash their teeth, hands, socks, boots, pipes, golt
clubs or teapots under running taps. Ukases appeared in the
public prints forbidding the use of hoses under penalty of
hanging, disfranchisement and a fine of two shillings lor tne
first offence, with discretionary penalties for further offences.
Spring, still dry, danced rather wanly along the suburban
streets, which hadn’t had a good wash for months, and her
feet stirred up the dust and the ever-lurking germ so that
children and grown-ups, but mostly children, went down in
hundreds with miscalled German measles and chicken-pox.
From the Water Board came pronunciamentos and warn-
ings of all kinds, with threats to disconnect all houses and put
standpipes in the streets. The city answered this by con-
sliming more water on one hot Saturday than the astounded
W.B. could believe.
Summer, always a bit overanxious to appear when
nobody wants him, began bobbing up, dislocating the calendar
and throwing weather-prophets out of focus. By this time
J. Pluvius had gone completely into smoke, and, though
searched for with diligence from the Blue Mountains to the
sea, refused to crack a lay.
All right, spake the Water Board, unless something
happens or something we’ll stick standpipes in ydur gardens
and cut off your taps, so there! But by this time the poli-
ticians were in holts and little notice was taken.
Bores spouted that bores should be put down, and a
man from Gilgandra had visions of Sydney becoming a
larger Gilgandra, with a windmill in every backyard. Still
the newspapers warned against 8.0., advised people to drink
more tea and told of the charm of the girl who rinsed her
things every day. There was a great trade in watering-cans,
which spread far more water on the gardens than ever hose
did before them. , .
Some well-meaning martyr declared that, as the city
must use millions of gallons of water in the millions of gallons
of beer it drank, it could save water by not drinking beer.
Even Spring was horrified by the suggestion, and the poor
devil’s body hasn’t been found yet.
Then Water Board and Weather Bureau turned on Spring.
She, they declared, was the driest and most disappointing
they had ever seen, and the former urged householders to buy
corrugated-iron tanks and threatened them with more penalties
for using the commodity which it was created to supply.
Spring was last seen in the “S.M.H.” office inserting an
advt. for a professional dowser. Just as it appeared the skies
wept —perhaps for the downfall of “S.M.H.” election can-
didates —and all Sydney rushed to get out the hose, but it was
not to be. “The rain,” declared the Water Board, “<pnly
wet the ground on the catchments.” Since then another inch
or so has fallen there, but the W.B. sticks to its story and,
though a howling gale and lashing rain swept the city, radio
voices were still urging Sydney not to wash itself.
Water Shortage, Is it?
“El V.” remembers the arid years:
All this noise in Sydney about a water “shortage” makes
me feel ill. The huge wen doesn’t know what water shortage
is. , , -
I was brought up in the Queensland west—one ot a
family of seven. We had an iron outstation to live in, and
a tank which was often dry. There was a billabong, and it
was our standby. But stock were precious, so they must
drink there, and even a seepage well carried evidences ot
them in the blinding summers, when sandy blight gummed the
eyes of every youngster round the place and the womenfolk
went about wearing conical mushroom hats with mosquito-
net veils to their feet which let nothing larger than a sandfly
through, the billabong used to reduce itself to a mudhole well
scented with cattle offscourings and stale gum-leaves. Water
was carefully skimmed from the surface in a bucket. Ashes
were put into the bucket to clear up the sediment. The
result was a greenish, bitter liquid which tasted strongly of
ammonia and of the ash, and which was more like an emetic
than a drink. There were months when everybody took a
period on this fluid as a matter of cipurse. During those
times, we were a people besieged, for a journey to the nearest
town of any size was a contest between the stamina of horses
and the trials of stages between mudholes which were in some
places 50 miles apart. .
Later we came to civilisation—Mt. Morgan in the days
when the hooters blew (once for the relief of Mafeking) and
the trees were dying under the stress of the 1902-03 drought.
I remember those hooters, because they used to go early in the
morning before day-shift time, when 1 and a number of other
little boys used to be engaged in our morning task of hauling
the family quota of two kerosene-tins 120 ft. out of the
bowels of the Champion mine. After we had hauled it
to the surface we used to pack the tins on each side of a
pony in cornsacks and steer them tenderly home a mile or so
over the Mt. Morgan crags.
We had no Bondi or Coogee to go to, and the old Mt.
Morgan “Argus” never complained as “S. M. Herald” did
the other day: “After the recent rains the Warragamba River
—one of Sydney’s sources of supply—yields a bare 20,000,000
gallons a day.” That is, about 16 gallons per head of popu-
lation. Had there been beaches we could not have taken
much pleasure in them —.after our water-carting, when we had
milked the goats, we walked four miles barefooted to school
over the stones, and four miles home.
Nobody seemed to suffer from these exercises or from lack
of moisture. Among our bands of Mt. Morgan toilers was
Stan Dallas, later one of Britain’s great flying aces, and most
of the rest have grown into mine managers, electricians and
generally useful people. A good many were killed in the last
war.
There are still tens of thousands of Australians who every
year suffer from the rigors of water shortage as we older hands
used to do. Many of them are hanging on and bringing up
their children in the backblocks of the N.T., towards which
the Government is at present hastily putting down a defence
road. They have no Warragambas, no “S. M. Herald.” They
are penalised for being pioneers by having no vote for the
Senate, and their member has no vote in the House. But
they have one thing we did not have —radio. And of an
evening while the ashes or the alum are settling in the bucket
or the oildrum they can enjoy a hearty laugh listening to the
wails and threats of the Sydney Water Board, issued from its
palace in Pitt-street.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Just 'aving a bit of scran, sir, before We get rid of the delayed-action bomb.”
* * * •
“El V.”: Difficult times seem to breed
queer political parties, but about the
queerest I have heard of is the Atokist
party, which put up for East Sydney.
According to my little knowledge of
Greek and zoology, an atokist should be
a bloke who advocates either sterility in
women or the interests of the anterior
sexless portion of certain polychaete —vide
Webster —the polychaete being common
types of marine worms. A visit to one
of the candidate’s meetings didn’t en-
lighten me very much. Neither did the
poll, in which 146 votes out of 44,000
were cast for atokism. It seems, how-
ever, clear that the electors of East Syd-
ney are surprisingly impervious to the
political doctrine of atokism. In fact,
as a means of reducing taxes on the
holders of commoner political beliefs, I
suggest that the Electoral Department
should start a campaign for lots and lots
of atokist candidates free of the burden
of pre-selection. About 60 of them in
each Commonwealth electorate should
produce a nice harvest of forfeited
deposits.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The practical Judge Cle-
land has raised an entirely novel point
in an Adelaide court. It was a case of
compensation to a widow, and the Judge
pointed out that, besides losing her
husband’s wages, she had lost also his
services about the house, “a new washer
for the tap, mending a broken window,
and a hundred other little jobs that, as
a widow, she will have to pay to get
done.”
* * * »
“Scouter”: Because a couple of A.I.F.
officers, golfing in England, saw what to
them was a mysterious material, like
spider-web, lying thickly on the fairways
one morning, the special correspondent
of a Sydney morning paper cabled out
a wild yarn that German airmen were
believed to be dropping a “gas-infected
gossamer material,” and alleging that an
official telegram had been received at
A.I.F. headquarters to support the be-
lief. The stuff was not new to the
eighteenth-century writer one of whose
best-known essays tells how the gossamer
covered the fields and floated through
the morning air, of a tiny spider mount-
ing a stick and taking off, shooting out
the broad gossamer thread behind it, of
the hounds getting the stuff on their noses
and their comical efforts to brush it off.
“Our Special Correspondent” asked an
A.R.P. warden about a man who alleged
that he got painful burns after grasping
some web. “The blighter,” remarked
the warden with brusque commonsense,
“may have rubbed against a stinging
nettle.” Old German and French writers
had much to say about this gossamer,
the latter mostly from a superstitious or
miraculous point of view.
# * * *
“Doric”: In the distant past what
Glasgow calls a “keelie” may have been
the equivalent of “street arab” or “larri-
kin” ; but these titles are more or less
offensive, whereas “keelie” is now a term
of endearment. Doting mothers cail
their children “wee keelies,” and Glas-
gow Scots abroad habitually introduce
themselves to brither-Scots in the for-
mula “I’m a Glesca keelie.” For a native
of any other city to claim the honor
would be vile treason and sacrilege, as
if a McNab were to wear a McNeish
tartan. To see the term in The Bulletin
was like finding a sprig of heather pressed
between the pages, and I’ll bet I wasn’t
the only Glesca keelie who read the par.
three times to savor it like a sweet morsel
ablow a Doric tongue.
* * * *
“Dan McGrew, Jun.”: Do the movies
have any influence on the Australian
mind? If you don’t believe it read the
strange advertisements which are appear-
ing in the Sydney press designed to lead
the idling flapper to “Bar 99 Dude
Ranch” in the Hawkesbury country
within sight of the G.P.O. clock tower.
Clients are adjured to spend their next
holidays where they can “rough it in
comfort,” and to see the “beauties of
the Virgin Bush, guided by our colorful
Cowboys to the choicest spots of Nature’s
rugged beauty.” Sydney’s finest beaches
are advertised as being a short ride away,
and there are tennis courts, dancing and
singing round the campfire, and a first-
class ballroom—“ Home on the Range,”
of course. Any temptation I feel to spend
a week in these hair-raising surroundings
is damped by the fact that free rattle-
snakes, snakejuice, mustangs, mesas,
pintos, coyotes and corrals don’t seem
to be laid on.
* * * *
“ASQ”: Add to the 1914-18 men who
wore beards Major Giblin, of the 40th
Battalion (Tasmanians), whom I met in
France in 1916, and again at Perham
Downs in mid-1917. Major Giblin is
better known now as Prof. Giblin.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The story of a treasure hunt
which doesn’t fulfil the best traditions of
the movies was related in a stealing and
receiving case in Melbourne. An un-
sophisticated dairyman from Perth
arrived by car and was met by a lady.
With £295 of his hard-earned wealth
locked in the back of the vehicle, he
drove her to a house in one of the sea-
side suburbs. There she handed him a
glass of beer which tasted bitter, and
when he woke up half a day later the
lady and the £295 had departed. A
lady was arrested by John Hops and
searched by Johanna Hops. The only
thing they found of importance on
her person was a matchbox containing
cocaine, which, for some reason or other,
she was holding under her left armpit. A
detective then came upon the scene and,
intrigued by a thickness in her accent,
requested her to remove her false teeth.
He then thrust a finger into her mouth,
which was promptly bitten, but not
before he had discovered the presence of
a ball of paper. When she swallowed
hard the detective decided he was hot
on the trail of the treasure, and rushed
her off to a hospital, where doctors and
nurses gave her appropriate treatment.
In due course she produced a £lOO note
in such good order and condition that
the statement that it was legal tender
in the Commonwealth and in all
Territories under the control of the
Commonwealth was clearly decipher-
able. Investigation proceeding.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The Red Page review of
Henry Lawson’s collected works reminds
me of a story I heard of his meeting with
another writer. It happened in the
Bulletin office. For some reason or other
Henry did not cotton on to his companion
and became a monument of taciturnity.
They left the office together, and it was
not until they reached the pavement in
George-street that Henry broke the
silence. “Which way are you going?”
he asked his fellow-scribe. “I’m going
down to the Quay,” was the reply. “If
you lend me two bob,” said the elder
writer, “I’ll go in the opposite direction.”
* * •-* *
“Cauboy”: When Sir Thomas Beecham
was in Melbourne stropping into con-
dition the symphony orchestra of which
the city is so proud, a lady of high
degree with aesthetic leanings thought she
would organise an afternoon tea at a
leading hostelry and expose the lion to
the gaze of a number of selected people.
Sir Thomas was willing, but four o’clock,
which was the time the lady mentioned,
was a rehearsal time for him, so he said
he would come at five. But the lady
fixed the function for four o’clock, and
invited the Prime Minister. Sir Thomas
honored his promise ; in fact, he came
three minutes early. He had a few
minutes’ conversation with Mr. Menzies.
Next day the conductor was shocked to
read in a newspaper that he had deli-
berately kept the head of the State wait-
ing for 40 minutes, had been unpardon-
ably rude and was altogether a most
reprehensible person. One thing and
another led to hooligans raiding the
baronet’s apartment in Perth and throw-
ing his belongings about. Then the facts
were made known by the wildest baronet
heard in these parts for many a long year.
* * *
“Sleepy Hollow”: “Bohemian’s” par.
(B. 18/9/’4O) about the somnolence of
Nelson (M.L.) raises a grin, but we
Nelson folk don’t sleep all the time. We
get out some dairy produce, hops,
poultry, sheep, wool, hides, tobacco and
fruit with a real flavor. Hardly a square
foot of soil is allowed to remain unpro-
ductive. We supply Wellington with early
peas, beans, strawberries and the like,
produce all our own tucker requirements,
and round off the season with the pro-
duction of roughly three-fifths of the
Dominion’s total yearly export of grade-
one apples. It’s the last place on earth
a Maorilander averse to hard work
would choose to settle in.
* * * *
“Uncle Sham”: The more I hear of
La Guardia, N’Yoik’s Mayor, the better
I like him. His most recent effort in the
cause of decency is to circularise 1300
licensed news- and book-agents in his
city suggesting that they act as their own
censors on the type of magazine they’ll
sell. His circular opens with an appeal
to them as parents, or the relatives of
parents, and ends with a request to for-
ward a list of magazines they wouldn’t
like their own youngsters to read. There
seems to be a moral somewhere in this
for the mayors of Australia’s larger cities.
* * sN *
“Craiser”: I was at the house of a
musician friend who loves good food and
is himself a remarkable cook. He was
expecting a compatriot of his, a refugee
from Europe, also a musician, and had
been on tenterhooks all day lest his cook
should betray him. His friend arrived,
took one sniff of the atmosphere and
then, rushing past his host and hostess,
burst into the kitchen. “If you’re cook-
ing that in fat,” he shouted to the cook,
“back I go to my hotel! ” Even the cook
felt flattered by his interest in her science,
and the dinner was a corker. Mother
used to say “We should never discuss
food ; we should always eat what is put
before us.” But the refugees I have
dined with talked of little else. One told
me he saw food neglected everywhere in
this country, and when he went to stay
on a station he made a better salad out of
weeds growing in the home paddock than
his hostess could put together out of
tins ordered from the city. It may be
that one of the unexpected results of
Mr. Hitler is that refugees will introduce
good cooking to Australia as the
Huguenots introduced weaving into
England.
* * * *
“Caramba”: It pained me to read of
the pulping of the Ballarat Supreme
Court records to 1920. Such wanton
destruction could not happen in S.A.,
where the Public Library Act provides
that “no public document shall be sold,
destroyed or otherwise disposed of unless
the person in whose custody they are
gives notice in writing to the board."
For this wise provision, S.A. can thank
George Cockburn Henderson, a former
Professor of Modern History at the
Adelaide Uni. In January, 1914, he was
granted an honorary commission to in-
quire into the collection, storage and
preservation of archives in Europe. As a
result of his report —published in 1915 —
an Archives Department was set up by
the S.A. Government in 1920. Today the
collection numbers 311,701 documents,
17,346 views and 1408 maps, and in-
cludes dispatches, diaries, letters and
private papers of inestimable value to
students engaged in research into the
history of S.A.
THE SPORTS WHO LOST THEIR TIN.
“A feature of the Federal elections was the record
number of forfeited deposits.”
Cheers for the winners, now the fight is o’er,
And likewise for those gamely-battling souls
Who, though they failed to notch a topping
score,
Put up a gallant showing at the polls!
But one a sympathetic tear may drop
For those who never had a chance to win,
Who could but stage an ignominious flop,
The chaps who did their entrance money in,
The sports who lost their tin.
Foredoomed to failure, as they surely must
Themselves have known (or should have,
anyway),
Their frames into the free-for-all they thrust,
Les enfants perdus, as the Frenchmen say.
In earliest returns their fate they read,
Smit in the neck or battered on the chin;
They learned their five-and-twenty notes had
fled
With manifest or well-concealed chagrin,
The sports wh a lost their tin.
They faced the starter, an imposing host,
A goodly band, some to be left perforce,
As racegoers would phrase it, at the post,
And some to finish furlongs down the course.
And now dejectedly they well may ask
Was it for this they gave good brass a spin,
And undertook a patriotic task?
The candidates who failed to save their skin,
The sports who lost their tin.
Here’s to the victors, whosoe’er they were,
And those who struggled hard to make the
grade,
The runners-up, but surely one may spare
A tribute for the wooden-spoon brigade.
What though their claims received so short
a shrift,
What though their tallies proved not worth
a pin,
At least they gave the Treasury a lift,
The chaps who did their entrance money in,
The sports who lost their tin.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Every man should have a hobby, Prendergast .”
“D.E.”: Interested in Australia and
in elections as he was, Dickens would
have loved to be among those present
when Jabez Jagger Potts, “newspaper
proprietor, Kaniva,” came out for Wan-
non (Vic.) as an Independent. His de-
light would have been complete had
there been an Ephraim Ebenezer Shirk
among the candidates. Kaniva was
loyal to Jabez Jagger Potts, and in that
subdivision the newspaper proprietor led
the field. Unfortunately there were 16
other subdivisions, and long before the
returning officer started on the postal
votes it was evident that Jabez Jagger
Potts would lose his deposit. He may
console himself with the reflection that
newspaper proprietors in bigger places
than Kaniva came a worse thud and
did in the equivalent of many deposits.
* * * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: It is a perpetual mys-
tery to the landsman why warships burn
so fiercely if they get a bad pounding
during an action. “Surely there isn’t
much woodwork to burn in a modern
warship,” people say to me. “I’ve been
on board cruisers and I could see nothing
inflammable save some matting on the
decks and some stools and tables in the
messes.” But almost anything seems to
burn after a shell has burst in a com-
partment, and this is especially true of
the paintwork. Insulation on electric
cables also burns with a great heat; but
the main cause is fuel oil. Oil fires are
very difficult to deal with ; once one gets
going properly water only spreads the
flames about, and it takes foam or chemi-
cal extinguishers to deal with it.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Judging from local obstetrical
happenings, I am beginning to wonder
whether the war may not be doing some-
thing underhand to replenish Australia’s
shortage in supplies of Best Immigrants
from hitherto unexpected sources. Of
the ten latest inmates of our local mater-
nity ward, six were over 40 and didn’t
attempt to conceal it. As one of them
remarked proudly, “It looks as if we’re
carrying on with the job that the young
ones are funking.” Intervals since last
efforts in the line ranged from five to
19 years. All the babies were normal
and healthy, two of them particularly
fine specimens. Ages of the fathers
ranged from above 60 to 43, and their
reaction generally was less enthusiastic.
* * * *
“Nakh”: A particularly ferocious
attack has given strength to the campaign
against greyhounds in Melbourne. An
East Coburg resident was approaching
his home when he saw six of the animals
playfully tossing a bit of red rag into
the air, battering it against the fence and
pouncing on it as it fell to the ground.
Their plaything was his daughter. With
the help of a neighbor and his own dog
the man rescued the little lass, but not
before she had been badly mauled. She
recovered sufficiently to give evidence
against the owner, who was fined a fiver.
* * * *
“Colonel B’st’r”: Lord Lamington, ex-
Governor of Queensland, who has died
in England at 82, had a horror of snakes,
but the tribe seemed to regard him with
some esteem. Soon after Lamington had
taken up residence in Brisbane G.H.
(now part of the University buildings) a
6ft. carpet snake crawled
through the bathroom
window while H.E. was
enjoying a shower. The
resultant efforts of the
Public Works to render
the premises snakeproof
are still traceable. At
Rockhampton a long
green ' snake swung out
of a tree in the Botanical
Gardens while his Ex.
was making a speech,
and but for the prompt-
ness of a gardener would
have achieved its obvious
intention of draping itself
round the gubernatorial
neck. A third was dis-
covered in the v.-r. car-
riage while Lamington
was on his way in full
state to open Parliament.
During his Governorship
of Bombay the peer nar-
rowly escaped treading
on a cobra while getting
out of bed. Shortly after-
wards I had an oppor-
tunity of admiring his
physical and moral cour-
age in taking (and re-
maining in) the chair at
a meeting of the Bombay
Natural History Society
when an authority lec-
tured on snakes, illustrat-
ing his subject with live
specimens produced
from his pockets and
placed on the table at
which the Governor
sat. Lamington never
moved, made a witty
speech afterwards —and
was in bed for the next two days recover-
ing from the shock. The son who suc-
ceeds to the title was born in Brisbane.
* * * *
“Cy Clone”: Ever tried to discover
why a thing makes you laugh? I gave
up long ago, but am satisfied it has some-
thing to do with incongruity, and percep-
tion of incongruity involves some cul-
ture and experience. What appears in-
tensely ludicrous to an educ.ated, intelli-
gent person will not raise a smile in a
child or an adult of low intelligence.
Humorless people are usually those with
an undeveloped or a naturally deficient
sense of proportion. The unexpected is
a strong ingredient of humor. A school-
boy at a holiday break-up performance
of a scene from “Julius Cassar” points at
the body of Caesar, forgets his line (“Who
has done this bloody deed?”) and renders
it as “What bastard done this?” He sees
no reason for the shrieks of laughter that
convulse the adult audience. And of
course the twists of our glorious mother
tongue offer possibilities, as realised in
later life by the schoolboy who in an
essay on the school sports wrote “It was
a day of glorious sunshine, and the
grandstand was packed with expectant
mothers.” In much the same category
is the classic essay howler “The joys
of childhood are great, but you cannot
compare them with the pleasures of
adultery.”
* * * *
“Old Lag”: Chatswood, on the north
side of Port Jackson, is situated in
country originally known as King’s
Plains. About 1794 grants of land
were made to time-expired soldiers
and others close to the present St.
Leonards railway station and stretching
northward to Chatswood. The first
grantees were Thomas Whittle, Obadiah
Ikin, William Wright, Henry Lamb,
Samuel Reddish, Benjamin Johns, Wil-
liam Packer, Gilbert Goodlet, J. Dark,
J. Sawyer, Charles Robinson, John Tyler,
Robert Watson, Robert Turner, George
Loder and Daniel Carr. Half a dozen
of these names still carry on in N.S.W.
To reach their estates from Sydney, the
settlers went by boat to Gore Bay, and
then up the creek past the present Woll-
stonecraft to a spot just below the sub-
bub of Crow’s Nest, whence a track
that was the first road in North Sydney
led to the farms. Later on another track
was cut through the dense bush from
the point where Billy Blue was granted
80 acres by Governor Macquarie—a
small portion of this holding is still in
the possession of a descendant.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The extraordinary icouraga
displayed by the lieutenant and his squad
who labored for three days to save St.
Paul’s recalls a less conspicuous deed of
gallantry in the 1914-18 war. An Aus-
tralian chemist was in the trenches when
a German gas bomb of new design and
unusual dimensions lobbed in no-man’s-
land. He got permission from his com-
mander, called for a couple of volun-
teers, and set out to retrieve it. In
face of withering fire he and his com-
panions succeeded in bringing in their
trophy. His analysis of its contents was
extremely useful to the British in provid-
ing the troops with an antidote. The
chemist-soldier now teaches in a tech-
nical school in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Wester”: A Condobolin (N.S.W.)
man who wanted some explosives for
tank-sinking drove 150 miles to buy
them, then had to go through a long
series of questions and forms before he
could get permission to do so under the
National Security Regulations. Some
training ’planes from a near-by air school
flew over and he got a brainwave. “Why
not,” he invited Authority, “have farmers
mark out a tank site as a bomb target
and let the airmen have a go at ’em with
heavy bombs? That’d give the airmen
good practice and the farmer a tank, thus
making the air-training scheme repro-
ductive.” He is still awaiting a reply.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The time for surrealism to
enter the sacred portals of the National
Gallery in Melbourne is not yet, two
examples in this genre from the Contem-
porary Art Society’s show having been
rejected by the trustees, who preferred
to play safe with a Gruner, an Arnold
Shore and a Tom Roberts. But “modern-
ists” need not despair. Time was when
the same trustees would have viewed with
horror the suggestion that Cezanne, Van
Gogh and Gauguin should sully their
walls, also the Australian Max Meldrum
and his pupils. Now all these artists are
represented, and nobody is in the least
upset about it. In the meantime Boehm’s
colossal bulLp/wj-peasant has been offered
on loan to and accepted by the Royal
Agricultural Society, and the group is to
be set up at the Showground, along with
Queen Victoria and the Prince Consort.
“Hop into town, Bert, and renew the insurance policy !”
MODERN ART.
“Some of these ‘modern’ pictures convey nothing.
I cannot see what use they are if we have to he
told what they mean.” —Letter to “S. M. Herald.”
I gaze at modern pictures quite a lot,
But scant enjoyment in the work I find
If I am left bewildered, bothered, hot,
And wondering disconsolately what
Was in the artist’s mind.
What though my ignorance should earn me
storms
Of cultured highbrows’ scornful sneers and
sniffs,
Such stuff my soul exhilarates and warms
No more than Babylonian cuneiforms
Or Gyppo hieroglyphs.
I’ve always loved on rippling verse to feast,
And roll it o’er my tongue with deep con-
tent ;
But my appreciation’s always ceased
When I discovered that I’d not the least
Idea what it meant.
Pictures or poems—will such things enrich
Our stores of either art or minstrelsy,
When they present a secret, dark as pitch,
A riddle to be solved, a door to which
We have to beg the key?
Painters and bards, whatever paths you tread,
Let me suggest ’twere better you refrained
From offerings that, when surveyed or read,
Need to be skilfully interpreted
And carefully explained.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


It
mm
' Jr
Ms
mm?
m
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
m
10 for 9d...20 for VS
E_H66_
MADE
SPECIALLY
PREVENT
T 0
POLITICAL POINTS
To his own astonishment, Curtin was
returned for Fremantle. On primaries
he was 2500 or so behind the U.A.P.
total, but soldiers’ votes and a wholly
unexpected distribution of preferences—
capricious, the other side swears, Clarke’s
name being printed first and Curtin’s
second—saved him. This when Rowley
James, of Hunter (N.S.W.), had offered
to efface himself in the larger interests
of the party and the nation. As chival-
rous as Rowley, Curtin refused the prof-
fered sacrifice.
It was in the U.S.A. that the first steps
towards setting up Czechoslovakia were
taken. Poland and the League were
Wilsonian creations. Britain ended the
alliance with Japan in deference to
American opinion. Now the chickens
have come home to roost on the White
House, and great decisions must be taken
by the generous and humane man who
lives there. It is a supreme example of
one of the stern truths of life —you don’t
really get rid of moral responsibilities by
shoving them on other shoulders or run-
ning away from them.
“Menzies is with you, Churchill.” Just
as well for the U.A.P. that it got its full-
page advertisements and posters out and
its election over a few days before Dakar
instead of a few days after.
“There was never a greater need at
the moment for an outstanding Dominions
Secretary to put the Dominions’ case
before the War Cabinet.” Sydney
“Sun.” Not direct representation of the
Dominions, whose fate is involved in the
war, and which have been wondering,
albeit powerless, witnesses of Narviks
and Dakars, but another British poli-
tician! The “Sun’s” motto is “Above
all, for Australia”! It must mean “for
Whitehall”!
The one droll feature of a dark week
was the dilemma in which the Dakar
fizzle placed the press idolators of
Churchill. Mention of his name would
have raised the question of responsibility,
so they didn’t mention it, concentrating
their fury on “the Government” and
poor old De Gaulle, who couldn’t have
moved a boatload of his Free Franks
without Churchill’s authority. Strange
that none of the idolatrous prints
thought of blaming Chamberlain. There
is still time for them to rectify the
omission.
“The only value of an Empire War
Council would be in helping to clove-
tail the war efforts of the Dominions
with that of Britain. It would assist in
the solving of war productions prob-
lems.” Weighty contribution by Her-
mann Black, lecturer in economics at
Sydney University. As an expert on
Empire war affairs and foreign policy,
Mr. Black appears to be a very good
economist.
In the middle of the election furore
two voices were faintly heard. Arch-
bishop Gilroy, of Sydney, denounced
divorce and contraceptives, and W. M.
Hughes said “The dew of death is on
this country —nothing can save us but
an increase in the birthrate.” Neither
received anything like the notice fre-
quently given some Hollywood moron’s
love affairs or a sordid story of divorce
in high places.
“Till the Parliament of the Common-
wealth otherwise provides, the Parliament
of Queensland, if that State be an original
State, may make laws dividing the State
into divisions and determining the num-
ber of Senators to be chosen for each.”
That was put into the Constitution before
it was decided that Queensland would
come in with the other States, along with
the power vested in the Commonwealth
Parliament to carve States into two or
more districts for election of Senators.
In view of Big-City domination of the
Senate, the unrepresentative character of
that body, the A-ticket joke and the vast
masses of informal votes, it is a power
which should be exercised, and the
sooner the better.
Cameron must be enjoying the dis-
comfiture of the Sydney dailies which
have hurled so much mud at him,
wrapped up in U.S. magazine slang. The
State where he leads for the Government
gave him a great personal majority, re-
turned two members in electorates which
the Sydney dailies called doubtful, un-
seated a Labor member and re-elected
the three Ministerial Senators, sending
back only one Labor M.H.R. Chiefly
because of the city dailies, several N.S.W.
seats in the House and three in the Senate
“Bombs falling near Goebbels’s house and in Youth Movement districts have prompted
that person to issue fierce prophecies and threats.”
“Bite him, Otto!”
were lost, and all the “Herald”-“Tele-
graph” “outstanding candidates” were
engulfed except Abbott in New England ;
and city press support probably did
Abbott more harm than good. In any
case, he will support Cameron as C.P.
leader, whereas Thompson, whom he de-
feated, was one of Cameron’s opponents.
Melbourne “Age,” which supported
Labor at previous Commonwealth elec-
tions, came out strong for the Menzies
Government, and, though not now as
influential as when David Syme threw
his weight behind 10 candidates for the
1898 Federal Convention and saw them
all elected, its contribution to the Gov-
ernment’s success in Victoria was useful.
The “Age’s” acid comments on the
“private political kingmakers” who
flopped so badly in N. S. Wales, and
one of whom pronounced “Backward-
dreaming Melbourne” An Issue at This
Election, would have made Dauvid him-
self chuckle.
Victoria’s Assembly is sparing one of
its three McDonalds for the House at
Canberra, which has been short of Mc-
Donalds since 1925. In that year death
deprived it of one —M.H.R. for Kennedy
since 1901, he died between nomination
day and polling day—and the electors
of another, M.H.R. for Barton, who
forthwith disappeared into the void.
Resigning as M.L.A. for Polwarth, Allan
McDonald has achieved the considerable
feat of adding a couple of thousand to
the late Geoff Street’s last majority. He
is a stock and station agent and an Old
Digger.
“Ministers budgeted for a deficit of
£1,512,000, and had it not been” (the
familiar excuses follow). “The actual
deficit is £500,000 less than the deficit
in the previous financial year.” So it
was said when the Sydney Government
condescended to do a bit of legislative
work at last. The Auditor-General’s
account is that “the deficiency” amounted
to £2,567,000—0n1y £187,000 less than
the loss for 1938-39 as given by Stevens,
although Spooner reckoned it as
£3,750,000. Yet tax-revenue was up
£2,326,000, the blundering Government
having budgeted for an increase of
£4,000,000. If the increase had been
£5,000,000 the blundering Government
would have spent the lot and explained
that it had been prevented from showing
a surplus by the act of God.
During the year to June 30, £8,252,300
was dragged from the pockets of the
N.S.W. people for unemployed-relief and
social services. Nominally, two-thirds
was “allocated to unemployed-relief,” but,
according to the Auditor-General, “in-
terest, exchange and sinking fund charges
and administrative expenses absorbed
32.9 p.c.; works, grants, loans, advances,
training of apprentices and subsidies,
33.81 p.c.; and food and other relief,
33.29 p.c.” Evidently a lot of the un-
employed are moneylenders.
Bruce was the first and only Prime
Minister to be unseated—it happened on
October 12, 1929. No Opposition-leader
has suffered that misfortune. Going back
to 1901, Curtin’s predecessors were Reid,
Deakin, Fisher, Cook, Tudor, Ryan,
Charlton, Scullin, Lyons and Scullin
again. All had safe seats:
“League of Nations Day” was cele-
brated in N.S.W. Government schools last
Wednesday. Asked what the programme
was, one teacher feelingly remarked, “Oh,
we mentioned it to the seniors. There
wasn’t much to say.” Still, they could
have sung the “Dead March.”
Support for those who favor extension
of bar-closing hours in six-o’clock States
comes from Tasmania. The Commis-
sioner of Police has reported to Parlia-
ment that 10 o’clock closing has “afforded
material assistance in administering the
Act,” and that convictions for licensing
offences and drunkenness have fallen
well below the average for three pre-
vious years—so 9 to 755 and 285 to 373
respectively. The narks have yet to be
heard from.
The Dakar farce impelled N.S.W.
Opposition-leader McKell to support what
The Bulletin has been urging for
months:
Australia must have its say in the con-
duct of the war. It cannot do so by tele-
phone or cable. The nation demands rep-
resentation in an Empire War Cabinet.
Good for McKell. Take the floor, Mr.
Menzies!
Sydney “D.T.,” “giving Australia
leadership” once more after the fearful
flop of its campaign for “outstanding
candidates”:
Can’t we be as politically intelligent
as Britain? Can’t our leaders show the
statesmanship of a Churchill?
It was published along with the story of
the Dakar bungle ; but the “D.T.” is like
that.
No Tivoli artist, radio uncle, daily-
paper editor or other professional
humorist should be without the 190 sets
of amendments to Commonwealth
Statutory Rules issued —so far —this year.
On the stage they can be guaranteed to
raise a laugh when read out in slabs:
The first schedule of the Regulations is
amended by (d) omitting from Form XIX
the words “Rib (Roast)” and inserting in
their stead the words “Prime Rib (Roast),
including bone.”
As material for a guessing competition
on a wet evening the new regulations
should prove useful at family parties.
They are about as intelligible to the
average reader as the inscription on the
Rosetta Stone.
David Hunter, the young blind man
who held the Croydon seat for the
U.A.P. in the by-election brought
about when Stevens resigned to
win the war by jaw, was given
the Address-in-Reply as his
maiden speech when the N.S.W.
Parliament came out of hiding.
Like another brand-new young
man, William Chaffey, Mr. Hunter
is probably full of high ideals and
that austere determination to
serve which is the pride of youth.
Pity both should have been con-
demned to the vitiating atmo-
sphere of an unnecessary State
Parliament which has met mainly
for the purpose of going into
recess again.
It remained for Opposition-leader
McKell to discover that the Sydney Gov-
ernment could be resolute when the occa-
sion arose. Before anyone gets excited
it should be stated at once that his dis-
covery applied to the unemployed situa-
tion, which, in his opinion, the Govern-
ment was “resolutely” dodging. McKell
was right, too, for all Treasurer Richard-
son could say in refutation was that the
40,000 quoted by McKell was “greatly
exaggerated” because many of the men
were single. Married or single, the
number of unemployed in N.S.W. con-
stitutes a standing reproach to the Mac-
quarie-street fiasco. No wonder the
darned thing adjourned again!
“C.Q.”: It requires concrete experi-
ence, and lots of it, to stir Victorians into
action. There is one air-raid shelter in
Melbourne, and it is mainly a showpiece
for extracting threepences for the Com-
forts Fund. But if the bushfires come
again this year the country will be well
provided. Under compulsion sawmillers
are busily constructing dugouts accord-
ing to the Forests Commission’s speci-
fication, which insists on accommodation
for more than 100, with a warden in
charge, and sufficient water. But it took
a succession of disasters to do it.
[For matter referring to the Commonwealth
election, responsibility is taken by J. E. Webb
and Cecil Mann, 252 George-street, Sydney.]


INTO BATTLE.
“In you go, lads, and give them everything you’ve got!”


WJJNOii BAKER
tii UltjT E R\ll\S" .7171' l! UI! ijii . ' i 1 11 J|; (i jj; - 11 *ljJ J | i -
■nu&j
BAKER’S TRIPLE CRUSH EMASCU-
LATOR. A well-made, first-class, nickel-
plated instrument, combining the blunt cut
and the crushing block. Its simplicity and
thorough effectiveness in operating com-
mend it to both the novice and expert.
Price, 55/-.
QUALITY CUTLERY
m
MOROCCO LEATHER ZIP FASTENED
SEWING CASE. Fitted with 5 Reels
Sylko, 1 Scissor. Thimble, Tape Measure,
Needles, etc. 46/6 complete.
wm.
BAKER’S STATION OR FARMER’S
KNIFE, the standard favourite of the
Australian Bushman. 4iu. Stag Haft,
14/6 each. 3iin., 13/-.
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY., 3 HUNTER ST.
LTD., SYDNEY.
VtJNOBAKEFt
No. 40—BAKEH s DAGGING AM>
BOTTLE OUTFIT. Consists of Reit
Tang Shear, J Pint Galv. Tin Bottle, and
6x2xl Oil Stone. The Sheath is
made as No. 17 Outfit. 32/6 complete.
Postage 1/6 extra.
Fitted with Copper Bottle, 4/- extra.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Harry Gregory, born in 1860, is the
oldest M.H.R. now that Doc. Maloney
has passed out; also his length of Par-
liamentary service is exceeded only by
that of Hughes. Gregory became a
Westralian M.L.A. in April, 1897 ; and
save for a brief spell between losing his
State seat in 1911 and gaining a Federal
one in 1913 he has been in Parliamen-
tary harness ever since. In over 40
years he has the pleasing record of having
lost only two elections; and even then
the first one (in 1908) was upset on
petition and at the second try he scraped
hack. In Westralia he was Minister for
Mines in three or four Governments, but
as an M.H.R. he has never been within
cooee of office.
Appointment of Leonard Darling to
B.H.P.’s Australian board adds to the
half-century’s succession of Darlings on
this directorate. Late John Darling,
father of Harold (present chairman) and
Leonard, joined the company as a direc-
tor 47 years ago, and was chairman for
eight years from 1907. Harold this
month concludes his eighteenth year as
chairman. Adelaide-born, Leonard has
lived mostly in England, looking after
the London branch of John Darling and
Son, wheat-buyers. He was on B.H.P.’s
London board for seven years, and re-
turned to Australia six months ago. Was
a British artillery officer in 1914-18.
With Councillor Coles in for Henty
and under a promise to resign the mayoral
robes when the new Parliament
assembles, Frank Beaurepaire is pretty
sure to be Melbourne’s next Lord
Mayor. He is 49, was swimming cham-
pion of Victoria at 14 and world’s cham-
pion five years later. Now he is manag-
ing director of the Olympic Tyre and
Rubber Co. As a. city father he is chair-
man of the Town Hall and Baths Com-
mittee.
Herewith J. T. Barnes, whose cheerful
features will conjure up reminiscences
among readers all round the world. A
Londoner and a S. African veteran, he
turned up in Queensland in the first decade
of the century, and was regarded there
by employers’ organisations as the enfant
I. T. BARNES.
terrible of Labor. He was president of
the Australian Meat Employees’ Union
(which took a leading part in the great
tramway strike of 1911) and of the
Queensland Eight Hour Union. Moving
to Victoria, he became at once president
of the State branch of the A.L.P. and
president of the Meat Employees’ Union.
From 1915 to 1918 he was Victorian
Meat Prices Commissioner, and then his
old friend W. M. Hughes packed him off
to London to stimulate immigration, a
job which occupied him until the depres-
sion stopped immigration altogether. For
the best part of a decade it seemed almost
impossible to go anywhere in Europe
without running into J. T. Barnes, usually
in process of making a speech. He lec-
tured to the Imperial Affairs Committee
of the British Parliament. Then he came
back to Australia and settled down to
municipal politics in Sandringham (Vic.),
of which he was Mayor in 1936. He
knows the industrial world as well as
any man in the Commonwealth, and is
the valued consultant of many Ministers
and big commercial concerns.
For the first time for 46 years the
electors of Melbourne didn’t have the
opportunity of voting for or against the
Little Doctor. His successor, Arthur
Augustus Calwell, though born in a
house in West Melbourne within a
stone’s-throw of Maloney’s birthplace, is
a different sort of chap. Maloney was
an individualist; Calwell is strictly ortho-
dox. As a civil service clerk still in
his teens, he became secretary of the
Melbourne branch of the A.L.P. Since
then he has held all offices, including
presidency of the T.H. Council. He is a
member of the Melbourne City Council,
so may be said to have won the Federal
seat back for the city fathers. They lost
it in 1904, when Dr. Maloney defeated
Mayor McEacharn.
S.A. has lost one of its best-known
citizens in Edward Hawker. After
Cambridge, a thorough legal training,
and some years as M.H.A. in Adelaide,
he settled down to the family tradition
of stockbreeding in the Clare district.
He had for many years been head of
the pastoral Hawker clan, and, living to
be 90, outlived brothers who were much
younger. Charlie Hawker, M.H.R., killed
in the Kyeema crash, was a nephew.
Wallace Lennard, N. S. Wales Inspec-
tor of Schools, enters on long leave in
a couple of weeks’ time prior to retire-
ment. Few men of his vocation have
left so many friends, old and young,
behind them. He has never ceased to
be the advising and practising teacher
rather than a mere supervising official.
Having battled his way from Rockview
Provisional School through all the grades,
he knew where the shoe pinched. He
never asked men and women to do what
he had not tried to do himself. Hundreds
are better teachers for having met him.
So “Wal” goes out with his interest in
education, his smile, his sense of humor
and his “fair-to-rotten” golf with good
wishes of all who encountered him on his
rounds.
Adelaide has news of the death while
defending London of its young airman
Carew Reynell. His father and name-
sake was a colonel, killed on Gallipoli
in 1915. The pioneers of the family
founded the village of Reynella, a few
miles south of Adelaide, and also the
big winery of that name. The latest
Carew Reynell was an only son, and
leaves an only son.
Jean Darling, killed in an air raid
while going about her duties as an air
warden in London, was a daughter of
the head of Geelong Grammar, J. R.
Darling. A young Oxford-trained Eng-
lishman with advanced ideas, he took
over in 1929 and started to make G.G.
a model public school. He encouraged
the boys to go in for art and music, and
got the best teachers he could find for
those departments. The boys also culti-
vate the fields, build and practise self-
government.
Dead at 79 in Melbourne, one of Aus-
tralia’s leading pastoralists, Robert Officer
Blackwood. He started farming at Denili-
quin (N.S.W.), and it wa§ largely due to
him that Deniliquin went in so early for
water conservation. Then he turned his
energies to Victoria, becoming president
of the Employers’ Association, vice-
president of the Pastoralists’ Union and
the R.A.S. and member of the Edward
Wilson Trust, which guides the destinies
of the “Argus.” In 1903 he got in
for Riverina in the House of Reps., but
was unseated on a petition by his oppo-
nent, J. M. Chanter, and lost the by-
election. He was keen on fisticuffs in his
youth, and was runner-up for the ama-
teur boxing championship of England.
No Polwarth ram ever developed a
“baa-aa” that could outdo the voice of
A. McK. McDonald, former member for
Polwarth in the Victorian Assembly, who
now enters the Federal drafting-yard as
political shepherd for the Corangamite
flock. McDonald’s voice could be heard
in all corners of the Victorian Assembly
when he had something to say, a faculty
that should ensure his popularity among
the “Hansard” reporters when he opens
out in the national Parliament.
Group-Captain T. M. Wilks, who is
M.L.’s air liaison officer at Staff Head-
quarters in Melbourne, began his connec-
tion with army flying in the Shivery
GROUP-CAPT. T. M. WILKS.
Islands when there wasn’t a machine in
the Dominion. He had previously had
spasms of air work with British squad-
rons when he was an infantryman with
the N.Z.E.F. in France in the last war.
In 1921 the M.L. Government appointed
him staff officer for air services, and he
was the services. Now for companions
he has 345 officers and 4300 men. Wilks
was born at Thames and educated at
King’s College, Wellington.
Passed in his last copy in Melbourne
at 51, Arnold Peter Kortum, of the
“Argus.” He had been Trades Hall
roundsman for the paper since 1927, and
was as highly respected for the fairness
of his reporting at Victoria’s citadel of
Labor as he was at the conservative
fortress in Elizabeth-street.
C. E. Mac Cormack, just retired
from the Chief Judgeship of the M.L
Native Land Court after 34 years of it,
was born in Sydney in 1862, and crossed
the Tasman at the age of three. Before
he was a Judge he acted for a while as
Resident Commissioner of the Cook
Islands. A son, Dr. Kenneth Mac Co-
rmack, is a lieut.-col. with the M.L. forces
in England.
Robert Hall Chapman, chief engineer
of S.A. railways, who is also in charge
of the Government munition works, is
a son of knight Robert Chapman, who
was for so many years professor of en-
R. H. CHAPMAN.
gineering at Adelaide University. The
son won the Angas Engineering Ex-
hibition in 1907, and his queue of degrees
culminated in ME. (Adelaide) 1921. He
served with the A.I.F. and B.E.F. 1915-19
(wounded, twice mentioned in dis-
patches), and received his present
appointment in 1924. He’s 50, not at all
fond of limelight, and plays golf.
Robert Jackson Noble, born at Five
Dock (N.S.W.) in 1894, became Under-
secretary of N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture last March, and has recently re-
organised the whole show by grouping
the related branches under divisional
heads, with himself as director. One of
the group of scientific cadets admitted to
the department in 1913, he graduated
B.Sc. Agr. at Sydney University, then
took a four years’ course in Egypt and
France with the First A.I.F. In 1920
he went to Minneapolis Uni. (U.S.A.) on
a Ben Fuller scholarship, and graduated
Ph.D. and M.Sc. Since his return Dr.
Noble has concentrated on biology, and
has found time to become associated
with a whole raft of learned institutes.
He has been lecturer and correspondent
in plant pathology, and frequently digs
out plants on the fairways of Roseville
golf course. Among his degrees in this
elusive science is an A.I.F. Cup. His
father is Alexander Noble, inspector of
N.S.W. public schools until his retirement
about 20 years ago.
The King found time in the middle
of the Blitzkrieg to approve of the award-
ing of the Royal Medal for Poetry to a
Victorian, Michael Thwaites. Thwaites
was educated at Melbourne University,
and then went to Oxford, where he won
the Newdigate Prize in 1938. His poetry
is well known in England, but most Aus-
tralian libraries have never heard of
him. “Milton Blind” is the title of his
poem.
News comes from Kent of the sudden
death of Dr. Walter George Ivens,
anthropologist, missionary and scholar.
A graduate of the M.L. University, he
spent years with the Melanesian Mission
and wrote Melanesians of the Solomon
Islands and The Island Builders of the
Pacific, besides a half-dozen grammars
and dictionaries of the Melanesian lan-
guages. In 1923 a Litt.D. came his way
from Melbourne Uni., and the following
year a Research Fellowship, which he
directed towards the study of the anthro-
pology of the Solomon Islanders. Ivens
was with the Yarrabah Mission, Queens-
land, from 1910-12, and served in the
diocese of Melbourne from 1912-24, and
latterly in the diocese of Canterbury
(Eng.). He was an uncle of A. G. Barrett,
Adelaide’s Lord Mayor.


THANKS
NO
a
have
a
fd rather
<* V w :■ ■. . -M
Capsta
n
Red
\v
V
p
Va
□
K
M:
S
s?
m
&
&
u
m
C-*~
22
%
m
m
m
m
m
Time for a
—that’s why they are the
Empire’s favourite cigarettes
3%:
sft
10 for 6 1 • 20 for I'-
ALSO FLAT AND ROUND FIFTIES AND HUNDREDS
Capstan Special Mild . . . Red Packs
Capstan Medium .... Blue Packs
Capstan Full Strength • , Brown Packs
718 E-8.40


ABORIGINALITIES
“Nor’-west”: One thing I admire
about Binghi is his realistic economy of
resources. It was Christmas time, and
we, appropriately enough, were on
Christmas Creek —the one that flows into
the Fitzroy in the far hinterland of
East Kimberley. From the tucker case
Long Ned produced comestibles long
preserved—raisins, currants, lemon-peel,
etc.—and with all solemnity compounded
a Christmas duff, a ceremony watched
with fascinated eyes by Jacky-Jacky. The
dough mixed, there came the matter of a
pudding cloth. From his swag Ned pro-
duced his last clean shirt, long conserved,
for although we were camped on a
creek there was little water in it. “What
you goin’ to do with that shirt?” inquired
Jacky. “Boil the pudding in it,” said
Ned. Jacky underwent a mental con-
vulsion. “Cripes, boss, don’t do that!
Don’t spoil a good clean shirt; here, take
mine!” And with a generosity that it
would be difficult to surpass he stripped
off his six-months-worn shirt and handed
it over.
* * *
“Carapace”: Very well, “Groper” can
have his own way about it; no practical
man, though, could compare the turning
of an overturned dinghy with the job of
doing the same with a live turtle
(B. 11/9/’4O). If the boys can hold the
turtle, why turn it? My experience goes
to show the reptile is as much at home
in the water any side up. Because two
boys can support a semi-drowned
12-stone man it doesn’t say they can do
the same with a live and frisky turtle
which weighs between 20 and 22 stone.
The 50ft. waves can be placed in the
same category as the other absurdities.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Wandana”: My first Bulletin con-
tribution—a par. which I still remember
—was published when I was 16. This
week the 16-year-old son of the house
came to breakfast with a pleased smile
all over his face. The urge had gripped
him, and his first par. was figuring
amongst “Aboriginalities.” About 40
years separate the two. Which should, I
think, go close to annexing the Father-
and-son Abolying Stakes.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Bogaduck”: G. K. Townshend’s bar-
rage of toy balloons to keep the crows
off (B. 4/9/’4O) isn’t as far-fetched as
might appear. The chap on the next
block to mine in our South Aus. district
beckoned me over one day when some of
the black devils were overhead. As I
arrived a cackling hen left the nest, and
a moment later a black shape made a
low-dive attack. Suddenly, and for no
apparent reason, the crow looped the
loop and was within a foot of the ground
inside the fowlyard before it could right
itself ; as it rose again an invisible hand
seemed to catch it and fling it into the
netting. Cawing frantically it dashed
around the yard, cleared the netting dur-
ing the second lap and lit out for the
horizon, still cawing. Strands of very
fine piano wire, rendered almost invisible
by being buried overnight in green saw-
dust, and strained tightly in crisscross
fashion some six feet from the ground,
had done the trick. After that the cocky
was free not only from the depredations
of crows, but also of magpies and chicken
hawks.
* * * *
“Philicum”: Just before bidding com-
menced at the sale of the farm and
effects of a Maori chief, a wall-eyed
Maori approached the auctioneer and
said “If the corpse bids, take no notice,
go straight on.” The sale started, and
the first cow was knocked down to an-
other Maori, upon which the wall-eyed
one whispered to the auctioneer that the
“corpse” had just operated by buying
the cow. He then explained that the late
chief had been married three times, leav-
ing issue by each wife; the last wife,
still alive, was advised by her wall-eyed
brother that the children of the first and
second wives had formed themselves into
a “co-operative association” to buy cer-
tain stock, and then refuse to pay for
them, thus securing what they considered
their inheritance. After that the auc-
tioneer looked the other way when the
“co-op.” representative again bid, and
the sale concluded with only one cow to
be argued about.
* * * *
“Naturala”: It would be foolish to
demy any plant, creeping or otherwise,
the faculty of “reasoning things out.”
Take the oft-quoted case of roots finding
a tiny hole or crack in a sewerage pipe.
The Westralian Christmas-bush is a root
parasite ; with an almost diabolical in-
stinct or intelligence its roots seek out
the roots of an adjacent tree and steal
sustenance from them. The roots, travel-
ling blindly feet beneath the soil, must
have guidance of some sort. Do trunk
or leaves take cognisance of the position
of a possible host and transmit directions
to the roots?
He K‘ <t
“0.P.”: Strangest pet I ever met was
a rooster, carted about the Riverina in
the old days by Stumpy Jones until it
was known from the Niemur to Cuthero.
It walked with him, pecking and scratch-
ing along the road, and when tired hopped
on to his swag and rode there. It looked
a cross between a Buff Orpington and
the kind of feather duster Chinese
hawkers sell, and its crow was un-
doubtedly the worst noise the Riverina
ever endured. Screech owls that heard
it echoing from some bend of the Wakool
at evening were known to give one
startled cry and head for Queensland.
Tomcats and foxes went to ground, and
ihe night-ranging wood duck, a pretty
good howler itself, disappeared from
those parts during the currency of that
rooster. People on stations and in town-
ships who discovered that Stumpy and
his pet had arrived crept away in the
darkness, taking the old and the bed-
ridden with them, for no human except
Stumpy—who was stone deaf —could
hear that crow and remain calm. As
Stumpy tramped the track, phead of
him the scattered populations fled, hiding
in the sandhills and the belar flats until
man and bird had passed. In time the
Riverina was a nerve-racked and de-
populated land, haunted by strange fears
“THERE’s technique for you."
and liable to take fits when the local
bantam cock flapped its wings. Peace
came one red and golden dawn out of
Euston when Stumpy’s pet let himself go
and crowed his flamin’ head right off.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “Nigil Dugan” (B.
18/9/ ’4O) is, of course, perfectly right
in his correction of the contributor who
credited Smith’s Mill (W.A.) with being
the burial place of Frederick Smith, one
of Grey’s party in the trek from Shark’s
Bay to Perth 100 years ago. But in his
mention of the crime that brought
Smith’s Mill into front-page news in
1903 he omits perhaps the most sensa-
tional item about the horrible business.
The “splendid young man” whom the
eloquent Ned Harney tried to save from
the gallows was permitted to marry his
mistress in Fremantle Gaol before he
made his exit from the world, the bride,
by the way, having been one of the
picnic party which perpetrated the
wanton murder as the conclusion of a
pleasant day’s outing. It is probably the
only Australian parallel to the story of
the American murderer Colt, as pre-
served in the Bon Gaultier Ballads.
* * ¥ *
“The 0.D.”: I’ve often been intrigued
by a bird in western N.S.W. that de-
serves more notice in our bird-lore. Well-
feathered and with a bold eye, it seems
to be a lonely sort, though far from timid
and not afraid of humans. About the
size of a pigeon, with strong black-and-
white markings, it has quite a charming
call and seems to be rather an omnivor-
ous feeder. I have not seen it fishing
in the numerous lagoons, though its
stout beak and speed of flight suggest
that few small fish or yabbies could
escape if the bird spotted them in shallow
water. It seems to be nocturnal, too ;
especially under a bright moon I have
heard it call. Anyone know it?
* * ¥ *
“Gryllus”: A pair of perfect ventrilo-
quists have kept me interested for a week
past in trying to locate one of the most
curiously furnished nurseries of the whole
bird-world. They are crested bellbirds,
not the green bell-miners whom Kendall’s
verses have immortalised, but the black-
capped, brown-clad folk with black chest-
bands who can imitate a horse-bell with
such misleading accuracy. Today, the
binoculars showed one of them flying
into a timber clump with a large cater-
pillar in its bill, and in the sucker-fringed
top of a stump I found the deep cup-
shaped nest of woven bark. From a
short distance it seemed to be invaded
by a crawling mass of the tail-swaying
caterpillars of the procession moth. Other
caterpillars, alive, dead or torpid, lay
round the nest-edge and on the stump-
head. A closer look revealed three
nearly-naked nestlings, their eyes shut
tight, necks stretched out, bills closed,
sparsely-feathered heads swaying slowly
in perfect imitation of processionary
caterpillars. After a couple of quiet
minutes the performance ended, each
small deceiver opened a pair of bright
eyes and a gaping bill, and squeaked the
hunger call. The caterpillars are never
eaten, but are regularly replenished by
the parents as a convincing setting for the
amazing protective-mimicry act of the
youngsters.
¥ ¥ ¥ *
“Wang”: “One mornin’ one of the
chaps who’d been up early comes inter
the camp carryin’ a musheroom ’bout a
foot across,” said Dan. “ ‘Ain’t it a
beauty?’ ses the bloke, proud. ‘The big-
gest I’ve ever seen.’ ‘Call that big?’ scoffed
Long Alec. ‘ ’Struth! In Noo England
where I come from a thing that size
wouldn’t be noticed. They useter grow
that big the women used ’em fer um-
berellas on wet days. Them wus the small
ones,’ he adds quick, noticin’ Kooweerup
Fred lookin’ hard at him an’ clearin’ his
throat; ‘the big ones we lopped with
the axes, ’count of the risk of ’em col-
lapsin’ on the cows and horses that used
’em for shade.’ Kooweerup sniggered.
‘An’ you call them big, do you?’ he
jeered. ‘Spare me days! They’re on’y
midgets t’ what useter grow in the part of
Gippsland where I wus born. I ’member
one time me ole man gets up just before
daylight one mornin’ t’ feed the horses.
The next thing we hear a bump an’ a
yell outside. I rush out t’ see what’s the
matter, an’ find meself failin’ through
space. Lucky fer me I landed on top
of the ole man, who’s lyin’ on the ground
groanin’ an’ sayin’ his ankle is sprained
or something.’ ‘But what the devils
that gotter do with musherooms?’ yelps
Long Alec. ‘A damn’ lot,’ ses Koowee-
rup. ‘When we got our wits back a bit
we looked around t’ see what had hap-
pened. Strike me pink, the house is stand-
in’ ten feet above us, restin’ square on
the top of a musheroom that had growed
up under it durin’ the night.’ ”
ROUND THE WORLD WITH KITTY.
By handy Jock MacPherson, who larnt his
needle trade
Aboard a Dundee whaler, my kitty bag was
made.
He weatherproofed her stitches; he waxed her
double seams,
And blessed me for small siller that brought
him drunken dreams.
Since first I* shipped with Kitty from bonny
Aberdeen,
Tis round the world together a many times
we’ve been—
Across the world with Kitty,
Around the world with Kitty,
I’ve sailed the Seven Oceans and foreign lands
I’ve seen.
If you had run to Rio, like onct, in days gone
by—
As lean and hard as ling-fish and twice as
tough and dry—
We made that famous ’arbor with jury rig to
tell
Why all our pumps was workin’ and none was
workin well,
You had behaved as we did, all hands
a-raising free
The merry hell in Rio, ’way back in Eighty-
three :
For, round the Horn with Kitty
And up the coast with Kitty
In stinkin’, starved windjammers, few angels
went to sea.
If you had been to places where wicked shore
lights shine,
And life runs soft and easy with music,
love and wine;
If you had sampled arrack and vodka and
sam-shu,
Drunk rye and red Jamaica, polite, I’m askin’
you
Would you have acted better than us hard-
bitten Jacks
Who drove those old windjammers along the
charted tracks
To welcome ports and cities
When in our canvas kitties
Was all our proud possessions, save what was
on our backs?
If we have walked with wimmen in Belfast or
Bombay,
If we have blewed on wimmen our bitter-
hard-earned pay,
When shore lines we ’ad fastened and sails
aloft we’d furled,
Come over, hazed an’ driven for months,
across the world;
If we have courted Creoles and Chinks with
half-moon eyes,
And danced to fiddles playin’ or watched the
bubbles rise,
Well, that’s a bloomin’ pity;
We should have courted Kitty
And stayed aboard the lugger and told her
pretty lies.
I sing the song of Kitty, I’ll wake it up and
down
The shiny, briny ocean from Cork to Williams-
town:
“Oh, Sally was a sour puss, but Polly was a
pearl;
Though Lulu plays the lady, I’d have her for
my girl.
Or else I’d marry Mary, or maybe Sue or Peg —
There’s brandy in the bottle and whisky in
the keg!”
Around the world with Kitty—
In any seaport city
I’d land, if I should lose her, as naked as
an egg.
Then sing hurrah for Kitty who sleeps be-
neath the bunk!
She carries all our shore rags, she nurses of
our junk—
A ship-wife made of canvas and tarry rope and
thread,
A lass without a label unto a shellback wed,
Who never will divorce her; for, faithful, fond
and true,
Whatever port you’re bound for your Kitty
goes with you.
Around the world with Kitty,
Across the world with Kitty,
We’re sailin’ yet, my bullies, until the Watch
is through.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“He's not looking too good, is he?”
END OF THE BANQUET.
I’ve had the soup, the joint, the fish,
All as good as man could wish;
And as a man who wisely dines
I’ve had my share of all the wines;
The sweets, I trust, are yet to come,
Before I get my summons home.
And when the chairman gives the toast,
If I’m not there I’ll send my ghost.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
* * * «
“Bad Australian”: “W’en I took up me
seleckshun out at the Yaller Water’oles,”
said Bill the burr-cutter, “I borrers
Cranky Jack orf o’ Tim Hogan fer a
orfsider, an’ out we goes. After buildin’
a bit of a ’umpy we goes over t’ the Black
Range an’ splits the timber fer the fencin’
an’ ’auls it in ; but as soon as we starts
erectin’ it we finds that the w’ite-ants is
eatin’ it near as fast as we rears it up.
But we ain’t licked yet. Y’see, there’s a
rocky ridge runnin’ through the seleck-
shun, so me an’ Cranky starts gougin’ the
boulders out an’ buildin’ a stone wall.
The nex’ day it’s too wet t’ work, an’
on the follerin’ day w’en we goes out we
finds that our bit o’ wall ’ad disappeared.”
“Do you mean to say that the white-
ants had eaten the rocks, too?” queried
the insurance salesman. “No; the
blanky emus did—an’ that’s wot put me
outa bizness as a pi’neer o’ the great open
spaces an’ sent me back t’ the old knock-
about life agen.”
* * * *
“E.H.S.”: That inquiry for quandong
nuts in the “Wants” col. (B. 11/9/ ’4O)
calls to mind the quandong jewellery
affected by bush folk in the greenhide-
and-stringybark period. Some of the
nuts were elaborately carved, while others
were mounted in silver and occasionally
gold. The ordinary bushman restricted
himself to a carved or silver-mounted
slide for the brilliantly-colored handker-
chief which he sported in place of a tie ;
but the flash bloke, when fully capari-
soned, rivalled Solomon in his glory. His
outfit consisted of a broad-brimmed
“wideawake,” white shirt with many-
pleated front, loud chequerboard tie with
gold-mounted quandong tiepin, calfskin
waistcoat (usually roan colored) with
silver-mounted quandong buttons and a
particularly fine specimen as pendant to
his watch chain, “see-more” coat, skin-
tight Bedford cords, claret-colored silk
“Yankee” sash with fringed ends hang-
ing down to the knee, Napoleons and
swan-necked spurs. And no bush girl
was happy until she had a silver-mounted
or carved quandong necklet and a pair
of gold-mounted ear pendants.
* * * *
“Yo Yo”: Knights of the track, both
bush and rail, find it easy to adapt them-
selves to surroundings. Saw the tar-
paulin drawn back from a truck attached
to a train which had pulled in at Bowen
(N.Q.). There before the astonished eyes
of the S.M. was a bagman busy setting
his “table” on a sheet of newspaper,
while a couple of sausages were frying
on a small spirit stove, with a billy of
tea standing by already made.
* jfc %
Dungeness”: Had Captain James
t-ook known anything about goldbearing
reefs when, in 1770, he put up his flag-
pole on Possession Island in Torres Strait,
just north of Cape York, Australia’s
whole history might easily have been
altered. Just 125 years later, soon after
a gold discovery on Horn Island, not
far away, J. T. Embley landed on the
same place while carrying out a trigo-
nometrical survey arid noticed visible
gold in a quartz reef on the foreshore.
The reef ran up to the hilltop showing
other traces. He formed a syndicate,
sank a shaft on the very site of Cook’s
flagpole and eventually took out 3365
tons of ore for a return of 2480 ounces,
at then-current prices worth around
£9OOO.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: The Australian shark-
bite season begins about the end of Sep-
tember and lasts until April. January
and February are the most dangerous
months. Most recorded attacks have
occurred in the afternoon or evening, or,
if at other times, in dull weather, and
the victim was either swimming alone or
well apart from other persons. Risk
increases with distance from shore —
shark-baiters are true to name. About
80 p.c. of attacks prove fatal, shock and
loss of blood killing most rescued victims
soon after they are brought ashore. Of
38 authenticated attacks in 13 years, 21
occurred in N.S.W., 12 in Queensland,
two each in S.A. and W.A. and one in
Vic. No fatalities have been recorded
from Tasmania.
* * * *
“Colbun”: There certainly have been
some eccentric contrasts in Australian
climates lately, such as a snowfall in
Hobart on Brisbane’s hottest day for
months, and droughts marked off by five-
“ There'll be hell t' pay when We get home — hie!”
mile boundaries from best seasons over
thousands of square miles. Somebody
mentioned it in the bar last Saturday,
and a little Cockney sailor piped up.
“You Orstrylians dunno wot reel chyn-
gible climates is,” he an-
nounced. “Blimey, that
time I give the ship a drop
er leave at Seattle an’
started out minin’ in
Alaska taught me a bit
abart climates. One morn-
in’ I goes dahn fer water
from what’d bin a ’ot
spring up ter then an’
finds it froze all over.
Walks hout on the hice ter
get a kettleful at a ’ole an’
goes froo. Next hinstant,
blimey if she don’t start
geyserin’, chucks me 20
foot hup in the hair an’
keeps me goin’ like one of
them kid’s balls hon a
Treyfalgar - square fount-
ing. I doesn’t mind much,
the water bein’ nice an’
warm, till all of a suddent
along comes a blizzard,
freezes it solid an’ leaves
me hup there hon a pillar
of hice. Blimey, mates,
honly that I ’appened ter
’ave a lump of meat in
me kick an’ the sledge
dorgs come an’ gnawered
froo the hice pillar ter get
me down so’s they could
’ave it I’d er bin froze
stiff... Yus, don’t mind if
I do, mate.”
“Wippegong”: A few yards from the
door of the hut is a post on which butter
is spread daily for any fowl that fancies
it. In a recent dawn the first caller was
a white - throated tree - creeper. He
spiralled the post cautiously, and had just
reached the tucker when a yellow-bob
bounced on top full of fight and. appetite.
The robin had barely gulped his first beak-
ful when a lewin honey-eater bowled him
over, but this chap left as briskly as he
came, for a catbird was on his tail.
Cattie stayed for a good helping, his
shapely pea-green back a joy to watch ;
then there was a dingdong scuffle when
the female satin-bird arrived. The new-
comer won, but had in turn to make way
for her brilliant mate. Bluey fed at
leisure, moving all round the food and
presenting his polished plumage in every
desirable pose ; then a gluttonous curra-
wong sent him scolding into the scrub.
I hunted the currawong, but was
promptly routed by a couple of blasted
bull-ants that had reached the butter.
When fit to resume interest in avian
affairs it was to see that the tree-creeper
had found the ants ; so we started all
over again.
* * *
“Aratta”: “I useter work one • time
with a bloke who wus a terror f’r talkin’
in his sleep,” said “Knobs” Taylor; “not
just a word or two, but whole sentences
at a time. One night the boss cocky,
as mean an’ hungry a bloke as ever I’ve
met, is up at our hut gassin’. We
reckoned he did it to save usin’ a light
in his own room. Ole Bill’s in his bunk
asleep. Suddenly we hear him give a
rumble, then burst out with ‘Get out,
y’ mis’rable ole shark; a bloke orter
dong yer!’ The boss looked across at
Bill, startled; but I grin an’ tell him it’s
on’y Bill talkin’ in his sleep. The boss
settles hisself agen an’ Continyers with
his yap; then Bill’s voice breaks out
agen: ‘Whatcher want hangin’ ’bout
here, y’ hungry, sweatin’ cow; why
don’t y’ pay a bloke a decent wage?’
The boss gasps; but I shake me head,
noddin’ at Bill. ‘Nightmare,’ I ses. The
boss gives a sick sorta grin an’ flops
back in his chair. A coupla seconds
later Bill lets out a roar an’ kicks the
blankets orf him. ‘F’r two pins I’d screw
y’r skinny neck orf y’r carcass, y’ louse-
skinnin’ hound,’ an’ flops back on his
bunk, snorin’. The boss gets up hurried
an’ ses good night. As soon as the hut
door’s shut ole Bill sits up grinnin’. ‘Took
some shiftin’, didn’t he?’ he ses. ‘P’raps
a bloke’ll be able t’ get some sleep now.’
Next mornin’ at breakfast the boss eyes
Bill suspicious-like. f Y’ look a bit washed
out this mornin’,’ he ses. ‘Had a bad
night’s rest?’ ‘Cripes, no,’ ses Bill, sur-
prised-like. ‘Slept like a top. Never
heard a sound from the minnit me head
hit the piller.’ The boss looks relieved.
‘Glad t’ hear that,’ he ses, real earnest;
‘a man wants good rest to be able t’
do his work next day.’ But he cut out
visitin’ our hut after that.”
* * * *
“Saltwater Fellah”: The N.T. abo.
snares his fish in coastal waters with-
out hook, line or bait. He selects a
medium-sized channel that will fill up
when the tide rises. As the tide is run-
ning in near its flood he forces poles
down as silently as possible into the mud
and hurriedly piles bushes and grass
against these on the top side. As the tide
falls so does the bush and grass, a good
haul usually being his reward. The
mullet, indulging their fondness for leap-
ing, usually land in the leafy snare in
great numbers.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Don’t think because a
kookaburra makes a noise like the un-
controlled cackle of a hysterical human
that its sentiments are similar. The poor
fowl probably uses much the same song
to express rage, joy, fear, hope, aggres-
sion, disappointment, loneliness, com-
panionship or any other idea that takes
him. The loudest laugh I ever heard
came from a badly-battered Jack who
had crashed into and become entangled
in loose barbed-wire. Ripped and bleed-
ing freely, his struggles and appearance
expressed sheer terror, though by the
sound of the bird you’d have thought
—judging by human standards—we were
tickling him. Same with a magpie’s
carol. A joyous melody if ever there was
one ; yet I heard it at its best from a
diseased specimen whose" coffldrtiqp had
been noted by half a dozen others, who
set about killing it. The victim knew he
was doomed, yet golden notes still flowed
after his eyes were gone and he was
finally off his feet. A man going out as
gamely would be well remembered. But
was the maggie game? I’ve never seen
him anything else.
“Turoar”: “There might be
better blokes with the crowbar
than Tarry Tom,” Old Bob re-
lated, ‘‘but I ain’t ’eard uv ’em.
We’re sinkin’ post’oles near
Bendigo one time, where the
ground’s all quartz, an’ ’ard.
Tarry’s doin’ a great job with
the bar, an’ soon there’s a big
crowd watchin’ ’im. At last one
uv ’em comes ter light with a
quid an’ says ’e’ll perdooce a
bloke called Jerry wot’ll make
Tarry look like a schoolkid with
a toothpick. Tarry’s on like a
shot, an’ we erranges a contest
over ten ’oles, side-bets an’ all.
Thin we erpoints references
ter pick the ground an’ ’old
the stakes an’ see that the bars
is the same length an’ weight.
Well, this Jerry’s good orlright,
but I c’n see ’e ain’t got Tarry’s
class. But, ’struth, some’ow ’e
manages ter ’old Tarry. I can’t make
it out, but when I sees the references got
their money on Jerry I twigs somethink’s
wrong. ’Owever, Tarry makes a super-
yumin effort an’ comes ’ome by ’arfer
’ole. Cripes, the mob does look sour
when they pays up. ‘Wot wus wrong
with yer?’ I arsks Tarry after we collecks.
‘Y’ orter beat ’im be a mile.’ ‘So I
woulda,’ Tarry snorts, ‘but them cows
uv references give me a wooden bar
painted ter make it look real. So I
thought I’d take ’em down proper.’ ”


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 30y Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost, Esq., Launceston.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422*24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 332,671 10 p.c. = 268,771 63,900 3,545,777
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,345,777
Share premiums, £120,000 .. .. 3,465,777
1930.. 161,890 Nil 161,890 3,627,667
1931.. 83,257 Nil 83,257 3,710,924
1932.. 103,720 Nil 103,720 3,814,644
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,614,644
1933.. 313,617 10 p.c. = 298,771 14,846 3,629,490
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,429,490
1934.. 427,588 10 p.c. = 298,771 128,817 3,558,307
1935.. 670,442 10 „ „ 298,771 371,671 3,929,978
Share premiums, £1,597,110.. .. 5,527,088
1936.. 850,361 12* p.c.= 435,778 414,583 5,941,671
Share premiums, £374,965 .. .. 6,316,336
1937. 1,183,171 12* p.c.= 559,880 623,291 6,939,927
Share premiums, £413,923 .. .. 7,353,850
To staff fund, £40,000 .. .. 7,313,850
1938. 1,340,461 12* p.c.= 670,562 669,899 7,983,749
Share premiums, £431,609 .. .. 8,415,358
1939. 1,431,513 12* p.c.= 760,715 670,798 9,086,156
Share premiums, £139,073 .. .. 9,225,229
Share premiums cap’lised, £4,445,859. . 4,779,370
1940.. 979,139 f p.c. = 861.827 117,312 4,896,682
f Interim 6* p.c., final 3j p.c. on enlarged capital.
Australia has much for which to be
thankful to B.H.P. Its big steelworks at
Newcastle —put up in 1912 and paid for
largely with money made out of the old
Proprietary silver-lead mine at the Barrier
—together with a large group of subsi-
diary and associated interests, now form
the backbone of the country’s heavy in-
dustries. Moreover, they are playing an
important part in the Empire’s war effort.
Victories on the battlefield cannot be won
without an adequately-equipped army;
and armament has so increased the steel
appetite of Austialia and the rest of the
British Commonwealth that B.H.P. has
had to divert its growing volume of ex-
ports, especially with Eastern and
Southern Asia, to meet Empire needs.
Also, because of these needs, the co. con-
tinues to do many things which, under
different conditions, would not be con-
sidered strictly commercial or of a profit-
making character ; and when the Federal
Government wanted a Director-General
of Munitions it selected Essington Lewis,
the co.’s chief general manager.
Too much notice need not be taken of
the sharp contraction of £452,374 in the
year’s declared net earnings. In the in-
terests of national security, the year’s
output of the various departments of the
big undertaking has not been broadcast;
but all sections continued to produce to
capacity, except for a ten-week period
when the trouble on the coalfields caused
an almost complete stoppage. This in-
terruption was the chief cause of the
shrinkage of £241,121 in profit on work-
ing account, and it affected returns from
subsidiaries, etc. (down £52,549), too:
Gross earnings:—- 1929. 1939. 1940.
Working profit . . £795,953 £2,738,575 £2,497,454
Interest, divs., etc. 142,968 211,891 159,342
Total . . . . £938,921 £2,950,466 £2,656,796
Exes.:—
Depreciation ..£417,592 £850,670 £903,354
Office and other exes. 61,854 110,335 121.238
Debenture interest 81,094 - 7,948 3,065
Income tax . . 45,710 550,000 650,000
Total exes. . . £606,250 £1,518,953 £1,677,657
The growth of £158,704 in outgoings was
mainly on account of bigger allowance
for taxation (up £100,000) and deprecia-
tion (up £52,684). A noteworthy feature
is that, despite the heavier outgo, the co.
continued to sell steel at its pre-war prices,
thus placing Australia in the fortunate
position of being able to obtain the
cheapest steel in the world for domestic
and war purposes. What this means can
be gathered from the fact that the cost
of imnorted steel —if the stuff were ob-
tainable —would now be about three times
the pre-war average of £5 6s. 3d. p.t.,
and that leaves customs duty out of the
reckoning altogether. The reason the co.
was able to keep its selling prices steady
was that it had accumulated heavy
stocks of material, bought at lower cost
than they can be had today, its action
in this respect is indicative of the
standard of commercial morality it has
always set. Replacement of stocks will,
of course, mean increased costs, and
a lift in selling prices will become
inevitable.
The £979,139 of profit claimed was
equal to 8.6 p.c. on capital as it stood
at the close of accounts (£11,396,936).
This figure includes £4,445,859 of bonus
scrip (64 for 100), which represents capi-
talisation of most of the share-premium
money put up by shareholders in the
past; hence no question of largesse
arises in this connection. Shareholders
are entitled to a fair return on their
money, though part may be labelled
capital and the other part share pre-
miums— £139,073 of the latter was
received last term in respect of a new
issue made in 1938.
Actually the position is much better
than the parent’s accounts alone dis-
close. Consider these consolidated p.
and 1. figures for B.H.P. and its subsi-
diaries: —
Consolidated Figures.
Gross earnings:— 1939. 1940.
■Working profit .. .. £4,106,721 £4,421,145
Divs., etc. . . . . 101,323 115,611
Total £4,208,044 £4,536,756
Depreciation .. .. 1,263,773 1,601,328
Taxation 758.085 1,091,755
Other exes ~ 312,772 288,407
Total exes. .. .. £2,334,630 £2,981,490
Net profit . . . . 1,873,414 1,555,266
It is obvious that the subsidiaries are
stepping along like thoroughbreds. Com-
bined net earnings of the organisation
were £1,555,266, down £318,148. Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel, in which B.H.P.
owns all the £4,700,007 of ord. capital,
hasn’t yet paid an ord. div.; but it is
expected to be a substantial contributor
to the pool later on, and there is much to
support that expectation. Recent additions
to B.H.P.’s investment portfolio include
holdings in the Newcastle Chemical Co.
(in which Imperial Chemical Industries
is also interested), Rheem Manufacturing
Co. (which turns out steel barrels and
containers) and the Wiltshire File Co.
(which is now making files not previously
produced in Australia).
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures of the big organisation:
Consolidated Figures.
Outside
r~ J 7 B.H.P. Shareholders’ Sundry
Capital. Reserves. Interests.* Creditors.
1939.. £6,671,564 £10,735i,845 £2,003,938 £3,469,520
1940.. 11,396,936 6,848,610 2,039,230 3,133,970
Fixed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Stores, Etc. Debts. Assets.
1939.. £16,405,457 £2,889',077 £1,383,603 £2,202,750
1940.. 17,116,909 3,296,463 1,010,743 1,994,631
* Including proportion reserves.
Of the growth of £4,725,372 on capital
account, £279,513 was in respect of the
new share issue in 1938, and the balance
was the bonus scrip already referred to.
Allowing for the capitalisation, the
net addition to reserves was £558,624.
Although outside shareholders’ interests
increased by £35,272, the amount coming
to sundry creditors was reduced by
£335,550 and debtors’ balances were
lower by The growth of
£711,452 in the book value of fixed
assets and of £407,386 in stocks re*
fleets the co.’s expanding activities at
Whyalla, Newcastle and elsewhere.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids, including stocks, exceeded the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£3,067,867, or £61,957 more than at
the previous balance.
At Newcastle the bloom, rail and 18in.
bar mills have all been electrified ; plant
for the manufacture of ferro-alloys, pre-
viously imported, is being installed; a
new mill for production of wider cold-
rolled strip has been bought; and atten-
tion is being given to the manufacture
of magnesium, used in the aircraft- and
motor-manufacturing industries.
At Whyalla (S. Aus.) the co.’s activi-
ties are proceeding apace, and the popu-
lation of the place has trebled in the last
two years. Here the blast furnace is
well under way—it is expected to be
blown-in early in 1941—the wharf is
finished, a limestone deposit at Rapid
Bay, near by, is being opened up, and
brick works have been established.
Furthermore, at the request of the British
Admiralty, shipbuilding yards and fitting-
out berths have been constructed at the
head of Whyalla Harbor. These yards—
there are three slipways—are capable of
constructing and turning out vessels up
to 15,000 tons dead weight, and are now
engaged in building naval patrol ships.
The national value of this new under-
taking is beyond question, and it
promises to provide another outlet for
large quantities of steel.
The market expresses its confidence
in the co. and its future by pricing the
pound shares at 445. 3d. On a 1\ p.c.
div. basis the return at 445. 3d. is 3.3
p.c., or about the same as is to be had
from long-dated Government securities.
The backing is 325. in net tangibles.
Trustees, Executors & Agency Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 22,447 14 p.c. = 19,600 2847 115,606
Profit sale freehold, £13,440 .. 129,046
1931.. 16,099 9 p.c. = 12,600 3499 132,545
1932.. 8,552 6 „ „ 8,400 152 132,697
1933.. 9,882 6 „ „ 8,400 1482 134,179
1934.. 11,342 6 „ „ 8,400 2942 137,121
1935.. 12,510 6 „ „ 8,400 ] 2nQ 139 231
To provident fund, £2OOO j
1936.. 13,844 7 p.c. = 9,800 4044 143,275
1937.. 15,131 8 „ ~ 11,200 3931 147,206
1938.. 15,204 10* „ ~ 14,000 1204 148,410
1939.. 15,305 8 „ ~ 11,200 ]
Written off, £5OOO . . J 147,010
1940.. 14,005 8 p.c. = 11,200 2805 150,320
* Including 2 p.c. diamond jubilee bonus.
Formed by William Templeton in Mel-
bourne in 1878, the T., E. and A. is Aus-
tralia’s oldest and second-largest trustee
co. In common with others in this class
of business, the co.’s early years were
largely the story of a struggle to over-
come prejudice. Gradually, however, the
advantages of the corporate over the
private trustee became more widely
recognised and appreciated, and of recent
years the administration of estates has
been rendered difficult by a maze of
taxation and other legislation, which has
driven more business into the care of the
trustee cos. Further, apart from the
small risk they take when investing their
own funds, these cos. don’t stand to lose
much. If they are in doubt about the
interpretation of a will, there is always
the Court to go to for instructions. But
their corpus and other commission
charges are fixed by law, which means
that they are unable to pass on rising
costs.
Here is the T., E. and A.’s own invest-
ment portfolio so far as balance-sheet
figures disclose it:
1936. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £140,000 £140,000 £140,000 £140,000
Liabilities . . 40',436 8,629 1,196
Freeholds . . 120,000 171,735 127,650 127,650
Fittings . . 1,100 4,800 10,400 10,400
Mortgages . . 21,767 6,500 6,500
Investments,
cash. etc.*.. 149,008 157,211 160,194 160,466
* Including unstated property investments.
A couple of years ago the old Collins-
street premises which the co. had occu-
pied for 46 years were sold, and the
money was used to wipe out the debt on
the new building and to strengthen the
holding of cash and Government securi-
ties, etc. These last two items now
total £160,466, while the amount coming
to outsiders has been reduced to £1196.
The next table shows how the volume
of trusts has grown, what corpus and
other commissions and interest and rents
turn in, and the cost of handling the
business:
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income.* Exes. Income.
1910.. £9,013,807 £11,814 £6,820 57.7 p.c
1920.. 13,533,081 41,924 25,538 60 9
1930.. 23,574,354 76,260 54,373 71.3
1933.. 27,009,070 69,260 58,378 86.0
1934.. 27,842,502 72,040 60,698 84 2 ’
1935.. 28,328,553 73,818 61,308 83.0 ”
1936.. 28,879,927 76,540 62,696 81.9 ,
1937.. 29,399,725 86,672 71,541 82 5 ’
1938.. 30,615,311 87,913 72,709 82 6 ’
1939.. 30,283,146 94,375 79,070 83 8 ”
1940.. 31,379,997 93,550 79,545 85.0
* After providing for contingencies.
Although the volume of trusts in hand
increased by £1,097,000, gross earnings
from all sources were £825 lighter, owing
to provision for income tax, not pre-
viously deducted from gross earnings.
For the same reason there was a rise of
225. p.c. in the ratio of exes, to income.
The net result was £l3OO lighter at
£14,005, equal to 10 p.c. on capital as
against 10.9, 10.8, 10.8, 9.9, 8.9, 8.1, 6.1,
11.4, 16, 17.9 and 19 p.c. 'back to 1929.
The div. was kept at 8 p.c., making the
average over the last decade 7.4 p.c. as
against an average of 12.6 p.c. for the
14 years before that.
With some doubts as to the immediate
future, the market prices the 305.-paid
shares at 435. and the lOs.-paids at 15s.
6d., the returns at these figures being
5.6 p.c. and 5.2 p.c. respectively. The net
tangible cover per pound of paid capital
is 41s. sd.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 05,000 10 p.c. = 55,000 10,000 125,000
1931.. 35,750 64 „ „ 35,750 125,000
1932.. 27,500 5„ „ 27,500 125,000
Loss.
1933.. 4,000 2 „ „ 11,000 110,000
Profit.
1934.. 22,148 4 „ „ 22,000 148 110,148
1935.. 26,200 4* „ „ 24,750 1,450 111,598
1936.. 22,348 4*,, „ 23,375 110,571
1937.. 23,331 4*,. ~ 23,375 110,527
1938.. 28,665 5 „ „ 27,500 1,165 111,692
1939.. 31,428 5 „ „ 27,500 3,928 115,620
1940.. 37,072 6 ~ ~ 33,000 4,072 119,692
The “deflation” some tell us about finds
no reflection in the accounts of retailers
themselves. Certainly, in the months im-
mediately preceding the outbreak of war,
retail trade was about as slow as molasses
running uphill ; but it has become brisk
since. In the northern metropolis recorded
department-store sales for the period
covered by McWhirters’ accounts were
some 8| p.c. above the preceding year’s
level, and that was appreciably better than
the Sydney experience.
Though McWhirters has an able man-
agement, it has had a stiff chase for
business since chain-store and other com-
petition began to attract the shopping
public from the Valley to the centre of
the city nine or 10 years back. But keen
selling-prices, which involve narrow
margins and sound buying, are rapidly
attracting custom back to the Brunswick-
street end of town, and turnover built
on value is turnover that sticks.
Increased spending-power as a result
of primary-produce and other war-time
contracts helped bring more people to the
store last term. But possibly the main
factor was the management’s shrewdness
in making heavy cotton, silk, linen, rayon
and other purchases when the war-clouds
began to darken. It also stocked up with
Australian-made merchandise of which
it considered there might be a shortage,
and so beat the price-rise and delivery
delays here.
It all shows up in the lift of £18,707
in the gross-profit margin, which has im-
proved £45,900-odd in four years:
1928. 1936. 1939’. 1940.
Gross profit. . £261,380 £166,779 £194,001 £212,708
Exes.* . . 186,379 140,431 153,756 159,926
Profit.* .. £75,001 £26,348 £40,245 £52,782
* Before providing for taxation.
Trading exes., etc., lifted by an amount
£12,537 less than the higher gross. Pro-
vision for the Government’s whack, how-
ever, went up from £BBl7 to £15,710,
reducing the net gain to £5644. The
£37,072 represented 6.7 p.c. on capital,
and the board had sufficient confidence in
the outlook to tack another 1 p.c. on to
the div., the 6 p.c. being covered with
£4072 to spare.
An encouraging feature is that the
bigger trading was done mostly on a cash
basis, credit-customers’ accounts being
cut back £2443: —
1930. 1932. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £550,600'£550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Overdraft .. 7,817 109,395 80,887 117,697
Creditors .. 50,153 37,917 41,650 33,837
Freehold and
plant . . 324,500 453,000 441,767 438,940
Stocks . . 296,908 262,092 *248,613 *299.380
Book debts .. 109,710 115,484 116,335 113,892
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 40,665 5,772 3,193 3,266
* Includes goods in transit, previously lumped with
cash, etc.
An accretion of £50,767 to stocks was
financed with the addition of only
£28,997 to the debt. Much of the pur-
chases consists of merchandise no longer


An Engagement
Si
should be
accompanied by an
ASSURANCE POLICY
Act wisely young man l
Assure yourself with the
Equitable Probate and Gen-
eral Insurance Co., Ltd., and
you’ll be fulfilling your ob-
ligations for all time.
EQUITABLE
PROBATE and
CENERAUNSURANCE CO.ltd.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
]syi“ BreU ® Mouse. Angel Place, Sydney,
zoning House. Collins Street, Melbourne.
“• V. PERKINS, General Manager.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1S8S),
hydraulic, electric and genera] engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
\t * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should he expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-iand.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence.
The Symbol o}
Security !
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon. 1v.8.E. (Chairman); J. Beresford Grant (Vice-
Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, 1v.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; Hon. Colin A. Sinclair, M.L.A. ;
A. E. Heath, C.M.G. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . 4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank Ltd.,
Barclay’s Bank Ltd., National Provincial Bank Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED.
available, and will permit of “very com-
petitive” trading, the management says,
which promises well for current earnings.
The favorable surplus of more or less
liquids (£265,004) strengthened £19,400.
At 13s. 6d. for the pound shares in-
vestors buy what appears the worth-while
yield of 8.8 p.c. and net assets at a dis-
count of 10s. lOd. on book value. Recent
recovery has had a very solid look about
it. How much further it can be con-
tinued remains to be seen.
Holders have stood to make a mint —
on the market —out of scrip in Bendigo
mines on the Deborah anticline over the
past three months. Compare these share
movements:
Central North South G. Car-
Deborah. Deborah. Deborah. shalton.
July .. 4/9' 48/- 10/- 3/9
Latest .. 23/6 75/- 30/- 19/6
Though adjoining the Garden Gully line,
the most productive of the parallel
Bendigo lode system —what old hand
doesn’t remember the Garden Gully
United, the Carlisle, Johnson’s and Moon
group, to name a famous few? —it was
not till formation of Deborah G.M. Co.,
parent of both North and South Deborah,
in 1932 that the Deborah line came in
for any really serious attention. For
the half-year to July 31 Deborah G.M.’s
perseverance was rewarded with a
record profit of £38,847 (up £8255), of
which £35,075 (11s. 6d. per share) found
its way into shareholders’ pockets. Total
tonnage was 10,156, yielding an average
12.1dwt. gold, excluding concentrate;
costs ran out at 41s. Id. Market re-
sponse has been to take the 15s. 5d.-paids
to a new high of 745. ; in July they could
have been obtained over 30s. cheaper.
* * 4= *
Clansman has been looking for a show
on the Carshalton line at Bendigo (Vic.).
It is one of the smaller Adelaide gold-
seeking set which, fired by the achieve-
ments of Norseman, Central Norseman
and Blue Bird, sought for a good thing
on the Norseman field (W.A.).
* 4= * *
The two hopes of the Herberton tin-
field (N.Q.), the rich Canberra and the
not-so-rich but steadier Cornishman, are
both groping for that elusive tin pipe
on which the stability of the field de-
pends. The Canberra is making through
a porphyry dyke to test out a “spar”
formation that looks like something tied
up to the lost pipe where it was reason-
ably rich, i.e., around £4O a ton. In a
maze of heads underground, hope seems
to be pinned only on this formation, for
the lost pipes have baffled both geolo-
gists and miners. In the Cornishman
drilling discovered a wolfram lode, and
a winze is being sunk at 400 ft. to give it
a tryout. Tungsten is nothing new for
this field ; there are surface shows in the
district, and the Great Northern, at Her-
berton, had a wolfram lode that it never
tried out very seriously.
* 4= 4= *
The rapture and roses have faded
from the Bartle Frere goldfield and
left a band of tired triers in tick-infested
scrub in one of the wettest and most in-
accessible regions in Queensland. An
official report just to hand from the
Mines Department can’t provide much
comfort for those still trying. Most of
the gold obtained has come from floaters ;
it follows that the shoots they originated
in are hard to find in wet scrub areas.
Majority of the reefs —but not all —to
date have been small, with values on the
low side. A novel contract has been
made for the recovery of 1500 tons of
“floater” stone, now boulders in the
bed of Kraft Creek. The outcome should
be interesting, as a minimum value of
lOdwt. is placed on the grade of the
boulders.
* * * *
As a result of Great Boulder’s pro-
posals, transfer of domicile of any co.
from Britain without the Government’s
consent has been prohibited. This would
seem to be the last word in the matter.
Summarising achievements for the
June quarter, Great Boulder (W.A.)
states it treated 111,255 short tons and
extracted gold worth £A226,757. Work-
ing costs, including ordinary development,
are estimated at £167,775, leaving a sur-
plus of £58,982. Expenditure on special
development is disclosed at £25,249, and
on plant and machinery ’£77B. The
quarter’s development appears to have
been widespread and instrumental in add-
ing substantially to ore reserves.
4* sf*
Cheery extract from chairman R. B.
Saw’s speech at the Swan Bitter meeting
in Perth:
I have always said that I regard the
mine as a gamble, but a very good one.
We have always paid our way, and have
done a wonderful job I believe by the
end of the year we will be completely out
of debt and will start paying dividends.
The retiring directors were re-elected un-
opposed, their aggregate annual re-
muneration being fixed at £4OO.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) reports
net earnings of £9907 for the year to
April 30, when cash balances and bul-
lion in transit amounted to £10,654. A
sixpenny dividend in July is expected to
be followed by another shortly. The
accounts indicate the sufficiency of work-
ing capital, the directors claim, and this,
with ore in reserve, they add, should
assure regular distributions to share-
holders during the life of the mine, which,
however, doesn’t appear to hang by the
strongest of golden threads.
* * * *
Beryl Gold Corp., one of the De Ber-
nales Westralian group and first and
only subsidiary of Anglo-Australian
Development, proposes to install a fair-
sized treatment plant on its Kundip
(Phillips River field) group. Because of
copper in the gold ores there successful
extraction has always been something of
a snag. A Government smelter tried but
failed to do the job, and, as results gener-
ally from Beryl’s point of view were un-
satisfactory, its holding was turned over
to tributors. These have managed to do
fairly well in a small way, getting a little
gold over the plates and sending the con-
centrates a considerable distance by road
and rail to Kalgoorlie for treatment.
Latterly values exposed by the tributors
have encouraged the co. to hop in and
have another shot on a bigger scale than
before. Beryl is also interested in the
Comet (one-ninth) and other Westralian
and American members of the group.
* * * *
“Want of funds” has prompted North
Kalgurli United, one of the least fortu-
nate of De Bernales’s Westralian shows,
to seek exemption on portion of its Kal-
goorlie holding. From information
gleaned from developments in an adjoin-
ing Paringa-owned block, the co. recently
pinned its faith to prospects at depth in
the eastern workings. Some boring was
done, but the till became empty and
drilling had to be stopped. Ore-bodies
located in other parts of its property do
not appear to be payable.
* * * #
Latest estimate of reserve ore in the
Lake View and Star group (W.A.) is
3,854,000 tons of 5.39dwt. average grade.
A year ago the figure was 3,664,800 tons
averaging 5.56dwt. Sufficient ore is now
broken in the workings to keep the
50,000-tons-a-month treatment plant sup-
plied for 12 months.
* * * *
Linden, at Joyner’s Find, near Wiluna
(W.A.), has acquired an additional 12-
acre block. Costeaning is reported to
have exposed a payable 3ft. gold-bearing
formation over a length of at least 100 ft.
Australian Gold Development is inter-
ested in the co., which has two 6d. divs.
to its credit, but has paid nothing since
June, 1939. It first tried its luck in the
West at Linden, on the East Mt. Mar-
garet field, but poor returns drove it
away.
Evanston, an outback settlement on the
North Yilgarn goldfield (W.A.), is being
broadcast in the West as an important
producer. One privately-owned mine has
yielded £lOO,OOO in the past two years;
90 p.c. of the ore so far exposed in this
property is free milling. Evanston’s isola-
tion, coupled with lack of drinking water,
is claimed to be handicapping its
development.
* * * *
“Boulder Block”: Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile sulphide-ore treatment plants are
being acclaimed in the West as among the
world’s best. It was not always so. In
the early days big sums were wasted on
unsuitable machinery and equipment
because, instead of advising their cos. to
club together to find money and brains
for experimenting, managers tackled the
job in their own way, only to fail —
miserably, in some cases. At one stage
in the history of the field there were at
least half a dozen different types of
roasting furnaces and processes of ex-
traction, all of which had either to be
remodelled or changed as time rolled on.
In one or two instances plants were in-
stalled and scrapped almost right away.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) speaks in its
latest annual report of an action against
the co. in respect of ore bought for
treatment from Gold Mines of Kalgoor-
lie, Ltd., the claim being for amounts
stated to have been underpaid on pur-
chased ore from the latter co.’s tributors.
On legal advice the action has been com-
promised at a cost to South Kal. of
around £lO,OOO stg.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) is paying a sixth six-
penny dividend on Oct. 9, and hopes to
make similar distributions quarterly from
now on. The last payment was in July.
# * * #
Recent expansion of production, re-
duced working costs and slight decrease
in tonnage and grade of ore reserves were
mentioned by chairman P. E. Marmion
at Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie’s London
meeting. Milling at the increased rate,
he said, began in October, and during
the second half of the year ended last
March averaged 11,828 tons per month,
compared with 8692 tons for the first
half. With the treatment of an increased
tonnage, working costs showed a satis-
factory reduction. Grade of ore milled
during the year was 6.22dwt. compared
with 6.6odwt. for the previous 12 months.
Combination of increased tonnage and
lower grade, coupled with the higher
price of gold, had resulted in an increase
of £46,022 in net gold proceeds by com-
parison with the previous year. Net
profit at £122,244 reflected the benefit of
lower working costs, and showed the still
more satisfactory improvement of 36 p.c.
Out of this profit £25,000 (£3OOO more
than the previous year) had been set aside
for depreciation and £57,000 for taxation
and contingencies. Reserve now
amounted to £81,472. Directors decided,
in view of the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer’s request to limit dividends to
the previous year’s figure, not to pay
more than 5 p.c., making 8| p.c. for the
year.
Proved and probable ore reserves are
estimated at 657,000 tons of s.ldwt. aver-
age value. This represents a decrease
of 13,000 tons and one-tenth of a dwt.
in grade. As 26,304 tons was extracted
from the fully-developed Australia East
block during the year it would appear
that reserves of ore from sources other
than the Australia East workings had
increased during the period by approxi-
mately 13,000 tons.
* * * *
“O.B.”: A hope-for-the-best-and-expect-
the-worst feeling prevailed at Freney
Oil’s half-yearly roll-up in Perth. Chair-
man Learmonth said (1) that the leased
Commonwealth Government boring plant
didn’t have the necessary accessories;
(2) that exceptionally hard strata, the
like of which had not previously been
encountered in Australian oil boring, had
been struck ; (3) that because of these
strata the drill bits had not bored any-
where near the distance expected ; and (4)
that there had been trouble and delay in
getting extra plant. He added that brand-
new machinery had been purchased in
Maoriland and was now en route to the
bore site. A telegram “just received
from the field superintendent” contained
references to odds and ends in the shape
of fragments of quartz, mineral and car-
bonised wood met with in boring, and
stated that the bore was down over
3000 ft.


Business,Rollery,Etc.
The U.S. Excess-profits Bill
Though it is hard to distinguish be-
tween bill provisions and committee
recommendations, latest advices from
the U.S.A. on the Excess-profits Tax
Bill are to the effect that the Senate
finance committee has revised the
measure, subject to further revision. A
Wall-street critic, writing on Sept. 9, said:
“Eventually there will be an excess-
profits tax law. That’s about the only
sure aspect of the situation to-
day.” As explained in B. 25/9/’4O,
“normal” profits, it was suggested by a
House committee, should be calculated
over three of the four years 1936-39,
and the first 10 p.c. of any excess above
normal levels in subsequent years was
to be taxed at 25 p.c., on the next 10
p.c. at 30 p.c., and on excesses beyond
20 p.c. at 40 p.c. Where “normal” earn-
ings averaged under 4 p.c. on capital,
then 4 p.c. was the exemption rate. There
was the alternative of a profits-to-capital
tax. It seems that the House committee’s
suggestions were somewhat ahead of the
terms of the bill.
The bill provided that where a co.
elected to be taxed on profits above the
“normal” average in preference to profits
in excess of a fixed rate on capital, a
penalty tax of 4.1 p.c. on “normal” in-
come was to be imposed.
Reports from Washington subsequently
stated that the Senate committee had
before it a bulky record of dis-
satisfaction with the bill itself. With
the exception of spokesmen for the
Treasury Department and the staff of
the committee on internal revenue taxa-
tion, every witness coming before the
committee found fault with the bill.
There were several decisions on basic
policy to be made. These included a
definition of excess profits whether
all earnings in excess of a stated
rate of return on capital or whether all
earnings in excess of the average for a
base period will be treated as excess
profits and the amount of additional
revenue to be sought in the bill.
Witnesses appearing before the com-
mittee favored treatment of earnings in
excess of the average as excess profits
on the assumption that the increase might
be attributable either directly or indirectly
to defence spending. Also, they pro-
posed a minimum rate of earning before
declaring profits to be “excess,” and
special treatment for hardship cases.
The sentiment of a majority of the
committee seemed to lean strongly to this
definition of excess profits. The Treasury,
it is said, would rather see a bill based
solely on the rate of return on invested
capital, with excess-profits taxes apply-
ing to all earnings in excess of a stated
rate of return. The Canberra measure,
it may be noted, adopted the rate-of-
return principle, but it seems to defeat
its own object, though perhaps it would
be easy to administer.
E. C. Alvord, of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, asking for a “true excess-
profits tax, so that there should be no
‘war millionaires,’ ” said there was “no
basic policy or philosophy on which the
bill had been formulated.” He suggested
that average earnings during any three
of the four years 1936-39 be used in
determining excess profits, with a fair
rate of return on invested capital per-
mitted as an alternative. Also, he said,
a special relief basis should be provided
for corporations with low earnings and
low invested capital during the past four
years, for those which had an increasing
trend of profits during the past four years
and those which, as a result of years of
research, finally realised profits in a year
subject to the excess-profits tax.
After all these points of view had been
expressed, the Senate committee recom-
mended the following alterations, among
others:—
The 4.1 p.c. penalty tax where averaging
was employed to be abandoned.
Instead of excess profits being calculated
and taxed as a percentage of normal profits,
the first 20,000 dollars of excess earnings to
be taxed at 25 p.c., rising to 50 p.c. where
the excess is over 500,000 dollars.
A special additional e.-p.t. of 10 p.c. on
excess profits from actual war contracts.
The five-year amortisation period on
specially installed war plant (certified by
the army or navy) to date back to Jan. 1.
Inclusion of a special formula to deal
with cos. having a profits history of less
than four years.
In its thus-adjusted form the e.-p.t.
measure was expected to raise 485,000,000
dollars for defence. The ordinary com-
pany rate of tax, it was recommended,
should also be raised from 20.9 p.c. to
24 p.c., bringing in another 225,000,000
dollars.
As the bill stood on Sept. 9 it
resembled more the original recommen-
dations of the House ways and means
committee than the bill approved by the
House and sent to the Senate.
The time and attention devoted in the
U.S. to discussion of the excess-profits
tax measure —Roosevelt announced it
on July I—should1 —should be a lesson to Can-
berra, which has tackled the problem in
a half-hearted way, with half-baked
results.
In spite of Dakar and the Japanese in-
trusion into Indo-China, Australian
sharemarkets refused to be abashed last
week. Some improved profits figures
published by leading cos. gave investors
encouragement, and the return of the
Menzies Government promised a con-
tinuance of control of prices and costs.
The Senate position is still obscure, and
it' must be confessed that the taxation
question also remains something of an
unknown quantity. But in showing im-
proved profits in its latest accounts
Nestle and Anglo-Swiss (Aust.) set aside
£165,000 for taxation, against £88,500 in
the preceding term; Myer’s provided
£97,500, against £75,000; Yarra Falls
£59,316, against £18,813 ; and Austral-
asian Paper £125,000, against £50,000.
Taking these large increases into con-
sideration, the market seemed to accept
the view that the position was pretty
satisfactory. It does appear to be so in
these cases, but all other concerns aren’t
so happily situated. Some will profit from
the war’s effects, while others will suffer —
motor-traders, for instance, severely. It
is ridiculous to think that the country as
a whole can profit from a wasteful war.
Though our factories are sure to con-
tinue particularly active so long as pro-
duction of goods in Europe is curtailed
and sea-carriage difficult, a substantial
proportion of their activity will be for
defence purposes, and that proportion
will have to be paid for by the whole
nation, the manufacturers included.
At 126.85 last week the Sydney in-
dustrial-share index compared with 136.54
on Jan. 16, which represents the peak
of the war boom. The lowest point
touched was 107.52 in June. Upward
movements over the past two or three
weeks have only exceeded recessions by
a small amount, but the net result has
been a gain. Broken Hill Prop, last week
stood at 445. 3d., British Tobacco at 495.,
A.C.I. at 355. 9d., Tooth at 495. 9d.,
Australasian Paper at 30s. 6d., Carlton
at 645. 6d., North Broken Hill at 365. 6d.
and Electro. Zinc ords. at 51s. 6d.
* * * *
It was “expected” in Canberra last
week that estimated revenue for the cur-
rent financial year would fall short of
defence expenditure (£177,000,000) by
£50,000,000. Partly to meet the gap a
£20,000,000 public loan is tipped soon,
with further borrowings early in 1941.
An intensification of the drive for money
raised by war savings certificates
(£14,000,000 up to last week) is also con-
templated. According to a Canberra
correspondent,
Revenue from taxation has been less than
anticipated when special war-time taxation
measures were announced by the Treasurer,
Mr. Spender, in May, because the pro-
posed war-time company tax has not yet
been introduced. This measure was deferred
by the last Parliament, but the enabling
legislation is certain to be proceeded with
soon.
The “high-profits” tax proffered to Par-
liament in lieu of a genuine excess-profits
levy was not acceptable because it prom-
ised escape for big concerns with large
reserves. Canberra had better keep an
eye on what is happening overseas in
regard to e.-p.t.
* * * *
Maoriland’s compulsory loan scheme
(B. 11/9/ ’4O) has taken more definite
shape. According to the Budget speech
of June 27, the idea was to be “invest-
ments in national security.” It was pro-
posed then to raise money free of interest
for three years or until 12 months after
the war, thereafter carrying not more
than 2\ p.c. interest for 10 years. On
Sept. 25 Mr. Nash said that arrange-
ments had been made for an £8,000,000
loan, non-interest-bearing until October,
1943, but carrying 24 p.c. thereafter until
1953. As to the amount of compulsory
subscription,
The Minister will not regard any person
as having subscribed in due proportion to
his means unless he subscribes to the
loan at least an amount equal to the income
tax payable by him in 1939, decreased in
the case of individuals by £5O, and in the
case of companies by £7O.
However essential this measure may be
now, it is all another blow to the thrifty
with past savings. There have been very
few private savings put by by “wealthy”
people in M.L. in later years of the
present Government’s control. At
present an investor with an income of
£20,000 pays £16,428 in income and
security taxes. Under the compulsory-
loan scheme he will be asked for some-
thing less than this sum, 1939 rates
having been lower. In all probability
he will have to raise bank credit on his
investments to do so. A man earning
£7OO a year pays income tax of £B6
(excluding national security and social
security tax of 2s. in the £); another
earning £l2OO pays £2OB. The first will
have to put up £l9 in the loan scheme,
the second £ll3. On an earned income
of £5200 (£lOO a week) the tax is £2385
and the loan levy £1723, leaving the tax-
payer £1092 (less than £22 a week) with
which to bless himself and pay £520 in
security taxes. To this pass has New
Zealand come because of its Govern-
ment’s childlike belief in the past in
money-juggling as a cure for national
difficulties. In justice it should be added
that the country is taking a full share
of its war responsibility, but some Maori-
landers say that war has actually saved
the Government.
* * * *
The Sydney “Herald” published a re-
port of an address by Professor Giblin
to the Economic Society on price con-
trol. It also attributed to the speaker
these remarks:
Though inflation has the disadvantage
of reducing the value of savings, it does
ensure employment, which is a good thing,
and it would pay us not to oppose in-
flation should England decide on con-
trolled inflation, provided always that
wages and prices are kept closely related.
Giblin, who writes and reasons pithily,
was forced to join the list of “Herald”
correspondents a few days later:
Your report ascribes to me an opinion
I was attributing to the trade unions, and
believe to be wholly mistaken, namely,
that it would be possible to finance the war
in Australia by inflationary methods with-
out serious damage to the welfare of wage-
earners. This misunderstanding leads up to
a chaotic argument for which I must de-
cline responsibility.
It is quite on the cards, however, that
the first confused report will be the only
one that a lot of crank currency theorists
will bother quoting. Giblin, incidentally,
says that if price control continues to
be successful it should be carried on
into the post-war period.
* * * %
Australian Paper Manufacturers, which
is controlled by Australasian Paper
(77.6 p.c.) and Cumberland (22.4 p.c.),
earned a net profit of £253,728 last year
(to June 30) after providing £125,000 for
taxation, £2500 for bad debts and
£180,669 for depreciation. In 1938-39
a profit of £238,025 was shown after
allowing £50,000 for taxation, £2500 for
bad debts and £98,991 for depreciation.
Put in another form of comparison, 1939-
40 earnings, before provision was made
for taxation, bad debts
and depreciation,
amounted to £561,897,
compared with
£389,516 in 1938-39.
Much of the new
capital issued in recent
years is now produc-
tively employed; a
new 180-inch paper
machine at Maryvale
(Vic.) started opera-
tions as recently as
August, and the pulp
mill was continuously
increasing its produc-
tion over the last nine
months of the finan-
cial year. Demand for
the co.’s products has
expanded widely since
war began. The co.
now has nearly
£3,000,000 invested in
freeholds, buildings
and plant. Last year
these assets were par-
ticularly remunerative.
* *
The cut in the ord.
div. of United Pro-
visions from 3 p.c. to
\\ p.c. brought sharp
disappointment to sup-
porters, who expected
that war-time demand
for packed foodstuffs
and hams would have
helped profits along.
Highest quote this
year was 9s. lid., and before the div.
announcement a number of sales were
recorded at prices around 7s. 3d. Last
week quotes fell to 6s. 2d. The return
at that figure is 3.7 p.c. on a \\ p.c. div.
basis, or 10 p.c. if the 3 p.c. rate is
restored later on. Average div. over the
past six years has been about 2 p.c.
* * * *
Koitaki Rubber, which owns planta-
tions in Papua and thereby has a prefer-
ence with respect to its shipments to Aus-
tralia, has declared a final div. of Is. 6d.
a share, making 2s. 6d. (124 p.c.) for the
year. This is the best div. in the co.’s
recent history, comparing with 10 p.c.
last term and an average of 7 p.c. during
1935-39. Profit claimed was £12,156,
against £9882 and £3555 in the two pre-
ceding years. Paid capital is £75,214.
Reason for the increased profit, the best
since 1926, is higher output and better
prices for rubber, which is now selling
at a shilling a pound in London. A
record crop is expected by Koitaki in
1940-41. The £1 shares are at 245.,
and represent a reasonable spec, at the
price, acknowledging that rubber is a
bouncy type of commodity.
* * M* *
“Deflation” is not apparent on all sides,
as some defeated “brains” of the New
A.P. would have had us believe. Wun-
derlich, Ltd., the Sydney tile-maker and
ceiling manufacturer, has declared an ord.
interim at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a., as against
74 p.c. for the last completed term.
Building is one of the least active of the
defence-helped industries, too.
sfc * ❖ *
Farmers are to be allowed a reduc-
tion of 4s. a ton on all purchases of
superphosphate made since July. Im-
proved charter rates from Nauru and
Ocean Islands have made this possible.
Between August, 1939, and June, 1940,
the price of super, had been lifted 28s.
a ton because of increased costs. Fer-
tiliser cos. did better during the year to
June 30.
* * * *
North Broken Hill, which is getting
£lB 16s. 7d. Aust., f.o.b. Port Pirie, for
lead sold to Britain, and is being paid on
the basis of £lB 155., f.o.b. Risdon, for
zinc, showed a profit of £397,418 last
year, compared with £330,187 in the pre-
ceding term. The Australian price of
lead is £2O 17s. 3d., with £2O 2s. 6d. for
spelter. Barrier production figures aren’t
now available for war reasons.
* * sN *
Yarra Falls (Melbourne), the biggest
textile co. in the Commonwealth, showed
a record profit of £117,975 in 1939-40,
compared with £115,433 in the preceding
year. Consolidated figures of Y.F. and
its Sydney subsidiary, Globe Worsted
Mills, were £124,955 in the latest period
after providing £52,162 for depreciation
and £59,316 for taxation ; in 1938-39
profit was £117,946, with £43,788 and
£18,813 for depreciation and taxation
respectively. Yarra Falls’ div. is again
10 p.c. (£100,000).
* $ * *
Myer’s, the big Melbourne emporium,
reports a profit of £419,760 (after £97,500
of taxes), compared with £380,080
(taxes £75,000) in 1938-39. The div.
stays at 9 p.c.
“Never mind the expense; send a veterinary surgeon
who knows something about mousetraps."


Amazing climbing tomato: bears
FOR A WHOLE YEAR! Climbs 12-20 ft. trellis,
fence, netting. Each plant YIELDS 2001 b. (8 cases)
large, red, smooth tomatoes. Mr. E. Sawyer, Broome-
hill, W.A., writes: “Climbing Tomato 141 ft. Already
yielded 2001 b., some over 140 z.” Easily grown any-
where,. 2/6 packet. Also the world’s greatest
HEALTH TOMATO! “White Beauty,” PURE WHITE
and 100 PER CENT. NON-ACID (for Rheumatism).
DISEASE FREE ! DROUGHT PROOF ! Heavy
bearer. Makes Delicious Jam, 2/6 packet. AMERICAN
RARE SEEDS! Sole Agents for Australia, we
have the ONLY SUPPLY of the following rare "seeds :
Vegetable Spaghetti. Hybridised Potato Seed, Snake,
\ard Long and Climbing Cucumbers, Yard Long
Bean, Vine Peach, Odorless and Giant 30lb. Cabbages,
Dwarf Sweet Peas, Baby Fairy Rose, Baby Water
Lily, Wild Flower Mixtures from the Orient and
Amerioa. (i/_ packet, 10 packets 7/6). Also 40
other rare seed importations. List free. TIMBER
KILLER. Kills trees. ROOTS TO TOP in 15 DAYS.
“ow method. NO RINGBARKING. 5/6 tin. post free.
K.b.W. SEED CO., 75 George Street, Sydney.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
*#.
11l
Mil!
Iff!!
11l
lit
Hi!! 1
Ilf
m m m
im m*
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“There is no room for fools in politics these
days.”— Article.
The profession is already overcrowded.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Dance Band, Vocalists and Others, with in-
born sense. Modern Fox-trot Rhythm, invited
join mixed quintet.”— “S.M.H.” ad.
But surely nobody with inborn sense
would want to be a dance band vocalist.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted to Buy, Run-down Ladies’ Beauty
Salon.”—■-“S.M.H.”
Isn’t this taking specialisation just a
little too far?
4* 4* 4« 4*
“Bumble bees begin to work when two days
old.”— “World’s News.”
No wonder they break out in hives.
4* 4* 4* 4*
If there were a toothpaste flavored
with rum, there’d still be some nark to
expect bottles of milk given free as a
rinse.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In one district of the East Indies women
must keep one eye shut when in the presence
of men.” — “World’s News.”
When the men succeed in getting ’em
to keep their mouths shut they can
boasting in earnest.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Time for Trouble.
“Now is the time to do home repairs.”
— “S.M.H.” Women’s Supplement.
First you “fix” the roof and ceiling
till you get a funny feeling that it’s not
the wind that’s squealing ; then you find,
with fear and awe, that you knocked a
flaming tile off, and it knocked your
old girl’s smile off. So you take a little
while off till the doctor sets her jaw.
Then you tinker with the fences, but
the strong wind blurs your senses, and
the hammered consequences are you
bang some palings down. Next you turn
with good intention to the windows,
though you mention to a neighbor that
the tension of repairing makes you
frown. Then your clumsy elbow smashes
through the glass ; you break the sashes,
and each wretched window crashes,
while your choicest words are aired. So
you board with a relation, and you watch
with fascination a repair gang’s opera-
tion on the house that you—repaired.
Elm.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Children living at El-Oued, in northern
Sahara, have never seen rain and would prob-
ably be terrified by it.”— 3AR speaker.
There are schoolboys on Sydney's
water catchment who have been known
to scream at sight of a cloud.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What is the correct position to hold a glass
and the arms when a toast is proposed—l mean
when the members are singing ‘He’s a jolly
good fellow’?”
Our Etiquette Editor saya it depends
entirely on the position of me toast on
the toast-list. First toast, hold glass well
above lip-line, sing “Foreesa” and bring
glass smartly to lips. Second tpast, hold
glass at chest line. Third toast'* glass at
line of last waistcoat button. Fourth
toast doesn mattermuch slongs glass
handy. Fifth and sub —subsquent (gone
off the air).
“Pure Gold shines on track.”
—Racing comment.
Bookmakers heartily endorse this
opinion.
4* 4* 4* 4-
“The guest of honor was a fine fellow in
addition to being an excellent fieldsman.”
—Speaker at cricketers’ dinner.
In brief, a good scout.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The popularity of a gay old bird
frequently depends on fine feathers.
“Of necessity war is a cruet affair.”
— Women’s paper.
Full of peppery colonels, heroes who
are the salt of the earth, fights as hot as
mustard, and saucy-looking women in
uniform.
4* 4* *s*
“Large front room, use conveniences, with
one lady, 15s.” — Sydney suburban paper.
All the comforts of home.
4* 4* 4» 4*
“Latest move in the development of National
Emergency Services has originated in the dental
profession, which is being organised for ser-
vice.” — “Sun.”
It’s about time, too. There isn’t much
dentists don’t know about drilling, and
in the making of bridges they are un-
excelled. To crown this, they are quite
at home with gas.
“Looks as if We'll 'ave to choke 'em off, Bill."
Unanimity.
Whene’er I tell you how divine
Are those dear lips I press to mine,
Or speak with an abandoned air
About your richly flowing hair,
Or dwell upon, with lavish praise,
Your lovely form, your winning ways,
It’s most encouraging that you
Subscribe to these opinions, too.
T. W. Nathan.
Gratitude.
As a rule he didn’t remember anniver-
saries, but exactly a year ago he had
entered upon a new life. Happiness such
as he had never known before had been
his. It was all so wonderful that at times
he doubted if it could be true.
His thoughts dwelt on the lady who
had made it possible. She was sensible
enough always to see the best way out of
difficulties, and it was this streak in her
character that had helped him so much.
But he was in a bit of a quandary as to
what shape the present should take.
It would scarcely be the thing to send
his ex-wife a bouquet of flowers to com-
memorate the first anniversary of their
divorce.
PATON.
Prosaic.
He heard afar the pulsing throbs
Of fancy’s flying feet,
And made a song of sighs and sobs,
Of yearnings vague and sweet.
Then, as his pen he put away,
And left Parnassus hill,
He said, “I’ve earned enough to pay
The blasted butcher’s bill!
CLEM LACK.
Cold Policy.
“It is good policy to nurse a cold.”
— Women’s paper.
Of course it is. Fullpots has nursed his
cold so skilfully for years that when he
comes home reeking of booze and falls
into bed his wife accepts the explana-
tion that he had to take a few rums to
drive out the heavy cold. “Poor Tom’s
got another of those dreadful colds. I
insisted that he go to bed,” is how his
wife explains the situation.
Maria doesn’t believe in rum as a cure
for a cold.
The time I tried it out she ordered me
to bed, proceeded to sear my skin off
with poultices and forced me to swallow
horrik e concoctions free of alcohol.
Maria’s concern for my welfare, though,
touched me so much that, despite the
torture, I had to mention it.
“Of course, I’ve got to see you get
better,” Maria replied. “Supposing you
were to die, where’s the money going to
come from for your funeral? As for
your insurances, they are too pitiful to
think about. You ought to be ashamed
of yourself, Aitchem, not taking my
future into consideration before getting
a cold.”
Well, one of the results of my experi-
ment in nursing a cold is that the mus-
tard plasters have been succeeded by a
monthly financial plaster, paying for new
insurance.
H.M.
Significant.
“The more strongly husband and wife are
attached to their parents the more likely they
are to be happy in their marriage.”
She loves her ma with all her heart,
And ma’s the same with her;
And when they meet they’re loath to
part —
It’s touching, I aver.
No depths of jealousy I plumb,
We’re married happily.
For she so much adores her mum
She’s seldom home with me!
P.O.M.C.
An “Outstanding” Case.
Septimus Bunk, the candidate, was
ushered into the editorial sanctum. He
was a short, fat, florid man with sparse
hair like coconut fibre, a high-pitched
voice and eloquent hands.
Politics were in Septimus Bunk’s
blood. His grandfather had stood in the
crowd next to the man who originally
asked “What did Gladstone do in ’84?”
and his father had once handed out elec-
tion dodgers for George Reid.
His ambition to enter Parliament
had been stirred by a chance re-
mark at his club. During a discussion on
the Government’s fiscal policy a fellow-
clubman had said “Why, even Bunk here
couldn’t make a bigger hash of things.”
This tribute to his sagacity met with such
unanimous approval that he forthwith
decided to run against the sitting member
for his district, a fellow in his own party
who had held the seat for 15 years by
what Septimus considered a miracle.
To his intense surprise, the Great
Morning Daily had backed him, and thus
it was that he was here.
“Well, Mr. Bunk,” began the editor
ponderously, after waving his visitor to
a seat, “your campaign is going along
nicely. I think we can promise you an
overwhelming majority over McTwerp.
We are certain he has lost the confidence
of the constituency, and no other party
has a hope. We regard you, Mr. Bunk,
as an—ah—outstanding candidate. What
we want in Parliament are men like your-
self—men of action with big business ex-
perience, men who will get things done.
This paper is not satisfied with how the
country is being run, and we propose
t 0 alter it drastically. You are one of
seventeen key men we have selected. You
noticed the—ah—report we gave you
yesterday when we discussed your elec-
torate?”
“Yes, thanks ; but the space I got”
T . h . e edito f r s P read . his hands - “ We
could not, of course, give you more than
Mven . ei h ’ ths of , he ’ J olui /, n . After a]lj
tha( wo * ld scarcely £air , 0 the other
eight candidates, and fair reporting is
with our journal a sacred tradition.”
«r> llt »
. began Bunk again, do you
really think the electors will put me above
McTwerp?”
T be g rea t editor looked at Septimus
a l m ost pityingly. “The electors will be
~ , A" ; ~/. „ , • , , .. ,
how to vote, he said dramatically.
Remember that, politically, the Fourth
Estate wields tremendous influence. We
make or break Governments as the fancy
takes us. We don’t reflect public opinion
—we mould it! Be assured—the seat is
as g°°d as yours.”
Three days later Septimus Bunk was
back in the holy of holies.
“Well, things are moving now,” greeted
the great man.
“Ye-es,” agreed Septimus, “though I’m
st in no t getting quite the meetings I would
like. There seem to be
more raspberries than
cheers.”
“Tut, tut!” the g.m.
replied. “That is no
criterion. We’re run-
ning your wife’s photo,
in the society columns
tomorrow, the one
taken in her new im-
ported Palm Beach suit
holding her Pekinese
and another at a cock-
tail party. It will make
you tremendously popu-
lar! In fact, I say posi-
tively that after they
appear it will result in
a landslide in your
favor. We ordered the
voters to give their No.
2 votes to Redragge,
the Independent; his
preferences will go to
you, though, of course,
you’ll be so far ahead
on the primaries you
won’t need them. We’ve
issued instructions that
only their ninth votes
go to McTwerp. That will teach
him! Now simply forget your worries—
the electors will do on Saturday as this
newspaper demands.”
Late on Saturday night the editor sat
in his sanctum. As the radio droned
out the progress figures for the electorate
of each of his “outstanding” candidates
he gave a violent shudder. At that time
McTwerp had 33,948. Bunk was running
seventh with 2036, with the returns almost
complete. In one less dignified the energy
with which he switched the knob off
might have been interpreted as anger.
Just as he did so one of his staff entered
hurriedly, grabbed the editor’s bowler
and stick, pushed them into his hands and
opened another door leading out to a pas-
sage at the back of the building.
“This way, sir, quick, for your life!”
“Wha-what is it?” asked the great man
agitatedly.
“It’s that ‘outstanding’ candidate, Mr.
Bunk, sir. He’s coming along the corri-
dor tearing his hair and asking to see
you. And he’s carrying a sock filled with
sand !”
Bo.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
UNDER THE GERMAN YOKE.
[Descriptions of the conquered people’s existence
under the German rule in Poland were given here some
time back. The accounts now given of that tyranny in
operation in other conquered countries were mostly
written from recent personal experience. First a con-
densed London “Times” article summing up the general
position.]
The fate of France has shown that, just as war
today is the conflict of peoples, not of Governments,
so its consequence is not a mere political adjustment
but an upheaval of all social life, in which the land-
marks of the common man are obliterated or
destroyed.
Nazi propaganda proclaims that the new social
structure it sets up offers fresh hope to the common
man ; but since on the scene of each of its victories
the people are found accepting the leadership of men
long discredited in their own public life, and sub-
mitting to methods of administration that they would
never tolerate for a moment from their own country-
men, there is only one possible conclusion —that their
whole existence is now paralysed by fear.
Fear is the motive power of government for
National-Socialism, which, directly it crosses the
frontier of Germany, shows itself totally bankrupt of
constructive ideas. It has less than nothing to offer
to the compulsory disciples abroad ; all that it can
tell them is that they belong to inferior races, whose
felicity consists in permission to serve the Herren-
volk. The degradation with which this evil system
threatens the life of Europe is becoming apparent in
all the conquered territories.
A major purpose of the political despotism is
economic exploitation— not exploitation of big busi-
ness or of the Treasury, but of the common man.
Such safeguards as trade-unions are swept away. The
conquered peoples are rapidly reduced to the condition
of helots, working for their German masters. The accu-
mulated wealth of the subject countries, whether in
the hands of the rich or of the poor, and the fruits
of agriculture and current industrial production are
systematically diverted to Germany to feed the war
machine. Denmark, one of the great food-producing
countries of Europe, has already been stripped and is
threatened with famine.
That this is to be more than an expedient of war
emergency is shown by the proclaimed intention to
reconstitute France as a peasant country —which
means in effect to destroy the industries that have
made her people prosperous in order that she may
become a permanent granary for the sustenance of the
imperial Germans.
From this regime of fear, slavery, ignorance and
poverty, afflicting not abstract State systems but each
individual man and woman who passes under the Nazi
yoke, there is now only one hope of deliverance. It
depends qpon the victory of the British Empire.
* * * * *
Raiding Holland’s Supplies
(Condensed from a London “Times” article by a corre-
spondent lately in Holland.)
Before the invasion Holland was well stocked; in
spite of the blockade there were adequate reserves of
raw materials and ample food supplies. From the
moment of the German entry into The Hague this
great warehouse of consumable goods was raided.
Payment was given in useless paper marks and the
goods disappeared into Germany. In the first week
8,000,000 kilograms (17,600,0001 b.) of butter, about
90 per cent, of the total reserves, were removed. The
same thing happened in varying degrees to other stocks
of food, clothing and raw materials. If there is to be
starvation in this war the Dutch fear that they will
starve first and the most thoroughly.
This wholesale requisitioning brought in the card-
rationing system. There was not much left in the
shops for sale. For the Dutch (the system does not
apply to the German invaders) the ration for oils and
fat is 125 grammes (a little over 40z.), for tea 10
grammes and for coffee 50 grammes a head a week.
These quantities are temporary, and will decrease as
stocks become exhausted. The Dutch Government
had before the war accumulated large reserves of
tinned meats. Although these were also acquired by
the Germans, the compulsory slaughter of cattle will
provide enough meat for present reduced needs and
will be used to renew the depleted stocks of tinned
foods. Whether this additional supply will be allowed
to remain in Dutch possession is another matter.
There is one portion of the population which will
suffer from the cutting down of tinned foods. The
stores were accumulated principally to feed the un-
employed, who will now get none of them. Instead
they are being organised into labor corps to be drafted
anywhere within the territory controlled by the Third
Reich. Refusal to join this organisation entails starva-
tion, as no ration cards will be issued to recalcitrant
workers. Dutch labor is thus compelled to serve,
however unwillingly, its new masters.
* * * * *
Famine Threatens Belgium
(From a London “Times” article by a correspondent
lately in Belgium.)
Both Belgians and neutrals agree on the proba-
bility of a serious famine in Belgium this winter.
Gloomy famine forebodings are based upon ample
facts. Already Belgium is short of food, chiefly fats,
meat and grain. The harvest is bad, and in normal
times Belgium receives more than 70 per cent, of her
wheat from America. Her cattle industry is also
largely dependent upon foreign feeding stuffs.
Unlike Holland, Belgium did not build up large
reserves of food. The blockade has hindered delivery
of wheat from America, so that today there is prac-
tically none left. In regard to fats, milk, eggs and
meat the need is not at the moment so grave, but it is
likely in the near future to assume very serious propor-
tions, owing primarily to the German economic policy
in Belgium. The Germans have decided that the Bel-
gians are too well fed and could do with a lot less
food, certainly with much less butter. With this con-
viction has gone a determination to change the whole
course of the country’s rural economy. Pasture is to
be cut down by 50 per cent., with a corresponding
increase in arable land. A decree has already put this
plan into operation. Inevitably cattle have to be
slaughtered, and, while meat will continue to be ob-
tainable, milk and butter will become progressively
scarcer.
There are still plenty of vegetables and fruit, so
that when the worst comes to the worst the poor
man’s soup can be distributed in decreasing quantities.
Vegetables and fruit are, however, strictly rationed
so that a good surplus can be had for preserving and
tinning, a process which does not seem to be ham-
pered by the almost complete lack of sugar. Beer is
another commodity which is to be beheaded under
the axe of German necessity. Thirty to forty per cent,
only of the pre-war consumption will be brewed. The
malt which it is hoped to have as surplus after this
economy will be sent to Germany to be turned into
coffee.
There is another side to this inclusion of Belgium
within an overriding Reich economy. The production
of cement and bricks is encouraged, while the motor-
car tyre industry is to be closed down. This appears
to be within the compass of the German intention to
—New York “Post.”
If Anybody in Europe Starves It Won’t Be He.
try to make Holland and Belgium, and possibly Den-
mark, complementary units within one economy whose
direction will be from Berlin and whose policy will
depend upon the exigencies of the Third Reich. So
far as possible they must be independent of any sup-
port from Germany and yet capable of maintaining
themselves at a level above the starvation line.
The implications of such a policy, if it comes to
anything, are not yet appreciated by the ordinary Bel-
gian. He is given glowing accounts of the prospects
of the future by his German master. Nazi and mili-
tary quarters ridicule the idea of a food shortage in
the coming winter. As propaganda it may be good,
yet the forebodings of well-informed Belgians and
neutrals are shared by the German bankers who have
followed into Belgium on the heels of the army. These
gentry have few illusions about the real state of affairs
and in suitable company have no modesty in express-
ing their doubts. Indeed, they have a risky job, being
expected to make an economy work which does not
contain the seeds of success within it.
German propaganda has certainly had a notable
success. The passive resistance of 1914-18 is nowhere
in evidence. There is in fact a considerable amount
of co-operation, willingly given and gratefully accepted.
But no amount of propaganda and no amount of
apparent willingness to listen to Belgian troubles will
turn aside the stark facts of economic disaster. Bel-
gium is likely to become a grave liability if the war
cannot be finished in the shortest possible time.
Tempers on both sides are liable to become worn
under the rub of economic necessity. If that does
happen the old spirit of defiance is certain to reassert
itself.
* * * * v
The Record in Czechoslovakia
(From an article in “PM,” New York, by Robert
Neville .)
In the 17 months since Der Fiihrer first slept at
lovely Hradchin Castle at Prague:
About 70,000 Czechs have been sent to concen-
tration camps. About 300,000 Czechs have been
drafted as slave labor to work in camps in Germany.
The country’s once thriving industries have been shut
down, taken over by the Germans or systematically
destroyed. Unemployment doubled in six■ T 1 ® 11
with no benefits paid to the unemployed. All Czech
universities and high schools have been and
hereafter Czechs will be allowed only two years ele-
mentary schooling. Tens of thousands of books have
been removed from Czech libraries and museums, as
raw material for German pulp and cellulose mills.
At the end of 17 months the internal administra-
tion of the Protectorate is still nominally in the hands
of Dr. Hacha and his shadow “Government,” although
the actual rulers are Konstantin von Neurath, Pro-
tector of the Reich,” and State Secretary K. H. Frank.
Their decisions are enforced by 300,000 soldiers.
Police work is in the hands of 50,000 Gestapo plain-
clothesmen.
The Nazis have said that their aim is the exter-
mination of the Czechs as a political force. The place
of Czechs in Hitler’s New Order of Europe is fourth
in a new German social order which will divide people
into four castes: (1) Herrenvolk, or ruling class, con-
sisting of leading Nazis and soldiers; (2) the rank
and file of Nazi party members ; (3) German mer-
chants and tradesmen ; (4) slave groups consisting of
Slavs and other non-German Europeans who will per-
form heavy manual labor without rights or privileges.
(From a London “Times” article.')
For a number of reasons, not wholly German-
made, industrial production in Czechoslovakia has
fallen by a third. The lack of raw
materials may be chalked up to the
British account. Certain examples of
faulty workmanship may be chalked up
to the Czech. What is German-made is
the deliberate closing of factories in the
Protectorate and the sending of their
machinery to Russia and to South
America.
Almost everywhere—except for some
armament factories —the Germans are
depriving Czech industries in favor of
German. No less thoroughly German is
the deportation of industrial workers to
the Reich. Under the latest compulsory
labor law all Czech men from 16 to 70
have to work where their masters tell
them. Probably hardly less than 300,000
have» already been taken across the
frontier. From the industrial area
around Moravska Ostrava 11,000 were
taken off within a few weeks. The de-
portations are carried out as ruthlessly
from Bohemia as from Poland.
What is the Czech reply to all this?
Part of it may be seen in a certain amount
of bland and faulty workmanship. Part
may be seen on the land. It is believed
that the harvest will be less than half of
normal, and it seems as though some
farmers have returned to the 1918 tactics
of growing only for their own house-
holds. Last year they grew for others to
harvest; they saw their produce taken
off to Germany. Even this year the
Germans have taken large stocks of
potatoes —whether for food or for fuel
alcohol is unknown.
The Czechs bide their time and look
for future deliverance. The British Government’s
recognition of the Czechoslovak Government in Lon-
don had a bracing effect in many parts of the Protec-
torate. The people saw in it a signpost to happier and
brighter ways than they have known under the
Germans, for whom to protect means to stifle.
3|S . H* 'i*
In Conquered France
(From a London “Times” article by a correspondent
lately in France .)
A problem for all who think about it is how to
explain the amazing mental attitude which seems to
prevail today in France. Most Frenchmen seem to
regard the total collapse of their country with a resig-
nation that has the appearance of indifference. They
are, indeed, dazed by the rapidity of the collapse, but
register no violent reaction to so great and unexpected
a shock.
The Germans for many reasons are trying to whip
into shape that part of the country which has fallen
into their sphere of influence. Their problem is
especially serious. North of Paris there exists a desert.
Towns like Abbeville, Amiens, Cambrai, Arras and
scores of others are very largely destroyed, though in
most places the churches and the cathedrals seem
to be intact. The villages are deserted, the farm-
steads empty. Crops are rotting on the ground. The
first wave of the German Army consumed everything.
It was, in fact, until a week or two ago a land of the
dead, metaphorically and literally, since the corpses
of men and animals still littered the ground. Now the
people are slowly creeping back, only to find that
there is little to eat and less to do. Everywhere the
first pick of what is going falls to the army of occupa-
tion, the second to those who work for their German
masters, the scanty crumbs that remain are left for
those who fulfil neither of these conditions.
Nevertheless some attempt is made to regulate on
a fixed scale the inadequate amount of consumable
goods which are available. There is no lack of cash
—marks printed by the presses follow the troops.
These naturally are in the hands of the German sol-
diers and the folk who work for them, but they result
in ready sales for anything on offer. The Germans
have instituted a sort of Douglas social credit scheme


upon which they base their mark-note issue. The
backing for this spurious currency is said to be not the
counterfeit capitalist backing of gold but the more
solidly founded reserve of work done. As a temporary
measure it may be all very fine, but marks printed,
even with such a basis, cannot produce the food and
necessities of life which simply are not there. The
gloomy fact is that in time, unless something radical is
done, there will be nothing to buy at all.
The Germans are aware of this. Already their
propaganda is putting the blame in advance upon the
British blockade. They have immense faith in propa-
ganda, not so much as a panacea to solve all the
riddles of the situation, but as an excuse when the in-
evitable failure comes. The German Army is a propa-
ganda machine as well as a fighting force. The storm
troops, those who have borne the brunt of the heavy
fighting and made victory so swiftly possible, are
propagandists to a man. They have a fanatical belief
in Hitler and an equally fanatical hatred of England.
They sweep through to their victories, grim-faced
young men, without any feelings except those con-
ditioned into them ; old warriors with the minds of
infants.
Hitler Responsible for Famine.
[German propaganda aimed at branding Britain
guilty in advance for famine in Nazi-occupied Europe
has had some effect in the U.S.A. In a letter to London
“Times” here condensed, the British case in its legal
and moral aspects is presented by an American, A. L.
Goodhart, Professor of Jurisprudence at Oxford and
editor of the “Law Quarterly Review.”]
International law, which represents the moral
sense of all civilised countries, has always held that it
is the primary duty of the occupant of enemy territory
to ensure public order and safety in the countries he
has seized. This is laid down by Article 43 of the
Hague Regulations of 1899 and has been accepted by
every authority on International Law (see Hall’s Inter-
national Law, Bth edition, page 571, and Oppenheim’s
International Law, 4th edition, Vol. 11, page 300). The
(duty to save from starvation the inhabitants of the
(territories which he occupies therefore falls on Hitler
jand on no one else.
Hitler has repeatedly stated that Germany has
large reserves of foodstuffs. On this point he is prob-
ably telling the truth. Why, then, has he seized food
in the countries which he has occupied, thus adding
materially to the danger of famine there? The answer
'is that Hitler needs food-material, especially fats, for
the manufacture of explosives. The choice between
guns and butter is literally true. Every pound of food
which enters territory controlled by Germany will
therefore be used, directly or indirectly, in making
bombs with which to attack England. It will be used
directly if the food is seized by Germany, as it well
may be ; it will be used indirectly if the Germans are
relieved of the duty to feed the unfortunate people
they have overrun.
Hitler has announced that he will force the coun-
tries he has seized to furnish him with war material,
such as aeroplanes and guns, with which to attack
England. He has now the effrontery to demand that
America shall feed his unwilling slaves, so that he may
not be hindered in his war preparations.
Hitler has promised his people that by blockading
England he will starve her into surrender. No one
in England has ever questioned his right to do so, even
though this may entail the starvation of women and
children. It is one of the many tragedies of war that
in a beleaguered city the weak must suffer as well as
the strong.
Hitler is therefore faced with two choices. He
can either feed the people living in the territories he
has seized, or, if he cannot or will not do this, he must
evacuate their territory as a whole so that they can
feed themselves. He cannot ask as a third choice that
other countries should feed the victims of his aggres-
sion while he is left free to prosecute the war with
increased resources.
* * * * s>
{From a London “Times” letter by Col. R. Meinertzhageni)
There is every prospect of a serious famine in
Europe this winter and next spring. Germany is sys-
tematically robbing occupied territories of food and is
creating a situation which makes widespread starvation
inevitable, but at the same time gathering into Ger-
many what stocks she can so that Germans will suffer
least. The blame for this will be put on us. There is
the great danger that soft hearts in Britain and America
will be unable to resist pouring food into starving
Europe, which in reality will be pouring food into
Germany, for under Hitler’s control all food, even
under international control, will find its way into Ger-
many. A despairing Europe, under the powerful lash
of Goebbels’s propaganda, may well turn against
democracy and embrace Nazism. We must and can
have our practical answer ready.
The proposal is to build up in the Americas, South
Africa and Australia huge supplies of food earmarked
for starving Europe the moment Nazi-Fascist control
ceases. Europe could be told that this food is avail-
able and ready to be shipped the moment revolt
materialises. The merits of such a scheme are: (a)
We shall have to revictual Europe anyhow, and these
huge stocks of food can be turned over for our use in
the meanwhile, (b) It would relieve the growing sur-
pluses of food and raw material now accumulating in
the Americas, (c) It would be effective reply to Ger-
man propaganda. ( d ) The growing power of our offen-
sive would be made easier, (e) It would supply a vis-
lble and concrete outlet for humanitarian feeling in the
U.S.A. and this country. (/) If the U.S.A. would act
jointly it would supply yet another link in the chain
which connects the two great democracies. ( g ) Stricken
Europe would be given hope and an incentive to rid its
land of the rule of the Beast, (h) Europe must be con-
ymced that Nazi-Fascist rule means starvation.
African Warfare.
(Condensed from a London “Daily Express” article by
O. D. Gallagher .)
You can’t hope to understand the war in Africa
unless you grasp these facts (some of them
unpalatable):
Italy’s Libyan army alone numbers 250,000 whites
and thousands of Askaris. Italy has big garrisons of
mixed troops in Abyssinia.
We have thousands of troops in Egypt, the Sudan,
Kenya and British Somaliland. Our total of Empire
troops there is about as big as we’ve ever had.
Yet in vast Africa these great armies become
pigmies. Egypt, the Sudan, Kenya and British Somali-
land have frontiers against Italian territory whose
total length is 3500 miles. The broad strategy of this
war in Africa is not a matter of winning or losing
territory. There aren’t men enough to fight wars like
that in Africa. Two forces are put in the field ; eventu-
ally the armies meet in a battle or series of battles
which continue until one is beaten. Only then does
the acquisition of territory become the main con-
sideration —for the winner takes all; no other military
force remains to say him nay.
With certain important limitations it does not
matter whether the enemy is defeated in his own terri-
tory or ours, so long as he is defeated. Italy’s foot-
holds in British Somaliland are not, militarily speaking,
of vital importance Speaking broadly, loss of this
ground does matter. For the Somalis are practical
people. They are likely to say: “Italy must be
stronger. The British have had to retreat.” The
immediate loss of territory means a lot to them.
Political boundaries are not, unfortunately, defen-
sive boundaries. Take the Libyan front; the true
strategic Egyptian front is far east of Solium, where
alone there is enough water to slake a garrison’s thirst.
Defence on the political boundary would be hazardous.
“Impossible,” I have been authoritatively told.
There seems little doubt that our forces will not
attempt to hold political boundaries unless they are
also strategic boundaries. We shall, no doubt, try to
draw the enemy into impossible country which we
decide to evacuate. He will undoubtedly win prestige
among the Arab and native peoples by occupying such
territory. We can hope to win the final victory by
crushing his army and air force in the field.
London.
(New York “Times” leading article, September 10.)
London was a city of some importance before
the German tribes, as Tacitus describes them, had
escaped from barbarism. The fact may have modern
meaning, or it may not, but it is interesting. London’s
roots are deep. Its very name was used by the
Romans two thousand years ago, and fragments of
the old Roman wall still stand —or did stand. On
the site of William the Conqueror’s Tower of London
was once a Roman fort. There was an abbey at
Westminster fifteen hundred years ago; and some
of the stone and mortar put together by the masons
of Edward the Confessor were still there at the begin-
ning of September, 1940.
Celt, Roman, Saxon, Norman, modern Briton,
each gave of his strength and his imagination to make
London. Where the river once ran among marshes,
interspersed with low hills, the city was wrested from
Nature. The time came when Wordsworth, poet of
Nature, could write:
Earth has not anything to show more fair;
Dull would he be of soul who could pass by
A sight so touching in its majesty;
This City now doth like a garment wear
The beauty of the morning.
Grim and ugly indeed were many of its outworn
houses, its bleak streets. The fog and rain of English
winter, this year prayed for, dwelt upon it. But
every stone, almost, was rich with history; almost
every one a memorial. The names of streets, churches,
public buildings, bridges, taverns, museums, parks
rang like bells, like the four-century-old chimes of
Westminster, like Bow bells, for all to whom the
English speech was native.
To London came in due season all Britons who
were royal by birth or, more important, by native gift
and achievement. Through its mostly narrow streets
flowed the great stream of English literature, of Eng-
lish politics, of British Empire. The Londons of
Shakspeare, of Fielding and Johnson, of Dickens and
Thackeray, are subjects of vast detail in themselves.
The London of the old City, the London of the West
End and the East, the London of the Thames and
the docks, these belong to an infinitely various Lon-
don, a London which is not the most beautiful city in
the world, nor the most glamorous, but a London
which has meant more to civilisation than any city
in the world save Paris.
And now what can one say except that it is more
than ever in all its millennial history “touching in
its majesty”? The drabbest of the buildings that
stand will hereafter have sanctity. Ruins, newly made,
will stir the beholder as he was not stirred by Roman
walls or Norman towers. Here, it can be said, un-
mobilised men and women, not used to war, stood
firm against a vile assault and died for freedom.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
The U.S.A.’s next step may be “short of war”
too, but NOT short enough to make any difference.
It will be the use of the American fleet in the interests
of the British cause. Not a naval officer, not an army
man, with whom I have come in contact, privately
doubts this. It is such an open secret in the armed
forces that the “Army and Navy Journal,” a privately-
owned newspaper, but one whose policies are always
very closely identified with the military, practically
announced it ten days before Mr. Roosevelt made
public the destroyer-bases deal. “We are preparing
to reinforce the British Navy with over-age destroyers,”
said the military service paper, “a preliminary to the
dispatch of more powerful vessels and complementary
craft to its aid.” — Paul Mallon ; New York “Journal
and American.”
*****
In the first eight months of the war supplies from
ordnance factories in India reached a peak which was
touched only towards the end of the last war, and the
steps taken to increase output will presently create
records never before reached in Indian experience.
Of the 40,000 items needed to equip a modern army
more than 20,000 are already being produced in India.
Munitions and materials sent overseas since war broke
out include 75,000,000 rounds of small-arms ammuni-
tion, 200,000 shells of all categories, 6000 rifles, 8500
tents, 4,500,000 sandbags, 10,000 sets of web equip-
ment, 600,000 blankets, 3,000,000 yards of khaki drill,
150,000 pairs of boots, 20,000 greatcoats, 73,000
groundsheets and 17,000 saddles. — London “Times."
*****
Disclosing the shipment to England of American
field guns, machine guns, rifles and ammunition on
a scale heretofore undreamed of, the Committee to
Defend America by Aiding the Allies lists six further
steps it feels the U.S. should take to help the British.
(1) Motor torpedo-boats to combat similar German
craft in the English Channel and North Sea. (2)
An indefinite number of long-range flying-boats for
varied sea-patrol work. (3) Long-range bombers (fly-
ing fortresses) to permit the British to reach new
German industrial plants being set up out of the range
of Britain’s present bombers. (4) The U.S.A.’s entire
output of tanks for at least a few weeks for use in
an undisclosed Mediterranean area. (5) The use of
Texas and southern California airfields to train Royal
Air Force pilots, at least during those months when
cold weather hampers training in Canada. (6) A
quarter-million additional Lee-Enfield rifles. During
the month of June alone, the report discloses, Ameri-
can arms shipments to Britain included 80,000 machine
guns, 700 field guns, 500,000 rifles and “mountains of
ammunition.” — New York “Post.”
*****
In the last war Australians deservedly earned a
reputation as first-class airmen. That the new genera-
tion in the Commonwealth has lost none of this ability
has already been proved in this war by the splendid
performances put up by the many Australians serving
with the Royal Air Force. Some of the most daring
exploits in France were carried out by Australians,
who are to be found in the majority of R.A.F. squad-
rons. — London “Times.”
*****
The order under which it is an offence punishable
by fine or imprisonment, or both, to waste food closely
resembles a similar one made in the last war. Cases
brought under that order included the following:
A woman who fed 14 dogs on bread and milk,
fined £5.
Another woman who gave meat to a St. Bernard
dog, fined £2O.
A workman who left a loaf of bread in a cottage
from which he moved, fined £2.
A furnaceman who, dissatisfied with his dinner,
threw the potatoes in the fire, fined £lO.
A woman who burnt stale bread on her lawn,
fined £5.
A farmer who fed seven stone of rock cakes to his
pigs, fined £lO.
Another farmer who fed his stock on bread, im-
prisoned for three months.
—London “Times.”
H* sjc
Britain has a fighting Mosquito Navy. Flotillas
of speedboats mounting machine guns and search-
lights, and with a top speed of about 30 knots. The
Army and Navy co-operate in running them. Sailors
man the boats—soldiers the guns. They patrol the
inland waters of Britain as the Navy patrols the North
Sea. And their continuous search is for Nazi troop-
carrying seaplanes. No soldiers have worn such foot-
wear as the gunners in the Mosquito Navy. Pumps.
They certainly look odd with battledress, but make
for catlike agility.— London “Daily Express.”
*****
Two hundred and seventy “export groups” and
a dozen newly-fledged trading companies are now
engaged in replacing Britain’s lost markets of conti-
nental Europe. Markets which now are either defi-
nitely closed to British exports or can be reached only
with great difficulty and expense in 1938 took United
Kingdom goods valued at £131,000,000. Thus the
problem—stated in terms of 1938 trade —might be
described as one of inducing mainly non-European
markets which in 1938 took £339,000,000 worth of
goods to increase their purchases by £131,000,000, or
nearly 30 per cent. Shortly after the outbreak of the
war, the Export Council disclosed that total exports
of £600,000,000 per year must be aimed at. For the
year ending in July, total exports stood at £443,000,000,
which was £157,000,000 below the goal set. — New
York “World-Telegram.”
*****
All this moving of children here and there which
has been going on —first away from London, then
back, then away again somewhere else —is having a
profound effect on the children themselves. The story
of the evacuation will not be told until the evacuated
generation grows up and begins to take its place in
the world. Even the accents tell the tale of inter-
mingling. You can hear soft Devonshire talked on
the streets of London, while Devonshire children have
acquired a Cockney twang. Never before was such an
experiment tried in English history. It may have in-
calculable results. It has meant the almost complete
stoppage of school for many of the children.
Country schools have done their best, but the constant
changing of children’s whereabouts must have meant
serious dislocation. Schools for the sons and daughters
of the wealthy have managed to carry on, although
they have been shifted from their old homes. Many
of the schools for poorer children came to a stand-
still, especially in the big cities. Family life has been
equally disrupted. Bombs and air-raid sirens appar-
ently do not bother the children at all. But it remains
to be seen what effect all this dislocation of their lives
will have. — Robert P. Post {London), in New York
“Times.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There was some great racing at the
Hawkesbury meeting at Rosehill last
Saturday, likewise the wreckage of
several Epsom and Metropolitan hopes.
The net proceeds go to the Red Cross
Patriotic and War Funds, so a large
attendance was a pleasing feature.
As High Caste was a runner, special
interest attached to the Clarendon Stakes.
Generally regarding it as little more than
a walkover for that horse, many book-
makers did their betting on the race on
a one-two basis, while others who did
straightout business wound up with the
favorite at 3 to 1 on, Buzalong, at 7
to 1, coming next. At the close the odds
going against High Caste and Buzalong
for first and second were 6 to 4.
It was an unusual race. The slow
pace kept the field close together in the
early part, with Buzalong leading by
half a length from High Caste at the
half-mile. Turning into the straight High
Caste was in charge from Buzalong,
though there was not much between them,
while St. Constant was a close third. A
furlong from home High Caste still had
a slight advantage over Buzalong, and
Bartle was riding him hard to hold it. A
little further on High Caste had Buza-
long beaten, but it was far from the easy
victory the favorite’s backers anticipated.
St. Constant, who was showing a bold
front opposite the leger, weakened,, but
was only two lengths from the winner.
Dashing Cavalier was a good fourth,
and Pantler, who shaped well, was not
far behind the latter. Bonny Loch was
completely outclassed. Though the time
for the first half-mile was 52J- the full
distance was cut out in 1.52£, which
meant lmin. for the final five furlongs.
High Caste did a little better than 36 for
the last three, and on returning to the
weighing-yard was not in the least dis-
tressed.
Radical, who started favorite for the
Quality Handicap, did not enhance his
Epsom prospects, nor did Early Bird, an-
other soundly backed. They com-
menced well, but the pace set by Ensign
was too fast for them. Both were well
back at the finish. Ensign, who led at
the end of the first furlong, was not
headed, and, turning for home clear of
Postman and Delmestor, won easily from
Katanga, who, though he finished
strongly, was never really dangerous.
Mohican, who made a smart run from
the top of the straight, was squeezed out
inside the final half-furlong, but finished
fourth. Delmestor, without ever having
a chance of overhauling Ensign, did well
to run third. Denis shaped respectably,
but now gets enough weight to stand in
the way of success in first-class com-
pany. Ensign equalled the course record
of 1.24£ for seven furlongs, and, though
he had 51b. less than w.f.a., did not have
a pull over Katanga in that respect. The
latter had 111 b. less than the scale.
At Randwick the previous Wednesday
Binnia Hero met with interference in the
Green Hills Handicap, in which he was
unplaced, and, going upon the way he
was backed for the Hawkesbury Handi-
cap, it must have been worse than gener-
ally noted. He gave his backers a splendid
run, but, though his chance appeared a
winning one inside the last furlong,
Scientist, with his pull in weight, held
him at the end. Scientist was in a much
better position than Binnia Hero along
the back, where Fearless Fox was in
charge, and at the straight entrance was
still leading.
Malagigi’s close third proved that he
was back to something approaching his
old form, and he will be among those
worth following at the A.J.C. meeting.
Billposter ran well after being slow to
commence, while Bristol, who began
better than usual, could not finish. He
is unlikely to improve with racing, but
Billposter will. Seven Fifty, who looked
in perfect condition, could only get sixth,
but there is still hope for him.
There was an exciting finish for the
Rowley Mile, and Nightbeam returned to
Derby calculations by winning in the
last stride from Clouston, whose rider
lost his whip. Bourbon was the closest
of thirds, and very little in advance of
Last Chance. As Nightbeam was a long
way back at the half-mile, he did particu-
larly well to win. Speardale was promi-
nent until near home, as was Beaucaire,
while Bestop also made a fair showing.
Gilltown did not have the best of luck,
and never gave his backers a look-in.
Perhaps a longer distance than a mile is
now necessary to allow him to find his
legs before the serious business com-
mences.
Light Dragoon, favorite for the Hurdle
Race, was outjumped by King Otho in
the last half-mile, but after the latter led
over the final jump he was outstayed by
Light Dragoon, who beat him on the
post. The latter is bound to improve with
experience. The two named practically
had the race to themselves from the six-
furlongs post, but Mag Mort will be all
the better for his run. Stable-companions
Pay Day and Lord Belmont followed the
place-getters, but did not show form
worth keeping in mind for Randwick.
The price at which War Trophy started
for the first division of the Novice Han-
dicap showed that his good work in com-
pany with Mosaic had been noted by
more than his trainer. Third to Bold
Denis and Serenade early in the piece,
he had no chance against the last-named
in the run down the straight, third posi-
tion being filled by Trade Mark. Wise
Laddie was fourth, but Royal Head, who
was next, did so much better than any
of the unplaced division that books and
backers will want him on their side when
next he runs in a similar class of race.
He was last at one stage.
Airoon, a thickset gelding by Air
Balloon from Lady Archery, was not
among the leading bunch in the early
part of the second division of the Novice
Handicap, but as he won easily from
Maid of Ireland and Gigli, who led into
the straight, he is likely to succeed in
better company. Vandyke, an Andrea
gelding, could not see it out after show-
ing pace, but Dusky Morn hung on well
to run fourth. Prince Winooka, drawn
wide out, was always a long way back.
Markwell may yet be useful.
Rodrigo, never further away than third
to Enchantment and Luluai, was too solid
for Enchantment in the run home in the
third division of the Novice Handicap,
third place going to Approbation. The
favorite, Dewar, was fourth, and as he
was badly placed in the early stages of
the race is worth another bet.
* * * *
Sent to Melbourne recently to be
trained for the Cups, Queensland-owned
Tragopan advanced in the quotes for
those races following his brilliant win in
the Tullamarine Handicap at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. Revelling in the
heavy going, he dashed to the front early,
did not give his opponents a look-in at
any stage and won easily from
Apostrophe and Marcius.
Whether Tragopan’s win was a sound
Cup trial is a matter of opinion. He was
not opposed by any of the 14 horses
which previously figured ahead of him in
Caulfield Cup betting, and his 8.2 repre-
sented lib. less than his Caulfield Cup
weight. Pantoon and Lord Windburra
carried 191 b. and 71b. respectively more
than theirs, but, whereas neither finished
in the money, Tragopan gave an impres-
sive display of speed and stamina.
Trainer Fred Foulsham was confident of
success, and Tragopan started favorite,
but he was having only his third race
since his arrival in Melbourne, and prob-
ably is susceptible to a good deal of im-
provement. He gave a taste of his class
by running the Newmarket and Don-
caster winner Mildura to a neck in the
w.f.a. King’s Plate at Brisbane in May,
and two days later demonstrated his
staying ability by carrying 8.2 to suc-
cess in the Brisbane Cup, two miles. At
the moment, Tragopan must be con-
sidered a definite prospect for either of
the Cups, but more should be known of
him if he contests the Stand Handicap at
Flemington next Saturday.
While Tragopan stole the limelight on
Saturday, Apostrophe was not over-
shadowed. In fact, several keen judges
were just as much impressed by this
Parenthesis gelding, who is spoken of as
one of the most promising stayers de-
veloped in South Australia for some time.
His starting price of 25 to 1 on Satur-
day, when having his first race in Mel-
bourne, indicated that the stable was not
keen on his chance, but, warming up to
his task when the race was as good as
over, he finished particularly well. Five
furlongs from home he was anything up
to 15 length behind Tragopan, but was
only 3i lengths behind at the finish.
Apostrophe carried 21b. more than his
Caulfield Cup weight of 7.9, and, as he
is sure to benefit from the race, should
be a better proposition at his next appear-
ance. A solid stayer, he won the Adel-
aide Cup (lm. 5f.)) in May.
Big money was left with bookmakers
when Marcius was beaten into third
place. Twenty to one was laid against
him in isolated places, substantial bets
were noted at 10 and 8 to 1, and he
closed at 9to 2. No excuse was possible
for him, and, on Saturday’s form, trainer
Lou Robertson has better Cup prospects
in his team. Pantoon was anchored by
9st. in the heavy going, and Lord Wind-
burra again failed to stay. Tragopan and
Apostrophe were outstanding in the field,
but, from a Caulfield Cup viewpoint,
they have yet to perform as impressively
as Historian.
Heavy going was responsible for El
Golea’s withdrawal from the Quality
Handicap, won by Chatsbury from
Judean and Aurania. Chatsbury, a 14-
years-younger half-brother to Manfred,
had run badly when favorite on the same
track at his previous start, six weeks
earlier, but a clod of earth which was
kicked up by another runner and landed
in Chatsbury’s mouth was responsible
for that lapse. He was well backed at
6 to 1 and 11 to 2 on Saturday, and,
although seemingly in danger of defeat
when the favorite, Judean, ranged along-
side him at the top of the straight, went
away to win by two lengths.
One of the sprinting finds of the
autumn, when he ran third in the Oak-
leigh Plate and Newmarket within four
months of having his first race, Chatsbury
may be a definite danger in whichever
of the big handicaps he contests this
spring. As he has raced only 11 times, it is
impossible to tell where his improvement
will end. The Toorak Handicap and
Cantala Stakes appear to be his logical
missions, but there is no reason why he
should not stay also. His half-brother
and his sire, High Syce, won the Caul-
field Cup, and Chatsbury was not throw-
ing out any distress signals at the end of
a mile on Saturday. The fact that he
was entered for the two Cups indicates
that his connections have hopes for him
in a staying connection. Judean met
Chatsbury 31b. worse than Toorak and
121 b. worse than Cantala Stakes terms,
but he had every chance, and Chatsbury,
being the younger horse, will improve
more. Aurania, though only a moderate
third, did well enough to suggest the
likelihood of a return to his juvenile
form, but Pure Gold was one of the first
horses beaten, and Aurie’s Star, who had
been beaten by All Veil at Ascot three
days earlier, apparently has trained off.
Warbird’s win in the Pascoe Handicap
has earned for him a start in the Caul-
field Guineas next Saturday week.
Whether he will be up to that class is
another matter, as Sun Valley met him
at level weights and easily outstayed him
at a mile in the Moonee Valley Stakes.
A rain-affected track, however, will be
nothing against Warbird. He revels in
heavy going, and, although burdened
with 9.1 on Saturday, won going away
from Partoer and Retnuha. Partoer, in
receipt of 181 b. from Warbird, failed in
her attempt to lead throughout the mile,
but she is one of the toughest fillies seen
for years. She has contested 30 races in
less than 12 months —25 as a two-year-
old —and seemingly is as fresh as ever.
Followers of Lou Robertson’s stable
had a bad day financially. Throttle was
backed as if unbeatable for the Pascoe
Handicap, but she is little more than a
pony, and, in a field of 14, could not
overcome a couple of early checks.
Losses were increased when Marcius fin-
ished only third in the Tullamarine Han-
dicap, and, to cap it all, Royal Comet, 11-
to-8 favorite for the first division of the
Ailsa Welter, was beaten a length by
Bow Tie. Latter, who hails from Tallan-
doon, in the north-east of Victoria, is a
Moonee Valley specialist. All her city
wins have been recorded on this track,
and, well-placed throughout Saturday’s
race, she gained a winning break when
she shot away entering the straight. Bur-
rabil, third, will do better over a distance
beyond six furlongs.
Owner A. E. Kimpton is building up
classic and Cup hopes round his Mara-
bou colt The Adjutant, and he seems to
have another Cup prospect in Gladstone.
Latter was running out of his distance
in the first Ailsa Welter division, but he
rattled home strongly at the end of the
six furlongs to finish sixth to Bow Tie.
Gladstone disappointed with 7.8 in the
last Australian Cup, but prior to that
won the Flemington Centenary Cup,
If mile. He gives every indication of
being a better horse this spring, and his
next race will be awaited with interest.
Nifty, a candidate for the Toorak
Handicap and Cantala Stakes, won the
second Ailsa division in rather attractive
style from old Kanuri and St. Fervent.
There were only six runners, and Nifty,
after sharing the lead with Bursary from
the half-mile to the turn, carried on to
the finish. Bursary, on the other hand,
showed no dash in the straight, and
dropped back fifth. Big money was lost
on Bursary, who evidently is not as good
as believed previously. The race was
run in heavy rain, and at times it was
difficult to distinguish the runners.
St. Loyal recorded his third win from
his last four starts when he withstood a
strong challenge from Cooloo in the first
division of the Merri Trial Handicap.
An aged entire by St. Chad from Loyal
Aussie, he has struck form rather late in
life, but can continue to be placed to ad-
vantage in moderate company. Pom-
pous shaped fairly in third place, con-
sidering that his saddle slipped during
the race. A three-year-old Windbag geld-
ing, he has raced only three times, and
will improve. Lawbracket was all out
to beat Airspeed in the second Merri
Trial division, but staying possibilities
are associated with this five-year-old
gelding by Parenthesis from Moignet. He
is raced and trained by J. Flannery, who
won many races with Ngapuna.
Value of S.A. steeple form slumped
when Just David, fresh from three wins
in Adelaide, finished only fifth in the
Lindsay Gordon Steeplechase. The soft
going may have troubled him, but he lost
ground over the concluding stages.
Laveur, who started at the nice price of
7 to 1, considering that he had won on
the track at his previous start, ran to the
front about six furlongs from home ana
won easily from The Reckoning and
Kent.
* * * *
Opinions differed concerning High
Caste’s win at Rosehill. The compara-
tively slow pace for the first five furlongs
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.")
First Hurdle Race: Mag Mort,
1 ; Valhalla* 2 ; Saratoga, 3.
Trial Stakes: Freckles, 1 ; Seren-
ade, 2 ; Evergreen, 3.
A.J.C. Derby: Lucrative, 1 ;
Tidal Wave, 2; Pandect, 3.
Epsom Handicap: Beaulivre, 1 ;
St. Constant, 2; Gundagai, 3.
Colin Stephen Stakes: Beau Vite,
1 ; Landlaw, 2; Mosaic, 3.
Kensington Handicap: Clouston,
1 ; Sigh, 2 ; Peekmond, 3.
SECOND DAY—MONDAY.
Breeders’ Plate: Yaralla, 1; Man-
nerheim, 2 ; Goldbrook, 3.
Metropolitan: Gundagai, 1 ;
Beau Vite, 2 ; Landlaw or Coor-
anga, 3.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(By “SENTRY.”)
October Hurdles: Atticus, 1 ;
Minim, 2 ; Tangier, 3.
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes (for
fillies): Coochbehar, 1 ; Vanessa,
2 ; Running Sea, 3.
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes (for
colts and geldings): Leicester
Square, 1 ; Wheatear, 2 ; Aldgate,
3.
Edward Manifold Stakes: True-
ness, 1 ; Plana, 2; Session, 3.
Melbourne Stakes: Ajax, 1 ; El
Golea, 2 ; Maikai, 3.
Stand Handicap: Wilson or John
Dory, 1 ; True Flight, 2 ; Tragopan,
3.


favored him, and, while some who saw
the race reckoned he did his task well, it
seemed to me that Buzalong had him
hard at it opposite the leger. High Caste
will meet Buzalong 61b. and St. Constant
131 b. worse in the Epsom, and it was
difficult to regard his win as a particu-
larly good trial for Saturday’s race. Only
that St. Constant is, as a rule, an indif-
ferent beginner, his chance of finishing
ahead of High Caste should be excellent.
Still it might be unwise to say High Caste
is not a possibility, even though he was
a trifle disappointing at Rosehill.
The bustling incidental to the early
part of an Epsom may not suit Buzalong,
and it is probable the Metropolitan still
gives him a better chance of a win. St.
Constant is also in the Metropolitan, and
in that will meet Buzalong 131 b. better
than last week, but, as the last furlong is
likely to trouble him, the Epsom may
suit him belter, despite the possibility of
his having to make up a lot of ground
over the last half-mile.
Early Bird’s failure in the Quality
Handicap with 8.7 did not put her in a
good light for the Epsom, with a pound
more. It is probable she will do better
at middle distances than at a mile or less.
Last season her two wins were at 11 and
12 furlongs, and with age she is unlikely
to shine in short races, notwithstanding
that, with the advantage of a moving
start, she sprints brilliantly on the train-
ing track.
Considerable improvement in Katanga
will be necessary to make him a good
Epsom chance with 8.6, though on Satur-
day’s running he reads as well as, if not
better than, Delmestor, Mohican or Gee-
bung. The last-mentioned two struck
trouble, a check inside the last furlong
costing Mohican third place in the
Quality Handicap. However, it was
scarcely Epsom form, even though he
drops 31b., and will be 61b. better off as
compared with Katanga.
Neither Tel Asur nor John Peel made
any show in the Flying Handicap at last
week’s Randwick meeting. The former
ran with so little dash that even with his
light weight he may be troubled to raise
the pace necessary for an Epsom.
Turning to those which did not race
last week, Beaulivre and Mildura are both
satisfying George Price, and the former
appears certain of retaining his position
as favorite until the day of the race.
Beaulivre can act in soft going, but so
far Mildura has shown no liking for it,
and at the time of writing more rain
seems probable before Saturday. Rex
Felt and Gundagai continue to do well,
and the latter will be ridden by J. Thomp-
son.
It was thought the Metropolitan would
be Gundagai’s special mission, but his
owner wisely looks at it that first money
of £2225 in the Epsom is well worth try-
ing for, especially as success would at
most mean 7.10 in the Metropolitan,
which is a comfortable weight for a four-
year-old. Reading’s trainer is still hope-
ful. That horse continues to do as well
in his work as could be wished, but I
think the combination of Beaulivre and
D. Munro will be too much for him.
It is likely there will be a field of 16
or 17, and of those with over Bst. Beau-
livre, ?t. Constant and Mildura (if the
going is fairly firm) take my fancy most,
and Gundagai may be the best of the
lighter weights.
* * * *
Rosehill running brought Scientist
into further notice as a Derby candidate,
and any three-year-old capable of win-
ning an open mile-and-a-quarter handi-
cap in a good field, even with a light
weight, must be respected in a race con-
fined to horses of his own age. There
is reason for supposing that Scientist
will get a mile and a half, though there
may be the possibility of 8.10 troubling
him. Poseidon won a Hawkesbury Han-
dicap prior to the Derby, and, at an in-
terval of 34 years, many good judges ex-
pect Scientist to repeat that feat.
It will not be easy, in view of the fact
that Pandect, on only 71b. worse than
w.f.a. terms, ran High Caste to a head
for second in the Chelmsford Stakes,
and a week later was beaten by Tidal
Wave in the Rosehill Guineas. Lucra-
tive, third in the Guineas, has been
set stiffer track tasks than prior to that
race, and has done them well. There is
°°ubt as to his ability to get a mile and
a half, but if the pace is at all easy in
the early part of the Derby he is sure
to give a good account of himself. It
is unlikely that anything will be sent
out to win all the way, and Lucrative
may benefit.
Nightbeam has again come into the
picture, which was only to be expected
after the way he finished to win the
Rowley Mile. According to his owner
the state of the track will have consider-
able bearing on his chance. He does
not credit him with being good in soft
going. Well, if it is firm, and Nightbeam
makes the same improvement as between
his last couple of runs, owner Hughes
may realise his ambition of a Derby win.
Despite reports slightly adverse to
Pandect, Frank McGrath is well satis-
fied with his progress and expects him
to be at his best next Saturday. He
rates Pandect a real stayer, and Tidal
Wave gives the impression he will shine
in a similar respect. Fearless Fox and
Pinero may be runners from G. Price’s
stable, and, though the former missed a
place in the Hawkesbury Handicap, his
close fourth, after making all the run-
ning, indicated he was returning to form.
Sun Valley and Fur Trader are well
forward in condition, but it is doubtful
whether either will prove better than the
other Melbourne colts, Pandect and
Lucrative, and, notwithstanding the fact
that the last-named weakened at the finish
of the nine furlongs in the Rosehill
Guineas, I expect him to run out the
mile and a half sufficiently well to win.
* * * *
The owner of Ensign is keeping him
in Sydney to run in the Clibborn Stakes
in preference to sending him to Mel-
bourne for the Caulfield meeting. En-
sign has incurred 71b. penalty for the
Clibborn Stakes, as have Tidal Wave and
Flying Knight, while the A.J.C. Derby
winner has to put up 101 b. extra. Lucra-
tive, who would have been able to give
Ensign a thorough testing at a mile, is
not engaged, but Flying Knight will be
able to keep him moving, and Night-
beam, in receipt of 71b., will certainly
be a danger, if he repeats his form of
last Saturday.
* * * *
As we all know, looking for the “next
best” is an expensive method of betting.
But how few can say they have not done
so. Sooner than accept 6to 4 about
something that is entitled to be at that
price many backers will take sto 1 about
a runner they know has scarcely that
chance of beating the favorite, let alone
the remainder of the field. They are
quite aware they are doing the wrong
thing, but if a man is having a losing
day he would often sooner take the risk
of adding to his troubles than back a
short-priced favorite.
* * * *
There seems little likelihood of Beau
Vite being deposed as Metropolitan
favorite. His mile gallop of Saturday
was one of the best ever recorded at
Victoria Park, and he is expected to con-
tinue improving. He should win the
Colin Stephen Stakes, and, if he does,
it will further harden his price. If Beau-
livre should narrowly fail in the Epsom
Handicap he is sure to play a prominent
part in the Metropolitan, but if he wins
the mile the resultant penalty may dis-
pose of him in the longer race.
An improving four-year-old like Gun-
dagai, with only 7st. —provided he does
not win the Epsom—should make the
Metropolitan a hard race for the heavily-
weighted horses, and I regard his chance
as particularly bright. Buzalong is bound
to run a great race, though he scarcely
reads as well as Beau Vite at a difference
of 21b. When Beau Vite first arrived from
Maoriland I did not think there was
much hope of the A.J.C. meeting seeing
him at his best, but that idea now seems
sure to prove incorrect. He will have to
make a weight-carrying record for a
four-year-old to win with 9.4, but at
that age Nightmarch was a good second
with 9.12. Of course Reading still counts,
especially if he should fill a minor place
in the Epsom.
On Rosshill form there cannot be much
between Binnia Hero and Malagigi at
a difference of only 31b. in the latter’s
favor, but he may make the greater im-
provement. Landlaw is bound to run
well with 91b. less than when third in
the Red Cross Cup. He will meet Coor-
anga 111 b. better, and, though the longer
distance may favor the mare, Landlaw
has shown form up to a mile and a half.
Old Rowley and Dashing Cavalier
must be included among the possibilities,
with the former the better of the two
at 13 furlongs. Stable-companions Pantler
and Billposter ran fairly in their respec-
tive races at Rosehill, but the former has
7.10 in the Metropolitan against 7.3 last
year, and is 71b. worse off as compared
with Fearless, who was second. The
latter’s showing in the Green Hills Handi-
cap at Randwick last week did not sug-
gest he was as good as a year ago, and
he will have to improve rapidly in
order to win.
At Rosehill on Saturday Hope had
121 b. more in the Hawkesbury Handicap
than in the Metropolitan, but scarcely
did well enough to suggest that his drop
in weight will make him a winner.
Strength in 1931 was the last of the aged
division to win a Metropolitan.
Cable Boy may find the distance within
his compass, but may not be sufficiently
brilliant for the opposition. Bel Oiseau
won the Green Hills Handicap in good
style, finishing strongly, but he had only
6.10, against the 8.4 of Old Rowley, who
was third. In Tattersall’s Spring Handi-
cap Old Rowley had the same weight
when beaten by Gundagai (7.8). Gunda-
gai is giving Bel Oiseau a pound in the
Metropolitan, so, taking the form of both
against Old Rowley as a guide, figures
favor Gundagai. A lot will, of course,
depend upon the state of the track, but
if the going is firm Gundagai and Beau
Vite may fight it out.
sH * * *
The form of a few Epsom candidates
at Rosehill on Saturday strengthened
Beaulivre’s favoritism for that race, and
on Monday the order of the most fan-
cied candidates for the Epsom and
Metropolitan was as follows:
Epsom Handicap.
Beaulivre.
High Caste.
Mildura, Reading.
Rex Felt.
Buzalong, Katanga.
Metropolitan.
Beau Vite.
Reading.
Buzalong, Gundagai, Landlaw.
Beaulivre, Cooranga.
Dashing Cavalier, Old Rowley.
For the Caulfield Cup, Historian was
favorite, succeeded by Gladynev, True
Flight and Maikai in that order. Beau
Vite and Maikai shared favoritism for
the Melbourne Cup, with Wilson next,
and then Tidal Wave. Pandect and
Tragopan headed the remainder.
* * * *
Pure Gold continues costly to fol-
lowers of J. Holt’s stable. Backed for
the Quality Handicap at Ascot the chest-
nut merely added to his failures, and,
though last autumn Pure Gold did suffi-
ciently well to cause a lot to be expected
of him, there now seems little chance
of his ever being in the same class as
his brother Hall Mark, either as a
sprinter or stayer. Holt appears to have
struck that run of “outs” that assails
most stables at some time or other. He
has furnished several well-backed horses
of recent months, but few have won.
* * * *
Prices of winners on the opening day
of last year’s A.J.C. spring meeting
were: Hurdle Race —Keewong, 8 to 1 ;
Trial Stakes—Katanga, 10 to 9 ; A.J.C.
Derby—Reading, 14 to 1 ; Epsom Handi-
cap —Geebung, 12 to 1 ; Colin Stephen
Stakes —Royal Chief, 5 to 4, and Mosaic,
6 to 4, dead-heat; Kensington Handicap
—Bramol, 10 to 1. In addition to Read-
ing and Geebung, double-figure winners
at the meeting were: The Albatross, 20
to 1 ; Climax, 15 to 1; and Leif, 14 to 1.
The shortest-priced winner was High
Caste, at 4 to 1 on, in the Clibborn
Stakes.
* * * *
In the Trial Stakes on Saturday
Freckles will be afforded the oppor-
tunity of proving whether a Melbourne
trip for him is warranted. He has won
well at a mile, and an extra quarter-mile
may not be beyond him. Among the
older horses Veiled Witch, All Dark and
Discipline may trouble him, but he may
have most to fear from the younger
division. These may include Pinero (if
he does not run in the Derby), Serenade,
Don Byrne, Patrician, Evergreen and
Veiled Threat. Serenade should be able
to get a mile and a quarter. Last year
the Trial Stakes was won by Katanga.
* * * *
The divisions of the two-year-old races
at Ascot will not be valuable, and the
winner of any of them will incur 51b.
penalty for the Breeders’ Plate and Gim-
crack Stakes. Still, some owners will
reckon the experience gained will be
worth more than 51b., and consequently
the fields will not suffer.
* * * *
The abandonment of the English St.
Leger was only to be expected. A racing
crowd w’ould have made a good target
for German bombs. War activities will
regrettably give thoroughbred breeding in
England a tremendous setback, while
France is unlikely ever to return to its
standard of recent years.
* * * *
D. Munro is leading in the winning
jockeys’ list in Sydney, though not far
ahead of J. Thompson and A. Knox.
Munro is at a disadvantage in weight
compared with those, so the odds are
against his continuing in front of them
much longer. At Rosehill on Saturday
Munro was unable to ride at less than
8.6, and he is more likely now to gain
a pound or two than lose anything.
However, weight-for-age races, three-
year-old classics and important two-year
old events will for a long time permit
of Munro riding in races that give a
jockey the best return.
* * * *
A common error is that Randwick’s
largest attendance was on Spring Stakes
day, 1922, when Gloaming and Beauford
met. There were 81,396 present on that
occasion, but Randwick’s best was 92,287
when Beauford and Eurythmic met in the
Autumn Stakes earlier the same year.
Eurythmic had shown great form, and
Melbourne belief in his superiority was
so firm that he started at 2 to 1 on,
while Beauford was at 2 to 1 against,
Eurythmic cut up badly, and Beauford
won by four lengths from Sister Olive,
a 33-to-l chance. It is surprising that,
despite the increase in population, Rand-
wick does not now approach its figures
of 18 years ago.
* * * *
At the 1938 yearling sales E. Hunter
Bowman struck a bargain in Flying
Knight at 600gns., and unless track
reports are very wide of the mark he will
have no cause to regret giving 1300gns.
for another of Medieval Knight’s sons,
who will race as Goldbrook. The latter
is out of the Limond mare Helensbrook,
a half-sister to Gold Rod. Helensbrook
was a fair galloper, and Goldbrook is her
second foal.
* * * *
Several two-year-olds have disappointed
after success in the Breeders’ Plate, but
last year’s winner, Flying Knight, has
fulfilled expectations as a sprinter; and
Broadcaster, who ran second, won the
Maribyrnong Plate. Fearless Fox (third)
won two races a little later, and, though
disappointing in some races, may make
a stayer. He was slightly amiss recently,
but, going on his form at Rosehill, is
quite right again. Trueness (first)
and Dark Elegance (second) subse-
quently demonstrated there was nothing
fluky in their form in that race. The
previous year it was different with the
winners of both races. Neither Beaucaire
nor Royal Sceptre, who dead-heated for
the Breeders’ Plate, has since done any-
thing of real account, nor has Beau Mari.
Shortly prior to Beaucaire winning a
mid-week race a few weeks ago, “Mr.
Constable” sold his half-share in him for
£l5O. Gimcrack place-getters were Merry
Smile, Anne and Pigeon, and none of
them reached top class at two or three
years.
* * * *
With the advent of spring racing the
advertising tipsters are again hard at
work, with Canberra as their headquar-
ters. For their own good they naturaliy.
try to send out winners, but the claims
of some are amusing. When they had
a free hand in Sydney they used to tell
of the great gallops they had witnessed
at Randwick. The fact that they were
not permitted on that track to see the
work did not matter in the least. It
would, of course, be incorrect to say they
were entirely unrepresented there, as
“easy money” appeals to many people,
no matter what may be the source. At
different times some of these tipsters had
really remarkable runs of success, but it
should be kept in mind that they are not
in business because of philanthropic
regard for backers, and that if they were
so certain of results as they wish it be-
lieved there would be no necessity to
sell their alleged information.
* # * *
The difference in the state of the track
at Randwick, as compared with the previ-
ous Saturday, did a lot for Bel Oiseau.
Backed at long odds for the Red Cross
Cup, he beat two in a field of 12 and
lost ground all the way over the last
quarter-mile. On Wednesday, with the
going firm, he finished brilliantly in the
Green Hills Handicap, 1£ mile, to beat
Bristol, who looked a winner half a
furlong from home. It would be difficult
to compute in poundage the difference
in his form in four days, and though
many followers of racing contend that
“a good horse can gallop in any going”
there are many that do not appreciate a
soft track.
• • • • • •
Bel Oiseau carried 31b. less than his
Metropolitan weight, but as 6.13 is no-
thing for a four-year-old he will find
backers for next Tuesday’s race. He
came home as if another three furlongs
would not have troubled him, and, while
some of those he beat will do better, he
seems certain to defeat most of them
again. Fearless, for one, may improve ;
and Old Rowley will meet Bel Oiseau
71b. better. However, though Fearless
and Old Rowley can get the Metropoli-
tan distance, Saturday’s form does not


WE ARE
SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
★
174
BRONCHO SADDLE
£lB/15/-
The seat and cantle are in one
piece of solid leather and the bastos
are lined with woolly sheepskin.
It is three-quarter rigged with cord
cincha and wood stirrups. Th
saddle is made in special dar
brown leather attractively orna-
mented with basket stamping.
Cowboy Bits, Spurs, Bridles,
Chaparajos, Tapaderos, etc.
IVALTHER STEVENSON
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
PTY,
LTD J
KITCHING’S
TRAVEL Goods Specialists.
Military TOILET SETS
PRICE:
4r-
OTHERS:
33/6 to W-
monet
BEETS,
6/6 to 9/6.
WET PACKS,
13/6 & 25/-
MIRRORS,
Stainless
Steel,
2/6 and 3/-
•
Free
Delivery
to all
Suburbs.
gfj
VERY NEAT AND HANDY
a*? 1 S3* Vfety
Kr!’ I°n “ beautiful Solid Leather Case,
with Zip Fastener Attached.^
C. E. KITCHING PTY. LTD.
319 GEOROE ST., SYDNEY. 8W7133.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
make either read quite as well as Bel
Oiseau. As is generally known, Bel
Oiseau is by Beau Pere from imported
Joybird (Argosy-Almond), winner of
several good races in Maoriland. Young
Crusader, in 1936, was the last Metro-
politan winner with less than 7st., his
weight being 6.11. Next to him Sir Regal
(7.3) was the lightest-weighted winner in
the last 20 years.
* * * *
Don Byrne is proving himself a much
better stayer than some of his earlier
efforts led most followers of racing to
anticipate. He showed lots of pace in
his races, but tired. At Victoria Park,
however, he finished so well to beat Two
Ton Tony, after giving him a long start
from the straight entrance, that the
liberal price going against him for the
Three-Year-Old Handicap at Randwick
was something of a surprise. He again
did well over the final furlong, though he
had nothing to spare from the Medieval
Knight-Pashmina colt Rodrigo, who was
a 150gns. yearling. Overjoyed ran well,
while St. Andrew, Haran and Black
Banter were discredited to the extent
of making it easy for handicappers to
drop them a few pounds in future adjust-
ments. Don Byrne, who is by Denis
Boy from Royal Romance, has now given
a satisfactory return at the 260gns. he
cost as a yearling. Don Byrne’s half-
sister Roman Spear won an Adrian Knox
Stakes and several other races.
* * * *
Many of Maikai’s Melbourne Cup
backers were disappointed because he did
not win Thursday’s Gainsborough Handi-
cap at Ascot in easier fashion. How-
ever, he had 9.12 at a distance that was
rather short to entirely suit him, and
he may be seen to much greater advan-
tage at his next outing. Nevertheless,
1 cannot see that his warm favoritism for
the Melbourne Cup is altogether war-
ranted. He will be meeting Mosaic 71b.
better than when the latter beat hijn in
the Sydney Gup, but only 31b. better
than when Mosaic again downed him
in the A.J.C. Plate. Between March and
November the w.f.a. scale allows for
51b. improvement in Mosaic, and only
21b. in Maikai. Among the heavy-
weights Beau Vite adds to Maikai’s tough
opponents, and though the latter ran
second in the last Melbourne Cup he
then had only 7.11, against 9.4 in the
coming one.
* * * *
Twenty-four-year-old stallion Paper
Money recently injured his pelvis and
had to be destroyed. Imported to Maori-
land by the late J. B. Reid, he sired many
good winners over there. In Australia
one of his sons, Autopay, won an Epsom
Handicap. In Maoriland his progeny
won 792 races of the total value of
£769,725.
* * * *
The first two-year-old race in Maori-
land this season was the Debutante Stakes
at Wanganui, and was won by the 140gns.
filly Tetratina, the first of Theio’s pro-
geny to race. Theio is by Tetratema
from Thyene. Tetratina is out of
Squeeze, a sister to Cuddle, and is on
the small side. Another sire to win with
his first runner in Maoriland was Baffles
(Blandford-Waffles), whose two-year-old
daughter, Miss Baffles, took the Avon-
dale Stakes. Miss Baffles cost Mrs. F. J.
Farrell 90gns. as a yearling, won a stake
of £250, and was then sold for £SOO.
Tractrix, dam of Miss Baffles, is not a
Studbook mare.
* * * *
The English Derby winner Coronach,
who is 17 years old, and is now in Maori-
land, must have been very lightly used
at the stud last season. In its list of foal-
ings for this year the “Horse and Hound”
of July 19 credits him with only three
foals —two fillies and a colt. In his new
home he will be afforded greater oppor-
tunities, and is being mated with a few
mares this season.
* * * *
This season’s racing has already given
Maoriland two good three-year-old Beau
Pere colts in Sir Beau and Beau Leon,
their respective dams being Rose Bay
and Lady Bede. Sir Beau won the Wan-
ganui Guineas from Enrich and three
others, and Beau Leon won the Champion
Plate and Avondale Guineas at the Avon-
dale meeting. Among those beaten by
Beau Leon in the Avondale Guineas were
Lou Rosa, Marshall Hall and Phaleron.
Beau Leon’s dam, Lady Bede, who has
thrown other winners, is by Adam Bede
from Lady William, by William Rufus.
Last season Beau Leon ran in 14 races,
winning one, while Sir Beau won three
of the four in which he started.
>1! * * *
Entries for the New Zealand Cup total
61 against last year’s 69. Royal Chief is
engaged, and may be top weight. He is
reported to be doing very well. Peerless,
now being trained at Randwick by P.
Riddle, is engaged.
* * * *
Maoriland has done well in the Colin
Stephen Stakes in the last two seasons,
Royal Chief scoring a win and a dead-
heat, and it is probable it will have an-
other winner this year. Applying handi-
cap figures Beau Vite stands out from
most of his probable opponents, the ex-
ceptions being Mosaic, Reading and High
Caste. Presumably the last-mentioned
two will be Epsom runners, and that
would seemingly leave very few to
beat. Mosaic has to give Beau Vite 21b.
less than in the Metropolitan, but, though
he is again working well, he may need a
little more racing to bring him to his
best. Landlaw may be one of the field,
but, if so, he will meet Beau Vite 151 b.
worse than Metropolitan terms. Upsets
are not unusual in w.f.a.' races, but
figures and recent form point to Beau
Vite in such pronounced fashion for next
Saturday’s race that backers seem sure
to be asked to lay odds on.
* * * *
Charity days are customary at many
important meetings in America, and in
six seasons the Los Angeles Turf Club
(Santa Anita) has distributed $979,899 to
charity and welfare organisations.
Reckoning at the old rate of four dollars
to £1 —it is nearer 3| now—that would
represent over £A244,900. Omitting
Randwick, it would be interesting to
know what the combined Sydney tracks
have done in charitable distributions over
the last half-dozen years. It is fair to
add, though, that they jointly could not
afford to do anything rivalling Santa
Anita.
* * * *
The Argentine-bred horse Kayak 11,
now five years old, has proved a great
bargain for C. S. Howard at the $7667
he gave for him as a two-year-old. At
latest Kayak ll’s earnings in his present
ownership were $212,805, the result of
14 wins, seven seconds and one third
from 24 starts. He is twentieth in
America’s winning list.
* * * *
Trainer Pat Donoghue, like his father
“Steve,” evidently has a weakness for
flying. Prior to racing being abandoned
in England Donoghue had a big team of
horses racing under Pony Turf Club
Rules. However, he took up a course
of training in the R.A.F., and some of
his horses were transferred to other
stables, these including a half-dozen in
the ownership of Miss D. Paget, for
whom he had trained since she first
started racing under Pony Rules three
years ago.
* * * *
American jockeys are kept even busier
than those of England. In the latter
country the flat-racing season lasts a little
over eight months, but American jockeys
can ride practically all the year round.
It is not stated how many mounts he had
this year up to the first week in August,
but for that period—a little over seven
months —W. L. Taylor had ridden 165
winners, nearest him being E. Dew, with
127. Six others had passed the 100 mark.
* * * *
American papers differed as to whether
Bahrain was bought for that country.
One said he was remaining in Ireland,
and another authoritatively stated that
he was bought for $160,000 by a
syndicate comprising A. G. Vanderbilt,
Walter Chrysler, jun., J. C. Brady and
S. W. Labrot. Brady’s interest ran to
$lO,OOO, and that of each of the others
was $50,000. Furthermore, Bahram’s
fee was to be $2500, with the usual
return privilege.
$ * * *
In a two-year-old race, the Haggin
Stakes, for horses foaled in California
and run at Hollywood Park in June, so
many youngsters were left in that it was
decided to run it in two divisions. The
original value of the stake was $lO,OOO,
but that amount was eventually attached
to each division. Nothing small about
the Hollywood Park people when at the
last moment they added that much to
a race.
M.Q. and Rafferty
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The Queens-
land amateur boxing championship bouts
in Brisbane were viewed by one bitterly
disappointed entrant who had stripped
for the bantamweight class and had not
been allowed to compete. He protested
that he had weighed in only half a pound
heavier than when he twice won the
Queensland bantam championship and
was runner-up for the N.S.W. and Aus-
tralasian titles, that he had been doing
a mile run every other morning for three
months with plenty of workouts on the
punching bag, and that he felt as well
as ever. No question of amateur status
was involved, and the only explanation
he could think of for refusal of per-
mission to fight was that they must have
imagined that he was too old. Doug
Brown by name, he had a 67th birthday
a few months ago and his last champion-
ships were won in 1903 and 1904.
Nineteenth Hale
By JIM FERRIER.
(<Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
During the St. Paul 7500-dollar open
championship I had a discussion with
Ben Hogan on the subject of fair-
ways. Hogan, whose iron play is the
envy of his rivals, dislikes the usual
American fairways with their soft, well-
watered grasses, preferring the drier and
harder turf found on his native Texan
courses and those in the southern States.
Contending that the only way to hit a
ball with iron clubs is to punch well
down, Hogan finds this not so easy
on fairways thick with clover and
other soft growth. It is exactly what
I found when I first arrived in the United
States, and it took me three months to
overcome the trouble.
With the couch fairways on most Aus-
tralian courses the ball sits more evenly
on the top of the grass, not nestling
down to nearly a third of its depth in
the turf, as it does over here. Much of
Hogan’s outstanding iron play can be
traced to his early days as a caddie in
Texas, where the fairways called for
direct contact with the ball. In the
United States, especially on the northern
courses, the fairways are flooded with
water night and morning ; this gives the
turf a wonderful appearance, but the
grasses are too juicy and soft; they be-
come a cushion between clubface and
ball, which means that the ball frequently
slips off the club, losing its direction.
This feature of the American course
is reflected in the players’ styles ; nearly
every leading player takes his iron shots
more toward his back foot than Aus-
tralian players do. Hogan demonstrated
what he was referring to in a practice
round we had before the St. Paul event
when we came to portion of a fairway
not watered as much as the rest. Putting
down several balls he hit them on to
the green with considerably more back-
spin than with those played from the
fairway proper. Australian golfers don’t
realise how fortunate they are playing
under their conditions. The firm fair-
ways on courses such as The Lakes, La
Perouse, Royal Sydney and Kensington
in Sydney and the “Big Five” Melbourne
courses, together with Seaton and
Kooyonga in Adelaide, are very much
superior to those I have played on over
here.
• •••••
For those delicate little pitch shots
around the greens from a range of 100
yards and less, Hogan and most of the
stars use lofted irons with semi-sand-iron
soles. These pitching wedges are the
result of fairways with spongy lies,
where the club can so easily slip under
the ball. Without these clubs, putting
“stop” on the ball would be more dif-
ficult, while every now and again, with-
out a bump on the sole of the club,
the club would slip into the turf, making
a mishit.
• •••••
American golfers generally take bigger
and more frequent divots than our own
players. This feature, which is very pro-
nounced, has assisted them to become
better iron players, for it encourages the
correct way of hitting the ball. After
every tournament the tees at the short
holes are returfed with new sods, for there
is barely enough grass left on them to
cover a six-foot square.
When one criticises the American fair-
ways one has to bear in mind the fact that
the playing season in the United States
is in the summer, while our season is in
the winter. This makes a difference, for
to bring their courses up after a long
winter American clubs have little time,
and must do a great deal of artificial
preparation; so they have resorted to
making a turf of quicker-growing grasses,
which are considerably less hardy than
the Australian couch. For the short
playing season, usually from May to
October, the courses are dressed up;
then for the rest of the year there is prac-
tically no golf in the northern States.
Upkeep and course-maintenance costs
are very much higher than Australian, for
to get top condition and keep it for a
short period money must be spent
lavishly. Greenkeepers, too, have twice
the number of men on their staff. These
higher overhead charges are met, how-
ever, in club subscriptions, for member-
ship at an ordinary club costs round
£5O a year, while the better clubs’ sub-
scriptions go as high as £250.
Footbrawl
Nearly 70,000 people braved continu-
ous rain and cold wind to pack into
M.C.G. for the Victorian League final
in which Richmond was expected to beat
Melbourne. It didn’t, though the
League didn’t care, having won a bet of
£lOOO with an insurance company
against rain, which brought the day’s
takings to over £5500.
Melbourne retained the premiership by
outwitting and outplaying Richmond
from the bounce. As the quarters wen-
on it became a subject for derisive specu-
lation as to what it’d win by. It was
15-17 to 10-8, and could have been more
had not the premiers eased off in the last
quarter.
Richmond suffered the penalty of de-
pending on one man, Dyer, to win the
game. Melbourne saw to it that Dyer
was kept quiet, and though the tactics
used may not have been praiseworthy,
it was something like meeting the gentle-
man at his own game. Richmond, with
Dyer quietened, simply fell to pieces and
Melbourne sported joyfully with the
Tigers in the mud.
It was the first time Melbourne and
Richmond had met in a “grand final
for 30 odd years. The Tigers had put
up a solid struggle to get there, but col-
lapsed when the Melbourne escorts
mounted guard over their king-pin Dyer.
Titus, Richmond’s goal-kicker, had to
wait until the last quarter to get his
100th goal for the season. The game
was stopped while congratulations were
handed round.
In Sydney, a game which Back Patche-
wollock barrackers would have hooted
gave Newtown the N.S.W. Australan
code premiership against Eastern Suburbs
by 10-11 to 8-8. Only two barrackers
jumped the fence when a fight started,
which shows the low state of the code
in Sydney.
In 1881 the Footscray (Vic.) Rowing
Club won the Clarke Challenge Cup in
what was then world’s record time of
Bmin. 57sec. Only living member of that
eight is Bob Johnstone, who celebrated
his ninety-first birthday last week.
Librarian at the Footscray Mechanics
Institute for about 45 years, what he
doesn’t know about Footscray isn t
worth bothering about.


SAIIKS
*
I*
IN6 o**
USTRALIA’S no place for bush
canaries since that Electrolux mob
started doing us out of our rights. 1
can recall the good old days when there
was tucker galore up round the home-
stead .. . not only for me and the family
.. . but for my cobbers as well. . . the
parties I used to throw would make a
bush picnic look like a Sunday School
Convention.
Those were the days when I was happy
and bloated ... look at me now. There
hasn’t been a bit of tucker thrown out
for us since that dashed Electrolux
came to the homestead. It’s no good my
hanging around waiting for it to conk
out because the darn thing won’t... it’s
guaranteed not to. I’M BUZZING OFF.
THERE IS ONLY ONE
ELECTROLUX
The Original Kerosene Operated Refrigerator
5 Years
GUARANTEE
Szfofe*beaded
Invest in an ELEC-
TROLUX, the World’s
greatest Refrigerator.
Thousands of house-
wives throughout
e=3j
3
Australia can tell you the great difference the ELEC-
TROLUX has made in THEIR lives. Prepare now for
Summer—instal an ELECTROLUX that gives con-
tinuous Refrigeration—and costs only a few pence per
day to operate.
Place YOUR order now, and avoid disappointment.
See the nearest Electrolux Agent, or write direct to
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LTD.
11-25 PALMER STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole NJS.W. Country Distributors for the
Thanes: FL 6214
(6 lines).
ELECTROLUX
OPERATED REFRIGERATOR
Showrooms: 44 BRIDGE STREET (opp. Winchcombe, Carson,
Ltd.), Sydney.
M °on
2*ij
MW
gjlOHC>3
W'lHIISls
non
S.Qlsoiu
0
DC
PJ
—everyone agrees that Clayton’s Kola
Tonic is the most refreshing, nerve-
soothing beverage obtainable.
As a long drink (with minerals or
water), an appetising liqueur, or as the
base of your favorite cocktail, Clayton’s
Kola Tonic is enjoyable and health-
giving. Always ask for—
Product of Clayton Bros., London.
Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY., LTD., Sydney.
PATRIOTIC ANNOUNCEMENT
ELECTRIC LIGHTING
PLANTS
:a . l
gfj
At Pre-War Prices, the undermentioned firm
will install the World’s best Lighting Plants
in 12-32-50-110 Volts, from 350 to 5000
Watts. These Plants are manufactured by
RONALDSON-TIPPETT, BALLARAT, VIC.
makers of the world-famous Diesel Engine, also
the largest and oldest Manufacturers of Lighting
Plants in the Southern Hemisphere. THE
GENERATORS ARE THE HIGHEST QUALITY
ENGLISH GENERATORS PROCURABLE, and
while the stock of Generators lasts pre-war prices
prevail. Electricity at fd. per unit. We desire to
retain our full staff, hence this offer, as profit is a
secondary consideration whilst the war lasts.
Rural Lighting Company,
28 Martin Place, Sydney.
P.O. Box 2299 M, G.P.0., Sydney.
Telephone: 83569.
Please send me without obligation FRI’E
literature on your lighting plants.
NAME
ADDRESS


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
Perth . . . .
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
Northam. .
Kalgoorlie
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
500 watts
Geraldton
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE BANGER SIGN
Of Tire 3 Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do noth-
ing about them. Nature may be warning you
that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
in the blood, causing nagging backaches,
rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, swelling, pufflness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning show there is something wrong With
your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACnE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well and keep you weil.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Journalists’ Ambulance Fund got
a good lift from the art show at Ball
Green, Turramurra. General and Mrs.
Anderson lent their home for the exhibi-
tion, which was opened on Saturday
afternoon by the Governor-General.
Lady Gowrie was to have made the
speech, but was not well enough to attend.
This gave the G.-G. a grand chance to
get off some jokes about surrealist art.
The pictures were divided into three
groups: surrealist, contemporary and
Society of Artists. Visitors were asked
to vote for the group they liked the best
—most appealing was the way it was
put. There was a hat-sketching competi-
tion, everybody drawing someone else’s
lid. Maud Sherwood judged these im-
promptu exhibits.
Rex, the talking pony, and Bonser, the
white bull terrier that knew when to put
his bark in, too, were highlights of the
children’s circus at the Peter Pan kinder-
garten fete. This brought whole com-
panies of youngsters to the Charlie Lloyd
Jones’s garden. The circus was on a
little side lawn, and two lively young
clowns (Simon Heath and young Charlie
Lloyd Jones) held the gateway through
the hedge. There was a girl rider who
hung on her cream mount by one foot,
and there was a dashing boy rider of
three and a half. The ringside was packed
with youngsters, and grown-ups weren’t
above enjoying themselves, too. The
vegetable and fruit stall might have been
arranged by an old Dutch master. A
rich bit of color was the red cabbage
at the front of the display. Another good
touch was the wheelbarrow piled with
greens and new potatoes.
To the “bring a gift and buy a gift”
stall one woman brought a large pome-
granate-shade bath sponge—and hastily
bought it back again. The stalls weie
set among trees heavy with white and
pink spring blossom. There were hibiscus
flowers waving in the sun, and the avenue
was a tunnel of translucent green. Alto-
gether a pleasant place to stroll about.
Takings were about the £2OO mark.
“Room for Two,” the new Minerva
show, is one of those thistledown
comedies that before this upheaval ran
like a carefree border around London’s
theatrical garden. Like many other her-
baceous borders, bedding-out is essential
to their existence. Wives, husbands and
lovers flit around in an unreal sort of
battle. Love always finds a way.
For two acts in “Room for Two” most
of the stage is taken up with a perfectly
magnificent bed. It has a blue satin-
cushioned headpiece and a blue satin
quilt and pillows. Try going home to
fumed oak or even burr walnut after
that! Marjorie Gordon, who occupies
the bed most of the time, brings a nightie
that is a mixture of faint sunset pinks
and blues. Otherwise this Letter most
admired her in the heavy white crepe
evening frock worn at the end of the
first act. Its draped front was caught
with a silver and diamente ornament.
Hilda Westby (Mary Ward), the play’s
chief bed-envier, wore an evening frock
in torrid reds and orange tones and a
morning rigout of a white skirt with a
blouse top all violet and blue bands.
The opening was a crowded affair. It
was almost impossible to cleave a way
across the vestibule in the interval. Diana
Parnham’s cape of snow-leopard or lynx
was a landmark. Princess Radziwill wore
a little toque of turquoise velvet with her
bronze laces. Mrs. H. Cary was wrapped
in sable. With Mrs. Olding was Mrs.
Luften, of Harden. Actress Katie Towers
held a group spellbound with a vivid
story. Knight Samuel Cohen and his
lady were there ; so was Marjorie Gor-
don’s husband, in a box.
As mentioned in B. 25/9/’4O, in a
barbarous night attack on Hampstead
Victorian artist Carl Hampel, his wife and
small son Kim were killed. They were
taking refuge in a cellar of their home.
One of the most prized possessions in
this Letter’s home is a painting by Carl.
It is a white gum painted with lyric
charm and a sort of September-morning
freshness. It was painted and bought
over 10 years ago, before the artist had
won overseas recognition. Now it can
never be looked upon without the mind
seeing the hand so sensitively avid to
depict beauty shattered in death.
Mayoress Crick has already a good
stock in hand for her stall on Australia
Day. To her gift party in the Town
Hall last week whole companies of
women, each dangling a parcel, hastened.
The party was from four onwards, and
soon a mountain of brown-paper packets
was on the large-size table provided for
the collection. Hazel Wedlock, and Edna
Bowden of the Patriotic Fund’s younger
group of workers, were a great help in
entertaining. The buffet was rich in
every sort of fruit drink, but the good old
pekoe had not been brewed. Possibly the
Mayoress’s rooms have netted a group of
as good-looking women, but probably
they never have. In contrast to conductor
Thomas Beecham’s alleged discovery of
the “vile, ignorant and wicked” people of
this country, these women presented the
gaze of truth and courage and kindli-
ness. Almost without exception they
were the mothers, wives and sweethearts
of soldiers who are going out to fight
what their home life has taught them is
“vile, ignorant and wicked.”
This is Mrs. Archie Rosenthal, whose
husband, till recently of the Trinity Col-
lege of Music, London, is giving a recital
at the Forum Club on October 10. Mrs.
Rosenthal was a Casino (N.S.W.) girl. She
was May Rogers, and she left Australia
to study singing. She is a talented
musician herself, and once conducted an
orchestra for Gaumont-British. This was
when the great film studios sent the first
synchronised film on tour. It was a
musical show called “The Prince and the
Maid.” Mrs. Rosenthal is also an actress,
and has toured in “The Constant Nymph”
and “Lilac Time.” Photograph by
Claude Harris.
The Pacific Islanders, maybe actuated
by the memory of that grand old ex-
plorer Tasman, and certainly by the
motive of friendship to good neighbors,
held Marae in the interests of the Nether-
lands Relief Fund. There was, however,
no rustling of grass skirts, no hibiscus
above the ear among the guests. The
only stirring moment was the leaping
entry of Noho Tiki in,his Maori chief’s
dress, who in the cleared space before
the Consul-General for the Netherlands
and his wife and Tonga’s Crown Prince
Tuboutoa gave a stirring haka of wel-
come. “Haeremai! Haeremai!” he said.
And as he spoke you heard the words
rustling along the tree ferns and mighty
kauris which had been his ancestral back-
ground,
The party was in the Carlton Hotel,
and young girls and boys in Dutch
national dress sold tickets for a competi-
tion, the prize being a cloud of daffodils
moored to an island basket. There were
people from Tonga, from the Solomons,
from Fiji, from New Guinea. There
were numbers of Maorilanders, there
were guests from Java. And looking
around you realised that we were all
brothers now, pulling the one canoe.
Patrick Purcell, authority on native
education in Malaya, Ivan Champion,
New Guinea explorer, and the Admiral
Feakes couple were importants. There
were films of Bali and of Holland in
bulb time, and haunting Tahitian music
the records of which had been lent by
Dagmar Anderson.
Mrs. Norman Lowe and Josephine
Marks could look upon their work last
Friday night and call it good. The sixth
annual Authors’ Ball was a cheery and
crowded affair, and as president and
secretary these two were mainly respon-
sible. The Wentworth ballroom was
honored by the presence of Marie
Antoinette and some of her court, by
Jane Eyre, by soldiers and nurses, by
Charley’s Aunt, who waltzed off with
first prize, and poetess Nellie Evans, who
was handed a special reward for a cos-
tume that was a graceful swirl of green
tulle. President Mrs. Lowe had a tall
son and a tall daughter, with Will Ash-
ton, of the Art Gallery, and A.B.C.S
chairman Cleary, in her party.
Pretty Mrs. Frank Clune, just out of
hospital, was there. Husband Frank
and his brother George, Mrs. Zimmer-
man from Hong Kong and the Bartlett
Adamsons were all in the party
gathered about a table bright with yellow
poppies and glasses of amber beer.
Grace Scobie, as blue of eye as ever,
was with Josephine Marks’s party. As
usual, Mrs. Cassidy had the loveliest
shoulder-spray in the room. Add poets,
wrestlers, artists (Sid Nicholls among
them), a good band, a smooth floor and
the fun waxing to rhumba temperature
around about one in the morning, and
you get the idea.
Violet Roche, Mrs. Gwen Spencer and
Dora Payter put on a nice show of
antiques last Friday at the Australia.
These were for sale in the interests of
the Journalists’ Ambulance Fund. The
three had collected from their friends,
and the work must have been pretty
widespread, for there were all sorts of
curious and dainty things in the display.
A handsome meatdish cover and a
Chinese tea basket shared this Letter’s
heart. Both were too large for the purse.
Anyway, there’s another £4O in the hat
for the ambulance.
Mrs. Brigg-Cooper must be congratu-
lated on the party to aid the relief funds
for Poland which she made one of the
successes of last Friday. This was in
the annexe to Farmer’s restaurant, and
was crowded to the doors. Mrs. Brigg-
Cooper is a champion arranger of these
parties, this being the third or fourth she
has instigated in the interests of warm
clothes for our brave allies. One of the
pretty things about the afternoon was
the posies of English field flowers —
buttercups among them.
This is attractive Mrs. John Thomp-
son, who, until she married her A.I.F.
sergeant last Friday, was Rose-Marie
Waddy. Rose-Marie is a daughter
of the Dr. Granville Waddys, of Belle-
vue Hill. The name Waddy is one
of the best known in Australia. One
of Rose-Marie’s uncles was a former
headmaster of The King’s School; another
uncle was a famed cricketer. St.
Mark’s was chosen for the wedding,
and the Royal Sydney Golf Club for
the reception. Gleaming white-and-
silver lame, a mist of tulle veil and red
roses adorned Rose-Marie for the great
occasion. ’Groom, Sergeant John Ken-
neth Thompson, of the A.1.F., comes
from Cassilis. Norton Trevaire photo-
graph.
The thunder and lightning of Saturday
night were nothing to the storm that
raged about the head of Gordon Chase,
the husband in “Penny Wise,” the new
offering of the Independents. Buffeted
about among two old loves, a new one and
an ever-true wife, the fellow has a gale of
a time for two and three-quarter acts,
and runs safe into the home port at the
last gasp. The girls dressed this play
very smartly, and Katie’s white linen suit
seemed a pretty good model for any
“tailor-made” girl in the audience to
copy. A skyey-blue dirndl worn by
Penny sets a good example for break-
fast-time wear for all young wives.
A Sydney girl (Robin Punchard) is the
wife of Squadron-Leader Bill Garing,
captain of the Sunderland which was the
means of saving the boatload of sur-
vivors (six of them children) of the City
of Benares who had been drifting about
for eight days on the open seas. This was
the rescue story of last week, just as the
torpedoing of the liner, which was carry-
ing child evacuees to Canada, had been
the horror of the previous week. Bill
and his Robin have their home at Ply-
mouth, and are deserving of all the hap-
piness grateful parents can wish them.
The intellectuals of the citv trekked
to the University last week to hear “The
Frogs.” For most it was a first night,
even as it was to the Athenians when
the curtain went up, was drawn aside,
or whatever happened to a curtain, in
405 B.c. The Athenian rollicking home
probably rolled into his favorite wine-
shop to retail some of the political knocks
and the jests (the play was cut for
Sydney 1940 digestion) that the cunning
Aristophanes had mixed with his warn-
ings and his aspirations for Athens.
“The Frogs” ran non-stop, and even
on the first night people on the north
side of the harbor found themselves get-
ting homeward-bound ferries before half
past ten. The Great Hall was crowded
for the first performance, and equally
good audiences were booked for the two
following presentments. Girl graduates,
their gowns over brightly-hued evening
frocks, acted as ushers. Margaret Dovey
and Sophia Pergamalis were among the
helpers. May Hollinworth, producer
for the S.U.D.S., can take credit to her-
self for this show. Harold Abbott
designed the scenery, which was on
severely classic lines, with an ingenious
touch in the changing scenery which
greeted Dionysus as he travelled across
the Styx. Miss Isabel Fidler, president
of the University Settlement, beneficiary
with the Uni. Women’s War Auxiliary,
brought deep-blue frocking to the front
row, where among her neighbors were
the Archbishop Mowll couple.
Secretary Mrs. H. F. Benning’s taffetas
were rose-pink. Prof. Harold Dew and
Mrs. Dew were in the official group.
A.B.C.’s chairman Cleary and Mrs.
Cleary were listeners ; so were the Frank
Alberts, Mrs. Albert’s frock being of
softest white-and-silver woollen weave.
Mrs. Greg McGirr’s dark red velvet
coat with its gold embroideries was
admired. The University’s Vice-Chan-
cellor Wallace and his wife and the
W. A. Selles were noted among the
academics.
Here’s a first-hand glimpse at the scene
in the Victoria League’s London club for
the men of the Dominions’ fighting ser-
vices during the Queen’s visit. This was
made at her Majesty’s own suggestion,
and on the appointed day the club was
filled with men from every nook and
cranny of the Empire. When next you
see the words “British-born Cyprian” on
a shop-window after the proprietor’s
name, remember that he is a brother
under the flag. In the Queen’s guard
of honor, commanded by a naval petty
officer from South Africa, all the
Dominions and the colony of Cyprus
were represented, and its upstanding men
were drawn from each of the forces of
the Crown. After inspecting her guard
of honor, which had been reported to her
crisply by Petty-Officer Bosworth,
“Guard of honor present, your Majesty,
representing your Empire,” the Queen
had her photograph taken with them.
Knight Allen Taylor, who died sud-
denly on Monday, was a big figure in
Sydney’s civic affairs some years ago and
was six times Lord Mayor. He was 76,
head of the timber firm that bears his
name and a director of coastal shipping
cos. He was 29 years a member of the
Leg. Council. His best work for Sydney
was the resumption of large slum areas
by the city and their conversion into
cheerful business districts.


Miscellaneous.
South Seas Stamp Service!
PACKETS or approvals, 1/-, 2/6 and 5/- by
Registered Mail. Remittance with orders,
please. Mission and office accumulations bought.
Stamped envelope with inquiries. Your satis-
faction is our success.. Write Box 660,
Auckland. C.l. New Zealand.
Student Letter Exchange.
1 OHO otters available. All interested, write
IKJVJV Box llgl Auckland, N.Z. Stamp,
addressed envelope and 20 used stamps with
inquiries.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEVi
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1474 of 1940.
BETWEEN ETHEL OLIVE BLAKE Peti-
tioner and
ROY ALBERT BLAKE Respondent.
TO ROY ALBERT BLAKE late of Griffith
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ETHEL OLIVE
BLAKE has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Six-
teenth day of December One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of September
1940.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Cleric in Divorce.
FRANK J. SOMMERS, Solicitor for Peti-
tioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1337 of 1940.
BETWEEN LUCY DOROTHY WALCOTT
Petitioner and
ROBERT HILTON WALCOTT Respondent.
TO ROBERT HILTON WALCOTT late of
Chinderah New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LUCY
DOROTHY WALCOTT has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twentieth day of December One thousand
nine hundred and forty and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited cr
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fourth day of Septem-
ber, 1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
FRANK J. SOMMERS, Solicitor for Peti-
tioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
JAMES CONDIE, formerly of Hassell Street,
Parramatta, and last heard of in the Bellingen
district, New South Wales, kindly communicate
with MESSRS. SHEPHARD & SHEPHARD,
Solicitors, Parramatta?
Melbourne
Chatter
The biggest, busiest, noisiest and
messiest street carnival day we have so
far was the Amusements Industries Drive,
which also possibly raised a record one-
day sum for the Red Cross and Com-
forts after a thousand apiece has been
handed out to Blarney and Air Force
Houses (accounts were not audited be-
fore the week-end). Air Force House
was the week’s curly-headed baby, for
it had a cut out of at least half a dozen
other big dos.
The procession in the morning was a
good carnival-spirit generator, for it con-
tained plenty of comedy and some fancy-
dressed histrionics upon numerous floats,
also a line-up of crocks, ancestors of
today’s cars and as far removed from
them genetically as Homo sapiens is from
the first primates. The parallel goes
further. One crock left the road in leaps
upon two wheels—almost as agile if not
as graceful as a monkey swinging from
jungle branch to jungle branch. Both
male and female radio voices in the flesh
held the crowds in relays, all taking five
minutes off now and again to gargle and
spray their throats.
In Bourke-street was the largest crowd
of all, which blocked all the footpath
and half the road traffic around a mock
court lorry. The judge who imposed
fines upon the innocents had personality
and a glib if saucy tongue. The mock
wedding, advertised for a week or so pre-
viously by a 12ft. high wedding cake in
the lounge of the Australia, packed the
hotel and drew 400 people to the “break-
fast” in the Venetian Court. As brawny
and masculine as the ’groom, Max
Oldaker, of the G. and S. Co., were the
bride and her two attendant apparitions,
clad in mauve organdie.
By nightfall one sank ankle-deep in
150,000 lucky envelope wrappers, thick as
the leaves of autumn around the Town
Hall. Within, where the prizes were
collected, was an antheap of industry.
In Collins-street a blaring microphone
drew good business for “Hitler’s secret
weapon” hidden in a basement. The
weapon must have been a surrealist brain-
storm ; it started off as a bicycle painted
a ghoul-yellow, with a gun for’ard pro-
tected by an umbrella. Aft was a further
awning—derelict corsets. A hurricane
lantern flickered precariously as a tail-
light. A mixed assortment of cargo in-
cluded a big bomb “to be used only on
hospitals,” a lot of little sprats and
household utensils from a scrapheap.
The whole contraption shook and rattled
through a motor attachment.
The Aero Club made a merry landing
at the Palais, stayed till the lights were
turned out and took off with cockpits
well loaded with bullion for Air Force
House and the R.A.A.F. Locker Fund.
Making his debut as president at the ball
was Dr. Hugh Mitchell, * who for ten
years has been a committeeman. He
and two other enthusiasts, directors
Claude Elder and Peter Manifold, meet
regularly to discuss activities of the club,
whose war effort is important. The Aero
Club, through the medium of Ragnah
(hangar backwards), Ltd., does all main-
tenance of all aircraft at Essendon. Dr.
Hugh Mitchell (who is no relation to the
ball committee’s acting secretary Tom
Mitchell) was accompanied by his better-
half in mermaid-green and gardenias.
Others who partook of the supper-time
turkey sliced behind the official rope-off
included Air Commodore and Mrs. A. H.
Cobby and Air Commodore H. N. Wrigley
and his pocket-edition wife (adding a
cunning inch or two to her height with
pink carnations), also Captain and Mrs.
Edgar Johnston, who tried and tried with-
out success to win a Ferdinand the Bull
smelling his flowers from Louise Lovely’s
lucky bat stall.
In a large and affable party spreading
over two tables were O.Cs. from both
Laverton and the Showgrounds, Group-
Captains Frank Lukis and John Mc-
Cauley, complete with their respective
wives; also Mrs. Harry Furnell, the
Ralph Randells, Wing-Commander A.
Hepburn, Squadron-Leader P. J. Benja-
min (who has charge of No. 1 Base Hos-
pital at Laverton) and the Garnet Mal-
leys, recently arrived from China, where
“Garnie” was for many years the com-
mander of Chiang Kai-shek’s air force.
Mrs. Malley, who is a brunette, wore a
gown of oatmeal crepe with a triple-tiered
skirt. Among girls who sold tickets was
an auburn-headed lass with a genuine
Scottish accent, name of Jean McLeod.
Suiting her coloring perfectly was her
white frock with gold scroll em-
broideries.
The Carry-On Club is on the job again
campaigning for another ball. The Carry-
Ons, feeling thqt they are better known
than they were last year, are a lot more
ambitious: they have booked the Palais
for Derby Eve. The Lady Mayoress
called the first meeting when she received
numerous congratulations on her good
spouse’s success at Henty. He, too, had
his hand shaken many times, for he
stepped out of the Town Hall lift just as
the meeting disbanded. Carry-On mem-
bers present included Bill Sinclair, M. R.
Cuthbertson, Stuart Calder, J. W. Pears
and Rex Neal, ex-Diggers all, with soft
spots in their hearts for lame dogs. Their
club looks after Diggers and their fami-
lies, particularly in those cases that are
not entitled to aid from other trust funds.
Some A.C.ls.’ voices and an airmen’s
ballet gyrating with never a forced land-
ing were the big features of the Whirr-
away Revue. Tenor Kelvin Plant pleased,
and not far behind were George Daniel,
kidding to be Paul Robeson, Reg Wil-
liamson, heart and soul Marlene Dietrich,
and Victor Moore, who shut his eyes and
imagined himself Nelson Eddy. If any
people did slumber during the show (for
there were times when it moved and
times when it didn’t) they woke up to
approve of another A.C.1., Billy Ben-
netts, doing an eccentric dance in imi-
tation of golf.
All was well with the size of the house
and the quality of its patrons. In one
box were Air Chief Marshal Burnett and
daughter Bunty, in another Air Vice-
Marshal and Mrs. Williams, a couple who
afterwards kept an engagement for
supper at the Aero Club Ball. With Mrs.
Isobel Green and her youthful daughter,
who represented the P.M. and Mrs. Men-
zies, were Group-Captain and Mrs. Eric
Harrison. Next door Mrs. A. W. Coles
carried the city’s mayoral responsibilities
upon her shoulders. Others who were
part and parcel of large parties included
Major and Mrs. M. Langslow, Major and
Mrs. Johnnie Coleman and the Gordon
Adams couple, she with red camellias in
her dark hair.
The brunette in this Broothorn portrait
is Joan, daughter of the E. A. Clarks, of
Caulfield, who feels that the last three
months of her young life have been
momentous. In June she turned 21, and
in September she became engaged to Otto
Tuck. Her emerald and diamond ring
is a copy of one of her mother’s rings,
a gift from father on the day his only
daughter was born. Fiance Otto, who is
the only son of the O. H. Tucks, is a
skilful yachtsman, and has won innumer-
able cups and trophies with the Zest.
Since she left Melbourne C. of E.
Grammar School three years ago, Joan
has picked up a lot about sailing, and last
year, in Otto’s boat, won a race open to
women skippers.
In its time the old Exhibition Building
has seen many phases of man’s activity.
Its future destiny is to house 1000 air-
men. In its final fling in civil life it
nearly had its roof lifted off by the
crowing of 1000 fowls, birds of high
pedigree and raucous voices. They were
the poultry at the Show, the only lively
things about the most dismal show on
record. They crowed for five days and
five nights, and though they probably
got on everybody’s nerves they were the
only reminders of bigger, better years at
the Showgrounds. There were dogs cer-
tainly, who were taken for exercise into
the Exhibition grounds, but somehow the
doggy atmosphere was lacking in un-
familiar surroundings.
Horticultural exhibits were stark and
lonely with vast untenanted floor space
between each oasis of garden. The
women’s industries were in a long barn-
like room upstairs. The needlework was
as exquisite as ever, the jams, jellies,
pickles and pastry as enticing, the
entries in drawing and painting competi-
tions as unimaginative and the frocks
in the dress section just as depressing.
Every day there was a wool parade with
girls walking a platform in choice gar-
ments for all hours of the 24. While the
parades were in progress the rest of the
building was deserted as the mountains
of the moon.
A noble effort in face of severe odds
was put up by Cyril Turner and George
Winwood, at Menzies, at a new kind of
entertainment, a picture party conceived
in the fertile brain of Mrs. J. R. Murphy.
Mr. Turner, who is a movie-maker of
skill, operated and commentated upon
his travel films with mechanical assistance
from Mr. Winwood, but the hotel didn’t
rise to the occasion. Somebody kept
turning the lights on and off, also there
came requests for soft pedalling on the
commentary and incidental music from
a party a few feet away on the other side
of the double doors, where some
Japanese citizens were entertaining
Ambassador-elect John Latham. They
wanted to hear the speeches, which was
natural enough, but a problem for the
Turner-Winwood combine.
At the picture party music was inci-
dental, and lucky-wheels seduced a few
more bob out of everybody’s pocket. The
Air Chief Marshal was there with
daughter Bunty Burnett wearing a
Chinese coat and an expression of deep
concentration over the chancy points of
a pin game. Another pin-game addict
was Mrs. R. R. Jamieson, in black velvet,
scintillating with diamente.
Inset is a Spencer Shier photograph of
Beryl Anderson, who recently became
engaged to William Riggall, only son of
the late Harold W. Riggall and of Mrs.
Riggall, of Orrong-road. Since Beryl,
who is the elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. W. Harvie Anderson, achieved a
science degree a few years ago, she has
been assistant librarian at the C.S.I.R.
She times her holidays when possible in
the season of winter sports, and spent a
recent vacation at Kosciusko. Her fiance
is also a ski-ing enthusiast.
The Food and Wine Society worked
itself into a state of queasy indigestion
at the thought of the risk it was taking
over its forty-ninth annual dinner, a ven-
turesome tryout at “Deb’s Dell,” other-
wise the United Services Restaurant, an
unknown quantity until that evening. For
the yearly dinner is a big event in the
lives of the F. and W. If anything went
wrong it would be an irremediable blot
upon the escutcheon of epicures.
But all was well, and the F. and W.
can be depended upon to sing the praises
of “the Dell” for evermore. The 60
guests commenced with sherry and hors
d’ceuvres in the lounge, thence they
drifted betwixt the pillars to long tables
to partake of clear soup, followed by
Scottish salmon (genuine) served with
hock. Next came roast pheasant and
salad with claret. Burgundy filled the
glasses for the haunch of venison (grown
in the Dandenongs) served with black-
berry jelly, green peas, etc. Followed
ice-cream-fruits, port and coffee. The
F. and. W. believes that a savory ruins all
that went before. Dissertations came
from Theo Howell and A. A. Fritsch.
Backstage Dr. Buller Murphy worked
with sleeves rolled up as chief chef.
When Dame Enid Lyons went to Tas-
mania a few weeks ago to welcome the
advent of her first grandchild she little
thought that the day of her return would
be daughter Enid’s wedding day. Enid
and Maurice Austin met six years ago in
Canberra when Maurice was at Dun-
troon ; but the couple sprang a surprise
on all their friends when one day they
announced their engagement and the fact
that the wedding would take place on
the following afternoon. The “children”
(eight of the eleven Lyons boys and girls
were present at the wedding) made all
the plans and preparations for the big
day in Enid’s life, and all mother had to
do was to come home and say bless you
with her ever-affable smile.
The family preparations, all arranged
in a few hours, did not provide for the
informal arrival of the ’groom’s brother-
officers, who formed a guard of honor
outside the church, nor for the big crowd
around St. Roch’s, Glen Iris. Afterwards
there was a festive spread of hundreds
and thousands and lemonade for the
younger children at home, while the
elder girls and boys and a few intimate
friends celebrated with a quiet dinner
given by Dame Enid at the Oriental.
There, when the telegrams were read, there
was one which evoked three cheers and a
special round of congratulations, for
when the ’groom opened the envelope he
found himself gazetted a captain. He
belongs to the 2/27th Battalion, Second
A.1.F., and is the only son of the E. J.
Austins, of Geelong. Bride Enid is musi-
cal, and keeps her fingers supple at the
piano. She looks after her mother's
correspondence, has just completed a sec-
retarial course, and, when Maurice goes
abroad, will continue to live under the
wing of mother and family.
The young dancers who will perform
in Jennie Brenan’s charity ballet season
in October are all Australians, and
14-year-old Roy Currie, who has been
with the De Basil co. in Sydney,
will be one of the leading ballerinas.
Young Roy’s rosy dreams of going
to America came to grief as a
result of war-time complications, so she
and mother, Mrs. Sylvia Currie, must
stay at home. Interspersed among ex-
cerpts from well-known favorites there
will be new ballets with music composed
by Miss Brenan’s pianist, Alma Palmer.
While a student at the Albert-street Con-
servatorium, Miss Palmer was awarded
a scholarship for composition, and since
that time has composed four sonatas for
piano, 30 songs, several small pieces for
violin and about a dozen ballets.


BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
20 Investments in One!
Your purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES secures a ' spread ’ of investment over 20
leading Australian Companies listed on the Stock Exchange.
You also obtain a yield, at present prices, of around 5 % per
annum, and your investment is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 gives full details. Your copy posted free on request
to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability,
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. • • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
£1,250,000
1.000.000
1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World-
all classes of BANKING AND
exchange business transacted.
THE SERVICE MAN
Dakar.
“Ek Dum”: The Dakar affair was Mr.
Churchill breaking out again. In rally-
ing the nation for the defence of its
homelands his energy and eloquence have
been useful. It is his misfortune and that
of his country that a boyish bird’s-nest-
ing spirit seems to afflict him whenever
he turns his eyes towards foreign parts ;
then he is repeatedly climbing out on the
wrong limb and coming a thud.
Dakar is a pretty important spot from
everybody’s point of view, although it
has a harbor which is only a breakwater
enclosure under Cape Verde and a cli-
mate like the inside of one of McAndrew’s
boilers. It is the port of a railroad which
runs right through Senegal to the Niger.
Another line joins it to St. Louis, the
capital of Senegal further north on the
coast. Behind and south of it are a
variegated collection of French territories
1600 miles or so wide and about the size
of India —collectively known as French
West Africa —and the Sahara. French
West Africa is normally inhabited by
26,000 Europeans —18,000 French —of
whom 8470 are at Dakar. There are
also 15,000,000 Bambaras, Mandingos
and a lot of other variegated Senegalese
and other races.
Dakar does a very extensive trade, and
it is in the picked strategical position of
the mid-Atlantic Ocean. From Dakar
to Brazil is about five hours’ run for
medium fast bombers —and Gibraltar is a
mere 1500 miles away. Dakar commands
all the busy coastal routes round West
Africa, and from it submarines could
range easily across the narrowest part of
the Atlantic.
Since a body of Germans flew to
Senegal, there has been natural anxiety
about Dakar, especially since the new
French battleship Richelieu lies in harbor
there and, though damaged in July
by a British attack, still has its 15-inch
turrets working. British colonies —
Gambia is only a few miles from Dakar
—lie sandwiched with French possessions
round the equatorial regions. What was
German South-West Africa, still with a
large population of Germans, is within
easy flying distance for big bombers and
troop-carriers. Control of Senegal and
its hinterland by Germany would be a
serious matter for Britain, the southern
Dominions, India, Singapore and a host
of colonies, especially as Dakar is a
terminal of a multitude of airlines which
crisscross over Africa.
The development of the Dakar affair
was mysterious from the first. In the
second week in September, subsequent to
the difficulties with the Japanese in
Indo-China and developments in Noumea,
there was evidently disturbance in the
Spanish and French West African zones.
On September 15 it was reported that
the French cruisers Montcalm, Georges
Leygues and Gloire (1937 vintage, 7600
tons), with the destroyers Le Malin, Le
Fantasque and L’Audacieux, had been
allowed to leave Toulon and pass
through the Gibraltar Straits unhindered,
though the guns on the Rock and
British warships in harbor could have
blown them to pieces. They had reached
Dakar, and the theory was that they
had been drawn from possible German
seizure, since it had been rumored that
qnoccupied France would be occupied.
Four days later the Spanish Minister
for the Interior, Senor Suner, after talks
in Berlin with Hitler and Ribbentrop,
announced that Spain was “momentarily
non-belligerent,” but that General
Franco had decided when its policy of
aloofness would be abandoned. The
same day Hitler’s newspaper, “Volk-
ischer Beobachter ,” remarked that Spain
had taken up a position leaving no doubt
about her foreign aims. Simultaneously,
however, an agreement between Britain
and Spain, limiting imports of oil to
Spanish local needs, was published.
That day, too, the “Times” declared
that the Moroccan situation was de-
teriorating ; that food and supplies had
become scarce ; that Vichy propaganda
was aiming to prove to the Moroccans,
both in French and Spanish territory,
that Britain was intent on starving
French, Jews and Moroccans im-
partially. There was talk of great
activity by the Gestapo in both French
and Spanish Morocco.
Hard on the heels of this came a
German broadcast which declared, on
the authority of the Vichy Government,
that British warships had attacked the
French warships in Dakar and had
damaged a French vessel.
September 26 brought an official British
statement. General de Gaulle, it appeared,
had reason to believe that a large pro-
portion of French Senegalese would
stand behind his movement, so he set
out with three sloops backed by a
British battle squadron. He was fired
on when he attempted to land under a
white flag, the French cruisers having
meantime been allowed to reach Dakar
because it was no part of British policy
to interfere with the movements of
French warships so long as they were
not bound for ports in German occu-
pation. Later the French ships had put
to sea, steamed southward and had been
turned back by the R.N. so as to avoid
the chance that they might interfere in
affairs in French Equatorial Africa. Two
of the ships returned to Dakar; a third,
with engine trouble, was escorted to Casa-
blanca in Morocco.
General de Gaulle and his envoys
having been fired on, the Dakar guns
and the warships opened fire on the
British squadron. After signalling a clear
warning the British ships returned the
fire. There were casualties on both sides,
and French submarines venturing out-
side the harbor, against British warn-
ings, attacked the British. Two were
sunk, although the crew of one was
saved.
On the day on which the cruisers
reached Dakar, the Vichy Govern-
ment announced that a British sea-
plane had been shot down at Casablanca
after it had opened fire, and, later, that a
force of 100 or more French bombers
had swept over the Straits from Morocco
and heavily bombed Gibraltar. The
French declared that H.M.S. Renown had
been damaged and compelled to leave
harbor, and that, at Dakar, a French
submarine, Beveziers, 1379 tons, had tor-
pedoed H.M.S. Resolution, sister-ship to
Royal Oak. Also that H.M.S. Barham, of
the Queen Elizabeth class, which led one
of the battle lines and did some remark-
able shooting at Jutland, had been hit by
Richelieu’s shells, and that French ’planes
had shot down a British spotting ’plane.
According to the French account, the
British fleet withdrew, but again attacked
unsuccessfully on the afternoon of Sep-
tember 25, after General de Gaulle had
given up the attack.
De Gaulle claimed that he had retired
to prevent bloodshed among Frenchmen.
He says the French fired on and
his forces “under German pressure,” but
he himself never intended that his opera-
tion should develop into a naval or mili-
tary action. The population had decided
to join the Free French forces, but the
infiltration of Germans prevented it. He
“wishes to conserve his forces to fight
Germans.”
The affair was palpably a sorry
muddle from start to finish. The U.S.A.
press has taken an abnormal interest m
it. Evidently, the Dominions were not
consulted, and it yet has to be explained
why the French warships were allowed
to proceed to Dakar and why British in-
telligence failed to weigh up the internal
situation there. The whole business
leaves an unpleasant taste in the mouth,
which may become even more unpleasant
when the full story has been told. The
Vichy Government has announced that
the incident is closed so far as it is con-
cerned.
Reactions are bad everywhere; and
Germany and Italy will make the most
of the fiasco among the natives of Africa.
But the first use they made of it was to
stage a ceremonious signing of a defen-
sive alliance with Japan, selecting the
most favorable moment for what must
have been negotiated months before.
Australians Ready for Action.
“Ente Marid”: Marshal Graziani,
having reached Sidi Barrani, 75 miles
from the Libyan border, on his march
into Egypt, stayed his advance to consoli-
date and assemble his forces before push-
ing his drive further towards Mersa
Matruh and Alexandria.
He and his troops have had plenty of
opportunity to sample the infinite variety
of British offensive and defensive
methods.
In his rear British warships have kept
the Italian capital navy well tucked into
its harbors, and the Mediterranean still
in the condition of a British strait,
through which convoyed ships passed last
week to Alexandria. Behind him also
ships in the harbor and buildings round
the wharves at Benghazi have continued
to burn, and a major R.A.F. raid on
Tobruk in the middle of the week lighted
some more flames and battered a few
more buildings and air concentrations.
On his left flank the guns of the battle-
ships and cruisers thunder, smashing into
his spearhead and picking out choice
objectives along his line of communi-
cations.
On his right mobile British artillery
units sneak up through the sand from
their prepared and well-guarded roads
and pick off Italian vehicles and columns
at specific points which have been previ-
ously carefully ranged for the guns. At
night they appear on the outskirts of his
motor bivouacs and play skittles with his
lorries and troop transports.
Overhead Blenheims and Gladiators
fly up and down with little resistance, since
the Italians appear to be conserving their
air units for their main attack. Three
machines go up in flames at Solium.
Motor battalions scatter off the roads,
and the quivering air of Egypt is full for
a few moments of flying steel, sand and
bodies as the shadow of the squadron
passes overhead.
In front of Mussolini’s troops are the
most formidable military force seen in
Egypt since the last war and the most
formidable fleet which Alexandria has
known since the days of Nelson. British
sea and land forces are not blocked in
communications, which are open in every
direction and for every purpose—down
the Nile and the Sudanese railway line
to bring fresh troops and services from
the south. The way is open through
Gibraltar and from Turkey by virtue of
the strength of the R.N.; so are the
routes from the oilfields, from Australia,
N.Z., India, Ceylon, Burma, Malaya, S.
Africa and the rest of the British Com-
monwealth nations and possessions east
of Suez and south of Cairo.
In Cairo, talks have been going on to
define Egypt’s position, and when that
question has been settled the British
armies will probably be ready to move
The Government has declared martial
law throughout the country.
Graziani has in front of him one
of the most difficult tasks ever set a
general. He is at every kind of dis-
advantage —as to roads, water, dis-
tance from his base, cover from flank
attack and naval and air support unless
his armies are considerably larger and
his concentrations of supplies consider-
ably stronger than they appear to be.
British troops, of course, have already
been in action, and with them the van-
guard of the Australian forces an
R.A.A.F. squadron, which, while retain-
ing its identity and uniform, has been
brigaded with the Middle Eastern Divi-
sion of the R.A.F., a change which was
all the easier because an Australian, Air
Marshal Arthur Longmore, holds the
supreme air command at Heliopolis, the
R.A.F. headquarters, and the chief of
staff for several years has been Air Vice-
Marshal “Peter” Drummond, of West-
ralia.
The R.A.F. and the Dominion flights
in Africa have now a vast area of opera-
tion, covering country from Palestine to
Sierra Leone.
Last week the first detachments of the
A.I.F. were taken by buses from their
headquarters near Cairo and entrained for
the front line. It is just on a year
since the first of them were enlisted, and
in the meantime they have been turned
from raw material into hardened desert
soldiers, trained to the minute, accus-
tomed to all the tricks of protection
against heat and sand and storm, inured
to sun and water shortage, magnificent in
stamina, better fed than any enemy troops
and full of high spirits.
Any day now they may be heard of
in action, and they will give a stirring
account of themselves.
Autumn in Europe.
“Ek Dum”: The day when war was a
thing of armies with banners is gone.
Nothing glitters about it save the
bayonets and the chromium fittings of
the hospitals where mangled children lie.
The destroyer is unseen and almost
unseeing. He may strike at a definite
objective, but he has only a chance of
hitting it. And if he misses by a hair-
breadth he knows that he destroys inno-
cents who have not the power to strike
back, somebody of whose very indivi-
dual existence he has never been aware.
It goes on ceaselessly, this war. Ears
are tuned to catch the distant purr of
engines, the broken note of the big three-
and four-nacelled German destroyers out
of sight above the clouds, the thump
and the crash of the bursting bomb, the
rattle of falling buildings, the sizzle of the
incendiary bomb bursting into flame, the
patter of feet rushing to the shelters, the
riot of noise and the shouted orders as
the fire engines and the ambulances take
over, the smell of the damp under foot,
the stench of escaping gas, the dead
and the blood and the hunger and the
cold and the weeping.
In London last week the whole busi-
ness had settled down to a horrible
routine, becoming more horrible as Sep-
tember died. In any normal year British
people at this time are settling down to
face the winter. Channel boats are full
of little schoolmistresses hastening home
from their hard-earned walking tours in
the Pyrenees or down around Avignon.
Parks are full of guardsmen and nurse-
maids enjoying the very last of the sun-
shine, the trains of children whose school
holidays are finished. Beechwoods in


Surrey and Sussex are turning brown.
The ground under foot has become too
damp for pleasant walking in the Home
Counties. The thoughts of county people
are turning to pink, to horses and hounds,
and the smell of petrol, which is all-
pervading in London in winter, is be-
ginning to settle into the streets.
But this year all that is forgotten. The
little schoolmistresses are in tin hats and
thousands of the children are on the high
seas tossing among the waves of the
Atlantic, risking every moment death
from the submarines. The screech of
the sirens drowns the early baying of
the hounds, and the only normal English
sounds are those of hundreds of thou-
sands of patient feet pattering over the
setts and cobbles of the closely-packed
industrial towns on their way to and from
their endlessly-laboring factories at dawn
and dusk.
September is a month full of battle
anniversaries for the English—Poictiers,
Dunbar, Zutphen, Malplaquet, Montreal,
Quebec, Assaye, Busaco, Sebastopol, the
Alma, Delhi, Kandahar, Megiddo—Aus-
tralians were there—and Thiepval. But
England has never before had a battle
like this, a dribbling thing which goes on
day after day.
Each morning there is some new ruin.
The buses go down past Temple Bar ; and
here, by the Law Courts, St. Clements, the
children’s church of Oranges and Lemons,
next door to Australia House, has been
hit; a college near by, King’s or the
London School of Economics, smoulders ;
the Inner Temple across the road, in
whose hall Shakspeare played his “Win-
ter’s Tale,” is damaged. Round Aldwych,
a stone’s-throw from the Old Curiosity
Shop and Tennyson’s Old Cock Inn, in
acres which were cleared of Dickens Land
a couple of generations ago to drive
Kingsway through, fires are raging over
a quarter of a mile. There is
damage around Covent Garden and
Drury Lane, haunt of Nell Gwynne.
A little more of the East End is gone.
The guns bark among the gorse and the
beechwoods south of the city, the fighters
roar up the Thames.
But Berlin has its share. Nightly the
big Whitleys and Wellingtons soar over
the Blenheims and Beauforts, which
scream among the flaming onions and
magnesium shells above the Channel
coast and the flames of Boulogne and
Dunkirk, Calais and Ostend, where ruin
burns.
Berlin is a city of domes and towers and
gardens. But the tan tracks of the Tier-
garten are bereft of their riders, the busy
Potsdamer Platz, equivalent to the Man-
sion House corner in London, the beauti-
ful district round the Gedachtniskirche
—Kurfurstendamm, Tauenzienstrasse —
are empty while their denizens huddle in
shelters. For British bombers ring the city,
smashing, here the railway which runs
out to the residential suburbs of Char-
lottenburg and to Potsdam, there Klingen-
berg’s great power station, which lights
most of the city and supplies it with its
power ; now the works of Siemens, whose
11- and 12-storey blocks of buildings
stand up above neat industrial suburbs,
or all the industrial and aerial agglomera-
tion round the Templehof, once a drill
ground so vast that a division could be
paraded on it, now Europe’s greatest
aerodrome, ringed with factories and
workshops.
Berlin is an easier city to bomb with-
out damage to civil populations than
London, for its construction is more
ordered. Its streets do not wind in
bullock-track fashion as narrow canyons.
They cut clean across the vast spread of
the city Leipzigerstrasse, Friedrich-
strasse, Hitler’s new Avenue of Splendor
and his great western road, which runs in
a straight broad line across the suburbs.
Every one of them is broad, with the
Linden, 200 feet wide, intersecting some
of them, and the opposing towers of the
Reichstag, the Dom, the Gedachtnis-
kirche and the Law Courts at Moabit to
judge distance by and lead the invader
to his objectives. It is easier to find
places in Berlin and easier to smash them.
In the process suburbs are plunged in
darkness, refugees are isolated from their
homes and there are hunger, danger and
suffering just the same.
Hamburg, Bremen, Kiel, Mannheim,
an industrial hive between its rivers,
suffer daily as much as Berlin. And
Germany is certainly getting the worse
°t the argument. The tactics its bombers
employed last week were the tactics of
stalemate rather than those of the offen-
size war which the R.A.F. was carrying
?n. Their attacks were continuous, but
m the main they were designed for irri-
tation of the nerves rather than for
capital warfare.
The wheels of London were still able
0 turn. Scarcely a military life was lost,
and new aeroplanes were available for
the Spitfire and Hurricane pilots, who in
most cases were able to save themselves
from their broken machines. All the
time English defence was being streng-
thened, English mercantile marine and
naval strength built up by new construc-
tion. The trains ran, the big industrial
arteries were full of trucks.
For the most part, the German raiders
broke their formations over the Channel
or the southern counties and came over
in ones and twos, the dribble of attack
being diversified only occasionally by the
arrival over London and other cities of-
masses of squadrons flying wing to wing.
The machine casualties tell the story.
In the week to September 20, 280 German
machines were destroyed over England ;
in the week before, 266 ; the month be-
fore that saw an average destruction of
334 per week. The British average for six
weeks was 85 per week. In the Septem-
ber 21-26 period only 19 machines were
brought down, and losses over France
and Germany throughout have been next
to nothing.
Only towards the end of the week did
the Germans’ air activity wake up. Then
they made a suicidal thrust against South-
ampton which cost them 34 machines
agajnst eight British, and 99 machines
elsewhere.
With churches falling about their ears
and historic buildings and beauty
spots swept by fire, Londoners were able
to go through at Michaelmas their tradi-
tional ceremony of electing their Lord
Mayor this time Sir George Wilkin-
son, alderman for the Aldersgate
ward, a district which has been
severely damaged. He is the six
hundred and eleventh to hold the
office in succession, and he remarked
confidently that, though the city had been
seriously damaged, it would rise again
in all its dignity and glory. But there
will be no Lord Mayor’s show on Novem-
ber 8, when he is sworn in, for the first
time for many a year.
R.A.A.F. in Canada.
“Aileron”: The first pilot trainees
of the R.A.A.F. recruited under the
Empire Air scheme have arrived in
Canada for intermediate and advanced
training. Before they left they were re-
viewed by Air Commodore “King” Cole,
one of the outstanding Australian air
fighters of the last war, and they arrived
in good form.
For training purposes the lads will be
drafted into schools of the second
initial stage, but they will retain their
R.A.A.F. identity and uniforms. Within
a few weeks they should be through
their intermediate courses, then pass
through an advanced school and proceed
to one of the areas behind a battle front,
receiving their final battle training on
actual war machines under experienced
war pilots.
Their Canadian C.-in-C. is Air Vice-
Marshal “Bill” Bishop, V.C., who held
the record for German machines shot
down in the last war—72.
In Canada, with special facilities to
hand for building advanced machines, in-
cluding Blenheims and Hurricanes, the
progress has been rapid. Some of the
trainees are already in England, and
3000 more will join the R.A.F. or
Dominion services within three months.
After that 5000 pilots, gunners and
observers will graduate to the front line
every six months.
With the R.A.A.F. already represented
and many Australians serving gallantly
with the R.A.F., it will not be long
before the Commonwealth will have
built up a tradition in the air equal to
the glorious one emblazoned on its
records in 1914-18.
Slandering the Old Diggers.
A particularly objectionable product of
modern noxious-trade journalism is the
sort of periodical which professes to
have an intimate knowledge of everything
that is going on everywhere and writes
it up sensationally and provocatively.
There are bad specimens in Britain and
other English-speaking countries, but the
American examples are the worst. One
calls itself “Time,” copies of which are
to be seen on Australian bookstalls. In
the August 5 issue of “Time” this dam-
nable insult appeared:
When Italy entered the war, defending the
position in the Middle East were the same
kinds of soldiers who won it 22 years ago:
80,000 English soldiers, 15,000 Australian's
(not allowed in Egypt because they raised
such hell there last time), 10,000 New
Zealanders and several thousand Indians.
“Not allowed in Egypt because they
raised such hell there last time.” From
the end of 1914 to the middle of 1919
there was never a moment when there
were not Australian soldiers in Egypt,
and many have honored graves there.
For months past there have been Aus-
tralian artillerymen in Egypt, and thou-
sands of their comrades have joined
them, there to be welcomed by a people
who remember what their fathers did and
were.
As a condition of future entry, “Time”
should be called upon to withdraw its
slander and apologise to the Old Diggers.
Major-General Gordon Bennett,
appointed to command the 9th Division,
was one of the A.l.F.’s most brilliant
young generals in the last war, in which
he had a reputation for red-headed
tenacity and bulldog courage. He was
G.O.C. 3rd Infantry Brigade at 29, and
G.O.C. 2nd Division at 31. Bennett took
command of the Australian line at the
second Battle of Krithia, after McNicoll
and other officers had been wounded.
At Pozieres his headquarters were hit
six times by the German 5.9’5, and he
reported that his surroundings were being
“plastered” by heavy shell, to which he
added: “I am 0.K., but the front line
is being buried.” He was afterwards
through all the heavy fighting on the
Somme.
The Air War Day by Day.
September 23-24: Two hundred Ger-
man machines raid Kent, Essex and Lon-
don in daylight; seventeenth night raid
follows. Germans claim hitting of im-
portant military objectives and starting
of fires, and say they bombed Cam-
bridge as reprisal for bombing of Heidel-
berg. Air Ministry says raids caused
some casualties but only houses and
industrial premises were damaged.
Machine-loss estimates: German, 26
British and six German; British, 11 Ger-
man and 11 British.
Berlin raided for 4\ hours. Heavy
damage to power stations, railways,
Siemens and other electrical works;
hangar damaged on Templehof. Attacks
made also on aircraft plant at Wismar
(Baltic), Brunsbiittel, Kiel and Hamburg,
Cuxhaven and Bremerhaven shipyards,
railway yards at Munster and Hanover
seaplane base at Texel (Holland), oiltanks
and stores at Brest. Gibraltar attacked
by French ’planes.
September 24-25: Raids over England,
Scotland and Wales, with little loss of
life and not much damage outside Lon-
don, though fires started in n.-w. town.
Germans claim to have bombed railway
installations and port facilities at Dover,
Folkestone, Newhaven and Brighton,
’plane factories at Southampton and Ash-
ford, and to have two airmen who each
secured his 40th victory.
Vicious midnight attack on London
in which six fires were started within a
quarter-mile. St. Clement Danes Church,
next to Australia House, hit, and damage
in vicinity. Air Ministry reports several
hospitals hi I and fires started in four.
Berlin raided again for two hours 50
minutes. Germans say A.A. fire pre-
vented raiders from aiming bombs, most
of which fell in open country, but a
few caused casualties. Air Ministry de-
clares great fires lighted in Siemens and
Halske electrical factories and Friederichs-
felde powerhouse straddled with bombs.
Cairo reports widespread raids from
Tobruk (Libya) to Central Abyssinia.
Italians assert that in Tobruk raid civil
and military hospitals were hit, 15 killed,
70 wounded and one British ’plane shot
down.
September 25-26: Germans lose 26
machines, 15 being heavy bombers, in
widespread raids on London and Eng-
land ; British lose four fighters and one
pilot. Raids begin in daylight with mass
attacks by formation of 100 bombers and
200 fighters ; Bristol visited ; damage and
casualties, some fatal, in London. Ger-
mans report “continued reprisals” against
England, in which hits scored at Plymouth
and Portsmouth and on a warship
anchored near Dungeness. They estimate
their machine losses at six; British at
10, ‘‘including eight Spitfires.”
Raid on Berlin ; powerhouses, railway
yards and junctions and Templehof aero-
drome hit; Hamburg and other parts of
Germany also raided, together with the
coast between Boulogne and Calais. On
Wednesday afternoon 100 French ’planes
from Morocco heavily attack Gibraltar,
starting fires; Germans say military
barracks and A.A. pier defences de-
stroyed ; Vichy asserts H.M.S. Renown
hit by bomb and compelled to leave
port —officially denied. Italians report
renewed air attacks on Tobruk, killing
five a.nd wounding 10 ; assert three British
’planes shot down ; they admit loss of a
machine over Malta, but claim a Gloster
Gladiator down over Aden. Raidings in
Egypt, Abyssinia, N. Kenya and Sudan.
Extensive night raids on “invasion
ports” and western German communica-
tions. At L’Orient, France, 31-hour raid
sets docks, warehouses and timber
yards ablaze; fires could be seen 70
miles away. Mannheim, Dusseldorf and
Hamm military objectives blasted.
R.A.F. bombs Jarabub (Libya), concen-
trations and camp at Solium (western
Egypt). Italians admit attacks and claim
to have raided Gallabat and bombed
wireless station, A.A. batteries and
lorries there and elsewhere. Eighth
Italian raid on Haifa driven off.
Sept. 26-27: Night attacks mainly on
London, but other parts, including n.-w.
England, bombed. Houses, warehouses
and industrial plants damaged in London
and fires started ; damage along Mersey
and in other towns but casualties not
heavy. German account is that 251 tons
of bombs was dropped at night on
London and a further 151 tons on
Birkenhead and Southampton, causing
“heavy damage and enormous fires.” In
one raid 22 girls were killed. On
September 27, heaviest raids on Eng-
land since September 15; 133 German
machines—including 34 over Southamp-
ton —and 320 pilots down, against 34
British fighters and 16 pilots killed. King
and Queen in bombed London area.
Germans claim to have caused great fires
and explosions in London, to have sunk
many ships in the Thames, destroyed
warehouses in the dockland districts, scat-
tered two convoys in the Irish Sea and
attacked targets at Derby, Birmingham,
Manchester, Liverpool and Hull.
R.A.F. heavily attacks Channel ports
and Kiel, where shipyards, harbor works
and the Scharnhorst, battle-cruiser, and an-
other vessel in harbor are damaged and a
large fire started on eastern side of harbor;
lock gates on Dortmund-Ems Canal hit
by bombs, more fires started at Bremen
and damage done to railways and works
in a dozen other German industrial areas
and ports. Shipping concentrations at
Flushing, Dunkirk, Ostend, Calais and
Boulogne bombarded ; great fires started
round Boulogne in a raid.
R.A.A.F. Sunderland achieves rescue
of 46 survivors, including six children,
from the torpedoed City of Benares,
after they had been eight days in life-
boat.
R.A.F. (Cairo) reports heavy raid,
causing damage, on Tobruk (Libya)—
direct hits on motor transport and wharf
buildings ; Assab and Macaca (Eritrea),
Berbera (Brit. Somaliland) also raided.
Italians report that R.A.F. attacked
troops at Solium, that Italian machines
hit oil tanks, military stores, factories
and port facilities at Haifa and bombed
troops on Anglo-Egyptian Sudan frontier
and at Atbara ; also a British submarine
base. They declare that British caused
small damage in recent raids and that
three R.A.F. machines were brought
down in flames.
Sept. 27-28: Three daylight raids on
London followed by 21st consecutive
night raid. A famous old church de-
stroyed. Raids in Midland towns.
Sept. 28-29: German daylight raids
over England slacken, but night raids
continue over London, s.-e. England,
Merseyside and Midlands and Home
Counties. Four weeks’ raiding cost
Germany more than 1000 ’planes, against
283 British ; German losses since August
8, over 2000. Rome radio reports 1753
people killed and 2049 injured in raids
on Berlin.
Further heavy attacks on “invasion
ports” and western German communica-
tions and some bombers reach Berlin.
Germans declare British lost 28 machines
in raids on Sept. 28, including a machine
with Australian crew brought down by
A.A. batteries over Berlin. German
alleged loss, one machine. R.A.A.F.
squadron in action in western Egypt.
The Commonwealth did not follow the
example of Canada, which contracted with
a network of civil flying training con-
cerns to pass cadet pilots through the pre-
liminary stages of the Empire training
scheme, but some Australian civil train-
ing companies are carrying on usefully.
National Aircraft Pty., of Sydney, which
is equipped with Kenroyce-engined Rear-
win machines, has in the last six months
passed a number of students through
its “A”-class examinations and still has
55 on its roster. Since war broke out,
it has opened a factory which is rebuild-
ing and constructing various civil types
of aircraft. Efforts of this sort should
have national encouragement.


THE
II AIITCn INSURANCE
U n I I EL U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager.
Asst. Gen. Manager.
t/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS.
319 George St., Sydney.
fj
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Road to ’Frisco”
Showing at Sydney Plaza, this film
covers ground open to Australian film-
smiths, though they have so far ignored
it. In the main it deals with the efforts
of a couple of truck drivers to build up
their own business —refusing to drive for
wages for any transport concern, buying
their own truck to take whatever loads
they can get, even buying loads and
selling them at the most likely market.
The trucks cover considerable distances,
and one of the main troubles of the free-
lance men is keeping awake on long
night spells at the wheel. A brief lapse
of one of them results in the truck’s being
wrecked and their having to return to
work for wages.
The same business, if a little less
dramatic, is happening in several parts
of Australia. In Queensland, the N.T.
and n.-w. W.A. there’s a pretty tough
stamp of man punching trucks over what
are euphemistically called roads for dis-
tances up to 300 miles —possibly more.
Some of them work on their own, others
employ a couple of drivers, but most of
them are working flat out, spending most
of their time at the wheel, snatching a
meal on the roadside, and carrying loads
beyond the normal capacity of their
trucks in an effort to make a living. Why
an Australian filmsmith hasn’t tried to
make something of them is anybody’s
guess. The trucks are big brutes, almost
as dramatically effective as army tanks,
the country they cover is interesting and
little known even to most Australians,
and the drivers are a breed probably un-
known to the vast bulk of people who
spend their lives looking at the sky
through tram cables.
The fictional doings in the Plaza
offering are soundly plotted and admir-
ably acted. One of the truck drivers
being minus an arm from the smash,
the other takes on a job as traffic manager
in the office of a former driver, since
risen to owning a complete transport fleet
and a barbed-wire wench for a wife. The
lady, being taken with the new traffic
manager, resorts to everything she knows
to get him, including the murder of her
husband. Her prey, however, being set
on splicing himself to another minx, keeps
his distance nobly until the wench, in a
fit of spite, involves him in the murder.
This stretch of film fiction is given
probability and even made arrestingly
dramatic by Ida Lupino. Her acting can
be compared with that of Robert Mont-
gomery in “Night Must Fall.” There’s
barely a slip in it, from the mean, dis-
satisfied piece of goods keeping her hus-
band at arm’s-length while trying to land
the traffic manager, to the hysterical,
venomous woman of the finish.
George Raft and Humphrey Bogart
are the two truck drivers, Raft the one
who becomes entangled with the Lupino.
He and Bogart fit their roles as well as
they fit their skins. Ann Sheridan is the
lady of Raft’s fancy, Gale Page Bogart’s
missus and Alan Hale the owner of the
transport business. All do their jobs
well, with, perhaps, the exception of Hale,
who mildly overdoes the business of
boozing and being a good fellow.
* * * *
U.S. Horse-racing
Viewed at Sydney Capitol, a short that
Australians can be punted on to watch
with special interest. Titled “The Sport
of Kings,” it deals with horse-racing as
carried on in the U.S.A. A horse-race
is a horse-race wherever it be, but
Uncle Sam believes in spectacular trim-
mings.
Setting is the Hialeah track in Miami.
The course, approached through an
avenue of a mile or so of royal palms,
runs to vast stretches of lawns, gardens
and shrubbery, and, proudest possession
of all, the world’s largest flock of domes-
ticated flamingos two or three hun-
dred of ’em disporting themselves in a
lake on the flat. Once a year the pink
’uns emerge from the lake and parade
regally round the track as a prelim, to
the running of the Flamingo Stakes.
The sport itself has its own peculiari-
ties, among them a conspicuous absence
of bookies. It’s hard to imagine the
in-between-race period unaccompanied by
their dulcet tones. All betting appears
to be done on very elaborate tote equip-
ment. The good prize-money offered for
fourth and even fifth place-getters results
in betting on a “show” in addition to
win and place. On the track —which is
ungrassed dirt —the most striking feature
is the elaborate starting device—a cum-
bersome affair with a small, separate
padded stall for each horse. The neddies
are led into the stalls, which have an
edge-to-edge double gate at the business
end, with padded belts swung across at
the rear to prevent backing away. Then,
when they’re all nicely settled down, the
steward presses a button, the gates fly
open, and away they go, racing, inciden-
tally, in the anti-clockwise direction.
Finishes are camera-recorded and
-judged—a method which a short while
ago came in for a lot of publicity here,
and which certainly seems to have its
points. The cameras —movie type —are
started with the field about 50 yards
from the post. The film runs straight
from the camera into high-speed develop-
ing tanks, and emerges ready for the
judges before the last horse has crossed
the line. In a sample seen there was no
doubt about the winner, with three
lengths to spare, but following him were
half a dozen strung out across the track
almost in line for second. A hairline
across the film, however, picked the
place-getter by an inch. But you still
couldn’t tell that to the punters who
backed the rest of the field.
* & * *
“Edison the Maui”
The accepted Hollywood notion of
good character acting is for a man to
crouch behind a cloud of fungus and
burble with a muffled or Croaking accent.
Now and again, however, somebody
ventures into the unconventional and
turns in a spot of real acting without
the penny-dreadful disguise. Spencer
Tracy, in this current offering at Sydney
St. James, is his usual quiet, natural self
most of the way, but in a brief sketch of
Edison as an old man he does an out-
standing piece of character acting, with
skilful make-up but no fungus. Film
makes good entertainment, following
smoothly on the earlier version of the
inventor’s youth as portrayed by Mickey
Rooney. Supported by a bill of excellent
shorts.
* * * *
Impossible though it seems, there’s still
an appreciable amount of guffaw left in
the spectacle of a man running about in
skirts and getting into all the pother
that such a business might entail.
“Charlie’s Big-hearted Aunt” at Sydney
Embassy evokes its quota of laughs from
such situations, and, generally, from the
chap in the skirts trying to extricate his
cobbers from their troubles at the Uni-
versity by impersonating the moneyed
aunt of one of them and appearing likely
to finance the head of the University in
his pet hobby of mummy-hunting in
Egypt.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Room for Two”
The last two acts of this latest Sydney
Minerva farce are played in a bedroom
in Venice. What more could one want?
The show’s a vast improvement on the
recent lightweights in which one man —
Charles Norman —was expected to carry
the house on his own. In “Room for
Two,” Gerald Kirby, Marjorie Gordon,
Lloyd Lamble and Mary Ward, with
notable assistance from Eric Reiman and
Maxwell Osbiston, make an excellent
team. As a sinning husband, timorous,
irritable and magnificently fatuous,
Kirby is the most amusing of the tangled
spouses and lovers. It’s a still brighter
feather in his cap that, as producer, he
has polished the minor parts so that
there’s a laugh in every stray maid-
servant or porter who wanders on stage.
Marjorie Gordon rivals him in playing
comedy with the sparkle it should always
have. Lamble isn’t yet flexible enough
in voice and gesture to play comedy as
well as he plays heavier roles. He’s
inclined to bellow, and he’s too serious
in a bedroom. Nevertheless, he gets his
full share of laughs for a nonsensical
female impersonation when, as the
would-be lover, he’s engaged by husband
Kirby as Marjorie Gordon’s maid.
* * * *
“The Frogs”
Now in its 2345th year, Aristophanes’
little topical farce was understandably
a bit faded when Sydney University
Dramatic Society put it on in the Great
Hall. On Saturday night Zeus asserted
himself with a thunderstorm while the
play was in progress, but nobody took
any notice of the poor old boy. Euripides
and AEschylus (Alfred Race and Clive
Coppard), arguing about the merits of
their verses, were well enough, but it
couldn’t be said that Aristophanes was
as funny as Gilbert on Oscar Wilde in
“Patience.” lan Maxwell as Dionysus
and Dennis Glenny as his slave worked
heroically to make the show lively, and
were remarkably successful, except that
Dionysus, screaming in an unintelligible
falsetto, made a most ungodly row.
Roscoe Fay’s gangster-like Heracles was
amusing. Only when they were frogs
was the chorus successful; they were
too darned doleful most of the time,
announcing that they were going to dance
and sing as if they were going to be
hanged. An interesting show, all the
same.
* * * *
“Penny Wise”
Wives have many and varied methods
of keeping philandering husbands in
check ; Penny Chase manages happily by
a skilfully artless display of dumb inno-
cence. The tale of her triumphs in Jean
Ferguson Black’s “Penny Wise” ripples
along merrily, and at their North Sydney
Theatre the Independents handle it joy-
fully. Jessica Noad steers the business
along as Penny, and Molly Brown,
Diana Deane, Sumner Locke-Elliott,
Patrick Penny, Joan Hawley and Des-
mond Rolfe all fit neatly into the pattern
she weaves.
* * *
Australian Composers
There were no fewer than 32 items on
the programme of Australian music
given by the Victorian Musical Society at
the Assembly Hall, Melbourne, including
a trio by the veteran Louis Lavater and
a quartet by Frank Hutchens, of Sydney.
Fritz Hart, now director of the municipal
orchestra of Honolulu, was represented
by a silky fragment, “Cold Blows the
Wind Tonight, True Love,” and the late
Henry Tate by “Morning in the Gully,”
characteristically full of sweet birdcalls.
Most of the others sounded more or
less reminiscent of the classical com-
posers, and there was no indication that
the citadel of music is in any immediate
danger from the moderns, as is allegedly
the case with the fortress of painting.
Two pleasant items in the vocal division
were “The Sleep Sea,” by Bernard de
Oleveira, and “Release,” by Violet
Vernon. George Findlay, the blind com-
poser, was led on to accompany in two
of his own compositions, one of which,
“Way Fellows,” had a lively lilt about
it. Executants included the Elizabethan
Quartet, vocalists Grace Evans and Wil-
liam Hawting, and pianists Phyllis Parlett
and Lucy Seeker.
* * * *
Friedman with Orchestra
The A.B.C.’s Sydney orchestra, which
has already had about a dozen different
conductors this year, came under Dr.
Edgar Bainton’s baton at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday night. Big draw of the
evening was Brahms’s D Minor Concerto
with Friedman as soloist. This found
Friedman at his best. He can display
the rugged strength, the firm structure,
even the impatiences of Brahms, and
those Teutonically oversentimental pas-
sages which in some hands exude bathos
flowed with some semblance of dignity.
Orchestral backing was fair to middling.
In a programme that included work
by John Ireland, Ravel and De Falla,
Dr. Bainton’s own “Epithalamion,”
vigorous and cleverly orchestrated, was
given a so-so performance.
It is time this orchestra ceased being
a plaything for visiting “celebrities,”
acquired a permanent conductor, and
became of some musical significance.
ARTBURSTS.
Contemporary Art
With but few exceptions the objects of
the artists represented in the Contem-
porary Art Society’s exhibition at David
Jones’s George - street store, Sydney,
seem to have fallen under three
heads: (a) to paint something which
nobody can understand, ( b ) to deny the
validity of the rules of perspective, and
(c) to falsify color values and distort
natural forms.
A great deal of originality and imagina-
tion in the prosecution of these pleasing
tasks is shown by some of the exhibitors,
notably James Gleeson, Albert Tucker
and Eric Thake, and there are also some
rather clever imitations of Picasso (Adrian
Lawlor), of Gauguin (Francis Lym-
burner, who also has his Matisse-y
moments), and a whole raft of followers
of Cezanne’s inspired clumsiness. Van
Gogh and the pointellists seem to have
no disciples, being possibly too logical
to be “displeasing to the majority,” which
a note on the back of the programme de-
clares to be an essential attribute of “vital
art-work.”
The portraits of William Dobell, par-
ticularly his mouthless women, seem to
be sui generis. He should have lived in
Montmartre 40 years ago, in which case
his works would now be valued at £5O
per square inch.
* * * *
The pictures that bloom in the spring
show of the Victorian Artists’ Society
in Melbourne are a mixed lot.
“Five-to,” by Nutter Buzacott, portrays
the humors of that great Australian in-
stitution six o’clock closing very aptly, but
there is nothing remarkable about the
“Spanish House” of George Bell. lan
Bow’s “Beleura Hill” looks windy, and
in “Saplings by the Sea” Dora Wilson
has the freshest bit of work she has
shown for a long time. James Quinn
has a portrait of Archbishop Mannix,
but the fieriness of that prince of the
church is conspicuous by its absence.
W. Rowell wields a freer brush in his
“After the Storm” than he does in his
portrait of “Barbara,” who looks as if
she were made of plasticine. Percy
Watson’s “By the Grainshed” looks loose
and simple. N. Powers Leighton has
made “Mrs. F. Hannon” look like a
waxwork figure. One of the firmest bits
of painting in the show is John Heath’s
self-portrait. It is also a good likeness.
* * * *
Photographic Society’s Show
Among outstanding exhibits in the
annual show of the Photographic Society
of N. S. Wales at Farmer’s Blaxland Gal-
leries, Sydney, are Mollie Bamberger’s
bromoils, charming examples of dis-
criminative control; J. Berney’s “St.
Mary’s at Night” ; Keast Burke’s fine sea
study “Pacific Tracery” ; Gwendolen
Burns’s splendid photomicrographs;
Laurence Le Guay’s “Dusk”; Monte
Luke’s portrait of Capt. Frank Hurley
and a waterside piece, “The Fishing
Wharf” ; J. W. Metcalfe’s “Poinsettia,” a
perfect bit of composition; Sydney
Symonds’s marine study “Dignity and
Impudence”; Charles Walton’s “The
Fishermen” ; and Bert Whitfield’s “Cir-
cular Quay.”
Non-member exhibitors include C.
W. Bostock (now dead), best represented
by “The Tower Bridge” ; Harold Caz-
neaux, whose well-known “Industry”
heads a fine group, and Dr. Julian Smith,
of Melbourne, whose iatest crop of por-
trait studies contains not one dud. A
panel of H. G. Fonting’s Antarctic photo-
graphs recalls one of the greatest of all
masters of straight camera-technique.
Strangely enough there is only one ex-
hibitor of color-photographic prints, but
two members of the society, A. W. W.
Gale and C. F. Walton, show some excel-
lent transparencies daily.
•j- *{• sjc sj:
Recent burgeonings of art in Melbourne
include a one-man show by Noel Blau-
baum at the Velasquez and the Twenty
Melbourne Painters’ exhibition at the
Athenaeum. Blaubaum tries his hand at
almost every medium, but lack of ob-
servation is his chief trouble. There is
little outstanding in the show of the
Twenty Painters, though Alma Figuerola
and P. Hurry have some well-felt still-life-


I A
r
No. 101 Moulded Case Set —in
new type of moulded case,
contains razor, "Valet” strop
in hinged container and three
blades in moulded sheath, 9/-,
VALET
AFTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
/
Stropped in a few seconds
Cleaned in a few seconds
What a grand present to celebrate an
Occasion ! Something he probably
needs badly. A new razor . . . and a
Valet, at that ! Valet has all those fea-
tures of a razor which appeal to a man.
Its blade is super-keen ; its self-stropping
action is simple and efficient. There are
no bits and pieces to fumble with. It is
easy to keep clean and it is economical
one blade lasts for weeks. You
couldn’t do better than give him a Valet!
Managing Agents for Australia;
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD.
181 Clarence Street, Sydney
BALANCE-SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralta
AT 30th JUNE, 1940.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Capital Account 4,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 2,990,873 16 0
Rural Credits Department—
Capital Account .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 338,232 0 3
Development Fund .. .. 17,578 3 2
Deposits, Accrued Interest and
Rebate 107,315,649 17 4
Bills payable and Other Lia-
bilities 9,030,374 8 8
£197,400,869 10 8
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances 6,067,148 0 3
Australian Notes .. .. .. 2,294,885 0 0
Money at Short Call in London 41,629,792 5 4
Investments—
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities .. .. 12,357,504 7 10
Commonwealth Government
Securities (including
Treasury Bills) .. .. 22,506,257 4 10
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit .. 3,068,376 1 0
Bills Discounted, Loans and
Advances to Customers
£197,400,869 10 8
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS, for Half-Year Ended 30th June, 1940. Cr.
£770,329 11 2
£770,329 11 2
Dr.
RESERVE FUND
Cr.
To Balance
£ s. d.
2,990,873 16 0
£2,990,873 16 0
£ s. d.
2,865,376 13 4
By Balance
„ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-
half of the Net Profits
of Banking Business ..
125,497 2 8
£2.990.873 lfi ft
We certify that the above Balance-sheet, com-'
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. E. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
H. J. SHEEHAN,
Governor.
SYDNEY, 16th September, 1940.
Note Issue Department.
LIABILITIES.
£ S. d.
Notes in Circulation .. .. 61,619,444 0 0
Reserve for Notes not Presented 33,982 10 0
Special Reserve—Premium on
Gold Sold 7,752,900 19 0
Other Liabilities 1,441,688 15 3
£70,848,016 4 3
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Gold and English Sterling
Reserve 16,081,527 10 0
Debentures and Other Securi-
ties 54,311,234 16 2
Other Assets 455,253 18 1
£70,848,016 4 3
Certified Correct.
S. A. BRYSON,
for the Secretary, Note Issue Department.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and o
SYDNEY,
i behalf of the Board,
H. J. SHEEHAN,
Governor.
16th September, 1940.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Hustralia
BALANCE-SHEET AT 30th JUNE, 1940.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Reserve Fund .. 2,899,944 0 0
Depositors’ Balances .. . .140,533,538 11 5
Contingency Account and Other
Liabilities 8,052,126 8 10
£151,485,609 0 3
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Cash Balances and
Money at Short Call .. 5,661,977 7 6
Australian Notes 307,144 10 0
Government Securities .. ..107,690,904 13 8
Securities of Municipalities
and Other Public Authori-
ties 33,722,719 7 8
Other Assets 3,335,573 10 1
Bank Premises 767,289 11 4
£151,485,609 0 3
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS, for Half-Year Ended 30th June, 1940. Cr.
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund
„ National Debt Sinking Fund
£ s. d.
98,937 9 9
98,937 9 9
£197,874 19 6
£
s. d.
By Profit for half-year ended
30th June, 1940, after
provision for payments
amounting to £133,763
6s. Od. , due to State
Authorities under Sav-
ings Bank Amalgama-
tion Agreements .. .. 197,874 19 6
£197,874 19 6
Dr.
RESERVE FUND
fj
To Balance
£ s. d.
2,899,944 0 0
£2,899,944 0 0
t. , £ s. d.
By Balance 2,801,006 10 3
„ Iransfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-
half of the Net Profits 98,937 9 9
£2,899,944 0 0
We certify that the above Balance-sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON. Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
H. J. SHEEHAN,
Governor.
SYDNEY, 16th September, 1940.
Certificates as to the correctness of these
for the Commonwealth (Mr. R. Abercrombie).
accounts have been given by the Auditor-General
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) wil
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The war bards break loose:
A.W.S.: —
Now let’s knock the “Hit” out of Hitler,
We can do so. my lads, if we try;
So let’s all unite —we’ll have a big fight
And would thus get him euchred and knock him out-
right.
R.S.: —
And though his men stand by him—
He is their God, their king, to them;
“Heil Hitler !” is what they would proudly yell—
Vet we, too, can crown him—
Hitler, King of Hell!
R.MJ.:
Over England, bombs are dropping
On innocent civilians shopping.
Our R.A.F. are men of honor,
No use for indiscriminate bomber.
Military posts they will destroy
And Hitler’s cowardly knaves annoy.
J.W.:
There is a young man in Dobrujar,
He’s trying to perfect a Hoojar—
Ilis is one more
Try to stop war
Before the damn thing has gone too far.
H.W.:
How could a human be so callous
To bear to free men awful malice?
Our answer to his threat of force
Which all our countrymen endorse
Is, in effect, on Churchill’s lips—
“Vou come ancLget us in yow ship's!”
.... J.A.M.: “How’s that?” 0ut....W.K.:
Don’t doubt that Hay has improved, but you
don’t improve on “Banjo” J.W.: A washy
brew this time... .K.J.8.: They sound young....
J.O'M.: “In This World” would be better
out of it A.8.C.: Don’t like trees in “frills
and furbelows” any more than we’d like ’em
in new spring hats N.C.: Poem adds no-
thing to its introduction... .H.R.S.: “There’s
a little ray of sunshine in the valley.” There’s
a little sunshine poem in the basket....
N.H.W.: A women’s paper might take them.
. ...G.McI.: That cantering metre doesn’t
suit it H.C.8.: Too darn jaunty
W.A.M.: “That all begets and beautifies and
binds.” Those three blasted b’s! D.L.8.:
Prosy J.S.: Thousands who’ve read those
advertisements will be with you:
We know that every gallon counts,
But from the precious hoard
We beg a modest pint or two
To drown the Water Board!
... .L.8.H., C.A.L. and V.C.G.: Not up....
M.MacL.: No hope at that length... .E.W.D.:
Nearly; keep trying M.W.: “Study in grey”
is drab A.J.P.: Not for us... .E.L.R.:
Flapper fodder J. 0.5.: Just another tem-
perance mag. repentance story F.F.: A
hearty cheer for the dog but that’s all
H.P.W.: Nothing but regret for the death of
the faithful Boola G. 8.: Nearly gave the
poker players a run... .M.L.: Seasonable, that's
a11....A.0.: That “Confidence Trick” won’t
unbutton our pockets... .5.H.8.: We shudder
every time we read the words “opium dealers.”
S.H.: Disjointed... .E.R.: Hackneyed, all
of them... .J.K.C.: Tell him to write about
things he knows M.M.: Don’t like these
visitors from other planets... .F.H.C.: No
more than a par. in any of them... .F.C.F.:
So his secretary kidnapped Hitler by ’plane to
gain that American reward. Hooray!....
MJ.M.: Piffle... .S.S.S.: Not that one; but
send some more... .G. 5.8.: No reward for
your domino champion... .J.R.: Feeble.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R. 8.: Picture of hirsute cocky talking to
1903-style English dude buried without honors.
C.B.A.: Feeble plumber jokes put to
atrocious sketches won’t ring the peter....
8.L.M.: Drawing suspended on what look like
Mrs. Mulcahy’s corsets declined without
thanks J.F.L.: First attempt? Have pity
and make it your last P.S.: Caricature of
the P.M. makes him look like a cross between
Willie Ah Lung and the Fat Boy of Barking.
....J.L.: Grievous lack of spirited action in
your pictures A.M.E.: The two wooden
people pulling either the buffalo or the steer
over what might possibly be a paddock aren’t
human... .J.G.C.: Ancient gag, unrelieved by
any sprouting genius of draughtsmanship....
Henry C.: That particular drunk joke arose in
the days of the Pharisees... .M.N.: You’ll get
far better effect by using lighter shading....
8.L.: A homicide inspirer... .G.8.A.: Drawing
has been sent to a geologist for interpreta-
tion.
“X.S.”: A recent Melbourne case
has had a sort of parallel in India. Lai
A „ i r'u j c 1 ,
and Kula Chand, of Calcutta, two
brothers, worshipped a family idol
so effectively that their business pros-
pered, they gained great possessions
and died leaving a fortune. They had
built a temple for the goddess, and to make
\
assurance doubly sure dedicated the prop-
ertv to her and appointed their sons her
trustees Some of the brothers’ descen-
rrustees - ao ™ e ol me Drotners aescen
dants wanted to have a cut of the for-
tune and disputed the deed. After long
j t j- litigation the noddess and
ancl tedlous lltl B allol l , me goaaess ana
the heirs went fifty-fifty. One trustee
appealed to the Privy Council in London,
and that learned body found against the
goddess, with costs.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Mly E«i C.M.G.
General Manager—D. a. tOKBr.h. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also lepresentation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BRANDAUER3
p
m
%
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations-
C. BSABDA.UBR * CO, LM, BIKMISOHAX.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Position wanted, station or farm, by ex-
perienced practical farmer, age 48, Australian
born of Scottish descent; unmarried, reliable,
temperate; careful man with horses or sheep;
thorough knowledge of all crops, windmills,
tractors, farm implements, machinery; com-
petent all repairs.—B323.
Expert automotive man, thorough practical
knowledge of lathe work, oxy-welding,
mechanics, duco, panel-beating and trimming,
desires to better his position. —8319.
To buy second-hand copies of collected
verses of “Banjo” Paterson, Henry Lawson
and other Australian poets. —8367.
Information Sought.
What is the position of a member of the
A.I.F. at present in Australia in regard to pay-
ment of income tax owing? Can his soldier’s
pay be garnisheed ? —8206.
The position of a member of the A.I.F.
in Australia is the same as that of any other
taxpayer as regards the payment of taxes.
The legal aspect of the question of garnishee-
ing depends upon the amount of pay the
soldier receives, but it is unlikely that the de-
partment would exercise the power to garnishee
the military pay of a member of the A.I.F.
* * * *
7 have had an argument with a friend as to
which is the better witness in a court case, a
man or a woman. Can you give us an expres-
sion of opinion ? —8259.
Much depends on the type of man or woman.
Many lawyers consider women to be the better
witnesses. They come to this conclusion on the
ground that men are apt to reflect on the evi-
dence they will be called on to give and to
mix in their evidence what they surmise must
have happened and what actually did happen.
Women do not appear to be so reflective in
this respect, but state just what they saw
happen. This, however, must be qualified by
the tendency of women to be biased by
emotions such as affection, dislike and so on.
* * * *
My husband and I belong to different religious
creeds. Which of us has the right to bring up
the children in his or her faith? —8270.
Where a father is a man of good character
he has in ordinary circumstances the right
to determine in which religion his children
shall be brought up, and that right continues
until the child reaches full age if in the mean-
time the father conducts himself as a fit parent.
He cannot be deprived of his parental right
unless by moral misconduct or other sufficient
ground a Court is satisfied that he should be
deprived of it.
* * * *
Is there any N.S.W. provision whereby a
vehicle used solely for hauling a chaffcutting
plant to its jobs in the country is registered
at a flat rate of £1 per annum ? The vehicle
I have in view is a 30 cwt. Reo truck which is
used solely for hauling a chaffcutting plant. It
cannot be used for other purposes. —8237.
Farm tractors used on the public streets in
N.S.W. to a limited extent only are registered on
payment of fees amounting to £1 2s. 6d. per
annum. From the description furnished of the
truck and its proposed use there seems to be
little doubt that the vehicle would be entitled
to registration at that rate.
* * * *
What is the furthest north whales have been
seen in Australian waters? —8204.
So many kinds of whales have world-wide
distribution or overlapping range in the two
hemispheres that it would be impossible to
define any limitation regarding Australian
waters. The best-known Australian commer-
cial species is the humpback, usually reported
plentiful in the region of Port Cloates, n.-w.
Australia, from mid-June to early October. The
skull of a small species of toothed whale was
found on a beach at New Ireland, Territory of
New Guinea, but without similar means of
checking occurrences of larger species it would
be impossible to define their range.
* * * *
Would an old-age pensioner receiving
£1 19s. 3d. per fortnight commit a breach of
the Pensions Act by taking out an insurance
policy amounting to £25 payable for 10 years,
premiums one shilling, paid weekly ? (2) What
is the pensioner allowed to earn if he has no
properties or other interests and has to pay
rent ? —7918.
(1) No. (2) 12s. 6d. if he is single or a
widower, and 255. per week if he is married.
* * * *
If two balls of the same size but of different
weights, say, one of lead and the other of alu-
minium, were dropped from an aeroplane on a
calm day, would they reach the ground at the
same time ? —8247.
No. The lead ball would reach the ground
first, because the retarding force due to air
resistance at a given speed would be practically
the same for both and therefore greater in
proportion to the weight for the lighter alu-
minium ball.
* * * #
Two winters I have spent in Bali, Java, Singa-
pore and vicinity, temperature 15deg. to 80 deg.
day and night. Is there any getatable place in
Australia with a winter climate approximating
these temperatures? And is there reasonable
accommodation at such place? —8182.
Northern Queensland average mean temper-
tures range from 79deg. in April to 72.5 deg. in
July. Excellent accommodation may be
obtained at Townsville or Cairns at tariffs
ranging from 12s. to 20s. per day during the
winter season.
* * * *
Where can I buy a church bell? Are they
kept in stock by foundries or have they to be
made to order? —7983.
Bells are not kept in stock anywhere in
Australia. Makers of single bells in Sydney
are John Danks and Son. Chimes of bells re-
quire special technical manufacture, and these
can only be procured from England, Taylors,
of Loughborough, being one of the best
makers.
* * * *
I placed a property in the hands of an estate
agent to find me a buyer. However, when it
came to a point the proposed buyer backed out
and left the property still on my hands. The
agent now claims commission. How do I
stand ? —8251.
The general result of the numerous cases
which have arisen on the question of the
right to commission by an agent in such cases
appears to be that if the agent has been the
effective cause of bringing the parties together
and has done all that is necessary to lay the
foundation for the formation of a contract the
owner cannot deprive the agent of his com-
mission simply on the ground that no contract
has in fact been entered into.
* * * *
I am about to enter into a contract with a
builder to erect a cottage for me in a newly-
settled suburb. What progress payments should
I make to him ? —8264.
You do not state whether you have employed
an architect or not. Where an architect is em-
ployed progress payments are usually made
to the builder on the presentation of the archi-
tect’s certificate as to so much work having
been carried out. Where he is not employed
progress payments are a matter of agreement
between you and the builder. For example,
when the foundation has been completed to
your satisfaction, or it may be to the satis-
faction of some person agreed upon between
you, a progress payment may be made; so, too,
when some portion of the superstructure has
been completed. Differences of opinion between
the owner and the contractor or builder can
be settled by arbitration, a provision to this
effect being included in your contract with the
builder —and it is wise to have a written con-
tract.
* * * *
I expect a hen canary to be sitting on a
clutch of eggs shortly. While she is sitting how
should she be fed? —8233.
She should be fed only on plain canary seed.
When she has sat about 10 days she can be
given a bath; this is to moisten the eggs when
she goes back to the nest, and to soften the
inner skin of the eggs. The day the eggs are
hatched the hen may be given a little soft
food (egg and biscuit) once that day and after
that twice daily. To make the food, crunch
up coffee biscuit with hard-boiled egg, and
make it fresh each time. About two tea-
spoonfuls is enough for a meal. For a change,
a little crushed hempseed in a separate glass
vessel can be given. Get Kirby’s Canary
Breeding in Australia (2s. 3d. posted from
any bookseller).
* * * *
A few details concerning Anders Celsius, the
Swedish astronomer? —8227.
Born at Upsala in 1701. After travelling in
Germany, England, Italy and France, he took
part in the expedition undertaken in 1736 by
Maupertuis, Clairaut, Camus and others to
measure a degree of the meridian in Lapland.
He became member of the academies of Stock-
holm and Berlin, and of the Royal Society of
London, and died in his native town in 1744,
leaving several works on astronomical sub-
jects, including Observations on the Measure-
ment of the Earth, A New Method of Measur-
ing the Distance of the Sun from the Earth and
a paper in which he advanced the hypothesis
that the waters of the ocean are decreasing in
volume.
* * * *
Description of the chamois ? —8228.
The chamois is the only antelope found in
Western Europe. It resembles the roebuck in
size, being about 3ft. long and 2ft. high at the
shoulder, and is especially characterised by the
form of its horns. These are from 6in. to Bin.
long, of a black color, slender, round and
slightly striated, rising perpendicularly from
the forehead and suddenly hooked backwards
at the extremities. They are common to both
sexes, but less uncinated in the female. The
body is covered with long hair of chestnut
brown color in winter, when it is also longest,
that of the head being paler, with a dark brown
streak on each side. At other seasons the
color is somewhat lighter in spring, approaching
to grey. Underneath the external covering the
body is further protected from the cold by a
coat of short, thick greyish wool. The tail
is short and black, the ears pointed and erect.
The hoofs are solid, with the outer edges higher
than the soles, being thus able to lay hold of
the slightest roughness or projection on the
face of the rocky precipices it frequents.
* * * *
Particulars regarding the shining starling? —
8162.
The shining starling ( Aplonis metallica ) is a
spring and summer visitor to the Northern
Territory and northern Queensland from Papua
and the Moluccas. It is a dark-colored bird
with glossy plumage reflecting purple and green
metallic tints and with a bright red eye; it is
noisy and sociable in its habits, and feeds on
scrub-fruits. Large numbers of nests are con-
structed on the branches of a single tree, which
is sometimes covered with them. The nests
are large oval structures, with the entrance at
the side, suspended by a tapering portion. The
two or three eggs are bluish-grey, with reddish
markings, chiefly at the larger end.
* * * *
Some details concerning the native tamarind ?
—8094. , , ,
Native tamarind is the popular name tor
Diploglottis Cunninghami, the only species of
a genus of the family Sapindaceae, which is
endemic in Australia. It is a tall, slender bush
tree, ranging from southern Ulawarra (N.S.W.)
into Queensland. The leaves have 10 to 12
leaflets up to Ift. long, covered with a velvety
coat of rust-colored hairs; fruit is a globular
fleshy capsule, the seeds embedded in an amber-
colored pulp (arillus) which has a pleasant,
somewhat acid flavor and may be made into a
palatable jelly. The wood is white and close-
grained.
* * * *
I can play ordinary nap. What is seven-
card nap? —8170.
It is played on the same lines as ordinary
nap, except that each player is dealt seven
cards. There is no exchange of cards and
no peep. The players may call anything from
three up to “the lot” — i.e., seven tricks; but
nap is still five tricks, and is paid double,
six tricks being paid three times, and “the
lot” four times. Misere is played at seven-
card nap, and ranks as the next highest bid to
nap (five tricks), being paid double.
* * * *
Some particulars concerning Pitcairn Island ?
—8077.
Pitcairn Island (area two sq. m.) is situated
in the Pacific, nearly equidistant from Australia
and America, at about 25deg. south lat.,
130 deg. east long. It was discovered by Car-
teret in 1767, but remained uninhabited until
1790, when it was occupied by the mutineers
of the Bounty, with some women from Ota-
heite. Nothing was known of their existence
until the island was visited in 1808. No regu-
lar Government was established, but assistance
of various kinds was given on the subsequent
visits of English vessels. In 1856 the popula-
tion having become too large for the island’s
resources, the inhabitants (192 in number)
were, at their own request, removed, with all
their possessions, to Norfolk Island, but 40
of them soon returned. In 1879 these had in-
creased to 90. The population at June 30, 1936,
numbered 209 persons. It is a British colony
under the jurisdiction of the High Commis-
sioner for the Western Pacific.
* * * #
My husband recently died without leaving
any will. Where do I stand? He owned the
cottage in which we lived, a piece of vacant
land and some shares in the company for which
he worked. Our family consists of a married
daughter and two sons (single). —BlB3.
You, as his widow, would be entitled, when
the value of the estate had been ascertained,
to one-third, the other two-thirds being divided
among the children share and share alike.
* * * *
(1) How long does the ordinary art course
take to complete at the East Sydney Technical
College? (2) Fees payable by a day pupil?
(3) At what age are pupils accepted? (4) Has
an entrance examination to be passed? —Bl97.
(1) Completion of the course will depend on
the adaptability of the individual, but a diploma
course takes from five to six years. (2) Fees
payable for a day pupil are set out in the
syllabus posted. (3) The ordinary school-leaving
age pupil is accepted, but special permission
may be obtained from the Department of Edu-
cation for those under 14. (4) Both for
those who enter by scholarships from the school
leaving and intermediate examinations and for
others, an entrance examination is conducted
at East Sydney in order to obtain the most
suitable pupils.
* * * *
(1) Aggregate amount of butter exports from
M.L. for the year ending June 30, 1927? (2)
Value? (3) Export value per cwt. in that year?
—BOl5.
(1) and (2) 1,360,761 cwt., valued at £9,761,537.
(3) The value shown represents the total of
declared f.o.b. export values at the various
exporting ports at the time of shipment, ex-
pressed in terms of M.L. currency. Average
works out at £7 4s. 2d.
* * * *
Method of renovating harness that has got
hard with months of disuse? —8240.
Soak the harness first in warm water made
very “suddy” with soft soap; this will remove
old dry polish and any mildew present. Now
put into an old saucepan over slow fire two
cups neatsfoot oil, |lb. of vegetable fat (grocers
sell this; or use cocoa-butter, from chemist)
and |lb. dripping. Stir all together and when
fluid add half cup castor oil and \oz. lamp-
black, then strain and apply to harness when
it is nearly dry. Hang up for a day or two,
then give a second coat; a few days later
apply any good harness polish. An oiling every
two months will keep harness in good order.
* * * *
Method of removing teastains from inside a
silver teapot? —B226.
Empty out any water left in the pot after
use, leaving the leaves, then fill pot to the brim
with boiling water and leave it to soak for at
least 24 hours, by which time the inside of the
pot should be clean; if not, repeat the treat-
ment. If this is not efficacious fill the pot with
boiling water in which a few large lumps of
washing soda have been dissolved. Leave over-
night. Borax will sweeten a teapot.
* * * *
Method of repairing a mirror that has be-
come spotted and discolored? —8010.
If the spots are surface marks, rub with
a cork or flannel dipped in pure turpentine
or in spirits of wine, then use powdered whiting
to polish the glass. If this treatment fails,
resilvering is necessary, and that’s no job for
an amateur.
Brief Answers.
H.G.: Official distances from Sydney, via
main roads, are measured from the obelisk in
Macquarie-place... .H.M.: The air of God
Save the King” has been adopted by Switzer-
land to the words of “Rufst du, mein Vater-
land”; by Germany in “Heil dir im Sieger-
kranz”; by Denmark in “Heil dir dem Lieben-
den”; and in the U.S.A. the air is sung to My
Country, ’Tis of Thee”... .F.M.H.: James
Carey, the informer, was a Dubliner who be-
came a member of the Fenian' conspiracy and
one of the originators of the Invincibles. He
took part in the murder of Lord Cavendish
and Thomas Burke on May 6, 1882, and turned
Queen’s evidence. He was murdered soon
afterwards on board ship near the Cape by
Patrick O’Donnell... .N.N.: The seeds of
the algaroba or mesquite-tree should be planted
in the spring lin. to 2in. deep in seed-beds
in warm situations. Keep the beds moist.
R.S.: Chief wine-producing countries are
France 61,000,000 hectolitres, Italy 41,000,000
hectolitres, Algeria 21,490,000 hectolitres, Por-
tugal 10,955,000 hectolitres, Rumania 10,400,000
hectolitres, U.S.A. 10,000,000 hectolitres,
Greece 4,450,000 hectolitres and Yugoslavia
4,672,000 hectolitres. Figures are for 1938;
one hectolitre equals 21.9975 gallons... JE.M.:
Bert Hinkler, the aviator, arrived at Darwin
on February 22, 1928, having flown alone from
England in 16 days, eclipsing all previous time
records. For this achievement the Common-
wealth Government awarded him a grant
of £2OOO. On January 1, 1933, he left Eng-
land to fly to Australia in a Puss Moth
machine. No traces of him were seen until
April 29 of the same year, when his body
and wrecked ’plane were* found in an inac-
cessible part of the Apennines in Italy... .M.S.:
Lt.-Col. H. W. Murray served with the A.I.F
in the war of 1914-18 and was awarded the
Victoria Cross for “most conspicuous bravery
at Stormy Trench, near Gueudecourt, France,
in March, 1917. His war service was marked
by great distinction, Murray securing more mili-
tary honors than any other Australian soldier
. ...J.C.: The “Biglow Papers” were humorous
and satirical verses written in Yankee dialect
supposedly by Hosea Biglow but really by
James Russell Lowell. The first series appearec
in 1848 and dealt with the U.S. war wit!
Mexico. The second series appeared in 186.
and dealt with the Civil War....N.E.: Thf
funnybone is the popular name for that part ol
the elbow where the ulnar nerve passes dowr
the inner condyle of the humerus. The nervs
being comparatively unprotected, a blow or
this point will cause a tingling, prickling sen
sation down the whole length of the nerve tc
the ulnar side of the hand, followed by numb
ness... .W.W.: To preserve prawns for a shori
period for bait, dissolve one heaped teaspoor
of salt mixed with three teaspoons of browr
sugar in a cup of water. Remove the heads
from two quarts of prawns and place in this
solution in a fruit-preserving jar fitted with z
rubber ring A.R.: An old-age pension is
absolutely inalienable, whether by way of sale
assignment, charge, execution, insolvency oi
otherwise. It cannot be levied upon for pay-
ment of. a debt nor can it be pledged as
security for a loan.. . .J. 8.: Easy Conversa-
tional Arabic and French for the Australiar,
Soldier, price 6d...,.P.8.: First edition (three
volumes) was published in Dublin in 1797
First published in London in 1781 in foui
volumes. Doubtful whether any Australia®
bookseller would make an offer... .A.M.N.:
(1) Apply rag soaked in paint-remover anc
allow to press against spot for a day or so
(2) Use safety-razor blade with a supply oi
water... .M.K.; Richard Pigott was a journalisi
who supplied the London “Times” with forgec
documents, which were guilelessly used as the
basis of the articles on “Parnellism and Crime’
in 1887. The Parnell Committee was appointed
to investigate the matter, and the forgeries were
exposed. Pigott fled to Madrid, where he shoi
himself to escape arrest... .M.M.G.: A safe
rule to determine the number of goldfish that
can be kept in a tank is a gallon to each inch
of fish. If you had two fishes each 3in. lons
you would allow six gallons. .. .S.M.K.: Stove
can be supplied by Anthony Hordern and Sons,
Ltd., Sydney J.C.: Write Charles Weaver
hon, sec., Australian Numismatic Society, 11
Carlisle-street, Leichhardt (N.S.W.) 1.K.:
You do not say whether you desire a general
or a district license, i.e., in force in the police
district for which it is taken out. The general
license is in force in all parts of the State.
Your best course would be to see the Clerk
of Petty Sessions at the nearest Police Court
and ask his assistance in taking out this and
the other licenses to which you refer... .S.R. :
The garden rate is charged where no meter is
fixed to the supply pipe. The board carries
the responsibility of seeing, so far as may be
practicable, that water shall be supplied con-
tinuously to residents and has power in the
exercise of this duty to make charges and regu-
lations to ensure the continuity and safety of
the water supply. The prohibition of the use
of garden hoses under the existing conditions
of water shortage is within the board's power.
A cashier of the board will attend at the
Council Chambers, Leichhardt, on Wednesday.
October 30, to receive rates and might give
you any further information you desire
J.P.8.: The Australian Aboriginal, by H. Base-
dow, The Australian Aborigines, by A. P. Elkin,
White and Black in Australia, by J. S. Need-
ham, Wanderings in Wild Australia, by W. B.
Spencer, The Arunta, by W. B. Spencer and
F. J. Gillen, A Black Civilisation, by W. L.
Warner, and The Passing of the Aborigines,
by Daisy Bates... .F.T.; Jindyworobak, an
anthology of verse, edited by Rex Ingamells.
obtainable from F. W. Preece, Ltd., Adelaide:
price 3s. 6d E.K.: Wild Flowers of Aus-
tralia, by T. Y. Harris, obtainable from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney; price 7s. 6d.


HTS
LYS
PROOF,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m,
..
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fly-strike Prevention.
“Bungaree”: Drought conditions have
meant less trouble from fly strike in
N.S.W. this year. The spring wave has
been confined to small individual strikes
around the breech, and wrinkly sheep
have comprised the large majority of
strikes. However, recent rains will make
the fly more active.
Plan prevention well ahead. Hap-
hazard treatment with dressings costs
much money and labor that could easily
be avoided.
Freshly-shorn or crutched sheep are
fairly safe against fly except in a par-
ticularly heavy wave. Jetting has proved
its efficiency. Various types of jetting mix-
tures are used, but best results have been
from calcium arsenite. Jetting should
begin before flies are bad, and should be
repeated every four to five weeks during
the attack.
Sodium arsenite is easier to handle,
but, whereas c.a. gives protection for
four to five weeks, s.a. will give only
three to four weeks’ cover. The advan-
tage of sodium arsenite is that it is quite
soluble. Calcium arsenite contains a
quantity of undissolved arsenic, so that
it must be stirred continuously while in
use.
Where sheep are being bred to produce
wool, the use of a dressing containing
bluestone, sump oil or other product
which will stain the fleece is poor busi-
ness. Many dressings are highly irritant,
and the wound heals with a hard scab.
Furthermore, care should be taken in
applying arsenical dressings or dips to
badly-struck sheep, or losses will cer-
tainly occur.
Excellent results have been obtained
from the use of dressings with a boracic
base. Boracic is not so spectacular in
killing maggots as some of the contact
poisons, but there is no doubt about its
efficiency when mixed with a non-staining
and healing oil.
The Mules Operation.
Tryana”: The Mules operation for
removing wool-bearing skin folds about
the centre of the breech has proved its
worth.
The most convenient instrument is a
pair of dagging shears. For adult sheep
6in. blades are best. Two or three pairs
should be used, as they must be sharp.
They should be dipped in antiseptic after
each sheep.
Hold the sheep on a rail in lamb-
marking position, but with hind legs held
with the hocks bent to slacken the breech
skin. If the skin is stretched the folds
are partly obliterated. The folds to be
removed run down from the butt of
the tail, one on each side of the vulva.
Hold the fold in the fingers of one hand
and slightly lift so that the shears can
cut about of skin on each side of
the base of the fold. Start well up at
the butt of the tail and finish the cut
well below the vulva. On no account
should the bare skin surrounding the
vulva be removed.
If the skin about the breech is very
slack another strip should be removed
from about 2in. to the outside of each
fold. On no account should two
adjacent wounds be allowed to join.
The operation should not be carried
out when flies are active, and a light
applicatiop of dry boracic powder to
the wounds helps to reduce risk of in-
fection. The work should be done in
temporary yards in a clean paddock.
After the operation the sheep should be
kept quiet for some days.
The operation is simple, and one man
can operate on about 100 weaners an
hour with two or three catchers. Wounds
generally heal quickly, and most sheep
need no re-treatment.
Rearing Dairy Calves.
‘Mookau”: Thorough culling is essen-
tial in producing replacements for the
average dairy herd, whose needs in calves
"It’s not being stewed but the loss of prestige that Worries ME.”
run between 15 p.c. and 20 p.c. per
annum.
The Victorian Agricultural Depart-
ment points out that at Werribee State
Farm between 1928 and 1939 the average
drop per annum was 48 heifer calves,
and of these 36 were reared for replenish-
ment. After culled and dead matrons
had been replaced, 20 youngsters re-
mained to take the place of low pro-
ducers.
The calf-raising programme must begin
well before the calf is born with care of
the dam. Special care is needed after a
cow has dried off. It is a good plan
to arrange that dams be dry during
winter, especially in the colder districts.
They can then be given grass hay while
depleted pasture is used for milk pro-
duction. Isolation from other cattle to
give peace and quietness is wise, and it
makes constant observation of the animal
easier.
When the calf is dropped, if the
mother does not lick it over, as she
usually does, it should be dried with a
cloth, and care should be taken that the
first feed it has in the world is colostrum
milk. When mother-feeding of the
animal is not possible it should be re-
moved after its first drink to a clean,
warm shelter and left without food for
about 24 hours. For the best part of a
week it should have mother’s milk.
After the fifth day ordinary milk may
be fed for about a fortnight, and after
that skim or gruel can be substituted
gradually, until the fresh-milk ration is
cut out about the fifth week. Fresh milk
should be given warm and should not
be too rich—3.s b.f. is about right—and
rations should be handed out three to
four times a day.
The ration should be at the rate of
about 21b. milk for every 101 b. of calf
per day. Where feeds are given three
times a day, the intervals between meals
should be even —say 6 a.m., noon and
6 p.m.
Where the milk used is over the regu-
lation test, it should be diluted in the
following proportions: lylb. water to
every 101 b. of 4 p.c. milk, 31b. of water
to 4.5 p.c. milk, 4|lb. to 5 p.c. milk, up
to water to 6 p.c. Milk should not
be fed at a temperature above blood heat.
To teach a new-born calf to drink,
stand astride of it, place a couple of
fingers moistened with milk in its mouth.
It will usually follow the fingers into
the bucket.
Nabawa Still Good.
“Ben C.”: With the coming harvest at
least one-third below normal, there might
be difficulty in getting good seed wheat
for next autumn. If Bencubbin comes
through the dry spell as well as expected,
there’s likely to be a rush for its seed.
This variety in recent years has de-
servedly displaced Nabawa ; all the same,
growers looking for good seed next year
shouldn’t miss any chance to get Nabawa
if up to standard.
Nabawa came from Westralia in 1915,
where it had been fixed on a Gluyas
Early x Bunyip sample of the third
generation taken from Wagga (N.S.W.).
It soon proved itself a drought and flag-
smut resister, and became popular in time
to save the N.S.W. and Westralian wheat
country from something like disaster from
flag smut.
A good yielder, Nabawa gives a grain
of inherently weak baking quality, but
when matured under dry conditions the
grain has a good gluten content and pro-
duces a well-balanced, self-baking flour.
Practically immune to flag smut, it has
a slight resistance to stem rust. Strangely
enough, it was not bred as a flag-smut
resister, this quality being accidentally dis-
covered about 17 years ago. It came
from the Bunyip side of the family.
By 1926 Nabawa was leading all others
in W.A. with nearly half the total wheat
area given over to it. In S.A. it was
leading by 1931, in N.S.W. by 1932, but
never got more than fifth place in Vic-
toria. It has since retreated before Ben-
cubbin in W.A. and N.S.W., and Ranee
in S.A., but is still among the first five
for all Australia. It plays no small part
in the parentage of Bencubbin, and will
probably come through the present hard
time as well as any of ’em.
Farmyard Manure.
“Gun Swamp”: Dairy cockies
could do a lot with the proper use
of farmyard manure.
In yards and bails we stack it
into heaps, keep it fairly moist and
turn the heap over at least twice
a month. This keeps up the heat,
lets the bacteria get in good work
and generally rots the manure. It
also deals with sprouting weeds.
When it goes on to the part of
the paddock selected, it’s shovelled
out and spread at the rate of about
10 tons an acre. The pasture re-
sponds like a cow to a carrot.
Subdivision and frequent use of
pasture harrows get the best out
of manure dropped in the pad-
docks. In smaller areas cows can
be concentrated for several days,
and the resultant improvement is
an eye-opener. Anybody with big
paddocks ought to take a lesson
from the house paddocks, where
the grass is always greener and
thicker. Even in a drought any
place where cattle congregate is
always greenest. With small sub-
divisions, paddocks can be rotated
as night areas, each getting its
share of the fertiliser.
We cleaned up a patch of
bracken by dumping manure on
it and leaving the rest of the pad-
dock. The bracken proved a picnic
ground for the cattle.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bony”: When applying super, to dairy
pastures, get it as close to the roots as
possible. It’s better to give a small area
a liberal application than to try to spread
the amount over a large area at a smaller
rate per acre. For coastal lands 2cwt. an
acre is the recognised thing. The
renovator should get to work immediately
after the application.
“Pappamosca”: It is easy to keep a
firebrand on a pig’s skin too long. When
firebranding is done, a small brand should
be used, the pig should be clean and
dry and the brand very hot. The mark
should be made lightly and quickly on
shoulder or neck. But tattooing is pre-
ferable.
“Hands II”: If it is necessary to rear
a foal artificially, remember that mare’s


FOLLOW THIS
LINE OF
c.o*o
IX
I
A •
sA'
p
m
M
•*>
'<4
?o
M
LONDON
ND
COM«»«k
1
8* APPOINTMENT
?Un
m
t»r
SSttr
*iw»
fJr
£*rd,
w
D?
*
£^4k
o*o
GENUINE
LONDON
GIN CAN
ONLY
COME FROM
LONDON
ENGLAND
where
Gordon's
Gin
IS DISTILLED
It mai| cost a
little more but
it’s WELL worth it!
Sta
THE H EART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
Itd QU london RD engla C n°o. Oht lahgeSt gin distilkhl in the iwild
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil.
nrnmn
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELLS, FLIES OK GERMS.
The Commonwealth Government has been
using them for 12 years and has just
bought 90 more for R.A.A.F., Narromine.
PRICE, £l7/9/6,
including sales tax and crating.
Write Desk D jor Illustrated Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
'
/
S# ■
THE VITAL STREAM!...As Australia forges her weapons of war amid the
clamour and heat of tireless foundries, molten metal flows in a never-
ending stream ... Playing an equally important part in their production
is another vital stream the stream of bank credit...ln providing finance
for our ever-expanding war industries, the Bank of New South Wales
occupies a front-line position in the economic defences of Australia.
mm*
5 %-1 T A-
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
,?72C
milk contains less protein and fat but
more sugar than cow’s milk. For the
foal, add a of boiled water and a
dessertspoonful of sugar to each pint of
cow’s milk. Feed five times a day, slowly
increasing the quantity up to 16 pints
a day.
“Yappa”: Don’t feed raw offal to dogs
if you wish to avoid the risk of hydatids.
Boil or roast it. Hydatids passes from
the raw meat to the dog and through the
dog to the ground to contaminate the
pasture for grazing animals.
“Bill Ding”: Not many years back few
would have thought it possible to see
potatoes in the s.-w. division of W.A.,
yet they are succeeding today. Districts
range from Harvey, where the big irri-
gation scheme is in full swing, far down
to Bridgetown. Lots of these areas a
short time ago were under sub. clover ;
apparently the rejuvenation of the old
sandy tracts has been successful, and a
tilth is now available for something more
than sheep-running and cattle-grazing.
Not over-lavish rains have been a blessing
to these new potato lands, for the young
haulms are sturdy and of the green that
denotes virility. More potato lands are
likely soon. The second-largest dam in
the State, at Waroona, is approaching
completion, and all that old blackboy,
heavy-soiled region that travellers have
seen around Hamel, Wagerup and
Cookernup will be turned into profitable
cultivation. Miles of earth have been
turned over by sustenance workers.
“Ghanam” : The Joint Blowfly Com-
mittee has made a step in the right direc-
tion in favoring plain-bodied merinos.
The Mules operation has done great ser-
vice in proving the part that wrinkles
play in fly infestation. Three years ago
there was no tendency toward change
of types, but recent show sales have
proved that woolgrowers are thinking
along the same lines as the committee.
At the same time great care will have to
be taken lest, in breeding out wrinkles,
the good qualities of the established types
go with them. The main thing is to get
rid of creases in those parts of the sheep
where filth collects. Body strike is not
nearly so important as crutch strike.
“King River”: The Boulia country
(n.-w. Q.) has been suffering a rat plague,
and on some stations they’re killing as
many as 2000 rats per day. The pests
are Centralian natives of the same kind
which descended on western Queensland
in 1918. They appear to find sufficient
food in their native Centralia in normal
seasons, but droughts send them coast-
wards. The best cure would be to give
the inmates of a few abo. compounds a
holiday for hunting in rat districts. Binghi
is a great rat-eater, and puts the fox
terrier in the shade as a ratcatcher.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXXVII.
A VISITOR FROM THE COAST.
You haven’t seen old Bill Me Ayrshire
for years. Not since the time when you
won the block in the ballot and gave up
the hard life of following the shearing,
the harvests and doing a bit of fencing
and dam-sinking, and took to the ease
and comfort of farming. Reading Bill’s
letter announcing his arrival for a
month’s stay —his doctor ordered him
inland for a month —on your place, you
recall those days.
Back comes a vision of the terrible
toil of the sheds, the financial troubles,
the never-ending sweating and weariness
and worry. You compare your present
life. Nothing to do except a little work
between sunrise and dark every day ; no
financial bother except with the store
and the bank and the implement firm
and the manure company ; no worries;
no weariness because there isn’t time for
it, and you sigh and think, “Cripes, I
wish me an’ Bill was headin’ back inter
the Darling country with a run of sheds
again.”
Bill’s changed. He’s older, of course,
and a lot quieter, and he seems unable
to sleep. On the first night, after a
preliminary yarn, he gave an uneasy look
at the clock and muttered something
about bed. He went off about nine o’clock.
Sometime in the dark of the morning you
heard him tramping around.
“Whassa matter, Bill?”
“Nothin’; ain’t y’ goin’ t’ get up?”
“What for? What’s wrong?”
“It’s nearly half-past three, man!”
“Aw, we don’t turn out till about six
here.”
Silence. Then a long-drawn, wonder-
ing “Cri-idpes,” and Bill goes back to
his room. But there’s no more sleep, for
Bill gets up every 15 minutes or so,
stamps noisily out to the kitchen and
back, to repeat the performance until
six o’clock, when all hands turn out.
Bill gives you a severe look. “It’s
well to be some blokes, loafin’ in bed
till this hour,” he snorts. You grin at
him.
After breakfast you show him the
farm. He gives the young crop a casual
glance, pays little attention to the fallow,
ignores your machinery, isn’t impressed
by the tractor or the horses.
“Yair,” he says, “but where’s the
cows?”
You show him the herd of three.
“Cows! ” he snorts ; “we wouldn’t give
them things grass-room down on the
Illawarra. Now I got a line of Dar-
balara heifers that’d show you somethin’.
An’ when this bull I got from Berry —
he goes straight back t’ ol’ Kelvinator’s
Centurion’s Adelina the Seventeenth, and
you know what her production record
was! Soon’s I get a chance I’m”
his voice blurs off as you hurry him
round the place.
Back at lunch he seems ill-humored
and silent.
“Bet y’re feelin’ the benefit of this dry
air already, Bill,” you say cheerfully.
He forces a grin. “Aw, it’s not too
bad,” he says dutifully, then stiffens as
a low hum comes from outside. He
cocks an ear, suddenly gets up and, with
a “Somethin’ wrong with that thing,”
darts outside. You wonder what he
knows about mail ’planes.
He comes back with an abashed grin.
“Thought it was y’r separator,” he
mumbles, sliding back into his chair.
“Ain’t many separators round here,
Bill,” you tell him ; “the biggest is over
at Harry Carey’s. He’s the town milk-
man.”
A sudden light glows on Bill s worn
countenance. “What sorta cows has he
got?” he wants t’ know.
“Aw, just cows.”
After lunch he says he’s a bit tired,
and if you don’t mind he’ll have a bit
of a spell. You go down the paddock.
He’s missing at teatime. You hold
the meal up while the missus grumbles,
then have it without him. The hours
pass. By nine o’clock you’re anxious.
By ten you and the boys are searching
the place. At 10.25 something occurs
to you, and you make for Carey’s. Bills
there. He and Carey, each with a hurri-
cane-lamp, are in Carey’s cowshed, going
nineteen to the dozen. Carey’s cows
munch unmoved under their praise and
criticism. You manage to get Bill away
by midnight, thinking the holiday wont
do him much good at this rate.
A fortnight later you take Bill to the
train. He’s anxious to get home, and
looks better than when he arrived. In
the days that have passed since you first
found him at Carey’s, all you’ve seen of
him is either going to or coming from
Carey’s.
“Sorry we couldn’t have had more
time, Jack,” he says. “Woulda bin nice
t’ talk over the ol’ days. Still, I had a
bonzer time, Jack. That Carey’s a nice
cove. Knows his work, too. Cripes, I’ll
be glad to get back home again.”
As the train pulls out you visualise
Daisy, Maud and Chippy, your cows, and
try to understand how animals of their
kind can become the sole reason for
existence to men like old Bill and that
Carey. Privately, you’d always thought
Carey was a bit touched. With a queer
sensation you realise that probably Bill
and Carey regard you as being a bit
touched.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
“Too much doctor” is the theme of the contribution placed first this week. The
other side of the case will no doubt receive attention.
Let Me Feel Your Pulse!
I feel ill and pay a visit to the local
doctor. He sounds me, tells me to poke
out my tongue, say “Ah” and breathe
in slowly. He hums and ha\ys for a few
moments, and then remarks brightly that
I had better see a specialist. He recom-
mends one, gives me a letter for him, and
tells me the great man will charge three
guineas—a reduction of two guineas
because of the recommendation. For
that I pay 12s. 6d.
Next day I visit the specialist. His
secretary holds out a silver salver for my
three-guinea offering, and in due course I
am ushered into the presence. Perfectly
tailored, he exudes the perfume of
luxurious cigars and expensive hair lubri-
cant. As I enter he unpolitely turns his
back, and in his own good time con-
descends to turn round and accept my
doctor’s letter. He reads it, grunts, fires
a few questions at me, and gives an im-
pression that he is not listening to my
answers. His examination is abrupt, and
in a few minutes I find myself on my
way to the street. His words are still
in my ears: “I’ll get in touch with your
doctor.”
I call back to my doctor. He is wait-
ing for me. “The specialist’s report coin-
cides with my diagnosis,” he says pon-
derously. “I’ll make a prescription.”
He scratches with a pen for a few
seconds, then hands me the results of his
efforts. “Twelve and six, please.” Re-
signedly I pay up and take my departure.
On my way home I get the prescription
made up. “Seven shillings, please.”
And so my hard-earned money goes.
My chemist has a car, my doctor has a
car and a servant, the specialist has a
couple of limousines, a chauffeur and
half a dozen servants ; and I, poor fool,
help to keep them! And do I get better?
I don’t. — Stiffy (N.S.W.).
A Cheer for Repat.
While on home service (in the garrison)
pneumonia got me and I landed at Caul-
field Repat. Hospital. The other 90 cases
were pensioned ex-servicemen, many in-
curable cases, plenty with seasonable
complaints periodically brought on by
war experiences; some limbless and
maimed also.
Throughout the years the Repat.
Department has seen to them, and the
hospital has received them, and I am
beginning to wonder about the genuine-
ness of the howls and execrations I have
heard anent the department’s work.
Each second week the pensions officials
attend and pay the patients. In alternate
weeks they come round for applications
for new pensions. They even asked me
to apply until I informed them I was
serving in a home-service mob.
The Red Cross, the Comforts Fund and
the Caulfield Citizens’ Association mem-
bers all attend in turn to assist, cheer and
help in every way. Concerts, books, fruit
and cigarettes are brought. Offers to
write letters or attend to any business are
given, manicure and pedicure services
are available.
I have not yet heard a single grouse
or complaint. The old Digger spirit pre-
vails.—C. V. E. (Vic.).
Equality of Sacrifice?
Recently a radio advertisement called
for volunteers to be trained as fitters
and turners for defence work. Full basic-
wage to be paid during training period
and award rates after completion of
course.
The men of the A.I.F. are still on 355.
a week, with 2s. a day increase when
they leave Australia, and it hardly seems
fair that others should get full award
rates. In addition, the soldier after the
war, as illustrated by unemployed post-
war England, is at a dead-end, whereas
the munition-worker has been given a
trade which will equip him for the rest of
his life.
The man who fires the shells and runs
the risk of being hit by those from the
enemy’s guns is entitled to the same dfeal
as the man who makes the shells, and
this can be accomplished either by con-
scripting all labor, as in England, or by
raising the rates of pay of the fighting
forces.— Paddy M. (N.S.W.).
When discussing the matter of sol-
diers’ pay with well-to-do people of both
sexes it is amusing to hear them stating
emphatically that they could manage to
rear a family quite comfortably on a
private’s allotment. This being so it
seems a pity that a general movement
could not be organised with the idea of
enabling them to prove their words. They
could then devote whatever income they
have above the average soldier’s pay
towards Red Cross funds or some other
scheme to help the war effort, and, as
their surplus would in most cases be
plentiful, it would be of great value in
aiding our country’s financial resources.
—P. Radwon (Vic.).
Aerodromes
The Defence Administration has in-
curred severe criticism on account of the
exposed position of ’dromes and asso-
ciated workshops. Hangars built on
’dromes must necessarily be exposed to
air-bombing, and such vulnerability con-
stitutes a major problem. In my travels
about N. S. Wales and Queensland, I
have seen a number of ideal sites for
aerodromes right by the foot of towering
bluffs rising almost sheer from the level
ground. Hangars excavated at ground
level from the wall of rock would be
absolutely safe from all air attack. If
the authorities at Ramsgate (Eng.) can
tunnel out miles of underground air-raid
shelters, surely we could get miners to
gouge out any number of hangars from
these natural fortresses dumped so con-
veniently on level, open spaces. —G. A. B.
(N.S.W.).
Too Many Comforts?
We are constantly being told of the
need for more money to buy munitions
and equipment for our fighting forces. In
the face of such need surely too much
money is being spent on “comforts” for
the soldiers. Certainly, everyone wants the
boys to have all the comforts they can,
but, after all, the job they have taken on
is to fight, and they cannot fight without
guns, no matter how many pairs of hand-
knitted socks they may have!
Besides, each soldier can use only a
certain number of comforts, and, taking
into consideration the proportion of
knitters to soldiers at the present time,
it is obvious that many of the things can
never be used. Why, then, spend money
on the wool for them when it could be
used to so much better purpose?
The usual methods of raising money
for comforts are mostly very wasteful
anyway. For instance, each woman who
goes to a “patriotic” bridge party spends
money on her ticket, her fares, her cigar-
ettes, drinks and afternoon-tea, possibly a
new dress and hair do, besides the money
she loses at cards. If she stayed at home
and saved all this, how much wool —or,
better still, war-saving certificates —could
she buy with the money? Certainly more
than the proceeds of the party would
buy.
Women are willing and eager to help
win this war, but they are wasting money
and effort for the want of a leader to
show them how they can help effectively.
—G. M. A. (N.S.W.).
Army Boots
If I want a pair of boots for any par-
ticular purpose I find no difficulty in geF
ting boots to serve that purpose. This
country has plentiful supplies of good
leather and any number of good trades-
men who thoroughly understand the job
of turning out serviceable boots.
Is there any reason why soldiers could
not be measured for boots? And boots
made to fit them? After all, the Gov-
ernment is supposed to have acquired the
rights of taking over any industry, and
boots are of as much importance to a
soldier as is his rifle.
The whole business of A.I.F. clothing
needs overhaul. In a country which pro-
duces such superfine wool and such ex-
cellent leather the get-up of the soldier
is a disgrace. Ex-Imperial Officer
(N.S.W.).
Post-war Reconstruction
When our Commonwealth of Nations
has hurled the German legions back into
their lair we must assume a protectorate
over all Europe. The peoples of Europe
are not competent to govern themselves
with any degree of wisdom. Their in-
ability to learn from experience, their
utter lack of Christian virtues and their
inherent hate of one another are defi-
ciencies that cannot be remedied in one
generation.
From the era in which the Roman
Empire collapsed, the miserable progres-
sion of days and years has witnessed con-
tinual bloodshed, massacre, treachery and
consummate lust. The presence of saintly
and heroic men and women merely
increases the guilt of those responsible
for it.
It is grave folly to excuse the common
peoples of Germany and Italy, as Cham-
berlain would have done. They must
assume full responsibility for all the
horrors of this murderous war in the same
way as we are today willing to accept
responsibility for whatever Churchill
plans for them.
We cannot live from day to day pray-
ing that these warmongers in Europe will
sufficiently remember their humanity to
refrain from throwing bombs at one
another.
It is then with trepidation (for I
realise that the British peoples have many
faults) that I say that, for the protection
of people of our race and to save Europe
from the Lavals, the Hitlers and the
Mussolinis, the British Commonwealth
of Nations must rule Europe with a rod
of iron for many years.— Mike (Q.).
“Undo me chin-strap, Joe!”
Sydney’s Costly Milk
These continual moans from the
Sydney milk suppliers leave me cold.
According to their authorised spokes-
men, no cocky within a hundred miles of
the city can possibly exist unless he
obtains Is. per gallon for his cowjuice.
If that is so, how on earth are the butter
suppliers existing? None of them receives
over Is. 3d. per pound for his butter-
fat, and that represents only 6d. per
gallon for milk. True, they have the
skim milk, but that is worth only |d.
per gallon as pig feed.
With thirty years’ experience of the
coast from Bega to Tweed Heads
(mostly in a bank, where one gets a
fair insight into the economic condition
of a district), I assert emphatically that,
if the farmers south of Nowra and from
the Manning to the Tweed were guaran-
teed Is. 6d. per pound for their butter-
fat, they would think their fortunes were
made, as they would be. That represents
a shade over 7d. per gallon. Most of
them are on far dearer land than the
majority of Sydney milk suppliers, for
the highest-priced dairy land I have come
across in this State is round Bega and
on the Manning.
The hollowness of the Sydney sup-
pliers’ contention is evidenced by the fact
that the Ingham (N.Q.) farmers send
most of their milk to Mt. Isa, close on
700 miles, and still sell it at the price
charged in Sydney. Even in summer,
when the cans have to be packed in ice,
and the ice renewed three times en route.
The remedy for the exorbitant price
charged in Sydney is to open the market
to the North Coast cockies and scrap that
monstrosity the Sydney Milk Board. If
Norco were given a chance to hop in,
its suppliers would jump at 7d. per
gallon. Its entry would enable milk
to be sold for 6d. per quart, probably
sjd., for Norco is an efficiently managed
concern, with overhead reduced to a
minimum. Over a third of the milk
supply for the city of New York comes
over 700 miles. — Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
Metal for Japan
During the last few months I’ve reli-
giously saved dozens of tin containers of
all shapes and sizes, scores of foil tops
from milk bottles, hundreds of crown
seals and assorted metalware of many
kinds. Moreover, the sight of tons and
tons of scrap iron at present littering the
shores of parts of Sydney Harbor (and
not too rusted to be useful) has made
me wish I could do something about
collecting it for the war effort, so I con-
sider that I’m doing my share as far as
metal-saving is concerned.
Imagine, therefore, my feelings on see-
ing a waterfront picture with this cap-
tion: “Loading some of the 300 tons
of scrap iron, bound for Japan, in
Sydney today. The items ranged from
old files to motor-car parts.” But I’m
not giving up yet. I’m still saving metal
—and still cheerfully accepting my ounce
of tobacco minus the tin—in the hope
that I shall wake up to find that I’m not
a big mug, and that it was only a horrible
dream.—P. S. C. (N.S.W.).
Birth Control Defended
Opponents of birth control invariably
overlook the fact that those who developed
the modern methods of contraception
were mainly medical men and women
whose experience convinced them that
the conditions of civilised life made some
such adjustment desirable,
and in many cases essen-
tial, if health were to be
preserved. They were not
criminals who wanted to
see the race die out; they
did not seek to make
money out of the devices
they designed. They saw
in birth control a means
of saving countless women
from the dangers of bear-
ing children when they
were no longer physically
fit to do so, through ill-
nesses or too close a suc-
cession of births.
They saw in birth con-
trol a means whereby
young couples might space
their family wisely, so that
they would be reasonably
free from financial and
other anxieties, and able
to give each child the
necessities of life. They
saw in it a means of en-
riching wedded life by
virtue of the freedom given to the mutual
expression of love, hitherto restricted by
the fear of conception when circum-
stances made yet another child an in-
supportable burden.
No doubt they saw the dangers, too,
that would follow the spread of know-
ledge of moderr discoveries. Yet they


“you’re overdoin' the topdressin', mum .’
persisted ; and I and many other young
married people are glad that they did
so. We can see that contraceptives are
being used for immoral purposes. We
can see that the birthrate is falling. But
we all know, too, that married, life for
us is very much better than it was for
our parents, and we would not allow the
clock to be set back to those uncertain
times; we can plan our families with
reasonable success, and we intend to do
so —not to restrict our children for the
sake of our pleasures, but to space them
so that we can give each one a good
home and education to fit it for a reason-
able share of life’s gifts.
For us there can be no such question
as birth control or no birth control. The
real question facing the community is:
birth control, wise or otherwise? —
D. J.G. (Vic.).
Still Room for Settlement
Evidently “A.J.L.” (B. 11/9/’4O) has
not travelled much outside of his own
State. Even his despised Mallee, to men
who understand it, is not nearly as black
as it is painted. I could write quite a
story of how it should be handled, as I
had 16 years from the axe-and-billycan
stage and never looked back. Granted
that the area in S.A. is limited, there are
still great possibilities in certain districts.
Across the border, in Victoria, there is
far greater scope for settlement, while
N.S.W. and Queensland have unlimited
possibilities. In the Riverina you find
towns landlocked by huge stations which
are owned by a few individuals, one
family owning nearly half a million
acres. Under natural conditions this land,
if sold at its actual value in blocks of
1000 to 5000 acres, would support thou-
sands of virile Australians or right-type
immigrants, under irrigation, which is
quite feasible.
The possibilities in Queensland are
probably as great as in all the other
States combined. Margets are further
afield, but land values are quite within
reason,
A larger population will help solve
our marketing problems, and make this
country safe from the horrors of Europe.
We are not making the best use of our
wonderful resources. There is some truth
in the sneers of our worst enemy.—
Country Aussie (N.S.W.).
Economists tell us Australia could sup-
port a population of 60 or 70 millions at
a standard of living similar to that of
western Europe. Prof. Griffith Taylor
says it could support a population of 20
millions at a standard of living similar
to that of the U.S.A. Taylor’s estimate
seems feasible, but it would take time to
acquire such a population (perhaps a
century). During the latter half of the
eighteenth century England’s population
increased by 50 p.c.
Agriculture need not be the only in-
dustrial avenue open to newcomers. Aus-
tralia’s secondary industries are on the
brink of greater prospects. Home
markets would provide an avenue for a
great many goods, for we still import
many of our manufactures. Wouldn’t
the wheatgrower be delighted at having
to provide bread for 20 millions instead
of a scanty seven millions? — Fact
(N.S.W.).
A Word for Politicians
“Draco” (B. 11/9/ ’4O) suggests “a
board to supply silencers to politicians.”
Frankly, I don’t think we hear enough
of our politicians. The allegation that
they are continually gassing is a news-
paper myth. Too often, once a politician
is elected, his constituents don’t hear of
him again until it is time for another
election. “Draco” wants, too, “a com-
mittee to abolish Parliaments.” Appar-
ently he prefers a dictatorship. To
abolish Parliaments would be the end of
democracy. By all means let us abolish
unnecessary Parliaments, but that’s an-
other matter.
“Draco” further suggests “an investi-
gator to see if ‘Hansard’ is really worth
anything.” Such an appointment would
be a waste of time and money. If “Draco”
read “Hansard” he would learn much that
would help him. to cast his vote in the
right direction at election time. “Han-
sard” reveals the politician at work, and
from it the elector may learn whether
the member for his district is worth his
salt or not. After all, one can’t blame a
politician for not knowing his job. The
blame must be shared by the people who
put him there. — Nagoh (S.A.).
Election Expenses
It is quite evident that the supposed
limit of £lOO which a candidate for the
House of Reps, may spend on his cam-
paign means absolutely nothing. One
saw large advertising spaces taken by
certain candidates in metropolitan and
local newspapers and heard numerous
advertisements for the same men from
commercial radio stations. Such adver-
tising is expensive, and then must be con-
sidered the cost of printing posters,
dodgers, “how to vote” cards and, in
some instances, badges for supporters to
wear. Then the same candidates had
canvassers, many of whom are not of the
type to do any work on an honorary
basis.
The Government should insist that
the law is obeyed to the letter, or abolish
it altogether. It is not good for public
morale when would-be leaders openly
flout the laws of the land.— James
Mahoney (35 James-street, West Ryde,
N.S.W.).
The Cotton Outlook
The acreage to be sown under cotton
this season is estimated to be double
that of last season’s. Seed is being dis-
patched to growers in large quantities.
This increase in acreage is largely due
to the efforts of the Federal and Queens-
land Governments. The Federal Govern-
ment has guaranteed a price to growers
which, provided a fair grade is obtained,
should prove satisfactory. This has en-
couraged a number of farmers who grew
cotton some years ago to put in a few
more acres. The officers of the State
Government have been very keen and
their efforts have been rewarded.
At last it seems that the industry has
been put on a sound footing, but it took
a war to do it. — Dougall McDougall
(Q’land).
Farmers, Don’t Grumble!
A truce to this grumbling and whining
by farmers! Because a correspondent
suggested a number of sidelines from
which a farmer could choose those that
suited his locality, there came such a
grizzle about long hours and no time
and so on, and whey for pigs, for-
sooth! What’s wrong with skim milk?
The farm that hasn’t a few cows, and a
few pigs to drink the skim- and butter-
milk, and a few fowls isn’t a farm at all.
Don’t regard cows as the women’s
pocket-money providers, but as part of the
living, and the milking as part of the
day’s work, and you’ll find time —as you
always find time to sit on your haunches
and yarn for an hour or so to a neighbor
or a traveller.
Incidentally, farmers who never work
less than 16 hours a day (on paper!)
think it no shame to advertise for a man
(capable and experienced, one used to
horses or tractors preferred), £1 or 30s.
a week and keep. And the chances are
the sidelines pay his wages!— Cubberlie
(S.A.).
Making Illegal Betting Legal
For illegal betting other than on a
racecourse in N. S. Wales, the minimum
penalty for a first offence is £2O, with a
maximum of £lOO, and for a second
offence six months’ imprisonment with-
out the option. In Broken Hill a race
club holds regular fortnightly meetings,
when from 20 to 25 bookmakers are
licensed to bet. The betting fee is three
guineas, and while from three to five of
the fielders operate on the local events
the other 20 confine their attentions to
Melbourne and Adelaide races without
any fear of police interference.
At the latest “fixture” 18 horses sup-
plied the fields for the six races, with
three bookies doing business on the
locals and 17 accommodating inter-State
punters. The club is in clover financially,
as each person attending pays ss. admis-
sion in order, in 95 per cent, of cases, to
bet on races run at a distance of from 350
to 700 miles away from Broken Hill. It
is a common sight to see practically the
whole attendance around the loud-
speakers listening to Jim Carroll’s descrip-
tion of a Melbourne race while a local
event is being contested.— Barrierite
(N.S.W.).
Give Prisoners Self-respect
The Maoriland Government has set
another lead by a prison-system reform
which will allow prisoners to shave daily,
wear their own civilian clothes after
working hours, and write a letter daily.
Australian prison departments have
long ago dropped the idea that prison
treatment is punitive. It is supposed
now to be reformative ; yet, though old
degradations like the prison hair crop
(which had a definite usefulness in
“lousy” days) have been dropped, men
are still put into clothes that are a de-
gradation in themselves, and the
stubbled chin is also an enemy to the
self-respect it should be the desire to
restore.
“Restoration of the self-respect of
prisoners” is a tenet of the N.S.W. prison
system, yet its clothes, including a comedy
cabbage-tree hat, are the worst of all.
The opportunity of writing to friends
more often should have a beneficial
effect. As all prison letters are censored
it can do no harm anyway.
Australian States are bound to follow
the M.L. lead. How soon? The sooner
the better!—2l4 (N.S.W.).
Stockings
“Peter Penguin” (B. 11/9/ ’4O) has a
lot to learn about stockings: no one is
more dissatisfied with today’s leg-
coverings than women themselves.
Decent woollen stockings are dearer
than silk or near-silk and do not
wear so well; lisle is cotton, and the
price also is outrageous. Going bare-
legged in summer does not merit the
rebukes it receives from the ancients —it
is simply a mute protest against exploi-
tation.
As for salvage, let “P.P.” roll up to
some of our great shows such as the
Sydney Royal and see the beautiful
hooked rugs made from small clipped
pieces of silk stockings. Color, design
and texture are incredibly good, and prac-
tical too. — Bertha Maxwell (N.S.W.).
Woollen stockings have gone out
by a trick of fashion for flimsy and
transparent things, made of some concoc-
tion mainly imported, costing Lord knows
what and lasting no time. One can
respect a woman who declares stockings
unnecessary, but hardly the one who,
though wearing’them, does her level and
expensive best to look as if she were not.
One knows that the countless girls who
can’t afford it will feel bound to follow
the lead of those who can. And that is
my point. If half a dozen women—
easily to be named —in each city were io
declare firmly for sensible stockings of
wool, the flesh-colored flimsies would
disappear.— Ex-Englishman (S.A.).
Pensions and Pensioners
Why is it that old-age pensioners are
put into ,a category of their own apart
from all other pensioners?
Years ago I was taken to visit a
Government hospital, where there were
funereal-looking beds in a ward, with
head and foot ends blocked in with tin
and painted black to match the rest of
the bed. These distinctive contraptions
were the old-age pensioners’ beds! I
wonder if this rather gruesome practice
of distinction still remains as part of an
indecent social system, to depress and
dispirit.
1 wonder too why, while civil service
pensioners receive their pensions without
effort and in dignity in their homes, as a
just reward for services rendered, old-age
pensioners, many of them sick and
decrepit, most of them sensitive, are
obliged to go out and line up in a
paupers’ queue.
As a fitting end, this prosecution of
unfairness and contempt is carried out
to a consistent finish —so that we see
regularly in most of our daily papers
“Pensioner Injured,” “Pensioner Killed,”
etc. This always means an old-age pen-
sioner. We never see this derogatory,
individuality-destroying classification em-
ployed when an ex-High Court Judge,
ex-Director of Education or any other
civil service pensioner has the misfortune
to figure in tragic press notices.
There are essentials to culture, some
of them being respect for old age, fair-
ness and decency, courtesy and nicety of
feeling. It is time that we embraced
these. —A. M. C. (W.A.).
Fixing the Basic Wage
The Chief Judge in Arbitration
said a few weeks ago that he was
doubtful whether the present method
of fixing the basic wage was satis-
factory. And there is no doubt that the
basic wage has more influence upon our
economy than any other single item.
In England the wages of farm laborers
used to be fixed annually in accordance
with the rise and fall of the price of
wheat. This would be altogether too
crude for our more involved economy.
It does, however, appear reasonable to
fix the basic wage on the prices of all
primary products and all raw material
(both local and imported) and to dis-
regard entirely the prices of manufactured
goods and local services. These prices
could be ignored because they largely
depend upon the basic wage, and when
the latter is raised the former auto-
matically rise with it. When the cost
of raw material is allowed for the
remaining costs of all manufactured
goods and services represent wages.
The result of this method of fixing the
basic wage would be to reduce nominal
wages when world conditions brought
down the prices of primary products, and,
since there would have to be machinery
for immediately passing the reductions
on, this would result in the fall of prices
of manufactured goods. The primary
producers’ costs would fall, and they
would be able to buy their usual volume
of goods and so maintain employment
Real wages would remain stable. M)
plan would bring the primary producers
into the picture and knit our present dua
system into a self-balancing whole.—
Charles Somerset (W.A.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
Watch, Stainless
Steel.
15 Jewel Precision
£5/10/-
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Watch Repair Service. Send for Catalogue.
DIAMOND
fr WATCH
SPECIALISTS
&JU/cfctd$.
112 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY.
OPR DAVIDJONES
HALF PRICE FOR NEW
BATTERIES.
Buy your Battery direct from the
manufacturer at half the usual retail
price- All Marshall Batteries are
fully guaranteed. All types of
batteries for cars, trucks, cycles,
radio, home and theatre lighting
direct to the public at factory
prices. Write at once for 16-page
catalogue on how to choose and look
after batteries.
The Marshall Battery Mfg. Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
a
c
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two ma.chines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are'
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
CO..
3 Jabez St., Marrlckville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
m
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
xis dih
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney,
S.A, Agents: Goldberg Bros., Nth' Ter., Adelaide.
BUY YOUR RADIO DIRECT
FROM THE MAKER AND
SAVE 40% (£2O) if no Century
Agent in your district.
“Century” Radio Sets embody the
latest improvements world-wide
reception brings overseas news direct
to your home. If no “Century*'
Agent in your district, tjie maker
will supply at Agent’s prices (40%
discount). Your satisfaction is
assured by TEN DAYS’ FREE
TRIAD in your own home. 1940
Catalogue for Battery and All-
electric sets post free.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
LAMBS SAVED
By Using the
DA ROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
fj
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—
Humane —Safe—and as quick as the knife.
! -a nibs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. _ No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAKOBX!
m iwo Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Lrom all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
Insert in Nose.
CATARRH SUFFERERS
ii
Is::*
Blow Here.
With a few drops of COLD-
MASTER Inhalant in this, the
COLDMASTER VAPORISER,
you can force with your own
breath a powerfully germicidal
steamless vapour deep into the
infected sinuses and remote
cavities of your head, and in-
stantly dispel all running or
congested mucus which hitherto
has been beyond the reach of
ordinary inhalation. Each treat-
ment insures dry and germ-free
nasal passages for hours.
The price of COLDMASTER with
bottle of. COLDMASTER IN-
HALANT is 10/- POST FREE.
Extra Inhalant obtainable at
2/9 per bottle ONLY direct from
S. MoKEON, Ist Floor, 16 Yurk
Street, SYDNEY.
SISrWAIST
The GOVERNA BELT will reduce
your waistline and give a slim
athletic figure. Supports delicate
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
with every move you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will be
3in. smaller . . . 3in. of bulge
and strain gone . . . OR NO
COST! Write for full illustrated
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL
OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
fj
BRIGGS & STRATTON
Air-cooled 4-cycle
SINGIiE-CYIiINDEK
PETROL MOTORS.
i to 5 HORSEPOWER
From £lB/17/6.
Also Petrol Electric
Generators from £35.
Agents all States.
Illustrated Bulletin with
prices gladly forwarded.
/
aMPLIOh (A/SIA) PTY LIMITED
■ " ~ 882 Kent St.. Sydney, N.S.W.
%-
OILSKINS
for long, bard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
IfJNCHISUR
SKATES
17/6—2lA
'WITH steel rolls
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
WAR RAGING IN AREAS. ERED
The DREAD FEY
is spreading deadly
disease germs.
SANI-LID can be
fitted to any lavatory
seat and banishes
flies, odours and germs
for ever. Supplied
with 6 months’ supply
of chemicals for only
47/6. Model C (as
illustrated), complete
with 6 months’ suppl.l
of chemicals, 90/-.
Write for particulars.
Quirk's Victory
Light Co.,
fj
229 Castlereagh St., Sydney; 48 King St., Perth
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality,
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a cpmplete
mental training and it develaps
personality. ,
The Pelman Institute
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market St.).
IV Wonderful GENDEROMETER Sex Indicator
ONE
SHILLING
fj
When this marvellous instrument was
recently proclaimed in Europe it caused
a tremendous sensation. It is stated to
show which eggs are fertile and from
which eggs roosters or hens will be hatched.
Over two million Indicators were sold.
and public interest was greatly enhanced
when it was found that the apparatus
could be applied in many ways besides
egg testing
Meat. fur. hair, feathers, and indeed all \
living and dead animal matter, can be subjected to its tests, as
well as men and women, birds. The scope of the Sex Indi-
cator is limitless and its results are followed with the keenest
interest Baron von Reichenbacb is mentioned as vouching for
the genuineness of the apparatus, and Dr. Voll compares its
actuating principle to that of the divining rod. Even those
who are disinclined to believe all the amazing attributes ascribed
to this instrument have derived much interesting amusement
1 from experimenting with it. and the price is so moderate, only
I ONE SHILLING, post free with full instructions, that it is(
surely worth while to get one and study how it acts.
Obtainable only from
JHE JJNION AGENCY CO.. 2 99 Elisabeth Street. Melb,
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
B. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney.
LAMPS
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on lj pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, .as illustrated, may
fj
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 63/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
380 Kent Street. Sydney.
Cards
Draw Poker
Solo Whist
Auction Solo
Auction Bridge
Cardplayers—save arguments and dis-
cussions by adopting the laws tor the
above games as prepared and approved
by the Commercial Trayellers’ Associa-
tion. Complete in one liandy-sized
pocket volume.
Price 2/6; posted 2/8.
From all Booksellers or
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth St., Melb., Victoria.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
fj
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and Bkirts.
4£in. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4'ii*i. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RTDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
J. P. TALTY
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
RUPTURE
ACTS
LIKE THE HRIID
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of rew method of control.
The NEO—BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
.flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
spt. 27R)j 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
GOOD AUSTRALIAN
TOBACCO
Direct from the Manufacturer to you.
PURE COARSE CUTS AND FINE
CUTS FROM 6/9 PER POUND.
PLUG TOBACCOS FROM 7/-.
FLAKE TOBACCOS. 8/6.
SAVE MONEY—AND ENJOY A
PURE TOBACCO. SEND FOR
PRICE EIST.
SEND TO
HILLMAN TOBACCO Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE.
mur.
S
brings
instant relief
Jt
TO ACHING FEET.
Based upon recent X-ray dis-
coveries, the “FOOTHELP” brings
new hope to sufferers from painful
foot troubles. This amazing new
invention contains NO METAL
PARTS WHATSOEVER and is as
light as a feather and moulded to measure.
14 DAYS FREE TRIAS
Write to-day for full details and TRIAL OFFER.
Satisfaction guaranteed no matter where you live.
JOHN H. TJNCxEK (Dept. ISA),
65 York Street, Sydney.
SOME COMMON SENS!
Rtf***
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IWHORNING
h
tr*% w
v, Get rid of
HomsBEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL
DEHORNER
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method■ Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
SMOKERS!
Here’s Real Value in Tobacco.
A FLAKE cut or FLAKE FINE CUT
tobacco at 8/- per lb. “BEST EVER”
8/- per lb., honestly worth 12/- per lb.
Send 6d. in stamps for a liberal sample.
IMPORTED AMERICAN CIGARETTES
“Chesterfield/’ available in any quantity at
1/11 per packet of 20.
Such values are obtainable only at—
TOBACCONIST,
est. SJfr years.
SOL LEVY
713- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Two minutes from Central Railway.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
tor one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscnption rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(i Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
2,110,r40 (See Page 34)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your ‘‘Wants’’ to the Service Department, ‘‘The Bulletin ”
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


“Roll out
the barrel
... it might be
the Blender’s song
at Kilmarnock”
I said
Johnnie Walker
il
'»n.
■
.
Mm
wmm
mm
M'S
B-o.v
-n ; . ■■■
When the Blender gets to work at Kilmarnock, Scotland,
he calls for not one barrel but many. Each of these barrels
contains a fine whisky, fully matured, and each whisky
has its own particular distinction of flavour or character.
In the Blender’s expert hands, these qualities are com-
bined, yet individual character is preserved, and the result
is Johnnie Walker. So in Johnnie Walker you get the
best whiskies Scotland makes—each contributing some-
thing worth-while to this distinctive blend of subtle
flavour, rare bouquet, strength and ripe age.
/•>s<
•m
#5?
HHIViIU
aiNMHor
Born 1820 —
Still Going
Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD,, LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY
J.W.100.F.C.
