

The Spirit of Economy
a
• « 9 y
That’s the SpirL
r
fie
C
N?
v
?al
<3
S)
The Sign o/
the Approved
PURR-PULL
RESELLER
MORE POWER...
MORE MILES...
LOWER UPKEEP
Purr-Pull's continued success as an
Independent Company demands that
it shall produce and market a Motor
Spirit that is superior to any other.
THERE’S NO SUBSTITUTE FOR PURR-PULL
Always DRIVE ON to the PURR-PULL PUMP
“ALWAYS INDEPENDENT ”
\
INDEPENDENT OIL INDUSTRIES, FEDERAL ROAD, GLEBE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61. —No. 3147.
Wednesday, June 5, 1940.
We Must Have National Unity
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


I
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 040
DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
MAUGHAM ON READING.
When Somerset Maugham describes
his Books and You (Heinemann) as
“slight but not superficial” he tempers
justice with a liberal allowance of mercy.
As a guide to the readable novels of the
past it is well enough. As a guide to
literature generally it is hopelessly in-
adequate.
With the whole range of poetry, phil-
osophy, biography, history and belles
lettres at his disposal, the only books
apart from novels he mentions are:
Boswell’s Life and Journal, Johnson’s
Lives of the Poets, Gibbon’s Auto-
biography, Hazlitt’s essays, Shakspeare’s
tragedies, Montaigne’s essays, Rousseau’s
Confessions, the autobiography of Ben-
jamin Franklin, Palgrave’s Golden Treas-
ury, Robert Bridges’s The Spirit of Man
and the English Galaxy of Shorter
Poems edited by Gerald Bullett.
Answering in advance any criticism
of his colossal omissions, Maugham
explains that Books and You is a reprint
of three articles he wrote for the “Sat-
urday Evening Post” and that in each
“dissertation upon reading” he was
limited to four thousand words. Unless
he confined himself simply to a list of
books which would have been dull —
he was forced into a limited selection.
But the answer to Maugham’s answer is
that bits of casual journalism aren’t worth
reprinting in book form. If anybody wants
a list of books worth reading there is
always the index to Everyman’s Library.
If anybody wants an appreciation of the
giants of the past by a contemporary
novelist there is The Pleasures of Litera-
ture by John Cowper Powys, a book as
rich in treatment as in subject-matter.
Maugham approaches his subject
lackadaisically. It is not necessary to
dispute with him that the first quality
of a good book is its “readability,” but
the term is capable of wider interpreta-
tions than Maugham’s vague “pleasure
without boredom.” Though he admits
that he is a bad “skipper,” finding that to
skip through a book gives him a sense of
dissatisfaction worse than not having
opened the book at all, he advises, readers
to cultivate that loathsome habit; with
the fifteen volumes of Proust, for in-
stance, the reader is to “read till you
are bored, skip and start reading again.”
Maugham wants his poetry in anthologies
and he has to be “in the mood for it,”
seated, for preference, upon “a mossy
bank.” He wants an anthology of Shak-
spearean highlights, not only of the great
scenes from the plays but of single lines
and phrases.
There are several objections to his atti-
tude. Admitting that the purpose of read-
ing is pleasure, it is possible that strange
earnest souls might take pleasure in read-
ing for culture. Others might be interested
in Proust even when he is tedious —as
very often he is. Others might be able to
read poetry in a mossy bus. The great
objection is that the final pleasure in
literature comes from a man’s total state-
ment ; it is worth while enduring the
prosinesses of Wordsworth to know
Wordsworth; it is necessary to read the
whole of Shakspeare to appreciate the
full magnitude of his genius. Brilliant
or beautiful lines are best read in their
context because, crowning a long passage
of good writing or flashing suddenly out
of dullness or rhetoric, their loveliness
is all the more startling.
That Maugham is a tired reader is
most obvious in his advice about best-
sellers. He suggests that one should wait
two or three years after the first hulla-
baloo before tackling the Gone with the
Winds and the Anthony Adverses. From
a critical point of view, that is sound.
But it hardly fits in with Maugham’s
general theory of reading for pleasure.
The ordinary reader, having waited two
or three years, is not likely to rejoice
with Maugham to find that he can “with-
out loss” leave unread some novel that
had been “received with
acclamation.”
Discussing the novels that
he likes, Maugham writes
pleasantly. He talks about
some 50 important books, and talks
interestingly* , epough -|o . piajce them
sound invitiaife.; Opfe article is ; '4n EsgF ;
lish books, one on foreign, one —very
sketchy—on American. He makes no
contribution of lijhpdrtanee: tP;>the
literature of cntllisfm, * blit ife
what he is talking about, and names such
as Defoe, Sterne, Fielding, Dickens,
Jane Austen, Balzac, Flaubert, Turgenev
and the rest are fine names to conjure
with.
Much About Walpole.
Hugh Walpole comes over all intimate
in his Roman Fountain (Macmillan).
In 1939 he went to Rome for a
newspaper syndicate to report the
papal ceremonies, but the rites of the
church are the least part of it. The
message from the syndicate came while
he was attending a theatrical perform-
ance at Keswick. He had to leave at
once and motor through the night to
London —“Why do I do these things?”
—and then travel by air. He detests fly-
ing. Worst of all he had to leave the
“grand Elizabethan novel” he was en-
gaged on, “in which I believe so passion-
ately, and shall believe —until the last
word is written!”
The principal character of the novel
was on his way, through a rainstorm,
among a crowd of “smelling and rude
people,” to witness an execution. “What
a situation in which to leave him!” He
will have to stay like that for two whole
months, “when I had thought to liberate
him before tomorrow’s sun had set, be-
fore my evening meal comes on a tray
while I am listening to Honegger’s ‘King
David’ from Queen’s Hall, and my friend
and companion is laying out the chess-
men so that a game may be begun the
moment that Honegger is finished.”
There is also the matter of the unfinished
rockery, now distributed around the
garden “like a baby earthquake,” and the
early crocuses that will have vanished
before his return.
Three or four chapters suffice for the
papal ceremonies ; for the rest there are
literary and moral reflections, personal
recollections and sightseeing. He sees
everything that should be seen and never
fails in saying the right thing about it,
but the reader can’t see it for Walpole,
and that makes tedious going, because,
whatever merits Walpole may have as a
novelist, he hasn’t the knack of making
Walpole personally interesting.
The moral reflections are Victorian,
except that he goes so far as to regret
the “lump of white mud in the shape
of a fig leaf” that disfigures so many of
the statues. The literary reflections might
be the random thoughts of anyone who
had read widely but not too well. Only
when he is considering himself in relation
to other writers—and to critics—does
something piquant emerge. He considers,
at great length, the case of Marion Craw-
ford, an immensely popular novelist of
the last generation. “Crawford, because
he produced with military punctuality a
new novel every autumn, was never
taken with seriousness by the critics —
he was a ‘professional’ novelist.” From
which Walpole argues that he was “a
true novelist, in the tradition of
Thackeray, Dickens, Balzac and Zola.”
Crawford was accused of flatness of
style, and “I have myself been told again
and again that my own style is careless.”
But Walpole detests “pose” in writing.
“Good honest Marion Crawford, how
excellent are your unexciting but truthful
sentences beside the shams and gesticu-
lating of posturing writing!” But time
deals with shams is the consoling reflec-
tion.
The personal recollections are as tame
as the rest, so that the reader suffers no
sense of deprivation when he comes on
the statement “But this isn’t an auto-
biography. No, no! It will be twenty
years before I write one.”
A "Dregs " Novel.
Frank Walford’s novel And the River
Rolls On (T. Werner Laurie) is a patho-
logical study, and realistic in the sense
that everything in it could be matched in
police records.
The scene is a straggling fruit and cow
community, isolated, poverty-stricken,
one of those tiny backwaters of the bush
where inbreeding has gone on long
enough to become dangerous, and social
morbidity flowers in the more grisly kind
of murder.
At this place there arrives from the
city a woman of rather vulnerable type,
Mary Deane, a schoolteacher in her
middle thirties, who feels that she has
been missing a good deal in life. The
book is taken up with her love affair
with a youngish man who has committed
one murder, justifiably, perhaps, accord-
ing to the unhealthy standards of the
place, and who commits another to pro-
tect Mary’s “good name.” Mary is the
subject of the fierce jealousy of a pre-
cocious adolescent, Susan, and in addition
'is the troubled observer of the degenerate
'condition of life into which she is herself
drawn. She escapes from the place—and
the hand of the law —through the death
of her lover.
The book seems to balance uneasily
between the good artistic intention of
sympathetic illumination and the less
worthy intention of merely horrifying.
Everything about it, place, characters and
action, is convincing, but the light that
is thrown upon these things is doubtful.
The affair between Milly and Ben is
more than sensational in the ordinary
newspaper sense; it is a profoundly
tragic business. Perhaps the difficulty
arises from the writer adopting at times
a conventional and rather condemnatory
attitude to characters whose story could
only be lifted by the most gentle and
sympathetic treatment to the plane on
which he feels it. The story is softened
by brief, authentic and agreeable descrip-
tive passages.
Tennessee Preacher.
According to Cedric Belfrage, author
of Let My People Go (Gollancz ; Angus
and Robertson), the rustic pietists of
Tennessee take their doctrinal disputes
almost as seriously as their corn liquor.
Not only are there interdenominational
bickerings, but the total-immersionists fell
out over whether the baptised should be
pushed into the river forwards, back-
wards or sideways, and the argument be-
came so heated that the parties were
getting ready to settle it with shotguns.
Weary of “brothers” whose opinions
purported to be based on a knowledge
of Holy Writ from “kiver to kiver,” but
rested ultimately on accurate shooting,
young Preacher Williams drove to the
nearest town in search of other authority.
He ransacked the second-hand bookshops
and cornered the literature on the sub-
ject of baptism ; 27 volumes. He settled
down to some serious reading with a view
to being able to render really able sup-
port to his faction in the dispute. Like
many a man who has read in search
of evidence in support of a preconceived
notion he came out of his studies at a
place he hadn’t foreseen. The upshot was
that he decided to abandon discussion
of the more subtle points of doctrine to
carry the Word —in its broadest possible
intention —to the darkies of the neighbor-
hood.
The spectacle of a white man preaching
to negroes, joining in their social life,
shaking hands with them in the public
street, closed the ranks of the erstwhile
disputants and changed the direction of
their wrath. Williams was dubbed a
“nigger lover,” ostracised, subjected to
painful annoyances and finally flogged.
His position wasn’t improved when he
suggested that at the root of the poor
whites’ dislike of the negro was fear of
him as a competitor in the race for a
livelihood.
The novel deals with much the same
class of people as Steinbeck wrote of in
Grapes of Wrath, share-croppers. It is
rather unfortunate in coming so closely
on the heels of such a large-scale work,
but it covers ground of its own in that,
while the writer notes the migration of
dispossessed farmers to California, his
story deals with those who remain behind.
The early part, with its echoes of
metaphysical and scientific disputes still
rumbling in the hills of Tennessee, under-
lines the curiously unequal development
of American life. The later part comes
closer to matters of general and present
interest. The writer is probably at close
grips with something fundamental when
he says, almost in so many words, that no
people, or section of a people, can afford
to have in its midst a considerable
minority living in ,extreme poverty and
animal ignorance. Through Preacher
Williams he claims that the condition of
the poor white is a direct historical re-
sult of the condition of his competitor,
the poor black, and that until he takes
the negro into his plans to improve his
own condition his efforts will be without
avail. Preacher Williams is shown sailing
fair in the teeth of traditional opinion.
Because of its later part Let My People
Go is a book to be noted, but it is
hardly to be recommended for the aver-
age reader; the writer is interested in
ideas rather than persons, and a large
part of the ideas discussed seem a little
remote from the interests of, at least,
non-American readers. The style is free
and willing, and the writer shows amaz-
ing catholicity in the liberal quotations
from literature with which he heads his
chapters. People as oddly assorted as
John Brown, Thomas Aquinas and
Middleton Murry are lumped together.
SIXTH S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Entries for this year’s S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize will close tomorrow
(June 6). Entries will be acknow-
ledged in "The Bulletin" in two or
three weeks’ time. It is expected
that results will be announced about
the end of July or early in August.
Along the Trade Winds.
Once there was a schoolboy who
fought the headmaster’s son, then fell
into the habit of going to high tea at
the headmaster’s house, where he used
to swap riddles with the headmaster’s
daughter. When he grew older he went
to sea the hard way—as cook and crew
of tiny British coasters; as ordinary
seaman in Finnish grain ships—until in
half a dozen years he had a second-
mate’s ticket. Then somebody left him
a tidy little legacy, and when he couldn’t
quickly land a job as a journalist he
went home to marry the headmaster’s
daughter, bought himself a ship and
sailed with his wife around the world.
The young man was Adrian Seligman,
his ship was the Cap Pilar —her tall masts
were a centre of interest in Sydney
Harbor for a few weeks during 1937 —
and the story of that last wandering
journey along the trade-wind routes is
between covers as The Voyage of the
Cap Pilar (Hodder and Stoughton;
Angus and Robertson).
The Cap Pilar was by no means a lovely
ship. A three-masted fishing schooner,
118 ft. between the uprights, of 295 tons,
square-rigged on the foremast, fore-and-
aft on the others, she was cluttered up
with rust and dirt and grime and badly
in need of repair. There was need for
money all along the line. When at last
she left England there were the skipper’s
wife and 17 young men aboard. Most
of them had never been to sea; the
majority had contributed £lOO apiece
towards expenses. As they went they
learnt to become sailors. Their struggles
as they drove the ship to their first land-
fall at Porto Santo, in the Madeiras, con-
tain all the drama of the book.
Seligman has his shortcomings as a
travel writer, but as a book of travel the
chief shortcoming of The Voyage of the
Cap Pilar is not of itself Seligman’s.
It’s the subject matter. It’s no longer
sufficient to record that tropic isles have
beaches of golden sand ringed round
by reefs of coral; that there are so many
pigs, so many breadfruit-trees, or that
the native girls wear pareus and deck
themselves with flowers. All that and
more has been done. What come
brightest from Seligman’s pen are a few
anecdotes or bits of legend. The methods
of the Madeira bumboatmen, for ex-
ample :
There will often be a comparatively clean
note addressed to you personally, and pur-
porting to come from the captain of an-
other ship:
Dear Old Man, —Welcome once more
agreeably. I must tell you in due course
of my lovable colleague Juan Gomez,
who will devotedly conclude with you un-
speakable preferences in the matter of
soap, matches, silk pyjamas (for any gentle-
man’s Mrs.), jewellery, oranges, cigarettes,
brilliantine (most desirous), also all manner
of especials. Great news if you are always
in virile way of living since we made merry
commonly in the pasture.
Your humbly adoring accomplice,
Sir Jerome Lascelles.
(High Gentleman.)
It’s a pity there aren’t more such. They
are the only bits in the book which any
way approach in quality the excellent
photographs. The personal story, the
relations between men of vastly differing
types thrown together in a small space,
learning to know each other intimately
during the two years they journeyed,
must contain all that is of vital interest
in the voyage of the Cap Pilar. In
stories of “temperament,” complaints,
a general meeting to discuss grievances,
it is hinted at; but the full tale remains
untold.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" —the guide to commercial ethics. "THE SENIOR STORE
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
HALF
YEARLY
GENUINE
>£
V
m
V
i
vvbvbv
7/11 Khaki Work Shirts
For day after day wear, we re-
commend these Khaki Drill Work
Shirts. They are made with
double-sewn seams, collar at-
tached and pocket. Sizes range
from 14i to 19" neck. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Prices:
each 7/11 8/11
SALE PRICES, ea. 7/6 8/6
n
'PHONE M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT
t
i
EBJr
wi
i
Dressing Gowns
For Winter Comfort
You might just as well be comfortable for
the rest of the winter . . . and incidentally,
this Dressing Gown will last for several
winters. It is very warm and cosy, and
tailored in a mannish style, with silk cord
girdle to tone. A choice of Grey, Brown and
Fawn tonings. Sizes range from 36 to 42
inch chest. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price 24/6. Sale Price 16/6
9/6 ALL WOOL
UNDERWEAR
As the winter progresses and the ther-
mometer dips you'll be glad of this warm
underwear. It is in a serviceable winter
weight and made for seasons of dependable
wear. All wool, with a
soft, cosy finish. Under-
shirts have short sleeves
and Underpants are ankle
length. Sizes range from
34 to 42 inch chest or
waist. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price 9/6. Sale
Price, per garment 7/6
76
• Mercery, Ground Floor, George Street, Freight pair), to
all railway stations in N.S.W., and seaports in the
Co mmonwealth.
SHIRTS AND PYJAMAS
mm
y.
S|JU|S U!|doj 9/0 L
Business men will wel-
come this saving on these
excellent quality Shirts.
They are made of reliable
British Poplin with double
cuffs and two detached
collars. A range of neat
striped designs in Blue
and Grey tonings. Sizes
14 to 18" neck. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price,
10/6. SALE PRICE, 8/11.
/
WM
S' "I;
/
M
v' -s
to
w
cvbvbv
13/6 Suede Flannelette
Save 2/- on thesd
Pyjamas. They are
made for comfort from
a soft, suede finish
Flannelette in smart
striped effects. Collar
buttons to neck and the
sizes include Small,
Medium and Outsize.
Very special value at
this reduction. Anthony
Horderns' Regular
Price, 13/6. Sale: 11/6
Il'e
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


CLEAR PROFIT
“ Fair go, blokes. Give us a lean.”
By DON EDWARDS.
THE interior of the store was cool and dark against
the glare of the summer’s day that shone against
the doors and windows and sent shafts of
steady light across the boxes, shelves and show-
cases. Enid leant against the counter, with stocks of
clothing heaped about her. She moved them idly,
putting a hat on a pile that stood near her, a roll of
cloth on a shelf. Across the room she could see Lucy,
the hired girl, serving Mrs. Roberts with groceries.
Impatiently she pushed the goods aside and sat
down on the counter. There was a sound of foot-
steps outside, and hastily she sprang down to stand
expectantly. It was only Harry Ridley with a note
from his mother, wanting some groceries on credit
again. If she had her way she would give the Ridleys
what they wanted. For a moment she thought of tell-
ing Lucy to give Harry anything the note asked for,
but the knowledge of what her husband and father-
in-law would say made her remain quiet.
She couldn’t understand their attitude. Her hus-
band would say “It’s a matter of business, Enid. You
can’t run a business that way,” and the old man
would snort “We Days have built up this business
by hard work and we mean to keep it.” It wasn’t as
if they didn’t have plenty. They were rich. They
could retire tomorrow, if they liked, and leave Del-
ford and live in the city. But there was no chance
of that.
When she had first arrived and had heard a local
resident say “All Days are the same in Delford,
anyhow,” she had thought it just cheap humor. It
might have been true of Mr. Day, but it wasn’t true
of his son. Gordon was different. But now she was
discovering the truth. In the last couple of years he
had altered, become more like his father. If it were
not for the holiday that was so near she felt that she
would tell Gordon all the anger that was pent up
within her and try to shake him out of his compla-
cency. But the holiday would make things all right
again. After a couple of weeks in the city she would
be ready to come back to the village and the store. If
only she could persuade Gordon to have a holiday now
and then, she wouldn’t mind the place so much, for
she would have something to look forward to, some-
thing to break the monotony. Perhaps he would enjoy
the holiday so much he would be willing and ready
to take other holidays.
She knew what his father said, “Look at me.
Haven’t had a holiday for twenty years,” and she felt
like replying “You’re a good argument for me,” but
she said nothing, for even though she accused Gordon
of being scared of his father, afraid to stand up for
his rights, she was rather frightened of the old man
herself. And life was miserable enough here without
her having rows with Gordon’s people. She always
felt an outcast as it was r a foreigner who had been
taken into the household merely because Gordon had
married her, and because she was useful.
It wouldn’t be so bad if she had her own home.
Then Gordon might be hers, too. Those early days
when the house was new had been tolerable. She
should never have consented to selling the place and
living with the Days. But it wasn’t easy to stand
out against them all with them pestering her and talk-
ing about the good offer she was turning down, the
clear profit she was throwing away. It was no good
worrying herself about these things now, with the
holiday so close. She walked through the shop to
the front door.
CTTANDING in the doorway she looked out at the
township, and her mood of depression returned
as she saw the ugliness of the place. The main street
stretched out, dusty and hot, from the scarred gully
that was called “the Creek” to near the hill where it
dived into a clump of gums as if pleased to be free
of the village. The cottages, drab and untidy as the
people, straggled along the road, here clustering like
groups of gossipers, there spreading apart like folk who
had just quarrelled. A few people moved about, and
now and then a car passed.
Nearly opposite was the large house that Gordon
had built for her. It was the best house in the town,
and she remembered how proud she had been of it
and how she had planned the furnishing. Gordon
had said to her, “I’ll build you the finest home in the
district if you marry me, Enid,” and he had meant
what he said. She had been optimistic of the future,
confident of happiness.
When she had first come from the city to work
in Delford she had enjoyed the quiet and peace of
the place. The open spaces, the hot sun, the sense of
freedom, had been a pleasing contrast to her life in
the city. She had been eager to accept the new life,
and willing to make a success of things, yet she had
been defeated. Now, everything seemed different; the
store, the village, the people, her husband. The only
one who had remained the same was her father-in-law,
and as she thought of him her mind repeated those
words “All Days are the same in Delford,” and she
looked across at her house, which bore a large sign
telling people that it was a “First-class Boarding
House.”
A woman passed and spoke to her, saying “It’s
very hot, Mrs. Day,” She nodded, thinking to herself
“Of course it’s hot. It’s always hot here, hot and
dusty and lonely.” But then she thought that to-
morrow she and Gordon would be off for the seaside,
and away from the village and old Day and his store.
She felt someone pulling at her arm, and turned
to see Lucy. The girl whispered to her “He’s been
watching you, Mrs. Day, for quite a time.” She swung
round quickly and saw her father-in-law standing in
the gloom at the back of the shop, looking at her. At
first she felt guilty, then angry as she realised that in
Lucy’s eyes she was no better than a hired girl. And
that was how all the people regarded her, and how
the Days regarded her, and unless she was careful
Gordon would think of her only in that way. The
old man just stood there, his whole attitude expressing
disapproval because he thought she was wasting time.
He wouldn’t say anything to her; it wasn’t neces-
sary. She wished he would say something so
that she could have it out with him. She walked
down the store towards him, challenging him
to say something, but he turned and left the
building.
AS the afternoon drew on towards the time
when Gordon was due back she became
more restless, pacing up and down the shop
in her excitement, serving the few customers
in an absentminded way. She had finished
packing the suitcases before breakfast and now
she had nothing to do but wait for Gordon.
He would rush in late as usual and make a
great bustle and show of the few jobs he had
still to do, and say he didn’t know how the
shop would get on while they were away.
“Nonsense,” she would say, “your father and
sisters can run the place easily ; besides, Lucy
knows more about the business than any of
us.” It always annoyed him to think that any-
one else could manage the store.
She went into the office at the back of the
store and sat down for a few minutes. Flies
buzzed about her, and whenever a car passed
the red dust from the street floated in the
window. The heat must have made her doze,
for the next thing she knew Lucy was saying
“Your husband is back, Mrs. Day. He is out-
side talking to his father.”
She hurried to the door and saw Gordon
and the old man standing on the footpath, talk-
ing earnestly. Presently her husband came
towards her. “You are earlier than I expected,
Gordon,” she said. “We could leave here before dark
and have tea on the way down.”
He didn’t answer, so she went on speaking
quickly, as if to kill by her eagerness and enthusiasm
any protests he might be about to make. “We could
have a meal at that little hotel overlooking the sea.
You know, the place where we stayed when we
were returning from our honeymoon.”
His voice broke in on her abruptly, “We can’t go
just yet, Enid. Some important business has cropped
up at Hillside.”
She did not give him time to explain. He was
captured by the place like all the others, like
his father, who dominated him. She would be the
same if she lived here much longer, narrow, un-
imaginative, complacent, ignorant. She turned away
and walked towards the house. Gordon made no
attempt to follow her.
Inside the house she went to her room and shut
the door. The sight of her suitcases, ready packed
on the bed, drove away her desire to cry and increased
her feeling of revolt. She looked at the clock on the
dressing-table. The service car would be through in
about twenty minutes. Quickly she scribbled a note
to Gordon, then picked up her cases and walked out
stealthily on to the verandah.
SHE caught the car at the hotel. The only other
passenger was a farmer, so she sat alone in the
back seat. At first she felt only anger at her husband,
and hatred of the village and the shop, but as night
closed in the purr of the car and the invigorating
coolness of the highland air soothed her till she was
surprised and rather afraid at what she had done.
Still it might bring Gordon to his senses and show
him and his family that she*wasn’t to be treated as a
hired girl, a servant. She wondered whether he had
seen her letter yet and what he would do after he
had read it.
At the station, before she had time to leave the
car, the station-master came out and spoke to her.
“You must be Mrs. Day,” he said. “Mr. Day ’phoned
me and asked me to tell you not to catch the train,
but to wait for him at the Royal Hotel. He is on his
way here now.”
She returned to the hotel in the service car, and
on the way she heard the train leave. She wondered
whether Gordon would want to stay the night at the
hotel or whether he would go straight on to the city.
It was a beautiful night, clear and cool, and it would
be delightful to drive down the pass and then along
the edge of the ocean towards the city. She hoped
Gordon wouldn’t be angry with her. Now she felt a
little ashamed of herself. No doubt she had done
Gordon an injustice. Things weren’t as bad as she
had imagined them to be back in the village. Already
she was seeing things differently.
At the hotel she must have slept, for she was
startled by a knocking at the door. Eagerly, she ran
to the door and opened it, to see old Mr. Day stand-
ing outside. Her sudden feeling of confused dis-
appointment turned to quick anger at the sight of the
old man with his bent and almost cringing attitude. At
once she seemed to be back in the shop, hating the
village, and old Day, and even her husband. Surely
Gordon could have left his father at home this time.
“Where is he?” she asked. “Where is Gordon?”
The old man put his hand on her arm so that
despite herself she moved away slightly.
“Gordon had to go over to Hillside on that busi-
ness,” he said. “He will be away for a few days, so
after he read your note he asked me to ’phone you and
then come and get you.” He looked at her for a few
seconds, then he added with a smile that was intended
to be placatory, “We can’t get along in the store
without you, Enid, while Gordon is away. And this
business will mean about £2O clear profit to him,”


UNLEASHING
THE LEASE
By “HAMER.”
I HAVE some pity for landlords, especially my own.
They are mostly people with a bad habit of calling
on Monday morning for the rent, as if they ex-
pected to get it. Hope is a wonderful thing.
The landlords who deserve most pity are those
who possess the very little property which, apparently,
they regard, like knowledge, as a dangerous thing ;
say, one bungalow besides the humpy in which they
live. When it is empty they worry about the rates
and taxes ; when it is occupied they are afraid that
the tenants will knock it down with a tack-hammer;
and when the tenants move they rush round franti-
cally to make sure that the removalists haven’t taken
the house with the furniture.
Once I had an office next to a house and estate
agent who had one ewe-lamb house of his own. He
advertised that it was to let, and that he wanted a
‘‘selected tenant.” I didn’t know this until I arrived
in the morning and found the stairs and the land-
ings crowded with people. Some of them had brought
breakfast in order to be in time; and others, who
felt that they would have to admit to the crime of
having children, had put them into white collars and
their best clothes to show how well-behaved they
were.
The crowd rushed me when I approached, one
man, who pointed a chop-bone at my bosom as if it
were a revolver, hastening to inform me that he had
been there at 5.30 and was the first to arrive. Later,
when the real landlord came, I heard sounds of great
anger outside my door. The applicants for the house
went in one by one and passed out breathing anger.
One of them came into my office to let me know
what he thought of my neighbor, while others stood
in the doorway listening and approved.
It appeared that the house-owner was particularly
careful about the “selected tenant.” He took names
and addresses and the names and addresses of pre-
vious landlords ; and he inspected rent receipts. But
not even the bribe of a. month’s rent in advance would
tempt him to let the place until he had communicated
with the previous landlords and ascertained all about
the morals and dispositions of the would-be tenant.
One woman snorted “Wonder he didn’t ask to see
me marriage-lines!”
He got his tenant, of course. Also, a few weeks
later, he got a bailiff. I noticed the shabby, beery-
looking individual coming in every morning; and
one day, when my neighbor’s door was locked, he
confided to me that he was trying, without success,
to effect an entry into the recently-let property. Care-
ful selection, apparently, is not always as successful
as it should be. Even if that landlord had appointed
a committee of experts to do the selecting they could
hardly have done worse.
QNCE I had a landlord who lived next door to his
one letting property. That was Pogwoggle. He
told me in an impressive way that an M.P. lived
across the street next to Blinks, the big softgoods
merchant, and that Alderman Smith resided on the
other side of the cottage ; and he charged all these
circumstances in the rent. He seemed grieved to learn
that I had several children, but he overlooked it; and
he asked me if I was prepared to sign a lease for
twelve months. The light fashion in which I assented
appeared to grieve him, and he insisted upon reading
the document to me before I signed it. Then he
carried his copy to the safe, like a man depositing
the Holy Grail for safe keeping, and seemed upset at
the offhand manner in which I folded mine and put
it in my hip pocket.
When the furniture arrived Pogwoggle was on the
spot, advising the vanmen how to get it in without
scratching the doors. His troubles did not cease when
the vanmen had gone, because by that time I had
started putting up the blinds. It’s a job I soon tire of,
and when I was weary of turning screws I put the fix-
tures up with nails for a change. I had not been engaged
at the hammering for long, however, before Pogwoggle
came running in with a gimlet and screwdriver. He
seemed to doubt my word when I said I had some,
and insisted on leaving his. Later, when the hammer-
ing continued, he called in twice to ask nervously if
he could be of any assistance. Even after that I could
see him, with the light at the back of him, peering
anxiously through the slats of his blinds. I had
finished the curtain-fixing ; but now and again, in a
spare moment, I knocked the hammer against the
window-frame just to see the effect on Pogwoggle.
When I came home next night my wife said she
was sure the place would not suit us. I reminded her
that a week before she had been sure that it would ;
and, anyway, I had signed a lease, but she said that
previously she had not known that the landlord was
one of the fixtures. It appeared that Pogwoggle had
called in shortly after I had left to remark that young
Hamer was using the pieces of asphalt, where it was
broken, as coal for his toy trains ; and since then
Pogwoggle had been in half a dozen times, ostensibly
to see what needed to be done to the copper, but
really because he heard hammering in the kitchen,
“One of these wings is flapping a bit , sir. Is that O.K.?”
or because he heard nothing and wanted to see what
all the silence was about.
Later he called to see me and made, in an
apologetic way, seven complaints about (1) the
children, (2) the dog, (3) the servant-girl, and (4 to
7) generally. He mentioned casually that he had the
lease with him. It was my first intimation that that
lease was going to be a nuisance.
A S days went on my wife became more convinced
** that the place would not suit us. She declared
that, lease or no lease, she was not going to live next
door to a Jack-in-the-box whose face appeared over
the fence every time there was the slightest noise. He
had, of course, offered to read the lease to her; but
she had choked him off the habit of coming in so fre-
quently by asking him one morning if he had better
not stay to lunch: it would save him the trouble of
coming back afterwards.
On Sunday I prepared to lay out my vegetable
garden. I have seldom eaten any vegetables grown
by myself, but that is because I move. I have no
doubt other people have eaten them ; and I like a
kitchen garden. As I prepared the first bed the face
looked over the fence and said it was Sunday.
“I know,” I said shortly.
“What are you going to do?” asked Pogwoggle.
“Lay out a vegetable garden,” I answered.
“You can’t do it!” he protested.
“I can,” I retorted ; “I’ve done it often.”
“But your lease says you can’t. You are not to
remove any of the shrubs or plants in the garden.”
“I’m not going to remove them,” I said ; “just put
them in another place—in a heap at the end of the
garden.”
He groaned and disappeared, but shortly was
back again with his lease, and insisted on reading
it over to me. He seemed ridiculously like a parson
reading the lesson for the day. I went on digging
and said “Amen” at the end of the reading.
“So you see you can’t change the garden with-
out my consent,” he said.
“So you see I can,” I retorted, still digging.
“The lease says you can’t.”
“If I can’t do what I like with my own garden I’ll
get another house,” I said.
“You can’t. The lease is for twelve months,” he
answered.
“Then if you object to my doing what I like
here,” I said, “cancel the lease.”
“No,” he answered. “I don’t want to do anything
unpleasant, but if you spoil the garden I will sue you
on the terms of the lease. Listen!” He began to
read it again. I went inside and left him to it.
That evening I agreed with my wife that the
house would not suit us, and I went to see Pogwoggle
after tea, and said so. He said he did not like to
talk business on Sunday, .but if I liked to leave the
next week’s rent, as I was there, I could do so, and
he would let me have the receipt tomorrow. It
seemed a fine point in religious observance. Theie
is, of course, no labor in receiving money, but there
is. in signing a receipt. He wanted to read me the
lease again ; that, of course, was strictly religious.
“Very well then,” I said. I meant it to be
ominous.
NT EXT week I laid in a stock of sapling stakes and
wire-netting and let them rest ostentatiously on the
lawn. My landlord, according to my wife, used to
pause and look at them about twenty times a day.
At last he asked me what they were for.
Oh,’ I said, “the wire-netting is for the windows
and the stakes are for the snakes to climb on. I’m
going to rig them up in one of the front rooms—the
sitting-room. It’s nice and sunny, and will do splen-
didly.”
“Snakes!” he cried. “Surely not?”
“Oh, yes. And I’m going to fix up the other front
room as a sort of aviary.”
“But you can’t!” he gasped.
“There’s nothing in the lease against that,” I said.
“I’m not going to move any fixtures ; the old chan-
deliers will make splendid perches; so will the
picture-rods. And those saplings will just fit in between
the floor and the ceiling, and will come down easily
afterwards.”
“But you’ll spoil the rooms. Snakes and birds!”
“Oh, they make a bit of a mess of a place cer-
tainly,” I admitted, “but most of it can be cleaned up
afterwards. I’ve got some of the snakes inside in
boxes. Will you come in and see them?”
He didn’t call my bluff. He didn’t want to see
my snakes; and, after arguing tearfully with me, and
asking if I couldn’t do with just the vegetable garden,
if he agreed to that, he went away in a despairing
manner. Later I saw him reading the lease as he
paced his garden. I knew he wanted to read it to
me, not because it prohibited snake-keeping—he had
not thought of that when the document was drafted —
but on general principles.
The next morning as I was leaving I called
back to my wife: “Look, Ethel, keep those children
from pencilling on the walls today if you can. The
walls are disgraceful.”
I saw a head jerk in a startled fashion on the
other side of the fence.
“You can’t expect me, with only one girl, to be
watching the children all day,” returned Ethel, play-
ing up to me with spirit. “I smacked young Hamer for
chopping the mantelpiece with the chisel; but you
shouldn’t leave such things about.”
“Well, anyway,” I said, “get me some paste ready
for tonight. I’ll fix up that wallpaper where the
children have torn it. And take the paintbox away
from them.” I’m certain I heard groans.
“I’m going to fix up the room for the snakes to-
night,” I called back as I bolted to miss my train.
When I got home my wife showed me a notice
to quit. She said old Pogwoggle had come in want-
ing to inspect the house, but she had refused to allow
him in. The refusal must have confirmed his worst
suspicions, stirred him to action.
I went in and saw him, telling him sternly that
my lease was. for twelve months. I offered to read
the lease to him. I said that by giving notice to quit
he had forfeited all claim to rent; but finally I con-
sented magnanimously to the cancellation of the lease.
HAVING seemingly resigned himself to the hope-
less damage of the property, my landlord did not
trouble me again ; but upon the day” we moved he
hovered round, endeavoring to get an opportunity to
inspect the house before we left and assess the damage.
The manner in which I forbade him to enter excited
his worst fears, and he was nearly frantic by the
time the last van was loaded and the girl had put
aboard the broom and bucket she had just been using.
He seized the keys with trembling eagerness, and
rushed into the house.
“You wait until I have seen what harm has
been done,” he called out in a sort of frenzy.
I didn’t; but as I walked away I turned back
and saw him looking with dazed sadness after me.
The house had been swept-and garnished through-
out : its walls bore not a mark or stain. In fact, I
had been a good tenant —and it was he who had
cancelled the lease. I think it broke his heart.
But he recovered sufficiently in a few days to
write me a letter saying that a stopper from the
kitchen sink was missing, and unless it was replaced
he would place the matter in the hands of his solicitor.
If I doubted my responsibility, he added, I might call
in to see him and he would read over the lease
with me.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Fed Utim ofWie meuotmeJdandleniqjiiet
HERALDS’ COLLEGE.
Heraldry, termed the “shorthand of history,” as a word carries today a meaning somewhat different from that it conveyed at earlier periods.
As ordinarily used, it includes all matters relating to arms and crests or appertaining to an “armorial achievement.” The date of the
resolution of heraldry into a science is unknown. Emblems or figures appeared on the shields of the Normans, as may be seen in
illustrations of the famous Bayeux tapestry. The college illustrated was built to replace that destroyed in the great fire of London in
1666. The College of Arms or Heralds’ College was incorporated and endowed by Richard 111, 1483, to determine descents, pedigrees
and escutcheons. It has latterly been facetiously termed the “grand manufactory of family pedigrees, with coats of arms to match.”
The College consists of three Kings of Arms (Garter, Clarenceaux, and Norroy), six heralds (Chester, Lancaster, Windsor, York, Richmond
and Somerset), and four pursuivants (Rouge Croix, Blue Mantle, Rouge Dragon and Portcullis). The appointments are in the gift of
the Duke of Norfolk, hereditary Earl Marshal of England. The College is worth visiting. In the Offices of the “Kings-at-Arms” may
be seen many most curious things, such as the pedigree of the Saxon Kings from Adam, and numerous highly valuable manuscripts.
Readers of the life and works of Chatterton, “that wondrous boy who perished in his pride,” will recall the use he applied to the
science of heraldry in creating the pedigree of Henry Burgun, the Bristol pewterer, the principal objects of whose ambition were to be
thought of good family and high mental culture.


THE MESSAGE OF FAITH.
“Never dream, though Right be worsted, Wrong will triumph.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne. .
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inler-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. Us.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
"BEATEN, TO FIGHT BETTER."
On May 10 the British army in Flanders advanced to
meet the invader over well-remembered country. Sing-
ing their cheerfully idiotic “We’ll Hang Out Our Wash-
ing on the Siegfried Line,” and waving to the cheering
townspeople and villagers, French and Belgians, the
Tommies reached their appointed positions, though
already the German bombers were getting in their
deadly work. All last week the democratic world
watched, with mingled hopes and fears, the efforts of
the B.E.F. and of the wrecks of the French armies
alongside it, all fearfully punished but still game, to
extricate themselves from an impossible military posi-
tion and reach the Channel coast, off which destroyers,
trawlers, motor-boats, lifeboats —the oddest and the
stoutest mosquito fleet on record—were waiting to
carry the survivors to England. It is a tragic but
glorious story.
Arrived on the Louvain-Wavre line, the Tom-
mies held it stoutly, beating off attacks on Louvain
until the French on the right and the Belgians on the
left gave way. Then the British had to withdraw to
the line of the Scheldt. The French had no doubt
been shaken by reports of the breach made at Sedan
and of the swift German thrust towards the coast
along the ever-widening corridor which that success
had opened. With the change of leadership, the
divisions that had not been broken fought with the
sombre tenacity exhibited at Verdun ; but meanwhile
the British had to contend with German attacks from
the corridor which threatened Arras. A successful
counter-attack was made, but events compelled another
retirement to cover Dunkirk. Boulogne had been lost,
the enemy was in, though not in full possession of,
Calais, and it was impossible for the British and what
was left of three French armies to cut their way
through to the Somme, nor could the French on the
Somme cut their way through to them.
The crowning misfortune came on the night of
May 27, when 400,000 Belgians surrendered at the
instance of their king. After the shock of their initial
defeat, the Belgians had fought well, and when King
JLeopold lost his courage they were holding a line on
the left of the British, from Menin to Ghent. Their
surrender left the British and the French with the
dreadful alternative of surrender to an enemy who by
now almost completely surrounded them and a slow
retreat to Dunkirk and the beaches m the immediate
neighborhood, with small hope of succeeding and
with the certainty of cruel losses. They chose the
heroic part. Stormed at by land and air, hungry and
half dead, they began their stubborn retreat. In adver-
sity they were magnificent, and magnificent also was
the work of the men of the Royal Navy, a French
squadron, the mosquito fleet and the R.A.F., who,
careless of their own sufferings, engaged in the most
difficult and perilous salvage operation in all military
history and carried it to a splendid conclusion.
Criticism of the king who betrayed his Allies
has been tempered by the reflection that he is a son
of Albert of imperishable memory, and that in accept-
ing invasion rather than follow the ignoble Danish
example he was not unworthy of his father. Whether
the sight of the punishment his army was taking, the
merciless massacres of refugees and the fearful
destruction of homes and towns demoralised him
altogether or whether in his extremity he was tempted
by a German offer to place him on the throne of a
new Dutch-Flemish kingdom composed of parts of
Holland and Belgium that the Nazis would not
require themselves is not at the moment clear. It is
recalled that he threw the mantle of his protection over
some of the Flemish traitors who took service under
the Germans in 1914-18 and assisted them in their
efforts to separate the Flemings from the Walloons.
To the indignation of all the Walloons and most of the
Flemings, he gave one particular traitor a high Gov-
ernment appointment. Whatever his motives, he acted
in spite of his Constitution and his Government, which
has since issued a decree deposing him and ordering
Belgians within the French and British lines to con-
tinue the struggle. Many did, and there were Belgian
troops among the undaunted legions who were borne
across the Channel.
The most damnable feature of Leopold’s defection
was that he left his Allies in the lurch—those Allies
to whom he had appealed to come to his assistance,
and whom he had handicapped in the first place by
vetoing military staff talks. He did not even notify
them of his intention to quit. Forewarned, they might
have patched up some sort of left flank. As it was,
they were straightway placed in a situation of the
greatest peril, and the enemy who had shed Belgian
blood like water and devastated the unhappy country
as only an Attila or a Tilly could have done boasted
that they had been delivered into his hands. Coward
or traitor, or both, Leopold by his capitulation con-
demned thousands of French and British soldiers,
whose comrades had already fallen in the cause of
Belgium, and who had themselves endured horrors
unspeakable, to a dreadful death as surely as if he had
ordered his army to turn its own guns on them. He
will share the execration of the civilised world with
those men of blood his new friends.
With the Low Countries conquered, the Channel
coast and a great sweep of Northern France gone and
Italy adding an import embargo and cancellation of
the contraband-control negotiations to threats, the
situation looks almost as bad as it can be. Yet it has
certain reassuring features. The enemy has obviously
suffered tremendous losses, and at the end of last week
his army and air force were showing manifest signs of
exhaustion. The French, instead of making a separate
peace—there have obviously been offers —are sum-
moning up the spirit which distinguished them in
1914, 1916 and 1918, and the offensive, when renewed,
will lack the element of surprise, which was of such
vast assistance to the invaders in the first few days.
If France cracked or gave the appearance of cracking,
Italy would be in the war like a shot. So long as
France remains steadfast, Mussolini will hesitate to
make an all-in war of it, even if he decides to come
in. Italians have always had the utmost respect for
the valor of the French soldier and the might of the
British Navy.
The news from Italy, though unfavorable on the
whole, is not altogether bad. For instance, Signor
Attolico, to whose work for peace when Ambassador
at Berlin in 1938-39 Sir Nevile Henderson bears
eloquent testimony in his book, has been appointed to
Vatican City, whose influence for peace no Catholic
Italian can ignore. And on the other side of the
world there have been great anti-German demonstra-
tions in Argentina, where even in 1914 there were a
million Italians who powerfully supported the war
against Germany, and where a large proportion of the
native-born population is of Italian extraction.
As for the German “invasion” of Britain, the
Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force will take care
of that. Men who can do what the men of the Royal
Navy and the Royal Air Force have done these last
nine months in strange seas and skies will never be
overcome in their own waters and over their own
land. Damage, barbarous and ruthless, will be in-
flicted no doubt. Parties of guerrillas may drop from
’planes or even sneak across the Channel under cover
of darkness ; but what use will they be without a great
mechanised army to back them up. And how can
such an army effect a passage? All this talk of
invasion by motor-boats and rubber boats—flat boats
have not been mentioned, though a few relics of
Napoleon’s “invasion” must have been among the
booty of Boulogne—is sheer nohsense. Any such
invasion would be a massacre ; the undefeated and
undefeatable Navy would see to that. Nor, though
grave difficulties have arisen, and the hour of danger
has struck for the civilian population, will the spirit
of the nation ever flag. It is now thoroughly aroused
and it is invincible.
We Must Have National Unity.
“After the Thirty Years War Germany consisted of
about 350 completely independent States At the
end of the eighteenth century there were still about
170 of these States.... Twenty-six States, most of
them with their own ruler, Government and Legisla-
tive Assembly, comprised the Germany of 1914.” Thus
Sir Nevile Henderson, the last British Ambassador at
Berlin, in his Failure of a Mission.
The Great War was fatal to the Austrian empire,
which, Sir Nevile points out, was “built up at the
expense of German unity” ; and the winners forbade
the Austrian and Sudeten Germans to unite with the
Germans of the Hohenzollern empire, which, of
course, also fell. From its ruins there emerged a
Federal Republic with 17 Parliaments, each with a
flock of parties. Actually there was no German citi-
zenship ; every German was a citizen of Prussia,
Bavaria, Saxony, Wiirtemburg, Hamburg, Bremen or
some other particular State. By various measures
Hitler and his Nazis, in their own jargon, “established
uniformity in the political organisations”— i.e., reduced
them to one —blotted out the Weimar Constitution and
set up a unitary State. The process was completed in a
Reichstag Act passed on January 31, 1934, in which
it was set forth that “the Parliaments of the individual
States are abolished” and that “the sovereign rights of
the States are transferred to the Reich.”
There followed the return of the Saar—a perfectly
legal proceeding provided for in the Treaty of Ver-
sailles —the acquisition of Austria by the suppression
of that republic and the annexation of Sudetenland.
To these highhanded coups Sir Nevile Henderson
refers in his book as “inevitable consequences of the
war and the peace which ended it.” He allows that,
while self-determination was conceded to Yugoslavs,
Poles, Rumanians, Italians, Belgians and Danes, it was
“difficult to justify the refusal of the right to the
2,750,000 Sudetens living in solid blocks just across
Germany’s border ; its flat denial would have been
contrary to a principle on which the British Empire
itself was founded.” In fact, “in the course of a few
months, and without bloodshed, Hitler completed the
work begun by Frederick the Great and Bismarck
the union of Greater Germany through the incor-
poration in the Reich of Austria (the Ostmark) and
the Sudetenland.” He was aided greatly by the alliance
with Italy, which “removed the most dangerous
obstacle to Nazi intrigues in Austria, and the actual
stumbling block which had caused them to fail at the
time of the Dollfuss murder in 1934”:
In 1937 Goring asked me whom, taking the long
view, I regarded as the principal beneficiary of the
World War. I replied: “Italy, who has finally secured
her natural and strategical frontiers, and the Slav
States.” Goring’s reply was, “No —Germany; since
without such a war and without such a defeat German
unity would have been impossible.”
Sir Nevile agrees that “the ultimate benefits of the
alliance were of far greater value to Germany than
to Italy.”
As was the case with the young Napoleon—who
also drew strength from the restoration of national
unity and order where chaos had reigned—some of
Hitler’s works were constructive. In January, 1933,
when the Weimar Republic was on its deathbed, there
were over 6,000,000 unemployed in Germany ; 94 per
1000. When unification had been accomplished work
was found for all except unemployables, and not
merely in the building up of the war machine, though
that was the Government’s main purpose. Legitimate
industry and agriculture benefited; housing plans
reduced the number of unemployed bricklayers alone
from 162,000 to 8000 in three years ; another 400,000
men were taken on to provide materials for and con-
struct motor roads, and in four years motor-car and
-cycle licenses increased by 243,000.
This solving of the unemployment problem, how-
ever brought about, strengthened Hitler’s hold on the
German workers as nothing else could have done.
But the immense strength of the new Germany, which
has been shown in frightful forms in countries which
never harmed and never could harm Germany, derives
mainly from the accomplishment of German unity.
It would not have been possible under the Weimar
Republic or under any Federal republic in which the
parts were greater than the whole or so great as to
deprive the central Government of necessary powers.
That unity was achieved by bad men who will have an
immortality of infamy should not cloud our recogni-
tion of the central fact.
But Britain, unified for over 300 years, also has
immense reserves of strength. It is not because the
British system has failed, but because British politicians
departed from the sound traditions of their Empire-
makers and followed the will-o’-the-wisp of collective
security (“the Covenant of the League is the corner-
stone of British foreign policy”), that Britain suddenly
found itself in dire peril. Now we see it trying to
make up for years of unpreparedness by resorting to
measures which could have been adopted at any time
and which, adopted in part at the right time, might
have prevented the war. As it is, Britain will once
more save itself by its exertions, if it fails to save
others by its example, and its exertions will not be
stained by inhuman cruelties.
In any case Britain presents a picture of heroic
resolution and readiness. compared with the English-
speaking republic beyond the Atlantic which has three
times its population. After seven years the U.S.A. has
quite failed to solve its unemployment and agricul-
tural problems, though in the process of tackling
them it nearly doubled the national debt. And in the
course of the seven years its New Dealers averted
their gaze from Europe and Asia, where crowded
nations with great populations and ambitions were
arming to the teeth. Absorbed in home affairs, they
neglected the republic’s defences to such an extent
that its influence on the course of events in Europe
and Asia, so immense in 1919 and for years after-
wards, fell away to nothing and its Government’s
pacific representations and wordy warnings were
laughed at. Becoming aware at last that it was itself
in danger, the republic was thus addressed by General
Pershing, the leader of its armies in 1917:
We are practically in the same condition of un-
preparedness as in 1917. I sailed for Europe in that
year with no material available other than the will to
do and a hasty plan as a basis for doing it. During
more than a year of preparation the Allies protected
us. Today the situation is different. This country must
within itself be prepared for whatever instant action
is required for its security. We must not delay longer.
The very life of this republic depends on the energy
and determination with which our people undertake
the placing of the United States in a state of thorough
preparation, both with men and equipment.
fhe U.S.A. has 49 Constitutions and Legislatures and
Governments, all levying taxes. Australia has seven
Constitutions and Legislatures and Governments, all
levying taxes. In Australia, during nine months of
actual war we have seen the same lack of preparation
for war, the same dilatoriness, the same incapacity
to face facts and secure swift action from the crowd
of Governments, members and departments. In pre-
vious years, because getting and spending were deter-
mined at Premiers’ conferences and Loan Council
meetings, defence was subordinated to vote-catching
works,” scenic roads and political railways were
constructed in preference to warships, ’planes and
aerodromes, and in 1938, when the Government
statistician made his last count, while only 10,589
officers and men were permanently employed in the
military, air and naval forces, there were 280,000
State Government employees.
Surely the system is fundamentally at fault in
both cases ; that and the “It can never happen here”
spirit which long-continued immunity from invasion
has bred.
In this country, relatively to the population and
the emergency, we had more energetic war efforts in
1899-02, when there were six colonies each supreme
within its borders, and in 1914-18, when the system so
much of which was borrowed from the U.S.A. was too
new to have paralysed energy. We have now a breed
of politicians who have grown up under that system,
and who, with few exceptions, are incapable of per-
ceiving that war finds it wanting, as the depression
did ; and last week we saw the representatives of the
provincial Governments, arrived at Canberra for one of
their action-stifling conferences, demanding out of the


loans which the central Government will have to raise
for the war £33,000,000 for their precious “works and
deficits” —£10,000,000 more than in 1938-39. They
rounded off their work by choosing a former member
of their band, whose political career closed explosively
nine years ago, as “Co-ordinator of Works,” Com-
monwealth as well as State. The Prime Minister, for
his part, has undertaken to arrange “regular monthly
conferences” with the State Premiers, which means
that they will be hanging round Canberra and inci-
dentally running up huge bills for expenses. John
Bull would send an alienist to No. 10 Downing-street
if Mr. Churchill or any successor agreed to let chair-
men of county councils camp on his doorstep and
meddle in the direction of the war effort.
We need not go to the enemy for instruction. We
could never adopt his detestable dictatorship and
satrapies, just as we could never practise his terrible
cruelties, for which the dictator and his satraps can
never be forgiven this side of the grave. Sufficient if
we Follow Britain in the one way which the “Follow
Britain” school of politicians never mention.
We must have national unity, the national unity
which Britain, Maoriland and South Africa possess:
unity under one Parliament and one Administration.
As a measure warranted by the grave emergency and
authorisable under the National Security Act the Gov-
ernment charged with the prosecution of the war
should suspend State Parliaments for the duration and
place such State departments as can be used for war
purposes under national control. Involuntary suspen-
sion would be no great departure from the voluntary
practice of State Parliaments ; they have already sus-
pended themselves, and, if unhindered, will continue to
suspend themselves, for long periods of the war.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
As in 1915.
It can no longer be said that Australians are not
taking the war seriously. Public meetings, purchases
of war savings certificates and subscriptions to the
war loan have shown that vast numbers of people
of both sexes and all classes realise that a state of
emergency exists, and that those who cannot them-
selves serve in the fighting forces or the armaments
factories are ready to work in other ways and to
give all they can. And in all the States and territories
young men are swarming into the services.
In five months of 1914 52,561 men were enrolled
in the old A.I.F. July, 1915, brought 36,575 enlist-
ments, 21,698 coming from Victoria. In August,
1915, 25,714 men were accepted for service; in
January, 1916, 22,101 ; in February, 1916, 18,508. The
July and August figures were inspired by accounts
of the fighting in Gallipoli; the January and Febru-
ary figures by the realisation that the campaign had
been a glorious failure and had left serious gaps which
must be filled. The same influences are at work again,
and the same scenes are being witnessed.
There has never been anything wrong with the
spirit of Australian manhood. Alike in peace and
war, danger brings out its finest qualities. When its
imagination is touched, it is capable of supreme daring
and endurance and self-sacrifice. After reading what
the British army has suffered in Flanders, none of
the new recruits can have any illusions as to what
may be in store for him. The new recruits and their
comrades in Palestine and their brothers in the
R.A.A.F. will go forth to battle ready for anything
and afraid of nobody.
Cars or 'Planes?
Anyone reading May issues of “Hansard” might war-
rantably suppose that the war is a minor matter to the
majority of members. A £68,000,000 loan bill was
whisked through the House in 12 minutes, and other
war measures have been disposed of almost as rapidly.
On the other hand, an Electoral Bill which the
Senate considered for 9\ hours last session was de-
bated in the Representatives (May 14-21) for 14 hours,
though the main proposal, as someone said, was that
“the vertical form of the ballot paper hitherto in use
at Senate elections shall be replaced by a ballot paper
in the horizontal form.” And on the day which
brought the news that the Straits of Dover, the Thames
estuary and the ports of London and Hull might have
to be put out of action, the bill providing for the
bounty-fed manufacture of cars that nobody will
want for a long time was passed at an “all-nighter.”
The bounty arrangement was approved of by the
Senate in three-quarters of an hour, and Senators took
little longer last week to complete their part of the job.
The gentlemen who negotiated the car-manu-
facture agreement were Mr. Lawson, M.H.R., then
Minister of Customs, for the Government, and Mr.
W. J. Smith for A.C.1., formerly Australian Glass.
When the negotiations closed Mr. Lawson leased one
of Mr. Smith’s racehorses, which promptly won a race
at Randwick. Mr. Lawson gave an account of this
unusual transaction before resigning from the
Ministry; Mr. Smith’s remarks were confined to a
few explosive sentences which signified nothing. The
Prime Minister took the responsibility of recommend-
ing the Lawson-Smith arrangement to Parliament,
though he intimated that he was agreeable to the
A.C.I. monopoly being struck out. Struck out it
was, after confused proceedings in the course of
which the C.P. Ministers voted against the Govern-
ment and the Labor members voted against Mr. Curtin.
Mr. Cameron and his Country party fought the
proposal at every stage ; and they were right. In ordi-
nary times Australian manufacture of motor vehicles
would be welcomed by most Australians. In the
present crisis car manufacture can be encouraged
only at the expense of aircraft production, the urgent
need for which ought to be evident even to the gentle-
men at Canberra who give so much time to small beer.
"We Have Reached Grave Sines."
“El V.” looks back on a scene no longer peaceful:
A sunny afternoon in Dunkirk, eight years after the last
war. It is hard to believe that this ever has been on the
fringes of war, that from any steeple can be seen battlefields
where Australian soldiers lie, or that the crumbling grey walls
of the church in the main street were pulled down by German
heavy shells.
The bell tower —now a war memorial —sprays the town
with little fluting notes. The lighthouse rears its head above
the docks. A ship turns slowly out of the sluice.
Jean Bart stands on his pedestal fronting the Hotel des
Arcades. The concierge is at the door twisting his great
moustaches. An old woman goes by driving a shaggy dog
in a small cart. A boy whistles “Madelon.” In the railway
refreshment-room, two commercial travellers are eating shrimps
which look like dried locusts.
The sleepy train moves out. Along flat country roads
you see the endless procession of fishwives who have come
in from the coastal villages. Some of them walked 11 miles
that morning in the dark; they are walking 11 miles home.
They will cover the distance again next morning. In the
fields long rows of other women are hoeing steadily with the
bowed fatalism of the French peasant. The big red barns
stand up all over the fat landscape. The train moves along
leisurely so that you lose all sense of time. It stops at every
station an ample interval, and, though no one gets in or out,
it does not start again until the guard has walked its length
and given his mournful call: "En voiture! En voiture!"
Here is Gravelines. Louis XlV’s old red fortresses frown
over it. The first of the homing fisherwomen are trudging
in. Their husbands are stoking up for the night’s work in
the estaminet with the sawdust floor. Their voices break out
into the village quiet with a startling impact. You come sud-
denly round a corner face to face with half a dead pig which
the butcher has hung out as a tempting advertisement. Down
on the margin of the grey North Sea fishermen are mending
their nets. On a red wall are two small leaflets closely printed
—octavo leaflets exactly like those Communists deliver in
Sydney suburbs.
“If you are a patriot, if you love your country, if you wish
prosperity for all, if you are in favor of the development of
agriculture vote for the National party.” It might have
been written by Archdale Parkhill. But the other notice tells
you that there is gaiety in Gravelines that night—the cinema is
to be lighted and to show that masterpice of French movie
art “The Apotheosis of St. Marie Therese.”
The great spires of the villages along the coast stand out
against the last of the daylight sky, and the first notes of the
Angelus congeal every peasant along the roadside into silence,
with bowed head and linked hands.
Another train crawls back to Dunkirk — "en voiture, en
voiture.” The old town is all lights, and the Cafe Tigre is
busy. At the little theatre, full of sailors from all the
world, there is a play about three Frenchmen and one lady
with a single pair of trousers among them. Solemn French-
men drink their bocks in Des Arcades. At nine o’clock most
of the French are turning over in their featherbeds, and
you hear the measured step of gendarmes pacing the half-
darkened square.
War? Who could think of war among such simple,
fatalistic people or within the sound of the muted bells which
speak of nothing but peace and rest?
It seems a last probability. But as this is written Grave-
lines and Dunkirk and a hundred villages around are beaten
down to rubble with a tempest of bombs and gunfire,
steeples are reflected against flaming farmhouses, the gutters
run with blood.
No Equality of Sacrifice.
The regulations for newsprint rationing issued from
Canberra have come as a stunning blow to those
weeklies which have not the good luck to be pub-
lished on the Sabbath as appendages of dailies.
Daily papers exceeding 72 pages per week are
to be reduced 35 per cent.; intermediate journals of
48 to 72 pages, 25 per cent.; those over 24 pages
but under 48 pages, 16 2-3 per cent. Those less than
24 pages per week are to be exempt.
Sunday papers exceeding 48 pages are to be cut
35 per cent.; those between 32 and 48 pages, 30 per
cent. ; and those between 24 and 32 pages, 25 per cent.
Yet some strange twist of logic has induced the
Government to decree that all other weeklies shall
be specially penalised. Those under 16 pages suffer a
reduction of 25 per cent., those from 16 to 28 pages
30 per cent., and those over 28 pages 35 per cent.
All reductions are based on 1938-39 figures, are
on a broadsheet basis in calculation of pages, and will
operate for six months from July 1 without review.
Senator McLeay, the responsible Minister, said that
the plans adopted would save 54,000 tons of paper,
representing more than £1,000,000 ; and he “deeply
appreciates the help received from the newspaper
industry in evolving the scheme.”
It might reasonably be asked “What newspaper
industry?” Judging by the details, all the help the
Minister has received has come from Great Dailies.
Three of those published in Sydney have been engaged
in a wild competition for sales, marked by wasteful
issues and “form-at-a-glance” and “swank-as-usual”
supplements which must have had a bad effect on
recruiting. In such cases the reductions merely achieve
an economy which will relieve the big concerns of
embarrassments.
Moreover, these concerns know they have little
to fear in the future from a Government which
is so keen on daily newspapers that it even proposes
to allow a new evening paper to begin business in
Sydney during the first restriction month.
Sunday newspapers are much in the same position
as dailies. Those which have no regard for economy
of paper have been given a distinct preference over
other weeklies, beside many of which they give only
non-essential services. The class of papers which are
singled out for special imposts are trade journals,
religious journals and weeklies like The Bulletin
which deal with public affairs without feeding the
appetite for sensationalism and superstition and
employ Australian artists and writers. Australian
artists and writers would starve if they had to depend
on daily and Sunday papers, which would see Austra-
lian art and literature die altogether so long as they
could buy cheap syndicated Yankee stuff.
The Bulletin has made a practice of spending its
money in Australia to the greatest possible extent.
Until the war broke out dollar exchange did not con-
cern it, for it publishes no svndicated sludge and it
bought its paper supplies in England. It has had to
divert these purchases to Canada, and. as a result, it
finds itself discriminated against, preference going to
Sunday papers which might as well be published in
the U.S.A. for all the Australian writers and artists
they employ and all the Australian sentiment they
express.
Like most independent weeklies, The Bulletin
has always conserved paper, and is still conserving it,
by, among other things, eschewing padding and
flaring headlines. Yet favor is shown to wasteful
Sunday rags.
Sacrifice there must be, but it should be sacri-
fice that is not destructive. The Bulletin is not con-
cerned for its own future, being independent of the
caprices of Governments ; but under the present news-
print arrangement weeklies that have served the public
well may lay down their lives for dollar exchange
while sensational daily and Sunday papers suffer
scarcely at all. Some, having put up their prices,
may even wax fat on the McLeay plan, which they
have accepted—“voluntarily,” “S. M. Herald” says— ■
with every sign of complacency.
"Civil Liberties Attacked."
From Canberra last week there came the familiar
talk of suppressing the Communist party, but save
for the suppression of already emasculated Com-
munist papers no action has been taken.
“It appears to me a little silly for a Minister of
the Crown to be talking about the existence of a Red
military plot and intimating that action is intended.”
So said Mr. Curtin of Mr. Cameron’s S.A. disclosures
(B. 29/5/’4O). The comment looks more than “a little
silly” considering that in Mr. Curtin’s own city of Perth,
now rivalling its splendid Great War record, a Com-
munist bookseller was found in possession of a note-
book “containing information about the Garrison Bat-
talion and notes relating to tanks, artillery, fortifica-
tions, location of guards at vital spots, movements of
troops, food and accommodation supplies, and dis-
cipline of troops.” That was part of the bookseller’s
contribution to a Red anti-recruiting movement. He
was sentenced to three months. Three months!
In Sydney there has been a flood of leaflets, some
issued by the Communist party itself, some by the
“Central No Conscription Committee.”
The Communist efforts demand that free speech
and the Communist party should be defended, and
call for war on conscription, but not on Germany.
Save for specific references to the danger to the Com-
munist party, the No Conscription efforts are couched
in almost identical language.
One distributed round the Sydney wharves on
May 30 declared:
Alleged to be in the interests of freedom and democ-
racy the main results of the war for the Australian
people have been severe attacks on civil liberties. Free-
dom of the press, free speech and free assemblage are
objects of savage attacks by State and Federal Gov-
ernments.
It declares that Ministers have urged “gaol and
disfranchisement for Labor leaders” ; that they “have
assailed clergymen for expressing sentiments favoring
peace” ; that “in such conditions the danger of con-
scription becomes very pronounced” ; that, “as the
Government becomes increasingly unpopular, its in-
tentions run towards military control of the people.”
And “to defeat this intention and menace is the object
of the no-conscription movement,” which is “wide
enough to embrace all citizens, irrespective of class,
color or creed.”
It would be a sound move to stick advocates of
these ideas before a microphone so that they might be
asked to state clearly whether they favor the kind of
peace which could be made with Germany at the present
moment; whether they believe that, even if a bargain
were made, it would be kept; whether they prefer the
kind of conscription which has been imposed on
Poland, Norway, Belgium, Holland and Northern
France to national training and service for the defence
of Australia, provided for in Acts passed by the second
Parliament of the Commonwealth and never repealed.
In Melbourne's Grip.
Victoria, with more than half its population concen-
trated in Melbourne and the rest drifting there at a
steadily increasing rate, probably feels the effects of
centralisation more keenly than its larger neighbors.
Thoughtful people, fully aware of the ability of
the western and northern Victorian districts to absorb
thousands more people and give them a good living,
are coming to regard a Governmental system that
draws everything to the capital with something close
to hatred. They look at splendid unused ports such
as Warrnambool and Portland, at the comparatively
empty Murray valley and at the dying towns in the
central north, and they see no future unless the ten-
tacles of the great city can be shaken off.
Which is probably why 150 representatives of
country bodies met at Castlemaine and demanded a
decentralisation policy on the lines of:
Freight concessions on both raw materials and
finished products, electricity tariffs and water supply,
and increased financial assistance to country councils
in providing public amenities comparable with those of
the city to make life more attractive in country centres.
The meeting asked for a Minister for Decentrali-
sation. Laudable as are their aims, the countrymen
should get a fair idea of their chances of living to see
them achieved from the words of Dunstan’s Minister
for Lands, Mr. Lind, who, called upon to open the
business at Castlemaine, offered what he called proof
of the Dunstan crowd’s effort to improve country con-
ditions by pointing to the Farmers’ Debts Adjust-
ment and Closer and Soldier Settlement Acts, develop-
ment of hydro-electric power and improvement in hos-
pital services and sewerage.
These outer Victorians will bring their objective
much nearer by forming tentative regional councils
and then pressing for the abolition of their State Par-
liament, which is in reality a One-Big-City Parlia-
ment. Then, instead of much of their revenue pour-
ing to Melbourne and Canberra, there would be a
single stream to Canberra from which the regional
councils could expect a far greater return than the
depopulated towns will ever get from Melbourne.


Society
"AND IT'S PRITED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“P. Street”: A woman witness in a
Sydney small debts case detailed an inter-
“They oughter be over any time now!"
view with a man who had called upon her.
It came out that he tried to kiss her. She
was asked what she did then. Inter-
estedly waiting to hear whether she
screamed, crowned him with the coal
scuttle or just fainted, the Court hung on
her answer. It came: “I gave him 10
minutes to get out of my flat.”
* * f *
“Pu Hy”: Perfect babies (B. 15/5/ ’4O)
may have perfection thrust upon them,
but there’s at least one current example
of heredity holding true. Geoffrey, son
of the late Clarence and Mrs. Weber,
M.L.A., won a competition for the
perfect man, and was crowned as such
in Melbourne Town Hall. Clarence
Weber may be just a hazy memory to
the present sporting generation, but his
physique was the admiration of its
fathers.
r* * .
. P “ : « 0ne ° f my youngsters has
a bad habit of working out his homework
problems on the wall, but I put up with
it until I found a mysterious algebraical
sign, which looked like “Z 100%” or
something, scribbled on my newly-painted
front door. I took young William to task
about it, but as he strenuously denied any
knowledge of the offence the matter re-
mained a mystery. I see now where a
Sydney woman was awarded £75 in a
libel suit against a debt collector and a
furniture firm for which he was collect-
ing because he had scribbled “Z 100%”
on her door. According to the evidence
the sign is part of a code used by
collectors and time-payment concerns,
“Z,” scribbled on anyone’s front door,
means that they are poor payers; “Z
50%,” that they are “bad payers, have
been summoned and have caused con-
siderable trouble” ; “Z 100%,” that “they
are dishonest and use every endeavor to
avoid paying their debts.” I’m leaving
Brutus off the chain tomorrow to meet
the fellow who collects on our re-
frigerator.
* * * *
“Steaka d’Oyst”: That par. of “Strict
Veg.’s” (B. 15/5/’4O) about the new Mel-
bourne school for cooks reminds me of
the day 1 had 2s. and a hunger. The
new cafe I entered was darned slow
serving me, and when it did come to
light I was surrounded by about 30
bright young things. I asked my wait-
ress what for, and she replied, “Well, sir,
we get our meals cooked by the culinary
school next door, and if you don’t eat
yours these girls have failed in their
exam.”
$ * * *
“X.S.”: Fruity-looking item from the
“Argus”:
“In one photograph you are actually
kissing her.”
“I am ashamed to say, yes. But it was
not spontaneous.”
“What do you mean when you say that?”
“I was morally forced into it.”
Not a fragment from a report on
divorce proceedings, but an incident from
the life of Australia’s third Chief Justice
of the High Court and first native-born
Governor-General. It occurred in the
course of a Melbourne case concerning
a diamond ring, a birthday present to
the young Isaac Isaacs from his parents,
It appeared on the finger of a lady who
married his brother John two years ago,
and then turned up in a pawnshop. The
lady claimed £350 from the company
owning the pawnshop, which she alleged
had unlawfully handed it over to Isaac
Isaacs or his brother, her lord, from
whom she claimed to have received it in
consideration of marriage. The pawn-
shop concern sued Mrs. Isaacs for £4OO,
declaring that she had pawned the ring
f or £5O and guaranteed that it was her
property. The kissing episode occurred
at t h e time of the brother’s wedding,
Re-examined, the ex-Governor-General
said that he was not personally hostile
to his sister-in-law, but was hostile to
his brother marrying so young a woman,
After animadverting severely on the lady’s
apparent malice towards the Isaacs family
, s F o P nah dismissed both claims
* * * *
“F.M.8.”: Gently has the news been
broken to the shareholders in the Wel-
]ington Centennial Exhibition (M.L.) that
they are unlikely to see any of their cash
again> War and import restrictions are
hlamed ; but very few such exhibitions
have shown a direct profit. Wembley,
Frisco and Paris all made big losses.
New York’s World’s Fair is in the same
street> The Dunedin Exhibition of 1924
pa j d 16s> gd. in the pound, but it was
un der ultra-Scotch management,
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Until the outbreak of the
tornado in Europe it was the custom
for the modernised Malay States to send
their leading young native scholars to
English universities to acquire the tech-
nique which is becoming more and more
necessary in Malaya. Now the tide is
likely to flow in Australia’s direction, and
as an indication the State of Kelantan
is sending Inche Hassan bin Mohamed
Amin, a youth who combines most of the
qualifications of an Australian Rhodes
scholar, to Perth Uni. to study engineer-
ing. Kelantan is one of the unfederated
Malay States, on the east coast of the
peninsula. It was a hotbed of pirates
until Rajah Brooke set himself up in
Sarawak; today its chief products are
rice, tin and coconuts. Its old feudal
aristocracy used to spend most of its
time fighting and eloping with ladies
from the Sultan’s harem. Now it pro-
vides most of the recruits for the civil
service.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The prize for nerve with-
out judgment goes to a man in Adelaide
who ’phoned for a taxi to carry away
a small safe which he had burgled. The
excuse of “taking it to be repaired” (at
11 p.m.) was accepted, and apparently all
would have been well if only he had paid
the driver. But, when he asked for the
short drive to be booked to the account
of the safe’s owners, the taximan smelt
something, and informed the police, who
visited the warehouse and found a door
smashed and the 561 b. safe gone ; after
which it was found unopened in the
street to which it had been driven. Con-
tents, £l3, lost by saving two or three
bob.
* * * *
“Kea”: At a Sydney street crossing a
brawny young constable stilled traffic
while he personally conducted a nervous
little old lady across. Half a dozen of
us followed close in his wake. “It’s nice
to know one is safe,” cooed the old lady.
“They would never dare to knock you
down.” “Wouldn’t they?” replied the
p.c. bitterly. “I’ve been knocked down
seven times and run over twice.”
' ls
“Oran”: What “Ike Hollar” calls the queer
psychology of the child (B. 29/4/’4O) is
not unusual, but normal. In almost every
case where a child is alone with another
who is killed in an accident the
survivor preserves secrecy about the
tragedy. It is partly the instinct of self-
preservation against possible blame, and
partly the result of a terrifying experi-
ence. When a girl of nine took a two-
year-old boy to a shallow creek near
Ryde (Sydney) and saw him fall into a
foot of water she kept silence for 12
hours, though she saw the whole neigh-
borhood frantically seeking for the child.
In another case of drowning a family
discovered two years after that a younger
brother had been a witness. A variant
of this psychology is the behavior of
children trapped in a house by fire. They
almost invariably hide under a bed.
“C. 8.”: That gravitation experiment in
the physics lecture theatre of an Aus-
tralian university (B. 29/5/’4O) reminds
me of another. The professor was con-
tinually jawing at his pupils about the
necessity of the scientist to be above all
human prejudices whatever, and he did
it with that “unaffected superiority” which
is alleged to be characteristic of the
Oxford don but equally distinguishes
some Australian pedagogues. One day
the prof, held the Chinese up as a shining
example. “They will eat anything,” he
remarked. “If a mere coolie will swallow
anything in the way of food, a scientist
ought to be able to swallow a truth even
if it is unpalatable.” The next day a
student who had been reading up the
subject brought a box of young mice—
alive —and a jar of sweet syrup. “This
is a delicacy in China, professor,” he
remarked, standing up ; and picking one
of the mice out of the box he dipped it
into the treacle and swallowed it. “Now,
you try one, professor.” The spectacle
was too much for the professor’s stomach.
* * * *
“Craiser”: That it is modern quick
acceleration and overconfidence in
braking which cause many motor acci-
dents (B. 22/5/’4O) tends to be confirmed
by figures unearthed by Uncle Sam’s
National Safety Council. Women, it cal-
culates, drive half the mileage of men,
but share only one-third of the smashes.
So, contrary to masculine prejudice,
women are safer drivers than men, and
the reason probably is that most of them
aren’t confident enough to drive a vehicle
at 50. m.p.h. round a hidden corner.
Again, it was found that drivers between
the ages of 20 and 25 have three times as
many accidents as drivers in their forties.
To clinch the matter, drivers alone in their
cars drive faster than drivers accom-
panied by passengers, which suggests the
exercise of caution. But drivers with
strangers or more distant relatives as pas-
sengers drive faster than when they are
taking the missus, the kids, the mother-
in-law or some close connection out for
an airing. It is not unreasonable to sug-
gest that the individual who likes to make
a hit by skiting has exhausted the possi-
bilities of surprising his family with his
prowess as a driver, but can still hope to
do it with a second cousin by his side or
some pretty little stranger.
* * V *
“R. Volt”: One of the prophecies
that didn’t come off refers to the un-
workability of wireless in war-time. It
was confidently predicted that every be-
ligerent country would try to jam the
radios of every other, and the countries
which held control of the sea routes
would be the best off, inasmuch as they
could revert to the cables. But now that
the League of Nations has packed up and
left Geneva the air remains.the only in-
ternational medium. Listeners in Aus-
tralia have been finding difficulty in pick-
ing up international broadcasts, and have
ascribed it to enemy attempts to jam
transmissions. The fact is that it is an
ancient trouble and is 4ue to some 80
stations throughout the world obstinately
operating on adjacent wave-lengths, plus
the effect of the big guns in Europe, pos-
sibly.
* # * *
“A.L.”: South Australia is exercised
over the question as to whether the mar-
riage of a divorced person within three
months of the issue of a decree absolute
is legal. The State law says that either of
the parties may remarry after three
months from the date the divorce order
is made absolute, but it doesn’t say they
mustn’t do it earlier. In other States and
in Britain the point has been clarified by
the addition to the corresponding clause
of Divorce Acts of the words “but not
sooner.” Several S.A. men in whose
cases orders absolute had just been
granted have adopted the short-cut
method because they were joining the
A.I.F.
* * * *
“T.”: My unbrilliant career as a news-
paperman has left me with one abiding
conviction that newspapers are poor
pickers. Newspaper idols rarely make
good, and even when themselves fortunate
for a time have an uncanny way of
bringing misfortune to others. Lincoln,
the greatest statesman of the nineteenth
century and one of the most lovable
characters of all time, had a bad press.
It is a tremendous descent from Lincoln
to Stevens, but remember how Stevens
was boomed, not only in Sydney but in
Melbourne, and how at the same time
the same press was ridiculing and railing
at Cameron. Now Stevens, of the salary
grab and the record deficit which led to
the robbery taxes, has had a stunning fall
from which he will never get up again,
and Cameron is Deputy Prime Minister
—and he won’t be deputy much longer.
Other newspaper idols of far greater
celebrity than Stevens are Eden, whose
“policy” drove Italy out of the British
orbit and thus set Hitler free to start
his criminal performances, and the luck-
less Churchill; others were Gamelin and
Ironside. What barrels of ink were spilt
in laudation of that pair! Gamelin was
another and greater Foch ; Ironside was
a combination of Kitchener and Berthier.
Yet when testing time came GameliD
lasted about a week, and another nine
or ten days saw Ironside superseded and
transferred to the job to which Johr
French was relegated in 1915.
IT’S DOGGED AS DOES IT.
It’s doggedness that does does it! What a lot
Into how small a space old Virgil got,
And what an ageless truth he left for us
In Labor Omnia Vincit Improbus!
Withal, however ruggedly expressed,
I like our own colloquial version best,
That classic tag, adown the centuries flung,
Dressed in our simpler, homelier Saxon tongue.
“It’s” —whatsoever test of strength begins—
“ Dogged as does it,” stubbornness that wins.
Not toil alone adversity will foil,
But only ceaseless, unremitting toil,
Stiffened with firm resolve, however blue
The outlook may appear, to “see it through.”
This is the frame wherewith reverse to meet
And, undiscouraged, to surmount defeat.
No matter what the goal at which you aim,
Alike for men and nations it’s the same.
“It’s”—on the axiom you may depend—
“ Dogged as does it” in the fateful end.
Whether it’s fame or wealth you have in view,
1 venture that you’ll find the proverb true;
And (though less markedly than in th’ above
Perhaps) it often turns the trick in love,
And ever marks, as ever it has done,
The surest process by which wars are won.
So keep your trust in wills that none may
shake
Of those who “never doubted clouds would
break.”
“It’s” —in four words you have it plain and
flat—
“ Dogged as does it,” rest assured of that!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Happy birthday to you !”
“Nakhoda”: I was in Ostend just be-
fore the arrival of the Germans in the
1914-18 war. The chief Belgian pleasure
resort was packed with the leisured of
Europe, plus the light-fingered gentry who
prey on them. On the beach two girls in
abbreviated bathing-costumes, allegedly
from the Folies Bergeres, Paris, were
making an honest penny being photo-
graphed in voluptuous poses by holidaying
Cockneys. Having had some experience
of Australian surfing beaches I thought
I would try the Belgian variety. The
Channel was as calm as a millpond and
I started swimming out to sea. Then a
terrific fanfare of trumpets sounded and,
looking back, I saw persons in uniform
rushing about waving flags and blowing
frantic blasts of warning. Their job was
to shepherd bathers into a compact flock
about 100 yards square in water little
more than above their ankles, and when
I got ashore I had difficulty in convinc-
ing the gendarmes that I oughtn’t to be
arrested and charged with disturbing the
public peace. On my way back to my
hotel I watched an English yacht, with its
skipper in all the splendor of brass
buttons and white trousers, and his crew
in naval costume, being lifted from the
sea into a canal, being en route, I was
told, for the Mediterranean. The operation
was performed with great precision and
dispatch, the captain saluted the lockmen,
his burgee was dipped by a deckhand,
and off the ship went to disappear
amongst the houses. I have often-
wondered what happened to that yacht.
* * * *
“Dake”: Marcus Clarke built up a
pretty solid reputation as a novelist, but
it isn’t very well remembered that he
also tried his hand as a prophet. His
book The Future Australian Race came
out in 1877. Most interesting thing in
it is a forecast about women. Marcus
guessed that by 1977 the Australian wife
would be “a thin, narrow woman, very
fond of dress and idleness, caring little
for her children, but without sufficient
brain power to sin with zest.”
* * * *
“Dip”: Once I used to feel like tying
the Bridge to my neck with a short piece
of rope and jumping into the harbor
whenever I saw a flapper tottering along
on stilt heels, looking like a lame emu ;
but familiarity has inured me to that sight.
Similarly, I can now watch the minxes un-
moved as they suck cigarettes and guzzle
cocktails which would kill a cat. Their
clothes and hats have, of course, run to
such extremes that I can no longer be
shocked by any fresh atrocities in that
line. Powder and paint slapped on like
whitewash, purple lipstick and cerise
fingernails fail to alarm my timid soul.
The other day, however, I lost my appetite
when Miss 1940 stilted into my favor-
ite eating house and sat down opposite
me. She took out a cigarette and fumbled
with a match, the waitress jumped like a
startled rabbit and my next forkful re-
mained on the plate. The wench across
the table had fingernails as long and as
pointed as those of a Chinese mandarin
and they were printed green— the vivid
iridescent green of beetles’ backs and
butterfly wings.
* * * *
“C.R.”: Unusual wagers? A diver
who worked for 359 i hours on the
wreck of the old Kakariki off Gellibrand
Light, Williamstown (Vic.), was alleged
by his employer to have offered to work
for nothing and to take £5OO if the hulk
rose above the surface. The diver alleged
that he agreed to work at night after
ordinary hours for 7s. 6d. an hour, plus
£5OO if the venture succeeded. The wreck
is still cuddling into the mud of Port
Phillip, and the disappointed diver took
his case to court. Result, judgment for
defendant, with costs.
* * * *
“Carper”: It seems that another flapper-
press myth has gone up the spout. A
few weeks ago readers gasped at the
news that an American, Barlow, had
invented a bomb capable of destroying
everything within miles of its explosion.
It was supposed to be composed of
oxygen, carbon and silica sand, and the
thing was so awful that Senators who
had not then suffered the scare of the
German onrush in Flanders—hurriedly
burned records to prevent the secret be-
ing pinched by some spy. The other day
the inventor tethered 84 goats in a 2000 ft.
circle and detonated 10001 b. of his
explosive in the centre. After the smoke
had cleared away 84 goats were still
browsing away quite happily, and the
rueful inventor admitted that he was the
85th.
* * * *
“Mouthpiece”: Hooeyland is about to
take a counting of heads and, as might
have been expected in a country given
over to worship of the young female,
precautions are being taken to obviate
any danger of embarrassing the dears.
Thousands of inquiries reached the
“heads” as to whether a goil had to tell
the census-taker her real age, and internal
revolt seemed imminent when the reply
was issued that false information might
cost a year in the pen and a 500-dollar
fine. However, some bright spark in
Washington got over the difficulty by
allowing the dames to write the necessary
information on a card and post it in
under a guarantee of secrecy. Another
cause of worry is that the breadwinner is
expected to disclose his yearly salary,
and fears it might be passed on to the
ever-watchful neighbor. A few Aus-
tralians have encountered the type of
citizen who must foot it with the neigh-
bors in display of carpets, cars and
costumes, no matter what the cost, but
only an Australian who has studied our
cousins at close quarters can have any
idea of the lengths to which they will go
to maintain appearances.
“S. Piel”: A great to-do is being made
about the lack of skilled workers for war
industries and the length of time neces-
sary to train youths. Those responsible
should take heart from a Sydney report
that two police captured three lads, one 16,
the others 14, in the act of using an oxy-
acetylene plant and other tools to cut
open a safe “with the skill of experts.”
“Picture pos'card, sah? Melbun Harbah, Yarra B'idge, Forgun
Smit’, sah ?”
Later, it was discovered that the youths
had rented a garage as a workshop and
had stocked it with a varied assortment
of tools, all “borrowed” from different
owners. At a time like this there must
be openings for such initiative and daring,
and, what is more important, such a
capacity to learn.
* * * *
“Skad”: The use of “Sydneysider” for
a resident of Sydney is something more
than merely a term which comes easily
to the tongue. It dates back to about
the. middle of last century when “Syd-
neyside” was used for that part of
N.S.W. which was close to the capital.
Up to 1851 N.S.W. included Victoria, and
was so large that certain distinctions grew
up. For instance, in Robbery Under
Arms Rolf Boldrewood alludes to “our
side of the country” (i.e., the Sydney
side) and again to “Melbourne we
all liked that side of the country.” To
“live on Sydneyside,” therefore, meant
not to reside on Sydney waterfront, but
north of the Murray. In the days when
people living in Melbourne and its sur-
rounding country looked down upon the
inhabitants of Sydney because of their
contact with convicts (it seems that Mel-
bourne’s reputed prudishness has a long
history) “T’othersider” was a synonym
for “Sydneysider.” In subsequent years
“T’othersider” was used to better effect
by Westralians for people living in the
eastern States. Occasionally it was
applied by people in the east to Sand-
gropers. Maorilanders sometimes refer
to Australia as “the other side (i.e.,
the other side of the Tasman Sea), but
they haven’t got as far as “Othersider.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: If Australians
take all the dietetic advice which is being
rammed down their throats by popular
scientific writers they will become a race
of Daniel Lamberts, or at least George
Reids. That is, if they don’t bust. Per-
sonally, I refuse to Eat More Fish, Meat,
Butter, Honey, Fruit, Cream, Vegetables,
Cheese, Wholemeal Bread, Eggs, Peanuts
and Bacon. Nor will I Drink More Milk,
Pineapple Juice and Orange Juice, even
if I do risk scurvy, rickets and osteo-
malacia. Why should I, when the scien-
tists themselves claim that only about
5 p.c. of Australians are insufficiently
fed, and that the average city dweller
has as good a diet as the wealthiest 10
p.c. of the population of England? Now
some of them are urging that Australians
should eat all the apples and pears that
their country produces-"—nearly 14 mil-
lion bushels, two bushels yearly per head
from earliest infancy to the grave. If
the argument is carried to its logical con-
clusion they would have to cram down
another lli million bushels of bananas.
citrus fruits, peaches and plups on top
of the apples and pears, hsh, meat,
butter, honey and the resfi Disgusting
gluttony, I call it. And I m beginning
to suspect that Big Business is lurking
behind the whole affair with a scheme
of cornering the market for indigestion
mixtures and liver pills. Either that or
a Fifth Column seeking to wreck our
military transport by doubling the volume
and weight of all troops.
TO THE POETS.
“The past year has been the most disastrous for
poets in their history. Some actually pay for space
in magazines.” —Other Fellow’s Mind, 29/5/’4O.
Out on these periodical disasters,
These seasons lean from which no forethought
guards!
But nathless keep your peckers up, my masters,
The cards you hold may yet be winning cards.
Observe, I’m not addressing poetasters
In this apostrophe, or doggerel bards,
But just that goodly band to which belong
The true, certificated sons of song.
Bethink that cash rewards are a misnomer
For guerdons in the poet’s lap that fall.
Recall, before the age of writing, Homer
Was obviously never paid at all;
Consider, also, how Fitz Gerald’s “Omar”
Was purchased for a copper at a stall.
A laurel wreath, viewed as a quid pro quo
For minstrelsy, is surely more than dough.
Spenser and Chatterton were two of many
Poets who came to know what hunger means;
Poor Francois Villon never earned a penny
By beefing out his ballads in canteens,
And if he had—seeing there weren’t any —
He couldn’t purchase space in magazines.
Yet think of all the verse that lived by dint
Of pure appeal, before the days of print.
Hearts up, my lads, and may you soon be earn-
ing,
As heretofore, the needful £ s. d.;
The longest lane will never lack a turning,
The slowest stream slips somewhere safe to
sea.
True merit, though it often takes discerning,
Will get its due at last, I guarantee.
Meanwhile, spontaneous as the birds in spring,
Sing on because, like them, you have to sing!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


CRAVENA
are kinder . .
to the throat
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
10 for 9° 50 for 3'9
20 for I'6 100 for 7^6
swssasga
u
m
m
m
mm
m
m
ms
%
ms
2819
m
POLITICAL POINTS
Some of those who wanted to Hang the
Kaiser must now be thinking that the
scaffold would have been more merciful
than the fate which has actually be-
fallen the old and broken man. The
twenty-second year of his exile was
violently interrupted by the unprovoked
invasion of the country that had given
him shelter, and the butchery of hundreds
of thousands of its peaceful and kindly
people. Permitted to return to Germany
by the whim of his upstart successor,
the octogenarian Hohenzollern shuffled
into Potsdam, the palace of his ancestors
—to stand by the open grave of his
eldest son’s eldest son, killed in Hitler’s
war.
That queer bird Sir Stafford Cripps,
who talks like Robespierre—except when
he is earning fat fees—and looks like
Nambypamby Percy, has been sent to
Moscow as Ambassador Extraordinary or
. something like that. If it is only to
discuss trade matters the Dominions can
scarcely object, but it is difficult to believe
that the Left-wing aristo. won’t try to
make some other arrangement with the
champion double-crosser; and in that
case Australia’s relations with Japan may
be affected. This ought to be conveyed
by Canberra to Downing-street, if Can-
berra can possibly rise superior to its
habitual attitude, which is that British
politicians are our betters, and that
humble acceptance of what they may
choose to prescribe for us is our duty
as poor damned Australians.
The representatives of six State Gov-
ernments, four of whose alleged Parlia-
ments are resting, had the monumental
effrontery to go to the Loan Council
meeting at Canberra with demands for
£33,000,000 “to finance works and
deficits” in 1940-41. The amount was
actually £6,000,000 more than they got
last year and £10,000,000 more than in
1938-39, which wasn’t a war year. Even
“S. M. Herald” had to admit that “the
initial request” of these insufferable en-
cumbrances was “as disheartening as it
was astonishing.” Abolitionists expressed
themselves differently.
A characteristic outcome of the Loan
Council meeting was a proposal that the
exploded Theodore should be appointed
“Co-ordinator of Works.” At least
one U.A.P. Minister was willing, and
Sydney “Sun” reported that the appoint-
ment had been made. The same night
brought the news that if it were pro-
ceeded with Cameron would lead the
C.P. Ministers out of the Cabinet and let
what was left of it go to the devil in
its own way. Thereupon “Mr. Menzies
denied that the post had been offered to
Mr. Theodore.”
Note from Canberra on a proposed
appointment:
The decision to offer the post to Mr.
Theodore was made by the Loan Council,
and State representatives are making it
plain to the Federal Ministry that they
believe that their decisions cannot be upset
by the Federal Cabinet.
So now Australia knows what it has
been storing up for itself through its
multiple-government system!
Returned-soldier organisations should
stamp heavily on the odd idea that
gentlemen who did not attend the last
war have somehow acquired “outstand-
ing qualifications” for helping to win this
war. In the making of war appointments
there is an unanswerable case for soldier-
preference, other things being equal.
What can elderly ex-politicians who were
non-starters know about the requirements
of total war?
Cameron has become a rampageous
rustic again to Sydney “D.T.” On
March 13 the paper magnanimously for-
gave the man for everything it had said
about him and allowed that he was
endowed with “great energy and appli-
cation” ; in short, with “the vitality”
required by the Government to dynamise
its plans.
Mr. Cameron, the man of action, and
Mr. Menzies, the man of ideas, should
make a good combination.
On May 30 it discovered that “the
irresponsible fulminations of Mr.
Cameron and his [C.P.] colleagues” were
“paralysing the enthusiasm of masses of
loyal, liberal-minded Australians,” and
advised Menzies to get rid of them. On
May 31 its fury vented itself in terms like
“blackmail” and “spleen.” And all
because it had learned by mulga wire
"Goering! Goebbels! Himmler! Vere ist der bone?”
that Cameron “paralysed” the appoint-
ment of the “D.T.’s” chairman of
directors as “Co-ordinator of Works.”
Rationing of newsprint has hit British
dailies and weeklies hard, and now Aus-
tralian newspapers are perforce to make
percentage reductions based on their con-
sumption in the 1938-39 twelvemonth.
How publications launched since July 1
will fare has not been clearly explained.
The A.B.C. “Weekly” is one of those
publications. With A.B.C. its principal,
almost its only, advertiser, it must be
losing money wholesale, but no doubt
it will go on losing money until the
army of listeners who have to find the
money put the wind up the politicians.
As things are, commissions are privi-
leged.
Still “giving Australia leadership,”
Sydney “D.T.” has come out with a plan
for Menzies. One of the points is a War
Cabinet post for Stevens, “who has
proved himself a good administrator.”
Not even its own Lower could think up
a joke like that!
Asked if he knew whether Justice
Evatt was really resigning from the
High Court Bench to stand for Parlia-
ment, Menzies replied that he had read
only newspaper statements to the effect
that his Honor might. Then, in his
loftiest manner:
Offices of the judiciary, and especially
the offices of the Justices of the High
Court, are entirely non-political, and it is
therefore most unfortunate that any section
of the press should impute to the learned
Judge political activity while occupying a
non-political post.
Very superior, of course, but these are
unusual times, and if the learned Judge—
any learned Judge—is prepared to sac-
rifice his place and pension rights so
that he may take part in the councils of
the nation, hitherto rather muddled,
common people would say more power
to his elbow! In times as unusual, a
British Government did not scruple to
take Lord Chief Justice Reading from
the Bench and send him on three political
missions to the U.S.A.
At long last residents of Australian
border towns are freed from the slug
of inter-State rates on telegrams sent
across a river or an imaginary line. A
minimum of Is. for 14 words to any
part of Australia is the new rate, with
9d. for 14 words within a 15-mile radius.
Double rates for messages o.n Sundays
and holidays are abolished, and State
names in the form of initials count as
one word. The reform was long over-
due but is none the less welcome for
that.
Mair’s Government is to subsidise the
Sydney Milk Board —whose recommen-
dation for an increased milk price it
rejected—“to enable it to assist suppliers
outside the milk zone to reduce cost of
transport.” So the public is to pay more
for its milk, after all.
The “International Peace Campaign”:
If an Australian Minister is appointed
to Tokyo before one is appointed to Chung-
king, it might be construed as showing
partiality to Japan.
And it would be just too bad if the
Chinese declared war on us at a time
like this.
The Mair Government’s royal commis-
sion on milk costs and distribution has
adjourned for a week. Though the Milk
Board will not be represented because
the responsible (?) Minister doesn’t think
it necessary, ten legal gentlemen have
announced their appearance for some-
body or other. Mair had a lot to say
at a “Win the War” rally in Sydney, and
Sydney is having a lot to say about a
Premier who sets up a royal commission
to inquire into something that has con-
stantly been inquired into ever since the
Milk Board was created.
In Sydney last week a refugee was
found guilty of an unnatural offence and
released under bond! The degenerate
was one of 6717 Central Europeans ad-
mitted last year by a soft-hearted Govern-
ment with head to match.
Treatt, the N.S.W. Minister for Justice,
has suggested that everybody should work
on the King’s Birthday holiday as part
of the war effort. Treatt is one of 90
Assemblymen who have given themselves
a holiday, which will extend beyond
King’s Birthday, on full pay.
One of the minor mysteries of the war
was the disappearance of a lot of those
Famous American Correspondents who
for years careered through Europe and
Asia picking up misinformation every-
where and spreading it —often with venom
added—through the world. One of the
Australian papers that encour-
aged the tribe has revealed that
“many are Hitler’s guests,”
and that some at least have
stooped to become his docile
instruments, “writing with
much enthusiasm of the suc-
cesses of the German troops”
and conveying “the impression
that the Germans are irresis-
tible.” A number of these gentry
are left-wingers and not a few
are Communists. This was
never mentioned by the Aus-
tralian journals that published
their stuff.
Fair-minded Americans
acquainted with the history of
the peace negotiations must
wince when they reflect on
their republic’s responsibility
for the plight of Europe ; and
not only because it abandoned
the League. Czechoslovakia
and Poland were set up with
Woodrow Wilson’s blessing in
spite of his fancy principle,
self-determination. Wilson’s
hostility to Italy prevented
Britain and France from letting
the Italians have the Dalmatian
coast and other territories
guaranteed to them in the
treaty which brought them into
the war, which Clemenceau
and even Lloyd George were
willing to do ; and in Anglo-
French relations with Italy this has
been a running sore ever since. And
American interposition made impossible
the extension of the French frontier to
the Rhine. Foch urged this on Britain,
and English gratitude to and respect for
the organiser of victory were such that
he might have gained his point had
Wilson been out of the way.
It is a mercy that Poincare died with-
out being fated to witness the third in-
vasion of France. One of those Ameri-
can correspondents interviewed the stern
old patriot when he was tottering down
the vale and put the record in a book.
He reported with a sneer that Poincare
“threw open a window and, looking in
the direction of Germany, cried ‘They
will come again.’ ” The smart young
gentleman—Leftist, of course —mentioned
that he had a poor opinion of Poincare,
being incapable of recognising a man
with courage and vision when he saw
one.
Contribution to the nation’s war effort:
Can the Minister representing the
Minister for Supply and Development give
an assurance that sufficient stores of
ammunition will be made available to
storekeepers in Tasmania to enable them
to supply the cartridges required during the
open game season?
Senator Aylett said that when the enemy
was driving towards the Channel coast.


DAVE’S SECRET WEAPON.


WJNOBAKE
SYDNEY
WOOLGROWERS!
See Our Special Sheep Show Window Display .
No. 40 —Baker’s
Bagging and
Bottle Outfit.
Consists of Red
Tang Shear, f-
Pint Galv. Tin
Bottle, and
ox2x3 Oil
Stone. T h e
Sheath is made
as No. 17 Out-
fit. 32/6 com-
plete. Postage,
1/6 extra.
Fitted w i t h
Copper Bottle,
4/- extra.
Baker’s Improved Lamb Clam, Sin.
overall, width across jaw, lfin., 13/6.
ms
138 —The “Luck” Lamb Marking Knife,
10 inches overall, 3jin. blade, 8/6 each.
Postage 6d
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.j
LTD.
We specialise in Com-
pound Pliers (two-mark
or one plier). Prices on
application.
3 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
rrrrrrrrm£
%
W.JNO.HAISEH
3 HUNTER BT !
syoNE ''
BAKER’S TRIPLE CRUSH EMASCU-
EATOR. A well-made, first-class, nickel-
plated instrument, combining tbe blunt
cut and the crushing block. Its sim-
plicity and thorough effectiveness in
operating commend it to both tne
novice and expert. Price, 55/-.
PERSONAL ITEMS
In the affair of the diamond ring
which belonged to Isaac Alfred Isaacs,
sometime Chief Justice and Governor-
General, and which Mrs. John Alfred
Isaacs popped, it was mentioned that the
ring was a birthday gift from Isaacs pere
and mere in “1894 or 1895.” In both
years Isaac Alfred and John Alfred were
Victorian Assemblymen, and Isaac was
Solicitor-General. He had become mem-
ber for Bogong in 1892. Brother Jack
joined him in 1894 as member for Ovens,
a seat which Jack held for several years.
Isaac went on to the Commonwealth
Parliament and celebrity ; Jack, an un-
ambitious but affable character, retired
to comparative obscurity. The old
brothers are almost the only surviving
members of the generation of Victorian
politicians who saw the great land boom
and assisted in the shaping of the drastic
measures necessary when it burst.
H. G. WHITTLE, Sydney builder, whose
latest and most important contract is
the addition to Sydney’s G.P.O.
Passed over at 80 ip Auckland, Alfred
Warbrick, known to many generations
of tourists as the leading guide of the
Rotorua thermal springs region in Maori-
land. He was the son of a white
pioneer settler; his mother, Katauna,
was an Arawa. Alf was camping on
the shores of Lake Tarawera in
a slab hut with two companions when
the great eruption of 1886 took place.
The hut was submerged in mud to the
roof, but Warbrick and his companions
managed to escape and saved many
others before the day was out. War-
brick was a member of the Maori Rugby
team that visited England in 1888.
Moving spirit of the big new chemical
works proposed to be established in
N. S. Wales by a joint subsidiary com-
pany of Imperial Chemical Industries
and the B.H.P. is knight Lennon Raws,
the 1.C.1. (A/asia) chairman and man-
aging director. English-born, Raws’s first
job in Australia was with Fowler’s,
wholesale grocers in Adelaide. The
Australian Gold Recovery Co. and
Wallaroo and Moonta mining cos. were
subsequent stepping-stones ; then 1914
saw him Melbourne manager of Elder
Smith’s. Raws was chairman of the
Australian Metal Exchange from 1915
to 1923. Last year he followed the late
R. C. Meares on the B.H.P. board. He is
deputy-chancellor of Melbourne Univer-
sity and chairman of the finance com-
mittee, and is a lieutenant-colonel on
the A.M.F. reserve. Has had a finger
in the pie at the 1.C.1.’s vast new salt-
fields near Port Adelaide, and helps
direct the Commonwealth Aircraft Cor-
poration’s production of Wirraways.
Alured Kelly, who becomes president
of the Victorian Chamber of Manufac-
tures at a time when war effort over-
shadows every other consideration, is a
fighter. His presidentship of the Royal
Automobile Association last year was
the stormiest o.n record. He is a textile
manufacturer and runs the Cosmos
Knitting Mills at Footscray, but finds
time to hold several public positions
where energy is needed. He was captain
of the Melbourne Voluntary Bushfire
Brigade which did major service in the
1938 conflagration. He was the first
president of the National Safety Council
and fought in the Boer War as a young
man.
In Lieut.-Col. Victor Hurley, appointed
director of medical services, the R.A.A.F.
has acquired one of Australia’s leading
surgeons. A Melbourne man, he got
plenty of experience in the last war. He
is chairman of the central council of the
Red Cross Society. His father was a
Victorian State school inspector.
George Thomas Chirnside, dead in
Melbourne at 76, was born at Carran-
ballack (Vic.), the ancestral seat of the
Chirnsides, and was a famous breeder
of fashionable stock at Werribee.
Except for his annual
excursion to Maoriland
for the season’s trout
fishing, he concentrated
his energies on his
Jerseys. Of the numerous
stations he founded he
died on the last,
Mooroolbark Park, near
Melba’s birthplace, Lily-
dale.
Called up for duty with
the R.A.A.F., Clyde Fen-
ton, the Flying Doctor,
whose name is a
synonym for amazing ad-
venture throughout the
N.T. It was with the
R.A.A.F. that he first
learnt the flying business.
He had served as M.O. in
the N.T. medical service,
saw the possibilities of
aviation, joined the Air
Force and while acting as
M.Q. got his pilot’s
license. Then he rounded
off his equipment with a
post-graduate course in
surgery and tropical
medicine in London, and
returned to be re-
appointed M. 0., with
wings, at Katherine, N.T.
At Melbourne University Fenton gained
a dual reputation for picturesqueness and
extraordinary industry. He used to live
his day backwards, studying all night and
snatching his sleep in the daytime. He is
39 and was born at Warrnambool (Vic.).
Norman McNeil, of Vacuum Oil, Syd-
ney, appointed g.m. in Tas., joined the
staff in 1922, and has been manager of
Newcastle branch, assistant general
manager, Sydney, and latterly Sydney
metropolitan zone manager. During the
1914-18 war he served in the overseas
merchant marine.
Advocates of examinations for politi-
cians ought to be pleased with the quality
of two of the aspirants for seats in S.A.’s
Leg. Assembly. Ronald Cowan, 26, was
a 1936 Rhodes scholar. He did an honors
B.A. course at Oxford in political eco-
nomy, and got his B.Litt. for a thesis
on the Federal Constitution. Lawyer
A. R. Downer, 29, son of knight John
Downer, one-time Premier, has an arts
degree in political science and a diploma
in economics.
Commissioner Robert C. Henry has
retired after 47 years’ service in the
Salvation Army. From Melbourne he
acted as territorial commander of the
four southern States. Scotch-born, he
came to Australia as a small boy and
enlisted under the Blood and Fire banner
in Queensland in ’93, later holding com-
mands in West Canada and West Indies.
With Mrs. Henry, who shared his duties,
he was given valedictory honor by Mel-
bourne City Council.
If “young Tom” Playford, of S
Australia —the youngest Premier in Aus-
tralia at 44—isn't a good politician, he
should be. Politics have been in the
blood for nearly a century. His grand-
father, “old Tom,” went into the S.A.
House of Assembly in 1868 at 31, was
in the Boucaut Ministry eight years later,
became Premier for the first time in ’B7
and was later Charlie Kingston’s
Treasurer, was a delegate to early Federal
conferences and was elected to the first
Senate. It was during his last Ministry
under Deakin, in charge of defence, that
the first worth-while schemes of Australian
naval defence were born. He lived to
see the R.A.N. at work during the last
war. “Young Tom” is the old man all
over, save for the beard, 6ft., rugged,
quiet and forceful. In private life he is
a fruit farmer —old Tom was a market
gardener in a substantial way. Young
Tom went to the war at 19 in the ranks
of the 27th Battalion —Archie Cameron
was with the same lot —and earned a
commission. He went into the House
PREMIER PLAYFORD, of S.A.
(Modelled by Frith.)
for Gumeraka in 1933 as a Liberal C.P.
man and earned a portfolio by 1938, the
same year succeeding R. L. Butler as
Premier and Treasurer. He has a good
financial brain and a cool head, and
would be a useful man in Federal politics.
W. A. Freeman is a Sydney lawyer
whose imagination and energies have
taken him into activities far away from
the atmosphere of the courts. He
delved into mining per medium of
Austral-Malay Tin, was in Bulolo Gold
and Placer Development at the infant
stage, and has latterly been very active
W. A. FREEMAN.
in the affairs of Oil Search, Ltd. Not-
withstanding his long association with
the law, mining and the racecourse (he
ran the unlucky Silver Standard), Free-
man is known to his friends as a kindly,
approachable soul whose arteries have
never hardened sufficiently to stop his
having a flutter in a new venture, how-
ever risky, provided he is attracted by
the underlying idea.
The first parson to enlist for Arma-
geddon on the fighting side of the ser-
vices in Victoria is Rev. A. D. Page, who
goes into camp as a transport driver.
He is 38 and vicar at Mitcham.
A landmark of the M.L. civil service
for years beyond memory, Col. J. J.
Esson, has died at 71. He was born at
Picton (M.L.), entered the postal ser-
vice as a cadet, and later in life was
transferred to the Treasury, of which he
became Secretary in 1916, then Financial
Adviser, then chairman of the Rural
Credits Board. He served in the 1914-18
war, was mentioned in dispatches on
Gallipoli, was Colonel Commandant of
the N.Z.E.F. in Egypt, and won a C.M.G.
for his services. He succeeded Lord
Bledisloe as G.M. of the Grand Lodge
of N.Z. Freemasons.
William John Simkin, Anglican
Bishop-elect of Auckland (M.L.), was a
solicitor before he heard a call, and he
has applied his legal training to the,mas-
tering of ecclesiastical law, on which he
is an authority. His interest in church
history has resulted in several published
works. He has long occupied as a home
a very fine old house originally erected
for Bishop Selwyn. Some earlier occu-
pant had altered the hexagon-shaped
rooms, but Simkin restored the design as
far as possible.
“El V.”: Some things make me grin
even in these hard times—for instance,
the rejoicing of our daily press about the
disappearance of the “old school tie” from
British politics. Churchill comes from
Harrow and Sandhurst; Attlee, the Labor
leader, from Haileybury and University
College, Oxford; John Anderson, the
Home Secretary, from Watsons, which is
about the leading Scottish public school;
Halifax is Eton and the aristocratic
Christ Church, Oxford; Eden, ditto;
Duff Cooper, Eton; Sinclair, Eton and
Sandhurst. Anyway, I’d like to see a few
more school-tie men at the top —say
Wellington (Eton) and Palmerston
(Harrow).


GET BEHIND THE MEN
BEHIND THE GUNS
-MT**!*
V
m
*.r:
:0a
m
s>m
m
wr>
.■ i.
O'*.'?*.
tmk
BBS
M
M
SMI
I*
MV
x
&
1
mmm
m
m
%
85.®
Mi
II
Mr
-***£
r-y
m
M
pSVffi*
•W«V>;3v< ‘
I % %
K**r
. «
saw
M&rt
O^-in
'rt-J
■< ■
(i^
X
-VMV *
t ■ i. >;
RHY 5 WILLIAMS
.Vi
v .V
#5
a
iV
V€
Lodge your subscription
with any Bank, Money
Order Post Office, or Stock-
broker. Interest 2f% f° r 5
years, for 10-16 years.
The Loan is an authorised
Trustee investment.
WE must dedicate ourselves, our possessions and our
energies, without limit, to winning this war. We
must produce arms, equipment and supplies, without limit.
Let us fight for all we have, and are—with all we have,
and are.
Events overseas have provided an irresistible appeal, stronger
than any words could possibly stimulate, for support of
the War Loan. The Loan represents an investment of
loyalty for enriching the national war strength. Every citizen
should help, according to his or her means, in building up
the country’s sinews of war. If sacrifices are involved,
they will be worthy of the cause for which we are fighting
to-day. It is essential that this Loan be fully subscribed.
Treasurer.
AU S T
wa'R i
Closes not later than 14th June, 1940.
RAMAN
PAN
£20,000,000


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat was alone in the
hut one night when three large and
truculent bagmen arrived, dropped their
swags and made themselves at home.
They ate Mat’s tucker, smoked his
tobacco and conveyed by speech and
gesture that they intended staying the
night, and he could suffer their presence
peaceably or have war if he wanted it.
Obviously overawed by numbers and size,
Mat offered no opposition, but fell into
a brown study. One of the gang noticed
his silence and said “What are y’ thinkin’
about?” Mat gave him a horror-stricken
look of doubt. “I dunno,” he said ; “I
had the sugar and strychnine we’re
poisonin’ rabbits —mixed in one tin an’
the sugar on its own in another and”
His popping eyes went to the sugar tin
on the table at which they’d eaten, and
he gave a jump and grabbed at his
stomach. “I’m orf into town t’ the
doctor,” he yelled, and bolted through
the door. He stopped behind the hay-
stack, grinned as three figures raced past
him towards the town, then went back,
heaved out the swags, barred the door
and went to bunk.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Asked to imitate a
goanna, a well-known Australian bird-
and-animal radio mimic gave a sort of
outsize snake hiss. Usually the mimic
is good, but he should go and watch
some big go. swell its neck and let out
the low roar so familiar to outbackers.
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: Observing logs pass-
ing through the saws I have been struck
by one peculiar difference between Aus-
tralian hardwoods and the softwoods
from the Northern Hemisphere. With the
latter fresh growth, such as branches,
originates right in the heart of the tree,
the sprouts pushing their way out through
the mother wood. To enable them to
do this such sprouts are endowed with
an extreme hardness, few woods being
harder than the knots in a deal board.
With our hardwoods sprouting starts in
the sapwood on the outside just under
the bark. Thus the hardwood twig is
soft and springy compared with the
mother wood. The fact that northern
softwoods have to battle through in-
tense cold accounts for their peculiar
faculty, the young life originating where
it is best protected. On the other hand,
Australian hardwoods originate such life
just under the bark, where flows the
fullest stream of sap essential to the
birth of the twig. The query of the
foregoing is: Will acclimatised northern
softwoods within a few generations bend
to the influences that moulded our hard-
woods, tend towards the elimination of
heart-sprouting in favor of sapwood
sprouting, thus producing an Australian
softwood naturally free from knots?
* * * *
“X.S.”: An old fraud has been revived
in the Victorian Mallee. It is being
worked by two suave gentlemen in a
dilapidated Ford, who have taken on their
shoulders the task of inspecting tanks
“ I’d join up like a flash, dearie, but I don't think them hats would suit me."
for the Government and, if considered
necessary, purifying the water for health
reasons, charging anything up to 50 bob
for the service. The average Mallee
farmer and his missus are so accustomed
to being tyrannised over by inspectors
of all sorts that one more or less doesn’t
seem out of the question. So, when last
heard of, the enterprising pair were
thudding across the landscape, well ahead
of detection and apprehension, collecting
a respectable income. After they have
passed the cocky finds that the decon-
taminating substance they have put in
his tank consists of washing blue, and
his language partakes of the same hue.
* * * *
“J. Nigel”: Those city folk scared stiff
by the call of a night-owl (B. 8/ 5/’4O)
were in good company. Once came upon
a party of elegant caravanners almost
hysterical at the cries coming over the
dark night waters near Flinders Bay,
south-west W.A. One voice was dis-
tinctly feminine, while the other wail was
certainly infantile. Pinned to the land,
they were desperately certain that murder
was being done just beyond their vision
out on the sea. Several fancied that
they could faintly discern the dark bulk
of a vessel of some sort. They were
still doubtful when assured that it was
only a family of seals out on the reef.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: My experience with
camels convinced me that they are much
like other animals, not excluding humans.
Some are naturally vicious and bite for
sheer fun. Cows are invariably quiet
enough ; it is the bulls that are the biters,
and then mostly when feeling the urge
that led Adam astray. One early morn-
ing in the mulga I was roused from my
blankets by wild shouting, to see
Abdullah breaking even time for a clump
of mulga with Tarl, the big bull, only a
couple of necks behind. It was a good
race, with Abdul a bare winner. Safe
among the tree trunks where Tarl’s snake-
like neck couldn’t reach him, Abdul
broke off a fair-sized waddy and got to
work, starting with a good one on the
oont’s nose. Inside 10 minutes he and
old Mahomet had the big bull pegged
down. They then proceeded to dose
him with a peculiar medicine (prescrip-
tion given on receipt of stamped,
addressed envelope). For hours after
Tarl was violently ill; he might have
been seasick by the look of him. Next
morning his was a chastened spirit, and
he readily “hooshta’d” up when the ropes
were taken off.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: lat one time swung a
sledge for an old-time farrier who, g.ven
a sufficiency of sole leather, would under-
take to shoe a horse in the reverse (B.
17/4/’4O). First he blinded the frog with
a thin sheet, covering the whole hoof,
then built up with heavy leather to suit
his fine judgment, finishing with thin
shoes or slippers, fastened with extra-
long nails which he forged specially for
the job.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: I did not claim
that the whole of our native animals
were invariably silent under pain (B.
22/5/’4O). I said there were exceptions,
and cited the kangaroo-rat and possum
as occasionally departing from what
appears to be a general rule. As to the
koala, which I “carefully omitted to
mention,” being addicted to “kicking up
a row when in the throes,” I take it that
“Feathers” refers to the throes of love,
as no animal in the bush kicks up a
greater row than the mating koala. I
have seen hundreds of “bears” die
violent deaths, but none of these was
at all vociferous in the throes of disso-
lution. “F.” does not, and cannot, truth-
fully deny what I stated relative to the
dingo, kangaroo, wombat, wallaby and
native cat, and to these I now add the
wallaroo, flying squirrel, water rat,
platypus and porcupine. The Tasmanian
“devil” makes no outcry when caught in
the jaws of a trap or when attacked by
dogs, and I have seen a Tasmanian
“wolf” (thylacine) worried to death by
a staghound without emitting a single
yelp.
* * * *
“Bufo”: Lying still amongst the
struggling mullet in the bunt of the net
was a dumpy dark-colored ray about
18 inches long. Its short, clumsy tail was
stingless and its stern looked as if it
had been partially bitten off. Bill grabbed
it to throw it out, leaped a good three
feet into the atmosphere, and emitted a
flow of finest Australian vernacular,
rubbing his arm the while. “Cripes!”
he growled. “The blankard gave me a
kick like a spark-plug!” It had, too,
for Hypnarce subnigra, the numbfish,
runs to high voltages. The electric
organs are really highly modified muscles
in which the electric potentials are linked
up in series like a high-tension battery.
The fish uses them to stun its prey and
for self-defence. Australia has three
species of electric ray. About 20 kinds
of rays, bony fishes and eels are known
to possess electric organs of varying
degrees of power.
* * * *
“Bleary” Bill, who inhabits
a W.Q. town, has his own way of getting
a “shout.” An independent chap, Bill
wouldn’t dream of humming a drink.
Instead, he approaches the stranger in a
friendly manner and quickly turns the
conversation to physical jerks. “It’s great
to feel fit,” says Bill. “Look at me —
over fifty and I can still kick my hat
off my head.” The fish invariably bites.
“Goon!” “Yair! Betcha a pot I can! ”
says Bill. He’s taken. A graceful swing
of Bill’s limb and off goes his lid. The
stranger registers surprise, and a minute
later Bill’s pink beak is deep in the foam-
ing mug. It’s betting on a cert., for
Bill is double-jointed in the hips. In two
years I have never seen him miss his hat
even after a dozen drinks.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: That the mistletoe is
spreading. in various parts of Australia
seems true enough, but I doubt if the
mistletoe-bird is solely to blame. Rated
by ornithologists as a somewhat rare
species, this wee habitant of the treetops
appears to be no more abundant now
than it was in pre-settlement days. I
don’t deny that Dicceum does spread
the parasite, but not to the extent gener-
ally suggested. In any case, I for one
would hate the job of hunting down
mistletoe-birds. Their relative rarity,
their smallness and their arboreal habits
would render the task tough enough, but
I’m thinking mainly of the beauty of the
male —a lovely little symphony in red
and blue. To hunt this gem with any
enthusiasm one would, I should think,
need the instincts of a Himmler. Inci-
dentally, the mistletoe-bird is probably
our most skilled nest-builder. The small,
suspended, domed structure woven by
that effective little beak is a masterpiece
as soft and pliable as felt.
# * * *
“D.C.”: Always understood that wood
took an aeon or two to fossilise. In a
creek here (Coleraine, Vic.), pieces of
stone are recognisable as blocks put down
■ for a woolshed something over 70 years
ago. The creek tastes strongly of lime.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Turning over some notes from
far-back days of seafaring, I came across
the prescription for Mistura Diaboli,
that reliable specific for malingering
among mariners. The ingredients com-
prise asafoetida to supply the odor, gum
arabic to make it stick well to the tonsils,
ipecacuanha to cause it to “back up”
frequently, aloes to improve the taste,
senna to provide a proper grip, rhubarb
to ensure a realising sense that it is con-
stantly there, and castor oil to lend a
helping hand all round to the other items.
Made up as an emulsion in White House
mixture, it is administered in sufficient
separate doses under the personal super-
vision of the physician to arouse in the
patient a fervent desire either to get back
to work or to die before he gets another
one. One dose is usually ample, and
the effect lasts for the duration of the
voyage—even longer should he ship
again with the same surgeon. Like the
elephant, he never forgets.
THE LAST PIKER.
I drank when the dusk was deepening where
our legions drank of old,
As the moon came over the mountains and
mirrored the pool with gold;
The dews were brightening the bluegrass where
our brave battalions grazed,
And I saw my face in the water, and my eyes
were old and glazed.
Now the white hairs show on my forehead
that once was red as the morn,
And the scales that the years have left me are
clustered on hoof and horn;
The scars of a thousand battles are thick on
my neck and head,
But the splendid strength of my muscles has
fled as the years have fled.
We knew all the spring’s gay glories, and the
autumns bright as flame,
And the burnished gold of the summers —be-
fore the stockmen came;
Then savagely through our dominions the days
of the war began,
The war of the longhorn sabre and the yards
and the guns of man.
I was as fast as their horses and I ran the gale
of their guns;
As I made for the rockbound gorges I ran as
the red dog runs,
Far back where the peaks loom highest and the
vista spreads to the sea,
And I lived alone in the ranges as free as the
clouds are free.
One night when the hills were quiet and the
Cross in the south was gold
I travelled the tracks past the foothills my
sires had known of old,
For, rocked by a restless fury, I had vowed on
the mountain side —
They had taken my comrades from me —I
would hate them until I died.
I ravaged their white-faced heifers, I scattered
their mobs in the night,
And I slashed their bulls into ribbons wherever
they stood to fight;
How often they sought to trap me! And, oh,
but revenge was sweet—
There are graves out there on the pasture where
the plain and scrubline meet.
Then never a gold day. waked in the east
or a blue night died,
But somewhere a trace of my vengeance was
found on the pastures wide;
It was often a good horse crippled and some-
times a stockman dead,
Then my longhorns crashed in the timber as
red as the dawn was red.
But I drank tonight in the twilight whem our
legions drank of old
As the moon came over the mountains and
flooded the pool with gold,
And my old eyes shone in the water as wan as
the setting sun,
And I know that the end is coming, that the
last mad race is run.
The high grass ripples around me and the
holes are full in the creak,
And the drought is a thing forgotten, but my
limbs are old and weak,
And so I must go with the dawn far away
where the eagles go,
And my bones will gleam in the ranges snow-
white when the wild winds blow.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


“Old-timer”: Sandalwood Flat had
gathered to welcome a new doctor, but
he failed to appear. It was fairly cold,
and a crowd had collected round the
billiard-room fire in the pub, talking over
the non-appearance and absorbing quan-
tities of spirituous liquor. In walked a
well-dressed stranger who, in a cultivated
English voice, addressed us. “I say, I
really should have been here this morn-
ing, you know, but was stopped on the
way and taken to see a sick man. Acute
appendicitis, by Jove. Nothing for it but
to operate then and there. Made me
late.” It was the new doctor and, after
inquiries as to the identity and state of
the patient, we proceeded to give him
a good old bush welcome. One thing
led to another, and some time about
midnight the usual nark drunk loudly
doubted the newcomer’s ability even to
lance a fistula. Without a word the doc.
stalked to the billiard-table, brushed aside
the players, took a piece of chalk and
drew a ground elevation of the human
body, marking in the main gadgets. Then
he whipped out a pocket-knife, slit the
cloth, and shoved a matchbox under it
in the approximate position of the appen-
dix. He went through the motions of
washing his hands, slipping on rubber
gloves, etc., ordered Dusty Sam to give
the anaesthetic, and proceeded to operate.
He had just removed the match-box
when Bung, eyeing his wrecked table,
burst into loud protests. Up rose the
now-admiring nark, fell on Bung and
shoved him outside, roaring “Shut up,
y’ blanker. Man’sh life at shtake an’ you
come in here bellyachin’ about y’ flamin’
billyaish-table! Gerrout, an’ shtay out!”
After that the operation proceeded to its
triumphant conclusion.
* * * *
“2LX”: Foals are like pups; they
love a game, and in their curiosity they
will pick up anything and play with it.
The trouble often is that, in their excite-
ment, they forget to let go again. Saw
a mob coming to water with their
mothers. One full-blooded little chap
was nosing about the camp. He picked
up an old pair of trousers, gripping it
by the waist. When he shook his head
those flapping legs frightened him. He
commenced to gallop. The end of that
section was that brown fellow going for
the lick of his life, fear lending him
pace, and a leg of the strides stretching
out on each side of his neck, flapping
his shoulders, while his anxious old ma
called her anxiety and wondered what
the blazes had affected her fool of a
baby.
* * * *
“Plus Fours”: Recent wreck of the
Holyman freighter Wannon off the Ulver-
stone harbor on the Speck’s n.-w. coast
may be a blessing in disguise, although
another shipping company has since put
the port on the black list. Bill and 1
went out fishing near this spot t’other
day, and the many rock cod, flathead and
gummy we landed spat flour and raisins
all over us until we looked like second-
hand cook’s assistants. We had evidently
put down right
over the
Wannon’s cargo.
The news soon
got abroad, and a
fish-cannery co. is
being formed for
marketing the
flour- and raisin-
fed fish. Anglers
are now flocking to Ulverstone, accom-
modation is fully taxed and 83-year-old
Tom Horsham is taking out 10 more
motor licenses to cope with the rush.
No flour is required in the cooking of
this product, as the inwards and out-
wards are floured to a nicety. And fish-
ing is easy, too, for the cod that got at
the self-raising flour are being gaffed on
the surface.
* * * • *
“Thorn”: Old Woolbales asked the
storekeeper for a couple of pounds of
cheese. “None of y’r soapy stuff. I
want somethin’ old with a bite in it. ’
“That’s the oldest cheese in the country,”
the grocer said as he showed him some
greenish-hued stuff. “Cripes, that don't
look so very old,” Woolbales remarked.
“There ain’t any jumpers in it, and I
reckon cheese isn’t old until it’s crawling
with ’em.” “It was crawlin’ with jumpers
a few years ago,” the storekeeper told
him, “but they all died of old age.”
**. * *
“Wang”: The queerest case I ever
knoo of a bloke bein’ knocked orf the
booze,” remarked Dan, “was Mick
Dooley’s. His wife threatened Mick that
if he didn’t ease up usin’ his trotters on
her when he got tanked, she’d saw them
orf him when he wasn’t able t’ help
hisself. One night Mick gets pickled up
at Ryan’s pub; ’e’s fightin’ drunk, so
Ryan tells me if I don’t take him home
he’ll get the John. Mick’s .house is
in darkness when we arrive; the
front an’ back doors are locked. Then
I spots a winder round the back with
the bottom half propped up, shoves
Mick through it an’ hoofs it back t’ the
pub, quick. An hour or so later I m on
my way home past Mick’s place when I
hear moans cornin’ from round the back.
I hurry round, an’ find Mick
outa the winder with his hands holdin’
his body up. He spots me, an’ yelps,
‘Help me, Dan, fer the love of Hivin.
That damn’ woman’s done it.’ ‘Done
what?’ I ses. ‘What she said she’d do ;
“Mr. Higgins Wont see no one without an appointment .”
“You see they Want petrol for the War, so I've parked my car for the time
being. One must do one's bit, you know.
sawed me feet orf. She wus inside waitin’
fer me, an’ grabbed me jest as I wus
duckin’ out agen through the winder!’
The pore coot’s pretty well sober be
now, an’ shiverin’ with fright. I rush
up, an’ push up the winder sash what has
fallen across the back of his ankles, an’
he drops on the ground in a faint. I’m
jist goin’ t’ see what I can do fer him
when Mrs. Mick comes on the scene, an’
has a word or two with me. An’ —well,
up t’ the time I left the districk Mick
wus a t.t. an’ mighty civil to his
missus always.”
* * * *
“Harry N.”: We tracked the queerly-
patterned bicycle-tyre mark from the edge
of the beach and across the sloping side
of a sandhill for a quarter-mile until
we found the “cyclist,” a scaly, grey
beetle, about 3in. long and a quarter-
inch in breadth, and possessing a set of
double-jointed legs that produced the
“tyre-track” effect with remarkable speed.
But even more remarkable was the
straightness of the track. In over 400
yards the scaly and rather repulsive-
looking beastie hadn’t veered a whisker
from the n.-w. course he had set.
* * * *
“Colbun”: As was recently remarked
in these columns, things do change. A
century and a half ago British newcomers
to Australia described it in their letters
home as the poorest of countries, isolated
for ever from civilisation by distance
and raging seas, destitute of natural
fruits, with no animals except dingoes
and kangaroos, savage barbarian natives,
an unproductive soil and an unendurable
climate. The other day I came across
a description of another country by a
previous writer-home. It also was isolated
for ever by distance and rough seas,
with no animals but wolves, no edible
fruits, great monotonous gloomy forests,
treacherous savage inhabitants, and a
climate to be dreaded worse than death
itself. That was a soldiering friend of
Virgil, writing from England to him in
Rome some 18 centuries before the First
Fleet anchored in Sydney Cove.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Old salts not infrequently
maintain that an unholy alliance exists
between the thrasher shark and the killer
whale for the destruction of the harm-
less humpback and others of the baleen
tribe. Crossing the wide mouth of Ex-
mouth Gulf, north-west W.A., we came
within sight of just such a marine
murder; so frantic the whale that the
sea for a thousand yards around was
beaten white with foam. Also, as is so
often the case with sea combats, it was
difficult to see precisely what was hap-
pening. The huge thrasher appeared to
be lying on the humpback’s head, its
vast flippers rising and falling like the
sails of an oversize windmill. “It’s
battering the whale’s head, trying to stun
it, and the killers’ll be underneath cutting
its throat and tearing at its lips to get
at the tongue,” the skipper explained.
Round and round the whale flung itself
endeavoring to shake off its tormentors,
the area of yeast-like water constantly
spreading. Suddenly it made a desperate
effort and seemed to get away, racing
towards our schooner. Hurriedly the
skipper put about. “It’s no novelty to
me, and I don’t want ’em around my
ship.” Then the humpback appeared to
change its mind again, tail elevated as it
sounded. “That’s the end of it,” said
the skipper; “water’s shallow here and
a whale needs at least two hundred feet,
otherwise it cracks its head on the bottom
and is out.” We saw none of the com-
batants again; the sea is like that —
man seldom sees the finis of its dramas.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Can’t endorse “N.
Sylvester’s” views re the disadvantages
of drinking water while working in heat
(B. 15/5/’4O). The hottest game I know
is repairing the paving in bakers’ ovens ;
and I always make a practice of drinking
copiously while on the job. Lying on
your stomach, propelling yourself around
per forearms and toes, in a space vary-
ing from lOin. to 22in. between floor and
dome, could hardly be classed as ideal
working conditions at any time; but
when the pyrometer registers 250 deg.
on the cool side of the oven, and a bare
arm slipping off the protecting bags or
a shoulder touching the dome means a
burn —not to mention the likelihood of
blistered lips from the fumes that rise
off the hot sand when a tile is prised
up—a fellow develops a cynical attitude
towards the alleged torments of the
hereafter. After a 10-minute shift (and
to attempt longer is to court collapse), a
bloke will not only drink all the water he
can swallow; he will literally wallow in
it. I once took off 121 b. weight in less
than five hours; then went home and,
by soaking in a warm bath for an hour
and drinking all the water I wanted
during the night, replaced 51b. of the
evaporated weight by the morning!
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A thin, quiet little chap
dumped Matilda at the camp from which
20 men were clearing a future highway
through the N.Q. rain jungle, and asked
if there was any work for a barber.
With payday close ahead and whiskers
sprouting densely, he received a my-
blanky-oath affirmative and a meal to get
him going. Dexterously he plied his
trade through the early afternoon, saying
no word but smiling sweetly as each
new neck was bared to the razor. Hair-
cutting obviously bored him, but shaving
was clearly his hobby. When Charlie,
the cook, last on the list, told him that
he’d better camp the night now that he’d
done such a good job for saving the
girls’ complexions on Saturday, he grew
indignant, packed his tools of trade and
departed surlily, muttering something
about having been taken down. Next
morning he was back —in handcuffs and
accompanied by two mounted policemen,
who explained that he had cut the throat
of an unlucky farmer up the river.
Charlie, always kindhearted, got them to
loose the bracelets while he gave the
little chap a pannikin of tea. “Thanks,
mate,” said the barber as he returned
the mug. “Sorry about yesterday.
Meant to do the dinkum job fer the last
of youse blokes, only I lorst count.
HOGS FOR COMFORT.
“Too few pig-farmers appreciate the necessity of
keepino- baconers and porkers warm and comfortable
in the’winter if they are to obtain the best results.-
m —N.S. W. piggery expert.
The older way of casually letting
“Tammies” and Berks and Durocs and the
rest
Snooze anywhere at all and chance their getting
The “screws,” or p’raps a weakness m the
chest, . t . c
Is gone. For breeding now is scientific;
Who scorns the newer way will come a thud.
It’s looked upon as something quite horrific
To see a grunter lolling with pacific
Ease in the slushy mud.
They’ve “sleeping quarters” now for Jane and
Nellie;
No fighting for the possies in the pen.
And as for getting comfortably smelly— _
That’s something that they’ll not emoy aeam.
The sow must ne’er get trotters wet —they truck
her . , . ,
From one yard to the next, despite her wish
To waddle there; and when it’s time for tucker
Each of the family, from boar to sucker,
Eats from a spotless dish.
You who may hope to breed an outsize porker
The sight of which will wring from fanciers’
lips
A warmly eulogistic “What a corker!
Look after it, and heed an expert s tips.
To doss in cosy bed-socks you may let her;
And is it then perhaps too fanciful
To visualise a sow clad in a sweater
And (if you feel you really want to pet her)
A scarf of four-ply wool?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Have you made
a Will?
Sometimes there is hesitation in making a Will
because it is regarded as a final and irrevocable
step. But a Will may be altered or changed com-
pletely any number of times during the life of its
maker. In these uncertain times it is more than
ever important that everyone possessing property
should make a Will and appoint an Executor who
will not die or leave the country.
In all cases it is advisable to engage the services
of a solicitor, and, in appointing The Trustees
Executors & Agency Company Ltd. as Executor,
you avail yourself of the services of Australia’s
oldest trustee company. It has more than 61 years’
practical experience in estate administration and
offers adequate security for the faithful per-
formance of its duties.
Write for free explanatory booklet.
The Trustees Executors
and igency Company Ltd.
1 Bligh St., Sydney 401 Collins St., Melbourne
Capital (paid a,nd uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided
Profits, £961,115.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray. John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Grn. Manager: W, Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH • Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equit bly Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The [?]
COLUMN
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
To Re-_ Re-
March, Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 247,946 10 p.c. = 150,000 97,946 1,319,450
1931.. 241,946 10 „ ~150,000 91,675 1,411,125
1932.. 185,973 10 „ ~ 150,000 35,973 1,447,098
1933.. 219,416 10 „ ~150,000 69,416 1,516,514
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,491,514
Staff bonus, £20,000 .. .. 1,471,514
1934.. 222,988 10 p.c. = 150,000 72,988 1,544,502
Written off plantations, £25,000 .. 1,519,502
1935.. 212,362 10 p.c. = 150,000 62,362 1,581,864
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,556,864
1936.. 234,474 10 p.c. = 150,000 84.474 1,641,338
Written off plantations, £25,000. . 1,616,338
1937.. 244,149 10 p.c. = 150,000 94,149 1.710,487
1938.. 261,725 10 ~,, 156,250 1 Q , , 7 , , RO5 q 69
To Staff Fund, £lO,OOO j 95,475 1,805,96.
1939.. 290,286 10 p.c. = 181,250 109,036 1,914,998
1940. . 294,430 10 ~ ~ 200,000 1 400 1 qqq 49s
To staff fund, £lO,OOO j 84,430 1,999,428
For the last 21 years shareholders have
had a steady 10 p.c. p.a., sweetened
with occasional bonus-share and par
issues of scrip. Here is a brief history
of the capital account since 1911:
, Share Issue
Bonus. Cash. Paid Capital.
1911 .. £50,000 ‘ £350,000
1912 . . 350,000 700,000
1913 .. 52,500 £47,500 800,000
1914 .. 40,000 160,000 1,000,000
1916 . . • 50,000 1,050,000
1919 .. 100,000 100,000 1,250,000
1927 . . 125,000 1,375,000
1928 . . 125,000 1,500,000
1938 . . 500,000 2,000,000
Of the £1,650,000 added to capital since
1911, £592,500 has been provided from
reserves and the balance has been put
up by shareholders at par. The last
£125,000 of the par issue in 1938 came
in during the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts. Since the scrip has
always commanded a high premium in
the market, par issues have been in
the nature of bonuses to shareholders.
Also, when the books last closed the
share capital was visibly supported and
assisted by £1,999,428 of reserves, so
the two combined need turn in only a
shade over 5 p.c. to cover 10 p.c. on
share capital alone. And the position is
even more attractive than it looks. Since
1920 over £2,400,000 (£560,000-odd more
than the figure at which freeholds and
shipping properties now appear) has been
struck off for depreciation ; in addition
special allowances totalling £lOO,OOO were
written off the book value of plantations
during the four years to the end of
March, 1936. Thty are all encouraging
factors when considering a long-term
investment for what look like difficult
years ahead. .
Last term a new branch was
opened at Darwin, and should do
very well, and there was all-round ex-
pansion in the merchandising section of
the business. The Bulolo, a motor-vessel
built for the Papua and New Guinea
trade, was taken over by the Imperial
Government for war purposes, and the
Montoro was put on the run again, after
being reconditioned. The spring in the
year’s gross earnings was £37,753:
Gross 1930. 1932. 1939. 1940.
earnings.. £780,855 £700,915 £1,246,228 £1,284,081
Exes. .. 412,907 392,761 827,159 845,020
Balance .. £367,948 £308,154 £419,069 £439,061
Depreciation,
etc. .. 136,017 105,747 167,925 178,440
Profit
claimed. £231,931 £202,407 £251,144 £260,621
Reserve
movements*+ 16,015 —16,434 +39,142 +33,809
Net per
table .. £247,946 £185,973 £290,286 £294,430
* Unexplained additions (+ ) and reductions ( —).
Increased wage and other costs, including
taxation and war-risk insurance, bumped
up exes. After allowing an extra
£10,515 for depreciation and bad-account
losses, and for an unexplained addition
of £33,809 to reserves, the visible net
result (up £4144) was 14.7 p.c. on capital
as against 16, 16.7 and 16.2 p.c. for the
three preceding terms and an average of
14.2 p.c. for the half-dozen years before
that. The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and
£lO,OOO was passed to the staff fund,
leaving £84,430 to lay by.
Here is a glimpse of the solid financial
structure:
1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. £1,500,000 £1,875,000 £2,000,000
Liabilities . . 1,717,049 1,992,789 1,863,652
Properties and
shipping . . 1,326,770 1,758,140 1,841,340
Investments, etc.. . 1,693,218 1,760,373 1,752,687
Stocks, advances,
etc 1,060,015 1,185,302 1,125,025
Book debts . . 823,716 1,004,311 1,073,233
Casll • • • • 98,816 108,410 180,795
The new capital that came in last term,
together with a net reduction of £60,277
in advances, etc., and the year’s surplus
earnings enabled £129,137 to be clipped
off the debt, £83,200 to be added to fixed
assets, £68,922 to debtors’ balances and
£12,385 to cash. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus
(£2,268,088) was £142,481.
On published figures neither the war-
time excess-profits nor the undistributed-
profits tax affects the co. But the pub-
lished accounts are not the figures on
which the taxgatherer bases his calcula-
tions. Still, there is a wide margin be-
tween disclosed net earnings and dis-
tributions, and, though costs and taxes
can be expected to continue on the up-
grade, there is nothing at the moment to
suggest that the 10 p.c. div. is likely
to be interfered with during the current
term.
At 51s. 6d. the pound shares, visibly
covered by 395. lid. in net tangibles,
return 3.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Nominal
Bee., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929'.. 130,021 14 p.c. = 114,379 15,642 210,730
1930.. 102,022 104 „ „ 85,784 16,238 226,968
1931.. 73,925 8 „ „ 65,359 8,566 235,534
1932.. 70,900 8 „ „ 65,359 5,541 241,075
1933.. 73,798 8 „ „ 65,359 8.439 249,514
1934.. 75,314 9 „ „ 73,530 1,784 251,298
1935.. 87,880 10 „ „ 81,699 6,181 257,479
1936.. 106,787 12 „ „ 98,038 8,749 266,228
1937.. 135,090 15 „ ~ 122.549 12.541 278,769
1938.. 136,180 15 „ „ 122,549 13,631 292,400
Added reserves, £498.957 .. .. 791,357
1939.. 137,933 15 p.c. = 122,548 15,385 806,742
Consolidated accounts of Carlton and
Victoria Brewery, Carlton’s wholly-owned
subsidiary—the two between them con-
trol 32 p.c. of the issued capital of the
Carlton and United group of breweries
—have been presented for the first time ;
previously, they had been amalgamated
by the “Wild Cat” as far as discernible
from the published figures. In the pro-
cess £498,957 of reserves appears, mostly
accounted for by the paper entry
“Difference between par and appreciated
value of shares in subsidiary, £484,053.”
When C.U.B. made its one-for-two bonus-
scrip issue in 1934, Carlton took no
account of the gift in its books.
In Victoria beer consumption is now
well ahead of its pre-slump level. Though
competition comes from the Ballarat and
Richmond cos., C.U.B. has collared most
of the trade in its home State, and Vic-
toria Bitter and Foster’s Lager are also
well known and appreciated throughout
the N.S.W. Riverina, North Queensland,
Tasmania, the Islands and elsewhere.
Most of the brew, however, doesn’t get
a chance to cross the Victorian border,
where consumption has behaved this
way:
, Consumption s
Year to Sales, Gallons
June 30. Gallons. Gallons. per Head.
19'32.. 17,531,090 14,184,200 7.9
1933.. 18,060,730 14,063,700 7.8
1934.. 20,071,765 15,969,300 8.8
1935.. 21,327,523 16,958,500 9.3
1936.. 23,469,853 19,538,800 10.6
1937.. 24,837,399 20,750,800 11.2
1938.. 27,647,194 23,099,800 12.4
1939.. 23,555,700 12.5
Assisted by further outlay on hotels, thus
insulating itself against competitors,
C.U.B.’s net earnings attained the new
high level of £528,892 (up £35,224) for
the year to June 30, and 121 p.c. went
out for the third successive year. Fol-
lowing a rearrangement of accounts, the
board also brought £972,000 of inner
reserves from hiding for exhibition.
To the Victoria and o Carlton cos. the
121 P-c. was worth £116,037, or 14.2
p.c. on Carlton’s own share-register. Net
income from interest and hotel rentals
(£21,896) contributed another 1.9 p.c.
on capital, leaving the final result
visibly £1753 better at £137,933. Div.
was kept at 15 p.c. Considering that
Carlton’s equity in the undistributed
earnings of the operating co. represented
another 7 p.c. on Carlton capital, that
rate has a snug look, subject to economic
and other developments.
Combined funds of the Carlton and
Victoria cos. are spread this way:
1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. .. £810,992 £810,992 £810,952
Creditors . . . . 15,787 39,974 24,800
Suspense account . . 15,374 14,300
Hotels 119,002 157,287 157,202
Breweries . . . . 150,000 150,000 150,000
Furniture . . . . 137 9'3 81
Shares C.U.B. . . . . 031,704 031,704 1,115,757
Mortgages, etc... .. 237,881 273,103 205,375
Cash, etc 7,098 12,752 21,549
Outstanding feature there is the writing-
up of shareholdings already referred to.
Surplus earnings and the other £14,902
of reserves brought to light enabled
creditors and suspense accounts to be
reduced £29,468, while the £7788 of
mortgages repaid was retained in cash.
Book valuation of the 928,395 C.U.B.
shares is now 245., as against their net
tangible assets security of 28s. 9d.
At 60s. Carlton’s pound shares give
the solid-looking yield of 5 p.c. from
current 15 p.c. divs. Overseas troop
movements and dry canteens won’t help
the brewers, and costs are still going up
—the September 3d. a gallon excise lift
is being passed on —but Carlton’s div.
appears as well protected as any brewing
investment at present.
Selfridges (Australasia), Ltd.
Net Towards
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1935. . 352 Nil 352 6,688
Added intangibles, £3343 .. .. 10,031
1936.. 5,623 Nil 5623 4,408
Reserves.
Share reserve, £27,250 .. .. 22,842
Net addition intangibles, £6480 .. 16,362
1937.. 10,887 6 p.c. = 8904 1 7S! -
Written off intangibles, £560 J ’
Share premiums, £23,750 .. .. 41,535
Net addition share reserve, £13,750.. 55,285
Added intangibles, £2544 . . . . 52,741
Loss.
1938.. 21,773 4 p.c. = 7455 23,513
Added intangibles, £342 .. .. 23,171
1939.. 20,981 Nil 2,190
Deficit.
Share reserve deducted asset, £41,000 38,810
Profit.
1940.. 18,728 Nil 20,082
The control was changed in August, 1938,
after a shareholders’ investigation com-
mittee had reported. The new board
has produced very heartening results
in a surprisingly short time, despite
many difficulties. Among the legacies
inherited were depleted finances, owing
partly to investments in subsidiaries,
whose scrip carried substantial call
liabilities; a commitment of £31,158
in respect of new cash-registers—the
old ones were reported to be operat-
ing satisfactorily ; excessive and, in some
cases, badly bought stocks; some badly
situated shop units taken on long lease ;
a distracted staff; and two subsidiaries,
one in Maoriland and the other in West-
ralia, neither of which was earning
profits.
Before the close of accounts in 1939
redundant stocks, or most of them, were
cleared, and the parent co., as well as
the two subsidiaries, is now on a profit-
earning basis. Two new stores, one at
Leichhardt and the other at Rockdale,
have been added to the chain, being
taken over from Ravens, Ltd. (in liq.);
but some of the old leases already re-
ferred to remain a drag on the business,
efforts to sell them having failed. Also,
payment of a further £lO,OOO in respect
of cash-registers, calls amounting to
£5950 on shares held in the W.A. co.,
and payment of a sum of £2219 in settle-
ment of compensation claims by two
former managing directors didn’t make
the problem of finance any easier, either
—stocks had to be bought, both from
local and overseas sources, as they be-
came available, if advantage was to be
taken of current prices.
However, turnover stepped up £55,658
to £708,851, partly on account of the
two new stores opened. Another
encouraging feature is that gross profit


O.S.K. LINE
OSAKA SYOSEN KAISYA
BUSINESS MEN AND TOURISTS
should travel by
NEW, FAST MOTOR VESSELS
to
JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA and AFRICA
Also Special Round the World Trip
European Cuisine and Accommodation
For Particulars, Fares, etc., apply
BIRT AND COMPANY (PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
8W1421.
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman).
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman).
Owen E. Friend.
Robert J. A. Massie. Geoffrey F. Hughes.
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices Throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
SPECIAL FEATURES
of the DIRECTORS’ REPORT pre.entsd at the
ANNUAL MEETING
Held Wednesday, 29th May, 1940, at 2.1 5 p.tn., at the Offices of the Society, No. 316 Collins Street, Melbourne, C. 1
RECORD SURPLUS
RECORD PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS
... 66,655
New Policies issued during the year •• •.•; ,* ‘ ':j '‘* ’ ’j o- i
Assuring (excluding term assurances for Guaranteed Income Policies, and Accident an ic ness 642
Benefits) 4,927,722
Total Income for 1939 1,061,809
Interest Income 2 013,910
Total Payments to Policyholders during 1939 ’ 88l' 727
Total Surpluses j 135,207
Special Reserves for Contingencies 25 404!524
Total Funds as at 31st December, 1939 ’
CONTINUED ECONOMY.—The percentage of Renewal Premium lnc °™ e of the Ord inar y Department absorbed
in Expenses (excluding Taxation and Self-charged Rent) was only 8.473 p.c.
PURELY MUTUAL —NO SHAREHOLDERS
all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the Policyholders only.
INTEREST EARNED, ALL DEPARTMENTS, £4/8/9%
PAID TO POLICYHOLDERS SINCE INCEPTION £30,758,836.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to render exceptional service to the assuring pub
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND PRINCIPAL, OFFICERS:
The Hon. Sir HARRY LAWSON, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
ARTHUR BONVILLE WERE. J.P.
General Sir HARRY CHAUVEL, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.
Sir DALZIEL KELLY, LL.B.
ALEX. COOCH, J.P.
General Manager: CECIL B. HEARN, F.C.I.S.
Secretary i A. H. JOHNS, A.I.A.
WHITE, M.D.,
F.R.A.C.P.
EOCAE BOARDS OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS:
NEW SOUTH WALES, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Directors: Sir SYDNEY SNOW. K.8.E., Chairman; Sir
KELSO KING; ALLEN C. LEWIS, Assoc. Inst. C.E.; Sir
GRAHAM WADDELL, K.8.E., M.L.C.
Manager: JOHN ANDERSON.
Consulting Medical Officer: A. MAITLAND GLEDDEN, M.D.
(Brux.), F.Ii.C.S. (Edin.), M.R.C.S. (Eng.) L.R.C.P.
(Lond.). '■
WESTERN AUSTRALIA. St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Directors: H. B. JACKSON, K.C., Chairman; CHARLES
DIAMOND. Medical Director: D. M. McWHAE, M.D.,
M.R.C.P. Manager: J. A. EDWARDS.
BS2SSS“?oW® r d b £—t
McDONALD. M.D., M.R.C.P.. F.R.A.C.P., Medical Directoi.
SOLTH^AdJSTßA'LlA^^^Kin^j^Riiam^^reet.A.delaide^
Director: Brig.-General G. H. DEAN, L ' ■
de CRESPIGNY, F.R.C.P., Medical Director. A. J. CROSS,
TASMANIA, 18-20 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 91 Cameron
Director^Hom JOHN McPHEE, K.C.M.G. A. de
JONGH, Manager.
BRANCHES IN NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH AFRICA, AND GREAT BRITAIN,
increased from 24.88 p.c. to 28.56 p.c.
of turnover. Among other things, -it
suggests better buying and a tighter
hold upon outgoings. After allowing
£lOOO for taxation and £11,153 for de-
preciation, the net result was a profit of
£18,728, as against a loss of £20,981 for
the previous term. The £18,728 was 6.5
p.c. on capital. No div. was paid, the
money being wanted in the business.
After deducting a paper reserve of
£41,000 in respect of promoters’ shares
from the book value of holdings in the
subsidiaries, £20,082 of the parent’s capi-
tal was unrepresented by tangible assets
when the books closed.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1935. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £56,067 £240,791 £284,397 £284,763
Sundry creditors 26,252 99,478 76,355 83,263
Freehold 18,801 19,246
Leaseholds .. 8,969 56,966 53,118 48,00 S
Plant, etc. .. 21,441 74,425 83,736 91,145
Stock .. .. 38,789 123,778 87,593 106,110
Debtors, etc. .. 5,724 12,589 7,949 6,089
Cash .. .- 708 2,290 2,424 2,581
Shares subsidiaries .. 93,734 109,320 74,270
The growth of £18,517 in stocks partly
reflects the management’s action to guard
against possible delays in deliveries and
rise in prices. The contraction of £35,050
in shareholdings was on account of the
writing-off already mentioned; the net
addition of £7409 to plant chiefly reflects
cash-register payments. The increase
in the outside debt was only £6913. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£31,512, including stocks
but not shares in other cos.) was £9901.
The Maoriland and Westralian cos.
made profits of £lBB6 and £371 respec-
tively, compared with losses of £10,415
and £4091 respectively for the previous
terms. It is too early yet to talk about
when they are likely to pay a div.
As for the current term, trading pros-
pects for t 2 parent are as encouraging
as anything of the kind can be in these
doubtful days. But taxation will take
a larger bite out of earnings, and an
instalment of £15,000 is due on the cash-
registers. Payment of a div. is therefore
uncertain, though the co. can be expected
to strengthen its position further.
The market prices the newly-listed
pound shares, covered by pet tangibles
with a book value of 18s. 6d., at 10s.,
as against 13s. 6d. shortly before presen-
tation of The accounts in April.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Be-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 29,064 12J p.c.= 31,250 242,596
1931.. 1,181 74 „ ~ 18,750 225,027
1932.. 19,177 6., „ 15,000 4,177 229,204
1933.. 10,081 5 „ „ 12,500 226,785
1934.. 19,292 7„ „ 17,500 1,792 228,577
1935.. 12,334 6 ~ ~15,000 225,911
1936.. 26,969 8 „ ~20,000 6,969 232,880
Share premiums, £75,000 .. .. 307,880
1937.. 32,389 10 p.e. = 25,000 7,389 315,269
1938.. 36,054 10 „ „ 37,500 313,823
Cost new share issue written off, £1337.. 312,486
Cost new branches w/o, £2200 | 307 948
1939.. 27,662 74 p.e. = 30,000 £ „
Share premiums, £20,000 .. • • 027,948
Share-issue underwriting-, £1750 .. 326,198
1940.. 43,236 8 p.c. = 37,333 5,903 332,101
Expansion of the business has been the
outstanding feature of the accounts over
the last three years. Just before the
close of the 1937 figures 150,000 new £1
shares, which brought with them £75,000
of share premiums, were issued, and a
further 100,000 shares, on which £20,000
of premium money was gathered, were
put out during the last term, making paid
capital £500,000.
The new share and premium capital,
and a lot more besides, went mainly into
advances to clients and premises, etc.—
chiefly the former:
1937. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Liabilities • . 368,968 384,699 488,753 693.451
Premises & plant 179,877 193,465 199,041 212,55 u
Book debts, etc. 756,316 910,699 1,008,532 1,331,433
Investments, cash, _ A ._
e t c 9,005 9,000 9,000 9,000
Merchandise .. 4,039 4,015 2,818 6,555
Last term £322,901 net was added to
advances, £13,814 to fixed assets, and
£204,698 to the outside debt, which
amounted to 16s. Bd. for every pound
belonging to shareholders at risk in the
business when the books closed. Includ-
ing advances, the year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£653,542)
was £121,940. What proportion of ad-
vances has been made against broad acres
and what proportion against self-liquidat-
ing items, such as wool and produce, are
not ascertainable from the published
figures.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, favorable seasonal con-
ditions resulted in a larger and better-
grown clip. An extra 9961 bales were
put under the hammer, and a “large”
turnover in livestock is reported:
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1930.. 58,795 114,864 85,800 74.6 p.c
1931 . 91,587 78,019 76,838 98.4 „
1932.. 75.464 92.315 73,138 79.2 „
1933.. 90,068 84,598 74,517 88.0 „
1934.. 79,286 95,323 76,031 79.6 „
1935.. 69,360 92,232 79.898 86.6 „
1936.. 94,719 113,443 86,474 76.2 „
1937.. 81,850 122,821 90,432 73.6 „
1938.. 79,515 140,500 104,446 74.3 „
1939.. 74,750 127.718 100,056 78.3 „
1940.. 84,711 190,561 147,325 77.3 „
Another factor which helped to put the
spring of £62,843 in gross earnings was
Britain’s purchase of Australia’s surplus
clip at 13.4 d. per pound —the 1938-39
clip averaged lOfd. per pound. Including
an extra £13,801 set aside for taxation,
exes, made off with £47,269 of the in-
crease, leaving the net result (up £15,574)
9.4 p.c. on average capital, against 6.9,
9.6, 12.9, 10.7, 4.9, 7.7, 4, 7.4 and 0.4 p.c.
back to 1931. Half a point was added
to the div., making it 8 p.c.
The co. has been handling wool, grain,
produce and livestock in Victoria and
southern N. S. Wales for over half a cen-
tury ; and for a long time before that it
had been a proprietary concern. For the
dozen years to the close of accounts in
1930 divs. averaged a shade under 14
p.c. Meanwhile, the business had ex-
panded considerably, and so had the
risks. When slump came the div. dropped
to 5 p.c., and then advanced by irregular
steps to 10 p.c. for the two years to the
close of accounts in ’3B, followed by
p.c. and then 8 p.c. for the last term.
As for the current season, there has
been an excellent lambing, livestock are
. A j.-Hrm nnd Rritain’s tmrehase
mg ’ c durat j on Q f t he war
of ensures a satis-
andl2 months th continue on t he
factory’ pnee But costs
up-grade, and the tax e
to grow.
since the close of accounts, the co. has
offered another 125,000 shares at par. The
r i g hts are selling at 3s. 9d. The market,
doubtful as to what the future holds for
the business, prices the old shares at
245. 3d., as against 28s. 6d. a year
ago and 31s. 12 months before that. The
return at 245. 3d. is 6.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
diy> basis The net tangible backing Is
33s> 3d book value
(“The Wild Cat Column” continued on
page 20.)


AA??^ e§uarc * gainst Poor Administration of Your Estate
C Many”a^arnily*haiT suff to administer y° ur Estate after you are gone is wisdom,
when the responsibility fell on him™ because^h^a^is£S£ 8 eX6CUt ° r W3S lazy ’ ° r to ° ° ld
may be .SSfafipSftS? Con W> limited. »
capitaT and'assete are itslntegdt^ 8 aTdiT’'' CXiste ? ’% ** lts
be posted to you. It will tell you of the risks to be aloidX Ask loTit t“! and TrUSt ° e ”
- ui me risKs ro oe avoided. Ask for it to-day.
rerpetual Trustee Company, Limited
T TT 7r 0 ii T , /nu • \ T . DIRECTORS;
i. JJ. Kelly (Chairman); Lieut.-Col. the Hon T. A J Playfair MT P • v n .
Hv n i . r JI ? orman Pope; Allen C Lewd; J. P Abbott ’ ‘ R ‘ K "° X;
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. ’ „ ,
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absents and Otdfrs"'
rpL n o . , , Administrator, etc
nancial security the company offers own assets and uncalled capital exceeding
33-39 HUNTER STBEET, SYDNEY.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
I
/^j^ngagement
m
9
should be
accompanied by an
ASSURANCE POLICY
Act wisely young man !
Assure yourself with the
Equitable Probate and Gen-
eral Insurance Co., Ltd., and
you’ll be fulfilling your ob-
ligations for all time.
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wlngello House. Angel Place. Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy post free on applica-
tion to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
Trekelano (N.Q.), Cloncurry’s big
copper-producer, is near the end of its
palpable reserves. For years past it has
contributed roughly 900 of every 1000
tons sent from the district to Chillagoe
Smelters, of which it is the big standby.
The Government is perturbed, and has
sent a geological and a metallurgical
adviser to discuss further operations.
S. R. L. Shepherd has been there for
a month past, and some subsidised work
for further copper lenses looks probable.
About 40 men are employed, so it means
a minor catastrophe for the district if
closure is applied..
* * * *
Irvinebank (N.Q.), John Moffatt’s old
tin camp, is getting into its stride after
the heaviest wet season for years. The
Submarine is developing into a big pros-
pect, the pipe having a 12ft.-14ft. diameter
and going down below 50ft. in 4 p.c.
stuff. Mt. Peterson continues to mill
low-grade ore in large bulk, and is find-
ing 1 p.c. payable. The Gordon is show-
ing some nice 8 p.c. ore, but the concen-
trates carry “mineral.” Even the old
dump of the Vulcan, deepest tin pipe
in Australia, is being resurrected and
put through the State mill —a tribute to
its efficiency. Down Brownville way the
Summer Hill has collected 400 tons of
ore, delayed through the heavy rain.
* * * *
Prospects have brightened slightly in
the New Gympie Tribute mine (Q.) with
a continuance of payable ore. No. 5
reef, on which a lot of driving has been
done, is showing unkindly country,
though it has the largest body of quartz.
The pay-ore is corning from No. 6 reef,
and is showing a little coarse gold in a
quartz vein ranging from 4in. to 12in.
in thickness. The last crushing gave
15dwt. over the plates. Ore now
going through the battery looks a bit
better.
* * * *
Latest reports from Wallis’s Day
Dawn, Charters Towers (N.Q.), are not
particularly bright. In the shaft at
1160 ft. the formation was showing a
fair amount of reef and pug, but the
values weren’t there, nor, as W. H. Clark
stipulates, will they be till the crosscourse
or intersection looked for is found.
* * Ht *
Mines Secretary Telfer’s latest report
computes the value of Westralia’s mineral
output for 1939 at £A 12,332,969, an in-
crease of £1,438,686 on 1938. Divs. paid
increased £273,867 to £1,377,111. Gold
production, 1,188,286 tine oz., lifted
15,3360 z., the tonnage treated (4,095,257)
being the highest yet. Completion of
new plants and additions to others
brought a slight reduction in the average
number of men employed in the industry
compared with 1938. Prospectors con-
tinue to be assisted on a liberal scale;
8262 have now been helped since the
inception of the scheme in June, 1933,
and over 600 were receiving assistance at
Dec. 31. To that date cost of the
scheme, including rations, rail fares,
equipment and supervision, was £230,940.
Refunds from successful prospectors
aggregated £42,435, and £BO,OOO had
been received from the Commonwealth
under its “Assistance to Metalliferous
Mining” vote. Crushings reported by
prospectors while actually in the scheme
amount to 62,936 tons for 31,522 fine oz.
gold. Once payable gold is struck assist-
ance stops. Another £47,458 was mopped
up in 1939 under the Mines Develop-
ment Act in rendering aid to needy mine-
owners and the industry generally. To
the end of 1939 State batteries, the help
to all (and godsend to some) prospectors
for many years, had produced gold and
tin worth £A2,168,099. Capital expendi-
ture on these batteries has been £536,800.
Working expenditure has exceeded
revenue by £71,000, but that is far from
an excessive price to pay for the good
work being done.
* * * *
Principal achievements of Lake View
and Star (W.A.) for the March or third
quarter of 1939-40 were (1) treatment of
174,200 tons of ore and re-treatment of
146,245 tons of tailings for a working
surplus of £A180,404; (2) carrying-out
of 8468 ft. of development and 3852 ft. of
diamond-drilling ; and (3) intersection in
the Lake View block of two lodes each
showing free gold by a diamond-drill
operating from Gt. Boulder’s 2650 ft.
level. One averaged 11.2dwt. over a width
of 22|ft., and the other 6oz. 7dwt. over
a width of Quarterly reports are to
be discontinued.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) reports profits
for 1939 practically unchanged at
£176,483 stg., but, owing to tax and other
appropriations £19,691 heavier at
£96,147, reserves had to be ratted for
£7894 to maintain the 100 p.c. div.
(£88,230). That, however, is a passing
phase which can be expected to remedy
itself when the new mill on the Croesus
block starts running.
* * * *
After allowing £19,549 for taxation,
depreciation, etc., Kalgoorlie Enterprise
(W.A.), Boulder Perseverance’s neighbor-
ing subsidiary, netted £A61,423 in the year
ended December and paid £34,375 in
divs. Continuation of the lode has been
proved 500 ft. below present deepest
(1500 ft.) workings, driving off a crosscut
from Boulder Perseverance’s 2050 ft. level
having indicated 6.ldwt. ore for 140 ft.,
with the drive faces still in the lode. Width
exposed for 60ft. is 18ft. Though the
structure is disturbed, too much notice
therefore need not be paid to the re-
duction from 438,900 to 382,700 tons in
the latest estimate of ore reserves. Co.
is at present earning around £6BOO
monthly on working account, or a bit
below last year’s average experience.
* * * *
Small but highly-profitable First Hit
(W.A.) pays another threepenny divi-
dend this month. Nine have been distri-
buted since operations commenced early
in 1935. Last balance day cash and
bullion totalled £14,037. Since, working
surpluses have aggregated £14,000 and
two dividends, one in December and the
other in March, together calling for
£lO,OOO, paid. Ore reserves are nearly
three years ahead of the battery.
* * * *
Two financially-down-at-the-heel West-
ralian goldmining cos., Ora Banda North
and North Enterprise, have issued
accounts for the year to February. Losses
are shown, tills are almost empty, but
tails are up. Both have made several
unsuccessful attempts to succeed.
* * * *
Westralian goldmining cos. with head-
quarters in Britain have advised Austra-
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. \V. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
V * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony.
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt,
lian shareholders on their London regi-
sters that as remittances in sterling can’t
be made, they will be paid their divvies
in Australian currency. Affected cos. in-
clude Lake View and Star, Great Boulder,
North and South Kalgurli, Boulder Perse-
verance, Paringa, Sons of Gwalia and
Gold Fields Australian Development.
% ifc ❖ %
W.A.’s taxing authorities have decided
that gold-producers need account only for
the net amount received from the Com-
monwealth Bank for their product, so
that there will be no State taxation on
that portion of the sale price retained in
the form of gold tax by the Federal
Government. It would obviously have
been grossly unfair if producers had been
forced to declare the gross price in their
accounts for taxation purposes.
* * * *
Five of De Bernales’s Westralian group
—Yellowdine, Comet, Emu, Gladiator
and Phoenix—are doing a bit for the
State’s gold industry. May production was
worth £41,548. Yellowdine (£14,365)
and Emu (£10,160) yielded most. They
were also the chief profit-earners with
£5070 and £2486 respectively.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.F.: Get in touch with the secretary. In
a reconstruction in 1933 the bonds were ex-
changed for shares, which have a vestibule
market in Sydney around 2s. for the ords. and
9s. for the prefs E. 8.: You might find
insurance scrip more stable and profitable hold-
ing. Queensland Insurance and little Austra-
lian General look worth the money... .Per-
plexed : Leave it alone.
YOUNGHUSBAND LIMITED
. , CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
Ladies and Gentlemen, ln/IA
This is the Fifty-first Annual Meeting of the Company, and it finds our Empire
once again engaged in a World War, for the second time in a generation; a War
which above all things was not of the Empire’s seeking, but one which in the
final issue could not' have been avoided.
At our Special Meeting last month I gave you some figures relating to the
Company s turnover for the past year, which I do not now propose to repeat
Ihe business continues on a satisfactory basis, and with a normal season your
Uirectors anticipate improved wool returns for the present year.
Since our last annual report continuous rains fell during the winter and
spring, bringing a prolific growth of pastures which have carried through the
summer. From November to March has been a dry period, but in April good
rains again fell in Eastern Riverina and Victoria, and are gradually spreading
westward. A good winter rain is now awaited. The condition of stock for the
last twelve months has been excellent and the lambing good.
Australia’s Wool Clip has been purchased by the British Government for the
duration of the War and one full year thereafter. This transaction has created
a defimte foundation for the industry, both by a fixed price and its resultant
errect upon stock values. The great majority of our constituents have shown much
improved returns, and with a normal season this year should show further improve-
ment as this coming clip, generally speaking, should be better grown than last.
1 would here like to pay a tribute to the Central Wool Committee, for the expedition
with which payments have been made—a matter of considerable merit when we
realise that between forty and fifty millions have been distributed up to the end
ol our financial year, viz., 31st March.
t J h u Ve r, t0 T, rep ° rt r a PP° intment to the Board since last Annual Meeting
° f* hi - hh Hay, of Langi-Oonah,” N.S.W., via Cobram, who has a lifetime
practical experience of land in the Riverina, and brings with him a wide knowledge
of pastoral affairs of great value to the Board. I am sure Shareholders will
appreciate having secured his services. Mr. Hay’s father was a constituent of the
Company forty years ago.
I have to report also that the Company has opened a Branch at Shepparton
since last Meeting; being a well settled, sound district of good rainfall, the Directors
feel that this branch should prove a valuable adjunct to the Company’s connection.
J h ? V e als ° t 0 re P° rt the Purchase of the premises in King Street, adjoining
the Head Office, from Messrs. R. and A. Onions, and whilst not being able to enter
fully into possession immediately, owing to existing tenancies, it was felt that the
opportunity should be availed of, owing to the expansion of the business necessitating
increased accommodation.
Concerning the future. It is the unanimous feeling of your Directors that
whole-hearted support of Government at this critical period, when our Empire is
engaged in a life arid death struggle, is the first duty of every citizen It is felt
that your Company can best respond by the fullest assistance to the Wool Industry,
consistent with safe administration of the Company’s finances. This, I am sure,
expresses the wish of all Shareholders. Your Directors have endeavored to carry
out this policy in the past year, and will continue to do so in the future.
The production of Wool is Australia’s great industry, and is of first-class
importance to the fighting forces as well as to the general community.
Before concluding, I should like to thank the Staff for the manner in which
all sections have carried out then duties during the year—a period when there
has been much additional work, and it has been performed willingly and efficiently.
It will be noted in the Profit and Loss Account the Directors recommend an
addition of £5OO to the usual Staff Provident Fund allocation, making a total this
year of £2OOO.
In conclusion, I have to advise that your Directors recommend the payment of a
final dividend of 4 per cent, for the half-year, making a total of 8 per cent, for the year.
I append a statement by our senior wool valuer, Mr. George Ramsden,
containing some facts of interest concerning the Wool Appraisement Scheme since
the outbreak of war.
I will now formally move the adoption of the Report and Balance Sheet, and
shall be pleased to answer any relevant question.


SAVE 10/- per month ON PETROL
NEW INVENTION 1000 GIVEN FREE
New invention utilises petrol fumes now wasted. Car owners report amazing
savings . . . together with faster pick-up . . . more power . . . smoother running.
This invention turns fumes now being wasted into valuable fuel, and puts them
back to work. Mr. A. McW., of Mitchell Road, Alexandria, writes: I haie
installed on my Ford A one of your Aero oil attachments ... I had an increase
of 14 miles per gallon. Aero ou Vapol . ato]r fits all cars, trucks, buses and
tractors. No drilling, tapping or cutting required. Any-
one can fit it with a spanner in a few minutes. It operates
automatically, lasts a lifetime. _ .
1000 AlT '.f, , :;'r Ti Free !
•rrop THIS WASTE
To—
NATIONAL DISTRIBUTING CO.
Brickfield House,
663 George Street, SYDNEY.
During the next 30 days, under a
new advertising plan, 1000 Aero
Oil Vaporators will be given
away TREE with the object of
further popularising this ingeni-
ous invention. To share in this
offer you must act immediately.
Post Coupon NOW.
Post this Coupon
.NAME ADDRESS
CAR M.P.G
(Enclose 2d. Stamp for Postage.) 8.6.40
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
PTY., LTD.,
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Top of Barrack Street
Modern accommodation is ottered at a
moderate cost. Hot and cold water
now available in bedrooms.
TARIFF
Room and Breakfast Rate—
Single Rooms from.. . 7/6
Double Rooms from... 15/-
Room Only Rate —
Single Rooms from... 5/6 per night
Double Rooms from... 11/- per night
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
SMOKE-OH!
“Melbourne punters have good run.”
— “D. Telegraph.”
The books must have got a start!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Siamese people measure a ruler’s prestige
by the number of white elephants he possesses.’
—Oddity.
Our Governments must stand high in
their esteem.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A fit of temper can lead to a severe attack
of indigestion,” writes doctor.
The gripes of wrath.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She complained that several soldiers could
be seen bathing naked in the river near her
home.” —News item.
Shock troops?
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Inflexible.
The line of mechanised vehicles came
on steadily, relentlessly, as though nothing
could stop them. Courageously he
turned and faced them, for it was no
use running away. Would they run him
down? Crush him beneath their wheels?
He didn’t know. All he knew was that
he had been sent to hold that position
and hold it he would, so long as there
was strength in his body. And so the
young policeman took over his first traffic
duty.
P. S.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A man told a Sydney newspaper that land-
lords refused to let him a house because his
clothes are shabby.”
Yet the average landlord likes to see
the rent in his tenant’s garments.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When women think of bridge it’s in fours.”
—Gossip column.
We had no idea that women who
play bridge ever thought.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The average modern housewife doesn’t know
how to get her husband a square meal.”
— Article.
Not while tins are made the shape they
are.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The men who declare that their wives
are angels are the first to complain when
they find them flying around.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He was not the first barber to become a
pugilist.” —Boxing writer.
But perhaps he was a cut above the
others.
“Musician’s wife has two flats.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
It is to be hoped she gives her hus-
band the right key.
Mistakes of Pen.
“Those pages in a modern girl’s past. Should
she tell or leave a fiance in ignorance?”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
If Penelope’s past has too many
blotted pages her current hero simply
leaves. His scowl speaks volumes when
she admits having been booked for novel
escapades. If he can read her easily he
reviews the various plots ; then on get-
ting proofs he says he dislikes her type,
and promptly runs for cover. So another
chapter in her history is concluded.
E.
•F *F *F *F
“Inter-State Associations are discussing
whether women should wear shorts or knee-
length skirts on the tennis courts.”
Surely they don’t intend to take the
only attraction away!
-F *F *F *F
“The way to test army boots.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
On the pants of Fifth Columnists.
•F *F *F "F
“Strayed, two chestnuts, etc.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser” advt.
Probably sent in as jokes!
“Former tennis star now an editor.”
•—Sporting gossip.
Still strong on returning ’em, no doubt.
•F •£• *F *F
“Street fights.”— “S.M.H.”
Must have been cut up about some-
thing.
•F *F *F *F .
“He has proved himself the iron man ot
cycling.”— Sunday ‘‘Telegraph.’’
A grid-iron man!
Retrospect.
Do you remember that wonderful day
We went on the spree, we two ?
Do you remember how madly gay
By evening both of us grew ?
Do you remember the way we drained
Those numberless bottles dry ?
And the marvellous heights of joy
attained ?
You don’t ? Well, neither do I!
T. W. NATHAN.
Aids for Authors.
“How delightful if only there were a sort
of Mrs. Beeton’s Cookery Book of Fiction.
Then, to write a frothy romance, all one
would have to do would be to turn to ‘R’; for
a tragedy, to ‘T’.” — “Age.”
Surely the writer must have heard of
my phonographic method of literary in-
struction, patented under the name
“Dotty Dialogue Disks for Despairing
Dramatists.” The idea came to me dur-
ing a brief sojourn at King’s Cross as
caretaker of a big block of flats. One
Sunday morning, whilst marshalling the
empties in the basement, I became aware
of odd scraps of dialogue that drifted
down the lift well.
Sammy Glugstein, a vacuum-cleaner
salesman on the first floor, was appar-
ently making amorous advances to the
blonde in the flat opposite ; on the floor
above, Russ Rumpelmeyer, “The Two-
ton Terror from Texas,” was loudly de-
claring that wrestling was a lousy game in
this goldarned country ; from higner up
came a barrage of domestic abuse as Joe
the taxi-driver and his portly missus
argued as to the equitable division of his
Saturday night tips ; Lottie and Queenie,
two nice girls from the chorus who shared
a flat on the sixth, had almost come
to blows; mysterious noises from the top
floor seemed to indicate that either a
woman was being murdered or else a
party was still in progress.
Here was Life. If only I could capture
for posterity a cross section of existence
in a city caravanserai. In a few hours I
devised a plan. As soon as the snops
opened next morning I purchased 73
“ What's that hum cornin' from it all time, Tummas?"
“ 'Taint cornin' from radio; it's that 'bacca o' yourn!"
microphones, five miles of insulated
cable, a second-hand dictaphone and a
quantity of blank records.
In a fortnight, I had surreptitiously
wired the flats for sound. With “mikes”
discreetly hidden behind pictures, up
chimneys and inside ventilators, it was
merely a matter of switching on my
dictaphone and, thanks to my patent
selector, I could roam verbally from flat
to flat. At a turn of the knob came the
whole gamut of human emotion from
pathos to comedy.
“Dotty Dialogue Disks” are obtainable
from all music warehouses, betting shops
or direct from the inventor. Each pur-
chaser receives gratis a phrase book of
49 languages to enable the disks to be
readily translated. At a dollar a disk
no budding author should be without a
selection.
MELTON.
Harmony.
The perfect understanding ’tween
My wife and I we’ll ne’er forsake :
We both agree—and without spleen —
Our marriage was a great mistake !
T. W. N.
The New Jargon.
“Things don’t look too hot on the
Western Front these days,” said the man
who was swaying on the strap next to
mine. He had been trying to read his
afternoon paper as we jolted along, but
the task of turning over a page with
only his teeth and two fingers available
had beaten him. “That’s what comes of
the brasshats sneering at Hitler’s blitz-
krieg.”
“It certainly looks like it,” I said
politely.
“Of course, we were caught unpre-
pared, as usual,” he went on, “although
Blind Freddie could have foreseen imme-
diately he and his Nazis bashed their
way into power with their geiwalt
methods and started demanding lebens-
raum right and left that eventually we’d
have another war on our hands. It be-
came even more obvious after Goring
started openly boasting about his growing
luftwaffe.”
“Precisely!” I said. “Though, mind
you, he can grow as much of the stuff
as he likes but it won’t do him much
good in the end. Remember that in the
last war practically the whole agricultural
areas of Denmark, Holland, Serbia,
Rumania, Hungary, Austria and the
Ukraine were at their disposal, and yet
the German people were reduced in the
long run to a state verging on starvation.”
My fellow-traveller looked at me pity-
ingly. “I referred to his air force, his
luftwaffe” he said. “I should have
thought everyone would have known
what the luftwaffe was. Though, mind
you,” he went on, “the ersatz material he
is compelled to put into it must have
a serious effect on its eigenschaft com-
pared with ours.”
“Undoubtedly,” I said, wondering if
an eigenschaft was part of the engine
or part of the ground organisation.
“Of course,” he pursued, “the Nazis
have admittedly caught us napping with
their new strategit, the co-operation of
the enormous luftwaffe with thousands
of panzerwagen.”
“But,” I cried, “how could the panzer-
wagen, who, I take it, are part of the
regular landwehr, march fast enough to
keep up with ’planes?”
“Don’t you read your paper at all?”
burst out my self-appointed instructor
almost explosively. “The panzerwagen
are the tanks! Mark my words. This
drive to the coast is only the prelude to
Hitler’s eventual feldhurrntuft."
“That’s my opinion, too,” I said. “It’s
just a bluff, a blind to take our minds
off the Balkans, where he intends clean-
ing up Greece, Yugoslavia, Rumania and
Turkey prior to a big jump-off to take
India and Egypt.”
My fellow-straphanger turned a bright
purple at that. “What the hell are you
talking about?” he almost shouted. “I
was referring to his grand strategy —his
linking up of all his landtruppen, his
luftwaffe and his kriegsflotte for his great
gdnglich against England.”
“But surely you don’t think he can get
his masses of kriegsflotte across as easily
as that! ” I remarked. “First of all they’d
have to be taken across in pieces and
either parachuted down or landed in
hundreds of big transport ’planes, and
assembled. Even then the success of the
operation would depend on whether the
rains didn’t bog them.”
“You idiot!” yelled my companion.
“Don’t you know that the kriegsflotte
means his navy? After his groberung
will come his great meisterhafte, the
creation of his long-boasted Reichfreiheit,
with himself as obergauleit^r.”
“But why should he want to build an-
other one?” I asked. “Surely one at
Berchtesgaden is enough, with its rooms
of solid bronze cut into the eyrie which
overlooks Austria.”
“You half-wit!” shrieked the student
of press snippets. “Don’t you”
But at that moment the tram rounded
a bend sharply and threw me violently
against him. My No. .10 boot came down
on his as he overbalanced. As he flew
out the open door of the vehicle I saw
that he held his beloved paper still in a
fierce clutch. In a second or two we
had whirled out of sight.
It would probably be referred to in the
current flapper press jargon as a zufdllige.
But, accident or not, it at least got rid
of a pest whose species is becoming too
plentiful.
BO.


THE NEW RUST-RESISTING PtimMe STEEI SHEET m
j
& ■■
mm
:
mmmm
m
mm
m
ill
n
t
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY —■ BRISBANE • MELBOURNE dPFIAIDE tRZM/It)ILK
•' V*- "* - t3*-tos4
y
H
« * '—.vjvju uu v —/ uau uu cvnuri#
C. D. MACLURCAN: Managing Director OYD N E I
■mmmtfx*-* frrrwrrn-
I 1 t 1 I ( J B*fc*'\'w*
“ S' ® , *
Isl » ' 4
Stay at the Wentworth, and enjoy the REAL hospitality for which
this hotel is famed. The Wentworth is close to business and social
centres yet free from traffic noises. Modern appointments include
new bedrooms with telephones, private bathrooms and toilets.
TARIFF: Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-. Our
tariff remains constant the year round; we do NOT follow the
policy of increasing tariff during Christmas, Easter or any other
season.
STAY AT THE WENTWORTH
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Test Begins
Things have been happening so fast
over the past month that, in matters of
finance as in most others, it has been
a case of clenching the teeth and hang-
ing on hard. The sharemarkets have
slumped, and the Treasury also has had
market problems to contend with, while
the effects of the coal strike have only
started to wear off.
“War is hell” Sherman said many
years ago. This war is certainly
bringing its problems to Australia, and
they are problems that shiftless poli-
ticians can’t defer or evade. The politician
who is worrying about votes or party
interests now is gone a million. The
people want leadership, and are mostly
prepared to make the sacrifices essential
for adequate war efforts provided those
sacrifices are not in vain. It is in times
like the present that opportunity awaits
the leader with courage and brains and
perhaps a little disregard l for the; feelings
of sectional interests. Co-operation by
the people and skilful direction by
leaders are needed now as they have
rarely been needed.
It is time to be up and doing, most
people acknowledge. But how? That
is what we expect to have told to us
by Governments, if governing in accord
with the times is really aimed at. Over-
government is our principal deterrent to
productive action, civil or military.
The student of finance, if he has any
imagination, sees aspects of most hap-
penings of national importance revolve
into his sphere. The Australian share-
markets at the moment are a very sen-
sitive barometer—too sensitive, from a
hard-cash viewpoint, iff can' be said—to
the progress of the war overseas. • Poli-
ticians may say this, and - critics . may
say that, but the investor, with his savings
at stake makes-his own estimates, and,
even if his long view is , wrong, it is a
view more or Hess characteristic of the
people as a whole.
Last week’s sharemarket therefore
may be taken as an indicator of the
feelings of people in the mass. They
took a grave view of things, and the
more nervous, especially those who fore-
saw a need of ready cash a moderate
distance off,, accepted the lower prices
offering. Actually, of course, the old
saying to the effect that, in a case like
the present, if shares are to be no good,
then money will be no good, is still valid
for the most part. But the banks in
Australia (and elsewhere) only consider
immediate realisable values when making
advances, and a stockbroker who has
bank assistance must push his clients
when he sees security margins on
“carried” shares in danger of disappear-
ing owing to declining share prices in
the market. That is one reason why the
inevitable weakness of share prices
under conditions like those prevailing
has been accentuated.
There are other internal factors at
work in influencing share prices on
.’Change. Excess-profits tax will affect
many concerns, and the possibility of
further increases in such taxes is always
on the cards. The fact also that Gov-
ernments must make Consols as attrac-
tive as they can in the eyes of investors
is another element of the situation cal-
culated to take the starch out of any
embryo boom in share prices that war-
time production of goods might encour-
age. Then there is also the question
of conscription of capital.
That is largely the position as the
market sees it, and as it is reflected in
quotations on ’Change. But the present
heavy decline in many very good Aus-
tralian stocks is not entirely justified.
Where moderate divs. are being paid,
or where the yield on quoted prices is
so high that a substantial reduction in
divs. would still leave a worth-while re-
turn, there is no reason at all why shares
in c ( os. carrying on sound businesses
should be sacrificed. So far as the war
is concerned, our economy is
like something floating in a tank on a
riVer. Consols, money, shares and
property sink or float together, with the
•exception that inflation, if it comes, may
float Consols and money right out of
the tank, leaving the owner of shares
and property the gainer—until depres-
sion, etc., catches up with him.
f But the aim of the financial advisers
to the Treasury is to avoid inflation—
the boom-and-bust press is already
squealing about our “deflation” policy—
and to date the policy has worked re-
markably well. The cost of living hasn’t
bolted, the basic'.wage has risen only
in keeping with the cost of living, and as
much defence revenue'as possible is being
drawn from taxation sources, thus keep-
ing an honest appearance on things. Also,
Treasury action has been very successful
so far in keeping interest rates down —
even lowering them substantially since
war broke out.
The latest war-loan offering—
£2o,ooo,ooo at 2\ p.c. for five-year
money and 3| p.c. for 16-year Consols —■
is down 7s. 6d. per cent, on the last long-
teim loan and 12s. 6d. per cent, on the
last short-term operation. Apparently
there has been more demand for short-
term stocks, and the support of longer-
term issues is thus being encouraged by
relatively higher interest rates. During
1940-41 it is proposed to spend
£79,000,000 on defence and find
£7,000,000 more to balance the current
year’s defence account. The £86,000,000
required is to be raised, as to £16,000,000,
by ordinary taxation ; as to £20,000,000,
by special taxes ; and as to £50,000,000,
by borrowing. The current loan operation
represents the first £20,000,000 of the
loan requirements.
Last week, in order to assist future
loan efforts as well as the present one,
the rates for new bank fixed deposits
were reduced by a quarter of one per
cent., and from July 1 all overdraft
rates of above 5J- p.c. are to be revised
with the object of reducing the interest
charge also by a quarter of one per
cent. So the financial side of Australia’s
war effort goes on. It is being capably
handled, within its limits. The principal
concern now is what results we are getting
in return for our contributions, work and
worry. The team at Canberra has been
very slow to show signs of purpose or
efficiency. Mr. Menzies has made a
great feature of the amount of money
we have spent and are going to spend.
Results are slow in becoming obvious.
Shiftlessness and casualness seem still
to exist in high places in Australia. The
Bulletin is favorably disposed toward
the way defence money is being raised in
this country, but isn’t so enthusiastic
about the way some of it has been spent.
A lot of cash was wasted by the naval
authorities when merchant vessels were
taken over and altered ; that was some
time ago, and the prodigal expenditure
may not be going on at the same pace
still. But almost every day small and
large cases of departmental waste or
lack of decision are brought to light;
there must be other cases that don’t
come to the surface. The Federal
Ministry should take full warning from
this dispatch from London in the heat
of last week’s heroic retreat of the
8.E.F.:
More than the mere voting of money was
needed. Without armor and without ade-
quate air support on the actual field of
battle, the B.E.F. was not in a position to
break the German ring. The R.A.F.
battled with incredible gallantry against
tremendous odds, but the fact remains that
both in the air and on the ground adequate
means of performing the functions de-
manded by war under modern conditions
were not available.
Most public utterances by the Gov-
ernment on the progress of our defence
programme are apologies. The only talk
that inspires confidence comes from the
Treasury. Some strenuous thinking and
hard work have gone on in that depart-
ment.
s|e Jjs $
The most astonishing try-on last week
that Australians had to adjust their sys-
tems to was a suggestion that “Fiduciary”
Ted Theodore was to be offered the job
of Co-ordinator of Works under the
direction of the Loan Council. He is a
director of Consolidated Press, pro-
prietors of the Sydney “Telegraph” and
an undies paper, as well as being king-
pin of the Emperor and Loloma mines in
Fiji, from which he cleaned up a princely
sum in vendors’ consideration at flota-
tion. Federal Cabinet Ministers girlishly
evaded the issue of whether Theodore,
who was also Scullin’s inflation-advocat-
ing Treasurer, had been offered the
Co-ordinator of Works job. Said Mr.
Spender: “Names of possible appointees
may be mentioned, and have, of course,
been mentioned, but that is a different
matter from making a definite offer,
which could be done only by decision
of the Cabinet and the Loan Council.”
The blast that issued from Canberra fol-
lowing even the “mention” of Theodore’s
name in connection with the job could
be heard in places as far away as
Mungana.
* * * *
Following the day on which Leopold, j
of the Belgians, gave in to the Germans,
Broken Hill Prop, shares fell to 40s. 9d.,
yielding about £3 15s. per cent, on a
1\ p.c. div. basis. Not a very high yield,
it is true, and a yield obtained in very
uncertain circumstances but it looked
as safe as anything on the share-list. The
co.’s works will be highly active during
this war, even if excess-profits tax and
other contributions essential to the
national effort prevent them from being
as highly profitable as they might other-
wise be. B.H.P. is an essential Austra-
lian industry, and essential industries
must carry on. An income, even if no
more than the present moderate one,
seems assured to shareholders, and after
the war Australia will still be a young
and growing country.
* * H= *
The business passing through the
Stock Exchanges these days is so paltry
and of so little national importance that
some brokers are of the opinion that it
would be better to close the ’Changes
and allow members to do some other
work of more benefit to the country. As
it is, one of the principal occupations of
brokers with substantial “carry” accounts
is the selling-out of weak clients. It is a
bad condition of things, since forced
sales produce more of a similar kind,
and a number of over-enterprising in-
vestors undoubtedly are now facing
financial ruin. Moratoriums and other
emergency measures are being discussed
here and there, also minimum prices for
Consols. The whole question is probably
being given consideration by the banks
and the Federal Treasury. Restrictions
of a moratorium nature are things to be
avoided wherever possible. But it is
possible that if we have any more periods
as depressing as last week the state of
the sharemarkets in Australia will
warrant more serious attention than has
been given to them publicly so far.


A?..
v
mm
s:.
<ojnt>hsyf /?/7,W7a
AUSTRALIA- ITALIA
SNIPPBNIg €®MIMIWILm
249 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
H
SSSi
sgjS
m:
m
H
m
1
■
■
m
m
m
I
m
m
■ ■:
... .
m
u
if
-f!
mm.
m
w»
29,000 CUBIC YARDS OF
EARTH MOVED IN SIX WEEKS!
Messrs. Staunton & McGee, of Gunnedah, while working on Mr. E. Jones’
property at Corinda, N.S.W., used a 56 in. gauge “Caterpillar” Diesel D 6 and
Automatic 2\ yard Rotary Scraper. They moved 29,000 cubic yards of earth
in six weeks—consuming only 2 gallons of low-grade diesel fuel per hour, the
grade of Batta being 2v> to 1.
This is just another instance of the amazing working capacity, economy and
versatility of “Caterpillar” tractors. They will literally go anywhere in any
weather conditions, due to the safety of the track-type tread.
As in cultivation and other agricultural jobs there isn’t a task you can put
“Caterpillar” to that it will not do more quickly, and easily, at a fraction of the
usual cost.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.,
Unwin’s Bridge Road, St. Peters, Sydney; 45 Bayliss Street,
Wagga; Marquis Street, Gunnedah.
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD., 102 Mel-
bourne Street, Brisbane.
Victoria and Tasmania: WM. ADAMS & CO. LTD., Collins
. Street, Melbourne.
West Australia: WIGMORES LIMITED, Wellington Street, Perth.
South Australia: THE S.A. TRACTOR COMPANY. Flinders
Street, Adelaide
m
\,
m
m
, ■
I
Hi
After a steep dip, most noticeable on
Wednesday and Thursday of last week,
when the B.E.F.’s plight in Flanders be-
came generally known, the Australian
sharemarkets rallied slightly on Friday.
Attractive stocks at the prices then ruling
were B.H.P. at 41s. 6d., Adelaide Steam
at 295., Australasian Paper rights at
4s. 5d., Tooth at 465. 6d., New Broken
Hill at 12s. 10d., North B.H. at 335.,
Zinc Corp. at 625. 6d., Woolworths at
165., Winchcombe Carson at 255. 3d., and
Associated Pulp at 235. 3d.
* * * *
The largest loan bill ever passed by an
Australian Parliament went through the
Federal House in 12 minutes last Thurs-
day. The bill authorises the raising by
loan of £68,740,000 for financing the
war, and will cover loan expenditure
up to Dec. 31. Increased Customs
revenue during the financial year closing
on the 30th of this month saved the
Government asking for £9,000,000 more.
Total authorisations for war defence
expenditure now amount to £153,000,000.
This excludes Defence Dept, expenditure,
£10,000,000 this year. Last week’s bill
provides for part of the borrowing to be
made from the British Government—at
present London is running an account
on our behalf for the A.I.F. in Pales-
tine. The Navy is allocated £6,016,000
of the present authorisation (including
£1,000,000 for a graving dock), the army
£33,406,000 (including £7,350,000 for pay
and £3,484,000 for camp expenses), and
the Air Force £26,402,000. A further
£9,000,000 out of unanticipated revenue,
apart from budgeted revenue from
defence taxes, is also being spent on the
various services and departments.
* * * *
Though the Barrier mines are receiving
only £2O 2s. 6d. a ton for spelter
(refined basis) and £2O 17s, 3d. for lead
used in Australia and £lB 15s. Aust. a
ton for spelter sold to Britain and
£lB 16s. 7d. for lead, the London price
is about £25 sterling for both metals,
or £3l-odd in Australian money, subject
to some charges. Though under the
prices they are getting the Barrier mines
are obviously making sacrifices already,
they are not being made exempt from
excess-profits tax, as in the case of gold-
mines. Certainly the Barrier cos. are for
the most part wealthy concerns, and can
perhaps well afford to carry a double
share of the war burden ; but the fact
shouldn’t escape acknowledgment. Mt.
Isa is also subject to the same price
control, but it has never had anything
remotely resembling an “excess” profit.
* * * *
Swan Brewery is making a bonus
issue of 680,624 ss. shares, one for three,
from share premiums accumulated. A
cash issue of 400,000 ss. shares is also
to be made at a premium of ss. The
reason for charging premiums one day
and handing them back the next in the
shape of bonus scrip is hard to under-
stand. In Maoriland this practice has
involved B.H.P. shareholders in heavy
income tax. Apparently special permis-
sion has been granted by the Treasury
for the making of both issues. The fact
that share premiums represent capital in
any case may have caused a tolerant eye
to be cast on the bonus-issue proposal.
Under the National Emergency financial
regulations bonus issues, especially those
arising from written-up assets, are
severely frowned on.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam shares fell to 295.
last week. In spite of the fact that the
Manunda, the co.’s only remaining inter-
state passenger vessel, has been taken
over as a hospital ship, the scrip should
turn out a good holding proposition at
the price.
* * * *
Savings-bank deposits touched a new
record high level in Australia on April
30. At £246,675,000 they compared with
£246,503,000 at the end of February. The
war loan in March caused a temporary
drop, and the present loan may be
expected to influence the next monthly
figure. Statistician Roland Wilson says
“the main factor contributing to the
increase in deposits appears to be the
desire to have money available at call,
and funds have therefore been transferred
from outside investments.” Employment
has increased since the outbreak of war,
and a more cautious spending policy by
some sections of the people has been
another influence in larger savings-bank
balances.
It doesn’t always happen that increased
savings-bank deposits coincide with larger
trading-bank deposits. At the end of a
good exporting period that has tailed off
with low prices and prospects of a bad
season it often happens that the figures
of trading banks show tight credit con-
ditions, but internal activity may keep
savings-bank figures at a high level. Just
now war-contract prices (higher than
1938-39, but not exceptionally high) and
bountiful yields of wool, wheat, sugar,
butter, gold, etc., have brought about,
exceptionally easy conditions in the gen-
eral banking system. These are com-
parisons over 12 months:
Mar., Sept., Jan., Mar.,
1939. 1939. 1940. 1940.
£mil. £mil. £mil. £mil.
Liabilities.
Deposits—
Fixed 200.2 198.0 207.2 212.2
Current .... 121.4 116.6 135.0 140.2
Total .. 321.6 314.6 342.2 352.4
A oop-ro
Cash .’ 33.9 32.6 43.8 42.6
Govt, securities 21.6 22.0 28.5 39.0
Treasury bills 25.5 17.5 36.2 45.1
Advances .... 285.4 295.8 283.2 277.6
Ratios —
Cash to de-
posits, p.c. 10.54 10.36 12.80 12.09
Cash and
Trsy. bills to
deposits, p.c. 18.47 15.92 23.38 24.89
Advances to
deposits, p.c. 88.76 94.02 82.76 78.78
Between March, 1939, and March, 1940,
deposits increased £30,800,000. Advances
actually dropped £7,800,000 in that time.
Cash, etc., increased only £8,700,000;
most of the additional liquid funds went
into Treasury bills (up £19,600,000 since
March last year, and £27,600,000 since
the outbreak of war) and Government
and municipal securities (which have
expanded £17,600,000 in 12 months). The
diversion of a considerable portion of the
national credit to the job of financing
the war is seen in these figures. And
so long as the same amount of employ-
ment is given in defence work by this
change as was previously given by domes-
tic production activities then few people
can have any kick coming.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE THREAT TO ENGLAND.
[These extracts from a wide range of English news-
papers show Britain preparing' to meet any threat that
may come from the German occupation of Belgium and
Holland. Since some of the articles were written further
action has been taken against possible Fifth Columnists,
and a corps of “parashooters” has been formed. The
first article is condensed from a realistic survey by
J. L. Garvin in London “Observer.”]
The Allies are in the thick of the most desperate
conflict of nations ever known. In the strictest sense
of the words the democracies must conquer or perish.
We are in the grapple of life and death. It will not
cease now until the issue has been decided for ever
before six months are out.
Either the hopes of Hitlerism will be crushed
for ever or the Allies will have succumbed to a fearful
fate of vengeance, spoliation and servitude. The
enemy’s apparent delay in the last eight months was
a delusion ; it was ceaseless and cumulative prepara-
tion for the utmost of the worst. It meant a supreme
bid to force conclusions this summer and to make
the Nazi tyranny by next autumn the master of the
world.
As yet we see but the beginning of the plan.
We must expect later an irruption through Switzer-
land. Meanwhile, the inception is bold enough. But
not more bold than perilous for the aggressor.
The enemy seeks to sweep through the Low
Countries; not only to add them to the Hitlerite
empire if the invasion succeeds, but to make them
the advanced bases of direct attack on France and
Britain. That is why the life of Britain, no less than
France, is as much and imminently at stake as
though the battle of all time were being fought on
our own soil and among our own cities.
As against France, whom they
seek again to destroy for ever as a
Great Power —for that was their
object in 1914—they aim at turning
the Maginot Line from the north.
Later they hope to turn it from the
south by breaking through Switzer-
land with the aid of Italy.
With a more consuming and
blinding hate they dream this time of
striking down Britain for ever and
of destroying the British Empire.
For that, they want to control the
opposite coasts of the narrow waters
—the shores of Holland, Belgium,
and the adjacent Straits and Channel.
They want these far more than the
coasts of Denmark and Norway,
though that seizure was no sideshow
but part of a systematic plan.
They think they have secured
their iron-supplies from Sweden.
Their aim now against Britain is to
seize nearer airbases on the other
side of the narrow seas from Rotter-
dam to Dunkirk, Calais and
Boulogne.
The enemy struck into the Low
Countries in the small hours of the
morning with the intent to murder
two more nations in their sleep. As
in Poland, Denmark and Norway,
the Nazi air-technique led the onslaught. Their
bombers ranged far and wide over the immediately
assailed nations and into France to harass the Allied
advance. They attacked civilian populations where it
suited them.
Presently they will attempt the same here. Again,
make no mistake. It is bound to come to the real
thing. They will smash at us. We shall have to
smash at them.
* * * * *
( Field-Marshal Lord Milne, former Chief of the
Imperial General Staff, gives his views in London
“Sunday Chronicle.”)
Germany, by attacking on the Western Front, has
embarked on the most ambitious and infamous mili-
tary adventure in history. Hitler is staking his Front
Line Air Force, his reserves of petrol, oil and other
materials of war and millions of men on one
desperate attempt to win the war quickly.
Although Holland and Belgium are the first suf-
ferers from his lightning blow, it is aimed at us.
By his series of invasions of neutral countries
Hitler is staking even more than his air force and his
armies. As neutrals, Denmark and Southern Norway
were useful to him, and his invasion brought him only
temporary loot. His gains there are only a drop in
the bucket of his needs, and they will be exhausted
quickly.
If Hitler, as he hopes, could defeat Britain this
summer, he could snap his fingers at world opinion. If
his. attempt to bring us to our knees fails, world
opinion can be no more strongly against him than it
is today.
During all these months, while we obeyed the
rules and the enemy broke them, our only reward
was ridicule from the neutrals themselves. While we
saw other countries reduced to ashes by action from
the air, we sat back and assumed that it was not neces-
sary or advisable to bomb the enemy’s munition fac-
tories and military depots while he kindly refrained
from bombing our home front.
But now he is bombing open towns. Brussels has
suffered again the agony of 1914. If there was ever
justification for our refraining from bombing the
enemy’s military depots, there is none now. Our
bombers must act vigorously and quickly, and we at
home must expect to be attacked.
There may be other trials for us at home. Since
the Germans have landed parachute troops in Hol-
land, they may try it here. They cannot be fought
without weapons, but they can be looked for and de-
lected, even if they dress themselves in British
uniforms.
*****
(Lt.-Col. T. A. Lowe in London “Daily Mail.”)
An offensive on the scale the Germans have
launched is an alarming thing in the beginning. Its
weight is such that it is bound to succeed at first. The
Germans are using all the terrifying technique with
which they conquered Poland.
Marshal Foch described a comparable situation in
March, 1918, when the Germans similarly attacked.
He said, “If you throw a large stone into the middle
of a pond the first wave created by the stone is a huge
one ; the second wave is not so high ; the third wave
grows less ; the final wave never reaches the shore
at all.”
Marshal Foch waited then until the impetus of
the German effort had expended itself, then he in his
turn attacked.
We know the sequel. The last German wave, in
an attempt to break through to Amiens and thus sepa-
rate the French from the British armies, reached
Villers-Bretonneux in full view of Amiens cathedral.
There the Australian Corps attacked the German
columns when they had reached a peak of exhaustion.
From that moment the initiative passed into Foch’s
hands.
*****
(Extract from a “Sunday Chronicle” leader.)
All Germans in Brussels were arrested as soon as
Hitler struck. The Belgian police did not go round
asking them whether they were friendly aliens or Nazi
agents. They interned the lot.
We should act likewise, and at once. Round up
every enemy alien. Every enemy alien is a potential
Fifth Columnist, or, in plain words, a traitor. How-
—“Daily Sketch," London.
“PROTECTION."
ever much he or she may profess to hate the Nazi
regime, the ties of the Fatherland may prove a temp-
tation to betray us. Sir John Anderson’s new bill, pro-
viding the death penalty for espionage and sabotage,
is an excellent measure. A still more excellent measure
would be to put all potential saboteurs and spies under
lock and key before they can do any damage. Intern
the lot. now.
* * * * *
(Hector Bywater, in London “News-Chronicle,” looks
at the naval situation.)
If Germany occupied the Dutch and Belgian
coasts it would react seriously on the naval and ship-
ping situation of the Allies. As in the last war, it would
give Germany U-boat bases within 60 miles of the
English coast. And, more serious perhaps, it would
give Germany aerodromes within easy range of much
of the East Coast of England, including the Thames
Estuary and the Port of London.
These distances are so short that heavy bombers
could be escorted by fighter ’planes, which are to the
bomber what the destroyer is to the battleship. Heavy
attacks on East Coast ports—including well-known oil
depots—and on shipping in the southern area of the
North Sea and the Channel are possible.
This danger, however, was foreseen long before
the war, and preparations were made for diverting
some of our shipping to southern and western ports.
If Germany succeeds in controlling the Dutch and
Belgian coasts she can send U-boats in sections by rail
to be assembled in shipyards on these coasts. On the
other hand, these Dutch and Belgian ports would
offer tempting targets to our own aircraft, as well as
to naval bombardments.
Another possibility is the re-establishment of the
Dover Straits net barrage between Dover and Cape
Grisnez, which in the concluding phase of the last war
made these Straits absolutely impassable to U-boats.
The Dover Patrol will, no doubt, be heavily reinforced,
but this need not deplete our main Home Fleet of
battleships or heavy cruisers. The Harwich Patrol
may also be augmented.
Hitler’s Scandinavian adventure, which cost him
abnormally heavy naval losses, has deprived him of
the power of exploiting the coastline of Holland and
Belgium to full advantage. This increases the possi-
bility that he will depend mainly on his air arm to
attack Britain, and especially British ports and ship-
ping. Thanks to Hitler’s latest move in the Low
Countries his aero-naval forces are, or soon may be,
sprawled more than 1000 miles between the Franco-
Belgian coast in the south and almost as far north as
the Arctic Circle. He is breaking all the canons of
strategy in his latest gamble.
* * * * *
C From an article by Brig.-Gen. E. L. Spears, M.P.,
in London “Sunday Express.”)
Will Hitler attempt to invade this country ? r
Almost certainly not at this stage. A single division
requires on an average some 60 ships to transport it,
and takes time to disembark.
It would be an insane operation unless the enemy
held a harbor. The Germans are more likely to
attack our ports and estuaries by massive air bom-
bardment. This may be combined with some landings
of parachute troops.
It would be well to inform the public that the
parachutist is trained in every sort of trick. Any one
taken in by a friendly gesture or a sign of* surrender
will certainly be shot. Shoot first is the only safe
motto.
* * * * =l=
(Condensed from a Ward Price article in London
“Daily Mail.")
We are confronted by anew danger of propor-
tions not before suspected. The German attack on
Holland has shown that the use of parachutists and
air-borne troops forms part of the regular tactics of
the German Army.
As the enemy draws nearer to us the peril of
this kind of attack upon British territory increases.
There is no time for the least delay. If the Ger-
mans are able to consolidate their position in the Low
Countries, they may decide to
attempt the invasion of Britain by
air. The risk would be gigantic—
but so would the prize if it could be
won. And, even if the invasion
failed, its possible effect as a diver-
sion of British military effort, and
as a demonstration of Germany’s
power to the neutral world, might
justify it to desperate gamblers who
must either beat Britain and France
before next winter or face the in-
evitable doom of their mad
ambitions.
Behind the German offensive is
an immense weight of men and ma-
terial. Its initial impetus may well
carry it up to the narrow seas beyond
which lies Britain.
There can be instantly formed a
force for home defence, consisting
of men of 45 and over. Most men
who are fit at that time of life
served in the last war. In every town
and village there are ex-officers
ready to lead them. A national
militia could be brought into exist-
ence in a week.
All that is needed is the issue
of uniforms and arms. Now that
the Regular Army wears battle-dress.
there must be hundreds of thousands
of the old type of uniforms available. As for arms,
stocks of the old Lee-Mitford rifle that used to be the
British Army’s weapon are doubtless stored away in
army depots.
The main function of this volunteer force, which
would need no pay or rations, would be to maintain,
especially at dusk and dawn, a constant watch all over
Britain for enemy parachutists. Every church tower
should have its lookout connected by telephone with
a guardroom down below, where the Home Defence
veterans would take it in turn to be on duty, equipped
with motor-cars ready to hurry off in any direction
where parachutists were reported.
Until these enemy soldiers had freed themselves
from their parachutes and linked up with each other,
they would not be so formidable that they could not
be dealt with by a group of resolute men knowing the
neighborhood and arriving swiftly on the spot. The
present arrangement, under which the Home Office
has requested anyone sighting parachutists to inform
the police, who would in turn inform the nearest mili-
tary, would give the enemy aerial advance guard all
the time it needed to do its demolition work.
* * * * *
(Condensed from cm article by C. W. Ingham in
London “Star.”)
Every time a ’plane roars over the Low Countries
through the dusk or dawning it carries with it the
menace of parachute troops, well-armed and desperate
Germans who may be disguised and who drift sound-
lessly to earth. Parachute troops can create a new
fighting front anywhere on the instant. And parachute
troops are brave men. They drop in bad light, carry-
ing a great weight of fighting equipment, right into
the heart of enemy country.
All men chosen as parachute troops have not
got the nerve needed for the job. We have heard
stories of soldiers found shot near where landings
have been made. The signs clearly were that these men
were afraid to make the jump when the time came
and had been shot and pushed out of the ’plane by
their officers for hesitating.
All parachute soldiers need a long training. The
impact, when a laden soldier hits the ground, is some-
thing like the shock of jumping from a 20ft. wall on
to hard ground. In training, when troops leap down
from heights which are gradually increased—they do
this before they ever see a parachute—the landings are


Extracts from “Sydney Morning Herald.”
“The winning Brandy, that is ‘Orlando,’
is superior to any other Brandy exhibited
in Sydney and also fit to take its place
alongside any imported Brandy.”
—1 st April, 1939.
“The winning Brandy, that is ‘Orlando,’
is a credit to the Manufacturers. When
Brandy like this is produced and sold in
Australia, there should be no reason to
buy high-priced imported Brandies.
“The winning Brandy could be classed
as a high-grade product in any competi-
tion.”—2lst October, 1939,
PREMIER AWARD P.A.S., SYDNEY, 1938 and 1939
U
□
BRANDY
HAS WINNING WAYS!
on soft ground or sand. In action, a parachute sol-
dier may drop on anything or anywhere ; the percen-
tage of sprained ankles and broken limbs is high. It
is easy to fall awkwardly when carrying heavy equip-
ment.
Parachute soldiers from Germany carry a water-
bottle, tent, cycle, automatic rifle, a pistol, ammuni-
tion, portable wireless set, explosives for demolition
work and many other things. Usually they expect to
be helped by Fifth Column men. Pictures have been
published of civilians in invaded territory helping
parachute troops to assemble their cycles after a
landing.
The German parachute troops are the equivalent
of the storm troops of the last war. Most of them
speak fluently the language of the country in which
they are dropped. They have been trained on large-
scale models of the particular section of country they
are going to attack. They know just how to reach
the power-stations, railway junctions, waterworks and
other things which are their objectives.
The real objective of parachute troops is to
wreck all communications and so paralyse a country.
The Germans accomplished this in Poland, but
achieved few results in Norway, perhaps because of
the nature of the country. In Poland, many soldiers
in disguise were dropped in twos and threes or singly
to commit acts of sabotage, such as destroying rail-
ways and bridges. Others had portable wireless trans-
mitters and gave constant information of the move-
ments of Polish troops.
*****
(.From London “Times.”)
Parachuting may be tried in this country, and
many of our readers, particularly those living in the
shires, have already written to ask what is the correct
manner of dealing with these missionaries of Hitlerism
dropping from the sky, if they land in country places.
It is by no means impossible, for it is in keeping with
Hitler’s false estimates of foreign mentalities, that he
should expect to cause a panic by dropping several
hundreds of soldiers to hamper communications or
seize some selected inland place which he might hope
to be able to fortify rapidly and go on replenishing.
It is the duty of the nearest military command
to deal with them. The duty of the civilian is to report
what he has seen as accurately as possible to the
police.
It would not be correct for country gentlemen to
carry their guns with them on their walks and take
flying or running shots as opportunity is offered. Such
action would put them into the position of francs-
tireurs and should therefore be avoided.
Among the many detestable tricks of the Germans
is that of putting on other nations’ uniforms, which
might make their presence a serious cause of con-
fusion. They might also speak English quite well.
Some might be sent over in civilian dress to act as
spies. The general public must be alert to report these
dangerous pests if they should appear in these islands.
*****
(Condensed from London “Sunday Pictorial”)
The arming of the police is only one aspect of
Britain’s reply to Hitler’s latest form of blitzkrieg.
We have troops placed at all strategic points. Stretches
of lonely countryside which might make landing places
for parachute troops are being specially patrolled and
watched. All ground defences of aerodromes are
strengthened. The air observation corps are alert
for the newest danger from the air. The Navy and
coastal defences naturally play their part in this night-
and-day watch. The new armed police will shortly
link up with the military organisations. A system of
patrols by armed cyclists and motor-cyclists, with
machine-guns in sidecars, will cover the countryside.
Field telephones in isolated parts of the country will
enable the watchers and patrols to keep in constant
touch with headquarters. Mobile troops and search-
light units could be dispatched to any point in Britain
immediately a patrol reported any landing by para-
chute.
Motorists and cyclists recently saw a glimpse of
some of the preparations. There were wire barricades
on many arterial roads with armed guards. Drivers
were challenged and asked to produce their identi-
fication papers.
*****
(From a “Yorkshire Post” leader .)
As Hitler develops his desperate mass onslaught
he will, if he can, spread confusion and dismay among
us by some kind of invasion of our territory. There
have been hints from Berlin that he might send a
naval expedition on a tip-and-run errand. With our
great sea superiority we ought to be able to make
sure that if he ordered such a venture it would become
a ghastly failure. If it is attempted, we must expect
it to be accompanied by parachute troops and air-
borne infantry like those that are being dropped on
the soil of Holland and Belgium. More use is being
made of these than we thought likely.
One precaution, the order for the internment and
restriction of aliens in certain parts of the country,
should not cause the slightest surprise or criticism.
Holland and Belgium have given us the latest em-
phatic object lessons in the Nazi infiltration of an
enemy’s civilian life. We should be utterly stupid if
we did not act with instant efficiency. Many harmless
people will be rounded up, but it is far better to limit
their freedom than to allow deadly Nazi treachery to
be at work in our midst in the event of parachute
invasion.
The Home Office, in its general warning, has
shown how civilians could help—by watching for and
reporting any attempted landing. Some time is bound
to elapse before the police or military authorities can
make contact with the enemy. Is there anything
further we can do before the foul work of sabotage
and destruction has begun? It has been suggested
that golfers should be armed to meet any such emer-
gency on their courses. The necessary training of
these golfer-riflemen has been begun by some clubs.
At the big British Legion rally ex-servicemen repeated
their offer to serve.
It will be necessary, in any such dealings, to re-
spect the laws of war, even though the Germans have
neglected to do so. Formerly it was international
doctrine that the troops alone carried on war while
the rest of the nation remained in peace. Modern
war makes impossible this unconditional abstention of
civilians. The articles of the Hague War Regulations
of 1899 as amended in 1907 make it clear that our
civilians are not entitled to become irregular com-
batants if they suddenly find a German parachutist in
their power. If he wears the uniform of his country
the fact that he has penetrated into civilian Britain
does not make him a spy whom we should be justi-
fied in shooting after trial. But if German para-
chutists are in disguise either as civilians or as British
soldiers they are spies and must be treated as such.
The Lines of Communication.
{Condensed from a Manchester “Guardian” article by
E. A. Montague, and showing how the British campaign
in Flanders was organised.)
You may compare the general arrangement of the
B.E.F. in France to an open fan. On the rim of the.
fan are the troops in the forward area. The sticks
of the fan are the roads and railways by which the
troops receive their supplies of food, clothing, ammu-
nition and reinforcements. The various sticks unite
at the base port far back on the French coast at which
supplies are landed from England. One may visualise
the whole system of supply as an hour-glass, of which
the narrow neck is the Channel crossing. Supplies
from all over Britain converge at some English port
and are dispersed again when they reach France.
I spent a day inspecting a base port in France,
the point at which troops and every conceivable kind
of military supplies are landed in an endless stream
and sorted out so that they can go forward each to its
own map reference hundreds of miles away. I was
on the move for nine hours and never saw the same
thing twice. It is an enormously complex organisa-
tion, involving miles of railway lines, thousands of
men and vehicles, millions of square yards of storage
space.
There are the huge sheds where disembarking
troops are fed and sheltered until the trains are ready
to take them away, on the average some four hours
after they land. There are the petrol stores wnere
motor vehicles are fuelled and the parks where they
are stored. The system of guiding transport from the
docks to the forward areas by wind-screen label and
military police guides is so complete that three times
a complete artillery regiment’s transport has made the
journey unerringly without officers or drivers who
knew the route beforehand.
Then there are the immense stores of food ; and
the first and biggest sorting office for mail. There are
the endless ramifications of the base ordnance depot,
which supplies the army with something like 150,000
different articles, ranging from needles to tanks. It
employs French girls not only in its big accounts
department, but also to mend the B.E.F.’s socks and
gas-masks. It has its ammunition depots, its gun
parks, its stores of motor spares. Smaller editions of
all these, of course, are also to be found all over the
base area covered by the spokes of the fan, that large
part of Northern France which is known as “lines of
communication,” or “L. of C.” They are kept as well
scattered as possible for safety against air attack and
for convenience in supplying any point on the front.
The men who work at the port are drawn mainly
from the R.E., the R.A.S.C., the R.A.O.C. and that
gallant corps of veterans the Auxiliary Military
Pioneer Service, universally known as the “Amps.” In
British companies of the “Amps” grey hair is common,
and most men have two or three medal ribbons. The
alien companies are even more interesting. In one
of them, composed mainly of German and Austrian
refugees, I found actuaries and architects, a Judge
and a journalist, a rabbi and a rat-catcher, lawyers
and laborers, musicians and motor dealers. In some
ways they live better than the average British soldier.
Their company cook, for instance, was once a highly-
paid chef.
Elsewhere in the L. of C. area there is a com-
pany of Palestinian “Amps” in which Jews and Arabs
live in the same huts and by their own choice eat the
same food, the ordinary rations of the British Army.
Not once so far has there been any case of racial
trouble among them.
Tank Warfare.
(Condensed from a London “Daily Mail” article by
Lieut.-Col. T. A. Lowe.)
The principle of cavalry tactics has not changed
with mechanisation. Horses and men used to be sorted
into three categories—light, medium and heavy. A
modern armored division is organised in exactly the
same manner.
The role of the armored car regiment is long-
distance reconnaissance, like the light cavalry of old,
and in addition it is required to supplement informa-
tion from the air. It can speak by means of radio to
co-operating air squadrons, and in the same manner
all information is passed back to Divisional H.Q.
Tank battalions provide the “Mediums.” Their
role is to place infantry on their objective in the attack.
For this they need to be well armored and incon-
spicuous, as well as possessing high speed.
The “Heavies” are the cruiser tanks, whose role
is to provide the hitting-power of a mobile division.
How are all these great monsters supplied and
maintained in the field, especially in the face of an
enemy well supplied with reconnaissance aircraft? A
service corps mechanised unit is organised into com-
panies. These are charged with the delivery of sup-
plies, ammunition and petrol, and they are self-
contained units. There is a workshop section which
deals with repairs in the field.
Every man is armed with a rifle, and lorries
escort each company with Bren guns mounted for anti-
aircraft duties. These dash ahead and control vital
points such as crossroads or road junctions. Each
unit when travelling on the road is linked by motor-
cyclists, who also act as guides and lead the supply
lorries to the tanks or batteries.
The most interesting vehicle in this unit is the
workshop lorry. It is equipped with benches and
lathes, and can open up and get to work on the line
of march in less than ten minutes.
Next come the guns, all of which are tractor-
drawn. Finally, even divisional headquarters is
mechanised. Staff officers work in bus-like vehicles
where maps and typewriters can be used. The troops
call these “Black Marias.”
Such is the composition of some of the divisions
which have been rushing through Belgium. When
they come into contact with similar armored units
crashing and smashing through all obstacles, the old
cavalry principles again apply. A light tank must be
kept on the move. Its duty is to provide the “eyes”
for the troops which are coming up behind, therefore
it must not become involved in battle. It gets as near
to the enemy as it can to see what he is up to, then
darts away to make a report upon which the whole
dispositions of the Divisional Commander may depend.
The infantry tank which has been lumbering up behind
is an offensive weapon and plays an important part in
locating machine-guns. If it can put these out of
action before the infantry arrive much has been gained.
It may even charge into enemy tanks. Then come the
great cruiser tanks whose role it is to attack anything.
They are to exploit success, to convert a “break-in”
to a “break-through.” They must maintain the
momentum and harry the enemy without a moment’s
rest. The only obstacle they fear is the cunningly sited
land mine.
Far away behind the lines is the Director of Sup-
plies and Transport, who is responsible for food,
petrol and medical comforts. All food on arrival goes
to supply depots, from where it is sent by pack trains
in bulk to the various railheads. An army of 200,000
troops requires at least 500 tons of supplies daily.
The supply convoys move from one covered
“harbor” to another on the road. Traffic obstructions
are avoided at any cost, and this is done by controlling
the “density”—the number of vehicles per mile. All


columns move under the most rigid control. Three
days’ supply of food is always in front of the railheads.
A German heavy armored division, consisting of
2500 vehicles, requires 25 miles of road space if
stretched out in column. One of their 9in. heavy
guns needs five separate tractor-drawn loads for its
gear and ammunition.
Forces in Egypt.
[The most important part of this (condensed) London
“Daily Telegraph” article by Arthur Merton is the state-
ment that in Egypt as well as in Europe there is a
“Fifth Column” problem to be dealt with.]
Egypt continues unabated the anxious prepara-
tion of her defence measures. The British forces
have been steadily reinforced, and a walk through the
cities reveals the “Empire” character the garrison has
now assumed.
In the Western Desert, where the New Zealanders
have just held manoeuvres, the “Tutankhamen Line,”
or, as some call it, the “Faruk Line,” has been further
developed. Such elements as might manage to struggle
through the desert which stretches to the Libyan
frontier —itself a barrier to any large mechanised force
—would be met from every point by a withering
cross-fire which no force could survive.
Aerial defences have been perfected. The Medi-
terranean coast from Solium to Rafa, and from Solium
through the desert as far as the Sudan frontier, bristles
with anti-aircraft batteries and a chain of observation
posts which recent experiments have shown that no
hostile craft could pass unobserved.
Meanwhile life goes on normally. Cost of living
has increased owing to higher taxation, freights and
import duties. But there is no lack of essential sup-
plies. There are naturally no tourists, yet hotels,
restaurants and shops thrive, thanks to the “military
addition” to the population, while race meetings every
week-end draw large crowds reminiscent of a quarter
of a century ago.
Italy’s intentions and the possibility of Egypt
having to bear an active share are debated everywhere.
In official circles the possibility of Italy becoming a
hostile belligerent is seriously envisaged.
The details of how the Germans managed to get
a foothold in Norway have created some emotion.
One hears comment on the number of German people
at large in the country. When the war broke out all
Germans were interned. Little by little the internees
were sifted. Those who could persuade the authori-
ties that they were not Nazis, or that they were Jews,
were liberated and allowed to carry on their voca-
tions. Quite a number appear to have been admitted
from abroad on the same plea. Moreover, some Ger-
man establishments, though under control, were even
permitted to continue in competition with Allied and
Egyptian concerns.
The authorities may have what they regard as irre-
futable proofs of the innocuousness of these Germans.
But the Gestapo has before now disguised its agents
as non-Nazis and even Jews, and non-Nazi sentiments
have not prevented a man from carrying out Nazi
orders owing to the pressure exerted on relatives in
Germany—a form of pressure to which many in
Egypt would be susceptible. There would, therefore,
seem to be just foundation for the local feeling that
these Germans should not be allowed at liberty in such
numbers.
The Italian community, 70,000 strong, also in-
spires anxiety. Many Italians occupy positions where
they have access to useful information. The Italian
Consular authorities repeatedly exhort their nationals
to keep calm and continue their normal occupations,
but it is no secret that an extensive blackshirt organi-
sation exists in Egypt, each member having his allotted
post in the event of Italy entering the war against
the Allies. Admittedly the problem is a delicate one.
But the question uppermost in the public mind —par-
ticularly since the revelation of Germany’s “Fifth
Column” in Europe—is: “Have adequate measures
been taken to prevent sabotage?”
Whether these Italians and Germans are potential
saboteurs or not they certainly are effective propa-
gandists and intelligence agents. The amount of harm
they are doing is incredible.
Politically the country is quiet. The only ripple
has been the petition presented to the Ambassador by
the leader of the Wafd, Mustapha Nahas Pasha. The
document, the text of which the censorship allowed
to be published, but without any comments, demanded
amongst other things a revision of the treaty, the re-
dress of grievances and an undertaking that Egypt
would have a seat at the Peace Conference.
Parliament continues to accord its full confidence
to the Prime Minister, Aly Maher Pasha, whose posi-
tion has been materially strengthened by the adminis-
tration of martial law, which he directs. Relations
between the British and Egyptian authorities are
excellent.
Reorganisation of the Egyptian Army, which is
now assuming important proportions both in numbers
and in equipment, proceeds to the satisfaction of the
British Military Mission,
France’s Near-East Army
(Condensed from a New York "Times” article by
C. L. Sulzberger.)
To get a concentrated impression of the ramifi-
cations of the French Empire the place to go is Syria,
and the thing to see is the army on which may largely
depend the fate not only of the Levantine countries
but of the Balkans and what is left of Central Europe.
The army must be kept in an alert condition,
always ready to move. The long line of communica-
tions must be preserved not only with Marseilles and
the heart of France, but with French imperial posses-
sions ranging from North Africa to distant Mada-
gascar and French Indo-China, whence are drawn not
only reinforcements for the increasing military forces
but food and other essentials.
The army numbers something over 125,000 men,
and perhaps 90,000 British imperial troops would be
added the moment active warfare called these forces
into action. This is not a large army, but it is splen-
didly equipped, it comprises some first-rate troops,
and it could serve as an excellent advance guard if
operations extended into this sphere of interest.
The Army of the Levant includes a sampling
from almost every part of the world where the Tri-
color flies. There are, of course, poilus, short, stocky
men who slouch about the markets and bazaars of
Beirut, Tripoli and Damascus. There are brawny,
terrifying-looking Senegalese; the somewhat less-
appalling looking Madagascans ; Moroccans ; timid
Annamites and the terrifically disciplined “lost souls”
who make up the Foreign Legion.
The backbone is, of course, the poilu. Perhaps
the best shock troops are the Moroccans and the
Senegalese. The Moroccans made a memorable repu-
tation for themselves in the last war. Fearless and
tough, used to having no comforts and little food
and accustomed to protecting themselves with the best
cover available, they are a dangerous force.
The Senegalese have come from the deeper, more
mysterious reaches of Africa. They are unusually mus-
cular and tall, black as the ace of spades, brave. They
are fanatical in their bravery if there is any prospect
of a decoration, because the Senegalese is fond of
medals and will sell his life for one. Unused to con-
tact with any white men except specially selected
officers, they rely explicitly on their commands.
Among the other colonial soldiers the Madagas-
cans, for the most part, are not used as shock troops ;
many of them are used for menial labor. The Annam-
ites, who are known for their gentleness, are usually
orderlies, waiters, stretcher-bearers or assistants in
medical work. The Foreign Legion includes many
Germans who may some day be called on to fight
their Fatherland.
This army may have to fight in the Balkans.
They may be called into action in the peaks of the
— "Star,” London.
Caucasus. They may be switched to the desert of
North Africa. They are expected to give a good
nrrnnnt of thpmsplvpc
The “Daily Worker” Libel Action.
[This London “Daily Herald (Labor) report of (he
successful libel action brought by English trade-union
leaders against the Communist “Daily Worker”-only
briefly mentioned in Australian dailies—demonstrates
once more the cleavage between Labor and Communism
in Britain. Some of the admissions forced from Com-
munists in cross-examination—notably that the Com-
munist party is not a peace party, and that the “Daily
Worker’s” industrial correspondent looks forward to civil
war in England—are of special interest.
Parties in the case were Sir Walter Citrine, general
secretary of the Trades Union Congress, and six other
T.U.C. members, who claimed damages against Edward
Richard Pountney, proprietor of the “Daily Worker,” in
respect of articles relating to the inauguration of the
Anglo-French Trades Union Council. The trade-union
leaders alleged that the Daily Worker” had “imputed
that they betrayed the interests of the trade-union move-
ment by war-time co-operation with the Government and
employers, while pretending to safeguard the interests of
the workers.”]
(. Extracts from the Cross-examination.)
Sir William Jowitt, K.C., for the plaintiffs, read
to B, T Francis, industrial correspondent of the
Daily Worker, an extract from the dDaily Worker
of February 6, 1940, which stated : British imperial-
ism bears the responsibility of having fostered the war
for years by assisting Fascist aggression in the hope of
turning it against the Soviet Union. Defeated in this
aim, the British and French imperialists launched the
war against Nazi Germany. ’
“Do you agree with that?” he asked.
“Yes,” Mr. Francis replied.
And at the same time you thought Hitler was a
bloody aggressor?—Yes.
And that our pledge to Poland compelled us, in
honor, to go to her assistance?—No. I believe that
Hitler would never have marched into Poland had this
country and France accepted the peace pact offered by
Soviet Russia. By their refusal to enter into the peace
pact the British and French imperialists made, in
effect, a declaration of war.
Mr. Justice Stable: Until Hitler is persuaded to
give up fighting us, the only possible way the war can
end is for this country to submit; isn’t that right?
Mr Francis’ No
What alternative is there as long as Hitler and
his armed forces are fighting us?—l think in Ger-
many the war could be brought to an end by the
workers conducting a struggle on a single set of
demands.
Are you capable of making the intellectual effort
of basing your answer on the assumption on which
the question rests? I want you to assume that Hitler
and his armed forces are still fighting us. How can
the war be stopped except by our ceasing to fight on
our side?
I believe that this war can be brought to an end
by the workers in Germany, in France and in this
country gathering their forces together and using their
organised strength to that end.
Do you realise that is not an answer to the ques-
tion?
*****
Mr. Francis said he did not represent the Com-
munist party as a peace party.
Sir William Jowitt: You believe in civil war,
don’t you?—lt all depends in what circumstances you
raise the question of civil war.
To get rid of “warmongers” like Chamberlain,
Churchill and Citrine you believe in civil war, don’t
you?—No.
In what circumstances do you believe in civil
war? —I believe in civil war in a period of history
where you have a complete breakdown in the system
of society and the workers have got sufficient strength
to take over the reins of government.
You are looking forward, in the near future, to a
civil war in this country, are you?—l am, yes.
In re-examination by Mr. Pritt (for the defen-
dant), Mr. Francis said that the attitude of the Com-
munist party toward civil war might require hours to
explain in full.
*****
(Extracts from the Judgment.)
Damages of £l4OO were awarded and the plaintiffs
were also granted an injunction restraining Pountney
from publishing similar libels reflect-
ing on their integrity.
Mr. Justice Stable said each of
the plaintiffs had been ready and
willing to go into the witness box.
They made no mystery of the views
they held or their conception of the
obligations they held to the persons
who trusted them. Their view was
that the war was one of aggression
by Nazi Germany and that the con-
tinuance of the trade-union move-
ment was conditional on the preser-
vation of the nation of which that
movement was only a part —albeit an
important part.
* * *
It had been suggested that the
articles were dictated by a body in
Moscow and did not represent the
honest, independent judgment of
anybody.
The Communist witnesses were
unable to identify by name any
single person who issued such edicts,
majority decisions or manifestos
from Moscow.
They did not even know —or
swore they did not know —the name
of anybody directing the machinery
from Moscow.
The fact remained that there
was an obligation to obey the directions of policy
given from the Moscow headquarters, which were
completely anonymous and functioning without either
of the Communist witnesses being able to give a single
name with the possible qualification that the name of
Dimitrov was given as having signed a particular
manifesto.
He did not think he was entitled to draw the in-
ference that the attack was paid for by Moscow.
He observed: “That is a matter which will remain
in the decent obscurity in which Mr. Pountney appar-
ently prefers to leave it.”
The Judge went on to say that a complete change
of policy was revealed towards the prosecution of the
war in the manifesto of the Communist party of
October 7 from that shown in the manifesto of Sep-
tember 2.
“It seems to me that on the evidence before me
the only possible inference that I can draw is that
the change of policy emanated from headquarters—
that is to say, the committee or council, the names of
whose members I do not know, but who functioned
in Moscow.”
The history of the world showed many examples
of remarkable conversion, but he could not recall any
as remarkable as this.
* * * * *
These libels were the culmination of a prolonged
and persistent attempt to oust the plaintiffs from the
position that they had occupied for a long time, and
to undermine the confidence and respect which their
constituents had rightly afforded them for a number
of years.
The whole series of articles was but a chapter
in a campaign designed to achieve a remoter object
by methods no matter how unscrupulous and
unworthy.
“In my judgment this libel was inspired in its
origin, protracted, persistent, unscrupulous and inspired
from abroad, and when brought to the bar of justice
the defendant has not had the courage to go into the
witness-box,” his Lordship added.
Dealing with a headline in the “Daily Worker ’
about Sir Walter Citrine’s evidence in the case, Mr.
Justice Stable described it as “a deliberate and unscru-
pulous lie,” making the earlier methods adopted inno-
cuous by comparison.
So long as the “Daily Worker” refrained from
libelling people, it was desirable that it should be in a
position to criticise fairly, and for that reason alone
he would not award damages which might put it out of
action.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Results at the first three meetings on
Canterbury’s new course caused it to be
termed “a bookmaker’s paradise.” It
lost that reputation on Saturday, when
the six winners included four absolute
favorites, a fifth that shared favoritism
with another runner, and a sixth that
was only a quarter-point longer than
the horse most in demand. Even
at the short prices on offer in all the
races betting was brisk, especially with
some of the double-layers.
The day’s performance of most note
was that of Winnipeg in the Flying
Handicap. He jumped away smartly, but
was led by Jazbeau after going a couple
of furlongs. Cook did not then bustle
Winnipeg with the idea of running down
Jazbeau, but waited until the straight
was entered before asking Winnipeg for
a serious effort. Jazbeau was still in
charge a furlong from home, but then
Winnipeg, who had shifted about a little
at the turn, disposed of him, and lasted
long enough to score by half a length
from Creditor, who did not have the best
of luck. The latter is nearly back to his
old form, and will presumably go north
for the Doom ben meeting.
Forward, in third place, made a good
showing, as did Caesar (who struck some
trouble) and Vergure, the last-named
improving upon his recent form, and
doing well enough to suggest that with a
drop in weight he may shortly return to
the winning list. Samurai was one of
the leaders to the home turn, but the
company was a little too good for him.
Winnipeg’s win was his fifth in succes-
sion, and as he made a track record of
1.13 with only 31b. less than weight-for-
age his success further proved him a
three-year-old above the average. Adios
had no chance with his weight, and
though Mohican looked bright his run
was decidedly poor.
In the Canterbury Handicap Herarde
flattered his backers by leading into the
straight, but in the run home he was no
match for Bonny Loch, and eventually
missed a place. Mischief, after being a
long way back at the straight entrance,
finished strongly to beat Anpapejo for
second, but never appeared like catching
Bonny Loch, who registered his first win
since the Canterbury Guineas last Sep-
tember. In Saturday’s race he made a
track record of 1.53 for nine furlongs.
Anpapejo, who has furnished into a
good-looking horse, did not appear quite
ready, but his showing pointed to him as
a probable winner within the next few
weeks. Sidcup was prominent turning for
home, but weakened over the last fur-
long.
At Victoria Park the previous Wednes-
day Festoon flew along at the end to
win the Jumpers’ Flat Race. He repeated
that performance at Canterbury. Trek-
ster and Sir Leighton each had a turn as
pacemaker, but after passing the half-
mile Lasting established a lead that
looked like giving him the race. He was
still well clear of his followers entering
the straight, but had no chance when
Festoon put in his claim. A middle-dis-
tance win for the latter in open company
at one of the mid-week meetings is more
than a possibility. Kerry Bay, the best-
looking horse in the field, was not at his
best in condition, but ran third. Last
season he won three hurdle races in Mel-
bourne, the courses being Flemington,
Caulfield and Mentone. He has also won
over the jumps at Randwick.
Well placed from the start in the
>/ursery Handicap, Our Barney headed
Many Ways rounding the turn, and won
by half a length from Timken, who ran
about at the bend. Timken came on
well when straightened, but could not
overhaul Our Barney. Constant Chatter
settled her chance when she swung out
wide at the turn, but was a close third.
Tuokool was fourth, and the way he fin-
ished impressed me. He is by Salma-
gundi from Beware, winner of many
races in and near Newcastle.
Sir Regal beat a big field in the Pro-
gressive Stakes, in which Blue Baron,
who retains all his earlier pace, led into
the straight from Sir Regal and Tyrannus.
In the last hundred yards Sir Regal had
matters all his own way, and, as he is
only three years old, he is likely to im-
prove considerably. He is by Pantheon
f rom Chatelet, by St. Anton from
Chatelaine, who is a sister to Tanga-
looma, and won some good races. Miss
Poppy, who failed to get a clear run
early in the piece, was narrowly beaten
by Blue Baron for second. The remainder
were headed by Tyrannus, Comely and
Benburb and ,4; / he | as ,.named has not
0 race for some time is not due to
lack of opportunity,
. .
Tickle’s close second to Tinker Bell at
Victoria Park prepared books and
backers for a good run on her part in
the Ashbury Handicap. Almost needless
to say the fact of Munro being her rider
did nothing towards lengthening her
price. As usual Tickle was somewhat
slow in fairly finding her legs, and when
Aristocrat slipped away from Reunion
and Good Morning at the top of the
straight it seemed as if he would give
Tickle some trouble. However, the
latter had his measure a furlong from
* e winning-post and he was also out-
s,ayed by G °o d Mornmg for second
mo , ney ' J hough £ourlh ’ ° ld , Ser P ent * d
grea,ly lm P r °™ n u .P on h ! s ~ wo Pre-
™US effor,s ’ , nor d,d , B ‘ a nc°nt, for whom
' h . e £ y as . .strong last-m.nute support,
Tickle is rising eight, but is not far below
ber beSt pr T°„ u ? n £orm ' ? er t,me £or
the race ; with 8.10 was only a quarter-
second slower ton that put up by Bonny
Loch ( f' s) ln th f Canterbury Handicap.
Trainer Bill Burke scooped the
National pool last year with Green Cape
and Giant Killer, and the betting sug-
gests that trainer M. T. McGrath has first-
class prospects of doing likewise this
winter with Cheery Jack and Turf Boy.
f orm at , Fle " li,,gton e on Saturday en-
hanced lhe chan ? es °f bolh horses . who
now re P resent the favorite way.”
Cheery Jack made a g a me effort to
lead throughout the mile and a half of
tbe principal flat race, the Sandringham
Handicap, and, although Hathersag? and
Marcius were just too solid for him at
the flnish> his performance , f rom a
National viewpoint, was impressive.
Cheery Jack has " ot raced over jumps
since his wi „ , he November
at Flemington, but he has schooled well
lately, and seemingly is better than ever
before. When Cheery Jack’s withdrawal
from the last G.N. Hurdle became neces-
sary, owner J. M. C. Forsayth consoled
himself with the thought that his gelding,
with a year on his age, might be an even
better National proposition this winter.
Reasoning was sound, but, while Cheery
Jack’s G.N. Hurdle weight of 11.7 reveals
the progress he has made meantime, it
also shows what an opportunity was lost
when he had only 9.6 a year ago.
Notwithstanding that Turf Boy carried
12st. into second place in the G.N. Steeple-
chase last year, some critics contended
that the handicapper had overburdened
him with 12.2 this winter. Turf Boy sup-
plied the answer w'ith a brilliant win under
12.5 in the Hopetoun Steeplechase. It
was only his second race, and his first
over fences, since last year’s National, but
he was always favorite and beat Bully
Hayes after an interesting duel. He
almost sold out when he hit the
second-last fence and jolted Fullarton
out of the saddle, but horse and jockey
made splendid recoveries, and the
chances are that, had Fullarton desired,
Turf Boy could have increased his win-
ning margin of half a length.
As no penalty attached to the winning of
Saturday’s race, Turf Boy will meet Bully
Hayes on similar terms in the National,
and the probabilities are that he will
improve more of the pair between times.
At this time of the year, when tracks
are generally soft, however, it may be
as well to remember that Turf Boy does
not relish really heavy going. Pre-post
backers might also ponder over the fact
that McGrath has a great fondness for
Turf Boy, whom he owns as well as
trains, and that, rather than risk him
under huge weights in unsuitable con-
ditions, he would not hesitate to place
the interests of his horse before all other
considerations.
Brightello’s G.N. stocks slumped some-
what after his defeat in the Hopetoun
Steeple. He finished third, but was 10
lengths behind the second horse, and re-
vealed no dash over the last two furlongs.
In Turf Boy and Bully Hayes he was up
against better horses than he had met
at Moonee Valley in his two preceding
races, and, unless his immediate form
shows improvement, figures do not sug-
gest that he will reverse positions with
Turf Boy or Bully Hayes in the National.
He will meet them only on the same
terms.
Bureaucrat, a four-year-old having only
his second race over hurdles, jumped right
into the National market by defeating
a fairly strong field in the York Hurdle.
Weighted originally at 9.2 for the G.N.,
Bureaucrat, who is by Bullhead from
Sagitta, is liable to be rehandicapped,
but is capable of improvement. Already
he has performed a feat seldom equalled
—that of winning in open company at
Flemington at his second start over
jumps. Incidentally, he was the first
horse started on that track by trainer R.
Sinclair since the latter transferred from
Williamstown to Flemington.
Bureaucrat’s price was 12 to 1.
He was well placed from the
start, got a run between Fighting
Cock and Whernside after the last
jump, and won going away from Fight-
ing Cock and Giant Killer. Latter started
favorite, shortening from 6 to 1 to 7
to 2, and, although several awkward
jumps did not help him, he had his
chance in the straight. Old Pooley Bridge,
attempting to win the York Hurdle for
the third successive year, finished last,
and seemingly is a light of other days.
Exmoor and El Banado disappointed,
and in the National Bureaucrat should
again beat all those who finished be-
hind him on Saturday.
Unable to handle the tricky Ascot
track at his previous start, El Golea
again showed his fondness for the Flem-
ington straight six by humping 9.10 to a
brilliant win in the Royal Handicap.
Backed from sevens to favoritism at
threes, he began better than usual, had
the race in keeping some distance from
home, and won decisively from The
Decoration and Ngapuna. Latter may
have done better had she escaped inter-
ference about two furlongs from home.
El Golea, now rising seven years, has
been a splendid investment for Archie
Crofts, his numerous wins including last
year’s Newmarket. Horses of his class
are generally spelled after the autumn
campaign, but it was decided to keep El
Golea going. It has been worth while,
as Saturday’s win was worth £350 in
prize-money alone. Cumulus was a big
disappointment, the W.A. gelding Atorna,
though showing the early pace expected
of him, tired badly, and Ronolive,
backed from 15 to 1 to sevens, began too
slowly ever to be a danger.
Bookmakers seldom take risks with
horses trained by Lou Robertson, but
some were caught to the tune of 20 to 1
over Cephren’s win in the Rothsay Han-
dicap. A Manitoba-Foliage gelding
raced on lease by “C. Robbie,” Cephren
had not impressed in either of his two
previous races, but evidently latest track
work indicated bright prospects. Start-
ing at fives after some nice bets had
been noted at eights and tens, Cephren
was always well positioned, hit the front
when the field was fairly on the way
home, and won from the faster-
finishing Prairie Prince and Flashlight.
In a field of 21 Prairie Prince came
from last near the half-mile, and evi-
dently he will do well over a bit of dis-
tance. Like the winner, he is a son of
Manitoba, and, already a winner him-
self at Flemington, he should be worth
the 1000 guineas paid for him as a year-
ling by Archie Crofts.
Lou Robertson expected Cephren to
be the first leg of a winning double.
Marcius, another member of his team,
was backed from fives to favoritism at
threes for the Sandringham Handicap,
but, after having every chance, was out-
stayed and beaten narrowly by Hather-
sage. Form said little for the latter’s
chance. Although second to Tidylus in
the Warrnambool Cup, he had finished
only eighth of 13 runners in the Moonee
Valley race won by Chortle at his start
prior to Saturday. Hathersage, however,
evidently was suited by the longer dis-
tance, as he came from ninth at the half-
mile. A five-year-old gelding by Spear-
earl from Halloween, he is trained by
J. Tie for Mrs. H. C. Crowe. Tidylus
ran below his Warrnambool Cup form,
and Ortelle’s Star was never dangerous.
Unbacked by stable connections when
she won at Ascot at her previous start,
Snow White was always well in the bet-
ting for the Buckingham Handicap. Nor
did she make any mistake. Assisted by
an inside run in the straight, she won nar
rowly from Glenfino and Manurere. The
win increased Badger’s tally for the
season to 40 wins and two dead-heats for
first in the metropolitan area, and he
seems sure to top the list for the second
successive year.
* * * *
If present intentions are adhered to
Maoriland owners will be strongly repre-
sented at the spring meetings in Sydney
and Melbourne, One certain visitor is
Beaupartir (Beau Pere-April Fool), who
is to arrive this month, and will be
trained by G. Price for T. H. Lowry.
Beaupartir’s form at three years was
particularly good. He wound up with
four successive wins, these including the
Auckland R.C. Handicap, 1 mile, 8.8,
in 1.36, and the Great Northern St.
Leger, in which he beat Peerless. This
season he has not done so well, his only
win being with 9.0 in the Woodville Rail-
way Handicap. In his last seven races
he has missed a place, his latest run
being with 8.12 in the Hawkes Bay Cup,
\\ mile, won by The Ring, 7.5. Last
year he was weighted at 9.3 for the
Epsom, 9.2 for the Metropolitan, and
8.11 for the Melbourne Cup, but his
form this season entitles him to more
lenient treatment this time.
* * * *
Owner E. J. Watt had two runners at
Saturday’s meeting in Brisbane —Corolla
and The Squire. The former must have
shown good form in her work, seeing she
was favorite for the Trial Handicap. As
on more than one occasion in Sydney
she disappointed, missing a place. The
Squire did better, running a good second,
and he may pick up a race before re-
turning to Sydney.
* * * *
It is not improbable that the owner
of Cheery Jack was more flattered than
pleased when he saw his horse shared
top weight with Padishah in the V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdles, and with Green
Cape in the Steeplechase. With 12.5 he
certainly has a full load in the latter.
Cheery Jack has started in a couple of
flat races recently, and has run well
enough to indicate that he will be at his
best when the National meeting comes
round. In 11.7 Padishah has the same
weight as when he won last year’s N.Z.
Grand National Hurdles, but in the
V.R.C. Steeplechase he has exactly a
stone more than he successfully carried
in the N.Z. Steeplechase. G. Price, who
returned from Maoriland on Saturday,
said that up to last week J. Hennah had
not decided whether Padishah should
make the trip.
Pooley Bridge has 31b. more than when
he won the 1936 Hurdles, and 71b. less
than when fourth last year, while Rest-
ford has gone up 61b. for second in the
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(To be held at RANDWICK)
By “PILOT.”
Trial Hurdle Race: Duke
Caledon, 1 ; Belvoir, 2; Bogan
Boy, 3.
Nursery Handicap (colts and
geldings): Royal Exchange, 1 ;
Martheus, 2 ; Trade Mark, 3.
Nursery Handicap (fillies): Wed-
ding Belle, 1 ; Stylish, 2 ; Constant
Chatter, 3.
Trial Handicap: Evertrue, 1 ;
Peekmond, 2 ; Lavengro, 3.
George’s River Handicap: Ver-
gure, 1 ; Hamurah, 2 ; Tuhitarata, 3.
Homestead Handicap: Osculum,
1 ; Fountain' 2 ; Tinker Bell, 3.
Welter Handicap: Thunderclap,
1 ; The Kite, 2 ; Tolerant, 3.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
By “SENTRY.”
Kalkallo Hurdle Race: Bureau-
crat, 1 ; Mamillius, 2 ; Our Boy, 3.
Barkoola Handicap: Securities,
1 ; Goldsmith, 2 ; Elated, 3.
Ardconnell Steeplechase: Henry
Tudor, 1 ; Bully Hayes, 2 ; Rhym-
ster, 3.
Annadale Handicap: Denis Girl,
1 ; Diaphane, 2 ; Cheery Jack, 3.
Merriang Handicap: Cumulus,
1 ; Bow Tie, 2 ; Celeris, 3.
Tulloch Welter Handicap: Dan-
nevirke, 1 ; Fort Belvedere, 2;
Stoic, 3.


Medium-Priced, Quality-Built D.B.GUNS
CERT .MODEL 402 G D.8.8.E. HAMSIER
GUN.
12-gauge, 30in. Steel Barrels, Choke,
Greener Cross Bolt (Anson Fore-end).
PRICE £B/5/6
CERT MODEL 410 D.8.8.E. HAMMER
GUN.
12-gaug:e, 30in. Steel Barrels, Extension
Rib, Bar Locks, Cross Bolt, Walnut
Stock, Pistol Grip. (Carriage Paid.)
PRICE . £7/5/9
PARTICULAR NOTE! An outstanding feature of both these guns is the excellent
pattern and hard-hitting qualities.
Whatever your Shooting problem,
be well advised bv LIONEL
BIBBY, famous Rifle Shot and
well-known Ballistics Expert,
attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department.
m
MICK SIMMONS LTD
same race. Both ran badly in the York
Hurdle Race on Saturday. Dark David
is in form, and should not be troubled
by 11.1. His stable-companion Mamil-
lius, an improving young hurdler, cannot
be overlooked, and whichever is preferred
by D. McCormick should be worth a bet.
Bureaucrat won well at Flemington on
Saturday, but Bullhead’s progeny are not
noted stayers. Giant Killer could only
get third, but lack of condition evi-
dently helped to beat him. In the
Hurdles he has the same weight as
when he won last year’s G.N. Steeple-
chase.
Cape York, Dominor, Bozzago and
Exmoor are favorably weighted, and
Harley, who has recently shown form on
the flat in Victoria, won two hurdle
races in Sydney. In selecting a few
from which the winner may come I shall
take Dark David, Mamillius, Giant
Killer, Bozzago, Cape York and Cheery
Jack.
Turf Boy is favorite for the G.N.
Steeplechase, in which he was second last
year with 12.0. He is up 21b., and won
at Flemington on Saturday with 12.5. All
going well he should again be very hard
to beat. Bully Hayes, in whom G. P.
Nailon still retains an owner’s interest,
is bound to figure prominently, as may
Brightello, notwithstanding he did not do
as well as anticipated in the Hopetoun
Steeplechase. Giant Killer has 121 b. more
than when he scored last year, but he is
up to weight, and is sure to be one of the
popular selections. Tifone is an im-
prover, as is Henry Tudor, and some
good Victorian judges hold a high opinion
of Sea King. The next month’s racing
may put things in quite a different light,
but Turf Boy, Giant Killer, Tifone and
Brightello comprise a likely collection at
this stage.
The V.R.C. handicapper cannot hold a
high opinion of the rank and file of Mel-
bourne hurdlers. Of the 71 entrants for
the Grand National Hurdles only 14
are weighted above lOst. Some of the
lightweights are Sydney horses, but they
are few by comparison with the Mel-
bourne division. The position is no
worse than a year ago when of the 15
runners only Pooley Bridge carried more
than 9.10, and eight ranged from 9.0 to
9.3.
-!' -!•
Nightguard was a runner with 8.13 in
the Royal Handicap at Flemington, but
as he beat only one in a field of 16 he
must be a long way short of his best
form. He will, however, have plenty of
time to return to it before spring racing
comes round. Among the other runners
for the Royal Handicap was the Sydney
horse Astounding. As six furlongs would
be short for him, and he was not thrown
in with 8.4, it is not surprising he fin-
ished among the last lot. Another run-
ner was the three-year-old Atlas, who,
though he carried only 7.8 to the 9.10
of the winner, El Golea, beat two. Not-
withstanding he is a recent winner, he is
evidently still far removed from being a
first-class three-year-old. He was a
1700gns. yearling.
* * * *
A match race between Ajax and High
Caste at a mile would undeniably be a
great attraction at the Red Cross meeting
at Randwick, though it would, in a
measure, detract from the interest in
Rosehill’s customary w.f.a. race, the Hill
Stakes, run at the same distance on
Guineas day. At w.f.a. Ajax would
be conceding High Caste 31b., and, as it
is probable the difference between them
would be greater in a handicap, the ad-
vantage would appear to be with the
former. It is claimed by one of Ajax’s
joint owners that next spring will see him
as good as at any time in the past, but
as there is difference of opinion on that
score High Caste will not lack solid back-
ing if the race takes place.
Bearing on the Red Cross meeting, if
some of the suggestions made to the
committee were seriously accepted it
would develop into a big fair. That, of
course, is not the idea. Give the public
first-class racing and there will be greater
patronage than if anything of the freak
order figured in the programme. How-
ever, the latter is altogether unlikely. A
high-class trotting race would be of in-
terest to many who never see that sport,
but its inclusion is improbable. Rand-
wick is not licensed for trotting, and at
present there are no further licenses
available.
Beau Vite is coming to Sydney in
August, but it is improbable T. R. George
will accompany him. George has a big
team, and it will be awkward for him to
leave Maoriland for any length of time
in the spring. Perhaps Beau Vite may be
temporarily taken in hand by some Syd-
ney trainer, though that is merely sup-
position. Beau Vite will be here in plenty
of time for the Red Cross meeting at
Randwick, and his inclusion in the
runners for the Hill Stakes will add in-
terest to that race. Or perhaps he might
make a third in the proposed race
between Ajax and High Caste.
* * * *
Speardale, Micawber and Binnia Hero,
horses that had not raced for some time,
reappeared last week at Victoria Park.
The first-mentioned two, though wearing
a healthy appearance, were above them-
selves and did not give any trouble. There
was backing for Binnia Hero in the
second division of the Flying Handicap.
He is fairly forward in condition, but
tired at the end of the race, finishing
fourth. When previously in work it took
several runs to bring him to his best,
and then he put together five wins in
two and a half months. He is engaged
at Doomben, and the interval of several
weeks, in conjunction with another race
or two, should see him ready to give a
good account of himself, though, of
course, a lot will depend upon how he is
treated. Incidentally, a horse can win
a race in Sydney or elsewhere of less
value than £2OO to the winner without in-
curring a penalty for either the Doomben
Newmarket or Cup. Binnia Hero, though
a shapely colt, and not lacking in sub-
stance, does not impress me as having
developed to any marked extent since the
summer.
=H * * *
J. B. Robertson, better known to many
Australians as “Mankato,” of the “Sport-
ing Chronicle,” died in England a few
weeks ago. Few men had greater
knowledge of English Turf history, and
on the subject of thoroughbred breeding
he stood out from every other contributor
to the London press.
% H 1 ❖ if:
Jockeys, as a whole, last longer in
England than in Australia. W. Bullock,
who won the Derby and Oaks on
Signorinetta 32 years ago, was among the
winning riders at Nottingham on April 9.
He was successful on a 9-to-2 chance in
a field of 15. Bullock is a grandfather.
Commenting on his Derby and Oaks wins
an English writer said that, while many
jockeys have been recipients of the most
generous gifts following success in big
races, it was not so with Bullock. Apart
from what he received from the owner
his gifts for Signorinetta’s wins were a
bottle of wine and three half-sovereigns.
Evidently the art of “finding a punter”
was unknown to Bullock. He needed the
tuition some Australian jockeys are
capable of giving on that score. Some
years ago it was laughingly said of one
rider that when he had a good mount
he went round on the milkeart on the
morning of the race so as to avoid over-
looking even small punters. They may
not be so keen as that, but there are
still jockeys who do not miss any money
that is in sight.
:Jc >Jc He
In the way of a hard-luck story the
following is difficult to beat. Four weeks
before the Lincolnshire and Grand
National were run a backer telephoned
to a leading London bookmaker asking
the price of Quartier-Maitre and Bogskar.
He accepted an offer of £lO,OOO to £25.
Later the same day the backer ’phoned
again, asking the bookmaker if he would
mind cancelling the bet. He added: “I
have been through the form of Bogskar
again, and don’t think that he’s good
enough to win the National.” The book-
maker obligingly agreed to the backer’s
request, and if he had declined —which
he could have done—one can imagine
what he would have said to himself after
that double won.
* * * *
At the annual general meeting of
members of the Canterbury J.C.
(Christchurch) the chairman, A. S.
Elworthy, said the general opinion was
that racing should be continued during
the war with as little curtailment as
possible. It was a source of revenue the
Government could not afford to lose.
Figures showed that during 1939 the
Government derived £673,855 from
taxation on 320 days’ racing. The prize-
money distributed totalled £550,054, and
£7,981,442 went through the totalisator.
* * * *
Weights for the Doomben meeting will
be issued on June 13, but that is not
going to affect prejudicially the A.J.C.
winter meeting, which commences on
June 15. The winner of any flat race at
Randwick will get more than £2OO, and is
therefore liable to be rehandicapped for
Doomben’s big events, but, with few
exceptions, the horses entered for the
latter are also engaged at the A.J.C.
meeting. Doomben prize-money is
attractive, but evidently a win at Rand-
wick will satisfy most of their owners.
# * 3= *
Strict adherence to the conditions of
the race made it practically certain the
Jumpers’ Flat Race at Canterbury would
be taken away from Sir Leighton. Still,
as at the time Sir Leighton’s entry was
made his trainer, who is part owner,
was allegedly assured by a responsible
official of the Canterbury Club that it
was in order, an imposition of a fine of
£lO, in addition to the loss of the stake,
was unnecessarily severe. If those associ-
ated with Sir Leighton had not gone out
of their way in the desire to safeguard
themselves from possible error there
would have been justification for the fine
* * * *
Backers who are inclined to favor the
heavyweights in the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle are reminded that the
only winner in the last fifteen years with
over 11.0 was Pooley Bridge, who had
11.3 when successful in 1936. Among
the minor place-getters Mosstrooper did
best over that period, running third with
12.3 in 1931. Of recent years heavy-
weights have a better record in the G.N.
Steeplechase. Clan Robert won with
11.8 in 1926, and subsequent winners with
over list, were Sandhurst 11.4, Moss-
trooper 11.10, Rakwool 11.7 and Red-
ditch 12.3.
* * * *
The total number of trainers licensed
in England by the Jockey Club for this
year is 256. That is, of course, for flat-
racing. Those licensed by the National
Hunt Committee (jumping) and the pony
bodies would considerably increase that
total, but trainers are not as numerous
in the whole of England as in New South
Wales. In Sydney alone a couple of
months ago A.J.C. licenses and permits
for the Sydney area were as follows:
For Randwick, 43; courses other
than Randwlick, 130; permits, 221,
making a total of 394. Possibly
the number now reaches 400, and as
many on the list rarely turn out more
than a couple of winners a year they
must be in the unfortunate position of
living mainly on hope. Of course a
license or permit is often useful in other
ways than merely training a horse or two.
* -’f 3=
If half the Sydney horses nominated
for the Doomben Newmarket and Cup
go to Brisbane, the B.A.T.C. will have
cause to be satisfied. There is no lack
of quality or numbers, and if one or
other of the big races is not won by a
Sydney horse our owners and trainers
will come to the conclusion that Bris-
bane is really too hard. It is difficult
to say which will be the best of the
Sydneyites in the Newmarket, but Buz-
along, Binnia Hero, and Fearless may
shine most in the Cup. Buzalong should
be nearly at his best by the beginning
of next month.
* * * *
Senator John J. Dunnigan, who had
most to do with the legalisation of the
totalisator in New York, bought the
first ticket issued there. That was at
the Jamaica meeting, and he received a
dividend of 13 dollars 50 cents for the
two dollars he wagered. His daughter was
the first woman to buy a ticket, but she'
did not fare so well as her father.
* * * *
Many amateur riders are keen on
getting a mount in the Liverpool Grand-
National. On the recent occasion seven
rode in it, and five completed the course.
One of these was Sir Geoffrey Con-
greve, who came off a minesweeper the
night before the race apd whose only
riding prior to the National during the
winter was one day’s hunting. In the
National he rode his own horse, 14-
year-old Lazy Boots, 71b. overweight.
Professional Mervyn Jones, who was on
the winner, Bogskar, was taught to ride
by his uncle, Ivor Anthony. Bogskar
was a chance mount for Jones, as E.
Foley, who was engaged for that horse,
could not ride him owing to an injury
to a leg. It was the first time either
Bogskar or Jones had been over Aintree,
where the lowest fences are 4ft. 6in. and
the highest sft. Amateurs did well as
trainers, the three place-getters in the
National being privately prepared by
their respective owners.
* * * *
Supplementary entries are permitted
for some of America’s principal three-
year-old races, and those for this year’s
Preakness (Maryland Jockey Club, Balti-
more) and Arlington Classic Stakes
(Arlington Park Jockey Club, Chicago)
closed in April. There were six for the
former and five for the latter, each at
the stiff fee of £A375. In addition there
is a starting fee of £125. An owner must
be plucky to pay £5OO for a run, but
last year Challedon and Sun Lover, who
were late entries, were first and second
respectively in the Arlington Classic. It
is anticipated that first money for this
year’s Preakness will be a little over
£A 14,000, and the total value of the race
£A17,400. Of that amount £A12,500
is contributed by the Maryland Jockey
Club.
:J: * * *
Tinker Bell, with two races and £320
to her credit, has already proved a good
purchase for P. Miller at 375gns. She
fairly outstayed Tickle in the Victoria
Park Handicap, and, though she was
originally bought with a view to being
used at the stud next season, it is now
fairly certain she will still be racing in
the spring. So far she has not beaten
anything of account, but she may get a
distance, and the spring meetings give
many opportunities to horses that stay
fairly. As she is a sister to Peter Pan
the first yearling from her by one of
the best of the Kia-Ora stallions is bound
to sell well.
* * * *
There is no sound reason why sport
should be entirely abandoned in any
Australian city during the war. It would
tend too much to gloom, and that is
something to be avoided. At the same
time it is possible we could struggle
along without some of the numerous
minor meetings which could not
exist without Sydney support. Admittedly
these fixtures help some “battling’ -
owners and trainers, but it would be
difficult for anyone to contend they do
much towards uplifting racing. Small
prizes naturally attract only the poorer
class of horses.
* * * *
Recently two races by horses in one
day at provincial meetings near Sydney
have enabled them to show to greater
advantage at their second start. Trainers,
however, are chary of giving any horse
two races the same afternoon, even
though there may be long intervals be-
tween them. When a horse is heavily
backed for a race of restricted class in
which it has a fair weight, and is well
beaten, one would think the owner or
trainer would welcome the chance of
learning whether, for some reason, the
form was incorrect, or whether the horse
was really of little account. In a better
class at a similar distance it would be
more leniently treated, and, no matter
how it fared, an owner or trainer would
have the satisfaction of knowing more
about it after the second run than he did
subsequent to its first. Few avail them-
selves of that opportunity.
Two races, even up to a mile, in one
afternoon are, as a rule, unlikely to do


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £4,000,000.
FIRE ... MARINE...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O'Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
**JfSS®SS®S
INDIGESTION
influenza
headaches
LUMBAGO HUS
STOMACH ULCER
rnmmJSr uSSSffi- « «g
Sr Muscat PMHS broken
kS'Sbub ~ “J O V Ie T" rh»»
sw &wieHEwn S SKIN DISEASES
Testimonials have been
received for all these complaints
f> Then R.U.R. can give you lasting relief. Every
di: ease has a cause. The removal of the cause elimin-
ates the disease itself . . . R.U.R. helps Nature to bring
you back to radiant health by stimulating the vital
organs to do their part and by neutralising the acid
and expelling poisons. R.U.R. contains no harmful
drugs and can be taken by either adults or children
with a definite benefit to the health of both. It
relieves pain and suffering, making the blood alka-
line and germ-resisting and is a gentle laxative.
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE
A complete course of R.U.R. (7/6 size) Is sold with
a MONEY BACK GUARANTEE. If, after a complete
treatment, your health does not show a decided
improvement R.U.R. will gladly refund your money.
HUNDREDS OF LETTERS OF HEARTFELT THANKS
TELL THEIR OWN STORY
These are contained in the valuable Booklet “THE
CONQUEST OP ILL-HEALTH AND PAIN” included
with every packet of R.U.R. and in the Company’s
files.
©
REAL UNIVERSAL REMEDY
R.U.R. PROPRIETARY,
841 George St., Sydney.
Please send me a y' b packet of R.U.R., Postage Free,
for which I enclose money order.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. f-40
TAKE R.U.R, TWICE A WEEK AND THEN YOU'LL FIND THE HEALTH YOU SEEK - SEND FOR IT! R.l/.R. mail coupon to-day.
much harm to a fit horse. I remember
a horse named Australian Colors winning
a Maiden Plate, H mile, at Randwick,
and being saddled up later in the day
for the Sydney Cup. Luck in running
was against him, but he finished a good
second to San Fran. At the same meet-
ing he ran two more seconds, each at a
mile and a half.
* * * *
If the Red Cross meeting at Rand-
wick is not a huge success it will not be
because of lack of a strong committee.
All sections of the racing community are
represented, bookmakers, trainers and a
jockey being added to the committee last
week. And they can be relied on to
pull their weight in pushing things along.
* * * H :
. In South Australia the Betting Control
Board has given the betting-shop pro-
prietors a nasty knock. After June 30
they are to be debarred from permitting
betting on their premises on any day
other than Saturdays and public holidays.
As they have a big turnover on meetings
held in Melbourne on weekdays this will
make a great difference to them, as well
as the Government in the way of revenue.
The board holds that during the war bet-
ting facilities should be restricted.
* * * *
Sydney owners are becoming particu-
lar. Last week a couple went into print
to express indignation at their bona
fides being questioned by racegoers. The
owner who was hurt because his horse
was hooted when it won at its second
start, after failing at its first, has been
long enough at the game to know that
the hoots or cheers of many racegoers
are merely a reflex of how the result
of a race has affected them financially.
The other owner, who objected to an
acquaintance being suspicious because of
his horse’s drift in the betting market,
should have been taught by experience
that many people cannot bring themselves
to believe that anyone or anything can
be clean in racing. Therefore, why
worry? If the King of England were
running a fancied horse for a Derby, and
its price lengthened on the course, the
chances are that you would hear some-
one express the opinion “This looks
crook.”
* * * *
In the “good old days” Australian
bookmakers always had a pull over
backers in the way of information. It
is different now, the daily and sporting
papers generally putting the latter level
with the books. The position is the same
in England, according to G. H. Yates,
chairman of the Victoria Club, London.
In giving evidence in a court case, Yates
said: “In the old days bookmaking really
was a business, and the book was so laid
that the bookmakers stood to win. Now-
adays it’s a gamble.” A question by a
barrister as to whether it was because
of the competition or the spirit of the
age brought from Yates the reply:
“Neither. The public get better infor-
mation. They get for a penny from the
press what in the old days would have
cost pounds.” Yates added that now the
bookmaker laid about three or four
horses in a race instead of practically the
lot. The latter complaint is often voiced
in Australia.
* * * *
In America nothing is done on small
scale— not even fires. At the Paradise
Stock Farm, near Lexington, a 35-stall
barn (stables, we call them in Australia)
caught fire, and 27 thoroughbreds, the
property of eight different owners, were
destroyed.
M.Q, and Rafferty
Superior condition and more intelligent
long-range tactics gave Johnny Hutchin-
son (9.64) a points decision over Bert
Osborne (9.9|) in a 12-rounder at West
Melbourne. In Hutchinson’s previous
Melbourne fight Tod Morgan beat him
by determined infighting. Osborne tried
the same methods. When he got close
enough he scored, but most of the time
he was held off by the American’s long-
range body attack.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
Before the Masters’ Tournament at
Augusta the players’ names are auctioned
off in a Calcutta pool. This year’s
pool amounted to over £4OOO for the 59
competitors, with Sam Snead the most
sought-after man —he was sold for £4OO.
Byron Nelson, the open champion, drew
£275, and Ben Hogan brought £350. Craig
Wood attracted £220, Paul Runyan £lOO,
Ward (the amateur champion) £125,
and yours truly £9O.
• • • • • •
The man drawing the winner of the
tournament gets 40 per cent. The popu-
larity of the stars stretched down to £5
for the lesser lights. Some players bought
themselves at these long odds for the
chance of the impossible coming off.
Gallery charges are £2 for the four
days, or 16s. a day, while 10s. was
charged on several practice days. Last
year nearly 10,000 paid to follow the play,
while this figure was just beaten for the
1940 tournament. Gallery collections
provide the prize-money and all the
expenses of running the event, as well as
showing a profit.
The field of 59 players this year played
one round a day on four consecutive
days. Starting at 12.30, the pairings go
off until 2.30. Some idea of the slow
play can be gathered from the fact that,
beginning at 2.20 the first day, my
partner, Dick Metz, and I reached the
clubhouse at 6.10 p.m. To be at home in
such slow fields one virtually needs a
shooting-stick to relax upon and a novel
to pass the time away.
Dick Metz, my partner in the first
round of the Masters’, gave the gallery
a thrill when, before hundreds of spec-
tators, he holed a brassie shot at the
470 par-four tenth hole for an eagle
two. Splitting the flag from start to
finish, the ball carried over the corner
of the greenside bunker, landed, and
gently rolled up into the hole. Recalling
Sarazen’s spoon shot that went in for
a two on the 485 yd. 15th hole in 1935,
a spectator, who saw both shots, mar-
velled at their similarity.
*••••#
Jimmy Demaret, second leading
money-winner this year, played a re-
markable nine of 30 when he came back,
after a mediocre 37, to total 67. Eleven
putts and 19 other strokes saw the Texan
wonder shoot his six-under-par score in
the first round of the tournament. A
beautiful stylist, Demaret has the unusual
combination of style and putting-touch
which, combined, have won the former
caddie nearly £3OOO in three months’
play this year—five wins in eight starts
is his record.
On completion of each day’s play at
Augusta the whole course is watered;
tees, greens and fairways get thoroughly
soaked to the tune of 750,000 gallons per
night, and during the warmer months this
figure jumps to 1,000,000 gallons. No
wonder the fairways are better than some
of our Australian greens. Every 20
yards down the centre of the fairways
is a spot for the sprinklers, while tees
and greens have a more thorough system,
although on clay soil the course is never
allowed to get hard through lack of
water.
In keeping with St. Andrews, the com-
mittee prohibits the use of cameras dur-
ing play. Photographers of any kind,
amateur or professional, are not allowed
to take snaps. This has its good points,
for in the past, both here and in Aus-
tralia, newspaper cameramen who do not
understand the game have broken a
player’s concentration by taking a photo-
graph at the wrong time. Only pictures
on the practice fairway are allowed to
be taken.
By next year at Augusta the committee
hopes to have residential quarters avail-
able for the 50-odd players that partici-
pate each year. The 50 and 60 members
who grace the club’s roll —it costs nearly
£2OOO entrance fee to join, as well as a
large annual subscription—intend throw-
ing in and building enough accommo-
dation to give the players the added
comforts of living on the course. Such
is golf in a rich country!
Sam Snead and Ralph Guldahl go on
a western tour after the Masters’ event.
Playing every day on a different course,
they will cover several thousand miles
in a very short time. After this five
weeks’ work they will return to Cleve-
land, Ohio, where the open champion-
ship is played, commencing June 7. Gul-
dahl won the western open here last year
and expects to repeat a victory for the
national title.
Johnny Bulla, the runner-up in the
1938 British and American open cham-
pionships, has the unique position of
being professional to a chain of 400
pharmacies. Six-foot-three and 16-stone,
this player has a fine tournament record
in the past two years. In whatever town
the event is on Bulla’s firm has a branch,
where the big Carolina pro. lectures and
gives demonstrations in the golf dept.
Talking of odd positions, Henry
Picard, the present professional cham-
pion, is attached to a club at Hershey,
known in the States as the “chocolate
town”—it is the centre of the chocolate-
making industry. Nicknamed the “Candy
Kid,” Picard has one of the best jobs
among the club professionals. Although
only 100 playing members grace his
course, a huge retainer and his winnings
give him a five-figure income in dollars
annually.
Footbrawl
War has affected the V.F. League.
Attendances at Saturday’s matches —some
of the best this season —were just over
70,000, an average of about 12,000 a
match. Teams fielded substitutes for
men who had joined the A.1.F., and
more enlistments are expected.
Biggest crowd was at Richmond, where
about 20,000 saw the home side estab-
lish an early lead over St. Kilda and
hold it to win, 17-10 to 11-10. The
Tigers’ superiority in the air and speed
to the ball ran the Saints ragged.
There was a hard and bustling game
at Prince’s Park, where Carlton’s better
system and more finished attack enabled
the Blues to down Fitzroy, whose rugged
ruck work and high marking reduced a
five-goals deficiency to two points by
three-quarter time. Carlton rallied after
that and went on to win, 10-16 to 8-14.
A small crowd of about 8000 watched
a stirring game between North and
South at South. The football was fast,
fair and accurate, and Sowth began the
last quarter 5-2 to the bad. Then came
one of those periods barrackers dream
of. As though injected with monkey
glands Sowth assaulted the North citadel
again and again, and was as grimly
thrown out. Still the home side gained,
and as the minutes passed the crowd was
swept with hysterical enthusiasm that
verged on madness as the scores levelled
and Sowth passed the post a single point
ahead. It had kicked 6-3 to a goal in
that glorious spasm.
There was another close go at West
Footscray oval, where the Scraggers were
at home to .Geelong. The game see-
sawed as each side got advantage of
the wind, and with last use of it Geelong
overhauled the lead and got up with
10-14 to 10-6, having each time made
better use of their opportunities than the
home side.
There was more madness at Colling-
wood, where only two points separated
’Wood from the Dons at the conclusion
of a match that produced two oppos-
ing systems—Essendon’s strong ruck work
and high marking against Collingwood’s
smart passing, fast handball and quick
backing-up. ’Wood, 12-13; Don, 11-17.
Most surprised team was the mighty
Melbourne, on top last year and cocky
with several wins up its sleeve, which
went out to clean up the rosegrowers
of Hawthorn and, harried by, the home
side’s mosquito fleet, went down by a
goal, 12-15 to 11-15.
Inter-State Rugby Union matches have
been abandoned for the duration. Syd-
ney’s grade competition is to continue,
but so many players are enlisting that it
seems hardly worth while going on with
it unless it is strictly confined to rejects
and juniors. On Saturday Manly had to
play four of its backs in both reserve
and first-grade games, and the other
clubs were in little better case. Upwards
of 150 Union men have answered the
call for recruits.
• •••*•
North, its team scarcely recognisable
now, was trounced by Drummoyne 24-
nil. Randwick was beaten again (by
Gordon, 11-9), and now shares top posi-
tion with East. Rankin, the full-back,
who has enlisted in the R.A.A.F., notched
all ’Wick’s points, completing a good
movement with a try. The Highlanders’
fast-breaking forwards rattled the oppos-
ing inside backs.
East notched its fourth win in a row
at the expense of Manly. The Villagers
led 8-6 at lemons, but—naturally—tired ;
15-11. St. George beat University, 12-11.
Against Parramatta West scored three
tries, one being converted. Andrews,
for Parramatta, wiped 9 of the 11 points
off with penalty goals, but West held its
advantage to the finish.


NICE to Take
MSI
RlUtf
SAVES MONEY
is what users sap about HEENZO.
Sir HARRY LAUDER writes:
“I tried Heenzo and found it
Good.”
Over 15,000 citizens have
written letters of gratitude
for the good HEENZO
has done them.
M
m
HEENZO
is good and safe for
ADULTS
and
CHILDREN
Save lots of money by simply, in your own
home, adding a two-shilling bottle of
concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water,
thus making ONE PINT of the world’s best
instant-relief, nice-to-take family remedy,
equally good and safe for children and
adults, as a speedy and pleasant cure for
chest, nose and throat ailments.
By taking made-up HEENZO internally
you quickly soothe and banish COUGHS,
COLDS, CROUP, BRONCHITIS and
INFLUENZA. Experiments have proved
that the most effective and economical
treatment for CATARRH and COLDS IN
THE HEAD is placing a few drops of
made-up HEENZO up each nostril, night and
morning. To gain instant relief from SORE
and SMOKERS’ THROATS, gargle with
made-up HEENZO whenever the irritation
is felt. HEENZO being pure, and free from
poisons or harsh drugs, cannot upset the
digestion of even the youngest baby. You
can also rely on HEENZO as a safeguard
against catching the ills of winter chills by
taking a dose before venturing out into
crowds, or cold, wet and windy weather.
HOW BEST TO USE HEENZO.
COUGHS
Take HEENZO every few
hours until cured. Relief
comes with first dose.
BRONCHITIS
Take night and morning
and when cough is
distressing.
INFLUENZA
Go straight to bed. Take
half teaspoonful of con-
centrated HEENZO in
wineglass of hot water
every four hours. Ease
cough with made-up
HEENZO. Keep bowels
open.
COLDS
Same treatment as coughs.
If taken at first sign, cold
will quickly vanish.
CROUP
Four doses of HEENZO
daily; also take when
cough is distressing.
WHOOPING
COUGH
Call doctor immediately
for injections. Ease the
cough with made-up
HEENZO.
YOU WILL BE GLAD YOU USED
9
a
the instant-relief, nice-to-take, money-
saving family remedy for
COUGHS,
COLDS, CATARRH
BRONCHITIS,
SORE f\ IT
THROATS, 1
m
CHEST AILMENTS
Take HEENZO internally.
NICE TO TAKE.
m
OWN HOMf
MM
and
SMOKER’S THROAT.
Pleasant and Effective.
.
-SS
MADE UP
IN YOUR
OWN HOME
also
COLDS in HEAD.
A few drops up each nostril
night and morning gives the
greatest relief at amazing
low cost.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE FALL IN SHARE
PRICES.
THE OUTLOOK ANALYSED.
June Issue On Sale Saturday.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ptv.. Ltd.. 252 Oeorse Street. «vdnev and .11 gtatea
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Concert.
“Busman’s Honeymoon”
This new piece, by Dorothy L. Sayers
and Muriel St. Clare Byrne, broke out
under the Fuller management at Mel-
bourne Princess last week. It is a
thriller which was listed amongst the best
plays of a previous year, so it would
need to be pretty good.
Although the play does not merit
superlatives except on the score of being
an entertaining thriller with the usual
pseudo-love interest, pseudo-psychology
and comedic characterisation, its presen-
tation filled present critic with encour-
agement. The young Tasmanian-born
Sydney producer Hartney Arthur made
such an excellent fist of it that it will be
a pity if Benjamin Fuller, with his un-
limited resources, doesn’t give the public
the opportunity of seeing him at work
on more serious stuff. Better plays have
been worse done by imported producers
of international repute.
The mainly Australian company in-
cluded John Best, Leonard Stephens,
Letty Craydon, Mary Macgi.egor, John
Wood, Loveday Hills, John O’Malley,
Dennis Glenny, Sam Stern, Reginald
Collins and Harry MacDonald, and
was good enough to be good enough
for anything, though Miss Macgregor,
as Lady Peter Wimsey, was somewhat
harassed by the necessity of making her
self-sacrificing love for Lord Peter
Wimsey Wood look as important as the
murdering pot. Sam Stern supplied an
excellent miniature of a Jewish lawyer,
and John O’Malley, as the youth who
murders his employer for love of an old
maid’s legacy, was another good actor in
an unreal part.
* * * *
Four One-act Plays
A well-balanced programme of four
one-act plays was presented at Sydney
Conservatorium last week in aid of the
British Drama League and the French-
Australian League of Help.
The work of Australian dramatist
Sydney Tomholt was represented by “The
Woman Mary,” presented by the Sydney
University Dramatic Society. The play—
wherein Mary of Magdala, after accept-
ing the teachings of Christ, is confronted
by one of her old lovers, who pleads with
her to return to him —is an excellent
example of Tomholt’s dramatic sense
and his gift for combining emotional
drama with fine, rhythmical writing, rising
often to poetic quality. The dialogue is a
gift to a good actor, and John Bushelle,
as Mary’s old lover, took full advantage
of it. Anne Peck, as Mary, brought
feeling to the part, though a little more
intensity would have matched it more
completely with Bushelle’s perfortnance.
An engaging satirical fantasy, ‘ They
Refuse to Be Resurrected,” by N. K.
Smith, was presented by the Dajonians.
The figments of a dramatist’s imagination
come to life on the stage as he writes
them; they are the eternal triangle in
the guise of Columbine, Pierrot and
Harlequin. They are puppets, and his
thoughts are the strings which they obey
reluctantly and tiredly, commenting
among themselves on the boring and
eternal repetition of the eternal triangle.
The lively imagination of the author,
some keen satire and deft wit speed this
offering on its way. W. Ewart Jago was
the author, Kevin Collins, Mollie Parkes
and Richard Hahn the puppets, and they
handled their parts admirably.
The Dajonians also presented “Villa
for Sale,” by Sacha Guitry. It’s a wisp
of a comedy, depending mainly on its
players to make anything of it, and Joan
Hitchcock, Joyce Dicker, Mollie Parkes,
Richard Hahn and Gwen Logan carried
it off effortlessly.
“The Imprisonment of the du Barry,”
put on by the Greenwood Tree Theatre,
has some drama mingled with its senti-
mentality, but the players never quite
caught up with it. Mary Woodhouse was
very emotional at times, but she seemed
more anxious to play the Queen than
the King’s mistress ; Richard Jackson re-
“In a few moments you will hear a performance of Gounod's 'Faust.
Meanwhile We shall have some music."
rest of the cast
seemed a f ra j d that the audience was
tQ bite them .
h h * * * *
-p be Menuhin who played at Melbourne
j own Hall last week was still as com-
pietely focused on his playing as ever,
anc [ while he was fiddling his audience s
opinion did not seem to concern him in
the slightest. The first part of his pro-
gramme was given over to the
pure classics, Bach and Handel, and
the second to Wieniawski, Paganini,
Brahms, Fiocco and others, and there
was a string of encores. But
the violinist’s approach to the lot
was as impersonal as his instrument, a
very fine one, incidentally, which made
the unaccompanied sonata of Bach sound
as if it were written not for one instru-
ment but for many. He made the
Paganini sound as devilish as the reputa-
tion of its author, and took its technical
hurdles flying. A word of praise is due
to accompanist Hendrik Endt. In the
Hungarian dance of Brahms both artists
seemed in their element, and this number
brought more of the house down than
usual.
* * * *
The programme of the A.B.C.’s con-
cert at Sydney Town Hall on Thursday
night—an effort in aid of the N. S. Wales
War Fund —was conditioned by the fact
that Antal Dorati, of the ballet com-
pany, had been borrowed from the Firm
to conduct the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra. So the music was of the
theatre —some excerpts from “Aida” and
the “Fire Bird” suite. The “Aida” bits
were given vocal ballasting by Strella
Wilson, Harold Williams, Godfrey Stir-
ling, Walter Kingsley and other soloists
and the A.B.C. Choir. The performance,
within its limitations, was satisfactory,
though “Aida,” most spectacular, atmo-
spheric and dramatic of all Verdi’s
operas, when shorn of spectacle,
atmosphere and drama is a very feeble
Samson. Similarly, the Stravinsky ballet
music, interesting and clever though it
is, makes little popular appeal divorced
of the interpretation of its rhythms
and moods provided by dancers. Most
satisfactory items, musically, were the
Elgar choral setting of “God Save the
King,” which opened the proceedings,
and a very brisk version of Tschaikow-
sky’s “1812,” which concluded them.
Artbursts.
Australian Art Society
The Australian Art Society’s fourteenth
annual show at Farmer’s Blaxland Gal-
leries, Sydney, is bright and cheerful. Its
steadiest exhibitors of the past are again
worthily represented, and there are some
comers-on who show promise.
A pillar of strength in the oils section
is Rhys Williams, who improves all the
time. His bracket of eight pictures in-
cludes no second-class efforts, and “The
Bay” and “The Spit, Middle Harbor” say
something new and sparkling about
scenes that have been painted by some
of the cleverest brushes in Australia.
Garrett Kingsley’s “Gossip,” a politely-
painted nymph and satyr, has the polish
of an old master. Jerrold Nathan, who
shows portraits in various styles, sets
himself a new and higher standard in
“The Little Dancer,” charmingly posed
and most effectively painted. His “Mac-
quarie Place,” too, is notable. Arnold
Zimmerman’s most ambitious effort is the
allegorical “Lux ex Tenebris,” a pure
white damsel levitating from the grasp
of a horde of evil monsters. It has power,
but is, as usual, a bit stiff.
Jos Lee-Holloway’s “Little Horse” is
the most adept still-life study in the show.
Frances D. Ellis has a vigorously-painted
head to her credit. Walter Rayment’s
“Close-hauled” has a good sea-breeze in
it. D. M. Brookes clicks with a head
study. A. W. Walter has painted “Boat-
sheds, Pittwater,” with fine freedom. Clif
Peir’s “Genevieve” is a striking portrait.
Among the water-colorists W. M.
Whitney leads with ten landscapes all
showing his usual good taste and good
color sense. H. Napier Thompson man-
ages to make pictures of Bali masks.
Douglas Barrie continues to improve. The
one spot of humor in the show is Mavis
Mallinson’s “Bogeyman,” and she shows
feeling and imagination in the child study
“Daydreams.” F. S. Davis, that ex-
quisite water-color technician, is repre-
sented by “Sunlit Quarry.”
Three miniatures by D. M. Brookes
are all admirable. Max G. Lawrence’s
“Musket Fire,” a fine abo. head study,
suggests that he might take up the mantle
dropped by B. E. Minns.
;jc % ;js *
“Everyday Japan”
In the spacious well-lit gallery at the
top of David Jones’s George-street (Syd-
ney) store is an industrial exhibition of
wares chosen to represent the ordinary
run of goods in everyday use by the
average Japanese citizen.
There is a splendid array Of the silks,
velvets and printed cottons used in
Japanese domestic attire. The importance
of the sash is manifest. These are very
long, very wide, usually intricately pat-
terned, often interwoven with gold, silver,
bronze and other metallic sheens. There
are sashes for the afternoon, very beau-
tiful, and sashes for “full dress,” more
delicate in hue, more formal in design.
The single elaborate sleeved garment that
goes with the sash is also variously repre-
sented.
In prints for wall adornment, screens,
tableware, fans, trays and cabinets,
jewellery and vases made by a hundred
clever processes, the Japanese insistence
on art in every craft is exemplified.
There is a tableful of scientific in-
struments chronometers, anemometers,
barometers and the like. The splendid
finish of these isn’t surprising when it
is recollected that as far back as the
sixteenth century Japanese metalworkers
held their own with any in the world.
At the Talkies.
New flicks let loose this week are “The
Lie of Nina Petrovna” (reviewed here
B. 1/5/’4O), at Sydney Savoy; “Virginia
City,” with Errol Flynn and Miriam
Hopkins, at Sydney Regent; and “The
House Across the Bay,” with Joan Ben-
nett, Walter Pidgeon and George Raft, at
the Mayfair—all mildly entertaining bills
without being likely to set the Harbor
alight. “Gone With the Wind,” at Sydney
Liberty and St. James, “French Without
Tears,” at the Prince Edward, and
“Pinocchio,” at Sydney State, have been
running for several weeks, while “It All
Came True,” at the Plaza, and “The
Primrose Path,” at the Century, may
struggle on for a fortnight or so.
“Raffles” finishes at the Embassy on
Friday and gives way to “For Freedom,”
a British war-time film.


IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kiclney Tubes
►—Get Quick Relief
Don't expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—If the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of 3
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many years. If backache is bother-
ing you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S
JBACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
•11l
The memory
of a pleasant,
well - cooked
meal lingers.
Diners at the
HOTEL PLAZA
WYNYARD
are served with a smile . . . pleasant
waitresses, expert service, and your
Grill, or Chicken, or Fish cooked
to a turn.
And speaking of Fish, we recommend
this week
Whole Bream 1
Whole Whiting I
Fillets of Flathead f
Barge Garfish J
Boiled or Tried.
Served with our
daily Business •
Bunch for .... 1/3
'& Courses, Etc.
Delicious freshly-caught Fish is
served with every meal at the
leading House for FISH MEALS.
kiWl
ghghgh
WYNYARD.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Of course thousands who went to the
“Win-the-War” rally never even reached
the Town Hall steps. From late after-
noon the crowds began queuing up,
and it seemed to take less time than the
surf lakes to thunder up the shore for
the great wave of humanity to fill every
cranny of the Town Hall once the doors
were flung open. Just to be one of that
crowd brought tingles of emotion and
excitement right up the spinal cord till
the jauntiest little devil-may-care hat
seemed to tremble like an aspen. Prime
Minister Menzies when he arrived looked
more like a Roman general than ever. Of
course, Mr. Spender depends more on his
figure-work, and, as this was the opening
of the Commonwealth campaign for war
funds, he made quite a hit.
It is to be hoped that Mayoress Crick
wore flat-heeled shoes, for she had. to
stand most of the night. First of all
she stood with her husband to receive
the night’s speakers, and later she stood
in one of the gallery doorways like
many others. Every doorway to
the gallery was open ; so were the doors
of the hall; and literally hundreds were
crammed along the corridors listening
eagerly, applauding with a vigor that
caused the civic fortress to radiate pride.
Its facade, four-square and honest-
looking, was illumined by white and
blue floodlights, and the thousands who
waited outside took some comfort from
the solid look of it. Here was the quiet
peace of everyday ways, when the world
held nothing more worrying than a
somewhat overdue electricity account.
With bursting hearts and throats this
footpath audience joined in singing
“Land of Hope and Glory.”
Peter Dawson’s voice was the right
choice for such an occasion. Strella
Wilson and Joy Nichols also helped raise
the heart to victory, and the women’s
pipe band was a call to make the clans
spring from every fastness in the High-
lands. When a group of the First A.I.F.
handed on the torch to a group of the
Second A.I.F. and while a great Union
Jack was unfurled in the background,
everyone felt that money and time and
worldly possessions were nothing. Vic-
tory was all.
Here is a paragraph from a letter re-
ceived last week from Mrs. Alice Brenac,
secretary of the French-Australian League
of Help: “In view of the present crisis
[the Dunkirk withdrawal] some publicity
to help our poilus would be most oppor-
tune. The distress in France is appal-
ling, and the demands on our organisa-
tion are growing daily—our resources
are taxed to the utmost, and we need all
the help we can possibly obtain to assist
our soldiers and refugees.”
Last week this Letter advocated giv-
ing the boys waiting to enlist in Martin-
place a cup of tea fit half time and
a few benches to sit on. Shipping knight
Thomas Gordon, Charlie Lloyd Jones,
Frank Crane, Mayor Crick and others
were all for it. But while the Lord
Mayor’s Fund was deciding on its
arrangements private enterprise and
friendly feeling hopped in, and for some
days the new Dungowan Cafe in Martin-
place kept the tea and coffee urns on
tap for the waiting queues. Asked about
it the manager of the Dungowan mur-
mured something about himself and a
“few gentlemen from the M.L.C.” think-
ing a cup of tea would not do the boys
any harm. The Commercial Travellers,
from their club opposite (and there are
no more warm-hearted men in the world)
sent out cigarettes. In future the re-
freshments will be served through the
Lord Mayor’s Fund, a smiling Frank
Crane, secretary to Sydney’s Mayor,
informed this Letter.
Visitors to Sydney from Burma are
Mr. and Mrs. P. S. Bourne. They have
been here a month and are about to
depart. They gave a lunch at Prince’s
the other day, and among their guests
was another traveller from Burma, Mrs.
A. A. Bruce. Also in the group were
the W. A. Mackays and the Professor
Dew couple. Lunchers from other
States glimpsed were Mrs. A. Cotton,
from Queensland, and Miss Evelyn
Elgee, from Westralia.
Tonight Sydney Town Hall will ring
with the 300 voices of the Grail Choir.
The singers and dancers taking part in
this programme will be in the dress of
many climes and many times. Patricia
Flanagan, the girl in this picture, is the
president for the big night.
The sum of £5OO clear is the expected
gleaning that the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund
will harvest from last week’s orchestral
concert. This was given in a Town Hall
vibrant with red, white and blue, garlands
of laurel and a stage backcloth blazoned
with the emblems of . the sea, land and
air services. The gallery was gallant with
a frieze of soldier, sailor and aviator caps.
These were wreathed in laurel. There
was the Red Cross, and all about were
deep-blue and red pennants. The
orchestra and singers were on a stage
whose base was red, white and blue set
with a laurel wreath. The Alexander
Gordon lady radiated pride of the
younger set who had designed and
painted the effects at a cost of less than
£6. Mrs. John Fairfax and Mrs. Max
Afford were mainly responsible for turn-
ing the Town Hall into something that
rivalled Solomon in all his glory.
The opening number was the Nile scene
from “Aida.” All this Letter can say is
that, if the Ethiopian princess, her daddy
and her sweetheart conspired with one
quarter the volume of the orchestra led
by Antal Dorati, they couldn’t hope to
escape detection. In the vernacular, they
were looking for what they got.
The audience was vice-regal, vast
and variegated in attire. Mayoress Crick
and daughter Shirley were in the
group from Government House. Nile-
green was the scarf worn by Lady Wake-
hurst with her black frock. Tea-rose
pink was the tulle frock that showed
under the Hon. Henrietta Loder’s fur
wrap. Mrs. Ewart Chappie’s white
chiffons had been caught in a patriotic
shower. It was spattered with red, white
and blue raindrops. Rose du Barry
taffetas swished as Mrs. F. J. Davy passed
with her husband. Margaret Sanbrook,
with Jean Cheriton, just returned after
three and a half years in England, told
of returning in an Italian ship where the
currency was American, many of the pas-
sengers German-speaking and the com-
mon language of all French.
Ermine at its best wrapped Mrs. Ben
Edye and Mrs. Victor White. Stephanie
Edye lifted a dark head above red velvet.
Mrs. Sinclair Gillies and daughter Brenda
were talking to the twin daughters of
singer Harold Williams. Attractive
button and programme sellers charged
about the vestibule, among them Mrs.
Lennox Bode and Mrs. Leslie Dunlop.
Mrs. Harold Bott, Phyllis Arnott, Mrs.
Macartney, Mrs. Denmark and Mrs.
Hope Gibson were together. Mrs.
Remfry, Mrs. David Maughan and Mrs.
C. L. Jones (her hands in a small ermine
muff) were others.
An original dodger is sent out with the
tickets for The King’s School Old Boys’
Union dance. It is a page torn from
one of those bunch-of-dates desk calen-
dars, showing the date of June 20. Under
the heading “Appointments” are written
the details of the flutter. It will be at
the Trocadero, and the number to ring
for table reservations is MA6431. B. B.
O’Conor is the secretary of the dance
committee.
One hundred or more friends dropped
in to say “good luck” to Valentin Zeg-
lovsky and Tamara Tchinarova when
they opened their ballet-school studio
last Friday. This is in the old Indepen-
dent Theatre rooms in Pitt-street. Newly-
decorated, and warm with firelight, the
long room looked bright and workman-
like. All around the walls, inspiration
for the young aspirant, are photographs
of the stars of the Covent Garden ballet
companies. At the end of the room, too,
are pictures of Zorina, the dancing star
who makes the fame of “On Your Toes.”
Also on the wall are the sketches of Ram-
say Pennycuick’s “Island” ballet. Trafford
Whitelock, who was the sailor in the first
performance, was at Friday’s party. He
introduced Harald Bowden, who
launched the new venture with fair
speech. Mrs. Harald Bowden, Mrs. Ken
Winchcombe, Audrey, Janet and Nancy
Gleeson-White, gifted grandchildren of
the founder of “The Studio,” Mrs. War-
wick Fairfax, Sheila Whittock and friend
Lucy Brunt brought good wishes. Mari-
anne Martin, a rope of currant-red beads
about the neck of her black frock,
helped entertain.
Enid Riddle, true daughter of her
father, who was knight Ernest Riddle,
of Commonwealth Bank renown, displays
a natural talent for organising in her
work for C.E.N.E.F. No soldier has to
be told what those letters stand for. At
all military camps there’s a “Cenef”
recreation hut; and part of the treasures
in the store at St. Andrew’s, under Enid’s
voluntary administration, are games and
equipment for these.
“Cenef” workers will, at the word,
produce anything from a battledore (for
badminton) to an organ. Cases of socks,
balaclavas, mittens, shirts, food-covers
(made of net or gauze) are received,
entered in registers, under the names of
the different parishes, and sent on to
the various camps through the different
chaplains. Mondays and Tuesdays are
the days on which the chaplains descend
on the stores, gather up cases of com-
forts and depart with cars laden. There
are about 70 branches of “Cenef” in the
Sydney diocese. This calls for many
entries on enrolment cards and in regis-
ters, and Enid and her staff of three or
four volunteer office workers at the
Church House, behind St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, keep all the entries up to the
minute, and in the most shipshape con-
dition.
The soldier hut beside St. Andrew’s
can call on Enid’s register if it needs
cooks or waitresses. If the war has caused
a shortage of clergy in a district, then
comes an appeal for workers to visit
hospitals, or maybe to give religious in-
struction in day schools. Maybe a chap-
lain at one of the camps is called upon
to entertain a visiting concert party, and
there comes an urgent message: Could
“Cenef” supply a large teapot and tea-
cups? “Cenef” always can, and does.
Foregoing is Dorothy Welding’s picture
of Enid.
Artist Enid Cambridge, secretary of
the Contemporary Group, is breaking
new ground with a small solo exhi-
bition at Canberra, 19 canvases in all.
The exhibition was opened by Mrs. W.
R. Hodgson, wife of the permanent chief
of the Department of External Affairs.
Bowls of autumn leaves and roses, sherry
and savories provided by Verity Hewitt,
who owns the gallery, added a party
touch. Enid Cambridge was smart in red
and grey. Many of the paintings have
autumn or spring Canberra for their sub-
ject-matter. Mrs. A. G. Cameron, Mrs.
and Miss Foil, Mrs. and Miss BurcheU
and Mrs. Rogers, Mrs. and Miss Tillyard,
Mrs. A. J. Nicholson, architect Winsome
Hall, Mr. Stops (Chancellor of the Uni-
versity of Tasmania), Dr. and Mrs.
Woolley, Mrs. Alan Tregear and Mrs.
Garside were well-knowns at the opening.
Inter-State University Women’s tennis
was the attraction at Rushcutter Bay
courts last Saturday. In the evening
there was a dinner party in the Gloucester
room of the Australia at which the Syd-
ney Uni. tennis players entertained the
members of the visiting teams. The
winning Victorians lovingly carried home
a glittering cup presented by Mrs. Dakin,
president of the University Sports Asso-
ciation. Margaret Wilson, who captained
the Melbourne team, received it and
many congratulations. Mrs. Roland
Conway, president of the Uni. Tennis
Club, was the night’s hostess.
Up to the present this war has not
brought forward such a group of fine
young poets as did the 1914-18 struggle.
But everybody is writing patriotic songs.
Some of them are good, too. Beverly
Lane’s “The A.I.F. Is Marching On”
was sung with success by Joy Nichols
at the Win-the-War rally in the Town
Hall. And talking about patriotic songs,
little Janet Crane came home from Kin-
dergarten the other day saying she had
learned a new song. Was it “God Save
the King”? asked her father, humming
a bar or two and standing at attention.
“You sound like it, daddy, but you don’t
stand like it,” said Janet thoughtfully.
"We stand like this,” and she clasped her
hands reverently and raised her eyes as
though in prayer.
If you can’t carry arms and shoulder a rifle,
There are other ways and means the foe to
stifle;
If you’re past your fighting dash,
You can still fight on with cash,
Give us funds the foe to smash,
We cannot fail!
You’ll hear that sung by Bernard Man-
ning, of the Gilsullivan co., in Martin-
place today. It is part of Harald Bow-
den’s spirited war-song. Harald spent
a good deal of last week writing the
words. He brought the typescript in his
pocket to the Zeglovsky studio party, and
under pressure read it to a few cronies in
a corner. Mrs. Bowden is keen on getting
food to England. At the beginning of the
war Mr. Curtin suggested a gift of
£1,000,000 worth of food to Britain from
Australia. It still sounds to this writer
one of the best win-the-war suggestions
made up to date.
Babies, defying Mars’s efforts to in-
timidate the world, continue to be born
daily, and their reception must be catered
for. The linen auxiliary of the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital will hold a card
party in aid of the hospital at the Legacy
Club rooms, Nock and Kirby’s building,
188 George-street, on Monday, July 8, at
2 p.m. Mrs. Justly Rawlings is the presi-
dent of the auxiliary, and Mrs. J. Paton
the hon. sec.
When the writer of this letter was last
in London she twice ran into Mosley
and his Fascists. The first occasion was
when her bus encountered a young army
of the blackshirts marching along one
Sunday afternoon, shepherded by Lon-
don police. Another Sunday afternoon
she met three young girls in khaki skirts
and black blouses stepping out doggedly
to whatever goal the party had ordained.
A group of boys near by said good-
naturedly enough, “Go on, take ’em off.”
One lad, a diplomat, said: “You’d look
prettier in white.” But the girls stepped
on with the Fascist equivalent of a toss
of the head. Still, if this Letter knows the
English, they were just the type to be
busy now helping win the war for Eng-
land. Probably the blouses have long
ago been turned to blackout curtains.


Personal and Missing Friends.
TO PHILLIP CONOL.LY formerly of Davis
Street Fitzroy in the State of Victoria
Draftsman but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife FLORENCE
CONOLLY has instituted proceedings for a
divorce on the ground of desertion during three
years and upwards UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court at Melbourne on or
before the Twenty-sixth day of June One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty the case may
proceed in your absence AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that the sealed copy petition
and copy citation may be inspected at the
office of the Petitioner’s Solicitor.
JOAN ROSANOVE,
440 Chancery Lane, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
RE JOSEPH BINNS, late of Nhill, in Vic-
toria. Will JOSEPH ERNEST BINNS, son
of Jonas Binns, deceased, and nephew of above-
named, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with TRUMBLE AND
PALMER, Solicitors, Nhill, Victoria?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 752 of 1940.
BETWEEN DORIS AVEY CRANSTON Peti-
tioner
And JOJJN CRANSTON Respondent.
TO JOHN CRANSTON late of 71 Victoria
street Potts Point.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DORIS AVEY
CRANSTON has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Sixteenth
day of August One thousand nine hundred and
forty and in the event of your not so doing
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-third day of May, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALAN V. RITCHIE, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 10 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 737 of 1940.
BETWEEN VINCENT CLEARY Petitioner
And ANNIE MARY MATILDA CLEARY
Respondent.
TO ANNIE MARY MATILDA CLEARY
late of 80 Allan Street Leichhardt.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VINCENT
CLEARY has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse during
three years and upwards; and take notice that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-third day of
August One thousand nine hundred and forty
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge. „ w
DATED this 31st day of May, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
C. JOLLIE SMITH AND CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Every day the Lower Town Hall is
an antheap of industry. As a recruiting
depot it is miles ahead of pigeonholes
and long queues of men waiting in the
wind-swept street. In the halls of the city
fathers there is ample room for everybody
and recruiting is going along at the rate
of a man a minute. The heaters are
turned on on cold days, the men can sit
down if they want to, and some sensible
person has dropped an armful of papers
and magazines on the well-known merry-
go-round seat with its aspidistra centre-
piece.
At the foot of the marble steps the
Lady Mayoress has opened her canteen,
where wives of city councillors are in
charge every day. They bring their own
helpers and tea-towels. Hot tea and coffee
with cakes (the men like the plummy
kinds), sandwiches and buttered scones
are available free of charge to the troops-
of-the-future. Donations of scones, etc.,
are most welcome. The canteen, although
in the midst of a recruiting depot, is
not on forbidden territory, and good
cooks with their welcome parcels may
deliver them in person at any time of the
day.
“Gone With the Wind” and the Happy
Landing dance double-banked, but
neither came off a loser, and a lot of
people followed up the picture first-night
by visiting the Landing Ground at
Admiralty House, where by that time
things were well under way. Louise
Lovely got across her usual dynamic
propaganda for her novelty stall, where
her wares were mostly zoological (yellow-
dog-dingoes, Ferdinandos, poddy lambs,
etc.), but included also a parade of Air
Force boys, for the toymakers are up to
date with their inventions.
Among those who had a hand at
swinging the prop, for this dance were
Squadron-leader and Mrs. Tom Swin-
bourne, the Bert Chadwicks and the Roy
Kings. Valda Milne, in a fluffy feather
cape, had help from mother Mrs. L. G.
Milne at a ticket-selling table adjoining
the soda syphons. Dorothy Walsh also
had a job of work to do replenishing the
supply of Noah’s ark animals in a frock
of lilac chiffon with accent upon violet
ribbons. Harry Vine and little sister Una
showed those present how fast a fast
waltz is when done by experts, what a
yam is like; and for a final fling (which
should have ended in prostration) they
saved up an American jitterbug.
On the dance floor Squadron-Leader
and Mrs. Max Watson found themselves
shoulder to shoulder with Flight-Lieut.
and Mrs. Colin Hannah. Afterwards they
celebrated in proper fashion, for the last
time they met was at the Piccadilly Hotel
in London on a memorable occasion
when Max sat on the arm of a chair and
broke it. (It must have been inferior
timber, for he’s little more than a light-
weight.) Several girls barracked for wool
at the dance, among them loan Leggo in
lipstick-red Angora jacket sparkling with
sequins and worn with an ivory satin
skirt, and Mrs. Bob Parish, whose
hyacinth frock of woollen sheer showed
white-wool embroideries upon sleeves and
corsage.
The community is growing more scrap-
minded, which is all to the good of the
country (we’re told that scrap is a blind
spot in armaments) and of the Children’s
Hospital and the Kindergarten Union, for
the youngest folks are first in the field
to benefit from organised collections.
No. 376 Flinders-lane is an old ware-
house, a paradise for mice and a perfect
setting for a movie melodrama, but it’s
also a rent-free sorting depot used by
the Kindergarten Union. Amateur
volunteers are put to sorting and grading
silver paper and tinfoil, and when they
get good at the game are advanced to
second inspections (for everything is twice
sorted) and to toothpaste tubes. All
tubes have to be opened up and cleaned.
A metallurgist examines doubtful cases,
for only by accurate sorting can good
prices be obtained for scrap. Every
fortnight a “bagman” comes and pays
cash on the spot. Income from silver
papers and tinfoil alone is between £2
and £3 per week. Very nearly reached
is the 10001 b. mark in toothpaste tubes,
cash value of which is about £9O. All
silver-paper balls contributed have to be
unravelled. One white elephant at the
depot is a ball the size of a football. The
bits of silver paper have been stuck
together with office paste.
Metal scrap, aluminium saucepans, etc.,
are all useful, but there is no market for
jam- and other tins, as there is no
machinery in this country for treating
them. “Godmothers” of the Kinder-
garten’s scrap movement are Mrs.
Norman Harris and Mrs. George Paton,
and Mr. Harris, who’s Commissioner-in-
Chief of Railways, doesn’t think it
beneath his dignity to visit the depot on
Thursday evenings and to help at any
odd job that needs doing.
Seeing was believing during the
“Twenty-Fours Hours of Wool” Parade,
and those who doubted still could touch
the glamorous fabrics and prove them
real and not synthetic. Some frocks were
beguilingly flower-patterned, the dyes so
perfect that the colors seemed to be hand-
painted, and the designs were a joy to the
eye. A set of underwear was the most
surprising exhibit; it was light as chiffon
and delicately patterned with satin leaves.
Men present probably believed that
someone had pulled wool over their eyes,
that it wasn’t possible for such a fairy
fabric to come off jumbuck’s back, but
some of the women exercised the privilege
of their sex, examined the articles at
close range and voted them genuine.
The parade, which was under the wing
of the Australian Wool Board and the
Entertainments Committee of the Royal
Melbourne Hospital, was held at Menzies
in aid of the hospital, and went hand-in-
hand with a cocktail party. The Dalziel
Kelly couple had its success at heart.
Among the 300 present were Mrs. A. E.
Boyes and Mrs. Arthur Nodrum, who
arrived together between the advent of
a Paisley housecoat and a snow jacket
and slacks. Mrs. Lennox Spiers also
missed an item or two in hooded coats
and dirndls. Gordon McArthur and
Harry Best were among the overflow
standing up. Mrs. Essington Lewis was
with Mrs. R. Stawell, of Perth (recently
returned from the U.S.A.). Mollie Clap-
ham and fiance Raymond Watson were
a particularly interested couple, Mollie
because she’s thinking of a trousseau and
Ray because he grows sheep. The
mannequins chosen were all skilled in the
art of display. Among them were blondes
Olwyn Porgiz, Yvonne Slater (now Mrs.
Athol Shmith) and Beverley Slaney and
brownette Berna Nairn.
Herewith Betty Wallace Mitchell, pre-
pared for rain, sleet or snow in her
woolly-hooded cape. On Friday night,
as one of the ticket secretaries for the
Happy Landing dance in aid of Air
Force House, she had able assistance
from father Wallace Mitchell, who was
prepared to stay on the door all night as
auditor-in-chief. Betty’s photograph by
Broothorn.
A charity cocktail cavalcade was a
bright feature of the University’s revue
“Shop’s Hooey.” The students were in
their element sticking pins into the pluto-
democrats. In the first scene Lady
Croesus sat in the presidential chair and
simpered while the meeting meandered
round in circles. Act II was the cavalcade,
with Henry VIII and his wives, in two
batches, the first six just butterfly beauties
of the town and the second lot more
accurate historically. Salome (Joy Youl-
den) made her appearance in recognised
vampire style. Lady Godiva arrived in
“Coq d’Or” cosy fittings and generous
strands of hempen hair, followed by Joan
of Arc in battle dress and Cleopatra
being - treated without respect by the
bearers of her litter. Gwenda Wilson,
Pat Douglas and Gloria Smith were in
and out of various carnival costumes as
the “Debs, of 1931, ready to help on
any committee.”
A number that skipped its hurdles
cleanly to catch the laughs was a shades-
of-FitzPatrick travel talk, script by Hugh
Murphy, dialogue in the Yankee manner
by a lad who has to remain incog, (he
being rather behind with his examina-
tion work). The pictures were of the
“queen city of the south, beautiful Foots-
cray,” with its smells and its boneworks
—“some upside down, all ga-ga.”
Wilbur Curtis, Frank Hyett, Keith
Opie, John Wilkinson and Mac Stokoe
were ace-high tumblers, all steel and
sinew. They get more adept every year.
The ballet, too, was better than ever. A
continuation of last year’s totalitarian skit
was “Snatching Slumberland” or ‘"Putsch
in Pyjamas,” musical frills by lan Braid,
scene “an eerie eyrie.” Tom Ready did
something to his chin with putty and
became a Mussolini to delight the cari-
caturists. Wilbur Curtis was Adolf of
the troubled dreams. Geolf Rainford
was Dr. Joseph and Ivan Franich Com-
rade Joseph. All had bother with their
trousers owing to ersatz, and Adolf in
his nightshirt was the most modest boy
in the play. Etceteras were the twittering
threesome of Danube maidens (who were
also the Debs, of ’3l) and Gwen Young
as the Merry Widow (“her 99th appear-
ance at Berchtesgaden”). Throughout
the evening Keith Mackartney kept pop-
ping in like a recurring decimal. The
students subbed and censored their show
with care. Even politicians were let oft
lightly.
Melbourne is with great regret saying
farewell and the best of luck to Air
Vice-Marshal and Mrs. S. J. Goble, who
are leaving for Canada. Herewith is a
Broothorn photograph of Mrs. Goble.
Remaining behind in Australia are their
three sons, John, a naval midshipman, and
Alan and Jimmy at Caulfield Grammar
School. A silver-and-enamel powder
compact stamped with R.A.A.F. is one
of the little gifts Mrs. Goble will treasure
when she reaches another hemisphere ;
it was presented to her by members of
the R.A.A.F. Locker Fund round a de-
canter of sherry at their depot at the
Herbarium. Mrs. Goble has been a
very able president of the Locker Fund
since its inception at the beginning of
the war. At the party she signed the
largest cheque she has ever handled —for
£lOOO, the Locker Fund’s most recent
donation, which will be shared by the
Lord Mayor’s Comforts Fund and Air
Force House.
George’s is the first Melbourne store
to encourage its employees to click knit-
ting needles all day long. Like beavers
the girls work behind 'their counters.
When a customer needs attention down
goes the sock in hand to be taken up
again as soon as change and parcels have
been delivered. Regarding the change
the customer can if she is so minded drop
some of it into the wool-donation-fund
sock hanging in a Christmas-stocking
attitude alongside the lifts. The girls say
it’s marvellous how quickly their socks
grow in sessions of minutes or just
seconds. Their aim is to produce 1000
pairs of socks and 1000 shirts —Monday
night being shirt night in the machine-
room, where jobs are found for every
pair of willing hands.
S.A. Tourist Bureau reports that it is
getting 50 p.c. more inter-State visitors
than it did even a year ago. Easterners
who must get away from home are find-
ing overseas trips less practicable and
attractive, and are consenting to see
something of their own land. Favorite
tours in S.A. are to Kangaroo Island,
with its wild-life sanctuary ; the “Gulf
Trip”—Ports Lincoln, Pirie and Augusta ;
an inland voyage up the Murray or the
seaside resorts at its mouth ; and, for
the more adventurous, the Flinders
Ranges in the far north.
Melbourne is critical of the increased
prices for the talkie version of “Gone
With the Wind.” It wants to know what
percentage of the gross takings go to
the U.S.A. However, a crowd turned
up to fill all seats for the charity premiere,
though not without some cavilling. The
full house didn’t just happen; it had
to be worked for with a lot of publicity,
ballerinas selling tickets in the foyer
and more cheaper seats available than
were originally promised.
Saturday night produced a choice of
Menuhin and “Busman’s Honeymoon.”
At the Town Hall there was no scrim-
mage for seats as happened during the
violinist’s first season here. The light
relaxation of the Dorothy Sayers mystery
yarn drew to the Princess a well-sized
crowd of amateur sleuths and a sprink-
ling of the knowledgeable who had read
the play. The cast of inter-State players
was led by John Wood and Mary Mac-
gregor, Mary no longer a Titian head,
but a brownette. One of the few “locals”
was Loveday Hills, in a battered hat and
a knitted suit depressed to the level of
Miss Twitterton by a dropped hem and
some tucks unstitched at the waist. The
metamorphosis was perfect.
The Travis Webber couple have come
to town once more after a year spent
climbing mountains and sliding down
valleys in their trusty automobile with
Travis’s canvases and paintboxes as their
No. 1 risk cargo. His “blue” show is
at the Athenaeum (there’s blue or a sug-
gestion of blue in practically every
canvas, for thus Travis sees Nature, no
matter what the hour of day or night).
It’s Mrs. Webber’s favorite color, too.
On the opening afternoon she wore a
blue jumper, hand-knitted, with her
tweed suit. Knitting, she says, is her chief
occupation and relaxation when on the
road.
She and her husband have been living
at Hall’s Gap for the last six months in
a furnished cottage, for they are keen
on a roof over their heads at night, and
so far haven’t had much experience of
caravanning or camping under the stars.
They hope some day to build a studio
home at Hall’s Gap among the tall,
rugged Grampians which they love so
well. About the “Gramps” Mr. Webber
has his little joke. He calls them “hills” ;
the locals contradict him with “them
mountains.” A pot of beer settles the
argument till it pops up next time.
Country friends of the Webbers who
came to the show on the first day in-
cluded Mr. and Mrs. Charles Cox, of
Mt. Dryden, and Mrs. R. G. Beggs, of
Buln-Gherin.


<r
c * »*'« 9 G/H %,
V < CSiS&
'4*
sscs*
*//
T.JONES & CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., PertU
THE SERVICE MAN
The Navy to the Rescue.
“Ek Dum”: In the third week of the
battle of Flanders the Germans pulled
their net closer and closer round the
Anglo-French-Belgian armies north and
east of the Franco-Belgian frontier. They
hell the Boulogne heights and were
struggling for Calais, while they moved
in from two sides towards Dunkirk, the
only major port in Allied hands in their
region, along the two great roads from
Douai and Arras.
The Anglo-French attempt to break
through in the waist of the German drive
between Peronne and Bapaume failed,
and there was a series of actions for
Somme bridgeheads. It was evident that
in some places the Germans had actually
crossed the Somme where the French
western and main line lies, but they were
pushed back.
There was a huge and whirling fight
—almost unnoticed as an anxious world
watched the Belgian area —round Mont-
medy, where great German forces strove
to get behind the Maginot Line and pour
into Lorraine along the eastern bank
of the Meuse towards Verdun. Had they
succeeded they would have turned the
great French salient of which Metz is
in the centre into a second island like
Belgium. This drive was arrested.
On May 26 most news from the Allied
sources came from the French High Com-
mand. There had “been no important
events on the Somme-Aisne front” —the
main Allied western line. “We withdrew
from the Valenciennes region to previ-
ously-prepared positions.”
There was only one direction in which
a withdrawal could have taken place
without, breaking through the German
corridor to the Somme towards the
coast.
The Germans were “strongly reinforced
and continuing their attacks in the Menin
region” ; but “the Allies were holding the
enemy advance in this sector.”
Meantime the German push from
Oudenarde was gathering weight. The
whole of the German effort in Belgium
then was being directed towards reaching
Dunkirk and Ostend, the two Allied out-
lets by sea.
In the north-east a dent had been
driven into the Allied line, forming a
new and wide salient, the bases at
Courtrai, seven miles from Menin, and
Ghent; the apex at Thielt, 16 miles from
Ostend as the crow flies. The Germans
were exerting outward thrusts towards
Dunkirk and Ostend in the angle of the
triangle. A great concentration of ’planes
intensified the battle; another German
air concentration developed westward,
attacking aerodromes, roads and railways
east of Paris and round Reims.
Bombers set fire to some of the Dunkirk
docks, which lie in an exposed position
on the north-western side of the town.
General Weygand flew over the German
lines to visit the Allied Headquarters in
Belgium.
British G.H.Q. reported that there had
been “no serious attack on the British
lines during the day,” but a fierce on-
slaught was in progress against Belgian
forces on their left, and British troops
had gone to their assistance. This was
the Ghent-Thielt-Menin salient.
The Belgian position was evidently
serious. Prime Minister Reynaud visited
London on May 26. The Belgian Premier,
M. Pierlot, the Defence Minister and the
Minister for the Interior had been there
since the previous Saturday.
Early on the morning of May 28 M.
Reynaud announced that without warning
to the Allies the Belgian King Leopold
had ordered his soldiers to lay down their
arms and the Belgian armies had capitu-
lated. The first intimation which the
British on the Belgian right flank re-
ceived of this fact was when they were
attacked in the rear by German forces
which, unresisted, had penetrated the Bel-
gian lines.
There had been till then two armies,
British and Belgian, and some French
divisions defending Dunkirk, through
which provisions and arms were being
fed to the Allies. With 400,000 Belgians
surrendered unconditionally, their arms
and equipment at the disposal of the
enemy, the way was left open towards
the port on the east, and the general
execration of the Belgian king did not
help much. Neither did the spirited
attitude of the Belgian Cabinet, which
expressed its determination to carry on
the war. The Allies were left in the
Dunkirk region with huge German masses
on their unguarded left flank.
Activity then centred in the gallant
attempt of the Allies to evacuate Flanders,
with ports menaced and under constant
bombing. Their difficulties were increased
by the arrival of the second and third
lines of German attack—huge masses of
infantry which were so heavily destroyed
that at times their bodies were used like
"Here, take this No. 9 and report tomorrow
“But I take size eight and a half in everythink else.”
sandbag barricades and heavy artillery
which added to the task of the Navy
supporting the troops.
Evacuation was hampered by the
nature of the sea around the west Bel-
gian coasts —it is shallow and shoaled,
the channels narrow and tortuous, the
entrance to Dunkirk a bottleneck through
a sluice. But hemmed in a small triangle
which became ever more restricted as
Allied troops were embarked, the British
held their lines, unshaken by the extra
strain imposed on them by the Belgian
disaster, retreating in orderly fashion
across the low plain which, in most of
the country they occupied, is less than
a dozen feet above sea level. Much of
it, however, can be flooded for defence.
On May 30 the pocket which they held
was not more than 20 miles wide and
30 miles deep at the furthest point
inland, and in it, beside 400,000 to
500,000 Allied fighting men, were a mass
of terrified civilians.
Up to this point the weather had been
all in favor of the Germans. In May
it rarely rains in Flanders, and the North
Sea goes through its rare periods of
glassy calm. These conditions now be-
came favorable to evacuation of the
sorely-tried Allied armies.
A long, curved beach runs round from
Dunkirk to the east past the Bray
Dunes. In ordinary years it is gay with
holiday-makers. In May, 1940, it was
made desolate by German shells and
bombs.
Along this beach dog-weary soldiers
of the retreating armies spread them-
selves. Off it lay the most extraordinary
fleet which, perhaps, the world has ever
seen. The fighting tops of battleships
were swinging on the horizon:
sleek destroyers, patrolling through
the channels, sent their wash up
on to the dunes; grey troopers, fast
Channel greyhounds, old cargo boats,
trawlers, fishing smacks, wherries, barges,
motor-boats, came and went. Old fisher-
men, young fishermen, naval reservists,
retired civil servants, coastguards—every-
body who had a boat handy was
mobilised or mobilised himself to carry
soldiers across to England. It is about
three hours’ journey to Dover by Channel
steamer.
The wounded went first. Then in-
fantry columns arrived, closing in from
the unbroken fronts which held back
the German pressure. They poured in
across the loop of railway which runs
round the fortress lines of Dunkirk, from
Coudekerke Branche to Rosendael on
the north-east, and over the coastal high-
ways, weary, hungry, but still full of
fight. The air forces battled over their
heads. An ever-louder barrage of
screaming high explosive rained down on
them. Out at sea, the naval pompoms
blazed continuously against the bombers
as the men waded out to smaller vessels
or dug themselves neck-deep into the
sand of the beach to wait their turn.
There is 15 hours of daylight at this
time. Lights come on after 9 p.m. and
at night there is usually low mist which
begins to settle on the sea as the two
evening stars, Mercury and Venus, go
down over the horizon, and does not
lift until Jupiter has ceased to blaze in
the west in the morning daylight. But
day and night the work went on. Some
of the wounded had to be left because of
the impossibility of getting them to the
boats, but there seems to have been room
and to spare—with the troops went
hundreds of dejected German prisoners.
On Sunday, June 2, most of the 8.E.F.,
many of the French and some of the
Belgians were safe in England. French
were still holding the Dunkirk forts.
Lord Gort had come home with his
undaunted army, to be congratulated by
the King on his skilful generalship and
to be decorated with the G.C.B. The
Germans had reached Nieuport, which
lies inside Belgium about 20 miles from
Dunkirk along the coast, and Adinkerke
and Gyvelde, which are on the Dunkirk -
Ostend coastal road —Gyvelde six miles
from Dunkirk and \\ mile from the
beach. But “more than four-fifths of the
8.E.F.,” besides “tens of thousands of
French” taken to England and other
French formations carried to their own
country in their own warships, had
escaped the fate prescribed for them by
the enemy and foreshadowed in cocksure
terms —capitulation or annihilation.'
From May 30 eyes had been turned to
new German concentrations in Zeeland
which “could not be explained by local
operations,” and, though it is difficult for
Englishmen to believe in the possibility
of invasion, preparations went on steadily
against the chance.
Britain was divided into eight self-
supporting districts, each separately pro-
visioned. Children were moved from
towns nearest the Channel. Neutral
vessels were subjected to intensive search.
Direction posts were torn up from the
roads.
Health Minister MacDonald declared
in a broadcast that savage and indis-
criminate air attacks were expected on
all industrial cities and that “the war”
would be “brought right home to this
island.” Home Secretary Anderson fol-
lowed with the warning that “there is
every prospect of an early call on the
civil defences, and the services should
be fully manned in readiness.”
A vast co-operative defence scheme
in which Air Force, Army and Navy
each have their part has been completed
after a close study of German methods
in Belgium and Holland. Thousands of
regulars and large forces of mechanised
divisions were at their posts before the
week-end. The coastline bristled with
artillery and mechanised machine-gun
units.
The fact which is likely to puzzle
foreigners most of all is that British
morale and confidence were never higher
than when the B.E.F. came home,
ordered, calm and determined, with the
air of conquerors moving from victory
to victory.
And in the midst- of the turmoil of
the Belgian surrender the Navy still had
enough ships to spare to assist in the
capture of Narvik.
“Ente Marid”: Hitler’s dun it! In a
little over a week 8000 of the 11,000 men
needed for the N.S.W. quota of the
Seventh Division had been taken into
camp, more than 11,000 had volunteered
and 10,000-odd had passed their pre-
liminary medical examinations. N. S.
Wales enlistments have reached a level
above 1000 per day. Before the week-
end, Victoria was approaching its quota
of 8468 men, of whom half were already
in camp, and Perth had well on towards
1000 men passed and considerably more
than enough already waiting to make up
its quota of 1912. S.A. was halfway to
full strength, with numbers increasing
daily. Queensland was in the same satis-
factory position. There is, however,
plenty of room for everybody. Recruit-
ing will not stop so long as men are
offering.
* * * *
France is taking heroic measures to
repair the damage done by Communists
to its air force. It is admitting French-
women with second-class pilots’ certifi-
cates, and after probationary training
they are to be sent to the front. Also-
aircraft production is to be speeded up
on principles adopted by the Convention
in 1793 ; “failure in their duties by
directors or men” will mean at least
imprisonment, and doubtless, in bad
cases, the guillotine.
* * * *
Of Major W. A. S. Dunlop’s booklet,
The Fighting Soldier, it was here said (B.
22 /11 / ’39) that there should be at least
a couple to every platoon or section of
the A.I.F. The War Office has distributed
20,000 copies among British soldiers.
Dunlop, a Geelong College product, went
from Duntroon to the 1914-18 war.
* * * *
And a Serviceman’s verse:
THE CHOICE.
To leave all this—the vista of blue hills,
The sweep of gum-tips reaching to the sky,
The thrush’s song as in its joy it spills
Its throbbing notes, and passes swiftly by.
To leave all this —the dear and homelike things
That with the years have more familiar
grown,
Scarce noticed in life’s rush —such potent
strings
Are these to hold you back from the un-
known.
To leave all this —the friendships you have
made;
The glory of the dew upon a rose;
Security; and peace; limbs weary laid
Upon a couch’s comfort. Yet I chose
To leave all this, and chose it undismayed.
I chose it gladly, knowing but one goal
Was worth the striving. Knowing if I stayed
These things might perish with my coward’s
soul.
And so I leave all this—soon to become
A tiny unit merged in war’s vast scene,
Closing my soul to beauty . . . speechless . . .
numb.
Forgetting all the things that might have
been;
Living from day to day, from hour to hour,
The past erased, the future too unsure
To ponder on. But were it in my power
I’d not draw back for all the glittering lure
Of safety. Better far to die and go
Out into the deeps, and leave behind
Me all the lovely things I used to know,
Than live there with a conscience-haunted
mind.
VICTORIA.
W. M. MELVILLE.


GET READY FOR JUNE-AUGUST
PATENT STOVr
* L
esse
±wmp
m
m
*
&
P
0
1940 “ESSES” FROM .. .. £l5/5/-
Other makes from £3/6/6 each.
FOR BUILDERS’ SUPPLIES
PHONE M 6505 18 LINES. LATE SHOPPING FRIDAY 8.30. PM.
JOHN
M. W U
SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED (incorporated in victoria!
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’PHONE: M 2381.
’Planes and More 'Planes!
THE FLYING COLUMN
“Aileron”: Australian air defence is
going through one of its normal stages,
due as usual to our dependence on others
for machines. Since 1933, when Mr.
Pearce produced a policy for the
R.A.A.F., it has never been up to
schedule either in numbers or in types
of machines.
By 1935 air defence had been modern-
ised to the extent that we received new
types of fighters just as the British were
beginning to discard them. Some of them
are still in the first line.
The next stage was reached with orders
for Blenheims ; but they were never de-
livered. The British Air Mission marked
another stage. A fairly adequate de-
fence scheme was mapped out —or at
least it seemed adequate until the recent
events in Holland and Belgium proved
the first-rate importance of the air. A
squadron of Short Sunderlands was
ordered—the most powerful and deadly
sea-patrol ’planes in the world. The
Bristol Blenheim order stood. Some of the
most modern fighters were scheduled for
delivery—type unnamed. And plans were
made for large-scale manufacture of
Bristol Beauforts.
Meanwhile the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment went ahead with its own plans
for building, under license, an American
advanced training machine renamed the
Wirraway. So far 75 have been turned
out.
None of the modern machines ordered
from Britain has been delivered. Sun-
derlands, manned by Australian crews,
have been fighting in the North Sea. The
fighter machines have not materialised.
But Avro Ansons and Fairey Battles have
been shipped to us in numbers for train-
ing purposes.
The only first-line import from Eng-
land is a British commander for the
R.A.A.F., which is as full of first-class
flying and fighting men who have proved
themselves in battle as duff is of currants.
With the outbreak of war the Com-
monwealth turned to U.S.A. for Lock-
heed bombers. Fast (though not as fast
as some others), these . machines have
proved first-class fighter-bombers, highly
airworthy and capable of getting home
after having suffered even serious wing
damage. The best part of 100 have been
delivered in Australia; another 49 on
order have been or are being sacrificed
to British necessities.
Supply Minister Stewart now declares
that plans for production of Beauforts
are up to schedule. Ten sets of fabri-
cated and ten sets of unfabricated com-
ponents have been delivered into store,
and railway workshops are being
equipped with tools and jigs to expand
production. But “developments over-
seas might necessitate substantial modi-
fication of plans.” Workshops at Fisher-
men’s Bend, Melbourne, and Mascot,
Sydney, are complete.
For the Empire Air Training Scheme
25 Tiger Moth trainers will be delivered
in July and 35 monthly thereafter, to a
total of 425. General Motors-Holden’s
is making 500 Gipsy engines, which will
be delivered at the rate of 40 per month,
and, of 200 engines of the type bought
from Britain, 100 have been handed over.
To the 75 Wirraways already delivered,
190 will be added by December 31 if
all goes well —the total standing order
is for 575. Thus Mr. Stewart.
It is inevitable that J. Bull must sub-
ordinate Australian requirements to his
own. The fact remains that Australian
air defence is totally inadequate, and it
is for Australian brains and energy to
make it adequate.
Long-distance sea-patrol machines are
a vital necessity. So are modern fast
fighters, which are proving the most
deadly defensive weapons of all in per-
sonal conflict. We can, we must build
them, even if it means hiring the blue-
prints and services of friendly Americans.
Nothing should stand in the way. If
Beauforts can be manufactured in Aus-
tralia, anything can be manufactured in
Australia. High-speed engines are cer-
tainly a problem, but all such problems
are capable of solution.
A stone is about to be raised in honor
of Hargrave (the Australian forerunner
of all aeroplane inventors). A chain of
Hargrave aircraft factories is the kind
of memorial called for.
Air Recruiting.
“DH9”: One thing can be said about
Air Minister Fairbairn. When mistakes
are pointed out to him, or suggestions
made, he acts quickly.
Criticism of the slowness with which
air recruits for the Empire scheme have
been absorbed has resulted in his in-
structing the Air Board to go into the
question of calling up those on the wait-
ing list immediately and placing them in
camps for preliminary training. Mean-
while, new recruits are being advised not
to leave their regular jobs till they are
warned for actual enlistment.
The recasting of the scheme in the
light of new developments in Europe is
being considered, but there is unlikely to
be much change either in its scope or
in the training timetable.
The present rate of training is governed
not by the number of machines available
for preliminary training, the Minister
says, but by the quantity of Avro Ansons,
Fairey Battles and Wirraways on which
intermediate and advanced training is to
be done. It is obvious that there must
be continuity in the courses, and no delay
between graduation from one stage to
the next.
Wirraway production should make up
for any delay or deficiency in delivery of
more advanced British machines.
Accepted recruits now number just on
17,000, of whom 3620 are air crew per-
sonnel and 13,348 airmen ; and 9365 are
already attached to units or training
schools.
Fresh men are being placed on the
lists at the rate of over 450 per week,
compared with over 300 before the be-
ginning of the Meuse battle.
Narvik and Norwegian
'Dromes.
“Norelai”: Narvik, taken on April 17
by the Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” fell
to Allied forces — Norwegian, French
and Polish —on May 29. The Royal
Navy was, of course, present, and enemy
’planes “fiercely attacking it” were shot
down by fighters.
The capture of the northern- port may
lead to resumption of iron-ore deliveries
over the short railway from Sweden.
Britain will need Swedish iron-ore
presently. In any case, continuance of the
campaign is encouraging, especially as
R.A.F. ’planes can be spared for the
good work.
“Every night British ’planes raid Ger-
man-controlled aerodromes in Norway,”
a Stockholm report says ; and, though
Stockholm in April was a distributing
centre for furphies, that statement is
credible.
For so mountainous a country, Nor-
way has a surprising number of aero-
dromes. Most of them are in the far
southern districts which first fell into
German hands. Also, the location of
Danish ’dromes was strategically a great
help to the Germans in their campaign.
They will need renewed attention from
the R.A.F. and the Fleet Air Arm,
specially if they become bases for raids
on Britain.
Aalborg, for example. It lies on the
southern side of Lim Fiord. A narrow
neck of water, Lim cuts through Jutland,
dividing the mainland from Vendyssel,
which pushes itself up to the northern-
most Danish point—The Skaw, in the
centre of the Skagerrak. This centre
has direct railway communication with
Germany, large goods yards, every
facility for heavy traffic.
Thence, under fighter escort, the most
ancient civil transport could fly the strait
to The Naze in Norway several times
a day. The distance is not much more
than fifty miles airline to the nearest
landing point at Christiansand. And
round about are several flying centres
much less than 100 miles away. Within
150 miles are 27 grounds, on all of which
most types of civil aircraft could land
with safety, while allowing the protective
force to use Aalborg as a base.
Sometimes these bases are within two
or three miles of each other, sometimes
even less. From The Naze towards Oslo
are Mandal, Christiansand, Lillesand,
Grimstad, Arendal, Vedesstrand. Four
more are grouped inland, close together,
between Skier and Langesund. Another
is at Larvik, where many sailormen and
their families reside, and five are in or
near the inner Oslo Fiord on the north-
east side, the last of them at the com-
manding railway junction of Drammen.
Two lie on the south side across the
water within 20 miles—at Frederikstad
and Sarpsborg ; and there are four be-
hind Oslo, lying east and west from
Fornebu. .
On the outer coast are four in a few
miles, then a short break to Stavanger,
where Bukken Fiord is guarded by two
—land- and seaplane—on the south ; and
three on the Haugesund Peninsula on
the north.
This, however, is the end of concen-
tration. A few miles up lies Bergen, and,
inland from it, Odda ; but along the rest
of the 1200 miles of coastline that is,
straight distance ; for following the actual
coast round the fiords the distance would
be many thousands of miles accom-
modation is limited.
Three coastal aerodromes are at Stor
Fiord, Molde and Christiansund. Trond-
hjem Fiord has four, the northernmost
at Stenkjaer. There is one at Namsos;
then a long break to Mosjven, just south
of the Arctic Circle, and eight more
north of the circle—two on the ragged
island of Hindo. And Narvik has
one—the British have been in possession
of it for several weeks. Then there are
grounds at Tromso, Hammerfest, near
North Cape and Vardo, where Varanger
Fiord begins—the last point of Norway’s
northern coastline. And there is one
on each side of inner Varangei Fiore
—on the north at Vadso, on the south
at Kirkeness.
Some of these northern centres are
merely rough landing tat they
could be turned nto
aerodromes by dint of intensive work
t “ic
spends to this region in the north.
It might be thought that Norwegian
fiords would make fine seaplane bases,
One glimpse at most of the narrower
ones would soon dispel this idea. Take
the Burragorang Valley in the Blue
Mountains, put a number of fathoms of
salt water peppered with shoals on the
bottom and stir up with a strong cur-
rent, and you have an average fiord of
outer Norway.
The War Day by Day.
May 28-June 4: Co-operating with the
Royal Navy, the Fleet Air Arm, French
warships, the trawler service and a
swarm of volunteer boatmen, the R.A.F.
plays a grand part in the retreat of the
B.E.F., French and Belgians to the
Channel coast and the successful evacua-
tion. It establishes definite individual
superiority and proves itself particularly
dangerous against massed infantry and
mechanised columns.
When the Belgian army controlled
by King Leopold surrenders and
leaves the British left flank in the
air, the R.A.F. takes over the
job of flank protection and makes a
deadly success of it. German transport
and armored columns pouring in from
the north are mown down by medium
fighter-bomber squadrons. Special units
pick out emplacements and tear up roads
in front of the advancing enemy.
Other units drop provisions into the
citadel of Calais, where a small British
force holds out, and co-operate with the
French in the Montmedy sector, smash-
ing up German aerodromes and supply
trains and impeding and destroying in-
fantry and tank columns. And in Norway
the Fleet Air Arm inflicts losses on the
enemy and assists in the capture of
Narvik. In that region German bombers
sink the anti-aircraft cruiser Curlew;
nearly all officers and crew rescued and
arrive in Scotland.
In two days (Iune 1-2) R.A.F. fighters
shoot down 129 German ’planes, nearly
all in Flanders. Fighter efficiency in-
creases with the delivery of modified
Hurricanes and Spitfires, and especially
the Boulton Paul Defiant with its power-
operated gun turret. On May 29 a squad-
ron of 12 Boulton Paul Defiants disposes
of 37 German machines without loss.
Nevertheless, the enemy is still consider-
ably superior in numbers, and troops
waiting for embarkation at Dunkirk
and vessels bearing them across the
Channel are mercilessly bombed and
machine-gunned. Admiralty announces
sinking of three destroyers, a 689-ton
transport and “certain small auxiliary
craft” (May 30), denying German claims
of far greater losses. Enemy alleges
sinking of battleship Nelson.
Enemy bombs Marseilles, Lyons and
St. Etienne, “apparently for the benefit
of Mussolini.” Three of his bombers,
perhaps returning, shot down by Swiss.


vv
•<x.
I*/
%
y,
7
1
m
w
<■**-
rtf
fayouAdfvme, QUIET
IN THIS NOISY WORLD?
NOT only does Cane-ite resist
summer's heat and winter's
c01d... it also transforms disturb-
ing sounds into distant murmurs. It
makes every room a refuge. The
secret lies in the millions of tiny
dead-air cells which occur in this
extraordinarily durable, white-ant-
proofed insulation. With Cane-ite,
too, decoration and insulation can
be carried out simultaneously.
The boards can be finished in
most attractive designs. Made in
three thicknesses and two finishes,
in boards up to 12 feet long,
Cane-ite is the perfect, inexpen-
sive insulation for new or existing
buildings.
G JOi'i-i'T E
STRUCTURAL INSULATION
NOW PRODUCED IN AUSTRALIA
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide . Brisbane . Perth
OR DO YOU
LIVE IN AN
UN-INSULATED
HOUSE?
an
EQ
£
nbmnbmn
CA3-4
The Australian Army is using
MASONITE extensively. It can
help you, too.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Dungeness”: Obit at 20, washed over-
board in heavy weather off the N.Q.
coast, Bill, late of the steamer Wandana,
one of the best-known characters be-
tween Brisbane and Burketown. Except
in matters of language Bill nourished a
fervent hatred of blue, and vented it on
any passenger who came near him attired
in garments of the obnoxious color. He
had long taught the crew not to offend
in that direction. He kept his watches
on the steamer’s rail, occasionally going
below for a luxurious roll in the bunker
coaldust. Coming back he would glance
over the side to observe the color of
the water, and if it were blue would
address it in terms that must have startled
Father Neptune. Nominally he was a
parrot belonging to Chief Engineer Simp-
son ; in reality a reincarnation of some
crabbed old sea captain who had hated
the sea all of his lifetime upon it.
* * * *
“Norther”: You blokes in the effete
South may worry about the rising cost
of living. Up here in Innisfail we’re
worried because the cost of dying is so
low that it is feared few people will
find any incentive to go on living in this
mad world. Lowest tender for hospital
interments this year was 15s. a head, as
compared with 255. last year. As one
hospital committeeman feelingly re-
marked, “It costs practically nothing to
die in our hospital.”
* * * *
“Backwash”: They’re pretty sudden
when it comes to raising cash in outback
Queensland for a good cause. At the
Cunnamulla Race Club Ball £lOOO was
obtained in 20 minutes for the Queens-
land Patriotic Fund, and by noon the
next day it had climbed to £l3OO.
* * * *
“2-7-9”: Anybody got any suggestions
for a town name likely to appeal to
Dingo people? For a long time they’ve
wanted to change, but haven’t so far
picked a successful alternative. Springton
was suggested, but another community
owned it. Another place in the same dis-
trict is Blackwater, which is not attractive
though still considered far ahead of the
“Here comes Dad with the fireworks, Mum!”
detested Dingo. Shakspeare may have
wondered what’s in a name, but he’d
have thought differently if, knowing the
full inference of the term, he’d had
to receive letters bearing the legend
“W. Shakspeare, Dingo.”
“Balander”: There was a big chance
for a newsreel cameraman out on the
Georgina stock route in recent weeks.
Big mobs of cattle from the Territory
and the Queensland side have been
coming and going. More than 10,000 head
passed through the border dip at Lake
Nash station —just above the junction of
The Milne with the Georgina—between
early April and mid-May. In one week
nine mobs of over a thousand head
each were met in less than 40 miles
between Headingly and Lake Nash
homesteads; they included Territory
and Queensland droves. Some of them
will be seven months on the road, and
the best of them will finish in the Adel-
aide market. The country is in great
heart, Mitchell and Flinders grasses
flourishing, though the old stock route
is beginning to show signs of the strain.
“The Georgina Devil” is being kept busy
with his three horses and tank, carting
water to the dip. Tragedy still marches
with the mobs. Digger McDonald, cook-
ing for Stan Fowler’s outfit —taking 1250
head from Alroy Downs to South Gal-
way, via Windorah —died suddenly in
the Lake Nash camp and was buried
on the stock route he knew so well.
* * * *
“Scat”: For consumption and diges-
tion by the Rev. J. Noble Mackenzie (B.
15/5/’4O) and other critics of the White
Australia policy:
We are beginning to realise that the
greatest barrier to white settlement in the
tropics is neither climate nor sickness, but
the presence of vast masses of colored
peoples, who, as we know from the history
of the Kanakas in Queensland, lower the
standard of living, create reservoirs of dis-
ease, and form the means by which the
whites can shirk doing the essential physical
work. From Washington to the Equator,
every American scientist I encountered
said: “You Australians are the wisest
people on earth with your ‘White Australia
policy,’ ” and this dictum rests on indis-
putable facts. The health of white people
in the Southern United States suffers appal-
lingly from the presence of millions of
negroes, while the West Indies and Central
America are steadily going black. Jamaica,
which once had thousands of white settlers,
is now colored to 96 per cent.
The author is Professor Grenfell Price, of
Adelaide University.
* * * *
“Ross Creek”: Whatever troubles
beset Forgan Smith’s new Mackay
Harbor, Townsville Harbor Board has
none. It certainly owes £170,000, but
annual income is £75,000 and interest on
loans and overdrafts £20,000. The margin
is not only sufficient to provide for main-
tenance, but leaves a fat sum over for
new works. Altogether, the board has
spent £1,500,000 on harbor improve-
ments. but has kept to a policy of rigidly
writing down its assets to the limit, and
shows them on its books at only £330,000.
* * * *
“Motuan”: Moresby is doing its best
to clean up wharf looting, a favorite
pastime of Brown Brother. Just before
last mail left one bright and astonished
lad was hauled up on three charges of
pilfering from the Macdhui. He naively
admitted that if he “wanted anything he
just took it.” The Bench doled out 15
months’ hard, and two of his mates got
a couple of months’ each; four more
were awarded from one to two months’
for having goods in possession suspected
to be stolen. No doubt they all strolled
off to the calaboose smiling. Gaol has
no terrors for the Papuan—a stretch is
just a pleasant, long-term holiday free
from the cares incident to the profession
of wharf-lumping. Until a soft-hearted
Administration thinks of a punishment
which will strike terror into the hearts
of the culprits, this sort of crime will
continue and increase. Exiling a few
of them permanently to the Kikori or
making a gift of a few sinners to the
Kuku-Kuku might help.
* * * *
“Gain”: A much closer watch needs to
be kept on the sale of firearms and car-
tridges to natives in the New Guinea
Territories. Three firms in Moresby the
other day were summoned for selling
ammunition to natives in contravention
of the Employers’ Arms Permit Ordi-
nance. Under this law, natives may be
given a permit to have and use arms, but
the ammunition which they use must be
bought and issued by employers. All
three firms pleaded guilty, but the striking
point is that in each case the excuse
was offered that the cartridges had been
sold by native store assistants who had
mistaken the permits tendered for special
permits. What sort of a system is it
which allows native clerks to sell ammu-
nition of any type to natives or anybody
else? The handling of all firearms both
in Papua and New Guinea should be
strictly in the hands of whites, or guarded
by provisions which ensure that every
ounce of powder can be strictly accounted
for.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Queensland Railway Depart-
ment is getting it in the neck from irate
north-westerners over the penalty freight-
rate which applies on all goods carried
north of Rockhampton. Under this
grasping arrangement, carriage of Class
I goods to Winton from Brisbane —934
miles—works out at £l5 11s. per ton.
If the western town had the luck to be
in the southern zone the rate for a simi-
lar distance would be £lO 18s. 6d. From
Brisbane to Cloncurry (1299 miles) the
Class I rate is £2O 18s., against £l2 18s.
for a similar distance in the south. And
the anomaly is pointed by the fact that
it is cheaper to send Class I goods in ton
lots by passenger train to the north as
stamped parcels than to send them by
goods train as freight. However, the
northern division of the railways shows
net earnings to capital (heavily written
down) of 5.04 per cent., against an aver-
age of 4.26 per cent, in the central and
southern divisions, and that is probably
all that matters to the department.
* * * *
“Cloviski MacOdoacer” (T.N.G.):
“Nor’-west’s” theory (B. 6/3/’4O) that
the crocs, would not climb on to a cause-
way is not borne out by the experience
of a man at Aitape, up towards the
Dutch border, where the road leads across
a bridge over a creek in which the saurian
tenants strongly resent any intrusion.
On this bridge one night he met a croco-
dile. It has been said that it was an un-
usual specimen, with green eyes and pink
stripes and a bird-of-paradise tail, and
that it was sitting up on the bridge-raii
smoking a cigar. Anyway, the traveller
dived off that bridge in among all the
other crocodiles, and the wake he left
behind him in his dash for the shore
caused a tidal wave at Wuyulu.


Write Stories
That Sell!
You can succeed easily and quickly in
learning to write stories by taking our
- simplified postal course. Make your
spare time profitable.
Call or write for FREE booklet to Dept. B.
NEWTON COLLEGE
FAYS BUILDING, CNR. I>ITT AND
LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
uinz ltf irf
m y
I
■
1
m
m
■
igSSSS&S
HHI
1
•x®
■
m
I*
v
(imam
CINESOUND
Al
fclmi
Hill « IMIIIII HM ii
mm i n inn
nun t*iii
I* MS 111
mu
i f t
"■*-
i-~‘~+es
i W,
ii a £
// \
'/
lV'-'" 1 v \)
L/Mi liVi
■
i
BB
SOAP
■'X:y: .
WITH THE INIMITABLE RUDD FAMILV
HMD
RUDM
6h/ctL
FRED M'DONAID-AIECKELLAWAY
YVONNE EAST • GRANT TAYLOR
BARBARA WEEKS-CONNIE MARTTN
FRANK HARVEY
•
Produced by KEN G.HALL
Simultaneous Aust. Premieres
FRIDAY JUNE 14 cj
2 Theatres: Lyceum Cr Capitol, Sydney '
State, Melb. • Wintergarden, Bris.
Strand, Hobart • Majestic,Launceston
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor yot to members of the staff personally.
A.W.D.: Doubt if Uncle Sam would re-
, * c ■ ,i,„ m » MW •
spond even to reproof in ihyme.. .M W..
Damp... .E.E.: “Hiking is still at it....
E.M.W.: That’s a weak refrain G. 8.:
“Stepping Down” needs pepping up A.P.:
It might have been better if you had swal-
lowed the ink F.J.L.: It’s worth rewriting,
cutting out lines such as “Unfett’nng feelings
Inna nict npnt” T H • Scrannv IW D •
Your typewriter ' needs'' a doctorA.E.F.:
a hnUinn “Mnrr-h” t m a • “Broken
Cliffs” the 8 nearest.. .P.f.'!‘ T&'verse is as
dead as the cat....E.T.: Not very likely that
members of the A.I.F. regard themselves as
“the bulldoe’s nunnies” EVC’ Indistin-
euishable frnm P an P the” other ‘ marches
J McG Curious EP • This is no place for
“Just Married”.!! !c.8.: Both on the thin
side W.8.C.: If you’re going to “make a
hobby of it” make them shorter and smoother.
... .S.S.S.: “Yea, verrilie.” Nay, definitely....
8.5.: Be careful of that word “sod”... .D. 0.:
“ ‘Let’s fight,’ he cries, he cries, he cries.”
Well, at least he helps you to fill out your lines,
your lines, your lines... .V.P.: “War” is grim.
A.M.: You can’t mix swords and guns
D.S.: Npt so far away R.W.: Should score
elsewhere 5.C.8.: “Back to Boggabri” is
the scheme for it H.R.McD.: Wild dog-
gerel 1.A.G.: “The Dragon” doesn’t breathe
enough fire... .J. 8.: Darwin Nights sounds
as if it was written on a Darwin morning
K.L.: Jerky....J.J.S.: Poem about Hitler and
Old Nick is truly fiendish... .F.A.C.: Come
again P.L.A.: There’s merit in the writing,
but the story is scrappy S.M.: Three thou-
sand words on “the delightful and engaging
antics of my cats!” Begone L.M.O’N.: It
might scrape into an adventure-story magazine,
P.S.: Our Chief Chucker-out attended to
“The Gigolo” N.P.C.: On 11 separate
occasions your heroine needed 1500 words for
her sobbing... .A.D.: Published much the
same story a few weeks ago... .M.L.W.: Learn
a bit more about yarn-spinning, then try again
with the same material G. 5.8.: Hollywood
forgot that plot about 10 years ago L.N.T.:
Your basketball champion basketed herself
J.Y.: Very nearly good enough... .L.T.D.:
Story off our beat; cannot undertake to re-
turn paragraphs... .L. 8.: Clever, but it doesn’t
make a yarn; cut and try Smoke-oh! .. ;
8.D.J.: Its patriotic, that s all N.D.L..
& smile whole 3Q pages> _ _ L H c ..
by b a lf, an d try a daily... .F.C.D., P.R.,
G.F.L., K.R. and T.R.M.: Try them elsewhere.
. ...A.A.: “Yesterday’s Shadow” very faint.
-—H.D.W.: “Wings in the Wind last seen
flying homeward T.B W.: Cut down to a
par... .E R.F . Yours being the 9999th Int
hide” we decided to look it up. Our dictionary
calls it “A short piece of music played between
stanzas 8.M.: The finish spoiled it
F.W.: “Crooked Finger of Mercury” could
not securea h01d... .A R.. Don t like you
friends with the eyes of a kindly and intelli-
-Bent ape”... .D.H.G.: Nothing new in that
10t... .F.T.W.: Policeman doesn’t arrest atten-
tion... .M.M.: We wept for the farmhand who
coukin t have his tan-and-whitc sports shoes
because he had *°. p, S?:* •• • • " ,
ou f me F'Vml nlnre’it with n fhnner
t 0 jt - •: EW - : You m, S ht P lace ll Wlth a flappet
magazine.
‘
....
lO ARTISTIC (AND INARTIStIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.F.: The parachutist was popped off be-
fore he reached the ground S.R.: The
fj gures appeared to have stepped out of a wax-
,T„ A ,
works show....HA.: Cant you draw any-
thing but cats? ... .M.M.: Landscape passable,
people abominable E.P.: You’d find rabbit-
trapping more profitable than art A.M.:
Digger in harem is not for our pages... .M.D.:
Humor of “Half a mo’, Hitler!” cartoon is
badly strained... .S.N.: They found a snug
resting-place in the w.p.b A.S.G.: Neat
and decorative, but not amusing enough
M.J.: Sketch dashed off in five minutes was
knocked back in five seconds....R.G.B.:
Drawing crammed with unnecessary details,
You’re one of the scratchers....
R.E.F.: That sergeant will not be permitted
to use our pages as a parade-ground... .G.C.:
A ragged piece of work, and a gloomy wheeze.
....W.W.: An old A.I.F. gag....8.M.: We
are prepared to consider gags alone and pay
7s. 6d. each for those accepted.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Oran”: The blither over Mother’s
Day (B. 22/5/’4O) surely reached its
height in the U.S.A. when a magazine
printed a pome to Mothers beginning: —-
The dog, they say, is man’s best friend,
But this is scarcely true,
For where’s the dog would do the things
Your mother does for you?
The paper proudly reported a week later
that the verse had attained immense
popularity.
* * * *
That Australian institution Bert Bailey
has reached his 70th milestone, and is
still going strong. Bailey was originally
a comedian with William Anderson com-
panies —at the height of Billanderson
melodrama popularity there were half a
dozen of his companies touring Aus-
tralasia, with headquarters at the old
Sydney Lyceum. Bailey, in collaboration
with Edmund Duggan now and then,
wrote and produced some Australian
plays without making a fortune. His
rediscovery of Dad and Dave brought
him a poultice. “On Our Selection” went
with a bang when it was staged at the
Sydney Palace, and —with its offshoots —
has been a money-spinner ever since. For
years Bailey has worn the Dad Rudd
beard he grew for a screen production
of the “Selection” character.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: “Sabotage,” another
overworked addition to the war slang of
our Great Dailies, has been explained by
one of them as derived from the French
general strike of 1910, when the strikers
removed the shoes (“sabots”) of train
rails. Really it goes back more than a
.century earlier to when French hand-
weavers sought to destroy the newly in-
troduced power looms by throwing their
heavy wooden shoes into the works.
■ Properly the word is a noun, and some
bright young staff writer will earn the
envy of his peers by discovering “ratten-
ing.” The Pocket Oxford gives it as a
synonym for sabotage, derived from the
e transitive verb “ratten,” “molest (work-
-2 man, employer) by abstracting or injuring
- ■ tools or machinery in trade dispute.”
Etymology unknown.
Old James F. Ellis, who passed out on
the verge of 90 at his Waverley (Sydney)
home, saw many of the changes that
took place in newspaper production over
the past 60 years. Completing an appren-
ticeship on the old Bathurst “Free Press,”
he joined “S. M. Flerald” printing staff
in 1875, when Dr. Garran, father of
knight Robert Garran, was editor and
when “Granny” was a slim maiden of
10 six-column pages. Parkes’s “Empire”
had just gone out, and the old “D.T.”
was not to appear for another four years.
In those days a political report might
run to 12 columns and a lecture to four.
Ellis saw the change from hand-setting
to the Hattersley machines in ’94 and
the first linotypes in 1900, and he
adapted himself with ease to these and
a multitude of other changes. He re-
mained a bachelor.
* * * *
Though Arthur Streeton wasn’t at his
final show in Melbourne, having
retired to his mountain fastness at
Olinda to garden and paint, there
was a portrait of himself in Army
Service uniform by a fellow-brush
—he was a sergeant in the last war.
Streeton started to draw and paint in the
Western District as a child, and was a
student at the National Gallery. The
most vital years of his artistic career
were spent at Eaglemont, eight miles out
of Melbourne, where, on the top of a hill
overlooking the Yarra, he, Tom Roberts,
Blamire Young and others founded the
so-called Eaglemont school. They had a
famous show in Melbourne, and after
that show Streeton never looked back.
His pictures were bought by all the Aus-
tralian galleries, he was the first Aus-
tralian to win honorable mention at a
Paris Salon, he gained a gold medal in
Paris in 1909 and he was the second
Australian painter-knight. He is 76.
$ # * *
“Ah Sun”: As part of the festivities in
its Merry-go-round session on 20/5/’4O
A.B.C. broadcast a comic song and
several alleged comic sayings which the
performer attributed to Confucius. The
stuff was not only not funny but extremely
bad taste, and if the A.B.C. suddenly finds
a maddened Celestial on its doorstep
brandishing an axe and uttering charges
of blasphemy it will get what it deserves.
I can well imagine the feelings of Aus-
tralians resident in China who heard the
Chinese broadcast a skit on the Founder
of Christianity, who is to most Austra-
lians what Confucius is to millions of
Chinese. But the Chinese would never
be guilty of such an offence, being too
gentle for one thing and being satisfied
to get their laughs from indigenous
rather than imported humor for another.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give yon
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SlLK—only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWALE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
♦7 The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady (19), Sydney, stenographer and
telephonist, University night student, seeks posi-
tion city office. Refs. —7237.
Overseer, Vic., used to all classes of station
work, wants position on station as boundary-
rider or tractor-driver.—7234.
To buy, large-size reading-glass, large magni-
fication; state size and price.—7247.
To buy, cheap, books of short stories by Aus-
tralian authors. —7238.
To buy, cheap, Australian Short Stories,
edited by George Mackaness.—723o.
To buy copies of the “Scientific American”
from 1933 to 1940.—7206.
To exchange literary textbooks for works
by Australian authors. —7238.
Plans for building stationary rowing-boat
exerciser.—7llB.
Words of “The Wild Colonial 80y.”—7219.
Whereabouts of George Ingram, circus pro-
prietor.—72ls.
Words of poem, “The Day,” written by a
railway porter at Bath, England, during the
Great War, 1914-18.—7253.
Information Sought.
What are the commissioned officers in the
Royal Air Force? —7280.
The commissioned officers are entitled:
Marshal of the Royal Air Force, air chief
marshal, air marshal, air vice-marshal, air com-
modore, group-captain, wing-commander, squad-
ron-leader, flight-lieutenant, flying-officer (or
observer), pilot-officer.
* * * *
If a tradesman is a bit slack in his book-
keeping and allows a debt to run on without
sending in a bill to a customer, how long is
it before the time limit for payment expires?
—7231.
In the case of a simple contract debt, as
for goods sold and delivered, if the tradesman
allows six years to pass without making de-
mand on his debtor for payment his remedy
for recovering the debt in court is barred by
what is known as the Statute of Limitations.
* * * *
What are Agrarians in European politics? —
7254.
Agrarians is a term used to denote the poli-
tical representatives of agricultural interests.
Agrarian parties have played an important role
in various countries, particularly in Central and
East Europe. Such parties are, as a rule,
dominated by big and middle landowners, com-
manding also, however, a greater or smaller
following among the small-holders. They are
mostly right-wing parties. Movements in which
the small-holder as such dominates are re-
ferred to as peasants’ parties rather than
Agrarians. They are mostly middle-road
parties, and sometimes co-operate with the left-
wing groups.
* * *
What is the monetary value of each individual
to (1) the Commonwealth and (2) to the
State from birth to the eighth decade ? What
difference is there between male and female?
What is the date on which such valuations are
made ? —6910.
No recent estimation on the lines referred
to has been made. C. H. Wickens in his presi-
dential address to Section G of the Australian
Association for the Advancement of Science
held in Wellington, New Zealand, in January,
1923, presented the following estimate of the
value of “human capital” of Australia based on
the war census of 1915:
Estimated Value in Millions
of Pounds.
Age Group. Males. Females. Persons.
Under 15 .. .. 1013 487 15.00
15 and under 65 .. 3251 1407 4658
65 and over .. 26 27 53
Total .. .. 4290 1921 6211
The following quotation, related to the table,
is extracted from the proceedings of the meet-
ing: “The figures given in the preceding table
indicate that at June 30, 1915, the human
capital of Australia had an aggregate value
of not less than 6211 millions of pounds, as
compared with 1620 millions of private material
capital and 517 millions of public capital.
It thus appears that on the basis of the estimates
here prepared the human capital of Australia
has a value approximately equal to three-times
the whole of the material capital, both private
and public. In conclusion, it is of interest to
note that the estimates here made give an aver-
age value of £1246 per head for the population
of Australia as at June 30, 1915, and in terms
of the prices at that date.”
* * * *
(1) Gauge of (a) Australian Transcontinental
railway, (b) the “Spirit of Progress” and (c)
of the ordinary railways in the various States?
(2) In the event of the Country party gaining
a majority in the Federal House would the
leader of the party choose his Cabinet as does
the leader of the U.A.P.? (3) How are mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Legislative Council elected?
—6975.
(1) (a) 4ft. in the W.A. section and
sft. 3in. in the S.A. portion, (b) sft. 3in. (c)
The gauges of the ordinary railways in States
are: N.S.W., 4ft. Biin.; Vic., sft. 3in.; Q„
W.A., S.A. and Tas., 3ft. 6in. (2) The
leader of the Country party would choose his
Cabinet. The Menzies-Cameron Government
was formed in this manner. (3) Until 1934 the
Council was a nominee Chamber, consisting
of a variable number of members appointed
for life without remuneration; but as
from April 23, 1934, the Council was recon-
stituted and became a House of 60 members
to serve without remuneration for a term of 12
years, with one-quarter of the members retiring
every third year. The electorate comprises
members of both Chambers, who vote as a
single electoral body at simultaneous sittings
of both Chambers. Any person resident for
at least three years in the Commonwealth and
entitled to vote at the election of members
of the Lower House is eligible for election as
a memßer of the Council, if nominated by two
electors, an elector being a member of either
of the two Houses for the time being.
* * * *
Briefly, the operations of the War Service
Homes Commission up to the end of the last
financial year ? —7274.
At June 30, 1939, total applications approved
numbered 44,002; expenditure on provision of
homes, purchase of land for future use, etc.,
was £29,716,020; 21,334 houses had been com-
pleted, and 34 homes had been enlarged. In
addition the Commission had purchased on
behalf of eligible applicants 12,987 already-
existing properties, and had taken over mort-
gages existing on 2967 dwellings. Dual assist-
ance had been approved in respect of 38
applications, making the total number of homes
provided under the War Service Homes Act
37,360. Homes are insured under a compre-
hensive policy, the total insurances in force, in-
cluding cover notes, amounting to £20,582,187.
The total receipts of the Commission to June
30, 1939, were £26,406,386, of which £9,919,599
was paid to the National Debt Sinking Fund.
Arrears of instalments outstanding at the close
of the year equalled £715,012, or 3.14 p.c. of
the total instalments due.
* * * *
Some biographical details concerning Neville
Cardus, the music critic and cricket writer,
together with a list of his books? —7245.
Born on April 2, 1889, he studied singing
with Charles Egan in Manchester, and became
music critic to the “Daily Citizen” in 1913.
He contributed to various musical journals,
1912-14, and joined the staff of the Manchester
“Guardian” in 1917; he wrote in most parts
of the paper, was assistant to Samuel Langford
in music criticism, and first contributed cricket
articles in 1919. From 1912 to 1916 he was
cricket coach at Shrewsbury School. Publica-
tions include A Cricketer’s Book (1921), Days
in the Sun (1924), The Summer Game (1929),
Cricket (1930), Good Days (1934) and Aus-
tralian Summer (1936). He edited The Musical
Criticisms of Samuel Langford (1929).
* * * *
Does Australia produce sufficient tin ore to
supply her own requirements ? Does Australia
import tin ore for use in her manufactures ?
7111.
Australia produces sufficient tin for her own
requirements. During the last five years the
total exports of tin —ingot, ores and concen-
trates —averaged £265,000 per annum, while the
imports during the same period were estimated
at a value of less than £lO,OOO p.a. In the
last two years increased quantities of tin ingots,
of a total value of £25,000 for the two years,
were imported into Australia. These imports
probably represent tin of a special type needed
in Australian manufacture.
* * * •*
Value of principal minerals produced in Aus-
tralia during 1938 ? —7268.
Coal £7,187,901, brown coal £351,721, copper
£893,080, gold £14,026,615, ironstone £2,585,579,-
lead £791,146, silver £440,167, silver-lead ores,
concentrates, etc., £3,513,733, tin and tin ores
£711,628, zinc and concentrates £916,905, other
minerals £1,044,520. Total £32,462,995. The-
bulk of the silver and lead is contained in the
concentrates. ,
* * * *
What is meant by “Australian trade with
Eastern countries” ? —7262.
The countries concerned in this trade are
British Borneo, Burma, Ceylon, China, French:
Indo-China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Korea,
Kwantung Peninsula, British Malaya, Man-
churia, Netherlands East Indies, Philippine'
Islands, Siam, Portuguese Timor, and French-
and Portuguese possessions in India.
* * * *
What, are the terms of the contract entered
into between,the Australian and ■ United King-
dom Governments in respect of meat? —72s7.
From October 1, 1939, to September 30, 1940,
the United Kingdom Government, agreed to
purchase f.o.b. 240,000 tons of beef, mutton,
lamb, veal and pork and to use its best en-
deavors to lift any additional quantities avail-
able for export. The contract embodies a long
range of prices for various cuts, .pieces • and •
offals. The returns to Australian producers
are satisfactory and are higher than those re-
ceived during the previous season. Under
the contract 90 p.c. is paid on shipment and
10 p.c. within 28 days of arrival or, in the case
of a steamer being lost, the estimated due.
date of arrival.
* * * *
What constitutes ‘‘domicile” in the eye of the
law /'—7236.
“Domicile” means the place or country
considered in law to be a person’s permanent
home. It may be the domicile of origin as at
birth, or the domicile of choice acquired by
the combination of residence and the intention
of permanent or indefinite residence.
* * * *
What in law is meant precisely by “casual
employment” ? It seems to be used very
loosely by many pe0p1e. —7242.
A textbook-authority puts it thus: If by the
agreement between the employer and work-
man, the latter undertakes to work for the
employer at fixed times or for definite periods
separated by intervals „ (that is to say, if the
workman has,the right to come, and is expected
to come, to work at, those times without being
specially, engaged from time to time) the em-
• ployment is not casual. . . If, on the other
hand, the employment ceases at the end of each
period ,of work, in the sense that'the work-
man would not have. the right and would not
be expected, to . work again for the employer
without a fresh engagement, the employment is
casual. But, where the work is more or less
regular, although separated' by intervals, the
employer ought not, and probably would not,
be allowed to escape liability by adopting a
system of hourly or daily re-engagement.
* * * *
Are private employment agencies in N.S.W.
regulated by law ? —7248.
Private employment agencies are subject to
the supervision by the State authorities in
terms of the' Industrial Arbitration Act. Such
agencies may be conducted by licensed persons
only, and they are required to keep registers
of persons applying for labor or employment,
and of engagements made.- The scale of fees
chargeable is fixed by regulation, and if an
applicant does not obtain labor or employ-
ment within 14 days the fee must be repaid,
less out-of-pocket expenses. Licensees are pro-
hibited from sharing fees with employers, and
from keeping as lodgers persons seeking em-
ployment.
* * * *
A few details concerning Cordell Hull, U.S.A.
Foreign Minister, and what is his attitude
towards' international affairs?— 7246.
Born in 1871 in Tennessee, he became a
lawyer . and Judge, served as captain in the
Cuban war of 1898, was Democratic Represen-
tative of Tennessee in Congress from 1907 to
1921 and from 1923 to 193.1, and Senator for
the same State.from 1931 to 1937. He re-
signed his Senatorship to accept appointment as
Secretary of State (Foreign Minister), in. Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s Cabinet. He was chairman
of the Democratic National Committee from
1921 to 1924. A keen > supporter ;of Roose-
velt’s policy and an opponent of American iso-
lationism, he stands for democracy and inter-
national understanding and trade, and disap-
proves of dictatorships.
* * * *
When did. John Ruse, to whom Governor
Phillip issued the first land grant in Australia,
die, where was he buried, and what is the
epitaph on his tombstone 7—1292.
He died on September 5, 1837, and was
buried in St. John’s churchyard at Campbell-
town (N.S.W.), where his tombstone, bearing
the following epitaph, is still to be seen:
My mother Reread Me Tenderley
With Me, She Toole Much Paines
And when I' Arivd' in " This Coelney '
I Sewd- the Forst Grain, And Now
With My Hevenly Father I ’ Hope
For Ever to Remain.
* * * *
Particulars of (1) the Halford and (2) the
Annie MacKenzie orations for which endow-
ments to the Australian Institute of Anatomy
have been provided?— 7233.
(1) Endowed with a gift -of £lOOO by the
family of the late Professor G. B. Halford,
founder of the first medical school in the
Southern Hemisphere; The annual interest on
this amount is > given to a prominent scientist
to deliver, an oration, on. a subject suggested
by the life and work of the late G. B. Halford.
(2) Founded with a gift of £lOOO by the late
Sir Colin MacKenzie in memory of his mother.
The orator receives the annual interest for
delivering an oration on any phase of, “Pre-
ventive Medicine.”
* * * *
What kind of fish are hair-tails, and where
do they occur? —,7168.
They are long, ribbon-shaped and of the genus
Trichiurus, silvery in color and with the body
drawn out into a long pointed tail. Several
closely allied species occur in temperate and
tropical waters of both hemispheres; one occa-
sionally appears in plenty off the coast of
N.S.W., apparently coming from deep water,
and another swims in small schools among the
mangroves of northern Q’land. The N.S.W.
species is commonly confused with the true
ribbon-fish and,the frost-fish, but is quite dis-
tinct’ from both.
* * * *
What kind of nest does the honey-eater
build, and what color egg does it 1ay? —7162.
The, nests are open, cup-shaped structures,
placed in trees or bushes —usually in forks, but
sometimes suspended by the rims. They are
variously composed. of grass or bark, often
interwoven with cobwebs and lined with finer
materials, hair or 1 w ( ool.‘ The eggs, though
sometimes white, are more usually pink or buff
in ground-color, and are almpst - invariably
spotted with reddish-brown or grey.
*>. * * *
To what family does the butter-fish belong?
—1225. s
It is a popular name for several species as
widely different in appearance, as they are in
affinities.. In Isl.SiW. and,Q’land the name is
given to two allied, fishes,'the .striped butter-
fish ( Scatophagus multifasciatus ) and the
spotted, butter-fish ( S. argus ). The former is a
deep,-compressed fish with minute scales, silver
in color, with irregular vertical bars and 'spots
of dark green; these vary so "greatly that their
different patterns have been considered charac-
teristic of distinct species. The spotted butter-
fish is . golden-brown, covered with rounded
chestnut-brown spots. The butter-fish of S.A.
is identical, with;the jewfish of N.S.W. In
W.A. * - the name is - applied' to the common
Pentapus -vitta, ’which," though small, is fleshy,
and related to - the breams: In Maoriland the
name .is - given ito , one. of the parrot-fishes
( Coridodax p'ullus). In other parts of the world
the name is equally popular; it is indiscrimi-
nately bestowed upon fish of all kinds.
Brief Answers.
W.J.M.: The Sixth (1940) S. H. Prior Memo-
rial Prize closes tomorrow (June 6). The result
should be known by about the end of August.
TJ.: The San Francisco earthquake and
fire occurred on April 18-19, 1906 ; 500 lives
were lost, and property loss amounted to
350,000,000 dollars. . . .C.S.: Frank Dalby
Davison’s Forever Morning was reviewed on
the'Red Page of The Bulletin of April 22,
193.1.; Man-Shy was reviewed on August 19,
' 1931, arid Wells of Beersheba on June 14,
1933. An appreciation of Davison’s works
appeared in The Bulletin- of November 10,
1937 M.A.: Although . the primary purpose
of supplying shell-grit to' fowls is to furnish
■ lime for shell-making purposes, burnt lime is
injurious to poultry when eaten; nor will it in
any form take the place■ of shell-grit... .S.J.:
The London address of The Bulletin is 1 Hare-
place, 47 Fleet-street... .R.M.K.: C. J.
Dennis’s poem beginning “Fellers of Australier,
blokes an’ coves an’ , coots” appeared in The
Bulletin of December 12, 1912 F.M.:
N.S.W. Senators are: Macartney Abbott, S. K.
Amour, J. I. Armstrong, T. C. Arthur, W. P.
Ashley and A. K. Dein... .S.G.L.: Write M. J.
Pettigrove, secretary, Taxpayers’ Association of
Victoria, 360 Collins-street, Melbourne
M.F.: Write Nonporite Pty., Ltd., 296 Bur-
wood-road, Hawthorn, Vic.... .K.G.: A Maori
war benefit at the rate of £1 10s. per week is
. payable to every person who served in any of
the Maori wars and was awarded a medal for
service in such wars. The applicant must have
resided in Maoriland for not less than 10 years
immediately prior to application... .P.L.:
Block-making machines marketed in Australia
today are practically, all of the hand-operated
type, though there are :machines in use by
actual manufacturers of concrete blocks which
are power-driven and capable of turning out
blocks at a more rapid; rate than the hand-
operated type. Advice regarding suitable block-
making machines can be had. by writing to
the Australian Cement Manufacturers’
Association, Shell House, : Carrington-street,
Sydney J.P.: Write Australasian Radio-
Copyright Control Service,' Ltd., Box 1084 N,
G.P.0., Brisbane... .E.W.: A. E. Baxter was
born in Christchurch (M.L.) in 1878, being
taught by Samuel Moreton. He made several
trips to the Continent and. England, and car-
ried his studies further there under some of
the best artists of Europe.. Pictures of his
have been hung in the Royal Academy, London,
and one in the Paris Salon. Examples of his
work are to be seen in the Christchurch Art
Gallery. . He died in . 1936... .P.W.P.: Tra-
ditionally, a Cockney is anyone born within the
sound of the bells of Bow Church, London;
broadly, a native or a long-established resident
of London; specifically, a. native of London
residing in the East End of that city and
talking with a certain characteristic twang.
M.A.: So called after Gabriel Daniel Fah-
renheit, who invented a thermometer contain-
ing alcohol in 1709 and the mercury ther-
mometer in 1714... .E.N.J.: The Great Dane
is a large, smooth-coated dog of a breed
believed to have originated- in Germany several
centuries ago. Formerly used chiefly to hunt
wild boar,-the. breed has also been much used
for draught purposes, ’for which its massive size
and great strength fit it. Its least height is
28in. Its colors range from fawn, through
brindle, blue and harlequin C.R. : For the
year 1937-38 exports of rabbit and hare skins
from Australia to United Kingdom were valued
at £196,997 and to U.S.A. £852,205, opossum
skins £58,193 and £19,862, kangaroo skins
£12,059 and £170,342, fox skins £49,224 and
£18,267, wallaby skins £11,997 and £15,590,
and other small skins £5301 and £13,011
T.S.J.: Where an alien is a subject of a State
at war with Great Britain, his wife, if she was
a natural-born British subject, may, upon
making a declaration that she desires to resume
British nationality, be granted a certificate of
naturalisation.. . .M.R.: The number of horses
in the various Australian, States at December
31, 1937 (latest figures available), were: N.S.W.
528,625, Vic. 359,106, Q’larid 445,916, S.A.
197,334, W.A. 151,067, Tas. 31,578, N.T.
31,662, F.C.T. 1225; total, 1,746,513... .R.D.:
From Mick Simmons, Ltd., Haymarket, Syd-
ney E.C.P.: Suggest that you submit speci-
mens for analysis to the Q’land Mines Depart-
ment, Brisbane. State Mines Depart-
ments will answer inquiries only so far as they
concern operations within their States. You
will need to address inquiries to each of the
State departments... .L.J.W.: Write the “Aus-
tralian Stamp Monthly,” 8 Orr-street,
Melbourne... .P.V.S.: Write Technological
Museum, Harris-street, Sydney, for pamphlet
on “Hydroponics”... .F.M.H.: Write R. S.
Rogers, 68 Booth-street, Annandale... .P.L.S.:
(1) Not likely until conditions improve. (2)
No. (3), (4) and (5) Try Gordon and Gotch
(Australasia), Ltd., Barrack-street, Sydney
D.M.C.: See Penguin Political Dictionary....
L. : You would need to have inquiries
made in London. Better look around for
openings in Australia... .E.A.W.: Richardson
and Wrench, 92 Pitt-street, and Richard Stanton
and Sons, 133 Pitt-street —both Sydney; T. M.
Burke Pty., Ltd., 340 Collins-street, and Bail-
lieu, Allard Pty., Ltd., 360 Collins-street —both
Melbourne... .W.L.S.: Write Secretary, Air
Board, Defence Department, Melbourne
M. Write F. H. E.‘ Harries, secretary,
Associated Retail Newsagents of N. S. Wales,
100 Clarence-street, Sydney... .1.5.: The
Bulletin is always prepared to consider original
short stories with an Australian setting, not
longer than '4OOO words. Stories should be
typed, and postage enclosed, for return in case
of rejection.. ..J.F.A.: Particulars are being
asked for in “Help” columns of the “Australian
Woman’s Mirror,” and will be posted to you
if any are received from readers C.C.:
Information requested cannot be given until
the Acts declaring the applicable rates of taxes
are passed by the Parliaments of the Com-
monwealth and N.S.W. respectively... .C.T.:
The birthday of King George VI is December
14, and the holiday in each year has been trans-
ferred to the second Monday in June, so
that it would not occur in the busy week
preceding the Christmas holidays N.M.G.:
A loose association of unimportant radicals
under the leadership of Trotsky claims to be
the Fourth International J.S.: About one-
third of the coffee consumed in Australia is
obtained from the Netherlands East Indies, but
the proportion from this country has diminished
in recent years and substantial quantities have
been imported from British East Africa, India,
Papua and Central America... .L.W.: A gas
unit means 3412 British thermal units gross.
A British thermal unit is the quantity of heat
required to raise the temperature of lib. of
water one degree Fahrenheit.


Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
Bl
m
o
•S'.
<£ep oS?
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
BUILD UP MILK PRODUCTION WITH
gii-GJ-a*
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
The most valuable mineral supplement for increased milk
production is Tri-cal-os Bone Flour, with its guaranteed
minimum content of 33% phosphoric acid and 40% lime.
Being bone, Tri-cal-os is definitely palatable, and in its fine
flour form is easily digested and assimilated . . . Profitable
milking can be carried on for four or five months longer by
giving Tri-cal-os in the dry period.
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.,
G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne, Victoria.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Shearing and War.
“Bungaree”: Even in normal times, at
the height of the shearing season, there
is an acute shortage of good shearers.
About the end of August, and through-
out September, when half the sheds in
N.S.W. are shearing and Victoria is get-
ting into its stride, there are not enough
classers and experts to go round. Now
some of these men are already in the
A.I.F. It is early to forecast the extent
of the labor shortage this year, but not
too early to make plans to meet the
situation. Failure will result in certain
losses of sheep if we have a wet spring
and consequent heavy fly attack. Heavy-
woolled sheep will be struck, and when
they do reach the shed will take three
times as long to shear. Ewes lambing off
shears will be troublesome.
Many sheds now shearing in the busy
period, particularly those shearing
wethers only, could be brought forward
a month at least. It will be much better
to shear in luly with 11 months’ wool
when there is plenty of labor than to
wait for the rush. Shearers for all-
wether sheds will be hard to find when
ewes and lambs are to be had in plenty.
Dates of lambing may tie the owner
down to shearing at a certain time, but
many districts would find it as suitable
to shear in July as in September. Shear-
ing in autumn, as now carried out on
many properties in the N.S.W. West and
North-west, should be extended to relieve
the pressure. Jetting will also have to
be depended on to combat the fly, as both
early- and late-shearing districts which
ordinarily crutch in early spring will find
it impossible to obtain crutchers then.
Some small graziers make no forward
arrangements for shearing, casting around
for shearers and shedhands at the last
minute. It doesn’t help the general
position.
The salient fact is that in all States
shearing should be organised to make the
best use of available men, and at the
same time to do the work with the most
economical use of labor for the Common-
wealth as a whole.
Tar Stains in Wool.
“Murrawong”: The Controlling Ap-
praiser for Queensland draws atten-
tion to tar damage in wool caused by
brands and fly-strike dressings used on
the tail and crutch of lambs. The use
of sump oil as a basis for fly dressings
or brands is discouraged as the stain is
liable to spread during scouring.
There is need for classification of
branding oils and fly dressings. The
prime necessity in treating fly-struck
sheep is to kill the maggots and
heal the wound quickly. At the time
attention is seldom paid as to what effect
the dressing will have on the wool. Blue-
stone solution is popular, but bluestone
stain will not scour out of wool. Tar
dressings, too, are sometimes highly
irritant, and when applied to a raw sur-
face leave a hard scab which usually
proves an ideal place for the flies to blow
again.
There are dressings—stomach poisons
—which kill maggots and leave the wool
unstained. They may cost more but are
economical in the long run.
Few branding oils possess perfect
scouring qualities and durability.
Growers should have all tarred lines
thoroughly picked or sorted before send-
ing them to appraisement. The work
should be done in the shed if possible,
but, failing that, should be sent to a
reliable sorting firm before going on to
the broker. The appraised value of
tarred wool may be reduced Jd. per
pound greasy to cover the cost of re-sort-
ing.
Handling Cattle.
“Mookau”: The Meat Board estimates
that losses in cattle each year in Queens-
land through bruising are equal to 10s.
per head sold to the meatworks. The
"I'll bet 'e's a Fifth Column man."
remedies suggested are “care and quiet-
ness.”
Draft on a suitable camp and with
enough men to do the job without bustle.
Avoid motor roads when droving. String
the mob out at gates and allow it to
move quietly through.
Get cattle to the trucking yards the
evening before entraining. Move them
into the trucks early in the morning—
there is always more irritation and
damage in the heat of the day. Load
bullocks and cows in separate trucks.
When the animals come off the train
take them at a leisurely pace to the rest
paddock and feed and water them. Rule
out dogs and sticks —horsemen manage
just as well.
No consignments should cover more
than 500 miles by train without detruck-
ing for a rest. In U.S.A. periodical re-
moval from trucks on long journeys is the
law. Trucks should not be overpacked.
For a “K” waggon covering a route
less than 350 miles, 18 bullocks up to
7001 b., 17 over 8001 b., are enough.
These figures are for horned cattle, but
the board is pressing for dehorning. One
experimental lot recently trucked 600
miles to Brisbane gave a return of 88
per cent, first quality dehorned, and
only 70 per cent, first quality horned.
Dehorning is a little trouble, but in time
and work it is highly profitable at the
7s. per head which the board estimates
it puts on to the value of an animal.
Tractors and Charcoal Gas.
AAAA
“8.C.”: Last year more than 9000
tractors were used for wheat sowing in
N.S.W. Now the question of fuel sup-
plies is becoming a ticklish one. It may
be eased by the Dutch guilder coming
into the sterling bloc and thus opening
up imports from the East Indies, but
much attention will be given to producer
g as
& A. F. Gorman, a Hawkesbury College
(N.S.W.) expert, sets down costs of
specially-graded charcoal at not more
than 2s a bag. Tests showed that a
tractor pulling a heavy load, used from
four to seven bags a 10-hour day, accord-
ine to the h.p. size of the engine. The
accepted consumption formula for gas-
producers is lib. of charcoal per brake-
horsepower hour. Thus, a tractor engine
developing 35 h.p. would need 351 b. of
charcoal (cost slightly more than Is.)
every hour. It would pull a 14-disk
plough under normal conditions.
Any estimate of the general costs of
using charcoal gas for cultivation would
have to include initial cost of the pro-
ducer plant.
Best Native Grasses.
“A.A.D.”: Giant panic has proved
adaptable to a wide range of climate
in N.S.W. and opens up new opportuni-
ties for pasture improvement in areas
for which none of the introduced species
is suitable.
Panic has a definite value for sheep
and cattle grazing even in the drier sec-
tions of the N.S.W. wheatbelt. By
contrast, in the N.S.W. North Coast
dairying districts, with normal rainfalls
running to 60in., it has equalled pas-
palum in growth, while being more
resistant to dry periods.
The grass hails from n.-w. Australia,
the first to reach N.S.W. being specimens
sent for identification, seed from which
was saved and grown on the experiment
farms. .
The small early plantings were made at
Trangie State Farm, which after several
seasons reports: “Giant panic grass has
done exceptionally well, standing up to
heavy stock grazing and severe drought
conditions.”
Further out at Condobolin State Farm,
on the central-western fringe of the wheat-
belt, giant panic is classed with lucerne
as the premier perennial grazing plant
for the district.
j n S outh-western marginal areas,
from which wheatgrowers are being
moved, the grass has been established in
sections of Min. rainfall,
Unlike most other native grasses, the
seed is viable and gives good germina-
tion. Trangie farm has laid down a seed
area of 200 acres.
Plagues of Mice
riagues or mice.
“H.A.L.”: There is nothing mysten-
ous about the cause of a mice plague,
The common mouse has gone wild in
Australia exactly like the rabbit. It is
found everywhere, making its home in
holes in the ground, under stones and
in hollow logs. It lives upon dead
insects, grass seeds, and scavengings
generally. I set up a temporary camp in
mallee scrub, far from any house or
cultivated land ; within two nights mice
by the dozen were running over the floor
of the tent.
Natural enemies such as owls, foxes
and snakes keep down the mice, and a
long spell of cold, and wet weather in
winter decimates their ranks. But give
them favorable conditions and they will
increase at an astounding rate. The
mouse breeds nearly twice as fast as
the rabbit. Suitable conditions —abun-
dant food and shelter from enemies—
are found in stacks of cereal hay, stacks
of bagged grain and barns.
Within a few months mice can turn
a stack of prime oaten or wheaten hay
into almost useless, evil-smelling muck,
the grain all eaten from the heads of the
sheaves and the straw fouled. In a bam
mice can play havoc with grain stored
for seed, stacks of bags and oiled harness.
There is no real cure. Prevention is
necessary. Fence the pests out. Every
haystack should have its protecting sheet-
iron fence and every new barn should be


For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
"CARBOX” is an Australian product for Australian conditions.
CARBOX” embodies only the finest materials in its ingredients, providing not
only a surehealer of the highest quality, but a superlative cleansing ointment,
and has well earned its place as the farmers’ friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”:—
HORSES.—For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE.—For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, milk fever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP.—For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
marking, etc.
PIGS.—For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DOGS.—For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses, cracked
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
“CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites—lt Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, and tins
Full particulars obtainable from:—
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributers:
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Houses in All States. When writing mention “The Bulletin.”
%
m
I
&
G v
\V V
S'
O'
of"
>8
m
"fM
<s^
wt
©
m
t
? iS
cost H
little ■
more but
it's WELL
worth it/
Gordon’s
Gin
t in £ondvn, hujbind
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
TANQUERAY,GORDON & CO.,
LTD. LONDON, ENGLAND.
Uhe lahgeSt gin diitiUM in the woild
HOW’S THIS FOR
Value?
mm
For the
Countryman.
3248.
SPECIALLY
PRICED AT
49 / 6
Here’s one of the finest boot
values ever offered the
countryman. As wonderful
wearing: as it is comfortable.
Double Soles, water-resisting:
Ooze Calf Uppers, w r ith rein-
forced Elastic in sides and
Heather lining: throughout.
Priced at only 49/6, this
strong: country boot is obtain-
able in a full rang:e of sizes
and half sizes with wide and
extra-wide fittings. Order
TODAY.
Note: You can order by mail from Abbey’s with
every confidence. A record of thousands of shoes
sent all over Australia and to all parts of the
British Empire proves that Abbey Shoes give
service and satisfaction. Use the coupon below
if it is more convenient.
ABBEY
316 Georg:e St., Sydney. HI
234 Pitt St., Sydney.
Abbey Shoes,
316 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me 1 pair of your special
“Countryman” Boots, No. 3248, at 49/6. I
enclose remittance for this amount, plus Inter-
state postage. My size is
(Enclose tracing of stockinged foot if possible.)
NAME
(In Block Letters)
ADDRESS
(In Block Letters)
Tick here if you would also like a
copy of our catalogue of orthopedic models.
Sent FREE.
A 22-1684.
built on a mouse-proof plan. Every
agricultural department can supply plans.
Constant vigilance is necessary to keep
the fence in order. A little carelessness
can ruin everything. A single wind-blown
stick or straw can let scores of mice
into a stack in a single night; grass
allowed to grow high, a carelessly
dropped bag or a plank left overnight
will have the same result.
Hints for the Farm.
“T. Berk”: Pigs like to be dry and
warm in winter. Unless their sties can
provide these essentials, all the good food
will fail in its purpose. Small yards
lead to overcrowded and insanitary con-
ditions.
“Canbelego”: To make a mouse-trap
' farm size punch holes through the
opposite sides of a kerosene tin near the
top. Pass a piece of stout wire through
one of the holes, thread it through half
a dozen cotton reels and out of the
tin the other side. Hang some bait —
cheese or bread—from the wire a few
inches below the reels. Lean a board
from the ground to the top of the tin
to provide a runway, and half fill the
tin with water. Grease the fencing wire
so the reels will move freely.
Mattock”: A scratching-post is essen-
tial in the stock paddock. Sink a 12in.
diameter tree-trunk, leaving 6ft. out of
the ground, with a slight incline. Its
roundness minimises hide damage, always
likely with split timber, and playful stock
cannot be injured by it. Wood-preserving
liquid at the base will keep the post
free of white ants.
J.R.D.”: When wall lamps or hurri-
cane lamps have been long in store they
often are found to leak. A dozen pellets
of lead shot put into the bottom of
the lamp when new will keep the interior
surfaces from rusting and deposit a pro-
tecting film on the tin.
“Graz”: Classing is best done when
sheep have nearly a full fleece. Shapely
frames are not as necessary in merinos
as crossbreds, but weedy-framed, “devil’s-
gripped” and narrow-bodied sheep should
be tossed out; also those with light,
open wool, short-stapled, dingy-colored
and kempy fleeces. Ordinary wool-
growers should not cull heavy wool-
cutters because of a little variation in
quality. I have compiled returns for
several other stockowners, and one with
1200 sheep, who refuses to pass out heavy
woolcutters, gets within £lOO of the wool
cheque received by another with 2100,
who classes rigidly to even the quality
of his wool. Evenness in quality is good,
but weight of clip should not be unduly
sacrificed to obtain it.
“Mookau”: When shall we learn? For
20 years British buyers have been telling
us exactly what kind of lamb carcass
they need. Again the Commonwealth
vet. in London points out that fat is
disliked in war-time even more than in
peace by English housewives, who are
allowed only Is. lOd.-worth of meat per
week. Lambs have been coming forward
weighing from 801 b. to 1101 b. The de-
mand calls for lambs not more than 601 b.
and sheep under 721 b.
“B. Cubbin”: A look at the south-west,
Riverina and central west N.S.W. wheat-
belt shows splendid germination and
good early growth of the new crops.
Rains in April gave ideal sowing con-
ditions, and following growing weather
couldn’t have been bettered. Some men
will soon have to feed off if the growfli
keeps up.
“Ex-Vic.”: Starting with 25 varieties,
Vic. cereal experts got them down to
lour in tests on Wimmera red ground in
Donald district. Of the four—Ghurka,
Nizam, Free Gallipoli and Ranee 4H
Ghurka did best on yield. Dundee and
Baldmin are recommended for limited
sowing. A new variety, Magnet, may yet
prove useful. Tests with super, on the
red country showed these results: 601 b.
super., 4.8 bushel increase ; 901 b., 6.5 ;
1201 b., 7.3 ; 1501 b., 8.1.
“Vego”: N.S.W. has prohibited the
introduction of certain vegetables from
districts of Victoria where there is
cabbage butterfly. In addition to cab-
bages the ban applies to cauliflowers and
others of the brassica tribe—swedes, tur-
nips, lettuce and horseradish. This pest,
which hails from U.S.A., is established in
M.L., but has not been recorded here
other than in Victoria. It was intercepted
in Sydney last year in M.L. cabbages.
The butterfly is white, with black tips and
spots on the wings. Identical in appear-
ance, it might be confused with a harm-
less species of “Albatross” butterfly
which is occasionally seen in N.S.W. and
is prevalent throughout tropical parts of
Australia.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXI.
Controlling Codlin Moth.
Most fruitgrowers know that anyone
caught coddling codlin moth is liable to
what the blokes who write Government
notices call “the utmost vigor of the
law.” Sometimes, possibly to vary the
monotony of their jobs, they make it
“rigor” instead of “vigor,” but as a “v”
is no better than an “r” to a man just
fined £2 and costs the best thing to do
is get rid of the moths.
These moths are not the same as those
which are likely to emerge from a Scotch-
man’s purse when somebody succeeds
in prising it open, but are found in the
vicinity of apple and similar fruit trees.
Thus the Scotchman’s purse moth is
found to be a myth, whereas the codlin
moth is found in the pith.
In winter, the larvae —most people just
say grubs, but .we’ve got to be scientific —
of the moth get into cracks, old boxes,
empty bottles and disused pipe-stems,
there to lie and sleep until the flowers
bloom in the spring, when the larvae
loom in the orchard as moths. To stop
this, a winter clean-up is necessary.
Orchard experts insist on the removal
of bandages as a beginning. This doesn’t
mean that' the orchardist must neces-
sarily be wearing bandages himself. The
bandages are on the trees. Probably they
were put there for some reason —the tree
may have barked its trunk or broken a
limb. If difficult to remove, i.e., they
stick to the skin or cause the tree to
wince, soak them well with olive oil and
gently pull them away.
Some larvce may be found on the tree
where the bandage was. Have a toma-
hawk handy. Sneak carefully up to a
larva, which will be a bit dazzled by the
unexpected sunlight, take careful aim and
drive the blade of the little axe into the
thing’s neck. If that doesn’t kill it call
for your d.b. gun and give it a charge of
shot.
Now go carefully over the tree, search-
ing all cavities, knotholes, breaks in the
bark, etc., for larvae. Having spotted
them and got a rough idea of where they
are hiding, carefully place a 100-gallon
tank of water handy, then rub the tree
all over with salt. As soon as the little
blanks get thirsty and make for the tank,
rush up and push ’em in. It is known
that they cannot swim, and so long as
the water is deep enough this method
will settle them.
Another method is to build a good fire
near by, then dig a good trench round
the tree, cut away its main roots, hitch
the tractor on to the trunk, and drag
the whole tree on to the fire. This
method is considered rather drastic by
some orchardists but it solves the larvae
problem.
One orchard expert advises putting a
thick coat of white paint on shallow
cavities to repulse any lame looking for
a camp. “Do not allow the paint to run
down the limbs and trunk of the tree,”
he says. Probably he wouldn’t mind if
it just walked down.
But it is in the packing shed that the
real attack must be made. Lame make
for the shed as soon as the weather turns
cold, and, apart from the fact that they
wait there till the apples come in, the
noise they make at night when holding
their orgies seriously interferes with the
nerves.
As the packing shed generally serves
as a garage, workshop, kiddies’ play-
room, repository for old furniture, case
store, cat nursery and empty bottle rack,
and as the larvae make full use of the
multitude of things therein, it will be
seen that here the problem of control is
a very serious one.
Boiling water would solve it, but the
difficulty of getting a tank big enough to
hold the shed rather obviates its worth.
Poisoned apples were tried by one
man, but the larvae not only ate the
apples and survived, they made for the
homestead and could only be placated by
throwing to them the rest of the arsenic,
lead sulphate, Bordeaux mixture and
other spray materials. These they fell
upon with gusto, gorged themselves into
a state of coma, and were thus easily
taken back to the shed, much to the re-
lief of the orchardist and his family.
Still, when all other methods fail, one
can always saturate shed and contents
with petrol, drop a match and make for
the town to collect the insurance.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2%d. per line.
Names—though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don’t object.
For expressing in vigorous English what many Australians are thinking a
Victorian gets double rates.
All In
The issue is clear before us, and the
natural corollary is that every able-
bodied man between the ages of 18 and
60 should be directly engaged in war
work, either in the ranks or in producing
war material and essentials of life. But
the manner in which our energy and
brain-power are being dissipated is as
alarming as it is stupid. We read of a
congress of scientists at Adelaide met to
deliberate upon aboriginal customs and
relics at a moment when Hitler has 7500
scientists engaged in nothing but the pro-
duction of hellish devices to smash the
Allies.
In every grade of society we find
the same waste. Men who could be
serving are cutting strings of sausages
and yards of silk, working adding
machines, selling newspapers, apples and
vacuum-cleaners, collecting bottles and
so on.
There are the time and energy lost in
sport. Every Saturday, hundreds of
thousands yell themselves hoarse at foot-
ball matches or curse the favorite for
finishing down the field. Golfers and
tennis-players still find their tournaments
of more importance than the struggle for
the Channel ports, while at the stadiums
imported wrestlers stage “savage” con-
tests before hysterical fans who ignore
the bloody contest in France and Bel-
gium. The argument, of course, is that
we must have some recreation. Recrea-
tion while the dead are being piled in
heaps in the German onrush! In Ger-
many there is no recreation. Men and
women are working day and night for
one purpose.
There is the slack way we deal with
the Fifth Column. Slowly Communism is
white-anting its way through the country’s
fibre. Listen to the talk of workers any-
where.
Apparently Australians do not yet
realise what this war means. Surely the
moment has arrived for the Government
to do here what has been done in Britain
and France —put us all to war-work. It
means conscription of men and labor,
but we are fighting the most thoroughly-
conscripted people in the world, and can
beat them only by adopting their methods
of total warfare on the home and fighting
fronts. — Kingsman (Vic.).
R.A.A.F. Fitters
Appeals are being made almost daily
for more fitters to enlist under the
Empire Air Scheme, and the shortage of
experienced men is likely to endanger the
success of Australia’s share in the scheme.
No effort is being made, however, to take
full advantage of training facilities which
have already produced aircraftsmen for
the R.A.A.F. and which exist at tech-
nical colleges in many of the larger towns
of Australia.
At present the excellent equipment at
the colleges is used for comparatively
few hours each week, and in no instance
is it being utilised to full capacity. In
peace-time young men, with no other
training than they received at the country
technical colleges, entered the air force
as tradesmen. Allowing for vacations,
they had spent, roughly, 400 hours a year
in the training, or a total of approxi-
mately 1200 hours in a course of three
years. Intensified training for 50 hours
a week would turn out fitters and other
mechanics of a similar standard in six
months. The course could be limited to
air force requirements, which would
mean that the trainees could settle down
in their actual work much quicker than
technical college students who enlisted
before the war.
Instead of bewailing the lack of re-
sponse from fitters and riggers, the
authorities should concentrate on train-
ing some of the excellent material which
is offering at centres where everything
necessary is available. — James Mahoney
(N.S.W.).
Overdoing It?
Thirty years ago limits of accuracy
of two-thousandths of an inch erected
the hair of the mechanic, and made him
spit out an h.e. discharge of tobacco
juice.
Today, limits of accuracy requested
are one half-thousandth of an inch and
less for, say, holding-down bolts for
aero-engines and parts of similar impor-
tance. I wonder if Hitler has been de-
luded into acknowledging such tripe.
Without being too technical one may
suggest that a diameter of 1.002 inches
in Melbourne at 45deg. F. is not 1.002
inches in Darwin with the temperature
round 90deg. F. The gauges have prob-
ably been calibrated in an air-conditioned
room at 60deg., which will result in an
error in both places.
Such fine and unnecessary limits make
it impossible for Australian workshops
in general to help win the war, simply
because the average Australian plant
cannot make the limits. Few men can
measure a piece of work and arrive at
the same result when using ordinary
micrometers, because “hand” tem-
peratures and touch vary, and affect the
instruments and measurement. Ask any
gunner how true his gun was after firing
100 rounds in action. Again, ask him
how long he had to keep the gun after
his 100 rounds had been fired. He will
probably tell you that it required re-
boring, but it killed Huns.
Accuracy in long-range guns is im-
perative, but for the more or less point-
blank fire of modern field warfare a
smooth bore would be effective. I am
reminded of the Stokes gun—a horrible
weapon of destruction, and quite in-
accurate in direction.
The trouble lies in designing depart-
ments. Fritz Nazi is not so particular.
His instruments of death are rough and
effective. I remember criticising a fallen
Gotha machine. It had the finish of a
Model T Ford, but Gothas were nastily
efficient in spite of appearances.—
Ichabod (Vic.).
Soldiers’ Pay
Why all this groaning about soldiers’
pay and—in some States —the question
of making up the difference between mili-
tary and civil pay? I was a lad of 19
when I volunteered in the last war. It
didn’t matter a fig to me what the pay
was —never even thought of it, and didn’t
know what it was until it started com-
ing in.
Of course, I know that men in their
twenties and thirties often have more
responsibilities,, but a bit more of the
1914-18 spirit would be a darned sight
more helpful than a lot of the money-
grubbing argument that’s going on today.
But I must depart from my own
doctrine and join the protests against
M.H.R. recruits for the A.I.F. continuing
to receive their £lOOO a year when the
request of Government employees to
have military pay made up to the level
of their peace-time income in public
service positions has been repeatedly
refused. — 10th (S.A.).
“A Penny for the Army”
Comforts funds (B. 8/5/’4O) are not
paying the troops; they are for the pro-
vision of comforts over and above the
regular army ration. Soldiers’ pay does
come out of taxation, and when it is
added to food, quarters, uniforms, medi-
cal and dental expenses, and allowances
to dependants, ,it is handsomer than that
of the ordinary man in other depart-
ments of the public service.
But I think that very few of us con-
sider soldiers as ordinary civil servants,
whose jobs are usually safe and secure ;
none grudges them everything we can
afford in the way of extra comforts. I
leave to economists to argue whether
these comforts should come from taxa-
tion or from voluntary contributions, and
should they decide for the former I hold
that there are still a few stray funds for
us stay-at-homes to contribute to.
There is no sense of personal giving
in paying a tax, which merely means an
all-round decrease in my purchasing
power. But when I forgo one of my few
luxuries to contribute to a war fund and
when I give up some of my scanty leisure
to help a patriotic function, I feel that I
have at least made some sacrifice. —E. B.
(N.S.W.).
\
The Pyramids
Does The Bulletin know that the
prophecies contained in the Pyramids (B.
22/5/’4O) and those in the Bible coin-
cide? If The Bulletin had taken the
trouble to read a little on the subject it
would have found that the prophecies in
the Pyramids (and, therefore, in the
Bible), as interpreted and published be-
fore the last war, have all been correct.
One prophecy was that the Allies were
to suffer many reverses at the beginning
of this war and that the tide would turn
in our favor only when the nation went
down on its knees and asked for Divine
guidance.—M. M. (Vic.).
War Memorials
The erection of an expensive South
African War Memorial in Sydney is an
eloquent example of the futility of such
monuments. -Morally and militarily the
Boer War was one of the least glorious
of British exploits, and the hatchet was
buried and forgotten in England as soon
as possible after the peace. Now it has
been deliberately exhumed at a time
when we badly need the help and friend-
ship of our converted foes.
One of the commonest uses of a ceno-
taph is to hold the wreaths placed there
by the representatives of ex-enemy coun-
tries, but the value of such ceremony has
lately been heavily discounted. The
wreaths soon wither, and the sentiments
they express are evanescent.
By all means let us remember heroes
and their deeds —or at least by all reason-
able and seasonable means. The squan-
dering of huge sums on shrines and
museums after the Armistice, while
broken and jobless heroes were left
largely to charity and the dole, was
criminal. It was difficult to criticise those
responsible as everybody was doing it in
a hysteria of emotion and parochial com-
petition.
If the new memorial is the means of
directing national hero-worship into
more useful channels —such as hospitals
for living heroes —its cost will not have
been entirely wasted. —Digger (S.A.).
War Taxation
Why not a graduated war tax, starting
at threepence, on each admission ticket to
the talkies, theatres, skating rinks, foot-
ball, cricket, boxing, wrestling matches
and the races and “the dogs,” plus each
betting ticket? And why not threepence
on each round of golf, no matter whether
on public courses or otherwise? —W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
Refugees
A kind-hearted Government gave the
freedom of our country to thousands of
European subjects. A lot of these have
shown themselves willing to adapt them-
selves to Australian ways of living, and
some, at least, are cracking their necks to
have ago at Hitler. Quite a few of them
have won key positions in Australian
industry. Some are in Government
and “semi-Government” departments.
A Sydney contingent has acquired
businesses in fashionable harborside and
beach suburbs. The lucky ones managed
to transfer their money to Swiss, French
and Dutch banks, and thus were able to
bring their earnings to the country which
succored them. Others, more astute per-
haps, succeeded in saving valuable port-
able property and even grand pianos
from the wreck.
It is to the credit of these people that
they were astute enough to get these valu-
ables out of Germany right under the
eyes of the vigilant Gestapo—refugees
were permitted to take only four marks
with them. I hope they were all honest.
— K. Cross (N.S.W.).
Chamberlain, Churchill, etc.
“O.T.’s” trust and faith in Chamberr
lain (B. 22/5/’4O) is as touching and
pathetic as Chamberlain’s was in Hitler
before September, 1939. When the blame
for this war is apportioned three British
leaders, Ramsay MacDonald, Stanley
Baldwin and Neville Chamberlain, will
get their share. It was their belief that
Germany meant nothing by her strenuous
efforts at rearmament that lulled the
British Empire into a false sense of
security. When the inevitable war came,
Britain was not as fully prepared as she'
should have been.
Winston Churchill earned the descrip-
tion of “warmonger” because he warned
us for years about the menace of Ger-
many. Like those of Lord Roberts before
the 1914-18 war, Churchill’s warnings
went unheeded. Churchill appealed, as
far back as 1932, for an adequate air
force. He later stressed the vulnerability
of Britain and the growing strength of
the German air force, as well as the
general rearmament of Germany, which,
he said in 1932, was “proceeding upon a
colossal scale and at desperate, break-
neck speed.”
But Churchill’s warnings were not
heeded by the MacDonalds, Baldwins
and Chamberlains —they believed in
peace, but not in building up the defence
forces to ensure it. Chamberlain cer-
tainly did strive for the peace in which
he believed, but he left his preparations
to defend it too late, and must be con-
demned for doing so. To the average
man, it was a tacit admission of his
former mistakes when he called Churchill
to the Admiralty when war was declared.
In justice to the Empire, Chamberlain
could do nothing else but step down.
Churchill is left to carry the baby, with-
out the precautions he has for so long
advocated.—T. O. (N.S.W.).
Caviare and Cocktails
The following information from a
Christchurch girl, published in Maori-
land’s “Weekly News,” is surely enough
to make any old soldier toss violently
in his grave.
She wrote from Epsom Downs, Eng-
land: “Sergeant-majors of the old
traditional type, hard-swearing, ruddy-
complexioned, harsh-voiced, are now
conspicuous by their absence, and in
the sergeants’ mess sherry parties with
dainty savories, etc., have replaced
the old-time beer and sausage ‘sprees.’
The hosts are slim, immaculately
dressed young men who speak in
thoroughly cultured ’Varsity voices and
appear to have as sound a knowledge of
Einstein theories as of the science of
‘forming threes.’ ”
Think of it! This war is not going
to be won on caviare and cocktails, and
the sooner we get back to the old, sturdy
he-man type of officer and n.c.o. the
better for the nation. —O. W. Wadham
(M.L.).
Soldiers’ Yarns
Man is a gregarious animal, which
means that he just naturally gathers in
mobs and hates to be alone with his
thoughts. Hence armies, football crowds,
two-up schools and prayer meetings.
When the cavemen sat around campfires
in the dark the most popular bloke in
the social circle was he who could
growl a good yarn about snakes or
dragons or women. Later on his lineal
descendants were known as bards or
minstrels.
Modern inventions have almost put
them out of business, but the war, by
stripping men of civilised habits and
sending them back to the jungle, is again
giving the story-tellers a fair go. The
other night I found myself in a mob
of complete strangers “somewhere” on
the home front. In the absence of tables,
chairs, wireless, light, crown-and-anchor
boards, and all the other modern con-
veniences, conversation flagged and the
party was a flop.
Then the man next to me asked the
company at large for a fag’. After three
puffs, “That reminds me,” he began, and
for two hours held us spellbound with
yarns that made our hair curl. All we
had to do was supply the fags, just like
putting pennies in a slot. Some of the
plots must have been handed down from
the dugouts of the cavemen, but, with,
local color and names and adjectives,
they made us forget all about Hitler,
the sarge, our blistered heels, and the
girls we had left behind us.
There’s a loudspeaker like that in
almost every mob, and he’s worth more
than his weight in fags when the sun’s
relieved from his sentry go by the moon
and the sentinel stars. All he needs is
protection from the unfair competition
of “syndicated” entertainment and he’s
set for the session.— Listener In (S.A.).
State Parliaments
When the British and French fighting
forces are “haggard and weary” after
working full time, and when industry
everywhere is being exhorted to do like-
wise, it is a shameful display of inepti-
tude and irresponsibility on the part of
the N. S. Wales State Parliament —such
as it is—to enter upon a four weeks'
vacation.
May and June seem destined to be the
most critical months in the long history of
the Empire, but the Premier blithely
absolves his Parliament from any share
in the gigantic task ahead.
Most people will argue that the longer
the State Parliament stays out of the
present crisis the better for all concerned.
But no better testimony of its uselessness


could be found than its own confession
that it cannot find anything to do in the
most perilous weeks in all democratic
history. —W. Lynch (N.S.W.).
The principal argument for retention
of State Parliaments is that Australia is
too vast a country to be administered
from one centre. Comparisons have been
made as to size with the United States
of America and Europe, though Australia
can never carry the same population as
either. Anyway, wouldn’t Europe and
North America be better off if they had
unification, together with local self-
government?
Parliament exists to make laws and
not to administer them. We in Australia,
with a population of seven million
people, would be happier and better
served if there was only one lawmaker.
Why do we need seven criminal codes
for a population which is 98 p.c. of the
same stock, six divorce laws, six com-
pany laws, six different systems of edu-
cation and seven laws for industrial
matters? This list could be made to
include nearly everything.
The demand for some display of
national unity has resulted in frequent
Premiers’ conferences, but these in recent
years have nearly always ended in dead-
locks, with the result that national prob-
lems are simply shelved. Witness national
insurance and child endowment and the
impossible position into which inter-State
freetrade has drifted.
Those who have a vision of rational
Australian constitutional development
should adopt the following formula:
“That the Australian people amend the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of
Australia to give full legislative powers
to the Federal Parliament, which should
delegate to State or provincial bodies
control of matters of local importance.”
—D. Radclyffe (Vic.).
While South and Western Australia
are generally regarded as the greatest
strongholds for continuance of State
Parliaments, there are some in S.A. who
think that the endless squealing of the
so-called Cinderella States is a bit over-
done.
Continual allegations of Common-
wealth favoritism to N. S. Wales and
Victoria are made. Yet in a recent and
typical financial year reviewed by the
Commonwealth Grants Commission the
Federal Government paid to or on be-
half of South Australia £1,453,000 more
than it collected by all forms of taxation
in the State.
The gain in Western Australia in the
same year was even greater, Common-
wealth payments benefiting that State
being £1,560,000 greater than the collec-
tions of revenue made there.
S.A. Premier Playford is great on
“refuting” the arguments for abolition of
State Parliaments. One of his efforts
as Radio Uncle: “If the number of legis-
lators is quoted to you as being a reason
for unification I invite you to make a
few inquiries into the position in other
countries, particularly Great Britain.
You will find that the position is not un-
favorable to our Parliamentary system,
even disregarding the difference in land
areas.”
How Tom worked this out is a mys-
tery, because Australia with its 609 Par-
liamentarians for 7,000,000 people doesn’t
seem quite to balance with Britain’s 615
House of Commons members for
46,000,000 people.— Jake (S.A.).
Canada and South Africa have cast off
the State millstones from their necks.
Are we so obsessed by tin-hares and
racehorses, so dulled and muddled by the
blather of self-seeking political gasbags,
that we cannot summon up the energy
to follow their example?
One set of taxpayers cannot support
seven sets of Governments and pay for
a war as well, and the sooner we all
realise it the better will it be for our
chances of survival in a profoundly
changed post-war world.
Those ravaged trees and hillsides left
open to erosion (B. 29/5/’4O) are a sym-
bol of the senseless fashion in which
the country’s resources, material and
economic, are being wasted and destroyed
—M. T. (Q.).
One Parliament for Australia would
not be the panacea for our ills ; indeed, it
might well aggravate them. If a referen-
dum were taken tomorrow on the ques-
tion, I venture to say that it would be
defeated. N. S. Wales might register a
majority vote, but what of the smaller
States? It was only in recent years that
Westralia was talking open secession.
If our Parliamentarians are a “current
horde of windbags,” where does the fault
lie —with the politicians or with the
people who elect them? Castigating
legislators can be overdone.
We shall not get better men inside our
Parliaments until we get better men out-
side. If the average elector would de-
vote one quarter of the time to the affairs
of his country that he does to the race-
course and to the boxing ring, this land
would not be in its present predicament.
—A. Daly (S.A.).
Intellectuals in Exile
Harold Nicolson’s comments (B.
15/ 5 / ’4O) on the retirement of Messrs.
Aldous Huxley, Isherwood, Auden and
company to the safety of U.S.A. opens
the question of pacifism and the strange
malaise that has stricken some of our
intellectuals.
The ivory tower can at least be under-
stood ; sensitive natures shrinking from
the horror of war and retreating to an
inner world of their own—a world so
divorced from reality that its inhabitants
are able to persuade themselves that,
while it is not right to combat a human
enemy, it is right to take a stand against
those of any other category. They will
do nothing to stop the Nazis killing them,
but would not object to being inoculated
with a serum to combat the ravages of
a deadly disease. Although the ordinary
man can see little distinction, and feels
that a refusal to fight for life and ideals
is an acute form of decadence, yet he
pities rather than blames them for their
muddled sentimentalism.
But surely the ivory tower explanation
will not hold for realists like Huxley.
It is hard to imagine the author of Brave
New World taking refuge in a world of
fantasy. Nor is his courage doubted.
Why, then, does he elect to be away from
his country at such a time?
Intellectualism carried too far can
itself become a disease. There is a
border-line beyond which it is unsafe for
some minds to venture. Without a
robust faith in life all paths in the land
across the border can lead to sheer nega-
tion, and all ideals can become hollow
pretences. Have some of our intellectuals
lost themselves in this grey hell? It
seems they have. Only thus can their
disbelief in patriotism and self-preserva-
tion in the wider sense be explained.
Something should be done about them,
but before calling in the psycho-analyst
a few simple remedies might be tried.
For instance, attending a good prayer-
meeting, listening to the bagpipes or
getting well and truly drunk —according,
of course, to taste. —T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
“Approved Unsuitable”
More than half the films being cur-
rently exhibited carry the certificate
“Approved by the censor as not suitable
for general exhibition.” I always thought
the censor’s job was to approve of those
films which could be generally exhibited
and to disapprove of those which could
not be so shown, permitting them to be
seen only by adult audiences.
Even the rankest horror film is
“Approved as unsuitable.” It sounds
horribly like the American expression
“Include me out.” If it were only a ques-
tion of logic or English, the matter would
not be worth worrying about. But it is
surely an unhealthy sign of the times
when a public officer’s condemnation
becomes openly the strongest selling
point a film can command.— Cert (Vic.).
Useful Roads
The sight of a battalion of Main Roads
Board employees engaged in straighten-
ing out an infinitesimal curve on the main
Western Highway recently forced me to
the conclusion that some outside direction
is sadly lacking. Probably the fact that
I had just covered several hundred miles
of corrugations and potholes before
reaching the highway had something to
do with it, but I still feel that the M.R.B.
should take its courage in both hands,
leave the speedways for a while and con-
centrate on the back roads which feed
the railways and along which carriers
struggle profanely on their way to the
railhead.
Certainly we must have first-class
arterial highways for both economic and
defence reasons, but the vital necessity
at the moment is the speeding up of de-
livery of raw materials and foodstuffs
to the ports and thence to Britain. The
thousands which are spent at present on
perhaps half a mile of highway would go
a long way if used wisely on the feeder
roads to expedite delivery.
In the Bathurst district there is a 10-
mile length of road —“The Road that
Leads to Nowhere” —which was to be,
under a grandiose Spooner scheme, a
scenic highway to Hill End and which,
when abandoned, had cost the taxpayer
over £lOO,OOO. Carriers from the latter
centre who move thousands of bales of
wool and stacks of farm produce grimly
muse on the effect that such a huge ex-
penditure would have had on the existing
regular route and other radial roads in
the district of Bathurst.
The M.R.B. should co-operate with the
railways in improving these feeder roads
rather than to continue to improve on
perfection for the benefit of speedhogs.
—Barwon (N.S.W.).
The N.S.W. Police Force
With unsolved murders and mysterious
disappearances about the premises,
policemen met in annual conference at
Sydney. It was alleged that police on
traffic duty were forced to indulge in a
sort of competition—the one who booked
the most offenders having the best chance
of promotion. One told of a kind of
“honor roll” in his division which bore
lists of officers’ names and their traffic
cases.
Motorists, chivied badly as they are by
a chaos of parking regulations, excessive
taxation and prowling P.D. cars, wili
believe every word of it.
Another delegate said: —-
Someone must see that we remain in the
esteem of the public. As an association we
should see that nothing police do should
undermine our standing with the public.
Agreed ; but in eight days three Sydney
policemen were found shot, the third
after detectives had called at his home
to inquire about the shooting of a bar-
maid earlier in the day.
Then there have been s.p. briber}
charges and dismissals and reinstate-
ments, actions for damages by arrested
persons and evidence of internal bicker-
ings in the force itself.
A few years ago Victoria had to send
to Scotland Yard for a man to straighten
out its police affairs. N.S.W. is in need
of similar action. —O. T. (N.S.W.).
Not So Silly
My “silly nostrum for improving the
government of this misguided country”
was not perforated by “A.G.’s” blast
(B. 15/5/’4O). I spoke of forgoing “gold
passes and gluttonous salaries.” There is
an appreciable difference between work-
ing for no remuneration at all and
sacrificing the surplus of a salary out of
all proportion to the work done. The
gold passes are an extravagance in that
they are not used exclusively for travel-
ling while on business of State.
Had “A.G.” applied a little thought to
the general trend of my remarks, he might
have realised that I was proposing gov-
ernment by men who are capable of gov-
ernment ; men who have organising and
executive ability such as that required
in handling any business or industry in-
tended to be financially successful. Few
such men are to be found among our
politicians.
“A.G.” then makes the redundant re-
mark that “the men chosen would have
to be absolutely honest.” To my mind,
honesty is not a matter of relativity—a
man is either honest or dishonest. It is
only commonsense to suggest that a
member of the governing body should be
a man honest in speech as well as action.
The question of the personal wealth
of members comprising my theoretical
Parliament has no bearing on the pro-
posal. Let me instance the man who re-
created Portugal in the space of seven
years. Dr. Oliveira Salazar, the son of a
small farmer, is today “as poor a man in
the highest position of State as he was in
his father’s house.” Salazar is an honest
man, a competent man and a poor man.
He is an economist, and a man devoted
to the welfare of his country. Moreover,
unlike local politicians, he shuns the spot-
light, maintaining that the, interest of the
people centres not in his person or his
voice, but in what he does for them.
He has, in short, all the qualifications
needed by the men who must eventually
face the task of achieving order out of
the chaotic state into which our present
“diligent Parliamentarians” have guided
“this misgoverned country.” Nairb
(Vic.).
Our Foreign Policy
Cynics have remarked that Australia
has no foreign policy, but just “follows
England.” In fact, there does seem to be
a general apathy towards the question
of our relations with other countries, as
if this were still a colony whose think-
ing must be done for it by the Mother
Country. The danger of such an atti-
tude is seen when something hostile is
carelessly spoken or written about a
friendly nation.
One of our biggest national tasks is to
understand our neighbors. It is a fine
thing to have created a Department of
External Affairs, and to be sending
ambassadors abroad, but that isn’t
enough. Children should be learning
simple political facts about every coun-
try, particularly those of the Pacific, and
the problems of each. Also, instead of
masses of certain futile rubbish poured
forth by press and radio, room could be
found for truths which will give adult
Australians a sense of their responsibility
as a world as well as an Empire unit.
I can think of no more inspiring job
for a Government than that of guiding
the mind of its people to a definite
foreign policy and preparing Australia
for her destiny as a great Pacific Power.
—Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Euthanasia
“Dukun” (B. 22/5/’4O) condemns my
suggestion that euthanasia be legalised
without saying why. He cites the case
of a man who recovered from an appar-
ently incurable illness, but he overlooks
the fact that the life of one person is as
nothing compared with the release from
suffering of thousands of unfortunate
beings.
The purpose of a board of specialists
with changing membership would be to
eliminate the possibility of interested par-
ties seeking to influence the decision of
individual members. Admittedly, even
specialists are not infallible, and might
make occasional mistakes, but we have
not abolished trial by jury simply because
an innocent person might conceivably
be condemned.
If “Dukun” will take the trouble to
visit a Home for Incurables I’ll wager
that he will not wish to prolong, even
for an hour, the agonies of many of these
unfortunate people.— Pierrot (N.S.W.).
Fruit for All
Living in a fruit- and vegetable-
growing district, I am often appalled at
the quantities that go to waste, while
in the cities there are children and adults,
too, who are undernourished.
Tomatoes may be just a little too ripe
for packing, beans are not worth picking
when the top market price is Is* 6d. a
bag, apples fall from the trees when a
strong wind blows and cannot be sold
though they are quite fit for use. The
waste is enormous, and yet the fruit
could be collected and distributed with-
out further depressing a variable market.
The Government or some social-
working bodies could keep a check on
suitable districts, and, when there are
fruit or vegetables to collect, send out
men with a truck to get it. It could be
distributed among those who have not
the wherewithal to buy fruit and vege-
tables, among charitable homes, free
meal kitchens, etc. Most farmers would
be only too glad to feel that some use
was being made of their unmarketable
products.— Ahn (Q.).
- •
Secret Ballot
Why let the secret ballot stop at
strikers? Communism as a political
theory is quite permissible, and as a
democratic nation we must let Com-
munists think and speak as their ideas
dictate. The important thing is that they
be forced to sail under their own colors
and speak from their own platforms.
If elections for union representatives
and officials were placed in the hands of
the Commonwealth Electoral Commis-
sion, and if every unionist were obliged to
vote in a secret ballot, the days of the
Red in the trade-union movement would
be numbered.— Caboola (N.S.W.).
Pigs
When Germany invaded Denmark the
need was stressed for increased produc-
tion of pig meats to make up the defi-
ciency in Britain’s imports. State poli-
ticians had a lot to say about the oppor-
tunity, which has always been present,
but very little of a concrete nature has
been done.
Experts state it would take at least a
year to double the pig population of Aus-
tralia, but, so far, there has been no con-
certed effort to double it. The farmers,
apparently, are to do the job if they feel
like it. Even in peace-time Australia was
very lax in taking advantage of the great
market for pork and bacon that existed in
Britain —we supplied only 2\ p.c. of
Britain’s peace-time imports—so some-
thing drastic will have to be done if we
are to make a contribution to the war
effort by increasing our exports of pig
meats.
One way to do it is to prohibit the
slaughtering of sows until the number
of pigs in the Commonwealth is doubled.
Then, some scheme will have to be de-
vised to make wheat available to pig-
raisers in large quantities. In addition to
helping pig production, this will ease the
position for the wheatgrower. At the
same time a Commonwealth-wide educa-
tional scheme will have to be organised
to teach the farmers how to produce the
correct types of pigs in the shortest pos-
sible time.
If Federal Ministers are too busy to
organise pig-raising as a part of the
national war effort, there is nothing to
prevent them from calling in someone
who knows something about it, and giv-
ing him a free hand. —Cow Time
(N.S.W.).


mm
HOW ARE
YOU TO-DAY?
Do you feel sufficiently fit to grapple with the
problems of the day? Do you possess that keen yet
cheerful nature which helps you through?
When feeling well you can face the position with much
more equanimity than the one who is handicapped by
indifferent health. That means a lot today.
Remember the condition of the liver largely influences one’s
outlook on life. Therefore, the first essential is to keep the
liver and other organs of digestion in a regular condition, thus
ensuring the clear, balanced vision and active brain that are
so necessary to cope with the difficulties which are constantly
arising.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills enjoy an unrivalled reputation
as an everyday remedy. They stir the liver, act on the stomach,
and promote regular action of the bowels in a gentle yet
thorough manner.
DTMORSES
NDIAK
GOT
They Make You
Feel Brighter
nbmnbmn
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. . The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
tree.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
bnmnmn
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals.. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDT AKERS/ by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra).
6^
Qr
6*
V 1
0°
4>
*v®\\
\s s
.4 *
V''"
>A'
.. or,
V Vf rt vvVS
. -* * » S‘V/ °’
»v? VO
’ pV'O 0


a
\s
tVv\s
44
vtVva
u\acV° u
A V e^alK.ef
au
ea^
Johnm e
says
?‘ ; }.r
t
■
• •
mm
iO
«
*
H
3
%.i r
mm
mm
mm I
Hiff ip-j
SgS;;;5: ,<s
-
still o oin9
bnmnbmn
All over Scotland, in busy towns
or remote Highland glens, are
bonded stores where casks of
whisky lie, row upon row, in
the cool darkness. In the mellow
oak each whisky is maturing,
ageing, developing the special
character and flavour for which it was
selected. Years hence the casks will again
see the light of day and go to Kilmarnock.
There, many choice but different
whiskies will meet in the blending vat
and become Johnnie Walker, that rare,
round whisky whose perfection of
flavour is so well worth asking for by
name.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.
JW 101.F.P.
