

Industrial Strength
and Security...
INDUSTRY, creator of opportunity and
avenue for progress in peace, is burdened
with an added responsibility in the
emergency created by war. Raw materials
essential in secondary industry assume new
values, and none is more vital to the nation’s
industrial strength and security than steel.
By virtue of The Broken Hill Proprietary’s
iron and steel making operations Australia
is most fortunately placed for iron and steel
supplies. Iron ore, coal and limestone
resources have been co-ordinated to the
national welfare by the 8.H.P., whose
operations are distinguished by great
efficiency. By its ability to supply high-
grade iron and steel at consistently low prices,
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. renders
a national service unmatched in its beneficial
influence on Australia’s industrial strength
and defence.
h
ggjgjj&gjjgg
L... _1
*
mmm
;
J
■jM
i
sm.
“N 5
1 jjmrot
-I
N
*
1
mm
'-N,
i
«
m'
H mi?
rfK
r:
k
‘MiBSA
T V:-
I
Above i:
from a
at the
shown molten steel being teei
huge ladle into ingot moulds
B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Iron and Steel Masters, Colliery Proprietors,
Mine and Ship Owners,
Head Office : 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Iron and Steel Works: NEWCASTLE. N. S.W.
Iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob, S.A. Limestone Deposits: Devonport, Tasmania.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin, Vol. 61.—N0. 3129.
Wednesday, January 31, 1940.
Diamond Jubilee Number
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
“Bulletin,” 37 Vols., 1880-1913 (Vol. I in-
complete), £2O. Also Vols. 1921-22, 1924-39
inclusive. Well bound. Price on application.
Pescott (E. E.) —James Bonwick (Biography
and Bibliography), limited to 250, 10/6.
Books relating to Australia and South Seas.
New Catalogue Free.
H. A. EVANS & SON,
358 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ftjndwrtS
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Pleas'} send, without obligation, your New Free 16pp. Illustrated
Penmanship Prospectus explaining your Muscular Movement System
of Writing, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address ,
S.B. 140
The Red Page
"THE BULLETIN" AND ITS WRITERS.
The first issue of The Bulletin, damp from the
presses of Michael McGirr’s “Freeman’s Journal” at
the back of the Town Hall, invaded the streets of
Sydney on the morning of Saturday, January 31, 1880.
“BANJO” PATERSON.
At the time Jimmy
O’Neill, a former “Illus-
trated Sydney News”
editor out of a job, and
“Old” Kearney, a
veteran pressman with
the thirst of a camel,
were sleeping off a
glorious bender in a
lane at the back of Carl
Scholer’s Scandinavian
Hall at 107 Castlereagh-
street. Having helped
Archibald to turn out
the first number, they
were, apart from the
editor, The Bulletin’s
first writers.
Carl Scholer was
The Bulletin’s first
landlord. He had taken
over the hall from
George Gamferty, who
had conducted it as a billiard saloon and skittle
alley. Carl got rid of the pickpockets, touts,
sharpers and hooligans who had used the place as
their headquarters, and rented portion of the hall to
Archibald and John Haynes, who were about to
launch The Bulletin with a capital of £l4O, a few
cases of battered Ludlow type, and an option on an
antiquated printing machine that was then installed
at the Garden Palace exhibition in the outer Domain.
Neither of the two “sole proprietors,” Archibald,
as he dipped his pen in gall to describe the hanging of
Scott and Rogan, the Wantabadgery bushrangers,
nor Haynes, as he wheedled advts. from Anthony
Horderns’ and Larry
Foley, and from
showmen, publicans,
fishmongers and
sweepstake-
promoters, probably
visualised that their
venture would within
10 years shift the
literary centre of
Australia from the
Yorick Club, Mel-
bourne, to The Bul-
letin office, Sydney.
Australian litera-
“STEELE RUDD.”
ture, which can be said to have had its genesis in the
poetry of Harpur, Gordon and Kendall, and in the
prose of Marcus Clarke and “Rolf Boldrewood,” was
at a low ebb when Archibald, with the aid of O’Neill
and Kearney, put The Bulletin first to bed. It was
12 years since Harpur, bowed beneath his many mis-
fortunes, had died at Eurobodalla (N.S.W.), and 10
since Adam Lindsay Gordon had shot himself one
June morning in the bush at Picnic Point, Port Phillip
(Vic.). Gone, too, were silver-tongued Daniel Henry
Deniehy and the quiet-spoken J. L. Michael. Henry
Kendall, frail and ailing, was not destined to survive
the winter of 1882. A few of his last fragments
appeared in The Bulletin. James Brunton Stephens
had already passed his zenith, while John Farrell,
brewing ale at Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) and writing jingle
for country newspapers, had still to make his mark.
“Rolf Boldrewood” had just published his first book,
and Robbery Under Arms was a thing of the future.
In Melbourne, Marcus Clarke was too feverishly
engaged in making ends meet to repeat the success of
For the Term of His Natural Life. The Bulletin had
“THE BREAKER.”
not reached its second birthday
when he died at the age of 35. The
father of Victorian poetry, George
Gordon McCrae, was writing as
well as ever, but he waited three
years before sending a poem to
The Bulletin. Joseph Furphy
(“Tom Collins”), though in his
late thirties, had not begun to
write and was travelling Victoria
as an agent for farm machinery.
Most of the poets and story-
tellers who in the late ’eighties
and ’nineties were to bring fame
to The Bulletin and themselves
were youngsters at the time of
the foundation of the paper. Ex-
ceptions among the poets were
Jas. Hebblethwaite, Hubert
Church and Victor J. Daley. Of
the three, Hebblethwaite was still
in England, Church was in Maoriland, and Victor
Daley had not long arrived in Australia from Ireland.
The rest, with a few exceptions, were either youths in
their teens or nippers still at school.
Francis Adams was 18,
George Essex Evans 17, “Banjo”
Paterson, J. B. O’Hara and C. H.
Souter 16, Dowell O’Reilly, Ted
Dyson and Arthur Bayldon 15,
Barcroft Boake and Bernard
O’Dowd 14, Henry Lawson 13,
Randolph Bedford and E. S.
Sorenson 12, E. J. Brady,
Roderic Quinn, “Steele Rudd”
and Will H. Ogilvie 11, Chris
Brennan 10, J. Le Gay Brereton,
John Shaw Neilson and Albert
Dorrington nine, and Arthur H.
Adams eight. Hugh McCrae,
Will Lawson, C. J. Dennis and
J. H. M. Abbott were all under
five.
Until “Banjo” Paterson
broke into The Bulletiin in
1886 with a verse called “The
Bush Fire,” and Henry Lawson
followed the next year with his
“A Song of the Republic,” The
Bulletin had been printing
“KODAK.”
much unsigned verse, reprints of Gordons, odds and
ends by Kendall, occasional pieces by George Gordon
McCrae, Farrell, Stephens and Ina Wildman (“Sappho
Smith,” of the “Woman’s Letter” page), a fair amount
of verse by Victor Daley, and contributions by G. H.
Gibson, author of Ironbark Chips and Stockwhip
Cracks, Henry Halloran and Phil Holdsworth. They
were a godsend to Archibald, desperately scratching'
for copy, but they never made the “hit” that “The
Banjo” and Lawson did among The Bulletin’s far-
scattered readers within a short time of their first
appearances.
The supply of short stories
was also poor during the early
years of the paper. Victor Daley,
who was to prove one of its best
assets for 22 years, was writing
stories as early as 1883. Ted
Dyson, who was to double
Daley’s length of service, first
appeared in 1887, but until Law-
son, Bedford, Becke, Sorenson,
“Steele Rudd,” Dowell O’Reilly,
Barbara Baynton and James
Edmond arrived on the scene,
the only yarns of more than
passing merit —apart from those
by Daley and Dyson- —were
written by either Ernest Favenc
or William Astley (“Price
Warung”), though Alex. Mont-
gomery, W. A. Woods, John
Farrell and Frank J. Donohue
(“Arthur Gayll”) supplied the
C. J. BRENNAN.
paper with much entertaining fiction before the advent
of Archibald’s “young men.”
During those early years—when the paper was
struggling against boycotts, libel actions, bailiffs, an
embezzling cashier, and the desertion of John Haynes
—Archibald and W. H. Traill (for a brief period sole
proprietor and editor) were cursed with the queerest
lot of writers that ever infested a newspaper office.
C. J. DENNIS.
Had the staff been as irrespon-
sible as were the greater number
of the paper’s contributors it
would have died in its infancy ;
but the sub-editors of the
’eighties—Jack Hunt, Joseph
O’Brien, Fred Broomfield, Wil-
fred Blacket, George Black, J. A.
Philp and James Edmond —were
a temperate crew.
One Theodore Emile Argles
(“Harold Grey”), the scapegoat
son of a London solicitor, a
pungent and witty writer special-
ising in the seamier side of Syd-
ney life that was just fit to print,
ran up staggering overdrafts at
the office, was seldom sober and
landed the paper into a series of
costly libel actions. When finally
sacked by Traill, he tried to per-
suade Victor Daley to bring out
an opposition sheet, but Victor was loyal to the
paper that gave him his start in Australia, and was a
tower of strength to Traill when Archibald and Haynes
were in Darlinghurst Gaol for their failure to pay the
costs of the Clontarf libel case.
Another valuable contributor who needed careful
watching was Henry Cargill (“The Dipsomaniac”), of
whom a colleague once wrote: “Never did there live
a man better fitted by genial recklessness and erratic
talent to typify the world of which Henri Mtirger
wrote.” “The Dipso” had a first-hand knowledge of
all the more expensive inebriates’ homes in N. S. Wales
and once did a series of revealing articles on them for
The Bulletin. There are many tales told about him.
Once David Syme, of the Melbourne “Age,” threatened
to throw “The Dipso” out of the window of his office.
“D’ye think I’ll not do it?” he roared at Cargill, who
began to edge towards the door. “Oh, you’d do it,”
retorted Cargill. “You’d do it, I know—if only to
save wear and tear on the stair carpet.” Then Cargill
fled.
There was the poet who slept for over a year in
a vacant house attached to the Exhibition Building in
Prince Alfred Park, and who did his morning toilet
at a neighboring horse-
trough. He belonged to a
good English family, was
educated in France and
Germany, and, according
to Archibald, “would steal
the commas from the copy
on your desk, if he could
have pawned them.”
“Let them all come,”
Archibald would say, so it
is not surprising that
among those who sought
to sell their wares to
Archibald there was a
large proportion of cadgers
and impostors, together
with the usual quota of
cranks, persons with an
axe to grind, and the con-
vivial ones who found it
more convenient to put it
A. G. STEPHENS.
on the slate at The Bulletin office than at their
favorite drinking places. “Only an Archibald,” once
wrote A. G. Stephens, “would have attempted to
harvest figs of such seeming thistles.”
By the middle of the ’nineties, Archibald was
harvesting, not now and then, but week by week, as
fine a crop of figs as any editor could desire.
Macleod had relieved him of business worries and
had placed the paper on a sound financial footing,
besides acting as Art Editor. James Edmond, who
had joined the staff in 1886, had quickly risen to the
position of Associate Editor, and had taken over the
shaping of the paper’s political policy and most of the
drudgery of sub-editing and proofreading. Archibald
devoted more and more of his time to the gathering in
of stories and verse. Fie unearthed new writers in all
corners of Australia, licked crude efforts into shape,
encouraged with letters of praise and paid hand-
somely.
The pigeonholes of his large desk at 24 Pitt-street
were crammed with accepted manuscripts awaiting
revision and others which Archibald could not bring
himself to return to their authors in case some young
genius might slip
through his fingers.
From time to time
A. G. Stephens would
raid his desk and rescue
armfuls of manuscripts
and return them to their
impatient authors.
Archibald would dole
out the accepted manu-
scripts to the composing
room one by one as if
he loathed to part with
them. To James
Edmond, who fre-
quently com plained
that this system delayed
the make-up of the
paper, Archibald would
explain that he was
building up a “reserve
for a rainy day.”
“Rainy day, be
damned,” Edmond once
exploded when Archi-
bald was particularly
reluctant to release
stories for a Christmas
number ; “you’re sav-
ing up for the Second
Deluge.”
Archibald divulged
one of his reasons for
NORMAN LINDSAY.
hoarding manuscripts to George Black after Francis
Adams, who wrote Songs of the Army of the Night,
{Continued on page 4.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in Every Act
"THE SENIOR STORE”
SALE
SALE
SALE
SALE
SALE
SALE
SALE
SALE
SALE
SALE
SALE
| Kii
FAMOUS
FAMOUS
LOW
PRICES
FAMOUS
LOW
PRICES
THE •'UNI”- A RADIO RECEIVER
OF EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY
AT A SAVINC OF NEARLY £5
£l9/19 7 - “Uni” 5 Valve Press Button Radio Receiver
To-day a Radio is not a luxury but one of the most important means of
obtaining quick and accurate information. The Oversea reception of the
''Uni" 5 Valve Press Button Radio Receiver is the equal of many higher
priced sets. See and hear this genuine bargain in our Radio Depart-
ment and you will be convinced of the remarkable value. Full automatic
volume control. Rola speaker which gives marvellous tone. Installed arid serviced free for 12
months within the Metropolitan area. Valves guaranteed for 90 days. Yours, for a small deposit,
of 30/- and 12 monthly payments of 23/7. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, £l9/19/-. SALE. £l4/19/6
£l4l 9 ; 6
h
:^i*r
p
liii 11
m
i
.
SALE CATALOGUE
SENT FREE ON REQUEST
Write for a copy of our I 12 page
Sale Catalogue crammed from
cover to cover with bargains well
worth your while.
7/11 SHOCKPROOF IMMERSION HEATER
A very useful appliance in the home for boiling a small quantity
of water quickly and economically. 720 watts and is shockproof.
Guaranteed 12 months. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 7/11
SALE PRICE 5/11
sii
17/11 “ON
n
SNTEED ELECTRIC JOG
The "Uni" A.C. Electric Jug is the most rapid and economical
method for boiling water. Boils in-approximately 4 minutes and is
fitted with best quality element. Guaranteed -for 12 months.
Fittings 2/- extra. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 17/11
SALE PRICE 14/11
14ii
15/6 “ONI” TURNOVER TOASTER NOW AT
"Uni" Electric Toaster gives you toast just as you like it—crisp
and evenly browned. Heavily nickel plated, finger tip insulation.
Best quality element. Guaranteed for 12 months. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price, complete 15/6
SALE PRICE, complete 13/9
139
15/6 “11” ADJUSTABLE BED LAMP NOW
Clamps on back of bed. The clamp is rubber covered to protect
furniture —has an adjustable reflector and is sturdily constructed
and finished in variety of colours. Complete with globe, 3 yards
of flex and plug. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 15/6
SALE PRICE 13/6
136
• Electrical—Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY • PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS • 'PHONE: M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT)


ĥ
EACHING its 60th year
of publication, “The
Bulletin” has achieved a
position in Australian Journalism
of which it should justly feel
proud.
“The West Australian,” Perth’s
morning daily, now in its 107th
year of publication, offers its
congratulations to the publishers
of “The Bulletin” on this their
Diamond Jubilee.
®he Meat HujStraltmt
,o tfOV
FOR
ma\e it the holiday of a lifetime
by leaving all your travelling and accommo-
dation arrangements to the experts at
THE VICTORIAN
GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU
Providing the most comprehensive travel service in
Australia, the Bureau will suggest and plan tours . . .
make bookings for travel by RAIL, ROAD, SEA or
AIR . . . furnish handsomely-illustrated tourist literature
arrange your hotel or guest-house accommodation
anywhere in Victoria —an entirely free service . . .
Make a Note of These Addresses:
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY ..
ADELAIDE ..
BRISBANE ..
PERTH
HOBART ..
MILDURA ..
BALLARAT..
272 Collins Street
28 Martin Place
131 King William Street
204 Adelaide Street
31-32 Plaza Arcade
99 Macquarie Street
72 Deakin Avenue
34 Lydiard Street North
HUGH McCRAE.
died by his own hand at Mar-
gate (England) in 1893, at the
age of 30. “The tragedy of
Australian literature,” he said
to Black, “is the low expecta-
tion of life of the average
Australian writer. Take poor
Francis Adams, for instance.
His writing life was 10 years.
Last year Barcroft Boake
slipped away before he was
27. Think of Marcus Clarke,
Gordon, Kendall, Deniehy
and Michael! Not one of
them reached 45. In another
10 years there will be living just
a mere handful of the men
now writing for The Bulletin.
Writing is too fierce a way of
living. It kills them young.”
Archibald’s prophecy, for-
tunately for The Bulletin
and for Australian letters, was
to prove a false one. From
the date of Francis Adams’s
untimely end to the death of
Victor Daley in 1905, The
Bulletin lost by death only
five of its more important
writers, Holdsworth, Farrell,
Brunton Stephens, Ina Wild-
man and Harry Morant (“The
Breaker”). How much greater
has been the Roll Call in the
decade between The Bulle-
tin’s Jubilee in 1930 and its
sixtieth anniversary! S. H.
Prior, James Edmond, Agnes
Conor O’Brien, A. G.
Stephens, Edward Dyson, C. A.
Jeffries, Louis Stone, C. J.
Dennis, John Bede Dailey,
Arthur H. Adams, “Steele
Rudd,” Chris Brennan, J. Le
Gay Brereton, Hilary Lofting,
Louise Mack, E. S. Sorenson,
J. A. Philp, Wilfred Blacket,
George Black, E. Mary Gurney,
“Smiler” Hales and Gilbert M.
Turnbull have all passed on
since then.
A handful of veterans
from the ’eighties and early
’nineties are still well on deck—Randolph Bedford,
“Banjo” Paterson, Albert Dorrington, E. J. Brady,
Roderic Quinn, C. H.
Souter, Will H. Ogilvie,
Arthur Bayldon, Bernard
O’Dowd and John Shaw
Neilson.
Check the names in the
index of authors in H. M.
Green’s An Outline of
Australian Literature and
you will find that almost
three-quarters of those
who belong to the past 60
years are Bulletin names.'
Add to them the names
of those who have broken
into The Bulletin since
the publication of Green’s
Outline —Kylie Tennant,
Gavin Casey, Don H.
Edwards, Kenneth Mac-
kenzie, Frank Dalby Davi-
BERNARD O’DOWD.
son, Henrietta Drake-Brockman, Eleanor Dark, William
Hatfield, Eric Lowe, J. J. Hardie and many others.
Add the names of the previous countless storytellers
and poets who have escaped the notice of the compilers
of reference books. Then throw in the names of a
few hundred paragraphists for good measure, and
you will have a list longer than all the Smiths, Browns
and Robinsons in the telephone directory.
“SMILER” HALES.
Anecdotes there are by the
hundred. There is the tale of
the night when poet Bernard
Ingleby slept with an elephant,
and of the night when Rod
Quinn wrote a poem on a
starched collar belonging to
Victor Daley, or was it the other
way round? Of the reception
given to Will Lawson by a bunch
of Maoriland bush-workers who
would not believe that he was
not Henry Lawson’s brother.
Stories of Dowell O’Reilly’s lec-
turing experiences, of Harry
Morant’s daredevilry, of James
Edmond’s dislike of German
bands, and of how a naval
stoker mistook Ernest O’Ferrall
(“Kodak”) for a curate. There
is the story of Harold Mercer’s
dilemma when confronted by a
large and determined strange
female who insisted that a love lyric he had written
was directly addressed to her.
S. H. Prior often said that The Bulletin would
not have been the paper it was were it not for its con-
tributors. It was he who coined the phrase “Half
Australia writes it, all Australia reads it.” There is no
denying that its writers have always been representa-
tive of all walks of Australian life. In its pages High
Court Judges have mingled with railway fettlers, a Gov-
ernor’s aide-de-camp has rubbed shoulders with an
I.W.W. agitator, a paragraph by a dean has appeared
below a poem written by a poet with a bent for pass-
ing false cheques.
Much that has appeared in The Bulletin has
been largely autobiographical. The writers have put
down what they have seen and done ; have given a
thousand and one glimpses of their lives and per-
sonalities. It is an aid to an understanding of their
works to have known them. Will Lawson’s verse and
stories become more real after one has listened to Will
breezily relating a yarn over a half-tankard. Frank
Davison’s sincerity and determination become more
evident after one has exchanged opinions with him.
You detect how “aggressively Australian” Ted Brady
is when you have heard him
air his views to an audience.
A ten minutes’ conversation
with Jack Abbott gives you
an understanding of his pre-
occupation with the past. To
have spoken to Dowell
O’Reilly would have brought
a keener realisation of the
sensitiveness of “Twilight.”
Randolph Bedford is, or
was, as turbulent as were his
Billy Pagan stories. Harry
Morant’s verses were a true
mirror of his reckless life.
Grant Hervey was as gran-
diloquent in everyday sur-
E. S. SORENSON.
roundings as he was in the pages of The Bulletin. The
major part of the best of Lawson was pure autobio-
graphy. Victor Daley, from all accounts, was very
much like the free-and-easy verse he wrote, and
Arthur Bayldon sometimes talks like one of his own
poems. Jack Hardie is as clean-cut and as good
company as are the heroes of his serials. Knowing
Les Robinson well is to appreciate better his protests,
cloaked with frivolity, against the complexities of
civilisation. Dig beneath the surface of Arthur Hoey
Davis’s “Selection” stories and you will strike much
the sort of life “Steele Rudd” lived as a youngster.
Meeting Norman Lindsay, Vance Palmer, Con Drew,
Harold Mercer, Harley Matthews, Leon Gellert, Hugh
McCrae for the first time is like renewing an old
friendship. They do not appear to be very different
from what you imagined them to be.
One of the first planks of The Bulletin platform
is the encouragement and development of a national


nnin£
If ill in
L
redraw
a
[%YOh-
Lift the bonnet of a 1940 Buick and you’ll see a bonnet-
ful of power plant whose dimensions reveal the vast
reserve of energy it puts at your command. But just start
this over-size giant. Stir the sleeping brute into action
and you’ll find that only the blur of the fan blades betrays
its readiness to get up and go. For you are looking at an
engine balanced within limits of eight to sixteen times
closer than ordinary practice permits.
So precise is Buick’s exclusive method of Micropoise
balancing after assembly that each Buick engine is actually
smoother size for size than a watch! On that score alone
this 100 plus horsepower Straight Eight qualifies as the
world’s one and only of its kind.
But in addition to that it’s a valve-in-head engine, 10 per
cent, more efficient size for size and it’s a Dynaflash valve-
in-head which means it gets the best out of every drop of
petrol.
The power behind this great Eight has plenty else to
claim your attention. Smart new styling, BuiCoil Spring-
ing, full float comfort, finger-tip Safety Shift Gear Control.
But even if you overlook them and all the rest of its 72
new features your hest buy is still Buick on its power plant
alone. There’s not a quiver in that bonnetful of econo-
mical ready-to-ramble energy and nobody will be more
pleased to prove it than your nearest Buick Dealer. He
has a 1940 Buick waiting now for you to drive.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
%
9#
S 4fi
%
%
nr
W/lO
Th *m
Use the Convenient, Confidential Q.M.A.C*
s. Payment Plan .
from your local Buick Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Buick Dealers throughout Australia.
502
literature. There was as much joy at 252 George-
street when the first Gavin Casey story reached the
editor’s desk as there was when Archibald read Edward
Dyson's “A Profitable Pub” in 1887 at 24 Pitt-street,
or when James Edmond read the first of C. J. Dennis’s
“Songs of a Sentimental Bloke.” So long as a Bulletin
office°stands in Sydney there awaits a welcome to the
new writer as warm and as cordial as has been extended
to all Australian writers during the past 60 years.
Native-born.
In a white gaily among fungus red
Where serpent logs lay hissing at the air,
I found a kangaroo. Tall, dewy, dead,
So like a woman, she lay silent there.
Her ivory hands, black-nailed, crossed on her breast,
Her skin of sun and moon hues, fallen cold.
Her brown eyes lay like rivers come to rest
And death had made her black mouth harsh and old.
Beside her in the ashes I sat deep
And mourned for her, but had no native song
To flatter death, while down the ploughlands steep
Dark young Camelli whistled loud and long,
“Love, liberty and Italy are all.”
Broad golden was his breast against the sun.
I saw his wattle whip rise high and fall
Across the slim mare’s flanks, and one by one
She drew the furrows after her as he
Flapped like a gull behind her, climbing high,
Chanting his oaths and lashing soundingly,
While from the mare, came once a blowing sigh.
The dew upon the kangaroo’s white side
Had melted. Time was whirling high around,
Like the thin wommera, and from heaven wide
He, the bull-roarer, made continuous sound.
Incarnate, lay my country by my hand:
Her long hot days, bushfires and speaking rains,
Her mornings of opal and the copper band
Of smoke around the sunlight on the plains.
Globed in fire bodies the meat-ants ran
To taste her flesh and linked us as we lay,
For ever Australian, listening to a man
From careless Italy, swearing at our day.
When, golden-lipped, the eagle-hawks came down
Hissing and whistling to eat of lovely her,
And the blowflies with their shields of purple brown
Plied hatching to and fro across her fur,
I burnt her with the logs, and stood all day
Among the ashes, pressing home the flame
Till woman, logs and dreams were scorched away,
And native with night, that land from where they
came.
MAORILAND.
EVE LANGLEY.
Country Cricket Mutch.
Crows in the dry gums never rest
From their harsh, clumsy ecstasy
On the sky’s summer palimpsest,
Woven, unwoven, in the west
By the eternal Penelope.
Down the still sand a peewit’s call
Comes, vague and far, and farther yet,
Like a thought down the years’ long hall,
From Chellean times to our far nightfall,
Wrenching the heart that would forget.
The vagrant breeze is cool and sweet
With resin scents; the blinking sun
Drenches in soft benignant heat
The white-clad adversaries that run,
The flash of blade, the thud of feet,
The hum of ball, till day is done.
And after, in the moon-fraught night,
After the sleek cars gleam and fade,
Purring, dust-pennoned, down the glade,
Through the tree cloisters, out of sight,
Shadow and light contest the sward :
All night the silent, lissom grace
Of play enlivens this still place,
Watched by the moon and starry horde.
TOM ROSE.
N.S.W.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
y/ffblt mm'cfWie melloumcMancUmiauei/
THE STREET OF NEWSPAPERS.
If, as has been advanced, Fleet Street
changes its personnel every three years,
then the most famous literary thorough-
fare in the world reflects somewhat the
ever-changing character of its principal
article of commerce —News. This com-
paratively short thoroughfare, a link in
one of the great main traffic arteries
from east to west of London, has a past
rich in history. The visitor will, if of
a reflective bent, discover much in glanc-
ing down the vista of the centuries to
enhance interest in Fleet Street. For in-
stance, association may be established
with the White Friars, or Carmelites,
the Black Friars, or Dominicans, whose
establishments once upon a time were
highly important “circumstances” of the
locality ; with Shakspeare, not so directly,
it is true, but most directly with “rare
Ben Jonson,” and later such distin-
guished “scribblers” as Samuel Johnson,
Oliver Goldsmith and James Boswell
stand out from a notable army. Legal
lights, owing to the contiguity of the
Inner and Middle Temples, in British
jurisprudence, may likewise be noted;
while in the region of finance the vener-
able figure of Child, one of the fathers
of our banking system, claims attention.
In every branch of national activity,
commerce, art, law, religion, politics,
letters, Fleet Street possesses a record
which might be characterised as unique.
What a foundation was thus provided
for the Fleet Street the twentieth century
was to witness. Its modern designation,
“a mirror of the world/’ is appropriate
enough. No other city is able to instance
such a newspaper thoroughfare. Its press
activities extend to all quarters of the
civilised globe, and influences radiating
therefrom continue in increasing measure
to influence forces with which the British
Empire is vitally allied.


SOMEHOW IT WON’T GO.
“During the latest unsuccessful attack on the Mannerheim Line, loudspeakers gave it out that the Germans were coming to am the Reds.”
“It shouldn’t have stopped like this. I gave it a beautiful coat of Red paint.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252138; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE LEGPULL CHAMPIONSHIP.
For most of these 60 years during which it has been
The Bulletin’s privilege to observe, represent and
publish them, Australians have had one special repu-
tation above all others. They have been rated the
world’s greatest legpullers. Many a Bulletin cheque
has recognised outstanding ability in the art; new
heights of proficiency were reached by the legions
of goanna-farmers and bee-run boundary-riders who
went overseas for the last war; members of the Council
of Aboliars have always been highly regarded among
national heroes.
Taking the national view, the widely-accepted
notion that this continent has been overcrowded with
a population of rather less than seven millions is a good
example of the art effectively employed. The further
notion that it was strongly defended by a volunteer
militia army of 15,000 or so was an even better one.
Better still, the lately-cultivated notion that, with that
population and defence, every Australian worthy of
the name would rear up and bite himself if J. Bull
failed to get stuck into a crusading war.
The existence of Seven Parliaments, Seven Gov-
ernors and more than twice that number of palatial
structures to house them provides another example of
the art at its best. The bulk of Australians have now
come to regard all that pomp and circumstance as
out-of-date comic-opera extravagance; but the fact
that it still stands testifies to considerable legpulling
talent among the entrenched provincial politicians and
the city newspapers which practise the art on their
behalf.
Very strong competitors have lately barged into
the field. Uncle Sam, for one. Natural patriotic
impulses to barrack for the home team set aside, has
Australia really anything to compare with Uncle
Sam’s legpulling performance over recent years? What
a magnificent bit of legpulling the “quarantining of
aggressors” and the “measures short of war, but more
effective than words” turn out to have been! The high-
sounding moral lectures, the hints and winks and
stage whispers ; and then, at the first bugle, back into
the shell, whiskers, stars, stripes and all! How many
easy legs, besides those of the Sydney “Telegraph’s”
editorial staff, were not stretched by those appli-
cations of phony brimstone! How could goanna-
farmers and bunyip-trainers hope to compete against
legpulling of that quality?
Yet what poor class, after all, is the U.S.A. com-
pared with the U.S.S.R., puller of more legs than
there are in all China! Important legs, too. Take
Mr. Churchill. Last week he was reported comment-
ing on “the barbarisms of Nazism and Bolshevism ;
the military incapacity of the Red Army and the
Red Air Force ; all can see how Communism proves
a nation base and abominable in war.” As recently as
October 1, 1939. he had explained the Nazi-Soviet
division of Poland as the creation of an Eastern
Front “necessary for the safety of Russia against the
Nazi menace,” a front “which Nazi Germany does
not dare assail.” Less than 12 months back —March
11, 1939 —he informed the world in one of his syndi-
cated chapters:—•
Soviet Russia has never made the blunder of think-
ing the welfare of its people could be increased by
looting its neighbors. However one may disagree with
its political and economic theories, it has hitherto shown
no trace of the aggressive intentions which appear to
inform the three partners of the so-called axis.
It may be a subtle effort by J. Bull, entering as a
dark horse in the legpull championship, that, by
way of reward for such discernment and acumen, Mr.
Churchill today holds the joint job of First Lord of
the Admiralty and serial-writer for the “Sunday Dis-
patch,” along with Madame Tabouis.
Another occupant of a fairly high place who
would seem to have had his leg pulled by the com-
petitor who tugged Mr. Churchill’s is Herr Hitler.
Lord Londonderry, recording an interview he had
with the German leader on February 4, 1936, reported
Hitler as declaring that Soviet Russia had become “the
greatest military Power”; also that “Russia has a
solid trade, the strongest army, the strongest Tank
Corps and the strongest Air Force in the world.” It
is possible, of course, that Hitler, seeing so many in
Lord Londonderry’s country and its Empire eager to
swallow twaddle about the Soviet, may have been
tempted to have a shot at the championship himself.
However, subsequent developments would seem to
indicate that the Fiihrer’s leg must have been stretched
a little, at least. Indeed, it has been said with some
justice that the whole of European, if not of world,
diplomacy for some years past has been shaped and
conditioned by belief in the Great Red Army myth.
Legpulling beyond comparison.
The refrain credited to Adolf, “strongest in the
world”—or some variation on it—is to be found run-
ning through the entire U.S.S.R. legpull performance.
The former French Prime Minister, M. Herriot, is
recorded to have been so impressed by the “mightiest
air fleet in the world” when visiting Russia in 1933
that he hastened back as fast as one short leg and
a stretched one would allow to urge his country into
a military alliance with this “greatest of all Great
Powers.” Another leading Deputy, M. Henri de
Kerillis, declared the day not far off “when Russia
will be in a position to exercise a sort of air com-
mand over the whole of Europe.” In England the
Dean of Canterbury and Mr. Bernard Shaw were
representative of literally scores of oracles who joined
in lending their own legs and at the same time help-
ing J. Stalin towards the championship. In Australia
bishops, leading authors, radio spruikers and daily
newspapers, scorning Australia altogether as a com-
petitor in the field, lent legs and voices in the cause.
From the “strongest-in-the-world” choirings of
these, the claims of J. Stalin to the championship
would appear to be incontestable. The Soviet’s mili-
tary power is “greater than that of any other country.”
Its “man-power enjoys the best equipment, and has
the backing of the most powerful industry.” “Alone
df all the armies of the world, promotion in the Red
Army is based on merit and nothing else.” “The Red
Army, more than any other army in the world, has
vast reserves to draw upon for its leading personnel.”
“From the military point of view, the Red Army can
be regarded as the greatest armed force in the world.”
These, of course, are merely samples; they and their
recent stretched-leg hawkers extend from here to the
other side of Hopping Dick Creek. One more:
Only when no citizen can profit anything from war,
or even think that war might be profitable, is a
Government in the position where every citizen will
demand a policy of peace. Such a Government is that
of the U.S.S.R., and it is unique in the world today.
All points allotted, the championship results:
J. Stalin, first and champion ; Uncle Sam, highly com-
mended ; Goanna Farmers, nowhere.
Dangerous Dan McGrew Churchill.
“The Apostle is right! The tongue is the very devil!
N. 8.: Yours is slung amidships and wags at both ends.” —
Lord Fisher to Mr. Winston Churchill on March 4, 1909.
The greatest seaman of his age wrote that after Mr.
Churchill, then “the youngest and most junior member
of the Cabinet,” had tried to dish the Fisher-
McKenna Dreadnought - construction programme.
Brought up a Conservative, and a recent convert to
Liberalism, Mr. Churchill had become a member of
a Cabinet clique whose aim was “to carry out social
reforms and to reduce armaments ; for, being novices
in international politics, they had persuaded them-
selves that the German Emperor’s assurances regard-
ing his Fleet were sincere.”
Actually, Fisher and the other Sea Lords had
learned that Germany was building more Dread-
noughts than it acknowledged and accelerating the
rate of construction ; and, guided by them, Mr. Mc-
Kenna, then First Lord, informed the Cabinet that,
unless at least six Dreadnoughts were laid down,
the spring of 1912 might find Britain with 18 Dread-
noughts and Germany with 21. Mr. Churchill
“opposed him vehemently, disputing the figures and
treating the Admiralty’s arguments as mere figments
of an alarmist brain.” At “what was understood to
be the final discussion in Cabinet” his own “arguments”
prevailed and Mr. McKenna and the Sea Lords pre-
pared to leave the Admiralty. Last-moment support
from Sir Edward Grey saved the situation; Mr.
McKenna withdrew his resignation and Fisher got
his Dreadnoughts.
The foregoing facts are set down in The Life of
Lord Fisher, by Admiral Bacon. The biographer,
who wrote with authority, placed many other per-
tinent facts on record. Mr. Churchill arrived at the
Admiralty in 1911 “knowing nothing about the
navy the youngest and politically the most inex-
perienced First Lord for a hundred years, and prob-
ably longer still.” In all that time no First Sea Lord
had ever resigned because of a difference of opinion
with his First Lord.
Mr. Churchill created a double record in this respect.
Two of his First Sea Lords, Wilson and Fisher, both
relinquished their posts owing to differences of opinions
with Mr. Churchill on naval matters. A third, Bridg-
man, was practically dismissed under conditions which
Mr. Bonar Law stigmatised as “brutal.” The fourth,
Prince Louis of Battenberg, chosen by Mr. Churchill
from among all the senior admirals, had to be relieved
from office within four months of the declaration of
the war for reasons which Mr. Churchill might easily
have foreseen.
Prince Louis and Mr. Churchill were in control during
the first two months of the war, when “the business
of the Navy had not progressed well.” Aboukir,
Cressy, Hogue, Hawke, Pathfinder and Audacious had
been sunk, the last-named Dreadnought by a mine;
the Emden, the Konigsberg and the Kaiser Wilhelm
der Grosse were “playing havoc with our trade,” and
Monmouth and Good Hope, with the 12-knot Canopus
to “protect” them, had been left to encounter the
immensely faster and stronger squadron of Von Spee.
Fisher was recalled to office 24 hours before Mon-
mouth and Good Hope were sunk. He it was who
ordered the two battle-cruisers, Inflexible and Invin-
cible, “to leave at the earliest date for the Falkland
Islands,” even if men and materials alleged to be
required for the brick bridges of the Invincible’s
boilers had to be carried in her. They left on time,
and Von Spee’s squadron was annihilated.
In the newspapers that puff Mr. Churchill most
of the credit for that magnificent exploit has been
given to him. He had the grace to write to Fisher
that “this was your show and your luck. I should
only have sent one Greyhound and Defence. This
would have done the trick.” “It would not,” was
Admiral Bacon’s cold comment. “One lucky salvo
or even one lucky shell might have reversed the
difference in strength as shown on paper.” That
it should have been left to two light cruisers and
another to tackle the Graf Spee, though they did their
job with superb daring, seamanship and gunnery,
suggests that the Churchillian notion which Admiral
Bacon condemned still prevails.
There followed the calamity of the Dardanelles,
embarked on in spite of Fisher’s objections; the
dangerous diversion of Dreadnoughts from the North
Sea to the Mediterranean when the venture had
become hopeless; and Fisher’s resignation because
a tyro in naval matters was running the whole show,
and because it was “impossible to work with
a man who is always circumventing me,” and who
“changes his opinions as he changes his shirt.” Mr.
Churchill had to make way for Mr. Balfour. He was
sent to France as a major in the Grenadier Guards;
but the Encyc. Brit, notes dryly that he was in his
place as M.P. “to criticise the navy estimates of his
successor, to reproach him for want of energy and
to recommend the recall of Lord Fisher”
And this is the gentleman who was recalled to the
Admiralty when the present war broke out. In the
25 years that have elapsed since his dismissal he has
learned nothing and forgotten everything that it was
convenient for him to forget. So far there has
been flo repetition of the mad Dardanelles gamble,
but some such plan seems to be working in his
mind. Witness his invitation to the justly-indignant
neutrals—little, not big—to come into the war. Who
but Mr. Churchill and his Glamor Boys and his press
claquers expects them to come in? What Australian
wants to see horror and slaughter descend on the
kindly Dutch, and the Netherlands East Indies brought
into the war zone? What could an extension of the
war to Holland, Belgium, Switzerland, Sweden and
Norway do but increase the drain on British Com-
monwealth manhood and money and, above all, ship-
ping? If the British Commonwealth can’t win the war
by its own exertions and those of France, no small
neutral or combination of neutrals can win it for
them.
“Hayley’s last work, and worst, until his next.”
With only two words changed the line could be well
applied to Mr. Churchill’s effort of January 20. It is
Lord Halifax’s province to deal with foreign affairs and
negotiate for alliances by the recognised diplomatic
methods, but, knowing that Lord Halifax was to speak
the same day, Mr. Churchill—who had rushed over to
G.H.Q. in France when Mr. Hore-Belisha was leaving
the War Office —jumped the Foreign Secretary’s claim.
Whatever their reasons, Lord Halifax and Mr. Cham-
berlain have carefully abstained from stating Britain’s
war aims ; Mr. Churchill blurted out that among them
was “the liberation of Warsaw, Prague and Vienna,”
pronouncing this “sure.” He must have known that
Mr. Hertzog and Mr. Malan were about to stage a
peace debate in the Union Parliament, and that “the
liberation of Warsaw, Prague and Vienna” would be
quoted by the Boer party as a reason why South Africa
should be a non-starter.
In fact, in his broadcast speeches on the war Mr.
Churchill has a knack of adding to the large number
of Britons who always mistrusted him ; of offending
friendly neutrals and others, more powerful, that are
not particularly friendly ; of stiffening the unity of the
German people, and of inciting their bombers,
torpedoists and sowers of mines to fresh deeds of
destruction and devilish cruelty. Full of brag and
hate as they are, a fatality seems to attend all his
speeches. Within three days after his assertion that
“We shall break the strength of the U-boats, and the
mines do not present an insoluble problem,” two
British destroyers and a number of Allied and neutral
merchant ships had been sunk. During the same three
days, the Americans were thundering about the seizure
of their mails and the detention of their shipping, and
the Japanese about the firing of a shot across the
bows of the Asama Maru and the removal therefrom
of 22 German seamen, near Tokio Bay ; and dis-
turbing Rumanian and Turkish trade agreements with
Germany were reported.
Mr. Churchill is the Dangerous Dan McGrew of
imperial politics, and he is far more dangerous to us
than to the enemy. He can’t help meddling and
muddling. He and his supporters are obviously work-
ing for the placing of the Navy, the Army and the
Air Force under the control of one Minister—himself.
It would be an act of madness. Before the genius
of Fisher was lost to the Empire through Mr.
Churchill’s ignorant interference and blundering, the
old Admiral suggested to the stiff-necked Asquith that
the First Sea Lord “should have complete professional
charge of the war at sea,” and that the First Lord
“should be absolutely restricted to policy and Parlia-
mentary procedure.” So they should, and the change
should be made now. But not with Mr. Churchill
as First Lord. There are far better men available,
men who could be trusted not to meddle or muddle
and none of whom would become the enemy’s best
bet —among them Mr. Hore-Belisha, Mr. Bruce (why
not?), the Marquis of Dufferin and Ava, who seems
to have inherited the family talent, and Mr. Cross,
who has rapidly made a name for himself as Minister
of Economic Warfare.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sixtieth Birthday.
Tt was in an Australia divided into six colonies and in
which national feeling was submerged by provincial-
ism that The Bulletin was born. 60 years ago to the
H w The population of New South Wales was little
more than three-quarters of a million ; that of West-
ralia was not 30,000. In both colonies and in Tas-
mania relics of the System abounded.
Abolition of capital punishment was not even
dreamt of For offences against property and the
person, flogging at the triangles was a frequent
punishment. Journalists were spared this mode of cor-
rection, but were expected to be mindful of their
bCtte [t S was in some respects a rude age ; and on public
holidays one of the picnic grounds about Sydney
Harbor was given over to hideous orgies. Of one of
these a plain and unvarnished account appeared in
The Bulletin before it was a year old. The pro-
prietors were sued for libel, and though witness after
witness testified that every word was true, and that
there had also occurred incidents which no paper
could publish, the jury awarded the plaintiffs a farthing
damages and the Judge deprived the defendants of
costs. Unable to pay, they were committed to Dar-
linghurst Gaol for 12 months.
They did not serve the full sentence. Costs, bailitt s
fees, sheriff’s fees and poundage” and the like were
paid by public subscription, after a public meet-
ing had resolved, on the motion of George Houston
Reid, afterwards Premier of N.S.W. and Prime
Minister of the Commonwealth, “that in the opinion
of this meeting the article in The Bulletin relating
to Clontarf and the publicity given thereto at the trial
of the Supreme Court action for libel arising out of
the same have been of the greatest service in the
cause of morality and good order.”
The Bulletin learned from that experience never
to be discouraged by reverses. In the course of 60
years it has been identified with many unpopular
causes. Protection was decidedly unpopular when
James Edmond began to champion it in these pages.
There was a very strong prejudice against Federation
except in Victoria. Trade-unionism and industrial
arbitration, an Australian Navy, national training and
service, all had once many more enemies than friends.
In the last four years also The Bulletin has had to
contend with very strong influences which demanded
that an almost disarmed Australia should hurl itself
into foreign wars and civil wars —imperil its existence
by going on crusades championed by the League, or
by Soviet Russia, or by both.
In all these instances and others, The Bulletin
has found that, though temporary irritation may be
felt, Australians respect honest convictions, the out-
come of regard for the safety, honor, true interests and
future greatness of Australia and its partner on the
other side of the Tasman.
A vision of Australia working out a noble destiny
in friendly but not subservient association with the
other members of the British Commonwealth has been
cherished by The Bulletin since the beginning. In
another respect, it has been constant to the declared
aims of its founders. Now, as in 1880, it offers space
and a welcome to writers and artists. For these there
is not only payment for everything published but
the right of reproduction in book form. The Bulletin
has never had to lower these standards, and if it knows
its Australia and its Maoriland it never will have to
surrender to the craze for cheap foreign syndicated
stuff.
Incident in the Orient.
There has been a stir in Japan over the stopping of
the liner Asama Maru by a British warship, after
a shot had been fired across her bows, and the remov-
ing of 22 German seamen. According to the captain
of the Asama Maru, the boarders behaved with the
usual exemplary naval courtesy. But the fact that
the incident took place almost within sight of Fujiyama
has stirred national pride, leading to demonstrations
before the British Embassy and to the dismissal of
the captain of the Asama Maru.
Off Foochow a Japanese gunboat afterwards
stopped the Wing Sang, under British register, with a
shot across the bows, and inspected the passengers.
The captain was asked to give a signed statement that
the ship had been searched in retaliation for the
Asama Maru incident; he refused. Foreign Minister
Arita has expressed appreciation of the British
Ambassador’s statement that in the Asama Maru
affair the British had no intention of flouting Japanese
sentiment. Unfortunately, the Japanese Foreign Office
and fighting commands do not always see eye to eye.
The Japanese would be in a much stronger posi-
tion if they had not, during the China “Incident,”
set precedent after precedent. On land, they did not
hesitate to blockade the British concession at Tientsin
to secure the surrender of wanted Chinese. At sea,
they have repeatedly interfered with neutral shipping.
Last June they ordered all foreign ships out of
Swatow, and British and United States authorities
stated that if necessary merchant ships would be
escorted by naval vessels. In May they had held up the
P. and O. liner Ranpura, until she was released by a
British destroyer near Hong Kong. At the same time,
they issued a warning that foreign shipping off the
China coast was liable to seizure, and threatened to
stop the entry of all British ships into the Pearl
River, an open treaty port.
On July 24, Japanese customs officers boarded the
British steamer Hsiang Wo, confiscated £150,000 worth
of silver bullion and took off three Chinese members
of the crew. There have been numerous other inci-
dents connected with the blockade, which in May
was extended 200 miles off the Chinese coast.
All the same, a point might have been stretched
in favor of the Asama Maru, seeing that she was so
near her home port. It was neither the time nor the
place for the strict enforcement of naval law. There
is also the consideration that the treatment of enemy
civilians has, on both sides, been much less drastic
than in the last war. British newspapers credit the
Australian Government with efforts to promote an
honorable settlement. In such matters an Australian
P.M. whose views as to peace in the Pacific are
well known and have been felicitously expressed can
be extremely useful.
They Could Also Serve.
There seems to be a hint for the War Cabinet in the
fact that N.S.W. Parliament has given three of its
lights to military service. Mr. FitzSimons, the Minister
of Health, was called up for A.A.M.C. work ; Mr.
Robson, M.L.A. for Vaucluse, has joined the Second
A.1.F.; and Mr. Bate, M.L.A. for South Coast, is in
camp with the militia. . .
The general 'feeling about State politicians, is
that they are costing too much, taxing and borrowing
too much, doing nothing which one national Parliament
couldn’t do and doing a lot that it wouldn t do , but
the job of getting rid of them is hard, though not
impossible.
Australia has been involved in a war tor five
months, and for two months the State Parliaments have
been in recess —striking proof of their superfluity. The
ordinary citizen could be pardoned for the supposition
that war would mean an almost continuous session ol
these Parliaments. Actually there is nothing that
need occupy them, beyond drawing their salaries.
At the same time, their salaries and privileges
run to £350,000 a year or so, and there is
justification for expecting them to earn at least
part of it. A way has been shown. The Defence
authorities should not stop at Mr. FitzSimons, but
should call up all State politicians and put them to
jobs, even if most of them have to peel spuds for the
troops. The country wouldn’t mind paying their Par-
liamentary salaries for the duration provided they were
taken to places where they could raise no more loans,
impose no more taxes and indulge in no more extrava-
gances. In the course of the war their identity would
soon be lost and the country would think vaguely of
State politics as one of the outworn habits which the
war cured.
The French Way with Communism.
“It was the Soviet which undermined French industry
and so diminished aircraft production that in Sep-
tember, 1938” —the Munich month —“the French
Government was faced with a monthly production of
about 20 aircraft and a front-line strength which in-
cluded only about 40 effective bombers. A more
ghastly result of Communist activity has seldom
been seen.”
The foregoing was written by Kenneth de Courcy,
editor of the monthly Memorandum issued by the
Imperial Policy Group, now beginning to be quoted by
the Sydney daily press, though so far without any
effect on its attitude to Communists. This attitude is
that Communists are mere dreamers, who have a
right to say what they please and to fly their hammer-
and-sickle flag and issue anti-“imperialist”-war
Moscow propaganda and maintain organisations with
high-sounding names. In the exercise of this ‘ right
they must be protected by the police, and if they
choose to sabotage Australia’s war effort by working
up war-time strikes the nation must not hit back.
The French attitude is different. Very different.
The Daladier Government is dealing with Com-
munism as a traitorous conspiracy, and the nation-
remembering how French blood was spilt in the
Communist cause on the other side of the Pyrenees,
how the all-too-scanty stocks of arms and munitions
were depleted in the same cause, how relations with
Italy and Spain were embittered by this costly sur-
render to Communist policy at a time when the
German peril was daily growing greater, and, above
all, how France was sold by the Moscow masters of
the Thorez-Marty gang —is behind the Government.
At the election of 1934, 72 Communist members
were elected to the Chamber of Deputies, and they,
with the assistance of Communist municipal and
departmental councillors —also privileged to vote for
the Senate —secured the election of Communists to
that House. Early in the war 39 of these Red poli-
ticians were placed under arrest as members of an
outlawed organisation subservient to a treacherous
and hostile foreign Government. They and their col-
leagues, Marty excepted (he and Thorez made them-
selves scarce), were given till January 26 to renounce
their allegiance to Moscow. Meanwhile, all Com-
munist newspapers and associations were suppressed,
and the authorities took possession of their property.
By criminally stifling the production of weapons
and munitions, involving France in the Spanish war
and weakening its influence everywhere, French Com-
munism was of the greatest help to Hitler. It was
partly for this reason and in expectation of further
favors of the kind that Hitler made the pact with
Stalin, who was so scared of the Germans that he
could refuse Hitler nothing. Whether the internal
peril has been overcome by the measures of the Gov-
ernment is not yet certain. It was recently reported
that a Communist cell had been discovered in an air-
craft factory, and if Communists can be believed,
there have been sit-down strikes in munition works.
From some funkhole Thorez is issuing printed incite-
ments to treason which Moscow is sending round the
world.
We Must Avoid Inflation.
It will be unfortunate if Mr. Spender takes too
much notice of the squawking of State politicians and
“semi-Government authorities” anent Australia s
defence-finance policy. A clear and practical policy
—“the simple fact is that defence must be paid for now
with men and materials” —was outlined by the Acting-
Treasurer on Nov. 30. Whether the design of the policy
was the Government’s or the Commonwealth Bank s
really doesn’t matter provided the Government is pre-
pared to carry it out. But if Canberra is to exhibit
weak knees every time a water-board chairman says
“Boo! ” we are in for a precarious time.
Australia has gone to war, we may assume, with
the full consent of the majority of the people. That
being so, Australians must realise that war is no light
matter. We must also be aware that we are involved
in a wasteful affair —in something out, of which the
nation cannot hope to “make money.” Some good
may come of it, Australia in other hard times having
awakened to the fact that it possessed capabilities and
resources not previously realised ; but the benefit of
any such new developments is likely to come after
the war rather than during it.
Meantime we are spending £6,000,000 a month
more than was ever spent on the relief of unemploy-
ment during the depression—on defence. Some of that
outlay is of permanent value, for peace as well as war
purposes, but the greater part of it will be entirely
unproductive of further employment or revenue. Thou-
sands of people who previously were engaged in mak-
ing food, clothing, luxuries, etc., are now making
munitions. Thousands more men are under arms.
Further, millions of pounds’ worth of our goods are
now going overseas to be exchanged for war materials,
not for domestic essentials and comforts, as of yore.
Already some overseas products are prohibited from
entering Australia. The country is doing without some
luxuries now, and if the war flares up in earnest it will
have to do without many more. The individual will
eventually feel the effect, and no monetary juggling
will prevent his feeling it.
That we shall have to pay for this war is no fic-
tion. Each person’s income, as spent, will suffer an
increased bite from war’s cost. If we manage to main-
tain our standard of living and reasonably full em-
ployment at the same time, we shall be doing marvel-
lously. Most countries involved in the war have
already suffered a fall in living standards, and Aus-
tralia should be prepared for some readjustment even
if a sharp fall is avoided.
Living standards cannot be maintained by in-
creasing the cost of living. The increasing of money
wages, the spending of money lavishly on non-repro-
ductive public works, the other “easy” and delusive
methods that trade-union secretaries and Bumbles
advocate —none of these will better the lot of the
people, but they will certainly add to the difficulty of
the national task.
Ordered a Holiday.
“Tovarisch” thinks it well deserved:
Mr. Nicholas Dozenberg, alias George Morris, alias
Albert Richards, alias Earl Browder, has been sentenced by
a New York Court to four years’ hard, with a fine of £625
Australian, for having made false statements in applying
for passports. „ _ , _
Few Australians have heard of Comrade Browder—
call him that —but he has heard of Australia. He was a
member of the U.S.A. Central Communist party executive
which provided most of the Communist literature on which
the infant minds of the “Australian” Communist party fed
after 1921. ,
In 1927 he moved closer to us. Moscow founded the
Pan-Pacific Union, an organisation which was, among other
things, to destroy the White Australia policy and hand China
over to Communist control under the hands of Comrade
Borodin and Marshal Blucher. The marshal was then mas-
querading under a false name on Chiang Kai-shek’s staff.
He has since disappeared off the map.
In 1927 one Rubinov came to Australia from Moscow
to put the affairs of the P.P.U. on a sound basis. He was
received with great enthusiasm by the Reds of the Sydney
Labor Council. Browder had meanwhile been appointed
secretarv of the P.P.U., with headquarters in China. In
1929 he' called a conference at Vladivostok.
There a committee was formed to draft a plan for
Australian unionists—Ting Yu Ling, Browder, three Aus-
tralian delegates, Losovsky and others. Mr. Losovsky said
that in Moscow there were “no illusions about the revolution
in Australia.” Not even the Sydney Labor Council “could
be considered constantly revolutionary,” though it was “most
progressive.” Australians “should never negotiate with the
bosses Arbitration and industrial peace must be continu-
ally condemned.” „
The committee considered a Browder draft of what
was necessary to bring about the millennium in the Com-
monwealth :
All hypocritical phrases about “peace in industry,” all
empty talk about “harmony between labor and capital”
should be unmasked as mere capitulation before our class
enemies The working-class labor organisations in the
Pacific must be permeated by the spirit of internationalism.
It is necessary to mobilise the masses of the colonies and
imperialist countries for a decisive and irreconcilable fight
for national and social liberation of exploited peoples and
exploited countries of the Pacific.
And the “struggle against the Australian bourgeoisie” was to
be “carried on parallel with the struggle against British and
world imperialism, which has a poisonous effect upon the
workers”:
The most dangerous of ideas is that of race prejudice.
On the banner of the Australian trade-union movement
must be inscribed the slogan: “Not race war, but class
war.”
The Sydney Labor Council—now represented regularly on
Sydney Communist platforms—came to heel. It sent “fra-
ternal greetings” to Comrade Losovsky and “placed on record
its acknowledgement of the serious mistakes made regarding
the industrial peace conference and the acceptance of the
majority report on arbitration.” It pledged itself to “carry
out the instructions of the Red International as a loyal
affiliated body,” and accepted an invitation to be represented
at the next Moscow congress.
In 1930, Mr. Browder became general secretary of the
Communist party of America, and he and Comrade Sharkey,
of the “Australian” Communist party, attended the next
Moscow Conference (1930) of the Red International. They
both had a good deal to say about Australian affairs. Com-
rade Sharkey wrote from Moscow:
I got a very good hearing, as our recent struggles—
i.e., the Rothbury coal strike —have been followed up keenly
over here, and Comrade Losovsky had read to the con-
ference the pledge of the Miners’ Army.
Since then, Mr. Sharkey has become chairman of the “Aus-
tralian” Communist party, and he and his colleague, Mr.
Browder, have been elected members of the World Executive
of the ’Communist International (E.C.C.1.), which makes
decisions for humble “Australian” Communists.
The World Executive (E.C.C.1.) will now be temporarily
short of an active member. If the activities of Communists
were investigated as closely in British countries as they have
been in U.S.A. there might be further gaps in the member-
ship.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Does a lady called Daisy live here ?”
“C.R.”: Traffic experts estimated the
crowd that thronged Melbourne last
Wednesday and showered confetti on
5000 soldiers from Puckapunyal at con-
siderably over half a million. This may or
may not be correct, but the streets pre-
sented a spectacle unique in Melbourne’s
history, visits of royalties not excepted,
Half-way through the march the crowd
escaped from control and jammed the
roadway from one wall to another. Offi-
cers thereupon ordered their men to unfix
bayonets, and at intersections they pushed
through the cheering mob in singles, re-
forming when a clear space was available.
Nevertheless, the crowd was extra-
ordinarily good-humored and not a soli-
tary accident was reported. Upwards
of 30 miles of motor-cars were parked
in the metropolitan area.
***. * * *
“X.S.”: The City Council or some-
body made a majestic muddle of the
audience arrangements for the Second
A.I.F. march through Melbourne. By
laying their barricades along the gutters
they hoped to leave the whole street
open for the soldiers. Law-abiding
citizens arriving early ensconced them-
selves along the pavement, but late-
comers spilled themselves on to the road-
way, and by the time the soldiers arrived
it would have required 10,000 policemen
to get them back again. Consequently
the chief actors had to thread their way
through a vast struggling mass of people,
and m places the three-in-line formation
bad j be . a bandoned and single file
adopted. As a result it was by a series
ot fits and starts that the column pro-
ceeded, and some of the waits were so
long-drawn-out that officers ordered
their companies to stand easy. It was
while m this state of helpless immobility
that a soldier had his hat souvenired
and another was subjected to the atten-
tions of a young lady apparently of Com-
munistic sympathies, who taunted him
with being an enemy of the working
class. He stood it for a while, and then
leant over and gave her a thumping kiss.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: There is a palatial homestead
on the outskirts of Mansfield, Victoria,
where R.A.A.F. men have frequently
been entertained. Only the caretaker
was in occupation recently when two
’planes swooped low down overhead, with
their pilots craning out of the cockpits.
They waved when they recognised him,
and then two small parachutes descended
and softly deposited four bottles of beer
in the front garden.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Sydney has its refugees—
the “nice” people who flee before the
advancing tide of hash-houses. Now that
“guest-houses” are dotting amongst
society’s castles in the villages on Syd-
ney’s northern heights I wonder what is
to happen. The ’Loo had a long-ago
social glory ; when I was a boy it was
considered something to be a “Potts
Pointer” ; but the boarding-houses came.
The plutes shuddered, and fled to Darling
Point and then still further eastward,
and finally could go no further without
falling into the sea. Glebe was another
long-ago social centre ; Burwood and
Strathfield took its refugees, but they
found their western retreat blocked by the
east-spreading factory tide of Auburn and
Clyde. Gone is the old glory of Kirri-
billi; going the splendor of Mosman;
and the “Heights” are now being scaled
by the industrious guest-house keepers,
Already many rich folk have residences
in the Mountains and flats in the city,
* * * *
“Tosh”: When O’Callaghan was Chief
Commissioner of Police in Victoria he
was most insistent that the various Acts,
etc., under authority of which the police
acted should be in one of two specific
places: (a) on the person of the police-
man, ( b ) in the kitbox at the side of his
bed in the police barracks. After O’C.
had retired he frequently sat on the
Bench as a J.P., and never lost an oppor-
tunity to criticise the police. A young
constable was giving evidence before him
in a case of accosting. He used the
expression “chippin’ tarts.” “Chipping
tarts, eh?” snorted O’Callaghan sarcasti-
cally. “Well, where was the axe?” And
the constable in all innocence replied
“In me kitbox, your Worship!”
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Quaint echoes of tradi-
tion are sometimes heard in Victoria. A
married couple in the Western District
whom a run of good seasons had raised
to comparative affluence got a city archi-
tect to design them a posh home. The
house was built, the workmen were with-
drawn and the couple were left to their
own devices. A few months later the
architect happened to be in the district
and thought he would see how his clients
liked their domicile. He knocked at the
front door and, getting no answer, pro-
ceeded on a tour of the back premises.
He was just about to leave, having decided
that the place was empty and had been
abandoned, when a feminine voice hailed
him from under a tank, the space be-
neath which had been lined with weather-
board. “We live here,” explained
his client’s wife. “Dad only opens the
house if guests come.” The architect
was inclined to be amused, if not
offended, until he remembered that in
his young days exactly the same tradi-
tion existed and the “parlor” in the
family residence was kept closed. And it
was not even necessary to lock the door,
because reverence for this suburban holy
of holies had been thoroughly inculcated
into the children.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Coincidence or clever
naming by a pessimist? At the recent
hydroplane racing on the Port Adelaide
River, Bad News travelled fastest.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: One of the worst dis-
services the flapper press renders Parlia-
ment is its habit of following Ministers
about when they are relaxing, and record-
ing their slightest doings and remarks.
One reads of N.S.W. Premier Mair and
his Minister for Education trying to shoot
bows and arrows, throwing cricket balls
about, etc., but declining “to attempt
gymnastics.” No wonder. The spectacle
of an ageing politician with a paunch
striving to touch his toes would be too
much. Anyhow, the type gets plenty of
practice at political gymnastics without
trying the physical sort. If I were Mair
on holiday I’d shoot all flapper-press
reporters on sight.
Sl =t. * ♦
“Oran”: No need to go far afield for
nomenclature, geographical and other-
wise, that has slipped into disuse. Sydney
boasts the Manly and Port Jackson Ferry
Co. “I didn’t know the ferries ran to a
place called Port Jackson,” quoth a
woman the other day. “Where is it?”
When the big fig-tree in the small park
at Elizabeth Bay was poisoned and killed
by some miscreant some of the news-
papers referred to the park by its cor-
rect name of “Bear Park.” Most of the
residents wondered what spot they were
talking about. Likewise a Sydney busi-
nessman who rented an office was
astounded, just before the Martin-place
extension carried its name through, to
find what he had always thought was the
upper part of the city’s main thorough-
fare was actually a place named Moore-
street. Some names are doomed even
before they are known. The small park
recently opened in Macleay-street, Potts
Point, ambitiously and pathetically named
Fitzroy Gardens, has been Macleay Park
to King’s Crossers for generations, and,
despite councils and maps, will probably
remain so.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: The only cosmetic
restrictions on Australian Army nurses
of the 1940 vintage is that they may not
lacquer their fingernails—reason suffi-
ciently obvious. Nothing is said about
lacquering their toenails if they prefer
them that way or using rouge, lipstick,
powder or other adventitious aids to
beauty. Handbags form no part of the
trim grey tailored uniform with brown
tie, hatband and shoes, and grey felt hat
edged with red; but a buttoned hip
pocket affords ample stowage room for
a vanity-case. It is a becoming and
workmanlike outfit, and if the 17 lasses
recently farewelled from Brisbane are a
f.a.q. sample, no warrior, sick or sound,
will find them at all difficult to look at.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Minister for Customs
Lawson has announced with pride that
Sydney’s 36 Customs searchers know
every trick in the smuggler’s repertory
and that his department has practically
wiped out the illicit drug traffic. I beg
to doubt it. Compartmented beer-billies,
hollow heels, walking-sticks or wooden
legs, bandaged heads and body belts are
outmoded amateur efforts nowadays.
The “heads” who arrange matters from
the other end are not such fools as to
risk consignments to the big ports when
they have 1000 miles of sheltered Queens-
land waters, in which an agent on board
can dump the swag overside at a pre-
arranged place and time for picking up
by a launch from the shore.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The completion of The Bul-
letin’s first sixty years painfully reminds
me that it is a devil of a time since I sent
my initial contribution to the paper. It
was a poem about an explorer dying of
thirst who had drunk the blood of his
dead companion, and was being pursued
by his own bad conscience. It began:
“See. The eye of God’s upon me.
How His eyeballs glare!”
And I was very proud of the fact that
I had succeeded, with the assistance of
a rhyming dictionary, in finding rhymes
for “glare” throughout an epic of 11
stanzas. “Powerful, but crude,” was the
editor’s verdict. That was kindly, and
it must have been supersensitiveness that
made me throw up verse. I then took
a course in drawing, and when I had
drawn one sketch apiece of all the casts
in my master’s studio, he suggested that
the summit of my artistic career would
be reached if I got a sketch into The
Bulletin. After much perspiration, I
confected a really comic drawing, com-
plete with gag, and dispatched it to head-
quarters. A few weeks later I was morti-
fied to read after my initials in Answers
to Correspondents that The Bulletin
didn’t want stale London “Punch” jokes.
It took me several years to recover from
that unwitting insult. It was a pure coin-
cidence that three months earlier some
idiot in London had thought up precisely
the same brilliant notion. I took to prose-
writing, and though many of my contri-
butions stopped at the wastepaper-basket
I never again made an appearance in
the Answers to Correspondents column.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: N.S.W. Supreme Court
was handed a shock by a litigant who,
appearing for himself, wanted the right
to appeal to the Full Court from an
adverse District Court judgment. “I feel
that I have not been given full justice,
so I decided to come to the Supreme
Being,” he said, and when his Honor had
gasped a questioning repetition he
added: “Yes; to the Supreme Being —
this Court, your Honor; in short, your-
self.” His Honor murmured a modest
disclaimer.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: In spite of the many
thousands of pounds spent on Air Raid
Precautions by Brisbane’s City Fathers
a certain lack of co-ordination still seems
to prevail between them and the local
military authority. On the very hottest
day of the recent heat-wave an alderman
took a southern visitor to enjoy a view
of the city from the lofty breezy heights
of the Eildon Hill reservoir. Encouraged
by a notice in the tram which bore them
to the hill’s foot praising the beauty and
coolth on top, the visitor toiled bravely
and perspiringly through the long climb
to the reservoir gates. They were locked.
Worse still, the caretaker was away, and
his wife did not know the civic ornament.
“But,” he protested, “I’m Alderman
Blank.” “It doesn’t matter who you
are,” replied the inflexible lady. “This
has been a prohibited area by order of
the military authority ever since war
was declared last September, and you
can’t come in without a pass.”
* * * *
“H. Hardupp”: From afar I heard the
sound of tumult. When I came up a
middle-aged man, much battered, had
been hurled out on the pavement by two
hefty young men, who were not un-
marked, and behind them a woman with
dishevelled hair looked as if she had
been in the barney. A benevolent ser-
geant of police heaved his weight into
the business as the man was picking him-
self up. “Weren’t you told,” he said
severely, “to keep away from your
family?” The man began to brush off
some of the worst dust. “Well, sergeant,”
he said, “I just came down to wish ’em
a happy New Year.”
THE STIMULUS.
How few of all the sons of song
Who climb Parnassus’ steep ascent
Can move successfully along
Without the least encouragement!
We’re much alike in this regard,
From those who wear the laureate’s bays
Down to the merest doggerel bard;
We’re heartened by a word of praise.
There may be some the lyre who touch,
And make the grade and catch the bus,
Without the aid or need of such
An artificial stimulus.
They feel so sure no blot or flaw
Or blemish can be found upon
Their output—copying Bernard Shaw
Or (if you like) Augustus John.
What should they care for compliments
On lilting lay or rippling rhyme
Who feel an inborn confidence
Their staves will stand the test of time?
But we, the lowlier brotherhood,
The radiant Muses’ waifs and strays,
We find no tiddley half as good
As, now and then, a spot of praise.
The word in season! —better far
Than all the drinks that foam or fizz,
The choicest products of the bar,
How unsurpassable it is!
We want no Della Cruscan stuff,
No hollow hooey—God forbid!
And I suppose it’s clear enough
We shouldn’t get it, if we did.
He’s something of a stubborn cow,
But still he seldom gets a rest,
Our Pegasus—and anyhow
We make the blighter do his best.
A stayer, too, you all must know,
At vilianelles and roundelays,
And, howsoever lame and slow,
You bet your boots he’ll always go
The better for a word of praise.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Yowai”: I admire the temerity if
not the logic of the Sydney S.M. who
has sternly ordered all male defendants
to appear before him in coats. Why a
coat should be either more decent or
more dignified than a clean white shirt
is beyond me. If his Worship goes to
the right parts of the U.S.A. at the
right season he’ll even see magistrates
sitting on the bench minus their outer
layers. And how he would feel in New
Guinea, where most defendants habitually
wear nothing above the waistline, I should
scarcely like to say. Tradition tells of
a novice Judge in N.G. who objected to
the garb of a native charged with wife-
murder — a twisted-looking lava lava.
“Hasn’t the man got anything better to
wear than that dishrag?” he barked. “I
expect all prisoners to be brought before
me effectively clothed.” “An’t please y’r
Honor,” mumbled the sheriff, “the
prisoner is all too effectively clothed.
That’s the garment he strangled his missus
with.”
* * * *
“Adjuster”: At any moment the
Millennium may arrive in Sydney, bowling
down George-street like a hoop. Portent
is the action of one of the city’s fire
insurance cos. It carried all the risk
on a Parramatta factory. Fire smote the
factory and the risk became a stern
liability. Did the insurance co. mutter
in its beard, scrutinise its inspectors’ re-
ports with a microscope, and cast about
for ways and means of cutting its loss?
No ; it shouted the directors of the fac-
tory a lunch at the Australia, and handed
over a cheque for the full amount in-
sured, remarking, through its chairman,
that there was no need for gloom, for
if there were no claims to settle there
would be no insurance companies, and
he and his co-directors and managers and
clerks and people would be out of a job.
That bird knows more than a bit about
advertising.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Statistics for last year
at least don’t convey that the motorist
“Well, well, and whose little girl are you ?”
is the chief killer in Victoria. Of 339
persons killed in motor accidents in the
metropolitan area 153 were pedestrians,
and drivers of cars were held blame-
worthy in only 33 cases. Most of the
accidents seem to have been due to the
extraordinary trust the average pedes-
trian has in modern machinery. Unfor-
tunately, though the modern car is a
marvel of efficiency, it is capable of
developing a defect. A Melbourne
woman recently exchanged her old car
for one of the latest models. The first
time she took the new purchase out on
the road she discovered that when she
pressed her foot firmly down on the
brake she also accelerated her engine.
She got off with injury to the car, a
bashed-in radiator and an unpleasant
scene with a truckman.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: A recent morning in
the Brisbane police court produced some-
thing approaching an Australian record
in aggregate drunk-conviction totals —■
five offenders with 511 previous court
appearances for the same offence.
Highest scorer had 150, runner-up 114,
the also-rans 101, 74 and 72 respectively.
The Queensland Government, which
spends immense sums on hospitals and
health services, doesn’t go in for prohibi-
tion orders or give power to magistrates
to commit habitual drunks to a special
mental hospital for treatment. Other
States do.
* * * *
“Little Lach”: One who has helped
considerably to build up the popularity
of camping holidays is the married
schoolteacher. With six weeks’ holidays
and a family, the tent by the sea offers
him a cheap and enjoyable form of re-
laxation, and in every cluster of tents
along our coasts at the year’s end the
teacher will be found in greater propor-
tions than any other class. I doubt, how-
„. 7f , r wtwW the svstem is conducive to
dSpUne ta behoofs The stern figure
that stalks the playground, dominates the
dre S am S a i^es
with sun-reddened hairy shanks, fishified
shorts and shirt, two days’ growth and a
battered hat. It’s just as well the whole
school doesn’t see him then.
* * * *
“Mayo”: “ ‘Much too young and small-
timbered to undertake such a task’ had
been the pronouncement of Mr. Cham-
berlain after a critical inspection of
Princess Elizabeth’s bridegroom.” An ac-
count of his interview with one of the
young eligibles the society press is always
producing for Elizabeth? Or a modern
prophecy? Nothing like that —just the
first sentence that met my eye when I
looked into Carola Oman’s Elizabeth of
Bohemia. The Elizabeth and Mr. Cham-
berlain mentioned were both enjoying life
in 1614; the task was bridegroom
Frederick’s appointment as head of the
Protestant Union. The Elizabeth of today
is that far-off Elizabeth’s direct descen-
dant, with at least nine “greats” to it.
Can’t vouch for Mr. Chamberlain’s being
more than a namesake of the 1614
courtier, but he might be.
* „ * tt * a * *
“Uramao : O. Henry demonstrated
his ignorance of the Maoris and their
beautiful love stories, especially that of
Tutanekai and Hinemoa, when he wrote
The Trimmed Lamp series. In A Harlem
“ Dinkum, boys, that's the lousiest line o' fencin' I ever seen.”
Tragedy” he deals with a wife nursing a
black eye who appreciated being beaten
by her two-fisted he-man husband. Her
sound eye,” wrote the novelist, “sparkled
with the love light that shines in the
eye of a Maori maid when she recovers
consciousness in the hut of the wooer
who has stunned and dragged her
Possibly there were no Maoriland
prisoners in clink when O.H. was doing
time.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Our gentry are now all wear-
ing colored shirts open-necked ones
often colored socks, bright blazers.
brighter pants and
delicately-toned coats
and handkerchiefs. If
one of the gentry had
appeared rigged out
like this in Collins-
street twenty years
ago he would have
been laughed at; but
that is how the larri-
kins were dressing in
Little Bourke-street.
The upper classes are
essentially timid and
conventional, because
their prestige depends
upon their keeping in
step with their class
fellows. The larrikin
hasn’t any prestige to
protect, so he can
afford to be more ad-
venturous. Conse-
quently, if the weather
makes him want to
take his coat off he
takes his coat off. But
the Australian gentle-
man has to wait until
a prince of the blood or some other sym-
bol of aristocracy appears coatless on the
waterfront at Cannes and the fact
cabled out to the Australian papers. Then
off comes his coat, and so do those of
all his class fellows. But here again it
was some low-born Cockney in London
who started the fashion. The prince of
the blood only gave it the glamor of his
social prestige.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: A Melbourne daily has
discovered what it calls a glaring
anachronism” in the “Stanley and
Livingstone” film namely, that the
aged Livingstone is depicted con-
ducting a chocolate-colored choir m
a performance of Sullivan’s hymn
“Onward, Christian Soldiers,” which
was first printed in 1871, a year
after Stanley found the redoubt-
able missionary in Darkest Africa. I
can point out at least one other. Stanley
speaks of making “front-page stuff out
of his meeting with Livingstone. News
wasn’t printed on the front pages of the
dailies until well into the present century.
In Melbourne it was started by the
“Herald.” After a frightful spiritual
struggle with itself, the “Argus” took
the fateful step under managing-editor
Knox a few years ago, and the “Age”
followed only a few weeks ago when
important war news forced special
editions on it. The “S.M.H.” still uses
its front page for ads.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Breaking the strange silence
of the bards, Masefield has weighed m
with a war poem. Addressed “To the
Australians Coming to Help Us,” it men-
tions “Anzac,” “Ypres,” “Pozieres,”
“Advance Australia” and “God,” not for-
getting “the World War.” Others of the
14 lines find room for “friends,” “friend-
ship” and “liberty,” and the remainder is
in the same safe tradition.
* sfc * *
“S.V.”: For 18 years a Melbourne
woman, Esme Allee, of Elsternwick,
has been Santa Claus to the 70-odd
children who live in lighthouses round
the coasts of Victoria and the Speck.
Year after year a ship was loaded with
presents for the kids, tobacco for the
fathers and embroidery, scented soap
and what not for the mothers, collected
during the preceding year by the lady.
This time war-time exigencies have de-
layed the gift ship’s departure, and the
children are still watching for Father
Christmas’s whiskers.
* * * *
“Craiser”: “Cauboy” pours too much
scorn (B. 10/1/’4O) on A 1 Jolson’s sing-
ing in that first talkie at Melbourne
Athenaeum. One of his numbers was the
beautiful “Kol Nidrei,” the Day of Atone-
ment song, and he sang it as only a
Jewish cantor can sing it. Like most
popular singers, A 1 has a good vocal
equipment, but he likes moaning better.
To say that he does it because there is
money in it is to give too rationalistic
an interpretation to the business. John
Brownlee makes plenty of money out
of singing the classics. AI likes singing
as he does sing, his singing stirs his audi-
ence and he can’t help making money.
TYPONG.
I work to the tune of a clack and a rattle,
T ike the clicket of swords in an old-time battle;
The oueen of my heart isn’t Gladys or Gerty,
But grim little, cold little, hard little Querty.
Clkkety-clackety, cluckety-clattery,
Ping!
Critchety-crochety, pittery-pattery,
Ping!
Blick, black, tickety-tock, rickety-rackety, six
o’clock,
Ping!
Her song is a racket, a clang and a clatter,
A ceaseless, soulless, maddening chatter;
Yammer, hammer, stammer und stutter,
That’s how I earn my bread and butter.
Clickety-clackety, cluckety-clattery,
Ping!
Critchety-crochety, pittery-pattery,
Ping!
Plock, pluck, plickety-plack, Sunday’s white,
Monday’s black.
Ping!
Pick-pack, packety-picket, crick-crack, cribbage
and cricket,
Ping! (
Her voice is staccato, a toneless soprano,
Just like the top note of a cottage piano;
For ever and ever her tongue goes wagging,
It haunts my dreams with its jagging and nag-
ping.
Clickety-clackety, cluckety-clattery,
Ping!
Critchety-crochety, pittery-pattery,
Ping!
Black, black, black, black, black, black, blot-
tery,
Ping!
Lick, lack, lock, luck, luck in the lottery,
Ping!
M.L.
A. W.


h
CRAVEN A
nmi vttiiet- they be „
akvMfssmctjtffredt!
10 for 9d 20 for I'6
ĥ
PREVENT
IMIH
E 1867
POLITICAL POINTS
Casey having resigned, Stewart has
become Minister for Supply and
Spender has been named Vice-President
of the Executive Council. That gives
Spender a seat in the Cabinet, with
salary ; he began as Assistant Treasurer,
and was then called Acting Treasurer,
which he still is. Negotiations with the
Country party continue in a desultory
fashion, but a U.A.P. section objects to
giving the C.P. three or four portfolios
on the ground that it is “not popular”!
Many Labor politicians must have
been among the half-million Victorians
who saw 5000 Sixth Division men march
through Melbourne. Their party pro-
fesses to be confident that it will win
Corio, and there has been a rush to
get the party nomination. But the A.L.P.
is against sending troops abroad, and
presumably this hostility extends to Aus-
“Lang Against Recruiting.” —Sydney Newspaper poster.
"STOP, I TELL YOU—STOP!"
tralian participation in the Empire air
scheme. The attitude of the half-million
does not suggest that this non-starter
business will appeal to Corio.
Page has been going the rounds of the
military camps in N. S. Wales and
Queensland. He reports that they need
urgently refrigeration, modern sanitation
and wet canteens. The doctor still has
a bad press, and is rarely mentioned
without a sneer ; but in this matter he
has done a good job for Australia, and
on these points he is absolutely right.
Clumsy was Commonwealth Minister
Street’s attempt to prevent Lieut.-Colonel
Mitchell being brought to trial; clumsier
still State Chief Secretary Bailey’s
acquiescence in the suspension of pro-
ceedings. When the record of their cor-
respondence leaped to light they had to
make awkward explanations, and on
Thursday the officer handed himself over
to the police. The charge is that “be-
tween September 16 and February 21,
1936, and February 21, 1937,” he “em-
bezzled £57 from the Lands Department,
in which he was employed.” What plain
people can’t understand is why action
was delayed till there was a war on.
There will be no third term for the
second Roosevelt. Not only Garner, the
old Vice-President, but Farley, the Post-
master-General, is a rival for the Demo-
cratic nomination ; and Farley was the
President’s organiser of victory. Worst
of all, John Lewis, the most influential
trade-union leader in the U.S.A. since
Gompers died, has denounced Roosevelt
and the New Deal. Normally the U.S.A.
is Republican, and after eight years of
New Deal Democracy it seems likely
to return to Republicanism.
N.S.W. Cabinet is about to deliberate
a weighty matter —whether or not road-
workers should have restored to them
their morning ten-minutes-for-tea, taken
away when they passed from Public
Works to Main Roads control. Every
clerk and every typist in every depart-
ment enjoy the privilege, and if Mair
had any • intestinal fortitude he would
have given orders for the men to have
their morning tea and put the person or
persons responsible for the ban out to
work on the roads with them. But cor-
rective action is not in Mair’s bright
lexicon.
Canada is to have a war election,
the House of Commons elected (for five
years) on October 14, 1935, having been
suddenly dissolved. There was a land-
slide to the Liberals last time, and the
latest Statesman’s Year-Book count gave
them 178 of the 235 seats, the Conser-
vatives having only 36 ; of the other
opposition groups Social Credit mus-
tered 17 members and the Co-operative
Commonwealth Federation six. The
Libs, look safe enough.
H. D. Black, a Sydney Uni. lecturer
and A.B.C. commentator, told the In-
stitute of Political Science at Canberra
that Australia should give Britain and
France “from £7,000,000- to £ 10,000,000-
worth” of produce each year while the
war lasts. Producers of this enormous
volume of stuff are to be paid out of
“further taxation.” A.B.C. commen-
tators are great on “further taxation,”
but details don’t interest them.
“Democracy and self-government must
and shall be preserved, but we shall never
get back to 1939.”—Stevens at Canberra
to the Political Science School. Wasn’t
Stevens Premier of N.S.W. in 1939?
Churchill, two months ago:
The Soviet Government, embodied in
the formidable figure of Stalin, has barred
off for ever all Nazi dreams of an advance
in the East, and is disputing German
control of the Baltic.
Looks like it, doesn’t it, with the Nazis
threatening Rumania and the Soviet Gov-
ernment threatening the Finns with the
Nazis? Same gentleman on Jan. 20:
Finland’s service to mankind is mag-
nificent. It has exposed for all the world
to see the military incapacity of the Red
Army and Red Air Force.
And he recoiled from the thought that
“the splendid race of Finns” might be
“reduced to servitude by the dull brutish
force of overwhelming numbers.” His
troubles about the Finns last year, when
he was mad for an alliance with the
Bolshies against whom he preached a
holy war in 1919-20!
On the day when 8.8. C. broadcast
Churchill’s silly invitation to the little
neutrals to come into the war and be
pounded separately, Blarney uttered a
few well-chosen words in Melbourne. He
recalled that the enemy had knocked
Poland out in jig time “by moving 50
miles a day instead of 15 miles as ex-
pected.” Recalled also that “in the last
war Germany conquered Rumania in a
fortnight,” and that with a few divisons
scraped up from the armies engaged with
the British on the Somme, the French
at Verdun, and the remnants of the Rus-
sian Steamroller. Blarney doesn’t sup
on illusions.
A few weeks ago the Sydney dailies
had column-length reports of meetings
designed to push an exploded Premier
into Federal politics. Last week one
of them announced in a small par. the
formation of Griffith Growers’ Outlet
Pty., Ltd.; B. S. B. Stevens, director.
Uncertain whether people would remem-
ber or not, it added: “Mr. Stevens was
formerly Premier of New South Wales.”
An unkind cut.
The price of tea goes up every week
or so, and every time it goes up Minister
Lawson explains that it is a result of
Britain placing an order in Ceylon.
This had the effect of increasing prices
in that market, and Australian merchants
turned to Java for supplies.
Long before the war they “turned to
Java for supplies.” Imports of Ceylon
tea weighed 10,742,8001 b., valued at
£678,900, in 1937-38,' and 11,564,0001 b.,
valued at £701,600, in 1938-39 ; imports
of N.E.I. tea, 30,999,2001 b. (£1,564,300)
in ’37-’3B and 34,273,0001 b. (£1,622,600)
in ’3B-’39.
According to Drummond, one of the
six Ministers of Education, N.S.W. is up
for the record sum of £5,592,000 for
public instruction this year. He admitted
that last June the State faced a probable
deficit of £6,000,000. He didn’t quote
Murdoch, the Westralian professor:
I maintain that education is not a matter
for the separate States, but a national
matter, a part of our national system of
defence. We should agree to an amend-
ment of the Constitution, if that is neces-
sary, to enable the Federal Government
to start a campaign of intellectual as well
as physical fitness.
State Ministers don’t like men like
Murdoch, who will talk sense.
Browder, whom the American Corns,
ran for President, is unlikely to stand
again. Called as a witness by the Dies
Commission, which summed up U.S.
Communists as “a foreign conspiracy
masked as a political party,” he was
tackled about going abroad on faked
passports, and made damaging admis-
sions. Now he is appealing against a
four years’ sentence, and Corns, not under
sentence are making a hero of him. In
the absence of real fighters, fakers are
heroes to Corns.
Even before the war the seven Govern-
ments were taking more than 50 p.c. of
incomes. The maximum rates on income
from property were 16s. 2d. in the £
in Queensland, 14s. 9d. in Tasmania,
12s. lid. in Westralia and S.A., 12s. lOd.
in N.S.W. and 10s. 9d. in Victoria ; on
“earned income,” 15s. in Queensland,
13s. 7d. in Tasmania, 11s. 9d. in Wes-
tralia, 11s. Bd. in N.S.W. and Bs. 6d. in
Victoria. Now with additions made
in the Commonwealth in two States, and
more war taxes certain, the Excrescences,
encouraged by a Menzies indiscretion,
threaten further extortion for excessive
provincial expenditure. It will be un-
healthy for them if they try it.
Another Churchill - Charles, the
eighteenth-century satirist wrote it of
Warburton, Bishop of Gloucester:
Who was so proud that, should he meet
The Twelve Apostles in the street,
He’d turn his nose up at them all,
And shove his Saviour to the wall.
But it would be easy to find a modern
political personality to tack it to.
The Canadian Government has no
illusions about Communist Russia, nor
does it wait for instructions from Britain
before taking action. It has set a
precedent for Australia and other Empire
countries by banning all sales of wheat
to the Red brigands.
From a Barrier man:—■
“S. M. Herald’s” first news of the strike
on the insolvent N.S.W. railway connecting
Broken Hill with Sydney contained references
to the “isolation” of the Hill. Then the old
paper informed its readers that supplies of tea,
biscuits, cereal foods, wireless sets, timber,
cordials and beer would last only about an-
other month. Though Broken Hill is within
N.S.W. it is a South Australian town, and
Adelaide is its centre for supplies. Few Bar-
rier people can be met in Sydney; they pass
in and out of Adelaide every day. It is 700
miles from Sydney to Broken Hill by rail,
whereas Port Pirie and Adelaide can be reached
from the Barrier in 254 and 335 miles by the
same means. Of course, Granny couldn’t
conceive -anybody wanting to travel in any
other direction but towards Sydney. The Bar-
rier people are singularly obtuse in that re-
spect, and it is doubtful whether any of them
would give a hoot if the strike went on for
ever. Certainly they would not go short of
food, beer and other essentials.


FATHERCRAFT.
“Fathercraft lessons have been given in Sydney by nurses from the Baby Health division.”


APPLY WITHOUT DELAY
£4/7/6 PER CENT.
4f% —and Guaranteed by the Government of New
South Wales.
4|-% —with other interest rates still falling.
4|% —with full return of Principal in 12 years.
41% —secured upon the revenues of Australia’s largest
semi-Governmental authority.
4f % —and the Loan is an Authorised Trustee security
in New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania.
LET YOUR MONEY EARN
4i%
IN THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD £1,000,000 LOAN.
APPLY IMMEDIATELY (LISTS ARE FILLING RAPIDLY) to any office of
the COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, or to Members of any
Recognised Stock Exchange. Loan Underwritten by J. B. WERE & SON.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Brigadier Stanley George Savige, who
led the A.I.F. march in Melbourne, was
known before the present outbreak as
one of the most active philanthropists
in Melbourne. He is a patron of the
Permanently Disabled Soldiers’ Asso-
ciation, a member of the Charity
Organisation Society and founder of the
Legacy Club, the concern which looks.,
after the children of soldiers killed or
incapacitated in the 1914-18 war. He
started soldiering in 1902 as a junior
cadet, enlisted in the Great War as a
private and emerged as a captain with
the D. 5.0., serving on Gallipoli, in Sinai,
in France and with the Dunsterforce in
Persia. Out of the last-named expedition
came a book, Stalky’s Forlorn Hope.
Forty-nine, he was born at Morwell, Vic.
Boss of the N. S. Wales Recruiting
Centre of the R.A.A.F. is Flying-Officer
FLYING-OFFICER H. BOWDEN-
FLETCHER.
H. Bowden-Fletcher, pictured here by
Lusby. He took to soldiering young, and
went to the 1914-18 war as sergeant-
major in the 12th Light Horse, serving
in Gallipoli, Sinai and Palestine and
earning a commission. He was trans-
ferred to No. 1 Squadron A.F.C. in
November, 1917, and won the D.F.C.
In business as an auctioneer at Narro-
mine (N.S.W.) after the war, he was
hon. sec. of the Narromine Aero Club.
He also acted as control officer in Aus-
tralia for the London-Melbourne centen-
ary air race. He was born at Maitland
(N.S.W.) 49 years ago, and among other
activities has been a pillar of the Boy
Scout movement.
One of Australia’s most forceful clergy-
men, Rev. Henry Clifton Foreman, passed
out in his sixty-fourth year at the
Methodist Ladies’ College, Burwood
(N.S.W.), of which he had been prin-
cipal since 1935. Born at Miller’s Point,
Sydney, he entered the Church in ’99,
and soon became known for his out-
spokenness on various public matters.
He went to the Boer War as a chaplain,
and in the same capacity to the 1914-18
affair. He was superintendent of the
Central Methodist Mission for seven
years, and president of the Methodist
Conference in 1932. An able preacher,
with plenty of personality, he had also
ability as a teacher.
Norman Charles Harris, as expected,
has been given the succession to Harold
Clapp as Chief Commissioner of Vic.
Railways. Clapp is 65, Harris is 53.
Both were born in Melbourne, and both
won a lot of their experience in America,
Harris getting his on the Canadian side of
the border. Harris hasn’t the ebullience
of his former chief or as picturesque a
vocabulary ; but he gains his ascendancy
over his men in the same way—by logi-
cal arguments. He helped to build rail-
ways in Egypt and France in the 1914-18
shindy, out of which he came a major.
His recreations are golf and tennis.
Member of an old-time N.Q. squatting
family (his father took up Spring Creek
and Rosella Plains in the ’sixties), big,
lair, light-hearted Victor Collins has
passed on at Atherton Hospital. Vic was
born on Rosella Plains in 1876, and
as a breeder of Shorthorn cattle with a
Devon Cross was one of the best-known
cattlemen in the North. A son is carry-
ing on the extensive grazing interests.
Dead at 77, District Court Judge
Laurens Frederick Matthews Armstrong,
of Sydney, who retired from the Bench
seven years ago. Son of Commander
R. R. Armstrong, R.N., he was born in
M.L., but educated at Sydney Gram-
mar, whence a scholarship took him to
Sydney Uni. After graduation he was
for a while lecturer in classics, then
studied law, and was called to the Bar
in 1890. He was elevated to the Bench
after 30 years’ private practice. He was
State Censor in N. S.
Wales during the
1914-18 war.
Central - western
N.S.W. was as proud
of its Archdeacon
F. G. Neild as of
Ben Hall. During
his twoscore or so
of years serving the
Anglican Church in
the area from
Orange to Condobo-
lin it is doubtful if
there was a road out
there that he hadn’t
travelled on. His
twinkling eyes gazed
on much that was
grave and gay from
the time he became
Archdeacon of the
Lachlan in 1901, and
he never failed to
find a welcome from
sinner and saint. He
rests in the ceme-
tery at Parkes, which
town was his head-
quar t e rs for 20
years.
There was never
a Judge in N. S.
Wales who looked
more like a Judge
in the great English
tradition, keen-
featured and tight-lipped, than did Cecil
Alban White, dead at 70. He was born
at Muswellbrook, son of an archdeacon,
and educated at The King’s School. A
scholarship took him to Oxford, where
he studied law, and he was called to
the English Bar in 1893. He was never
in private practice. On his return to
Australia he became Associate to Judge
M. H. Stephen, was later Crown Prosecu-
tor and later still Principal Assistant
Law Officer. He was appointed to the
District Court Bench in 1924, retiring
last year. During his whole term as a
Judge he was chairman of the Police
Appeal Board. A fine athlete in his
youth, he was a keen golfer in later
years.
Had a ninetieth birthday at Clare
(S.A.), E. W. Hawker, head of the State’s
pastoralist clan of that name. His neigh-
bor, Duncan Hughes, formerly of the
Senate, took the lead in proposing the
health of the veteran. Hawker repre-
sented North Adelaide in S.A. Assembly
more than half a century back. He is
still active and keen, with billiards as his
chief recreation.
A recent recruit to the R.A.A.F. is the
man who first hopped Bass Strait in an
aeroplane. He is Captain Arthur Long,
who, after serving in the 1914-18 war,
brought to the Speck a small two-seater
’plane. He fitted a spare petrol tank
manipulated by a hand pump, and on
December 17, 1919, set out from Laun-
ceston in his tiny vessel and hours
later lobbed into a paddock at Torquay,
about five miles from Geelong.
“Ek D.” introduces a “Banjo” Pater-
son character:
B- P- Tressider hails from Ironbark, near
Bendigo (Vic.). They taught him to make
cakes. Ironbark didn’t seem to be a good
place to make cakes in, so he came to “Sydney
Town” and now makes enough cakes every
week to build a wall 30 vershoks high round
the Soviet Union. “Wandering round street
and park ’ (as prescribed by A. B. Paterson),
the new Man from Ironbark decided that
Randwick Council could do with a little rural
influence. He “fetched a wild, up-country
yell might wake the dead to hear” and was
elected a Randwick alderman; he stayed one
14 years, was four years mayor, then trans-
ferred to Sydney City Council. Equipped with a
contempt for party politics, he got no wel-
come from sections of the S.C.C., more par-
ticularly as he developed a habit of treating
some of his less intelligent colleagues as if
“their eyes were dull, their heads were flat,
they had no brains at all.” He had a term in
FROM IRONBARK.
(Modelled by Frith.)
the State Parliament, but was swept out on the
Lang tidal wave in 1930, after a colleague
who knew not “Tre, Pol or Pen or Oswald
Pryor” had immortalised him as “that bloke
with the German name.” The other day he
conceived the idea that the Sydney County
Council would be a better place for the appli-
cation of a little of the Ironbark technique,
The coteries of that august body, who had their
°™ ldeas > grinned:
Just watch me catch him all alive, this man
But preTently""ark” Tressider was chair-
man, and a very vigorous active and business-
like chairman he will be.
~ a xt
‘ Arthai Nutter ’ ahmmhp-’
‘l"s year will sign himself ‘ A. Adelaide
101 the ast tlrne ’ 1135 been Blb op 0
BISHOP NUTTER THOMAS.
Adelaide for 33 years. London-born, he
was a famous prize-winner in his student
days at Cambridge, and this earned him
appointment as domestic chaplain to the
Archbishop of York. He was Rector
of Guiseborough, in England, for five
years before the Archbishop of Canter-
bury consecrated him Bishop of Adelaide
in Westminster Abbey. Dr. Thomas’s
administration of his diocese has been
wise and businesslike. St. Peter’s Col-
lege is one of many monuments to his
tenancy of the see.
Tom Reynolds was The Bulletin’s
oldest inhabitant until he retired a couple
of years ago after 56 years’ service in the
composing-room. He has been succeeded
as 0.1. by Ben Purss, who has been put-
ing on covers in the publishing-room for
52 years. Jim Robinson and W. Hundt
have been on the paper for 49 years,
Aub Amery (he’s secretary to the co.) for
43 years, Charlie Flowers for 42, Mat
Harris for 41, H. G. Skelton and W.
Bombell for 40 years.
After just on 50 years of preventing
home fires from burning in Melbourne,
Fire Chief John Thomas Wilkins is retir-
ing. In 1891, when Melbourne’s Metro-
politan Brigade was formed, Wilkins was
finishing an engineering course. He
joined the firefighters, and his engineering
experience soon pushed him to the fore-
front. The biggest blaze in Melbourne’s
history—a whole block between Eliza-
beth-street and Swanston-street —occurred
shortly afterwards, when the corps con-
sisted of 80 men, equipped with hand-
reels—horses came later and Melbourne
was one of the first cities in the world to
train them. Now it watches over the
city from Eastern Hill with a modern
equipment which includes the tallest
ladder in the Southern Hemisphere.
Wilkins became superintendent in 1927.
He is 72 and hale and hearty.


jssSd««g
■
" S EEE nniAM noA nai m
ft
m
“I like 333’s because they are outstanding in these
three vital points':
“ Flavour —333’s are smoothly satisfying —not too
strong nor yet too mild.
ii Fragrance —ln association with flavour, fragrance
is important—the aroma of 333’s is rich and dis-
tinctive.
66 Favour —When so many smoke the one brand of
cigarette, there must be a reason. The secret is the
333’s blend —the finest Virginia Tobacco blended
to an exclusive formula. Take my advice and try
333’s to-day.”
STATS EXPRESS
Virginia Cigarette
m
“ABSOLUTELY UNIQUE IN THEIR QUALITIES
CORK TIPPED AND PLAIN: 9-6 d., 18-1/-, 27-1/6. Also flat fifties, square hundreds and round airtight fifties
.FBP-1.-0


ARE YOU GETTING CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
h
ĥ
I J^fTl
If you are having trouble with
your water supply, either for
household or industrial purposes,
we can help you. We manufac-
ture water filters of all descrip-
tions. Our ABBOT pressure and
drip type filters used throughout
the Commonwealth and the East.
Our pressure filters used for Butter
Factories, Ice Works, Cordial
Factories, Hospitals and wherever
pure water is required.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he Dossess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE
Directors-.
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman)
A. E. BOND
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
W. G. HULL
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australasian Catholic Assurance
Ex-
June, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 114,290 4582 56,959 52,749 151,339
1930.. 140,411 6179 60,200 74,032 225,371
Added establishment account, £522.. 224,849
1931.. 152,956 9867 60,373 82,716 307,565
Accumulated pref. divs. (7 p.c.) and
5 p.c. on ords. paid, £4695 .. 302,870
1932.. 152,153 21,357 56,424 73,384 t 376,254
1933.. 163,842 29,637 59,005 74,212 t 376,254
1934.. 184,821 32,530 61,222 90,081 f 540,547
1935.. 210,943 36,939 66,819 106,197 f 646,006
Net unexplained additions, £65 . . 647,059
1936.. 252,031 44,862 84,667 121,514 f 768,573
Property reserve taken in, £24,101.. 792,674
1937.. 290,101 44,565 90,783 153,765 t 946,439
Loss property, £1574 944,865
1938.. 334,349 41,147 101,026 191,188 t 1,136,053
Unexplained addition, £llB4 .. 1,137,237
1939.. 369,770 51,115 107,750 209,9231 1,347,160
*Nct funds apart from capital.
tAfter paying 7 p.c. on prefs. and ords.
Regular and satisfactory bonuses—they
commenced to flow from surpluses well
earned within a decade of formation, a
remarkable achievement —have long since
won this 18-year-old the increasing
confidence of the assuring public,
plainly evident from the doubling (almost)
of premiums gathered over the last five
years. The business now spreads through-
out N.S.W., Victoria, Queensland, S.
Australia and Westralia, and as it ex-
pands so does the outlook for both
share- and policy-holders brighten.
With E. J. Mooney, present managing
director, at the helm, the co. set up in
Sydney in 1921. There has never been
any attempt to force growth by indis-
criminate writing of expensive wads of
new business, and that there was no
early crippling avalanche of losses, as
in most post-war offices, suggests that
such risks as were accepted were selected
with care. Also, discreet investment of
funds (largely in first mortgages and
attractive, well-situated premises and
other properties) brought handsome in-
terest returns. It has all resulted in rapid
accumulation of a fine pile of solid,
revenue-producing assets with a book
value at June 30 of £1,388,658.
New business figures aren’t broadcast,
but the co. apparently shared in the
general experience last term. Including
£2846 from the small fire and accident
connection, the rise in premium income
(£307,945, up £23,969) was £8322 less
than in 1938. Interests and rents, how-
ever (£61,831), contributed £11,458 more,
the growth in total income (£369,776)
being £35,427. Of the £9968 by which
claims under policies lifted, surrenders
(£23,934) accounted for £6442, while the
taxgatherer was responsible for £2722 of
the growth of £6724 in exes.
Including an unexplained addition of
£llB4 to property reserve, the net
addition to funds, after again handing
shareholders an all-round 7 p.c., was
a record £209,923. The funds now com-
prise the life fund £1,309,551, policy-
holders’ bonus reserve £12,759, pro-
vision unexpired risks £ll4O and property
reserve £23,711. There is further pro-
tection for policy contracts in the £14,610
of share capital—ls,l3s 7 p.c. prefs. and
19,875 ords., all of 10s. called mainly to
Bs., are on issue. Though entitled to
10 p.c. of profits, shareholders have so
far been content with a maximum of
7 p.c. on their equity.
In the published accounts O.D. and
I.D. figures aren’t separated ; but most
of the business on the books comprises
Industrial contracts. In these circum-
stances last year’s ratio of exes, less
taxes to net premiums 33.3 p.c. —is
distinctly encouraging, comparing with
34.7, 35.4 and 37.5 p.c. for the three
preceding terms.
The office assumes the life fund alone
will net 3j p.c., whereas last year’s actual
net rate of interest-earning was 4.82
p.c., as against 4.89 and 4.5 in the two
preceding terms. The margin here, com-
bined with what look like a favorable
mortality experience and satisfactory ex-
pense rate, promise well for the future,
subject to war developments.
Here it is too early to say what will
happen at the moment. As regards
bonuses—the co. will do well to main-
tain the increased 1938 rates paid last
term —much will depend on what further
contingency provisions, if any, it is con-
sidered necessary to make against
policy liabilities and on the course of
interest rates and taxation.
The co. finds in attractive premises
useful advertising mediums, as well as
remunerative investments:
1930. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Capital .. .. £14,010 £14,010 £14,010 £14,G10
Liabilities* . . 4,935 14,999 27,705 20,887
Mortgages . . . . 207,775 309,891 488,007 084,405
Freeholds . . . . 200,488 542,899 534,511
Govt, securities . . 20,710 131,408 67,544 65,061
Cash, etc. . . 1.327 13,506 2,921 4,051
Debtors . . . . 1,788 2,008 3,840 9,164
Loans on policies 3,251 31,042 59,239 76,332
Equipment . . 4,096 4,008 9,882 11,030
Shares in other cos. 1,082 3,388 3,437 3,437
* Other than under policies.
Mortgages, which gave surprisingly little
trouble during depression, continue the
mainspring of the investment policy.
Up £195,858 last term, they now account
for 49.4 p.c. of the assets, freeholds for
38.5 p.c.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
To Ro—
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 134,340 15 p.c. = 113,143 21,197 75,504
Premiums on shares, £8272 .. .. 83,776
Undertaking sold to Aus. Portland Cement
Pty.; added reserves, £311,057 .. 394,833
1930.. 41,057 13J p.c. =102,628 333,262
Premiums on shares, £6O .. .. 333,322
1931.. 41,687 8 p.c. = 60,820 314,189
Premiums on shares, £l9 .. .. 314,208
1932.. 7,665 4 p.c. = 30,412 291,461
1933.. 38,111 5 ~ „ 38,016 95 291,556
1934.. 43,411 54 „ „ 41,821 1,590 293,146
1935. . 80,286 10 „ „ 76,043 4,243 297,389
Profit on sale assets, £1420.. .. 298,815
1930.. 84,984 10 p.c. = 76,043 8,941 307,756
1937.. 83,845 10 „ „ 76,043 7,802 315,558
Reserves disappear, £11,150.. ... 304,408
1938.. 99,109 124 p.c. = 95,054 4,055 308,463
1939.. 98,753 124 „ ~95,054 3,099 312,1G2
This co. (paid capital £760,433) and
Kandos (paid capital £673,862) are equal
partners in Australian Portland Cement
(paid capital £2,000,000), the big operat-
ing concern in which the first two named
merged their interests in 1930. The
Kandos plant (capacity 200,000 tons p.a.)
shares the N. S. Wales market with five
other producers. The only serious com-
petitor of the works at Fyansford
(capacity was recently lifted to over
300,000 tons p.a. by installation of a
new 100,000-ton unit) is Goliath, of
Railton (plant capacity 100,000 tons
p.a.), a low-cost Tas. producer. It was
to help overcome this last-mentioned
factor in competition that all-round im-
provements and extensions were made
at Fyansford, where the plant is reckoned
capable of taking care of likely demand
for some years to come.
Last term Australian Portland’s out-
put continued to expand, apparently on
account of Victorian demand—in N. S.
Wales output for the entire State for
the 12 months of 1939 is estimated 60,000
tons lighter at 400,000 tons. The amount
gathered in commissions, fees, etc., was
£14,280 (the co. acts as agent for the
operating co.), and £90,291 was received
in divs. Appearances are that the
operating co. paid 9 p.c., the odd £291
coming from pref. shares in Bates
(A’sia) Pty., which makes the paperbags
the cement is packed in. After paying
its own exes, and allowing for taxation,
Australian Cement’s .profit was £356
lighter at 13 p.c. on the £760,433 of
capital, compared with 13, 11 and 11.1
p.c. for the three preceding years. The
div. was kept at 12 \ p.c., and, despite
difficult times ahead, “there is every
reason to hope that the business will be
maintained at a satisfactory level during
1940,” the chairman says.
Here is as much as balance-sheet
figures tell, which isn’t very much, the
curtain being kept drawn over the
operating co.’s accounts:
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £760,433 £760,433 £760,433 £760,433
Sundry creditors 8,545* 2,262* 2,265* 76
Shares in other
cos. .. 1,021,443 1,013,753 1,003,750 1,003,750
Book debts .. 5,843 1,485 1,222 483
Consols & cash 84,706 101,036 123,221 118,651
* Includes tax provision.
Obviously the holding co.’s own posi-
tion is very comfortable, which adds to
the attractiveness of the scrip as an
investment.
The market price and yield, etc., from
the two holding cos.’ shares compare
as follows:
Face Mar- Net
Value ket Last Tan-
Shares. Price. Div. Yield, gibles.*
Aust. Cement 20/- 36/6 121 p.c. 6.8 p.c. 28/2
Kandos . . 16/- 29/10 124 ~ G. 7 „ 33/3
* Per pound of paid capital.
Present yields are very satisfactory, all
things considered. In view of its pro-
portionally bigger equity in the operating
concern, Kandos looks the better buy,
however.
Hume Steel, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. Towards
Sept., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 23,362 5,567 Nil 17,795 70,630
1930.. 15,281 5,567 Nil 9,714 60,916
1931.. 977 Nil Nil 977 59,939
1932.. 2,535 Nil Nil 2,535 57,404
1933.. 7,787 5,567* Nil 2,220 55,184
1934.. 12,682 6,124 Nil 6,558 48,620
1935.. 13,400 6,531° Nil } . rIQ
New share issue exes., £350 \
1936.. 8,704 7,500 Nil 1,204 40,903
1937.. 40,312 7,500 Nil 32,812 8,091
Reserves.
1938.. 41,703 7,500 Nil 34.203 26,112
1939.. 32,984 10,312 6,250 10,422 42,534
*Met by issue of fully-paid B prefs.
This co. turns out concrete-lined steel
pipes from plates fabricated by 8.H.P.,
and its chief source of indome is public
expenditure on water-supply schemes, etc.
What effect war will have on this class of
expenditure will partly depend upon how
costly and how protracted the campaign
becomes. Chief danger lies in the possi-
bility of heavy Governmental defence ex-
penditure affecting public outlay on water
supply and other schemes in which the
co.’s pipes are used. In these circum-
stances, competition is likely to become
very keen, too, and that usually means
price-cutting.
At the start, in 1923, it handed the
parent (Hume Pipe Co.) and W. R. Hume
165,000 and 85,000 f.-p. £1 ords. respec-
tively for rights. To help finance the
business, the public put up £94,433 of
pref. money, while 5567 pref. shares
were issued in payment of the 1933 div.
Last term a further £50,000 of pref.
capital was gathered, making total pref.
capital £150,000, now carrying a fixed
cumulative p.c. Until about four years
ago it was doubtful whether the business
would ever be worth much to the vendors
of the rights. However, improvements to
plant, etc., greatly reduced costs, the
order-book continued to swell, and so did
earnings. In ’37 and ’3B enough profit
was claimed to pay the pref. requirements
and show over 13 p.c. on ord. capital in
each case. But no div. was paid, money
being wanted in the business.
Last term, business was well main-
tained. The slip of £8719 in the profit
figure was due almost entirely to extra
Government bleeding—the allowance for
taxation was £BOOO heavier at £17,500.
The £32,984 netted was sufficient, after
paying the pref. divs., to show 9 p.c. on
ord. capital, and for the first time the
ords. got into the picture with 2} p.c. The
£16,422 that remained lifted reserves
£42,543 in excess of goodwill (£100,900),
which is not treated as an asset herein.
The new capital gathered during the
term was used partly to reduce the out-
side debt (down £10,629) and partly to
finance extra business (the growth in
book debts was £34,477 and in contracts
in hand £12,756):
1932. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £305,670 £350,000 £350,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 106,987 70,476 184,888 *174,259
Freehold and
leasehold . . 14,814 15,500 17,979 20,002
Plant.. .. 87,510 102,305 143,055 126,663
Stocks .. 27,508 32,091 69,569 59,681
Contracts . . 20,473 39,064 52,409 65,165
Book debts . . 45,814 37,101 90,724 125,201
Cash and de-
posits . . 9,239 15,817 36,423 37,599
Shares in other
cos. . . *174.528 174,528 194,528 194,628
* Including tax provision.
The reduction of £16,392 in plant sug-
gests that depreciation is not being over-
looked, an important item in this class
of business. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£113,387,
excluding shareholdings) was £49,150.
Shareholdings consist largely of scrip
in the Steel Pipe and Lining Co., to which
Hume Steel sold its foreign rights. It is
difficult to say when, if ever, these rights
are likely to turn in anything to the
vendor.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the pound prefs., covered by 595. in
net tangibles, at par as against 225. a
year ago.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
, Dividends Nominal
Pref. lte-
Ju»e, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.!
£ £ £ £
1929 .. 59,312 1980 10 p.c. = 38,917 160,781
1930 .. 43,065 1980 9 ~ „ 35,025 166,841
1931 . . 1,999 1980 Nil 166,860
Loss.
1932 . . 4,745 17331 Nil 160,382
Profit.
1933 . . 15,789 16501 24 p.c. = 9,729 164,792
1934 .. 27,855 1980 6 „ „ 23,350 167,317
1935 .. 28,614 1980 64 „ „ 25,296 108,655
1930 . . 29,318 1980 04 „ ~ 25,296 170,697
Earmarked for depreciation, £19,050.. 151,047
1937 .. 29,548 1980 7 p.c. = 27,242 151,373
1938 .. 40,019 1980 8 „ „ 30,338 153,074
1939 . . 35,802 1980 7 ~ 32,690 154,206
* 5 p.c. from Oct. 1, 1931. + Subject to goodwill,
£25,000.
Earnings have not succeeded in getting
properly into their stride again since
slump and the extension into Martin-
place—the board went a bit into debt
to finance the work—interrupted a long
flow of 10 p.c. divs. nearly a decade ago.
Although the new wintergarden, banquet
hall, bar, bevery and several new upper
floors were all completed over three years
ago, the Coronation diverted a lot of
high-class trade for which the Australia
caters, and the ’37 figures got little benefit
from the enlarged and improved
premises. The sharp spring in the ’3B
earnings was due partly to Sydney’s
sesquicentenary celebrations, which
brought overseas and other visitors f o
the city.
The last term began with the outlook
more promising than it had been for
some time. But as the year advanced
drought conditions developed over many
parts of Australia ; prices for primary
products eased, international develop-
ments interfered with overseas tourist
traffic, and wages and other costs con-
tinued to climb. So, after providing
£lO,OOO (same as in previous term) for
depreciation, and setting aside £lO,OOO
(down £1000) for taxation, the net result
was £4217 lighter at £35,802. That was
sufficient to pay the prefs. their 6 p.c.
and show 7.2 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 8.3, 7,7, 6.8, 6.6 and 3 p.c. back
to 1933. A point was chipped off the
div., reducing it to 7 p.c., making the
average over the last half-dozen years
6.8 p.c.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1928 1936. 1938. 1939.
Stock.. ..£15,235 £11.548 £8,884 £8,499
Book debts, etc. 35,206* 6,368 7,453 6,399
Cash, etc. . . 1,400 1,800 29,093 22,663
Liquid assets £51,841 £19,716 £45,430 £37.561
Mortgage ) ~ 382 354 38C ( 275,000 275,000
Creditors } 44,382 304,380 28,284 28,534
Excess
liabilities £7,459f £334,670 £257,854 £265,973
Property and
equipment.. 552,524 917,149 947,937 962,517
Paid capital.. 422,169 422,169 500,003 500,003
* Includes investments. f Liquid surplus.
During the year the excess of outside
liabilities over more or less liquids in-
creased by £Bll9. The floating debt,
however, was more than covered.
Premises, etc. (up £14,580), were main-
tained in first-class condition, and much
depends upon that.
The market, doubtful as to what the
future holds for the business, prices the
pound ords. at 19s. 9d. as against 245. 6d.
a year ago. At the lower figure the


Web
ion (\\ hi:
SHE OF
The Shell Company of Australia Limited (Incorporated in Great Britain)
5.40-1


UCA
BRITISH W MADE.
THERE IS A
LUCAS
BATTERY
«vp?c
t*r77 *
LM*
m
FOR EVERY PURPOSE
,gW" sG
A
co <^» 0
/c *£
tot
/o
00
4A^c
LUCAS Quality Batteries
are Warranted for 2 years!
OBTAINABLE FROM DEALERS
Bennett & Wood Pty., Ltd.,
Or. Pitt and Bathurst Streets
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company,
J 5 Goulburn Street,
SYDNEY.
Hannan Bros., Ltd.,
58-63 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
W. T. Burns,
46 Brisbane Street,
HOBART.
Bell’s Auto Eleetrieal Service,
166 Brisbane Street,
LAUNCESTON.
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Starting- Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd.,
150 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
Elpliinstones Pty., Ltd.,
Cr. Adelaide and Wharf Streets,
BRISBANE.
Elpliinstones Pty., Ltd.,
15 East Street,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
Sturt Street,
TOWNSVILLE.
Elpliinstones Pty., Ltd.,
6 Alpin Street,
CAIRNS.
Joseph Lucas (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., 627-639 Wellington Street, PERTH
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney’
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents — Advt’
* * * * '
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores’
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony’
Solders. Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * % *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.).— Advt.
" QUALCAST "
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MOTOR
MOWER
Carrier for same, 35/- extra.
"Qualcast" Lawnmowers
Hundreds
have now
been sold
and are
giving every
satisfaction.
Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities
MODEL, “II”:
Bronze Bearing ..
Ball Bearing ....
Super “7” Ball B.
~/f9 -/OD -/9S
-/8S -/OS -/£,f -/ft
-/ft -/If -/8S
•UI9I -uin 'HIST ‘ u !0l
Country Freight Extra.
SOLD AND RECOMMENDED BY
ALL LEADING HARDWARE STORES
return is 7.2 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. are seldom dealt in. Net
tangible cover is 255. 6d. ords. and
£l9 Is. 4d. prefs., all in fixed assets.
Paringa (W.A.) has redeemed its
promise to shareholders to enlarge the
treatment plant. Tenders have been
called for additional machinery to in-
crease capacity to 9000 long tons a
month. Erection is expected to be com-
pleted within six months. For the 12
months to Aug. 31 net earnings £11,549
better at £32,340 stg. are shown, and div.
goes up from 15 p.c. to 20 p.c. Through-
put was 70,430 tons, and recoveries
4.sdwt. Millings for the first four
months of the current term have been at
the increased rate of 7250 tons monthly,
and, on yields of 4.Bdwt. and costs of
275. 4d. a ton, a working surplus of £1
Aust. per ton has been shown. Reserve
ore now amounts to 397,056 tons of
sdwt. grade.
* * * *
Gold Fields Australian Development
(W.A.), Wiluna’s next-door neighbor and
associate, treated 26,773 tons from the
Moonlight Wiluna group during the Sep-
tember quarter for a working profit of
£A 18,528. The Kintore at Kunanalling
yielded an estimated surplus of £2016 for
the same period. Co. holds a 20 p.c.
interest in Yellowdine Investments, which
owns nearly the whole of the shares in
the Yellowdine mine. During the quarter
Gold Fields Australian took an option
on leases at Mt. Ida, and bought the Star-
light group at Wiluna. A number of ven-
tures were examined in various districts,
but none proved worth further inves-
tigation. Developmental report, which
deals exclusively with the Moonlight
Wiluna, mentions good values in places
and the exposure by a diamond drill of
sft. of ore averaging 12.6dwt. on the
Lone Hand line at the 630 ft. level.
* * * J|c
Ruby King, described as the first fair-
sized goldmine in the West, is reported
to have a new lease of life. It is near
Hall’s Creek on the Kimberley field, and
had a 20-head mill in the early ’eighties.
High costs and heavy influx of water
strangled profitable operations. In those
days a 501 b. bag of flour cost £5 at the
local store, and cartage on mining re-
quisites was about £7O a ton. Two years
ago a couple of old identities decided to
stage a resurrection. A five-head mill
was installed, and 870 tons has since
been treated for about £5OOO worth of
bullion. Another old Kimberley venture,
Mt. Dockrell, 70 miles s.-w. of Hall’s
Creek, has also been raised from the
dead and is at present producing ounce
ore.
* * * *
New Yilgarn (W.A.) has resolved to
give up.. Co. took over a troublesome
goldmining venture near Southern Cross
about three years ago and bogged in.
Prospects were later said to be promising.
Now massive intrusions of pegmatite
dykes and heavy flows of water below
No. 4 level are stated to stand in
the way of profitable working. Treat-
ment of the balance of accumulated
sands (about 2000 tons) continues,
and is expected to be completed by
the end of April. Meanwhile, efforts
will be made to sell the plant. Co. has
declared a shilling dividend out of accu-
mulated funds derived partly from pro-
fits and partly from realisation of plant.
A further distribution of 6d. to Is. a
share is hoped for after the final clean-up
and disposal of equipment.
* * * *
A Youanmi ord. shareholder (W.A.)
bemoans the fact that, although some
hundreds of thousands of pounds’ worth
of gold has been extracted by the co.
from the reopened and reconditioned
mine, no return has been received by
holders of either pref. or ord. shares.
The explanation is found in last year’s
results, which are the best to date. Re-
ceipts totalled £168,480 stg. Net work-
ing profit was £54,588, but, after writing
off amounts for depreciation, develop-
ment, etc., only £9543 remained. There
is a 7 p.c. accrued pref. dividend of
£72,245 outstanding. Mine purchase
stands in the books at £252,080, unwater-
ing, reconditioning and further develop-
ing the property at £52,335, and plant,
machinery, buildings at £179,820. There
isn’t an abundance of cash.
* * * *
London-controlled Ora Banda United,
with a really big mine at Ora Banda
(W.A.), is still waiting for money to equip
the property with a treatment plant. Up
to 100 ft. wide, the main lode has been
proved for 1600 ft., and positive reserves
are estimated at 727,600 tons of a mini-
mum value of 3.Bdwt. Leaving low-grade
ore as pillars, tonnage is reduced to half
a million, but grade is lifted to 4.3dwt.
Issued capital is in 1,100,000 f.-p. ss.
shares, of which 400,000 were given to
B.A.N.Z. Mines for the Mopoke, Gimlet
South and other leases together totalling
147 acres. Active operations ceased when
the cash ran out 18 months or so ago.
Sulphides come in below 270 ft. When
gold was around £7 stg. an ounce, the
co. reckoned it could show 18s. a ton
profit on a 10,000-tons-a-month through-
put.
* * * *
Gard and party are working the old
Fitonia gold show outside Georgetown
(N.Q.). When opened up in the early
’eighties it ran to 4}oz. ore, but proved
thin and patchy, although it has averaged
2oz. all over. An Bin. mineral leader
is providing the party with 2oz. stuff
at present between the 60ft. and 120 ft.
levels.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.C.: The bank never opened for business,
but it had an interest in a Sydney building.
We have no recent balance sheet; if you have
one, send it on and we will advise C.8.A.-
L.G.A.: A well-spread lot. Can only suggest
that some of the high-priced ones be sold now
on the chance that they may be bought back
lower when war taxes are announced. That,
ol course, is speculation, and may be neither
desirable nor profitable. A holding in Queens-
land Insurance may prove worth while, and
some New B.H. Consolidated should be good
over a long term... .H.S.: Think you might do
well still to hold. Consult a qualified accoun-
tant about rebate of British income tax. Swans
are on the high side. Gordon and Gotch
ords. at 455. look reasonably attractive, even
though import difficulties may bring a small
drop in the div. later on E.A.H.: Very
difficult to say whether this is the best time to
buy, but if the price seems reasonable by
standards set over the past 10 years purchase
of a home now should be quite satisfactory.
. ...F.A.L.: Have had doubtful reports about
value of some of co.’s plantations, though its
merchandising business seems good. Not a bad
spec., perhaps, but would prefer Arthur Cocks
ords. at 21s. 6d., even though importers are
uncertain about future supplies of some items.
Cocks’s did all right in 1914-18 C.H.W.:
(1)> (2) and (3) No official statistics available,
but the old Victoria Quartz at Bendigo (Vic)
went down to 4613 ft. In the West, Lake View
and Star, Kalgoorlie, down almost 4000 ft.,
and Sons of Gwalia, Leonora, down an incline
depth of over 5000 ft., are among the deepest
present-day operators. (4) Westralian miners
are considered among the world’s best. (5)
Apart from coalmines, Lake Superior, U.S.A.,
Lorraine, France, and Cleveland Hills, England
(all iron), Bingham, Utah, and Katanga, S.
Africa (both copper), are the five biggest mining
districts. Excluding iron-ore fields, then come
Butte, Montana (copper), the Rand, S. Africa
(gold), and Broken Hill, N.S.W. (silver-lead-
zinc). (6) Colored predominates. (7) Presume
you mean the Anaconda Mining Co., Butte,
Montana. (8) Extensive mining for copper,
gold and pyrite is carried on in the Urals.
(9) Approx. 4400 miners are employed on the
Golden Mile.


The Head Office Building of
the T. & G. reflected in the
River Yarra.
!Wmmmm
* .1 s ' »' ' , ...
m
~ mM
.
■
§1
|§g| Jfefc | H
■
1111111 l 111
i MB
■ ■“jil
■m
i m Hlli
«m
: Ti
HI | —Jja
JT '■ V
.
■
m.
LLUJJJM
4«W
Ilf
f ti tiiii i
HiiiUM
i il ill i! j
HI 111 HI
•;: - ’ :
vX : ** i'\ ,
i • 1
* :
**l** «ft I? «$ j " ■
m
■\J l'-/ *\
’ : T ']
.
'if.
IN the 64 years of its existence this Society has lived through a large part of
Australia’s history, in peace and in war, during good times and bad, it has
steadily increased in size and in ability to benefit the community, until today it
is recognised as one of the strongest Life Assurance Societies in the British Empire.
A Progressive Society ivith a Reputation for Stability and Service


ABORIGINALITIES
“ Don’t Want no cavalry, eh? All right, then. Gee-up, Flash!”
“Old-timer”: Down on the flat the
little community had gathered to help
the parson dedicate the new church. Up
on the hill Dave the fencer looked down
upon them, then turned to his tent for
a clean shirt. Protruding from the door
was the rear end of a heifer, the for’ard
end busily chewing up Dave’s straw bunk,
Dave let out an ungodly yell and broke a
hefty pine stick over the heifer’s rump,
She went straight through that tent, tak-
ing most of it on her horns, and, blinded
by the canvas shrouds, charged down the
hill. The minister was just turning to
open the new door when the bovine
avalanche hit the crowd. Strong men
went down, fair women screamed, horses
reared and bolted, small boys and dogs
took after the heifer. The minister
slipped inside the door, but, by some
freak of chance, the heifer too got
through it, and there was pandemonium
within that church for the next few min-
utes. When peace was restored the
heifer was bailed up in the new pulpit by
three dogs and two boys, the minister
was astride a rafter, and in the back door
Dave the fencer was drawling “All y’
want now is Mcßeilly’s bull an’ y’ could
have y’ first weddin’; me tent makes a
blanky good bridal veil.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: What will disturb the
equanimity of a blue-tongue lizard?
They’ll crawl slowly through a mob of
bustling cattle, lie calmly on a log while
fire rages all around, accept unmoved
the inquisitiveness of a busy terrier, and
lazily ride a forkful of lucerne from the
ground to the stack. I’ve tried all means
short of inflicting actual pain to make
one wild —he simply regarded me
drowsily and moved sluggishly away
when I tired. I’m convinced that all
blue-tongues killed by cars, etc., are glad
to escape a life that holds absolutely
nothing of interest.
* * * *
“Flight”: The Torres Strait pigeons
which have lately come to Queensland
on their southern migration are
boldly marked with black edgings on a
snow-white background, and they’re as
big as cockatoos. They stand out like
beacons from the distance: at a quarter
of a mile or so a man can pick ’em like
targets. But it’s when a fellow gets
closer for a shot that the trouble starts,
for, while at a distance they’re startlingly
clear, at 50 yards it is difficult to dis-
tinguish them from their surroundings.
I don’t pretend to explain all the mystery.
Part of it may be the habit of the bird
sitting parallel with the limb on which
it roosts. Also, perhaps, its plumage
harmonises with the sun and shade. But
if they can’t always be found by sight
they certainly can be by sound ; they’re
fighting all the time, booming the air,
buffeting with wings, and otherwise show-
ing the reason of their southern trip—
mating.
He * # *
“M 8”: It was low tide on one of the
sea lakes that indent the N.S.W. coast,
and rows of sea-birds sat on the mud,
some dozing, some ruffling their feathers,
some conducting a low-voiced conversa-
tion—all idle. Among them, as busy as a
bee, moved a lone ibis. Its long curved
beak probed the mud, poked into clumps
of weed and penetrated the flotsam on
the shore. Up and down and in and out
the rows of gulls, terns and pipers it
passed, never stopping. Then the incom-
ing tide began to talk, the sea-birds woke
up, and the lone ibis rose in the air and
made for the west, no doubt to tell them
on the Darling of the dopey blokes who
live by the sea.
* * * *
“Benn”: Before diving into buoyant
salt-lakes (B. 17/1/’4O) it is well to re-
member that the head, being the densest
part of the body, as any schoolmaster
can testify, will not float. It is possible
for non-swimmers to sink in “unsinkable”
water for this very reason. Trippers who
have bathed in the Dead Sea have
found this out.
* * * *
“Cooker B.”: Recent excitement about
the Clarence River crocodile recalls an
unrecorded instance of the kind on the
Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.). A local lad
was courting the daughter of a peppery
old chap who swore that he would de-
stroy anyone who made love to his girl,
One night Romeo, escaping by a back
track through the garden, sighted the old
man returning home by the same route.
There was no chance of sidestepping or
retreating, so he got down on his hunkers
and hopped along like a frog, emitting
hoarse croaks. The old chap backed
water and subsided —stern first —into the
geraniums, while the largest frog seen on
this or any other planet got up on his
hind legs and took to his scrapers for
the camp.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: White-ants, is it (B.
10/1/’40)? Life was one long battle
with ’em on my little holding, and when
I left for a week-end in town I impressed
on my new hand the necessity for keep-
ing kerosene on their workings. On my
return I went to open the gate; it
crumbled in my hands! The front door
fell off at my touch, and the floor gave
way as I trod on it! Sound asleep was
the new hand, and I waded through
the debris of the floor and swung a
punch at his head. But he’d forgotten
to wash in kerosene, and his block col-
lapsed in sawdust. White-ants!
* * * *
“Arev”: “Yer know,” said Bill Watt,
“some blokes don’t know how ter give
a fair deal. That there Johnson what
bought Smith’s place, fer instance. I
knew his trees was loaded with apples
that he couldn’t sell, so I thought I’d
get a case off him. When I asked him
he said he wanted four bob a case.
Well, I knew he couldn’t get fourpence
at the market, but I never said nothing.
I thought it over, then I said: ‘All
right: I’ll take a coupla cases. I haven’t
any ready cash, so I’ll let y’ have a bag
of spuds instead.’ Johnson looked as if
his eyes would pop out, spuds not being
much of a price then. ‘Eight bob fer
a bag er spuds!’ he roars. ‘Take it or
leave it,’ I says. He looked a bit dis-
gusted, but in the end he nodded. He
knew he couldn’t sell his apples, any-
how. ‘Right,’ he says. ‘Send the boy
over with the spuds an’ I’ll give him
the apples.’ So I send my boy over with
the potatoes, but when he came back
he had two dirty cases full of windfall
apples. That’ll show y’ how unscrupu-
lous some people are. But I was one fer
him. The spuds I’d sentwas a bag er rejects
I’d put by fer the pig. You’ve got to
have y’ wits about y’ when you’re dealing
with folks like that.” Bill sighed. “All
the same, I wouldn’t have expected it of
Johnson. He didn’t seem as if he vyas
a cove like that.”
* * * *
“Z.-Av.”: How does “5.W.5” (B.
17/1/’4O) make out that stone sheep-
yards allow no bottom ventilation? There
must be an entrance into every yard,
stone or timber —surely the builder didn’t
make stone gates? In the Scottish border
country, back from Berwick-on-Tweed,
stone yards have always been the fashion.
When I was a youngster I used to visit
an uncle who had a stone sheepyard
6ft. high built in 1725. In it the bulk
of the spring shearing was done.
* * « *
“Dungeness”: The most formidable
scrapper inhabiting N.Q. is the casso-
wary. Compared with the timid emu
it is as a champion game-fowl to a
barnyard mongrel. Heavier and much
more solidly built, it can kick forward
or sideways with terrific force in the
sharp, hard claws, and also wield its
powerful beak like a pickaxe in lightning
strokes. Wild pigs are said to be ex-
terminating it by robbing the nests of
eggs and young, but it is a case of
“Good-bye, Dennis!” for any caught at
such games or even intruding near a
nest or resting place. Either of the
indignant parents will crash the thief’s
skull in with a kick or blow from the
beak and thereafter so deal with the pig
by kicks and ripping slashes that it is dif-
ficult to believe that the resultant mess
has been the work of a bird. And
northern Captain Cookers are hefty
scrappers themselves. Any man who
tackles a boar without a good pig-dog
is taking a serious risk, no matter what
armament he carries or how expert in
its use.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: When the Council
decides how “Stepnick’s” trees obtain
their perfumed oils (B. 10/1 /’4O) it can
devote its attention to a study of Nature’s
use for them. The Dame is notoriously
wasteful, but her prodigality doesn’t run
to providing unnecessary attributes of
such outstanding characteristics. Pro-
tection from natural enemies—termites,
borers and the like —can be discarded.
I’ve seen powerfully-scented gums riddled
with termites, while their jarrah neigh-
bors, with only half the perfume, were
immune. Investigators might consider the
suggestion of attraction for bees and
other pollinating insects, a reinforcement,
as it were, to the flowers’ scent, or resist-
ance to extremes of heat and cold.
* * * *
“Cooee”: Charlie, a newchum, was an
ardent admirer of Lawson’s poetry. When
the boss bought a mob of old ewes and
told him he could drive the buggy on
the trip, Charlie looked forward to it as
something akin to the “droving days”
that Lawson wrote of. Soon after we
started the ewes began to lamb, and by
the time we were half-way home he had
a buggyful of lambs and sore-footed
dogs. On reaching a dinner camp one
day there was no sign of Charlie, so I
was sent back to investigate. He was
to come along a netting fence through
scrubby country, and when I found him
the shafts of the buggy were tangled
up in the netting, one of the horses was
down in the harness, the dogs were hang-
ing by their chains from the cart like
grapes from a vine and Choom was pad-
ding it flat-out through the sandalwood
after a dozen or so frivolous lambs. His
idea of droving and that of Lawson’s
don’t coincide.
* $ * *
“Jayem”: The machinery salesman
was working hard, but Long Harry was
a difficult prospect. He admitted that a
mowing-machine would be handy, but
that was as far as he would go. “Look
here,” said the salesman in desperation,
“I’ll let you have the mower on trial
for a week, and if you’re not satisfied
you can return it.” “That’s all right,”
said Harry thoughtfully, scratching his
chin, “but I don’t think I can get my
lucerne off in less than a fortnight.”
* * * *
“E.S.”: The arena was a clear patch
in a dense scrub, and the combatants
two fierce boars of the swamp and jungle
breed. Ruddy foam dropped from their
mouths, and blood trickled from long
scratches on their sides. But they didn’t
bite. They rushed and bumped with their
powerful shoulders, uttering half-roaring
grunts as they collided. Apparently each
was trying to turn the other sideways
to get a thrust at the underparts with
his dagger-like tusks. Though they
looked old they wheeled round and round
with the speed of colts, alternately dash-
ing at each other like charging rams,
except that the impact was with the
shoulder. Then one tripped against a
root. The other dived swiftly, ripped
him with a sweeping, upward stroke, then
walked slowly away, ignoring his adver-
sary as if he knew that the thrust was
fatal. It was.
* * * 9
“Walkabout”: Weight for age and
size, I’ll back the little black waterhen
against any of the feathered flock for
pace on the hoof, the emu not barred.
My sheep-dog surprised one a few hun-
dred yards from water, and before I
could curse loud enough to bring the
tyke back the race was on. When the
waterhen reached water and safety, the
dog was yards behind, and the hound
has plenty of speed. The wings obvi-
ously assist waterhens to make pace over
the ground, but I’ll swear the fowl’s
tootsies never missed one step without
touching the ground. But what intrigues
me about both the black and brown
waterhens is the locomotion they adopt
when shifting camp ; do they fly or pad
the hoof? They’re night-travellers, I
know, and if they fly what causes so
many of them to show signs of lame-
ness?
THE BUSHMEN OF “THE
BULLETEEN”
Through sixty years of change and stress
That saw a virile.nation made,
Through years of failure and success
They rode, this glorious cavalcade.
With quip and story, jest and song,
They mirrored our Australian scene—
That motley, entertaining throng,
The bushmen of The Bulleteen.
Drovers who punched their long-horned
mobs
Over- the ranges far outback,
Nomadic ones who tossed up jobs
And sought the rarely-trodden track—
With horses fed, campfires aglow,
They wrote of what they’d felt and seen,
And proud was he who claimed to know
Those bushmen of The Bulleteen.
The yarns they spun were sometimes tall,
They argued, as they’d say, “the toss”
On just what was the mopoke’s call
Or whether cats and rabbits cross.
No known or unknown living thing,
Earth-bound, aerial or. marine,
But over it some words they’d sling,
Those bushmen of The Bulleteen.
From Samphire Flats to Gowan Range,
From Norseman to the Castlereagh,
They garnered items passing strange;
None knew their country more than they.
Whether or not they won to fame,
Here’s how! to them, those browned and
lean
Old battlers of the inky game—
The bushmen of The Bulleteen.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Wang”: “The most embarrassin’ ex-
perience 1 ever had,” said Dan, “happened
one time me an’ a mate wus stoppin’ at
a country pub. The place wus full up
when we got there, an’ we had to be
satisfied with a room at one end of a
long passage ; it had a double bed in it.
At the other end of the passage wus
another room occerpied, we found out
later, be a newly-married couple. We’d
been in bed about an hour when I hear
a stealthy noise in the passage. There’d
been a burglar scare in the town, so I
hops outa bed an’ opens me door. At
the same time I see the married bloke
open his at the other end an’ come out
with a lighted candle. Half-way down
the passage there’s a bloke fumbling at
a door. We both rush him. Our candles
is knocked outa our hands an’ goes out,
an’ f’r a coupla minutes there’s a fine
old scrimmage. Then the bloke I’m on
top of ses somethin’, an’ I find it’s the
married bloke I’m punchin, an’ him me.
The burglar has bolted. We sort our-
selves out an’ go back to our rooms.
I tumble inter bed, an’ the next thing
I know a pair of arms is around me neck
an’ a female voice is askin’ anxious am
I hurt. I’m outa that bed like a shot
an’ scoot down the passage. Half-way
down someone rushes past me, cursin’.
I bangs our bedroom door tight, an’
me mate Joe, who’s just woke up, wants
to know what the hell I mean be hoppin’
inter bed an’ kissin’ him an’ then hoppin’
out agen. An’ from the other end of
the passage I hear the door bein’ bolted,
an’ voices talkin’ anxious-like. I have
a job to convince Joe he’s been havin’ a
nightmare.”
“Stepnick”: It seems curiously at odds
with our knowledge of the insect world
that at any time it should display any-
thing like choice in the matter of death.
But I’ve seen the black scorpion of N.Q.,
when surrounded by fire, inflict its own
lethal sting. Not so the bull-ant; that
atom of pugnacity will tackle anything
from a lighted match to a scrub fire.
* * * ❖
“Curate’s Egg”: Ignorance of Aus-
tralian details is not confined to over-
seas novelists and film-makers. In a
fairly creditable Australian newsreel at
present going the rounds there are some
shots of pastoral scenes in the Gulf
country of North Queensland. A mob
watering at a lagoon is depicted, with
a close-up of a cow and suckling calf.
The scene is accompanied by the com-
ment, “Good-bye, little poddy, it’s your
destiny to be trucked south for our
southern roast beef! ” There’ll be some
laughs if that reel goes to the cow
country.
* * * *
“The Duke”: When carp swim along
the surface of the water with their
mouths wide open they are not search-
ing for food, nor is their eyesight neces-
sarily failing (B. 13/12/’39). They are
gasping because of weather con-
ditions or lack of oxygen in the
water. The “minute particles of
food” are sucked into their
mouths mostly by accident.
Generally the food is expelled
when the fish exhales. When a
carp gulps a worm into its mouth
it doesn’t always swallow it. I have
studied them whilst fishing, and have
found that the worm is in the fish’s
mouth for several seconds, and when
disgorged is absolutely devoid of blood.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: On a Sydney wharf
I struck an old mate from the High
Plains. He was bound for the North
with the intention of settling on the
Maranoa, where “a bloke could grow
“Leave them to me, sir. I've killed about two dozen already.”
a bit o’ maize an’ terbaccer, an’ a few
punkins, sweet pertaters an’ bananas
without ’avin’ ’em bit orf be th’ flamin’
frost like on the plains.” When I told
him that I had seen the thermometer
registering 12deg. below freezing within
a few miles of the river of his dreams
he was frankly incredulous, and when I
informed him further that the “poisoner”
had to break the ice on the adjacent
waterhole to draw water for the galley,
and that a frost following a shower of
rain froze the flies of our tents as hard
as a board, he applied the closure.
“Aw!” said he. “Cut out the legpullin’!
Y’ might as well tell me that it freezes
in ’ell as that a ’ard frost is ever seen
up there around the tropic o’ Caperi-
corn.” He’ll learn.
* * * ■ #
“Jayem”: There are still enough rab-
bits in Australia to become an asset
during the war. Some cobbers are
already talking of going trapping, for
canned or frozen bunny is not to be
despised where rationing is the rule, and
the pelt has many uses. In the Kaiser’s
war freezing works ran at full capacity
to treat rabbits, and hundreds of men
made good money. Some landowners
showed a profit on costs of digging out
burrows, destroying harbor and erecting
netting boundary fences. Although only
a schoolboy then, I still remember re-
ceiving 2s. 6d. a pair for bunnies.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: One usually associates
deer with Highland estates or slightly in-
land mountain areas ; hence it comes as
a surprise to see the fine antlered speci-
mens that abound on Friday Island in
Torres Strait. These are the descendants
of specimens brought years ago from
Java by the Hockings family, Thursday
Island pearlshellers. They have evolved
into more robust and rangy specimens
than their temperate-region ancestors,
and must be able to hold their own
against the pigs that roam the islands
of the Archipelago. Some of these
savage grunters tip the beam at 2cwt.
The deer’s fleetness must save him, for
when the sandy terrain of the tiny islands
affords scanty herbal diet the pigs turn
to foraging along the reef pools for fish,
shellfish and marine carrion.
*** i *
“Chook”: When our cat lately had
quadruplets in a fowl’s nest the motherly
instinct of a broody Australorp asserted
itself. She sat on the kittens and be-
came most ferocious if anyone touched
them. Mother-cat would nose her way
under the usurper’s tail —a frontal ad-
vance would have meant fight—to suckle
her kittens. But is motherhood as in-
exorably manifest in any species as in
the domestic hen? I’ve seen ma ’roos,
vixens, ewes, cats and ducks leave their
young to escape from an attacking dog,
but ma chook can be depended on to
fight—often to the death.
* * H= *
“Bad Australian”: Couldn’t say
whether “Colonel B.’s” dugong bacon is
better than the ordinary article (B.
3/1 / ’4O), but I do know that the flesh of
the freshly-killed dugong is not in the
same class as fresh pork. In the matter
of smoke-dried “badger” hams (they
don’t call them wombats in Tassie) my
experience doesn’t tally with that of the
“Colonel,” who found the “delicacies”
very good. We were camped on a tributary
of the Pieman (Tas.), toiling like beavers
on a diet of bacon, beans and scrub
nettles in pursuit of the elusive “ ’weight.”
One morning the dog cornered a badger,
which we killed and dressed. As the
fresh meat had an unappetising odor we
salted the hams. Some time later we
boiled one. It tasted like a civet cat that
had been reared in a glue factory. When
we tossed the odoriferous joint to our
old dog he sniffed it once or twice and
made straight back to his hollow log.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Abo. stockmen had an-
other method of securing plain turkey for
dinner (B. 3/l/’4O). In hot weather,
when the big birds were wont to hug
the timber edging a plain, Binghi would
work his way quietly towards the birds
and when within striking distance he’d
gallop his mount all out towards his
hoped-for dinner. Compelled to attain
“Aw, I got tired of playin' deck-quoits!"
flying speed before it left the ground,
the turk. would be only a few feet high
when Binghi ranged near. A quick flick
of his stockwhip, and down would come
the bird, either stunned or with the thong
of the whip coiled round its neck.
* * * *
“Shaym —hie —gain”: Wozzall thish-
yere shkite ’bout hearin’ through yer
teeth? One coot saysh ter hold a coin
in yer teeth an’ put it on a pipe if yer
wanner find out if theresh liquor movin’
in it. Lorrer rot. Shenshible blokesh
putsh coin on bar counter wizsh yer
’andsh. Ain’ polite ter bar —hie —maidsh
offer ’em coinsh in yer teeth. They’d
’aveter wipe ’em before they could
purrem in cash reshishter. Barmaid’ll
shtart liquor runnin’ all right when she
pullsh ’andle. Leave it ter ’er. Any
shilly coot tryin’ climb over bar wizsh
coin in hish teeth ter put it on pipesh ’d
get emptied out on hish flamin’ ear quick
an’ lively. Maybe all ri’ fer wowsher
pipesh wotsh only got warrer in ’em,
but don’ you try them shilly games wizsh
beer. An’ ’ooin’ell wantsh hear through
teeth any’ow? ’Nough flamin’ noises
already. Teethsh fer eatin’ wizsh an’
drinkin’ through. Earsh ish fer ’earin’
wizsh. Temptin’ Prov —hie —densh tryin’
hear wizsh yer teeth.
* * * *
“Hayband”: The right to fish cer-
tain inland streams, claimed by Federal
Territory fishermen and disputed by
landholders, recalls the argument of an
Anzac in Scotland. He had tossed the
line in and was awaiting developments
when a ’keeper swooped. ‘ You can’t fish
here,” he announced ; “this is his lord-
ship’s water.” “Then I’ll wait a while,”
replied the Digger. Thirty minutes later
he resumed, and was again challenged.
“Does his lordship own all the water in
the world?” asked the Digger. “No,”
was the reply. “Well, his lordship’s
water went by a half-hour ago, and I’ll
fish in this lot as long as I like.” He
did!
* * * *
“Wusslean”: The ten-acre shoal of
salmon trout mentioned by “Ex-Vic”
(B. 3/1/’4O) brings back vivid memories
of the pilchards we caught at Point
Lonsdale (Vic.) while holidaying there as
youngsters years ago. Shoals of the tiny
fish were scooped up with children’s tin
buckets and carried to boarding-house
keepers ; ours couldn’t possibly have
cooked the tons we lugged up from the
beach. The stench of decaying masses
on the sand after high tides was some-
thing unforgettable.
“Carmi”: Can any-
thing in the vegetable
line beat asparagus for
hardiness? In 1915 my
father planted some as
an experiment on the
Downs (Q.). By the
end of the war we
found that local
market prospects were
nil, and even with
some outlet in view the
crop demanded too
much attention at our
busiest season. Since
then ploughs, cultiva-
tors and harrows have
ripped up the plants,
and stock have grazed
in the patch months on
end. Droughts, such
as 1923 and 1926, have
come, yet we can still
trace the nine rows of
our asparagus venture,
though now the heads
are of the bridge-
pencil variety.
THE OUTBACK’S AWAKE.
“Tea is up another penny a pound.”
We stood the taxes, an’ the rise
In cornsacks, oil an’ binder-twine.
We knew we’d have to do without
To beat the blokes beyond the Rhine.
But, ’struth, it found us unprepared,
That news the wireless brought from
town:
It knocked us rotten when they said
That tea was up another brown.
The wowsers wail about our sins;
They reckon we’re baptised in beer;
Whereas we far prefer the cups
That “not inebriate but cheer.”
We drink ’em from the early morn
Until the evening star goes down;
But now consumption we must cut,
With tea gone up another brown.
The German short of butter goes,
The Briton’s meat is rationed out,
An’ Frenchmen, holding frozen forts,
Could do an extra frog, no doubt.
They’re not the only ones to feel
The shadow of the war god’s frown;
How would they like it, sewin’ bags,
With tea gone up another brown?
A man can’t crutch on lemonade,
Or split out posts on barley brew.
Who'd drive a plough on washy milk
Or hump a swag on mutton stew?
We hadn’t sort o’ felt the war
Until this came, our woes to crown;
But now, be cripes, we know it’s on,
With tea gone up another brown!
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


THE
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
The City Mutual Life Society is
an Australian Institution, estab-
lished in the year 1879 by
Public men of Sydney to pro-
vide Members with the protec-
tion of Life Assurance in its
various forms on the mutual
principle.
The Society belongs to its Policy-
holders, and operates only in the
Commonwealth of Australia.
All available surplus is returned
to the Policyholders in the form
of Yearly Bonuses, and these
Bonuses have made City Mutual
Policies a wonderful Investment.
If you are contemplating any
form of life assurance it will pay
you to write for particulars of
City Mutual Policies.
HEAD OFFICE:
CNR. HUNTER & BLIGH STS., SYDNEY
Branches in all States.
Assets exceed £10,000,000. Established 1879.
WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
In the Lawson and Daley
(By RODERIC QUINN.)
I STOOD one evening at the top of
Butler’s steps in Victoria-street with
J. F. Archibald and my brother, P. E.
Quinn, who was then a frequent
contributor to The Bulletin. Although
memory fails me as to the date of that
happening, I remember that while we
loitered there all the heights of Darling-
hurst and Potts Point were made bright
with the last lights of a summer day,
while beneath us the disordered roofs of
Woolloomooloo lay in shadow.
The scene so appealed to me that
I quoted a couple of lines from that
perfect piece of artistry Daley’s “Sunset
Fantasy.”
“Just so,” said Archibald approvingly,
“the shadow of the sail and the sunset
glow.” Then we fell silent for a space,
watching the dusk deepen over the Lower
Domain, over the narrow streets below
us, over a schooner with brown sails that
slowly moved across the bay. At the
end of that space of silence, quite
abruptly Archibald said to me, “Write
us a story and bring it in v jnext week.”
Lifted to what heights I know not by
his parting words—for was it not some-
thing to put inches on to the stature of
a young writer to receive such a com-
mission from such a man? —I went home
thinking all the way of what I would
write.
I sat writing far into the night and
far into the following day, and, having
finished a story which I thought might
possibly be worthy of publication, I
posted it to the familiar address. The
paper was then housed in Pitt-street at
the corner of Bulletin-lane.
I waited through a week, charged with
hopes and fears, before setting out to
learn its fate, and as I entered the office
I found Archibald on the ground floor
conversing with Henry Lawson.
He gave me a nod and said, “See
Edmond.”
On the floor above I saw Edmond.
He was sitting at a desk, poring over a
pile of manuscript. It was all manu-
script then, or mostly all, for the type-
writing machine with its mission of
mercy for human eyes had not yet come
into widespread use.
E. J. BRADY
(but he seldom
looked like that).
I waited for Edmond to become aware
of my presence, and while I waited thus
I noticed that on the wall above his
desk hung a rusted butcher’s knife, its
cutting edge serrated by many gaps. Be-
neath it was scrawled a bloodcurdling
legend having a significance for pestifer-
ous poets. At length he looked up from
his work, gave me a whimsical smile,
gave me a handshake, gave me a docket.
“Take that docket down to Brennan,”
he said, “and good luck!”
Brennan was then cashier. Long since
he went elsewhere, where I am sure the
Auditor found his ledger well balanced.
I gave him the docket and received gold
in exchange for it. How fine it was to
be paid in gold—how like real payment!
Outside the office Lawson waited for
me, and together we took our way to
a little dingy publichouse on Miller’s
Point, where, with four sailors fresh from
sea, we spent a jovial afternoon.
Not till The Bulletin moved to 214
George-street North did it become the
popular haunt and port of call for the
writers and artists of the ’nineties and
the decade that followed. There if one
happened to be in town, with or without
a wad of copy to market, it was cus-
tomary to drop in for a while to gossip
with stray congenial spirits. There one
sampled an atmosphere not to be found
elsewhere, and talked of art and letters
as though they mattered more than any-
thing else in the busy, bothersome worka-
day world. Men unknown to each other
save by their work in the pages of the
paper would there meet face to face.
Some came from the Gulf Countrv.
some from the goldfields, some —such as
Harry Stockdale and Ernest Favenc —
from our far inland spaces, and some
from the islands of the South Seas made
romantic by the tales of Louis Becke and
washed by the blue waters of the Pacific,
from which the red wake of Bully Hayes
had not altogether faded. Strange
characters, not always Australian-born,
brought there their wares for sale —poem
and paragraph, sketch and story.
One of these to be chanced upon
frequently was Dick Holt, who wrote
interestingly of the bush and the folk
of the bush. He spoke with a lisp, talked
of “bwetter days,” “wed wum” and
blarsted “poicks” like “Wictor Dwaley,”
“Arthur Wadams,” “Wod Quinn,” Hugh
McCrae and all the “west of the wot-
ters.” There, too, for a brief season
Phil Mowbray (“Scotty the Wrinkler”),
sighing for the quiet of his beloved gum-
trees, daily sought sanctuary from the
rush and roar of the city, finding a mate-
ship there denied him by its crowded
streets. Both Holt and Mowbray, it was
said, belonged to families well known
overseas, and it was said also that both,
born with the “curse of the roving foot,”
had quitted country and kindred, making
their way to Australia, there to be seized
by the spirit of the bush and bent to its
service. The bush needed men of their
kind, as it needed Lawson, Paterson,
Boake, Ogilvie and all the gay or grave
balladists, lyrists, paragraphists and story-
tellers of the ’nineties and afterwards, to
make it articulate and understood.
Once only did I meet Harry Morant
(“The Breaker”), another of the wander-
ing minstrel band, and for a brief while
talk with him. In front of the office
stood a post, and one afternoon I found
a wild thing, snaffled, surcingled, girthed
and trembling in every nerve, tied up to
it. As the trams rumbled to and fro,
up and down George-street, it trembled
there, hunched and fear-stricken, with
terror making large its eyes. Beside it
stood Morant, a soothing, stroking hand
on its neck. Morant told me that he had
ridden it all the way from Forbes, that
he was the first to saddle and ride it,
and that, though it was still a bit nervy,
he would make a good horse of it before
he got back to the country. He hoped to
have a long yarn with me when we met
again, and got into the saddle and rode
away, he calm and seemingly unaware
of the public attention he was attracting,
while his horse was doing circus busi-
ness amidst the traffic.
I never met Morant again, nor did I
hear from or of him till some time after-
wards word reached us all that he had
met his death in South Africa. Died
gamely, it was said.
Will Ogilvie, a horsebreaker of equal
skill and daring, was fashioned of quieter
stuff than that which went into Morant’s
make-up. He was shy and taciturn, so
taciturn that a man with whom he drove
sheep on a western route told me that,
though the poet was a good mate and
a good worker, one might as well be
alone and thinking things alone for all
the talk that was to be got out of him
in saddle or camp. However, he talked
well enough and brightly enough on that
night we gave him a send-off at Paris
House, when all the city was hung with
purple and black for the death of Queen
Victoria.
The ghost walked then on Saturday
mornings, and no cold, repellent spectre
he proved to those of us who gathered
at the office window of Tom McMahon,
his intermediary, to take of his giving.
Even those to whom he gave not did
not objurgate him. Next Saturday would
see him walking again, and till then it
was only a matter of tightening one’s
belt and shrugging one’s shoulders philo-
sophically.
Happily together for a few hours, the
week at end and coin to spend, it was
our way then to seek out some near-by
hostelry, one preferably with a garden
attached to it, wherein we would sit at
tables under trees and regale ourselves
with good wine and good wit. Some-
times the wine gave place to tall tank-
ards, but mostly always the wit was sup-
plied by Victor Daley, who when he
talked made every moment rich with
charm. Sometimes idling thus, Edmond
or Archibald would join us, or maybe
Frank Mahony, his eyes as proud as
an eagle’s ; or Randolph Bedford, asser-
tive and audacious; or Percy Lindsay,
light-hearted and debonair. When the
shadows fell and it was time to part, we
rose and went our several ways—Daley
and Broomfield to Balmain, Philp and I
to Paddington, Brady and Lawson to
Stanmore.
HENRY LAWSON CALLS.
But in between the jigs and the reels
times came when neither ghost nor piper
could make the going cheerful. Such a
time came when Victor Daley, with a
shrug of the shoulders and a sardonic
grin, said to me: “I’ve been ordered
away from the city by a man in Mac-
quarie-street. The Bulletin is finding
me a place at Waitara. Permanent
premises, premises” with a humorous
gleam in his eyes—“of which no bailiff
can dispossess me.”
“As bad as all that, Victor?”
He nodded. “You remember Roland’s
words at Roncevalles, ‘A stout heart, and
slight hope withal.’ ”
Waitara was less renowned then for
its rose gardens than for its gum-trees,
and amongst these tall green beings
Victor sauntered on sunny days, till the
time came when he could do no more
than glimpse them through his bedside
window. Commissioned by Archibald
to do so, I bought and took to him
such delicacies as I thought might tempt
his fancy. Weekly I visited him with
rich wines, delicious jellies and jars
packed to the neck with dainties. These,
I think, he himself made little use of.
but, since there was another member of
the household in a bad way, they did
not go amiss.
To visit Daley came many friends:
A. G. Stephens, Dorrington, Brady,


&
r
a
7a
-m
\WI
ll
•YE
*■'& 'A
&Z>
rxy
SV
\Ar^
s6yeuAfflome. QUIET
IN THIS NOISY WORLD
NOT only does Cane-ite Insulating
Board resist summer’s heat and
winter’s cold, keeping your home at
a more comfortable temperature the
year round . . . but its transforms
piercing sounds into distant murmurs,
scarcely heard. It makes every room
a safe, sure refuge from the noise
of the busy world, brings you perfect
peace and quiet the moment you
close the door.
The secret of Cane-ite’s sound-killing
properties lies in the millions of tiny
“dead-air” cells which occur through-
out its structure . . . cells of stillness that cushion and kill
the impact of sound-waves long before they reach your ear.
Cane-ite, too, enables you to insulate and decorate your home
in one operation. Cane-ite boards can be grooved or scored
to add height or breadth to a room. They can be worked
into any desired designs and attractive patterns. They are
extremely durable, and are white-ant-proofed for life.
Cane-ite is the perfect, inexpensive insulation, whether you
are building a new home or modernising an old one. Made
in three thicknesses and two types of finish, and in lengths
up to twelve feet, Cane-ite suits every job, saves time and
labour.
nmr
STRUCTURAL INSULATION
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
NOW OBTAINABLE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO., LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY -- ■ MELBOURNE -- - BRISBANE -- - ADELAIDE -- - PERTH
TE
OR DO YOU
LIVE IN AN
UNINSULATED
HOUSE?
v.Wi
&
r«r
3*
L THIS COUPON TO
?*’-.I- ' w ~v» -•- • ''til' •- Vri: 1 'lp?‘.V.- r - A-i -1 =■ A.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO., LTD. (Building Materials Div.)*
Please send me sample and literature on CANE-ITE.
NAME .
ADDRESS .
¥ Mail to your nearest branch—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
CA5—4O
Broomfield, Lawson, O Ferrall and,
most frequently of all, Billy Mel-
ville, described in a verse of Victors
as “The brilliant young Australian
who wrote The Land of Light.
This poem, the sole darling of Billy’s
begetting, the proud author on the
slightest inducement, and sometimes with-
out inducement at all, would recite at
any gathering, gay or grave, big or little,
attended by him in a social way.
Poet or not, Billy had made a name
for himself as one of the keenest poli-
tical paragraphists in Australia. Not
only were his paragraphs scintillant, for
everything under the sun that he found
worthy of mention likewise coruscated.
Once at a suburban aldermanic meet-
ing 1 heard him from a hotel balcony
glorify the chairman as “the brilliant
ROD QUINN.
young butcher from round the corner."
During a journalistic period spent in
South Africa, he astounded the natives
of that country by announcing in the
newspaper with which he was connected
that he had discovered Dan Kelly, who,
it was widely believed, there and else-
where, had long been dead and dust at
Glenrowan. Billy not only resurrected
Dan but interviewed him, thus ramming
home the genuineness of his “discovery.”
During Daley’s illness no week passed
that did not see Billy in visitation at the
little Waitara cottage; and there one
afternoon, as I sat by Victor’s bed, he
joined us. Under his arm he bore a
bottle which, with businesslike alacrity
and as though there was not a moment
to spare, he set about uncorking. The
bottle was filled to the neck with thick
brown liquid.
“This,” he said, tapping the bottle with
a finger, “will put you on your feet in
no time, Victor.”
In reply Victor only nodded, nodded
grimly. Talking distressed him.
Billy insisted. “Just one dose, Victor.
It bucks you up right away.”
Victor remained silent.
Billy implored. “Just one dose, only
one, and you’ll know what magic is
in it,”
Victor still remained silent.
Billy enlarged upon its magic.
“It has cured thousands of cases, cases
far worse than yours. Now when I was
in South Africa there was Sir Gordon
Sprigg”
Victor, with a turn of the head, showed
at length he was moved to some interest
by Billy’s insistence.
“Sir Gordon Sprigg,” continued Billy
impressively ; “they didn’t give him six
months.”
“Well,” whispered Victor, “they should
have.”
A few days afterwards the poet passed
away—a jester to the end.
Some years before The Bulletin took
up its residence in 214 George-street
North, Brady and I sat side by side
as schoolmates in Harrington-street,
on The Rocks. Brady’s people intended
that he should be a civil engineer, and
my people that I should be a Govern-
ment surveyor. Fate, however, had some-
thing to say in the manner of our dis-
posal, with a result that, while Brady
found work in the clerical division of a
mercantile house, I became a provisional
schoolteacher in the country. Brady
held on with his job for a longer period
than 1 did with mine. Mine did not
measure up to my liking at all, and thus
it happened that the Education Depart-
ment and I, not without a certain amount
of disrespect for each other, abruptly
parted company.
Brady’s work proved more congenial.
It led him down almost daily to the
Quay, where lay the clipper ships that
come now no more to port, and to the
wharves of Darling Harbor, where craft
of all kind from all the seas of the world
found mooring space. Daily he mingled
with sailors and hefty workers of the
waterside, ever and anon refreshing his
nostrils with the odor of “ ’ides and taller
and taller and ’ides.” Eventually he, too,
threw up his clerkship and gravitated to
The Bulletin to tell its readers of the
folk and ways of many waters, a job
which Will Lawson, cruising in from
England, helped him to carry on.
Handy to 214 George-street—in fact,
almost opposite:—was a business run by
one Joe Seymour, which had to do with
the reconditioning of men’s wear. At
an earlier school than that in which I
met Brady I had been a schoolmate of
Joe Seymour and also of Chris Brennan.
Almost always on his daily itinerary,
when Henry Lawson visited The Bulle-
tin he would step across the street, take a
seat in Joe’s shop and have a yarn with
him. I ,have often thought that.it was
watching Joe at work on garments in
various stages of disrepair ;that suggested
“When Your Pants Begin to Go” to
Lawson. At any rate, it was his way to
see poetry in many things which to other
minds would lack appeal.
Most of the apparel entrusted to Joe
for treatment was duly called for and
retrieved. But with some garments this
was not the case, and most glaringly it
was not the case with a luxurious over-
coat that for many months hung aban-
doned in Joe’s shop. So long did it hang
there, in fact, that at last, losing patience,
Joe took it down from its peg and, hand-
ing it to Lawson, said, “Take this,
Henry; take it and wear it. Long, long
years ago it wore out its welcome here.
Composed of such stuff and fashioned
in such style as bespoke a prosperous
and dignified past, that overcoat was the
subject of admiration and envy amongst
Lawson’s friends. For a whole winter
week he wore it, and then wore it no
more, explaining to those who inquired
as to its fate that it was down at Uncle
Rosentall’s “learning Hebrew.”
When Lawson began to fail in health
a group of friends got busy, gathered a
sufficiency of funds to put his mind at
ease for a while, and sent him down to
Coolac, there to stay with some friends
of R. J. Cassidy (“Gilrooney”). Till
then he had not revisited the country
since the days when he and his old bush-
mate Jim Grahame used to talk of old
times and dusty tracks in Grahame’s
garden at Leeton.
Back from Coolac, he still walked be-
neath the suspended sword. A few days
before the sword fell I met him in the
office of the then editor of The Bulle-
tin, Sam Prior, whom Lawson had always
found approachable, sympathetic and
kind.
Leaving the office we went down the
stairs of many memories, crossed Bridge-
street and had a drink at the hotel on
the far corner. Then Lawson retraced
his steps half-way over Bridge-street to
an old cab drawn by an old horse and
driven by an old driver. Climbing into
the seat he leant back on its cushioned
seat with a smile to me and a hand raised
to his forehead in farewell gesture. His
last salute.


By Appt. to the late
King George V.
life*'
J
All over the world Wood-
row Hats have earned the
decided preference of well-
dressed men. Their out-
standing qualities and smart
shapes and colourings make
them the best value money
can buy.
Woodrow Hats are manu-
factured by British labour,
and have the experience
of over 100 years behind
them.
"ilOoodfoy?
yr Hats
AT ALL LEADING STORES
fmmm
mi n
mm
**«»» eg# I ''
mm
i
ftayton QM
'•ondon s
mmm
VARYING temperatures,
high winds and lack of
rainfall bring many ailments
in their wake. Clayton’s Kola
Tonic, besides being an en-
joyable beverage, will build
up bodily resistance, and help
you fight against climatic
changes.
Drink Clayton’s Kola Tonic
as a liqueur, the base of your
favourite cocktail, or as a
straight-out thirst-quencher.
The only Genuine
CLAYTON’S Kola Tonic
Product of Clayton Bros., London.
Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
TONIC
THE FIRST “BULLETIN”
(By J. H. M. ABBOTT.)
SIXTY years ago today The Bulle-
TIN was born, and it is just that
time since the writer, having gradu-
ated through an educational work
nampf | c . , c . ,
named Step by Step— wherein you
learned how to spell “cat,” “rat,” “dog”
and other formidable words—has been
reading it. He had heard his father
describe the paper as “remarkable,” and
took pains to find out what the word
meant. Beyond that there is not much
remaining in his memory as to how The
Bulletin impressed him in February,
1880 That it hadn’t a rod rnvpr is all
TV, u nt a , COVCr 18 aU
mat fie can be quite sure about. .
But there are other things in the issue
of Saturday, January 31, 1880, that are
interesting to recall when looking it over
threescore years after its publication
One is a personal recollection of Con-
stable Bowen, the shooting of whom at
wj . i , . . ®
Wantabadgery station in November, 1879,
by Andrew George Scott, alias “Captain
Moonlite,” provided the paper with the
principal feature of its opening number
the execution in Darlinghurst Gaol,
Sydney, of Scott and a companion in
crime named Thomas Rogan
and
tor the whole of it J. F. Archibald was
responsible. The illustrations are wood-
cuts by William Macleod, manager for
40 years, drawn from Archibald’s descrip-
tion, the artist having refused to attend
the hanging. Over two pages are de-
voted ,o S the affair. Here Is Archibald’s
execution 0 - he eVenlS leadi " 8 Up '° ,he
UUOn ‘
It is not my intention to recount at length
the circumstances which led up to the scene
witnessed in Darlinghurst Prison at nine o’clock
a.m. on Tuesday week.
The case of Andrew George Scott, an utterly
unprincipled man of good birth, excellent educa-
tion, and of high but ill-applied ability, is well
known to the public, before whom his name has
been tor years, as that of a crafty criminal. He
was a man dangerous to society and utterly
incapable of reform, who lived only to exemplify
tbe power which education lends to the habitual
S* a f’ whea co ™ cted of the
bank robbery, he called Heaven to
witness his entire innocence of the crime in
question. Before his execution he went so far
as to a dmit that he had received the stolen
gold ’ but continued to aver that he had borne
t part ,he actiml robbwy ’ He lied “> ““
A great deal has been said concerning his
engagement to Mrs. Ames, a Victorian lady,
who a her his condemnation was unremittting
in her efforts to obtain a reprieve. Scott, some
days before his execution, remarked that her
case was “only another illustration of the old,
old story-that she was the one woman who
understood a man whose every action was
misinterpreted by the world.” It would, to the
B e neral public, rather appear that the reverse
was tbe act ’ and tbat tbe unfortunate woman
i° e ! Centred ° U unworthy
° b '*?• J ust P assed awa y was the one person
on this earth who, being intimately acouainted
with Scott, failed to form a true estimate of
his character.
In November last Scott and his companions,
Rogan, Nesbitt, Wernecke, Williams and Ben-
nett > stuck up the Wantabadgery station,
betw een Gundagai and Wagga Wagga, under
the pretext that the y had been refused food.
“rfS »Js±%£ t
haved in a most unceremonious and brutal
manner, four constables from Wagga Wagga
appeared on the scene. These the bushrangers
f orced to retreat, but the police, having been
• ioined by a detachm ent of four Gundagai
£ onstables > under the command of Senior-
“ ,he *”■*•
° f tTwound'a^of
Williams and the surrender of the rest of the
gang. During the engagement Constable
Bowen, a man who had distinguished himself
in a previous encounter with outlaws, and over
whose remains the Crown is erecting a hand-
some monument, was mortally wounded,
Scott, Rogan, Williams and Bennett were,
after a lengthy trial, found ghilty and sentenced
to death. The three latter bushrangers were
recommended to mercy by the jury but the
Executive resolved that the extreme penalty
of the law should be carried out on all four
criminals.
The Governor, in the exercise of the royal
prerogative, reprieved Williams and Bennett on
the ground of their youth and that they had
not previously been convicted. Rogan, who
during the fight evinced a great amount of
trepidation, and who was subsequently found
beneath a bed, was excepted from the vice-
regal clemency, on what grounds the public
is even now at a loss to discover. He took
no active part in the conflict, as did the two
men whose sentences were commuted, and is
clearly shown to have been the means of
restraining Scott from carrying out the threat
of hanging Mr. Beveridge, a visitor to Wanta-
badgery.
But notwithstanding these facts and the able
and persistent manner in which they were
urged by Rogan’s solicitor, Mr. R. B. Smith,
after the conviction, the Governor adhered to
his decision.
Some little time before 1879 Constable
Bowen was stationed as a mounted
trooper at Murrurundi (N.S.W.), where
the writer, as a very small boy indeed,
adopted him as a hero and resolved to
emulate him. Recollection of this
handsome and kindly young man is still
clear. There is also a remembrance of
being overwhelmed with grief and
weeping bitterly on being informed
that “Mr.” Bowen had been killed
by bad and wicked bushrangers. It
seemed incredible that such horrid things
could take place in a world that appeared
to have many good points. There was
something wrong with it.
In course of time The Bulletin
assumed its red outer garment and used
to turn up at the old Glengarry station,
at Wingen (N.S.W.), at the end of each
week. For some reason not yet quite
clear, it was put out of bounds to us
children, but nevertheless we read it
regularly with a fearful sense of being
sinful young daredevils.
The writer suddenly “got religion” at
the monthly church service held in the
homestead dining-room by the parson
from Scone. He vowed to abandon his
sinful ways and walk uprightly along the
narrow path. He would give up his
wickednesses and try to lead a better life.
So the truly deadly sin of reading The
Bulletin on the sly had to be cut out.
It was —for one issue. And then the
would-be saint fell from grace and has
been wallowing in his wickedness ever
since those distant days.
The first bound volume of The Bulle-
tin has become very rare. There is, of
course, one at 252 George-street, Sydney.
The Mitchell Library has another, and
in 1920 I saw one in the late H. L.
White’s library at Belltrees, that historic
station on the Upper Hunter (N.S.W.).
And I have been told that J. N. Devoy,
chairman of Queensland’s Castlemaine-
Perkins brewery, has one.
The opening utterance of the young
journal is worth repeating here, for all it
says, with characteristic brevity, seems to
have been fulfilled in the 60 years of its
existence. Under the date of “Saturday,
• January 31, 1880,” it announces “A
Matter of Public Concern.”
Today we send broadcast throughout the
colonies the first number of The Bulletin.
That it goes to an appreciative public we
have no doubt. Excellence is the passport
to success in colonial life, and The Bulletin
bids to win.
The aim of the proprietors is to establish
a journal which cannot be beaten —excellent
in the illustrations which embellish its pages
and unsurpassed in the vigor, freshness and
geniality of its literary contributions. To this
end the services of the best men of the realms
of pen and pencil in the colony have been
secured, and, fair support conceded, The
Bulletin will assuredly become the very best
and most interesting newspaper published in
Australia.
With our first issue begins a new departure
in journalism. We give to the public what
is dictated by the result of twenty years’
experience on the colonial press. The sub-
stance of the ordinary daily and weekly news-
paper is gathered by the average reader in a
few moments. The public eye rejects as
uninteresting more than half of what is printed
in the publications of the day. It is only the
other half which will be found in The
Bulletin.
It seems to this scribe —perhaps a little
prejudiced because of many kind things
the paper and its people, from Archibald
down the years, have done for him—
that the aims and policy outlined in the
foregoing still actively live in the con-
duct of what most of us think of with
affection and respect as “the old Red
Rag.” May it never grow paler!
“S.T.S.”: The well-deserved par (B.
3/1 / ’4O) in praise of poet Will Ogilvie
doesn’t mention the chief thing by which,
probably, his name will live. During the
last war he wrote, in Scotland, a stirring
poem, “The Australian,” with the refrain
—based on a tribute paid by an English
officer “the bravest thing God ever
made.” It appeared in London “Punch,”
under Owen Seaman’s editorship ; and
Knox, the present editor, gave it the
honor, almost unique, of a reprint as
soon as this war started.
* * * *
Australia could do with more Susannah
Bests. A resident of Ryde, a Sydney
suburb, Mrs. Best has never reached the
headlines —because of her inability to ski
at Kosciusko, sip cocktails at the Aus-
tralia, or deliver a fighting speech at the
Feminist Club. But she is the mother
of 11, grandmother of 31, great-grand-
mother of 38, and great-great-grand-
mother of one. Her great-grandfather
got a grant of 30 acres at Ryde and, in
the year Napoleon retreated from Mos-
cow, built the first stone house there,
which still stands.


m
90
**
m
l\W
do**
i
s
incte» se
an
Provfiifsalesswing is to
SILENT
»
*:
i
i
i
Because it
/offers
Star value in
MILEAGE..
SAFETY.. SILENCE i
mm
OUNLOP-AS BRITISH
. AS THE FLAB!
27
ħ
“You See It Everywhere"
(By JAMES A. BURKE.)
As one of those still on earth, I remem-
ber reading the first issue of The Bulle-
tin and what I said to myself when I
had devoured the contents: “This is the
paper I want—bright, fearless, clever, to
the point.” I was 18 then. Reading The
Bulletin became a habit which has never
deserted me. And I am under a peisonai
and lasting obligation to the Woman’s
Letter. It discovered for me a wife who
has mothered ten Australians.
For three generations The Bulletin has
moulded Australian opinion. It at all
times fought for the building-up of our
literature and our industries. Other pub-
lications claiming to be saturated with
the Australian spirit fill up with over-
seas articles, stories and drawings. The
Bulletin has never gone back on its
principle: “All for Australia.
Advertising in The Bulletin is an-
other old habit. I find 'its columns the
best cover for national publicity. It has
two great advantages from an advertiser’s
standpoint: copies are posted to absent
sons, daughters, other relatives and
friends in Australia, Maoriland and the
Pacific islands and overseas; and, whether
by the buyer or the last recipient, they
are preserved, because the paper is always
readable. In homestead and hut you can
see piles of Bulletins, the accumulations
of years. No matter how old the issue,
it may be enjoyed.
Years ago it was difficult to dodge
Scotsmen in any part of the world,
especially Scotch engineers. Today in
the East many engineering jobs once
monopolised by the Scot are filled by
Australians, products of Sydney’s School
for Marine Engineers, which has turned
out from 15,000 to 20,000 “chiefs.” I
have met them in Borneo, Singapore,
Penang, Rangoon, Hong Kong, Shanghai,
Japan, the Celebes, the Philippines and the
U.S.A. —and I rarely met one who wasn't
a Bulletin reader. In the Anzac clubs
at Hong Kong and Shanghai, in the clubs
at Penang and Singapore, copies are filed.
In a train going to Harbin, Manchuria,
I saw a passenger reading the pink paper.
In the pretty town of Shimonosheki, at
the entrance to the Inland Sea, I met the
only white man in its population of
180,000.* He had been there 27 years,
and had married a Japanese wife. He
was once a member of the Balmain-Elvira
Rugby club. He had kept in touch
with his native land through his weekly
copy of The Bulletin.
Because of a shipping strike in Sydney
I was held up in Vancouver for six
weeks. I took the opportunity of going
on the three days’ steamer trip to Juneau,
in the Arctic Circle. The first person I
encountered on landing was an old friend
from North Queensland, a prospector.
As with the Balmain man, his connection
with Australia was through The Bul-
letin.
Jerry Jerome, the Victorian coursing
authority and horseowner, went to the
Klondike in the wild days. He told me
he paid a dollar for an old copy of The
Bulletin in Dawson City—“and cheap
at that.” I myself have paid Is. 6d. for
a copy at the Galle Face, Colombo.
At Phoenix, Arizona, where the tem-
perature in the hot months is rarely
lower than 116 degrees, I saw a shirt-
sleeved veteran in the bar chuckling be-
tween occasional gulps at his schooner
of Pabst lager. He was reading “Abori-
ginalities.”
In Southern California there are many
Australians, especially in Los Angeles
and on the oilfields. There I renewed
acquaintance with “Snowy" Baker and
“Gentleman” George Dawson. Both are
regular Bulletin readers. “Snowy”
everyone remembers. George won his
first four fights in America, and was
then appointed instructor at the great
Chicago Athletic Club. One of his pet
pupils was J. S. Wrigley, t.hen a sales-
man for his father in the soap business.
When Wrigley decided to give up soap
for chewing-gum he induced George
to put in his savings of 10^000
dollars. It was a singularly fortunate
investment, and George forsook the
noisome climate of Chicago for glorious
Passadena, and later Altadena, where he
has lived for many years in luxurious
surroundings. Like his brother Jack
(head of the map department of Rand,
McNally and Co., Chicago) he swears by
The Bulletin.
I called on Medil McCormick,
owner and editor of the Chicago
“Tribune,” the world’s second-best daily
—the New York “Times” I always place
first. The Bulletin was mentioned.
“Australia should be proud of it,” the
“Tribune” chief said. “It is a splendid
journal, breathing what I should say is
the national sentiment. A great paper
indeed —we have none like it.”
On a run up from Montreal to Van-
couver on the C.P.R., I stopped at Banff
for a couple of days. Rejoining the
express, I met a badly-dressed old man
who had just arrived in a crosscountry
train. As the colored attendants ignored
him, I assisted him with his bags. Later,
as I was reading The Bulletin in the
observation car, the old man came in
and thanked me. “You are English, l
presume?” he said. “No, Australian.’
“How are my libraries going in that
country?” he asked. It was Andrew Car-
negie. “Not too good,” I replied. “The
Rockefeller Research Institute is doing
the better work.”
Small talk followed, until he noticed
the paper I was reading. “That is a very
fine publication,” he observed. “I always
receive a copy when it says anything
about my libraries.”
My destination was Lake Sicamous,
where I had wired for a reservation.
Andrew also got out of the train there.
He was signing the register when the
clerk asked, “Did you wire for a reser-
vation, Mr. Carnegie?” “No.” “Sorry;
we are full. But we’re holding the train
for 15 minutes, so you had better go
back to it.” “I am an old man, and
Vancouver is 12 hours’ distant. I have
been in the train all day. It will be a
task.” “Can’t be helped.” And Andrew
had to go on.
The clerk was a Ballarat boy, as I
knew. “That was pretty hot,” I said,
“turning down one of the richest men m
the world and putting up one of the
poorest.” “We own the wires. He was
too tight to wire for a reservation.
Wouldn’t dig into his pocket for a few
cents.”
That was the only time I ever saw the
Scotch benefactor, though 1 had visited
his Homested steelworks and viewed the
squalid shacks of many of his foreign
employees.
The Bulletin grew with me as
it has grown with most Austra-
lians. Over the years I have had
personal dealings with many of its con-
trollers —the founders ; Traill, Edmond,
George Black, Macleod, S. H. Prior and
the present editor ; Ted Brady, Jim Philp,
Jack Drayton and Henry Lawson ; Phil
May, “Hop” and Scorfield ; the mana-
gerial, clerical and mechanical staffs.
May I met in London later. My old
patron Walter Haddon had brought him
from Australia to establish “Phil May’s
Annual.”
A relation on the land in Western
Queensland reads his Bulletin in seven
parts —one for each day. “It is all the
reading matter I want,” he says, “as it
recalls happy old days in the South.”
I was in Kalgoorlie when Wallace
Brownlow, the singer, kept the principal
pub. In the saloon bar a fellow con-
fided to me that in the early days of
Coolgardie he had made spending money
as a postboy by tearing wrappers off
Bulletins and “Australasians” and sell-
ing them at up to 2s. per copy. That
dishonest individual became wealthy.
Mention of the West recalls Captain
Knight-Smith, who in the slime year was
president of the Miners’ Union and J.P.
in Coolgardie and in Klondike. When
the Boer War started Knight-Smith
raised a contingent for South Africa,
and was attached to Smith Dorrien’s staff.
He was an old Botany ped., and The
Bulletin followed him wherever he went.
Old-age and invalid pensions cost
£15,991,782 last year, the rise since 1934
being just on £5,502,800. Payments
mopped up all the receipts from Com-
monwealth income tax (£11,865,000), land
tax (£1,486,800), and estate duty
(£1,909,000) and more. Further de-
mands for an increase in the pension-
rate are certain unless the Government
pays particular interest to the cost of
living ; and they will be hard to refuse
if taxes force it up.


GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & GO., LTD.
( Incorporated, in Victoria, 1893.)
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
FAT STOCK SALESMEN.
GENERAL MERCHANTS.
SUPPLIERS OF ALL FARM AND STATION
REQUISITES.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
526 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
With Offices in
ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH and SYDNEY,
and numerous Country Branches.
Also in London.
AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
WESTERN ASSURANCE COMPANY.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Queensland, 1895.
1. Operations confined to Australia.
2. All the Company’s Funds are
invested in the Commonwealth.
3. It transacts all classes of Assur-
ance including Whole-of-life—
Endowment s—C ombined
Contracts —Annuities.
4. Assets exceed £2,000,000.
Head Office:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING,
Hunter and Bligh Streets,
Sydney.
Branch Offices:
Brisbane,
Melbourne,
Adelaide.
PERSONAL AND LEGAL MEMORIES
(By J. WOOLF.)
MY association with The Bulletin
dates from 1883, and it has been
intimate as well as professional.
I have known all the editors,
Archibald, Traill, Edmond, S. H. Prior
and Webb; all the general managers,
from William Macleod to Ken Prior ; all
the staff artists, I think—May, Hopkins,
Vincent, Norman Lindsay, Low, Leason
and Scorfield, at any rate ; and all the
members of the Melbourne staff from
the time of Edmund Fisher and Eugenia
Stone (who became Lady Doughty) to
that of Mervyn Skipper and Miss
O’Brien. Conductors of the Red Page
and the Wild Cat column —I have been
acquainted with all.
Macleod was a warm friend. He
painted in oils my portrait and that of
my late wife. John Longstaff said it was
the best bit of work Macleod had done
and showed his genius as a painter—he
was a fine sculptor as well. On another
occasion I went with the Macleods to
Phillip Island, and while there he painted
in water-colors a seascape which I am
presenting to the Bulletin Art Gallery.
A mutual friend was Frank Coffee,
of McNeill and Coffee, who published
the “Picturesque Atlas” —a marvellous
production. Macleod was the manager
of the “Picturesque Atlas” company and
its principal artist. I remember calling
on him in 1885 at the co.’s premises at
the corner of Wynyard Square and
Margaret-street, immediately behind
Pfahlerts Hotel. Coffee was with me, and
he showed us round. It was six months
before the final distribution of the fort-
nightly parts, and expenditure was
already £320,000. Cost to subscribers
was ten guineas exclusive of binding—
three guineas for cloth and five guineas
for morocco. Macleod said they had
66,000 signed orders.
But subscribers raised objections to
the canvassing methods employed, and
the establishment of leagues to defend
payment for balances due led to heavy
and costly litigation. Macleod sub-
sequently became liquidator, and I helped
him to wind up the company. The
accounts just balanced.
The “Picturesque Atlas” was not a
Bulletin venture, though, in the Bulle-
tin spirit, the best available artists and
writers in Australia were employed in its
production.
For The Bulletin I have de-
fended various libel cases, including
claims which never went into court. In
such cases I was able to satisfy the
claimants that they would not succeed.
JOSEPH WOOLF—“Joe” to Melbourne
for upwards of half a century.
One of the most interesting libel cases
was the Atacama action. The Bulletin
in a leader had denounced the Marine
Board for permitting rich shipowners and
coal proprietors to send a ship to sea
which sank with all hands ; and the
aggrieved parties claimed £lO,OOO
damages.
For about six months William Mac-
leod collected evidence in support of the
statements in the article. The pleadings
were sent to me in Melbourne, and I
raised certain objections. These I re-
peated when, by request, I went to
Sydney and saw Archibald at 214
George-street. Lunch at Chinery’s in
Hunter-street found me still raising ob-
jections, and afterwards when I drove
with Macleod in a hansom down Castle-
reagh-street to the Bulletin office I had
become angry. No good!
I cooled off at the Athenaeum Club,
Archibald was a member, and I had been
proposed in 1888 by Edmund Barton.
What a club that was! Other members
were B. R. Wise, K.C., who had been
Attorney-General at 28 ; Reg Broomfield,
Coyle, Alexander • Gordon (afterwards
Justice of the Supreme Court), Bertie
Dibbs, Jaques and W. G. Parrish.
Among the writing-men were Curnow,
editor of the “Herald” ; Bryant, editor
of the “Telegraph”, Decker, editor of
the “Evening News,” and Sam Cook, of
the “Herald.” Political members were
J. F. Burns, E. W. O’Sullivan, Mark
Morton and Inglis ; and also to be found
at the Athemeum were Henry Gorman,
Robert Hardie, Frank Coffee and
R. H. S. White, father-in-law of W. P.
Cullen (afterwards Chief Justice). License
and members were taken over by the
Imperial Service Club, which was formed
during the Great War.
The Atacama case came before Chief
Justice Darley and a jury of 12. The
C.J. said there was no defence and it
was merely a matter for assessment of
damages. Julian Salomons, K.C.,
strongly controverted this, but failed to
convince the Judge that the pleadings
allowed The Bulletin to defend the
case. However, the Judge decided to
grant an adjournment subject to The
Bulletin paying the costs of the day,
which amounted to a considerable sum.
The pleadings were altered, and The
Bulletin won the case with costs.
Amongst interesting libel cases and
claims I conducted for The Bulletin
was one brought by a lady who appeared
on the stage in ancient Grecian costume,
Hal Gye had drawn her in the “chiton'
—an abbreviated Greek tunic. Ink run-
ning on the zinc block during the final
printing caused a minor catastrophe
which infuriated the lady, but convulsed
Melbourne, the issue being sold out. A
claim for £2OOO damages was made,
Luckily I was able to see the original
drawing by Hal Gye, which was blame-
less. Blameless also was the first im-
pression from the etcher. After corre-
spondence and production of drawing,
zinc block and first proof, the claim was
withdrawn. Macleod sent a letter of
regret to the claimant, but, on my
advice, no costs were paid.
Another claim in Melbourne was by
the secretary of a company at Nauru.
who suggested £2OOO damages for alleged
misrepresentation of an action connected
with the seizure of the steamship Zambesi
b y a British man-o'-war on the first day
of th ? war-later she was condemned
as a lawful prize in the Vice-Admiralty
Court, Sydney. Again a letter of regret,
wr jq en by Macleod’s son Norman, who
died untimely, satisfied the claimant
without any further procedure or pay-
ment of damages and costs.
Hore-Belisha has become “Horeb-
Elisha” to his numerous enemies, some of
whom are spreading themselves in Sydney.
“Horeb-Elisha” is ingenious but inaccu-
rate. The ex-Minister’s father was a cer-
tain Jack Belisha, a Jew, and a very
good fellow by all accounts. His widow
married Sir Charles Fraser Adair Hore,
son of a British Army officer and an
Anglican clergyman’s daughter, and him-
self an eminent civil servant. Sir Charles
helped the young fellow, and the young
fellow, grateful to both father and step-
father, gave himself both names. Much
the same thing has been done by Aus-
tralians of some distinction who are pure
Gentile.


COOL
1/1/i
St* 4 .*
so'-
s on
ot"
cv
1
m
93y
i
■
mm
m
i
: X r .
m m
%:
K l
ti i $
r - ■'
09
OV
oz
■
03
OS
w
09
09
OE?
00
£Ol
on
DZI
SOLTINE CLOTH is made only from
Q Pure Australian Wool.
SOLTINE CLOTH keeps the wearer
0 cool throughout the Summer.
SOLTINE CLOTH, having more
0 “twist” in its fine worsted yarn than
other cloths, will not crease or crush.
SOLTINE
CLOTH
£kvd!(L
BORN SHORN WOVEN AND WORN IN AUSTRALIA.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA


Congratulations
“ THE AGE,” Melbourne’s leading
morning daily, takes pleasure in
extending hearty congratulations to
“The Bulletin” on the occasion of its
DIAMOND JUBILEE.
Now in its eighty-sixth year
“THE AGE” looks back on a
career unique amongst Australian
newspapers for its active part in
moulding the foundations of the
Commonwealth, and, like “The
Bulletin,” it has established for itself
a distinctive place in Australian
journalism.
In their respective spheres, “THE
AGE” and “The Bulletin” have a
high reputation for fearless and out-
spoken journalism, which gains in
vigour with the passing of the years.
DAVID SYME & CO
233 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
ThE First Dad and Dave
Starting the Selection
Dad and Dave were introduced to “Bulletin” readers on April 6,
1895. Characters and setting have been borrowed on many occasions
since, but imitators have singularly failed to improve on the original.
Though written so long ago, the sketches retain their freshness,
and as a recorder of the homely pathos and humor of the settler’s
life ‘‘Steele Rudd” (Arthur Hoey Davis) has had no peer.
IT’S twenty years ago now since we
settled on the Creek. Twenty years!
I remember well the day we came
from Stanthorpe, on Jerome’s dray —
eight of us, and all the things—beds,
tubs, a bucket, the two cedar chairs with
the pine bottoms and backs that Dad
put in them, some pint-pots and old
Crib. It was a scorching hot day, too
•—talk about thirst! At every creek we
came to we drank till it stopped running.
Dad didn’t travel up with us: he had
gone some months before to put up
the house and dig a waterhole. It was
a slabbed house, with shingled roof, and
space enough for two rooms; but the
partition wasn’t up. The floor was
earth ; but Dad had a mixture of sand
and fresh cow-dung which he used to
keep it level. About once every month
he would put it on ; and everyone had
to keep outside that day till it was dry.
There were no locks on the doors: pegs
were put in to keep them fast at night;
and the slabs were not very close to-
gether, for we could easily see through
them a person coming on horseback.
Joe and 1 used to play at counting the
stars through the cracks in the roof.
The day after we arrived Dad took
mother and us out to see the paddock
and the flat on the other side of the
gully that he was going to clear for
cultivation. There was no fence round
the paddock, but he pointed out on a
tree the surveyor’s marks, showing the
boundary of our ground. It must have
been fine land, the way Dad talked about
it! There was very valuable timber on
it, too, so he said ; and he showed us a
place, among some rocks on a ridge,
where he was sure gold would be found,
but we weren’t to say anything about it.
Joe and I went back that evening and
turned over every stone on the ridge,
but didn’t find any gold.
No mistake, it was a real wilderness —
nothing but trees, “goannas,” dead tim-
ber, and bears ; and the nearest house
Dwyer’s—was three miles away. I
often wonder how the women stood it
the first few years ; and I can remember
how mother, when she was alone, used
to sit on a log, where the lane is now,
and cry for hours. Lonely! It was lonely.
Dad soon talked about clearing a
couple of acres and putting in corn —
all of us did, in fact—till the work com-
menced. It was a delightful topic before
we started ; but in two weeks the clusters
of fires that illumined the whooping bush
in the night, and the crash upon crash
of the big trees as they fell, had lost
all their poetry.
We toiled and toiled clearing those
four acres, where the haystacks are now
standing, till every tree and sapling that
grew there was down. We thought then
the worst was over ; but how much we
knew of clearing land! Dad was never
tired of calculating and telling us how
much the crQp would fetch if the ground
could only be got ready in time to put it
in ; so we labored the harder.
With our combined male and female
forces and the aid of a sapling lever we
rolled the thundering big logs together
in the face of Hell’s own fires; and
when there were no logs to roll it was
tramp, tramp, the day through, gathering
armfuls of sticks, while the clothes clung
to our backs with a muddy perspiration.
Sometimes Dan and Dave (they were the
oldest—l 7 and 15) would sit in the shade
beside the billy of water and gaze at
the small patch that had taken so long
to do ; then they would turn hopelessly
to what was before them and ask Dad
(who would never take a spell) “What
was the use of thinking of ever getting
such a place cleared?” And when Dave
wanted to know why Dad didn’t take up
a place on the plain, where there were
no trees to grub and plenty of water,
Dad would cough as if something was
sticking in his throat, and then curse
terribly about the squatters and political
jobbery. He would soon cool down
though, and get hopeful again.
“Look at the Dwyers,” he’d say;
“from ten acres of wheat they got £7O
last year, besides feed for the fowls;
they’ve got corn in now, and there’s
only the two.”
It wasn’t only burning-off! Whenever
there came a short drought the water-
hole was sure to run dry ; then it was
take turns to carry water from the
springs—about two miles. We had no
draught-horse, and if we had there was
neither water-cask, trolly nor dray ; so
we humped it—and talk about a drag!
By the time you returned, if you hadn’t
drained the bucket, in spite of the big
drink you’d take before leaving the
springs, more than half would certainly
be spilt through the vessel bumping
against your leg every time you stumbled
in the long grass. Somehow, none of
us liked carrying water. We would sooner
keep the fires going all day without
dinner than do a trip to the springs.
One hot, thirsty day it was Joe’s turn
with the bucket, and he managed to
get back without spilling very much. We
were all pleased because there was
enough left after the tea had been made
to give each a drink. Dinner was nearly
over ; Dan had finished, and was taking
it easy on the sofa, when Joe said:
“I say, Dad, what’s a nater-dog like?”
Dad told him. “Yellow, sharp ears and
bushy tail.”
“Those must ’a’ bin some then thet I
seen —I don’t know ’bout the bushy tail
—all th’ hair had corned off.” “Where’d
y’ see them, Joe?” we asked. “Down
’n the springs floating about —dead.”
Then everyone seemed to think hard
and look at the tea. I didn’t want any
more. Dan jumped off the sofa and went
outside ; and Dad looked after mother.
* * * *
At last the four acres —excepting the
biggest of the ironbark trees and about
50 stumps —were pretty well cleared;
and then came a problem that couldn’t
be worked out on a draught-board. I
have already said we hadn’t any draught-
horses ; indeed, the only thing on the
selection like a horse was an old “tuppy”
mare that Dad used to straddle. The
date of her foaling went further back
than Dad’s, I believe ; and she was
shaped something like an alderman. We
found her one day in about 18 inches
of mud, with both eyes picked out by
(be crows, and her hide bearing evidence
that a feathery tribe had made a roost
of her carcass. Plainly, there was no
chance of breaking up the ground with
her help. We had no plough, either ;
how then was the corn to be put in?
That was the question.
Dan and Dave sat outside in the corner
of the chimney, both scratching the
ground with a chip and not saying any-
thing. Dad and mother sat inside talking
it over. Sometimes Dad would get up
and walk round the room shaking his
head ; then he would kick old Crib for
lying under the table. At last mother
struck something which brightened him
up, and he called Dave.
“Catch Topsy and” He paused
because he remembered the old mare
was dead.
“Run over .and ask Mister Dwyer to*
lend me three hoes.”
Dave went; Dwyer lent the hoes ; and
the problem was solved. That was how
we started.
The Wedding at Our Selection
KATE was soon to be married. Joe
said that must have been why
Sandy Taylor had come so often
and had carried wood for the
girls. We talked a lot about the wed-
ding, and were very pleased it would be
held in our own house, because all of
us could go then. None of us could
work for thinking of it —even Dad
seemed to forget that the corn hadn’t
come up and that Mick Brosnan was
going to summon him for half the fence.
Mother said we would want plenty of
water for the people to drink, so Sandy
yoked his horse to the slide, and he, Dad
and Joe started for the springs.
The slide was the fork of a tree, alias
a wheel-less water-trolley. The horse was
hitched to the butt-end, and a batten
nailed across the prongs kept the cask
from slipping off going uphill. Sandy
led the way and carried the bucket; Dad
went ahead to clear the track of stones ;
and Joe straddled the cask to keep her
steady.
It always took three to work the slide.
The water they brought was a little
thick —Old Anderson had been down and
stirred it up pulling a bullock out; but
Dad put plenty ashes in the cask to
clear it.
Each of us had his own work to do.
Sandy knocked the partition down and
decorated the place with boughs ; mother
and the girls cooked and covered the
walls with newspapers, and Dad gathered
cowdung and did the floor.
* * * *
Two days before the wedding. All
of us were still working hard. Dad was
up to his armpits in a bucket of mixture,
with a stack of cow-dung on one side
and a heap of sand and the shovel on
the other. Dan and Joe were burning
a cow that had died just in front of the
house, and Sandy had gone to town for
his tweed trousers.
A man in a long black coat, white
collar and new leggings rode up, spoke
to Dad and got off. Dad straightened up
and looked awkward, with his arms hang-
ing wide and the mixture dripping from
them. Mother came out. The cove
shook hands with her, but he didn’t with
Dad. They went inside —not Dad, who
washed himself first.
Dan sent Joe to ask Dad who the cove
was. Dad spoke in a whisper and said
he was Mr. Somebody, the clergyman
who was to marry Kate and Sandy. Dan
whistled and piled more wood on the
dead cow. Mother came out and called Dan
and Joe. Dan wouldn’t go, but sent Joe.
Dan threw another log on the cow,
then thought he would see what was
going on inside.
He stood at the window and looked
in. He couldn’t believe his eyes at first,
and put his head right in. There were
Dad, Joe and the lot of them down on
their marrow-bones saying something
after the parson. Dan was glad that
he didn’t go in.
How the parson prayed! Just when
he said “lead us not into temptation,”
the big kangaroo-dog slipped in and
grabbed all the fresh meat on the table
while their backs were turned ; but Dan
managed to kick him in the ribs at the
door. Dad groaned and seemed very
restless.
When the parson had gone Dad said
that what he had read about “reaping
the same as you sow” was all rot, and
spoke about the time when we sowed two
bushels of barley in the lower paddock
and got a big stack of rye from it.
* * * *
The wedding was on a Wednesday,
and at three o’clock in the afternoon.
Most of the people came before dinner;
the Hamiltons arrived just after break-
fast. Talk of drays! The little paddock
couldn’t hold them.
Jim Mullins was the only one who
came in to dinner; the others mostly
sat on their heels in a row and waited
in the shade of the wire-fence. The
parson was the last to come, and as he
passed in he knocked his head against
the kangaroo-leg hanging under the ver-
andah. Dad saw it swinging, and said
angrily to Joe: “Didn’t I tell you to
take that down this morning?”
Joe unhooked it and said: “But if 1
hang it anywhere else the dog’ll get it.”
Dad tried to laugh at Joe, and said
loudly: “And what else is it for?” Then
he bustled Joe off before he could answer
him again.
Joe didn’t understand.
Then Dad said (putting the leg in a
bag): “Do you want everyone to know
we eat it, you?”
Joe understood.
The ceremony commenced. Those who
could squeeze inside did so —the others
looked in at the window and through
the cracks in the chimney.
Mrs. McDoolan led Kate out of the
back room ; then Sandy rose from the
fireplace and stood beside her. Every-
one thought Kate looked very nice ; and
orange-blossoms! You’d think she was
an orange-tree with a new bed-curtain
thrown over it. Sandy looked well, too,
in his snake-belt and new tweeds ; but
he seemed uncomfortable when the pin
that Dave put in the back of his collar
came out.
The parson didn’t take long ; and how
they scrambled and tumbled over each
other at the finish! Charley Mace said
that he got the first kiss ; Big George said
he did ; and Mrs. McDoolan was certain
she would have got it only for the baby.
Fun! there was fun! The room was
cleared and they promenaded for a dance
—Sandy and Kate in the lead. They
continued promenading until one of the
well-sinkers called for the concertina—
of course, we hadn’t one, but Jim Burke
jumped on his horse and went home for
his.
Dance! they did dance —until sunrise.
But unless you were dancing you couldn’t
stay inside, because the floor broke up,
and talk about dust!—before morning
the room was like a drafting-yard.
* * * *
Sandy had no selection then, so he and
Kate lived with us, and occupied the back
room —Dan and Dave slept in the front
room, on the floor. Dad did up the back
room for Sandy and Kate—stuffed rags
in all the cracks, and hung some bag-
ging for a door. It served nearly as well
as a wooden door, and made less noise,
though it didn’t keep little Bill from look-
ing in.
It was a great wedding ; and, though
years have since passed, everyone says
still it was the best they were ever at.


ESTABLISHED.
183 4
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
: B
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES: THROUGHOUT
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
QUEENSLAND AND AT CANBERRA, A.C.T.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
LONDON BANKERS: THE BANK OF ENGLAND,
WESTMINSTER BANK, LTD., BARCLAY'S BANK, LTD.,
NATIONAL PROVINCIAL BANK, LTD.
ĥ
h
ĥ
R
s!7
&
an
3\
wfssaaSL:
£3*
The ORIENTAL HOTEL
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
desires to intimate to their friends and patrons that a change of Manager has
taken place. Mr. J. L. Cleary comes to the “Oriental” with many years of hotel
experience, and will do everything possible to add to the comfort of guests, and ma\e
their stay interesting and pleasant.
Some changes will be noticed by patrons who have not visited
the Hotel during the year —a new main entrance has been built,
while the old attractive street portico has been retained. A
new modern elevator has been installed and jive shops have
been built with a Collins Street frontage, and include a Chemist,
Dry Cleaner and “Netas” Ladies Wear and Exclusive Gift 1
Shop. There is also a Ladies Hairdressing Salon on the First
Floor, Miniature Camera House and Gentlemen s Hairdresser
on the Ground Floor of the Hotel.
fl
w
9i
*J
v?
N'
iTv
j
TARIFF:— Rooms with hot and cold water, bedside lamp and Telephone, including Table d Hote Breakfast, 10/6 and
12/6 per day. With private bath, 16/-. Inclusive tariff, 20/- to 25/- per day.
The cuisine is unsurpassed and
under the control of a Chef of
European and Continental experi-
ence. A la carte and table d’hote
services.
Special facilities for weddings and
other functions.
SI
* R
SP&
p
m
**>.
mZMm;
V&M
rv?*»
ass
JL..J
life- ,
A conveniently-situated Garage
operated by the City Motor
Service, Ltd., adjoins the Hotel,
where special facilities are available
for garaging and servicing cars.
Telegraphic Address:
“Oriental Hotel, Melbourne.
Telephone:
Central 4980 (7 lines).


Cut the cost of your
boy's Life Assurance
IN HALF!
WHEN your lad reaches the marrying age he will want to
join the A.M.P. and assure his life. Most young men do.
At 26 the half-yearly premium on an A.M.P. Policy for £5OO
(payable on his death) will be £5/13/9.
If you start a policy for him now, when he is 14, the half-
yearly premium will be only £4, equal to 3/ 1 a week. You could
take out a £7OO policy for him now for about the same annual
premium as he will need to pay for £5OO when he is 26, and by 26
the Policy will have had bonuses added for a period of twelve
years 1
You could afford 3/1 a week to give your boy this “leg up
the ladder of life,” couldn’t you?
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send a man to talk this over
with you. If you prefer, ask that we send you a copy of a new
book, “Peace of Mind.” Write to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A, W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout All States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Asvertisers Sixty Years Since
THERE was only a page of adver-
tisements in the first Bulletin, and
ihey were all small ; 60 column-
inches altogether. Among the origi-
nal advertisers were “Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Haymarket,” who were run-
ning a sale of “Forty Thousand Pounds’
Worth of Seasonable Drapery, all new
goods bought in England. The A.M.P.,
ANTHONY HORDERN.
Born in Victoria in 1846, he entered his
father’s business in 1863. He and his
brother Samuel were the proprietors in
1880.
which was about to transfer its quarters
to the building that still houses it, “the
principal elevations to Pitt and Bond
streets entirely of the best Pyrmont
stone,” came in on March 13, 1880. So
The Bulletin has from the beginning
been in friendly association with two
great Australian concerns.
The Pitt-street Hordern drapery store
was another original advertiser. So was
Adams’s Hotel. But most of the busi-
nesses advertised have long since dis-
appeared from the Sydney landscape.
George Adams was then a newcomer
to the city in which, for one reason and
another, he was to make an endurng
name. His advertisement is worth re-
printing.
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
Pitt Street.
George Adams
(late of Kiama),
wishes to inform his friends and the
public generally that he has succeeded
Mr. W. J. O'Brien
in the above old-established Sporting
Hotel, and trusts by keeping none but the
bes\ brands of
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS
to merit a continuance of the support so
liberally bestowed on his predecessor.
X X G-A. proposes making important
X changes so as to afford
THE SPORTING PATRONS
every convenience and satisfaction.
Also Gentlemen visiting the Metropolis.
N.B. —Night Porter.
G. Adams,
Proprietor.
Another advertisement, printed at a dis-
creet distance, conveyed the intelligence
that a Mr. E. Jones, of Tattersall’s Hotel,
was running a Sydney Cup Consultation,
2000 members at One Pound each. Mr.
Jones is forgotten, and Mr. Adams has
gone to his account; but his soul
marches on.
A more famous tavern in those days
was
PUNCH’S HOTEL,
King and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
At this well-known and popular Hostelry
Wines, Spirits and Ales of the finest
brands can be obtained Retail or Wholesale.
Table d’hote from 12 to 3.
First-class Billiard Table.
London, Melbourne, Queensland and
Provincial papers filed.
Jem (not Jim) Punch was a noted
sporting character of the period. Born
at Gosford just a hundred years ago, and
brought up in Sydney, he took to sculling
when a boy, and at sixteen won a race
for amateurs at Balmain, beating Dick
Green, an old champion. Before he was
twenty he had become a famous vsater-
man, famous not only for his prowess
in races in skiffs, outriggers, dinghies
and watermen’s boats, but for his will-
ingness to pull night birds from Circular
Quay to Manly for a crown.
Deciding that there was no future for
a jolly young waterman. Jem invested
his savings in the City Wine Vaults in
George-street, opposite Jamieson-street,
and afterwards in the hotel which bore
his name, and which, before and after
his death, was the favorite haunt of
scullers, their backers and admirers in the
golden age of sculling.
Midway through the ’seventies, Punch
became the patron of Ned Trickett, a
big Parramatta River quarryman who had
shown some talent as an oarsman, and
decided to take him to England and
challenge for the championship of the
world, then held by Joseph Sadler. An
excellent judge and instructor, he coached
Trickett until the latter had become an
accomplished oarsman, as well as being
as strong as a bull. Trickett had no
social graces. He was so tongue-tied that
an English sporting paper nicknamed him
“Sir Saturnine Taciturn.” Punch, on the
other hand, could hold his own in any
J. C. WILLIAMSON.
He was 34 in 1880, when the sketch
was made.
company. He made a hit with the sport-
ing press and with the old nobility.
The match was made, Sadler v.
Trickett, for the championship of the
world and £lOOO a side. For the Aus-
tralian,. Punch engaged Harry Kelly,
esteemed the best trainer in England,
and saw to his charge’s diet, lodging and
habits with religious care. He found
time nevertheless to continue his explora-
tions among the old nobility, and became
friendly with the Duke of Beaufort, then
at the head of the sporting interest in
England. A conversation between the
interesting pair was preserved:
Duke: Mr. Punch, what of this race?
Is the Australian kangaroo to whip the
British lion?
Jem: Well, my lord, I don’t often open
my mouth to fill other people’s ; but they
say you are a good sort, not likely to
blab to the books, and I don’t mind laying
you on to a good thing. I’m sure we
shall win. Put a thousand on it, my lord.
Duke: Ah, yes, Punch; but even we
dukes haven’t always thousands with which
to back fancies’ in boatraces.
Jem: Then, my lord, pop the family
plate and put it on. It’s all over, bar
accidents.
The race took place on the Thames
on June 27, 1876, and, as an exuberant
chronicler put it, “Trickett lowered the
proud flag of England’s representative
amid the plaudits of millions. On the
news of victory being received in Sydney,
the streets presented the appearance of
Rome during the carnival, and on their
return the victors were accorded some
such a triumph as awaited a Roman
emperor who had conquered a province.”
But Trickett was beaten for the cham-
pionship by Hanlan, and at the end of
1880 Punch was in his grave in the
old Catholic cemetery at Petersham.
A brief illness had carried him off. -He
left over £30,000 to his mother and six
brothers, having invested shrewdly in
Pitt-street property —he owned the site
of Hoffnung’s store, recently demolished
to make way for the G.P.O. extension.
Most of the brothers were publicans;
one kept the Captain Cook, the last port
of call for barrackers footing it to the
Sydney C.G.
LARRY FOLEY.
“Champion muscular Christian of Aus-
tralia,” he was described in B. 10/6/’82.
His two fights with Sandy Ross are
famous in pugilistic history, and of his
bout with Abe Hicken, whom he
beat in a field fight, “II miles from
Echuca,” it is recorded that £20,000 was
staked, and that “several bishops laid
more than a trifle.”
And there was
LAWRENCE FOLEY,
Champion of Australia,
UNITED STATES HOTEL,
Corner Riley and William Streets,
Woolloomooloo,
Begs to inform his numerous friends and
the public that he is now in possession of
the above Hotel, and that the business will
be carried on under his own immediate
supervision. He will be glad to see his
old friends and as many new ones as are
in want of a glass of spirits, wine or beer
of a quality not to be surpassed in the
colony.
L. Foley will continue to give instruction
on moderate terms in the Art of Self-
Defence in the large Athletic Hall adjoining
the above Hotel.
Larry was a real champion, and as
an instructor in the Art of Self-defence
Australia has never had his peer. Jack-
son, Fitzsimmons, Jim Hall and “Griffo”
were among his pupils. Another cham-
pion who had an advertisement in that
issue was J. C. Williamson, who was
playing “Kerry” and “Arrah-Na-Pogue”
at the Royal with Maggie Moore. Wil-
liamson cut up for £160,000, and those
who knew what he had done for the
Australian theatre did not begrudge him
a penny of his fortune.
JEM PUNCH.
“In him were blended many amiable and
many vigorous qualities; he was genial
and generous, shrewd and energetic.” So
it way written when he died in December,
1880.
And in that first issue of The Bulletin
J. Pottie, Veterinary Surgeon to the Gov-
ernment of N.S.W., advertised the virtues
of Scottish Highland Oil
for human use, curing all kinds of Wounds,
Bruises, Blows or Eruptions of the Skin
in all parts of the Body, Head, Hands or
Feet, and removes Warts and Excrescences:
applied to the Hands and Face during
Summer it will keep away flies, mosquitoes
and venomous spiders, etc., and may be
easily washed off in the morning.
Scottish Highland Oil removes Lumbago,
Rheumatism, • Neuralgia, Stiff Joints,
Sprains, Enlarged - Glands, Swollen Legs
and Feet, Chilblains, Bunions, Warts and
Excrescences. Prevents the consequences
of exposure in diggers, shepherds, carriers,
and such as must encounter damp. But its
most astonishing result, and that which
distinguishes it, is its power to prevent
a recurrence of the diseases it cures.
Pottie’s Scottish Highland Oil seems
to have gone off the market. Fortu-
nately, Johnnie Walker, White Horse,
King George, Dewar’s and the rest re-
main.


V
\
Ci
7SP.
V«
One of AUSTRALIA'S
MOST IMPORTANT
INDUSTRIES
m
HERE is little need for stating that wool production is
Australia’s number one primary industry, for it is well known
that Australia is the world’s greatest wool producing country.
But today not only does Australia produce wool, she also
produces wool yarns and fabrics, too, of equal qualities and
in many cases of superior qualities to those of overseas
manufacturers. Australia also supplies materials for export as
well as providing the best for Australians themselves.
Yarra Falls, Limited, stands in the lead for enterprise,
progress and achievement.
Established in 1917 —the record of Yarra Falls, Limited, is
one of outstanding progress, and today, with its paid-up capital
of with its using of 18,000 bales of wool per annum
(approximately worth per week), its production of
2,500,0001 b. of yarn and 1,500,000 yards of high-grade cloths
per annum, it is justly rated as operating one of Australia s
most important industries.
Yarra Falls Mills are the largest Textile Mills in the Southern
Hemisphere, covering a floor space of over 12 acres, and with
1550 employees on the payroll.
At Yarra Falls Mills the best types of Australian-grown pure
wools are converted into yarns and fabrics, including Worsted
Knitting and Weaving Yarns, Twills and Fancy Worsted
Suitings, Venetians, Baratheas, Covert Coatings, Wool Crepes
and Wool Georgettes as well as large quantities of the better
type of fabric required for Defence purposes.
In piece-dyed fabrics Yarra Falls have perfected 1050 shades
of delicate variations of toning.
In “dyed-in-the-wool” yarns they have produced no less than
1600 solid shades with combinations giving 5600 tonings.
Every step of the cloth maker’s art is followed through at
Yarra Falls Mills until the finished cloth—quality, design and
colour —is equal to the world’s best.
Wii*
X. '\
> Vt
f.-»V
Ku>
<>
»/'y ,H
YARRA FALL*
$ ■
LIMITED
ABBOTSFORD
VICTORIA
MANUFACTURERS OF
WORSTED YARNS
AND FABRICS
Always Specify
YARRA FALLS
Materials


PRINCIPAL OFFICE,
316 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
A BIG STAKE IN
THE COUNTRY!
NEW SOUTH WALES,
14 Marlin Place,
Sydney.
FOUNDED IN 1873, The
Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society is now entering
its Si x t y-s eve n t h year.
Throughout that long period
it has been in the forefront
as an upholder of sound
principles of Life Assurance.
Holding firmly to such prin-
ciples it has progressed
steadily from year to year
despite the incidence of
wars, pestilence and depres-
sions.
jlfe
m t
M
ppi» 1H mtiiiiM!
in ii
tvm
AUSTRALIA,
St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
ASSETS £23,781,017
SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
45 King William Street,
Adelaide.
THE FUNDS OF the
Society are invested' solely
within the British Empire
—the greatest proportion
in Australia. They are
invested with the utmost
care; sound security being
a rigid requirement.
Amongst the Society’s
assets are the magnificent
buildings erected in the
Capital Cities—not only
adorning these cities but
providing a profitable
source of revenue to the
Society.
IS i* Si
11
NEW ZEALAND,
Customhouse Quay,
Wellington.
Claims Paid £28,744,926
i« mi,
m i... nmmi’nn hm.,
jii « ifCllMmllßjK'.gln.v
111 UfffMHlUlMtMfiii
‘ Itttii II« rrtViiu iiini
Hi ii immu* ik» ** 11,115
mmm
mr
QUEENSLAND,
289-291 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
IN SIXTY-SIX years the
Society has paid out the
huge amount stated above
i n satisfaction of the
contracts entered into
with its Policyholders.
Every day large sums are
disbursed to Policyholders
or their representatives,
and with the ever-increas-
ing growth of the Society,
these disbursements are
growing larger and yet
larger to the benefit both
of the individual and
the country.
TASMANIA,
18-20 Elizabetji Street,
Hobart.
And in the Union of South Africa and Great Britain.
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
PURELY MUTUAL—WHOLLY FOR ITS POLICYHOLDERS
General Manager: Cecil B. Hearn, F.C.I.S.
THE INVASION
(By “ MAT'S MATE.")
AT first the opposition of a few mis-
guided Australians created a strong
feeling against the bringing out of
Englishmen to take key jobs in
Australia, but just as they had stood
State Parliaments, State Transport Acts,
early closing and rabbits for so long,
so the Australians soon got used to the
idea of taking orders from the invaders.
Fortunately, the thing was done with
that way of avoiding fuss which the
English love. Having persuaded the
Australian national leaders that no Aus-
tralian was fit for anything but to take
orders from an Englishman, it was not
very difficult to ease the Australians out
of the big jobs and slip the English in.
Some of the State politicians kicked
up a shindy when they discovered that
Englishmen had been appointed to their
sinecures, but this difficulty was soon ad-
justed by making the disgruntled ones
Agents-General in various parts of the
world—though ex-Premier Mair, of N. S.
Wales, wrote bitter letters to the press
from London (Canada) alleging he had
been tricked into believing he was to
be sent to the big London.
There was a remarkable increase in
the number of listeners to B-class radio
stations after the 8.8. C. had sent out
its staff to take over the A.B.C. A cer-
tain George Bernard Shaw, who had
displaced Mr. Cleary as chairman, gave
an outline of the new policy in what he
said was to be A.B.C. English in future,
“Yes, sir — I Won them in the Boy Scouts.”
and there was a great deal of applause
from maiden ladies, parlor pinks and in
the vicinity of certain authors’ associa-
tions ; but a great many of the natives
went about asking each other what the
blankard was talking about —a state of
affairs which testified to the low mental
state to which the nation had sunk.
The new English head of St. Peter’s
College, Adelaide, insisted on putting the
students in Eton suits and toppers. Two
students from Pinaroo who went back to
the Mallee for their holidays exerted a
tremendous influence on the farmers and
brush-wallopers. Reports as “reliable”
as those of Madame Tabouis and Mr.
Knickerbocker stated that all hands
downed tools and gathered at Lameroo
to meet the train, escorting it into
Pinaroo with wild shouts and foam
on their whiskers; and when the
two Etonians —pardon, St. Peter’s boys
—emerged, they were surrounded by a
howling mob all clad in toppers and
short jackets, waving slashers, bag-
needles and wire, and crying “Floreat
Etona, my blanky oath! ” After that
they rushed the pubs, and the local
troopers —unimaginative louts! —ran the
college boys in for masquerading. How-
ever, a stern note from the college prin-
cipal to Sir Walter Citrine, who had come
out to be Prime Minister, soon fixed
that up.
One of Sir Walter’s first acts, by the
way, was an attempt to reconcile the
warring Labor parties. After his speech
a storm of booing and jeering broke out,
but Sir W. fixed them with a cold and
supercilious eye. When silence came he
murmured devastatingly “Cads! ” and
walked out.
Sport, of course, suffered. Punters
found it hard to work out how much
they got from 2s. 6d. on a horse that won
at 100 to 8, and the appearance of
costers at Flemington so alarmed the
mounted police horses that the new Eng-
lish master of the Yarraglen and Lily-
dale Hunt Club was called in to restore
or der.
Thousands who turned out to watch
Collingwood and Carlton stood momen-
tarily dumb as two Soccer elevens ran
on to a shortened and square d field. The
howl {hey then emitted was thought by
Tasmanians to be deliberate German in-
terference with a broadcast by Mr.
Anthony Eden, the newly-appointed
chairman of their Apple Board,
There was trouble in the cricket season
owing to some of the Australian profes-
sionais be i n g what they called “narked”
b y having to come out through a different
ga te from that used by the English ama-
teurs. This was soon stopped, the Eng-
lish Board of Control refusing to allow
the bally fellows to play at all.
Outback the habit of English station
managers of planting hedges all over the
p i ace so baffled the merinos that they
gave up growing wool and took to the
bu sh. This didn’t matter much, as there
were plenty of English sheep to take their
places. Kangaroos, forced to hop hedges
every few hundred yards, developed such
a bobbing-up-and-down mechanism that
thousands of them were sold to the
Japanese for the Jack-in-the-box toy
trade. There were a lot of sunburnt
necks at harvest-time when English farm-
hands persisted in wearing tweed caps,
and their use of the two-pronged pitch-
fork in the dry Australian hay caused
much loss of time. Still, you can’t have
a change without some loss, and this was
compensated for because city radio
writers and comic artists could now drop
the mythical Dad and Dave types. They
had real yokels to play with now.
There were many other upsets, of
course ; but generally the Anglicising of
Australia proceeded satisfactorily, though
those Australians who were not at the
war were not wholly won over until the
culminating importation. A small band
had held out grimly for Australianism,
contending with a courage worthy of a
better cause that Australians were the
best men to run Australia. For long
they had been able to point with pride
to one unit in the national life which
remained in Australian hands.
Aye, though Harmsworth controlled
the daily press, though Noel Coward was
A.B.C.’s play editor and Unity Freeman-
Mitford head of the Girl Guides, one
stronghold remained unconquered.
But it fell at length, and on the day the
press triumphantly announced that the
editor of “Punch” was coming out to
edit The Bulletin the last rabid Aus-
tralian filled a 1000-gallon tank full of
beer and plunged to a glorious death,
Australian to the last.
“F.S.”: A. S. Neil, founder of a school
for problem children, knew how to
handle would-be suicides (B. 17 /1 / ’4O).
On one occasion he was called up
to a bedroom to prevent a new patient
jumping out of a top-storey window.
His terrified parents were standing in the
room imploring their son not to do it.
Neil walked in and said: “Go on, jump!
I’ve never seen anybody jump from that
window before. I’d like to see you
do it.” The boy climbed back and never
again attempted to tyrannise over Neil
in that manner.


\'\W\
016 d
// /»
$
*
\
«*>
<ss>
•A
+<
SHIN 0081 AINO^E?
vm/aisnv 01 vmvwns
0
0
m
m
X
§
s
X
tp-
»
cF
■/|r
m
e
_2
X
A
o
SI
H
WITH the importance of oil supply looming larger in world affairs
than at any previous time in history, much public interest
centres round sources of petroleum and its availability.
Many people believe that Australia depends for the oil and petrol she
needs on American oil fields.
You may therefore learn with surprise that the Super Plume and Plume Motor
Spirits, the Laurel and Voco Power Kerosenes you buy, come from Sumatra—
Australia's nearest source of supply.
Vacuum’s great refinery in Sumatra is'only 1800 miles from the coast
line of Australia. Erected at a cost of over one and a half million pounds,
it is one of the most up-to-date refineries in the world.
Modern tankers, capable of carrying four million gallons, ply between
Sumatra and Australian ports.
Situated right beside the Singapore Naval Base, Vacuums great
refinery serves Australia with products of the highest quality and, at
the same time, places at our very door an oil base of vast importance
to the defence of our Nation.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
PTY.
LTD.
oMcwMrn o£
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
SUPER PLUME ETHYL AND PLUME MOTOR SPIRITS,
MOBILOIL, MOBILGREASE, GARGOYLE LUBRICANTS,
LAUREL AND VOCO POWER KEROSENES, AND OTHER
HIGH QUALITY PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
VACUU
QUALITY PRODUCTS
B.H.P.'s 25th YEAR IN STEEL
From an old contributor: —•
During The Bulletin’s long and
useful reign of 60 years’ continuous pub-
lication it has recorded and commented
upon a cavalcade of events which in the
aggregate form Australia’s history. Settle-
ment, politics, mining, industry and the
man on the land have all been subjected
to The Bulletin’s censure or acclaim.
The long life of the journal speaks
volumes for the fairness of its published
statements. In my memory a staunch
Protectionist policy has been adhered to,
though I believe it was under James
Edmond’s guidance that Protection was
really taken as part of The Bulletin’s
religion.
In the main encouragement has been
given to the enterprising Australian
manufacturer endeavoring to establish
new industries. And it is worth while
recording that in The Bulletin’s sixtieth
year Australia’s greatest manufacturer,
the Broken Hill Proprietary, reaches its
twenty-fifth year of iron and steel pro-
duction (in June).
It is interesting to recall the comment
published in B. 10/6/’l5 after the open-
ing of the B.H.P. Newcastle works.
Few people at that time envisaged the
remarkable potentialities of the B.H.P.’s
entry into the steel-manufacturing busi-
ness :
The B.H.P. Co. ? s steelworks at New-
castle, formally opened last week, are
planned to turn out 150,000 tons a year.
Australia has been importing 400,000 tons.
How much of this 400,000 tons will be
produced in the Commonwealth depends
chiefly upon the protection given to iron
and steel manufacturers. The Newcastle
works are the latest development in the
activities of a company which, albeit for
many years fat and unprogressive, has done
good service to Australia. The company
was the first to start smelting at Broken
Hill, and the ironstone deposits were
acquired to cheapen the costs of smelting.
If zinc-smelting had been a success, the
iron and steel business would not have
been tackled The works to which the
Governor-General gave his blessing last
week are the result of general-manager
Delprat’s travelling with the iron ore in his
mind and bundles of analyses in his pocket.
The paper went on to credit the Broken
Hill mines with the establishment of the
coke industry in Australia. In the early
days German coke was used, as it was
alleged that Australia could not make
coke. Advancing prices made a trial of
Australian coke necessary. In 1915
N.S.W. was producing 300,000 tons of
coke a year, mostly from small coal of
low value previously. Nowadays the
steel industry alone turns out about
1,500,000 tons a year.
When the Newcastle works started
production Australia depended almost
entirely upon overseas manufacturers for
its iron and steel supply, the output of
local steel-makers totalling about 75,000
tons a year. Today the combined out-
put of the B.H.P.’s Newcastle works and
the Kembla works of Australian Iron
and Steel totals 1,500,000 tons a year.
That is nearly four times Australia’s
total imports in 1915, according to The
Bulletin’s paragraph.
An ampler story tells of the young in-
dustry’s struggle to build up an organi-
sation able to meet adequately Australia’s
demand for iron and steel at competitive
prices. Today that position has been
reached. In the process of B.H.P.’s de-
velopment Australia has gained an asset
giving employment to thousands, and
of vital importance in the fostering and
maintaining of secondary industry.
The H p is now a huge ste el-making
organisation with interests in practically
every State. Iron ore comes from Iron
Knob> s A coa i is mined j n the New-
castle district, and limestone comes from
Tasmania; together they make steel at
Newcastle and Port Kembla. The 13
o p en _h e arth furnaces at Newcastle pro-
duce about 18000 tons of steel a week,
jq ow Australian iron and steel are avail-
abje i n this country at a lower price
than is charged for imported steel, duty
f ree .
When one considers the multifarious
uses to which steel in its many forms
j s put, a better realisation of what low-
priced steel means to this country’s
prosperity is gained. And the circum-
stances arising from Australia’s being
a t war set a premium on the economic
value of B.H.P.’s works. The industry
has risen to the occasion, and today no
effort is being spared to supply the iron
and steel so essential to the Empire’s
defence.


THE SUDAN DONKEY
(July 4, -1885).
(The man in the picture was William Bede Dailey, who as Actine-
Premier of N.S.W in 1885, offered the Sudan Coniingent to Britain.
Detractors asserted that the sole achievement of the expedition was
the capture of one donkey.)
AUSTRALIA TO THE RESC
(February 4, 1884).
A serio-comic Phil May drawing, based on a [?]
Loch to the effect that the “Great Powers of E[?]
to the teeth and standing face to face,” and
Country and the Colonies must stand [?]
THE FINAL ROLE.
(March 18, 1918).
DUET, WITH ACCOMPANIMENT OF SIZZLE
(January 10, 1918).
BELT-TIGHTENING, BY BLOCKADE
(March 20, 1917).
THE BIRD THAT CAME [?]
(October 4, 1917)
WAR CARTC[?]
(It will be noticed that some have[?]


Sir Henry
[?] "armed
[?] Mother
ROOST
Is, 1885-1940
[?] suggestion of history repeating itself.)
AFTER THE RELIEF OF MAFEKING
(October 20, 1900).
CROSSING THE ICE
(June 7, 1917).
THE CIRCUS LEAVES FOR HOME
(July 10, 1919).
GUARANTEE TO POLAND
(November 16, 1916).
FAMILY REUNION
(January 10, 1940).


ft
n
I*l
wm
m
liil
m'
m
■
S' x': ; :':
1111
■
Tv:
:SSS
' { * ' ''"***
>' ••:•' -- ... '
' 'X&
7.*.vvCftS
***
.GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD., BROADWAY, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 6506
Without Exception!
THE WHOLE OF THE HUGE RANGE
OF ENGLISH CRAFTSMAN TAILORED
CLOTHING IS SUBJECT TO THE
10% DISCOUNT. THIS INCLUDES:
ENGLISH DRESS WEAR, TOPCOATS,
RAINCOATS, AND LOUNGE SUITS,
WHICH ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
FAMOUS 131 FITTING RANGE.
DEDUCTED
FROM
YOUR BILL
o
*
■
m
*
(d n
OW5>
USUAL PRICE £B/8/-
LESS 10%
£7112
CRAFTSMAN
TAILORED
IN
LONDON
Take advantage of
this unique offer,
which includes
Greys, Fawns and
Navy English
Worsted in a large
number of fittings,
and each garment
is in perfect con-
dition.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
1
If
L ft
£
5 a
.
5a
* U (
J? 3 UlllM
i' ii (Ui n;; »?
I
ftid
H
■ ■
MELBOURNE'S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Silencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: M 4 141 CIO lines) .
:r o
Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man s earning-power, but matures
the life policy. ,
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
ffice directs attention to "The Bulletins criticism (26/1/ 38). Policy-
olders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia : Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST
If not you owe It to yourself and
family to enquire, about ...
FIRST AUSTRALIAN USIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees .•••;{ Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd*
W rite for a free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
SOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
SMOKE-OH!
“The Cossack will take any obstacle at a
gallop, his sabre raised to hew down an im-
aginary foe. His attack is irresistible.”
—Soviet propaganda sheet.
It’s only when the foe ceases to be
imaginary that he isn’t so hot!
“A Los Angeles boy won a fast-talking con-
test by emitting 613 words in 57 seconds.”
When he marries he’ll run second.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Because of the war Government depart-
ments are economising in stationery. Both
sides of the sheet must be used, except in
letters to Ministers.” —News item.
Is that because Ministers refuse to sec
both sides of anything?
►l* 4* 4* 4*
“A wink is as good as a nod,” they say,
But to Jones the remark seems odd;
He winked at a girl when his wife was
near;
Now he’s too sick even to nod.
E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What is the surest cure for snoring?”
— Correspondent.
Insomnia.
4* *l* Hr* 4*
“Farmers complain of noxious weeds. ’
So do smokers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Glamor Is Only a Noun in Hollywood.
—Movie heading.
But a very definite article for all that.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Removing chewing-gum from floors and
carpets of a New York department store keeps
an employee busy all night long.”
— “World’s News.”
Why doesn’t he simply pretend he’s a
customer and take it home on his boots?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One day when he suggested that she might
turn some of the half-used joints she threw
out into hashes or stews, she put on her hat
and left, saying nothing.” —Divorce report.
She wouldn’t even mince words with
him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Simple Remedy.
He read it over again, that volume
entitled Simple Remedies, No question
about it, he was in a bad way. He
couldn’t burke the fact.
Why, he suffered from that feeling of
dizziness often. Also the sharp ache
about the heart; the pain in the back ;
the feeling of fullness after meals ; the
aches in his joints ; the sharp stabbing
pain in the abdomen. Without doubt
he had consumption, liver complaint,
kidney trouble, stone, stomach ulcers,
synovitis, flatulency. In fact, there were
so many complaints which he could feel
that he hardly dared to move lest he
should fall to pieces, drop dead or do
something else that would distress his
relatives and his creditors.
*He groaned in apprehension. Some-
thing would have to be done about it.
He did something. He threw the
patent-medicine ad. book into the rubbish
bin, went out and had four whiskies
and forgot all about it.
H. M.
“The constable made the arrest with com-
mendable quietness and dignity.”
—Sydney daily.
A perfect take-off?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Then there was the chap who thought
that the Tower of Babel was a block of
flats in King’s Cross.
•j*
“It is very hard, a woman battling without
her husband.” — Women’s paper.
But it’s awful a woman battling with
her husband.
“Confidence man tricks sailor.” —News item.
Took away his roll!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He still paid his wife’s bills, but he ignored
her if he met her in the street.”
—“Sunday Sun.
Cut his expenses.
“Look happy, Spike—I Want to send a snap to me sheilah."
“Don’t be a flat foot.” —Beauty column.
Still, we’ve got to have a police force.
4 1 4* + . ,
Least said soonest mended, unless its
a button on a married man’s waistcoat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Minister said there was no reasonable
cause for complaint against the quality of shoes
issued to dole recipients.” —News item.
These people should be used to feeling
the pinch by now.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Then there was George. He never
really believed that yarn about putting
the bends in bananas until it suddenly
struck him that the darned things couldn t
get in themselves.
t
“I am afraid I can only speak with my
legs ."—Dancer Serge Lifar.
So he doesn’t like to bandy words.
4* 4* 4* *i* . ,
“There’s often much heartburning alter
marriage.” — Women’s paper.
Especially if the wife is a bad cook.
4 1 4*
“Dairy Cattle Easier.” — Heading.
It is learned from an unimpeachable
semi-official source that their nervous-
ness was due to the frequency with which
they had been bailed-up and stripped of
all they possessed.
Hollywooed.
Oft had he gazed upon a
Beauteous movie prima donna
And impulsively essayed her hand to earn.
“Will you be my bride?” he pleaded,
And demurely she acceded
On condition he agreed to wait his turn.
SOL.
“Will War Marriages Be for Better or for
Worse?” —“Sunday Sun."
Well, I suppose they’ll be the same
As those in peace’s day —
She’ll take his eye and then his name
And promise to obey.
To fight the foe across the foam
With tears he will depart;
She’ll bravely wait till he comes home
And then the war will start!
P. O. M. C.
Epithalamium.
This day, my love, I make you wife—
O day of merry cheer!
We two can gaily look at life
With hearts devoid of fear.
For wheresoe'er our wedded course
In future years be set,
Remember, darling, a divorce
Is not so hard to get!
T. W. N.
Trials of Nature-lovers.
“According to a naturalist, many people
seem to become suspicious of a man who
takes a keen interest in nature.”
Too true, as I discovered during the
holiday I spent on the Blue Mountains.
I had developed a great interest in
the pilot - bird ( Pycnoptilus floccosus).
Its quaint call, “guinea-a-week, guinea-
a-week,” held an ineffable fascination
for me, and I had heard there were fine
specimens to be seen near the resort I
had selected. My wife, unfortunately,
lacks this beautiful appreciation of our
feathered friends, so, realising that it
would not be fair to drag her along on
expeditions that would bore her im-
mensely, I persuaded her to go to the
seaside with the 10 children. Any nature-
lover worth his salt would make this
sacrifice.
There chanced to be staying at the
same guest-house a former barmaid with
whom I had had some slight acquain-
tance. She was with her husband, a
coarse, large, aggressive individual with
a receding forehead and a bulging chin.
I was delighted ter find that Opal was
an enthusiastic if somewhat amateurish
ornithologist, and so eager was she to
interest her husband also in the science
that one afternoon she persuaded him
to go and see if he could distinguish
the pilot-bird’s call from that of the
cassowary.
He demurred at first, but eventually
went —alone, for his wife pleaded a split-
ting headache. Naturally I did not go
to show him, for, frankly, his lack 01
erudition repelled me.
When he came back, rather earlier
than we had expected, a«nd looking par-
ticularly surly, I was fanning Opal as
she lay in a hammock in a secluded part
of the grounds, and holding her left hand
in mine, for I wished to make sure she
was not feverish.
The look of deep suspicion on the
fellow’s brutal face I found disgusting,
especially as I was merely explaining to
Opal why the order Timaliidce, compris-
ing the ground-, field- and scrub-wrens,
was confined to south-east Australia.
As he came up to us he barked at
his wife “What’s this quarter-witted,
herrin’-gutted ape maggin’ to y’ about?”
Without waiting for her to answer, for
women don’t handle these things well, I
coldly informed him that we were in the
midst of an interesting discussion on
ornithological problems.
“Oh!” he said in his rumbling voice,
“at lunch it was birds, and now it’s this
orniwhatsthis. I suppose next time I see
y’ hangin’ round her it’ll be inseks. Now
hop it, an’ if I catch y’ windbaggin’ about
birds or anything else to me missus I’ll
job yer.”
I went, for I felt that if I
stopped a minute longer my
rising gorge would force me to
give the fellow the thrashing he
so richly deserved.
Now the acme of a true bird-
lover’s delight is to observe
birds’ nocturnal habits. Also, it
had long been my conviction
that the pilot-bird’s call pos-
sesses its most musical quality
after nightfall. There was a
gully, little frequented, a mile or
so from the house; so that
night, which was ideally dark
for the purpose, I whispered to
Opal as she came out from
dinner, and while her husband
was enjoying his fourth helping
of pudding, that I would initiate
her into a new delight.
In striking contrast to her
gross husband, no suspicion of
ulterior motive crossed her
mind, for she trustfully placed
her hand in mine and, unseen —
for more than two persons
might have ruined everything by
disturbing these shy birds —we
slipped away.
It was a long vigil. Some hours after
we had set out we came up the hill, my
arm round Opal’s waist to prevent her
from slipping.
About quarter of a mile from the
house I suggested that we part company
there. As I explained, were her hus-
band to see us come in together and voice
his insensate suspicions, which apparently
he bent on all nature-lovers, I might be
unable to contain myself, and I didn’t
want to make a scene.
But Opal appeared so wrapped up in
her new enthusiasm that she only clasped
my arm the tighter.
At that very moment a large face,
topped by a receding forehead, was thrust
in front of mine.
“Bird-lovin’ again, eh?” he snarled,
in incredibly savage tones. “Well, y’
fish-faced, lolly-legged gawk, take a sniff
o’ this on y’r beak!”
I did. The “sniff” broke it. But I
would have given him a severe thrash-
ing had not poor Opal, in her nervous-
ness, still held my arm prisoner.
BO.


SIXTY YEARS OF RACING
(By "PILOT.”)
The Bulletin has been running for 60
years, and it has been suggested I should
contribute something dealing with racing
for that period.
It will be difficult to go beyond mention
of the deeds pf great horses. Grand
Flaneur was the one that stood out in
The Bulletin’s first year. As a two-
year-old he ran only once, winning the
Normanby Stakes at Flemington, for
which he was a 7-to-l chance ; he beat
the second favorite, Trevallyn, half a
length.
In 1880 Grand Flaneur started off by
beating Trevallyn in the A.J.C. Derby,
and then went right along, his spring
victories taking in the Victoria Derby
and Melbourne Cup. At that time a
Derby win made no difference to a
horse’s Cup weight, and Grand Flaneur
carried the 6.10 originally allotted him. In
each race Progress started favorite and
ran second. Doubt must have then
attached to Grand Flaneur as a stayer,
seeing that Progress was meeting Grand
Flaneur 31b. worse in the Cup than when
the latter comfortably beat him in the
Derby.
The Victoria Derby and Melbourne
Cup each carried £5OO added money that
year. Somewhat different from nowadays,
with the Derby worth £5OOO and the Cup
£lO,OOO. On the fourth day of the meet-
ing Progress was again beaten by Grand
Flaneur, the distance of the race being a
mile and a quarter. Owners did not then
keep horses to look at, and three races
later Progress had an easy win in the
Canterbury Plate, 2\ miles. Grand
Flaneur went through the season un-
beaten, winning eight races. The V.R.C.
St. Leger, Town Plate and Champion
Stakes were of the number. It was bad
luck for W. Branch that such a good colt
as Grand Flaneur should have been out
in the same year as Progress, but the
latter won the A.J.C. St. Leger and Syd-
ney Cup. Owners then provided the prize
for the A.J.C. Derby and St. Leger in
forfeits and sweepstakes.
One effect of Grand Flaneur’s Cup win
was to cause the conditions for the fol-
lowing year to be slightly altered. They
provided that the winner of the A.J.C. or
Victoria Derby should not carry less than
6.12. That was increased to 7.5 a couple
of years later, and now it is w.f.a. for a
colt or filly.
Martini-Henry, another great three-,
year-old, was seen out in the 1883-84
season. He was not raced at two years,
being given every chance of maturing. It
proved a wise procedure, as his three-
year-old wins took in the Victoria Derby,
Melbourne Cup and V.R.C. St. Leger. At
that time the White colors were always
to the fore, and it will be a long time
before any other owner equals four suc-
cessive A.J.C. Derby and five successive
V.R.C. St. Leger wins.
One of the Derby winners was Aber-
corn, who subsequently proved himself
a worthy opponent of Carbine. You will
find many old-time racing men who con-
tend he was auite as good as the latter,
and one of Abercorn’s great handicap
wins was the Metropolitan—the distance
was then two miles—with 9.7.
Of all the great racehorses we have
had in Australia in the last 60 years, I
do not suppose there was any more ver-
satile than Malua. Most distances came
alike to him, his wins including an Oak-
leigh Plate, a Newmarket Handicap, a
Melbourne Cup, Adelaide Cup, Australian
Cup and, at eight years, a V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle Race with 11.7, his rider
being his owner, J. O. Inglis. It is no
wonder Ike Foulsham, who trained
Malua, proclaims him the “greatest of
them all.”
Bravo, who was regarded as a “hope-
less case” some time prior to the 1889
Melbourne Cup, made a marvellous re-
covery, and defeated Carbine, but the
latter had his turn the following year.
Carrying 10.5 in a field of 39 runners, he
was favorite at 4 to 1, and won easily by
two and a half lengths from the lightly-
weighted Highborn. The time, 3.28}-,
though slow by comparison with present-
day standards, was a record for the race,
and was not cut till 1905, Blue Spec’s
year.
Carbine proved he could win from
five furlongs to three miles, and though
he did not have many seasons at the
stud in Australia prior to going to Eng-
land he left behind him some horses that
had a wonderful influence on our blood-
stock. His son, Wallace, was a high-class
racehorse and a great sire. In various
parts of the world Carbine’s name still
crops up in the pedigrees of important
winners, and though I am not prepared
to contend he was a better racehorse than
either Phar Lap or Peter Pan his greatness
is undeniable. I did not see him win the
Melbourne Cup, and the best race I saw
him run was in the Craven Plate when
he defeated the Queenslander Mega-
phone.
The defeat of Highborn by Carbine
was a blow to W. Forrester. He had tried
that horse to be almost unbeatable with
6.8, and when weighted for the following
Melbourne Cup Highborn had 9.1 to
Carbine’s 10.12. Forrester had compen-
sation a few years later when Gaulus
and The Grafter won him successive
Melbourne Cups.
Auraria, though beaten by Wallace and
Osculator in the 1895 Derby, won the
Melbourne Cup, and, as she had 7.4, she
still has the honor of being the only one
of her sex to carry over weight-for-
age successfully in that race. However, a
much greater effort by a mare, though she
did not win, was that of Wakeful, who
had lOst. when she ran second in 1903 to
Lord Cardigan (6.8). Of course three-
year-olds improve greatly between the
spring and autumn, but the fact of Lord
Cardigan easily winning the Sydney Cup
with 8.7 the same season gives a fair idea
of what Wakeful was up against.
Newhaven’s 7.13 is the record for
weight successfully carried by a three-
year-old in the Melbourne Cup. He won
practically all the way, and for some time
subsequently H. Gardiner adopted similar
tactics on many horses he rode, but un-
fortunately for him they were not all
Newhavens. Poseidon, as winner of two
Caulfield Cups and one Melbourne Cup,
established his claim to be one of the best
horses of the last 60 years. Heavily
backed for the 1907 Melbourne Cup, in
which he had 10.3, he was unplaced,
the winner being his stable-companion
Apologue. In that race Mountain King
demonstrated that a “roarer” of class can
go a long way. Turning for home he was,
if anything, going better than Apologue
or Mooltan, but his affliction found him
out in the run down the trying straight.
He finished third.
Few hot Melbourne Cup favorites
made a worse showing than Duke Foote.
On Sydney form he appeared certain to
defeat Piastre in 1912, but the latter,
trained by R. O’Connor, won, while
Duke Foote was in trouble a long
way from home. Seven years later,
the latter’s owner got another shock
in the Melbourne Cup. As his
colt, Richmond Main, had defeated
Artilleryman in the Victoria Derby, he
thought he was sure to repeat that form
in the Cup. Artilleryman, however,
simply bolted with the Cup. I doubt
whether that race was ever won more de-
cisively : Artilleryman came home as if
he had merely joined in half a mile from
the finish. Richmond Main was second,
and his owner always had excuses—some
decidedly far-fetched —for his failure.
Poitrel’s win in 1920 with 10.0 placed
him among the great stayers. It is a long
time since his trainer, H. Robinson, had
anything to do with horses. These days
he is much more interested in golf. Many
of the critics were of opinion that
G. Price was scarcely doing enough
in 1925 with Windbag, another heavy-
weight to win the Melbourne Cup,
but their ideas were shattered when
Windbag won, as a result of outstay-
ing the brilliant Manfred. Spearfelt
(1926) was another high-class Cup winner,
and, while he has done well as a sire in
Queensland, I often think what a great
name he would have made at one of the
principal New South Wales or Victorian
studs.
Phar Lap disappointed in the 1929
Cup as a three-year-old, and then made
amends by winning the following year
with 9.12 —151 b. over weight-for-age. A
year later he failed with 10.10, but all
horses are liable to have “off” days, and
it is improbable he was quite himself on
that occasion. There must always be dif-
ference of opinion where racehorses are
concerned, but I regard Phar Lap as the
best horse Australia has seen from a mile
and a quarter. Peter Pan naturally has
plenty of supporters for that honor, and
while he could run a brilliant race at a
mile, he also shone at two miles, as shown
by his two Melbourne Cup wins, his
second (in 1934) with 9.10 in heavy going.
As with all other big races, 60 years
have made a great difference in times re-
corded in the Melbourne Cup. Up to
1881 the best was Darriwell’s 3.30 j ; 20
years later Carbine’s 3.28£ was the record.
Another 20 years saw Blue Spec,
Apologue and Lord Nolan sharing the
honors with 3.27 y ; in 1925 Windbag had
reduced it to 3.22|, to be equalled by
Spearfelt the following year ; and now
the best is Wotan’s 3.21 J.
Marvel and Bungebah were two of the
great sprinters of about 50 years ago.
The former won an Epsom Handicap
with 10.2, and a Doncaster with 10.4, and
distinguished himself by downing Carbine
at a mile at weight-for-age. I have seen
it in print that Marvel was a stayer, but
he definitely was not. The same after-
noon he defeated Carbine at a mile he
had no chance against him at two miles.
Writing from memory Carbine ran with-
out plates in the mile, but was plated for
the longer race. That, however, was not
responsible for the difference in form.
Marvel was out of his distance at two
miles.
Marvel was kept racing until well past
his prime, and his great record was be-
smirched before he was permanently re-
tired. Bungebah had only 7.10 when he
won the 1890 Epsom Handicap in 1.40,
which was then a record for the race. A
few months later he ran away with a
Newmarket with 9.3, but he never im-
proved upon that form. Like Marvel he
was raced until, in a great measure, he
had lost his earlier reputation, but in
his case that did not greatly matter, as
he was a gelding.
Fifty years ago the two-year-old Titan
won the Oakleigh Plate, and when subse-
quently sold at auction made the re-
markable price for a gelding of 4600gns.
He was a bad investment for his buyer—
a noted plunger—but later won the
Toorak Handicap, among other races, for
Carbine’s owner, D. S. Wallace.
Of all. the mares that have raced in the
last 60 years none made greater pro-
gress than Wakeful in a couple of
seasons. She won the Oakleigh Plate,
Newmarket Handicap and Doncaster
Handicap in the autumn of 1901, and the
Sydney Cup with 9.7 a year later. Else-
where I have referred to her great effort
in Lord Cardigan’s Melbourne Cup. It
could be claimed for her that, from one
mile to two, she was the greatest mare
that ever raced in Australia.
Paris was one of the good geldings of
nearly 50 years ago. A Doncaster, as a
three-year-old, was his first important
handicap win. After that he was always
kept well up in the weights, but he won
a Caulfield Cup with 8.8, then a Metro-
politan with 9.2, and at seven years an-
other Caulfield Cup with 9.4. Paris was
not the only winner of two Caulfield
Cups, that record being equalled by
Poseidon, Uncle Sam, Hymettus and
Whittier.
Manfred had an easy win in the Caul-
field Cup with 9.6, and I do not suppose
there was ever a more remarkable per-
formance in the A.J.C. Derby than that
horse put up in 1925. He refused to jump
off, and was left nearly a hundred yards
at barrier-rise, but, thanks to the pace
being comparatively easy for the first
half-mile, made up a lot of his leeway
before half the distance was covered,
and won comfortably.
Amounis, who was among those beaten
by Manfred in the A.J.C. Derby, became
one of the best handicap horses of his
day. He won the 1926 Epsom Handicap
with 8.7, scored again in that race two
years later with 9.7, and, improving as a
stayer as his years increased, won the
1930 Caulfield Cup with 9.8, which is still
a record for weight successfully carried in
that race. Palfresco made the Australian
record of 2.27 J for a mile and a half in
the Caulfield Cup, but later did not even
get a place in the Victoria Derby which
was won by Feldspar.
There was never a more exciting finish
for the A.J.C. Derby than when Heroic
narrowly defeated Nigger Minstrel and
Spearfelt in 1924. Debarred from run-
ning in the Victoria Derby, Heroic
was later bought by C. B. Kellow
for 16,000 guineas, and won the
Newmarket Handicap and various
w.f.a, races for him. Subsequently
Heroic’s price was put in the shade when
that dashing buyer A. E. Cooper gave
£19,000 for Talking.
Naturally old-time racing men have
great respect for horses of their day, but
it would be difficult to convince most
present-day followers of racing that they
were quite up to the standard of those of
comparatively recent years. Chatham’s
win in the 1934 Doncaster with 10.4 was,
in my opinion, about the best handicap
performance at a mile ever witnessed at
Randwick. He did not get away well,
and the track was so heavy that the time
was 1.40 f, but he was too good at the
finish for the Maorilander Golden Wings,
to whom he was conceding 121 b. At the
stud Chatham is imparting his pace to
his progeny.
Over a long period horses from Maori-
land have added interest to Australian
racing, and they have won a full share
of important races. Melbourne Cup win-
ners include Maoriland-bred Martini-
Henry, Carbine, Apologue, Sasanof,
Night March, Phar Lap, Wotan and Cata-
logue. Carbine, of course, will always be
most remembered of those mentioned, but
of recent years nothing from Maoriland
appealed more to Australian racegoers
than Gloaming, who, unraced at two
years, won the first race in which he
started, the Chelmsford Stakes, at Rand-
wick. He followed it up with the A.J.C.
Derby.
Gloaming did not race in Australia at
five, six or eight years, and his last start
on this side was at nine years in the Mel-
bourne Stakes, which he won. He finished
his career with 57 wins, of which nine
were won in Australia, and his earnings
totalled £43,100, against the 230 guineas
he cost in Melbourne as a yearling. His
w.f.a. clashes with Beauford in Sydney
were productive of tremendous interest,
each scoring twice. Gloaming never
started in a handicap, and, in the belief
that a mile and a half was the full length
of his tether, R. J. Mason did not run
him beyond it. His judgment was good,
as Poitrel and Beauford both beat him
at that distance in the Spring Stakes on
different occasions.
The easiest win I ever saw in an
A.J.C. Derby was that of Noctuiform,
owned by G. G. Stead, and ridden by
L. H. Hewitt, one of the earliest ex-
ponents of the Tod Sloan style of horse-
manship in this part of the world. Noc-
tuiform won by lengths from his stable-
companion Sun God, and recorded 2.32£,
against the previous best of 2.371 t
was not until 15 years later that Noctui-
form lost his- record, Salitros doing 2.32.
The best is now Phar Lap’s 2.31|, time he
also made in the Victoria Derby, and
which was subsequently equalled by Hall
Mark.
Maltster, Trivalve and Hall Mark must
be classed among the good Derby winners
of recent years, and, going further back,
Newhaven, each of the last-mentioned
three also winning the Melbourne Cup.
Five fillies —Lady Wallace, Wilari, Car-
lita, Furious and Frances Tressady—
have won the Victoria Derby in the last
35 years, but the A.J.C. Derby has been
a bad race for them. Nellie won in 1879,
Picture in 1898, and since then none has
been successful. It is remarkable that the
colts should have completely outshone
them over such a long period.
Among the two-year-olds Mollison put
up a great record, winning all the impor-
tant races in which he ran at that age.
The following season he won the Caul-
field Futurity Stakes, among other races,
but as a stayer he fell short of expecta-
tions. As a two-year-old, Mollison won
£17,343, which is an Australian record
for a horse of that age.
In the last 60 years many Australian
horses have been sent to England, and,
while some never reached the form shown
out here, some improved. Merman was
one of the latter. In Australia he was
never accounted a great stayer, but his
English wins included the Ascot Gold
Cup. In successive years Newhaven, The
Grafter and Australian Star won the City
and Suburban.
It would be difficult to enumerate all
the good horses that have raced in the
last 60 years. Ajax is the reigning king,
and, next to Phar Lap, I class him the'
best horse Australia has seen up to a mile
and a quarter. The coming autumn con-
cludes his racing career, and another good
performer starting at the stud next season
is Spear Chief, who with 3.19 f in Bris-
bane last May made the Australian
record for two miles.
As I wrote at the commencement of
this article it would take volumes, not
columns, to deal with 60 years’ racing in
Australia in other than very sketchy
fashion.


PAPER PULP, PAPER,
AND PAPER BOARDS
WRAPPING AND
OTHER PAPERS
(Both Machine Finished
and Machine Glazed),
COATED AND
EMBOSSED
PAPERS
AND BOARDS
Portion of a modern
of Australian Paper
paper-making machine at the Fairfield mill
Manufacturers, Ltd. Weight of large drying
cylinder, 58 tons.
STRAWBOARDS,
PAPER BOARDS
(Popularly known as
Cardboard),
SPECIALTY
BOARDS,
PAPER FELT
AND
PAPER PULP
“REGNANS” BRAND
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS
LIMITED
AT ITS MILLS AT FAIRFIELD, BROADFORD, AND MARYVALE,
GIPPSLAND, VICTORIA; AND BOTANY, N.S.W.
The Company recognises its responsibilities as one of the great national
basic industries of Australia, and has declared its manufacturing and selling
policy to be:—
1. To maintain a high standard of scientific research and
manufacturing efficiency.
2. To use Australian raw materials as far as possible.
3. To provide a fair and reasonable return upon the
capital invested in the Company.
4. To sell its products at prices which will ensure the
maximum amount of regular employment in the
industry and assist subsidiary industries to expand.
The Company’s Authorised Capital is £4,600,000, and Paid-up Capital
£2,600,000.
It gives direct employment to 2,039 employees, and in salaries and wages
distributes over £400,000 annually. The value of its annual output is
approximately £2,000,000.


GAVIN S. CASEY writes of life on the goldfields
“TT'S HARDER FOR GIRLS”
AT school there weren’t any kids tougher than
us Dawsons, though some of the others were
pretty hard and strong. Most of their dads
were proud of how they could work and fight
and drink, and the kids naturally wanted to imitate
them. But none of them could beat us nippers, whose
families lived out among the leases, where there
wasn’t any rent to pay, in tumbledown houses. We
could run and climb and fight, and our feet were as
hard as horses’ hooves, and we could bust an electric-
light globe in the street, or another kid’s skull, with a
stone from a handy sort of distance. I suppose most
of us were better respected when we were kids at
school than we’ve ever been since, and as for us
Dawsons we just about ruled the roost.
My brother Monk was always inches bigger than
the other boys of his age, and, though I wasn’t as large,
I was pretty tough. He saw to it that I was, in the
interests of the family, and though I hated him when
I was a little chap, and he used to twist my arms and
make me clamber down ropes into old shafts that
scared me stiff, I thought he was the greatest boy in
the world later on. He didn’t ever protect me at
school. As a matter of fact, he used to talk me into
fights, and I’d always know that I’d have him to
reckon with later if I didn’t win. But when I found
out how easy it was to win, with the Dawson reputa-
tion combined with good hard muscles, I saw what a
great chap my brother was.
He was two years older than me, and our sister
Molly was between the two of us, and as tough as
either. She didn’t play with the girls. She ran wild
with us, and if any of the kids we hated got her
alone they got something just as difficult to handle
as Monk or myself. I suppose that people who saw
our bare feet and ragged clothes were sorry for us,
but they had no need to be. It was fine while it
lasted, and it lasted until I was in my last year at
school and Monk had been working for old William-
son the grocer for long enough to know his way
around the store.
Old Williamson’s shop was in a back street, not
far from our place, and it had a cellar. It was built
on blocks, of course, and the space between the floor
and ground level was covered in with corrugated iron.
It would be easy to get into, Monk said, and every
time he piled boxes of butter or cases of tea in the
cellar he banged the top ones hard against a certain
sheet until it was loose. Then, when everything was
ready, he and I and two other kids went down one
night and pulled the sheet off.
I was pretty frightened, because that was pretty
tough, even for us. It was dark and quiet and there
wasn’t much danger, because the vacant block next to
the store was thick with tall stink-bushes which hid
us from anyone who might be taking a short cut. But
it was different from making lead slugs to fit in the
slots of chocolate machines, or raiding orchards and
market gardens. I got the horrors when a rusty nail
shrieked a bit on the way out, but young Skeeter Riley
got them worse. He shivered with fright, and I was
glad of the chance to screw his arm and squeeze the
back of his neck to keep him from running off. It
made me feel better.
When the sheet was off, Monk tried to get through,
but his shoulders were too big. I tried myself (not
too hard), but there wasn’t enough space, and my
brother swore and grabbed Skeeter.
“You’ll have to go, young ’un,” he said. “Go on.
Git through. You’ll find the cigarettes and tobacco
right against the opposite wall, with the cases open, an’
the chocolates are under the ladder.”
“I ain’t goin’,” Skeeter yelped. “You blokes
reckoned you only wanted me an’ Fat to keep nit, an’
I ain’t goin’ down there. What about scrapin’ some
dirt away, an’ y’ can git through yerselves?”
Skeeter had been just as keen to get the cigarettes
and chocolates as anyone, but he wanted us to take the
risks. I felt pretty mad at him, and Monk must have,
too, because he gave him a punch in the back that
really made him howl, and it was just as well that there
was no one about. Then I gave Skeeter a couple of
double-twists on the wrist, and he went down, snivel-
ling. He got the stuff all right, and passed it out to
us. When it was all over we went off in the dark-
ness, feeling pretty pleased with ourselves. We told
Skeeter what would happen to him if he didn’t keep
his mouth shut, and we hid the stuff in an old shaft,
and had a good smoke and went home. We felt
pretty pleased, but the very next day I found out what
fools we’d been to send Skeeter down into the cellar.
When he came to school he looked pretty sick.
He was pale and jumpy, and he got hold of me as
soon as he could.
“I lost me pencil-case,” he said. “I think I
must ’a’ dropped the blasted thing down that cellar.
It’s got me name on it.”
“Y’ bloody fool!” I said. “We might ’a’ known
you’d do a thing like that.”
He was crying with fear, but he was angry and
spiteful, too. “It’s your fault,” he squeaked. “If you
an’ him had let me git down quietly, instead o’
knockin’ me about, it wouldn’t have ever come out o’
me pocket.”
I told him that what he’d had was nothing to
what he’d get if he didn’t keep his mouth shut. I
remembered that Monk would probably be the first
one in the cellar that morning, and I hoped that he’d
spot the case. But I had a feeling that he wouldn’t, or
that something else would go wrong. I reckoned that
our goose was cooked, and when Skeeter didn’t come
back to school in the afternoon I knew it. I spent
most of the afternoon looking at the big windows of
the classroom, and telling myself that if any police-
man came in I’d go straight through the nearest one
and they’d never catch me. But I was only kidding
myself. I was scared stiff, and when school came out
I played footy, and picked a row with a kid and had
a fight, and did everything I possibly could to put off
going home.
“’Ow do they look , Erbie ?”
But I had to go sooner or later, and when I got
there and heard strange voices in the kitchen I knew
it was all up. If it hadn’t been for Monk I’d have
run, though where I’d have run to I don’t quite know.
Anyway, Monk was there, and I went in.
“Ah! Here he is!” said old Dixon the policeman.
“You’d better tell me the truth, boy. I know it, any-
way, but now you tell me what you were up to last
night.”
Dad was sitting on the old kitchen sofa with his
head in his hands, but he jumped up. “I won’t have
it!” he roared. “The lowest criminal in the land is
entitled to know what charges are made against him.
You’ve only that snivelling brat’s word that John was
mixed up in it, and”
“Shut up,” bellowed Dixon, very red in the face,
and dad did shut up. Until then I’d thought he’d give
as much as he got to any policeman, and it was a bit
of a shock when he went quiet. It was probably in
that moment that my doubts about dad really started.
“Be quiet, Arthur,” mum said. “You’ll only make
it worse.”
“Worse!” Skeeter’s mother snorted. “Worse can
it be when these young devils bully a kiddy half their
size into doin’ their dirty work? I’d like to know how
it could be worse.”
I looked at Skeeter, and I knew he’d told the
whole story. Then I looked at Monk, and, though
the two of us gained a bit of strength from each other,
it didn’t do us much good. The story came out, an
inch at a time, to an accompaniment of mum’s tears,
and old Dixon’s snorts and threats, and dad’s moans
and appeals to heaven to know why he’d been cursed
with a family of young ruffians. That night Monk
and I,felt pretty small and miserable, instead of large
and clever and powerful, as we’d always thought our-
selves before. I wanted us both to run away, and I
had plans for giving Skeeter what we reckoned was
owing to him, too. But they were schemes that
wouldn’t work, and in due course we got what was
coming to us.
Monk made it as easy for me as he could, and I
admired him more than ever. The magistrate said
that, as there was some doubt of my willingness to
take part in the crime, and I had probably been in-
fluenced by my elder brother, he would let me go on
dad’s bond that I would be of good behavior for
twelve months. But Monk was in it up to the neck,
and he was sent to the reformatory until he was
eighteen.
'T'HOUGH we’d sunk pretty low in some ways, none
of us Dawsons had ever thought of ourselves as
the sort of people policemen came for and took off
to gaol. Inside ourselves we all thought poor old
Monk was done for, though of course we didn’t talk
about it. After the first shock of it dad went on drink-
ing and wasting his time and bemoaning his fate,
just the same as he’d done for as long as I could
remember. But it made a difference to mum. She
had to go on living with dad and the rest of us in the
dirty, tumbledown old house on the Sunset lease, but
she concentrated on me, and I’d had such a fright I
was fairly ready to put up with it.
When I left school the old lady dressed and pol-
ished me up, and we went into town together. I wasn’t
sure that I agreed with her plan, but she and dad saw
eye to eye for once.
“Now you do what you’re told,” mum said, “and
then it won’t be my fault if you finish up in the
mines.”
“If Dantry doesn’t find something for him I’ll
lose faith in decency,” dad said grandly. “You make
sure he knows who you are, and he’ll be ashamed to
turn you down. When he was just struggling and I
was storekeeper on the Consols, there wasn’t a man
on these ’fields helped Dantry more than I did.”
So mum and I went up to Dantry’s machinery
warehouse because she had the fear of all poor women
on the ’fields of their sons going underground. We
had to wait a good while, and it seemed to depress
mum a bit. I could see a flush under her leathery
brown skin, and though I didn’t understand things
then as well as I do now I guessed she wasn’t too
happy. She put a brave face on it when we got into
the office though.
“He’s a good boy, Mr. Dantry,” she said. “And
he’s always done well at school. There’s no one knows
better than you what a smart man his father used to
be. If you won’t give John a trial, there’ll be nothing
for him but the mines when he grows older.”
I got the trial all right, though I think it was
more likely that Dantry put me on because he really
wanted a boy, or because he felt sorry for mum, than
because of the tremendous favors dad had done him
in his prosperous days. At the time I wasn’t too sure
that it would be as good a thing as starting off at the


best-paid work I was big enough to get, like most oi
my cobbers did, but mum was pleased, and it wasn’i
long before I was satisfied, too.
I N a way, going to Dantry’s was like getting bumped
* into a new world. I’d always thought that being
too clean was some sort of swank, but when I found
out it was a habit, and felt better, I took to it quickly,
and it was interesting to work among the mine stores,
to handle the machinery and belting and explosives
and rock-drills and metal that would be used in the
great mines. Mum got pretty proud of me, but she
wasn’t any prouder than I was of myself by the time
I’d had my first rise and could talk about the price of
fracteur and the different Holman parts with the best
of them. I don’t think I was ever really naturally
tough. I’d just got that way at school, and with poor
old Monk out of sight and pretty near out of mind I
got pretty respectable and pretty ambitious. Mum
was trying hard to improve things at home, too, and I
approved of that, though I sometimes used to be im-
patient and disgusted, which couldn’t have made it any
easier for her. Dad used to say that I was one of the
smart Dawsons, and would probably go a long way,
and mum used to agree, and I used to agree, too.
Though mum used to worry over Monk, and write
to him regularly, it was me she was really wrapped up
in. I suppose that, though she wouldn’t admit it, she
really thought it was all over with him, and that if
there was any hope for the family at all I was it.
Molly used to give her a lot of worry, too, because
girls don’t shake off a bad name as quickly as boys,
and people couldn’t imagine much good of a girl who’d
knocked around and been in all the tricks of the
Dawsons and their cobbers. Molly had her own ideas.
When we’d all been kids she’d been as game as the
best of us, and when we were growing up she stuck
to dad longer than 1 did. When she began to get a
fancy for acting more as other girls did, she didn’t get
much help from the other girls. 1 didn’t understand.
I used to quarrel a lot with her, and wonder why she
couldn’t change as easily as I did. But I didn’t worry
about her much, because it wasn’t long before I had
another girl to worry about.
Her father was a staff man on one of the mines,
and her family lived in a pleasant house, in a way
that seemed to me to be very pleasant and dignified.
Except when he had a lodge meeting or something
else like that to attend to, you could always find her
old man at home in the evenings. He’d be sitting in a
comfortable chair, with a few papers and magazines
scattered around him and generally a glass of whisky
and water near by, and his wife would usually be
opposite, knitting or sewing in an unhurried manner,
or sometimes reading, too, and though they didn’t
talk much they seemed pretty contented and pretty
unlike my old man and mum.
I was never game to mention it to June, because
she’d have laughed at me, but I used to watch her old
people, and have daydreams of her and myself liv-
ing in a home like that, in a quiet, dignified way like
that. I was only a kid, and I’d suddenly realised that
most people lived differently from my people, and
there was nothing I wanted more for myself than to
be as prosperous and respectable as they were.
There were a lot of difficulties about going
around with June, and, of course, the main one was
my family. Monk was out of the way, though he’d
be home soon, and mum was all right, even if she did
look pretty threadbare and brown. Molly went with
a different crowd altogether, and though sometimes I
used to get into rages and abuse her when some
of the talk of the town about her mob used to reach
my ears, and I used to feel sick inside if I thought of
June getting to hear it, Molly didn’t want any more
to do with me than I did with her. But dad was likely
to pop up anywhere, drunk and disreputable.
There were only two places where I could be with
June and feel quite safe from him. One was her home,
of course, and the other was at railway picnics, which
were generally run to places a long way from a pub.
But it was at one of the picnics that I ran into trouble.
HEY were good affairs, those railway picnics that
1 they used to run on the ’fields before motor-cars
came into general use, and it was always a long train
that used to pull out of the station at nine o’clock on
a Sunday morning. It was always a full one, too, with
the compartments overflowing into the corridors. Old
people and young couples like June and I used to get
there early and claim seats, and never shift from
them. Women used to spend whole days shrieking at
their kids. The young bucks used to roam up and
down the train.
There used to be some pretty tough parties, but
there were a lot of couples like June and I, too. There
was generally a noisy end of the train, and a quiet
one where the compartments were full of people like
us who were too absorbed in each other to make a
row. A rug was reckoned to provide privacy enough
for a bit of smoodging, and, though the old girls used
sometimes to get scandalised, it was generally harm-
less. It was pretty good, I used to reckon, at the time,
and whenever we got to the Government dam or salt
lake, or wherever it was the train was going, the people
would flow out of the train like ants and head for the
bush. I used to take June a long way from the crowd,
and skite in a mild way about what a good bushman I
was, and how I’d never get lost. They were good
“ There's one thing I can't stand, and that's a squeaky wheel."
days, when I forgot my kids’ troubles, and this one
was one of the best of them.
We were tired and happy when we got into the
carriage for our return journey. We were under our
big rug, pretty close together, and we were lucky to
be in a compartment that had only the number of
people it was made for. There was music all over the
train, mouth-organs and guitars and concertinas, but
none near enough to annoy us. The bush was dark
and the lights in the carriage were dim. I was thinking
what a nuisance it was that in a couple of hours the
train would reach home. It would have suited me if
the train, with June and I under our rug, had been
rushing away from the ’fields altogether, away from
my family and her superior one to some new place
where the only families belonged to other people.
Then there was a noisy crowd in the corridor
looking for seats, and we all hoped that they wouldn’t
open the door of our compartment. But the door
opened, and the first two heads to be poked in were
those of my sister Molly and Bill Rickard. The shock
of that made me go cold all over, in spite of the rug
and lune and everything, because I hadn’t even known
they were on the train. Molly looked at me in a very
funny way, and might have gone out if it had been
left to her, but it wasn’t. Another couple behind them
pushed, and Rickard sang out “Here y’are! Tons o’
room in here!” Then the four of them were in, and
we were all shifting along to make room and glaring
at them.
“Hallo, Johnny,” said Rickard in the sort of
bellow that was the only tone of voice he had.
“Here’s yer sister. Fancy strikin’ you here, as snug
as a bug in a rug !■”
“Hallo,” said Molly, not too enthusiastically.
When Rickard said “sister,” June looked at Molly,
and I felt her stiffen. Molly couldn’t see or feel
through our rug, but she read something in June’s
look. She flushed, dark and dangerous like she some-
times did, and I knew that I might as well give up any
hope I’d had that they’d get along all right, or even
that they’d take no notice of each other. I felt sick
and sure that there was going to be trouble. The
four of them —Molly and Rickard and their, two
friends —looked warm and ruffled as if they’d been
having Rickard’s idea of a good time.
“Hell, it’s livelier down the other end, but we
gotter have somewhere t’ sit,” said Rickard discon-
tentedly, looking around the carriage at the rest of
us.
“Some music,” said his cobber, pulling out a
thing he played with both his mouth and his nose,
and beginning to make a lot of noise with it.
“Aw, shut that row,” said the other girl. She
snatched his instrument and spat in the mouth of it,
and the three of them laughed so loudly the windows
rattled. Molly did look uncomfortable.
“No music?” said Rickard dolefully. “Well, old
girl, since we’re in a nest o’ lovebirds we might as
well make ourselves comfortable.”
Rickard’s big red face gleamed, and he grabbed
Molly, and the pair of them disappeared under their
rug struggling. Then the rug slipped to the floor, and
Molly hit him, not a slap with her open hand, but a
good one with the clenched fist, in the way she’d
learned when she’d run with us kids. It must have
rocked his teeth.
“Christ!” said Rickard, looking nasty. “What’s
wrong with you?”
“Come on out of here,” said Molly in a harsh
voice. “I’m not comfortable here.”
She got up and went to the door, and Rickard
started to follow, but then stopped. Molly looked
dangerous, and June was looking at her the way you
might look at an insect in the bed. Molly had the
high color that Monk and she and I all get when we’ve
really lost our tempers.
“Hell! We gotter sit somewhere,” said Rickard.
“What’s wrong with it here?”
“If you want to know,” said Molly, pointing at
me, “it’s him. Him and that stuck-up little bitch he’s
got beside him.”
She went out, and the rest of them followed. Even
Rickard and his cobber and the other girl were a bit
subdued by that lot. And none of those who were
left in our carriage looked at me.
I didn’t look at anyone, either. June’s hand wasn’t
in my right one any longer, and I took my left arm
away from around her waist. She let our rug slide
down so that the other people in our carriage could
see that we were sitting as far apart as the space
would let us. I didn’t say anything, because there was
nothing to say.
When the journey was over and we got to June’s
front gate, she made it plain that we wouldn’t be see-
ing each other any more. She did it as kindly as she
could, but girls at her age haven’t had much practice
at breaking the news gently, and there was a sort of
glitter of righteousness and respectability in her eye
that made me hate her, too. But it was Molly .1 was
really hating, in a way that stopped me from seeing
straight. I made for our place raging and swearing,
and almost crying, ready to murder her.
When I got to the shabby old house near the
mines it was about nine o’clock, and mum was still in
the kitchen, keeping the kettle on for me. She was
upset because Molly hadn’t had anything to eat or
drink, but I stamped out on to the verandah where we
younger ones slept, full of hate. My sister was lying
on her bed, still dressed, and even in the dark I
could see that she wasn’t much like the defiant, dan-
gerous figure she’d been a couple of hours earlier. She
was crumpled up, and she didn’t make any move
when I arrived. Ordinarily, Molly’d give as good as
she got, to me as well as anyone else, and when she
stayed still and quiet, looking at me, I knew she was
as sick of herself as I was. The idea of punching her
in the face dropped out of me, and I sat down on the
bed.
Then Molly started to cry, and I knew there was
nothing to say here, any more than there’d been to say
in the train to June. I got up and went into the
The "Placer Sheep.”
By a great stone the ewe lay down to die,
The while her lamb butted his mates in mirth ;
Till she dissolved into her mother earth,
Mazed and forlorn, long months he lingered nigh.
Alas, poor innocent, how shrill he cried.
The cold hills echoed his distracted bleats,
How oft he nuzzled at the empty teats
Or crouched for warmth against the stiffening side.
And then, left sole, not comprehending death,
The love which should have been for her alone
'He must transfer to the unfeeling stone
By which his mother drew her latest breath.
A lonely soul, his mates remembered not,
By bonds invisible constrained and bound
To a senseless block and a few yards of ground,
His whole dim life will pass in that one spot.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


“We'll have to do our bit for Australia , Mum. It says here 'Produce , produce.' ”
kitchen to explain things as well as I could to mum.
I was thinking it was a hell of a life to be any sort
o a awson.
D UT by-and-bye I got another girl, and a better
one, too, as far as that goes, while things didn’t
go so well for Molly. She was ashamed, and she went
out a few times with young chaps we all thought were
nice young fellows. But she never went often, and
I’ve learned since that most of the fellows heard talk
about the town and pretty soon proved they weren’t
so “nice” after all. The rest cooled off ; the girls
about the place were pretty uppish, and she must have
, had a c °* of a time ' I’**™ to tumble tha <> i£ i‘
ririf “h / P aWS ° n H “ W , a ! h r
Things went well enough for me at Dantry’s, and
I got a couple of rises and promotions, and that and
the new girl and one thing and another made me feel
a lot surer of myself. I got to be one of the smart
young chaps about the town, and did pretty well,
except that I could never quite shake off a bit of a
feeling of shame about the family and the place we
lived and all the rest of it. But before I got that far
Monk came back. I felt sorry for Monk, but I was
young and cocky, and I used to feel a bit superior,
too.
When he came back I was the clever lad about
the place, with my hot socks and oily hair and plenty
of talk, and Monk was just a big, dull, heavy young
chap without much to say. He wouldn’t talk about
the reformatory. He said it wasn’t so good, but he
wouldn’t ,go into the details. He didn’t seem to have
any sting left. When I got used to it I got fond of
Monk but things between us were never anything like
they d been when we were going to school. He was a
mce chap, my brother, but he wasn t of any .mportance
When he got back he was as big and as strong as
a man, and he went to work at Dillon's Yard, driving
a dray, loading it with ore and taking it to whatcve?
battery was going to treat it. But it didn’t last long.
“Well, I’ll have to find a job on the mines, “he
off ,od a v /■ r en Ca f m . e “ me - P
off today, an Im one of em.
There was a yelp from mum, and a sort of general
consternation in our kitchen that lasted for a week.
Mum objected pretty gallantly for a week or so.
“There are other jobs to be had, and if they’re hard
to find then we can do without your money, for a
while, anyway.” But she weakened gradually against
Monk’s arguments and the nagging of her own
thoughts. And pretty soon Monk announced that
he’d be starting underground on the Bonanza just
about as soon as he d had time to go out and show
them that he had the full number of arms and legs
required of a laboring man.
WHEN Monk actually got started on the job he
told me it was pretty good. He said that under-
ground was nothing to worry about, that the toil
wasn’t too hard, and that there was no danger worth
a moment’s thought. He meant it, too, because that’s
the way underground seems to pretty near everyone
at the start. It’s only through the years, after a cobber
or two has been unlucky and got splashed against the
wall or buried, and a couple of others have got tickets,
and your own mouth doesn’t taste too good in the
mornings, that it begins to wear you down. It s a good
life for young chaps, drawing good pay and working
among men. Monk slipped into it easy, and began to
look good and to get more talkative. I’d had a private
idea that it was all up with him after his start in the
reformatory, and a bit of fear that there might be
something bad in Monk that would make him dis-
grace the lot of us again, but it didn’t seem like it.
It seemed next to no time before he was out of
the level and on the skips, getting a few extra bob a
week for riding and rigging the cages as they leap
up and down in and out of the daylight. Then he
was dividing his spare time between a girl who liked
his big shape and quiet wa y s and the Sch ° ol of Mines ’
and . was P uttin § in shlfts on the boilers to qualify for
a tlcket He was plodding away while the rest of
us went a hout our own affairs, and it didn’t seem long
before he was a married man with a comfortable little
place of his own and a job as a fireman, with a brief
to drive winders tucked up his sleeve ready for an
opportunity. It didn’t seem long, but, of course, it
was a good stretch of years really
It was long enough for me to begin finding some
01 ,he thorn >' P a,ches alon 8 those bright commercial
f that look so easy when you re a kid and it was
5 dad '° d,e ’ and !° be bu ™d on a
howl ! n , 8 " el '‘ iiy m , lhe f l,esencc of a few of th e red-
nosed l° af ers he used to drink with. By the time Monk
wa ? se * qe d down that way, mum was a lot older and
frailer > too > but I’d got her out of the crazy old shanty
amon g the dumps, and we were living in a place in
town that was smart and clean but not too big for
her to handle. She was getting to be proud of both
her sons, instead of just me, and if she’d known all
the facts she might have felt that Monk was the better
°f the two of us. And living the way she’d wanted
to for so long, with a bit of comfort and security, did
her the world of good.
The only one of us who didn’t seem to be get-
ting what she wanted was Molly. -She lived with us
and kept to herself and the family, except that some-
times she’d still rebel and cause us all fear and fright
and herself most of all. All that had happened to W
since that day on the icnic train with Rickard j
don ., know> of course , but „ othing that happened , 0
'T 8 ' a nun
™ m >"S home from her job each evening
f"! ° nd g ,h°l h?'d °l r,T T'
‘? d ', .™ b k for a ,mle wblle ’ af,er
* h ' han eVer ’
but sbe got her chance eventually,
f. „ , , , /,
Molly was tall and dark, with a temper that gave
be or a to anyone who roused it, and then
B ave h eP to Molly herself for about twenty times as
lon g- The cha P she g Qt hold of was just the opposite,
a nuggety, fair little bloke, with mild manners and a
likeable way. Sid Poison, his name was, and he
worked in a bank on the coast. He got curious about
the goldfields, and came up on holidays without know-
ing a soul in the place, and after he got to know
Molly he didn’t seem to worry whether he got to
know anyone else or not. Monk got him permits to
g 0 the Bonanza and inspect the plant, and during
hi ? fort ™g ht he didn’t spend much of his time with
°, the , rs than us - treated Moll y llke a queen > and
sbe i a PP e d ff U P l lke a ca t laps up milk,
“Molly’s fallen for the bank bloke,” Monk said
to me one day. “The wife reckons she has.”
“Well, what’s wrong with that?” I asked, pretty
pleased.
He couldn’t find anything wrong with it any
more than I could. We all reckoned it was a break
for Moll and sid didn ., seem a bad sort ejther . j
trjed , 0 kid her a bit about it .
„ T , . , ~ . ,
~ . ‘ s “PP° se we “ be , ab ‘ e to , call when you re
b ™B the bank residence I said across he tea
tab [ e - 1 f,PP° se the llkes ‘ °f. “ onk and 1 wl “ have
t 0 be care£ul when we say hallo
sa * d can start now ’ **
Y ou like.”
“I can stand it,” I said carelessly. “I won’t ever
try to queer your pitch, like you did mine once.”
I think it was
the first time I’d ever
referred to the inci-
dent with June and
Rickard in the rail-
way carriage, and it
had happened solong
ago that it didn’t
mean much to me.
But she took it hard.
“You couldn’t,”
she said, looking
dangerous. “That
girl was a stuck-up
little bitch, but Sid’s
a gentleman.”
I gaped a bit,
and mum snapped at
me, telling me to
keep my nose out of
my sister’s affairs. I
saw it was dinkum
with Molly, and I
felt a bit ashamed
and kept my mouth
shut. I tried to make
it up to her by being
as nice as I could to her and Poison, too, and it
wasn’t so hard. I was sorry for Molly, and under-
stood her better than I had when I was a hot-headed
kid and no one had really mattered but myself. And
I liked Sid’s style well enough, though he was a dif-
ferent sort of chap in many ways to the ones Monk
and I had for cobbers.
Anyway, his holiday ended soon enough, and he
went off back to his work. The next thing we knew
Molly was getting letters that said he was trying to get
a transfer to the ’fields, and after that she made a
move of her own. She announced, a bit defiantly,
that she could get a job in one of the big ragshops in
the city, and I was surprised the way mum encour-
aged her to go. Then there was nothing of Molly
but letters for a while, and within three months she
and Poison were married. I gave mum a score of
notes, and she bought a new outfit and went down for
the wedding, and I was pretty pleased about it. I
reckoned that Molly had done well for herself, that
her troubles were over, and that the Dawsons weren’t
doing so badly after a crook start. It was something,
1 thought, for her to be marrying so well, and for me
to be able to take twenty quid off my roll and give
it to mum without missing it.
Then a lot more months passed—a string of them
that amounted to a couple of years—while mum grew
older, and Monk plodded along firing his boilers and
improving the garden around his house, and I battled
about the place, selling machinery and supplies for
Dantry’s, and making good money and spending the
lot, and sometimes feeling mighty superior to Monk,
and sometimes envying him and thinking of getting
married myself.
The old lady missed my sister, naturally enough,
and when the news came that Sid was being sent up
to the local office I thought she’d be delighted, but
she wasn’t. I couldn’t understand it, like I couldn’t
understand a lot of things mum was right about. “If
you’re frightened Sid will take to the beer, I don’t
think you’ve got much to worry about,” I said. “He’s
a t.t.”
“It’s not that,” said mum.
“Then what’s wrong with the place?” I asked.
“What’s wrong with it for Molly? She lived here and
liked it for long enough, didn’t she?” I thought it
would be just the thing for Molly. I thought it would
be pretty good for her to come back with a husband
in a good job, and let the town see her for a year or
two in circumstances that she wouldn’t have been
likely to get if she’d stayed in it. And when mum got
down to facts and said what she was afraid of I
laughed at her, and said I didn’t think so low of Sid.
But she was right.
ANYWAY, the day came when Molly and Sid got
off the train, and in spite of the long, slow, hot
journey my sister looked as fresh as paint. I’d known
for a long time that she had looks, but seeing her
again, and more sparkling and self-confident and
happy than she’d ever been before, made me realise
that she was a bit better than pretty. I was proud of
her, and glad to see Sid, too.
“Hallo, Jack,” he said. “How’s the picks and
shovels and things?”
“I’m selling enough to keep going,” I said. “How’s
high finance?”
He suggested a drink, and I got a surprise.
“I didn’t know you touched it,” I said.
“Aw, I’m not training now,” he said. “When I
heard I was coming up here I decided that the fellows
in the local rowing club would be too hot at steering
among the saltbush. But don’t worry about me and
the beer. I can take it or leave it alone. About a
drink a day’s my average.”
He looked well, and said he was glad to be on
the ’fields. He laughed and said he’d asked the bank
for a transfer as soon as he’d got back from the holi-
day when he’d met Molly. He said that it was just
like the bank to give it to him after he’d been married
to the girl for the best part of two years, but that it
was all right with him. I reckoned he was all right,


BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
For ail banking
business
Over 900 branches throughout Australia, New Zealand, the
Pacific Islands, and in London
7,500 Agents and Correspondents throughout the World
mm
538. H
the best possible sort of a bloke, and we started off
friendly, all ready to be the happy and united family.
After work we got into the habit of having a quiet
pot, or generally two, but never more, before we went
home.
Sid and Molly got a good house, and in a month
they’d settled in so well you’d have thought they’d lived
on the goldfields for ever. Sid got to know the other
bank people, of course, and I introduced him to a lot
of people. Everything seemed to be going as merrily
as you’d wish, and when he didn’t turn up for the
evening drink one day I thought nothing of it.
But when it was three days running I got uneasy.
I remembered mum’s ideas. Then I saw him in the
bar one day with some others, and he didn’t look the
same. There was a look of strain about him that it
would take something pretty serious to put there in
three days, and I noticed that he didn’t stop at the
usual couple of pots, but went right on drinking. I
bought a third round for myself and the man I was
with, and watched him. It didn’t do me any good
watching him, and when he spotted me and nodded as
if I was a man he’d met nine years before and hadn’t
liked much then I had an impulse to go over and
demand to know what the hell was wrong. I didn’t
do it, but I was pretty startled, and next day I took
an hour off and went out to see Molly.
There was a good deal of the old, defiant twist
that 1 knew pretty well on my sister’s mouth, and she
didn’t look as good as she had when she’d come off
the train. I felt unpleasantly certain that mum’s fears
were right, and my mouth went dry with rage.
“What’s wrong, old girl? You don’t look well,”
J said.
“I’m all light,” said Molly. “I’m tired. I washed
yesterday.”
“You’re not all right,” I said. “And Sid’s not,
either. What’s the matter with you?”
“It’s nothing,” she insisted. “It’s just that we
should never have come back here. I hate this place,
and I shouldn’t have come back.”
“You’ve told me what I wanted to know,” I said.
“I’ll bust somebody’s face for this.”
“I’ve told you nothing,” said Molly, red and
angry. “You keep your nose out of it and let me
look after myself.”
“Sid should have more sense,” I said. “He should
have more guts.”
“Leave Sid out of it, damn you!” said Molly.
“Mind your own business.”
It was the start of a row of the kind we’d been
having ever since we were kids. We both got warm
and wrathful, and Molly’s eyes got dangerous and
spiteful and defiant. But she wouldn’t tell me any-
thing, except to mind my own business ; and, though
I blustered a good deal, there didn’t seem to be much
else I could do. I went away angry and upset, full
of hatred for Sid and fear for Molly, but I mightn’t
have done anything if I hadn’t come up against Sid
again that afternoon.
HE was in the bar, and he was pretty drunk. He
was a nuggety little chap, a'nd he looked a bit
dangerous. He glared at me, and spat on the floor.
His neat bank-clerk’s clothes were rumpled, and his
tie was working around under his ear. The man I
was with knew him, and didn’t know that I knew him,
so he started to introduce us. Sid cut him short.
“I know him,” he said. “He’s my brother-in-
law.”
He looked hurt and crazy, and he brayed in an
aimless sort of way. His cobbers winked at each
other. They thought he was dotty, and they weren’t
far wrong. Even though I hated him, I was a bit
shocked to see him so low. But I was startled. I
knew what he’d been hearing, and I was frightened of
what he might say. Then he said it. “He’s the brother
of the biggest whore on the ’fields,” he said.” “And
I’m only her poor, bloody husband.”
The room seemed to burst around me, and I hit
him somewhere in the face, and was surprised at the
strength with which he came back at me. His rush
carried me the length of the bar, and I stopped a
couple of nasty ones on the way, and cracked my
head against the wall when I reached it. He was
ratty, and he was drunk, but he was fierce and strong.
As they bundled us out of the bar, my brains settled
back into place, and I thought what a great show it
would be for the onlookers. If I had a gun I’d shoot
him where he stands, I thought. But I didn’t have a
gun, and pretty soon I was too busy looking after
myself to think at all.
He was as hard as nails from years of training
that had only been interfered with by a few days of
drinking, and every time he landed it hurt. I had a
nasty fear that if he landed in the right place the
fight would be over, and I hoped my hits hurt as
much as his did. He was a dirty little rat, I tried to
tell myself, no better than scum like Rickard. He was
belting away at my body, and soon it hurt my chest
to breathe, and I started to feel dizzy and weak. I
could only see his head, big and vague, looming
toward me. It looked big enough to hit at a hundred
yards, and I plugged away at it, but I mostly whacked
the air.
The half-dozen that had been in the bar had
grown to about forty, and they wouldn’t give us
enough room. They were yelling, though whether
they were encouraging me or telling him to finish me
I couldn’t tell. They were surging around the asphalt
pub yard, wherever we went, crowding us and
scrambling for a good look, like mobs do. One of
them stopped a haymaker from Sid, and let him have
one back. He lost me for a moment, and I brushed my
hand across my eyes *and stumbled into the crowd,
kidding I’d lost him. It gave me a few seconds’
breather, and when I turned he was looking for me,
with his back to me. I could see him plainly now, and
I took a rush and gave him a rabbit-killer that must
have nearly broken his neck. It wasn t fair, but it
took some of the sting out of him. I d have hit him
with an axe if I could have got an axe.
I pasted him across the yard, but after a few hits
I was too weak to lay him out. I stopped for a
breather, intending to let him have all I could muster at
the first glimmer of sense that I saw in his eye. He
kept on moving backwards, and tripped over the
woodheap and sat down. I knew the onlookers would
keep us apart until he got up, and I knew he d be
stronger then, so I didn’t wait for any interference. I
jumped on him and grabbed him by both ears, and
banged his head on the big chopping-block three or
four times before they hauled me off. There was
divided opinion about whether or not they ought to
sock me, but it didn’t matter much what they did. Sid
was out, and looked like staying out, though he wasn t
in much worse conditon than I was myself.
A cobber of mine appeared from somewhere and
dragged me off. We went down the lane into the back-
yard of the next pub, and he cleaned me up as well
as he could. He had sense enough to bring a couple
of bottles of beer, and we drank them there, and I
felt better.
“What the hell happened?” he kept saying. ‘lt
was that brother-in-law of yours that’s just come up
from the coast, the bank-
johnny one, wasn’t it?
What the hell hap-
pened?”
But I couldn’t say
anything. I sat there
trembling, with the bottle
of beer wobbling in my
hand, trying to straighten
things out in my mind.
Molly was worth a dozen
of him, I thought. What-
ever happened to Molly
she’d never crumble up
like he had, because she
had guts, whatever else
she lacked. I wished I’d
killed him. I wished I’d
taken to him with a pot,
and laid him out as soon
as he said it, so that
there’d have only been a
few to talk about it. I
felt sick and stupid, and
numb and done for, and
aching with sorrow and
hatred as well as the
clouts Sid had given me.
When my cobber tumbled
that I couldn’t talk he
shut up, like good
cobbers do, and after a
while I went home, be-
cause there wasn’t any-
thing else that could be
done.
\\l E never saw Sid
“ again. Next day
he’d gone, and the poor
cow must have felt it,
because when he left the
’fields he left the banK
and the only job he’d
ever done in his life. It
was a nine days’ wonder
in the town, but they
talked about it only until
the storeman on the Sun-
set shot himself and the
management discovered
that the store contained
about half the things it
should have. By that
time my skin had healed,
and 1 was even feeling
sorry for Sid. But not
half as sorry as I did for
Molly.
She had some money,
and she stopped on in
their house until I
thought it was time I
made a move. I went to
see her, and told her to
come back home, but
she wasn’t having any.
“You’re welcome,” I
said. “There’s plenty of
room, and you like being
with mum, don’t you?”
“I can go to see mum,” she said. “But I’m get-
ting a room. I’ll be better on my own.”
I thought she wanted some place to lick her
wounds in private, and I felt worse than ever and
talked more. I put up a good argument, but she
wouldn’t have a word of it.
“Perhaps you’re right,” she said, “but you’re a
bit of a thickhead, Jack. Can’t you see there are all
sorts of reasons why I want to be on my own? I
want to be on my own, understand? I want my
own room, not the spare room in anyone’s house.”
She got the room and lived in it, silent and proud,
not talking about any of the good times that hadn’t
lasted very long for her, or about the bad ones
she must have been having then. Then she got a job,
back at her old work, and I had a suspicion that tasted
bad that her old boss had given it to her only because
he thought that she ought to be pretty approachable
after all that had happened.
Nowadays I see her fairly often, at times when
I know she’ll be alone, and sometimes she swishes past
in the street, riding beside her boss in his big car. It
still tickles me up when 1 see them and think to
myself that there’ll be others later all right. 1 think of
our old man, and of the dirty turns Monk and myself
did Molly when we were all kids without knowing it.
I feel glad of what I suppose mum doesn’t know,
because it would make her feel worse than any of us.
But I go and see Molly as often as I can, and 1
feel as fond of her as I ever did. She’s too deeply
involved now in that life of her own ever to become
an appendage to happily-settled members of the family.
Whether it brings her some fun or mostly misery, she’s
bound to it and it’s none of my business. It’s her life,
and because Monk and I might seem to have done
better we’ve nothing to feel superior about. It’s
harder for girls.


If you want the best ..
10M
VVAffc
T
wan!
IF you want to own the world’s
finest pen — ask for SWAN !
And if you want the best ink—
again ask for SWAN !
Swan Pens are the best that
money can buy and are worlds
famous for their many special
features. And Swan Ink makes
ALL pens write better, what-
ever the make. So if it’s a
question of writing insist on
SWAN and you can't go wrong.
PRITFS- The Visofil (“Big-fiU’ )
K 2» ISS V>»
colours.
Of all Stationers and Jewellers. Made in
England by Mabie, Todd& Co. Ltd., London, W.l
I
'i
MABIE, TODD & VO. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., 255 a George St., Sydney,
and 323 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
qin should be
Call for
Gordons
St id wiMk
•ffae. Stftk.
■&OC&UL
ĥ
ħ
h
Gordon's
Gin
GENUINE LONDON GIN-lIVIPORTED
OLD NEWCASTLE
(By J.H.M.A.)
ALL over the British Empire where
coal measures occur are to be
found places named after New-
castle-on-Tyne. Australia’s New-
castle (it had another, a wheat-and-sheep
Westralian district, now called Toodyay)
is the busy city at the mouth of the
Hunter River in N.S.W. —a locality
inevitably destined to be the main in-
dustrial centre of the Commonwealth.
It has a story as interesting and
picturesque as that of any other district
in the continent.
Lieutenant John Shortland, R.N., who
had been chasing runaway convicts
northward along the coast, and was on
his way back to Sydney, was the first
white man, so far as is known, to enter
the Hunter River from the sea. Shortland
came in across the bar on September
19, 1797. He found coal in the cliffs near
the mouth of the river, and Governor
Hunter established a settlement there in
order to mine it. In June and July, 1801,
the river was surveyed by Lieutenant-
Colonel Paterson and Ensign Barralliec
as far up as the present situation of
the town of Greta, the tributary Williams
also being charted for a considerable
distance.
In 1802 Governor King abandoned the
settlement because he considered it too
far from headquarters to receive proper
supervision. In 1804, however, he re-
ceived instructions from England to re-
establish it, and on March 15 appointed
Lieutenant Menzies, a marine officer of
H.M.S. Calcutta, to be Commandant of
the district. Menzies called it “King’s
Town,” in honor of the Governor, but
the name never came much into vogue.
The place was unofficially known as the
“Coal River.” Governor Macquarie
always referred to it as “Newcastle.”
When Macquarie paid his first visit to
it in 1812, it was sending to Sydney fairly
large shipments of coal, cedar and shell-
lime, and by 1814 154 tons of coal was
being sent each year to India, payment
being made in Bengal rum.
Macquarie congratulated the Com-
mandant, Captain Wallis, in 1818 on
having “advanced the settlement at New-
castle from the appearance of an humble
Hamlet to the Rank and Capabilities of
a well-laid-out, regular and clean Town.”
During his term of office Captain Wallis
began the breakwater that now joins
Nobby’s (Coal Island) to the mainland.
“GOTCHA!"
In the early days, and until the same
year that saw the completion of the
breakwater, the only navigation light was
afforded by an immense brazier of coal
that was kept burning on Beacon Hill,
to the south-west of the village, by two
attendants. This was superseded by the
erection of a lighthouse on Nobby’s in
1857.
In 1821 Mr. Commissioner Bigge, re-
porting to the House of Commons, speaks
of the settlement as “orderly and well
arranged.” There were seven streets in
the town, and they contained 13 houses
occupied by officials and 71 dwelling
places for prisoners, besides barracks for
convicts and soldiers. The chief industry
was timber-getting. It was mainly car-
ried on by gangs of convicts, who worked
on the Hunter and its tributaries, and
rafted the logs they had cut down to
the mouth of the main river.
To 1817 coalmining had been carried on
at a drift on a level with the shore under
Beacon Head. In 1820 a shaft 111 ft.
deep was sunk close to the Command-
ant’s residence, from which the 27 men
employed used to raise 20 tons each day.
The lime-burning was done at Lime-
burners’ Bay, on the inner side of what
is now known as the Stockton peninsula,
almost opposite to the entrance to the
navigable mouth of the river. It was
terribly severe work, and was reserved
for alleged incorrigibles as the worst
form of punishment, short of death, to
which they could be subjected. With-
out any doubt, Limeburners’ Bay was
the most utterly hellish of all the early
Australian penal stations —and that is
saying a good deal.
In the early eighteen-twenties Gover-
nor Brisbane decided to remove the penal
settlement from Newcastle to Port Mac-
quarie, but for many years afterwards
convicts were employed in the mines and
on the breakwater. In 1831 the first
steam vessel to arrive in Australia, the
Sophia Jane, began to
run between Sydney
and Newcastle, and in
1839 the Hunter River
Steam Navigation
Company was formed,
and brought out from
England three iron
steamers the Rose,
the Thistle and the
Shamrock. The present
Newcastle and Hunter
River S.S. Co., Ltd., is
directly descended
from this Corporation.
The Australian Agri-
cultural Company had taken over the
coalmines in 1831, and had a monopoly
of the industry for about 15 years.
The first newspaper (“Telegraph”) was
published in 1855. In 1857 a railway line
connecting Newcastle and Maitland was
opened, but it was not for another 30
years that Port Jackson and the Coal
River were connected by rail. And that,
of course, was the end of “Old” New-
castle.


TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
a*
you are providing
for your family
during your lifetime,
but are you pro-
viding for them during
their lifetime ?
IN this primary duty to your
* family we would impress on
you the absolute urgency of
making a Will and the appoint-
ment of a permanent and reliable
executor.
JO give you an idea how the
Company may act for you
and the innumerable pitfalls
which beset a private executor,
we ask you to call on one of
our senior executives or write
for an interesting pamphlet. See
your Solicitor now, have a Will
prepared, and appoint as your
executor The Equity Trustees
Company.
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward F. Mitchell, K.C.M.G., K.C., Chairman.
Sir Stephen Morell, K. 8., Vice-Chairman.
Sir Alan Currie, K. 8., M.L.C.
E. F. Herring, Esq., K.C.
Allan Spowers, Esq.
W. K. Fullagar, Esq., K.C.
Manager, F. R. WOOD.
Assistant Manager, ROBERT MONEY.
the equity trustees
COMPANY
472 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.I.
’Phone: MU63I 1.
UPS AND DOWNS
(By “K. LEY.”)
“The fact that a person has an accident tends
to make him overcautious in similar circum-
stances, with the result that actions which were
previously automatic receive studied considera-
tion and the likelihood of the repetition of
the injury is increased.” —Psychological note.
FOR twenty years I had climbed the
same flight of stairs every morn-
ing, automatically feeling for the
next step with my toe before giving
that upward thrust of the leg to carry
me on. Then came the morning when
I slipped on the fourth step from the
top and bounced to the bottom. A
broken ankle and wrist, a black eye and
what the doctors called “abrasions” were
the result.
On the first morning of my return to
work I found myself nervously feeling
each step as I climbed, but by the time
I was half-way up the nervousness had
passed and I was stepping confidently.
But when I reached that fourth step
memory rushed back and made me extra-
carefui. Hanging to the banister with
both hands, I gingerly put one foot and
then the other on the step, let go the
banister and —crashed to the bottom.
“Severe injuries,” said the news para-
graph.
Need I detail how, once more recov-
ered, I again essayed that climb? Again
I reached that cursed step, again I hesi-
tated and thought carefully over all that
had gone before, again my nerves
quivered. Mustering courage, I decided
to miss the step altogether, leaped for the
next, misjudged the distance and again
plunged downward.
• The boss called on me in hospital. He
didn’t want to lose me, but the business
couldn’t stand this constant interference
with routine, and the insurance company
was asking questions. He had decided
that my trouble was probably psycholo-
gical, and had arranged for me to spend
some time in the care of a psychologist.
Weeks later, accompanied by my psy-
chologist, I again approached the build-
ing. At the door I broke down. “I’ll
never get up,” I moaned, cold sweat on
my brow. The psychologist led me firmly
into a near-by cafe, sat me down and
went into a brown study. At last he
looked up. “I’m convinced your fear-
complex could be cured if we could get
you up to the office,” he said. “Is there
any other way up?”
There was a goods-lift at the rear, and
soon I was safely installed at my desk,
receiving the congratulations of my
fellow-workers.
The day passed happily. I was a little
late getting away, and was alone when
I approached the stairs to go down. A
slight nervousness held me for a moment,
then I stepped firmly on to the stairs.
I was immediately hurled upwards on to
the landing. I was physically unhurt,
but the mental effect was disastrous.
Then I steadied. It couldn’t be true.
One couldn’t fall upwards. What sort
of a state was I in? Was it possible
that a complex could be reversed and
the power of an injured mind be so great
as to move the physical body spasmodi-
cally against gravity? Ridiculous!
Grimly I pulled myself together, faced
the stairs and stepped determinedly down-
ward.
Great heavens! I was hurled back
on to the landing! Panic-stricken, I rose
and jumped down several steps, only to
be carried by some unseen power back
up to the landing. I must have fainted.
When I came to I was afraid to move,
just lay there quivering, certain now that
those stairs were out to do me in.
Later, the caretaker pulled me round,
and I got out and home. But I never
went back. The installation of escalators
had been too much.
A MIXED GRILL
On June 30, 1939, the public debt of
Commonwealth and States amounted to
£1,295,022,900, the States’ share being
£897,772,000. By June 30, 1940, the
public debt will have reached
£1,350,000,000 at least; just on £193
per head. In the £1,295,000,000 is in-
cluded a short-term debt of £77,603,000,
of which the sturdy borrowers of
N.S.W. are responsible for £42,895,000.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Sydney has some notable
examples of men who turned their
hobbies into vocations. Monte Luke
was an actor with a passion for using
his camera on his fellow-members. The
J.C.W. firm found his pictures useful
for publicity; he became the Firm’s
official photographer and then set up
his own studio, now one of the best-
known in the city. Then there’s Millar
Stokes, dealer in antiques. He got his
taste for curios as a ship’s purser ; in
a shore job as a commercial traveller he
fell ill and had to sell his collection,
discovered the market was worth culti-
vating, and gave the subject serious
study. In a year or so he was on his
feet and prospering in an occupation for
which, as events proved, he had special
aptitude.
* * # *
“Kooragai”: When pencil cedar was
plentiful on N.S.W. northern rivers it
was either ignored or regarded as of no
commercial value and destroyed with
other beautiful scrub woods. Today it
is more appreciated—or what is left of
it is. In Queensland it is known as
Cairns pencil cedar, Cairns maple and
Daintree pencil cedar. The timber is
harder than red cedar but softer than
maple, and is used in cabinet work as
a substitute for both. It is also useful
for lining and ceiling, when such are
varnished or polished, and for other
decorative work. In color and grain it
closely resembles maple.
* * * *
“Amateur P.”: The first European
painters who came to this country,
notably the Swiss Buvelot and the Dutch-
man Maartens, saw Australian green as
brown because it was in the European
tradition. So much was this the conven-
tion that when Constable put a green tree
in a picture he could convince a dealer
that all greens weren’t brown only by
taking an old violin and laying it on a
lawn. The brown Australian landscape
persisted into the present century, but a
few young Australian artists began to use
their owii eyes, instead of looking at
Nature through the eyes of Buvelot and
his contemporaries. The impressionistic
school of Australian painters has taught
the public to see its own country better,
and now Buvelot’s pictures look like any-
thing but Australia.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Early Vic-
torian history was recalled at St. Kilda
Cemetery when 20 ex-drivers of
Cobb and Co.’s coaches made a
pilgrimage to the graves of four of
the company’s first proprietors, C. L.
Hewitt, F. Fogarty, J. Wagner and
G. Watson. Driven by Frank Smiley,
aged 85, they came in one of the original
coaches, still preserved as a relic by the
Police Department. Their average age
was well over 70. During February
another pilgrimage will be made to the
grave of Ned Devine in the Ballarat
Cemetery, and on May 5 a third, to the
resting-place in the Melbourne General
Cemetery of John Conway Bourke, Vic-
toria’s first mailman.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: The ribald Australian
never seems to tire of his earthy humor
even when he is dealing with sacred
things. Take trout-fishing, which is more
of a rite than a sport in the Old Dart.
There it is hedged round with stiff con-
ventions, its apparatus is treated with
the reverence due to the Holy Grail, and
even its flies are named with a nice
dignity which lend them a glamor all
their own. Not so in this benighted
country. I sometimes linger round my
favorite sports shop waiting for the
advent of some visiting duke who will
be reduced, if he expects to have decent
sport, to utter the demand: “Give me —
ah—two ‘cowdungs,’ old fellow, will
you?”
* * * *
“Old O.”: The old type of magnetic
mine was developed between 1914 and
1918. The new mine is said to be made
of a permagnetic alloy metal radiating
extraordinarily dense and extensive lines
of force. Sensitive horn-type plunger
detonators are mounted, to fire on con-
tact. The mine weighs about 2001 b. and
is counterpoised to remain submerged,
rising immediately a ship passes over it.
A possible remedy would be to attach
powerful electro-magnets to the bottom
and sides of steel ships. These would
repel the mine and send it to the bottom.
Trailing ballasted nets could then sweep
the sea bed and explode the mine by
rolling it over on to the detonating
horns.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn _it will stick readily. Follow yOur usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES.
IVith offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering. Australasia and the World, thi3
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BE YOUNG
MEN!
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
doctors soy your virility ond vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY. '
£ CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
B 21
CUNO
TONIC
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (29), N.Q., 13 years present
position, seeks position in Sydney. Business
exp., wholesale and retail grocery, wines and
spirits, travelling, produce, confectionery, elec-
trical, paint, builders’ supplies, accounts, ship-
ping and forwarding. Refs. —6003.
Cook-houseman, Vic., elderly, competent all
duties, two years present position in Gipps-
land, desires change ; go anywhere.—6o43.
Young man (23), Sydney, wholesale and retail
sales exp., desires position; driver’s license.
Refs.—6ols.
Exp. importers’ and manufacturers’ agent,
fancy goods, etc., also qualified chemist, 12
years last situation, war restrictions responsible
unemployment, seeks employment. Refs. —6035.
.To buy “Woodworker” Handbook on
Carving, published by Evans Bros., London.
—5966.
To buy parts 7, 9 to 13, 17, 18, 20 and 22
onwards of Modern Masterpieces, published by
Newnes ; also binding case.—6osl.
To buy sets or early volumes of Historical
Records of Australia (Commonwealth or
N.5.W.).—5978.
To exchange 1940 Stanley Gibbons’s Simpli-
fied Centenary Edition Stamp Catalogue for a
S.G. Whole World, 1938 or 1939.—6037.
Words of the Australian verse containing
the stanza:
The sand was heavy ’neath our feet,
The summer sky was o’er us.
—5969.
Words of verse “We Wondered if Morgan
Knew,” by Edward Harrington. —6034*
Information Sought.
(1) Wliat is the history of the Newnes shale-
oil field? (2) How much motor spirit can
be obtained from a ton of shale, and what are
the other products? (3) How far does the
Newnes seam extend? (4) What is shale? —
5891.
(1) Oil-shale was discovered in the Wolgan
Valley in the vicinity of Newnes in 1873 and
in the Capertee Valley, near Glen Davis, about
1865. Apart from prospecting and shipment
of trial parcels no attempt to exploit the de-
posits commercially was made until 1905, when
the Commonwealth Oil Corporation was
formed in London with a capital of £BOO,OOO.
Retorting and refining works were erected at
Newnes and a private railway constructed
connecting the township with Newnes Junc-
tion on the main western railway. Subse-
quently the properties were acquired by John
Fell and Co., but operations were suspended
in 1922. (2) The yield of crude oil per ton
is approximately 100 gallons. Other products
are kerosene, fuel oil, gas oil and paraffin wax.
(3) The full extent of the seam in the Caper-
tee-Wolgan (Newnes) area is not known, but
oil-shale is exposed at intervals over an area
of 20 sq. m. Thickness ranges from a lew
inches to 4ft. 6in. (4) The organic material
in the shale which yields oil by destructive dis-
tillation is considered to be algal remains,
spores and pollen grains, together with finely-
macerated vegetal particles accumulated in
fresh-water lakes under tranquil conditions.
* * * *
(1) Method of applying for a passport to
travel in a foreign country? (2) What sort of
testimonials are required?. (3) If a photograph
is required, can it be taken by any photo-
grapher, and must it be taken standing ?— 5906.
(1) Application for a passport should be
made to the Collector of Customs for New
South Wales, Sydney, from whom the pre-
scribed forms of application are obtainable.
(2) A recommendation from an authorised
person (which includes a justice of the peace)
to whom the applicant is known personally is
required on the application. (3) Two copies
of the applicant’s photograph are required, and
such photographs should be of head and
shoulders only taken without a hat with a
plain background and about 3in. x 3-jin. in size.
Any photographer may take a passport photo-
graph. * « *
* * * *
A female employee of a Sydney firm fell
on the firm’s premises during working hours
and injured her arm. The arm was X-rayed
and treated by a medical man for several
weeks. The employee was absent from work
for one day only. Is this person entitled
under the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Act
to claim expenses ( X-ray and medical ) from
the insurance co. with which her firm s em-
ployees are insured? —5882.
Under the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation
Act 1926-38, unless the worker has been dis-
abled for a period of at least seven days from
earning full wages at the work at which she
was employed she has no rights under the Act.
In this case, therefore, she is unable to recover
expenses from her employer or the insurance
co.
* * * *
Can a married woman in Victoria change
her name by deed poll ? Her husband left
her for another woman over seven years ago.
5977.
So long as she remains married her hus-
band’s surname continues to be hers, and she
cannot change it by deed poll or otherwise.
In a book published in 1938, ‘‘Kingswill
—War Correspondent,” by Erna Kingswill, a
meeting between Kingswill and Sir George
Grey, then High Commissioner of the Cape,
is described. Kingswill was a stutterer all his
life, and it states that Sir George Grey stuttered
badly and was immensely sensitive about it,
and when the two met a quarrel ensued as
Kingswill thought Grey was imitating him. Is
there any truth in this theory that Grey
stuttered ?— 5867.
Cannot credit it. Certainly in his later days
in M.L. Grey was no stammerer, but a very
forceful, clear speaker. Many Maorilanders
now living—Grey died less than 45 years ago —
remember Grey’s speeches in Parliament and on
the hustings, and his conversation in private,
and there has never been any suggestion that
he suffered from any defect in his diction.
* * * *
I have a crippled daughter 17 years old.
My income is £3OO p.a., and I keep my wife
and daughter. I am now 71. Can I get an
invalid pension for my daughter, and, if so,
to whom should I apply? —s9BB.
The Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act pro-
vides that the circumstances of a claimant’s
parents must be taken into account in deter-
mining an invalid pension claim. In this case,
it would appear, the parents’ income is suffi-
cient to. preclude the grant of a pension to
the daughter, but on the father’s retirement a
claim for invalid pension for the daughter may
be lodged with the nearest registrar of pen-
sions (Clerk of Petty Sessions).
* * * H*
My wife, who is almost totally incapacitated
and is unable to carry on household duties
without help, seeks the invalid pension. My
annual income is £3OO, my wife’s annual income
is nil, household property, furniture, etc., are
valued at £4O, and annual profit from one
boarder is £5O. Would she be eligible? —s9B4.
In this case the wife’s deemed income (half
combined income of self and husband) is in
excess of the statutory limit of £B4 10s. per
annum, and she is not eligible to receive an
invalid pension.
* * * *
(1) Is attar of roses manufactured in Aus-
tralia? (2) What type of soil is needed? (3)
What roses are most suitable? (4) How much
is used in Australia each year? Country of
origin? (5) What quantity is the yield from
one rosebush ? (6) Are there any persons in
Australia familiar with the process of manu-
facture? (7) Probable cost of machinery to
establish a medium-sized plant? (8) Some de-
tails of the manufacturing process? (9)
Addresses of any persons who can supply more
details? —5897.
(1) No. (2) A rich and well-drained sandy or
light clayey soil is required. Bulgaria has the
best conditions. (3) Bulgarian oil is obtained
almost entirely from the red (rarely white) rose,
Rosa damascena, Miller; the white Rose, R. alba,
L., is also grown, and, although it produces only
about half as much oil as the red, it is more
resistant and is richer in the odorless stearop-
tene, and has a commercial, if not an odor,
value on that account. R. centifolia and R.
stamboletz are also found to a minor extent.
The Anatolian and French produce offers no
serious competition to the Bulgarian, while
lesser quantities still are produced in Germany,
India, Tunis, Persia and Italy. In France,
Rose de mai ( R. centifolia) is most used, and
others include R. Ulrich Brunner, Louis van
Houtte and Marie van Houtte. (4) Figures
not available. (5) One authority states that
one kilogram of oil can be obtained from 2500
kilograms of R. damascena and from 5000
kilograms of R. alba. Another publication
gives one kilogram of oil obtained by dis-
tillation from the following weights of flowers
in the respective countries: Bulgaria 3500 kilo-
grams, Anatolia 4000 kilograms, France 20,000
kilograms. (6) Dr. R. Fink, 12 Alma-place, St.
Kilda (Vic.), has been recommended as a pos-
sible source of further information. (7) No
figures are available, but, taking into considera-
tion the limited demand for this essence and
the conditions under which it is produced
overseas, it is considered that the cost of land,
labor and machinery would need to be very
moderate to make its commercial production
in Australia feasible. (8) In contrast to the
crude old-fashioned distilleries of the Bulgarian
peasants, nearly all the makers of the well-
known brands of attar of roses now have large,
centrally-situated factories, fitted with modern
stills and equipped in the most up-to-date
manner. Some of the stills are large enough
to deal with a charge of from 300 to 750 kilos
of rose blossoms. Some are heated by steam
and others by direct fire. In one or two cases
distillation in partial vacuum is resorted to.
In one of the largest works over 100 stills are
in operation simultaneously. In many of the
more modern factories the roses are also
treated by volatile solvents. (9) You might
try F. H. Faulding and Co., 123 .Lonsdale-
street, Melbourne (or 98 Castlereagh-street,
Redfern, N.S.W.), or Felton, Grimwade and
Duerdins, Ltd., 342-46 Flinders-lane, Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
What materials are used in the manufac-
ture of toothbrush handles, cost, and where
obtainable ? —5849.
Toothbrush handles are made usually from
powdered cellulose acetate which is preheated
in a compacting cylinder and thence injected
into a mould. Cellulose acetate would be
obtainable in Australia only as scrap from
such sources as artificial silk manufacturers,
film cos., etc. Moulding powder (and sheet
cellulose) can be imported from England, U.S.A.
and Japan. Landed price varies between 3s.
and 6s. per pound, depending on color, quality,
etc.
* * * *
(1) How did vehicles, pedestrians, etc., cross
Middle Harbor ( Sydney ) at The Spit prior to
the erection of the present bridge ? (2) Was
there a bridge there in the early days, when
was the present bridge built, and when was
the toll abolished 6o2B.
(1) From 1850 to the date of the opening
of the existing bridge at The Spit on De-
cember 24, 1924, passengers, vehicles, horses,
etc., crossed Middle Harbor by punt. (2) The
present structure, which was erected by the
Sydney Harbor Trust on behalf of Manly
Council, is the only bridge which has ever
been in existence at The Spit; the first pile was
driven on May 5, 1924. The number of
vehicles for which cash tolls were paid from
the date of the opening to March 28, 1930
(when the charge for tolls was abandoned as
the capital cost of £65,000 had then been
liquidated), was 4,169,815, exclusive of season-
ticket holders.
* * * *
How is cotton or linen treated to serve as
the material for household holland blinds ?
5727.
Concentrated warp sizing (for cotton warps):
36-421 b. sulphonated tallow (75 p.c.; if 50 p.c.
used increase proportion), 18-241 b. raw beef tallow
(good quality preferred, otherwise size may
be discolored slightly), 14-20 oz. of dry gum
tragacanth, 38-451 b. water. The gum traga-
canth should be placed in separate vessel,
heated up to boil and allowed to stand until
complete jell has been reached, then it is ready
to add to mix. Mix the sulphonated tallow
and raw tallow in kettle and heat while mixing
until thoroughly blended and syrupy. Add the
gum trag. jell and mix until blended. Add
the necessary amount of preservative and place
in closed barrels until ready for use. Con-
centrated finishing compound (for cotton
piece goods): 22-261 b. sul. tallow (75 p.c.),
12-151 b. Japan wax, 20-241 b. 25 p.c. trisodium-
phosphate solution, 50-601 b. water. The Japan
wax should be emulsified in a separate vessel.
Mix the tallow, one-third of the Japan wax
(emulsified) and required amount of T.S.P.
solution until thoroughly blended. Add the re-
mainder of the Japan wax emulsion, agitate
and heat; it is best not to boil. Stir until a
creamy mix is secured. For sizing, the cloth
is dried and passed through heated callendering
rollers.
* * * *
(1) Most suitable type of pigeon for racing
purposes ? (2) Is there much competition (in
peace-time) in the racing-pigeon world, and
are there any cups or handicaps worth
winning? (3) What is the fastest flight made
by a pigeon over a distance of 200 miles ? (4)
Usual feed for pigeons ? (5) Usual method for
securing notes to their legs? —sB79.
(1) Racing homer of not more than lib.
weight. (2) Yes, but the amount of prize-
money to be won depends on the number of
fliers racing in club or federation. (3) 2300
yards per minute. (4) Pigeon peas are most
popular as a staple food. Two parts to one
of small maize and wheat makes a well-balanced
diet. As titbits feed rape, hemp, millet, rice,
linseed or canary seed in small measure only
as a delicacy. Greens (either spinach or let-
tuce) at least once a week. (5) The message,
written on tissue paper, is inserted in a small
aluminium cylinder clasped to the leg.
* * * *
Instructions for making vin ordinaire in the
home from Isabella grapes? —sBB4.
Put into an open vessel 91b. ripe grapes,
bruise well and pour over them one gallon
water; cover and leave for one week (any
quantity in same proportions may be made).
Strain off juice add sugar in the proportion
of 31b. to the gallon of liquid (less if dry wine
is wanted), cover with a cloth and leave 24
hours or till fermentation begins; then pour
liquid into a cask, leaving bung out. As
fermentation goes on add a little water daily
for 10 days, keeping liquid at same level. At
the end of 10 days bung tight and put cask
in cool, dry place at least two months, when
wine may be drawn off into bottles. It is
necessary to obtain permission from the Excise
Branch, Customs Dept., Sydney, to make any
liquor exceeding two per cent, alcohol content.
* * * »
How is fish-glue made, and are there any
side-lines to making fish-glue?- —5983.
Fish offals are collected, thoroughly washed
with water and discharged into large extractors
or digesters with live steam. After cooking or
digestion, the liquid is run off and allowed to
stand. When cool, the upper oily layer is re-
moved, and the lower gluey solution clarified
with alum. The liquid is then filtered, con-
centrated in open vats and bleached with
sulphur dioxide. The residue of the offals left
in the extractors is dried in steam-heated
vessels, mixed with potassium and magnesium
salts, and put on the market as fish-potash
fertiliser, thus forming a side-line to the glue-
making.
* * * *
Winners of the Davis Cup for each of the
years since its inception? —sls4.
1900, 1901 (no challenge), 1902, U.S.A.;
1903, 1904, 1905, 1906, British Isles; 1907,
1908, 1909, 1910 (no challenge), 1911, Austra-
lasia; 1912, British Isles; 1913, U.S.A.; 1914,
Australasia; 1915 to 1918, no competitions on
account of the Great War; 1919, Australasia;
1920, 1921, 1922, 1923, 1924, 1925, 1926,
U.S.A.; 1927, 1928, 1929, 1930, 1931,. 1932,
France; 1933, 1934, 1935, 1936, Great Britain;
1937, 1938, U.S.A.; 1939, Australia.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of aboriginal word “Oomoo”?
5975.
Details concerning any art and literary move-
ments on the Darling Downs (Q.) during the
last 100 years, and the names of the most
prominent artists and writers, etc. —6027.
Brief Answers.
G.C.: No information on the subject....
K.D.: From N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Market
and Castlereagh streets, Sydney... .C.8.W.:
Write Miss E. M. Tildesley, hon. secretary,
British Drama League (N.S.W.), Room 14,
Third Floor, Victoria-arcade, Sydney....
A.E.J.: (1) Can supply copies. (2) House oi
Representatives, Canberra, A.C.T R.F.F.:
In the absence of a detailed description, no
definite reply can be given. South Australia
issued many different stamps of the denomina-
tions of Id. and Is. If, however, the stamps
are of the period just prior to the introduc-
tion of Commonwealth stamps, it is unlikely
that they are worth more than face value....
W.A.: (1) Evidence in support of the theory
is that the writer was, for a while, the singer’s
secretary. (2) Can’t say. (3) Don’t know the
cause. Among the effects were good sales of
the book and a film adaptation which was
also profitable to the author.... D.J.M.G.:
Complete set of five sells at 21s E.H.:
Holes can be drilled in glass with an ordinary
twist-drill, using turpentine as a cutting com-
pound... .H.M.: No. The century years are
not leap years.. ..J.E.B.: Write Daimler
Lanchester Sales and Service, 51 Macquane-
street, Sydney P.H.A.: Write Under-
secretary, Dept, of Defence, Melbourne....
G.D.C.: Write to the firm yourself...-G-L:
The “General Krivitsky” articles originally
appeared in the “Saturday Evening Post,
published in the U.S.A R.J.8.: Write
Registrar, Church of England Diocesan Regis-
try, George-street, Sydney... .A.J.C.: Write
Registrar, N.S.W. Division, Commonwealth In-
stitute of Valuers, 12 O’Connell-strect, Sydney.
. ...8.5.R.: Obtainable from Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Sydney... .J.H.: See any recent
issue of Whitaker’s Almanack. .. .F.E.8.: A
resident of Norfolk Island is liable to Federal
income tax on income derived from sources
in Australia, but not on income derived from
sources in Norfolk Island. A resident of
Norfolk Island would also be liable to N. S.
Wales State income tax and unemployment
relief and social services taxes on income
derived from N. S. Wales sources... .S.F.:
(1) Ten dozen sandwiches where other foods,
such as cakes or the usual sweets, form part
of the meal would be required. (2) Four
double tin loaves, 41b. butter, 21b. beef, 1
small tin salmon, l|lb. cheese (put through
the mincer and flavored with mayonnaise dress-
ing), and 10 eggs hard boiled and mashed.
Ingredients would cost 12s. 6d. If sandwiches
only are to be served at the supper double
these quantities. (3) Slightly less than lib.
tea if made in bulk, and 41b. loaf sugar. Half
a gallon of milk will be sufficient if it is
put in before the tea is circulated and not
in the cups. If guests put the milk in their
tea li gallons will be needed. .. .J. 0.: A
great many such envelopes were carried, and
their value is about 2s. 6d. each. . . .R.S.H.:
It is possible that one or more of the under-
mentioned organisations might be glad to have
you actively identified in some honorary way
with their work: Police Boys’ Club, Woolloo-
mooloo; Kindergarten Union, Darlinghurst;
one of the local Boy Scout troops or a boys’
club associated with one or more of the local
churches. .. .F.M.1.: Emily Wilding Davison,
a suffragist, threw herself in front of one of
the horses during the racing of the English
Derby on June 4, 1913. She died eight days
later from injuries received. The race was won
by A'ooyeur, to whom it was awarded after
the favorite, Craganour, was disqualified....
D.J.G.: Anson in his “Law of Contract” puts
the matter thus: “A takes a sixpenny book
from X’s bookstall. X in displaying his wares
says in act, though not in words, ‘Will you
buy my goods at my price?’ and A, taking a
book with X’s cognisance, says in act ‘I will,’
thus completing the contract.” This is simple
and direct when contrasted against the tor-
tuous explanation quoted... .X.N.: No, you
can appeal to the Fair Rents Court. The Fair
Rents Act (N.S.W.) constitutes all Courts of
Petty Sessions (police courts) Fair Rents
Courts. Apply to the Clerk of Petty Sessions
in the court nearest to you and he will supply
any form required... .R.N.C.: The British
Official History of the war in the air states
that a grand total of Allied aircraft on all
fronts in June, 1918, was 7323. The total
number of aeroplanes and seaplanes equip-
ping the R.A.F. at October 31, 1918, was
22,171. It will be noted that the latter are
British aeroplanes only. By far the greater
number of these were in store (5027) and in
home areas and schools (6893). No figures
at hand for the production of aeroplanes in
November, 1918 F.F.M.L.: Unable to find
any record of work done on the oils of prickly
pear in its young state. The Q'land Depart-
ment of Agriculture and Stock might have
some unpublished information on the matter.
. ...H.S.: Write to the Secretary, Department
of Commerce, Canberra... .G.C.P.: The de-
positor should communicate with the Chief
Superintendent, Commonwealth Savings Bank
of Australia, Sydney, supplying account
number (if possible), full name, balance of
account when last operated on, approximate
date when the account was opened and branch
or agency where account was opened....
J.W.C.: (1) She might sell one or more of
the blocks and with the money thus realised
rebuild on the remaining block, but without
knowing something of the land and district
no useful advice can be given. Probably her
best course would be to place the property
in the hands of an estate agent in the district
and follow his advice. (2) Take proceedings
against him in the local Small Debts Court.
(3) Uninterrupted possession of the land for
so many years would make it legally impos-
sible to remove him now.


YOUNGHUSBAND
LIMITED
Stock and Station Agents
Buyers and Sellers are advised to consult our
Special Stock and Property Department, or
our Branches.
BRANCHES:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
VICTORIA:
ALBURY, LOCKHART, Rand, Walla
Walla, Griffith, Leeton, WAGGA
WAGGA, DENILIQUIN.
ECHUCA, Kyabram, CASTERTON,
MILDURA.
Chief Representatives and Attorneys in Victoria for
THE
STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Cover issued for all Classes of Fire, Accident and Marine
Insurances at lowest current rates.
YOUNGHUSBAND
LIMITED
Registered Office:
94-96 KING STREET
MELBOURNE
ĥ
AUSTRALIA
MAKES
MACHINE
TOOLS
Turret Lathes
Capstan Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boring Machines
Grinding
Machines
Shapers
ESSENTIAL in our industrial development during peace, and in our
Defence during War, High-grade Machine Tools are now being built
in the Commonwealth.
Associated Machine Tools Australia Pty., Ltd., with the latest plant, in
recently-enlarged Workshops, with a highly-skilled personnel, and twenty-
five years of experience of Machine Tool Manufacturing, has determined
that Australian Secondary Industry shall find, within itself, its own
productive equipment.
Workshops at Kensington—Victoria.
ASSOCIATED MACHINE TOOLS AUSTRALIA
PTY.,
LTD.
Selling Agents:
MELBOURNE : : : : SYDNEY
c
Proprietary Limited
ADELAIDE : : : : : PERTH
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
(exc ept of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re co ” tribu “°™
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
H B S.: If that’s the result of a “flood of
inspiration during the night” you must: have
had a highly indigestible supper... .R.8.W..
Sent “Fires of Hate” to the fire-brigade....
H D L.: Paul might have crooned his way to
radio fame, but he won’t croon his way into
these pages....C.B.C.: That “it actually hap-
pened’’ doesn’t make it into a yarn....
H T.N.: Of little interest to Australian readers.
G B T.: You’ve made a poor fist of A
Fistful of Nuts”....G.E.L.: Dumped “The
Surfer”. . ..G.8.L.: “Allow me to offer you
this, Mr. Editor.” Allow us to thank you and
decline it, Mr. Contributor C.H.N.: You
have more endurance than an insurance sales-
man D.H.R.: The short-story “specialist”
who told you that we would publish that
should take his plate down... .G.R.Y.: Ihe
least demanded by an article like that is
accurate statistics.... 8.R.L.: Try again when
you’re less wrathful... .C.S.H.: Prospector is
specking the w.p.b D.S.L.: There mig t
be a story hidden behind that illegible
scrawl.... H.F.T.: They cane the kids in
fourth standard for that sort of thing
L C B • Even monkey glands couldn’t save that
old-timer.... C.A.8.: Don’t like the gentle-
man who screws the pigeon’s neck H.G.:
Neither of them up to scratch D.A.S.^
Take it back “where the white mountain,’
etc J.D.: Not in the market for “The
Respectable House” W.R.S.: Funny, but
frail A.J.V.: Plumber turned sorrowfully
away P.J.1.: Madam’s a bit thin E.D.:
It sounds young and promising F.E.:
“Maoriland’s Social Security” is pretty rocky.
C.R.F.: Hardly an “epic,” but it has its
moments... .S. A.D.: Dreadful drivel....
J.C.8.: Being in love is no excuse for trying
to rhyme “remember” with “verandah”
P.A.D.: “The Typiste’s Lament” moved us to
tears 8.W.: Chopped up prose is suitable
only for firewood P.K.: Closer this time
R. : Wales is a long way off J.C.F.:
Masefield beat you down to the sea again by
several lengths E.E.H.: Try something else;
we’re off bushmen’s graves J.D.D.: “Gazing
skyward at the strata, contemplating Nature’s
data” is a poetic occupation no doubt, but
you might have phrased it more happily
S. : Verses on Stalin may be good propa-
ganda, but they’ve no other merit....
A.W.D’O: All indecisive... .Z.V.W.: Pretty-
pretty 1.M.: “Homecoming” coming home.
H.G.: Couldn’t stand the strain of “Tug-
o’-war” L.M.8.: One of the oldest R.C:.
We weren’t surprised... .F.N.: They’re be-
coming too rambling; try to get more meat
on the bones... .S.H.C.: Not up... .P.W.R.:
Nothing new to it R.C.: You might get a
par out of that outlaw. .. .D.K.: Interesting,
but you’ve clouded it with obscurity.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.J.: Countless bores have whispered that
long-winded wheeze into our ears... .C.T.: A
pathetic little spasm... .G.L.: You draw as if
you have spots before your eyes... .K.M.S.:
What has happened to the fingers of the lady’s
right hand? ... .R.M.D.: We read the Riot Act
over your crowd of deformed men....N.C.:
Weak and formless. Get an idea to illustrate
and strong lines to depict it....8.P.: Sketch
shows promise, but you still have a long way
to go 0.T.F.: The joke eluded us
J.8.A.: Too crude, though there’s a slick
line here and there... .L.H.: We don’t like
our lasses so thin.... J.G.: The fate of the
aged sundowner left us unconcerned.. . .K.T.:
Has an overburden of heavy, harsh lines....
M.S.: You don’t live up to the self-praise of
the covering letter... .P.N.: A very tame
effort E.F.: Disliked your men with ex-
aggerated noses... .C.S.: As inspiring as an
undertaker’s advt C.H.: We would never
hold up our heads again if we published that
atrocity J.G.: Drunk who sees double and
mistakes the latest arrival for twins is an
old friend J.J.: Buy a skullcap and an
invalid’s chair for the gag—it is in its dotage.
K.L.: Where do they employ shopgirls
with arms like a seal’s flappers?... .G.J.:
Should make an excellent mural decoration for
a two-up 5ch001.... M. 8.: Old gent, in frock-
coat turning handsprings in a quagmire was
ordered off the premises F.T.: Why send
us those soiled offerings? This is no laundry.
R.P.: So you destroyed three previous
attempts. Why did you spare the fourth?
Instead of giving unsolicited financial
advice to Australia, Dwyer-Gray should
study his own Auditor-General’s reports.
That official mentions an accumulated
deficit of £733,400. On the Government
railways £483,900 was lost for the year
to June 30, 1939, though by a paper
reduction of capital (£4,738,000) that
amount was “reduced” to £282,300. On
the realisation of the Marrawah tram-
way, £83,100 was lost. And though the
financial year begins in July, “the presen-
tation to Parliament of the annual esti-
mates of revenue and expenditure does
not usually take place till the, end of
November and sometimes later.”


Keep Up Production With
TRI-CAL-OS
When feed is poor, production suffers
first, then the stock becomes affected
. . . Tri-cal-os Bone Flour supplies
just those minerals in which the dry
fodders are deficient ... It contains
over 70 per cent, tricalcic phosphate
and provides the necessary calcium
and phosphorus in the most reliable
and palatable form... .Feed Tri-cal-os
and maintain productiorf.
**!s«4
wumA
For particulars write to Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
8/
U
O
. *
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet. •
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAJfD.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA. **
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Licks and Their Uses.
“Bungaree”: Once grass becomes dry
and rank, it loses important constituents ;
licks can make up the mineral loss in
the ration.
Mineral shortage varies with districts,
and often between paddocks. Salt is
often the greatest need. Other mineral
shortages may be lime and phosphorus.
When cattle chew bones both are lacking.
Super, as a fertiliser is the best cure.
There are three forms of phosphate
available: Monocalcic phosphate
(super.), dicalcic phosphate, and tri-
calcic phosphate (bonemeal and bone-
flour).
Better not use super, in a lick. It con-
tains impurities, including fluorine, which
are harmful to stock if used for long.
Dicalcic phosphate is the best medium
for supplying lime and phosphorus in
licks. The only objection is that it isi
naturally rather dusty, but mixed with
a little limonite to beat anaemia from 1
worms it is easy to handle. It may be
mixed with coarse salt, or else plain salt
may be used in all but a corner of the
trough, filled with dicalcic mixed with
about 30 p.c. salt to hold it and to
attract sheep.
As a rule sheep will take only as much
of a mineral as they need. Mixed lick
(five parts coarse salt to one part di-
calcic phosphate and limonite) will supply
practically all the mineral shortages in
N.S.W. and is the cheapest form of lick.
It is a waste to feed sulphur to sheep
—it cannot be assimilated. The need
for iodine is very limited, especially in
N.S.W., and should be used only in dis-
tricts where there is goitre. Further, to'
include in a lick nicotine or tobacco dust
or anything to cure worminess is uselsss.
Drenching and feeding are the only worm
treatments.
Sheep like bonemeal better than di-
calcic phosphate, and many graziers use
it, though dical. phos. is cheaper in the
end.
Don’t feed any lick in food or grain
supplement. If the stock are hungry they
will have to take more salt than they
need to get their issue of food.
Cattle in Texas.
“Mookau”: F. H. Finch, the Austra-
lian-born manager of Estancia Gar-
ruchos, Argentine, called in at Texas
(U.S.A.) on his way home from Aus-
tralia to look at the zebus on the million
and a quarter acre King Ranch.
The work has been successful, but
only, Finch says, after the closest of in-
breeding. He was impressed by the
general condition of the stock and parti-
cularly of calves at foot. “In 36 years of
cattle work I have never before seen
such good animals bred on light grass and
scrub country.”
The King Rdnch is in a latitude corre-
sponding roughly to the south Queens-
land border, and if zebu crossbreeding is
successful there, it should be possible
further north in Australia. On one con-
dition—that the job is done more thor-
oughly than much of our other cattle-
improvement work.
Britain Buys Wheat.
“B. Cubbin”: While Canberra and the
State Premiers were still dabbling with
the idea of restricting wheat acreage next
season, the Wheat Board announced the
sale of grain and flour to Britain totalling
63,000,000 bushels. This, with 7,500,000
bushels sold to Japan in October and
sales from the 1938-39 crop, brought the
total amount sold under the board to
98,500,000 bushels.
The British delivery is to be made half
by mid-July, the other half by mid-
January, 1941. McPherson, chairman of
the board, hinted that Britain may not
be able to provide enough shipping to
take all the wheat, and it may be neces-
sary to charter neutral bottoms. The
difference in freight rates is staggering—
-555. a ton in British ships, neutrals 100 s.
Australia has sold half of her export-
able surplus of new wheat and all her
old wheat within a few weeks of the end
of harvest. First half of the British pur-
chase realised an average of 3s. 11 Id.
for bagged and 3s. Bfd. for bulk, f.o.b.
Japan, granted 18 months’ credit, paid
“Now you've Woke the baby!"
3s. 2d. and 3s. for her share. These
prices, plus proceeds of the flour tax,
should please growers. They should
remember, too, that, though the world
parity position was weakening, Britain
did not ask for price revision. There is
hope that the remainder of the export-
able grain will realise at least equivalent
prices, growing war needs and a diminu-
tion of yield in the Americas being signi-
ficant.
All ideas of acreage restriction have
probably been forgotten, but it is to be
hoped there will be no swing to expan-
sion, the limit having been reached so
far as suitable land and climatic condi-
tions are concerned. The war and British
demands for primary products pushed
into the background the problem of un-
economic wheat areas in south-western
N.S.W., northern Victoria and parts of
S.A. and W.A., but they will be heard
from again the moment the weather
and/or markets go wrong. It may be
necessary for the Commonwealth to offer
guarantees to growers in recognised areas,
but a country committed to a colossal
war budget cannot afford to gamble with
wheat in poorer areas.
Wheat in Bulkheads.
“Yarrunga”: More than 5,000,000
bushels of N.S.W. wheat are stored in
temporary bulkheads of the makeshift
type used in the W.A. bulk-handling
system. The cost to the State Govern-
ment is £30,000, which amount is not
to be charged against farmers or the
Australian Wheat Board, but is to be
paid out of the ordinary silo handling
charge. Any loss on grain damaged in
bulkheads, because of negligence on the
part of the Government, will be borne
in the same way.
The Government can afford to be mag-
nanimous. No publicity has been given
to the fact that the silo handling charge
for all bulk wheat has been increased
from l|d. to 2d. a bushel. The extra
\d. on the 36,000,000 bushels received
by the silo management amounts to
£75,000, which should provide ample
cover.
Damage to the grain may come from
rain before bulkheads in the open are
covered. Meantime silo agents have been
instructed to provide temporary roofing
immediately.
The farmer pays for it all in the long
run. Every penny of the £300,000
handling charge will, in the first place,
be paid by the Wheat Board, which in
the final pool adjustment will debit it
to the growers’ account. If the Govern-
ment does its job and avoids “negligence,”
it is on the certainty of a good cash
balance from the collection of the extra
id. charge.
The Sugar Banana.
“Woombye”: Though a few are sold
in southern cities, there are not nearly
enough sugar bananas available. For
salad uses particularly, they are on their
own.
They call for slightly different culti-
vation methods from other kinds. They
like warm, alluvial flats, plenty of rain
and good drainage. Their conformation
gives them less protection against wind
than other kinds, and a windbreak of
some kind is needed where the plantation
is not naturally well protected. A double
row of the plants themselves, 7ft. apart
in the rows, the rows also 7ft. spaced, and
the inner row covering the gaps in the
outer, will make an effective fence.
Planting should be done with strong
4ft. suckers from a matured stool, a foot
being lopped off the top before planting
Holes should be two-thirds filled with
surface soil at planting, and then gradu-
ally topped to surface level during the
season by cultivation. Soil should have
been worked to a fine tilth before the
plants are put in. Holes should be about
15in. deep, 18in. square and 14ft. apart,
rows straight to make cultivation easy.
Sugars like farm manure, and field-
peas turned in while still soft and young-
ish are good renovators. The fruit calls
for more careful handling than the larger
varieties. The skin is soft and delicate,
suitable for bunch trade only. First
bunches should be on the market under
18 months from planting.
Hints for the Farm.
“Esscee”: if picking up dead timber
from a paddock, either to burn or cart
to a stack, leave a proportion of small
timber on the ground to protect it against
wind erosion in dry summers and water-
washing by heavy rain. As the dead
sticks rot they go back into the soil,
thus helping fertility. Overenthusiastic
clearing will turn the paddock into a
park, leaving the ground open to all sorts
of attack.
“Tryana”: Blood is rich in nitrogen,
but must be decomposed before being
used as manure. If liquid, it should be
absorbed in sand, soil or litter, and made
into a compost with soil and manure or
any waste vegetable material leaves,
lawn clippings, etc. Clotted blood should
be broken up and made into a compost
in a similar manner. The compost should
be protected from rain and dug into the
soil after a couple of months.
“Mt. Boppy”: Scouring in pigs is
caused by insanitary conditions of runs
and pens, soiling and fouling of the teats
of sows, which spread infection to the
litters, and worms. Cleanliness is a sound
preventive of worms. Remove the sows
and litters and thoroughly cleanse the
premises. Install
soak-proof floors
that can be washed
regularly. Provide
clean bedding often
and burn old straw
and rubbish. Scald
feeding utensils
daily. If possible,
transfer the pigs to
fresh pastures with
movable shelters,
so that they can be
put on clean ground
every few days.
“Yeno Ham”:
Weigh pigs to see
that growth is satisfactory and that best
use is being made of feed. Twice a month
is best. Build a strong crate, with easily-
fastened doors at each end, one to admit
the pig and the other to let it out. Fix
steelyards over the top of the race, run
the pig into the crate, fix the top to the
steelyards so that it swings freely, record
the weight, deduct the weight of the
crate, and you know how heavy the pig
is. If the crate just fits the race there
is no difficulty in getting the pigs into
it.
“D.A.”: Discarded motor tyres—the
larger the better—cut round the centre
and split in halves make useful feed
troughs for young pigs. They are not
readily turned over and are handy to
pick up and clean. The rubber has
no effect on the feed.
“Porcine”: More weight in the grow-
ing stock and pigs carried on to heavy
(Continued on page 50.)


h Industnj that serves Industrq
MEGGITTS, BY RESEARCH, ADVISORY SERVICE
AND MODERN MANUFACTURING, CONTRIBUTE
VITALLY TO THESE AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRIES:
ME6SITT-S
UHSEED
olu MEal
‘*Ts§
*, I ‘ ,
c«i u*>
•j
MEBGITT LTD
i iNSEEP OltMjaS
sw
Jlllllfe
General view of the Parramatta Works of Meggitt Limited.
Other factories of Meggitt Limited are situated at Melbourne
and Adelaide.
IN the Laboratories and Refineries of Meggitt Limited
important research work is undertaken leading to
the production of new types of Linseed Oils. There are
now twenty different types of Linseed Oil produced by
Meggitt Limited, and the list is continually being
enlarged as new industries bring forward new demands.
The value of the activities of Meggitt Limited to primary
producers is no less marked. Meggitt’s Linseed Oil
Meal, Sheep Nuts and other stock foods have played
an important part in the nutrition of Australia’s flocks
and herds, in good seasons and in bad. During drought
periods millions of sheep have been maintained on
Meggitt’s Sheep Nuts. At all times of the year Meggitt’s
Linseed Oil Meal is used in the rations of dairy stock,
pigs, poultry, etc., to maintain quality and quantity of
production.
Here again Meggitt’s technical staff is of assistance by
providing an Advisory service which is free to any
stock owner requiring information on rations suited to
his own particular conditions.
Meggitt Limited serves Primary and Secondary Industry
alike, firstly by making available products of unsur-
passed quality, and, secondly, by providing technical
advice to ensure that these products are used as they
should be, to give the best possible results.
WOOL—BUTTER—MEAT—PAINT
- LINOLEUM LEATHER WATER-
PROOFING MATERIALS—MEDICINES—
GRAMOPHONE RECORDS—PARCHMENT
-PRINTING INKS, ETC.
XJ '
m
r
I
m
i
Upper portion of Oil Refinery. This refinery is one of the most
modern in the world and is completely equipped for the
production of all types of linseed oil.
——
isi®
ggg
*T
.?■
I
'• "Y,
1
Section of the Research and Testing Laboratories where a staff of
highly-trained chemists is constantly engaged in important
research work.
MEGGITT LTD
oft
LINSEED OILS—LINSEED OIL MEAL—SHEEP NUTS KIBBLED
NUTS LINSEED - BALANCED NUTS AND STOCK FOODS
MEGGITT LTD., Head Office, 67 York St, Sydney; Box 1555 E, G.P.0., Sydney.
Works: Parramatta, Melbourne, Adelaide.


A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handj man Can Instal It—Automatic Overflow—Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 1100 Sold—Shell Co., 66 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
ħ
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/-.. f.o.b. Sydney
Plus 5% increased cc“t of production.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
h
Congratulations,
Jfeuttetiii
on your Diamond Jubilee!
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY., LTD.
SUCCESS AND SUNSHINE
MACHINERY GO TOGETHER
s'* -
m
o
I
IN SOUTHERN SLOPES (N.S.W.)
MttJIT mm CHAMPIONSHIP
WON BY USERS OF THE
SUNTYNE
AUSTRALIA'S CHAMPION COMBINE
Ist: Mr. W. D. Ferguson, “Ceramic,” Yerong Creek.
2nd: Mr. J. J. Mazzocchi, “Ashleigh Park,” Culcairn.
3rd: Mr. R. H. Thackeray, “Woornak,” Young.
This result is a notable
addition (one of many
this -season, in every
wheatgrowing State) to
the long list of com-
petition successes by
Suntyne users.
In each case the winning crop
was sown with a Suntyne.
These farmers also use various
other Sunshine machines—they
share the confidence of most
leading farmers in “the
Sunshine line.”
ĥ
& £tf
mm
\r. t
The SUNTYNE Combined Grain and
Fertilizer Drill and Spring Tyne Cultivator.
EQUIPPED FOR TEAM OR TRACTOR
HAULAGE.
8-row, 17-tyne sft. cut
12-row, 25-tyne 7|ft. cut
14-row, 29-tyne 82 ft. cut
16-row, 33-tyne 9|ft. cut
18-row, 37-tyne 103 ft. cut
20-row, 41-tyne 12ft. cut
24-row, 49-tyne 14ft. cut
All sizes are available with standard box
and fittings. In addition, 14-row and
larger sizes are offered with enlarged box
of approx. 50% greater capacity, also
strengthened wheels and frame.
From hopper to seed-bed
—EVEN DISTRIBUTION
The Suntyne feed-run is precision manu-
factured to fine limits, ensuring positive,
accurate and uniform sowing on a firm,
level seed-bed.
Keenly priced for cash or terms
Ask your local agent for the free descriptive catalogue; or write direct
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS Pty. Ltd.
{lncorporated in Victoria .)
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
CONCORD WEST (near Sydney). 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Corner Murray and King Streets, Perth.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Qld.) Pty.,
Ltd., South Brisbane.
WELL SOWN IS HALF GROWN -
LET A SUNSHINE COMBINE GIVE YOU A FLYING START
JT^&ctllcfx/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
baconer standard are needed if the in-
dustry is to obtain the full advantage of
the British Government’s buying terms.
The contract permits of only 25 p.c. of
carcasses under 1001 b. weight, as a re-
striction on the proportion of porkers to
be shipped. On the other hand, lean
baconers up to 1701 b. are required. Stand-
ard weights prior to the acquisition were
601 b. to 901 b. for porkers and: 1201b..t0
1601 b. for baconers, dressed and includ-
ing heads. In the 1938-39 season (to
June 30) the Commonwealth exported
72,182 cwt. porkers and 155,39 lcwt.
baconers, of carcass weight's averaging
841 b. and 1261 b. respectively. For
baconers Queensland (61.79 p.c. of ship-
ments) averaged 1081 b.; Victoria (29.87),
1081 b.; W.A. (3.85), 1311 b. ; N.S.W.
(2.45), 1271 b.; Tasmania (1.24), 1201 b.,
and S.A. (0.80), 1001 b. Queensland
porkers (58.71 p.c.) averaged 861 b. ; Vic-
toria (36.51), 831 b. ;. W.A. (2-25), 771 b. ;
N.S.W. (1.37), 881 b., and Tasmania and
S.A., with minor quantities, 831 b. and
961 b. respectively.
“Milch”: G. F. Korff, of Campbell-
town (Vic.), owns an Ayrshire matron
who has proved that age is no bar* to
success. Bought at 16 years, she settled
down to produce calves and milk like a
three-year-old. Her average in milk pro-
duction for her first three years (to 19
years of age) was 16,6281 b., with an
average butterfat yield of 5211 b. She
was under test till she was 24, and is
still going strong at 28. At 20 she won
the Sydney R.A.S. Peters Ayrshire
heifer test prize, and one of her heifers
put up a record for Australia for the
breed for two-year-olds—ll,9sBlb. milk,
497.981 b. b.f. In 1934 this youngster
produced 19,1251 b. milk and 866.67 b.f.
in 365 days. Other daughters are nearly
as good. The old matron is a sturdy
cow, with a great wedge and magnificent
bag, bred by T. Brown, Kiama.
Outback Occupations.
No.III.
DAIRYING
One of the beauties of dairy-farming is
that you get up early every morning,
and many mornings you are up earlier
than that. When you have only a few
cows you leave the blankets about 4 a.m.
As the herd increases it is necessary to
set the alarm a little earlier each night,
until you hit the pillow only to hear the
alarm go.
Presently you take the bedding and bed-
room furniture to the nearest second-
hand dealer, having no more use for them ;
thus you effect a great saving, for instead
of having to build a feed shed you can
now store the fodder in the bedroom.
One of the first things you find out on
a dairy farm is that all the talk about
the glorious freedom of the country is
so much skim-milk. You have no free-
dom ; your time belongs to your cows ;
they own your thoughts, your dreams
and your soul. But the life is a passport
to heaven, for you have to be good.
You can’t go to picture-shows, cocktail
parties or two-up schools. Certainly you
have to labor on the Sabbath, but as
you have already lost count of the days
and can’t be sure whether it’s Easter
Monday or next Saturday afternoon it
won’t be held against you.
The very parson who talks to you so
earnestly—standing on the bottom rail
of the milking-yard to keep out of the
mud—himself works on the Sabbath, so
why worry? Anyhow, the cows have to
be milked, and you know that when
Gabriel sounds the last call everybody
will be there except the dairy-farmers,
who will have to do the milking first.
The young dairy-farmer must have a
good wife. If possible, it is preferable
to obtain one from another dairy farm,
as women brought in from the outside
have to be trained, a rather difficult job.
Choose your wife as you would a heifer,
with particular attention to the following
points:
(1) Her hands should be large enough
to go 1 around bovine teats.
(2) Her feet broad enough to prevent
her sinking in the.mud.
(3) Her body strong enough to bear
10 sons. (These things .are, very useful
to have around a dairy farm.)
(4) She must have strong-sighted eyes
capable' of appreciating ' the points of a
good cow.
(5) Biceps and shoulders indicating
ability to carry buckets of milk and turn
the separator.
(6) Some knowledge .of first aid and mid-
wifery, otherwise you will have to attend
to sick cows and assist to bring calves
into the world yourself
Generally speaking, the cow is a noble,
useful animal, of a docile nature., This
should be remembered when she puts
her hoof in the milk bucket, picks out
your left eye with the end of her tail,
tickles your ribs with a horn, gets bogged
in the tank, raids your neighbor’s lucerne
and blows up, and contracts any or all
of the 879 diseases to which she is sus-
ceptible. Restrain all temptations to cut
her throat —it is far better to use a rifle.
A good thing about dairying is that
you never have to worry about planning
your days. On your first day you are
up in the dark, hunting through the fog
for the herd. You get them all in and
start milking. When that’s finished you
separate ; then you clean the separator
parts and other utensils ; feed the calves
and pigs ; clean out their pens ; cultivate
a bit of land ; get out the feed for the
evening; cut some meadow hay; get
the cows in; milk them ; separate and
clean and so forth. In between times
you snatch a meal or two, get the cream
out to the road for the lorry and chop
some wood. If there’s any straw about
and some good clay you put in your
spare time making bricks. That’s a
dairyman’s day, and if he lives to be 104
he’ll never vary the programme.
Dairying is a very healthy occupation
There isn’t time to be ill. It is also a
national industry, for everybody drinks
milk and eats butter. Some intolerable
person or other once publicly asked who
first thought of using cows, why people
should drink milk, and why the scientists
couldn’t build a machine into which
could be fed grass, grain and oilcake to
be turned into milk on the same principle
as the cow’s body ; but as he unwisely
uttered these queries in cow Country his
time was short.
It is strange how few people can recog-
nise a really good cow. You can select
one from your herd, feed her up, dress
her coat, polish her horns and hooves,
tease out her tail, then take her to the
local showground and live there with her
for a few days. Hundreds of people
will gather round while some official
judge looks over 20 or so cows, your
Beauty among them. He puts ribbons
on three other cows. The crowd packs
round them with admiring remarks. Your
splendid animal is ignored, and you
realise that the very future of dairying
is endangered by such ignorant persons.
Sadly you lead Beauty home, kick her
in the ribs and swear that if you had your
time again you’d go in for silkworm
culture.
But next morning you’re out bright
and early, falling over buckets in the
dark, your hands sore and cracked, for
you have your duty as a husband and
a father to do, and there was only enough
out of last month’s cream cheque when
all debts were paid to buy sixpenn’orth
of boiled lollies. Sucking one of these,
you snuggle into Beauty’s flank, reach
under her, and, as the gentle roar of the
milk starts, you realise that with all its
toil and disappointment dairying is at
least better than —er —well, it must be
better than something.


For Sale.
TUNG SEED For Sale. A. Fordii or A.
Montana. Selected seed from nine-year-old
trees. Clients report excellent germination
from same quality seed last year. Supplied
in any quantity. Price 23/- per lb. —Apply
the Manager, Tung Oil Estates, Hsum Hsai,
Northern Shan States, Burma.
AT THE
TIVOlil
h
ĥ
SPICE OF FIFE/’ VARIETY REVUE.
Big New Company. Oversea Stars.
LEA SONIA, EDWIN STYLES,
5 CLEVERES, GEO. WALLACE.
WILE MAHONEY,
EVIE HAYES and New Oversea Sta
in the Variety Revue,
“THE HAT TRICK.”
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“Ninotchka”
Ernst Lubitch is one of Hollywood’s
most experienced directors, and with the
excellent material and sparkling dialogue
to work on in “Ninotchka,” showing at
Sydney St. James, he has set the comedy
standard for 1940 at a pretty high level.
The film is perhaps most remarkable
in being a wholesale debunking of Com-
munism—a line of attack hitherto studi-
ously avoided by Hollywood. It hurls
the first ripe tomato when three
Soviet envoys arrive in Paris to pop
the jewels of an ex-grand duchess, and
try somewhat unsuccessfully to convince
themselves that Moscow is all it should
be and Paris all it shouldn’t, and then
joyfully give up trying. That is followed
by a well-seasoned egg when Comrade
Garbo arrives as Envoy Extraordinary
to check up on the former envoys and
delivers the exhilarating information that
“the mass trials have been a great suc-
cess —there’ll be fewer but better Rus-
sians.”
On that pleasant note the film tears
into the Soviet right and left. When
the scene shifts to Moscow it drops
its cloak of comedy for a moment,
and its comment becomes even more
pointed. There’s a dingy “collectivist
flat” which Garbo shares with a couple
more comrades; there’s the fear of
being caught with a piece of expensive
silk lingerie ; there’s fear of informers i
there’s a fearful submissiveness and miser-
able poverty through the whole sequence.
There’s no doubt what Mr. Lubitch is
saying here.
But this political comment is only
a sideline or background. First and
foremost the film’s a comedy of the
highest order, guaranteed to raise a laugh
a minute. It snaps into its stride with
Comrade Garbo, looking something like
a female Ned Sparks, utilising her scien-
tific Soviet mind and Mr. Melvyn Doug-
las to discover at what intervals a Paris
traffic cop blows his whistle. She rewards
Mr. Douglas for his assistance by in-
forming him that he’s “typical of the
arrogant male in capitalistic society,” and
asks what has he done for the masses.
On his pleading that what he hasn’t done
for mankind he’s done for womankind,
she mellows slightly, and concedes that
he’s merely “an unfortunate product of
a doomed culture.”
Thereafter it’s no time before Mr.
Douglas is reading Karl Marx, calling
his butler comrade and being politely
rebuffed by Jeeves, who can find no
pleasure in anticipating the day when he
might have to whack up his savings with
any impoverished member of the uppah
stratah. Similarly, Comrade Garbo’s
troubled but certain transition from
goat’s milk to champagne and from sack-
cloth to satin is equally rapid, and in
no time she’s sozzled to the wide on
bubbly in a posh swillery and merrily
inciting the attendants to revolution while
Mr. Douglas downs triple brandies to
get over the shock.
The film fairly races. It’s packed to
bursting with comedy incidents that link
up into a practically perfect whole, gar-
nished with quick, incisive dialogue—not
merely wisecracks, but high-quality
comedy lines bearing well on the sub-
stance and story.
“Ninotchka” is Miss Garbo’s first ven-
ture into comedy of this kind, and she
steps into it rather gingerly. Before she
is a comedienne she is an actress, and a
very good one ; she has fine poise and a
definiteness of movement that imparts
crisp meaning to her actions. She uses
her hands, large, too, probably to better
effect than any actress on the screen.
The film depends more on Miss Garbo
playing her role accurately than on her
being a comedienne,, and she fulfils that
requirement without effort.
Melvyn Douglas turns in his customary
smooth and amusing work. Sig
Rumann, Felix Bressart and Alex-
ander Grenach, as the three way-
ward envoys, pelt uproariously through
the film in a manner likely to place them
uppermost in the favor of Ritz and Marx
addicts.
* * # *
“Hollywood* Cavalcade”
Curious people, our ancestors! Con-
sider them in relation to this film in
general, and to the custard-pie in par-
ticular.
The film, showing at Sydney Regent, is
a glamorised account of the advance in
film-making from the old silent days to
talkies and technicolor. Our ancestors
would have regarded it as something of
a miracle. They would have been amazed
at the mountainous close-ups of the heads
of Don Ameche and Alice Faye ; at the
voices clearly heard to a whisper, the
free and natural acting, the effective color.
We are blase over such things, as wit-
ness the Regent packed in the middle of
“NINOTCHKA,” AT SYDNEY ST. JAMES.
Commissar Garbo landing in Paris to keep an eye on the three comrades (in
top-hats ) who are disposing of a Russian ex-grand duchess’s jewels, and Count
Melvyn Douglas keeping two eyes on her.
a weekday. Also, there could be no
doubt about how the crowd was taking
the story of Don booking up the coming
Broadway actress Alice ; carting her off
to California to appear in the sort of
flicks they made in those days ; falling in
love with her but omitting to say so, thus
letting the leading man get off with her ;
then having a hard time of it while Alice
and her husband made more and more
hits under other direction, till, after much
heartburning, the interloper is removed
from this earthly location, and Don and
Alice are free to celebrate together the
part they have separately and jointly
played in Hollywooden history.
There was a time when all this would
have been rated epic. How long ago was
that? Surely it wasn’t last week!
And consider the custard-pie. In the
old silent days our curious ancestors used
to bellow themselves sore over the spec-
tacle of this confection used as a missile.
Of course an example of this rudimen-
tary form of humor has to be incor-
porated in any stretch of Hollywooden
history, however glamorised. The comedy
villain embraces the heroine while the
hero is at the jeweller’s buying a ring.
Out comes the hero, sees what’s going on,
heaves a pie and with it catches the
heroine full in the dial. She, poor girl,
stands raking the custard out of her eyes,
howling piteously. Villain and hero arm
with pies, and mime the arrangements
for a duel. They step out the half-dozen
paces, turn, are about to heave. Forward
rushes the heroine crying (silently) “Stop!
Stop!” and herself stops not one but both
pies full in her lovely features.
And our ancestors laughed at that till
their sides ached! If you can’t believe
this go along to the Regent, where, look-
ing the audience over, you will see them
testifying by howls and bellows to the
effects of pie humor. What is extraordi-
nary is the number of our ancestors that
are still about. It’s uncanny to hear them
there bellowing as of old at the custard-
pie tossing and the comic police racing to
answer a comic murder call in comic
motor-cars, and it’s odd to look around
and see how young half of them are.
Why, some of them are still going to
school! Certainly curious people, our
ancestors. But admirable, in their way—
cheerful, happy and easily amused.
“Unexpected Father”
Sandy, the infant who features in this
current Sydney Capitol offering, is prob-
ably the younge it of Hollywood’s cheild
stars. And because he is too young to
act or talk he is easily the best of them.
Backing up to Sandy is Mischa Auer.
There are few comics to equal Mischa ;
he makes a complete comedy of almost
everything he does or says.
It’s a pity that the film isn’t a better
vehicle than it is for the antics of those
two, and for those of Dennis O’Keefe,
who is also an agreeable sort of chap
in light romantic comedy.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Francesca da Rimini”
Colonel de Basil’s latest programme at
Sydney Royal would have been all the
better for the inclusion of one of the
weightier ballets —“Les Presages” or
“Symphonie Fantastique.” Among the
pleasant light offerings of “The Gods Go
a-Begging,” “Le Spectre de la Rose” and
“Cinderella,” Lichine’s drama “Fran-
cesca da Rimini” was intended to give
strength to the programme ; it is a good
ballet, but it is a middleweight.
It has to tell a direct, factual story, and
the passages of explanatory miming slow
up the action. The opening quarrel is
confusing, and the sword-fighting at the
end is inevitably less effective than are
the symbolical dances of doom in other
ballets. Nevertheless, it has power: Ros-
toff and Borovansky as Malatesta and his
spy were sinister figures, excellently cos-
tumed. Tchernicheva’s Francesca looked
suitably despairing as Malatesta’s wife,
suitably radiant and afraid in the love
scenes with his brother. Petroff made a
romantic Paolo. The arrangement of
Tschaikowsky’s music enabled Antal
Dorati to bring out all its dramatic
qualities.
The court dwarfs, as part of the other-
wise splendid Renaissance decoration,
were ineffective, mainly because they
weren’t dwarfs. The comic blackamoors
from “Les Dieux Mendia.its” were much
more amusing.
Riabouchinska and Jasinsky were at
their best in that little pastoral, making
the final scene where the divinities throw
off their rags and appear in their classic
grace a moment of jewel-like loveliness.
It is a surprise effect that never fails to
be enchanting.
“Le Spectre de la Rose” was not quite
so well done. Riabouchinska seemed to
lack the ethereal quality that is necessary
for the part of the dreaming young girl,
and Lifar’s vigorous interpretation of the
spirit of the rose, though it was fine
dancing, was not subtle enough for the
sentimental atmosphere of the piece. It
would be interesting to see what lasinsky
could do with the role.
A repeat performance of “Cinderella”
concluding the programme. Denisova
substituted for Riabouchinska in the lead
and gave a sparkling performance.
Lichine was the prince. With its com-
bination of light comedy, grace and
sumptuous color, this ballet is one of the
best in the present company’s repertoire.
* * * *
“The Village Priest”
Although its morality sounds extra-
ordinarily old-fashioned, there is a real
problem in this melodrama of Sydney
Grundy’s, revived by Gregan McMahon
and a new company at the King’s, Mel-
bourne.
A man murders his best friend for love
of his friend’s wife, allows the crime to
be fathered on an innocent individual,
and then, as an eminent Judge, finds him-
self obliged to condemn the supposed
murderer to imprisonment for life. A
priest has gained possession of all the
facts per medium of the confessional, and
the play revolves around the struggle to
reconcile his duty towards the Church
with his duty towards God, Who releases
his conscience by a miracle.
This theme is worked out with con-
siderable dramatic skill, and it was played
on Saturday with a sincerity of feeling
that took the audience by surprise.
As the Abbe Dubois, Guy Hastings
carried the heat and burden of the
play with a quiet dignity. Beatrice
Esmond was admirable as the blind
Madame D'Arcay, widow of the
eminent Judge D’Arcay, who had dis-
torted justice to suit his wicked ends.
Alan Matheson was the young advocate
treading in his father’s honored foot-
steps, only to find that they led to the
conclusion that he was first a fallible
Judge and then a fallible individual.
Lance Nicholls, as the escaped convict
Torquenie, was much more convincing
than he was as the composer Mozart in
“Mesmer” a few weeks ago. Eve Wynne
was the Comtesse de Tremeillan, whose
liaison with the Judge led to all the
trouble. How George Titheradge must
have revelled in this play 30 years ago!
Artbursts.
James Cant, a show of whose paintings
occupies the walls of the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, is apparently a
“modernist” of some tonnage. He has
“exhibited in London, Edinburgh, Cam-
bridge, Paris, Toronto and St. Paulo.”
(There’s a San Paulo in Brazil.) He has
been “influenced in turn by Paul
Gauguin, Picasso, G. de Chirico and
Surrealism, but is now seeking a more
objective approach to reality.” Seven
years ago, when he was only 22, he “de-
signed decors for the ballets ‘Coppelia’
and ‘Faust.’ ” His pictures “are to be
found in private collections in England,
America, France, South Africa and Aus-
tralia.”
All of which sounds so impressive that
the critic approaches Mr. Cant’s designs
in a proper state of humility, prepared
to read into them or pump out of them
all sorts of profundities of thought and
scintillations of wit. But Mr. Cant’s
statements in paint are so bald that the
receptive mind can find little to do. His
work hasn’t the savage force and humor
of Finey when he opens a tin of Duco
and slings it as a canvas. Nor has it the
passionate sincerity of Vassillief, who
paints slums horribly because he hates ’em.


mm
9a
'V- -
Wm
.•aSsA*,; ' ’* >’
MS ,
X : - Sm& "■:
♦ r**h
f
. 9
»illl
■
4:
■* . i
mm
K
r
,?■
. <-••>
gSg&fe...
y3so&
m
.m
wm
am
9
IF
£
*\mm**^
4
am '■
«\ I
m A i
m i
What Would They Do
Without You?
Protect your family and safeguard your
future through the National Mutual . . .
Do you desire to
Secure a Personal Retirement Income?
A Retirement Endowment ?
Protect Your Assets from being Sacrificed for Probate?
Then write for full particulars
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION / A/ASIA. LTD.
Inc., in Viet. ESTABLISHED 1869.
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Telephone B 6848.
Policyholders alone share National Mutual
profits there are NO shareholders.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND
SMELTING COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
{lncorporated in New South Wales )
WORKS: Port Kembla, New South Wales.
PURCHASERS & REFINERS of Silver, Silver Concen-
trates and Ores; Blister Copper; Copper Ores; Copper
Precipitates; Scrap Copper; Cyanide Slags; and All
Materials containing Silver and Copper. The Company can
offer Advantageous Terms to Sellers.
Agents of the Commonwealth Bank for the purchase of
Gold in Bullion, Ores, Concentrates and other Gold-bearing
Materials.
PRODUCERS of
REFINED GOLD, SILVER AND COPPER,
“ESA” BRAND COPPER SULPHATE
(Bluestone),
for plant disease prevention and control, wheat pickling,
stock diseases, etc.
Agents for All States: Elder Smith & Co., Ltd.
“GRAPHINE” ANTIFRICTION BEARING
ALLOYS.
Highest-grade tin-base, lead-base and cadmium-base alloys
for all types of Bearings.
PRINTERS’ METALS: Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype
and other Printers’ Alloys.
Literature and prices supplied gladly on application
to the Company’s Offices:—
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney. Tel., 86371.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel., M 4383.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Time to Buy a Home?
A question frequently asked the last
three or four months is whether the time
is propitious for buying a home. Before
war broke out in September there had
been wide activity in home-building
throughout the Commonwealth, and in
some parts at least, especially in Syd-
ney’s eastern suburbs, the putting-up of
fiats seemed to have been overdone. A
high point in the number of city and
suburban new dwellings was reached in
August, 1938 ; following the war scare
of the next month there was a decline
throughout the Commonwealth until
December, then a recovery until March,
1939, when Hitler swallowed the re-
mainder of Czechoslovakia. But May,
June and July showed strong revival
in home-building activity; August was
the peak month since the depression. In
September, when war began, there was
a fall of 40 p.c. in building activity, with
a recovery in October. Later figures
showed a slump.
After the outbreak of war the cost of
building, according to Melbourne figures,
rose, November price levels showing a
lift of 12 p.c. over the average for June,
July and August. Sydney figures, how-
ever, would differ from Melbourne’s
owing to the introduction of lower brick
and tile prices during the last half of
1939 following the recommendations of
those who inquired into the brick in-
dustry.
Australia now possesses a considerably
greater number of homes and flat build-
ings than it did in 1933, though to what
extent accommodation has exceeded or
lagged behind the growth in population
it would be hard to say. Still, a guess
that flats and cottages have at least kept
pace with the population since the de-
pression would probably be right, though
movement of the people may result in
an excess of house property in some dis-
tricts and a dearth of it in others.
Actually it doesn’t seem a bad time
to buy a home, especially if a long-term
loan at a moderate rate of interest is
available, or if the buyer has cash enough
to buy outright. After the last war
suburban home-building boomed, but
that was just one manifestation of the
prevailing disease inflation coupled
with a growth in population that hadn’t
been fully provided for in previous years.
Extension of gas and electric-light facili-
ties to outlying suburbs also aided the
post-war building boom.
We don’t want any unhealthy booms
or inflation during or after this war,
and, though price-fixing
doesn’t extend to real
estate, it covers build-
ing materials, and the
cost of money is being
influenced downward
at present —by national
financial policy.
Whether home-
owners are to be con-
tented or otherwise with
their places during and
after this war will de-
pend to some extent on
the course of municipal
rates and taxes, and on
the district they have
selected. There may be
less loan money avail-
able for municipalities
and shires, and rates
may have to be in-
creased or a restriction
placed on “public im-
provements.” This may slow down the
development of far-out new suburbs.
On the other hand, one result of the
war has been increased employment,
which may encourage spec, building and
all that goes with it.
If a person wants a home and can see
one that is both suitable and reasonably
priced according to standards established
over the past four or five years, he
should do no harm in buying it. He
is at least sure of a roof over his
family’s head whatever may happen to
the national economy as a result of this
war. Though inflation is something no
understanding person would like to see,
a home would represent protection
against the occurrence of such a financial
calamity. Still, in choosing a home, all
the usual care should be exercised.
‘
Stability was most noticeable in the
general behavior of the sharemarket early
last week, movements in the Sydney in-
dexes of prices being restricted to the
range of one point. But in a number
of stocks not included in the index there
was a plain tendency to weaken, and as
the week advanced the entire market,
banks excepted, moved downward,
Australasian Paper ords. fell to 345. 3d.,
after lifting to nearly 375., and Cumber-
“Look out for them roses , Bill."
land issues slipped back, though not in
such a pronounced way. Tooth shares in
Sydney declined to 525., after 545. 6d.,
and Carlton scrip sold down to 675. 6d.,
after 695. 6d. Stocks to steady after
recent profit-taking were Felt and Tex-
tiles ords., A.C.1., Electro. Zinc and
B.H.P. Carpet Manufacturers, which
fell sharply from 295. 6d. to 275. the
preceding week, recovered to 28s.
Ormonoid Roofing was particularly
weak at 28s. 6d., yielding over 10 p.c.
Some supporters believed the stock to
be too low at that figure. Australia
Hotel shares were down to par in Syd-
ney, and British Tobacco lost a few
pence in Melbourne dealings, where
“Herald” shares were going at 565. 6d.
Davies, Coop and Olympic Tyre, to be
associated in the manufacture of tyre
cord and fabrics, both dropped back,
Die Casters, recently down heavily, re-
covered to 375. 6d.
* * * *
Sterling strengthened in New York to
3.98 j dollars to the £ last week, the pound
having shown firrriness for some little
time, being now nearest to the carded
rate of 4.03 dollars since war broke out.
The strengthening coincided with an-
nouncement of improved British trade
figures and a rising market for Govern-
ment securities in .London.
* * * #
Though the general cost of living rose
in all States except Westralia during the
last qu; ' r of 1939 (B. 24/1/’4O), food
and were cheaper in December
than they were in October. Even com-
pared with November the price-levels in
30 representative cities and towns
throughout the Commonwealth fell by
2 p.c. Rents, clothing, etc., appear to
have risen more than food.


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/b
Double Room, from 11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water:
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
m
rt
r~
Tl 3.
m
m
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney
Incorporated in England
by Royal Charter
in 1835.
gcQRP ojpj
<8
/ 835
The liability of the
Members is
limited.
Hdraditiov
<The progress of a Bank is largely
dependent upon its ability to serve
the public.
The Bank of Australasia
has a proud record extending over
104 years which has formed a solid
foundation for the modern Banking
service it is able to offer to-day.
m
m
ss
raP'-vS
■
m
9F>
&
m
i 1
i
UM
i
H w ~^ r ir
T r “y^
s&
HNS®
Melbourne Head Office. A View from Queen Street.
Paid-up Capital £4,500,000
Reserve Fund £2,475,000
(Used in the business of the Bank.)
Currency Reserve £2,000,000
(Used in the business of the Bank.)
Reserve liability of pro-
prietors under the Charter £4,500,000
£13,475,000
THE BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA
The oldest Bank now trading in Australia as originally constituted.
Last Thursday the Acting Federal
Treasurer, P. C. Spender, gave a new
figure for Australia’s war outlay during
1939-40 —“about £75,000,000 (more than
one-tenth of the total national income)”
this time. Although he said “the Govern-
ment proposes to borrow for war pur-
poses to the maximum extent of invested
funds available,” he added that “we are
unwilling to see the economy of Australia
burdened in the future with a swollen
national debt at high interest rates.” He
went on to say:
A much larger proportion of the national
income than hitherto must be diverted to
war purposes, and this to a large extent
will be accomplished through taxation. A
comprehensive scheme now being prepared
will distribute the burden fairly and equit-
ably throughout the community, and place
it where it can best be borne.
All the internal borrowing possible
within the country cannot do more than
bring men and materials to the point of
maximum production, and the same
applies to expenditure of taxation
revenue. But it is better that we pay as
much as possible out of taxation without
dispiriting the people. In that way we
acknowledge the waste of war, tighten
our belts and get it over. It is the
sane, healthy way. If we borrow heavily
to finance a war we have loans to repay
and pay interest on in the future which
are not represented by anything except
war’s waste. And an economy which
puts a high value on assets that have long
since gone with the wind will surely
crack up. Australia’s railways, for in-
stance, are a national embarrassment
even though they do produce substantial
revenue. Imagine how much greater an
embarrassment to a country non-revenue-
producing defence equipment must be
where it is represented by costly loans.
Cost to Australia of the 1914-18 war up
to June 30 last was £877,144,985, and of
that £305,149,140 represented interest.
By not paying something like
£570,000,000 of our Great War expendi-
ture out of taxation, but charging it up to
loans instead, £305,000,000 has been
added to the total cost by the effect of
interest over the past 25 years. Tt almost
seems as though we pay doubk s way.
Some will say we pay threefold for financ-
ing a war largely by borrowing, for the
inflation caused by the 1914-18 expendi-
ture of loans was a big aggravating factor
in the depression that began in 1930.
* * * *
A parcel of shares that might average
out well in the long run, especially as
a number of investors are finding bank-
deposit rates and Consols yields too low:
Total Div.,
Cost. p.c.
100 Kandos Cement at 30s. .. £l5O 121
100 Cumberland Paper, Ist
pref, 325. 6d. .. .. 163 8
100 Arthur Cocks ord., 21s. 6d. 107 10
100 Burns Philp (S. Sea),
265. 6d 133 6}
100 Gordon and Gotch ord.,
455. 6d 228 14
£7Bl
Annual income on that lot as per last
yearly div. would be £4B ss. (Kandos
shares are of 16s. denominations), giving
an average yield on outlay of £6 3s.
per cent. The market has doubts about
the maintenance of 14 p.c. divs. by
Gordon and Gotch and 10 p.c. divs. by
Arthur Cocks owing to importing dif-
ficulties, but both cos. are capably man-
aged and will make the best of a difficult
job. In any case, both market prices
and yields allow for possibility of shrink-
age in profits.
* * * *
The Bulletin has given a good deal
of space over the past 12 months to
developments in the Australian cotton
textile industry, principally concerning
the expansion of Bradford Cotton and
Davies, Coop. The Minister for Customs
has now confirmed the report that
Davies, Coop and Olympic Tyre Co. are
jointly to form a new co., Tyre and
Fabrics Pty., to turn out tyre cord and
fabric. Subscribed capital will be
£160,000. The factory will be in Mel-
bourne. Davies, Coop is said to have
spent £BO,OOO already on plant for spin-
ning the necessary yarn. The new co.
is also establishing a subsidiary to treat
flax fibre and make flax yarn, and to
weave the yarn in its own fac-
tory. The purpose the factory site
recently bought by Davies, Coop
at Marrickville (Sydney) will serve in
these new developments isn’t quite clear,
but £250,000 is to be spent on both the
Sydney and Adelaide factories. About
7,500,0001 b. of tyre cord, valued at
£900,000, is used in the Commonwealth
annually. It is now subject to a duty
of 6d. a pound British and a bounty of
3yd. a pound. About 2,250,000 yards
of flax canvas, worth over £300,000, is
imported by Australia each year.
Mr. Lawson also mentioned that
Bradford Cotton’s subsidiary, C. and D.
Mills Pty., was about to install 150 looms
capable of turning out 1,500,000 square
yards of canvas and duck a year—about
a tenth of Australia’s present, require-
ments.
* * * *
At last week’s annual meeting of Aus-
tralian Cement in Melbourne chairman
D. H. Dureau said that, although building
activity in 1940 could not be expected
to keep up to the 1939 level, the co.’s
prospects indicated that “satisfactory
sales” would be experienced. At 365. 6d.
the co.’s £1 shares yield 6.9 p.c.
* * * 9
From Jan. 24 new fixed deposits lodged
with trading banks will bear interest at
rates ss. per cent, lower than hitherto
ruling. The three-months rate will drop
from 2 p.c. to 1£ p.c., and the two-years
rate from 3 p.c. to 2\ p.c. Previous
movement was an upward one —in
March, 1936, when the Bank of N. S.
Wales “torpedoed” the Commonwealth
Bank’s attempt to open a public Treasury
bills market by lifting its deposit rates
by half of one per cent, all round —the
Treasury bills were offered at 1 % p.c.,
quarter of one per cent, above the then
ruling rate (1| p.c.) on three months’
deposits. Last week’s readjustment will
bring the rates for deposits of all terms
to quarter of one per cent, above the low
levels in force between Oct. 11, 1935,
and March 23, 1936. Here is a table of
movements over the past 10 years:
Fixed Deposit Rates.
Date of Per Cent. Per Annum.
Alteration. 3 6 12 2
1930. Months. Months. Months. Years.
January 28 .. 41 41 5 51
1931.
June .... 31 3i 4 4}
November 27 3 3| 3£ 4
1932.
March 8 .. 2\ 3 3J 4
May 10 ..21 3 3* 3*
August 23 .. 2\ 2! 3 3-j
November 2 .. 2\ 2f 3 3*
1933.
February 7 .. 2 2\ 2} 3
1934.
April 12 .. 2 2} 2\ 2\
August 9 .. H 2j 2% 2\
October 11 .. \\ 2 2\ 2\
1936.
March 23 .. 2 2\ 2\ 3
1940.
January 24 .. H 2'i 21 2\
Last week the average yield on Consols
was £3 13s. sd. per cent., including re-
demption, and Sydney Water Board was
on the market offering £4 7s. 6d. per cent,
on 12-year debentures or stock.
* * * *
London “Economist” points out that
prices in Great Britain have risen 31 p.c.
between August 30 and January 16, com-
pared with a rise of only 7.6 p.c. during
the first four months of the last war.
Dominion products have risen least, Aus-
tralia having accepted fixed prices early
in the piece for wool, metals, sugar, eggs,
butter, etc., and most of these prices are
now below world levels. It has been
pointed out in London that in 1920 the
index of British wholesale prices stood
at 226 p.c. above 1914 level. Although
in this war the price-rise has started
earlier, it may steady sooner, especially
as shipping is less affected by submarines.
Anyway, in contrast with the present
“gassy” price level is the public borrow-
ing rate. The Government has offered
a £362,000,000 conversion loan at 2 p.c.,
and the “Economist” contends that, just
as the last war was a “5 p.c. war,” this
one could be a “3 p.c. war.”
* * * *
Winchcombe, Carson, the Sydney and
Brisbane woolbroking concern, estimates
that by Easter 2,734,000 bales of the
season’s clip will have been appraised.
Total sales to the end of March last
year were 2,476,028 bales.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
SOVIET RUSSIA’S GUILT.
[The detailed account here given of the circum-
stances leading up to the invasion of Finland by Soviet
Russia is from a White Paper published in London
based on official documents issued by the Finnish
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A damning exposure of the
allegedly Soviet, it also shows up the
various versions of the invasion put out on Moscow’s
behalf by British and Australian Communists, and places
the guilt finally where it belongs.]
Invitation to Moscow
On October 5, 1939, M. Molotov requested Baron
Yrjoe-Koskinen, the Finnish Minister in Moscow, to
call upon him. At the meeting he asked the Finnish
Minister to convey to his Government the desire of
the Russian Government for Finland to send a special
representative to Moscow for an exchange of views and
to negotiate on various questions of a political and
economic character.
This desire on the part of the Soviet Government
was conveyed to the Foreign Minister of Finland,
M. E. Erkko, on the same day, and an official com-
munique was issued in Helsinki outlining the desire of
Russia and adding that the Finnish Cabinet was
deliberating on the matter. In view of developments in
Russian relations with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania,
the Finnish Government could be in no doubt as to the
real significance of the Russian desire for negotiations.
On October 8, the Finnish Cabinet decided to
accept the invitation, and empowered its envoy in
Stockholm and former Prime Minister, Dr, M. J. K.
Paasikivi, to act as the Government’s special represen-
tative in the Moscow talks. In announcing the accept-
ance of the Russian invitation, the Finnish Foreign
Minister stated:
“The Russians have not specified the questions
which are down for discussion, but it is the normal
diplomatic procedure for one country to make to
another a general proposal of this nature. Thus,
though we are unaware what is concerned, we can
only answer the invitation affirmatively. Dr. Paasikivi,
therefore, only goes to take note of the Russian desires,
but whatever these may be our position is clear. We
stand by Northern neutrality and our unconditional
neutrality, which has been repeatedly affirmed. We
threaten none, seek no advantage, and will not adhere
to any great Power or group. Our sole desire is to
live in peace with all, and remain outside conflicts.”
At these first conversations, which opened at the
Kremlin on October 12, it quickly became evident that
Soviet Russia had vital territorial demands to make.
A number of proposals designed to improve Finnish-
Russian relations were handed to the Finnish repre-
sentative.
Soviet Proposals
The Soviet proposals were as follows:
The Soviet Union is mainly concerned with the
settling of two questions: ( a ) Securing the safety of
Leningrad. ( b ) Becoming satisfied that Finland will
have firm, friendly relations with the Soviet Union.
Both points are essential for the purpose of preserving
against external hostile aggression the integrity of the
Soviet Union coast of the Gulf of Finland and also
of the coast of Estonia, whose independence the
Soviet Union has undertaken to defend.
In order to fulfil this duty it is necessary:
(1) To make it possible to block the opening of
the Gulf of Finland by means of artillery fire from
both coasts of the Gulf of Finland in order to prevent
warships and transport ships of the enemy from pene-
trating to the waters of the Gulf of Finland.
(2) To make it possible to prevent the access of
the enemy to those islands in the Gulf of Finland
which are situated west and north-west of the entrance
to Leningrad.
(3) To have the Finnish frontier on the Isthmus of
Karelia, which frontier is now at a distance of 32 kilo-
metres from Leningrad, i.e., within the range of shots
from a long-distance gun, moved somewhat farther
northwards and north-westwards. [This would mean
placing in the hands of the Soviet Union the 20-mile
zone of frontier fortifications now generally termed
the “Mannerheim Line.”]
A separate question arises with regard to the
Kalastajasaarento in Petsamo, where the frontier is
unskilfully and artificially drawn and has to be ad-
justed.
With the preceding as a basis it is necessary to
settle the following questions:—-
(1) Leasing to the Soviet Union for a period of
30 years the port of Hango and a territory adjoining
thereto situated within a radius of five-six nautical
miles southwards and eastwards and within a radius
of three nautical miles westwards and northwards, for
the purpose of creating a naval base with coastal
artillery capable of blocking by artillery fire, together
with the naval base Paldiski on the southern coast of
the Gulf of Finland, the access to the Gulf of Finland.
For the protection of the naval base the Finnish
Government should permit the Government of the
Soviet Union to keep in the port of Hango a garrison
of one infantry regiment, two anti-aircraft batteries,
two air force regiments, one battalion of armored
cars ; altogether not more tha_n 5000 men.
(2) Granting to the naval forces of the Soviet
Union the right of using the bay of Lappohja as
anchoring berth.
(3) Ceding to the Soviet Union, in exchange for
other territories, the following territories:
The islands Suursaari, Seiskari, Lavansaari, Tytar-
saari and Koivisto, part of the Isthmus of Karelia,
from the village of Lippola to the southern border of
the town of Koivisto, and the western parts of the
Kalastajasaarento, in total 2761 square kilometres
[approximately 1066 square miles].
(4) In exchange for the territories mentioned in
paragraph 3, the Soviet Union cedes to the Republic
of Finland Soviet Union territory of the districts of
Repola and Porajarvi to the extent of 5529 square
kilometres [approximately 2134 square miles].
(5) Strengthening the Non-Aggression Pact
between the Soviet Union and Finland by including
therein a paragraph according to which the contract-
ing parties undertake not to join any groups or alli-
ances directly or indirectly hostile to either of the
contracting parties.
(6) Suppression of the fortified zones situated on
both sides of the frontier between Finland and the
Soviet Union and leaving Frontier Guard troops only
at the frontier. [This proposal would have meant the
destruction of all Finland’s existing fortifications con-
structed since the Peace Treaty of 1920.]
(7) The Soviet Union does not object to the for-
tifying of the Aland Islands by Finland’s own work
provided that no foreign Power, Sweden included, hns
anything to do with the question of fortifying the
islands.
What the Proposals Meant
In order that the real nature of the proposals may
be made clearer, the following analogy may be of
value:
If the proposals were being made to the Govern-
ment of Great Britain by a neighboring Power some
40 times stronger, they would be as follows:
(1) Britain must cede the Channel Islands to the
foreign Power.
“Svenska Dagbladet,” Sweden.
“Once through the Finnish door and the peace of our
house is ended.”
[The inspiration of this Swedish cartoon was the act
of Kate Barlass, who thrust her arm through the staple
of a door to save the life of King James I. of Scotland.]
(2) The Isle of Wight must be fortified by the
foreign Power.
(3) Britain must hand over the port of Southamp-
ton in order that it might become a naval and air base
for the foreign Power.
(4) Britain must hand over the Orkney Islands,
to be fortified by the foreign Power so that it will have
complete control of Scapa Flow and the ports of
Scotland.
(5) Britain must destroy most of her important
defences, leaving in their place soldiers with rifles.
(6) Britain must cede to the foreign Power an
area on the coast of Norfolk extending to a distance
of 50 miles inland.
As compensation, the neighboring Power would
be willing to cede to Great Britain some hundreds of
square miles of barren land of no strategic or economic
importance.
It is obvious that no free and independent British
nation could accept such proposals, and whilst Fin-
land’s size and geographic situation place her in an
entirely different position from that of Great Britain,
it must be remembered that she is nevertheless a free,
independent and peace-loving nation.
The inhabitants of Finland have neither national
nor racial affinity with Russia. Her long connections
with Sweden and Scandinavia have made Finland a
member of the group of Northern States in every
respect.
In the middle of the twelfth century Sweden
brought Christianity into Finland, and until the nine-
teenth century the country was part of the kingdom
of Sweden. In those days all social and political rights
and privileges enjoyed by the people of Sweden were
equally enjoyed by the people of Finland. The kings
of Sweden were also the kings of Finland, and, hand
in hand, these two peoples built up in Northern
Europe a civilisation which many foreign observers
have declared second to none in the world. For hun-
dreds of years these two States have been intensely
democratic; they are among the few countries of
Europe whose people have never been serfs, or any-
thing other than free men and women.
During the seven centuries in which Finland and
Sweden were united there were many wars with Russia,
and owing to Finland’s geographical position her
country was more than once the battleground. But
until the nineteenth century the enemy was always
thrown back. In February, 1808, the Russian Gov-
ernment again sent troops into Finland, but on this
occasion the invasion had all the strategy of a major
war effort. It was learned afterwards that the attack
had been agreed upon by Napoleon and the then
Czar of Russia, Alexander 1., and one of the reasons
was that the Swedes and Finns had refused to join in
Napoleon’s Continental Blockade of England.
By 1809, after heroic resistance by the Finns, the
Russian conquest was complete, and Finland became
a Grand Duchy attached to Russia. The former Con-
stitution of Finland was preserved by Alexander L,
and for nearly a century the Finns were allowed to
retain their cultural standards and democratic Con-
stitution. But about 1890 the Czar Nicholas 11. began
systematic oppression of the Finnish people ; in 1899
a manifesto asserted the right of Russia to legislate in
Finland without the consent of the Finnish Parliament,
and in 1901 the Finnish army was disbanded by order
of the Russian Government.
The collapse of Russia in the Great War gave the
Finnish people their long-waited-for opportunity.
When the Russian Revolution was at its height and
complete anarchy reigned in Russia, the Finnish Gov-
ernment and Parliament took the destiny of the
country into their own hands. On December 6, 1917,
Finland declared herself a sovereign and independent
State, the Russians were driven out, and by the Peace
Treaty of 1920 the centuries-old frontier between Fin-
land and Russia was confirmed.
The Finnish Reply
The Russian proposals conveyed to the Finnish
Cabinet by the Finnish representative, Dr. Paasikivi,
on October 12, 1939, received the earnest considera-
tion of the Cabinet, after which the Finnish delegation
returned to Moscow on October 23 and was received
at the Kremlin in the evening of that day, when the
Finnish reply was placed before the Russian Govern-
ment. The reply stated:
Finland understands the efforts which the Soviet
Union is making with a view to securing a more effec-
tive defence for the protection of Leningrad. As
repeatedly stated, Finland wishes her relations with
the Soviet Union to remain friendly and good. In
order to enable both these objects to be achieved Fin-
land on her part is willing to consider means for meet-
ing the requirements of the Soviet Union. Naturally,
this is conditional upon the requirements of Finland’s
own security being taken into consideration and upon
care being observed to maintain Finland’s complete
neutrality. By such a policy Finland contributes, in
the best of ways, to strengthening the peace in Northern
Europe, and this policy Finland also believes to be
the most advantageous to her neighbor, the Soviet
Union.
The Finnish Government is convinced that by
mutual goodwill it is possible, without detriment to
Finland’s security and without violating her neutrality,
to achieve the objects referred to. For the purpose of
achieving these objects the Finnish Government is
prepared to agree to the arrangements here set forth:
(1) The Finnish Government is prepared to make
an agreement to the effect that the following islands
situated in the Gulf of Finland be ceded, against terri-
torial compensation, to the Soviet Union, viz.: Seis-
kari, Peninsaari, Lavansaari and the Tytarsaari islands.
In addition the Finnish Government is willing to dis-
cuss an arrangement regarding Suursaari whereby the
interests of both parties are taken into consideration.
(2) In view of Leningrad’s vicinity to the Finnish
frontier and in order to enable the security of Lenin-
grad to be increased through a frontier adjustment,
the Finnish Government is prepared, against territorial
compensation, to make an agreement regarding the
adjustment of the frontier on the Isthmus of Karelia
on those points where, from the said point of view,
the frontier is inconvenient to the Soviet Union. The
frontier would run from Rajajoki east of Haapala,
straight to the Gulf of Finland on the eastern side of
the church of Kellomaki. Thus the so-called Kuok-
kala-bend would disappear. At the same time the
frontier would be moved 13km. westwards on this
point. Finland is unable to consider an adjustment of
the frontier to the extent mentioned in the proposal
of the Soviet Union, because Finland’s own position
and security would be endangered thereby. In addi-
tion the territory in question is a very densely popu-
lated district of ancient Finnish habitation and the
cession thereof would mean destruction of the homes
of tens of thousands of Finnish citizens and their
removal elsewhere.
(3) With reference to the port of Hango with ad-
joining territory and the Bay of Lappohja the Finnish
Government is bound to uphold Finland’s integrity.
The cession of military bases to a foreign Power is
already incompatible with unconditional neutrality, as
this is now conceived in Finland and elsewhere. The
idea that armed forces of a foreign Power would be
stationed on Finnish territory permanently and for a
long period cannot be accepted by Finland ; these
forces could also be used for attack upon Finland.
Such an arrangement would continuously create dis-
agreement and unnecessary irritation, and this would
not contribute to improving the relations between the
two countries, which is the aim of the present arrange-
ments.
(4) The Soviet Union has notified her wish to
consolidate the Non-Aggression Pact between her and
Finland in such a way that the contracting parties
would undertake not to join any groups or alliances


h
281 18.
MAKING BROAD FEET
COMFORTABLE
If you have broad feet and
have been unable to obtain
a comfortable shoe, try this
new Abbey shape. It is
made with a plain stitched
vamp and cap in high-
polishing Black Calf.
Stocked in full and half sizes
in wide fittings.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 53 Castlereagh St.,
224 Pitt St.,
, SYDNEY.
Telegraphic address: “Abbey Boots Sydney.”
Price, 27/6
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good
Shoe.”
HOME MADE WHIS
a
are often upset by the court. The setting aside
of a will by the court may result in great injustice
being done when the law of intestacy operates in
its harsh arbitrary way.
Make sure thai the interests of those you wish to benefit are safeguarded. Name
this Company your Executor. It has over 54 years' experience . . . and
the only Trustee Company in Australia with established offices in three States.
ĥ
TRUSTEE COMPANY
Itcl.
333 Collins Street, Melbourne,
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane,
14-16 Denham Street, Townsville.
Executor, Trustee, Agent, Attorney for Absentees,
Administrator in place of Executors not desiring to Act, etc.
of States which directly or indirectly are hostile
towards either of the contracting parties. However,
the Finnish Government is of the opinion that the
P-ict already contains everything which States having
mutually friendly relations can reasonably claim from
each other, without endangering their good re-
lations to other States and their attitude of
strict neutrality. The Finnish Government is pre-
pared. if the Soviet Union so wishes, at any time to
give a further assurance that it will honestly fulfil
fts Pact obligation. With reference to Article 2 of
the Non-Aggression Pact, in which the contract-
ing parties undertake to observe neutrality where
the other contracting party becomes the victim
of aggression on the part of a third State,
the Finnish Government, in order to show its good-
will, could agree to the said paragraph being
made clearer and confirmed in such a manner that the
contracting parties undertake in no way to support
such an aggressor State. By “supporting” should not,
however, be understood any such attitude which is in
conformity with the general rules of neutrality such
as continuance of normal exchange of goods and
transit trade.
(5) The Finnish Government notes with satisfaction
that the Soviet Union does not object to the fortifica-
tion of the Aland Islands by Finland’s own work. On
account thereof the Finnish Government states that it
has always been its intention that this fortification
should be carried out by Finland’s own work and at
her own expense and to the extent required for main-
taining the neutrality of the said islands.
Continued* Talks
Following this reply, the Soviet Union made it
clear to the Finnish representatives that she was in-
sistent on Finland leasing to her the port of Hango
and ceding a considerably larger area of the Karelian
Isthmus than Finland had agreed to. The Soviet Gov-
ernment stated that it was unable to withdraw this
proposal for placing a naval base at the disposal of
the Soviet Union at Hango because it considered this
proposal an absolutely indispensable minimum for
safeguarding the defences of Leningrad.
It must be strongly stressed that at no time was
any third Power consulted in regard to the Russian
proposals. Indeed, conditions of the greatest secrecy
were maintained by the Finnish Cabinet during the
long period of discussions.
On October 24 the Finnish Delegation again
returned to Helsinki in order to receive fresh instruc-
tions, and thereafter, for almost a month, the Finnish
representatives made repeated visits to Moscow in an
attempt to reach a fair and honorable solution to the
problems that confronted the two countries.
On November 13 the Finnish representatives left
Moscow for the last time, and at that moment a dead-
lock had been reached. Finland was willing to accede
to almost all the Russian proposals, which had now
assumed the nature of demands, but she could not find
it possible to accede to the Soviet request for a naval
base at Hango, which would have meant the complete
strategic dominance of Finland and in turn the loss of
Finnish independence.
There followed a period of silence, during which
Finland maintained strict and careful relations with
Russia and neighboring Powers, and every safeguard
was taken to prevent any incidents or aggravation of
the situation.
Moscow Propaganda Campaign
A Russian campaign of abuse against Fin-
land was commenced in the press and on the
radio on November 15. It was alleged that the
Finnish ruling classes did not desire an agree-
ment with the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, while the working classes, on the
other hand, were most anxious to secure
friendly relations with the Soviet Union.
Throughout the negotiations the people
of Finland repeatedly demonstrated that they
were at one with their Government, and were
as concerned with the safeguarding of their
freedom and independence as the Finnish Gov-
ernment itself. There was never at any time in
Finland a lack of confidence in the Government
and Cabinet, except perhaps the fear that the
Cabinet might offer too many concessions to
the Soviet Union.
During the next few days the Russian cam-
paign of abuse and threats against Finland con-
tinued with greater force through the medium
of the press and radio and by means of hastily-
called public meetings.
The Frontier Incident
On November 26 it was announced in
Russia that Finnish artillery on the Karelian
Isthmus fired seven rounds which fell on Soviet
territory, killing one n.c.o. and three men of
the Red Army, and wounding one officer, one
n.c.o. and seven men.
On the evening of that day M. Molotov
handed a note to the Finnish Minister, Baron
Yrjoe-Koskinen, demanding that Finnish troops should
be removed 12 to 15 miles from the frontier with
the object of avoiding a repetition of such incidents.
The story of this frontier incident was a de-
liberate distortion of ihe truth. Sensible of the im-
portance of avoiding frontier incidents, the Finnish
Government had moved all its artillery many miles
back from the Finnish-Russian frontier at the begin-
ning of November, and on November 26 there were
no guns in the region stated which could possibly have
reached Soviet territory. The most advanced Finnish
artillery unit, consisting of a light field battery, stood
20 kilometres, or 12.4 miles, from the frontier.
Any Further Negotiations Rejected by Russia
A note was handed to the Finnish Minister de-
manding that the Finnish troops should be removed
by some 10 kilometres, or 6.2 miles, behind their for-
ward line of defences. The Finnish Government
replied, but was not able to accept the demand, on
the ground that the situation compelled the defence
of the Finnish frontier in Karelia ; the alleged frontier
incident was denied.
The Finnish note was conciliatory in tone and
restrained in wording, and the Cabinet suggested that
the alleged frontier incident should be examined
jointly by Soviet and Finnish experts. Even at this
late hour Finland expressed willingness to settle the
Finnish-Russian problems by any method of peaceful
arbitration which Moscow was ready to suggest, and
there was a firm belief in Helsinki that there would be
no difficulties in the path of reaching a successful
conclusion to the unfortunate dispute between the
two countries.
It should be pointed out that Russia had begun
mobilisation in the Leningrad district as far back as
September, 1939, and remained mobilised while nego-
tiating the demands for Finnish territory.
Denouncement of the Non-Aggression Pact
The Non-Aggression Pact, which had been drawn
up between Finland and Russia in 1932 and reaffirmed
in 1934 to stand inviolate until December, 1945, was
suddenly and without official notice denounced by the
Soviet Union on November 28. At the same time
Soviet abuse of Finland through press and radio
“Haagsche Post,” The Hague.
DUTCH VIEW OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
"We will assist Finland morally until she crashes.”
reached its height in wildness and fury. Meetings of
night workers, hurriedly arranged, were held in order
to invoke popular hatred against the people of Fin-
land, who were now represented as about to attack
Russia.
America’s Bid for Peace
On the evening of November 29, M. Molotov
announced that his Government had broken off diplo-
matic relations with Finland, and that the Red Army
and Navy must be ready for any eventuality.
At the same time the United States Minister in
Helsinki, Mr. Schoenfeld, and the United States
charge d’affaires in Moscow, Mr. Walter Thurston,
transmitted to the respective Governments of Finland
and Russia the willingness of the United States of
America to extend its good offices for the settlement
of the dispute. The Finnish Foreign Minister ex-
pressed Finland’s readiness to accept the offer,
especially since communications with the Soviet Gov-
ernment had ceased. In Moscow, the Vice-Commissar
of Foreign Affairs, Potemkin, gave no hint that the
good offices of the United States were desired, but said
that the communication would be conveyed to M.
Molotov.
Russian Invasion and Aggression
Three hours after the United States Minister had
visited the Finnish Foreign Office in Helsinki, in the
early hours of November 30, 1939, Russian artillery
began to bombard Finnish territory. At dawn on that
day Soviet Air Forces attacked Finland, brutally bomb-
ing and machine-gunning 14 Finnish towns and locali-
ties, and ruthlessly killing civilians, including women
and children. The invaders came out of the sky, on
a clear sunlit morning, without notice or warning, and
began their aggressive war of destruction.
Finland’s Cause.
The Prime Minister of Finland, M. Ryti, in
a broadcast speech outlining the Finnish attitude
to the Russian invasion:—
"If we must fight, we shall fight to the end
—and even after. The Russians will not have
a parade march through Finland. We will
defend every inch of our land, and every step
taken by the Russian aggressors will mean
heavy losses for them.
“For a successful fight a nation must have
an honorable cause. We Finns have a high
and sacred cause. We fight for our independ-
ence and our very existence. We fight for our
homes, our families and for the future of our
children, and of generations to come. We
fight for human justice against brute force, and
for all that makes life itself worth while.”


MARINE and INDUSTRIAL ENGINES.
18 improved 1940 Models; \ H.P. to 170 H.P. in 1-,
2-, 4-, 6-, 8- and 12-cylinder types. Over 300 Engines
always in stock. Thousands of Invincible Engines
are in daily service in Australia, many of them for
over 30 years. Write for 16-page illustrated catalogue
to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms: 53 North George Street.
Established in 1906.
INVINCIBLE
GREENMORE ELECTRIC ROASTER
APPROVED BY ELECTRICAL AUTHORITIES.
****
57/6
A BOON FOR THE SUMMER.
Just plug in—low consumption. Roasts,
toasts, grills, boils, bakes scones, etc.
A wonderful time- and money-saver.
Richly enamelled mottled green, blue o,r
cream.
Oven size 1 1 in. wide, Bin. deep, 6in. high.
From all good stores, or write to manu-
facturers.
GREENMORE PRODUCTS,
11 STEWART STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Challenge Stakes Day attendance
at Randwick dropped about 2000, as
compared with last year’s 23,500, but
that was far from unsatisfactory in view
of the hot day and strong counter-
attractions in the way of important tennis
and cricket matches. Despite the smaller
crowd the totalisator turnover was
£28,390, against £27,348 on the opening
day of last year’s Anniversary meeting.
After all, the Trial Hurdles, with only
three runners, and one falling after going
three furlongs, was not entirely uninter-
esting. Gymkhana led throughout, and
his superior pace and a slight pull in
condition stood to him, though Mag
Mort was close enough to him up to the
second-last hurdle to make the result
doubtful. Over the last bit Gymkhana
was too good, and with experience should
make a useful hurdler.
Lady Dunnottar justified her favoritism
for the Novice Handicap by practically
leading all the way. After the first fur-
long Beau Frere was the only other run-
ner that got nearly level with her, and
she had no chance in the straight. When
Gradgery ran up third, just ahead of
Khancoban, at the turn, there seemed
hope for him, but he stopped to nothing
after passing the leger, the moderate
Khancoban getting third. Marlong was
fourth, but, apart from the first two,
nothing finished better than Conundrum.
Evertrue, who is now getting a little more
weight than she deserves, gave no trouble,
nor did Log Cabin, though he was a
quiet tip. Lady Dunnottar is by Dun-
nottar, and is trained by F. T. Cush, who
is going strongly this season.
Overbold looks a good colt, and in
the Bondi Handicap acted up to his
appearance. Bona Fide, who was third
to Mortine and Padua entering the
straight, led a hundred yards from home,
but was fairly worried out of it by
Overbold in the last few strides. Badly
placed three furlongs from home, Over-
bold hung in a couple of times after
entering the straight, and the wonder is
that he won. He is undeniably game ; so
is Bona Fide, who settled the pacemakers,
Mortine and Padua, inside the final fur-
long.
Progress ran on well in third place,
followed by Opportunist and Mortine,
while Padua tired badly over the final
furlong after showing a lot of pace.
Overbold may not prove another Rogilla
for his trainer, L. Haigh, but he is going
to be useful. He is by Brazen from
Rosbina, by Rossendale from Binara, a
half-sister to Anna Carlovna. His year-
ling price was 150gns. Beaucaire was
backed, but, though he looked well, did
nothing suggestive of an early return to
his best two-year-old form.
Ensign made a runaway race of the
Widden Handicap. He was leading from
Flying Knight when the field settled
down, and, turning for home ahead of
Flying Knight, Decree, Panchio and
Session, cleared away from them with-
out an effort over the last furlong.
The Randwick record for five furlongs
is 58|, apd Ensign ran 14i yards over
that distance in I.o£. If anything had
been able to extend him he would have
got inside 1.0.
Ensign’s sire Andrea was a high-class
miler in England, and is by Solario (St.
Leger and Ascot Gold Cup winner) from
Persuasion, by Roi Herode. The oldest
of Andrea’s progeny now racing in Aus-
tralia are three years. Session, Panchio
and Roxford, who were nearest the win-
ner, ran well, Panchio making a good
showing, considering he was so wide out
at the barrier. Flying Knight lacked
nothing in condition, but, though he is
a stylish colt, he does not give the im-
pression of being a weight-carrier, and
his 9.5 pulled him up immediately after
entering the straight.
Few hot favorites for an important
handicap have given their backers a
worse run than did Waireka in the Chal-
lenge Stakes. Her brilliant track work
suggested that she would be one of the
leaders from the start, but, squeezed back
shortly after barrier-rise, she was unequal
to raising any pace in the first two fur-
longs. Then when she started a forward
move she got on to the heels of another
runner, and, though she did get as far
forward as fifth at one stage, it is not
too much to say that she never looked
a 20-to-l chance at any part of the last
three furlongs. The hot day must have
completely upset her. As usual when
they lose their money, some individuals
started a little senseless hooting when
Waireka returned to the weighing-yard.
High Caste won in the easiest possible
manner. Never further back than fourth
or fifth, he ran past Jazbeau and The
Kaiser soon after entering the straight,
and simply cantered home. It is not
surprising Bartle is optimistic as to the
possible result of his meeting with Ajax
in the Futurity Stakes. As usual, High
Caste’s tremendous barrel caused some
of the critics to remark before the race
“Not ready yet,” but when he was led
away after his rider had weighed in I
could not help noting that his effort had
not caused him to turn a hair.
Caesar and Denis, after commencing
slowly, finished on in their usual fashion
to get the minor places, but without being
able to extend High Caste. Trimmer
was fourth, and little excuse could be
made for his failure. He did not look
short of condition, but after running
up fourth at the half-mile could not im-
prove his position. His showing was not
really impressive. Randwick is too severe
for Tarn. It was Bartle’s third Challenge
Stakes win, his previous successes also
being on three-year-olds Greenline
(8.12) and Captivation (7.11).
In the January Handicap Gold Spark
demonstrated it was not absolutely neces-
sary for her to lead all the way in order
to win races. At the seven furlongs she
was sixth or seventh, and not going com-
fortably either, but a little later she made
such a fast forward move that at the
half-mile she led from Legion Bird,
Round Up, Might Not, Sigh and
Allunga. Turning for home Might Not
was nearest her, but Round Up and Sigh
looked her most dangerous opponents.
Half-way down the straight there
seemed just a chance that Gold Spark
might be overhauled by Allunga or Sigh,
but she kept going well enough to score
by a neck from Own Folk, who, coming
from a backward position at the top of
the straight, headed Sigh and Allunga
almost on the winning-post. Might Not
ran the mile and a quarter better than
anticipated, while Round Up, though he
showed pace, did not act up to his Maori-
land reputation as a stayer. Still, ne
had a lot of weight. Braidwood Boy
did just well enough to indicate that he
needed more racing to bring him to his
best. Marengo never threatened danger.
W. Cook handled Breeze in the Pad-
dington Handicap in a manner that suited
her. He had her in front early, then
steadied her behind Pen Name when
the latter went for the lead. Settling Pen
Name at the top of the straight, Breeze
went on to win very easily from Leeds,
who outstayed Pen Name for second.
Bramol had every chance. In company
with Radio Queen he was nearest Pen
Name and Breeze entering the straight,
but could not come on. It was the same
with Radio Queen, though she showed
a bold front up to the leger.
Curiosity was nearer the front at the
finish than any other stage, and a mile
and a quarter may now suit her better
than a shorter distance. Fountain, who
once gave some promise as a stayer, was
a runner, but scarcely looked ready, and
in open company Sydney is seemingly
not above mid-week form. Cherry Bar
can stand more racing to bring her to
her best. Breeze was called at tens, but
weight of money brought the price to
fives.
* * * *
Magic Circle caused an upset by
beating Aurie’s Star and Kanuri in the
£lOOO William Reid Stakes at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. Stable-followers did
not share the general opinion that the
class was above Magic Circle, and,
backed from fifteens down to twelves she
came from fifth at the turn to grab Aurie’s
Star in the last stride. It was easily the
best performance ever recorded by this
six-year-old Simeon’s Fort mare, whose
six races since her return from a spell
have yielded three wins and a second.
Incidentally, her William Reid Stakes
win apparently enhances the form of
Chatsbury, who had beaten her out of a
place at Caulfield a week earlier. Ned
O’Dwyer, owner of Magic Circle, for-
merly trained the mare’s dam, Crow Call.
Age is treating Aurie’s Star lightly, and,
although he just missed the William Reid
Stakes after looking all over a winner
until a few strides from the post, it might
not be expecting too much of him to re-
produce his best form this autumn. He
has raced only twice since his return from
a spell, and is progressing the right way
in his preparation for a third Oakleigh
Plate, a race he won with 8.4 in 1937
and 9.12 last year.
Manrico’s failure to outpace Unishak
and his defeat into seventh position in
the William Reid Stakes were a bitter
blow to backers, but it might be unwise
to place too much reliance on the form - .
Manrico had not done much really fast
work since his return to work, and lack
of a race probably accounted for his run-
ning out of steam at the turn. Trainer
Jack Holt admitted that he was a little
disappointed, but he hopes that the race
will do a lot for his gelding. It is in-
tended that Manrico shall oppose Ajax
and High Caste in the C. F. Orr Stakes,
to be run over seven furlongs at Williams-
town on February 10. Maybe apprentice
J. Purtell will have the mount again, for,
if Ajax runs, Badger will be required for
the latter. Purtell had to carry over 301 b.
dead weight on Manrico on Saturday, but
Holt was quite satisfied with the lad’s per-
formance.
Horses from Holt’s stable seldom win
at 20 to 1, but Old Serpent weakened
from tens to that price prior to beating
Buoyancy and Morvren in the Calder-
meade Handicap. A middle-distance
round the Valley track is not difficult,
and Old Serpent, restrained by appren-
tice W. Williamson until entering the
straight, finished too well for his rivals.
Williamson had previously won the Wil-
liam Reid Stakes on Magic Circle, and
this youngster is a rider of definite
promise. Old Serpent was one of Frank
Bullock’s English importations, and was
sold to N.S.W. Kia-Ora studmaster Percy
Miller last winter.
Rider J. Maher seemed optimistic in
protesting against Royal Jubilee after
the latter had beaten his mount, Suliman,
half a head in the Warrook Highweight
Maher complained of interference from
the two furlongs, but close observers were
of opinion that Suliman was responsible
for any trouble that occurred in the
straight. Bookmakers offered 6 to 1
against the judge’s placings being re-
versed, and they were on the right tram.
Royal Jubilee recorded a game perform-
ance under his steadier of 11.4, and un-
doubtedly he is one of the best weight-
carriers Melbourne has known for years.
He is a six-year-old entire by Beau Fils-
Divine Lady, and is trained by his owner,
H. R. Anderson, at the Colac racecourse.
Interference in races in Melbourne is
becoming quite a problem. Much of it is
accidental, but stewards are tackling
other cases in the right way, and do not
hesitate to hand out punishment when
they consider deterrent measures neces-
sary. Result: an ever-growing list of
rioers on the suspended list. Despite this,
interference marred several races at
Moonee Valley on Saturday, and F.
Douglas, held responsible for a scrim-
mage in the Warrook Highweight, was
stood down for a month. Interference
which almost ruined the chance of odds-
on favorite Nubian Prince in the second
division of the Tweedside Handicap was
found to be accidental, and in another
instance stewards adjourned their in-
quiries.
Enterprise of connections of Nubian
Prince in taking him from Sydney to
Melbourne deserved a better reward than
the short prices they had to take about
the gelding in the second Tweedside
Handicap division. Six to four was the
best offered, but numerous big bets forced
the price down to 5 to 4 on. Cut out at
the start, Nubian Prince appeared hope-
lessly placed after the field had gone two
furlongs, but eventually he won going
away. The race was for maiden three-
year-olds. Nubian Prince won well
enough to indicate that he will pay his
way in better company. Costing W.
Guest 60 guineas as a yearling, he is by
Grand Joy from Lady Wedge, a smart
performer on the ex-unregistered tracks
in Sydney. Trainer Joe Smith was for-
merly one of the leaders of his profes-
sion at the unregistered meetings.
Andy Morrow always has had a liking
for the stock of The Night Patrol, sire
of his good horse Nightguard, and he
made no mistake in paying 500 guineas
for Linkboy (The Night Patrol-Casilda)
at the last yearling sales in Melbourne.
Spelled after his win at Caulfield in
November, Linkboy had been only five
weeks out of the paddock before he con-
tested the Niddrie Handicap on Saturday,
and bookmakers did not reckon on his
coming to hand so quickly. They bet 6
to 1 against him, but weight of money
forced Linkboy’s price down to 7 to 2,
and, always one of the leaders, he won
well from Happiness and Juma. Juma,
favorite, had to be bustled in the early
stages of a race a little short for him, but
the real reason for his failure lay in the
fact that he split a hoof in running.
Claude Goodfellow’s win with Lord
Walla in the first Tweedside Handicap
division was his first as a trainer since
the V.R.C. granted him a renewal of his
license. Always a warm favorite, Lord
Walla swung wide when making a fast
forward move at the turn, but he quickly
gathered in the leaders and won running
away from David Innis and Mollie Con.
A three-year-old • colt by Ronsard (sire
of Rivette) from Wallah, Lord Walla has
always given fair promise. The runner-
up, David Innis, is worth keeping in mind
also. Raced on lease by Bill Burke, he
revealed a nice turn of speed, and, as he
had not raced previously, improvement is
probable.
Despite his numerous “convictions,”
backers stacked their money on Swetten-
ham in the Cranmallan Trial Handicap.
From 6 to 1, his price tumbled to favorit-
ism at threes, but just when he headed
Owen Roe in the straight and seemed
likely to land the plunge Companion
swooped down on the outside and beat
him half a head. Swettenham has run


Look for
The RED STAR
m
PIELCRAWFO^
old
Scotch Whisky
* V*. .
<y
It’s your lucky star every time
you order Daniel Crawford’s Red
Star Scotch Whisky, because the
Red Star ensures that you get
only the very finest of genuine
“Scotch.”
CRAWFORDS
RED STAR
SCOTCH WHISKY
A
A
h
'S
JJJI/A
m
-w'\\
Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—•
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensla: d Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
RUPTURE
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint
write us and we will send you our catalogue
fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION.
This apparatus does away with all springs,
giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s trial.
It is the only scientific apparatus yet in-
vented for this complaint. No matter what
strain you place on it, it will hold a rupture
firmly in place, exerting a uniform pressure all
the time. To prove what we say—
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU ON
7 DAYS’ FREE TRIAD.
If it is not satisfactory, we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you nothing.
It is suitable for men, women and children,
and the price is within the reach of everyone.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Posted Free Anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
100 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
ll NEW
CHAMPIONS
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
■ttM
lU*
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring BETTER ACCELERATION
Spits and jerks when accelerat-
ing put a strain on your car and
on your nerves. New Champions
improve acceleration and ena-
ble your car to pull smooth-
ly. This saves fuel, too. So
much, in fact, that you
soon are repaid the cost
of your new Champions
...and more! Champions
save you money.
;n
well enough at times to indicate that he
might develop into a fair-class performer,
and one of these days he might bob up
when least expected. Up to the present,
however, a mint of money has been lost
on him, and, now four years old, he is still
a maiden. Companion, trained and part-
owned by Roley Trihey, who did so well
with Regular Bachelor, deserved his win
following his narrow defeat at Mentone
three days earlier.
* * * *
Trimmer struck something like true
form again in the Kurnell Handicap, 6fur.
17yds., at Randwick on Monday. Ridden
by Darby Munro, he hit the front soon
after the start and was never threatened,
winning comfortably from Denis and
Adios.
Up to her failure in the Challenge, and
even in spite of that, Waireka was con-
sidered to have something of a mortgage
on the Adrian Knox Stakes. She went
down narrowly in a fighting finish to
Climax (Excitement-Miss Jean), ridden
by young Lappin in his best style. Mc-
Carten had Waireka in front after they
had gone a furlong, and she looked to
have it won half a furlong from the post.
Magic Ring was third.
Weighted at 7st. in the Anniversary
Handicap, Gold Spark had 71b. less to
carry than the weight she won with on
Saturday. J. Duncan took her to the
front soon after they got going, and for
half the lym. journey she was out from
four to five lengths from Yours Truly
and Kurrawid. Mildura began to move
up three from home, and rapidly over-
hauled her when they straightened up.
A game mare, Gold Spark withstood the
challenge. She was headed, but came
again, winning narrowly. Kurrawid filled
third place, but it was a two-horse race.
* * * *
At one stage of the running for the
Australia Day Cup at Williamstown on
Monday Lady Kooringal had a break on
the field of about 20 lengths. She was
still in front to the turn; there Lord
Windburra ranged up and quickly had
her beaten, but was himself run down
right on the post by Lusson. Plymouth
Hoe and Lady Montague made a dead
heat for third.
* * * *
The nomination of Ajax for the New-
market Handicap and Doncaster Handi-
cap simplifies matters for the handi-
cappers in respect of a topweight, though
what he will get in the Randwick mile
depends upon how he fares in Melbourne.
It is the same in respect of the Sydney
Cup, which has not been a really good
race for heavyweights for some time.
Rogilla’s 8.10 in 1933 is the best of com-
paratively recent years, and winners with
9.0 or over in the last 40 years are as
follows: 1902, Wakeful, 9.7; 1913,
Cadonia, 9.1; 1920, Kennaquhair, 9.5;
1922, Eurythmic, 9.8 ; 1923, David, 9.7 ;
and 1925, Lilypond, 9.0. During the
same period there have been eight Don-
caster winners with weights ranging from
9.0 to 10.4. The difference between the
two is not great, but for the Sydney Cup
I would, as a rule, sooner stand some-
thing with less than 8.0 than anything
over that weight. At the same time,
Mosaic, a three-year-old, won with 8.2
last year.
* * * *
The three-furlongs gallop done by
Trueness and Broadcaster at Rosebery
on Wednesday last pointed to both being
well forward in condition for their Mel-
bourne engagements. To my way of
thinking Trueness was more impressive
than Broadcaster, whose action is more
labored than that of the filly. “I shall
be surprised if Broadcaster stays,” I
heard one critic of experience remark,
but against that I can recall some first-
class horses that used their forelegs in
exaggerated fashion but were not amiss
over a distance.
* * * *
The owner of Gold Salute did not put
the Victoria Derby and Melbourne Cup
beyond him last spring, but he has evi-
dently arrived at the conclusion that
distance is not his horse’s forte. Gold
Salute is in the Newmarket and
Doncaster, but not in the Sydney or
Australian Cup. Good judgment, prob-
ably, as while some of Gold Salute’s
spring efforts left no doubt as to his pace
he did nothing to indicate that he was
likely to develop into a stayer.
* * * *
Lynch Law, who was bought by R. C.
Allen for stud purposes, will shortly be
added to the horses exercising at Rand-
wick. It is not definite that he will be
trained for racing, but it is possible. He
is only five years old, and the trainer
who had him in Melbourne a few months
ago said he could do almost anything
on the training track, but would not do
his best in races. Change of environment
may improve Lynch Law’s ways, and as
a two-year-old he gave great promise.
* * * *
The A.J.C. committee dismissed A.
Knox’s appeal against his suspension for
his handling of Brazen Lad at Rosehill.
As the stipendiary stewards acted on what
they saw, it would have been a reflection
on their fitness for the positions they
hold if the committee had decided in
Knox’s favor. Without touching upon
what Knox may or may not have done
it is somewhat remarkable that various
experienced jockeys should lose control
of their mounts when they are challenged
by something that looks like beating them.
* * * *
Compared with many previous years
the time for the Challenge Stakes was on
the slow side, even allowing that the
year’s distance was 17 yards over six
furlongs. High Caste won easily in 1.12 f,
but that would not be as fast as Brad-
ford’s 1.11 of a year ago. The record
for the race is I.lo*. In discussing time
we invariably hear a lot about the im-
provement of racing tracks, but it would
be difficult to convince some old-time
trainers that Randwick has made marked
advance of recent years. Visiting trainers
who repeatedly take their horses to Vic-
toria Park and Rosebery for fast gallops
are not in agreement with the idea that
Randwick is much better than in earlier
years.
* * * *
Prices realised by the older horses at
last week’s sales in Sydney should tend
to optimism on the part of those
breeders who are sending up yearlings
in the autumn. Including those sold in
Maoriland, ten yearlings reached the
four-figures mark last year, the Tide-
race-My Own colt heading the list at
1450gn5., and though so far fortune has
not favored their buyers autumn racing
may put a different complexion on
affairs. Anyhow there are so many two-
and three-year-old races of greater value
than £lOOO that a buyer stands a chance
of getting back in one pop the purchase-
money of an expensive yearling. There-
fore if he can afford it, and a youngster’s
breeding and conformation are right, the
risk of paying a high price is always
worth taking. In Sydney this year the
two-year-old racing plums have gone to
Flying Knight (600gns.), Trueness
(550gns.) and Dark Elegance (bred by
her owner).
Horses in the estate of the late R.
Bruce sold particularly well. It is safe
to say that it did not enter into the cal-
culations of many that the three-year-old
Edifice would realise 1200gns. against the
425gns. paid for him as a yearling. He
has shown pace, winning races up to a
mile, and the fact of his being by Pan-
theon from Valferre (related to Poitrel)
makes him a staying possibility. Never-
theless, as he is a gelding it was a great
price. It also indicated that there is still
plenty of money in Australia for promis-
ing horses. First Movement, an 1150gns.
yearling, made only 375gn5., and it will
not surprise me if he proves a bargain.
His dam, Waltzing Lily, was a high-class
sprinter, her wins including the New-
market, but I expect First Movement to
do well at middle distances.
* * » *
The attempt to flood Sydney and Mel-
bourne racecourses on Saturday with
forged “fivers” was not a success, though
when those bookmakers who had taken
them in all good faith paid them to
some backers there was a little trouble.
“Glad I didn’t win that double,” I heard
a backer remark. “I might have received
some ‘crook’ notes, and been ‘run in
when I attempted to pass them on. Some-
times everything does happen for the best.
* * * *
Nominations for the autumn handi-
caps at Randwick make it appear certain
that the owner of Beau Vite is adhering
to his announced intention of keeping
Beau Vite at home until the spring. Royal
Chief and Gladynev are in the Sydney
Cup, so it looks as if they are likely to
come over. M. McCarten says Royal
Chief is very well, but was too badly
drawn in the Centennial Cup to have
much chance. It was the same with his
mount, Malagigi.
The Doncaster has not proved attrac-
tive to Maoriland horses, so it would
seem as if the standard of sprinters over
there at present is not high. Melbourne,
however, has made a fair contribution, so
while the presence of a few Maorilanders
would have added interest to the race
their absence will not adversely affect it.
♦ * * *
The spring and summer meetings at
Epsom (Eng.) this year have been aban-
doned. This means the dropping of the
Great Metropolitan Stakes and City and
Suburban in April, but the probabilities
are that, as in the last war, a substitute
Derby and Oaks will be run at New-
market. Substitute Derbies were won by
Pommern, Fifinella, Gay Crusader and
Gainsborough. Donoghue won on Pom-
mern and Gay Crusader, and J. Childs on
the other two. Substitute Oaks were won
by Snow Marten, Fifinella, Sunny Jane
and My Dear.
* * * *
Did ever a jockey on a beaten horse
ride a race that gave its backers no cause
for complaint? I have seen some do
everything possible to enable their mounts
to win, and then, when beaten, have
listened to growls concerning their alleged
mistakes. On the other hand I have read
complimentary references to the horse-
manship of some jockey who struck a
deal of trouble that was really avoidable,
but who, thanks to the superiority of his
mount, succeeded in winning. Nearly
every jockey strikes a bad patch, and
then we are told “he couldn’t ride in a
cart” by some of those who were loud
in his praise when he was riding more
than his share of winners.
* * * *
At jumping meetings in England they
believe in starting and finishing early.
Six-event programmes usually start at 12
noon and' finish at 2.30 p.m. The fact
of these meetings being held in winter
is the principal reason for the hurry to
get them over.
* * * *
Only one of the youngsters bought at
the Wellington (Maoriland) sales by C.
Wheeler was for J. Wren. That was the
high-priced Bulandshar-Tea Tattle colt.
The others were for the following buyers:
Bulandshar-Love of Silver and Theo-
Huntaway fillies, Copeland, Sydney;
Theo-Princess Ball colt, H. G. Raymond,
Geelong ; and Foxbridge-Hunting Tower
colt, H. Bickford, Adelaide.
(“ Sporting Notions” continued on
page 58.)


rrr
rrp
iMRt®
l«ywst^
I B B
4
ill
LT 3
WEI
Kite
If I
i
jßiiiiiimwjis
"!IJIIIJI' l ' li|: *
M
s 9»
10
Since 1859
EIGHTY-ONE YEARS OF
PROGRESS!
For over three-quarters of a century, the House of
John Danks and Son Pty., Ltd., has maintained its
leadership and prestige as Australia’s foremost hardware
house and looks back with pride on a record of
progressive expansion extending over one half of
Australia’s history.
No company can achieve such a status without a progres-
sive policy and a determination that the quality of their
products shall never fall below the highest standards.
Eighty-one years old in experience and knowledge,
John Danks and Son look forward to the future, confident
of your continued patronage.
Australia’s Leading Hardware House extends its heartiest
congratulations to Australia’s leading weekly—the one
over eighty years old, the other having attained its sixtieth
year—but both sharing the distinction of being an
integral part of Australian development.
AUSTRALIA’S LEADING
HARDWARE HOUSE
Australia's Leading House for: —
Baths; Pedestal Basins; Bath Heaters; Tiles, etc.; Electric, Gas
and Fuel Stoves; Builders’ Hardware; Berger’s Paints; Wesco
Kalsomine; Brushes; Lacquers; Wood and Metal Workers Tools;
Motor Accessories; Ice Chests; Kitchen Cabinets; Garden Hose,
Tools, etc.; Galvanised Iron; Wire Netting; Fencing Wire Tools;
Ormanoid and Sturdyoid Roofing; Special Roofing Paint;
Wallpaper; Electric Light Fittings (the most up-to-date
showroom in Melbourne); White Rose Hot Water Service;
Crane Radiators; Kitchen Sinks; “Hush” Flusher; Billabong and
Cooee Auto Oiled Encased Gear Windmills; Billabong Pumps
and Troughing; Sheet Metal; Copper Tubes, Bars, etc.;
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswork; Tools for all Trades, etc.
S)
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD;
Va
391-403 BOURKE .ST, MELB.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
AND PITT STREET, SYDNEY
M.Q. and Rafferty
Best fight witnessed last week was a
bantam encounter at Leichhardt —Tommy
Sullivan 8.3 v. Joe Kerwick B.lf. It was
Tommy’s step towards bigger game—a
10-rounder, against as foxy a veteran as
there is about. Moreover, Joe, who
lathers and dewhiskers the dials of Surry
Hills, has a wallop of considerable
notoriety in each hand.
Joe won the first five rounds comfort-
ably. In the second he dropped the young
chap with a right swing to the jaw. Still
short of experience, Tommy leapt up
before his head had cleared, and another
right swing dropped him. He rolled on
to his back, for half the count was out
to the world, but recovered. In the next
half-minute he took plenty, but weathered
it.
Sullivan still wasn’t himself in the third
and fourth, and in the fifth Joe sent him
momentarily to the canvas again with
one in the wind. Despite all this, Tommy
came out for the sixth boxing stylishly,
now taking Joe’s right swings with his
shoulder, and countering with his own
fine short right to Joe’s jaw, which
proved tougher than maybe any he has
ever barbered. The lad improved from
round to round, Joe scrapping more and
more, and at last entirely, by instinct.
Short-story writers, who have worn the
theme of Youth v. Veteran threadbare,
would wax sentimental over Joe as a
tragic figure ; but there’s an overlooked
case for the other side. It’s an acid test
for fighting calibre. In this case, it was
a stiff test, and only a lad with the right
fighting spirit could have come through it,
as Tommy did, to win well. He has fine
balance, is a cool boxer and clean
puncher, and looks like a find.
The main Leichhardt scrap was billed
for 15 rounds, but was soon over. Joe
Hall, who can fight magnificently against
certain sorts of opposition, rendered
George Elliott hors de combat in two
rounds. George had his mouth damaged
and left eye bashed. It was the bloodiest
engagement since the Empire Games
lilywhites biffed each other’s bokos.
* * * *
Ron Richards and Atilio Sabatino had
their return meeting at Brisbane Stadium,
Sabatino getting a points decision and
the crowd counting them out.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion . of Australia .)
“Keep your head down!” It’s just
about the first thing a golfer is told to do,
but often the last thing he remembers. It
seems simple enough to carry out, but
many players keep on raising their
heads in an effort to follow the flight of
the ball, whether it be a “screamer” down
the fairway or topped along the ground.
There is probably no other phase of the
golf swing that has become as confusing
to the mass of golfers as how head action
should be controlled.
There is certainly nothing in swinging
that is more important. As the game con-
sists of the club being brought into con-
tact with the ball, and as there is only
one certain way to make sure the ball is
hit, every golfer should concentrate upon
keeping his eye on the ball. Very few
players have ever stopped to think why
is it that the ball is only struck truly when
the head has been kept down. Like most
moving objects, a golf swing has a centre
or hub around which the swing rotates ;
if this hub —in the case of the golfer,
his head—is not perfectly stationary dur-
ing the hitting of the ball the swing must
be out of its usual groove, and a mishit
shot is the result.
Many an average golfer’s trouble
lies in the fact that he doesn’t
know how to keep his head steady
during the stroke. Golfers who have
seen Joe Kirkwood play his trick
shots may be amazed at the way he
shapes up to a ball, then, just before start-
ing the backswing, gazes up at the gal-
lery and keeps his head in that position
while he hits the ball down the fairway.
Kirkwood is able to do this extraordi-
nary feat purely because he has trained
himself to keep his head steady during the
entire swing, not moving at any stage
until after the ball has been hit. If every
player could master his head, stopping it
from coming into the shot, a great deal of
his troubles would be over. Some time
ago I happened to be discussing this
problem with some leading players, and
all of them agreed that it was practically
impossible to play a good golf shot with
a lifted head or with bad head-action
through the swing.
I have seen some golfers who have
had a bout of topping completely ruin
their game and swing in attempting to
force themselves into keeping their heads
down in an unnatural manner. After
topping a few shots, many players tie
themselves into knots or become too stiff
and rigid in attempting to keep their
heads down. By trying to force their
heads to be still instead of doing it in a
relaxed manner all semblance of smooth-
ness in the swing is lost.
Some professionals refrain from teach-
ing their pupils about head-action as it
has often led to further tension and stiff-
ness in swinging the club. It is too
important not to be taught. But the in-
struction must go much deeper than the
mere suggestion to “keep the head
down.”
When one stops to think, a lot can be
“got away with” if the head is kept
steady. One of my earliest faults was a
body-sway in my backswing, which meant
that the shoulders, instead of rotating,
moved back with the clubhead for
at least three inches. This made it
very difficult to get the ball up into the
air, for it always had a low trajectory
and was frequently topped. After trying
various remedies I hit upon turning my
head back slightly when addressing the
ball ; or, in other words, looking down
at the ball more through the left eye.
This in turn made my chin point to a spot
behind the ball, and no matter how I
swung at the ball it was very hard to top
it. Reason was that by the time my head
turned from its back position till it missed
the ball the club had made contact with
the ball.
It is not so much a matter of looking at
the ball ; the main idea is to use the
head as an anchor to the swing, largely
to prevent the upper part of the body
swaying either to the right or left. A
study of the slow-motion swing of any
good golfer will reveal a slight hip-shift
to the right and then a body-turn at the
waist. It will also be seen that the upper
part of the body has not been shifted at
all, and the head is still in practically the
same position throughout the swing.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
(Formerly of the “Referee.”')
Few Australians have made a success of
the triple role of opening batsman, captain
and wicketkeeper. In Barnett’s case it
came off at Brisbane ; nevertheless the
task looks too heavy for one man in
first-class cricket in an Australian
summer.
Murdoch, batting don of the ’eighties
and one of the finest captains, originally
kept wickets for N.S.W., but soon gave
that up. Blackham, the great Victorian
’keeper, captained the Australian Eleven
in 1893, and Australia against England
out here, but his leadership suffered.
Barnett has a more equable temperament
than Blackham had; but the strain told
on him in the N.S.W.-Victoria return
game on Sydney C.C. The destination
of the Sheffield Shield rested on this
match.
The struggle for first-innings supremacy
was never keener and more exciting. On
a wicket easy and true, N.S.W. opened
with 309. Two were down for 218,
Cohen (78) and Mudge (84) having
put on 131 for the first wicket by sound
batting. Then came a collapse. Cheetham
stopped the rot, making a vigorous 55.
Brilliant fielding helped the Victorian
bowlers. It was a treat to see Beames,
Fothergill, Miller, Johnson, Hassett and
Lee so dashing over the ground and in
the return. Ring added to the reputation
he is building up. In all-round play
he was topnotch, fielding grandly, bowl-
ing ably, under punishment, to secure
4 for 63, and coming to light with the bat
when things were going against his side.
The highlight of the match, however,
was A. L. Hassett’s batting. This little
man went in at two wickets for 80, and
after a while witnessed O’Reilly in his
deadliest mood against men who have
had little experience against him.
O’Reilly deceived Miller with a straight
ball, slow —l.b.w. Johnson was caught
on the pitch, two or three yards from
the crease, by Barnes, with one hand
close to the ground, the ball having
cocked up gently off bat and pads.
Beames had the ill-luck to run into
an over of exceptional venom. He played
forward to a good one ; it broke from
the off, and, beating the bat, hit the
middle stump.
When luncheon intervened it was 6 for
128 ; Hassett 27 and Fothergill 8. Every-
one was discussing a possible follow-on.
so ominous did the Victorian position
appear. But they did not reckon with
the superb ability and grip of cricket
possessed by Hassett and the fighting
team-spirit of the Victorians
Fothergill, going for O’Reilly and
scoring freely, put on runs even faster


The M.L.C.
for your
LIFE ASSURANCE
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
Founded 1886
Assets exceed .... £29,000,000
Payments to Policy-
holders exceed . . £37,000,000
CONVEN
<5-
»V>
A current account with the National
Bank is a positive convenience, a time-
saver, a money-saver, and an energy-
saver. You can make payments from
your desk at home instead of wandering
round the town, spending time waiting
at cashiers’ desks. When you open
a current account you are made a
participant in all the many services
the Bank provides. Obtain the free
booklet, “Services and Facilities,” from
the nearest branch of the Bank.
SYDNEY BOARD OF ADVICE.
Chairman: Lt.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J.
Playfair, D. 5.0., 0.8. E., V.D., M.L.C.
Rodney R. Dangar, Esq. Hunter White,
Esq. State Manager : Thos. Church.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited ( Incorporated in Victoria)
S. 49/24/33
than the little master at the other end.
Suddenly the young Victorian tried to pull
one from slow-bowler Mudge. It snicked
the bat, and, hitting the ’keeper, rose into
the air over his head, and Chipperfield,
running back some yards, held it. For
his 32 Fothergill batted with the right
fighting instinct and sound aggressiveness
in this crisis.
Seven were down for 185 when Ring
also started to score fast off O’Reilly,
taking risks and bringing them off. He
got 29 of the 67 added with Hassett, and
Victoria looked like going to a first-innings
lead. Cheetham was bowling. Ring
chopped down on the ball, and it flew
low to first slip, where Chipperfield, while
falling, intercepted it very low with the
right hand. Umpire Borwick’s hand went
up on appeal, but the striker gave an
impression that he had jammed the ball
down close to its impact with the bat.
It looked like that to many spectators,
but only those very close could tell.
At 8 for 241, Barry Scott at the other
end, Hassett took complete com-
mand. The fast bowler bats left hand.
He nicked in with straight-bat defence
and Hassett’s desire to keep the strike.
The little star was now going all out in
attacking the tired O’Reilly, and by four
o’clock the score was 8 for 281, with
Hassett 111. The hot sun and long
stretch of bowling had taken the sting
out of O’Reilly’s deliveries, while the
Hassett command of this position had
risen with every ball. The N.S.W.
players stood aside at the pavilion gate
to allow Hassett to pass through first,
and the crowd cheered him heartily.
The O’Reilly-Hassett duel was con-
tinued after the tea interruption. It was
any odds on Victoria; but at 122 Has-
sett perfectly timed one on the legside
and clipped it hard and very low slightly
to the right of the square-leg umpire.
Pepper saw it all the way, and going very
low brought off the finest catch of the
match. Hassett’s 122 was a grand in-
nings, distinguished by brains, courage
and technical perfection.
• • • • * «
With only 11 runs needed, Victoria
could now have got the lead had Barry
Scott not forsaken his defensive methods.
Lashing out, he missed one from
O’Reilly. All out, 298 ; O’Reilly 5 for
78. A great fight, with first-round points
to N.S.W.
At “stumps” N.S.W. led by 98 with
one wicket down: McCabe 45 and
Mudge 29 not out. Sievers had bowled
Cohen for 13.
On Monday N.S.W. was in the ascen-
dant. McCabe got his century (114), and
most of the others contributed generously
—Mudge (61), Saggers (71, very briskly),
and Barnes (131 n. 0.). It was 468 for five.
The Australian tennis championships,
played at Rushcutter Bay, Sydney, fur-
nished no surprises till Saturday ; then
in a semi-final of the men’s singles
Crawford beat Bromwich in straight sets
(6-4, 6-1, 9-7). It was no fluke ; on the
day the older man was the master. But
the effort took so much out of him that
in the doubles final he could give Mc-
Grath little assistance, and they proved
no match for Bromwich and Quist: 6-3,
7-5, 6-1. In the singles final Quist downed
Crawford in straight sets.
“A.”: Crawford is using a new slice
service, and in that first set on Satur-
day, with the wind helping, it swung
Bromwich right out of court. His
defeat of Bromwich has been called
a comeback. Actually Jack has never
really lost his game. When he returned
from the Davis Cup tour of 1937 he
gave up big-match play—simply took a
spell, well earned after many years of
strenuous play. Last year he went with
the Davis Cup team, and was ready if
wanted. Now he has taken up the game
seriously, and is quite young enough to
rise again to his form of 1933, when he
was world champion.
By winning the Australian doubles title
Bromwich and Quist have put up a
record for men’s doubles that will last
a long time. They have lost only two
matches since they teamed up in 1937.
The third win makes the championship
cups their own.
* * * *
Cycling unpaced on the Sydney Sports
Arena track, Hubert Opperman made
mincemeat of many Australian and
world’s records. He rode 100 miles in
4 hours 12 minutes 17 seconds, and,
continuing methodically, completed 489
miles 596 yards in 24 hours. "Hie pre-
vious record for 24 hours, 437 miles 1574
yards, was held by a German ; “Oppy”
equalled it in 21 hours 8 minutes 13
seconds.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
3=^:.
•fi
M 1
r""
.AS v
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All sing-le rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S'pringwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney,
’Phone: 84771.
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL
Armidale, N.S.W.
3300 feet above sea level.
Boarding and Day School for Boys from
Primary Standard to Leaving Certificate Honors.
Next term begins Thursday,
February Ist, at 1.30 p.m.
New boys attend Wednesday,
January 31st, from 9.30 a.m.
For prospectus and information application
should be made to the Registrar, The Diocesan
Registry, Armidale.
G. A. Fisher, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
You could go to the cricket, tennis or
the races on Saturday, and no matter
which you chose you simmered. All the
same Randwick has never looked brighter
or gayer. Dressing for the Anniversary
Day meeting was bright as a field of
tulips and spring flowers. White in
hat and dress and shoes occurred again
and again. Three white ladies, cool and
attractive, were Mrs. C. R. Blackburn,
Mrs. Jim Broadbent and Mrs. Noel Hunt.
Mrs. Blackburn’s white linen suit had its
straight little coat inlet with fine filet.
With her white muslin frock, Mrs. Broad-
bent wore an upstanding white beret.
As a contrast, Mrs. Lois Walker wore
black with a front panel of turquoise-blue
chiffon, all diagonal tucks. The McKelvey
lady’s black suit had a design in chalk-
white beads on the shoulders and the edge
of the coat.
Barbara Salenger brought tea-rose-pink
organdies to the official stand. Very like-
able were the touches of sapphire on
Philippa Stephen’s mushroom - pink
crepes. Powder-blue and lilac were the
tonings of Mrs. Marcus Rex’s printed
silks, and you couldn’t but notice Judy
Burleigh’s wide-brimmed blue straw.
Sydney’s Mayoress was there, her printed
silks under a white sharkskin coat. Marie
Coen’s large white hat wore a cherry
velvet bow. Miss Maher and Mrs. For-
rest Hughes were together. Bettina
Dowley Smith was crisp in green-and-
white checks. Dr. Joe Coen and his
wife were there. Pretty and blonde was
the wife of Lieutenant W. V. McCall,
M.H.R. One of the fresh and white-clad
was Mrs. C. H. K. Miller. Daffodil linen
was worn by Mrs. Bruce Campbell and
dark amber georgette by Mrs. J. L. Ruth-
ven. Tiny carriage parasols and a large
bag of bubbly black glove kid, its antique
gold fastener and gilt handle inlet with
turquoise, were the highlights of the day
as far as this Page was concerned.
Marjorie Quinn, on her way to the
A.N.A. ceremony at Governor Phillip’s
statue in the Botanic Gardens, told how
she had been invited to read the words of
the “Song of the Commonwealth.” This
poem had been written by her father and
set to music by J. A. Delany at the time
of the Commonwealth inauguration cere-
monies. The song was sung by 5000
schoolchildren outside St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral (J. A. Delany was the conductor of
the Cathedral choir). This was a noted
incident in the procession of their Royal
Highnesses, afterwards King George and
Queen Mary. The procession was
stopped while gold-lettered copy of
the song was handed to the royalties. The
Duchess of York, as she was then, later
wrote and asked for another copy, and
also sent her autograph to Mrs. Quinn.
Friday’s ceremony itself was colorful
with flags, a laurel-decked statue, Air
League boys, representatives of the Police
Boys’ Club, and the music of the West-
mead Boys’ Band. Premier Mair unfurled
Australia’s flag, and promised A.N.A.
president Griffith to look into the matter
of having our birthday named Australia
Day instead of Anniversary Day. This, it
is said, will bring us into line with all the
other States.
The “Francesca” ballet was the riot of
color to be expected from its medieval
Italian setting. The robes suggested the
burning reds and sunset pinks to be seen
in a stained-glass window. The crowd
scenes at the court of Rimini, whether
just citizenry of their day in a mad, bad
revel or the creatures evoked from the
pages of romance, were in equally bril-
liant raiment. The stage at the Royal was
clamorous with color and emotion. Lubov
Tchernicheva was the much-tried Fran-
cesca. As a contrast to the dramatics the
airy lightness of “Cinderella” was a nice
blue balloon to finish with. What variety
would enter the life of a shoe salesman
if all ladies being fitted for shoes copied
the manner in which the ladies in this
ballet proffered their foot to the herald
for the trying on of the magic slipper!
Mrs. Mary Irvine was in the circle,
still pleased over having had the author
of “Borzoi” as her guest. He was in the
stalls; so was Sydney Ure Smith.
Stephanie Edye brought in a breath of
old Spain with her silver-and-green shawl
and the high comb in her dark hair. Jes-
sica Chard’s mothlike blues were lightly
scrolled in silver beads. Penelope Cay
was there, and Mrs. Vincent John Flynn’s
black-and-white stripes were among the
night’s smart effects. Barbara Salenger’s
long black skirt was topped by an ivory
lace blouse.
The spoiled puss of a girl in “Quiet
Wedding” is in real life teen-old Patricia
McDonald, thoroughly unspoiled, and
eager to make a stage career for herself.
Father is chief engineer for A.W.A., and
Pat is one of a happy family of four —
two brothers and one sister. Her
naturally acute brain was barbered at
Sydney C. of E. Girls’ Grammar and
smoothly dressed by two trips around
the world. Bryant’s Playhouse and the
Rayner sisters fed the first flames of her
ambition. Overseas she played in “O.K.
for Sound” with the Crazy Gang in
1938, with Jessie Matthews in “Sparkles,”
and with Tullio Carminati in ‘ London
Melody.” She has played the manicurist
of “The Women,” the maid in “Gas-
light,” and now she and John Wood
stir up a heady brew of laughter in
“Quiet Wedding,” the current show at
the Minerva. Pat is an all-round sport.
She yachts, swims and rides, and
in her spare time, if any, she can give
soulful interpretation of Chopin or
Beethoven on the family piano. Photo-
graph by Nikolai Ross.
The party at the Women Pioneers’ Club
was more fun than that of the men
pioneers. This was really a tea party,
but there was a little something in which
the toast of Australia’s first Governor was
drunk. On the 152nd anniversary of
Phillip’s setting foot on Australian soil,
Mrs. A. B. Wilkinson and Mrs. W. A.
Lingham, the direct descendants of the
trusty King and Johnston who stepped
with their leader from the Supply,
joined hands while the assemblage lifted
glasses to his memory. Against a back-
ground of gladioli president Mrs. Went-
worth Grayson, cool-looking in a white
suit and a large white hat, welcomed the
guests. Among them were Kelso King
and his lady. Kelso is president of the
men pioneers, and it fell to him to read
the eulogy to our first Governor.
The millinery of Carlotta Doyle and
that of her sister were a pleasant contrast.
Carlotta’s was large and black, her sister’s
small and berry-red. In this family
group was niece Sheila Shackleton. Hilda
Childs and her one-time Commissioner-
of-Police father were there ; so were May
Merewether, Constance Blaxland, Helen
Taylor and Jean Darling. The club has
some new treasures. One of them is a
wax model of Phillip brought from Eng-
land by Mrs. E. E. MacLaurin. This is
a very old piece, and is mounted on blue
velvet. Two miniatures just arrived to
join the gallery of our ancestors are those
of Sarah Lowe and Robert Lowe. These
are the gift of descendant Mary Lowe.
Don’t forget the big splash on Satur-
day night at the Olympic Pool, when
Annette Kellerman and her mermaids
take to the water. Prince Alfred’s ex-
pense account will be cooled off thereby.
E. J. Tait, Claude Kingston, Harald
Bowden and a transparent box of frangi-
panni were all waiting for Lady Wake-
hurst when, sharp to the tick, she arrived
at the Australia to take the meeting for
the Red Cross Ballet. Please don’t mis-
take, there’s no question of asking the
Red Cross importants to put on a dance
act themselves. For instance, nobody
suggests that chairman of the N.S.W.
Division Mackay Sim should do a Serge
Lifar act as the faun. No. The Russian
Ballet is to give the performance.
The committee pays the J.C.W. Firm
the expenses of the show, and the Firm
forgoes its profits. These are scooped
up by the Red Cross, and as this is part
of Lady Gowrie’s appeal, and there are
15 vice-presidents, all of some social
magnitude, the night’s takings are ex-
pected to be £lOOO, of which £5OO will be
a clean-sweep for the cause.
At risk of being accused of being a
press agent for the State Governor’s wife,
this Letter must say there’s nobody
handles a meeting in a more friendly
fashion. The business was got through in
no time. Every woman was given her
allotted task. Mrs. Ernest Watt under-
took responsibility both for flowers and
display cards. Mrs. Harry Meeks will
give her a hand. Mrs. Ellis Fielding-
Jones, a bright blue hat on her fair head,
her frock of black chiffon, sat at the
table next to Lady Wakehurst, and out-
lined the progress of events in clear tones.
If you want a seat in the vice-regal
aura it will cost you two guineas, but
then, as well as our own Governor-
General and State Governors and their
ladies, Lord and Lady Willingdon will
be present. Other seats will range from
one guinea to as little as five bob in
the upper circle. It’s to be a Saturday-
night show, and Barbara Knox thinks that
there should be one of the newer ballets
on the programme.
Old boys of The King’s have already
ticked February 10 on their calendars.
This is the date of their school’s Com-
memoration and Old Boys’ Day, and is
the school’s 108th anniversary. There
will be the usual sports programme, and
tea will be at three-thirty. This will
be followed by service in the school
chapel.
Prize for holiday letter goes to the
wife of Dr. Hamilton Kirkland. There’s
poetry here:
We had a most enjoyable holiday camp-
ing on our yacht at Pittwater and off Palm
Beach. What a world for a poet the
Hawkesbury River by moonlight! The hills
topped by trees make a lace pattern on the
sky, and Lion Island, black and silver,
grimly waits inside Barrenjoey’s warning
light. We had a sail about midnight on
Christmas night that was like a faery
dream.
This is Rene Pardon’s very new photo-
graph of Valerie Bavin, whose parents
are the knightly Tom Bavin couple.
Valerie recently announced her engage-
ment. Her young man is James Gordon
Tod, of Campbells, Yandilla, Queens-
land. Gordon’s mother lives at Too-
woomba (Q.).
Maorilander Nelle Scanlan has been
at it again, and has once more glorified
her Pencarrow family, set in the lovely
scenery of her native land. (Oh,
tussocky hill, strong-flowing river, and
unplumbed lake, when do your children
ever forget you?) The latest book from
Nelle’s pen is Kelly Pencarrow. Kelly
Pencarrow, now head of the trilogy
family, is having a silver wedding, and
it is the gathering of the clans with their
loves and hates that makes the pattern
of the book. Nelle’s publishers, Robert
Hale, Ltd., claim that the novel is one
of the Maoriland novelist’s best efforts.
Nelle, who was for years a journalist,
knows her country from Auckland to
the Bluff. In her newspaper days she
was considered as essential to the Maori-
land tour of any celebrity (royalty in-
cluded) as the toothbrush and the
Kaiapoi or Mosgiel rug. Nelle is one
who never forgets a friend and whose
friends never forget her. All sorts of
celebrities travel miles across London to
her literature-cwra-sherry parties.
News from the popular Edmond
Meyer couple (he was attached to the
French Consulate in Sydney, and later
in Maoriland) tells that they are now
facing life in Haiti (in the West Indies),
where he has gone to take up Consular
duties. Previous to this move Sydney’s
two former friends were at Panama.
The widely-known and much photo-
graphed Robin Eakin (she has cheerfully
done her bit on innumerable committees
since her schooldays, not so far behind,
for Robin is still a “teeny”) became
engaged last week to lan Gordon
Spencer, of Darling Point-road, Edge-
cliff. The ring is all diamonds and
emeralds, and Robin and her affianced
were being much congratulated one day
last week while lunching at Prince’s.
The saddest happening of last week
was the tragic death of Pilot-instructor
A. F. (“Buster”) Brown. There wasn’t a
woman in Sydney who didn’t feel a stab
of sorrow for his bride of ten days. The
two were to have started on their honey-
moon this week. The bridegroom, old
with war responsibility at 24, had put it
off because he said every pilot-instructor
was needed to train cadets. He was up
with a pupil when his ’plane nose-dived
into a mangrove swamp near Botany Bay.
Before her marriage Mrs. Brown was
Linnea Percival, sister of Captain E. W.
Percival, celebrated airman.
Anyone popping the head into David
Jones’s new-season fashion display the
other morning might justifiably have
started back wondering if she had taken
the wrong turning and was in the Tower
of London gazing on the Crown jewels.
The brilliant display is the newest thing
in art jewellery, and comes from the
studio of a Hollywood designer. A
closer gaze at this swanking (not to say
clanking) display revealed that in design
the heavy gold (at all events it looks
a fair number of carats) and silver fobs,
necklets and bracelets favored the days
of Marie Antoinette in design.
Here are rich burgeoning of leaf and
flower, twinkling with sapphire, with
topaz and ruby. If the Three Musketeers
had had to gallop along the cobbles of
St. Germain with a “secret” cargo of
these, onlookers would have thought
that all the rivets of their armor had
worn loose. But they have beauty, these
big, old-fashioned pieces, and if you
want to be anywhere at all in the move-
ment you’ll wear your golden or silver
necklet, and the liker it is to a breast-
plate in size the more you’ll prize it.
Silver-mesh sandals are going to give
the Cinderella touch to the largest foot.
Long black suede gloves have a silver
trail from fingertip to their edge. A
pocket in the day-time glove is an
innovation. One black pair had their
pockets cyclamen embossed. Glove kid
handbags are smart and expensive. Thick
and stiff silks are seen in the newest
frocks. Fur cuddling the new China-tea-
green suits brought the beads to the
brow in a temperature of 97 something.
One topcoat had even an apron effect
of fur.
Mrs. Cortis-Jones is one of Australia’s
busy war workers in London. She is
supervising the distribution of the babies’
kits sent overseas by the Sydney branch
of the Anzac Fellowship of Women and
has been invited by Mrs. Stanley Bruce
to represent the Fellowship on the com-
mittee of the A.W.V. Services. Lady
Forster, still remembered by Australian
women, is very interested in this work.
Besides the flower arrangements one
of the decorations at Prince’s last week
was Mrs. Colin Gordon, tall, slender
and hatless. Husband is now one of
the masters of The King’s School. She
was Pat Newbigin, of Melbourne. Also
effective was Mrs. Frank Crane, of
Scone, in her navy outfit.
The new president of the Society of
Women Writers is Mrs. Zara Aronson.
Her press memories go back to the time,
and even before it, when Lord Hampden
was Governor of N. S. Wales, and when
Lord Willingdon, then A.D.C. to Lord
Brassey, Governor of Victoria, paid visits
of state to Sydney. At present Mrs.
Aronson, with Mrs. Clifton Penny, is in
charge of the Naval War Auxiliary
Depot, and they will be at home any
day to parcels of games, nuts, puddings,
socks, mufflers, tobacco in all forms,
sweets, cakes and anything else you can
think of dear to the palate of boys (for
many of the lads in blue are just fledg-
lings). Books and magazines are in
constant demand. Recently the depot
sent out an S.O.S. for gramophones.
Three were asked for, 27 arrived. But
they can all be used.


BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE BANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do nothing
about them. Nature may be warning you *Kat
your kidneys need flushing out.
The kidneys are the great filters of the
blood. All day long the blood is passing
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy per-
sons should pass 3 pints a day and so get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become clogged,
bladder passages are scanty, burning and
smarting. The acids and wastes that should
be passed out of the body, stay in the blood
and become poisonous. This condition causes
nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist for DOAN S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used suc-
cessfully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will
help flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes.
Sc be sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All
6PM Perth ...
6AM Northam. .
6KG Kalgoorlie
Through
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
Personal.
DWYER, Michael. —Next-of-kin of Michael
Dwyer, late of Millmerran, Queensland, died
Toowoomba on 26th July, 1938, aged 76
years, are requested to communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2280 of 1939.
BETWEEN EVA MARION ADAMS Peti-
tioner
And JAMES HENRY ADAMS Respon-
dent.
TO JAMES HENRY ADAMS formerly of
Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EVA MARION
ADAMS has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Seventeenth day of
April next and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of January,
1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, Assembly
Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Streamers reached from the top of
12-storey buildings and there were still
a few yards over to sweep the noses off
the troops when the Southern Command
of the A.I.F. marched through the city
on Flag Day. Flags flew on every build-
ing, heads hung out of every window,
legs dangled from every ledge, and up
on the roofs were more people perched
like eagles in their eyries. The crowd
was estimated at half a million, the
troops numbered 5000 and they fought
for their lives at the Town Hall corner
and for the safety of their bayonets,
drums and trumpets, held high above
their heads, as they buffeted their way
through in single file.
The troops didn’t enjoy the day much.
After all the excitement there came the
anti-climax of getting back to the Ex-
hibition and starting again almost im-
mediately to march down by Latrobe-
street to Spencer-street station and once
more entrain for camp. By a bit of
luck no one was killed in the procession
crowd, though there were innumerable
faintings, injuries through horses’ hoofs
and “winded” casualties.
Flag Day was no day for work. The
streets were thick with stalls and sales
talk, with loudspeakers, entertainment
lorries, button sellers and buttons; for
every child there was a flag at 6d. Some
offices in the firing-line of the noise
closed down for the day. Takings for
the Comforts Fund reached £ll,OOO, col-
lected by 1500 helpers. The fever for
buying was infectious, and the energy
of the sales people amazing. By the end
of the day they had lost their voices, and
they wanted new pairs of feet, their
stocks were getting low but their enthusi-
asm was still on tap. By that time, too,
they were wet, for a drizzle of rain
started to fall late in the afternoon.
On that day it was Christmas shopping
over again—everybody carried parcels.
For when half a dozen packages had been
bought the purchaser came upon, perhaps,
the pineapple stall, and the added burden
of a bit of sunny Queensland didn’t
seem to make any difference at that
stage. Then there were tins of pineapple
juice, so cheap it seemed a shame to pass
them by. Then when everything was
balanced and both hands occupied there
came a bunch of lavender of no weight
at all, but just a cloud of perfume under
the chin. The sweet scent from lavender
stalls was wafted up and down all Col-
lins-street. For those who could stow
their parcels or who by some mysterious
system of conjuring still had access to
purse or pocket there were lucky wheels
for stockings and other prizes glamorous
for a shilling spin.
Within the Town Hall foyer the artists
rose to the occasion with pencil, paint-
brush or gifts of pictures for raffling,
Aileen Dent, Esther and Betty Patterson,
Bernie Bragg, Frank Lee, Ambrose
Dyson, Pat and Jack Hanna (not related)
did portraits or caricatures for hours on
end. Madge Freeman and Chrisma
Wahlers put up two drawings on easels,
each decorated up top with an Ola Cohn
mask, and invited the general public to
paint them at 6d. a brushload of paint.
One suspected that Miss Freeman did an
unobtrusive bit of touching up now and
again, for the pictures, instead of turning
into monstrosities, became pleasant
enough pieces of landscape and architec-
ture.
Mrs. Percival Searle and Mrs. Val
Blogg ran an “Obliterate Hitler” with
pennies upon a portrait drawing. General
organisation of the foyer show rested
with Mrs. Jack Leckie. At the end of
the afternoon G. Scott Lang mounted a
soapbox to auction the original of Arm-
strong’s cartoon “I Got a Date,” the
Lord Mayor and Cr. Beaurepaire sharing
a chair and egging one another on with
the bidding till the picture fell into the
hands of the latter for £ll5.
Mrs. Ray Buxton and Mrs. J. J. Daly
organised at short notice last week a
three days’ session of a Comforts Fund
luncheon room on the ground floor of
the Australian General Electric building.
It was a grand idea, and went over so
well that there was ample excuse for the
amateur waitress and kitchenmaids
feeling wilted on the last afternoon.
There was a cheap buffet luncheon which
saved everybody a lot of trouble while
presenting a generous choice in cold fare.
For those who felt like spending a little
more money in the good cause there was
party fare along the lines of chicken and
meringues.
Among those who lent a hand and a
foot at getting around the tables were
Mrs. J. Heffernan, whose outfit on the
last day was of floral persuasion, with a
dash of purple peeping out of her hankie
pocket. Norma Mitchell, whose mother,
Mrs. J. R. Mitchell, was at the cash desk,
was a neatly-moving young figure in
swing skirt and medley of cherry and
white. Young Bernadette Smith was all
for simplicity in the sort of white cotton
frock that goes into the tub and out
again as easily as winking your eye.
Others noticed were Olive Williams,
Hilary Dunlea, Win Ryan and Betty
Marron, whose Titian locks gleamed
brighter above her painter’s-palette frock
loaded with greens and purples.
Mrs. I. H. Moss brought a party of
friends. Mrs. Sladen Gibson was an-
other ticket purchaser, and a very deco-
rative one in her gay suit of petunia
skirt and flowered tunic. Boy Scouts
were in and out doing jobs to help, and
busy as beavers. The committee wisely
hired assistance for the washing up, for
after all, its members thought, why court
bad dreams with such mountains of
plates as accumulated when the first rush
got under way?
One of tomorrow’s (Feb. 1) brides is
Dorothy Stevenson, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. E. A. Stevenson, and one of
Australia’s first women tennis players.
Bridegroom John Waddell also plays
tennis, but just for exercise and for fun.
The evening wedding at the Littlejohn
Memorial Chapel will be followed by a
reception at Grosvenor. Dot’s attendants
are her sister Gwen and a pal of school-
days at P.L.C., Esme Broadhurst. After
their motoring honeymoon, planned from
day to day according to road maps and
how the weather is for swimming, the
newly-married couple will live in a
house they have bought in North Balwyn.
The bride’s photograph is by Broothorn.
Just as the magic letters R.A.A.F.
attract hordes of young men, so does the
sound of Women’s Air Service Corps
get the women. For last week’s meet-
ing in the Kelvin Hall there was an over-
flow into the street, such an enthusiasti-
cally clamoring one that the meeting had
to be held in two relays. A thousand
application forms had been supplied and
were gone in no time at all. Extra forms
are now available in the Town Hall at
the office of the Women’s National Re-
gister, which is thus keeping in touch
with all “women-power.” It has not
yet been decided if the Women’s Air
Corps will come under Government con-
trol (as it has in England). It is still on
a voluntary unpaid basis. But even if it
does become a “wing” of the R.A.A.F.
(when its members will have the chance
of signing up for the duration), its
pioneer work will not be wasted.
As plans are at present, the corps will
not train women as pilots, but will make
them useful as ground personnel. En-
trance fee is Is., and all lectures will be
charged for at 6d. each. Uniforms are
optional, but mechanics’ overalls will be
useful when the stage of greasy work is
reached. At the meetings Mrs. J. R.
Bell and Freda Thompson wore their
grey khaki uniforms and forage caps.
Mrs. Bell, who is commandant of the
Queensland Corps, explained the general
idea behind the scheme.
Dorothy Tangney, of W.A., has been
in Melbourne enjoying her first real holi-
day for ten years —she has been here on
many other occasions, but always in con-
nection with debates, politics, education,
etc. When the next Federal elections
take place, possibly later in the year, Miss
Tangney will be among the three W.A.
Labor candidates to stand for the Senate.
She is the only woman in Australia to
have got so far towards Federal politics,
and only achieved her success up to this
stage by hard work last year in the Labor
Senate selection ballot. Just before
Christmas the results were announced ;
Miss Tangney was one of the three suc-
cessful candidates chosen by vote from
a field of 27.
During her campaign she spoke at 130
meetings in five weeks, all in her spare
time ; at night, at week-ends to miners,
to slaughtermen in their lunch hour
(though she didn’t relish the smell of the
yards, the men gave her a good hearing),
to wharf-laborers at 7.15 a.m. They
asked a lot of questions, but they also
gave her a fair go. Except when she is
broadcasting, Miss Tangney never uses
notes for any of her speeches. She says
the great point is to know your subject.
She takes an interest in the Univer-
sity, is a graduate, is president of the
W.A. University Women’s Club and of
its Red Cross, has been a representative
at many inter-university conferences and
had a place in several debating teams.
She has worked since she was 14. Her
profession is teaching, and her job is at
the demonstration school attached to the
Teachers’ Training College. She also
does special work with backward
children, and organises numbers of
children’s holiday camps. Yet she has
time left for tennis and badminton, and
swims regularly at Cottesloe in the early
mornings from September to May.
Among last week’s parties was one. in
the late afternoon given by Phil Hudson
at his home in Kensington-road in honor
of Margaret Cox and Colin McKay—
Phil will be the best man at their wed-
ding on March 7. In between toasts and
good wishes and talk of plans for the
Australia Day holiday week-end (for
which everybody seemed to be going to
Ocean Grove, Portsea or Lorne) guests
wandered on to the verandah for a
panoramic impression of Melbourne at
dusk. Margaret wore black sheer with
pintucked slevees and knife-pleated skirt,
with pink roses at her waist and tucked
into her small black hat.
A recent doctor-and-nurse engagement
is that of Bill Refshauge and Helen All-
wright. Bill, who is the elder son of
the late F. C. Refshauge and of Mrs.
Refshauge, of Coppin Grove, Hawthorn,
was a resident medico at the Alfred last
year ; he recently joined the A.I.F. and
has the rank of captain. Helen, who is
the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. E.
Allwright, of Gretna, Tasmania, is on
the nursing staff of the same hospital.
She is as blonde as her sisters-in-law-to-
be, who are all of a Nordic fairness.
As well as blonde hair this Norwegian
name also seems to indicate a share of
brains. When Dr. Joan Refshauge
graduated in medicine last year she
already had a science degree and a
diploma of education to her credit. She
also is a resident at the Alfred. She
married midway through her University
course and in private life is Mrs. Max
Burgin. Her husband’s a surveyor in
New Guinea. Joan visits him every long
vacation, usually by air. This summer
she missed her trip, but is expecting to
welcome her husband down on a holi-
day in a few weeks’ time.
Another Refshauge sister, Mrs. John
Walker, whose husband is an accountant
in Ballarat, is also a University graduate
with a talent for languages. She lived
in New Guinea for some time, and had
a job there with the Administration
doing German translations. Now she is
the busy mother of two children. Third
sister Lyly married David Heysen 18
months ago. Her home is in the Mt.
Gambier district, and she, too, has a
baby, a very blonde and beautiful young
son. Lyly before her marriage held
a research job in the Forestry Commis-
sion.
Younger brother Jack is doing his
first-year medicine. He hasn’t yet had
a chance to congratulate Bill on his
engagement, for he woke up one morn-
ing covered in spots and was hastily
moved out to Fairfield as another victim
of the prevailing measles epidemic.
On a health visit to Australia is Dr.
Anna Marie Peel, whose home for the
last few years has been in Colombo.
Dr. Peel is of German birth, but is British
by naturalisation and marriage. She is
a doctor of philosophy (her subjects being
French literature and philosophy), has
done a considerable amount of jour-
nalism, and is now writing a novel set
in India. One of her jobs was in the
Far East as war correspondent for a
group of Scandinavian newspapers, but
she’s afraid that in that capacity she was
a wash-out, for she was never permitted
to visit the interior and in Japan was held
at arm’s length and learnt nothing at all.
When war broke out Dr. Peel’s
services were accepted in a voluntary
capacity by the Government of Ceylon
for liaison work between it and the Ger-
man internees on the island. These
aliens —about 30 men and five women —
are living in the hills in bachelor barracks
or in cottages for the married couples.
All the women are married, and the
bachelors are not permitted to visit the
cottage territory except by invitation from
a married couple. They mingle only at
meals. Dr. Peel says they present an
extraordinary mixture of beliefs and sym-
pathies, and their mentalities must clash
badly on occasions, for shoulder by
shoulder are ardent Nazis, hard-working
Germans who only ask for a peaceful
life, some music and mug of beer every
evening, Jews orthodox and otherwise,
and Buddhist priests wearing cotton togas
and shaven heads.
Dr. Peel says there is something about
the mysticism of Buddhism which appeals
to the Teuton mind. One incident she
quotes is about a German she met some
years ago in Capri. He was famous.,
clever, rich and a snob. The next time
she came in contact with him was by
letter when she was in Benares. He had
become a Buddhist priest and a recluse,
and was living a life of poverty in a hut
of banana leaves some miles from the
town.


Keep your head above water !
It’s a comfortable feeling to know you have
tucked safely away a little nest egg of savings—
when sudden need comes your way. It is easy
to acquire the habit, week by week—a few
shillings—you will marvel at their growth.
Interest helps, and you need never have that
“sink or swim” feeling—you need never fear
the future —you’re safe if you save!
Use a Savings Bank Passbook
for your Household Accounts.
Commonwcaltf) Savings Janfe of Australia
Over 4,000 Branches and Agencies
r
t
m
fSSK
m
was
m.
wm
t t Safety.
ft *e «»&*£„£
L 6T SK =ng* y o« g“' a ; oUl need.-
.Vis ComP \ ic y f° r . a aoun .
t« *• ot r e - i °r«* * i coV P »t
S capi tal oi j stance ideal* <
"f ° n er<
?* its b , u .. 9 etv^ e ,- _ u eV not
frien
"7 ideal* ot
‘V integrity S *? s ° n Therefore,
iu'^e
Transport & Gen eras
INSURANCE COY. 110.
Trustees Chambers,
mi o rniHiu Street. .Melbourne. C.l.
h
Tjourfjuide
pfjff■jmrj3
ĥ
TRUCKS,HOMES,
FURNITURE
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
From Tennant Creek
“P.D.”: John McEwen, when Minister
for the Interior, toured the N.T. and
promised, among other things, a “policy
of direct assistance to mining”: loans
and subsidies to companies and small
mineowners, allocation of prospecting
parties to certain districts, satisfactory
treatment for our ore, revised mining laws
and a new Director of Mines. That we're
still hoping for fulfilment isn’t McEwen’s
fault—he was out of the Ministry before
he could do anything about it —but we’ve
got our coats off over several other
matters.
McEwen came through the N.T. i
June-August, 1938. For 1938-39 the Gov-
ernment voted us £13,000 for mainten-
ance of batteries and ore-sampling, but
spent only £10,026 ; for “assistance to and
development of” the industry £lO,OOO was
voted and £4302 spent; for new bat-
teries £14,000 was ticked off and £3991
used. As for ore-treatment, recently
we had to send a representative to Can-
berra to try to wake some of the poli-
ticians there and tell them about it.
McEwen gave us a new Mines Director
from Kalgoorlie and, presumably, he also
made plans for us. Again, it probably
isn’t his fault that they’re not likely to
mature. The 1939-40 Estimates at first
promised us £12,000 for maintenance of
batteries and ore-sampling, £lO,OOO for
new batteries and £43,250 for assistance
to and development of the industry. Then
came the war, and false economy. We’ve
still £lO,OOO for new batteries, but the
maintenance allowance came down to
£2OOO and (hold it) the development and
assistance grant was cut by £35,750 to
£7500!
We miners are not particularly greedy
for Government money ; if there’s gold
worth getting we’ll make a fair effort to
get it off our own bat. But there are well
over 600 of us on the field here, and to
June 30, 1939, we produced 46,717 ounces
of gold from 49,646 tons of ore ; and
there have been rich crushings since. So
provision of facilities that are a matter of
course in W.A. should pay. Before
assistance to and development of indus-
try suffer, we expect to see “national
economy” practised in a few other direc-
tions, such as dispensing with a few
hundred State politicians and all their
costly flummery.
“E.D.”: S.-east Queensland on Jan.
21 suffered one of the worst series of
storms seen for years. Trees were blown
down, houses were shifted, low-lying
parts of Brisbane were flooded and tram
and road services disorganised. In For-
titude Valley and S. Brisbane there was
a blackout during church services. At
Landsborough, on the North Coast, a
100 ft. gum fell across a house, killing
A. E. Kirchener and two children and
injuring his young wife and a baby in
arms. There followed a heat-wave during
which eight Queenslanders died in one
day —Friday. Three were Brisbane
people ; in their city the mercury soared
to 109.8.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: The success of Brisbane
Council’s £250,000 loan has been fol-
lowed by the issue of a special Budget.
It provides for the repayment of the
“Never mind me Noo Year resolootions —gimme me pipe back!”
Commonwealth Bank overdraft of
£100,000; the bank is to allow an
ovedraft up to the same amount when
the balance of the loan money has
been exhausted. Out of the £145,000
which will be in kitty when overdraft
and loan expenses are paid off, £90,000
will be used for water supply, some new
buses and garages will be built, and a
good deal of money will go towards pro-
viding power-house additions. And
570 extra men from among those pre-
viously dismissed will be put on. Then
the Lord Mayor has it in mind to raise
another £250,000, of which £lOO,OOO will
be needed to meet temporary accom-
modation from the State and another
£lOO,OOO to meet the new Commonwealth
Bank overdraft. The best merry-go-round
isn’t in it with the merry-go-round of
Brisbane municipal finance.
* * * *
“Phildee”: With 70 passengers and a
crew of 120 the Burns, Philp motor
vessel Merkur slid on to a reef during
the night in Clarence Strait, about a
quarter-mile off the N.T. coast. The
vicinity is one of the most difficult for
navigation ; strong, treacherous currents
and reefs abound, and it’s a miracle that
more ships haven’t tripped up there. The
Merkur straddled the reef and took on
a steep list to port, and each full tide
bumped her a little more firmly on to
her perch. The freighter Tulagi tried
to tow her off, but the tide caught the
Tulagi and swept her towards the
stranded ship. The towline was cut and
the freighter missed the Merkur by 15ft.
Passengers played deck games, bridge and
danced or fished to pass the time away.
After three days 45 of them were taken
off in another steamer and carried to
Darwin. When it seemed that those left
on board were in for a long wait —
a tug was delayed at Townsville—
the captain of the Merkur pulled his
ship off with her own engines and with
winches hauling on salvage anchors.
Darwin was surprised to see her enter
the harbor a few hours after Authority
had said she couldn’t be refloated for
a fortnight.
* * * *
“Mulga Bill”: Mackay has got the
contract for the R.A.A.F. aerodrome at
Townsville. It runs to £134,000. The
municipal council will see to the water
and sewerage side of the scheme.
“Dip”: If you have a couple of bottles
of beer and a frog, you’re eligible for
Darwin’s frog-jumping Derbies. Entrance
fee is two bottles, and prizes are paid
in similar coin. Bachelors of the Works
Department held the first meeting in
their diggings, and 40 swamp nightingales
were entered for the various events.
Batteries, electric needles, pins and
crackers were disallowed, but unwilling
starters were coaxed along with the aid
of a soda-water siphon. The game is
supposed to have originated in America,
but I suspect the idea came from an
N.T. pastoralist I know. He had been
waiting eighteen months for the Govern-
ment to do something about his applica-
tion for a bore, and when I met him
he had in mind a diversion very similar
to frog-jumping. But instead of soda-
water he favored a red-hot branding
iron, and instead of frogs he wanted
civil servants.
“Norther”: Australian initiative is far
from dead in outback Bananaland.
Thrown from his horse out from Winton,
Jim Donald tried to drag a broken right
leg three-quarters of a mile to a water-
hole. After half a mile he could go no
further, and with the temperature well
over the 100 looked like doing a perish.
His dog had stuck to him, and it rushed
off to the hole, had a good wallow and
a drink, and came back. Donald tried
to get water from the dog’s coat, and
then, despite pain and weakness, the
native wit worked. He took off his
flannel shirt and put it on the dog. Next
time the hound returned from the hole
Donald was able to wring a drink from
the soaked shirt. He tried to carry the
idea further by tying his boots to the
dog, but this puzzled the animal, which
lay down. Carrying on with the shirt,
Donald staved off thirst till found.


/ /
\
A short time ago one ot our
correspondence Art students acci-
dentally dropped a blot on a drawing. His trained eye quickly
perceived possibilities in that black shape, and a few deft
strokes sufficed to turn it into the sketch on the right n
our advice he sold the idea to a firm of Blacking manufac-
turers, and since then has introduced this character into draw-
ings for that company valued at more than £lOO.
Xioo
fare.
BLOT
This indicates how easily money
can be made by people with
bright ideas, provided they have
ability to draw, backed up by
proper tuition.
FREE ART TEST
It is just a little over a year since
the originator of the adjoining
sketch passed our Art Ability
J
Tests . Perhaps YOU, TOO, have latent money-making
ability which could be developed by first-class Correspondence
Training. Write for our beautifully illustrated 32-page booklet
h
entitled Art Ability Tests.
It is full of interesting information about
Advertising, Cartooning, and other
branches of Commercial Illustrating.
No cost or obligation if you mention
“The Bulletin.”
ART TRAINING
INSTITUTE
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
THE FLYING COLUMN
The Air Recruiting Scheme.
; There is to be no com-
petition between the Empire Aii and
A.I.F. recruiting schemes. A.I.F. re-
cruiting for the present will take a back
seat. ,
For the air scheme the Government
is committed to raise, for all purposes,
over 50,000 men, of whom 26,000 will
be in the flying branch.
This is a big enough job for the be-
ginning, especially as flying men are
drawn from a more limited range of ages
than is permissible in the infantry.
Pilots will be chosen from the 18-28
age-group. They must have passed a
school intermediate examination and
qualified in mathematics and physics or
elementary science. Observers and gun-
ners have to be 18 to 32, with about the
same standard of qualification. Ground
positions are open for men in some cases
up to 35 and in others up to 45. For all
except certain types of technician, a very
high physical standard is demanded.
Although actual recruiting has not
opened, the R.A.A.F. is prepared to re-
ceive applications for enlistment in
writing.
A good start has been made by the
appointment as Director of Air Recruit-
ing of Donald Cameron, who com-
manded the sth A.L.H. in Palestine and
who for years has never ridden on the
ground if there was a ’plane handy.
He is known throughout Eastern Aus-
tralia, and in the last war had a repu-
tation of being a whale for detail and
tireless in administration.
It is possible that a new plan will be
adopted as a result of the general oppo-
sition to the merging of the R.A.F. and
R.A.A.F. under a system which would
cause Australian units to lose their iden-
tity. The matter is being considered,
but it should not need much debate.
At the same time it is easy to under-
stand the attitude of the R.A.F. It is
honeycombed from the highest ranks
downwards with Dominions men, par-
ticularly Australians and Maorilanders ;
in the lower ranks about a third of the
whole flying man-power comes from
overseas. It is obvious that the estab-
lishment of large separate Dominion air
forces would cut off one of the R.A.F.’s
best recruiting sources.
Still, there is not even the excuse of
precedent in the present war for the
scheme as originally planned. Little
South Rhodesia has arranged that its
airmen will be trained with the R.A.F.
and that when sufficient men are qualified
they will be formed into a South
Rhodesian squadron. Surely what can
be conceded to S. Rhodesia, which can-
not train its own men, must be granted
to Australia, which intends to train all
its own men.
The separation of the R.A.A.F. from
the R.A.F. becomes even more important
now that the recruiting of infantry is to
be subordinated to recruiting for the air.
Emergency Air Transport.
“T.T.E.”: The British Government ap-
preciates the importance of maintaining
air communications in time of war, and it
is probable that during the war such
communications will be extensively de-
veloped. The theory that civil aviation
would cease has certainly proved in-
accurate.
One airline in particular is worthy of
note. It is the one across the Atlantic
linking Britain with Canada. The im-
portance of this link is great alike in
peace and war.
Some time ago Imperial Airways an-
nounced that the line across the Atlantic
would cease to operate with the advent
of winter. There might be an attempt
to establish an experimental line via the
Azores and Bermuda, but the northern
route was definitely to cease operations.
The point now arises whether the alter-
native can safely be adhered to under
war conditions.
In winter the North Atlantic route,
because of bad weather and the presence
of ice and fog, becomes difficult but not
impossible. Acceleration of the service
between Britain and Canada is now more
than ever of enormous value from the
national point of view. Services running
to Australia and the Cape also have this
power of maintaining fast Empire com-
munications. Difficulties of continuing
these services are, however, very different
from those of the Atlantic route. Weather
is the big problem of the Atlantic, but
political considerations might well affect
other Empire routes.
A glance at the map shows that where
a line is prevented from running along
one route by political difficulties, it can
almost always be turned to another
route, It is certain that, whatever the
problems ahead, airline organisations
which were built up with so much trouble
and expense during the years of peace
will not be allowed to collapse now that
we are at war.
“E.D.”: The first of the Lockheed
Hudson bombers, originally expected last
“Pull up, driver —’at bloWed off.”
September, have arrived in Australia.
They differ from the machines delivered
to Britain in that they have Pratt and
Whitney engines instead of Wright
Cyclones, but as Pratt and Whitneys of
the type used will shortly be manufac-
tured in Australia this is all to the good.
The die is, of course, cast, but there is
still a lot of scratching of heads among
Australian airmen as to why it is neces-
sary to build American engines undei
license when so many types of British
power units are available to be duplicated.
The Government’s explanation that the
U.S. outfits are simpler to manufacture
is unconvincing. The real reason may
be that Britain cannot spare instructing
technicians. Lockheeds are not so easy
to fly as British machines of the same
standard. They are fighter-bombers with
a wide range. Not so fast as Hampdens
and Beauforts, but for Australian pur-
poses fast enough.
* * * *
“X.”: The Communist claim that the
Red Air Force has been “pulling its
punches” in Finland has been badly
punctured by the British Labor leaders
who are visiting the little Republic.
“Bombers are mainly concentrating on
demoralising the civil population, said
the secretary of the Trade-union Con-
gress after an inspection of Hango, where
he saw the wrecks of “many workers
homes.” But the wreckers are not having
it all their own way. With the arrival of
many volunteer pilots and machines
from abroad, the Finns are carrying the
air war into the enemy’s country.
* * * *
“D.H.60”: The disaster to the
K.N.I.L.M. Lockheed 14 off Bali cost
eight lives: those of Captain Schott, com-
modore of the K.N.I.L.M. fleet, the pilot,
the wireless operator and five passengers
—Mrs. J. M. Mijnlieff, of Sydney, and
Dr. Johnston, of Te Amawatu, Maoriland,
among them. The only survivor was the
mechanic, A. van Riet, whose leg was
broken. The day was fine and still and
the ’plane had not long taken off when
it crashed. Captain Schott was one of
the best-known flying men on the Europe-
Australia run. He had more than 10,000
flying hours and over 1,000,000 miles in
his logs, and he pioneered the Australian
route for the Dutch. K.N.I.L.M. had
been operating for 11 years without a
serious crash.
* * * *
“Aldis”: Golden rule in an emergency
of “lost prop” is to put the nose down,
BSsHSKStS
• . _ f nr recoverv but disaster in-
evitably follows if a stall occurs very
, c-oiind Something of the kind
appears have been’responsible for last
week’s crash in Botany Bay (N.S.W.) of a
.. - n . r Kinlnnp with instructor and pupil,
Individuals reaching the crashed ’plane
found it settling nose down in the water,
The nunil in a semi-delirious state, was
lifted clear but the instructor was
drowned in his seat. As usual, our Glori-
ous Press looked for a scapegoat; in this
nse the hospital, where the instructor
was placed in an “iron lung.” Medical
science has done wonders, but it has not
vet got to the stage of raising the dead.
8 * * *
~ .
“Don”: At the rate things are going
in this war it is estimated that msffi
three years speeds of :fights so e
types of bombers will Ibe round 600 in -P—
-and the ceiling wil '
another 20 years the plane; y
arnve, with undreamt-of speed and para
bohc flight through the strato s ph
higher. From that it shouldn tbe m h
of a step to mter-planetary p,Y
then it will be about time to seek e
other habitat of “civilisation” elsewhere
in the universe.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Canada is localising its air-
training scheme to benefit itself on a
much larger scale than is so far con-
templated in Australia for Australia. The
plan calls for 4000 machines, of which
1282 are to be built in Canada, except for
engines, while 870 British-built planes
will be assembled in Canada and 593 in
U.S.A. Another 1622 wingless fuselages
will be imported from Britain, wings to
be built in Canada. Deliveries will begin
in May. Already 40 aerodromes capable
of handling trainee units are ready.
* * * *
“Naffy”: Bauxite, the basis of alu-
minium, is something Germany is sup-
posed to be short of. If that is the case,
the German aircraft industry must suffer,
for modern aeroplanes cannot be pro-
duced in quantity or quality without
aluminium and its alloys. One of the
oldest attempts to strengthen aluminium,
inherently soft, was to add zinc by alloy-
ing ; but the resultant material wasn’t
strong enough for structural parts of air-
craft. The something better was even-
tually found by a German in the wrought
alloy known as duralumin, which has
a composition of copper 4 p.c., man-
ganese \ p.c., aluminium 95 p.c. There
are three separate alloying metals, and
they are all necessary. Leave out any
one and the material would not be
duralumin but something much weaker.
* * * *
“Pourquois Pas”: A new plastic
material is being used in the American
aircraft industry. It consists of liquid
rubber, a dehydrating powder and cork
granules. Other forms of plastics are
finding increasing use, and in some cases
complete fuselages are constructed from
synthetic materials.
The Air War Day by Day.
Jan 20: French fighter ’planes sight a
German machine 27,000 ft. high near
Belgian coast and force it to crash into
sea off the coast of England.
Jan. 21: R.A.F. reconnaissance ’planes
in action with four German patrol
vessels in North Sea. No damage.
Jan. 24: Three high-flying German
’planes over Shetlands. Dodged R.A.F.
fighters in clouds. Nine bombs dropped
but no damage done.
Jan. 25: A.A. guns in action when a
’plane, believed to be German, flew
over Thames Estuary. Air Ministry
reported that the ’plane was friendly
and was not damaged.
Jan. 26: R.A.F. ’plane fails to return
from reconnaissance flight; “shot down
in Rhineland” —German report. A
Heinkel tried to bomb French lorries—
missed.


N
& MERCANTILE AGENCY CO. LTD.
INC. IN ENGLAND
538-544 Collins St.
MELBOURNE - PHONE M 3801
In addition to our principal business, we have the following Departments:—
We have a large list of proparties
available in all districts, which is
constantly being revised and
brought up-to-date.
We welcome enquiries and will be
pleased to place our knowledge
and experience at your disposal.
Write or call, and let us know
your requirements.
Weekly sales of Fat and Store
Stock are held at Newmarket,
where every consignment is under
the personal supervision of our
own experts.
Stock Sales are also held at
regular periods in country centres
throughout Victoria and the
Riverina.
Send us your next consignment,
and secure the best possible re-
turns.
Stud Stock
Our organisation, with its asso-
ciations and connections in Aus-
tralia and abroad, is in a position
to render efficient service to all
buyers and sellers of Pedigree
Stock. Enquiries are invited and
will receive prompt attention.
MenckaudUc
Everything needed by the man
on the land is obtainable from this
department, and all orders will
have prompt and careful attention.
We are sole Victorian distributors
for—
William Cooper and Nephews'
Sheep and Cattle Dips, etc.
Elmshurst Teas,
N.Z.L. Cigarettes, etc.
Vat 69 Liqueur Scotch Whisky
Louis Roederer Champagne.
Our illustrated catalogue will be
posted free on application.
QteUtt
In conjunction with our extensive Grain business, we handle all Grass and
Clover Seeds. We will be pleased to supply full details and prices on
application.
== : -■ -
VICTORIA: BENALLA, ECHUCA, KILMORE, KYNETON, YARRAWON6A
NEW SOUTH WALES: COROWA, FINLEY, JERILDERIE, TOCUMWAL
THE SERVICE MAN
Melbourne's Day of Memory.
“Ek D.”: Melbourne’s greeting to 5000
Victorians of Second A.I.F. would not
have pleased an old-fashioned brasshat,
but it will live for those who took part in
it as one of the memories of the war. It
was certainly the most picturesque show
that Brigadier Savige—who enlisted in
the old A.I.F. as a private —has seen since
he met Aga Petross with his Syrian horse-
men near Takan Tepe when he was
rounding off the war with the Dunster-
force.
For days beforehand, Melbourne talked
about the march while the suburbs en-
joyed samples of what was to come.
Moonee Ponds feted a battalion, Caul-
field Council entertained 190 men at the
races. At Essendon, a large gathering of
Diggers from the Old Guard lined up
near the saluting base to shout “good
luck” as the troops passed through,
bronzed, battle-uniformed, with a band
before them.
The Comforts Fund organised a gala
in the city, and its 25,000 flags lent color
to the picture—the new A.I.F. battalions,
by the way, as yet have no colors of their
own, which is a pity.
There was a gay and free-and-easy air
from the beginning. The A.I.F. guests at
Caulfield led the singing of “Why
Was He Born So Beautiful?” when the
Governor, himself an old soldier, rose
to speak.
The day before the official march, there
was an informal one —of soldiers on their
way to picnic for the night at the Exhibi-
tion. They bivouacked in the great cen-
tral hall, which was portioned out at the
rate of six feet to a man. At night, the
building rang with old songs of the
last war and with the new war-cry of
the brigade, “Up the Alley.” The organi-
sation was sound. There were showers
for weary marchers and buckets of
saveloys, and “Lights Out” was not blown
till 11.45 p.m.
People began to pour into the city from
6 a.m. onwards, under a blue sky in
which there were a few fleecy clouds as
the day wore on. The air was full of
“Boomps-a-Daisy” and “Roll Out the
Barrel,” “Smile As You Kiss Me Good-
bye” and “Tipperary.” The washing was
hung continuously on the Siegfried Line
in a dozen streets.
Officers and men were laughingly
mobbed and kissed, and when the march
began the fun continued. Near the
Town Hall, as the troops passed, the bar-
riers burst and the men marched through
in Indian file. Along the route, half a
million people went gaily mad. More
troops were dragged from the ranks and
kissed. A wag on the back of a limber
parodied Hitler and gave the Nazi salute.
For 20 minutes the march was dis-
organised, and the taking of the salute was
a thing of breaks and patches, because of
the interruptions in the column. Senior
officers had anxious moments, for they
did not know what was happening behind
them. But the troops responded to dis-
cipline.
It was not as ceremonial a show as it
might have been, but it was typically
Australian and nobody could say it was
not warm-hearted.
The War at Sea.
“Nobby ll.’’: The naval war has de-
veloped into a bitter business, bitter in
all senses of the word. The Germans
have scarcely any ships left on the sea
to lose. British losses are inevitable so
long as the blockade patrols are main-
tained and the Germans have anything
left afloat or in the sky which can drop
a mine or shoot a torpedo.
All over Europe the winter has been
the severest for generations, and the
weather in the North Sea has been at its
worst —so rough and fog-bound that
there has been scarcely more visibility
on the surface than on the sea bottom.
Such conditions are hard on destroyers,
especially since sowing of magnetic mines
began. To the end of last week five
destroyers had been lost since September
3. The Duchess sank after a collision ;
the Gipsy was sunk by a mine so close
to shore that part of her top-hamper
was above water; the Blanche hit a
mine off the s.-e. coast of England. Then
the Grenville was struck by mine or
torpedo. She was a 1485-tonner carry-
ing a complement of 175 and five 4.7 in.
“How’ll ya have the trousers —too long or too short?”
guns—one of the 35 to 40 flotilla leaders
which the R.N. has in commission. She
was one of the fastest ships in the Navy
knots. Nearly half the personnel
were saved.
A few days afterwards Exmouth, an-
other flotilla leader of about the same
tonnage and armament, went down with
188 hands. In the state of the weather
it sounded more like mine than torpedo.
Captain Benson, of the Exmouth, re-
ceived the D.S.O. last month in recog-
nition of the work of his division against
submarines. He formerly commanded a
flotilla on the China station.
Around the Army.
XII.
The Censor.
In a letter, should you casually say
It’s a funny sort of world in which
we live,
He will put his pencil through it, for that
may
To the enemy some information give.
There is nothing that escapes his eagle
eye.
When the “X”es that the private sends
his missus
Disappear beneath the blue she wonders
why.
But the censor knows that danger
lurks in kisses.
The army censor takes pride in the
speed with which, he can hack a bunch
of seemingly innocent letters about. With
constant practice, censoring becomes
second nature to him, while he is so con-
scientious that he subjects his own
epistles to as rigid a censorship as any.
The latter task he doesn’t do immedi-
ately after he has finished writing one,
or even while he is writing it. To get
the proper perspective, and to give him-
self a fair chance to forget what he has
written, so that he may approach the
job with an unbiased mind, he puts h.js
own letter aside for a week, or, if his
memory is tenacious, even a month. Then
he shuffles it in with a heap of other
letters that have been submitted. Some-
times, the easier to trick himself, he will
disguise his own handwriting.
Ever fearful that some enemy agent
may knock an army postman on the
bean and peruse the home-going mail,
the censor sternly deletes all reference to
the army and nearly everything apper-
taining to civilian life. Anything out-
side these two spheres may go through
practically unrestricted. But he is sharply
aware that reference to the bluntness of
a private’s razor or to his passion for
plum-and-apple jam may be so revealing
that the loss of a battle may result.
With every war we have the import-
ance of the “home front” becomes in-
creasingly pronounced, and nothing
rouses the sub-editing instinct of the
censor more than wordy letters to
women. He knows, none better, that
women love to talk, and what would
they be likely to talk about more than
the doings and sayings of their menfolk
on active service? So he makes brevity
his aim. Even the homeliest topics are
sources of danger, perhaps more so be-
cause of their seeming simplicity, and
these he rigidly prunes. Take a typical
example, a letter to the wife back on
the farm:
“Dear Amy,—
“I received your letter jake and am
glad to know you are all well as it leaves
me at present. I am glad little Johnnie
has got over the measles, and I hope
Daisy hasn’t gone dry. Are the new
calves doing all right? Give my love
to Mum and Dad and tell them I am
well. I’ll have more news for you next
time. I hope it won’t be long before
I see you all again. Love from Bill.”
By the time the censor has finished
with that little lot it will appear like
this:
“Dear , I received your letter and
am glad. Give my love to . Fond
love from .”
It will be noted that all reference to
health has been deleted, thus baffling the
Intelligence people of the enemy High
Command. As little Johnnie will even-
tually come of military age, he naturally
has been blue-pencilled. The calves,
being a source of food supply, are also
struck out. In short, the letter, as passed,
is guaranteed to be foolproof, as far as
the enemy, or even the recipient, is con-
cerned.
Occasionally the censor’s zeal leads to
an awkward situation. There is the case
of the sapper whose girl sent him her
photo. Acknowledging it, he replied in
these terms:
“Somewhere,
“Sometime.
“Forgive brevity, for we are on the
move. I got your photo., and I think
you look marvellous. I will always keep
it. One of the villagers here went to
church yesterday in his national costume,
It was the funniest-looking sight I’ve seen
for years.— Joe.”
The censor couldn’t possibly let the
“Somewhere, Sometime” through. Out
that went, as also did the part about being
on the move. Also, as mention of health
is barred, and the bit about the villager
being in national costume might give a
clue to the whereabouts of the unit, those
got the pencil too. But since humor
should be encouraged to keep up the
morale, he let the piece about something
being funny through. The result read:
“I got your photo. It was the funniest-
looking sight I’ve seen for years. .”
When, not unjustifiably narked, she
wrote and told him off, and why, the
sapper thought that to hang a decent
shanty on the censor’s eye was worth
ninety days’ No. 2 f.p.
There was also the case of the man
who wondered why he never got one
reply throughout the war to the dozen?
of letters he sent to a girl he admired.
He found out after the war was over:
His officer, who was also his censor,
was also hanging his hat up to her.
S. W. K.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4|d. per line;
all others at 2£d. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited.
Double rates to another Sydney contributor —the second in two weeks who ge s
to the root of the trouble with Australian films.
Australian Films
Time after time a loyal film public
has gone along to see the “new Aus-
tralian film,” only to come out more
disillusioned than ever. What is the
trouble?
Not finance. The polished French films
occasionally on view in Sydney show
that very good pictures can be made
quite cheaply. The best film I’ve ever
seen was a French film, and the action
all took place in a couple of rooms and
on a street corner. Nor is our photo-
graphy at fault. What we probably lack
is the imaginative genius that would have
made epic films of the building of the
Harbor Bridge, the loss and subsequent
discovery of the Stinson ’plane in 1937,
the adventures of an N.T. policeman,
and the dozens of ready-made situations
just asking to be “glamorised” by
some romantic writer.
The main trouble, however, is that
we haven’t yet made up our minds
whether to be English or American in
our films. The result is that we are
getting the vices of each and the virtues
of neither.
If the Australian film hopes to com-
pete successfully in the world’s markets
it cannot go on for ever with an apology
on its lips. There is a limit to what
even a loyal Australian public will stand.
If the industry has infantile paralysis
much longer it will have to be put down
as incurable. — Celt (N.S.W.).
“Celt” is W. Lynch, Box 1129 H, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Secondary Industries
People like “D.A.” (B. 10/1/’4O) who
argue that we can’t carry a larger popu-
lation because our small home market
wouldn’t carry secondary industries argue
in a vicious circle.
There is a lot of loose talk about sell-
ing abroad. We seem to think that we
take our goods abroad, get the money
for them and bring it home in our purses.
Actually we use credits obtained by ex-
ports to buy imports. The inverse holds
true. If people want to sell to us they
must buy from us.
Our objective should be not to worry
about capturing a foreign market for
our surpluses, but to make a home mar-
ket by increased population. If we get
that market then our industries can look
after themselves. If we have a large
population here we become a potential
market for other people. They will be
eager to trade with us. They must,
naturally, buy from us in order to sell
to us.
The United States today is the largest
single national economic unit in the
world. Had Americans sat down and said,
“Unless we first have a foreign market
we cannot start home industries,” they
might have had the 7,000,000 people
we now have. Had we done as they did,
spent capital improving our country and
indulged in a solid expansionist policy,
we might have been well on the way
towards those same 140,000,000 people
the United States now has. —J. B. (Q.).
Juvenile Crime
As a matter of fact juvenile crime does
not really differ from adult crime (B.
17/1/*40); the accent is on it at present
only because we are all dripping with
sentimentality. The real crux of this
matter is what constitutes a criminal
act. If it is any behavior prohibited
by the criminal code, then we are all
criminals, more or less.
Society, as a matter of fact, usually
gets the sort of criminals it deserves.
The essence of crime is the breaking
of the laws of one’s country, and the
laws depend largely on the economic
and social theory which is imposed on
the people of that country. What may
be a serious crime in one country might
be a trivial offence in another.
“What does a man get if be has
bought an article for tuppence which he
sells for fourpence?” In a capitalist
country the answer is “Twopence profit.
In a socialist country the should
be “Twelve months’ hard labor.”
There is no doubt that financial in-
security and the enormous rewards which
accrue to financial success, no matter
how obtained, account for no small
fraction of the cases which come before
the criminal courts in capitalist countries.
The only help psychologists can give
us here is the means, if any, to dis-
tinguish between those who break laws
because of inborn abnormalities, un-
alterable by any form of punishment,
and those who knowingly and deliber-
ately commit crimes in the hope that
they will not be found out. More
knowledge and less sentimentality are
wanted. —Long Bay (N.S.W.).
Chewing Gum and Democracy
The effect of “Dad and Dave” broad-
casts on the public’s opinion of the man
on the land does not worry me at all,
but there is another aspect which does.
That big link-up of stations must come
expensive. Think of the packets of chew-
ing gum that need to be sold to finance it,
and think how many gum-chewers there
must be in this country. And think of
the gum-chewers with their eyes fixed
in a vacant manner, shoulders hunched
forward, mouths relaxed threatening to
dribble at any moment, jaws working
with tireless automatic persistency, minds
concentrated on the delights of the cud.
Then think that this is the stuff of
which our democracy is made, and re-
frain from despair —if you can. —
E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
Childhood Memories
Adults today are inclined to regret that
their childhood held so little pleasures
that the modern child seems to be blessed
with.
But isn’t the modern child, with all
aids and ideas to make life easy and
pleasant, developing a mind that is both
unresponsive and unimaginative? Once
children had to use their imaginations to
conjure visions of the stories they read or
were told, and they were able to picture
scenes and other people’s lives much more
vividly. The modern child, who has
radio and pictures presenting him directly
and easily with news and fiction, has his
imagination dulled by idleness.
And there is so much excitement and
pleasure in their short childhood that
modern children do not have the oppor-
tunity of ever imprinting on their minds
one or two lovely memories of childhood.
—Sheila Ryan (Vic.).
Exemptions
Exemptions being granted to many of
the young men being called up are de-
stroying the benefits of the compulsory
military training scheme, which, as far
as it goes, is a good thing for the nation.
The only exemptions granted should be
to men whose dependants would suffer
hardship as a result of the trainee’s
absence in camp.
It seems ridiculous that any young
man of 21 is indispensable in a business,
trade or profession —in peace-time the
cry has been that the man of 21 years
is not wanted. The regulations provide
severe penalties for employers who vic-
timise employees called up for training
under the scheme, thus affording full
protection to any who may otherwise
lose their jobs or seniority.
There are too many untrained men in
the Commonwealth as it is, and, instead
of being willing to grant exemptions, the
Government should have insisted that
every man in sufficiently good health, and
without dependants likely to suffer, who
reached the prescribed age should under-
go training. The man himself would
benefit.
Instead of allowing some to shirk their
obligations on the ground that they are
in “reserved” occupations or “cannot be
done without,” the Government should
see that every able-bodied man from 18
to 55 receives some instruction in de-
fence. There should be no exemptions
in such a vital matter. Sam Square
(N.S.W.).
Democracy
Despite the vaporings of sentimental-
ists, it is now generally accepted that
men are not born equal. If we have
learnt anything from psychology it is
that the mental equipment of individuals
differs as much as appearances. A sur-
prisingly large number of men never
attain an adult mentality, and no amount
of teaching can develop their minds
beyond a certain point. And even among
those who approach higher levels the
ability to reason clearly and objectively
is rare.
Obviously, the mentality of the masses
can be no higher than that of the aver-
age run of individuals of which they are
comprised. In practice it is probably
lower. How, then, can the masses attain
the mental excellence and impartiality
required of them in a true democracy?
Yet the whole edifice of democracy rests
on the assumption that the masses not
only have an inalienable right to govern
themselves, but the ability to do it.
They certainly haven’t the ability to
do it now. Given a few thousand years,
they might acquire the tendency, but the
probability is that, long before that time,
the inalienable right of the masses to
govern themselves — i.e., play the fool —
will lead the democracies into some
Gadarene jump to destruction. —T. E. P.
(N.S.W.).
Communists
Something ought to be done about the
Reds, and may I suggest a couple of
methods at least worth a trial?
The first is the weapon of ridicule.
The minute Comrade Joe let the Reds
down they became silly. As long as they
talk about “aggressive Finland,” “the
Workers’ Paradise” and “peace-loving
Joe” they become sillier. They are dod-
dering about on the edge of a slippery
precipice, and if the gale of laughter is
sufficient it will blow them over.
At the end of last year Comrade Blake
tried to tell an audience at Melbourne
Uni. why the Red Army invaded
Poland. The audience, which in days
gone by had voted in favor of the
Spanish Government and had always dis-
played an academic sympathy towards
the Soviet, now hooted, laughed and
stamped in derision. Jack Blake was
blasted from the platform, and I’ll
guarantee it was the laughter that hurt
most.
My other suggestion might cost a bit
of money, but it would be worth it.
Take everyone showing a penchant for
Communism and send them off to
Lord Howe Island or some such
Pacific island, give them a bit of capital,
send all their printing presses and white-
wash over with them, and give them
every encouragement to set up a little
Soviet republic of their own. It would
be an interesting experiment, and no one
could say we were being unjust or cruel
to them. In fact, everyone would (or
should) be quite satisfied.
I might add also that if you remove the
causes of Communism you remove the
thing itself. Communism breeds in
empty stomachs and slums. It flourishes
in war-time, in depressions, and in piti-
fully undeveloped minds. If you filled
the stomachs and made more people’s
lives worth living I guarantee that Com-
munism would die a natural and sudden
death.— Taurus (Vic.).
Whenever it appears probable, to the
profound satisfaction of most sober-
minded citizens, that some noisome
Communist agitator will be prevented
for good and all from spreading his
poisonous doctrines, there is an imme-
diate outcry from sundry members of
the Council for Civil Liberties and other,
organisations who always fear that the
liberty of the individual will be destroyed
by whatever action is contemplated.
Usually the result is that nothing at all
is done, or any action that is taken is
so cautious that it is quite ineffective,
and the Communist goes on agitating to
his heart’s content.
What is the matter with our legis-
lators that this word “liberty” gives them
so much apprehension? When the wel-
fare of the community demands it, our
lawgivers and administrators do not
hesitate to shorten the lives of those who
menace the lives of others. Why should
there be hesitancy in curbing the liberty
of those whose teachings and activities
threaten the liberty of others?
Surely it is time we all realised that
liberty can only be relative, and never
absolute, in a democracy. The measure
of liberty that can be allowed to any
individual in the community is the fullest
freedom consistent with the freedom of
others and the preservation of the State.
Democratic States have existed long
enough for our leaders at least to learn
what activities threaten the State. No
absolute conception of liberty should be
permitted to sway our minds in passing
judgment on Communist teachings which
endanger the relative liberty we enjoy as
individuals and which threaten to dis-
rupt the community. Restrictions are
inevitable, and the knowledge that they
will be promptly and effectively applied
is the strongest possible safeguard a
State can afford the liberty of its sub-
jects.—D. J. G. (Vic.).
It’s Tough
A trapper-prospector-small sheepman,
a decent, hardworking, thrifty young Aus-
tralian, recently waved a paper in my
face and assailed rife thus: “It says in
this paper that in this war wealth is being
slugged the same as wages; a man
pullin’ down a hundred thousand a year
gets milked for eighty thousand. Leaves
him a lousy twenty thousand a year to
play around with! Now me, even if I
win two State lotteries, I won’t raise
twenty thou, in my lifetime. How can 1
with three hundred acres of ground, two
hundred sheep an’ a hundred rabbit traps,
an’ unemployed half the year through
no fault of my own?
“Communism, like Stalin and his mob
of hoodlums practise it, is hell, but I
reckon a better distribution of things in
a good, clean country like this has some-
thing in its favor. No man can earn a
hundred thousand quid a year. If he
gets it running sheep he’s using a hundred
thousand or more acres to do it. Has he
any right to so much ground while I
muck around on a few hundred acres?
“There’s Ford and Nuffield with in-
comes of millions. Do they earn it?
They don’t. The millions they give away
prove that they have a conscience, but
how many money-grubbers pulling down
a little less haven’t any?”
I stopped him there, pointing out that
I, too, was merely a poor uneducated
battler like himself, and that, in my
opinion, only one Man could have
answered his questions satisfactorily and
that He had passed away some 1900
years ago, but had promised to come
again. And, miserable, unrepentant
sinner that I am, I hope He does, and
soon. — Turon River (N.S.W.).
Slum Prevention
In cities and towns all over Australia
there is evidence of sheer neglect of prop-
erty simply because owners of rented
houses will not spend a reasonable
amount in keeping them in a good state
of preservation. This neglect eventually
leads to slum areas, yet it could be pre-
vented if local-governing bodies were
given power to make regular inspections
of all rented dwellings and order owners
to carry out necessary repairs without
delay.
A tenant is often afraid to ask for
necessary repairs because it means an in-
crease in rent, a notice to quit, or threats
from the landlord to the effect that there
are plenty of people waiting to occupy the
house if you are not satisfied. I know of
many houses in suburban areas that
have not had a coat of paint for 20 years,
yet the landlord continues to collect the
same rent as when the place was new.
Then there are leaking roofs, broken
floors and walls and dilapidated fences
going from bad to worse because the
landlord will not spend even a small por-
tion of the rent he receives to keep the
place in decent repair.
If local-governing bodies were given the
power to order painting and repairs we
would have cleaner, brighter and better
suburbs, healthier and happier people,
and many of the unemployed would find
work in keeping property in a good state
of repair.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Farm Conditions
While the Queensland Government
continues to pay hundreds of thousands
of pounds in relief to unemployed
workers who won’t take jobs in the coun-
try, and to vote hefty amounts for in-
spectors to police the conditions under
which farm animals are kept, it surely
would be an economy to investigate the
conditions made available by farmers to
laborers on their properties.
The worker claims that frightful stand-
ards of living are set by farmers who
employ labor, and the farmer declares
it is impossible to get labor. The best
way to settle the endless argument is for
the Government to establish regular-
supervision of premises set apart for em-
ployees, and, where they are not suit-
able, condemn them. The onus of polic-
ing any necessary laws should be put on
shire councils and their health inspectors.
—Nikad (Q.).
Fruit Wines
Fruit wines, eh? Would “W.P.T.” (B.
17 /1/’4O) have us a nation of alcoholics?
The two most delectable fruit wines of
the English countryside, rhubarb and


Mo Flies
in the .
Soup!
Or
Anywhere
else
Jl/
f <j»
\ \ . -O'
IF YOU USE
INSECTIBANE
For Fleas on Dogs, Lice on Poultry, Thrips on Roses, Flies
in the Rooms; IN FACT, for killing all Insects, use
1.N.5.E.C.T.1.8.A.N.E
elderberry, are so potent that a tipple
lasts for a week. The innocuous grape
is nowhere near as heady. Convert the
surplus fruits into unfermented drinks to
replace the vicious pinkie and dubious
fizz that quench too many summer thirsts
but not into a new wine industry.
We already have one wine industry
more or less on our hands, as the
vignerons are making heavy weather of
it and talking of a ruined export market.
In a few years we might find ourselves
affording Government support to two
rival wine industries complaining of each
other’s competition and cutting the
ground from under each other’s feet.—
Washington (Vic.).
Charity
An O.F.M. contributor recently argued
the desirability of direct giving in prefer-
ence to the wasteful method of charity
concerts for raising of funds. The con-
tention is worth supporting with a con-
crete case.
An adolescent club, wishing to com-
bine a patriotic gesture with some much-
wanted publicity, staged a show. The
patronage was Sassiety and the theatre
showed a fairly good house. Performers
donated their services and many provided
their own . costumes. Net reward to
the promoters and the cause, after many
weeks of preparation, was minus to the
tune of all the takings and a margin
of the club’s funds. The hiatus had to
be covered and, in addition, a goodly
cheque donated to the cause to save face.
Reason? The crushing overhead of
stage-hand and theatre hire, spotlight,
electricians, scenic props, accompanists’
hire (two of them at three guineas each
for 15 minutes) and so on.
Possibly lack of experience was an
aggravating factor, and services and
facilities should have been engaged with
definite undertakings as to charges and
time involved, etc. All the same, it is
a revelation as to overhead costs on all
such shows, and a good indication as to
how much of what is intended for sweet
charity merely goes to keep someone's
home fires burning. For myself, I shall
think it better business to donate 3s.
outright to the cause than part with ss.
via the box-office. — Tinmuth (S.A.).
Refs. Essential
The whole business of references could
be abolished tomorrow if there were one
central clearing house through which all
vacancies in the unemployment market
were filled. At present, in any capital
city, there are about 52 media, including
the advertising columns of various dailies,
through which the unemployed may find
work. There are all sorts of “agencies,”
and various other intermediate sources.
If there were one central unemploy-
ment bureau a complete case history of
the individual could be filed there, and
this would do away with the necessity
for paper references. As things are,
references vary enormously, and very
often because many employers are unable
to write a clear and straightforward
reference.
In my own case I have had dealings
with folk in the country whom I would
regard as being scarcely literate. In one
place, where I had been for twelve months,
1 wrote a reference for myself and on
the day that I was leaving handed it
to my employer to sign. He signed.—
Referee (N.S.W.).
Gloomy Literature
Because “S.C.W.” (B. 10/1 /’4O) found
Plaque Without Laurel a depressing book,
why damn Australian literature as
gloomy on that account? Unless any-
thing that is not funny is gloomy, there
are plenty of books that are free from
gloom. Furphy’s Such Is Life is not
gloomy, many of Lawson’s stories bubble
over with the fun of life, and only a
morbid mind would find Brent of Bin
Bin’s trilogy or Miles Franklin’s All That
Swagger and Old Blastus of Bandicoot
depressing. Will Lawson’s adventure
stories have as light a touch as could
be desired.
Who could call Davison’s Man-Shy or
Steele Rudd’s too-little-known Green
Grey Homestead gloomy or morbid?
And he’s pretty dull who couldn’t get a
laugh a page out of Pioneers on Parade,
that skit on the sesqui. by Miles Franklin
and Dymphna Cusack,
Then, if “S.C.W.” is not wrongly de-
fining literature as novels and confusing
Jack of gloom with funniness, what
about non-fiction? Frank Clune’s travel
books are sufficient to raise a chuckle
at a funeral. In verse the balladists and
Hugh McCrae are full of fun and far
from morbidity. McKeown on spiders,
insects or aboriginal legends, although
not humorous, has as light a touch as
“S.C.W.” could wish.— lan Mudie (S.A.).
.
, _ , _ , .
French Revolution
“Tuart” and other Bulletin readers in-
terested in the event might like to know
that the first French Revolution has been
debunked by quite a number of “crisp
and competent modern writers” (B.
10/l/’4O). Mrs. Nesta Webster has done
it very thoroughly in her French Revolu-
tion ; Louis XVI. and Marie Antoinette
Before the Revolution; World Revolu-
tion and Secret Societies and Subversive
Movements. The last two books also
cover the Russian Revolution and the
origins of Bolshevism,
Another who has effectively performed
a similar task is the American historian
Meade Minnergerode. His Son of Marie
Antoinette (the ill-fated Dauphin) makes
fascinating reading.
Many French writers have taken the
same line of recent years, and several
books translated from the French to Eng-
lish can be obtained either at the Sydney
Public Library or the Municipal Library,
They are J. X. Gaxotte’s Louis XV. and
His Times and The French Revolution ;
various works of G. Lenotre ; J. Bain-
ville’s History of France; National His-
tory of France —volumes dealing wtih the
Revolution and the Restoration ; F.
Funck-Brentano’s L’Ancien Regime —
valuable for the period immediately ante-
cedent to the Revolution, and also as a
literary quarry (an enormous bibliography
is appended). Roger Felice’s books on
French furniture in the ages of Louis
XIV., XV. and XVI. contain useful infor-
mation on the social condition of the
French peasantry in those periods.
The N. S. Wales Education Depart-
ment has for some time past been active
in ensuring that a true account of the
French Revolution is presented to school-
children. Masters who continue to teach
the Revolutionary version have been cen-
sured at least twice within recent years in
reports by the examiners in history for
the leaving and intermediate certificate
examinations. —D. A. (N.S.W.).
Yippee!
The popularity of Wild West maga-
zines suggests that there should be a
big demand for an Australian fiction
magazine of a similar type. The public
eagerly buys these Wild West magazines
for sixpence each, and I see no reason
why an Australian magazine along simi-
lar lines would not be popular.
That such a magazine could be pro-
duced at a price capable of competing
with the American magazines is indicated
by the size of other Australian maga-
zines sold for sixpence. In order to give
stories the Wild West flavor that so many
readers seem to like, editors would have
to let their writers’ imaginations run wild.
There would have to be two-gun men on
Australian ranches and wild blacks fight-
ing the builders of the Transcontinental
railway.
Wild West stories do not in any way
reflect real life in America as it is or
even as it used to be. Writers there are
allowed to imagine all sorts of things,
but here a writer of Australian fiction
is expected to be historically accurate,
with correct background and atmosphere.
This is all right for good Australian fic-
tion, such as one expects to find in The
Bulletin, but that type of story will
never compete with the Wild West fiction
for which there is undoubtedly a very
big demand in Australia. It may be an
unpleasant fact to some, but it is a fact.
—Eureka (N.S.W.).
Hate
“Splodger” (B. 10/1/’4O) wants to
pursue the war with a good honest hate.
That would be fine. It would make us
fight like demons. It would make the
Germans hate us and fight like demons,
too. The war would be bloody and long.
Millions of men would be killed, and mil-
lions of money wasted. The peace settle-
ment would be vindictive, and another
and still bloodier war would follow as
soon as the combatants had recovered.
No, we had enough hate in the last
war, and all it brought us is this war.
Something different is worth trying.
Broadcasts to Germany and dropped leaf -
lets have assured the Germans that we
do not hate them. That is the seed to
sow. Peace will come only when the
Germans are convinced that the Allied
settlement would involve less hardship
than continuing the war. That will come
all the sooner if the Germans know we
will not make a vindictive, hate-inspired
settlement.
Hate is allied to fear, and is an admis-
sion of weakness. It has nothing to do
with confidence in our cause and deter-
mination to win. Hate warps judgment
and is responsible for atrocities ; atrocities
inspire counter-atrocities. Hatred would
ensure the maximum of slaughter and
devastation and the minimum chance
of building a new and better world. — Soe
(N.S.W.).
A.I.F. Headgear
The headgear provided for some
branches of the forces may have a
romantic look, but as far as utility and
comfort are concerned it is ridiculous
for summer wear. The old Digger hat
is a decent and sensible sort of lid for a
man —it does provide shade for eyes and
keep the sun off the face —but even better
is the old-style army cork helmet. Light
in weight and with splendid insulating
qualities, it doesn’t blow off the head
when the chin-strap is used, and it pro-
tects both eyes and neck from the sun.
Forage caps and berets are all right in
winter or for wear after sunset, but dur-
ing daytime in summer all branches of
the forces should be allowed to wear the
helmet, as the Indian army does.
And while on the subject, why don’t
we copy the American army hot-weather
uniform of shirt without tunic? The
Light Horse in Palestine got down to a
sleeveless flannel singlet during the last
scrap. The army uniform should provide
for utility and comfort above everything
else, and a well-designed shirt, worn with
belted slacks or breeches, provides a sen-
sible and workmanlike hot-weather outfit.
—Carrick, A.B. (S.A.).
Two Kinds of Drunkenness
It’s a queer world. If a bright young
thing—a member of the smart set—gets
drunk in a ballroom, it is just “too, too
funny, darling.” And, of course, she
really isn’t drunk, you know, just a bit
“shot.”
But if a woman from the back streets
boozes up a bit it’s “too utterly dis-
gusting, my dear, how these creatures
from the lowah classes are always drunk.'
—Bu (S.A.).
Saving
In old Spanish folklore there was a
saying to the effect that the only money
that can be spent twice is the money
which has been saved. There seems
to be something in it. Germany got an
idea that there was much waste in the
rubbish bins, and in one year by salvage
£7,000,000 was saved. This is being spent
again in materials for the population and
for war. The £7,000,000, instead of being
a debit, became a credit, and the changing-
over employed some hundreds of hands.
Australia could follow suit, unless the
idea is not spectacular enough for our
leaders. — Saveationist (W.A.).
Inland Exchanges
It’s about time that the silly fiction
that there are still six separate colonies
ceased to persist in banking circles. I
can pay in a cheque on Murwillumbah,
well over 1000 miles away, and get it
cleared for 2s. p.c. because Murwillum-
bah is in N. S. Wales, and I can pay
in a dozen cheques on the same town
and get them cleared for 2s. p.c. on
the total. But if I pay in one on Swan
Hill, distant less than 50 miles, I am
stung for 2s. 6d. p.c. because Swan Hill
is in Victoria. On top of that, if I pay
in 10 cheques and the total of them is
under £2O (as often happens with pubs
and bush stores) I am mulcted now for
55., equal to 255. p.c.
In the old days when banks in each
separate colony issued their own notes,
only redeemable within the colony, and
a man could demand gold in exchange
for a cheque, there might have been
some legitimate reason for differential
rates between the various colonies. But
now, with a national note issue and gold
out of circulation, there is no excuse
for charging a higher rate between con-
tiguous border towns than the rate pre-
vailing within the State. Sandpatch
(N.S.W.).
Publicans’ Privileges
Recently at a large suburban centre
I looked for a meal in a hotel. When
I found my way to the dining-room of
one, a waitress came forward to meet the
invader with a haughty “Are you a
boarder?” which quite took away my
appetite for eating there.
The privileges of a trade in which there
is assured prosperity were given to the
publican in consideration of a respon-
sibility to provide “accommodation and
food for man and beast whenever re-
quired.” In N. S. Wales, in the metro-
politan and some of the larger urban
areas, the privileges have been firmly
held and the responsibilities shelved.
The Licensing Board insists upon pro-
vision and accommodation to the extent
of a certain number of rooms, and hotels
with those rooms have to be built. Some
publicans let them cheaply to tenants
who agree not to ask for board. Others
keep them closed. Applicants for
accommodation, even in slack times,
are told that the house is full. The hotel
“ordinary”—the cheap dinner once pro-
vided by every hotel —has disappeared,
and meals at expensive rates can be ob-
tained at a few posh pubs.
The Victorian Licensing Law provides
a system that works admirably in com-
pelling hotelkeepers to observe their tradi-
tional obligations as well as exercise their
privileges —privileges which, incidentally,
include police protection against sly-
groggers and customers who do not
pay. In Victoria the public value ot
hotels when licenses come up for revie"
is based on the accommodation and meals
revenue. As a consequence, the adver-
tisement of Melbourne hotels of their
eagerness to supply board and residence
and meals is in marked contrast with the
hostility of Sydney Bungs when requests
are made for the same things.
Why not introduce the Victorian sys-
tem in N. S. Wales and make the publi-
can serve public convenience as a return
for the privileges he enjoys? —H. M-
(N.S.W.).


STORY WRITING
The Bernard Cronin Way
The Time to Train Is Now
There will come shortly an urgent need for
the adaptation of the writing faculty to the
rapidly-changing circumstances which supply
the keynote of modern existence. The outlook
of the writer cannot fail to be influenced pro-
foundly by events now in progress; it is
likely that both the form and the treatment
of fiction will need to reshape themselves. An
expansion of the fiction market will almost
certainly follow.
There could not, therefore, be a better time
than now in which to perfect oneself in the
art of giving the reading public the atmo-
sphere in fiction which it will inevitably de-
mand. Obviously the writer who is by accurate
training and sympathetic guidance in a posi-
tion to take instant advantage of the new
trend of things is already half-way to success.
A Profitable Hobby
My long experience as editor and publisher’s
reader shows that many MSS. fail only be-
cause of minor faults. My experience of the
past ten years as teacher and critic of fiction
shows that these faults can in most cases be
quickly remedied by expert individual tuition.
The keynote to success is to be found in sub-
mission to discipline and training at the hands
of one whose own waiting achievement is
publicly acknowledged.
Potential writers abound everywhere. Writing
is not limited to a few fortunates; it is at the
command of ordinary men and women, in all
ranks of life, provided that a definite urge
to write is given training on right lines. That
ability often exists where it is not at first
expected has been exemplified in the case of
thousands of men and women who have won
their way from modest beginnings to marked
success.
Writing for publication is not only a poten-
tial source of income, but a pleasurable pur-
suit and a mental stimulus.
An Unfettered Art
In many respects the writer is most for-
tunately placed. Writing, unlike most pro-
fessions, calls for no special surroundings or
circumstances, no expensive equipment, no
formal hours of work; for effort, yes, but the
unrestricted effort is the joy of the creative
mind. Once the knack of writing is mastered,
once the habit is formed, the writer with some-
thing to say is articulate at will.
The Value of Personal Advice
It is the personal nature of the advice given
by me to my pupils, added to the detailed and
constructive criticism of their work, that makes
it possible for anyone with the urge to write
to. succeed quickly under my direction. It is
this that makes for the, early and consistent
success of Bernard Cronin pupils.
Admittedly the highest form of recommen-
dation is that which is personal and spon-
taneous. One of the most satisfactory features
of my system of individual training in story
writing and writing for radio is the large
number of appreciative letters I receive from
pupils, both present and past. Here is one,
for example, telling of quick results. It is
dated January 3, 1940: —
Quick Results
“Three stories written and accepted before
the Cronin Course was finished. The writer
holds down a big administrative job, but found
time, somehow, to absorb the craftsmanship
of the Master.
“Bernard Cronin is a remorseless critic, but
he never hesitates to give one credit if he
merits it; he has infinite patience, positive
genius to see the weaknesses or possibilities
of your natural equipment and he is himself
a creative craftsman of the first rank.
“The first thing one must learn is the ability
to ‘take it.’ But if you can accept criticism,
will work and think, and observe closely the
romance of human nature around you, Bernard
Cronin will teach you to make a story out
of it.
“I am grateful to Bernard Croniri, and my
feeling is that as a critic and teacher he is
matchless.”
SEAN H., Sydney.
The success of the above writer is perhaps
exceptional. His experience nevertheless shows
that success of the kind is possible, under ex-
pert tuition. Write for free Prospectus to
Bernard Cronin, 398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
C.l.
Pelmanism develops the following qualities:
Self-Confidence
Concentration
Decisiveness
Self-Control
Judgment
Will-Power
Tact
Initiative
Social Ease
and a Good Memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and useful data
of every kind.
imm
m
sl®
Pel man ism
Experience of Humanity
It is 34 years since the Pel man Institute came to Melbourne.
There were more beards and flowing moustaches then than
now, clothes for men and women were less colourful, the
change-daily girl and boy were unknown, the gramophone was
in its infancy, pictures were silent and wireless unborn, few
young women wore slacks and fewer still shorts, there were not
nearly as many bathing suits but a great deal more of each,
there has been a great war and another has started, but human
nature remains the same and the Pelman Institute still deals
adequately with the problems arising out of its hungers and
aspirations. N ‘
It does so with the added experience of thirty-four full and vital
years in which more than forty-four thousand men and women
in Australia, New Zealand and the Islands have gone through
the Course with the Pelman Institute in Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute in Melbourne is under the same direction
as it was under when it first came to Melbourne. It has stood
solid, doing its work faithfully but with inspiration, during
thirty-four years which have seen drought, fire and flood, war
and peace, prosperity and depression, strong effort and pleasant
ease, all the things that make up the life of the nation and the
individual.
The Pelman Institute and its directors in Melbourne are happy
in the association with thousands of strong, active, intelligent
men and women during that period.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality ,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
NEW ZEALAND
INQUIRERS
The Pelman Institute,
with the approval of the
Reserve Bank, has made
arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions
and enable residents of
New Zealand to enrol
for the Pelman Course
of Training without
delay.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name .
Address
109
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ĥ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.J
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra).
V cfi
-
Hsr
n^ ?
# s '
O 1
\$ S
#fr.C^V 0<
.***


HALL MARKED WITH THE
The new International Utility
%m
4
INTERNATIONAL
ill
'J
m
m
111
mi
nsMiiN""" 1
in
the I'' lBl n _ to
cong'» t ' ol) the
“the f its
33^*
In the latest model International Utility, the
traditional stamina associated with the
triple-diamond emblem has been merged
with bodywork of the highest standard of
comfort and good looks. The result is a
'
vehicle of the most practical and desirable
' |
type for discriminating country users.
Brief Specifications : 6-cylinder economy
engine; 113 W.B. (125 Special); high-
grade all-steel bodywork; safety glass; no-
- " ■ # ••
draught ventilation; leather-hide upholstery;
6.50-16 6-ply tyres.
A FULLY DESCRIPTIVE BROCHURE WILL
BE FORWARDED ON REQUEST
International Harvester Company
of Australia Pty. Ltd.
278-294 Roma St.,
BRISBANE, b. 13
5-11 Pyrmont Bridge Rd.,
Camperdown, SYDNEY
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) 4
»
171-205 City Road,
SOUTH MELBOURNE, 5.c.4
113-114 North Terrace,
ADELAIDE
789-795 Wellington St.,
PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
509
