

These Facts
HUTUWAI
AMAZING mm
to*
x-/-:
< , V *• ,:<&
:
L
m
. ;
ill!!
..
a \^w
ARTHRITIS, KIDNEY TROUBLE, NERVES
Hutuwai Contains the Juice of Herbal Plants and Gives Genuine,
Beneficial Results!
The Herbal Plant Juices contained in Hutuwai Tonic have remarkable health-giving properties.
Hutuwai helps the system to expel the injurious acids and poisons and to eradicate aches and pains.
Since the introduction of Hutuwai thousands of reports have been received by grateful Australians, from all over the Commonwealth, which provide
remarkable, genuine proof of the health-restoring qualities of Hutuwai Tonic for Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble, Sciatica, Neuritis, Nerves, and
Skin Disorders. Hutuwai Tonic does not contain any injurious ingredients whatsoever—ft is pleasant to the taste and can be taken by even the
most delicate patient. It gives new energy and vitality to all who drink it. Succeeding where others have failed, Hutuwai is acclaimed by thousands
of Australians as the Health Drink of the Nation. Where there is
Hutuwai there is Hope! Health is Life! Hutuwai is Health! Take
Hutuwai Tonic and LIVE!
s m
AUSTRALIA’S
“YOUNGEST”
MOTHER
WITH FAMILY OF 21
Mrs. MacDonald, of 7 Mary Street, Rich-
mond, Melbourne, tells, in rhyme, the
secret of her remarkable spirit of youth-
fulness. Writing on the 21st March, 1940,
she says:
“As a constant User of Hutuwai I have
composed in poetry my appreciation for
the benefit I received with this splendid
medicine. It gives me great relief.
This From An Old Lady of 80 !
To keep fit and healthy I’ll tell you what
to do.
Try a bottle of Hutuwai and j'ou never
will feel blue.
I’m a woman over 80, from its constant
use I say
I’ve never felt so better since this Tonic
came my way.
I’ve suffered with Neuritis, and oh, what
awful pain,
But I tried this Hutuwai and, believe me,
what a gain.
I feel as young as twenty since I took
this super cure,
And I thank the maker plenty to comfort
me so sure.
My sickness was so chronic I thought
that I would die,
But I tried this marvellous tonic, what a
medicine to buy.
I d never be without it, it’s worth its
weight in gold,
I can t praise enough about it, it puts all
others in the cold.
To anyone that suffers with any sort of pain,
Try Hutuwai Tonic to restore your health
again.”
P.S.: How is this for a 'Young’ old lady' of 80?
P.P .S.: It’s great stuff and well worth drinking. —*
iOINOJL IVMDIDH
io esjnoo v osft)± iMON IOV
ĵ
"THE PAIN HAS ALL GONE."
SOUTHPORT, QED.
21st August, 193!).
Dear Sirs, —I had very bad nerves and also a severe pain in my right knee-
severe rheumatism. I decided to take a course ot your Hutuwai Tonic, and
today 1 feel a different man entirely. The pain has all gone and my nerves
are quite normal.
After the suffering I went through I cannot praise your Hutuwai too highly
. . . it is truly Great Stuff!
Very gratefully yours, V. HOSPITAL.
"Now! Everyone Says I am the Picture of Health."
Box 49, CUMMINS, WEST COAST, S.A., 2/ll/’39.
Dear Sirs, —I used to feel very nervy and depressed and suffered a great deal
with Rheumatism. I took three bottles of Hutuwai, and can honestly say I
have never felt better. I don’t know what it is now to get pains in my legs,
and everyone says I am the picture of health.
Yours sincerely, (MRS.) G. SANDERY.
Pronounced HOO-TOO-WY
What HUTUWAi has
done for Others if
can also do for
YOU!
LARGE
BOTTLE
4/6
Also in 3/- Size
Valuable DIET
CHART FREE
with every bottle.
Sold and
recommended by
CHEMISTS an d
STORES through-
out Australia.
■
THE BEST TONIC ON THE MARKET . . . .
It Containsthe Juice of Hutuwai Herbal Plants!
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 61. —No. 3141.
Wednesday, April 24, 1940.
ANZAC DAY, 1940
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
»mi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
■your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 140
The Red Page
COUNTRY COMEDY.
Bellamy Partridge has made so {vivid
a biography of his Country Lawyer
(Harrap; Angus and Robertson),
account of comedy and tragedy lin a
small American town, that it |hows
that there was some truth in G. K.
Chesterton’s paradox that small towns,
supposed to be lacking in adventure,
are really so crammed with excitement
that sensitive people are driven to cities
for peace and quiet. Sinclair Lewis hit
the Yankee village like a whirlwind with
Main Street; Partridge builds it up again
as a place where human individuality
gets a chance to develop to the point
of eccentricity, so that the human comedy
can be observed in all its richness.
Even in the name of the little town
where Partridge’s father practised as a
lawyer, there’s a comedy of history.
When the first settlers arrived in their
fringed coats and buckskin moccasins
they gave it the romantic pioneering name
of Woodpecker Village. As the town
grew, a wave of beautifully Yankee
pomposity was sweeping over the neigh-
boring towns, and, surrounded by Syra-
cuse, Geneva, Aurelius, Marcellus,
Brutus, Cato, Sempronius and Venice,
Woodpecker Village changed itself to
Vienna. Then a big real estate company
bought most of the land, and in honor
of the head of the company Vienna
became Phelps.
Without opposition except from an
ancient practitioner who hated to be
bothered by clients, Partridge senior hung
his sign on a tree in Phelps in the ’sixties
and waited for business. He sprang into
local fame almost immediately, success-
fully defending a number of youths on
a charge of malicious mischief. Every
year, with much risk to property, the
youths had celebrated the Fourth of
July with a bonfire ; the village fathers
decided to stop the custom and forbade
the storekeepers to supply material for
the bonfire. The youths'were not to be
beaten;
When they found the usual supply missing
from the back doors of the stores they
enlarged the scope of their quest, with the
result that when, on the stroke of twelve,
the match was applied, the astonished
villagers beheld on. the bank corner a
beacon fire the like of which, both in
brilliance and in after-effects, had not been
seen within the memory of the oldest
inhabitant. It was composed almost en-
tirely of wooden lavatories. High on top
of the pile was a tidy red structure with
yellow trimmings which matched in color
and architecture the barn of the Village
President.
Lawyer Partridge took the case with
deadly seriousness, and orated so pas-
sionately on the patriotic motives of the
youths that the jury was more inclined
to cheer them than to convict them.
Matching that Rabelaisian comedy is the
incident of the suspicious wife and the
amorous nightwatchman: suspecting her
husband of misbehavior, the wife hid
in the maidservant’s bedroom and burst
out of the wardrobe at the appropriate
moment to find not her husband but the
nightwatchman of a neighboring factory
—thereby making it possible for the
watchman to prove his innocence of a
robbery committed at the factory while
he was otherwise engaged.
All the cases —the farmers’ squabbles
over land and cows, the neighborly
slanders, the vicious family litigation over
wills, breaches of promise, the people
who love to issue summonses and the
people who always wait to be summonsed
before they pay a debt—are as much a
part of small-town life in Australia or
Maoriland as in America. One —the case
of Phineas Dodd and the prayers for
rain—seems the sort of farce that could
be played only in the States, but there
were letters on the subject almost as
odd in Sydney papers a few weeks ago.
Phelps was having the worst drought
since 1066 or thereabouts, and the whole
community was urged to pray for rain ;
every person, good or bad, was to get
down on his knees at noon one Saturday
and join in the supplication. They did
it, and within four hours a terrific
thunderstorm was raging over the village.
Struck by lightning, Phineas Dodd’s
barn was burned to the ground. The
enraged Phineas sued the organiser of
the prayer campaign for damages. And
Phineas might have got them if Lawyer
Partridge, appearing for the defence,
hadn’t brought up the point that the
prayers were for rain only,
so that the lightning must
be regarded as “an entirely
gratuitous gift from the
Author of All Weather —in
the
Another incident is an exact parallel
of De Maupassant’s pqthetic story “The
Jpkibld man,
bending to pick up a piece of 'string,
is thought to have picked up a purse
ancfis hounded' to deaTfi’Ty'tlie’resulting
gossip. In the Country Lawyer incident
an inoffensive little man, prominent in
church affairs and good works, hears
larrikins wrecking a pub, runs in to see
what all the noise is about, and is wood-
ened out by a bottle hurled by the bar-
tender. Everybody knows he had nothing
to do with the rowdies, but the fact of
such an inoffensive person getting
knocked on the head so amuses the
village mind that the story is never
allowed to die. People come to think
of him only as the man who was hit
on the head with a bottle, and gradually
he acquires. a faintly scandalous repu-
tation. It’s not funny any longer. He
fails to be re-elected to his position on
the church executive. Nice people don’t
go to his shop any more. Frantically
repeating his story to clear his name, he
becomes more of an oddity. His mind
becomes unbalanced. The gossip runs
that he has never been the same since
he got that knock on the head. He dies,
and he is remembered as a joke a
perfect tragedy in little.
Two themes twisting through these
cases give the collection the unity of a
novel. One is the story of Jerry Billings,
the gruff, reserved gardener at the Part-
ridge home. Believed by the lawyer to
be innocent, he was suddenly arrested
one day as the incendiary who had been
responsible for a series of mysterious fires
in the village. He was convicted, served
a long sentence, and came back to his
old job. Even those who thought him
guilty were prepared to forget his lapse,
and he became so popular as a figure
of pathos and romance that the whole /
town turned out to his funeral some
years later. Nobody ever made the dis-
covery that Partridge saves for his last
chapter—that the half-dozen or so un-
explained fires that had occurred during
Jerry’s last years of popularity had all
destroyed the properties of men who as
jurors had convicted Jerry of arson.
The other theme is the lawyer’s life
and character. Partridge has contrived
a fine study, humorous, sympathetic and
with the minimum of that sentimentalis-
ing that is being worn threadbare in the
type of biography Country Lawyer most
resembles—the country doctor books.
More About the Nazis.
Hansjurgen Koehler’s Inside the Ges-
tapo and an anonymous Jewish author’s
Dachau are the sort of book that Gol-
lancz turned out by the dozen during the
last few years, but they come from com-
parative newcomers in the hoeing-into-
Hitler trade — Inside the Gestapo from
the Pallas Publishing Co., Ltd., and
Dachau from Francis Aldor, Ltd. It is
hardly possible for any book to add any-
thing important to the general impres-
sion, drummed in by exposure after
exposure, of the sinister activities of the
Gestapo and the brutalities in the con-
centration camps, but these two have
some slight news value, in that they par-
ticularise.
Dachau is described as a translation
by G. R. Kay and L. Wolfe of the manu-
script of an unnamed Jew who was a
prisoner in Dachau, and who subse-
quently committed suicide in England
because he was haunted by the memory
of the horrors he had undergone. The
editors say that they have cut out revela-
tions they thought too shocking to print,
and the author has left names out on
the familiar ground of fearing to in-
volve his friends in trouble. Though
you couldn’t accept such a book as
evidence in a court of law, it reads con-
vincingly.
The account of the “welcome” to
Dachau, when the prisoners had to run
the gauntlet to the accompaniment of
kicks and blows and the merciless mal-
treatment of the old and the sick, happens
to be corroborated by Koehler’s account
of his reception at Buchenwald concen-
tration camp, to which he says he was
sent as a Gestapo spy—“ Hardly had we
left the train when they began to beat
the prisoners, selecting those who looked
Jewish. Using their rifle-butts, their boots
and their fists, they drove the whole mass
into a near-by building.” What follows
in Dachau —fantastic ancl disgusting to
read—is all the more plausible because
of the author’s emphasis on the youth
of the worst of his tormentors, and be-
cause of his horrible description of his
own utter abasement.
Of Inside the Gestapo Koehler says
with truth “some chapters may read like
a cheap thriller.” Nevertheless, one of
the most unbelievable of his stories, the
account of the attempted kidnapping and
the successful murder of Rudolf Formis,
who was operating an anti-Nazi radio
from Prague, was also told by the former
American ambassador to Germany,
William E. Dodd, in a magazine article
which Koehler quotes. Koehler says he
worked with the Gestapo almost from
the beginning, and his book reviews every
aspecf of Gestapo activity, from intrigue
to assassination, from guarding Hitler at
Berchtesgaden to executing beautiful
spies and buying information about the
Maginot Line.
Nothing—unless it is his chapters on
Spain —reads more like a highly imagi-
native thriller than his story about the
fall of Austria and the secret dossier with
which Schuschnigg intended to blackmail
Hider. Schleicher was supposed to have
prepared a dossier debunking Hitlei s
war recordDollfuss had another to
prove that Hitler’s father was the illegi-
timate son of an Austrian maidservant
and someone unknown who was prob-
ably a Jew from the Rothschild mansion
where the girl was employed ; Schusch-
nigg, on his fateful visit to Berchtesgaden,
threatened Hitler with the documents,
says Koehler, but the Countess Vera
Fugger-Czernin, whom Schuschnigg sub-
sequently married, was in the toils of
Von Papen, had let the Nazis steal them,
and the dossier was snuggling in the
Fuhrer’s safe. The whole book seems
to call for an investigation by Ripley.
Elegy for an Airman.
Only the trees were dark behind trees in
the bush
And only the blackberries stained our
mouths like blood;
The thrush like a fountain sang in the
heart of the willows
And our shadows moved with the trout
in the sunny water;
And we were the hares and the deer, we
lived in a wood
Where keepers were big and notices said
“No shooting.”
We lived in a castle, too, we were knights
and princes
Some day or never to ride from our
castle of fire
That sprang from the black roots dug
from the Ngaere swamp
And shut us away in a tower of flame
from the winter
When the pine-trees howled to each other
like dogs and women
And t'he hooves of the rain struck their
icy sparks from the roof.
We lived in a mirror, too, where our
faces were marble
While the seasons rolled like cumulus,
white and remote.
Sometimes the eyes were troubled: in-
credible murder,
Bankruptcy, fire, a train and a car at a
crossing;
But the storm passed over, the glass was
clear in a week
And all of us lived for ever and were
happy.
The boy was the heart of it all, was the
hare and the eel,
Knew the weasel’s way to the thrush’s
nest in the boxthorn;
The boy was the prince whose armor
shone by the fire,
And the crystal core of the mirror, the
light in the eyes.
Now the boy is dead and no one will
play in the woods
Or kill the giants and marry the golden
princess.
When death was a blackbird cold by the
muddy roadside
And grief was a game of burial played
in the garden,
A word was a thing you could hold, like
a toy or a pet.
Hate was as simple as winter beating the
window,
Tall neighbors walked like pine-trees
with nothing to hide,
And God was behind the altar on Sunday
mornings.
The signpost was plainly a madman, a
wooden drunkard,
Babbling of places that lived in his moon
of a mind,
For east was the mushroom field and
west were the blackberries,
And north or south the train disappeared
in a swamp
Or butted its head on the blue stone
walls of the distance
Beyond which were bears and tigers, or
maybe nothing.
A mother ran in a dream with her black
hair streaming
And hacked the signpost down and broke
its arms,
But it stood again in the morning, wooden
and hostile,
N.S.W.
And said that the dogs and cats had a
track through the hedge
And the road was white in frost and stee
in rain
And the blue stone walls would crum e
away at a touch.
The road was white in the morning and
breathing was silver
And the red hare leapt to her death from
the rushes at Mata
And the snapper bucked on the line o
Rapanui,
And the boy began to die with the beast
and fish,
To die with the wild duck shot on the
lonely river
And the trains that thundered to cities
and iron harbors.
This was my friend who died with me out
of boyhood,
Was young with me, and hungered for
strife and triumph,
And chose the brilliance of flight to
complete the pattern
Of speed and light he had learned from
our mountain streams.
O my friend who have taken this other
death alone,
The castle was always a dream, but you
lived like a king.
I could wish that in death you had staked
the claim of your dust
In our land that is ruled by neither the
dead nor the living
But the wind and the bracken waving on
masterless hills
And the surf like an avalanche whitening
the Mokau coastline.
But, living, you gave us your mirth and
the speed of your limbs
And your laughter is fresh on the rivers,
your strength on the fields.
No one should die and not be wept by
women, _ ,
For death is no blackbird buried to feed
the sunflowers
But the empty room and the clothes to
give to the neighbors
And the fairytale proved to be folly, the
mirror broken
And the fire not lit because nothing can
warm the heart.
The women have wept for you, comrade.
But I who remember
The childhood as far off as China, the
road white with frost,
The rush of the hare and the boar at
bay in the gorge,
The wind on the ice and the girls like
burning snow,
The roar of the train and the rusty shriek
of the harbor
And the way we coughed and laughed in
a London fog,
Remember the way of a man, that you
sang and were strong.
Always beyond the roof that fingers could
reach
Was life like a blue day, not to be held
in the hand;
And caught in its day your silver state-
ment of laughter
Is a fountain they cannot bury under the
clay.
O my friend, your life goes echoing on
through time
As the thrush still rings in the mind when
the willows darken.
Douglas Stewart.
Unk White on Parade.
Unk White’s black-and-white work
doesn’t need any recommendation to
Bulletin readers. The 50 pages of his
Laugh Parade (published by Frank John-
stone, Ltd., Sydney, at a shilling—or two
shillings for the de luxe edition) are
inhabited mainly by his own peculiar-
looking people in illustrated jokes. For
good measure there are several pages
of straight black-and-white drawings,
character studies varying from the comic
to the charming; illustrated humorous
stories by Jim Blair, Les Robinson and
Bartlett Adamson; verses by Will Law-
son and Kenneth Slessor.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the expression of reality .
“THE SENIOR STORE'
For Incomparable ECONOMY & INDEPENDENCE
|f- m-mmm .
DINNER AT EIGHT
•**■«... .i 4yp^^'
~VX..- i
,v;,
VX 1
r
•••> <• •••■••-•
#*#***■"' •■■•-■
7
\ **
mm° r
COOKERS
hem
FOR MODERN KITCHENS
Anyone can be an expert with the "Esse"
Heat Storage Cooker. It will produce excel-
lent baking results, because it is one of the
most dependable Cookers made. The ''Esse''
gives you new compactness to save floor
space, new economy to reduce fuel bills,
new labour-saving features and extra
strength. The "Esse" Premier with auxi-
liary oven is designed for larger resi-
dences and it burns ordinary gas coke
continuously day and night; requires
refuelling only twice per day; thus daily
re-lighting is eliminated. At Anthony
Horderns'.
"ESSE" MINOR
AS NEW AS TOMORROW
The "Esse" Minor Heat Storage Cooker provides delicious cooking and has
larger ovens, boiling and simmering space than supplied in any other
Cooker designed for kitchens of modest proportions. Burning ordinary gas
coke continuously, the "Esse" Minor provides an efficient and economical
method of cooking which reduces expenditure on fuel by several pounds
annually. Complete prices on application.
k
• All models fitted with
Thermostat heat control.
• These cookers are also
available with hot water unit.
The COMPLETE COOKER
bolster or cover for retaining
HEAT
TOP PLATE INSPECTION PLU
mm
FLUE NOZZIF.
BOILING PLATE & HEAT ACCUMULATOR
NSULATION
TOASTING
23
The illustration at the left points out the principal technical
features of the "ESSE” PREMIER Heat Storage Cooker. The fire
never comes into direct contact with the oven sides or with the
food. The right amount of heat is distributed to each part of the
Cooker by controlled radiation and conduction, and is retained
by heavy insulation. The indestructible Heat Accumulator is of
immense thickness. Only the best materials are used, and the
design of the Cooker contributes to its hard-wearing qualities.
The insulating material is enduring and the "ESSE” Cooker
throughout is built to give permanent, efficient service. .Cooking
cost: Continuous use, catering for 20 persons, £6 per year.
DEMONSTRATION DAILY IN THE KITCHENWARE DEPT.-
GROUND FLOOR—PITT STREET. Booklet Sent on Request.
• “Esse"
Cookers—Lower Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our
delivery area. Installation extra, according to locality.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'Phone M 2401
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney-


MALCOLM MARES GOOD
By TED MAYMAN.
IN the pub at Flynn’s Find, especially over week-
ends, Malcolm generally felt a bit uneasy and out
of things. The men would be in from all over the
district bragging of their leases, spitting and swear-
ing and drinking and yarning the way they do on the
’fields. They got so much more out of life than Mai-
colm did. He envied their free-and-easy ways, their
frank speech, their rough dress, their carelessness over
money matters, for Malcolm was the local bank-
manager, a comparative newcomer to the goldfields.
He was an easygoing, unaffectedly friendly
person, liked yarning to his customers in the pub,
and didn’t mind if they were a few quid overdrawn
at times. He had had a wheat branch for some years
in the good times, and his good nature got the bank
a lot of business. But when prices dropped old Mai-
colm was useless. He was always getting stiff letters
from irate inspectors demanding to know why So-
and-so’s account was out of order. To bully men
he’d known for years and squabble with them ovci
small items of expenditure was too much for him. In
the end a real bank-manager was sent up, and Mai-
colm was relegated to a small gold branch north of
Murphyton. .
After he had recovered from his initial indigna-
tion Malcolm was fascinated by his new surroundings,
It was the cheerful independence of the miners and
prospectors he envied most. All they seemed to do
was wander about in old clothes that he would
secretly have given his soul to possess, tick up sup-
plies at the store, sink a shaft out in the scrub, cart a
few ton of stone to the Battery, sling a bai of gold
over the bank’s counter to him (neatly dressed in
coat and tie) and casually ask him down to the pub
to sink a couple.
This Saturday afternoon Malcolm trotted eagerly
off to the pub in the hope of coaxing old Jerry Myers
to let him go out to his lease next day and do a day’s
work. He had discovered a splendid sweat-stained old
hat, and he was sure Jerry would lend him some
dungarees. Perhaps Jerry, who had his own plant,
would even let him empty a slime vat or, if he was
cleaning up, teach him how to scrape the copper
plates. But as he entered the bar his hopes for a
pleasant week-end vanished. A stranger who had been
about the district for a few days, and whom Malcolm
had heard vaguely referred to as a mining investor,
beckoned him aside.
“You’re Malcolm, aren’t you?” he inquired. “I’ve
just come across from Sandville. The manager there
told me to let you know the inspector’s just paid a
flying visit. He thinks you’re next on the list.”
, _ .
Malcolm groaned. There was some urgent cor-
respondence he had put aside. The monthly returns
were not done.
“By the way,” continued the stranger, “I’m
Samuels, of the White Elephant Company. We are
interested in a lease up here, the Iron Man. It looks
just the sort of thing to suit our board. It’s Herbert’s
lease. We’ll probably be in to the bank in a day or
so to sign things.” He looked furtively around the
bar and lowered his voice to an impressive whisper,
“Now look, old man, here’s a chance to get in on
the ground floor. If you’d care to put a few pounds
in your pocket wire away immediately for a packet
of shares. White Elephants will hit the sky when it’s
known we’ve taken an option over the Iron Man.”
Malcolm only half heard Samuels. He nodded
absently in reply. He was thinking how lucky were
j erry M yers a nd Bill Herbert and their kind who
went their way undisturbed by inspectors,
Next afternoon a dust-stained motor-car drew up
jn front of the bank> W ith feigned surprise Malcolm
hurried out to greet the inspector,
“Why, Mr. Stevens, this is an unexpected
pleasure,” he enthused, striving to keep his voice rich
and warm ; “I do hope you’ve had a good trip.”
Stevens unwound himself from the back seat,
The stony road f ro m Sandville to Flynn’s Find had
been a botj i ong? dusty, bumpy trip. He shook hands
coldly with Malcolm and limped into the office. Once
more Malcolm thought fleetingly of the blissful lives
led by Jerry M yers and Bill Herbert,
Towards evening, after a stern rebuke about the
un tidiness of the books, Stevens unbent so far as to
abow Malcolm to send down for a bottle of beer,
g ut even Malcolm’s heartiness as he knocked the top
tbe bott j e f a ji ed to impress Stevens with the Flynn’s
Find branch of the bank. He pointed out that an
effort should be made to obtain more of the larger
company accounts.
“Quite, sir,” lied Malcolm. “As a matter of fact
Em wor king G n one now. The White Elephant Com-
pany> Their attorney’s in town now to take an option
on one 0 £ our c n en t’s leases. An Adelaide crowd, I
believe. We should get the account.”
“Good,” said Stevens. “See you do. White
E i epbantSs Let’s see what they are.”
Malcolm was rather humiliated to discover them
quoted in the paper at sellers, one penny. Then he
dimly recalled Samuels’s conversation in the bar. Some-
thing about making a pound or two.
« o h, by the way? Mr stevens,” he said casually,
« there > s a chance here t 0 make a f ew pounds. When
thg public know the W hite Elephant crowd have
takgn an option up here there should be a demand
£ or tbe sba res. If we got in now, before things are
s j gned> and then sold again as soon as the news is
outj we should more than clear expenses. They may
hit a shilling or two.”
Actually Malcolm had never dabbled in mining
shares in his life. His suggestion was made in an
effort to impress Stevens. Bankers, who 'as a race
are notoriously eager to protect the financial interests
of their clients, are pathetically unable to manage
their own.
Stevens looked up interestedly. We couldn t
lose much,” he said brightly. Big turnover, small
profit „ He took a pencil and paper and j otte d down
a few figures “s a y at a penny. I’d be prepared to
take, say, a fiver’s worth.”
Malcolm was rather dazed at getting Stevens into
suc h a good humor. Here, perhaps, was a chance to
show the boss what a financial wizard he really was.
“As a matter of fact, Mr. Stevens,” he said im-
pressively, “I intend plunging rather heavily. Should
be able to turn it over in a couple of days. I’m going
to take up, say, five thousand. Not much over twenty
pounds.”
Stevens frowned slightly. He felt Malcolm was
showing off a little. I don t suppose there s much
“Ah knows all about Berks, and Tammies, but Ah never seed pigs like that afore."
risk,” he said grudgingly. “I’ll take two thousand. 1
know a good broker in Adelaide who’ll put this
through for us.”
Next morning the telegram was sent off. The
shares being so low it did not occur to Malcolm to
put a limit on the price to be paid for them.
A COUPLE of days later Samuels brought in Bill
Herbert to sign over the lease. Herbert was
quite happy. For ten years he had been looking for
the small lode on the show to widen sufficiently to
offer it to a company, and it never had, but nowadays
there was always someone rushing up and thrusting
a few quid into his hands for an “option.”
It was a happy party which adjourned to the bar.
Samuels hinted jovially at the rewards to be made on
the stock market in affairs like this, and Stevens and
Malcolm winked shrewdly at one another. Soon
Samuels would be wiring away to advise his directors
and in a couple of days they would sell out and reap
their profits. It was all because they were “on the
spot” and had their eyes open. After the second
round Samuels had to tear himself away. Pressure
of business, he pointed out, forced him to return to
Adelaide as soon as possible.
He really was a busy man, too. There was a cer-
tain amount of work in getting control of shaky con-
cerns like the White Elephant, and then getting on
the board and coming across to rough it in the West
to look noisily around for a mine.
In Adelaide Samuels’s partner dribbled a few
shares on to the market. He was interested to see the
thousand snapped up at sixpence, with buyers still
offering. As there were only ten thousand shares in
the company, and he and Samuels controlled all but
a few hundred, he let a small number go at a shilling.
Then with a contented smile he threw the remaining
shares in at one and sixpence.
Shortly afterwards Malcolm received a polite
note from the sharebroker for an account of some
three hundred and fifty odd pounds, representing the
purchase of seven thousand shares in the White Ele-
phant Company. In terror he wired away to sell every-
thing. With a heightening fever and a sweating brow
he grabbed each “Miner” sent up from Kalgoorlie
and with palsied hands turned to the mining quota-
tions. White Elephants dropped suddenly to 3d.,
hovered uncertainly at 2d., then steadied at Id., sellers.
With unsteady feet Malcolm made his way to
the pub. This was the end of everything. He had put
himself well and truly in the blue with Stevens now.
He smiled wanly at Jerry Myers, telling smutty stories
to the barman. Then he wandered over to have a
drink with Bill Herbert.
Stevens, his tour of inspection over, was comfort-
ably settled again in the head office when he received
Malcolm’s rather disjointed letter and an account for
a hundred-odd pounds. A day or two later his dusty
car again drew up in front of the bank at Flynn’s
Find. Stevens walked in grimly.
He found the junior officer in charge of the office.
“Mr. Malcolm, sir?” he said. “His resignation’s on
the table. He walked out a few days ago. You’ll
find him out on the Iron Man. You see he became
the majority shareholder in the White Elephant Com-
pany. I believe he’s been offered a place on the
board.”. . .
On the Iron Man Stevens was greeted by some-
one he had great difficulty in recognising as Malcolm.
He was wearing a sweat-stained old hat, a patched
pair of dirty dungarees and a loose dark-grey flannel.
Spots of candle-grease showed on his heavy leather
laced boots, cast-offs of Bill Herbert’s. He was smok-
ing a short, new clay pipe, but, as he pointed out to
Stevens, it would become as black as Herbert’s
later on.
“Yes, Stevens, old man,” continued Malcolm, “I
don’t know why you stay shut up in an office all day.
This is the life. No bosses, no responsibilities. Lucky
I bought those shares. I have quite a big say in the
company now, so I gave myself a job.” The knocker
on the brace rang. He swaggered up the mullock
heap at the shaft’s mouth and firmly grasped the wind-
lass. “Come round again when you’re up this way,
Stevens. Bring out a bottle and you’re always wel-
come.”
AS a matter of fact Stevens gets up to Flynn’s Find
fairly regularly now. As he has a small packet of
shares he insists on taking a practical interest in the
company. Sometimes Malcolm lends him his old hat,
and he’s promised to keep some dungarees for his
next visit. So far he has only been allowed to shovel
sand, but he is hoping shortly to be allowed to go
below with his own candle and spider. He often con-
fesses how jealous he is of chaps like Bill Herbert and
Jerry Myers and Malcolm, pottering about in old
clothes and grubbing in the dirt all day while he sits
in an office and writhes under cutting letters from the
general manager. In the meantime he’s secretly storing
away all his old clothes.


THE
PAWNSHOP
ORPHEUS
By HAROLD MERCER.
PURLEIGH had only just as much interest in
church matters as his wife, who liked to con-
sider herself a friend of the parson’s wife,
could force him to take ; but he was booked
to do his share at the Old Fogies’ Concert. For the
concert itself the Rev. Smalltext, a man of ideas, was
responsible; instead of the faithful followers of the
church, in the interests of the organ fund, being bored
by their young, they should arrange for the young to
be bored by their own efforts. The way the parson
put it, however, was that there was surely enough
talent amongst the elders to provide a programme
which, because it was unique, would appeal. Maria
suggested that Purleigh ought to be able to do some-
thing.
“Oh, leave me out,” said Purleigh.
“Mr. Smalltext has put you down for an item,”
said Maria. “I told him that when you were younger
you could play any sort of a wind instrument.”
“I won’t do it!” said Purleigh rebelliously.
“Oh, yes, you will,” said Maria ; and Purleigh
knew then that most likely he would.
If his old ability, discarded as one of the follies
of youth, remained, he had no excuse. His parents
had shown a measure of inspiration in giving him
Orpheus as a second name, although he had tried to
forget it, even to the length of sometimes telling the
inquisitive that the “O” in J. O. Purleigh stood for
“Oliver.” It had been for years a mere initial in his
signature.
WITH familiarity, the idea of taking the platform
ceased to be repugnant. An old ambition was
stirred when he created a vision of himself, instrument
in hand, bowing to the plaudits of the audience. He
would surprise them, he told himself. At all events he
could do better than Brink.
With that thought, his part in the concert gained
a definite appeal. Although, as a result of Maria’s
favor, Brink might some day be his son-in-law, Pur-
leigh disliked him —all the more, perhaps, because he
had nothing against Brink. Smug, self-assured, the near-
middle-aged man, still unmarried, who had built up a
local business and a pious reputation seemed to Pur-
leigh too good to be true. Purleigh infinitely pre-
ferred young Bates, with his honest human failings,
and he hoped, at times, that Bertha shared his pref-
erence, in spite of her mother’s disparagement.
To be a concert star Purleigh had to have some-
thing to play, the medley of instruments he once pos-
sessed having long vanished. As he wanted it cheap,
he went into the pawnshop; “musical instruments,
saxophones and banjos,” the sign put it.
“Hullo! What’s this?” he said, fingering a quaint
little instrument consisting of three reeds, sprouting
away, so to speak, from a mouthpiece.
“I don’t know heem,” said the shopman. “I puy
heem vrom a voreign sailor.”
“Queer looking things” remarked Purleigh. He
was lifting it towards his lips when the shopman inter-
posed sharply.
“No, no! Nodt here!, Id ees nodt goodt to
addract addention.”
“Why not?” demanded Purleigh. The shopman
shrugged; but his fat, amiable-looking wife smiled
into the conversation.
“Ven der sailorman play heem, it made me go—
so!” she said, giving a wriggle to her hips and
shoulders. She laughed towards her husband. “Heem,
doo!” she added.
The shopman looked ashamed at this betrayal of
a folly. “I bay der sailorman to sdop heem,” he said
hastily. “Id was nodt goodt for pizziness.”
Purleigh had a picture of these two fat people
moved to queer movements which was wholly delight-
ful ; and that little instrument had to be his. Perhaps
this interjection of the wife was only sales talk, anyway.
The hastiness of the salesman did not strike him as
really significant— except possibly of the worthlessness
of the instrument —until later. Still, the queer thing
attracted Purleigh ; it was cheap, and if it was a failure
he could see about a flute or a piccolo later.
Once out of the shop Purleigh had an overpower-
ing desire to test his long-suppressed musical ability.
Once back in his office he took the instrument from
his pocket, and put it to his lips.
The result startled him. Notes fantastically wild,
yet infinitely sweet, poured into the air; what was
more startling was that something like a tumult
seemed to waken around him. He was astonished
when his typist, carrying some papers for him, danced
into the office like a chorus girl in a comedy.
As the door opened to admit her, a sound from
the outer office that was almost, if not positively, one
of revelry came in with her. Purleigh, however, was
immediately concerned with the usually staid Miss
Symonds. Her eyes were glinting wickedly, and the
way she bent them upon Purleigh as she danced
towards him caused him to dodge away around his
desk, thrusting the instrument into a drawer as he
moved.
“By Jove!” he ejaculated, half to himself. “By
Jove!”
Miss Symonds checked suddenly, her face scarlet
with shame, even through her powder.
“Oh, I’m sorry, Mr. Purleigh!” she cried. She
was again the staid, and now a very confused, Miss
Symonds. The noise outside ceased as suddenly as
her dancing. Purleigh made no comment, but his
mind was full of wonder. And all the time the long-
ing to put his lips to the triple reeds was with him.
His desire was like a drunkard’s craving for liquor.
It was most extraordinary. Purleigh’s knowledge
of mythology was not great, but he had heard of
magic instruments, and apparently he had queerly
become possessed of one. He was not inclined to
puzzle over the mystery. What appealed to him was
that it would be a huge joke to introduce unexpectedly
to a staid church gathering an instrument capable of
such remarkable results. He chuckled whenever he
considered the possibilities.
What he took home was a tin-whistle, and when
he showed his family what he could do with it even
Maria, who was inclined to be annoyed at first about
his choice of such a cheap instrument, was pleased.
“Dad’ll be the star of the evening,” cried Bertha.
“Just fancy—merely with- a tin-whistle! ”
“I’m sure you’ll make a hit,” said Maria.
“Too right I will!” Purleigh’s laugh seemed un-
necessarily boisterous ; he was thinking of the little
reed instrument safely hidden in the toolshed.
PURLEIGH’S devotion to his tools became remark-
able. Whenever he was wanted, it seemed, it was
from the toolshed, where he worked with a closed
door, that he emerged. It was from the toolshed he
came, for instance, when Maria called him in excite-
ment and alarm about the queer conduct of the
fowls. “They’ve stopped now, but they were going
on as if they had all suddenly gone mad, leaping in
the air and twirling about.”
Purleigh looked at the fowls, which were regard-
ing one another with an absurd appearance of aston-
ishment.
, “You must have been dreaming,” said Purleigh.
“No, I wasn’t dreaming,” Maria said firmly.
“There’s something very queer about everything
today. There’s hardly a breath in the air, but a few
moments ago those trees were swaying, as if there
was a heavy wind.”
That was not the only queer happening. The
next-door people had a cow which was grazed in a
paddock at the back, but was brought into the yard
for the milking. Its owners, alarmed, brought in the
veterinary surgeon after it had developed a habit of
leaping about and dancing in a peculiar cowlike
fashion all over the flower-beds. Maria, from the
verandah, saw its curious antics and called Purleigh ;
but by the time he had come on the scene —from the
toolhouse —the strange antics had ceased, and the
cow had resumed its customary docility.
The dog had occasional spasms of madness, dur-
ing which it turned somersaults and careered round
madly, while Maria shut the doors of the house, bolted
the windows and screamed wildly to Purleigh. The
cat was sometimes affected, and the misbehavior of
the fowls was constant. Even Maria herself admitted
that she sometimes felt a strange desire to dance —
in fact, did dance.
“It was as if there was something in the air,” she
said. “I don’t know what to make of it.”
j ) URLEIGH, of course, did. Yet his courage
* failed him when the evening arrived. He felt con-
siderable stage-fright. Brink was in the hall to greet
the Purleigh party when it arrived.
“I’m glad, Mr. Purleigh, that you are giving us
your assistance,” he said. “I hope it may mean an —
ah —closer association with the church.”
“I hope your turn knocks that geyser kite-high,”
said young Bates aside. Young Bates did not care
much for these affairs, but, as Bertha was there, he
had come. “Brink only thinks he can sing, anyway.”
This to Purleigh was encouragement for which,
with the courage oozing out of him, he felt grateful.
But the smugness with which Brink insisted that the
polite applause of the audience was a demand for an
encore to his song put him on his mettle. After the
few first notes on his tin-whistle his diffidence went
completely. He had not, after all, had the courage
to start right off with the magic reeds.
A storm of applause heartened him. There was
something curiously appealing* no doubt, in a stout,
prosperous, middle-aged man producing melody from
a tin-whistle. Rev. Smalltext, seated, as chairman, at
the corner of the low platform, pounded his podgy
hands together as vigorously as anyone; but he
looked somewhat askance when he saw that Purleigh,
ready to respond to the recall, had put the whistle
aside and held in his hand a strange reed-like instru-
ment. Smalltext did know his mythology. The instru-
ment was very like one associated in it with bacchanal
orgies.
Purleigh had decided upon the melody he would
play, but, as often happened when he practised this
little instrument, he found himself playing something
altogether different. It was an extempore brilliancy,
note following note automatically; a song of the wild
woodlands where everything in Nature was intoxi-
cated with the simple joy of living. Rev. Smalltext
had the feeling that it did not sound quite respectable.
“Mr. Purleigh—Mr. Purleigh! Just a minute.”
Smalltext’s words, spoken in agitation, were almost
the first intimation to Purleigh, intent upon his music,
that the magic was working as usual. First of all
there was a tapping of feet all over the hall, falling
into the rhythm of the music ; then the audience began
to rise, chairs were thrown or pushed aside, and every-
where people were dancing. The disorder was
apparent even in the front seats.
Smalltext, agitated, had risen to his feet; but
almost at once the agitation vanished, a look of wild,
rebel joyance shone on his face, and he gave a leap
in the air. Then, as two vessels come together in a
collision, he went off the platform with outstretched
arms, to join forces with a woman who was dancing
on the floor with arms outstretched to him, and whirl
away in a wild fandango.
Purleigh, too, was filled with a mad exultation,
but it found its expression in the music he was mak-
ing instead of his feet, and it became wilder and
wilder.
Shortly everybody in the hall was dancing. Some,
indeed, preserved a degree of sedateness ; but Brink
was not one of these. He looked, as the magic stirred
him, for Bertha, but apparently Bates had whisked
her away. He grabbed another woman, and, whirling
away with her, was soon the maddest of the mad
throng. Even as he played Purleigh followed Brink’s
progress. He seemed in a curious way distinguishable.
All the customary propriety had dropped from him
as if it had been a mask.
Suddenly he let go the woman with whom he
was dancing, hustled away the man next to him and,
seizing his partner, continued the wild whirl with her.
It happened to be Maria!
The sight inflamed Purleigh, but for the life of
him he could not cease his playing. He stepped from
the platform, playing as he went, trying to make his
way to where he had last seen Maria. The press of
dancers made his progress slow.
There was a skirmish behind him and then a
woman’s hands grasped him by the shoulders. “Peter!
I’ve found you! It’s you I want to dance with —not
anyone else.” It was actually Maria speaking! Pur-
leigh felt a glow of strange gratification. He whirled
a little with her, finding it necessary to hold and play
his strange instrument with one hand only, but, as the
notes seemed to make themselves, that was quite
possible. He did not want to stop playing—he felt
as if that might go on for ever —but he wanted to get
away from the crowdedness of the hall.
The crowd, however, insisted upon going with
them. It followed them into the open air, twisting
through the doors like soda from a soda-water bottle.
It was the strangest sight ever seen in a suburban
street —a carnival procession of those' who should
have been the staidest and most respectable citizens,
leaping along the street, dancing, shouting, singing,
laughing. The procession was quickly augmented.
The people who had been in the street wondering
what was going on in the hall were caught in the
chaotic revel. It was complicated by the mad gam-
boilings of cats and dogs moved also by the magic
music. When processionists fell over the animals,
there was fresh uproar.
And Purleigh couldn’t stop. He felt that he had
had his fun, but, although he wanted to, he couldn’t
take the magic reeds from his lips. He wondered a
little blankly where it was all going to end, or if it was
going to end.
And then, suddenly, it ended.
“You’ve got her!” Like an enraged bull Brink
came charging full tilt at Purleigh. Purleigh was
hurled backward, but grapped with him manfully.
THE dancing stopped abruptly. The crowd was
still, its members looking at one another stupidly
and with astonishment. Purleigh felt the broken pieces
of the magic reeds, knocked from his lips and
trampled on in the scuffle, beneath his feet, and was
glad that there was an end to them. Maria was cling-
ing to his arm, and there was young Bates still grip-
ping Brink after dragging him off Purleigh, with
Bertha near him.
“We had better go home, dear,” said Maria. “Will
you look after Bertha, Mr. Bates? Bring her home for
supper and have some with us.” She swept past
Brink, ignoring him.
Purleigh had a curious gladness in his heart.
Maria, with all her domination and queer treatment
of him, had wanted him when that spirit of madness
stirred ; it was a thought that lifted their lives out of
the prosaicness into which they had fallen. Young Bates
was in favor, too. And he had proved, as he had
known all along, that Brink was too good to be true.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
ķ
To visit the House of Commons
when in London is a wish, as under-
standable as natural, entertained by
every citizen of this democratic
Commonwealth of Nations which
comprises our Empire. To go to
the “great City by the Thames”
without making “personal acquaint-
ance” with the Mother of Parlia-
ments is unthinkable. Here is the
symbol of that political freedom at
once our birthright and our strength.
Looking through the archway into
the Commons, the resident of Aus-
tralia or New Zealand who has
acquaintance with the supreme legis-
lative halls in Canberra and Welling-
ton will in the Speaker’s Chair meet,
so to speak, “a familiar acquaint-
ance,” as replicas of this historic
“piece of furniture” have been pre-
sented by the Mother assemblage to
her offspring in the Commonwealth
and Dominion, as also to “her legis-
lative children” in Canada and South
Africa. For obvious reasons the
Upper House does not “draw” as
does the Lower, a situation faithfully
reproduced on the Upper and Lower
Houses of the Dominion Parliaments
regarded in popular perspective.
When the Commons “meeting place”
is contemplated, the floodgates of
memory are swung back to their
fullest, and the waters which pour
through carry with them a major
proportion of all those elements
which have made us what we are,
racially, socially, commercially, cul-
turally, politically and administra-
tively. Here one is on hallowed
ground, which must ever so remain
while human freedom and liberty
of conscience are institutions prized
by mankind.
Looking in on “The Mother of Parliaments.”


BIRTHDAY CALL.
“I had my fifty-first birthday on St. Helena. It was the last.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Bos
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; Gordon & Gotch (Ails.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
ANZAC, 1940.
Anzac Day will be celebrated this week in Australia
and Maoriland with naturally more than usual interest,
more than usual feeling for its significance, and, per-
haps, more than usual appreciation of hard realities
linked up with it.
For the 20-odd years of the troubled peace it
was commemorated as the anniversary of an almost
legendary, heroic campaign. Gallipoli was the first
real testing ground of the fighting spirit of these young
nations. As the years passed the legend has grown
more and more picturesque; the foundation of their
tradition. Tradition may play a tremendous part in
this war before it is all over. Meanwhile we have
the landing of British troops in Norway, recalling by
similar deeds the spectacular heroism and magnificent
fighting quality that were seen at Anzac ; recalling,
also —to get down to plain realities —the insuperable
difficulties which the Anzacs tried to overcome at
Gallipoli, and the cold historical fact that as a military
campaign Anzac was a failure.
The favorable aspects of Anzac can safely take
care of themselves. They will no doubt be uppermost
in everybody’s thoughts on this occasion ; they are
imperishable while these nations last. But for the
present the harder realities have their value, too —as
a corrective to too-wishful thinking. This outbreak
of the war in the North has been greatly jazzed-up in
newspapers which treat the whole war as an entertain-
ment. They have published badly misleading maps
of the minefields sown by the British Navy across
Scandinavian waters ; with these and over-optimistic
reporting they led people to believe that the German
army in Norway was cut off from its base, that the
German campaign there was nothing but a bad stra-
tegical blunder. Such reporting needs to be read with
the greatest care from day to day if a reasonably
accurate balance is to be struck. The Navy has already
done a magnificent job, and the troops being landed
in Norway can be relied on to do as splendidly as the
Anzacs did at Gallipoli; but this is only all the more
good reason for remembering those aspects of Anzac
that are usually overlooked.
Gallipoli, as well as being impossibly difficult
and in the long run a failure, was, in relation to the
war then, only a sideshow. So is this fight in Norway
only a sideshow for the present, though it could pos-
sibly have effects and repercussions such as Anzac
never had. Even as it is, with some 50,000 to 70,000
German troops already landed in Norway, the diffi-
culties of the country—incomparably worse than Gal-
lipoli—the distance from a base, the strength of the
German air force and other such contingencies, the
fighting there must be as grim and difficult as ever it
was at Anzac. After one week of it there was a
sensible toning down of the jazzed-up news. With a
measure of wisdom they had not displayed for years,
the more responsible cable-columns broke the warning
that these engagements in the North were merely a
prelude to the main purpose of defeating Germany ;
that “reverses must be expected” ; that “landings on
such a coastline would be a hazardous operation.”
And there was the admission that this war might last
for years.
How long it actually will last is as unpredictable
today as when it began, but the surest thing to expect
in war is the worst. Fed on jazzed-up news, specula-
tion is liable to run riot. It is Encouraging to think
that a victory in Norway might be the end of the
chapter for Hitler and his gang. They have no such
tradition behind them as kept the Kaiser propped up
during four years of war trial and national suffering,
and then shepherded him safely away to spend the rest
of his days in cushioned comfort. Enthroned by force,
they might, on one bad reversal, be destroyed by
force. It is hopeful to think so, that millions of grand
young lives might be spared, if for no other reason.
But it might be better to keep this 1940 Anzac Day’s
train of thought on the practical prospects.
When the Anzacs stormed Gallipoli in 1915 they
knew that their countries had no problems of local
defence to bother about. Japan then helped to give
safe convoy over the seas ; today, though Japan is
neutral, safety in the Pacific is by no means assured.
An invasion of Holland could have repercussions right
on Australia’s doorstep. It is anything but certain
that this war is to stay, like the last one, in Europe.
There Italy, which was in on the Allied side within
a month of the landing at Gallipoli, is this time also
neutral —or, as it prefers to style itself, non-belligerent.
For the present it remains uncertain to what extent
Italy will act for its new-found friend, with Com-
munist Russia in the background ; but there is no
ground whatever for any expectation that this time
Italy will at all favor the Allies, even in its neutrality.
Russia, also with the Allies when Anzac was tackled,
is this time Hitler’s accomplice in the crime of start-
ing the war ; is a probable military ally of Germany
and a certain source of huge supplies for Germany,
despite Soviet transport being still in a chronic state
of chaos. Moreover, Germany this time has as well
the sub-continent of Europe to draw on for supplies.
These hard facts on the position are probably
better worth keeping in mind than the more colorful
thoughts that usually prevail on Anzac Day. To them
should be added the further facts that last time Ger-
many had to fight on two fronts ; that, even with the
line-up as comparatively favorable as it was, and with
America eventually added, it required four years of
the hardest fighting, plus blockade, to defeat Ger-
many ; that the Allies meanwhile suffered reverses that
today seem wellnigh incredible, and losses in the
slaughter that are sickening to think about; that even
a few months before the end the Allies faced defeat;
and that it was only the slightly superior fighting
quality of the Allied forces, their doggedness and
determined courage which eventually turned the tide,
inflicting a crushing defeat on the German army.
That defeat of Germany—it has been said with
some truth that if Germany wishes to boast today
it can boast of its record defeat —can be written now
on the credit side, and much more with it. Though
it is best to be wary of jazzed-up news and to keep
in mind that reverses and disasters are inseparable
from war, it can be said that the Allies are in many
respects better placed today than they were this time
in the last war. When the Anzacs landed at Gal-
lipoli the side they were fighting on had then already
lost the staggering total of 600,000 men. The flower
of the British Army had been wiped out, including a
high percentage of its best officers, and Britain’s re-
serves of munitions were exhausted. Belgium and a
great part of Northern France were in German hands.
The German army—then the greatest fighting force
the world had ever known ; today the French army is
reckoned the greatest —was on a wave of triumph,
turned only by what has been called with some accu-
racy the miracle of the Marne.
Then Britain needed time to train, equip and
supply a new army. In this war it began with con-
scription already in force and unity of command —
delayed till defeat enforced it in 1918 —achieved.
And, for reasons still obscure, it has been given the
time for complete training, and has been allowed
to place its army unmolested beside the French,
and build up as well the new combined army of
750,000 in the Near East, where Turkey is this
time not against the Allies, and where the new
Anzacs are stationed. It is reckoned that by the end
of this year Britain and France will have 3,000,000
and 7,000,000 trained men, against Germany’s
7,500,000, with about 1,000,000 of Germany’s troops
permanently needed to keep order in Czechoslovakia
and Poland. The German army has the advantage
of actual campaign experience in Poland, where,
according to Field-Marshal Lord Milne, it showed
“good strategic sense, well conducted technical opera-
tions and excellent staff work.” Detracting from this
is the description of the Polish performance as “already
a military classic in incompetence of staff direction.”
The British are now having some experience of actual
warfare in Norway, and bad staff direction will not
be one of its defects ; Britain’s present staff is reckoned
the best Britain has ever had.
What the British Navy has done and is doing
speaks daily for itself. As well, Britain has had time to
catch up with Germany in the air. Sir Kingsley Wood,
then Air Minister, said last month that the
Air Force had been doubled in the past 12 months ;
Britain was now producing ’planes and airmen faster
and better than Germany. The German Air Force,
however, remains extremely powerful and formidable ;
the Germans call it a “highly efficient fighting
machine,” and in this respect they must be accepted
as authorities. Still, the Empire Air Scheme will easily
tilt the balance against Germany before this war is
all over. This will call for 28,500 men of a highly
specialised type from Australia alone before June
next year—typical of another aspect of the strength
on the credit side of the Allies: the Dominions’ con-
tributions. By June this year 75,000 men will have
undergone military training in Australia; by June
next year it is proposed to raise 90,000 for service
abroad if needed. In the last war Australia raised
a total army of 416,819; Maoriland raised 124,211
for overseas and Empire service from an eligible male
population of under 250,000. If needed, the effort of
the Anzacs’ home countries will be as great again.
All this and more can be written on the credit
side of the Allies. As important as any of it is
the present close co-operation between Britain and
France—incomparably more solid than anything that
was achieved last time. In the sum total, this year’s
Anzac Day calls for some self-congratulations and a
lot more hard facing up to realities. On the one hand,
the Allies are very much better placed than they were
on April 25, 1915; on the other, the prospects are
forbidding, and the battle is ahead.
Italy, Japan and The Netherlands.
Though the press (“gentlemen....”) is full of infor-
mation and misinformation on less significant P“ a sc s
of the war, it has failed to explain why Lord Chatfield,
Admiral of the Fleet, was pushed out of the British
Cabinet. One guess—guesswork is in fashion—is
that he may have objected to the mining of Norwegian
waters on the ground that it would lead to the Navy
being given too much to do.
Nor has the public been informed how neutral
Europe reacted to the mining before its attention
became fixed on the related rush of events, which
alarmed, and still alarm, the Little Nations not yet
invaded and plundered. Seemingly the thing had a bad
reception, for the Little Nations don’t think nearly
as much of Mr. Churchill and his plans and strokes
of policy (a Grand Alliance was one of the plans,
those nearest the Nazis to be the mugs) as people
in Australia and Britain do. If it had had a good
reception, we should have been told of it.
“Non-belligerent” Italy’s reaction to the new
situation was unfavorable. There were anti-British
articles in the papers, anti-British demonstrations in
the streets (one street, anyway, “100 students” taking
part) and cinema theatres (“Mr. Chamberlain’s appear-
ance in a news reel was booed”), a sinister “mobil-
isation,” bringing the number of soldiers under arms
to 1,500,000, and early-spring naval manoeuvres which
might threaten Tunisia or Yugoslavia or perhaps
Greece. And “the Adriatic port of Bari, which had
so prominent a part in the invasion of Albania,” had
been “declared a prohibited area.” That brought an
official denial, and the “mobilisation” was denied also,
though it was admitted that “a few thousand reser-
vists, previously exempt for medical reasons, and
now declared fit for service,” had been called up.
But meantime American correspondents and some
British journals and politicians let themselves go on
a congenial theme: Mussolini was about to rush into
the war on Hitler’s side.
Hard words break no bones. All Europe heaved
them at Britain during the South African War, when
all Europe sympathised with the Boers, France
especially ; but John Bull never lost his head or his
temper. Taking all necessary naval precautions, the
Government phlegmatically went on with its job of
muddling through the war, and the people slept quietly
in their beds.
Present-day politicians and editors are more sensi-
tive and more explosive. They have a queer notion,
quite false psychologically, and apt to be disastrous
if tried by individuals on individuals, that a doubtful
or unfriendly nation can be reduced to scared inaction
by Warning it.
Hence Mr. Churchill, loudly cheered by journals
like the “News-Chronicle,” Warned the Italians that
the Allies had sufficient forces in the Mediterranean
to “control” that sea without having to draw rein-
forcements from Northern Europe. “We are a
plain-dealing, plain-speaking people, and we should
like to know where we stand with Italy ; we must ask
that Italy should behave as a neutral.” So said Mr.
Cross, the Minister for Economic Warfare, in another
Warning to Italy, which “caused the greatest satis-
faction in Paris.” And Mr. Duff Cooper, one of
Mr. Churchill’s predecessors at the Admiralty, reported
“a rising resentment against the present regime.”
Mussolini has a private and personal dislike of
Britain, and the Italian press is allowed to say only
what Mussolini sanctions, but others in not unimportant
positions are great friends of the Allies.
The “Osservatore Romano,” published in Vatican
City, is not under Mussolini control, nor is it anti-
British, and the papers which reported Mr. Duff
Cooper previously certified that its circulation had
shot up from 20,000 to 100,000 in a few months.
In any case, disarming a doubtful or unfriendly
country by dividing it is as mistaken a policy and
as false psychologically as Warning it, and has like-
wise been tried and found wanting. It only
embarrasses “great friends,” perhaps fatally.
While Italy was on the stage Japan appeared,
and the thunder-and-lightning effects were intensified.
Correspondents saw in the attitude of both countries
“a gigantic squeeze” of the Allies, and found con-
firmation of Japan’s part in a “threat” to the Dutch
East Indies, issued by Mr. Arita, the Foreign Minister,
hitherto reckoned a moderate. Premising that Japan
“could not but be deeply concerned in any develop-
ment affecting the status quo in the East Indies,” Mr.
Arita said that “should an extension of the war to
Holland produce repercussions in the East Indies it
would interfere with Japan’s economic relations with
the islands and arouse an undesirable situation.”
There followed a momentous statement from
Washington. Secretary Cordell Hull said that “inter-
vention in the domestic affairs of the Dutch East
Indies oi any alteration of their status quo by other
than peaceful processes would be prejudicial to the
stability, peace and security of the entire Pacific.”
He reminded the Japanese that, along with Britain,
France and the U.S.A., they had “firmly” pledged
themselves “to respect the rights of the Netherlands
with respect to their insular possessions in the Pacific,”
and was reminded in turn that “Japan’s policy is based
on non-involvement in the European war,” the Arita
announcement having been inspired by a desire to
prevent the war spreading to the Pacific. The Dutch,
for their part, declared most positively that they
would “refuse any offer of protection or intervention
of any kind from any country.”
All this is very important to the Commonwealth.
The Dutch East Indies is the one country which
has a land frontier with Australian territory—New
Guinea and Papua; therefore any attack on the
Dutch East Indies would bring the war to Australia's
front door. Before that stage could be reached, how-
ever, the attackers would have to catch their Dutch,
who would be no mean opponents in their rich and
populous islands. If a German expeditionary force
tried it, perhaps with surreptitious support from Vladi-
vostok, the British and French would shout with joy
at the sight of their enemies walking into the open


mouth formed by Singapore, India, Hong Kong,
British Borneo—and Australia. No invader could
take the islands against the will of the Dutch and the
will of the British Commonwealth and of the United
States and France.
As in the case of Italy, the reporting of Japan’s
attitude has been colored by the hostility of scribes
who stick at nothing. “Trojan horse” tactics, which
were startlingly successful in Norway, have been, and
are being, tried in the Dutch East Indies by both Nazis
and Russians. Though the worst construction was at
once placed on the Arita statement, it may also be
construed as a warning to these Nazi and Communist
elements, and (in Canning’s vein) to the Germans in
Europe that if they grab Holland it will be Holland
without the Indies. Japan and Italy have no reason to
love Germany, especially since Hitler tricked them by
making his arrangement with Moscow. Both hold
former German possessions, and, though the Nazis
have found it expedient to form an Axis and sign
non-aggression pacts, Poland and Denmark can testify
that holding of former German possessions is never
forgiven.
No one can be sure what any non-belligerent
would do if the war were going against us. As things
are, no greater disservice could be done to the cause
of the Allies, Australia especially, and no crueller
crime could be committed against the men who are
fighting their battles and feeding the guns and manning
the ships than the baiting of non-belligerents into
belligerency by provocative speaking and writing
which adds prevarication to provocation. One war
at a time is enough when the enemy is Germany.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Five Is the Number.
It was here stated on April 3 that there were
four Labor parties in N. S. Wales, excluding the Com-
munists, who call themselves a working-class party.
This was true when published, but it is true no longer.
There are now five N.S.W. Labor parties, excluding
at least one very dissatisfied Centre Group.
No. 1 is still the “Stop the War” and “Hands off
Russia” Labor party, which still controls the A.L.P.
organisation. Last week, in deference to the Federal
A.L.P. executive, No. l’s bosses blotted out the “Stop
the War” and “Hands off Russia” resolution, but did
not release the delegates who adopted it from the part
of the signed pledge which bound them to obey
“the decisions of Conference.”
No. 2 is Mr. McKell’s State Labor party.
Trembling for its seats, No. 2 remains on speaking
terms with No. 1, since the latter controls the organi-
sation ; but relations have been uncordial since the
“Stop the War” and “Hands off Russia” resolution
was passed. No. 2 recommendations, hostile to No.
1, were presented to the Federal A.L.P. executive and
rejected.
No. 3 is Mr. Lang’s State Labor party (“non-
Communist”). Formed on Thursday, it has nine
supporters in the Assembly, Mr. Lang included. Mr.
McKell pronounced the secession “a traitorous act”
and Mr. Lang retorted in kind.
No. 4 is Mr. Curtin’s Federal Labor party, which
accepts the authority of the Federal A.L.P. executive
and frowns on the State A.L.P. executive, though
unwilling to break with it because it controls Federal
as well as State Parliamentary nominations.
No. 5 is Mr. Beasley’s Federal Labor party, which
has withdrawn from Mr. Curtin’s and boasts two
Senators ancf five Ms.H.R. Mr. Beasley is on the
friendliest terms with Mr. Lang. “This is their second
deliberate offence, carefully planned, incapable ctf
excuse and treacherously determined upon so as to
stab Labor in the back,” quoth Mr. Curtin hotly
when he heard what the two worthies had done. “Per-
sonally they will be no loss to Labor.” To which
Mr. Beasley replied that “Mr. Curtin’s ill-mannered
personal attack” was “of no moment,” and that “only
a little over a week ago Mr. Curtin said ‘I would
not ask a dog to accept the nomination of that crowd’
—meaning the present A.L.P. executive in Sydney.”
During the week so big with events, the “Stop
the War” and “Hands off Russia” gang received a
sort of moral support or something from an A.C.T.U.
congress, at which an innocuous resolution pledging
the Labor party to “do all that it is possible to safe-
guard Australia and maintain the integrity of the
British Empire” was all but lost, the voting being 67
to 65. “I hope the ‘scabs’ of Downing-street are
defeated,” shouted one of the Reds. Others spat
venom at Mr. Curtin on the score of his war policy.
That gentleman meanwhile was making patriotic
speeches in the House. At the week-end he was
demanding that the Government “should place troops
at strategic points in the north and north-west to be
used without delay to assist the Dutch East Indies,
if it became necessary.” This is dead against the
policies of all the Labor parties, his own included ;
but a certain amount of intellectual confusion may
be pardoned in a well-meaning man who has gone
through so much in so short a time.
Canberra and A.W.U. Methods.
The Government’s attitude to Communists, as stated
in the speech read by Lord Gowrie at Canberra:
My advisers have noted the subversive activities of
a relatively small but intensely active body of Com-
munists in Australia; men who have in many instances
achieved industrial and other positions of importance
which enable them to exercise an influence out of all
proportion to their numbers. My advisers have hesi-
tated to adopt restrictive or punitive measures which
might even remotely be regarded as a limitation upon
freedom of political thought or action, the
freedom for which we are fighting. But the limits of
freedom in an organised community are reached when
men profess an allegiance to a nation other than their
own, when they plan to overthrow constitutional gov-
ernment, when they direct their activities towards the
defeat of their own country in a war to which that
country is committed.
Very pretty; and the public awaited the next
step with something of the weird expectancy said to
characterise the Australian scene, “measures designed
to deal with any individual or group offending against
the wholesome principles to which I have referred”
having been promised. There followed a Gullett
philippic against “the odious Communist press”:
These publications have forfeited their right to be
treated as newspapers of decent, normal political parties.
All manuscript will have to be submitted to censorship
prior to publication, and subjects which the publishers
will be totally prohibited from discussing will include
the war comprehensively, including, of course, recruiting
and training. They must not mention Russia and its
Government, nor will they be permitted to make any
reference to any strike within the Empire or any allied
country, or to industrial unrest, real or imaginary.
People sighed, and turned to reports of a mass
meeting of Kalgoorlie-Boulder miners, members of
the mining branch of the A.W.U., who dealt with the
case of their Stop-the-War and Hands-off-Russia sec-
retary, one Finlay.
Led by ex-Premier Collier, M.L.A., and Williams,
M.L.C., the meeting suspended the secretary from office
by the required two-thirds majority, there being 1200
miners in the town hall. When he said he had “Com-
munist sympathies” and pronounced the Soviet Union
“the only country in the world with a real workingclass
Government,” he was hooted and counted out. The
motion carried, Mr. Williams rushed on the stage shout-
ing “Victory for Australia and the British Empire!”
Obviously the kid-glove Cabinet should co-opt
a few goldfields A.W.U. men and let them attend to
the Communist conspiracy.
Governments Must Govern.
In going to Kurri Kurri (N.S.W.) to address the Red-
led strikers the Prime Minister established no praise-
worthy precedent. The thing had the appearance of
treating with a power greater than the Commonwealth,
of appealing to an imperium in imperio.
At first the strike leaders said that Mr. Menzies
would get a hearing. Then their Moscow sense of
sportsmanship asserted itself and they called upon the
men to boycott his meeting.
When the P.M. arrived he found a great crowd
outside the hall. He was received in silence. As he
entered, most of the crowd turned away and went to a
near-by sportsground, where they were addressed by
strike leaders.
Having finished at the hall, Mr. Menzies went to
the sportsground. There, after having to listen to
four tedious ranters, he was allowed, by a majority
decision, to put the case for a return to work.
Whatever answer the miners may give cannot
alter the fact that arbitration is the law of the land
and that they appealed to it. Nor can it alter the fact
that under the arbitration system Australian workers
have attained standards well above those enjoyed by
workers in any other country, especially Russia.
Coalminers, above all, must know that. In Britain
the pitman works under conditions that the Australian
would regard as horrible by comparison, yet there
is no strike talk while Britain is at war. British pitmen
are just as anxious to beat the Power that has enslaved
Polish coalies and would enslave others as is any
other section of the British people.
A Mr. Hoare told the P.M. that the Miners’
Federation relied on “its economic punch.” That
punch looks like becoming a pinch for the
miners and their families. Most of the unions are
against the strike, and union contributions have been
so small that funds are giving out. And Queensland
strikers are going back to the mines.
This is no time for coal strikes or Governmental
dilly-dallying. Governments must govern or get out.
Australia expects its Prime Minister to do his duty,
and his display Cf determination at Kurri Kurri
showed that he can act with courage. It also showed
that the windy gentlemen who shriek defiance from
the security of distance are not so very terrible when
you face up to them.
Dookie, Pittman and Dunstan.
“An immediate inquiry into the state of affairs obtaining
at the Dookie Agricultural College during the past 12 months
was demanded unanimously by the Liberal C.P. conference
and agricultural associations in the Goulburn Valley.”
This matter is of interest to Westralians as well as
Victorians, for H. A. J. Pittman, who would be a
central figure at the proposed inquiry, is held in high
esteem in the western State. In fact, it was on
his record as W.A. Government plant pathologist that
he was appointed principal at Dookie. He held the
post for a mere eighteen months, being thereupon
“retired” after having refused to accept a plant
pathologist’s job at less than half the Dookie salary
—£97o p.a., plus allowances. And not having been
listed as a public servant, he has no legal redress.
Pittman’s case is that when he took control in
September, 1938, he found the college in a sad state
of indiscipline. He improved the discipline without
antagonising the pupils, but in trying to effect these
changes he was denied wholehearted co-operation by
officialdom, though told from that quarter that he
would “probably find it necessary” to make them.
One of his problems was to stop erosion on the
property. Since erosion is a State-wide problem,
thousands of acres of the best soil being swept away
annually, this is obviously a very worthy subject of
contemplation for an agricultural college. Pittman
has photographs to show that there is plenty of erosion
at Dookie ; in fact, some of the photos look as if a
major earthquake has happened. But he asserts that
he had the greatest difficulty in interesting subordinates
and superiors in the matter.
After a while the dispute got into the papers.
Premier Dunstan’s method of settling it was to invite
Pittman to send in his resignation and accept appoint-
ment to the minor job at the reduced salary. Pittman
refused, so the Government got rid of him.
The disappearing principal asked for an inquiry,
but Mr. Dunstan refused it, though one could be
easily undertaken by a Parliamentary committee, there
being 65 Assemblymen and 34 Councillors with
nothing much to do. If the Government thinks
Dookie is all right and its late principal all wrong it
has nothing to lose by sanctioning an inquiry, since
the result could only be complimentary to itself. If
it isn’t sure that the result would be so complimentary
then it ought to have an inquiry just the same, because
then it would learn what was wrong with Dookie
and could see that it was put right. By refusing an
inquiry or even an explanation the Government puts
itself under suspicion of protecting a department whose
affairs might do with a bit of airing. And Victorians
aren’t altogether bursting with confidence over the
administration of State departments since last year’s
bushfires and the ineffectual measures to prevent bush-
fires this year.
How the Papers Took Narvik.
For the greater part of last week people went about
full of optimism that the Germans would be kicked
out of Norway in a few days. Wild and irresponsible
newspaper headlines and introductory statements led
to the belief that an Allied force in Norway was
sweeping all before it.
April 15: Experts regard the Narvik victory as
proving that Germany perpetrated a colossal strategic
blunder for which she is already paying dearly.
April 16: New B.E.F. in Norway. Port [Narvik]
Taken. British warships drove the German garrison to
the icy mountains.
April 17: This prompt Allied assistance has filled
the invaded land with fresh courage. Though the
British capture of Narvik has given the Allies control of
northern Norway, Nazi officials repeat their parrot-cry
that Germans still hold the port.
April 18: Bitter fighting between British and German
troops at Narvik is reported.
April 19: There is no foundation for reports that
the British have occupied Narvik. It is understood that
they have not yet begun their attack.
There was a time when editors insisted on truth
and accuracy in reports. When compelled to handle
statements based on rumor they either threw the stuff
out or made it very clear to the reader that it was
so based and was published for what it was worth.
This ideal seems to be regarded as outworn by the
Stunt Press.
"Twelve Months."
About eight years ago a sporting publican named
Theodore Charles Trautwein became known to a
wider public than the N.S.W. sections interested in the
Turf and the Trade by virtue of his association with
the “fruit-machine” case. As was afterwards written,
he was accused of having been “a political fixer for
persons who desired to paralyse the law so that they
might reap huge profits from an illegal gambling
device,” and he had to give evidence before Justice
Halse Rogers, sitting as a royal commissioner.
Mr. Halse Rogers reported that Trautwein had
received £3OOO “to secure immunity from prosecution
for his clients” and had “approached a Minister” ;
but “what he did with the money cannot be said.”
He was “an unsatisfactory witness.... untruthful.”
A document was handed to Trautwein while he
was under cross-examination, and this colloquy
occurred:
It is your signature. You wrote it?—l did not.
It is your signature? —It looks like it.
Who wrote it? —I don’t know.
How did you come to sign it?—l am doubtful if
I did sign it or not. It looks like my writing.
Eventually the witness said he had “no doubt” that
he had “signed it.”
About a year later, at the election of the “re-
formed” Legislative Council (members of the old
nominee House and Assemblymen were the electors)
Trautwein was chosen from among a million or so
N.S.W. citizens to adorn the “reformed” Chamber
for 12 years. And a member he still is, in name at
least, though his tenure has become precarious.
For years the political “sport” has had trouble
with the Commonwealth income-tax people, who
charged him with having “seriously understated his
income for -the years 1921-1927 inclusive.” Court
proceedings resulted in his being ordered to pay
£101,996, “balance of tax and additional tax,” in
addition to a judgment for £46,510 which was satis-
fied. He offered to pay in instalments, and this was
agreed to conditionally on his giving the Crown a
charge over assets valued at £135,000, held in the
names of his wife and two children, failing which
bankruptcy proceedings would be taken. He pro-
duced an agreement bearing the required names and
paid £l5OO a month, plus £lO,OOO on January 1, 1939,
till October 31, when payments ceased. According
to Dovey, K.C., it was subsequently found that “the
signatures, his own excepted, had been forged by
Trautwein and the rest of his family did not know
anything about it.”
Last week the Taxation Department proceeded
in the Central Summons Court on an information
charging the M.L.C. with “untrue representation with
a view to obtaining and withholding bankruptcy pro-
ceedings.” He did not go into the box, but his counsel
said on his behalf that “at the time the agreement
was tendered for signature Mrs. Trautwein was ill
and, not wishing to worry her with the matter, Traut-
wein signed it himself.”
Saying that “over the years the defendant tried
to evade his liabilities to the taxpayer, and when
pressed for payment committed forgery,” Farrington,
S.M., imposed sentence of twelve months’ imprison-
ment. Notice of appeal was given.
The case brings back to memory what Arthur
Griffith wrote in The Bulletin when the reformed
Council was going through the very gradual election
process, and the atmosphere crackled with allega-
tions as to wagers of £lOO to a cigarette that So-and-so
wouldn’t get in. “I don’t know what all the fuss is
about,” the ex-Minister protested. “Indications are
that we shall get as good a Legislative Council as
money can buy.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: Sydney “Sun’s” poster,
I hasten to say, was impeccable. ‘'"Pocket
Battleship Torpedoed,” it announced
gladly at midday. But the first news-
vendor I met was yelling “Pocket Battle-
ship Sunk,” and so was the second, and
so was the third, and so —for the um-
teenth time since the war began—l
bought an early edition I didn’t want.
A number of learned gentlemen with
whom I lunch had fallen into the same
error, and the thought of squandered
tuppences did nothing to improve the
digestibility of our aged ram chops. I
would remind the newsvendors concerned
that tuppence equals one tramride to
King’s Cross, one letter to a lonely
maiden at Ballachulish, one telephone
call to another at Mosman and one-half
of a minute glass of beer in any public
bar before six o’clock —and that there
comes a time when all of my clan take
up the claymore in defence of their hard-
earned millions.
“Opto”: As one who frequently passed
the office of Sydney “D.T.” at an hour
when one would have expected to see
the staff up to its eyes getting the paper
to press, I couldn’t help but notice lately
that the numbers had fallen off consider-
ably. Only a handful of elderly men
and boys could I see. I paid special
visits in order to assure myself that the
falling away was not temporary, and,
seeing still the paucity of staff, began to
fear that at last the paper shortage or the
censorship had caught up with the “D.T.”
However, the true explanation burst on
me (and the rest of Sydney) last Wednes-
day, when “D.T.” posters announced the
glad news: “How We Took Narvik.”
Getting the “D.T.” team to Norway so
speedily must have been a triumph of
organisation.
* * * *
“Piper’s L.”: He was sitting discon-
solately on his front lawn at midday on
a Sunday. “The missus is keen on this
churchgoing,” he said, “and this mornin’
I went off an’ had a round of golf. On
the way back I called at a pu—er, a
place I know —an’ picked up a dozen
of lager, stackin’ ’em in the back of the
car. Then I called at the church to pick
the missus up.” He paused, looked back
at the implacably-closed front door, and
added: “How inell was I to know she’d
pick today t’ invite the parson t’ lunch
an’ shove him in the back seat?”
* * * *
“Si Anu”: I am interested in the revi-
val by Prof. G. S. Browne, an educational
star of Melbourne Uni., of the antiquated
notion that man’s heritage from the
Tower of Babel is one of the principal
causes of war and international mis-
understanding, and that universal English
would go far to solve these problems.
I’m not so sure that language is all-
important. Words haven’t an invariable
meaning, but are merely symbols for
associations, and most people’s associa-
tions differ. A girl of my acquaintance
said to a young man at a party: “Have
you a match, please?” “Yes, thanks,
plenty,” said the other, fumbling in his
pocket. But the girl didn’t know that
this was an affectionate little joke the
young man had used since childhood, and
felt rebuffed. If a request for a match
can make trouble between two people
, .
speaking one another :s language, a urn-
versal language is hardly likely to prevent
war between lt certainly didn t
prevent civil war in England, in America,
more recently in Spain, and didn t pre-
vent such Australian incidents as the
Eureka Stockade.
* # . * * . . * ,
s.i.s. . A man in gaol in S.A. nas
been suddenly released probably to he
great surprise both of himself and of the
Bistirps who oavp him civ mrmthc He
justices wno ga e him six months. H
had pleaded guilty ; but the Crown Law
Department, on looking into the case,
thought the justices had followed a wrong
procedure, and itself appealed success-
fully, though the prisoner did not even
take the trouble to attend the Supreme
Court when offered the chance. ‘H know
you’ll do the square thing,” he told his
self-appointed counsel. It seems a
triumph for scrupulous fair-dealing on
the part of the oftemabused Law.
* * * *
“Visitor”: One finds Adelaide’s notori-
ous Athlete statuette in an entirely new
location. It is a small bronze which for
many years has stood in a North Adel-
laide park, and, being entirely nude, has
aroused ribald comment. It could never
be so securely fastened down that revel-
lers might not dump it in the Torrens
or leave it on the Cathedral steps. Long
consideration by the City Fathers after
the last removal has ended in its being
placed in the new Olympic baths, well
out of reach but in full view. This
causes a fresh discussion. A section
speaking for art, with Clive Carey (lately
“Eminent Australian citizens have pledged their support for the plan to establish a Jewish colony in the Kimberleys.”
“ Vy , you couldn't get a petter spear for der money in Sydney.”
back from London) very strong as a
spokesman, talks of “hypocritical
prudery,” and contrasts the laxity of the
modern stage. The majority, however,
seem to doubt the policy of showing in
a crowd of both sexes a figure with a
lack-of-costume which would cause any
of the beholders to be arrested.
* * * *
Plain tale from London:
Mrs. Chamberlain visited Australia House
the other day and stopped at the bookstall.
“I must buy an Australian paper,” she said;
and she was advised to get The Bulletin,
that old red rag being described as “the best
Australian paper.” “Oh, yes,” the P.M.’s
wife replied; “my husband and I both know
The Bulletin, but I should. like to take one
we don’t know.” There was an immediate
sale.
H= * * *
“Hawkshaw”: The inquest on the Boer
servant-girl who was found strangled in
the wild hinterland of Sydney’s Clifton
Gardens threw no additional light on a
case that offers a strange problem. Evi-
dence that the girl had suicidal tendencies
and declared herself to be insane was
repeated. But no one could explain how
she could wrap a stocking round her
neck and tie it, tightly enough to suffo-
cate herself, at the back of the neck. A
medical witness with long experience of
criminal cases, Dr. Stratford Sheldon,
gave the problem up. All the other facts
pointed to suicide. The knot tied at the
back of the neck pointed to murder. The
coroner gave it up, too, &nd an open ver-
dict was returned.
* * * *
“T.”: Scullin, who has read Gray’s
“Elegy” so often that he could repeat
it backwards, must have smiled with ap-
proval when Chamberlain drew on a line
from Jimmy’s favorite poem to point
his latest indictment of the Nazis —“those
monsters of wickedness in Germany who
seemed to have shut the gates of mercy
on mankind.” But this is what Great
Dailies made of it:
Shut the gates of mercy. —Sydney “D.T.”
Shut the gates of mercy against mankind.
— “S. M. Herald.”
Shut the gates of mercy upon mankind.
—Melbourne “Argus.”
I am still looking up files to see whether
any paper got it right.
* * *
“D.E.”: After the Big-City march an
Old Digger pal who has contrived to be-
come a Young Digger was recruiting
his powers with a pint. While the bar-
maid was drawing another I asked him
what change in the Big Wen since 1916
struck him most, knowing that he had
seldom seen it in the meantime. With-
out pausing for another mouthful he said
“Women. I don’t mean their clobber
or cosmetics or short hair —in those
respects they have all changed—but their
number. There were not nearly so many
about during the first box-on. I’ll swear
there were three times as many in the
streets today as when this place said
good-bye to the Dinkums,” And when
I got to work on my memories of 1914-
1918, I felt that he was pretty right.
Quarter of a century ago, woman was
decidedly in the minority in all the main-
land capitals, and she knew her place.
Now she predominates in all, and she
realises it, and acts accordingly. As they
pace the streets in their knee-high skirts
and absurd shoes, a lot of the young
girls look extremely arrogant. I suppose
the truth is that if they let their unsmil-
ing faces relax their make-up would be
disorganised. And set it to the modern
woman’s credit that she has conquered
the age-old prejudice against the young
female going home unattended late at
night. In ferries and trams, from 10 p.m.
to midnight, their sex is nearly always
in the majority. I have counted them
at times in a homing ferry, and they went
eight and ten to one. I can remember
when a young woman seen alone late
at night would have been summed up as
a hussy or a poor brotherless orphan.
*** ' *
“P. Street”: Film stars, nudists and
astrology enlivened the proceedings in a
Sydney divorce case wherein the hus-
band denied that he had been contemptu-
ous of his spouse’s desire to build her
body like unto that of a film star whose
chief box-office asset was her slinkiness.
To prove his sympathy, he told how he
had bought books of nude studies over
which the missus could pore in her ques-
However, all this was wasted when tne
real stars took a hand in the game, bnu,
a third party, born under Aries. 1 hen
hubby took proceedings, perhaps strength-
ened by the revelation that he had h e^ n
bom under Capricornus, the sign of the
goat.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Overheard on our suburban
train t’other night: “Oh, Bill? Poor old
Bill! He’s got so many wrinkles on his
forehead that he can’t put his hat on
straight no more. He has to screw it
on.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The other day Melbourne
“Argus” reported that nudism was in fuL
swing on the London stage, and that
many people objected to it. The next
day a correspondent wrote (and, what is
more remarkable, signed) this effusion:
Well, if they don’t like it, why must these
ever-active busybodies try to stop the
pleasure of those who do? Anyone who
lias seen the Folies Bergeres and other stage
shows knows what Australians miss in
having to put up with antiquated and
stodgy revues that have as much ot the
risque element in them as a Sunday school.
Why don’t producers here put on shows
for smart moderns instead of the ever-
lasting dull, respectable variety?'
I hasten to assure the writer that a revue
just as nude as anything I have seen in
Paris or London was put on by one of
the most respected theatrical concerns in
Melbourne less than a couple of years
ago, but the fate it suffered would hardly
encourage the firm to repeat the ven-
ture. For the first few nights the attend-
ance was excellent. Then it gradually
fell off, although neither press nor pulpit,
nor police nor public protested. There was
criticism in plenty, and towards the end
even the ushers and programme-sellers
were animadverting bitterly on the pro-
duction. But it was not the nudity which
was complained of but the dancing, the
comedy, the singing, the scenery—any-
thing but the thing that is supposed to
be taboo in Melbourne —although these
were as good as or better than the aver-
age. I leave the “Argus” correspondent
to puzzle out this phenomenon for himself,
but he can hardly say that his inability
to get his heart’s desire in Melbourne is
due to any declared public opposition.
* * * *
“Duffer”: A man riding on a tram
past a public golf course was struck on
the nose by a golf ball which rebounded
from a tram stanchion. The nose was
broken. He claimed £4OO damages from
the owners of the course. Defence
was that the player who hit the ball
should have been proceeded against, and
that a golf-course owner could not con-
trol the direction in which players hit
balls. Nobody thought of suing the tram-
ways for allowing their stanchion to
deflect the ball, or for wilfully carrying
passengers within range of the links.
Anyhow, the claim was stymied on the
ground that the defendant had no control
over the circumstances, whereat, no doubt,
all private and public golf managements
heaved vast sighs of relief.
SLACKS AND SHORTS.
There were days when the wearing of pants
By the sex that’s addicted to frocks
Was held to endanger romance
By giving propriety shocks.
Yet now you’ll encounter by packs
At numerous seaside resorts
Spry Sadies and Sylvias in slacks,
Chic Shirleys and Sheilas in shorts.
Just think, could we meet her again,
What old Mrs. Grundy would say,
Imagine her shame and her pain,
Her impotent wrath and dismay!
Yet hardly a moralist snorts
These times, scarce a preacher attacks
The liking of Sheila for shorts
Or Sadie’s attachment to slacks.
And what of Victoria the Good,
Who rigid conventions diffused?
She might be amazed, but she would
Assuredly not be amused
At a world (by her standards) so lax
That daily the sight it supports
Of Sals in the slimmest of slacks
And Sues in the scantest of shorts.
But why should we homines care
Or trouble —it isn’t our wont —■
What whimsical womankind wear
Or, just as effectively, don’t?
And the latest I hear from the courts
Where tennis assembles its cracks
Is that Shirley’s as shapely in shorts
As Sylvia’s stylish in slacks.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“ I'm gellin fed up. If We don't strike it in the next twenty years I'll chuck it."
“C.R.” >A shearer en route for Perth
started busting up his cheque in a nor’-
west port, became a public nuisance and
was accommodated in the gaol. His
custodians took a kindly view of his
desire to lead a better life, which he
affirmed he could do in the capital
amongst his family and friends. The
pilot of the flying service offered to assist
the town to rid it of its convivial guest
by giving him a lift as luggage or some-
thing of the sort. He was taken aboard
in the morning and landed in Perth that
afternoon. Two hours later he had suc-
ceeded in getting himself jugged again.
To see the inside of two prisons 600
miles apart within the space of 24 hours
must be a record —for Australia, at any
rate.
* * * *
“Hystorikuss”: The historic home-
stead .which stands on the Parramatta
(N.S.W.) property on which John Mac-
arthur grew Australia’s first merino wool
will shortly be demolished so that a
rubber-tyre factory may go up in its
place. It is Australia’s oldest school
building, in which the Macarthur children
were educated. No doubt the Govern-
ment responsible for the demolition of
the Macquarie building in Lower George-
street, Sydney, cordially approves. It has
a rubber-tyre-factory mind.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Australia’s latest published
freak wager won £25 for a Victorian lad
who rolled a barrel four miles along a
road in 12\ minutes. Five years ago
another Cabbage Gardener collected £5O
for wheeling a stoutish individual 50
miles or so in a barrow from Beech-
worth to Mt. Buffalo, a steep journey.
The U.S.A. produces the main world-crop
of such eccentrics. “Shipwreck” Kelly
perched on a flagpole at Baltimore for
23 days and seven hours. Johnny Con-
nors rolled a peanut with his nose from
Boston to Worcester. Milo Murchen
flew a ’plane upside down from New
York to Los Angeles, 3000 miles. A
Baptist minister at Washington preached
nonstop for 12 hours and 10 minutes.
Plennie Wingo walked backwards across
America and afterwards through Europe
—the Constantinople police arrested him
for offensive behavior, but the cops of
all other lands only laughed.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Re that human compass
of “R. Volt’s” (B. 10/4/’4O) which he
claims to be affected by magnetic cur-
rents. There was an Australian ship-
master, now dead, who must have had
it. After knocking around, first in wind-
jammers and later in steamers, he earned
the high distinction of being permitted
to enter any port in the world without
a pilot. Subsequently he took to the
land and went exploring in northern
Australia and New Guinea without
chart or mechanical compasses. He
could never account for his ability to
find his direction and, being a pious
man, attributed it to supernatural agency,
pointing sometimes to a flock of birds a
mile long simultaneously swerving and
taking a new direction. He would have
scouted any theory of magnetic currents.
But if magnetic currents are responsible
one has only to imagine them as being
as visible as a signpost, and not merely
felt, to make the behavior of the birds
perfectly comprehensible.
“Captain Pintle”: Australia’s daily
press has been registering astonishment
over the fact that an 18,000-ton overseas
liner has been “successfully steered”
from Fremantle (W.A.) to Sydney with
an “ancient compass” borrowed from the
Perth Museum. The liner’s own had
been wrecked when her foremast carried
away under a heavy lift and fell on the
bridge. The Museum had one which
once belonged to H.M.S. Penguin, pre-
served as a historical reminder of the
valuable work done by her in surveying
Westralian coasts 40-odd years ago, and
the skipper borrowed it. Once adjusted
and corrected, such an instrument is quite
as reliable in all navigating essentials as
the very latest model. My old friend
Captain Vangs once brought a 1600-ton
barque from Cape Horn latitudes to
Channel pilot waters with a boat com-
pass after the standard one had been
smashed by a demented passage-worker.
* * * *
“Exdig”: The queerest enlistment in
the first A.I.F. to my knowledge was
that of a Highlander named Macdougal!
who at first could speak only a few words
of English. In one of the isles where Gaelic
is still the spoken tongue, the big fellow
had heard that the Australian soldiers
were the best paid in the world, and
cannily he had worked his passage to
this end of the world to enlist. He was
a comforting bloke to have alongside
you when on a raiding party or a
patrol; and before the war was over he
had made up his mind that he was Aus-
tralian for good. While some Jews took
their pork ration (the British Chief Rabbi
had declared it permissible in the exigen-
cies of war) Mac persistently declined
his. He said (when he had learned to
speak English) that the anti-pork feeling
was as strong in his isle as it is in Jewry.
* * * *
“M.1.P.”: It seems I’ve been mis-
informed about the American attitude
towards marriage. I note that a Noo
Yoik businessman has given an island
in the Gulf of Mexico for the use of
honeymoon couples. Each couple, he
says, may spend a fortnight there free.
His laudable effort thus to increase the
period between marriage and divorce in
the U.S.A. deserves the co-operation of
the U.S. Government.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Melbourne’s City Fathers
ought seriously to consider Chief Sec.
Bailey’s suggestion of the Exhibition
Building as the site for a new Town Hall.
It stands in a magnificent park, and is
accessible from all sides. The existing
building needs a new roof at a cost of
£40,000, as Chief Architect Percy Everett
discovered as the result of an aeroplane
inspection the other day; and complete
repairs would run away with £lOO,OOO. It
is a rotten fire risk, being made of wood,
and it has been in danger of becoming a
torch dozens of times. It would be no
architectural loss. On celebrity-con-
cert evenings the crowds trying to get
into the hall by tram, foot and motor-car
cause a major traffic problem, and as
snobbery still demands that the Rolls-
Royce section of society should be
allowed to be driven over the pavement
up to the steps, it tends to turn the bour-
geoisie into foaming Reds. In my first
encounter with this survival of class privi-
lege, I was walking unsuspectingly along
the footpath on my lawful occasions
when I found myself almost under
the wheels of a petrol chariot. It
did not altogether mitigate my indig-
nation to vanishing point to find that
a prima donna was the chief occupant
of the vehicle.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Troubles of a country
editor! A fierce pastrycook blows in
with a paper and asks what is meant by
referring to the material that envelopes
his mince pies as “pug” pastry. The
doughman is soothed with explanations
and a promise to rectify the matter. The
next issue carries the alarming news that
“Mr. ’s mice pies contain the very
best puff pastry.” And the editor goes
off for a month’s vacation.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Psychological situa-
tions? A young woman working in the
city occupied a long, narrow room in one
of those old buildings in Melbourne
which have been reconditioned and
turned into apartments. On one side of
her was a disused passage, and on the
other was the bedroom of a young art
student with whom she passed the time
of day but never stopped to hold a con-
versation. The notion struck her that if
the wall between her room and the pas-
sage were removed it would make her
solitary abode more comfortable and
convenient, and she went to the land-
lord and asked him about it. He had
no objection as long as she paid for the
improvements, so a carpenter was sent for.
He turned up in her absence, and what
with one thing and another he got his
instructions mixed. Rather than go home
without having earned a day’s work, he
started on his job and left before the
spinster’s arrival. When she returned
from the office she found he had re-
moved the wall between her room and
the young artist’s. She now thinks the
young artist had it done on purpose.
“For the last time, will you marry me?”
THE MODERN COP.
“Sixty years ago, size was the greatest attribute
necessary for a man who desired to join the N.S.W.
police force. Now we have the proper balance
between brain and brawn.” —Chief Secretary Tonking.
Time was when height and breadth were
deemed essential
For chaps ambitious of becoming cops;
Another really valuable credential
Lay in ability to use their props,
And swing their truncheons with as fell a
stroke
As Samson with the jawbone of a moke.
On sons of Anak then we placed reliance,
Huge, hefty stalwarts built upon the lines
Of Greek and Trojan demigods, or giants
Such as the champion of the Philistines,
That formidable foe whom David got
With what would seem a mighty lucky shot.
In those far days no mental gifts amounted
To much. When came the qualifying test,
’Twas bulging biceps that directly counted,
And length of limb, and inches round the
chest,
And mutton fists matched with the sort of feet
To pound untiringly the longest beat.
The old-time bobby had to be a fellow
At whom the lightest glimpse, the barest look
Would turn the noisiest “push” a trifle yellow
And put the fear of Law into the crook.
His pull was in his presence, so to speak;
He definitely banked on his physique.
How changed the scene! No more a husky
noddy
May hope as constable to earn his bread.
In these enlightened times a bulky body
Is less important than a nimble head,
A ruling upon which it’s well to chew
If you aspire to be a boy in blue.
A bit of both may set your horn a-honking,
A lack of either turn your cake to dough.
But tell us, Mr. Secretary Tonking,
How do they fix, the blokes who run the
show,
When new recruits into the force are drawn,
“The proper balance between brain and
brawn”? *
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


O
10 for 9d...20 for V 6
E 1869
CRAVEN
IfeuM 6f}jmcutte tUm.
/
64
99
00
A
MADE
3M3S33SMME
PREV E N T
RE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
From The Bulletin’s office calendar:
FRIDAY, APRIL 19.
“If a man thinks he’s Napoleon and no-
body agrees with him, he becomes an in-
mate of the lunatic asylum; if the masses
agree with him, he becomes a dictator.”
—Olin Miller.
SATURDAY, APRIL 20.
“Those who deny freedom to others de-
serve it not themselves; and, under the
rule of a just God, cannot long retain it.”
— Lincoln.
April 20 was Hitler’s birthday. He is 51
—the age at which Napoleon died a
prisoner of the English.
Declaring that Communist publications
are “the voice of avowed enemies, not
only of the Australian and Allied war
effort, but of the present form of con-
stitutional government,” Gullett has—
suppressed them? No, placed them under
censorship. They are not to write about
the war, recruiting, training, Russia, “any
strike within the Empire or any Allied
country,” or “any industrial unrest, real
or imaginary.” Suggestive of taking
14 bites at a sour cherry.
At 63 Lang has formed another party,
“the Australian Labor party (non-
Communist).” He claims to have nine
Assemblymen in the fold, and when the
decision was taken he said:
What you have done tonight is a very
serious thing. The Communist party owes
allegiance to Russia, not to Australia. As
a party and a nation we cannot tolerate
activities by the agents of Powers in
opposition to us.
Said McKell, who leads another N.S.W.
Labor party:
Lang is a renegade.
Secretary Orr (imp.) to the A.C.T.U.,
which has had a meeting in Sydney:
If an attempt is made to cut off the
heads of the present [strike] leaders there
are hundreds who will take their place.
According to “S M. Herald,” he said
also: “The mine workers will, if neces-
sary, tie up every industry in the Com-
monwealth in order to secure justice.”
If he and his brother-blatherskites issued
such a threat in France their heads would
be in real danger. Unless the French
Government weakens, which isn’t at all
likely, Reds who come between the
nation and its preparations for preserv-
ing its existence will go to the guillotine.
The Federal A.L.P. executive, which
repudiated the “Stop the War” and
“Hands Off Russia” resolution of that
N.S.W, “Labor” conference, and let it
go at that, couldn’t have read the text
of the pledge signed by the “Stop the
War” and “Hands Off Russia” gentry.
The pledge was “to support the platform
and constitution of the Australian Labor
party and the decisions of Conference.”
Red and Pink delegates will take their
pick.
Sydney’s Macquarie-street futility has
adjourned again, this time for 12 days,
and its leading press supporter explains
the adjournment thus:
Since the House assembled there has been
little interest in the proceedings, chiefly
owing to the war, the coal strike and dis-
sension in the Labor party.
A real Parliament would find in those
things urgent reasons for sitting continu-
ously. There was great “interest in the
proceedings” when the 90 Assemblymen
raised their screws £205 p.a. to £875 p.a.,
and dated the increase back four months.
And that was in a year that brought a
£3,000,000 deficit.
The Sydney Government is increasing
the number of Supreme Court Judges
from eight to ten. Shannon, M.L.A.,
who is middle-aged, says he can remem-
ber when three did all the work, nor
were there then six Industrial Commis-
sioners, also Judges, as there are now.
Perhaps more judicial appointments are
not so much required as acceleration of
procedure, which in some jurisdictions
drags appallingly. Abandonment of the
old division of the profession into bar-
risters and solicitors would help. In States
where it was abandoned long ago, the
Law doesn’t limp as it does in N.S.W.
The troubles of Trautwein, the tax-
dodging Sydney M.L.C., reached a crisis
when a Sydney magistrate sentenced him
to a year’s imprisonment, finding that he
had “forged a document” • giving the
Crown a lien over assets valued in six
figures, the alternative to its production
being bankruptcy proceedings. Trautwein
is appealing. One paper described him
as a “former member of the Legislative
Council,” but he was elected in 1933 for
12 years from April, 1934. “Absence,
acceptance of foreign allegiance, bank-
ruptcy, acceptance of public contracts
and criminal conviction” are disquali-
fications.
Had the N.S.W. Railway Department
laid in as much coal as its opposite
number in S.A. did (at a much greater
“Every ill Labor has suffered lies at the door of this disrupter.”— Mr. Curtin on being
informed that Mr. Lang had given birth to another party.
“Go, you disgraceful creature, and never darken these doors again!”
cost per ton) as a safeguard against
the strike of which there were so
many warnings, it would have been
able to carry on for two months.
As it was, the strike caught it
with 200,DU0 tons ot large cuu.* anu
100,000 tons of small (for its power-
houses) —not eight weeks’ supplies. For
this sort of foresight and business acu-
men, the Boss draws £5OOO a year, and
in December, having turned 63, his ap-
pointment was renewed for seven years.
Sydney municipal politics are not what
they were in the grand old days. Last
week Acting Judge Studdert dismissed
the appeals of the three Waterloo aider-
men who got three months’ hard for fol-
lowing an old Tammany custom, pro-
nouncing “the crime” of which they were
convicted “an extremely grave one.”
And, by “unanimous request of the City
Council,” aldermanic elections are to be
purified by precautionary measures de-
signed, among other things, to prevent
more than half the electors voting by
post, and to frustrate jokers such as those
who applied for a postal vote in the name
of “Sir Samuel Hordern, Crown-street.”
There is a maternity hospital in Crown-
street together with places in Which
maternity is not practised.
“Applause greeted Mr. Ward, M.H.R,
when he declared it was traitorous for
any man to advocate sending Australians
abroad.” Thus the approving “Daily
News.” Then came “Mr. Clive Evatt,
M.L.A. (Hurstville): ‘The Federal Gov-
ernment knows it is committing a crimi-
nal folly by sending our young men away
before the international situation is clan-
fied.’ ” How the conscript soldiers of
Britain and France will applaud these
sentiments when they are broadcast from
Berlin and Moscow!
The. softest political job going is a seat
in the Westralian Leg. Council. Twenty-
eight members get £6OO p.a. for six years,
with more for the President and chair-
man of committees, and railway tram-
way and bus passes for the 30. The
railway passes are good for all Govern-
ment lines in Australia and Maoriland,
and sleepers are thrown in. The “work”
consists of attending the House for 12
to 15 hours a week from August to
December, with no obligation to be
present all the time, an occasional ad-
journment for a fortnight and liberal pro-
vision for leave of absence “on the
ground of urgent private business.” Im-
portunate constituents can be ignored,
and there is no need to address public
meetings except at six-yearly intervals.
The strange part is that there is never
any rush for seats, though practically
every householder has the vote.
If the Perth Upper House lasts long
enough, it may have centenarian mem-
bers some day. Ex-Mayor Franklin’s
term as Metropolitan M.L.C. expires
next month, and his friends say he is
going to stand again. Franklin, who was
one of the young lions of secession, is 86.
A union secretary to the A.C.T.U.
conference:
The whole aim and object of Allied
strategy at present is to divert this war into
a war against Soviet Russia.
So now we know why Allied troops have
landed in Norway.
That very superior American Mr. C.
Hartley Grattan, who was disappointed
with Australia because it hadn’t swung
far enough to the Left, is now prepared
to let Australasia “take shelter under
America’s wing,” provided it recognises
that “the British Empire, considered as a
coherent London-directed organisation,
has long been disintegrating and is no
longer effective in the Pacific basin.
What about C. Hartley Grattans very
undecided Republic taking shelter under
Australasia’s wing? Then it could get
little Maoriland to make up its mind tor
it.
Railwaymea who belong to the A.R.U.
have some great minds among them
Red leaders. At the A.C.T.U. Congress
Ross, their N.S.W. secretary, loudly
condemned the war against Germany, ad-
vocating that Australian workers should
boycott it, or something. Chappie, their
Federal secretary, on the same day and in
the same place, called on the Govern-
ment to aid China.
In resisting Japan’s aggression, China is
fighting the struggle of the Australian
people.
Railwaymen, at any rate, can have it
both ways.
“There is no enthusiasm for this war”
—Sydney “Daily News,” which wanted
Australians to fight for Abyssinians, Red
Spaniards, Czechs and Chinese. The
enemy is chock-full of enthusiasm and
arrogance; but then the “D.N. idea
is that “opposition at home to the
oppressive measures of reactionary Gov-
ernments” like those of Mair and
Menzies will settle him.
In N. S. Wales last harvest
there was .a shortage of wheat-
bags and prices rose. It was
alleged that jute merchants were
taking advantage of the war to
juggle with the commodity, and
the reply was that shortage of
shipping and British sandbag
orders were responsible. Now
Canberra has set up a Jute
Advisory Committee to buy jute
in India, bring it to Australia
and divide it among merchants
according to requirements, which
will be based on estimates pre-
pared by the Wool and Wheat
Boards. But how can a Jute
Advisory Committee counter
lack of shipping and Allied sand-
bag demands?
There are normally about
16,000 coalminers in N. S.
Wales. In 1937, working days
lost through strikes averaged
20.30 per employee, and in 1938
45.17. The figures for Britain,
where 780,000 coalies are em-
ployed in good times, were 1.92
in 1937 and 0.89 in 1938. This
year, as part of their war effort,
British pitmen have toiled
harder than ever (many sacri-
ficed 50 p.c. of their Easter holi-
days) for very much less than the average
daily earnings of northern N.S.W. miners
(machinemen £1 17s. 7d. to £2 135.,
shooters and fillers £1 11s. 6d. to £1 15s.
9d., pick miners £1 10s. 3d to £2 10s. 4d.,
contract wheelers £1 2s. 9d. to £1 15s.
lid.), working five to seven hours at
the face. N.S.W. miners are engaged in
a strike which their Red bosses proudly
claim to be a record for duration and
damage to Australian industry.
With four months of the financial
year to go, “progress deficits” of the
State encumbrances amounted to
£11,324,000, and Canberra reported with
anguish that “drastic revision of loan
allocations” to meet the full liabilities
would have to be “undertaken by the
Loan Council.” Though the N.S.W.
tribulation imposed savage taxation in
November, it was £4,365,000 behind at
the end of March ; and victims are now
informed that the deficit which, as a result
of this legalised brigandage, was to be
“reduced” to £1,500,000 will be greatly
increased. The more money this mob
borrows and takes, the greater the annual
loss. It has really become a case for the
Commonwealth Bankruptcy Court.


CROWNING GLORY.
Having already given their sons, their husbands and their brass and iron to the Fuehrer, German women are now asked for their hair to make carpets and
felt for the Reich.”


The Richardson Chain Hotel
Jlfe
I s ■.[
33
33
S:‘
n I*
Ti I! ri
33
3-3 .11!
'n i 2’i,
II T> H?
i
!' !'! K
L' * if
JJ It
I
MELBOURNE’.
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street. Melbourne
(Oi>posite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: M 4 14 I (10 lines).
Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
® Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/l/’3B). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia : Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
FOR '
YOUR SAVINGS...
Coreful Investors will consider
FIBST A USTB AUI H jl fe IT TRUST
which::;: spreads funds over .the
shares of 20 Companies. / <
Custodian Trustees fair, investors;
Union Insurance Society Of Canton
.Ltd.
Write for a free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4628 V.V, C, P.O i SYDNEY
TELEPHONE; B 5294
PERSONAL ITEM S
Latest recruits to the R.A.A.F. are
Flight-Lieuts. T. W. White, M.H.R., and
C. O. Fairbairn. Latter is a brother of
the Minister for Air, and the other is the
man who made a forced landing outside
Bagdad in the last war in an attempt to
cut a telegraph line, and was interned in
various Turkish prison camps until he
made his escape just before the Armis-
tice. He wrote a good book about it.
Charles Ernest Cameron Wilson, for
many years medical officer of the S.A.
Children’s Welfare Department and of the
Gaols and Prisons Department, will reach
retiring age next September. His grand-
parents on both father’s and mother’s
side were S.A. pioneers, and his paternal
grand-dad, Thomas Wilson, was Adel-
aide’s second mayor. Adelaide and Mel-
bourne Universities give C. E. C. Wilson
his degrees. He was in private practice
DR. C. E. C. WILSON.
in the Wallaroo and Kadina districts be-
fore receiving his official appointments.
His hobby is ornithology, and he takes
a keen interest in, and has followed,
almost every sort of sport.
Admiral Ernest Gaunt, whose death is
reported from London, belonged to one of
Melbourne’s most distinguished families.
Eldest brother, Lieut.-Col. C. R. Gaunt,
served with the 4th Dragoon Guards on
India’s stormy Nor’-West Frontier, in the
Boer War and in Mesopotamia. A
younger brother, Admiral Guy Gaunt,
started in the mercantile marine, got a
master’s ticket, joined the Royal Navy
and saw service in the Philippines, Samoa
and on the China station in the Russo-
Jap shindy. During the 1914-18 war he
was naval attache at Washington. Sister
Mary, sometime a journalist on the
staffs of Melbourne “Age” and “Argus,”
is the author of a shelf of books, mainly
novels. The late Judge W. H. Gaunt was
their father. Melbourne Grammar edu-
cated the three brothers, and Grenville
College, Ballarat, the sister. Ernest, who,
like Guy, earned a knighthood, was Rear-
Admiral of the First Battle Squadron at
Jutland. He was 75.
Passed out at 47 James Lodge, whose
father was one of Melbourne’s first
monumental masons. He and his numer-
ous brothers helped to carve the stones
of some of the city’s finest old buildings.
The coming of the machine age and the
decay of the carver has wrought a revolu-
tion in the mason’s craft, and the Lodges’
last big job in that line was the £250,000
Shrine of Remembrance, built largely of
Victorian marble.
A Fellowship of the Royal Society,
one of science’s highest honors, has come
the way of Dr. C. H. Kellaway, the mix-
ture of urbanity and keenness who
directs the complicated affairs of the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in Mel-
bourne. Some years ago Kellawav
started inquiring into the effects of snake
venom on human tissue with a view to
finding a universal antidote. He carried
it far enough for the job to be passed
on to the Commonwealth Serum Labora-
tory, and then turned the knowledge he
had gained on to researches into the
liberation of physically-active substances
in tissue injuries, out of which may come
a new technique for dealing with war
wounds. It was his latest work in this
direction which gained him his new dis-
tinction. He won an M.C. in the last
war as a major in the A.A.M.C., and
was director of Army Hygiene from
1927 to 1931. He is 51 and the son of
a Melbourne parson.
Knight William George Toop Good-
man, 68-year-old general manager and
chief engineer of the Adelaide Tramway
Trust, often has morning tea on Sundays
in any one of 516 three- or four-roomed
suburban cottages. He is chairman of
the S.A. Housing Trust, which runs the
State Government’s model housing
scheme, and shows a personal interest in
the welfare of the tenants.
Prof. A. L. Campbell, who was assis-
tant N.S.W. censor in 1914-18, is sling-
ing his ‘2O-stone weight about these days
as District Censor for S.A. He has
farmed out some of his lectures at Adel-
aide Uni., where he
occupies the Bonython
Chair of Law. Kevin
Ward, who learned all
he didn’t already know
about constitutional
law when he went
through the James
dried - fruits case, is
doing some of the lec-
tures, and others are
shared by Eric Mill-
house who recently
succeeded Tom O’Hal-
loran, K.C., as League
football chairman —and
the veteran George Me-
Ewin. Prof. Campbell,
like Bradman, was born
at Bowral (N.S.W.).
Law is only one of his
accomplishments, as he
took first-class honors
in mechanical and elec-
trical engineering at
Sydney Uni.
Died in London last
week, Earl Christopher
Squire, well known in
Sydney. He was U.S.A.
Trade Commissioner in
Australia from 1927 to
1938. Born in Michi-
gan, he graduated at
Michigan Uni., and
was throughout his life
a keen student of economics. At the
time of his death he was a member of
the U.S.A. Embassy staff in London.
Just-retired Dr. David Murray Morton
was for close on 50 years one of Mel-
bourne’s leading surgeons. He served
St. Vincent's Hospital in an honorary
capacity for so long—from 1896 to 1932
—that he was known as its “father.” He
had a successful career at the Uni. and
emerged in 1892 to start on an equally
successful career in private practice.
During the 1914-18 war he was at Caul-
field Base Hospital.
Dead in Brisbane, J. M. Hunter, who
once remarked that if he was a capitalist
employer it was an “accident of race,”
but that his Labor principles were a
matter of conviction. Hunter was born
on a Scottish emigrant ship, became a
prosperous storekeeper in Roma (Q-),
won the Maranoa State seat for Labor
1907, sat in the Ryan Cabinet 1915-18
as Lands Minister, became Queensland
Agent-General, and retired after a serious
illness in 1922. He devoted his last years
to agriculture, the kirk and bowls.
Adelaide Uni. has appointed Jack
Roland Stanley Beard to be its lecturer
in gynaecology, vice T. G. Wilson, re-
signed. Beard was born in Adelaide 49
years ago. Graduated in medicine at
Adelaide Uni. in 1914, and soon after
went abroad with the A.I.F. as a medical
officer, and served until the last shot was
fired. Went in for post-graduate work
at Birmingham Uni. before settling down
in his practice in Adelaide, bringing back
a French wife with him. His researches
into the mechanics of childbirth have
earned him world-wide praise. On Anzac
Days he sports his M.C., won at Bulle-
court for conspicuous gallantry.
H. Van de Velde, managing director
of Felt and Textiles and director of Brad-
ford Cotton Mills, is a man of affairs with
a flair for beautifying externals —a rare
combination. His roof garden at Feltex
House, George-street, Sydney, is a gem
of beauty set in the undistinguished
muddle of Sydney roofs, and his big
garden at Leura has been described as
the loveliest piece of individual landscape
gardening in N.S.W. It was designed
by Sorensen, the landscape gardener,
who overcame the difficulty of merging
the natural features of the landscape into
the built-up beauty of terraced lawns and
flower masses. Wandering about it, one
has the sensation of being transported a
H. VAN DE VELDE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
hundred years ahead of our present era
of culture. A man who can make money
and know how to spend it in a way like
this is a cultural asset to Australia. At
Kalgoorlie Van de Velde, whom Frith
has modelled, put on the gloves with Jack
Johnson, and was bigger in every meas-
urement, except round the neck.
Ethelbert Ambrook Southee, who has
been principal of Hawkesbury College
since 1919, and looks very little older now
than he did when he took up the reins,
camouflages a heavy swag of academic
distinctions with a breezy manner and
an infectious grin. He’ll be 50 next
August. Born at Cootamundra -1
he got his education at Sydney High,
E. A. SOUTHEE.
Sydney Uni. and Oxford Uni., where a
Rhodes scholarship took him. He served
in the 1914-18 war in France and Italy,
and was twice mentioned in dispatches.
He won his double blue in Rugby foot-
ball at Oxford, and reminded old friends
that he used to be the fastest sprinter in
N. S. Wales by winning the 100-metre
championship of the Allied Forces in
Italy in 1919. Nowadays he plays a
hard game of tennis.
Bespectacled John William Wainwright,
S.A.’s Auditor-General, was born in Adel-
aide 59 years ago. He began his career m
1908 as a State-school teacher, two years
later being transferred to the Audit
Office. In 1934 he stepped into the shoes
of W. E. Rogers, whose trenchant criti-
cisms of Government finance used to
rock the foundations of Parliament House
—Wainwright’s annuals do not go off
with such resounding cracks. Besides
keeping his eyes on the pennies, Wain-
wright prepares and argues S.A.’s cases
for grants and lectures at Adelaide
University—he graduated there in 1916
—on public administration and finance
and political institutions.
“Sakabona”: Hubert Murray, of
Papua, in his military career was as
democratic as he was during his long
Governorship of Australia’s big northern
dependency. As an unshaven and ver-
minous corporal, writer was sent one
night, just after the British occupation of
Pretoria in June, 1900, to take a message
to the 0.C., 2nd N.S.W. Mounted Rifles,
camped just outside the Transvaal capital.
When he had with some difficulty located
the lines of the regiment the first person
he encountered after the challenging
sentry was Major Murray, a “special
service” officer attached to the corps,
whom he had known in civil life in Syd-
ney. “Hullo,” said Murray, “what are
you doing here?” “A note for Colonel
Knight, sir.” “Oh, damn the ‘sir’ —
that’s Knight’s tent over there. Run
along and deliver the letter and then
come and have grub with me.” We fed
under the Cape cart where Murray’s
blankets were spread on a tin of bully
beef, army biscuits, raw onions and a
magnum of champagne which the major
had somehow got hold of in Pretoria the
day it surrendered.


Of course! I could
tell it blindfold.
Are you sure
it's White Horse?
There’s no mistaking its distinct-
ive fragrance, its smoothness and
mellowness. This whisky is like a fine liqueur. Of
course it’s White Horse, I recognised it at once.”
Screw-cap
flasks of
convenient
sizes on sale
everywhere
&
urn
Oil)
fin
£*SbM
WHITE HORSE
WHISKY
The millions of gallons of finest Scotch whisky
matured and maturing ensure that the quality of White Horse never varies.
R3945M.


ABORIGINLITIES
“Old-timer”: Bluey and Dutch, raiding
an apple orchard in central N.S.W. one
night, suddenly froze as they heard foot-
steps sneaking towards them. Then a
voice was heard profanely assuring some-
one in low tones that it had both barrels
loaded and would “blow a hole in the
seat of their pants if they show up.”
Blue and Dutch took to their scrapers,
fell over the wire fence and bolted down
the road, hearing behind them the clatter
of other boots. They whizzed round a
corner, doubled back along a weed-
grown but dry ditch, cut across a lucerne
paddock and chanced the freezing water
of a 4ft.-deep creek, finally reaching their
camp in safety. Next morning Blue
was drying their things by the fire while
Dutch boiled the billy. They were all
set to break camp when a utility truck
drove up and the driver asked the way.
“Got to wire up a couple more loud-
speakers in old Smitheram’s orchard,” he
said. “He uses ’em to scare off fruit
thieves. So long.” Bluey watched him
go, thoughtfully turning his damp shirt
before the blaze. “Think we’ll make for
the city, Dutch,” he said. “These bush
blokes are too damned up to date f’r
a honest bagman.”
# *
“2.L.X.” : One of the rummiest cases
of heredity in horses I’ve struck was
a little mare bred on Maneroo (C.Q.).
For some unknown reason she had a
horror of the call of black cockatoos.
When they flew overhead, doing their
horrible howls, that little mare would
stand with her head up, ears pricked,
eyes staring, feet spread, heart pumping,
with the sweat breaking out on shoulders
and flanks. Her foals took after her.
Later, the second generation were bred
on the Barkly Tablelands, where a black
cockatoo is so rare that the blacks don’t
list it among the birds. Yet, though a
grandson of the old mare had never
heard a cockatoo till he was an aged
horse, at the first funereal note of an
alleged rain-bringer that flew overhead
the old gelding went through exactly
the same antics his grandma had per-
formed. She had no means of setting
an example to the grandson. She died
years before he was born.
* * * *
Bob’ : Frith’s horned Aberdeen-
Angus bull (B. 27/3/’4O) reminds me of
one I once owned. Years ago when the
poleys were unknown here in Westralia,
I bought a young black bull with a
mob of stores. I didn’t know much
about breeds, but I could see that he
was a first-rate piece of beef, so I kept
him for breeding purposes. Although
he developed small snail-like horns grow-
ing downwards we always referred to
him as “the Aberdeen-Angus.” Mac,
who had bred the A.-As. back in Scot-
land, wouldn’t hear of it. '“A doddy
canna hae horns,” he said. I happened
to see in a newspaper a photo of an
Angus bull in the King’s stud and there,
sure enough, were the snaily horns.
Triumphantly I showed the paper to
Mac, but he wasn’t impressed. “A doddy
canna hae horns,” he repeated. “Some
rogue sold the King a crossbred!”
* * * *
“Kea”: A reversal of the road that
was the creek in wet weather (B.
10/4/’4O) was met by a traveller who
“ Listen , you, We ’op over at three sharp. Any bloke not ready'll be left be’ind.”
was invited to visit a large, isolated
station in Maoriland’s farthest north. He
set out from the nearest port in his
small car and followed his written direc-
tions with success until he came to a
point at which the road ended abruptly.
All around him was flat waste land, with
a very shallow creek meandering across
it. The directions at this point read
“From here on follow up creek,” but as
there was considerable scrub about the
perturbed motorist could not see himself
taking a course through it. Just as he
was about to turn away to seek assist-
ance there was a hail ahead, and down
the creek splashed a car sent out to guide
him. That creek, never more than a few
inches deep, was the station road, and
for four miles led over an extraordinarily
even bed to the homestead.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Ever watched a mixed
mob of horses playing chasings on a
frosty night? They’ll be feeding in a
normal manner when one will toss up
his head, snort, and leg it for the bottom
of the paddock. No sooner is he off
than the rest are after him, good hacks
gaining, others battling, foals following
with tails erect and whinnying wildly,
all strung out and flinging up clods, with
away at the rear an old draught mare
pounding along with a “Gurrawump!
Gurrawump!” that shakes the valley—
and the whole lot racing as though Car-
bine’s ghost is behind them. Then just
when it seems they’ll never pull up this
side of the ’Bidgee somebody in front
says “Last back lousy!” and they skid
to a standstill, wheel, and charge down
on old Kate, who wasn’t even aware
they’d stopped. She utters an agonised
squeal, nearly breaks her neck trying
to turn in her own length, and gets going
again; by the time she thunders up
the rest are back where they started,
standing as though they’d never moved,
The old girl lets out a steamy snort
which says “You’re all mad, the lot o’
y’!” A mopoke croaks endorsement,
and the vapor from a score of nostrils
drifts away to join the flat film of fog
now hiding the creek.
* * * *
“Halcyon”: The observation of
“Bufo” (B. 3/4/’4O) that from white
eggs no really good bush songsters are
hatched amounts to nothing more than
a mare’s-nest. White-egg-layers con-
stitute only a comparatively small per-
centage of the numerous species of birds
in this country. They include parrots,
kingfishers, dollar-birds, bee-eaters, owls,
etc., all of which lay their eggs in well-
concealed nests, the hollows of trees
being the most popular building sites,
Since the nest is well hidden no protec-
tive coloration is required for the eggs,
Nor can “Bufo’s” suggestion that our
best avian vocalists run to dandyism in
dress be taken seriously. The birds from
white eggs can easily claim pride of
place in beauty and color of plumage—
and all are “songless bright birds.”
* * * *
“A Mother”: Had “Odd Pint” (B.
27/3/’4O) known the full circumstances
I’m sure his references to little Colin
Moreland’s hazardous trip to Moree
would not have been tinged with
sarcasm. It was the same six-year-old
who, while his mother was ill in bed and
his small brother and sister were sud-
denly overcome in that dreadful January
heat-wave (both died the next day),
walked six miles through burrs and cat-
heads to the station where his father was
boundary rider to get help. Having no
boots he put on his father’s to protect
his feet, throwing them off in despera-
tion at not being able to get along fast
enough. And if “0.P.” knows the black-
soil plains and their burrs he’d appre-
ciate that feat. Another thing, these
people live six miles from anyone and
any habitation, and the mother only gets
away when there happens to be a trip
to a doctor. With no recreation and no
wireless or neighbors, the youngster’s
loneliness may well be imagined.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Admitting that Dobbin
can drink astonishing quantities of water
(B. 3/4/’4O), bitter experience convinces
me that Strawberry can give him a few
points—and pints. Building a new
homestead on a small farm, I had occa-
sion to slake three bags of lime—a pro-
cess requiring about 200 gallons of
water. The cocky showed me the creek,
lent me half a dozen 40-gallon drums
and a horse and dray, at the same time
advising me to draw all the water I would
need, as his son was taking the dray
contracting for a week. It was a wet and
tedious job filling the drums per kero-
sene-tin, holding a cornbag over the top
to prevent splash en route, and bailing
out at the other end ; but when I knocked
off I had five full drums—2oo gallons,
In the morning the water had dwindled to
less than 70 gallons—and there were
only six cows in the paddock. It wa
most expensive round of drinks i
stood—l 7 trips carrying a couple o er
sene-tins 200 yards each way!
* * * »v,„ rl v o ntal”
Mt. Mawson : Next to .
the biggest curse to anyone 1 native
swag in the Tassie bush is about
rose, or bauera a vinelike scruD ao
the thickness of a pencil, which grows
in comparatively open spaces. iniei
woven with saplings and cutting-grass
bushes, it forms a tangled and entangling
barrier shoulder-high, and to get through
it the springy mass has to be clawed
down with the hands and trodden under-
foot with each step—an exhausting job,
especially when climbing up a steep hill-
side. But it is on the wet flats along
stream courses that it is encountered at
its worst. You may have to clamber on
it and roll over to the other side, always
a risky business because of snakes and
the fact that you might roll too far
and end up anchored in midstream with
only boots above water,
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Come on, you marine
Ananiases where is there a reliably-
recorded instance of a human being
ever having been killed by an octopus?
I won’t say injured, because I knew a
chap who broke his leg by slipping on
one on a boat’s deck, but that’s the only
injury I’ve heard of by the eight-feelered
fraud. The popular idea is that it is
always lurking about to grab a fish or
a swimmer. In cold fact it doesn’t eat
fish—at least, none of the scores which
I’ve opened up contained anything except
shellfish and small crabs. Nor does it use
its tentacles for collecting tucker ; their
purpose is to enable it to crawl about
on rough sea-bottoms without getting
carried away by currents or falling into
holes. And it is the most timid of sea
creatures, shooting backwards at the least
sign of danger. When handled it makes
no attempt to use its beak. At Nauru
and other Pacific islands the local lads
and lasses dive for octopuses, and fetch
them up from five fathoms or more after
biting them on the back of the neck to
kill them.
* * * *
“Llanb.”: A disturbing experience for a
m i ner is to crawl along a stope that has
been filled preparatory to the taking out
of the next cut and note the multitude
of fallen pieces and the huge slabs of
rock that seem to be hanging almost
by a hair. So much stone falls in a
stope left hanging that in the old Bal-
larat mines many stopes practically
worked themselves, the suspended quartz
eventually falling in hundreds of tons,
Overlying those quartz lodes were hun-
dreds of feet of bluestone. When the
topmost cut of quartz had fallen a
geologist would venture in, examining
the surfaces of the quartz and the over-
cap. In this way much information was
gained regarding the ancient land surface
as it was before floods of volcanic
matter poured down the valley where
now stands Ballarat. Incidentally, it
took quite a bit of nerve to be the first
human venturing into a narrow, inky-
black crack 400 feet underground.
THE BUSHRANGERS.
“The historic Faithful Creek homestead, where the
Kelly gang held their prisoners while they robbed
the bank in E'uroa, has been destroyed by fire.”
Four horsemen rode out from the heart of the
range,
Four horsemen with aspects forbidding and
strange.
They were booted and spurred, they were armed
to the teeth,
And they frowned as they looked on the
valley beneath,
As forward they rode through the rocks and
the fern —
Ned Kelly, Dan Kelly, Steve Hart and Joe
Byrne.
Ned Kelly drew rein and he shaded his eyes—
“ The town’s at our mercy! See yonder it lies!
To hell with the troopers!”—he shook his
clenched fist—
“We will shoot them like dogs if they dare to
resist!
And all of them nodded, grim-visaged and
stern —
Ned Kelly, Dan Kelly, Steve Hart and Joe
Byrne.
Through the gullies and creeks they rode
silently down;
They stuck-up the station and raided the town;
They opened the safe and they looted the bank;
They laughed and were merry, they ate and
they drank.
Then off to the ranges they went with their
gold—
Oh! never were bandits more reckless and bold.
But time brings its punishment, time travels
fast —
And the outlaws were trapped in Glenrowan
at last,
Where three of them died in the smoke and the
flame,
And Ned Kelly came back —to the last he was
game.
But the Law shot him down (he was fated
to hang),
And fhat was the end of the bushranging gang.
Whatever their faults and whatever their crimes,
Their deeds lend romance to those faraway
times.
They have gone from the gullies they haunted
of old,
And nobody knows where they buried their
gold.
To the ranges they loved they will never
return —
Ned Kelly, Dan Kelly, Steve Hart and Joe
Byrne.
But at times when I pass through that sleepy
old town
Where the far-distant peaks of Strathbogie look
down
I think of the days when those grim ranges
rang
To the galloping hooves of the bushranging
gang.
Though the years bring oblivion, time brings
a change,
The ghosts of the Kellys still ride from the
range.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


“Wang”: “On the tramp one time,”
related Dan, “I spots a crib standin' in
from the road. When I knocks on the
back door to bite ’em for a handout, a
little whiskered bloke with a strained look
opens it, an’ w’ispers ‘Henrietta is
in there layin’ ‘l’m sorry,’ I finds
meself w’isperin’ back, an’ doffs me lid
an’ turns fi make orf, feelin’ sorta
ashamed of meself at askin’ for grub
where someone’s layin’ dead. ‘Don’t go
yet,’ the ole coot whispers agen, an’
grabs me arm an’ leads me round t’ the
front verandah. As we pass a winder
at the side of the house I sees an elderly
woman sittin’ inside with the same
strained look. He points to a form an’
squats down, me beside him. We’re
“Just the man I Want! Jump up, lad ; the orn's gone bung”
“ Ad ter dig it up again. Bert left is pipe down there.”
sittin’ there a few minnits when a
hen starts cacklin’. The ole chap
leaps t’ his feet, his glum look
gorn an’ his eyes glistenin’ with ex-
citement, while the old girl comes tearin’
out, gigglin’ hysterical. ‘What the’
I starts t’ say. ‘lt’s Henrietta,’ gabbles
the ’ole bloke ; ‘she’s just beaten the Aus-
traylian egg-layin’ record fer a Whits
Leghorn.’ Cripes, ole Henrietta proved
a friend t’ me. They wus so pleased they
couldn’t give me enough scran.”
* * * *
“Aratta”: “Bah!” said old Scotty.
“Lota fuss they make ’bout these ’ere
trapdoor spiders down near the city. If
they’d lived up at Buttacoola they’d have
had something t’ talk about. They wus
that big the women useter use their trap-
doors for saucepan lids.” “Them wus
on’y babies t’ what we useter have in the
Mallee then,” chipped in one of the mob.
“There they wus that big the wimmen-
fplk used their doors fer copper lids.”
“’Struth! Is that all!” scoffed Long
Alec. “Why, out in western Queens-
land where I come from the cockies use
their trapdoors fer wagon wheels.” “An’
I s’pose they use the spiders t’ pull the
wagons?” said ole Scotty sarcastically,
nettled at being such an also-ran. “Well,
they tried it,” answered Long Alec evenly,
‘‘but it cost too much to keep them
spiders shod!”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We wandered into a
pub on the road from Clare to Terowie
(S.A.) to find “Germany Jim,” a hefty
sort well known for his fistic ability, in
the bar throwing his verbal weight about
among the half-dozen inhabitants. Mat
and GJ. had never demonstrated any
violent affection for each other, so my
mate went to the far end of the counter.
Before he could call for a drink “Ger-
many” cried, “They’re on me, every-
body up.” Mat continued his close study
of the fly-spotted picture of Carbine
above the bar. Before I could yell,
“Germ.” jumped forward, swung Mat
round and jobbed him. “So y’ think I
ain’t good enough to drink with, do
y’! ” he snarled. Then followed as pretty
a set-to as that pub had ever witnessed.
They fought each other to a standstill,
with the honors about even. Then, as
they sat gasping and blowing, with the
rest of us administering to their hurts,
Mat asked, “What did y’ go me for,
Germany?” Jim glared at him. “I
arst y’ to have a drink,” he said, “an'
y’ knocked me back.” “I never heard
y’,” Mat declared, so flatly that none
doubted the truth of it. Then, as they
stared at each other, slowly realising that
they’d fought over something that hadn’t
happened, Mat said, “Ask me again.”
“Have a drink?” said Jim. “I’ve drunk
with all sorts o’ things in me time,” said
Mat, “but I’m damned if I’ll drink with
a ruddy blowfly!” Then the real fight
started.
#
“Duco”: “When I was workin’ on a
buildin’ down at Sydney,” said the new-
comer, “I ’ad a big fat mate. Nearly as
big as a ’ouse, Fatty was. We was work-
in’ sixteen storeys ’igh, when Fatty sud-
denly lorst "is balance an’ fell from th’
girder screamin’. I was just about t’
close me eyes t’ shut out the awful
sight that would foller when the ten-ton
crane on the ground below swung around
and the ’ook caught in Fatty’s boot.
When I saw this miricle ’appen before
me eyes” His tale was interrupted
by an interjector. “Break it down! Break
it down! I s’pose yer gonna say that
the crane saved ’is life?” The newcomer
looked hurt. “O’ course it didn’t save
’is life. ’E was that ’eavy the crane
snapped clean in ’arves!”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Everybody has heard of
the abo. trick of obtaining water from
the roots of certain trees, but how many
know that ’roos and wallabies, when
hard-pushed for a drink, practise the
method? Well out on the Ashburton
(W.A.) watershed, dead-dry country, we
quite often came across water-wattles the
roots of which had been dug out and
partly torn up. Thought at first that this
must be clumsy abo. work, but old
Paddymelon, questioned on
the point, assured us other-
wise. “Wallaby pfeller. Plurry
dry, diggum down, bitem off,
suckum up.” In pantomime
he illustrated the process.
Unbelieving, we made care-
ful examination of the dig-
ging ; the marks of marsupial
claws were unmistakable. An
old battler, met further on,
averred that he had actually
seen marsupials doing it.
“You can always tell where
they’ve been by the bark
being left on the roots; a
nigger nearly always peels his
before he starts to drain the
water out.” Now, who was
the original discoverer of this
root water-supply? Did the
wallaby learn it from the
abo. or the abo. from the
wallaby?
“Padflogger”: When battling a way
through the dry Westralian interior my
old man always took two elementary but
seemingly rather absurd precautions: he
never failed to pack a complete soldering
outfit and a handy cage in which Carlo
could ride, camel or horseback, instead
of footing it like the humans. Why the
solder? Well, the iron canteen beats
the waterbag or even the barrel as water
container, but is very liable to damage.
A kick from a fractious oont, a fall on
rocky ground, a vicious camel rolling—
and the canteen leaks. More than one
expedition has come near to a disastrous
perish through lack of a simple soldering
outfit. As for giving Carlo his ride,
that was in doubtful nigger country. A
dog that walks all day is a tired dog by
night, and sleeps soundly. A carried dog
sleeps by day and keeps watch all night.
* * # *
“Gryllus”: Six months ago I picked
up a rusted pipe-reducing socket and put
it on a fence-post in our garden. It is a
solid iron affair about 3in. high, with
a 2in. opening at one end and a lin.
one at the other. A month later a frog
had taken up quarters inside and,
although it looked too big to get through
the top opening, seemed quite happy and
contented as frogs go. During the next
month it had grown still more but took
no interest in offerings of flies or ant-
eggs, although it plainly couldn’t get out.
The hottest summer on record arrived,
but after scorching weeks during which
its iron prison gave numerous ther-
mometer readings of over 120 deg. on
the unshaded exterior, that unfed, water-
less frog not only survived but grew till
he was a tight fit. In the fourth month
of his tenancy someone accidentally
knocked the socket off the post and the
frog disappeared into the grass, hopping
vigorously. A week later a colony of
green ants had occupied the replaced
socket and got themselves evicted by
stinging me. Then some small wasps
took a fancy to its all mod. cons, and
furnished it neatly in papier mache. They
stung the ruler of this household, and
she gave them notice with a kettle of
hot water. Now a lady spider occupies
the abode, clasping a large silken egg-
bag. I’m looking for more sockets—
clearly an attractive and popular type
of dwelling.
* * * #
“Granova”: A Tumbarumba (N.S.W.)
bagman had a unique and effective
method of keeping warm during the
chilly nights of the southern tablelands.
After letting his big campfire of logs
burn down he would rake a thick layer
of ashes over the coals and doss on
them, merely covering his hips with a
bag. Early morning travellers, seeing
him lying in the snow, would go to in-
spect what they thought must be a dead
man, only to be met with a storm of
profanity from the disturbed sleeper.
Known as “Dirty Charlie,” he was
recognised as a white man only after
he had taken on the job of washing a
sulky for painting with a caustic-soda
solution, some of which splashed on his
hands. Strangely, water, which he
avoided so strenuously all his life, caused
his death ; he was found drowned in the
water-race of one of the mines.
A SNAKE YARN.
We were yarning round the fireside in the hut
at Booberoi;
The yarns —as all yarns will —got on to
snakes.
They told some pretty tall ones, from the fore-
man to the boy
Who ran along the fence line with the stakes.
There were tales of Queensland pythons that
could crush an iron chest,
And black snakes on the Murray ten yards
long;
And the cook, he told a beauty of a wriggler
in the west —
Ate canaries till its hiss became a song.
And so the tales from mouth to mouth around
the circle went —
The snakes got bigger as the stories sped;
We might have yarned there in that hut until
the night was spent,
But Andy Cain rose up and slowly said:
“I'm campin’ on the Namoi in the floods of
’ninety-four,
On a rise that’s well above high-water line.
1 never thought she’d rise so high, she never
had before,
But through the night she reached that camp
o’ mine.
“I wakes up with me coat-tails wet, I’m movin’
down the flood,
I see the passin’ treetops from me craft.
I reckon that I’m floatin’ on a heap of sticks
an’ mud,
An’ I’m thinkin’ it’s a doubtful kind o’ raft.
Then I feels it heavin’ fore an’ aft, an’ twistin’
in the stream;
It wriggles, bends an’ rolls—l holds me
breath;
Then dawn —an’, spare me bloomin’ days,
I thought it was a dream
When 1 lamps what’s saved me from a wat’ry
death.
“Fair dinkum, mates, I’m ridin’ on a raft of
flamin’ snakes!
There must’ve bin a million in the bunch!
There’s blacks an’ browns an’ tigers, all the
big an’ little Blakes
That ever round the Namoi hunted lunch.
Well, we travelled on the flood crest, an’ I’m
sittin’ mighty still,
Y’ can bet y’ lives I daresn’t move a hand;
Then we drifts upon a island that was once a
fair-sized hill,
An’ me livin’ raft it makes a dash f’r land.
“They leaves me standin’ in the flood in water
to me knees
While they covers every blasted inch of
ground.
There ain’t a spot where I can land —they even
climb the trees —
It looks as though I’ve reached the final
round.
Well, lads, a bushman’s never beat; I gets
a notion quick,
An’ starts to sing ‘The Wearin’ o’ the Green.’
Them snakes they got a norful shock an’,
movin’ mighty slick,
They clears an’ leaves me master of the scene.
“Y’ see, they think it must’ve bin old Erin that
they struck;
They feared St. Pat was on the job again.
They’d sooner face the flood than him, an’ so
they did a duck,
Never thinkin’ they’d bin tricked be Andy
Cain!”
In silence deeper than the grave we left that
whiskered fake,
And one by one we crept rway to bed.
And we swore a solemn oath then that the next
who mentioned snake
Would be pitched out of that camp upon his
head.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ķ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. Writ—
Feb., Profit. 15 p.e. ten Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 611,932 600,000 25,000 4,936,336
12i p.c.
1930.. 525,655 500,000 25,000 4,936,991
7 p.e. To Reserves.
1931.. 283,019 280,000 3,019 4,940,010
4 p.c.
1932.. 160,954 160,000 954 4,940,964
5 p.c.
1933.. 209,559 200,000 9,559 4,950,523
1934.. 203,509 200,000 3,509 4,954,032
Aug.,
1934.. 106,999 100,000 6,999 4,961,031
1935.. 214,985 200,000 14,985 4,976,016
51 p.c.
1936.. 240,848 220,000 20,848 4,996,864
7 p.c.*
1937.. 254,383 235,333 ]
To special centenary fund, }• 4,995,914
£20,000 ..
1938.. 244,683 233,333 11,350 5,007,264
1939.. 225,087 225,000 87 5,007,351
* Excludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus from special fund.
Latest accounts cover the 12 months to
the end of August, 1939. War against
Germany was declared on Sept. 3. The
figures, therefore, reflect none of the
changes which have followed the shift
from a peace-time to a war-time economy.
Headquarters are in London, where the
co. was formed 102 years ago, but most
of the business is done in Australasia,
about three-quarters of the deposits being
gathered in Victoria, N. S. Wales and
Maoriland.
Chief influences affecting last year’s re-
sult were low prices for wool and wheat
and drought in many areas throughout
Australia. Together with growing expen-
diture on rearmament and the high level
of production in secondary industries,
this strengthened the demand for accom-
modation, which the Union met by in-
creasing its advances by £1,208,257. But
there was a growth of £1,756,630 in de-
posits, while £604,965 was added to
liquids, leaving little change in the bank-
ing position:
Liabilities.
1934. 1938. 1939.
Notes .. .. £280,617 £7,559 £7,556
Dills, etc 760,429 1,521,063 1,667,251
Deposits . . . . 36,460,479 36,986,969 38,743,599
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 13,786,512 12,925,304 13,530,269
Advances .. .. 32,417,659 34,275,684 35,483,941
Premises .. . . 376,386 457,200 538,546
When the books closed, liquids amounted
to 33.4 p.c. of liabilities to the public,
advances were equal to 91.6 p.c. of de-
posits, and the co. was holding only
£4 9s. 9d. of the public’s money for every
pound of its own. It is a very strong
position, but it means comparatively low
earning power.
After making whatever provision was
considered necessary for contingencies,
the board wrote the year’s gross earnings
£9739 better at £1,241,982. Including
£235,167 (up £10,098) handed to the tax-
gatherers in Britain, Australia and Maori-
land, exes. (£1,016,895) took all the in-
crease and £19,596 besides, leaving the
net result at 5.6 p.c. on the £4,000,000 of
share capital, or 2.5 p.c. on capital and
reserves combined. The div., which was
kept at 7 p.c., less English income tax
(3s. Bd. in the £ for the first half and
4s. lid. for the second half), took all but
£B7 of declared net earnings. Also, it
needs to be remembered that, owing to the
board’s policy of issuing capital at a sub-
stantial premium in the past (as much as
120 p.c. in 1924), divs. are worth only a
little more than half the declared rate
on three of the four millions of share
capital.
Since the close of accounts, war has
altered tne outlook, the national econo-
mies of Britain and the Dominions being
now subject to more strict and rigid con-
trol. In Australia the policy, imple-
mented by legislation and central-bank
action, is (1) retention of capital within
the country for investment for war pur-
poses, (2) preservation of overseas re-
sources needed to pay for essential im-
ports, (3) cheap money, and (4) control
of the price structure. To prevent de-
pletion and assist accumulation of over-
seas funds (they form part of the base
of the Australian credit system), the Gov-
ernment has instituted control of both
exports and imports and all other foreign-
exchange transactions—especially with
the non-sterling group—including pur-
chase and sale of overseas securities.
Also, with the object of preventing the
cost of living from climbing too quickly,
an extensive system of price control has
been set up locally. Further, in order to
direct the flow of capital into what is
considered the right channels of invest-
ment, trade and industry are first com-
pelled to obtain permission of the
Treasury to raise new funds by way of
share capital.
While the “Wild Cat” has no quarrel
with the Government’s policy, it finds
much to be desired in its administration,
especially in connection with the quota
system of dollar exchange. Here there is
a real danger of those who have bought
all-British before the war, but are unable
to do so now, through no fault of their
own, being made to suffer, while pre-war
buyers of goods outside Britain have not
near the difficulty in obtaining non-sterling
exchange. It cuts right across the grain
of preferential trade with Britain, and is
a state of affairs that needs to be care-
fully watched in the public interest.
At the same time, the Government has
continued to spend for war purposes in
growing volume, part of the money being
found by the issue of low-interest-bearing
short-term Treasury bills, which have
been taken up by the central and trading
banks. So far the Government has not
mopped up in taxes and market borrow-
ing all the surplus cash that has become
available. Further, this surplus has been
assisted by better prices for exports,
which have helped to bump up deposits
in the trading banks, and thus bring
about easy-money conditions, as indicated
by the recent cut in prices paid by the
banks for deposits and by the continued
fall in the return obtainable from Gov-
ernment securities. This suggests main-
tenance of the Government’s policy of
mobilising funds, and therefore a con-
tinuance of relatively cheap money —
for some time, at any rate.
Thus far the stress has been upon taxes
rather than loans —a sound policy—but
there is a limit to taxation, the effects of
which have been scarcely felt yet in the
market. As the tempo of war expendi-
ture increases, the Government might be
compelled to seek more by open mar-
ket borrowing. Speaking generally, the
effect of the Government’s financial and
economic policy upon bank earnings
should be more helpful than otherwise.
The £l5 shares paid to £5 —the other
£lO is a reserve liability callable only in
the event of £7 2s.
in the market, or £4 3s. 2d. less than
their net tangible asset backing. Allow-
ing for exchange and English taxation
at 4s. l|d. in' the pound, current divs.
are worth 6.9 p.c. in Australian currency,
at which the immediate return is now
4.8 p.c.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
t Dividends
Jan., Profit. Ord. Pref. Total. Reserves.t
£ £ £
1931.. 230.366 10 p.c. 6&7p.c. 128,297 645,414
1931.. 226,265 9 „ 6&7 „ 122,170 749,509
1932.. 171,833 8 „ 6&7 „ 110,208 810,134
1933.. 181,967 8 „ 6&7 „ 110,208 881,893
1934.. 126,487 8 „ 6&7 „ 110,208 898,172
1935.. 86,740 64 „ 6&7 „ 91,410 893,502
1936.. 119,541 74 „ 6&-7 „ 103,942 909,101
Insurance reserve, £lOOO .. .. 910,101
1937.. 182,863 74 p.c. 6 & 7 p.c. 103,942 989,022
1938.. 153,870 74 „ 6&7 „ 103,942 1,038,950
1939.. 162,995 74 „ 6 & 7 ~ 103,942 1,098,003
Ipswich Electric Supply Co. absorbed.
Added purchase a/c, £24,225 . . 1,073,778
Net unexplained additions—
£24B,672 1,322,450
Divs.. etc., Ipswich Elec., £7446.. 1,315,004
1940.. 76,145 5.8 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 90.867 1,300,282
t After deducting intangibles ( £86,948).
Not much notice need be taken of the
figures prior to the last term. Legislation
has placed electrical undertakings in
Queensland under control of a Commis-
sion (four members), which is the price-
fixing authority for current. “The price
for electricity payable by consumers
shall be fair and reasonable to consumers
and.... to the electrical authority supply-
ing the same.” The idea is to keep ord.
divs. payable by the co. approximately
2 p.c. above the yield obtainable in the
previous year from Commonwealth
loans issued for voluntary subscription.
So the old days of 10 p.c. and then 8
p.c. and 1\ p.c. distributions have gone.
The prefs., which were not interfered
with, continue to receive their 6 p.c. and
7 p.c. respectively. The rate paid to the
ords. last term was £5 17s. 6d. p.c., and
it will be about the same for the current
year. The recent contraction in the re-
turn obtainable from Consols, however,
portends a lower return to the ords. in
1941. Future dividends will, of course,
depend upon the trend of interest rates,
and conditions are too unsettled at the
moment for anyone to venture a worth-
while opinion on the long term trend.
One effect of legislative interference
—against the possibilities of which the
“Wild Cat” has repeatedly warned inves-
tors in public-utility ventures —has been a
sharp fall in the market price of the ords.
A couple of years ago they fetched
295. 9d., while the 7 per cents, and 6 per
cents, were at 28s. 6d. and 245. 6d. re-
spectively. In the same order the prices
are now 235., 275. and 245. At these
figures the returns are 5.1 p.c., 5.2 p.c.
and 5 p.c. respectively.
After providing £100,152 (up £31,376)
for depreciation, setting aside £46,990
(up £12,530) for the taxgatherer and send-
ing £18,715 (up £4613) of the year’s
takings to the reserve fund account,
the profit claimed was £76,145 (down
£10,903). That was £14,722 short
of what the year’s divs. called for;
but a lot of non-recurring expenditure
had to be met.
There was a reshuffle of reserves, as
the next table shows:
1939. 1940.
Renewals, contingencies, etc. £787,869 £981,082
Renewals, direct current .. 140,760
Capital reserve . . . . 283.860
Taxation 104,823 48,670
Bad debts 2,000
Elec. loco, insurance.. .. 1,000 ■ —
Franchise .. .. . . 62,723
Reserve fund account . . 61,122 73,617
Profit and loss balance* . . 429
£1.160,726 £1,387,229
* After payment of final divs.
The new capital reserve is made up of
transfers from previous reservations in
excess of actual requirements and of the
reserve against purchase and establish-
ment account (the intangible now
figures at £86,948, up £24,225 be-
cause of the Ipswich purchase). The
growth of £193,213 in the reserve for re-
newals, etc., was partly due to inclusion
of the Ipswich co.’s renewals reserve
(£107,931). This last-mentioned reserve
and the year’s allowance for depreciation
mainly account for the net growth of
£226,503 in total reserves —£1,387,229
before deducting intangibles. Actu-
ally the business, if taken over by
the Government, is reckoned to be worth
about £250,000 more than its net book
value at the end of January.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1936. 1939. 1940.
Capital .. . . £1,398,226 £1,398,226 £1,872,241
Sundry creditors. . 58,978 179,920 111,01*
Property, plant, „ 00 »
mains, etc. .. 1,850.223 2,180,699 2,836,043
Stock .. •• 63,784 120,912 173,63.
Book debts, etc... 50,566 190,639 50,900
Cash, public securities,
etc. .. 454,703 235,874 272,000
Besides the Ipswich purchase, substantial
additions and extensions were made to
plant and equipment, including purchase
of the City Council’s Stanley River Dam
transmission line. Net growth in the
book value of fixed assets was £655,344.
To help meet the outlay, add £52,725 to
stocks, £36,126 to cash, etc., and lop
£68,865 off the outside debt 375,653 new
£1 shares were issued at par —there was
£73,638 still to come in when the books
closed.
Under its agreement with the Commis-
sion, the co. is to co-ordinate and extend
the supply of current throughout the
south-east portion (it contains about half
the population) of the State. Apart from
the Ipswich Electric Supply, paid capital
£172,000, taken over in exchange for
a like amount of City Electric f.-p.
ords., other electrical undertakings
to be absorbed are those at Southport,
Nerang, Coolangatta, Gympie, Nambour
and Beaudesert. Later the Tweed River
area (N.S.W.) will be included in the net-
work. Still, it is not expected that share-
holders will be asked for more for some
time, the chairman says.
Berlei (N.Z.), Ltd.
To Re- Nominal
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.t
£ £ £ £
1934.. 5,935 10 p.e. = 3500 2435 8,095
1935.. 6,259 12£ ~ „ 4375 1884 9,979
(loodwill written up, £14,000 . . . • 23,979
Reserves capitalised, £14,000 .. .. 9,979
Bad debts reserve, etc., taken in, £4245.. 14,224
1936.. 9,502 174 p.c. = 8687 815 15,039
1937.. 10,953 174 „ „ 8750 2203 17,242
D'-jr.. 13.144 174,, „ 8750 4394 21,636
1939.. 16,099 174,, „ 8750 7349 28,935
r Subject to goodwill (£14,000) from 1935.
The management doesn’t figure earn-
ings quite that way. Last term it claimed
only £11,852, up £llB5, of profit. The
“Wild Cat” also takes in unexplained
additions to reserves (£4247 in ’39, as
against £2477 the preceding year), in the
past largely unstated dividends from
shareholdings sent straight to general
reserve and excess provisions for contin-
gencies that failed to eventuate. The
£16,099 shown represented 32.1 p.c. on
capital, compared with 26.2 p.c. and 21.9
p.c. in ’3B and ’37 respectively.
Considering trading conditions, rising
internal costs, difficulty of obtaining
adequate imported materials and tax in-
creases made retrospective to 1938, the
latest showing is a commendable achieve-
ment. Import control should now be
a help, and further expansion of turn-
over —to which, of course, there is a
limit —is likely again to assist in counter-
acting any unrecovered rise in outgo
generally. The Yl\ p.c. div. may there-
fore be in no great danger. A two-for-five
bonus in 1936 makes that rate, which has
gone out for four years now, worth
24i p.c. to old holders.
It was in 1923 that the co., an offshoot
of Berlei (Sydney) and affiliated with
Berlei (U.K.), among which close asso-
ciation exists, first set up in the


c
GUARANTEED by the
Victorian Government
THE GRAIN ELEVATORS BOARD
LOAN OF £450,000
OFFERS
ISSUED AT PAR
I*3o/
CURRENCY: 12 YEARS
CUMULATIVE SINKING FUND: £1 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
An Authorised Trustee Security in Victoria, Tasmania and Queensland
UNQUESTIONABLE SECURITY
The Loan is secured upon all the Revenues and the Fixed and
Floating Assets of the Board, and Principal and Interest are
GUARANTEED UNCONDITIONALLY BY THE GOVERN-
MENT OF VICTORIA.
The Board has Statutory power to impose a
handling charge of 2d. per bushel at country
elevators and -|d. per bushel at terminal
elevators, estimated to yield annually .... £233,334
The Annual Interest Charge on Existing
Loans is £63,289
Total Capital Expenditure at December 31,
1939, was £1,160,606
Estimated Amount Required to complete the
scheme £839,394
Estimated Capital Cost of completed scheme. . £2,000,000
So that, apart from the Government guarantee, ample security
is provided for the present loan. This security is materially
strengthened by the fact that the first season s operations have
proved the soundness of the undertaking from a commercial
point of view.
FUNCTIONS AND STATUS OF BOARD
Constituted under the Grain Elevators Act, 1934, the Board is
engaged on the establishment of a comprehensive system for the
bulk-handling of wheat in Victoria. The scheme adopted provides
for two large Terminal Elevators, with a total storage capacity
of 18,730,000 bushels, at Geelong and Williamstown and 140
country elevators in the principal wheatgrowing areas of Victoria.
The Geelong Terminal, with mechanical loading gear and special
shipping pier, capable of loading the largest ship in one day, is
already operating, together with 52 country elevators. A further
36 country elevators are in course of construction, and tenders
are being invited for the erection of numerous others and the
Williamstown Terminal Elevator,
Success characterised operations in the 1939-40 season, when
over 10,000,000 bushels were handled, and many growers
delivered 1 00 per cent, of their wheat, although it was compulsory,
to deliver only 75 per cent. When the scheme is complete, over
23,000,000 bushels will be handled annually.
NATIONAL IMPORTANCE OF SCHEME
Bulk-handling of wheat was initiated in Australia as a wartime measure during the Great War of 1914-18, and is of vital importance at
present, as it protects wheat stocks from losses due to weather and vermin, and accelerates shipment to Great Britain and France. In
one season alone during the last war, Victorian wheatgrowers lost over 1,000,000 bushels of wheat through the ravages of mice and
weevils, and rebagging of the balance of the crop cost £460,000.
Other advantages are the material saving in the cost of sacks and the sewing of sacks (Victoria spends £500,000 annually on the
importation of sacks), cheaper ocean freights on bulked wheat, and the protection of the wheat from contamination in the interests
of consumers* r _ , _ _ t .
THE GRAIN ELEVATORS SCHEME IS, THEREFORE, A NATIONAL UNDERTAKING OF PARTICULAR VALUE IN
WARTIME.
LOAN NOW OPEN
Closing not later than Tuesday, May 7, 1940.
ALLOTMENTS WILL BE MADE DAILY AND SUBSCRIPTIONS ARE PAYABLE IN INSTALMENTS IF DESIRED.
INTEREST PAYABLE (HALF-YEARLY) AND PRINCIPAL REPAYABLE, FREE OF EXCHANGE, IN
VICTORIA.
Application and Instalment Moneys accepted free of exchange in Victoria.
DEBENTURES OR INSCRIBED STOCK AVAILABLE.
APPLY NOW at any Victorian office of
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
BANKER FOR THE ISSUE:
or through MEMBERS OF RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGES.
LOAN UNDERWRITTEN BY: J. B. WERE & SON
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Interest Rates have fallen and no more attractive yield is likely
to be offered in the near future on any gilt-edged investment.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £30,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,500,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders. Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt,
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
(incorporated 1865 in South Australia with Limited Liability.)
SEVENTY-FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of
Shareholders the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on the 25th March, 1940, and
Statements of Profit and Loss and the Reserve Fund on the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 25th March,
1940, after deduction of £2 I 1 1 /5/9, Depreciation, is
Plus the balance brought forward from the previous year
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of per cent, per
annum was paid in November last
Leaving available
Out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for the half-
year ended 25th March, 1940, at the rate of 5J P er cent, per
annum, payable after the General Meeting on 30th April, 1940
Leaving a Balance to carry forward of
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Registered * e
Company, 81 King William Street, Adelaide, on Tuesday, 30th April, 19 , at
12 o’clock noon, at which the shareholders will be called upon to elect one Director
in the place of Sir Howard Watson Lloyd, who retires in accordance with the Artie es
of Association, but is eligible for re-election and offers himself accordingly.
The Shareholders will be asked to appoint two Auditors for the ensuing year
and to fix their remuneration.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
O. L. ISAACHSEN, General Manager.
W. E. WELBOURN, Secretary.
Adelaide, 1 Ith April, 1940.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
(Incorporated 1865 in South Australia with Limited Liability.)
BALANCE SHEET, 25th MARCH, 1940.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
Authorised (250,000 Shares at
£5 each) £1,250,000 0 0
Issued (250,000 Shares at £5
each) 1,250,000 0 0
Capital paid up (250,000 Shares at
£5 each) .'£1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ( £997.508/5/9 in
Government and other Securi-
ties and £2491/14/3 used in
business) .. .. .. .. 1,000,000 0 0
Profit and loss .. . . .. 07,858 12 9
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation and other
Liabilities . .
Balances due to other Banks ..
Deposits
Interest accrued on Fixed Deposits
and Rebate on Bills Discounted
£2,317.858 12 9
6,569 0 0
129,351 4 7
202,389 15 11
7,391,501 6 3
35,824 16 6
£10,083,524 16 0
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of
Credit, etc., £359,377/8/5.
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion and Cash Balances
Australian Notes and Cash with
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Reserve Fund Investments, consist-
ing of Government Securities,
£986,824/9/1, and other Securi-
ties, £10,683/16/8 —at or under
market value
Money at Short Call and Common-
wealth Government Treasury Bills
Government Securities at or under
market value
Balances due from other Banks. .
Notes of other Banks
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transitu
£37,384 10 9
1,322,225 12 9
997,508 5 9
1,301,000 0 0
648,528 2 0
106,667 9 11
2,594 0 0
234,541 10 0
£4,650,449 11 2
Bank Premises and Furniture, etc.,
at cost, less amounts written off 422,997 7 4
Bills Receivable, Bills Discounted
and all other Advances, after
providing for Contingencies . . 5,010,077 17 6
£10,083,524 16 0
Liabilities of Customers on Letters of Credit, etc.,
as per Contra, £359,377/8/5.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
From 27th March, 1939, to 25th March, 1940.
To Dividend in May,
1939 .. ..£34,375 0 0
To Dividend in
November, 1939 . . 34,375 0 0
£08,750 0 0
To Balance 25th March, 1940 .. 67,858 12 9
£136,008 12 9
By Balance, 27th March, 1939
By Net Profit, including’ Recoveries,
and after making provision for Bad
and Doubtful Debts, Interest
accrued on Fixed- Deposits, and
Rebate on Bills Discounted and
deducting Expenses at Head Office
and 60 Branches, including
Salaries, Rents, etc., and Directors’
Fees, £2500
£65,216 3 9
71,392 9 0
£136,608 12 9
RESERVE FUND.
To balance at this date .. ..£1,000,000 0 0
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and Approved
Securities.)
£1,000,000 0 0
0. L. ISAACHSEN, General Manager.
W. E. WELBOURN, Secretary.
By balance, 27th March, 1939 .. £1,000,000 0 0
£l*ooo,ooo 0 0
HOWARD W. LLOYD
E. W. HOLDEN
A. E. HAMILTON
Directors.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE.
We report that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up and exhibits a true and
correct view of the state of The Bank of Adelaide’s affairs on 25th March, 1940, according' to the best
oi our information and the explanations given to us, and as shown by the books of the Bank submitted.
We have obtained all information and explanations required by us.
We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills and Government and other Securities of the Bank
in hand at the Head Office. The Assets and Liabilities at the Branches, other than London have been
taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches and those of the
London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
In our opinion, the Register of Members and other records which the Bank is required to keep by
the South Australian Companies Act, 1934, or by its Articles of Association, have been properly kept.
Adelaide, sth April, 1940.
KENNETH W. NEILL
R. B. WILTSHIRE
Chartered Accountants (Aust.)
Auditors.
I. OSCAR LIONEL ISAACKSEN, General Manager of The Bank of Adelaide, DO SOLEMNLY AND
SINCERELY DECLARE—
That the Reserve Fund and accumulated profits are used partly in the business, and partlv in
Government and approved securities.
That the accompanying statement and balance sheet of the Bank is, to the best of my knowledge
and belief, true in every particular.
That the names, addresses, and occupations of persons who are the Directors of the Bank at the
date of this statement are :—-
SIR HOWARD WATSON LLOYD (Chairman), College Town, Accountant.
HON. EDWARD WHEEWALL HOLDEN, B.Sc., M.I.E. (Aust.), M.L.C., Kent Town, Company Director.
ALBERT EDWIN HAMILTON, M.8.E., Adelaide, Accountant.
WILLIAM STEELE, Millswood, Company Director.
STANLEY McGREGOR REID, Millswood, Acoounbant.
AND I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and bv virtue cf
the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1936.
O. L. ISAACHSEN.
DECLARED at Adelaide in the State of South Australia, this 11th day of April, 1940, before me—
C. W. NIMMO,
A Justice of the Peace in and for the State of South Australia.
We, HOWARD W. LLOYD, EDWARD W. HOLDEN and ALBERT E. HAMILTON, of College Town.
Kent Town and Adelaide, respectively, being Directors of The Bank of Adelaide, DO HEREBY CERTIFY'
that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true
and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs.
Dated at Adelaide this 11th day of April, 1940.
HOWARD W. LLOYD
E. W. HOLDEN
A. E. HAMILTON
Directors.
Dominion, where it took over the plant
and stock of Australian Corsets, Ltd.
But Berlei products were already well
known throughout Maoriland, so the co.
inherited an extensive goodwill and ready-
made trade connections.
While steady progress was made from
the jump, the up-trend of turnover has
been most marked since slump, when the
exchange and cutting-down of imports
closed the M.L. market to some over-
seas makers. At the same time, internal
competition was also diminished by pur-
chase of certain manufacturing rights
of the Dominion Corset Co. of Canada,
a not-inconsiderable rival, and the co.
now caters for three-fourths or more of
Maoriland women’s foundation require-
ments.
Finances are as trim as an ideal waist-
line:—-
1934. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. £35,000 £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Sundry creditors . . 7,284* 14,192* 5,036 6,760
Tax reserve .. 10,000 15,504
Freeholds, plant, etc. 17,170 13,000 14,400 14,990
Stocks . . . . 10,365 19,990 31,615 36,876
Debtors .. .. 9,865 29,660 25,546 27,215
Shares other cos... 1,658 4,265 5,321 5,321
Cash .. .. 3,069 3,941 790 7,937
* Includes provision for taxation.
Outstanding movements are the additions
of £5261 to stocks as a result of in-
creased business, and of £7937 to cash,
in anticipation of heavier assessments by
the taxgatherer. As a result, the more
or less liquid surplus, excluding tax
reserve and shareholdings, lifted £12,353
to £65,268. Depreciation provisions
aren’t specified ; but earning power sug-
gests that fixed assets are anything but
overvalued in the books.
Maoriland has a high opinion of the
scrip, pricing the pound shares to yield
6 p.c. at 58s. (635. a year ago). Visibly
book value of the net tangible cover
is 265.
Victorian Grain Elevators Board
Latest offering of a semi-Government
body is £450,000 of debentures or in-
scribed stock by this board, term 12
years, interest £3 15s. per cent. Though
a slightly lower rate than obtainable
from recent similar offerings, this com-
pares with a yield of £3 3s. 2d. per cent,
from average-term Consols at the close
of last week. Principal and interest are
a charge on the revenue and assets of
the board, and there is the further guar-
antee of the Victorian Government. The
loan is a trustee security in Victoria,
Tasmania and Queensland. Under its
Act the Grain Elevators Board may re-
quire every wheatgrower in a proclaimed
area to deliver at least 75 p.c. of his
wheat to the board for transport or
storage. Last season the elevators were
filled to capacity. Up to Dec. 31, 1939,
capital outlay on elevators, etc., totalled
£1,160,606, of which the Victorian Gov-
ernment advanced £335,606, the public
subscribing £825,000 in loans. A capital
outlay of £2,000,000 is ultimately aimed
at. A charge of 2d. a bushel at country
elevators and a bushel at terminal
elevators may be made.
Though the falling rate of interest on
Consols tended to steady last week, it is
generally believed that lower than exist-
ing rates will operate before long.
Buttonholed by producers and politi-
cians, the Westralian Government has
agreed to make inquiries regarding where
the Federal Government sells the State’s
gold and what price it gets. Recently
Hal Colebatch and others told the local
press that the Commonwealth was ob-
taining far more from gold than the
ostensible tax of 15s. 6d. a fine ounce.
On the face of things, said Colebatch,
the Commonwealth, for each ounce of
gold it acquired, pays the owner £9 15s.
6d. in Australian money, retaining for
itself the 15s. 6d. difference between that
figure and the £lO 11s. that is the pegged
price of the metal in Australian cur-
rency. If the gold is sent to America
to pay interest on our American debt and
to buy Government requirements, and if
for an ounce of gold the Government
could obtain no more dollars than it
could for £lO 11s. Australian money,
then its revenue from the gold acquisi-
tion would remain at 15s. 6d. per ounce.
“But,” according to Colebatch, “it
will do much better than this. How
much better is known only to those
necromancers who juggle with synthetic
currencies.” This authority continues that
the Commonwealth has no honest right
to any such additional profit. If retained
it would represent a secret and un-
authorised tax, he says. Actually, at the
official rate of exchange, gold is worth
£lO 17s. (Aust.) an ounce in New York.
At the unofficial rate it is worth consider-
ably more.
* * * #
Wiluna (W.A.) has just completed an-
other year of gold-production. In all
585,587 tons was treated for a yield of
£A860,202. Net profit was £A266,597,
or approximately £5213,277. The cur-
rent year’s surplus should, if tonnage
and grade are maintained, be substantially
larger, as practically nothing is being
charged, and hasn’t been for some
months past, to capital and development.
Last year £83,109 appeared under this
heading. As chairman F. H. Hamilton
said at the annual meeting in London
at the end of 1939, the mine is, in view
of unfavorable developments in the main
workings, being treated as a salvage pro-
position. He estimated that there was
about three years’ supply of ore in sight
apart from what was visible in the Happy
Jack and Bulletin sections. Good de-
velopments in the Happy Jack at the
800 ft. and 1000 ft. levels are said to have
recently occurred.
* * * *
Having tried and failed elsewhere,
Lady Shenton (W.A.) has returned to
Menzies and taken an option on the
Maranoa. Sampling at the 200 ft. level
is reported to have shown values ranging
from sdwt. to lldwt. over a width of
3ft. The shaft is stated to be in excel-
lent condition, and a plentiful supply of
water is said to be within half a mile
of the mine.
* * * *
A budget of news from Mt. Magnet
(W.A.) states that Hill 50, operated by
a Perth-controlled co., is steadily increas-
ing in intrinsic value, and that shortly
it will rank among the best of the
medium-sized gold-producers of the State.
Four dividends totalling 2s. have been
paid since the beginning of 1938. London-
controlled Mt. Magnet, Ltd., is expanding
its activities on Hill 60 and St. George
blocks. Recently the future of this con-
cern was said to be doubtful. Now pros-
pects are reported to be brighter. Swan
Bitter Co. crushed 682 tons and cyanided
487 tons at the Broken Bond mine in
March for about £3OOO worth of bullion.
A month or two ago this show was
being looked at sceptically by former
enthusiasts. The tongue of good report
is wagging about the Corona and Black
Cat properties. In the last 18 months a
prospector has taken 5000 oz. out of the
former, and a local co. controlled by a
few well-known Australian mining men
has in the same period contracted sub-
stantial wealth out of the latter and paid
a dividend.
* * * *
Milano Co. has sent A. J. Mac George
to control its gold-producer at Mt.
Monger (W.A.). Mac George was one of
the early-day mining and metallurgical
men on the Kalgoorlie field. He after-
wards took a hand in the development
of Malayan tin deposits. Later he re-
turned to Australia. His last job at Kal-
goorlie was as manager of the Imperial
group.
* * * *
Attempts are being made to raise St.
Ives, between Hampton Plains and Wid-
giemooltha (W.A.), from the dead. Ore
from a 20ft. face is stated to be in course
of treatment. St. Ives and its prospects
were widely puffed during the Hampton
Plains boom in 1931, and persons in
Adelaide and Perth claimed that it was
a second Kalgoorlie. Subsequently de-
velopment blew this prediction to bits.
* * * *
Westralian odds and ends:
Boulder Perseverance shareholders receive a
20 p.c. sterling dividend on the 4s. shares on
May 15. Australian stockholders will be paid
the equivalent in Australian currency In the
year ended March 31 Central Norseman Gold
Corporation treated 96,021 tons for 41,808
fine ounces. Co. is controlled by Collins House
and its nominees.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
fire, marine and accident insurances
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall M.L.C. •
Wm. White; Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.’ ’
Phone (three lines); 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/0
Double Room, from 11/
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water:
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modem a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Qrancentral,” Sydney
SMOKE- OH!
“Let them shake hands before the quarrel
becomes bitter.” — “Sun.”
Paws, before it is too late.
4* 4* 4* O
“The married man whose wife holds the
pursestrings can’t gamble.”— Women’s mag.
Nor gambol.
4 4 4 4
“We shall soon show the world that we have
still got a navy.”— German Foreign Office.
“Ja,” said the German guide to the
party of nootral tourists, “dose swinish
“Give it the line , 'Any, give it the line!”
Englanders der lies about our nafy tell.
Now iff eferypoty dis vay vill step mit
der diving-suit dey vill subblied be und
our nafy soon can see. Heil Hitler!”
4* 4 4 4*
“The schools should teach the importance of
various foods and explain the process of diges-
tion.” — Lecturer.
Alimentary education.
4 4* 4 4
“Scampering around a farm in New Jersey
is a mouse that broke its leg. The farmer made
it a wooden leg out of a tiny golf tee.”
—“World’s News.”
Of course it was soon a fair way on
the road to recovery, but it will always
have a club-foot.
4 4* 4 4
“Smaller papers likely.”— “S. M. Herald.”
So that they still won’t be any easier
to open in trams, the size of the latter
may also be reduced accordingly.
4 4 4 4
“Girl flies 240 m.p.h. to catch up with
romance.”— Women’s paper.
Too bad if she gets the air after a
performance like that.
4 4 *l* HE*
“Fifteen meal-tickets for £l.”
— King's Cross ( Sydney ) advt.
We had no idea husbands were so
cheap.
In Battle Order.
“Canadian and French troops went to Nor-
way with full equipment for an Arctic cam-
paign, including sheepskin coats, leather jer-
kins, sealskin caps and sleeping bags.”— “Sun.”
It’s rum!
One would have thought that the
most essential thing of all would have
been listed. It seems incredible that
Canadians, with their experience of cold
country, didn’t insist on being equipped
with this most necessary item —this friend
of every man who has to endure the cold.
Naturally, the censor has banned any
mention of it here, still
It’s rum!
MB.
4 4 4 4
“Bach was a very human old chap. He had
20 children.”— Musical magazine.
Hence his “Mass in B Minor.”
4 4 4* 4
“Four-hour Fight to Keep Off Rocks.”
— “D.T.” heading.
With most of us it’s a continual
struggle from adolescence to the grave.
4* 4 4* 4*
Untrue Story.
“Home-loving, honest, devout woman, 48,
wishes meet truthful man.” — View-mat. ad.
.She was 48 and pious, and the thought
of Ananias made this honest woman
shudder with disgust. Her necessities
demanded someone open, straight and
candid —whose ability to lie had gone to
rust. But there only came one answer to
the cry of this romancer; so she spoke
with him and prayed he’d be all right.
“Are you truthful?” she inquired. He
replied, as one inspired, “Why, at school
they used to call me ‘Lilywhite.’ ”
Then she cooed a coy digression: “Are
my figure and expression to your
liking?” Without pause, the frank one
said: “I have never seen a figger that
was lumpier or bigger, and yer face is
just Bad Luck brought to a head.”
He said more with equal candor; then
she kicked him off the v’randah. Now
(in hospital) he lies and doesn’t mind.
While the dame who thought she knew
men hates the very thought of “true”
men, and she’s gone back to the good
old-fashioned kind.
Elm.
4 4 4 4
Society is the spite of life.
•I* 4 *l* 4
You can judge a woman by the clothes
she doesn’t wear.
4 *!* 4 4*
For a long time Ben really believed
that yarn about the bloke buying up old
mining-shafts in the West and cutting
them up for postholes. “An’ then,” as
he said, “I started wonderin’ how he'd
get the shaft outa the ground to cut it.
Then I woke up!”
4 4 *l*
The man who has ideas of becoming
a politician mostly hasn’t any ideas.
-I* *l* 4 S*
“Popular playboy* engaged for sixth time.”
Under entirely new miss-management.
4 4 4 4
“When capital punishment was abolished
in Italy in 1857 murders alone increased by 42
per cent.” — “D. Telegraph.”
Because the Government didn’t give
a hang.
Theory and Practice.
If you propose to subdivide
Your property or write a song,
Or take unto yourself a bride,
I’ll bet you’ll hear “You can’t go
wrong.”
Yet, strange enough, when I make bold
Some chancy project to pursue,
And / am positively told
/ can’t go wrong, I always do.
P. O. M. C.
Tip.
At mixing cocktails, dearest, you
Have proved you have whate’er it
takes;
You’ve shown a flair for mixing, too,
Ingredients for my fav’rite cakes.
But, spite of all your clever tricks,
’Tis very much to be deplored
That you should ever try to mix
Romance with hiccups, my adored!
T. W. NATHAN.
The Historicities.
“The success of ‘Captain Fury’ has started
Hollywood searching for suitable material for
another outdoor film set in Australia, but this
time they want it based on some celebrated
historical or exploring incident.”
—Movie magazine.
Hiram Z. „ Pretzelgorger, president-in-
chief of Stupendous Productions, Inc.,
leaned back in his swivel chair, immersed
in thought. On his massive desk was
a forest of telephones, half a dozen of
which were ringing, but Hiram was not
aware of it. Then suddenly he slapped
his thigh, tossed the cigar he had been
mangling to the floor and pressed a bell,
His secretary entered. “I wantcha to call
a cahnference, cutie. Chief production
manager, directors, script men, gag men
—the whole bunch. And pronto.”
When they were all assembled the big
man lit another double Corona, edged
his thumbs into his vest and spoke.
“Waal, boys,” he began, “I guess I’ve
lit on the theme for the mightiest, colos-
, . -r. . . & r.„ . ~,,
salest, magnificentest epic fillum that 11
make The Birth of a Nation look like
a washout support. And I got on to it
by accident. Junior was tellin’ me he
had furrin’ hist’ry yesterday at
and talked some about a guy called Bass-
anflinders who sailed a whaleboat round
Australia just after the place was dis-
covered. Ever heard of him?”
“Sure, Chief,” said the production man-
ager. “He was the guy that defied the
cops at the Eureka Stockade, and after-
wards established the Rum Corps. I’ve
read about him.”
“0.K.! Well, we could fade-in with
this Bassanflinders guy being farewelled
as he’s about to set out on his momen-
tous voyage by the Big Shot, Captain
Cook. Big crowd scene, see? Brown-
skinned cuties in grass skirts and leis and
hibiscuses in their hair, trappers, con-
victs, soldiers. Cap’n Cook’s pretty
daughter Fay, trying to suppress her
tears, watching the handsome explorer
as he sits in the sternsheets. Some good
close-ups there. Then, just as he’s about
to push-off, Lulu, a beautiful half-breed
trapper’s daughter, dashes down and
throws him a hibiscus out of her perm.
Fadeout shows look of pain on Fay's
face. We can star Bung Brosbie—he can
croon some new swing stuff to Lulu on
the moonlit prairie.”
“But ain’t it to be a sea epic, Chief?”
asked one of the script men.
“Only the opening sequences,” replied
the p.-i.-c. “Ihisyere Bassanflinders bozo
—we’ll have to alter his name to Roger
Adair—when he gets around to the other
side of the continent gets a message from
the blacks by smoke signal—it’s been
sent by his faithful servant whom he left
behind—telling him that Fay has been
abducted by Jasper Snodgrass, a wealthy
but unscrupulous teaplanter, and that
he’s making with her to his cabin on
the prairies. Roger gets a pinto pony and
makes a dash across the desert to his
loved one.
“Halfway across the desert, and nearly
dying of thirst, Roger is picked up by
headhunters who, thinking he’s a miracle-
worker, make him their Great White King.
But he’s held almost a prisoner. Then one
night, as he’s lying in his bark wigwam,
he hears the rustle of grass skirt, and
Lulu slides in. She’s heard by smoke
signal of his plight. She hands him a
sub-machine-gun she’s smuggled in.
Roger shoots his way through the guards,
the goil with him. Here’s where the
moonlight crooning sequence comes in.”
“We could tie up with the bushrangers
then, Chief,” interrupted one of the
script men. “Roger and Lulu come
across them beating up old Porkpie, chief
of the Mugwump tribe. Roger surprises
and surrounds the gang, then marches
them in to the mounted cops’ depot and
collects a big enough reward to start a
big cattle ranch.”
“Say, Chief,” eagerly put in a gag
man, “we could have the leader of the
bushrangers caught tryin’ to swaller some
of the gold dust so they won’t get the
goods on him, see? We could woik in
a snappy wisecrack then about him bitin’
the dust, see?”
“Swell! Well, this old Porkpie, grate-
ful, guides Roger and Lulu to Jasper’s
cabin, and they get there just in time.
Fay and Jasper’s having a helluva
struggle. She is being overpowered just
as Roger busts the door open, see? Ter-
rific all-in fight here. Cabin wrecked.
Jasper, getting worst of it, points to win-
dow behind Roger with horror-stricken
eyes. As Roger falls for old trick Jasper
welts him with chair, knocking him cold.
He gets his knife out to settle his hash
when a cobra which has slid in the door
gets him on the arm. Lulu snatches up
the sub-machine-gun, kills the reptile
and throws her arms around Roger's
neck.
“Final scene is set in the capital of the
infant colony—Brisbane or Papua, wasn’t
it? We can have niggers sitting on side-
walks drinking rum, chain-gang clank-
ing by, soldiers shooting dice, colonists
strolling about in ten-gallon hats and
chaps, guys on mustangs, flashes of sail-
ing-boats at quays and sailors in low dives.
Then we’ll have Cook giving his blessing
to Roger and Fay as he stands on the
poop of his brig, which sails into the set-
ting sun. He’s off to discover a new conti-
nent. Fadeout with a comic flash of
Lulu getting a new face tattoo while she
coyly looks at young abo. buck as he
smokes a skull. How’s that strike you,
boys?”
“.Swell, Chief!” came the chorus.
“O.K. Get going then. We’ll name it
‘Boomerangs Over the Prairies’; but,
don’t forget, you gotta stick as close as
you can to historic?:! fact! ”
BO.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers*
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Business,Rollery,Ete.
“Not Spending Enough”!
Sydney “Sun,” in its Thursday retailers’
catalogue edition last week, through the
medium of a “financial expert” bewailed
the fact that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment wasn’t borrowing and spending
enough. “Deflation Is Danger in War-
time Finances” announced the headline.
“A slashing criticism on the methods of
finance adopted by the Commonwealth
Government for the prosecution of Aus-
tralia’s war effort” was how the sub-
editor described the . article. The sub.
also picked out the, best bits and printed
them at the head of the article. Refer-
ring to the “financial expert” :
“It seems high time,” he says, “that the
public should take an interest in the fact
that not only is the defence programme
seriously in arrears, but also deflationary
forces are vigorously at work.
“It is deflation to such an extent,” he
contends, “that credit is not being ex-
panded, loan money not spent, cash
balances are piling up, taxation is pouring
in ahead of estimates —and apparently the
Government is contemplating a further
turn of the screw next year.”
He estimates that, with war expenditure
from taxation rising, we shall , spend more
than the estimated £13,000,00 for defence
out of taxation and correspondingly less
from loans and credit expansion.
Yes, just contemplate the horrible state
of affairs —spending more than estimated
from taxation revenue and less from bor-
rowing! What a shocking betrayal of the
traditional borrow-and-bust policy! The
“expert” goes on to deplore the lack of
“stimulus” that defence expenditure is
giving to industry, also the fact that
spending altogether is less than antici-
pated—in other words, that we are not
going to the devil fast enough.
A great number of financial experts,
especially of the B. S. B. Stevens variety,
see little more in public finance than “the
expansion of credit to keep employment
at a maximum,” and so on. They think
in terms of a distorted shadow, not in
terms of the substance. The real problems
of defence at present are (1) to find out
what defence equipment we really want,
(2) decide whether we can obtain it in
Australia, (3) find the men who are
capable of producing defence equipment,
(4) find the materials, (5) find the money,
(6) join men, materials and money to-
gether with a minimum of dislocation to
industry as a whole.
There is nothing to show that borrow-
ing to the full in order to pay for defence
would stimulate trade any more than
“raising the wind” in balanced measures
of borrowing and taxation would. This
much is certain, however: There are
limits to the sums we can borrow, and
some time or other the individual has to
pay his full share whether the burden is
temporarily deferred or whether it is
borne as soon as it is created. Excessive
taxation, it may be said, would chill
business confidence and produce stagna-
tion in trade and reduce our effective
industrial energy. The answer is that
there is always a middle course, and
there is certainly no evidence that, con-
sidering the emergency, taxation has been
overdone so far. The natural effect of
war is inflation. The tendency to curb
inflation, apparently what the “Sun”
writer describes as a “deflation policy,”
is a correct idea. There may be a hundred
things wrong with the way the Govern-
ment is handling defence, but taken to-
gether they couldn’t be as damaging as a
misuse of credit which resulted in rising
costs and prices but which did not result
in a substantial increase in our actual
production of the things necessary to our
domestic welfare and for the conduct of
this war.
Until we have located the men to do
the work we really want done and the
materials for them to work on, lavish
defence expenditure must be largely
waste. When the scene is all set for
action spending can go ahead as fast as
the action. But to try to push spending
ahead of the action means only one thing
—we pay through the nose, and quite
unnecessarily, for the action.
Broken Hill Prop.’s interim at the rate
of p.c. p.a. disappointed the share-
market, which had been led'by gossip to
expect 10 p.c. If no more than 1\ p.c.
goes out for the full year, the distribution
will call for £855,000, against £760,715
distributed last year in a 12\ p.c. div.
on the old capital. The Bulletin has
been sceptical of market div. expecta-
tions in this case all along, but in fair-
ness to other opinions it is admitted that
the coal strike may have caused the board
to be conservative in its decision. Also,
the final distribution may carry a bonus,
though it has been the co.’s practice in
the past to pay equal interim and final
distributions.
Last Friday B.H.P. formally applied
to the Victorian Supreme Court to have
its articles altered to allow the manu-
facture of aeroplanes and parts, electrical'
gear, to build ships and to allow other
avenues appropriate to the co.’s existing
business to be opened up.
* * * *
During the four weeks to April 7 the
output of steel from B.H.P.’s Newcastle
works fell to 48,569 tons, compared with
71,661 tons in the preceding month. The
slump in production was entirely due to
the coal strike, and every department of
the works was affected. For the 44 weeks
to April 7 the steelworks had turned out
777,589 tons of ingot steel, which was
88,232 tons greater than the production
for the corresponding portion of the
1938-39 financial term. The co.’s year
ends on May 31. During the first 16
weeks of the current period steel output
just about kept pace with that of the
preceding term. The war later stimulated
production, and during the first eight
months of the national fiscal year Aus-
tralia exported £3,961,566-worth of iron
and steel, up £2,878,419 on the same
period of 1938-39.
* * * *
B.H.P. has decided to begin building
ships at Whyalla (S.A.) in July. It has
been granted permission by the Arbi-
tration Court to employ one apprentice
to every journeyman boilermaker, against
one to two previously. There is a
shortage of boilermakers.
* * V *
Australian merchandise exports for the
first eight months of the 1939-40 finan-
cial year exceeded the value of merchan-
dise imports by £872,000 sterling. Figures
for the period do not include bullion and
specie. Taken generally, our balance of
payments so far during the current term
would seem to be only slightly better
than in the preceding period, high im-
ports in anticipation of restrictions being
the reason. The value of exports during
the eight months rose £6,561,000 sterling,
being chased by, extra imports to the
extent of £5,629,000. Preliminary figures
for the nine months ended March 31
showed that merchandise exports had in-
creased their margin to £1,237,000 ster-
ling. It is clear that up to the present
there have been no additions to our
London funds from current trading,
allowing for overseas interest payments.
But soon the effect of drastic cuts in im-
ports from non-sterling countries should
become visible, also the assistance from
war contracts for our land-production
surplus.
* * * *
The sharemarkets were down again
last week, a drop being especially notice-
able on Friday, when B.H.P.’s div. dis-
appointed the market. In New York,
too, there have been falls owing to the
“Pacific situation,” which revolves
round the Dutch East Indies. A little
while ago the same centre had “fears”
of a European peace. The London
sharemarket , has been weaker lately,
too, and in Australia the investor has
his own peculiar problems to think over
—excess-profits and other taxation being
one of them.
John McGrath scrip in Sydney, recently
the object of a lot of speculative activity
by reason of projected expansion of a
subsidiary (Australian Drop Steel Forg-
ings), reacted to 365. 6d., after having
been above 38s. Tooth shares fell to
51s. 6d., Australian Consolidated Indus-
tries to 355. 9d., British Tobacco to
465. 9d., Woolworths to 19s. 9d., G. J.
Coles to 695. 9d. and B.H.P. to 445. for
a while. Felt and Textiles ords. were
strong at 395., and Yarra Falls and Brad-
ford Cotton scrip was also firm. Gordon
and Gotch ords. were inclined to creep
up again after the recent collapse, and
cement shares were well supported,
especially in Melbourne. There was a
slight weakening in bonds and pref.
shares at the close of the week.
* * * *
There was a sharp stoppage in the
upward movement of prices for Consoli-
dated Loans last week, the upward price
movement having been responsible for
the downward dive in bond yields that
has been apparent now for several
months. On Monday of last week a low
level of £3 Is. 7d. per cent, was reached
in the average yield ; on Tuesday, in a
market that displayed weakness all
round, there was a slight lengthening to
£3 Is. 9d. per cent. This was the first
check in the downward dive of the yield
for a considerable period. By Friday a
yield of £3 3s. Id. was offering.
* * * *
Victorian Grain Elevators Board on
Monday offered a £450,000 12-year loan
carrying interest at £3 15s. per cent. This
compares with a rate of £3 17s. 6d. per
cent, offered on the Melbourne Board
of Works 15-year loan, which was quickly
subscribed last month, the State Savings
Bank conversion loan carrying the same
rate. In October last year the Grain
Elevators Board offered £500,000, 10
years, £4 10s. per cent. The average
yield on Consols last week was £3 3s.
per cent. It has' dropped some shillings
per cent, since the Board of Works loan
Was offered. J. B. Were and Sons are
handling the Elevators Board float.
**" * *
Only a misplaced sense of humor might
be capable of detecting it, but a bright
feature in the last fortnight’s dramatic
international events seemed to be
Holland’s dogged refusal to listen to its
own funeral arrangements before it is
decently dead, or even wounded, for that
matter. The U.S.A. has been talking
about “protecting” the Dutch East Indies,
source of much of Australia’s oil, in the
event of Hitler swallowing Holland as
he has swallowed Denmark. Though it
is doubtful whether Hitler would have
one-tenth the chance of landing forces
in Java that he has of annexing Green-
land, it is feared on all sides that the
Dutch Indies, a rich, fat plum in any-
body’s eyes, will inevitably need protec-
tion. Apparently the real fear is that
the Indies will need protection from the
would-be protectors. The U.S.A. doesn’t
trust Japan, Japan doesn’t like the
U.S.A., and Britain figures in the picture
somewhere. Canberra has even been
talking about it. Meanwhile, Holland,
very properly, feels that the premature
appearance of the undertaker is scan-
dalously indecent.
Australia figures as an important cus-
tomer of the Dutch Indies for oil, tea
and coffee. We usually have a heavy
adverse balance of trade with the N.E.I.
If Holland is invaded the N.E.I. may
rely on us for more manufactured goods.
* * * *
One of ihe most sobering results of
war in the financial world has been the
reduction in bonus rates by nearly all
the big life offices that have made a dis-
tribution of certificates since the outbreak
of the conflict. Last week the National
Mutual informed its policy-holders ,that
a cut had been made, and investigation
shows the reduction to have been quite
substantial. An endowment assurance on
which a £7 11s. bonus was allotted last
year has been credited with a compound
reversionary addition of only £4 14s. this
year—a drop of nearly 40 p.c. Of course,
the beauty of mutual life assurance is
that, provided surpluses are being earned,
what a policy-holder fails to get in one
year he may get, with interest added, in
a later year. If this war finishes soon
the increased mortality which is one thing
the life offices are now taking precautions
against may not arise, and the provision
made against accelerated claims, or at
least the income therefrom, would then
become available for bonuses to policy-
holders. The policy-holder whose con-
tract matures very soon is the only one
likely to have any grounds for a grouch
against the National Mutual’s apparent
conservatism in the present instance.
The association (the National Mutual
doesn’t like being called a society) ex-
plains to policy-holders that increased
death claims are not the only extra charges
likely to be imposed on a life office:
On this occasion it has been necessary,
for the protection of policy-holders, to an-
ticipate the possible effects of the present
state of war on the business of life assur-
ance which will show themselves in heavy
taxation, reduced interest earnings, de-
preciated values of assets and increased
death claims. In regard to death claims
it is important to remember that with rela-
tively few exceptions the association's
policies do not require payment of any
extra premiums from members who incur
the risk of death as the result of war.
Your directors have taken prompt and
prudent steps to protect . your fellow-
members and yourself against these possi-
bilities by writing £lOO,OOO off the value
of the association’s assets, by transferring
£515,000 to the investment fluctuation re-
serve, thus increasing the amount of that
reserve to £1,750,000, and by retaining
accrued surplus as a provision against in-
creased death claims.
These precautions have naturally had a
considerable effect on the intermediate
bonuses now declared. The amount of
surplus absorbed by the transfer to invest-
ment fluctuation reserve is alone nearly
one-half of that required to provide a year s
bonus on a normal scale. You will thus
doubtless understand not only why the
amount of the interim bonus allotted to
your policy on this occasion is less than
usual, but also how greatly the strength
of the association’s position has been in-
creased by the precautions taken.
Hundreds of thousands of policy-holders
will be affected by the almost-general cut
in bonus rates. It may be thought that
with Consols so strong in the market
now the National Mutual’s provision
against investment fluctuations is un-
timely—it owns about £25,000,000-worth
of public securities, approximately half its
funds being in this form of security. But
the present is a period of managed national
finance, with the future obscure ; also,
the hardening in bond prices means a
smaller interest return from the invest-
ment of new funds and the reinvestment
of old. Heavier taxation is also bound
to strike at the net investment income.
It may be, also, that the writing of new
business will be restricted owing to war
conditions. A drop in new-business-
writing would probably increase the cost
of business-getting, unless severe retrench-
ment were enforced.
* * * *
The Maoriland Prices Tribunal has
tentatively agreed to allow Whakatane
Paper Mills to lift its prices for pulp-
board by 30s. to 40s. a ton over the ap-
proved December prices. The tribunal’s
interim decision fixes the value of the
mill and its adjuncts at £450,000; the
co. says they are worth £586,000, and if
that figure is eventually agreed on a
further increase in the price of board
will be permitted. It is an odd case The
tribunal decided that it “could not in
fairness to the users of the co.’s products
and to the public put the co. in a better
position than it would have been had
the war and other circumstances not
arisen.” If that meant that the Gov-
ernment was prepared to make Maori-
land pay war-time prices overseas for
pulp or board rather than pay war-time
prices internally for the same stuff its
action would be absurd —a clear waste
of overseas funds. But apparently the
position isn’t as obvious as all that. The
tribunal suggests that the co. must either
reduce the cost of production so that it
can compete economically or reconstruct
“in order to render more economic the
relation between capital and output,” the
aim being to reduce costs. Sellers on
Sydney ’Change offer the co.’s ords. at
2s. 6d. and the prefs. at 10s. The co.
is short of working capital.
* * * *
Profits of Vickers, Ltd., British arma-
ment manufacturers, and those of Thos.
Firth and John Brown, Ltd., steel and
armor-plate makers, for the latest finan-
cial year have fallen slightly, the reces-
sions being entirely due to heavier British
taxation.
sk % * sk
According to Sir John Simon, the war
is costing Britain £5,000,000 a day, other
expenditure being £1,500,000 a day. It
worked out at £2,372,000,000 a year.
About £1,000,000,000 is being found by
present taxation ; with some more squeez-
ing a little extra tax revenue may be got
in, but in the vicinity of £1,000,000,000
will have to be found by borrowing.
* * * *
A bird’s-eye view of business condi-
tions in the United States, as shown by
the New York “Times” index toward the
end of February, with comparisons over
a year:—
Week ended
Feb. Feb. Feb.
24, 17, 25,
1940. 1940. 1939.
Miscellaneous car loadings 77.1 78.8 72.4
Other car loadings 93.5 90.0 89.6
Steel ingot production ... 92.2 94.6 74.9
Electric power production 101.6 101.9 95.4
Automobile production .. 112.8 104.4 87.4
Lumber production 83.2 83.8 73.8
Cotton mill activity 131.7 138.4 120.0
Combined index 96.1 96.6 88.2
Price index 81.4 79.3
After a sharp rise and fall in January,
with a slight recovery later, representative
industrial stocks on the New York Stock
Exchange have lately steadied at near
the lowest levels of the year.


X BREAKING
OF THE
DROUGHT f
r
m
11 is
m
-X—Y' /
an
rh
hA
TrA
>/
£*s£7*B
{til 1 j i
kin i.
9«B
#*?5P
%
si
>,j
if i\i
/
lAV\
a
m
*9
rA-
«L
VzZ£r\
T
b&
1
£&65
&
/ 4
'SS
S 5
WP>'S * m
< pi
m-v' / # f
&
R
ss£
/ V
i
TOOHIYS
#
HERES TOEE
TOOHEYS, LTD.,
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“THIS IMPERIALIST WAR.”
[The article here condensed from London “Spec-
tator" deals with Britain's Easter Conference resolu-
tions on the lines of those carried in Sydney, and also
with other anti-war manifestations, and puts forward
argument in refutation of the main catchcry, that this
is “an Imperialist war.”]
At Easter Conferences of sectional Labor organi-
sations of one type and another in Britain there was
some plain speaking about the war. At the Co-
operative party’s annual conference a resolution
sounding warnings against the danger of a “patched-
up peace” was met by an amendment demanding an
immediate armistice and moved by a delegate who
spoke of “this Imperialist war,” and put Great
Britain’s in nation-building” on a level with
Nazism’s. The amendment was defeated by votes
representing 3,235,000 to 1,323,000. At the annual
conference of the National Union of Clerks at Leeds
a resolution similarly demanding an immediate armis-
tice and a Socialist peace was carried. At the Shop
Assistants’ Union Conference at Birmingham a resolu-
tion condemning the “Imperialist war fought for the
defence of the colonial possessions of Britain and
France” was carried by 86 votes to 57. And from
other platforms sentiments of like tenor are enun-
ciated from time to time.
Such manifestations quite definitely do not repre-
sent the Labor movement as a whole. They do not
represent the Labor party—Labor on its political side
—which is as convinced of the necessity of fighting
Hitlerism as Mr. Chamberlain. They do not repre=ent
the Trade Union Congress—Labor on its industrial
side—which has as full and clear an understanding of
the issues at stake as Mr. Churchill. Labor as a
whole, so far from demanding an armistice, stands
for an increasingly vigorous prosecution of the war.
But the existence of a critical minority is not to
be ignored. It expresses its views with freedom and
forgets completely how that freedom came and how
certainly and swiftly it would vanish if this war were
lost. Very simple arguments indeed should suffice
to convince any honest sceptic that Britain has never
been more utterly disinterested in any war in its
history than it is today, that to describe this conflict
as an Imperialist war so far as France and Britain
are concerned is mingled ignorance and folly, and
to speak of it as the inevitable outcome of the Treaty
of Versailles is hardly less misguided.
No issue was ever clearer than the issue in this
war. For Britain and France it is not a war about
capitalism or inspired by capitalists; it is not a war
about colonies or any other territory; it is not a
war for markets ; it is solely and simply a war against
the brutal and aggressive ambition that has substi-
tuted terror for ordered government in Germany,
spread that terror over the independent States which
it has eliminated from the map of Europe, and
threatens to spread over other States still clinging in
well-founded apprehension to their neutrality.
Let faults in Britain’s past and present be recog-
nised. Let discontent with much in the life of the
community today be maintained, for it is fully justi-
fied. Let any showy and shoddy manifestation of
patriotism be condemned as it should be. Let the
resolve to build a new and better society when the
war is over become a pledge which even the classes
for whom it must mean most sacrifice will accept.
But as the basis of all things, let vision be kept clear
and truth prevail over the perverting impulses to
which a rebellious discontent with circumstances gives
rise.
And the truth is this, on the one side that the
victory of the Germany of Adolf Hitler would imperil
every liberty and every right that both the contented
and the discontented in Great Britain enjoy, and
on the other that with all our faults this country and
France stand, with other lesser States, for something
inestimably precious which we may call Western civil-
isation or Christian civilisation or what we will, and
without which life for ordinary men and women
may well seem not fit to live. In all that gives life
its values we stand, not indeed where we should or
might, but on a level incomparably above that on
which Nazi Germany stands and to which she is striv-
ing to drag down her neighbors.
No man not wilfully and perversely blind will
ignore our heritage or underrate it. What does it
mean that our trade unions are free to organise as
they will, that Communists can be elected to Parlia-
ment, that a Communist paper is published without
interference, that minorities can carry resolutions
condemning a war which the majority is pledged to
carry through to the end? Is there nothing in that
worth defending? Let one of the ablest spokesmen of
organised Labor today give the answer. “The funda-
mental issue,” wrote Mr. Arthur Greenwood in his
recent book Why We Fight, “is a moral issue. That
is why we fight. Labor in the British Commonwealth
has no imperial aims. It will not lend itself to such
aims Its determination is to keep its spiritual
values, to retain those achievements which have
widened the bounds of human freedom, and to assist
in creating those essential conditions of civilised life
in which alone the spirit of freedom, in all its mani-
festations, can thrive.” Those are, in fact, not merely
party but national aims, both French and British. In
them stands declared the fundamental truth about
“this Imperialist war.”
Japan’s Need of Peace.
(Condensed from an article by London “Times" Tokyo
correspondent.)
The distance between Japan and her goal in China
has hardly diminished in the third year of war. The
army leaders have consistently declared that the nation
must remain on a war footing for an indefinitely long
time. It is therefore pertinent to ask how three years
on a war footing have affected Japan.
No survey can ignore the evidence of economic
strength and resiliency the last three years have brought
to light. Japan has waged war on a great scale with
one hand, and with the other has carried out huge
plans of industrial development at home and in Man-
chukuo. All this has been done without foreign loans
or domestic privation. The masses have not yet seen
a ration card. Yet signs of impoverishment are in-
creasing.
In proportion to her resources, Japan is spend-
ing more on the China war than the United States, a
far richer country, spent at the height of the World
War. The new order is proving an expensive invest-
ment, and many years of impoverishment must fol-
low the present orgy of spending. The country’s
productive powers have been drained into munitions
“L’Emancipation Nationale," Paris.
ENEMIES ON THE INSIDE.
The Poilu: “Are they friends?”
work and the heavy industries needed as the foun-
dation of the new order. The result is a decrease of
the export trade and a scarcity of consumers’ goods.
In Japan, now the world’s greatest producer of cotton
textiles, there is a chronic scarcity of cotton cloth.
In the greatest rice-producing country there is a
scarcity of rice.
The rich cannot get petrol for their cars nor the
poor kerosene for their oil stoves ; factories cannot
freely get coal for their furnaces nor the villagers
charcoal for their braziers. The infantile mortality
is shockingly high, and the milk supply far below
the needs of a growing nation, yet milk is being made
into butter and exported to bring in foreign currency.
Copper coins are being withdrawn from circulation.
There is a shortage of coal, iron, timber, cement,
chemicals, chemical fertilisers, drugs, pulp, wool,
leather, cotton, carbide and rubber.
The cost of food, clothing, light and fuel has risen
35 per cent, since the war began. But the “Asahi,”
which publishes the statistics, warns its readers that
they are illusory. They are based on officially fixed
prices, and yamitorihiki, “bargaining in darkness,” is
the rule rather than the exception. In the Tokyo area
alone the “economic police” last year discovered
200,000 violations of the price-control fegulations.
These were not all petty cases about a few bundles
of charcoal. Manufacturers break the law to get
copper, rubber, metals and petrol. On February 16
all the rayon mills in Fukui were disorganised by
the arrest of managers and directors on charges of
violating the price regulations on materials valued
at 15,000,000 yen.
Wages are advancing in pursuit of prices but have
not overtaken them. But, as overtime is universal,
gross earnings are higher and the workers are pros-
perous. Strikes are a thing of the past. With high
prices for rice and silk the farmers are flourishing.
But during a recent visit to the industrial centres
Ministers were told that the workers were “physically
tired and spiritually uneasy” because they felt that
their progress had been brought to a standstill by
the regulations restricting their freedom of movement
and stabilising their wages. Gradually and cautiously,
and without apparent resistance, the regimentation of
labor and industry is being carried out. Large num-
bers of youths have been medically examined and
enrolled for labor service.
The Japanese imagine, not unnaturally, that what
they have endured for three years they can endure
indefinitely. But 1939 was worse than 1938, and 1940
will be worse than 1939. The gold has gone, and
Japanese economy must function on annual driblets.
Taxation has been trebled, and cannot be reduced.
The great hallmark of the totalitarian State is evi-
dent: increasing production and a stationary standard
of life. The State grows richer —if enormous un-
productive spending can be called riches —and the
people stay put. . . ,
Even if all the visions of the prosperity whicn
is to follow the creation of a new order are ultimately
realised, how long will it take Japan to recover? She
has conquered valuable potential resources of iron,
coal, cotton, salt and other industrial raw materials.
To develop those resources railways must be laid,
mines sunk, factories built, agriculture reorganised.
Where is the capital coming from? When will Japan s
immense investment begin to earn dividends?
The lesson of three years of war is that Japan
has not the choice between two alternative routes to
the new order —co-operation or conquest. It is co-
operation or failure. Co-operation is not a plant that
lives in blood ; when will its roots get a chance to grow?
The test question for Japan in 1940 is not whether
she can pull her belt still tighter without collapsing,
but whether she can make peace —a real peace, not
terms of surrender dictated to a puppet Government.
Only such a peace can save Japan and China from
sinking together into ever deeper mutual impoverish-
ment and all its ultimate consequences.
A Biting Attack Over Finland.
|This striking speech, accusing the British Govern-
ment of vacillation, indecision and delay over giving
help in materials to Finland, did not come from the
Opposition or any opponent of the Government, but
from a distinguished Conservative member of the
Commons, Mr. Harold Macmillan, M.P., in the debate
after Finland’s capitulation, when Mr. Chamberlain
gave figures regarding the help extended by Britain
which, cabled, seemed reasonably satisfactory. Mr.
Macmillan’s biting attack received practically no pub-
licity.]
The general public had seen statements of the
total amount of material supplied to Finland by the
Allies. The public may wonder how it was that with
such very substantial amounts of material as are
indicated by those figures the Finnish resistance col-
lapsed so suddenly. I think the general impression
is that as a whole the Finnish requests were acceded
to. That is a very different picture from the one
which was given to me by General Walden and the
Minister of War when I was in Finland. They gave
me the impression of a series of appeals for large
quantities of materials, appeals which fell almost
entirely at first on deaf ears, and were followed at
last by materials which were sent always in too small
quantities and always too late. I recognise that there
was necessarily great delay between the time of the
material leaving England and the time when it could
reach the field of battle. We know what difficulties
of transport there are today. There is almost equal
delay between the authorisation of the material by
the War Cabinet and the date at which it was
dispatched.
I remember being present at a conference between
the Finnish Minister for War and General Walden
when they showed me in despair a telegram which
had come stating that France and England were re-
fusing to make any substantial contribution to the
list of materials which the Field-Marshal had re-
quested. On a later date, February 2, the Finnish
Minister asked for the release of certain materials.
This letter was not acknowledged until the 10th, and
then the Secretary of State said:
None of the weapons or munitions which your
country requests can be spared from our resources.
That was seven days after the Government had
decided to make an appearance of rescuing these
people. On February 12 General Heinkel was in-
formed by General Ironside that the British authori-
ties were not in a position to release any of the items
asked for.
So strongly did I feel the situation in Helsinki
that I ventured as a private citizen to telegraph some
representations of my own to his Majesty’s Govern-
ment. I got the impression that at first there was a
considerable delay. The delay was usually about six
weeks between the granting of the release and the
actual shipping of the material. The public has read
in announcements in the press enormous figures of
the release of materials, but is it generally known that,
although 148 aeroplanes were ultimately released, only
101 were sent? I am not speaking now of numbers
reaching Finland, but of numbers leaving England.
Is it realised that of these 101 only four left England
in December, only 44 in January and only 27 in Feb-
ruary ; and the others were made up in March?
Is it generally known that we were unable to
send any anti-tank guns at all when the Field-Marshal
asked for 100? A number of anti-tank rifles were sent
and left England about February 28. No one could
be quite sure when they would arrive ; all we could
do was to send them. We could send only 25 howitzers
out of the 150 asked for; only 30 field-guns out of
166 asked for, and these were dispatched one month
after the request. When we come to small arms
ammunition, that is one of the most curious cases
that has happened. The Finnish Government was
in the habit of placing large orders for certain cart-
ridge caps with English manufacturers. An order
due to have been released, as I understand it, some-
where about June was, by the courtesy of the Finnish
War Office and not as a matter of right, postponed
before the war began. At that time the Order-in-
Council did not apply. When the war started the
Finnish Government said, “At least send us this
material which we ought to have had in June.” What
handicapped the Finns was that they only received half


of that, and of this large release which was asked for
none of the cartridges left before the war began.
As to the general lessons of this episode, I do
not know enough of the strategy of war to know
whether on the whole we have gained or lost. It
can obviously be argued that this expeditionary force
might have succeeded brilliantly. On the other hand,
it might have failed disastrously. Nor can I appraise
the effect of this episode upon the duration of the
war. It would be foolish to try to do so. But it does,
I think, throw a piercing light on the present machinery
and the method of government. The delay, the vacil-
lation, changes of front, standing on one foot one
day and on the other the next before a decision is
given—these are patently clear to anyone. In this
war we shall require the maximum of courage and
resolution. Much has been learnt that we may use
for our benefit from this Finnish episode. Let us
apply it for our own safety and, may we hope, for
the ultimate good of that little country whose military
prowess and civilian courage have won the admiration
of the world.
[The following post-mortem comment on the part
played by the U.S.A. is from the Washington “Evening
Star.”]
Exactly eight weeks after introduction of the first
United States bill for Finnish relief, the House, by
a vote of 168 to 51, finally adopted a Senate-approved
measure to enable the Export-Import Bank, if it so
desired, to lend Red-ravaged Finland up to twenty
million dollars for non-military purposes.
Finland, with a reputation for scrupulous prompt-
ness in paying her debts, has good reason to be dis-
illusioned by America’s amazing lack of promptness
in responding to her desperate appeals for immediate
practical aid. The legislative record on the Finnish
loan question is not one of which Americans should
be especially proud. While wave after wave of Russian
bombing ’planes were blasting Finnish cities, killing
civilians and soldiers indiscriminately, and while
valiant Finnish troops miraculously were standing off
repeated onslaughts of relentless Red divisions, two
months of mighty labor by both Houses of Congress
produced a modified, almost mutilated, measure which,
in effect, said to a friendly nation with a Bolshevist
bayonet at its throat: “Here is that loan we have been
talking about with such tantalising deliberation. Buy
yourself some food or clothing with the money—but
do not use a dollar of it against the ruffian who is
threatening to cut you to pieces!” All in all, it has
been a rather sobering demonstration of how one
powerful democracy rushes first aid to a bleeding but
still unbowed sister democracy in her supreme battle
with a common enemy—Communism.
“Eastern Front” Forces.
[This review of the strength of the Allies and
Turkey and the general situation on the “Eastern Front,”
where the new Anzacs are stationed, is from an article
by the military correspondent of the Yorkshire “Post.”]
The Germans are strategically in a bad position
for taking military action alone in the Near East, as
the Allies hold the keys of the situation and the for-
ward Turkish troops overlook the oil regions at near
distance. Any false move would lose Germany the
oil supplies and give her a new front to drain the
reserves of petrol which are husbanded for the West.
Any German or Russo-German army operations
in the Near and Middle East would be much handi-
capped by the Allied warships entering and controlling
the Black Sea. With aircraft, the Caspian could also
be dominated. The southern part of the neck of land
which separates the two seas could be occupied by
Turkish troops if Russia became Germany’s agent for
aggressive action.
For the Soviet the whole area, of which the
Caucasus is the centre, presents a strategical weak-
ness which neither the mountains nor the two inland
seas do much to mitigate. Within the area lies all
the Russian oil, and the main transport line from
Baku to Batum is at one point only nine miles from
the Turkish frontier. It is a life-line for the Russian
and German armies and a reason why Stalin will not
fight alongside the German forces. He will never
risk the loss of the oil.
German commentators have said that there are
a million armed men in the Middle East force. The
force is big, and quite competent to prevent aggression
in the Near and Middle East. The enemy realises
that there has come a new armed power across his
Eastern path, the like of which has not been known
before.
Its influence is tremendous, not only among
sovereign States threatened by Teutonic might, but
right through the East even to remote Arab settle-
ments. The real strength of such an army is not to
be gauged in its present numbers but in the latent
power of the whole Turkish population, which is
capable of fielding two million men. And that is not
all, as its further strength is grounded on the Allied
Empires, Arab backing and the leverage of those
immense numbers who form the Moslem world. That
is why Hitler prefers a political war in the Near East.
The Turkish Army has grown into a formidable
instrument more powerful than at any time since
Suliman was lord from the Danube to the Tigris.
[From a broadcast (March 27) by Lord Samuel, on
his return from a tour of Near East and Middle East
countries.]
“Throughout that part of the world all parties
and all sections are deeply concerned that no aggressive
totalitarian State shall obtain a controlling influence
in the Eastern Mediterranean. Every section is anxious
not to do anything that would hinder the war effort
of Britain and France. Grievances have been post-
poned for the time being. No one wished to raise
friction or give rise to questions likely to cause dis-
turbances.
“The chief thing that one hears about the war
relates to the large armies that are being assembled
in the Middle East by the Allies. Distributed in great
camps from the western frontier of Egypt to the
borders of Turkey, a powerful strategic reserve is
being created to meet any eventualities that might
occur. Besides troops from Great Britain and France,
the Australians and New Zealanders have come and
are coming ; also large numbers of men from the local
forces of the French Empire. There are now excellent
roads through those countries well suited for the
transport of mechanised armies.
“Events might occur at any moment, of course,
which would swiftly change the Mediterranean scene.
People watch for possible symptoms—the Caucasus,
in the Balkans, in Italy also.”
... ... . T t o a
Antl-Rritish Activities in U.S.A.
[The writer of the article here condensed from
London “New Statesman,” “an American correspon-
SfcriSh toVandf'Tile “&11 "SLTS £
doubt the Nazis are at it for all they are worth, though
some of the specific cases quoted (e.g., the anti-British
stickers for car screens) have been declared to be of
pure American origin. In any case, the writer would
seem to overlook that, however considerable the Nazi
part in this propaganda, Americans must be singularly
receptive to it for it to have such success. However it
C “‘ °”
While the average American is intensely sus-
picious of the British, who have apparently convinced
themselves that to issue any information whatever
in the Americas would be a grave mistake, the Ameri-
can public remains largely indifferent to the existence
within these shores of a secret Nazi Fifth Column
which is making strenuous efforts to influence opinion
within the United States. One or more trained Nazi
agents have been planted in every city and town of
“Daily Sketch,” London.
TRIPLE AXIS.
“Russo-Italian mutual dislike of each other has ruined Hitler’s dream of a three-Power Axis,”
runs the comment under this English cartoon.
consequence throughout the country, charged with
the task of reporting on the state of public opinion
and the reactions of the American public to the Euro-
pean war. These agents also encourage “keep out
of war” sentiment, and distribute literature so heavily
disguised that it would puzzle the Dies committee
to trace its source of inspiration.
An anti-Allied press of quite respectable propor-
tions has been built up, partly by direct subsidies,
ranging from German-language newspapers to certain
weekly publications preaching extreme isolation and
anti-Semitism (sure hallmarks, when bracketed to-
gether, of Nazi inspiration) and some newcomers
amone the cron of “New? T otters;” which have
g me crop 01 iNews Getters whicn nave
appeared since September. Almost without exception
these “mosquito sheets” take a pro-Nazi, pro-Soviet
and anti-British line. The sort of “news” which some
of them print may be judged by recent statements
that “no more British troops are being sent to France,”
that “the French Army is predominantly Communist
and recently greeted the Commander-in-Chief with the
clenched fist salute” and “the French Generals plan
to postpone the start of the war until 2,000,000 United
States troops have reached the Western Front”—the
latter inflammable stuff in view of the determination
here “not to let the Allies make suckers of the Ameri-
cans a second time.”
„ t j.- ' . .■ t> u , ,
■ „ u ! P y ?™ d of anti-Bntish news sheets
is a publication called Facts in Review, issued from
official German sources, which is mailed to 200,000
addresses each week. Up to date the British have been
,' he 0t b Sayi | n£ a " y,h k" g
Goehrs aVr IS fl erd U “o-memoriL Spiral
or St ,h d e a,V tat S '£ Th" g r r'' emne ,
cnminv” ffirst f,i u„ ,u a e an v s f. re r nw
press and since eehned a' , t , C mer f can Youth Con-
®et God save ™ A T a " Le Sion and
,- k - , . e P?n there was the slogan
stickers furnished to motorists from coas to coast.
Ine motive power behind this carefully-planned
campaign to make the greatest neutral 101 per cent,
Isolationist is derived from three mam sources. The
first is cash. Ample funds are apparently available to
sweeten any publication prepared to publicise the
uerman viewpoint.
The second weapon in the Nazi armory consists
of the five million German-speaking inhabitants of the
United States. In circles where a German accent
is considered a disadvantage the Nazi neutrality-
mongers fall back on their third weapon—the exist-
ence within the United States of an influential group
of American pro-Nazi sympathisers. In this group’s
ranks are men occupying vital strategic positions in
American industrial affairs.
What results have been achieved by all this
activity? Undoubtedly the upswing of Isolationist
sentiment has been quickened. Public opinion regard-
ing the Allies and their peace aims has been confused
by inspired statements that “There’s nothing to choose
between the two sides” and “It’s just another
Imperialist war”—the latter worked hard by Hitler’s
Communist allies. The Nazis possess a big advan-
tage in the fact that the marginal line between where
their efforts stop and the natural Isolationist tendencies
of the American people begin to operate is exceed-
mgly hazy. There being no possibility of the United
States entering the war on the German side, the Nazis
are able to concentrate on the simple appeal to “keep
America "
organisations.
The average American does not take very seriously
suggestions that Germans are trying to pattern his
u , , . ■ f , . .
other hand, he. is intensely suspicious
of the bona rides of Chamberlain and co. He cannot
quite rid himself of the fear that, scrupulously correct
“ ]5“ kf" ** behavior of the British within the
United States to date, he may awake one morning
to discover that Lord Lothian has put a swift one
over on him. Tell him that the Nazis are active and
dangerous, and he laughs in your face, and says he’d
like to see the something Nazi who could convince
him of anything connected with Germany except that
Hitler ought to be put away. That beautiful faith
is the most valuable asset possessed by the Nazi Fifth
Column in the United States. It is enabling the Ger-
mans to infiltrate undetected in countless directions
while the voters they seek to influence are too busily
engaged in a witch-hunt against British wiles to notice
what America’s Gauleiters are up to. We must wait
for the day when the Nazis become too venturesome
and make a mistake in tactics, which they may con-
fidently be relied upon to do sooner or later. When
that happens, quite a lot of attention is going to be
focused on that Fifth Column. And the present cona-
placency will vanish overnight,
~~ ,
A German Naval Victory.”
[Though the subject is now ancient history, with the
facts well established and the event anything but a
Oerman naval victory,” the German account of the
engagement which cost Germany the Graf Spee is here
given as a guide in assessing the trustworthiness of any
German victory claims. It is from the reports dished
“P for home and foreign consumption by the leading
German newsa S enc y> Deutsches Nachrichten Buro.]
T , ~ r c e f * hursday, Dec. 14.
. J he Graf Spee > on Wednesday towards six o clock
1? * he ™° r T 8 ’ cam f. acro J s J he T British cruisers
Exeter AdnUes and Ajax off the La Plata estuary,
wl ? lch h }^ to . ha< ? been regarded as the uncontested
!? he re ( Hoheitsgebiet ) of the British Atlantic Fleet,
The German battleship immediately opened fire. The
r°£inng of the guns could clearly be heard at a coastal
holiday resort 50 miles distant. Later the cruiser
Exeter was seen to be shot to pieces by the heavy
salvos anci the British cruiser A £ x fled
c ’ e c . ~ ,
?oon th . e superstructure of the Exeter resembled
™ e !i e - v ;l ohaoiic tangle of twisted steel and iron
"nISy e £25 the’
a " d to t dro » S** ““
t a‘p.a?a a estu P a e ; y ’ T 32
harbor of Montevideo. She had not only forced the
Exeter to abandon the battle but had also registered
severe hits on the 'Achilles and the Ajax. The Graf
Spee herself was hit only by a few shells.
According to unconfirmed reports from the harbor
police the Gr | f Spee has seve J dead and wounded
on board, while there are hundreds of dead and
wounded on the British ships. It became known that
the British, in breach of international law, fired gas
shells at the Graf Spee, and in particular mustard gas
was used. Consequently among the wounded, accord-
ing t o reports from Montevideo, are a number of
cases of gas poisoning. As in consequence of the use
of gas there was a risk of the food stores on the
Admiral Graf Spee being contaminated, the com-
mander decided to put into the La Plata River in
order to change the food stores,
According to the latest reports the British cruiser
Exeter is lying crippled outside the mouth of the La


Plata River, and according to the harbor authorities
is to be towed away. According to still unconfirmed
reports the British cruiser Achilles is sunk. The
victorious engagement of the German battleship has
provided a sensation for the whole of America.
Until late at night the harbor of Montevideo was
crowded with tens of thousands of people loudly
voicing their admiration for the heroic battle fought
by one solitary German warship against at least three
British. In British circles this German naval victory
is .felt all the more painfully as only on that same
evening the Anglophile press had stated that the
German warships were in a hopeless position in the
Atlantic, having completely run out of fuel and being
unable to break through the British blockade. All
the deeper is therefore the impression which this
victorious naval battle has left everywhere.
*****
[Next day Deutsches Nachrichten Biiro began to make
excuses.]
Berlin, 15/12/’39.
In connection with the successful engagement of
the battleship Graf Spee with a superior British force
the German press especially emphasises the fact that
the British ships entered the battle in a “fresh con-
dition,” whereas the Admiral Graf Spee had had
three and a half months of uninterrupted cruising.
The British announcement that the cruiser
[Exeter] would be towed into port in order to land
about one hundred wounded has so far not
materialised. There is so far no trace of the ship,
and the rumor has spread that she has sunk, as it
is hardly thought possible that she could have been
towed to the Falkland Islands, two days’ journey away.
On the other hand, it is believed that the Exeter has
run on a sandbank in order to avoid sinking. It is
assumed that the light British cruisers Ajax and
Achilles are somewhere out of sight in front of the
mouth of the La Plata, waiting for reinforcements,
provided their damage is not of so serious a nature
that they will also, for the present, be compelled to
go to the British naval base at the Falkland Islands.
The Graf Spee, lying approximately 200 metres
from the quayside, is the object of the curiosity of
countless spectators, who watched with great interest
the entire crew of the ship engaged in their morning
washing.
# % £ t- *
Berlin, 16/12 / ’39.
The well-known Uruguayan eye-specialist, Pro-
fessor Dr. Walter Meerhoff, received a telegram from
the English newspaper “News Chronicle” asking him,
as a neutral medical authority, to examine the alleged
gas poisoning of the sailors of the German cruiser
Admiral Graf Spee. Dr. Meerhoff established beyond
question the presence of typical symptoms of mustard
gas injuries in the case of seven sailors, namely, dark
brown discolorations, bluish swellings, blistering,
swelling of the cornea, severe headache, vomiting,
burning of the eyes, etc. At the conclusion of his
careful examination Prof. Dr. Meerhoff cabled his
findings to the “News Chronicle,” and emphasised
the undoubted finding of mustard gas injuries.
[lt was, of course, established by the Uruguayan
Medical Commission that no gas was used. The
United Press of America and Associated Press of
America reported (15/12/’39): “The ship’s doctors
now claim that the injuries to the crew are largely'
due to what they call ‘Yellow Gas.’ This appears
to be the picric-acid gas common in high explosives,
and in no way the ‘poison gas’ claimed.” Further: “All
doctors who examined the injured German sailors at
Montevideo have, reported that their injuries were not
due to mustard gas.”]
*****
Montevideo, 16/12/’39.
A German press representative who stayed for
some time on board the Graf Spee reports: “Not only
from the shore but even on board few traces can be
seen to show that the battleship had just gone through
a heavy engagement. In spite of the excitement of the
past few days the crew are already busy decorating
a Christmas tree on board ship.”
Berlin, 18/12/’39.
The Uruguayan Government has refused to grant
the time necessary for the restoration of the sea-
worthiness of the Graf Spee. In these circumstances
the commander decided to destroy the ship by blow-
ing it up outside Uruguayan territorial waters.
* * * * *
Later.
It is further reported about the sinking of the
Admiral Graf Spee that the Fiihrer and Supreme
Commander had given orders to Captain Langsdorff
to destroy the battleship by blowing it up as the time
necessary for the restoration of the ship’s seaworthiness
had been refused by the Uruguayan Government.
[An official British Admiralty statement on March
26 declared that there was a revolt on the Graf Spee
as she lay, badly damaged, off Montevideo. “Eight
times the crew were mustered on deck while one officer
after another harangued them, urging them to take their
ship to sea and give battle to the British. Finally
Captain Langsdorff himself appealed to them. It was
in vain.”]
*****
Montevideo, 18/12/’39.
Members of the crew of the Admiral Graf Spee
who had fallen in the battle against three British
cruisers were solemnly buried in the Northern
Cemetery here on Friday noon. A great crowd had
lined the way from the harbor to the cemetery. A
delegation of the crew of the Graf Spee escorted their
fallen comrades. After memorial speeches by the
German Minister and the commander of the German
battleship the coffins, covered deep with flowers, were
lowered into their graves, over which salvos were
fired. On their march back to the harbor the Ger-
man sailors were greeted by a spontaneous manifes-
tation of sympathy on the part of the population.
*****
Berlin, 20/12/’39.
The official German News Agency tonight pub-
lishes the following: “We have just learned of un-
exampled occurrences during the burial of the Graf
Spec’s dead at Montevideo. British seamen from
several ships in the harbor spat at the coffins of the
German sailors during the procession. During the
funeral oration they made yowling noises, and after
the burial of the dead they threw a dead dog on the
grave of the German sailors.”
* * * * *
Buenos Aires, 20/12/’39.
Editors: D.N.B. requests kill item 238-20212 from
Berlin. This item begins: “Berlin D.N.B.’s Monte-
video charges British sailors from several ships lying
in the harbor, etc. Thank you.”
[The D.N.B.’s retractation of its own false news
occurred after the following editorial note had appeared
in the sixth edition of the Argentine evening paper
“Critica” of Dec. 20: “The falsity of the news item
published by the D.N.B. is evident. The crew of the
sunken cruiser now interned in Buenos Aires can testify
to its inexactitude. The British sailors sent a wreath to
the funeral of their fallen enemies, and asked for per-
mission to form a guard of honor at the burial, a
request which was refused by the German Legation in
Montevideo.” The wreath was inscribed: “To the
memory of the brave men of the sea from their com-
rades of the British Merchant Service.”]
Youth in Two Wars.
[Delivering at Oxford University a stirring address
to youth, Lord Halifax spoke of the “devastating
perversion of youth in Germany,” insisted that the
driving force behind the Nazi movement is German
youth, and suggested that “the real conflict today is
not between age and youth, but between youth and
youth.” Apropos of that, it has been pointed out that,
with the solitary exception of Mr. Oliver Stanley (aged
43), all the members of the British War Cabinet are well
on in years. Mr. Chamberlain is 71; Sir John Simon,
67; Lord Halifax, 57; Mr. Churchill, 65; Sir Kingsley
Wood, 59; Sir Samuel Hoare, 60; Lord Hankey, 62.
Hitler is 51, Goebbels 42, Goring 47, Ribbentrop 46.
However, Lord Halifax’s argument is carried further
and improved on by J. A. Spender, who, as shown in
this extract from his “Sunday Times” article, has
special reason for joining in the discussion.]
Lord Halifax’s address to youth, delivered at
Oxford, struck an intimate chord in my memory, for
I was the companion to whom, standing by his side
at the window of the Foreign Office on the evening
of August 3, 1914, Lord Grey used the words which
served Lord Halifax for his text: “The lamps are
going out all over Europe ; we shall not see them lit
“Simplicissimus,” Munich.
POETRY AND TRUTH—GERMAN VIEW.
“The cookery book says: ‘Take five eggs and a quarter of a pound of
butter’ — yes, yes, those poets.”
again in our lifetime.” Grey seemed to have all the
burdens of the world on him at that moment.
Though it is a perilous subject for the seniors, I
am tempted to say a word about the youth movement
so sympathetically dealt with by Lord Halifax. In
this country the leaders of it were the young men
who were born about 10 years before the war —too
late to take part in it —and who came to manhood
two or three years after the peace. These, as if by
a common impulse, threw up the theory that the war
had been made by old men who had thus wrecked
the world in which the young men had to live. They
seemed to cut the stream of life in two about the
time that they were born and to conclude that, because
everyone born at or after this date was undoubtedly
young, everyone living before it had always been old.
The Government of 1914 was represented as a Gov-
ernment of old men who drove helpless youth into
the shambles of war.
As a matter of fact the Government of 1914 was
composed of men of all ages, and its average age was,
I think, rather lower than was common at the time or
has been since. Those of us who were on the scene
can testify that if it had shirked the challenge thrown
to it in August, 1914, it would have had no heavier
reckoning than with the young men, so many of whom
gave their lives for a cause which they were per-
suaded was just and imperative. The judgment which
brought the country into the war in 1914 was that of
old and young in an extraordinary accord, as indeed
is the judgment today.
The youth movement both here and elsewhere
was in its beginnings an instinctive revolt against the
troubles and evils of a disordered world, and a demand
for something different, which it assumed must be
something better. Its mainspring was emotion—emo-
tion struggling for expression in a vacuum and finding
different outlets in different countries and in different
minds. Millennial dreams of a new society from
which poverty and strife were banished found favor
with some; angry ideas of destroying the existing
“rotten fabric” without thought of what was to come
after appealed to others.
Youth, it soon appeared, had no common doc-
trine. It took its color from the country of its birth.
Marxism appealed to it in Russia, Fascism in Italy,
Nazism in Germany. It was. everywhere plastic
material for ambitious revolutionary or patriotic ad-
venturers, and they worked upon it without scruple or
remorse. , r
An acute observer who visited Russia ana Ger-
many about four years ago came back saying that in
each of these countries the regime was being carried
on the shoulders of about two million ardent young
men who could be relied upon to go all lengths and
make all sacrifices in its support. He added, what 1
think is an important point, that, while many of their
seniors groaned under the Nazi or Communist tyranny,
it was novelty and emancipation for these privileged
young men —emancipation from the monotony of
their former lives, from all conventional morality im-
posed on them by their seniors.
It is the confusion of generous loyalty with mean
and cruel practice, working like madness in minds
which have no anchorage in tradition or religious
belief, that has worked the great mischief in Europe in
recent years. The seniors are by no means blameless.
They have not succeeded in presenting the old faiths in
the new forms which appeal to youth. Nor can they
do so without the co-operation of youth itself, which
must somehow be persuaded that its responsibilities are
not discharged when it has indicted its elders.
In Britain we have a small minority of sophisti-
cated young men who sit above the battle and claim
a liberty to pass judgment on the combatants, a liberty
which they can only enjoy if other young men are will-
ing to fight and die in its defence. But the immense
majority now as in 1914 have rallied splendidly to
the new challenge. The old steadiness of the British
people has stood the test, and we are the better for
having heard and tolerated all opinions.
Conscientious Objectors.
{From an article by Arthur Greenwood, M.P. (Labin
London “Sunday Express.”)
The “incidence” of objections is interesting. There
are, broadly speaking, two groups of objectors: those
who object on religious and ethical grounds and those
who object for political reasons. Taking them all,
the objectors form fewer than 2 per cent. —one in
fifty—of all the young men
who have registered for mili-
tary service. Surprisingly, as the
age groups for calling up grow
older the proportion of those
who object to service grows
smaller. There are many more
objectors among the “twenties’
than in the later groups. Yet
the degree of domestic, profes-
sional and civic responsibility
grows greater as men grow
older. Can it be that as men
age they grow more under-
standing of why we are at
war?
There are many among my
colleagues who were conscien-
tious objectors in the last war,
but are making great contribu-
tions to victory in this war.
Many of them are national
figures. Probably the outstand-
ing example is my colleague
Mr. Herbert Morrison, leader
of the London County Council.
Are these men being incon-
sistent? Ido not think so.
There are two or three reasons
why a man who was a con-
scientious objector in the last
war can conscientiously be an active worker in our
great struggle now.
Twenty-five years have gone by, twenty-five years
in which terrible forces for evil have developed in
many countries, in which men’s minds have been
forced to face a growing menace to freedom, and in
which those elected to represent the views of the work-
ing people of Britain interpret their views with the
knowledge that they may be called upon to take respon-
sibility for the fulfilment of the hopes of the people.
There is a simple comparison between the Ger-
many of Hitler and the Germany of the Kaiser which
will explain largely the change of attitude of many
leaders of the trade unions and of the party to which
I belong. In the days of the Kaiser, though we loathed
his imperialism, the trade union and Socialist move-
ments in Germany were among the strongest and most
enlightened in the world. Today? I do not have to
elaborate the ghastly picture. It is known throughout
the world. Even since this war started old men, long re-
tired, have been dragged from their homes and clubbed
to death because in their youth or in their prime they
were associated with democratic organisations.
Those who lead our trade unions and other
democratic movements are supporting this war, not
from selfish motives, but to preserve the ideals and
institutions in which they passionately believe. If
Hitler wins these organisations will be smashed, and
with them the mighty efforts of the past and the hopes
of the future.
It is much easier to understand and deal with a
young man whose ground of objection is religious. It
is much more difficult to be detached about the poli-
tical objector. Though I distrust the motives of some
political objectors, and have contempt for the State they
desire in this land, and pity for the way some of them
have been duped, I still cherish the conviction that our
democracy is the soundest in the world. It gives to
each man the inalienable right to his own views. It
gives the objector the right to state his case. It gives
every other member of the public a right to his own
views about objectors.
That is why this whole question is so peculiarly
personal. Therefore I can truthfully admit the cour-
age of some of these objectors. I also know of the
courage and self-sacrifice of many of the men who are
now serving their country. That is what I prefer to
admire.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DATILES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The attendance at Canterbury dropped
a thousand from the 17,000 of the open-
ing day, but as the tote turnover in-
creased by a little over £BOO the position
was satisfactory. Questioned as to stakes
at future meetings, the chairman, F. G.
Underwood, replied: “If the patronage
continues up to the present standard, so
will the prize-money.” Last Saturday’s
distribution was £2068, inclusive of a £5O
trophy.
Results favored bookmakers, each
favorite being beaten, and the winners
including four at double figures. The
rain of the previous week had benefited
the track. This was shown by the time
recorded in the Canterbury Park Cup—
-2.20J, against Plutus’s 2.24\ in the Turf
Club Handicap on the first day. Bestop
(8.11) won his division of the Highweight
Handicap in the same time that Gold
Rod (8.9) put up in the Clissold Handi-
cap, which gives a fair idea of the im-
provement of the course between the two
meetings.
In winning the Progressive Stakes
Buzzal showed excellent form. Second-
last at the half-mile, he then made a
rapid forward move, and outstayed Aris-
tocrat, who looked a winner when he led
a furlong from home. Dicktom and Con-
sonance each had a turn in the lead, but
weakened in the straight; while, though
Miss Heroic was always fairly close to
the front, her chance never appeared a
winning one. Buzzal is a half-brother to
Ardon’s Pride among other winners,
being by The Buzzard from Salvia
(Seremond-Mallaig), sister to Oranian,
a Summer Cup winner.
Manlock, favorite for the Nursery
Handicap, was outpaced in the early part,
and, though he ran on well in the
straight, was never a winning possibility.
Passport and Yuletide were first to turn
for home, and when the latter took charge
his success appeared fairly certain. How-
ever, he was unable to stall off Stylish,
who commenced slowly, and then made
up a lot of leeway from the three-fur-
longs post. Celebrity, in third place, ran
well enough to give her a chance of a
win ere long, while the best that can be
said for St. Andrew is that he was plug-
ging along at the finish. Stylish is by
Chatham from Chaptrel (Son-in-Law-
Neuve Chapelle, half-sister to Friar
Marcus). As this was Stylish’s second
win she is now decidedly cheap at her
yearling price of llOgns.
Eleven-year-old Dermid, who was sold
for £26 a few months ago, upset calcula-
tions by landing the Flying Handicap.
He settled Adios after turning into the
straight, and then finished too strongly
for Hamurah, who came at him nearly
a furlong from home. Momentarily
Hamurah looked like beating the old
fellow, but the task was a little too much
for her, Knight Folly, who was the early
leader, was passed by Brazandt along
the back, and, as he was somewhat ham-
pered at the turn, did well to get third.
Adios tired under his weight, and Cigar-
ette, who shared favoritsm with him,
never really got in it. This was Dermid’s
first win since a mile handicap at Ascot
in August, 1938.
Canterbury Park Cup running was re-
markable because of the fact that the
three best-backed horses Mosaic,
Feminist and St. Constant never flat-
tered their supporters. At the tail of the
field and on the rails for the greater part
of the journey, neither Mosaic nor St.
Consant was ever in a position that
gave either the chance of a fair run, the
former narrowly escaping mishap at one
stage. Feminist was never going com-
fortably, though her rider said it was
not due to any fault of the track.
Half a mile from home there was
not much between Santa, Baveon and
Cable Boy, and when the last-named
took the lead in the straight the end of
his numerous minor placings seemed in
sight. However, Early Bird, who was
nicely placed all the way, was too good
for him. Own Folk, in third place, put
in a good run in the straight and was
much nearer the first two at the winning-
post than at the leger. Tel Asur’s fourth
should assure his success at a mile and
a quarter, at least, and though he
dropped out towards the end Baveon
made a good showing. Billposter and
Santa, the dead-heaters for City Tatter-
sail’s Cup, were well beaten, and, as they
respectively met Early Bird only lib. and
41b. worse, there is no doubt as to the
heavy going having bothered the last-
named at Randwick.
Bestop’s form in the Trial Handicap
at Randwick the previous week did not
say much for his chance of success in
the first division of the Highweight Han-
dicap, and, going upon the price at which
he started, those associated with him must
have shared that idea. Benburb made
the early running, then giving place to
Grancitia, but Bestop wore him down.
Aureus was being hard ridden before
reaching the turn, and, as he lost ground
in the straight, a drop in the weights will
be necessary to give him a chance of
adding to his credit account. Merton
and Miss Pentheus headed the unplaced
division, but, apart from that of the
place-getters, the form was indifferent.
Überous lost ground at the start of
the Ashbury Handicap, and, a pro-
nounced last out of the straight and still
in that position at the half-mile, a win
for him seemed almost out of the
question. Then he put in such a good
effort that he led half a furlong from
home. The win was a pleasant surprise
for his backers, most of whom would
have sold out cheaply early in the race.
The favorite, Mischief, who did not have
the best of luck, was second; and
Herarde’s third was a sufficiently good
effort to make him worth following. Aus-
tralasia, who led from Herarde at the
half-mile, could not see it out, and
Bonnie L. is not improving.
Lady Curia, another horse given away
by A. E. Cooper, won the second division
of the High weight Handicap. Always
one of the leaders, she shook off Belle
Rose and Politesse before reaching the
home turn, and then went on to score
from Rummage, whose fall at Randwick
evidently did her no harm. Presented to
W. Gleeson, as compensation for the
death of Loombah shortly after his pur-
chase, Lady Curia was then leased to
Mrs. J. Carey, and is trained by R.
Stanton. Early in her career Lady Curia
was distinctly promising; but then lost
form. Well-backed Jocular beat only
one, and this time there was no excuse
possible for Politesse. She jumped away
smartly, was almost level with Belle Rose
and Lady Curia at the three furlongs, and
then stopped badly in the straight.
* * * *
Lou Robertson, who presides over one
of the most powerful betting stables in
Melbourne, had a welcome change of
luck at Moonee Valley on Saturday. A
winning double with Throttle and Zonda
compensated in a measure for several
reverses experienced by him lately.
Zonda’s success in the Essendon Han-
dicap was long overdue. She was rated
only about 71b. inferior to High Caste
in the autumn of last year, when she
ran second to that colt in the V.R.C.
Sires’ Produce and Ascot Vale Stakes,
but, whereas High Caste kept on improv-
ing, Zonda’s win on Saturday was her
first for over a year. Between times she
had cost stable followers plenty. Backed
from 4 to 1 down to 5 to 2, she was
ridden a quiet race by A. Breasley, hit
the front at the top of the straight, stalled
off Rose Princess’s challenge, and pos-
sibly could have increased her winning
margin of half a neck. Having struck
winning form again, Zonda might go
on improving, and may do well in the
important middle-distance winter races.
She is by Manitoba from Mistral, and
is owned by the trainer’s brother, A.
Robertson. Latter, who spent the winter
in Egypt, is again in England.
»•••••
Actual form did not say a great deal
for Throttle's chance in the second divi-
sion of the Juvenile Handicap, but con-
ditions of the race were to her liking.
She is little more than a pony, and lightly
built with it, but as such she appreciated
the drop to 7.2 from the 8.1 she had
carried when fifth to Black Legend on
the same course at her previous start.
This, combined with the fact that a more
fashionable rider was in the saddle, that
the distance was a furlong further, and
that the going was soft, probably
prompted the support that brought her
price from as much as 20 to 1 down to
12’s. Throttle was a fair way out of
her ground in sixth position rounding the
turn, but she finished gamely, and won
going away from Chatasan and Fur
Trader. Owned by her breeder, A. G.
Hunter, she is bred to stay, being by
Windbag from Little Valve, but prob-
ably weight will always trouble her.
J. Gilmore, one of Melbourne’s lead-
ing apprentices, had the winning mount
on Throttle, but he had an unenviable
experience later in the day on Rosado in
the Kinross Handicap. Rosado fell when
running fourth about three furlongs from
home, and, with 10 horses behind her, it
momentarily seemed certain that several
others would be involved in a serious
smash. Miraculously, their riders steered
clear of trouble, and the only fancied
horse whose chance was ruined by the
mishap was the favorite, Kanuri. He was
moving up at the time, but Badger had
to pull him almost to a standstill, and
the incident cost him several lengths.
Several horses jumped over Gilmore as
the latter lay on the ground, but he was
untouched by them, and escaped with
slight concussion. Rosado fractured
facial bones in the fall, an inquiry into
which was adjourned until Gilmore was
well enough to give evidence.
Con Naru may have won the Kinross
Handicap in any circumstances, but the
misfortune experienced by Kanuri, com-
bined with the fact that Magic Circle was
forced to go very wide at the home turn,
made things easier for him. His form,
incidentally, w'as an improvement on his
effort at Ascot a week earlier, when he
had finished only eighth to Aurie’s Star,
aj;d, judged by the betting, the improve-
ment was anticipated by some people. As
much as 10 to 1 was laid against him,
but 5 to 1 was the best on offer at the
finish. Moving to the leaders at the
turn, he hit the front soon after, and,
although seriously threatened for a stride
or two by Magic Circle, was doing better
than the latter right at the finish. Mal-
devon ran on well in third place, and
should be a near-future winner. A five-
year-old gelding by Consultation from
Naru, Con Naru is raced and trained by
H. Kilfoyle, for whom he has won several
races. Between Saturday and his previ-
ous success, however, he had had an
unsuccessful trip to Tasmania, and it was
generally considered that he had lost
form temporarily.
Werribee trainer Steve Murphy had
several strings to his bow on Saturday.
He expected to win doubles at Moonee
Valley with Earl Marshal and Gold
Glare, and at Colac with Considerate
and Rubical, and was not far out in his
estimate. His score for the day was three
wins—with Earl Marshal, Considerate
and Rubical —and a second, but as Rubi-
cal had a walkover at the country meet-
ing, his success did not bring much grist
to the mill. Hartney, one of Murphy’s
apprentices, had ridden Earl Marshal to
success at Ascot a week earlier, but he
did the riding at Colac on Saturday, when
the Earl Marshal mount was given to
T. Griffiths, another apprentice from the
same stable. -Considering that Griffiths’s
51b. allowance reduced Earl Marshal’s
weight to 8.6 for the first Juvenile divi-
sion, bookmakers were,generous in offer-
ing as much as 6 to 1 against him. He
started at fives, and, leading into the
straight with Cyden’s Son, won with a
little in reserve from Much To Say and
Darraweit. Earl Marshal has won his
two races since his return from an un-
successful trip to Sydney this autumn,
and might add to his record before the
handicappers get his measure.
• *•••*
An unrehearsed circus act earned a
grand reception for J. Sewell after he
had won the Mia Mia Hurdle on the
10-to-l chance Lord Jevington. Latter
ran to the front over a mile from home,
but crashed into the last jump, almost
fell on landing, and jolted Sewell right
out of the saddle. Sewell landed in a
precarious position on the offside of his
mount’s neck, somehow or other
scrambled back into the saddle, and,
despite the loss of his near stirrup leather
and his proper grip on the reins, got
Lord Jevington going again. Meantime
the favorite, Exmoor, had headed him
and momentarily looked any odds-on,
but Lord Jevington was level with
Exmoor again entering the straight, and
outstayed him in the run home.
It was one of the most remarkable
performances seen for some time, and
Lord Jevington, who was a useful per-
former on the flat, seems likely to make
something of a name for himself in his
new sphere. He is trained at Colac by
J. H. Fox, who gives the six-year-old
mare March Along gelding plenty of
work on the hills round Colac race-
course. Similar treatment has been of
great value to many other jumpers. Fox,
who gained his first experience of racing
under the tuition of Dick Bradfield, and
has been training on his own for only
a couple of years, has been represented
by two metropolitan winners in recent
weeks. He also prepares Black Legend,
winner at the previous Moonee Valley
meeting, but that colt disappointed him
in the second Juvenile division on Satur-
day. Black Legend weakened after lead-
ing to the bend.
Denis Girl, winner of the Yuroke
Welter Handicap, should be able to stay
for ever. She is by Denis Boy, a Caul-
field Cup winner, from Gwillian G., a
Sydney Cup winner, but, while she has
not exactly shone as a stayer to date, is
invariably hard to run down once she
hits the front in mile and middle-distance
races. Favored by a good barrier posi-
tion in the mile race on Saturday, when
her price shortened from sixes to 9 to 2,
she was in front at the end of a furlong,
and was always going a little better than
the favorite, Diaphane, who chased her
from the five furlongs. Diaphane, how-
ever, probably will be all the better for
the race, which was only his second since
a spell, and he should repay following.
Country gelding Tidylus shaped fairly in
third place, and David Spear drew at-
tention to his immediate future by being
well placed throughout and finishing
fourth. David Spear was having his first
race since the spring, when he ran a
promising fourth in the Caulfield Cup.
Back from the paddocks only seven or
eight weeks, and having his first race for
over six months, the former hunter
Rhymster led practically throughout the
Ardmillan Steeplechase. Knowledge that
he generally races well when fresh en-
abled stable followers to have a nice
win. His owner, “Mortimer Alson,” a
committeeman of the Williamstown R.C.
and deputy-master of the Oaklands Hunt
Club, accepted a bet of £420 to £3O, and
Rhymster’s price eventually firmed to
8 to 1. The place-getters had the race
to themselves over the last six furlongs,
but Rhymster, though worried first by
Nimshi and then by Gold Glare, always
had the “edge” on them, and won by six
lengths from Gold Glare. Rhymster is
young as ’chasers go, being a six-year-
old by Ronsard-Lady Sarrasin, and more
should be heard of him. He is trained
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(To be held at RANDWICK)
By "PILOT.”
Trial Hurdle Race: Conundrum,
1 ; Bogan Boy, 2 ; Montague, 3.
Encourage Handicap: Discipline,
1 ; Gallop, 2 ; Zel, 3.
April Juvenile Handicap: War
Trophy, 1 ; Victorine, 2 ; Yuletide,
3.
Farm Novice Handicap: Thun-
derclap, 1 ; Tinker Bell, 2 ; Innis-
fail, 3.
Flying Handicap: Anne, 1 ;
Denis, 2 ; Scarlet Circle, 3.
Warwick April Handicap: Plutus,
1 ; Leeds, 2 ; Rodborough, 3.
Sunnybrook Welter Handicap:
Buzzal, 1 ; Dermid, 2 ; Mitsui, 3.
FOR ASCOT (Melbourne).
(By "SENTRY.")
Strafford Trial Hurdle: Nawab-
zada, 1 ; Woomelang, 2 ; Highland
March, 3.
Torrington Handicap: Earl Mar-
shal, 1 ; Cyden’s Son, 2; Home
Secretary, 3.
Murchison Trial Handicap: Ra-
dama, 1 ; All Talk, 2 ; Manurere, 3.
Wokingham Handicap: Kaolin,
1 ; Kanuri, 2 ; Pamelus, 3.
Aylesford Handicap: Denis Girl,
1 ; Dignitary, 2; Diaphane, 3.
Plymouth Welter Handicap:
Maldevon, 1 ; St. Fervent, 2 ; Lal-
moni, 3.


SAVE MONEY
IT'S
UNTHRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
CHAMPIONS
Bring GREATEST
ENGINE EFFICIENCY
Throughout your car’s life,
Champions will keep the engine
up to its best power, speed
and economy ready to serve
you dependably—because
Champions provide the strong
hot sparks that ensure fuller
combustion of the fuel.
Champions save you money!
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Can,
jr^Ph
•i
by F. W. Hoysted, whose stables shelter
another recent steeplechase winner, Dorn-
ford.
* * * *
On breeding War Trophy, winner of
the first division of the Maiden Juvenile
Handicap at Victoria Park, should be a
staying possibility. He is by Harinero
from Joan of Arc (a champion pony),
who is by Chivalrous from La Bergeron-
nette, dam of Sylvandale. War Trophy,
who is a good-looking colt, was cata-
logued last year, but was not sold, and
J. H. Abbs subsequently secured him.
* * * *
Few horses have made a quicker de-
scent in the racing scale than Esperanto.
After winning twice in Melbourne and
then the December Stakes at Randwick
last season, it was naturally thought he
would develop high-class form as a
sprinter, but then respiratory trouble
intervened. He has raced a couple
of times recently, but did not show any
form. Last week he ran in the second
division of the Flying Handicap at Vic-
toria Park, but though only 51b. from the
minimum did not figure prominently.
* * * *
D. Munro has ridden many vigorous
finishes, but it is doubtful whether he
ever worked harder than to earn his
winning fee on Stalin in the Welter Han-
dicap at Victoria Park last week. Ahead
of only three horses in a big field
approaching the half-mile there seemed
little hope for Stalin, but, after working
him up coming to the home turn, his
rider brought him on the outside in the
straight, and he outstayed the tiring
Tuhitarata, who will improve, as will
unplaced runners in Silver Joan and Jan
Baz.
* * * *
B. Payten entered Feminist, Seven-
Fifty and Katanga for the Q.T.C. (Bris-
bane) meeting, but the sole representa-
tive of his stable may be Katanga, who
will be ridden by D. Munro in the St.
Leger, and in any other race in which
that jockey’s weight permits. Feminist’s
running in the Canterbury Park Cup was
a shock for her owner and trainer.
After the race owner H. S. Thompson
remarked: “It is improbable there will
be a Brisbane trip for her. On her
showing today she could not win a race
anywhere.”
Feminist had worked well, and looked
bright, so her complete failure was hard
to understand. Still, it was not so
marked as that of either St. Constant
or Mosaic. The latter struck me as
having tightened up since the Randwick
meeting, and his three hard races possibly
took more out of him than supposed.
Making full allowance for a little bad
luck he should have done better if as
well as when he won the Sydney Cup.
He met Own Folk 41b. better than in
that race and finished many lengths be-
hind him. Feminist may go to the stud
next season.
* # *
F. W. Hughes’s Maoriland purchase,
Nightbeam, arrived in Sydney on Satur-
day and was productive of favorable
comment. In his own country his name
is given as one word, and presumably
that is correct, notwithstanding that it
appears as two in the list of A.J.C.
Derby entries. As it cannot be claimed
that any of the Australian two-year-olds
are exceptionally good Nightbeam may
reward his owner with a Derby or St.
Leger. He could not be begrudged one
or the other, as there are few owners in
Sydney supporting racing to anything
near the same extent. His entry and
acceptance bills must run into a for-
midable sum each month. On Saturday
at Canterbury he had seven acceptors,
of which six ran, and the only monetary
return was Moaveil’s £7 for third in the
second division of the Highweight Handi-
cap.
* * * *
Chatham, as a sire, went close to a
good day with two-year-olds last Satur-
day. Stylish won for him in Sydney, and
at Moonee Valley Much To Say and
Chatasan credited him with seconds in
the two divisions of the Juvenile Handi-
cap. The three were bred by P. Miller,
and were sold the same day at Randwick.
Chatasan, who is out of Cho Cho San
(Absurd - Madam Butterfly), brought
300gns., and Much To Say, whose dam
is Beauvue (Legionnaire-TJirton Girl),
120gns. Much To Say is bred for speed,
her dam being the winner of a December
Stakes among other races.
* * * *
Principally on the score that amateur
jockeys would be scarce, owing to their
limited opportunities at picnic meetings
since the commencement of the war, the
Amateur Cup has been struck out of the
A.J.C.’s June meeting. This will be re-
gretted by many racegoers, as, while they
have not brought to light many crack
horsemen, amateur races in Sydney have
always been of interest. If the Cup had
remained on the programme I should
say there would have been sufficient
jockeys for a fairly large field. Last year
there were 12 runners for the Cup, the
only race with more on the same day
being the June Plate.
* * * sk
The current season has not been re-
markable for many high-class horses,
and though Ajax did not go through
without defeat it can be claimed for him
that he stood out from the Australian
division. Although a winner at a mile
and a half he has not been tried at that
distance in handicaps, which, in my
opinion, are, as a rule, a truer test of
a horse’s staying ability than w.f.a. races.
Even in conservative England it is now
admitted by many good judges that a
winner of a first-class distance handicap
under a fair weight is entitled to as much
recognition as a stud proposition as some
Derby or St. Leger winners.
Defaulter unfortunately went amiss
early in the season, and was not afforded
the opportunity of meeting Ajax. If they
had met at a mile and a half it is not
improbable the Maorilander would have
proved the chestnut’s equal. Beyond that
distance I do not think there would have
been any doubt as to the result.
Mosaic, as winner of w.f.a. races, and
the Sydney Cup with 9.1, demonstrated
his quality, and next season may again
prove superior to Maikai, notwithstand-
ing that excuse was possible for the latter
in both races in which he was defeated.
As Mosaic is the younger horse it is
only reasonable to expect greater im-
provement in him. Rivette greatly dis-
tinguished herself by winning the Caul-
field and Melbourne Cups, and though
she was not tried in w.f.a. races she may
not have been out of place in them,
seeing she was in receipt of only 21b.
from Maikai in the Melbourne Cup, and
he subsequently demonstrated that he
was up to w.f.a. class by running a great
race against Ajax in the King’s Plate
and winning the Autumn Plate at Rand-
wick.
Reading, as winner of the two Derbies
and St. Legers, led the three-year-olds as
a stayer, but his failures against the older
horses at w.f.a. disposed of the idea that
he was an exceptional horse of his age.
Like some other Derby and St. Leger
winners, he may not be a genuine stayer.
He did not shape like one in the Mel-
bourne Cup, and his running in the Cum-
berland Plate and A.J.C. Plate said
nothing for him in that respect. Perhaps
he was not quite so good at the A.J.C.
autumn meeting as in the spring, or even
in Melbourne in the autumn. His A.J.C.
St. Leger win went towards upholding
that idea. He took longer in beating
Dashing Cavalier than he should.
High Caste found each of the classic
races far for him, but his form up to
nine furlongs was excellent. Next sea-
son he may not show marked improve-
ment as a stayer, but up to a mile and
a quarter he will have to be reckoned
with in w.f.a. races. In those he will
have 9st., and that should trouble him
less than Reading or any Australian
four-year-old. Beau Vite, after winning
two races, fell short of expectations in
both Derbies, but up to the last furlong
was prominent in the Melbourne Cup.
He has shone since in Maoriland.
Pure Gold’s showing in the Newmarket
did not put him in the light of a first-
class three-year-old sprinter, but he has
since done so well that next season he
seems sure to enter into calculations for
w.f.a. races and handicaps at a mile.
Early in the season it was thought he
might stay —which v/as not too much to
expect, seeing he is a brother to Hall
Mark. Perhaps he may yet do so, but
next spring his owner and trainer may
be content to confine his efforts to short
races, in which, at present, he seems
surer of giving a return.
Chatsbury, as a sprinter, was one of
this season’s developments, and, though
he disappointed at the end of the autumn,
his prospects as a four-year-old should
be bright. He was not raced at two
years and, as a latecomer, considerable
improvement in him is possible.
As a miler Manrico is good, though
results have proved that he is not quite
up to winning at that distance in the
best w.f.a. company. He will be six
years old next season, so the odds are
against his being better than this, though
he will continue a good handicap pro-
position. He is sure to receive plenty
of weight, but has shown he can handle
it. The surprise of the season was
Amiable’s win in the C. M. Lloyd Stakes
in record time for Australia. It was
accomplished in a fashion that did not
uphold any idea it was a fluke, but I
think the chances are against her again
beating Ajax and High Caste if she meets
them at a mile next season.
So far as the two-year-olds are con-
cerned, there is nothing really outstand-
ing. Lucrative is good, but though he
decisively won the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes he was unequal to successfully
carrying a 101 b. penalty in the Cham-
pagne Stakes, and that has been done
on several occasions. John, Pandect, Hali-
fax and Broadcaster are promising, but
it is improbable that this year backers
will rush any three-year-old for the
second leg of the two Cups double.
# <£ * *
If train accommodation for Mildura,
The Squire and Waireka is unavailable
tomorrow, it is probable G. Price will
send them to Brisbane by float later in
the week. The same method may be
adopted with other horses it is intended
to race at the Q.T.C. meeting. It is a
two days’ trip, but not a really trying
one.
* * * *
Australian Cup winner Indignity was
a 7-to-4 favorite for the Autumn Handi-
cap, 1! mile, at Gawler (S.A.) last Satur-
day, but did not get a place, the winner
turning up in Monvale, second favorite
at 4 to 1. The extra three furlongs of
the Adelaide Cup may help Indignity,
but on last week’s form his chance of
winning that race with 8.11 is not too
bright. In the Australian Cup he carried
7.7, and he established a long lead at a
comparatively early stage of that race.
An additional 181 b. may stand in the
way of his doing something similar in
the Adelaide Cup.
* * * *
The transference of the Hawkesbury
R.C. meeting to Rosehill will be appreci-
ated by most Sydney racegoers. Nowa-
days there is so much racing that most
people like it brought almost to their
door, and old associations in respect of
courses do not greatly count.
* * * *
At Randwick on Saturday apprentices
entitled to allowances will be able to
claim them in all flat races, none being
over the value of £4OO.
* * * *
Fewer bookmakers bet at Flemington
than at Randwick, which suggests it is
a better business in Sydney than in Mel-
bourne. For the recent A.J.C. autumn
meeting 105 were licensed for the pad-
dock, 130 for the leger, and 132 for the
flat. At the recent autumn meeting at
Flemington there were 71 licenses for
the paddock, 115 for the Hill, and 104
for the flat. In addition there were eight
licensed for what is known as the “little
flat,” making a total o(f 298 against
Randwick’s 367.
sje ifc * *
If jockeys do not behave during the
running of races it is not the fault of
the chairman of the A.J.C. stipendiary
stewards. He repeatedly tells them what
they should avoid, but, while his lectures
have had some effect, two or three of
the older jockeys still continue to come
out in the straight to some extent to meet
a dangerous opponent, or, without in-
dulging in deliberate interference, do not
give a horse on the inside more room
than possible. There are jockeys who
should consider themselves fortunate in
not being punished for one or other of
these offences.
# * * *
The Tamworth J.C. does not intend
leaving anything undone to make a suc-
cess of its Cup meeting next month. If
the strike is not over there may be no
train accommodation for horses. In
that case the club will provide floats
from Sydney and elsewhere. Such enter-
prise deserves response from metro-
politan owners in the way of entries.
* * * *
Prize-money for next season’s Epsom
Handicap is £3OOO, and for the Metro-
politan £5OOO. The conditions contain a
clause giving the A.J.C. the right to
reduce those amounts. Naturally tne
club hopes that will be unnecessary, but
it is just as well to protect itself.
* * * *
Races of a mile and five furlongs at
Flemington have been unusual, and that
is why the 2.45 run by Highlander in
March, 1926, is still the record for that
track. Other records for Flemington
are: Five furlongs —Rampion, Heroic
Lass, Bonny, 59!sec.; six furlongs
Regular Bachelor, 1.9!; seven furlongs—
Quasimodo, 1.23!; mile Amiable,
1.34! ; nine furlongs—Dick Devon, Petit
Fils, 1.50! ; mile and a quarter Man-
olive, 2.2 ; mile and a half —Elanage,
2.29! ; mile and threequarters —First
Acre, 2.56! ; two miles —Wotan, 3.21! ;
two and a quarter miles —Marauder,
3.47!. Randwick’s best for some of the
distances mentioned are: Five furlongs
Pandava, 58!sec.; six furlongs —Pavalion,
Tom Pinch, Closing Time, Dame Moab
and The Marne, 1.10! ; seven furlongs
Lough Neagh, Mohican, 1.23 ; mile
Peter Pan, Sarcherie, Ramdin, Ajax,
1.35!; nine furlongs—Heroic, 1 .50! ;
mile and a quarter —Phar Lap, 2.2!;
mile and a half—Oro, El Senorita, 2.29! ;
mile and three-quarters—Young Crusader,
2.55; two miles —Mosaic, 3.21!.
* * * *
Some owners have a decided objection
to putting up overweight, though at times
their prospects of a win would be im-
proved by a few pounds extra in order
to secure the services of a capable rider.
It is not too much to say that the differ-
ence between some licensed jockeys in
Sydney is quite 101 b. In looking over
recent Maoriland results I noticed that
D. M. Douglas and his trainer, J. M.
Cameron, are not opposed to overweight.
The Ring, who won the Hawke’s Bay
Cup, of 1! mile, for that combination
on April 11, was ridden s!lb. over by
R. Marsh. The Ring is a four-year-old
mare by Siegfried from Gay Salute, and
prior to her Hastings success had won
two races and been placed in six others
this season.
* * * *
The fidelity fund of £2OO established
by the N.S.W. Leger Bookmakers’ Asso-
ciation is a good move. It guarantees any
of its members up to that, and in the
way of default there is little likelihood
of any leger or flat bookmaker ex-
ceeding that amount. Defaulting book-
makers, either big or little, are very few,
but though bouquets are thrown to
them on that account, it must not be
overlooked that it is fatal for any book-
maker to err in that direction. He cuts
himself off from his livelihood. With
the average backer it is different. De-
fault does not prevent him pursuing his
ordinary avocation, the worst that can
happen him being debarment from race-
courses —a blessing for some. Bad debts
incurred by some bookmakers of long
standing run into tremendous sums, and
as they have to pay a tax to the Gov-
ernment to carry on their business the


yvmcffesnß
MARK
WINCHESTER MODEL 67.
.22 cal. single shot, bolt action. 27in. barrel, elevating
rear sight. Adapted for short, long and long-rifle regular
and Super-speed cartridges. Price 57/6
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
WINCHESTER MODEL 67 JUNIOR.
.22-cal. single shot, bolt action, identical with the
regular Model 67 Rifle, except that it has 20in. barrel
and shorter stock. Price 57/6
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
WINCHESTER MODEL 69.
.22 cal. bolt action repeater, 25in. round tapered barrel;
two magazines, one for short, other for long and long-
rifle, with sporting rear sight. Price £5/5/-
With adjustable peep sight. Price £5/10/-
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
£=a
sight. Price
WINCHESTER MODEL 69, ’SCOPE.
Model 69, .22 cal., bolt action, box magazine repeating
rifle; 25in. round barrel. Standard sporting rear sight or
rear peep sight. Fitted with Winchester 5-power telescope
•••••. £9/5/-
Carriage Pr.-.d in N.S.W.
asSiS?
333
WINCHESTER MODEL 62.
.22 cal. slide action, hammer repeating rifle, 23in round
barrel, for short, long and long-rifle. Price .. £6/10/-
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
WINCHESTER MODEL 63.
The “Speed King” .22 cal. automatic, 23in. round barrel;
for long-rifle Super-speed cartridges only.
Price £lO/17/6
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
sight. Pistol-grip stock.
WINCHESTER MODEL 65.
Lever-action, 8-shot repeating rifle in calibres .25/20
and .32. 22in. round tapered barrel, Lyman gold bead
ramp base front sight, Rocky Mountain adjustable rear
Price £l3/15/-
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
WINCHESTER MODEL 72.
Bolt-action tubular magazine .22 repeater. 25in. round
tapered barrel crowned at muzzle, ramp front sight with
detachable cover, one-piece pistol-grip stock with semi-
Magazine holds 20 short, 16 long or 15 long-rifle. Quick
take-down feature, secured by slotted screw in fore-end. Weight, about 51b.
Price, with sporting rear sight, only £6
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
beaver tail fore-end.
m
WINCHESTER MODEL 74.
.22 cal. automatic rifle. 24in. round tapered barrel,
one-piece walnut pistol-grip stock, metal bead front
sight. Weight, Adapted for short Super-speed
rim-fire cartridges, with sporting rear sight. Magazine capacity 20 cartridges.
Price £6/10/-
Adapted for long-rifle Super-speed rim-fire cartridges, with No. 88a adjustable
rear peep sight. Magazine capacity 14 cartridges. Price £6/15/-
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
Winchester Telescope Sights, with high bases and mounts.
No. 3-2£ power 50/- Fitted to rifle 60/-
No. 5-5 power 65/- Fitted to rifle 75/-
COWLES & DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 3388.
WINCHESTER SUPER-SPEED KOPPER-KLAD
LONG-RANGE RIM-FIRE .22-CAL. CARTRIDGES.
Short. Long. Long-rifle.
Solid 4/- 51- 6/- per 100
Hollow point 5/- 6/- 6/6 „ „
Freight extra.
contention that betting debts should be
made legally recoverable is not unreason-
able.
* H= *
There were 78 entries for the English
New Derby Stakes, as it is called, and
takes the place of the regular Derby at
Epsom. It will be run at Newbury on
June 12, the added money being £2OOO.
The principal subscribers were the Aga
Khan and Miss D. Paget, with five each.
Three other owners entered three each.
Entrants included two or three promising
horses that were not in the original nomi-
nations. There were 57 entries for the
New Oaks Stakes, 64 for the New Two
Thousand Guinea Stakes and 42 for the
New One Thousand Guineas. The last-
mentioned two races are to be run at
Newmarket, as will the New Derby and
Oaks if Newbury is not available.
* * * *
In Australia owners are averse to put-
ting a horse of class over hurdles, either
in private or public. It is not so in Eng-
land, and on several occasions important
spring handicaps have been won by
horses that raced over hurdles during the
winter. Quartier-Maitre is the latest in-
stance. On February 22 he won a two
miles hurdle race with 11.3 at Newbury,
and was regarded as such - a certainty
that he started at 9 to 4 on in a field
of 12.
It was subsequently announced that
he was to run in a hurdle race at Chel-
tenham on March 13, and it would then
be decided whether he would run in the
Lincolnshire. I do not know whether
he was a runner for the hurdle race re-
ferred to, but, starting favorite, he suc-
cessfully carried 8.1 in the Lincolnshire,
one mile, on April 3. H. S. Thomp-
son’s recent purchase, Golden Sovereign,
was topweight of the acceptors for the
Lincolnshire. He had 9.0, and a month
before the race was in the betting, his
price being 14 to 1. He ran, and was un-
placed, but his weight gives a fair idea
of his rating as a racehorse in England.
* * * *
When Seabiscuit won the Santa Anita
Handicap last month the tote turnover
for the day was a record for the track.
Computed at the rate of 4dol. to £AI, it
was £426,800, of which £95,675 was put
through on the big race. There was an
attendance of 75,000. On the same day
as Santa Anita’s big race was run the
Widener Challenge Cup was decided at
Hialeah Park (Miami, Florida). There
was an attendance of only 18,000, but
£A207,000 went through the tote, of
which £37,335 was on the big race,
making a course record for one event.
* * * *
G. Young is among the Sydney trainers
who will commence next season with a
numerically strong team of two-year-olds.
He has six yearlings in his stable, the
highest-priced of these being Adios’s
sister, who cost 525gns. Pharoah (by
Chief Ruler), who was recently added to
Young’s string, is being schooled for
hurdling. As a two-year-old he gave
promise, but has not fulfilled it.
* * * *
Some clergymen are broadminded
where racing is concerned. On the day
the Santa Anita Handicap was run the
parking area was crowded at such an
early hour that cars had to be shunted on
to lawns and other decorative areas.
Father O’Keefe’s parish churchyard is
adjacent to the track, and when called
upon he opened it to the overflow. He
is referred to as a “horse-loving Irish-
man,” and that is evidently the case.
* * <= *
After the commencement of the war
many English and French breeders eco-
nomised greatly in their expenditure.
The Aga Khan was one, particularly so
in connection with his breeding opera-
tions in France. In that country he had
five different studs. Of these he closed
down three, and of his 64 mares he
destroyed six, sold 27 to go to Hungary
for about £BOOO, and eight to Indian and
five to French breeders. Of his five
stallions in France he sold three. Of
course he had to dismiss a large number
of employees on short notice, and this
is said to have caused some antagonistic
feeling, as for some years the Aga Khan
had done better in the way of sales in
France than any other breeder.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Richards Takes It
A right from Ron Richards (11.6) sat
Archie Moore (11.5) down on the canvas
in the first few seconds of their scrap
at Sydney Stadium last week. For some
cause which present scribe’s Sherlockian
faculties failed to elucidate, Ron was
unable to use his advantage when Moore
shakily rose shortly after “six.” Moore,
who’s tall for a middleweight—he towered
a head taller than Ron —and who wears
the faintly rufus thatch lately fashionable
among imported cullud scrappers, from
then on kept Ron away with a good fast
straight left. And that’s about all there
was to this fight.
It’s a pretty good sort of straight left
which Moore employs, with a snaky
twist to it, and as well Moore weaves
neatly, is a fast, evasive, clever boxer,
and is otherwise awkward to fight.
But these considerations do not wholly
account for Ron’s performance, which,
as well as lacking snap, looked
about as clever as a smoked mullet. The
crowd —a fairly good one, all things
considered—was entertained by the spec-
tacle of an Australian heavy and middle-
weight champion stopping one unvaried
punch with his dial monotonously round
after round. By the end of ten rounds
his right eye, unable to put up with the
indignity of it any longer, revolted, dis-
guised itself as an enraged beefsteak
and staged a stay-in strike, whereupon
ref. Wallis gave Moore the verdict on
a technical k.o. In any case, Moore
would have won it on points, of which
he had steadily amassed enough to robe
a porcupine. This he had done, too,
wholly by snaking his lightning straight
left repeatedly into Ron’s puzzled phiz.
Ron’s trouble seemed to be twofold.
He had dropped Moore quickly with his
right, and his mind worked all night on
a single track leading to a repetition of
the punch. Moore quickly savvied that
this was the only punch he needed to
watch, and slipped it over the back of
his head as regularly as it was launched.
Ron also looked as if he’d been told
that Moore had some repute as a body-
puncher ; anyway, Ron guarded his body
stolidly, while leaving his dial to take
care of itself, which, as stated, it failed
to do.
On Moore’s showing in this scrap, it
looked as if the right gentleman for him
would be Fred Henneberry. Moore, of
course, might have unrevealed talent in
his equipment, but certainly he would
not hold Fred at bay all night with a
straight left, and he looked as if he’d be
vulnerable to some Henneberry hitting
in close. Neither should he hold Ron
off, as he did, if they meet again, though
this result should have given him a ton
of confidence.
At Leichhardt Micky Miller (8.5 J) had
no trouble defending his bantam title
against George Smedley (8.4|). With
the moderate A 1 Brown a week earlier
Micky had looked a bit less than mod-
erate, but against this contender he
looked almost the champ, he used to be.
George fought a game scrap, but was no
match for the energised version of Mickv
he encountered, ref. Wallis declaring after
the twelfth round that Geo. had had
enough.
* ifc % *
Kid McCoy is dead by his own hand
in the U.S.A. One of the cleverest
middleweights of all time, he had about
200 fights, not counting marriages and
divorces, and only Sharkey ever really
mastered him. Australians Jim Barron,
Shadow Maber, Dan Creedon and Bill
Doherty were among the Kid’s antago-
nists. Barron, a lighter man, boxed a
10-round draw with him in 1894, but he
whipped Maber, Creedon (twice) and
Doherty (in Johannesburg), though he
would never meet Fitzsimmons.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
R. T. (“Bobby”) Jones, who won the
“grand slam” of golf in 1930 when he
took the Open and Amateur Champion-
ships of Britain and the U.S.A. in one
year, has been playing a great game
lately. At his home course in Atlanta
not far from here (Thomasville, Georgia)
he has broken 70 regularly on a par 72
course. A recent 67 and 68 shows that the
former champion is still a great player.
He makes one .competitive appearance
each year in the Masters’ Open Tourna-
ment held on the Augusta National
course, which he built and designed.
Walter Hagen, another past British and
American champion, is a regular player
in all the events. Although he competes,
Hagen does so in a purely sporting
manner, as he has lost all his past keen-
ness for tournament play. He plays only
for old times’ sake and to keep in touch
with the game he loves so much. Finan-
cially interested in a sporting-goods
company that bears his name, Hagen is,
and always was, a great salesman. He
has built up a good business. Occasion-
ally when in the mood he turns on golf
equal to the best of to-day.
Harold Campbell, of Gilgandra
(N.S.W.), who is accompanying Mrs.
Ferrier and myself on this trip, has
played some nice golf lately. A 73 at
Phoenix, Arizona, on a par 72 course is


SPECIAL TOBACCO OFFER
To give the country man a chance of trying our good value mixtures selling from
6/6 to 16/- per pound, plus postage, we will send price list and free sample
of fine cut or pipe on application to
SMITH’S CORNER CASKET AGENCY,
Cnr. QUEEN AND GEORGE STREETS, BRISBANE, Box Ul'ilV. G.P.O.
NOW READY
m
in
3
“This book of photographs. . . .should be on the
shelves of all Australian golfers, both for its in~
structional Value and as a very faithful record of
the methods of our greatest player —From Eric
Apperly’s introduction to the book.
JIM FERRIER'S 'GOLF SHOTS"
contains 118 photographs of the champion in action,
selected by Ferrier from a special slow-motion
film made of him before his departure for America.
The essential points of each shot are illustrated
and explained in a way that puts 80 off the stick
within the reach of everyone.
The size of the page is 10 x 12 inches.
■PITCH WITH STOP
ķ
ĸ
k
ķ
PITCH WITH STOP
ft
ĸ
k
I
ill
ķ
(postage 3d. extra).
Price 3 -
From the publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 252188.
BUNKER PLAY
ĸ
k
ķ
i%e>*
bunker play
mm
m
ĸ
k
ķ
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW
his best effort to date, while a 74 and
several rounds near 77 show that he, too,
is learning something on the tour. The
new set of clubs he bought on arrival
in Los Angeles has increased the number
he now possesses to something like
98,764.
Campbell is like many other golfers;
he buys new clubs very frequently in the
hope that they will improve his play. By
the time all three of us pack our clubs
in the car we have little room left for
luggage.
Professional golfers in the United
States have their own State educational
clinics. These clinics have come into
being through the association’s efforts
to improve the average club professional’s
knowledge on all matters pertaining to
the game, with the aim of increasing the
professional’s efficiency as to teaching
and merchandising his goods. There is
a widespread move to show all profes-
sionals how to teach golf correctly, as
most of them are not capable of impart-
ing their knowledge to a pupil in such
a way that the pupil can readily under-
stand and follow the advice.
I have noticed that a lot of players
here favor light aluminium putters
against the blade putters. On question-
ing those professionals who use them, I
gathered that on the fast American
greens the users can stroke the ball
better ; they find the blade putter has a
tendency to make them “stab.” On
slower greens, however, they invari-
ably return to a blade putter. Aluminium
putters are not popular in Australia, as
our greens are so slow.
Craig Wood, the active 38-year-old
who tied for last year’s U.S.A. Open
Championship and the 1933 British title
and lost both events on play-offs, has a
remarkably good eye for picking coming
young players. Such golfers as Paul
Runyan, twice P.G.A. champion, and
Vic Ghezzi have been assistant-profes-
sionals to Wood, while in the Four-ball
Championship at Florida Wood and
Burke played Metz and Laffoon off in
the final, Metz being another of Wood’s
past assistants. Wood, who is stationed
at a leading New York club, has one of
the best “possies” in the country, which
makes him one of golf’s biggest money-
earners.
According to Craig Wood, “a good
assistant makes money for a professional,
for not only does he create interest in
the club and gets members playing more,
but helps push the sale of merchandise.”
Wood’s interest in young golfers, how-
ever, isn’t altogether commercial, as he is
proud that his assistants have never failed
to blossom out as good players and full-
fledged pros. This is just the opposite
feeling to that in Australia, where nearly
every good young player, amateur or
professional, has to push his own way up
to the front instead of receiving a little
encouragement.
Texas has produced many great golfers.
Headed by Byron Nelson, present U.S.A.
Open Champion, the list contains Ralph
Guldahl, 1937-38 Open Champion, Harry
Cooper, Dick Metz, Ben Hogan and, last
but not least, Jim Demaret, of Houston,
the 1940 sensation, who has won five out
of the last six tournaments —giving him
over £2OOO in prize-money in eight weeks.
“Babe” Didrikson is a Texan, while many
of the lesser lights have come from the
Lone Star State.
Demaret believes in taking time when
playing a stroke. He says, “Don’t
hurry or rush any part of the
swing, the backswing or start of
the downswing. In starting the down-
swing let the body weight move the
swing from the right foot on to the left.
But if the backswing is made correctly
and you don’t try to hit too quickly
from the top of the downswing, there
won’t be much to worry about. Never
at any time attempt to steer the ball; a
firm swing will take care of all that.”
Picture score-cards have taken on
throughout the United States in no un-
certain fashion. Nearly every club has
these cards, which consist of an ordinary
score-card inside, but on the outside
cover are five slow-motion photographs
of a well-known professional playing the
particular sjhot of which he is considered
a master. Under each picture is some
advice pointing out the features the aver-
age golfer should concentrate upon.
Copyrighted by the firm that thought of
them, they are very interesting.
■‘Break 100”: Sydney barrister T. S.
McKay, Australian amateur golf cham-
pion in 1934, partnered by C. C. Ruwald,
won the N.S.W. foursomes championship
at The Lakes. McKay has given up his
chase of “birdies” for the duration, and
will get among the real birdies, having
joined the R.A.A.F.
Footbrawl
A somewhat ragged opening of the
Rugby Union season saw University, on
top last year, fail badly at Drummoyne,
partly because of lack of condition.
Drummoyne usually manages to field a
hard-working, robust set of forwards,
and it was chiefly they who settled
’Varsity. The Student pigs (the Hutchin-
son brothers among ’em) battled along
for a time, but were wallowing long be-
fore the finish. Drummoyne was 8-3 at
lemons and 29-9 at the final bell; seven
tries to three. It has a promising young
winger in Elliott.
Randwick just touched off St. George
•—l4-13 (three tries each). Saints now
have Cerutti in the front row and the
Queensland half-back Schulte behind the
scrum —a pair that could make a whale
of a difference to any team. There was
only a point between East and Gordon
also. Alby Stone, hooking for East,
rarely missed the ball from the scrums,
but the men behind could do little with
it. All the same, East won, 9-8 (two
tries each). See, who played full-back
for Scots College, was a capable last
man for the Easterners.
Hodgson, the international, though
over weight, notched 15 points for Manly
against Parramatta —three from a try,
the rest goals. The Villagers ran out
easy winners, 28-6. Though tries were
even (two apiece), Larnach-Jones’s goal
kicking gave West a 20-9 win over North.
A 17st. policeman, L.-J. is back in first-
grade, and captaining West, after a
couple of seasons with the “seconds.”
* * * *
Died in Sydney on Friday, Reg. P.
Browne, one of the best-known and
widely-travelled men in Rugby Union
football. Very short and very active,
despite his 70 years, he refereed a prac-
tice match University v. Western
Suburbs at Concord only six days before
the end came.
* * * #
“Anti-Ump.”: The war in Europe has
had to play second fiddle to the football
war in Melbourne, where Williamstown,
the premier V.F.A. club, and Colling-
wood, most famous of League clubs, have
been battling over the possession of
young Mr. Todd. A very good foot-
baller, young Mr. T. has been putting
on a “will he, won’t he?” act which has
had all Melbourne in a knot. A history
of the case condensed from a daily:
Sat.: Todd at ’Wood.
Mon.: Todd to cancel W’town contract.
Tues.: Todd signs second W’town con-
tract.
Wed.: Todd’s return to ’Wood an-
nounced. Offer of return of £lOO to
W’town refused.
Thurs.: £lOO paid to Comforts Fund.
W’town threatens legal action.
Fri.: Todd to play for W’town.
On Saturday the V.F.A. season began,
and W’town —and Todd —trounced Yarra
ville by 36-20 to 12-16. The truth is tha:
the V.F.A. is regaining public favor, and
it has acquired several other League stars.
Grammar, called all along the river
at 10 to 1, led almost from start to
finish of the Sydney G.P.S. eight-oar
race on the Nepean. The crew got
away at 34, was in front half-a-length
after 100 yards had been traversed and
scarcely varied its rating till High came
fast in the last 60 yards; and then there
was no faltering in the Grammar boat.
Grammar beat High by three-quarters of
a length, Shore being another half-length
away. St. Joseph’s, The King’s, Newing-
ton, Riverview and Scots followed in
that order ; time, 8.32 1-5. Shore crews
took both races for “fours.”
* * * *
'The Adelaide Head-of-the-River race
was the most exciting on record. The
judge could not separate Scotch and St.
Peter’s, and, as it would have been
cruelty to game lads to make them row
it over again, honors were left divided.
* * * *
Harry Hay, who retires from the Sav-
ings Bank of S.A. after 46 years’ service,
played cricket and football and lacrosse
for his State when younger. His great
moment came in 1903 against Warner's
English team: his fast bowling took
nine wickets for 67, including a hat-trick.


u
CONTINENTAL
COOKING
Patrons have
been quick to
appreciate the
following new
Dishes—
Russian Bortch.
“A soup with a marvellous flavour/
Pillaf of Chicken.
“It is exquisite.”
Boeuf a la Strogonoff.
“Acclaimed by Connoisseurs the world
over.”
We will prepare YOUR favourite
dish if desired.
Obtainable only at the Friendly
HOTEL
v, E 3 W
4091
3E03
WYNYARD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
‘‘Of Mice and Men”
Steinbeck does pile it on ; leaving aside
the drama of the gigantic halfwit, you
have powerful statements about the land-
hunger of wandering farmhands, their
dreams of independence, and their
loneliness; and the three distinct
dramas, each sufficient for a one-
act play, of the old farmhand whose
dog is shot (a symbol of what the
world will do to him when he is a little
older, a little more useless), and of the
crippled negro more intolerably lonely
and bitter in the isolation of the “colored
man” than any of the whites, and of
the boss’s son driven to mad pugnacity
by his bad-blonde wife.
There could hardly be a dull moment
in such a play, and at Sydney Minerva
there wasn’t. There were blemishes, but
taken as a whole “Of Mice and Men” is
as good a play as you could wish to see,
solid in construction, tense throughout,
and rising to heights of drama not once
but half a dozen times.
The great theme, of course, is the story
of the halfwit Lennie. Lennie, if you
look beneath the surface of .Steinbeck’s
“big baby,” is a perverted monster, and
it was no doubt the too accurate por-
trayal of the sadist and possibly the too
realistic photographing of his killings
that caused the Commonwealth Censor
to ban the film. There are no horrors at
the Minerva; the dead animals are sug-
gested, not seen ; the killing of the blonde
could offend nobody. Lloyd Lamble, in
a performance of rare quality, built up
exactly the “lovable,” “pitiable” monster
necessary for Steinbeck’s sentimental
purposes.
The attitude of the ranch-hands to the
blonde is another slab of sentimentality.
The spectacle of strong, noble men firmly
telling beautiful blonde not to come
bothering them is positively Victorian. It
says much for Lamble, Pat McDonald
and their supporters that they made these
intellectual absurdities acceptable within
the framework of the play.
Some minor flaws on the first night
were that when Frank Bradley’s Ancient
first came on stage you had time to
remember three unpaid bills between
every two words he spoke; and that
Edward Finn’s nigger was occasionally
inaudible. But Bradley very nearly made
the shooting of his dog the highlight of
the evening, and Finn’s characterisation
was excellent. Edward Webster, Max-
well Osbiston and John Cazabon were
useful in support, and Norman Maxwell
captured attention when he was hound-
ing Bradley to let him shoot his pore ole
dawg. John Saul’s Curley was uncon-
vincing. Ron Randall, as Lennie’s friend
and keeper, struggled with admirable zest
against his difficulties, but the difficulties
didn’t spring from the playwright’s ineffi-
ciency but from the actor’s youthfulness.
* * *
“Yeomen of the Guard”
This is the best show to date by the
Gilsullivan co. at Sydney Royal. Others
have been good in individual perform-
ances ; here the whole crowd perform
splendidly.
The explanation may be that this piece
has sufficient of the elements of authentic
drama to provide all with something they
can believe in. An impression of Ivan
Menzies in earlier pieces was that he’d
become a bit superior to the parts, like
the other Mr. Menzies on a notable
occasion at Canberra. The truth might
be that the parts deserved it. At all
events, Ivan Menzies, as Jack Point, has
a part that really calls for something of
him, and he rises to the requirements
like the fine artist he is. His Jack Point
is better than ever it was. On the one
hand, Jack Point, the professional jester ;
on the other, the melancholic under
emotional stress —Mr. Menzies reveals
both aspects and holds the balance just
about perfectly.
Richard Watson’s Assistant Executioner
and Torturer is as good as Mr. Menzies’s
Jack Point. Mr. Watson is an authentic
Gilsullivan find. He has a first-rate
subterranean voice for such parts, and
he’s a tiptop actor. Peggy Shea, a Mel-
bourne lass, is making a hit in this piece
as Phoebe —a very striking performance.
Incidentally, a feather in the cap of pro-
ducer Minnie Everett for the casting;
you might search a fair stretch of the
globe and not find a better Phoebe.
John Fullard’s fine tenor voice makes
amends for his being a shade on the
small size to be an impressive Colonel
Fairfax. In the piece, too, and all doing
nicely, Gregory Stroud, Bernard Man-
ning, Evelyn Gardiner, Viola Wilson,
with Mr. MacCunn down in the
orchestral dugout. First-night audience
was easily the best of the season ; among
those present, Mr. J. T. Lang, whatever
that may be held to signify.
¥ =F * ¥
“The Com Is Green”
This Emlyn Williams study in frustra-
tion and escapism has Miss Moffatt, a
middle-aged, frustrated spinster, escaping
via feminism and by setting up house in
a Welsh mining village and crusading to
Ron Randall ( George ) objects strongly to Lloyd Lamble (Lennie ) whispering
sweet nothings to mouse. Edward Finn ( Crooks ) objects too, in “Of Mice and
Men,” at Minerva, Sydney.
educate and rescue children and youths
from working in the mines; Morgan
Evans, the illiterate but promising youth
she takes in charge to educate and pre-
pare for Oxford, becomes, under the
rigorous discipline of his education, a
frustrate without either of them realising
it and, in violent reaction, seduces the
household slavey’s daughter, herself a
frustrate confined to the repressive atmo-
sphere of the house.
Minor characters are of the same sort
and every one is a separate study; if
Williams is longwinded about drawing
them, he does the job thoroughly. Each
person stands out as vividly as Danny
or the girl (another study in frustration)
in Williams’s “Night Must Fall.”
An arresting play and an entertaining
one, “The Corn Is Green” is well pre-
sented and finely acted by Doris Fitton’s
Independent Players at North Sydney.
The capable, straightforward manner of
Mary Hosking suited the dominant and
practical Miss Moffatt; Sumner Locke-
Elliott’s mercurial, almost nervy, interpre-
tation of Morgan Evans fitted the
character nicely ; Edgar Yardley turned
in a quiet, consistently good performance
as a mild-mannered Welshman; Ethel
Gabriel’s slavey had extraordinary
realism; and Audrey Cunningham’s acting
as the slavey’s daughter showed similar
patches of inspiration. Thomas Parra-
more, as Squire, struck a false note by
turning a humorous characterisation into
a caricature. Haydee Seldon and Roberta
Yardley headed good support.
£ * sic *
There was a real incident in Berlioz’s
life which does not appear in Massine’s
ballet to the composer’s music, “Sym-
phonic Fantastique,” which joined the
ballet procession at Melbourne His
Majesty’s last week. Berlioz was destined
to be a doctor, but on his first day in
a hospital he jumped through a glass
window and disappeared from medicine
altogether. Massine’s version is an
ornately elaborate symbolical presenta-
tion of the spiritual struggle in the
musician’s soul between the forces of
iisht and darkness. It is one of the most
ambitious of Col. de Basil’s productions
and with Petroff as the tortured young
musician and Toumanova as the Beloved
it more than fulfilled the colonel’s high
standards. There was no abatement of
public interest last week.
* ¥ ¥ *
Second orchestral concert of the 1940
series at Sydney Con. last week had as
highlight a splendid performance of
Elgar’s E Minor ’Cello Concerto. Osric
Fyfe, who has been studying abroad and
has returned with improved technique
and a fuller, warmer tone, was the soloist.
Brahms’s “Variations on a Theme by
Haydn” and the “Capriol Suite,” by
modern English composer Peter Warlock,
were played competently under Dr. Bain-
ton’s baton.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Destry Rides Again”
This performance on a piebald horse
can be witnessed at Sydney State and
should delight addicts of Westerns. They
don’t even wait till the preliminary title
announcements are over to start shoot-
ing, but bang-bang-bang all through.
Yards could be written about such
aspects of it as the ingenuity displayed
in gaining length of film by having a
chap like James Stewart talking long and
slow and oft, with a catching halt in
his voice; or the employment of the
moral in the story of Ferdinand the Bull,
James as Deputy-Sheriff taming the Wild
West townlet while mostly unarmed,
though hanging guns on himself at the
end to pot off the villain to everybody’s
satisfaction ; or the curious display of
the American matriarch complex, the
female population of the townlet march-
ing into the pitched battle that’s raging
at the finish, and knocking off the
heavily-armed tough guys one by one
with rolling-pins. Let it pass. When
everything was said it would still be a
Western. Cast also includes Marlene
Dietrich, Mischa Auer, Brian Donlevy.
* * * *
“Over the Moon”
Main item at Sydney Mayfair, wherein
poverty-stricken wench inherits eighteen
million frogskins and thereafter uses one
hand to spend as fast as possible and
the other to keep a horde of playboys at
their distance. Old as the hills, but
filmed in technicolor and with Merle
Oberon and Rex Harrison filling the
main parts, it makes a pleasant enough
anaesthetic. Support, “Dr. O’Dowd,” is
as sentimental as an Irish ballad and
just as Irish. A youngster, Peggy Cum-
mins, is the best in looks and acting this
commentator has come across.
* * * *
National Studios, Pagewood (N.S.W.),
and much first-class film-making equip-
ment have been lying idle for three years.
Now, with a N. S. Wales Government
grant behind them, Argosy Films has
taken over the studios and begun pro-
duction of “That Certain Something,”
directed by Clarence Badger and includ-
ing Megan Edwards, Howard Craven and
Marshall Crosby among the players.
About 300 persons are employed,
and the first venture is described as a
film set in Australia without being too
conscious of the fact.
* * *
Stated here last week that “a very
decent and moving account by Cinesound
of the late M. J. Savage’s funeral in
Maoriland is the best item offering on
current State and Newsluxe (newsreel)
bills.” Wrong. Fox Movietone was
responsible, and an excellent, well-
mannered job it made of it.
Artbursts.
Even those who thought they knew
Elioth Gruner’s work intimately must be
surprised at both the volume and the
scope of the memorial exhibition at N. S.
Wales National Gallery. The Gruner
who in recent years seemed to be always
most characteristically represented by
landscapes of softly-flowing contours in
quiet greens and greys was only one of
a dozen stylists. Charming as were the
Gruner landscapes, his seascapes and
beach scenes are even more delightful.
Because of his tremendous sincerity he
has, in his gentle way, enshrined the
beauties of the Sydney harborside more
authentically than any of his contem-
poraries. “Taylor Bay,” “Still Morning,”
“Afternoon Glow, Mosman Bay” and the
big “.Sydney Harbor” preserve familiar
aspects of familiar scenes limned with a
tenderness and affection rare in Austra-
lian painting.
Gay beach scenes, canvases radiating
the frosty freshness of cold, clear morn-
ings, cloud studies wonderfully graceful
and vigorous, river scenes that breathe
an almost devotional spirit of peace, and
boskage pieces like “The Pines” which
reveal beauty in the most commonplace
of contrasts, flower pieces in a dozen
charming moods —all are to be found
among the 252 pictures that fill a bay of
the Gallery. The exhibition, which is
hung with remarkable skill and taste, is
a fitting monument to a great painter. It
is a pity it could not have been organised
in Gruner’s lifetime.
This last reflection seems to have
passed through the minds of the Gallery
trustees, who are planning a comprehen-
sive Norman Lindsay show while that
eminent figure is riot only alive and kick-
ing but at the zenith of his powers.
¥ * * *
At the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
is a fine display of water-colors of Lord
Howe Island by John Moore. Proceeds
of sales go to the Red Cross and Finnish
Relief Funds. Moore is a conscientious
painter, and his impressions of a strange,
isolated spot are full of interest. Sales
have been numerous.
* * * *
At the Athenaeum H. C. Lloyd shows
Melbourne what Tasmania looks like per
medium of photographs colored with oil
and pastel. Speck scenery is much
like Victoria’s, and it seems a pity Mr.
Lloyd wasn’t more interested in the old
colonial architecture of which the Apple
Island has much more beautiful examples
than the Cabbage State, vide Hardy
Wilson.


DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, under-
stand that all such fatal diseases as
Fistula, Ulcer of the Rectum, Fis-
sure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will
learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance
of this trouble. DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is unequalled for every form
of Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Pro-
truding, and Blind Piles, and hun-
dreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective
remedy right from the start, be-
cause at such times a single tin
has often effected a cure, while in
the old deep-seated, chronic cases,
several tins are sometimes neces-
sary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing,
antiseptic and soothing. That is
why it is equally successful in over-
coming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get
DOAN’S.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
What with the opening of Parliament
and the Government House garden fair
at Canberra, Sydney was pretty well a
social empty for the second half of last
week. Lady Gowrie was president of
the fair, which, by permission of the
Governor-General and herself, was held
in the grounds of Yarralumla. This really
was a fair of fairs. The gates opened
at half-past twelve. There was the crown-
ing of the Queen of the Fair by Lady
Gowrie. There were Highland and fancy
dances. There were a tug-of-war, for-
tune-telling, pony rides, an ankle-judging
competition. There was a treasure hunt,
there were chocolate wheels, there was
a hoop-la, there was a bran-pie. In short,
there was everything to catch the six-
pennies and threepennies that escaped the
stalls.
These displayed things to eat, to
grow, to wear, to decorate the
home. There was a white elephant
stall (you know, the ornament or
the gadget in the home which you
have never really taken to). The Pirate's
Chest was stacked with treasures. There
was a garden stall and one for bulbs.
Then there was a dog and pet parade.
There were prizes for every sort of dog:
the fattest, the gloomiest, the happiest.
Even he with the shortest legs had as
much chance of winning an award as
the fair one with the prettiest ankles
leading her canine. The day’s takings
went to the various war funds. In the
evening there were two dances. One was
at the Hotel Canberra, with the Wein-
traubs from Prince’s supplying the music.
The Highland Society, too, set the kilt
twirling at the Albert Hall.
A special Diesel air-conditioned train
left Sydney on Saturday at eight loaded
to Plimsoll with visitors to the doings.
This special left Canberra again at 4.50
p.m. on Sunday. The fare was only £1
return. Most of the women who made
for the Federal Territory took with them
their newest and best. One evening frock
sure to cut a shine was one of seal-sleek
black velvet, its bodice mostly a Moorish
design in gold embroidery. It had just left
its native tissues to make the journey.
Grammar carried off the Head-of-the-
River honors this year ; and Grammar’s
regatta party in the school itself was
one of the night’s gayest. The women’s
committee of the S.G.S. Association had
decorated the ballroom, and Mrs. D. C.
Ravell received the guests. The school’s
headmaster, F. G. Phillips, and Mrs.
Phillips were among those wearing
pleased smiles; so were knight John
Peden, chairman of trustees, and Dr. and
Mrs. Brearley. Nearly 800 celebrated
the end of a happy day in the Assembly
Hall of Sydney Boys’ High. The Went-
worth was blithe with regatta rejoicers.
Mark Foy’s Empress rooms held the
dance of Waverley Christian Brothers’
College Old Boys’ Union.
The Royal audience took Peggy Shea’s
Phoebe to its heart last Saturday, when
“The Yeomen of the Guard” more or
less successfully policed the grim old
Tower of London in the Gilsullivan
opera. Peggy is a Melbourne girl with
a voice and person of charm. She was
an office worker, appearing in amateur
shows, “Maid of the Mountains” and
suchlike, for sheer joy of it before her
professional debut last Saturday. Among
other successes Peggy has won the
Ormond scholarship. Ivan Menzies made
his Jack Point lighter of toe, heavier
of heart than ever.
One of the greatest mystery disappear-
ances of its history is puzzling Sydney.
Last Friday week Lucy Brown Craig left
the B.M.A. building in Macquarie-street
where she worked as secretary to one
of the medicoes. But she did not return
to the home of her father, Dr. Brown
Craig, of Woollahra, although she
was to have been one of a theatre
party that evening. Since that fate-
ful Friday up to the time of writing
this paragraph, Lucy Brown Craig has
not -been seen by any of her friends. Her
family is deeply distressed, and greatly
puzzled because this action of absenting
herself from home is entirely alien to the
young girl’s character. She is 19, is
sft. 3in., brown, short wavy hair, brown
eyes, medium figure. When last seen
she was wearing a mauve woollen frock
and a belt, with a small dog brooch.
Her handbag and shoes were navy blue.
The missing girl was well known, bright
and popular, and as far as can be judged
without a care in the world.
Here’s one of the reasons for the suc-
cess of Bryant’s Playhouse. Her name is
Pamela Nixon, and she is the younger
daughter of Dr. R. J. Nixon, of Peter-
sham. Pamela is versatile. She is in
first-year Economics at the University.
She is also studying singing. Photograph
by Florancg Mellor.
Yehudi Menuhin, his wife, his six-
months-old daughter Zamira and his
sister Yaltah arrived in Sydney last week.
He is to give some concerts for J. C.
Williamson, so the Firm arranged a wel-
come tea party in the dress-circle foyer of
the Royal. The tables were surrounded by
the press and decked with red roses, and
Yehudi was very much the anxious father
desirous of getting off to his wife and
baby daughter in the Australia. Zamira,
in spite of, or maybe because of, her
name meaning Peace, had been raising
her voice in protest against the state of
things, and all art was needed to lull
her to rest again.
Mrs. Menuhin, who was, as you know,
Nola Nicholas (aspro, of course), of Mel-
bourne, is a pretty, slim thing, and de-
lighted at this chance of meeting her
family and of comparing her baby with
the baby son of sister-in-law Mrs. Lind-
say Nicholas, who was Hephzibah Menu-
hin, a very gifted pianist. Since he has
been in Sydney last Yehudi has played
all over the world, including Scandi-
navia. In Oslo during his season the
streets were heavy with snow and ice.
The concerts were in an enormous
church hall, of which the seating was
hard wooden benches. Still the crowds
came. The Menuhins live in California,
and Mrs. Menuhin, who is a good horse-
woman, is proud of the fact that she
taught Yehudi to ride.
Not such a crowd as might have been
expected turned up to the opening of
the Gruner show. Canberra was having
an opening of Parliament. Many Sydney
women were on their way to the Federal
capital for Lady Gowrie’s Red Cross
garden party, and many others were tak-
ing Young Hopeful on ferry cruises to
the Heads. Still, many who love art for
art’s sake, and many who loved this art
for Gruner’s sake, were at the National
Gallery to applaud B. J. Waterhouse’s
speech.
Mrs. Clement Chapman was one of
those who had lent pictures. She stood
before her Bellinger River scene in a
slimly-rcut French coat. It was black,
its sleeves banded with fur to match her
barrel muff hooped with mink. The
McKelvey lady’s hat was among things
noted. It was a sailor with a tiny stove-
pipe-ish crown, and was fastened to the
head with a rust ribbon. Dame Con-
stance D’Arcy was there; so were Dr.
Abbott, Howard Hinton and Bill Buckle,
who had lent no fewer than six pictures.
Mrs. “Bill’s” hat was in the newest
mode, and had a fur outline. With her
was friend Mrs. Robinson. The Francis
Anderson lady and Mrs. Underwood were
together telling of the barnyard glories
to be on Poland’s stall on War Victims
Day. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax brought a
pretty girl visitor from Brisbane. Sculp-
tor Thteo Cowan was there; and so
were Mrs. Nelson Cox, Stella George and
Mrs. Raven: Julian Ashton walked with
his memories of the Gruner who had
once taught some of his art classes. The
Rodney Dangars, Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax,
Miss Mary Fairfax and Mrs. Alfred
Varcoe were others who did the rounds.
Their friends sent a mountain of good
wishes to Reggie Dane and Amy Leslie,
who were married last week in St.
James’s, King-street. The bride’s parents
were the T. Leslies, of Blink Bonnie,
Forbes. Reggie, an English actor, has
been settled in Australia for some time.
He does a great deal of radio work, and
Sydney theatregoers still remember his
Colonel in “Journey’s End.” Blue was
the bride’s color scheme ; only the flowers
in her toque were a different shade. They
were palely pink hydrangea. Mrs. T.
Bray, of Vychan, Forbes (sister of Mrs.
Dane), entertained about 80 guests to
cocktails at the Pickwick Club.
Mrs. A. G. Thomas gave a party in the
Lyceum Club last week to introduce her
new daughter-in-law to a group of her
friends. Mrs. George Thomas, who was
Edna Wilson, a pretty girl, wore a peat-
smoke grey frock and a beret-like hat
to tone, turned up sharply at the left.
Mrs. Wilson was in black. Sister Joyce
was in green. Mrs. Thomas, the hostess,
was also in grey, but her draped frock
with its waist-length cape was in platinum
tones. Marjorie Hambridge’s violin was
in poetic mood. As the autumn twilight
settled against the window-panes she
played a Russian composition called
“Snow,” and you could see the white,
silent flakes, irresistible in spite of their
softness, closing in on the world. Her
clever accompanist was Edna Burke.
Bryant’s Playhouse is not large enough
to hold the audiences clamoring for seats
since its company put on “Man and
Superman” and “Peer Gynt.” On Satur-
day, the 27th, the Playhouse will present
“High Tor” in the Con. This is by Max-
well Anderson, author of “Winterset”
and “Elizabeth the Queen.” “High Tor”
is a comedy. It is the story of a boy
who owns a mountain, and is said to be
a “wily intermingling of fact, fantasy,
sentiment and spirits.” Jean Willson
plays the part of Judith and Mea Mc-
Donald is the Lise of the piece. They
are the only two women in the play.
On May 16, at the Conservatorium,
Norma Cox will draw her bow across
her singing violin. The bow will not be
drawn at a venture; concert manager
Barbara Bennett is seeing to that, and
a great committee of music-lovers is
arranging parties and spreading the glad
tidings of this recital. Mrs. Norman
McLeod is president of the committee,
and Elizabeth Plummer, always to the
fore in helping musical talent, is the
secretary. The Halse Rogers, the Fuller
and the Gordon ladies and Mrs. A.
Chard are others working.
Norma has secured every prize and
reward on the local horizon. She holds
the teachers’ and performers’ diplomas of
the Conservatorium, and also L.R.S.M.,
London. Among her treasures is the
prize violin specially made and presented
by A. E. Smith last year. She
won the open championship City
of Sydney Eisteddfod in 1938. She
also won the Grade 1 scholarship
A.M.E.B. and the Layman Martin
Harrison scholarship. Norma is also an
exhibitioner and medallist of the Royal
Academy and Trinity College (London).
There is talk of asking Yehudi Menuhin
to grant her an audition. Her pro-
gramme will include works by Brahms,
Max Bruch and others. Photograph by
Falk.
Madame Chiang Kai-shek will soon
receive an unusual supper-cloth. It is
a large square of thick linen embroid-
ered in a design of waratahs and gum
blossom. The name of the Chinese
leader’s wife is in the middle wreathed
about with our bush flora. Besides the
flower design the cloth has the autographs
of several hundred leading Australian
women worked in smooth red stitchery.
The names of the Governor-General s
and State Governor’s ladies will have a
prominent place on the cloth. The Prime
Minister’s wife has given her autograph ;
so have most office-bearers of the C.W.A.
China’s Consul-General and Mrs. Pao
have added their signatures. Each auto-
graph-giver also gives a small sum for
China’s war orphans.
“Will you have tea and a bun with
me on Wednesday?” read the card re-
ceived by this Letter one day in London.
It was from Mrs. Alec-Tweedie, and the
address was Devonshire House. Think-
ing this would be a Bohemian gathering,
and the day being wet, a tweed topcoat
and a felt hat were indicated. But the
party was a sort of de luxe interval. The
hostess herself showed even a touch of
magnificence in her Chinese red-and-gold
lame frock of sweeping length. One end
of the drawing-room was a cocktail bar,
and delicacies such as rose-petal jam and
mint tea brought by Mrs. Alec-Tweedie
out of Persia were served.
Mrs. Alec-Tweedie, who was one of
England’s first woman journalists and its
first woman writer to journey in far-
flung places for travel articles, died last
week in London. For years her home
had been a penthouse flat on the roof
of Devonshire House, so high above the
vortex of traffic that is Piccadilly that
none of its jangle disturbed. The roof
garden overlooked Green Park’s emerald
and jade waves of tree and sward.
Mrs. Alec-Tweedie wrote many travel
books, and came to Australia about
three years ago. She had probably in
the course of her journeys been the guest
of as many Government Houses as had
Melba. One of Mrs. Alec-Tweedie’s sons
was killed in the Great War, and one
died a few weeks after peace was de-
clared —of pneumonic ’flu.
Of late years she had taken to paint-
ing, and some of her Australian scenes
had been sent to Canberra. Everybody
went to her parties. An invitation was
like a royal command to diplomats, titled
personages, actresses, writers and artists.
She was a personality, and London will
miss her.
Laszlo Schwartz, self-confessed humor-
ist, was one of the guests at the Inter-
national Society’s get-together last week.
He made a speech which, if we are to
believe the adage that “brevity is the
soul of wit,” leaves him a good way back
in the Ha-ha Stakes. However, this
one story is quite a gem. He told that
Schubert was wont to eat his meals in
a small cafe in Vienna, and to his table,
naturally, drifted all men interested in
the arts. Visitors to Vienna were brought
up to the table to be introduced to the
composer. Concerning the newcomer
Schubert never asked “Has he money?’'
“What is his position, what is his busi-
ness?” He asked only “Does he know
something?” Eunice Gardiner was an-
other guest, but the young pianist had
to leave early to keep an appointment
with her dentist.
Mrs. Moreing, the Snowden lady, Miss
Tennyson Miller turned irreproachable
profiles to the assemblage. Mrs. Garnet
Halloran’s hat was so new it might be
termed futuristic. Elizabeth Plummer
talked of Eunice Gardiner and her web
come party at the Lyceum Club. Dolly
Hollander-Moore’s bright smile warmed
all-comers. Oswald Cheeke and Aubrey
Halloran were in the throng.
“The police tell us no child who has
been in a kindergarten has ever come
before them in the Children’s Court,"
said knight Samuel Cohen at the yearly
meeting of ihe Kindergarten Union last
week. This was held at the Little Citi-
zens’ Kindergarten, Surry Hills. Lady
Wakehurst was an attentive listener to
the aims of the movement. The presi-
dent was also very frank. “We’re broke,"
he said. But his candor met with splen-
did response, and Minister for Education
Drummond, who was present, up and
said he’d put the matter before Cabinet.
Alderman E. S. Marks, a great worker
on behalf of the city’s children, was a
speaker. Lady Wakehurst gave one of
her “to-the-point” little speeches.


Divorce Notices.
TO WALTER AUSTIN REEDY formerly of
Bathurst.
TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS LINDA
MAY REEDY has filed petition for divorce
No. 582 of 1940 on the ground of desertion
without reasonable cause or excuse for three
years and upwards. You may enter appearance
before 16th July 1940 and obtain copy of
petition from M. B. Byles and Co., Solicitors,
3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
New South Wales.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 519 of 1940.
BETWEEN MARI GRIMALDI Petitioner
And JOSEPH GRIMALDI Respondent.
TO JOSEPH GRIMALDI of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARI GRIM-
ALDI has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is praying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Ninth day
of August One thousand nine hundred and
forty and in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of April One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
„ _ Registrar.
S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART, Solicitors,
197 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 376 of 1940.
BETWEEN EVA JANE McPHERSON
Petitioner
And DONALD GEORGE McPHERSON
Respondent.
TO DONALD GEORGE McPHERSON late
of Canley Vale.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EVA JANE
McPHERSON has commenced a suit against
you. in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Fifth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and forty and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of April, One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
OSBORNE M. ALLEN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 540 of 1940.
BETWEEN ALBERTA CALLAGHAN Peti-
tioner
And WILLIAM ASHTON CALLAGHAN
Respondent.
TO the said WILLIAM ASHTON CALLA-
GHAN.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALBERTA
CALLAGHAN has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Third day
of July One thousand nine hundred and forty
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit will be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had an application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of April, a.d. 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALLEN, CLEMENS & LAURENCE, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner, 39 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 310 of 1940.
BETWEEN DOUGALD WAKEFIELD Peti-
tioner.
Apd CLARA EILEEN WAKEFIELD Re-
spondent.
TO CLARA EILEEN WAKEFIELD late of
Gladstone Street Balmain.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOUGALD
WAKEFIELD has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the ground of desertion for
three years without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Ninth
day of July One thousand nine hundred and
forty and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of April, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
REX REYNOLDS, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, St. James Building, 109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Such a success was the well-organised
dinner dance run at the Embassy for the
D.N.S. and the Comforts Fund that Mel-
bourne is sure to be having more of
such evening entertainments during the
year. Instead of arriving apathetically
late, as is the case with most social supper
dances, everybody came along bright and
early with healthy appetites and a desire
for preliminaries in the downstairs ball-
room. There the attractions were those
of a cocktail party, with much shuttling
backwards and forwards between bar
and dip. Sid Bell’s plunge into the latter
resulted in his coming up for air with
a dog in his teeth, or more truthfully the
right to possess for all time a Scotch
terrier puppy, basket of straw and all.
Many friends were immediately avail-
able to relieve him of new canine respon-
sibilities, but he rather liked the look
of young Scottie and wasn’t committing
himself. Major George Sutton was there
feeling in duty bound, as Father Christ-
mas of all the Tailwaggers, to look side-
ways at a pup at a party, although it
was obviously sleeping the sleep of a
pampered pet. From the top of a trestle
table Jack Birchall announced in
butlerian tones that dinner was served.
At the end of the party Dave Krohn did
a bit of auctioneering with bottles of
whisky, amateur in status but profes-
sional in result.
The attendance taxed capacity. Mrs.
Mortimer Robb looked after a large
party in a fetching model of shadow-blue
with a rush of sequins to the lapels. Mrs.
Guy Barrenger, who commenced the
evening dispensing the hospitality of
savories downstairs, later on removed her
white velvet coat to dance in a lovely
gown of green leaves mingling on a
frosty white ground. Mrs. V. Dimelow
was hon. sec. of the party, and the youth-
ful ticket secretaries were Marie Stahle
and Margaret Cox. Mrs. Alec Finlay
won the things she wanted most out of
the dip, blue budgerigars in a cage.
Captain George Gee’s luck was not so
appropriate, he gleaning small bottles of
beer and large tins of boot polish. Mrs.
Charles Osborn, Mrs. Geoff Docker, in
peacock-blue, Ethel Johnson and half
a dozen other helpers ran the dip.
Later in the evening a jitterbug got into
everybody’s blood. Six professionals got
things going, but once the amateurs joined
in the floor was crowded to the ropes.
The Ken Guests and the Hugh Craw-
fords were at the party, Mrs. Crawford
wearing black, a large convincing splash
of frangipanni and for jewellery quiet
little half-moons of earrings. In the bar
Mrs. T. C. Paterson, Mrs. Tom Patterson
and their henchmaidens wore red muslin
dirndls and white blouses, and found them
just the right apparel for washing glasses
and whisking bottles from spot to spot.
Suggestion for an H. M. Bateman car-
toon —“The Woman Who Went to the
Ballet Without a Fur.” If she doesn’t
snoop in sideways it’s because she’s
warmed with a cloak of self-righteous-
ness, spending all her money on culture
and knowing that the days of controlled
capitalism are at hand.
The W. S. Robinsons were in one of
last Week’s ballet audiences watching
from the front row of the circle, where
their view was unimpeded. Mrs. Robin-
son wore a suave hair-do and worked a
miniature camera mounted on a handy
walking-stick rest. Mrs. Nicol Hart and
Mrs. W. Carr were together. Mary
Browne, who was with an attentive escort,
wore sapphire velvet and clumps of
grape-sized pearls. April Mackintosh,
also complete with young man, was a
blonde vision in waterlily-green frock and
white velvet coat. Mrs. Sidney Myer’s
flowered gown showed the new hip line
with accent on protruding ruching, an
idea that’s safe enough on a slim figure
without a coat but augurs tragedy when
adopted at random.
Dame Enid Lyons was a victim of the
coal strike and delayed transport. She
was marooned for 24 hours in Tasmania
and so missed the bridge and music party
for the Regina Coeli Hostel at Menzies
last week; but she had deputies in her
co-hostesses, Mrs. Leo Gavan Duffy,
Mrs. J. J. Dwyer and Mrs. J. Casey.
Mrs. A. Keegan was secretary and Mrs.
E. Antonie and Mrs. Copley kept track
of the 300 tickets bought and paid for.
The benefiting institution is in Fleming-
ton-road, a harborage for destitute
women of all creeds, ages and nation-
alities. Jobs are found for many of these
people. The hostel opened last November
after a lot of spadework had been done
with a dilapidated building, making it
habitable and procuring through dona-
tions the necessary furniture.
Dr. Mary Ham has uprooted herself
from East Melbourne and is taking to
the high seas as ship’s surgeon. For
the present she’s all for feeling the salt
winds upon her brow, but eventually she
may do a refresher course abroad. Until
her departure in the near future, she is
staying with her mother, Mrs. Herbert
Ham. Dr. Ham’s medical successor is
Dr. Gwen Nash, a new arrival to Mel-
bourne, whose career has not been un-
eventful. She knows what bombs are
like. They fell on a Norwegian ship in
which she was surgeon in Spanish waters
during the Spanish war. Dr. Nash was
for some time in the medical public
service in Hong Kong. She’s a Sydney
graduate, and her husband, who is a
clergyman, is a Cambridge graduate, a
son of Canon Nash. The couple have a
small daughter.
General opinion after the Gregan Mc-
Mahon season of “On Borrowed Time” was
that it had been a provocative play well
produced and that the standard of acting
of Norman Tucker, young Frank Hahn
(a genius in bud) and Betty Rae was par-
ticularly high, also that the idea of Death
stepping across the boards in posh Eng-
lish suit with splits over the hips, pork-
pie hat and cane was more interesting
than the same gent, dolled up in under-
taker’s reach-me-downs. Willie Spencer
played Mr. D. and was accused of
looking like a carpet-sweeper canvasser.
Well, why not a carpet-sweeper instead
of a sickle?
Jean Wallace Mitchell, Sonia Parish
(Athol Shmith photograph) and Lolita
Massoni are running a boat-race dance on
the 27th from an aquatic angle. Figura-
tively speaking, Jean has the coach’s
microphone to her lips, Sonia the stroke’s
oar over her shoulder and Lolita is
getting on with all the odd jobs that
coxes have to do. Cards read that the
Manhattan landing stage will be the
scene of the rowing party. Starting time
is 8.30 p.m., and finals will be at dawn.
All the privileges of the boat-race reserve
may be enjoyed for 7s. 6d. Proceeds go
to the Orthopaedic Craft Hostel at
Frankston.
On the first day of his exhibition at
the Athenaeum H. C. Lloyd made a bet
with two inquirers that if they could pick
him out among the subjects of his
pictures he’d give them a print apiece.
But for the whiff of mystery no one
would have suspected that this well-
known Melbourne photographer is in the
habit of getting himself up as an old
tramp with beard, billy and tucker-bag
to add atmosphere to some of his bush-
land pieces.
Among Mr. Lloyd’s portrait subjects
is Serg.-Maj. Gamble, Crimean War
veteran, who died at 106. Mr. Lloyd
colors his photographs with oil paint,
usually returning to the scene of his
camera shot to catch with his paints the
colors of nature. Cr. Nettlefold, who
opened the show, had a forgetful day.
Fortunately he did remember to men-
tion the excellence of Mr. Lloyd’s work,
but his speech otherwise was a eulogy
not of painters or photographers, but of
the black-and-white cartoonists of this
war and the last.
Harry Tatlock Miller left Australia
a year and a bit ago, a nice boy with
aesthetic yearnings, some friends in the
Ballet and a little ammunition in his
pocket to keep the wolf from the door. He
returned the purveyor of an exhibition
of vast dimensions which ran a season
in Sydney and is now causing interest
in Melbourne. The show, which deals
with art for theatre and ballet, is at
Myer’s, and on the first afternoon heavy
pressure was put upon the lifts.
Harry, who originated in Geelong, has
put himself over well. His courage,
youth and pleasant manner must have
been trump cards in getting him admis-
sion to inaccessible people in London and
persuading them to augment his col-
lection. His exhibits number several
hundreds. Many of them are five-minute
sketches and experimental essays, but the
signatures are those that raise shouts of
either fury or adoration in the art world.
He found Dame Laura Knight clad in
the armor of reserve, but she entrusted
him with 20 lithographs, mostly action
sketches of Toumanova and Massine.
A very different job to tackle was
Epstein, but he met Harry halfway with
a tankard of ale. Also amiable was
Theyre Lee-Elliott, a commercial artist
whose posters abound in the Under-
ground and who is represented in the
show with ballet sketches full of color
and movement. After the sanguine Charles
Conders and the clever work of Kay
Ambrose, who likes the glamor of India,
came the Edward Burra brainstorms,
each one like a glass of plonk. These
surrealists, like nudists, have no sense of
humor.
Christopher Wood is represented with
several sketches optimistically priced.
Epstein’s original drop curtain design for
the ballet “David” is safe at the reserve
figure of £6OO. Another David floats
through the air, a gentleman with an
obviously broken neck. There are
“Visions of Ezekiel” as Epstein imagined
them, and a Jezebel, her only bit of san-
guinary coloring just under the eyes,
where no sensible girl ever dabs make-
up. Gordon Anthony occupies a wall
with ballet photographs, but Cecil Beaton
has put aside his camera in favor of
sketches for costume. Louden Sainthill
has considerable space and a detachable
catalogue all to himself.
Opening the show of Art for Ballet
and Theatre, J. D. G. Medley promised
he wouldn’t be a delay at the barrier
between the spectators and what they
had come to see, and then, in his en-
thusiasm, almost forgot his promise.
Spotted in the crowd, which was of great
density till the hour of four produced a
longing for tea, were Mrs. Paul Northey,
in zinnia-red and a snood attachment for
her provocative hat, and Mrs. Jim
Paxton, in a similar joyous shade. Mrs.
Russell Grimwade wore a tweedy team
of striped jacket and plain skirt with
green felt hat; Mrs. Leicester McAulay,
of Hobart, was in a black coat and a
small tasselled hat of auxiliary-red. Mrs.
Edric Henty’s black frock had an inclina-
tion towards fripperies with taffeta
ribbon frills at neck and hem. Mrs. Jack
Leckie, Valerie Purves, Anne Turnbell
and Betty Walker also dropped visiting
cards on the show, which wouldn’t have
been complete without Daryl Lindsay
or without Harry Miller and Phillida
Cooper. Phillida arrived late, after re-
hearsal.
In Broothorn’s photograph is Mrs.
John MacDonald, who until last week
was Patricia Campbell. The wedding was
very quiet, and the only form of rejoicing
after the ceremony at Christ Church was
a family luncheon at Menzies; but
friends of the bride and ’groom were not
right out of the fun, for on the previous
day the bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Clive Campbell, of Warranooke, Glen-
orchy, gave a late party at Menzies. The
’groom is the second son of the Stuart
MacDonalds, Highland Plains, Clermont,
Queensland. The destination per leisurely
motor trip of the newly-wedded pair is
Rockhampton, Queensland, where their
home awaits them.
The bride’s brother, Norman Campbell,
was best man at the wedding, and so pro-
duced the ring at the right moment for
his sister’s finger. In between times he
had thoughts of another ring, for Betty
Walker. His engagement to Betty, who
is the eldest daughter of Major and Mrs.
Geoffrey Walker, was announced on
Saturday.
Another engagement that was an-
nounced during the week-end was that of
brunette Pat Henry, elder daughter of
the Percy Henrys, of East St. Kilda, who
celebrated her twenty-first birthday not
so long ago, and actor Charles Norman.
No plans have yet been made for the
wedding, but Pat, who has taken to the
theatre as easily as a young seal does to
the waters off the Nobbies, has a part
in the next Charles Norman Co. comedy
to be put on at the Princess and will go
on tour with the co. when it leaves for
Adelaide and Perth.


After a day’s business or pleasure, you will
find perfect rest and relaxation in the quiet
seclusion of your room at the Victoria.
Located in Melbourne’s city centre, but away
from the noise of city traffic, up to 900 guests,
like yourself, find their rooms at the Victoria
a veritable “haven of rest.”
*
“ROOM ONLY” DAILY
TARIFFS:
Singles -5'- to 10'-
Doubles—B'' to 18'6
Suites, Family Rooms, etc •
Full Catering Services.
r,( > It l \ V N v>
MELBOURNE’S LEADING HOTEL
Next Town Hall Little Collins Street
S. D. Horne—Manager
THE SERVICE MAN
"It Is Reported."
“Ek Dum”: Those words are the key-
note of a week’s war. Everybody seems
to have joined in the “reporting” game
except the people who know.
The definite fact is that Allied
troops have landed in Norway. The
Stunt Press placed them at several points,
and took Narvik for them. But the second
of three very brief War Office announce-
ments was merely to the effect that land-
ings were going on and that “contact”
was “being made with Norwegian
troops” ; the third said “operations are
proceeding according to plan.”
It transpires that the Germans occu-
pied Oslo and other cities in part through
the treachery of Norwegians who had
been bitten by the Nazi bug. It reveals
to Australians how dangerous a small
disloyal minority can be.
King Haakon was compelled to flee
for his life. In the south, Norwegian
forces have been driven over the Swedish
border. It looks as if southern Norway
must be isolated by a German barrier
across the waist, if not completely pos-
sessed by the invaders.
Allied arms will change the position
once sufficient forces and guns and
supplies have been landed, but that will
take time. Possibly a
campaign like Welling-
ton’s is beginning.
“Napoleon feared the
possibility of a British
army being landed on
the Peninsular coast,
whence it might attack
France from the south.
He thereupon called
upon Portugal to close
its ports to British sub-
jects and have no com-
munication with Britain.
Portugal remonstrated
and a French corps
was instantly dispatched to Lisbon.”
Thus the historian ( Encyc . Brit.), and
with the substitution of a few words —
“Hitler” for “Napoleon,” “Scandinavian”
for “Peninsular,” “Germany” for
“France,” “the north” for “the south,”
and “Norway” for “Portugal”—it might
pass for what has happened and what is
happening in Northern Europe. Now,
as then, Britain has command of the sea
and has availed itself of its sea-power to
land troops in the invaded country. And
although the Navy and the Army have
had to and will continue to encounter
difficulties and perils, such as those
arising from the use of undersea and
overhead weapons, which Wellington had
not to surmount, they have what he lacked
in 1808 and subsequent years —a great
ally strong in all arms. Moreover, the
Navy has shown a daring and com-
petency which have already added a
glorious chapter to its history, and the
Army may produce another Wellington.
Wellington’s first campaign began bril-
liantly, but it was spoilt by the inter-
ference of the old duffers who signed
the Convention of Cintra, which per-
mitted the French to quit Portugal
with all their arms and artillery when
they were at his mercy. Returning in
1809, after Moore had had to retire to
Corunna and death, Wellington estab-
lished himself, beat the French in battle
after battle and became a thorn in the
side of Napoleon.
If the Spaniards had been well led
and he had been properly supported —
“Ease ’er down — they're out."
an English army as good as his own and
far more numerous was thrown away at
Walcheren the Duke might have
brought the war to a conclusion long
before 1814. As it was he kept the
flame of resistance burning in Portugal
and Spain, and maintained pressure on
the French which helped to dispirit and
exhaust them. And when at last he
invaded France there was a peace party
awaiting him.
“D.8.K.”: The achievement of the
Royal Navy in twice penetrating Narvik
Fiord and manoeuvring into position for
action can be fully appreciated only by
those familiar with the fiords. Even Nor-
wegian pilots have difficulty in navigat-
ing vessels along some of those narrow-
sea ravines, as I discovered in 1921. A
P. & O. boat in which I was a junior
engineer visited Norway, taking in all
the fiords and ports from North Cape
southwards. As we were proceeding up
Gudvangen, north of Bergen, on a moon-
lit quiet night, our 8-to-12 watch tran-
quillity was shattered by terrific vibra-
tion and galloping of the port engine,
accompanied by a din like bursting
bombs. The ship had struck a little-
known reef on the port side whilst doing
15 knots. Severe damage was done to
the bilge keel and the port propeller.
We floated literally on the ballast-tank
tops back to England, and the Norwegian
pilot lost his ticket. It must have been
an infinitely hazardous job for those vic-
torious destroyer captains to get to
Narvik under war conditions.
* * * *
“Buck P.”: Recruiting for the 7th
Division and for corps troops will begin
next month. About 50,000 are needed to
bring the Army Corps up to full strength
and provide necessary reinforcements.
Second, third and fourth reinforcements
for the 6th Divvy are now being raised.
Equipment, which includes mechanical
transports, light tanks and Bren gun-
carriers, will come from British and Aus-
tralian factories. Heavier production of
Australian armaments is forecast, beside
which it is said the present effort will pale
into insignificance.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: A. J. Parkin, of Fremantle
(W.A.), has seven sons on active ser-
vice. Bill is on a M/T job with the
army service corps, Roy and Max are
in the Light Horse, Keith, Charles and
George are with the R.A.A.F. and Doug
is a machine-gunner.
* * * *
“0.T.”: Orders have been issued that
women who followed their A.I.F. hus-
bands and sons to Palestine are to be
returned to Australia. They should never
have been allowed to leave. War is no
more an affair of afternoon-tea parties
than is Test cricket, and there is a stand-
ing ban on cricketers’ womenfolk.
* * * *
“E.D.’s” seasonal note for students of
wars and threatened wars:
Spring has shown its face in Europe and
Asia. In Continental Europe and the South
it is in the cleaning-up stage—the stage when
pig- and goatherds have ceased to walk across
the ice on the tributaries of the Danube. The
roads are no longer pathways of ice, though
there is plenty of ice in the land and especially
in the waters—great swirling lumps of it which
menace the ferries that run into Belgrade or
down the Rhine, floes of it in Baltic inlets.
The greater streams of Europe are by this
time running brown with detritus and high up
their banks as the mountain snow melts and
the ice thaws. Even the high, cliff-like banks
of the Euphrates will be falling in as the surplus
water from the Ala Dagh rips savagely along
them on its way to the Garden of Eden and
the Indian Ocean.
It takes experience of a cross-section of
them to enable an Australian to sense the
mightiness of the forces that are unleashed
when spring tears aside the curtain of what
the old Scandinavians called the Open Year—
that season of months when the earth is not
locked in mist and snow and darkness.
The changes are most marked in Northern
Europe. Right down to where the Danube
cuts Nazi Germany in half, there have been
months when the snow ploughs have kept the
roads open and where, in almost every inn and
village house, the warm smell of cattle stalled
underneath in the straw has seeped through the
cracks. North of the Danube line no plough has
touched the soil for months; but now the cattle
are taken out to the fields. Spring-cleaning
to remove the signs of the winter concentra-
tion is a very real and necessary event in
Northern Europe as the first green stubble
shows out of the last mud.
Around the Army.
XXIV.
THE “INTERRUPTER. ”
He doesn't need a rifle; gear s^e
arms he eschews ; ..
For him they keep the Army s cushiest
possie. . . .
The bugles of reveille never interrupt
his snooze. ,. ,
He does his best to master dinkwn
Aussie. , ,
The divvy general’s is, perhaps, the on y
life he blights .
As arguments he tries to disentangle.
His weapon’s language, if you please, ana
whether he talks or writes
It looks as if it’s just been through the
mangle.
The interpreter, whether he be GyPP°
or French, sometimes finds it slightly dim-
cult when, sitting in the officers mess, ht
endeavors to grasp what O. Henry called
the “feathery ball of conversation as
it is tossed about at top speed in a sea
of idioms.
The signal officer may say to the mess
secretary: “What sort of gay-and-
frisky do you call this, Arthur? I ve
tasted better stuff in a billabong full ot
dead wallaroos.”
‘ Don’t be Uncle Willie! ” comes back
the m.s. “That’s the dinkum neckjuice
straight from north o’ the Tweed.
I had to cough up over half a
nicker a bottle for it at the rubby-
dub. The trouble is you’re getting too
flash after your burl in the bright lights.
Next you’ll be wanting your dingbat to
warm your Joe Rocks before you pull
’em on. Isn’t that right, Alphonse? ’
The “interrupter,” thus appealed to,
turns a blank look into a sickly grin,
says “Mais non,” hoping that it will be
the correct answer, and wonders whether
the language is a cross between Sanskrit
and Welsh or something exclusive to the
South Seas.
Not only can he interpret his own lan-
guage into what sometimes resembles
English, but he is also a master of con-
densation. A Digger might be arguing
the toss, under a heavy linguistic handi-
cap, with some patriotic inhabitant of
the country he is helping to defend, who
is objecting forcibly to the said Digger’s
removing a bit of straw from a stable to
put between his single blanket and the
cement floor. A passing interpreter will
be appealed to by the Digger to tell him
“what the old girl’s maggin’ about.”
A questioning word by the linguist
and a veritable torrent of words is un-
loosed. After about ten minutes at about
250 w.p.m., and as the talker pauses to
come up for air, the Digger will ask
what she said.
“She say,” the “interrupter” will tell
him, “zat you will ’ave to buy it if you
vant it.”
The Brigade-Major and the Q.M. may
claim to be the hardest-worked indi-
viduals when the troops come out of the
line into rest billets, but the “interrupter”
beats them hollow. Several times a day
a report such as the following—varying
only according to the particular items
concerned in the alleged peculations—
will be put on the General’s desk.
“My Generale, —
“The woman’s of the farmhouse known
as Sacre Bleu (No. 431) has the com-
plaints to made that the Diggars have of
late days (perhaps Tuesday, maybe
March) her foulouse ratted and pinched
14 (for-teen) of her chooks. The black-
feathered ones. She depones she has saw
feathers resembling them (dark black)
around the door of the house of the cook.
She is demands compensations at the rate
of 10 (ten) francs per fouls. Unless of
course the herds are returned fourthwith
and in good condition and without preju-
dice to her claims. She also desires that
her foulouse be made the declarations
out of bounds to the said Diggars.
“Gustave Marie Pomdeterre.
“Interpreter.”
A fatal mistake made by many Diggers
is to think that the “interrupter” in a
Gyppo camp would be a handy bloke
to take in with them when they’re on
leave. The crowd that take him in may
be hogging for a feed of fish. They'll
ask him where’s the best fish-and-chip
joint. “You know, snapper an’ jewies
and all that.”
“Jew-ies?”
“Yair, you know, f-i-s-h! Flounder
an’ squire an’ things like that.”
Another puzzled look and a repeated
“Veesh?”
“Here, you stupid blankard, look!”
and the Digger will have to wriggle the
upright-held palm of his hand to simu-f.
late the tail movement of a fish, at the
same time opening and shutting his mouth
like one that’s just been landed. At last
light dawns on the “interrupter” at this
obvious manifestation of mouth dryness.
Triumphantly he leads them to a pub.
S. W. K.


and VIGOROUS AGAIN
doctors soy your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on yoi»r Hor-
mone Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY.
MEN!
ķl
t.jone s e co.
CHEMIST, al9 George Street, Sydney.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“KADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” lias been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “KADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“KADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
i n rr radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “KADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting the
Australian equivalent of 3 American dollars
through “The Bulletin” Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
THE FLYING COLUMN
Air-Fighting Against Odds.
“D.8.K.”: Fighting against odds,
British and Dominion airmen are doing
a splendid job in the Norway operations.
They have been of immense assistance
to the Navy, though the R.A.F. has had
the handicap of far-removed bases, a
handicap which will be removed to a
large extent if the Allied land forces be-
come well consolidated inland.
From Britain’s east coast to Trond-
hjem is 550 miles The R.A.F.’s heavy
bombers have to cross that distance
before tackling objectives such as Stav-
anger and Trondhjem. Then they have
to get back, and that generally means
combat with Nazi fighters.
The enemy has no lack of fighter craft
in Norwegian skies. Troop-carrying’planes
arrive from Denmark, “surrounded
by swarms of Messerschmitts.” Even
from Bremerhaven it is only 440 miles to
southern Norway, and from the tip of
Denmark it is a mere hop. Thus the
cards at present are stacked in the Nazis’
favor.
Much of the air work against enemy-
occupied ports is being done by ’planes
of the Fleet Air Arm, a fact which points
to the presence of aircraft-carriers —the
enemy claims to have damaged one. The
Navy’s ’planes are eminently useful in
spotting for warships. Such co-operation
made possible the naval hammering of
Stavanger aerodrome without dropping a
shell into the town.
Naturally, losses have not been light.
In the Air Ministry’s latest list Pilot-
Officers Brooke-Taylor (Wellington, M.L.)
and Roberts (Brisbane) are reported killed
in action; Acting-Flight-Lieut. Alison
(Burnley, Vic.) is presumed to have been
killed in action ; Pilot-Officer Rankin
(Wellington, M.L.) is missing and be-
lieved killed in action ; Pilot-Officer Bull
(Norwood, S.A.), Sergeant Car-
penter (Brisbane), Acting-
Flight-Lieut. Cosgrove (West
Hobart), Leading Aircraftsman
Upham (Q.) and Pilot-Officer
Yorke (Foxton, M.L.) are
posted missing; Pilot-Officer
Poulton (Christchurch, M.L.)
has been wounded in action.
Cosgrove is the Tasmanian Premier’s son ;
he figured gallantly in the March raid
on Sylt.
Radio's Part in the Air War.
“D.8.K.”: Before this war came short-
wave listeners had been led to believe
that it would bring to receiver dials a
buzzing radio world crammed with thrills
at the rate of one a minute. Foreign
radio magazines with a bent for sen-
sationalism fostered the notion for years.
But nothing of the kind has happened,
nor is it likely to happen. R.A.F. fighters
don’t go into a box-on with transmitters
radiating and microphones wide open by
way of giving fireside thrills. Neither do
their enemies.
Fighters, bombers, reconnaissance
’planes and other kinds of service craft
may, when going into action, or even
when actually at grips with the enemy,
find inter-communication essential for
tactical reasons, but such communi-
cation is of the ultra-short-wave variety.
U.-s.-ws. don’t travel very far normally,
and if a leader gives orders to his flight
they are unlikely to reach distant enemy
’planes. With the reasonable amount of
secrecy the medium provides, it may be
assumed that Germans, as well as British
and French, are employing it under such
conditions.
There are times when a winged ’plane
will find it necessary to inform the home
base that it is badly damaged and strug-
gling to get back —perhaps with a hun-
dred or so miles to go, and in foul
weather. At such a time the short-wave
channels are used, but no longer than
necessary. Two-way communication be-
tween ’plane and ground is brief and to
the point, and in most cases telegraphy,
according to a well-planned code, is used.
The main object in such an emergency
would be the seeking of position in case
of a forced landing at sea.
To the layman, co-operation between
aircraft-carrier and ’planes in action
might conjure up a vision of continuous
radio communication. In fact, there is
nothing of the kind. Once the ’planes
leave the flight deck and go off into the
blue, the job of getting back rests on the
shoulders of the navigator in each ’plane.
If radio were used by the carrier, or
even the ’planes when in the vicinity, it
would reveal position to enemy sub-
marines. As the Fleet Air Arm has been
working actively with the Navy in the
attack on Norwegian aerodromes, it can
be assumed that aircraft-carriers are
somewhere in the picture.
Evidence of how little radio is used in
modern air warfare, particularly in a
naval action, was hinted at by the First
Lord of the Admiralty when giving the
first brief details of events around Nor-
way. “When the Navy is in action,” he
said, “it doesn’t tell us what it is doing.
We shall hear about it all later on.”
So if the listener thinks that by twist-
ing a dial he will receive thrilling
accounts of sea, land or air fights straight
from the source of action he is doomed
to disappointment. Such “ball-to-ball”
descriptions exist only in the imagination
of writers with a fictional outlook. Radio
is an aid to safety and utility, and wise
restriction of its employment is a vital
factor in that element of safety.
“Aldis”: The first reference to Lock-
heed Hudsons being engaged in the fight-
ing over Norway came from Berlin,
which claimed that “Lockheed, Hurricane
and Sunderland” ’planes were shot
down during a raid on Stavanger.
The Air Ministry inferentially denied the
impeachment; it reported that all R.A.F.
machines that took part in the raid re-
turned safe. Lockheed Hudsons have
been giving a good account of them-
selves in the Bomber Command of the
R.A.F. Eighty-six of the 100 ordered
have been delivered in Australia, and
the Government is buying 49 more to
cost £2,277,000.
* * * *
“Kay”: Five R.A.A.F. training schools
are to be established—at Somers (Vic.)
and Bradfield Park (Sydney) for initial
training; at Cootamundra (N.S.W.) for
air observers ; at Ballarat (Vic.) for wire-
less air gunners; at Narromine (N.S.W)
for elementary flying. Somers school
will be ready to take the first trainees
on April 29. Somers will hold 600
trainees and a staff of 150; Bradfield
Park, the same number; Ballarat, 320
trainees and a staff of 148. At Coota-
mundra there will be 425 and at Narro-
mine 450 altogether.
* * * *
“Aldis”; The Swedes must have seen
trouble on the way for Scandinavia when
their Riksdag provided £5,600,000 for
two new fighter wings—one for the south,
the other for the west. Two reconnais-
sance squadrons were planned also for
the navy and army. A contract for
114 new Vultee fighters was placed
in the U.S.A. At present Sweden
has two medium bomber wings (Junkers
Ju 86 and Handley-Page H.P. 52
Hampden); two light bomber wings
(Hawker Hart and Northrop 8A);
a fighter wing (Gloster Gladiator, Jakt-
falken and Bristol Bulldog Mk II A);
an army co-operation wing (Fokker
CV-D and CV-E, Breguet 694 and
Fieseler Fi 156 Storch), and a naval co-
operation wing (Hawker Osprey, Hein-
kel He 5 and Heinkel He 115). And
there is an aircraft-carrying cruiser, the
Gotland.
* * * *
“Ex-R.A.F.”: The R.A.F. has “boob”
funds, pilots fining themselves for every
error of judgment. A birdman return-
ing to the base after 10 or 12 hours
aloft may make what seems to him to
be a good landing. But as he taxis in
one of the crew taps him on the shoulder
and says “Sorry, sir, but that was a
‘boob’; there was a bounce in that land-
ing.” The penalty is sixpence per
bounce; other faults sometimes cost
2s. 6d. However, the standard of flying
at most R.A.F. stations is so high nowa-
days that “boob” funds are not flourish-
ing.
* * * *
“Spot”: The g.m. of a Swedish airline
co. tells a story of a North Sea incident.
His co. sold two Junkers 52’s, German
civil ’planes, to British Airways, and the
purchaser put them into service on the
run between Perth and Stavanger. A
pilot, flying one with a full load of pas-
sengers and mail, found himself sur-
rounded by 17 German fighters. They
played around the Ju 52 without attempt-
ing to interfere, followed it all the way
to Norway and then flew off into the
blue. Controversialists differ as to whether
it was because the ’plane was German-
made. because commercial ’planes are
unofficially exempt from harm, or be-
cause military pilots refuse to shoot down
commercial brethren of the air. The
fact remains that commercial services
have escaped from interference to a be-
wildering extent since the third of Sep-
tember.
* * * *
“T. Gunner”: The improved version of
the Douglas DB-7 attack bomber ordered
by the R.A.F. from U.S.A. seems to be
about the most useful fighting machine
yet built by U.S.A. It is a twin-engined,
high-wing monoplane fitted with two 900
h.p. Pratt and Whitney Twin Wasp
engines, with a top speed of more than
300 m.p.h. The French also have a
number on order.
* * * *
“Don”: On February 3 fighters
brought to earth near Berwick-on-Tweed
a Heinkel He 111 type bomber, and, as
damage was only superficial, the R.A.F.
got a prize worth having. Secrets of
construction and armament came to light.
The machine was one of a squadron
known as “The Lion.” Painted on the
nose of the Heinkel is a crouching lion
with the words '‘Vestigium Leonis.” This
Nazi squadron has a hate-song. Three
verses: —•
False Britannia, listen well:
Hear us chant “Vae Victis”;
In your blood we soon shall write it —
“Vestigium Leonis.”
Seek your cover! Hide in terror!
Hear our bombs come screaming down!
See your ships destroyed and scattered!
Mark the track the Lion has flown!
Aircraft out! Chocks away!
Let the engines thunder!
We fly nor’-west for England’s coasts
To tear its guards asunder.
Well, what’s detaining them?
**. * *
“Don”: The King was shown movie
films taken automatically by R.A.F.
fighters when in action with Nazis. One
vividly portrayed the interception and
destruction of a German raider. Taken
from the R.A.F. machine, it provided a
thrill that no Hollywood fake could
equal. A cine-camera is lined up with
the fighter’s eight Browning guns, and
when the trigger-button starts the guns
the camera also begins to “shoot.”
Many ’planes are now so fitted, and after
a combat a pilot may sit in the projec-
tion room and live the scrap over again.
And the camera may serve to note mis-
takes which enabled the enemy to get
away. A book, Death in the Air, con-
tained a series of photos, taken by an
R.F.C. pilot in 1917. He and another
shot down an Albatross, in which there
was a very efficient German camera. The
camera was fitted on the undercarriage of
their own fighter, and arranged with a
Bowden wire control, so that exposures
were made as the guns were fired. Some
of the resulting “shots” were so remark-
able that critics condemned them as
fakes.
The Air War Day by Day.
April 15-19: Further British raids on
vital points of Norwegian west coast,
particularly Stavanger and Trondhjem.
Stavanger aerodrome attacked again
and again by low-flying fighters and
bombers against stiff opposition. British
naval bombardment of Stavanger aero-
drome. Returning warships attacked
by bombers; a cruiser hit and dam-
aged, but makes her way to port, it
was the only hit scored, though 115
bombs were dropped. Of the enemy
attackers, a Heinkel and a Dornier
were shot down and three ’planes
damaged without loss of British air-
craft. Germans admit loss of 10 ’planes
“in the last few days,” and assert that
the British lost “nearly 30.”
April 20-21: British bomb aerodromes at
Kristiansand and Aalborg (Denmark),
as well as Stavanger, and inflict dam-
age without suffering loss. Admiralty
reports three German ’planes shot
down while attacking naval units and
transports ; no British loss. Raid over
“neighborhood of Thames estuary”
beaten off. Six enemy and two Allied
’planes shot down over Western Front;
Allied pilots uninjured.


MAKE IT YOUR GOOD COMPANION
ik
Imperial
“Good Companion”
PORTABLE TYPEWRITER
MADE IN ENGLAND.
£ £ £’s LOWER IN PRICE.
• No Customs Duty.
• No Dollar Exchange.
• No Increase in Price.
POUNDS LIGHTER IN WEIGHT.
BRISBANE L. Dobell & Co. Pty., Ltd., 43 Creek Street
SYDNEY Dobell Pty., Limited. 107 Pitt Street
MELBOURNE Geo. Raitt & Co., Ltd., 467 Collins Street
ADELAIDE Holdsworth & Co., 51 Grenfell Street
PERTH Burridge & Warren, Ltd., 69 King Street
HOBART J. C. McPhee Pty., Ltd., 99 Collins Street
MAKE NO MISTAKE Imperial is the ENGLISH Typewriter
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Neighbor in the North
“Kaloa”: All eyes in the North and in
New Guinea are turned on the Dutch
East Indies, now the subject of war con-
troversy.
The South knows little of them ; to the
Far North, they are near neighbors. Their
Malays were the first visitors to Arnhem
Land, long before the British landed;
their praus are still seen in the vicinity
of the Australian coast. The islands,
from Dutch Timor northwards, are the
stepping-stones by dint of which Aus-
tralian flying services reach Singapore.
The D.E.I. are much bigger than most
people imagine—in all about the size of
Queensland and Victoria put together.
The population is round 60,000,000,
40,000,000 being packed into Java at a
rate of round 900 to the square mile.
Their cities are up to date, their tourist
traffic immense.
East of Java, however, are the points
which have closest contact with Australia.
There lie the Celebes, from which lugger
boys and divers have been recruited for
Thursday Island pearlers for many years,
as the Koepangers have been for all the
shell centres round to Broome.
Off the south of Dutch New Guinea
are the Aru Islands, which have long
been a central depot for Australian pearl-
ing fleets. And down the 141st parallel
of longitude is the Dutch New Guinea
border, the only land line which separates
Australia from a foreign country.
It would be no mean prize, un-
developed as it is—about 151,789 sq.
miles, with a population of 200,000 when
the Aru and Schouten groups are in-
cluded. It used to be in the Ternate
Administration in the Northern Moluccas,
but is now a province.
Most of Dutch N.G. has not been
fully explored, but there is not much
danger of any enemy pushing over the
border into Papua or the Mandate —the
mountains are 15,000 feet high, the
natives are savage and the jungle is as
extensive and complicated as the Aus-
tralian income tax laws. Still, it has fine
harbors in which a fleet might shelter —
Tanah Mera and Humboldt Bay.
Trade isn’t large—mainly copra, bird
of Paradise feathers, and fish. Its boom
days were those just after the war when
Paradise feathers were at the top of the
market —£6155 per bird for the best of
the big Paradisea anapodas.
But those happy days were before 1926,
when the bottom fell out of the Merauke
market and the Government clamped
down on the shooting. During the
depression prices fell to 3s. a bird locally.
There is probably gold, but as yet
prospecting is far from thorough.
And, incidentally, it was here that the
D.E.I. Government established one of the
biggest internment camps in the world
for Communists after the Idonesian
revolts of the twenties.
At one time there were 5000 undesir-
able tovarishes from Java, the Celebes
and Sumatra planted about four days’
trip up the Diggoel River in the interior.
There, the mosquitoes soon reduced
them to humility and showed them that
Communism was not all it was cracked
up to be.
“Biwire”: Lennon’s Hotel, which is as
much a part of Brisbane as the river it-
self, is to be changed into a modern
building equipped with air-conditioning
in its 150 bedrooms. Demolition began
last week. There will be a new bank and
shops at the Roma-street end, and above
them a mezzanine floor with offices and
self-contained flats. A ballroom, ban-
quet hall, lounge, marble bar 61ft. long
and vestibule 70ft. long will be other fea-
tures to dazzle habitues of the old place.
* * * *
“Norther”: Treasure-hunters have been
combing the flood debris along Planta-
tion Creek, Ayr, for a fortune of £9OO in
“ Careful, son; that's a noo handle .”
pickle bottles and tins. The money was
hidden in a stump by a Chinese gardener,
but the flood —which did £1,500,000
worth of damage around Ayr—took
stump and money, which may now be
buried under feet of silt.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A citizen of Innisfail
(N.Q.) was walking past a rubbish dump
when an explosion showered him with a
scalding viscid substance which inflicted
severe burns on his hands and neck. The
ambulance man who dressed his injuries
discovered that it was raspberry jam—
apparently a discarded tin had been
heated to bursting pressure in the burn-
ing rubbish. Two days later a child was
brought in suffering from burns on the
hands and feet. He had pulled over a
pan in which his mother had been
making jam. The following week a
grocer’s assistant turned up with a cut
scalp—a 21b. tin of apricot jam had
fallen from a store shelf and caught him
with one of its corners. Innisfail is be-
ginning to wonder whether it is safe to
have the jam thing about the place.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A brave and gracious
lady passed beyond the sunset when Mrs.
Giles died in Adelaide in her 81st year.
For a generation her open-handed hos-
pitality at Bonrook station was enjoyed
by every notable visitor who desired to
'see something of the real Northern Terri-
tory and its ways of life. Territorians
themselves would never dream of passing
anywhere near to Bonrook without pay-
ing their respects to its kindly witty
chatelaine. Her husband and sons did
much to open up the outback in pioneer-
ing days, and Harold still keeps the
family flag flying at Elsey station. An-
other son is Government Secretary at
Darwin.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Queensland’s Government
Statistician has drawn proud attention to
the fact that the State has the second-
highest natural reproduction rate in the
Empire, exceeded only by French
Canadians. Calculated from ages of
parents, number of previous children and
duration of marriage, the reproduction
rate shows whether or not the popula-
tion is replacing itself. The Australian
figure is 1, denoting bare replacement;
Queensland’s is 1.16, and England’s 0.78.
Nazi claims of rapid natural increase
are disproved by Germany’s last figure
of 0.95, with prospects of further reduc-
tion by war conditions. Russia’s 1939
census revealed a population 10 millions
below official estimates, and it is signifi-
cant that no birth or death statistics for
the U.S.S.R. have been issued since 1929.
In spite of all the talk about overflowing
millions, Japan’s increase rate in the
1931-36 period was only 0.77 p.c. Aus-
tralia’s was 0.76.
* * * *
“B’lander”: Queensland soldiers and
airmen in camps and depots outside their
State will be provided with ballot-papers
and boxes for voting at the Brisbane City
Council elections on April 27. There are
six parties in the field for the 21 wards,
their present strength in the council be-
ing Labor 12 C.M.O. 7, Prot. Labor 1,
Protestant party 1. Seventy-one candi-
dates have been nominated: 21 for
CM O 20 for Labor, 19 for Prot. Labor,
four each for the P.P. and the Commu-
nists, and three Independents. There are
about 218 000 electors.
*’* * *
“Keep O.”: Dr. T. G. H. Jones, Lee-
turer in Chemistry at Queensland Uni.
since 1921, becomes Professor in Chemis-
try in succession to the late L. S. Bagster.
The new prof, was born at Scone
(N.S.W.), and went from Newcastle High
to Sydney Uni., where he won the Levy
Scho'arship, Slade Prize, Caird Scholar-
ship and sundry medals. In 1915 he col-
lected a Government Research Scholar-
ship and was appointed assistant-1
to Queensland University. From
1919 he was in English mimrtion »| ’
tories on war chemistry work, a
1921 followed Dr. Denham into tne lec-
tureship.
■j. jJ;
“Sandpatch”: Narvik, now so much
in the news, has a definite interes
Bananalanders, especially those
round Rockhampton. It was to Na -
that four members of the Archer farrm.
migrated from Central Queensland, whe.e
their father, Thomas Archer, of Orace-
mere, was a pioneer—he became Agent-
General. Sons William, Colin, Jame=
and Charles surrendered to the lure o
the Norsemen’s land. Cohn designe
and built Nansen’s ship the Fram. Wil-
liam translated Ibsen, became the most
noted dramatic critic of his time, an'
wrote a successful play.
* * * *
“Main Range” (Papua): Although only
one generation removed from his head-
hunting ancestors, my native clerk is
quite the gentleman. One Sunday he
sent along the following kindly thougn
warning note: “Excuse me, Sir. Will
you don’t make heart jump self and
Sinabada [my wife], because am going
to shoot one snake in my little outhouse.
Thanking you. Yours servant ‘B.
* * . * .. *
J- • That Menzies limerick (B.
3/ 4/ ’4O) appeared originally in the Har-
lequin, a shilling magazine that has
made its appearance in Brisbane. A
bright magazine, too, with “Bill Bow-
yang one of the contributors, a
Poets Page, short stories and prize com-
petitions. Am. dram, societies look to
the ‘ Harlequin for constructive criticism
and instruction, and playwrights are not
neglected ; for a one-act play a prize ot
10 guineas is offered. There is room
for more Australian magazines, and, now
that a ban has been placed on so much
American smut and offal, perhaps the
taste of those who bought the abomina-
tions will change for the better.
<trV * a*u-u* i *j • „
Dip : A Brisbane lorry-driver
made one of the quickest and longest
jumps of his career the other day. He had
drums containing 1400 gallons of petrol
and Diesel oil on the back of his truck,
which backfired as it was leaving the
garage. The driver noticed a glare at the
side of the truck, and before it was on
the road it had burst into flames. He
quitted with a speed equalled only by that
of a truckman I knew in sou’-west W.A..
who had a different spot of trouble. With
three or four tons of super, on an open
truck that sturdy fellow was bowling
along a country road when he saw several
feet of snake stretched across his path.
He ran directly over the reptile and
thought he had accounted for it, but
about a mile further on something mov-
ing just behind his left shoulder caught
his eye. He turned, and there was Joe
Blake between a couple of bags of super,
One leap took him to the roadside, and
truck and super, finished up base-over-
apex in a ditch. Joe slid away into the
undergrowth.


AUSTRALIAN WHEAT
BOARD
1938/39 (No. 1) POOL.
Payment of Second Advance.
SILO WHEAT.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Board has
distributed a SECOND ADVANCE of 6d. per bushel
on Silo Wheat acquired and included in the No. 1
Pool (1938-39 Season’s Wheat), making the total
distribution to date 2/6 per bushel F. 0.8., equivalent
to approximately 2/5i per bushel “on trucks
Sydney” basis.
The Board has authorised Licensed Receivers to
distribute these proceeds and to make deductions
for charges on wheat acquired after Bth October,
1939, as follows:
Total of First and Second Advances (“on
trucks” basis)
Less charges —
Per Bus.
Country Agents’ Commission ~ ,2.50 d.
Licensed Receivers’ Handling
Chaiges .. .. . . .375 d.
Grain Elevator’s Storage to
8/10/’39 3.500 d.
Grain Elevator’s Handling
Charges.. .. .. .. 1.500 d.
— 5.625
Balance to be distributed out of two
Advances .. .. .. ... .. 1/11.675
(Less railage.)
Less distributed in November, 1939 .. 1/4
Per Bus.
2/5.300
Balance now available for distribution .. 7.657
(Less railage.)
BAGGED WHEAT.
NOTICE IS' HEREBY GIVEN that the Board has
distributed a SECOND ADVANCE of Bd. per bushel
on Bagged Wheat acquired and included in the No. 1
Pool (1938-39 Season’s' Wheat), making the total
distribution to date 2/8 per bushel F. 0.8., equivalent
ta 2/71 per bushel “on trucks Sydney” basis.
The Board has authorised Licensed Receivers to
distribute these proceeds and to make deductions
for charges on wheat acquired after Bth October,
1939, as follows:
Per Bus.
lotal of first and second advances (“on
trucks” basis) ~ .. .. .. 2/7.25
Less charges —
Per Bus.
Country Agents’ Commission . . 1.25
Licensed Receivers’ Handling Charges 1.00
2.25
Balance to be distributed out of two
Advances 2/5.00
t ~ , , . . {Less railage.)
Less distributed in November, 1939 .. .. 1/4.00
Balance now available for distribution .. 1/1.00
„ ... (Less railage.)
uie Board is informed by Licensed Receivers that,
"fvT i i? ged "heat the 1938-39' Season stored
witn them at the date of acquisition (8/10/’39)
and acquired by the Commonwealth, the distribu-
per n bu°she! ro lowS. WU * a PP roximatel y one penr *
IMPORTANT.
o otlce does not refer to wheat of the
1939-40 Season acquired by the Commonwealth.
AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD,
G. A. H. Holborow,
State Superintendent.
BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
Smartness and self-respect go hand-in-hand—and one of the first
steps to both is to be well and truly shaved. That is why most men
to-day use Blue Gillette Blades. They have given up experimenting
with cheap substitutes. They have found that the superhard steel
of the Blue Gillette takes a keener edge and holds it longer.
More men than ever are shaving with Blue Gillette. 5 for 1/6,
ckV
-AV^ TrE BL *O is ,
C ££AN Stfk'
Managing Agents :
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
D.W.: One’s feeble; the other's bumpy
B.C.: Mere moralising W.C.E.: “The Un-
bardlike Enthuses” is really amazingly bad
verse L.H.P.: “The Silver Bird” doesn’t
soar as it should E.M.E.; Too light for
us E.S.O’D.: Didn’t like her when she
“started” S.H.: Both weaklings D.H.:
It’s hardly up to Newbolt C.B.C.: “Hitler”
out E.C.: Your lines about the Show would
have to be better than “Manufactures, elec-
tric exhibits, showrooms, provisions and tots’
loco” before we could publish 96 of them
R. : “Methinks” and “mayhap” in one line!
K.C.: You might score on “Smoke-oh”
if you make them shorter and funnier
J.M.: No shape, no imagery G.H.: You
don’t make it dramatic E.M.B.: That’s the
sort of thing that ought to be worked into a
rondeau, or into some form more telling than
the present slipshod stanzas W.M.M.: Not
quite G.M.: Confused... .V.N.: Call again,
with some slightly less peculiar “ditties”
N.L.: Two lines then: —
What is the meaning’ of “T. the R.” ?
Tickle the Ribs? or Touch the Raw?
E.A.S.: The best to date... .D.S.C.: Worse
have come our way G.N.R.: “Dark Is the
Night.” And darker our thoughts H.L.R.:
You’re too anxious to get the plot off your
chest; pay more attention to character and
setting B.H.: Too many people in it
S. : The colonels belong to Wodehouse....
H.R.B.: Needs filling out B.D.S.: Write it
off as sad experience F.R.L.: You couldn’t
do worse than start off with an “Idyll” and an
“Interlude” B.F.P.: Its merit is in the set-
ting; try a straight descriptive article for a
travel magazine... .N.R.A.: “Fishin’” might
stand a chance at half that length... .L.R.B.:
See Henry Lawson’s “Loaded Dog” C.F.P.:
And they lived happily ever after S.D.L.:
Fair idea poorly managed FJ.S.: When-
ever we find a doctor, a lawyer and an ex-
plorer seated in comfortable chairs at the club,
smoking expensive cigars and sipping whisky,
we steal away and leave them to it... .B.H.R.:
An improvement, but characters are still only
puppets V.F.: You haven't found “The
Lost Art of Writing” C.N.F.: You talk too
much C.G.C.: “Away! Away!” Away!
. ...F.C.G.: That happened to Lord Ullin’s
daughter 8.H.5.: “Orphan” still is
J.E.F.: No room for the chap who became an
artist because he couldn’t take a decent photo-
graph 8.F.5.: We laughed at that idea
about 20 years ago G.G.R.: A technical
magazine devoted to the subject should con-
sider it N.R., D. 8.5., L.R.C., FI.F. and
D.P.O’N.: Try them elsewhere... .W.E.: Stuff-
ing a par. with words won’t make a story.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.A.: More like a geometrical problem than
a humorous drawing... .E.S.T.: Pictorial pro-
test against weather prophets met a stormy
reception... .T.A.: Dialogue between two flies
resting on old gent.’s bald head very dreary.
A.S.: Very nearly let drunk homeward-
bound with elephant in tow come in R.P.:
We’re oiling the office blunderbuss in prepara-
tion for another visit from that family of
freaks... .CJ.: A grained surface paper does
not suit that class of fine penwork... .5.R.8.:
Not for us D.C.: You’ve a long struggle
ahead J.L.: “Hop” pictured that missionary
stewing in the cannibal’s pot a halTcentury
ago... .M.A.K.: Gag has been going the
rounds of the town for months... .F. 8.:
Wheeze that requires a long covering letter
to explain the point is no wheeze at a 11....
L.A.J.: Joke about the moths in the Scotch-
man’s purse has taken a very long time to
reach your part of the world N.T.8.: Even
the w.p.b. is getting fed-up with that ancient.
T.P.: Smooth linework, but draughtsman-
ship is wobbly N.S.M.: Closed the door on
the old maid in the bathtub N. 8.: Cousin
Jacks are reserved for Oswald Pryor.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Spain, having already recovered to a
great extent from the effects of its war,
is again going in for horseracing.
After a cessation for eight years, there
will be races in Madrid in June. During
the last big war many French and English
owners maintained strings in Spain.
* * * *
Major-General Duigan, Maoriland’s
Chief of the General Staff, has been re-
appointed for 12 months. He is a son of
an erstwhile editor of the Wanganui
“Herald.” In the S’African War he
fought with Brabant’s Light Horse and
then put in two years’ training in Alder-
shot. In India for still further training
in 1914, he joined up at once, and gained
the D.S.O.
* *
“S.T.S,”: One thing this war is doing
is to abolish the old scruple against
drowning the enemy. In warfare today
Queensberry has given way to Rafferty.
Perhaps the dread of drowning is a
special feature of Britain, which has
always been a nation with a vast major-
ity of non-swimmers. Till quite lately
medals for saving life have gone, about
nine out of every ten, to rescues from
drowning. The British sailor, though
he would cheerfully chop down or shoot
a foe, would always take a big risk, if
required, to rescue him from their com-
mon enemy the waves.
* * * *
J. Tyndall, appointed a Judge of the
M.L. Arbitration Court, is young as
Fernland Judges go, being on the sunny
side of 50. He started work as a cadet
in the P.W. Department, took up accoun-
tancy as a hobby, and then studied law
and civil engineering, qualifying in both
professions. For a time he was assistant
borough engineer in Dunedin. He also
had a good deal of civil engineering ex-
perience in the U.S.A. Returning to
M.L. he became Under-Secretary of
Mines, and then Director of Housing.
Certainly a comprehensive apprenticeship
to arbitration work.
* * * *
“F.S.”: A pupil fresh from an aca-
demic art seminary who does a bit of
bad drawing and calls it “modern” is
sure of a sympathetic reception in draw-
ing-rooms ; but to talk of “modern” art
is as meaningless as to talk of “modern”
truth or “modern” beauty. When De
Laszlo was commissioned by Queen
Victoria to paint a Boer War general,
he was advised in advance that her
Majesty was not very enthusiastic for
modern art, and liked “correct draw-
ing and clean color.” Modern art
for Queen Victoria was symbolised by
painters who are now regarded as hope-
less old fogeys by the people who call
themselves “modern” today. The per-
fect retort on artists who put labels
on themselves was made to Van
Gogh by Manet when the obscure
artist showed the acknowledged master
some of his sketches, but excused him-
self as but an amateur painter. “There
is no such thing,” said Manet, “as an
amateur artist or a professional artist.
There are only good artists and bad
artists. You are a good artist.”
* * * *
“Atrax”: A little thing like a war
didn’t prevent “The Governor and Com-
pany of Adventurers of England Trading
into Hudson’s Bay” from carrying on
with the world’s biggest annual sale of
furs in London. The Hudson’s Bay Co.,
as it is popularly called—though never
by itself or its officers—was founded in
1670 under a charter granted by Charles
11. Its 232 trading posts, 30 of them
within the Arctic Circle, stretch clear
across Canada, and amongst other side
interests it operates big department
stores in every large Canadian city. The
January sale was attended by 600 buyers
from every part of the world, the sales
notices were printed in six languages and
circulated amongst 47 countries, and
nearly £500,000 worth of skins was
bought. A special feature consisted of
160,000 Persian lambskins—produced in
S. Africa!
* * * *
“Ist A.H.”: S’African war veterans of
the Ist Australian Horse—-a volunteer
bush cavalry regiment founded in N.S.W.
by the late Kenneth Mackay—held a
reunion dinner in Sydney recently.
Much of the talk had to do with its first
engagement at Osfontein, the next fight
after Cronje’s surrender at Paardeberg,
and a good deal of it with the miraculous
survival thereafter of Trooper Laurence
Palmer. A Mauser bullet made a little
round hole in Palmer’s forehead, just
above the level of the eyebrows, without
at the moment much inconveniencing
him, though in half an hour or so he
had to be escorted to Dr. Fiaschi’s
ambulance. Next morning his mates
got leave to go and bury him decently,
They found the supposed corpse walking
about with a bandage round his head
and smoking his pipe. The bullet was
removed from the interior of Palmer’s
skull four months afterwards at Netley
Hospital in England, and now hangs on
his watchchain. A few months after-
wards his troop-leader, Lieutenant Ebs-
worth, received a bullet in exactly the
same place and was dead in ten seconds,
* * * *
“K.”: Marjorie Lawrence (whose con-
cert season in Sydney was somewhat cold-
shouldered, ffiough the Town Hall has
never rung to more inspired singing) has
been hitting off some high notes to the
critics’ delight at the Metropolitan Opera
in New York. The “New Yorker,” one
of the hardest of all papers to please, says
in a criticism of “Die Walkure”: “Miss
Lawrence, who had previously been heard
as Brunnhilde, was the Sieglinde. There
have been many excellent Sieglindes
around here lately, and Miss Lawrence
joined the distinguished company prac-
tically by acclamation. Her Sieglinde, a
first-rate singing accomplishment, was
distinguished by the animated acting she
provided in the first act. This Frau
Hunding was amorous without being
clamorous, and she contributed to the
interest even when she had to siQaround
while Siegmund and Hunding talked
family affairs.” Well, well! It does
look as though Marjorie has conquered
the A B C of her profession after all.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn __it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors — J ames Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, M. J. Ryan, Esq. ,
F - E - rfolfe.“ 0 ;
With *. .t London. C.hberr^ Melbourne, «p,£S2
Offloe. in Queensland and Northern Riverv
sas? <■> ■»**■■*
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday .
Our Serviçe Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Pensioner, Sydney, active, intelligent, good
appearance, thorough knowledge of hotel trade,
would keep accounts, check stock, relieve gener-
ally in return for board. —6822.
Invalid, Sydney, good typist, own machine,
urgently seeks typing work; used to handling
manuscripts, neat and accurate. —6869.
Gentleman, Sydney, lecturer, available any
evening speak before literary societies, etc.,
o. suitable topic for reasonable fee. —6870.
Young married man, two children, wants
work of any sort anywhere. Five years’ exp.
in grocery. Can drive car or truck.—6B3l.
To buy for school library Spinifex and Sand,
by David W. Carnegie.—6B32.
To communicate with people having old
English and Australian letters up to 1800.
—6848.
Copy of report on an analysis of potable
spirits and its bearing on the definition of
whisky by E. A. Mann, ex-Government
Analyst of W.A. —6835.
Copy of Australian publication containing
humorous short story, theme of which had to
do with petrol saving. Published about three
years, ag0. —6223.
Schoolboy, commencing library of Austra-
lian literature, wants to buy cheap works of
Harpur, Gordon, Kendall, Clarke and “Rolf
Bolarewood.” —6868.
Words of coster song “The Little Nipper.”
—6842.
Information Sought.
A few details concerning the Treaty of Com-
merce and Navigation signed between the
United Kingdom and Italy in 1883 ? —6855.
The treaty was signed at Rome on June 15,
1883, and ratified on June 30 of the same
year. It came into force on July 1, 1883.
The treaty provided for the grant of certain
privileges on a reciprocal basis in connection
with commerce, navigation and similar matters.
Provision was made for its application to the
various States (then Colonies) of Australia by
the giving of notice at any time within one
year, and notices were given in 1884 with
respect to all the States of Australia with the
exception of S.A.
* * * *
Has it ever been known for a wild cat or
any cat to have mated and bred with a wild or
tame rabbit in Australia or elsewhere, and
further, if this is not known to have taken
place, is there any possibility of these species
breeding ? —6595.
No authentic records or specimens are avail-
able which could possibly support the idea of
hybridisation of rabbits and cats. Well-known
instances of hybridisation, such as between the
horse and ass and the lion and tiger involve a
comparatively close relationship within single
orders of the mammal class. On the contrary,
the flesh-eating cat (order Carnivora) and the
gnawing rabbit (order Rodentia) represent en-
tirely distinct orders of the mammalian class.
Crossing of the two latter animals is a scientific
impossibility, and the. rabbit x cat theory arises
mostly from the tendency of wild cats to
haunt rabbit burrows and the observation of
deformed kittens.
* * * *
Origin of the swastika, its meaning, and how
did it come to be connected with Nazism ?
6836.
The swastika is found in remains from the
Bronze Age in various parts of Europe, espe-
cially at Hissarlik (Troy), an 4 was in frequent
use as late as the tenth century. It is found in
ancient Persia, in India, where both Jains and
Buddhists used (or still use) it as a religious
symbol, in China and Japan, and among Indian
tribes of North, Central and South America.
It is usually thought-to be a charm, talisman
or religious emblem, especially a sign of good
luck or benediction. The swastika was worn by
the soldiers of the German Baltic Corps on
their helmets when they returned in 1919 from
their campaign in Finland. It was (and is
still) the State ensign of Finland. The ex-
Baltic soldiers joined nationalist volunteer corps
in post-war Germany which were hostile to
the republican Government, continuing to use
the swastika as their badge. Thus' it became
an ensign of nationalism, and eventually the
Nazis adopted it.
* * * *
Lunacy, is not, 1 understand, at present a
ground for ' divorce in N. S. Wales, but is so
in Queensland. Is that correct? —6859.
Yes, lunacy as proved by detention in an
institution for five years within six years im-
mediately preceding the filing of the petition
for divorce is a ground for divorce in Queens-
land. A similar provision in N. S. Wales has
been urged and may possibly be included in
amending legislation contemplated in the Mother
State.
* * * *
(1) Is a returned soldier on pension entitled
to receive benefit under Section 27 (4) (i) of
the Queensland Local Government Act of 1936
on two vacant allotments in Brisbane when he
also owns and lives on a farm in the country ?
(2) What are the words of the section? —6663.
(1) The matter of granting any concession
is one for the determination of the Brisbane
City Council. (2) Notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act, a local authority is
hereby empowered, in any case where it thinks
proper to do so, to remit and wholly discharge
any rates made and levied under this Act in
respect of any land for the payment of which
any person is or may be or become liable
who is an incapacitated returned soldier or
sailor or is the widow of a person or a
widowed mother of an unmarried son whose
death was the result of, or aggravated by, war
service, or is a sufferer from an industrial
disease as defined by the Workers’ Com-
pensation Acts 1916 to 1935 (or any Act
amending or in substitution for the same), or
is in receipt of an invalid or old-age pension
under any law of .the Commonwealth relat-
ing to such pensions.
* * * *
What is the law in N. S. Wales concerning
children born out of wedlock, but whose parents
subsequently marry? Can they be legiti-
mated ? —6850.
Yes, provided that at the time of birth there
was no legal impediment to the marriage of
the parents. The father is required to pro-
duce to a District Registrar, usually the local
Clerk of Petty Sessions, a statutory declaration
in the form prescribed by the Legitimation
Act, and a copy of the entry of his marriage
with the child’s mother. The child, whether
alive or dead, is then registered as the lawful
issue of the man and his wife.
* * * *
A house has been furnished on the hire-
purchase system, payments to extend over two
years. Seven months after the first payment
has been made borers appear in certain pieces.
What is the legal position of purchaser regard-
ing replacement ? —6795.
Unless you could show that at the time the
furniturb was delivered to you there were traces
of borer and the goods had been sold to you
as free from that pest, you would have little
hope of recovering anything from the vendor.
Seven months would be ample time in which
the wood could be infected from some outside
source. You might, however, approach the
vendor and see if he would replace the affected
wood by sound material.
* * * *
Is there an oil seepage at Tewaptin (£>.),
and, if so, what efforts have been made to
develop it ? —6665.
No record of oil seepages at Tewantin, but
Tertiary oil shales have been found on the beach
to the north. Several boreholes in the vicinity
penetrated the Tertiary strata without meeting
oil.
* * * *
Does the possession of a miner’s right en-
ttile a person to trespass over both freehold
and leasehold land alike, or is it necessary to
obtain a permit from the local warden? —6778.
A miner’s right entitles the holder, amongst
other things, to take possession of, mine and
occupy Crown lands. When it is desired to
enter freehold (private) land a permit to enter
must first be obtained from the nearest warden.
* * * *
Length of time rigor mortis lasts in fish
and meat at 60 deg. and 80 deg. Fahr. respec-
tively?—6Bs6.
In both the length of rigor mortis would be
the same in both cases of temperature as the
range is not great enough to affect appreci-
ably the length of time which rigor lasts. The
average duration of rigor mortis at the tempera-
tures mentioned would be for fish 24 hours,
and for meat 36 hours. These figures are
purely arbitrary and depend on a number of
factors. For instance, when exhausted animals
or animals with a fever are killed, then rigor
is induced much more quickly and passes off
much more quickly. There is also the fact
that thre end point of rigor mortis is very
hard to determine, and experts differ as to
what the definite ending point is.
* * * *
Biographical details concerning James Brunton
Stephens, Australian poet? —6BBo.
He was born at Borrowstounness (usually
mapped as Linlithgowshire) on June 17, 1835,
and educated at the University of Edinburgh,
on leaving which he entered the teaching pro-
fession. Tiring of travelling tutorships and
of schoolmastering in Scotland, he in 1866 came
to Queensland and taught private pupils in
Brisbane and on a Logan River cattle station.
In 1873 he entered the Queensland Education
Department (being headmaster of schools at
Stanthorpe and Ashgrove), was transferred by
T. Mcllwraith in 1883 to the Colonial Secre-
tary’s office and was chief clerk and acting
Under-Secretary in that department when he
died at Brisbane on June 29, 1902.
* * * *
How many species of wombat are there, and
in what States are they to be found? —6871.
Of the four distinct species the comnmn
wombat (P. mitchelli ) is found in N.S.W., Vic-
toria and South Australia; the Tasmanian
wombat (P. tasmaniensis ) is confined to Tas-
mania ; the Flinders Island wombat (P. ursinus )
occurs on Flinders and Deal Islands in Bass
Strait; and the hairy-nosed wombat (P.
latifrons) in South Australia. A fifth species,
the Queensland hairy-nosed wcpmbat (P.
gillespiei ), was described by De Vis m 1900;
though it is apparently allied to latifrons, the
characters are somewhat contradictory; accord-
ing to Heber Longman it should be regarded as
a distinct species, occurring near the southern
border of Queensland.
* * * *
A few details concerning the early history
of wine manufacture in.N. S. Wales? —6877.
In 1803-04 a small quantity of poor wine
was made near Sydney, and King reported that
the industry ■ would prove unprofitable. By
1823, however, Gregory Blaxland had suc-
ceeded in making good wine at Brush Farm,
on the Parramatta River, from South African
stocks, and was awarded medals for his wines
by the Royal Society of Arts in England.
James King’s wines were the next to secure
European recognition, and South Australian
wines were praised at the Paris exhibition of
1854. At the Melbourne exhibition of 1881
the then Emperor of Germany presented a
trophy worth £BOO for the best exhibit of
Australian. wines, which was won by the St.
Hubert vineyard.
* * * *
1 have a Cine Kodak camera, but am doubt-
ful about a projector, being situated where
there ..is no electric power. Projectors are
obtainable for 110 volts, but I am wondering
if it would be possible to run a projector svith
motor for 110 volts from dry batteries as used
for radio receivers? —6702.
Dry cell power is impracticable. Even if a
high voltage bank of 1.5 volt dry cells of
the largest capacity was built up, the motor
drain would be excessive and operation would
be very limited. Better scheme is to obtain
a projector with motor wound for six volts
D.C. and to run from a heavy duty six-volt
accumulator. This again depends upon charg-
ing facilities being available. If two accumu-
lators are used, one can be on charge while
the other is in use. Special low voltage light-
ing bulbs can be obtained for such projectors.
* * * *
/ own a pet Mexican parrot about 15 years
of age. He has always been healthy and an
excellent talker. Recently, however, he began
to lose condition, became listless and lacking
in energy, went off his food, and ceased talk-
ing. Occasionally he vomits his food. His
diet, which is never varied, consists of sun-
flower seed, a crust of bread, or piece of plain
biscuit or a piece of apple, and a supply of
water. . What is the trouble, and how can it
be remedied? —6599.
The fact of the bird vomiting occasionally
points to its having at some time swallowed
something of an irritant nature. If .the parrot
is confined, to a small cage whereby it is unable
to fly, it would be advisable to supply it with
a mixture of seed and not to confine it to
sunflower seed. only. This latter is very heat-
ing, and in warm climates should be used spar-
ingly, particularly with caged birds. Give it
once daily for three days a half-teaspoonful of
milk of magnesia. It can be conveniently
administered with an eye dropper. The seed
ration should consist of wheat two parts,
cracked corn one part, oats four parts, millet
two parts, sunflower seed one part. Plenty of
fruit should be offered and to the drinking
water add 20 drops of Parrish’s syrup daily
for two weeks.
* * * *
I recently purchased an old mirror framed
in Italian walnut. The frame shows evidence
in several places of the activity of the borer.
What means can be used to detect whether
these insects are still in the wood and active,
and, if so, what treatment should be applied
to kill them ? —6740.
The only sure method of detecting the
presence of borers would be to dissect the
timber. Treatment of the frame is recom-
mended as a safeguard. Paradichlorbenzene,
to be obtained from H. B. Selby and Co.,
254 a George-street, or Townson and Mercer,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street—both Sydney—should
be dissolved in kerosene, and injected, by
means of a small pump fitted with a conical
nozzle, into the borer holes.
*-* * *
What is the easiest and shortest course for
a man to take to qualify as a stock inspector
in Vic. 3—6757. T .
In the past, stock inspectors of the Live
Stock Division have been recruited from the
ranks of dairy supervisors of the Department
of Agriculture. Before appointment dairy
supervisors are required to pass an examina-
tion qualifying them for appointment. Exami-
nations are held periodically, and full particu-
lars may be obtained from the Superintendent
of Dairying, Department of Agriculture, Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
(1) How and where to catch frogs? (2)
How to keep them? (3) What to feed them
on? —6607.,
(1) Frogs may be found in swamps, ponds
and r.ivers, and, are very difficult to catch be-
cause they dive deep down on the approach
of danger. The best method of catching them
is with a hand net on a long pole. (2) and
(3) They are even more difficult to keep alive
in captivity than they are to catch, and special
places have to be constructed so as to afford
them fresh water, and so on. They will feed on
earthworms.
* * * *
Where can I obtain comprehensive infor-
mation on synthetic resins and plastics with a
view to a use of these as a substitute for
wood? —6601. .
The following books will be found helpful:
The Chemistry of Synthetic Resins, by Carleton
Ellis, The Technology of Plastics, by H. W.
Rowell, Plastic Moulding, by Rohan, and Pro-
cesses and Machinery in the Plastic Industry,
by Bandenburger—all obtainable from the Tait
Book Co., 349 Collins-street, Melbourne. In-
addition, there are two periodicals published
monthly and dealing exclusively with the plastic
industry, namely, “British Plastics and Moulded
Products Trader” (London) and “Modern
Plastics” (New York).
* * * *
Name of a book on the maintenance and
repair of sheep-shearing machinery, with in-
struction for the grinding of combs and
cutters ?— 6BOB.
There is no handbook available on the main-
tenance and repair of sheep-shearing machinery
in general. Work of this nature is best learned
in practice, especially grinding of combs and
cutters. In most of the capital cities shearing
machinery firms or shearing contractors give
courses of instruction in the care and mainten
ance of such machinery and m 8™““*-
Although no comprehensive hterature is obtain-
able shearing-machinery nnanufa
booklets covering the mamtenan
own particular makes. Instruction notes
plied by one maker which also include notes
on the grinding of combs and cutters arebng
posted. Get in touch with oth iT e J
turers for similar information rega &
products.
Brief Answers.
A.8.C.: (1) Employment Officer, Room 17,
Ist Floor, Olderfleet Building, .475 Collins-
street, Melbourne, and Manager, Small Arms
Factory, Lithgow, N.S.W. (2) ■ Footscray and
Maribyrnong in Vic. and Lithgow in N.S.W.
(3) No. But. the Government has a scheme
whereby semi-skilled persons are trained for
positions as tradesmen, and during the period
of training the basic wage is paid. Applications
for the Government quota were invited m the
newspapers recently;.. .K.A.A.T.: Although
items 1 to 13 of the Schedule to the Sales Tax
Exemptions Act 1935-39 contain extensive pro-
visions for exemption of agricultural machinery,
implements, equipment and materials, as speci-
fied therein,' motor trucks or vehicles or parts
of motor vehicles are not included.. . .M.F.:
After the long delay in making their claims
the dilatory claimants would, now that the
money has been distributed, have very little,
if any, chance of securing a share of the
estate... .S.E.: Write Lecturer-in-charge, Tan-
ning School, Bourke-street, Waterloo, Sydney.
D.B.: It depends on the terms of the
agreement under, which you are buying the
house. If it is a condition of the contract you
will have to pay it. Read the agreement....
R.W.: Write Arthur Yates and Co., 184
Sussex-street, Sydney... .S.M.S.: It is assumed
that you have in mind the keeping of Angora
rabbits. The Vic. Vermin and Noxious Weeds
Act prohibits the keeping of these animals
T.H.: On violin labelled “Nach Giovanni
Pablo Maggini,” the word “Nach” indicates
that the violin is after or in the style of the
maker and is not a genuine Maggini. Violins
by this maker are very rare. Genuine labels
are not dated H.L-: Not known m Mel-
bourne C.O.G.Lists are obtainable from
leading booksellers F.C.: Dept, of Mines,
Bridge-street, Sydney... .H.E.M.: See Aust-
ralian Aboriginal, Place Names, by James
Tyrrell W.M.: On the facts stated you and
your wife are each eligible for full pension
(£1 per week) W.C.: Information of the
nature requested cannot be supplied in war-
time 8.M.: Write to the Red Cross Society
or the Air Raids Precautions Organisation at
Perth T.H.S.: Since beer cannot be brewed
without a license, it : is against policy to furnish
recipes S.D.: Too large an order. Con-
sult Who’s Who for Paderewski, Grove’s
Dictionary of Music, for Mozart. Fedor Ivano-
vitch Chaliapine was born at Kavan, Russia,
in 1873. Made his operatic debut at Tiflis in
1892; appeared first in New York in 1908, Lon-
don in 1913. Died 1938 L.P.: Write
David Moore, 16 Bridge-street, Sydney....
R.H.C.: Act provides that income, includ-
ing pension, must not exceed the sum of
£B4 10s. per annum. On the facts stated,
war pension of '£2 r 2s. per week debars a
person from receiving an old-age pension....
W.R.M.: Write to. National Safety Council of
Australia, Education Dept. Buildings, Bridge-
street, Sydney, for free booklet. . . .J.L.R.: The
German Verge Trust, after having disbursed
some £130,000, is now in the process of wind-
ing up, having distributed all its funds—
J. 8.: (1) In the case of a person resident in
Great Britain the revenue authorities impipse
income tax on income arising from “foreign
possessions,” the term including shares, mort-
gages and other' investments. Provision is
made for the allowance of rebates (Dominion
Relief) under both-the British and Common-
wealth Acts, designed to prevent double taxa-
tion of the same income. (2) The standard
rate of tax is 7s. in the £, but the taxpayer is
entitled to have this reduced by the allowance
of personal allowances, etc S.W.C.: There
are not sufficient data available from which a
comparison could be made of the fertility of
soils in N.S.W. and Queensland. It may be
stated, however, that most of the soil in the
vicinity of Sydney is of a light sandy nature
and would not compare favorably, from the
point of view of fertility, with the rich black
soil you mention... .E.L.C.: Suggest that you
ascertain from the Naval Board whether it is
of any value before incurring expense of patent-
ing... .D.J.8.: Copies of The Life and Times
of Captain John Piper are available only to
members of the Australian Limited Editions
Society; subscription, £3 3s. p.a. There are
still a few vacancies, and application should be
made to either Angus and Robertson, 89 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, or the secretary of the
A.L.E.S., c/o Ure Smith, Ltd., Federation
House, Phillip-street, Sydney 0.M.: A white
paper is a Government report on any subject,
especially an English publication less extensive
than a blue book J.J.D.: Ordinary stamps.
as obtained from correspondence, are only of
value in bulk and are purchased by stamp
dealers in lots of 100 and 1000. Stamps should
be clean, undamaged and free of pieces of
paper. Any Melbourne dealer would give you
his buying prices for the different values of cur-
rent Australian stamps H.J.: The compensa-
tion paid in connection with Yarralumw
averaged approximately £3 15s. per acre, and
included improvements of all kinds. The com-
pensation paid in connection with Duntroon
averaged approximately £4 12s. 6d. per acre, am
included improvements of all kinds... ; E.D :
Apply to any of the shipping companies.-
C. 8.: Write to the Secretary, Air Board
Defence Dept., Melbourne... .E.A.C.: Write
W. R. Fincham, honorary secretary, Legacy
Club of Sydney, 188 George-street, Sydney
N AD.: Hens of this type are not un-
common, and the condition is probably due
to a dormant or diseased ovary. These hem
invariably retain a more lustrous plumage than
do layers.


BUILD UP MILK PRODUCTION WITH
c TAjI-Cedi-O*-
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
The mwt valuable mineral supplement for increased milk
production is Tn-cal-os Bone Flour, with its guaranteed
minimum content of over 32% phosphoric acid. Being bone,
Tn-cal-os is definitely palatable, and in its fine flour form
is easily digested and assimilated . . . Profitable milking can
e carried on for four or five months longer by giving
Tn-cal-os in the dry period.
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
jsz&
o
&
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q'LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DONT WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Piece-picking.
“Murrawong”: As appraisement con-
siderations have altered the basis of wool-
classing, we should revise our ideas about
piece-picking. Though the classer pos-
sesses the technical knowledge to work
to the new standards, many a piece-
picker does not. A weakness of the
shearing award is that piece-pickers are
paid at the same rate as other shedhands,
whose work may be picked up by a new-
chum in a day or two.
The type of piece-picker favored by
most contractors is the one that can keep
the wool from piling up ; in other words,
speed is the main consideration.
Often a broker draws a grazier’s atten-
tion to the fact that he could have got
Id. per pound more for his pieces if they
had been better picked. Until wool-
growers realise the importance of good
piece-picking and do something to com-
pensate the skill necessary for the job
they cannot expect much improvement.
There are two ways of improving
preparation of this part of the clip. One
which has been followed in several sheds
for some years is to engage skilled wool-
sorters to pick the pieces. As an induce-
ment, they are offered a higher rate, plus
rail fares.
Supply of sorters is limited, and an
alternative is not to pile too much work
on the piece-picker. One picker to four
shearers is a fair average, although much
depends on the speed of the team and
bulk of skirtings. In some districts, where
skirtings comprise nearly half the clip,
an advantage of £d. per pound on them
will far outweigh the wages of extra
piece-picking labor.
Most advisable course for any grazier
would be to consult his broker on the
subject before signing his shearing con-
tract or filling his team.
There is always difficulty in getting
merino pieces well picked, and the num-
ber of shedhands who can pick crossbred
pieces to suit appraisement types is
infinitesimal.
Absolute evenness in length, quality
and burr percentage is essential to get
full advantage of appraisement limits,
and only a skilled sorter could be ex-
pected to pick crossbred skirtings with any
degree of accuracy while maintaining the
speed necessary to keep the wool away.
If good piece-pickers with crossbred
experience cannot be found, the owner
would be well advised to cut out piece-
picking in the shed and send all skirtings
to a recognised wool firm for reclassing.
Final Appraisements.
“Bales”: Appraisements to the end of
February averaged 12.39 d„ highest point
for the season, but still over Id. below
the agreed average price of 13.4375 d.
Catalogues from now on will comprise
largely oddments, chiefly crutchings and
lamb’s-wool low-grade lines that will
appreciably reduce the average by the
time the season ends in June. Graziers
have not been slow to realise that the
more oddments forwarded for late offer-
ing the lower the final average appraise-
ment figure will be. Low-grade wools
may bring down the aggregate average
price td 12d., whereby growers would
receive a dividend of nearly l|d. per
pound over and above the 10 per cent
retention money.
Health of Stock.
“Y. Ham”: Australian Governments
can give guarantees to film companies,
foot the bill for “national” travel asso-
ciations, and waste money in many other
ways, but they button up when grants
for such matters as research into cattle
disease are suggested. Two cattle diseases
—contagious abortion and mammitis —
are reducing production of both beef and
milk and, according to experts, cause
annual loss approximating £3,000,000.
Research work, subsidised to date by
both State and Federal Governments, is
in progress, but must be continued and
expanded before fruitful results are
obtained. Investigations are being made
by the Australian Cattle Research Asso-
ciation, which depends on Governments,
agricultural societies and other organisa-
tions for its finance. Approximately
“I'll be round to do your place, Mr. Awkins , soon as 1 find me paintbrushes .”
£6OOO a year is required, yet Government
Treasurers have been singularly unsym-
pathetic towards appeals for assistance.
N.S.W. Government is rendering
material assistance by making Glenfield
Research Station available for investiga-
tions. Other Governments have hot made
any effort to support the work this year,
though they have given monetary aid in
the past.
In the national interest both diseases
should be controlled —and the aim should
be suppression—in view of the toll they
are exacting on the country’s production.
If research work were allowed to lapse
at the present stage the money already
spent would be wasted. The work has
reached a stage sufficiently important for
all Governments to back it up.
The Wheat Front.
“Ben Cubbin”: Australian wheat-
growers, cocking an anxious eye aloft for
signs of something favorable for the seed-
bed, and thinking deeply about jammed
silos and storage sheds, the onrush of
the season and Canberra’s hesitancy
about building ships, opened the city
papers and read this: —
London “Daily Telegraph” states that
heavy importation of Australian wheat has
overflowed British granaries, congested
docks, delayed transport, strained storage
capacity, and increased the danger of insect
infestation. Britain’s efforts to increase
stocks have resulted in the almost daily
arrival of shiploads of Australian Decern-
ber and January crop. Delivery has begun
of 1,650,000 tons purchased under the
agreement with the Australian Wheat
Board.
The cheers for the mercantile marine,
the cable service and the naivete of Aus-
tralian news editors had hardly died away
when good rains began to fall in the
N.S.W. wheat country, the Australian
Wheat Board announced an all-round in-
crease of a bushel—making silo 4s.
and bagged 4s. 3d.—-and Premier uns> an
(Via) announce a 5 ‘ 1 ' f
Canberra to spring
ls. to growers.
Since Germany has abolished the
Danish pig-meat exporls to Britain Aus
ba a 'on, C a a nd there should be big expansion
of the pig industry here within the next
few months, a combination of events that
should bring about what The Bulletin
has been driving at for years, viz., turn-
ing surplus wheat into pork.
Last March there was said to be
20,000,000 bushels of surplus white wheat
on the U.S. Pacific Coast. Its export to
the Orient is subsidised, and there it com-
petes with Australian wheat and flour.
Up to mid-April sales of Australian
1939-40 wheat had passed the 951 million
bushels mark, leaving about 721 million
bushels to go. Requirements for export
flour should further reduce that to about
551 million bushels. This does not mean,
however, that very much wheat has been
shipped out of the country. The coal
strike is having its effect on the move-
ment of wheat from inland to terminals
and special dumps, and still the mice
menace looms.
From the second advance on the No. 1
pool for bagged wheat N.S.W. growers
will get Is. 1.05 d., Victorians Bd. and
S.A. men 10.065 d. a bushel. N.S.W. and
S.A. figures are less rail freights. On
silo wheat N.S.W. growers are to get
7.675 d. and Westralians 10.83 d. These
amounts are net, varying freight, storage
and commission charges having been
deducted.
N.S.W. Wheat Quality.
“A.A.D.”: Effect of weathering on the
milling quality of N.S.W. 1939-40 wheat
is apparent in a decrease of 2 p.c. in the
dry gluten content of the f.a.q. sample
compared with the previous season, when
. .. h wei „ ht (anu nnfl flnnr
Dorn ousnei weignt (p4 2 io.j ana noui
strength were the highest on record. This
retrogression is due to delayed ripening,
as a resu q Q f persistent rains in most
. . . n • . xt . ~ i
districts well into November.
The general results have been checked
h millim* teste nf camnleQ from each
D y , teStS 01 irom each
°t the 187 country silos, covering all
divisions of the wheatbelt, and charting
them in comparison with results of the
two previous years,
Wheats from the north-west slopes and
north-central plains, where dry conditions
were experienced, were outstanding,
f rom s ji os on me Inverell-Moree
jj ne were exce u entj ran ging from 18 to 19
p.c. gluten. So were those in the districts
from Curlewis to Narrabri, where strong-
flour varieties, mainly of the Pusa types,
a j. £ largely grown
, he central . west distr i cts , on , he
Stoekinbingal-Forbes line where much of
sofl is black self-mulching, the range
of . ll to 12 P- c - S luten content was con “
spicuous.
Throughout the south-west and
Riverina, where more than half the
State’s wheat was cropped, average gluten
decline was 3 p.c. and down as low as
7 p.c. at some silos, though The Rock
to Boree Creek section contrasted with
a 10 to 11 p.c. gluten content.
These southern divisions suffered the
greatest rain and rust damage ; inciden-
tally, Dundee was the most widely-grown
variety.
Sunflower Growing.
“Yarrunga”: Efforts to expand pro-
duction of sunflower seed as a com-
mercial crop (B. 13 /3 / ’4O) have received
official encouragement. Numerous in-
quiries have been received from farmers
in the three eastern States.
Four Sydney firms interested in the
seed as stock feed and for oil production
have notified N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture that they will contract with
prospective growers to buy up to 1700
tons next season, and will supply Argen-
tine seed. The price offered has been
increased in instances to £3O a ton.
Landed cost is now more than £5O a ton,
owing to the difficulty of obtaining ship-
ments from former sources.
One firm is eager to begin oil extrac-
tion, this oil being nearly equal to that


For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
“CARBOX” is an Australian product for Australian conditions.
“CARBOX” embodies only the finest materials in its ingredients, providing not
only a surehealer of the highest quality, but a superlative cleansing ointment,
and has well earned its place as the farmers’ friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”: —
HORSES.—For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE. —For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, milk fever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP.—For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
marking, etc.
PIGS.—For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DOGS.—For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses, cracked
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
“CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites—lt Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, and tins
Full particulars obtainable from: —
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributers:
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Houses in All States. When writing mention “The Bulletin.”
m
$m
ritesv;
im
stop Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day!
£9 / 9 / -
GUARANTEED FO R 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. HO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE CHARGER
The New and Improved
BIG SIX
See if at
DANKS'
Bourke-sf.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder .
Victorian Distributors:
<WANK P
45
■ A=* T" vr. . Z- ~r LD.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
Special Riding
Boot Value!
The
Stockman
ì
29'6
BUILT FOR ENDURANCE
For heavy work in the yards or the
saddle there isn’t another shoe made
that can equal the Abbey “Stock-
man.” Look at these specifications
and judge for yourself: Uppers,
genuine strong calf ; Sides, reinforced
elastic; Soles, genuine Goodyear welts.
Only big country orders' make it
possible for us to sell them at the
price of 29/6. In black or brown.
Order at once, stating your size and
sending, if possible, a tracing of
your stockinged foot, as half-sizes
are also available.
NOTE: You run no risk ordering
shoes from Abbey’s by mail. Abbey
Boots and Shoes are sent all over the
Commonwealth and to all parts c]
the British Empire. All orders
attended to promptly, and satisfaction
is guaranteed.
ABBEY
316 George St.,
Sydney.
224 Pitt St.,
Sydney,
SHOES
&& leoS
os ...
•ted:
* * * * ’S')
vMl'. •• V" Block k
(■print 1 ~.•••
.VSAtt
of the olive. It is used in woollen manu-
factures, paints, and the dressing of
leather. .
From limited experience in N.S.W.
agricultural experts say the plant will
grow in almost any soil, but prefers rich
alluvial, and will give a satisfactory yield
up to half a ton per acre under conditions
suitable for maize or lucerne It should
not be sown m spring until frost danger
j s p a gf
Farmers interested should write to
A. I. Hatchman Pty., Ltd., 171 Sussex-
street, or L. McKay Pty., Ltd., 381
Snssex-street Svdnev
’ L_
Hawkesbury Egg-laying
Competition.
“Roost”: Hawkesbury Agric. College
(N.S.W.) egg-laying competition added
another feather to the Leghorn tail,
Ninety pens (six birds in each between
six and twelve months old at entry)
were locked up and divided into light
breeds (55 Leghorns) and heavy (27
Australorps, five Langshans and three
Rhode Island Reds). Here’s the finan-
cial side of it:
Average
Average Net
Eggs Price Value
,S er P ol P er F, eed
Light breed s 206 8 if ?ff-' 6 °/3 H°/9
Heavy breeds 195.6 1/H 17/1 6/3 10/10
• —.
Average .. 201.2 1 / IT 17/7 6/3 11/4
The average (201) is higher than for
the past seven years, but there’s a drop
all round compared with the previous
year, when eggs averaged Is. per
dozen, average value per hen was 20s. 2d.,
and the profit 13s. 2d. per fowl.
C. Robinson’s pen of six topped the
light breeds with 1441, which brought a
return of £6 6s. 4d.; and in the heavy
breeds F. C. Nicholls’s birds led the rest
with 1413 eggs, having a market value
of £6 ss. lOd.
Gross cost of feed was £169 Os. 7d.
From the figures it would seem that
poultry-farming can be made a profitable
venture ; but it must not be overlooked
that the competition was conducted under
ideal management (balanced rations,
green feed, etc.), and only birds selected
from proved laying-strains entered.
Farmers must be prepared to study these
facts, otherwise they won’t succeed as
poultrymen.
R. F. McNab deponeth:
“Ex-Vic.” (B. 20/3/’4O) attributed a state-
ment to me which may be misleading; his
other comments are to the point. He stated
that water erosion in the Vic. Mallee is much
more rapid and general than in hill country
of much higher rainfall. This should read
that the laying waste of land —through wind
erosion of sand drift —is more rapid and
general in the Mallee by comparison with water
erosion in the hill country, where the process
is comparatively slow.
It was urged that dealing with sand drift
was the more urgent problem, and if tackled
immediately would show quicker results than
would be the case with water erosion. It was
suggested not that the latter question should
be shelved, but that sand drift should not be
submerged in the consideration of the more
widespread problem usually referred to as soil
erosion.
Outback Occupations.
NO. XV.
BUILDING A BARN.
It is not simply a matter of sticking
up a few posts, wiring on some cross-
pieces and then nailing on the roof.
First and foremost the barn must be
sufficiently large to accommodate the feed
stores, manure, seed wheat, farm
machinery, the car, all the shovels and
pitchforks, empty bottles, old bags, bits
of leather, stray cats, empty petrol-tins,
spare bags, coils and pieces of wire, the
old sewing machine, all the rusty horse-
shoes and axes and files that the old man
finds about the place, odd bits of furni-
ture thrown out of the homestead, new
bags, sheep oil, dip powder, rabbit poison
and Iraps, bags and most of the other
gear.
Some make an estimate of the space
necessary to accommodate all this, but
the most practicable method is to
assemble the bags, manure, rabbit traps,
empty bottles, etc., and then build the
barn around them. It saves a lot of
barneying afterwards, when young Tom
finds there’s no room for his motor-
bike.
Next thing to decide upon is the
nature of the roof.. Tiles, shingles and
similar things may have their points;
personally, we are satisfied that the choice
must lie between galvanised corrugated
iron and bush thatching.
Iron is dear, but its virtues are that
it does keep the rain off, provides an
excellent method of getting rid of those
large stones that have been lying about,
and on moonlight nights will often pro-
vide a bit of roast black duck or teal
when the birds, seeing it gleaming below,
plunge downward and land, thinking it
is water. This mistake is generally their
last.
Bush thatching has the advantage of
being easy to obtain. You simply cut
a lot of hop-bush, broom or other
shrubby stuff, mix it up with stubble,
thistles, bits of wire and tin, fork it on
to the roof and wire it down. In time
it becomes a home for mice, snakes and
small birds, and provides the farm cat
with plenty of excitement. Its most im-
portant advantage, however, is that thou-
sands of sparrows will nest in it, thus
providing you and the boys with thou-
sands of sprog eggs. If your local coun-
cil doesn’t pay a sparrow-egg bounty
then it’s up to you to get on the council
and remedy the defect at once, otherwise
your barnroof is sheer waste.
As in most creative work, building a
barn has to be done with care, and there
must be some attempt at sequence and
planning. Obviously, to attempt to put
the roof on before the walls are up is
cerain to cause trouble —even if the roof
did fit it would give the whole structure
something of the appearance of a tree
without a trunk. Besides, you might
have trouble if a high wind sprang up.
Nor is barn-building a work to be ?
undertaken lightly. It cannot be run up
overnight, like a dog kennel or a subur-
ban block of flats. Every nail has to
be driven truly, every screw must go
right home, every bit of wire must be
twitched to the limit, and every bit of
string tightly tied. When, as it takes
shape, the east side begins to lean dan-
gerously, every prop placed to stop
further lean must be well anchored in
the ground. , ,
This applies to the north and soul,
sides. As the west side generally leans
inward, judicious stacking of the bags
of manure will usually hold it, and if the
thing leans too much a few bags stitchec
together can be hung to keep most o
the weather out.
The barn must be vermin-proof. That
is to say that no ingress can be gained
by mice, rabbits, kangaroos, share sales-
men, stray camels, cockroaches and other
pests of the back country.
So far as the larger insects are con-
cerned, a half-starved staghound or two
tied on a running wire will keep them
off, especially if the dogs are of the kind
that has whiskers on the upper lip and
the cold, pitiless eyes of a stormtrooper
devouring sauerkraut.
For the smaller pests, such as mice,
best means of keeping them out is to fill
the barn with water. The shock experi-
enced by the average mouse when, after
biting through a corner of the structure,
it is suddenly swamped with a stream of
cold water is generally sufficient to send
it scampering off. If the water method
is used, however, notices should be posted
on the doors, otherwise some innocent
person will go to the barn and come back
from it half-drowned and spluttering
insults.
One of ihe most successful bams in
Australia was built on a farm not far
off the main road from Benalla to
Byrock. The farmer, an inventive sort of
chap, began by gathering all the neces-
sary timber, bolts, iron, etc., at the site;
then he marked out on the ground the
area the building was to cover. He laid
the floor first; then went on with the
walls. Other necessary farm work inter-
rupted progress from time to time, but
he kept on at the barn-building, and even
worked at it on Sundays and moonlight
nights. The seasons changed and the
months passed, but he refused to rush
the job, for he intended to have a barn
that would last for generations.
Two years from the day the work
began he inserted the following adver-
tisement in the local paper:
Tenders are called for the erection of a
barn, 60 x 30 x 20, hardwood and iron.
Apply X.Y.Z., this office.
Two years and two months from the
day he began work his barn was com-
pleted.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2 names —though required as a guarantee of good faith—will not be
u A unless it is clear that the writers don’t object. Many do, and give good
him 42<1- P®* - l‘ ne *
Workers and Unions
Unionism (B. 10/4/’40) has been of
incalculable benefit to the worker. Some
men can fight their own battles and make
their own agreements with reasonable
employers. Unfortunately there were
some employers who would not listen to
the arguments of individual men. Labor,
combining to gain articulation, could
speak to those employers with a voice of
equal authority. That was necessary
then.
But since then unionism has become a
profession. That has been its great fault.
In one way it is a unique profession in
which the paid servant is master. The
average union secretary is the “boss” ;
he virtually sets the tempo for the union
and he is nearly always its mouthpiece.
The union frequently endorses what he
had said publicly merely because it has
been said.
One union secretary within my know-
ledge receives an increase in salary dur-
ing a strike because of the “extra work
involved.” At that moment, according
to my idea of unionism, the secretary
should be standing with the men, suffer-
ing a salary cut so that some worker’s
wife and children might be fed during
the struggle, whether it be right or wrong.
But union secretaries are no mugs.
Their own associations have honorary
secretaries. The matter might be seen
in true perspective if some Union Secre-
taries’ Association formed itself into a
corporation and hung out its shingle,
“Agitations arranged at your expense.”
-Non-unionist (Q).
Anti-Communist Petition
There seems little hope of decisive
action against Communism from our
Federal legislators. I suggest the people
present a direct petition to the Federal
Parliament. (This mass presentation of
the will of the people has not been ex-
ploited as it should be, and its very
novelty should aid its success.)
The petition should include these
resolutions: That the Communist party
be declared illegal; that persons defying
the ban be arrested, and that avowed
Communists be debarred from Govern-
ment positions and from office in any
recognised society, council or trade union.
—Metaxylene (S.A.).
Exit Communism
Not without good reason did the
Reds of the N. S. Wales Labor Con-
ference carry their famous “Hands Off
Russia” motion. It was, in effect, the
frantic attempt of a band of disillusioned
reactionaries to hide the fact they had
been well and truly sucked in. It heralded
all too plainly the requiem of Com-
munism as a world force.
After the Great War, with Russia more
or less in complete isolation for over
a decade, Communism and its achieve-
ments became shrouded in an air of
mystery. As a domestic panacea it was
much vaunted, but only time and ex-
perience would tell whether it would
prove acceptable to the wider inter-
national field. It had survived no crisis,
had passed no acid test to prove itself.
Its claims and aims, nebulous and un-
confirmed as they were, were in many
quarters accepted at face value, pend-
ing corroboration.
Today it is evident that Communism
has failed in its trial before international
judgment. The Polish and Finnish cam-
paigns may have resulted in the acquisi-
tion of a little more territory, but at
the price of universal scorn. The link
up with Nazidom has revealed “The
Cause” and its leaders as the greatest
traitors since the time of Judas. Never
again can they expect the gospel of
Moscow to take root so flourishingly.
They have destroyed their own handi-
work.
Already Franco has purged Spain of
the Red menace, and Japan, not
Moscow, is now the dominating force
in China. France has banished Com-
munism overnight, while public opinion
will deal adequately with the situation in
the British Empire. Only in the freedom-
loving democracies could Communism
hope to prosper untrammelled. Now
the goose that supplied the golden oppor-
tunity is dead.
Thrust back ignominiously within its
own confines, Communism is unlikely
ever to emerge again. Its name and
reputation stink. And once more Russia
is slipping back into the abyss of isola-
tion. — Ricardo (N.S.W.).
Capital and Labor
Big business interests should in these
times of national stress be prepared to
carry on with a minimum of profit. By
the same principles, the wage-earner
should carry on without this shametui
scramble for more money for less work.
Not infrequently one hears comfortable,
well-clothed individuals with Red poli-
tical views declaiming that this is a
capitalists’ war, aimed to kill off a lot
of unemployed.”
The Sixth Division of the Second
A.I.F. at least was far from being an
army of unemployed. One man com-
plained that so large a percentage of the
men were ex-G.P.S. and “silvertaih that
promotion was rather hard to attain for
many rankers.
The greater part of the money for the
conduct of the war must, of course, come
from the so-called capitalist section or
the community. It is an unfortunate fact
that it is impossible to collect much in
the way of taxation from the thriftless,
thrift, incidentally, being an awful crime
in the eyes of our red-raggers.
It is high time that the average worker,
who is moderate in his views and loyal
to his country, took proper steps to prove
it. Too long has the decent average man
been content to pay his union dues and
leave the running of union affairs to a
lot of extremists and agitators who
foment trouble for their own ends. Why
do the decent men stay away from meet-
ings and allow these few loud-mouthed
place-hunters to make trouble for them
and the nation?
A secret ballot would have prevented
the coal strike. —L. O. W. (N.S.W.).
Coal Strike
According to The Bulletin (13/3/’4O),
“The Red gentleman said that the aboli-
tion of pay cuts was worth £250,000
per annum to the miners.” The lifting
of the price of coal by another £250,000,
plus bad debts, plus other things, would
mean a diminution of output, plus the
displacement of certain steam-coaled
machinery with petrol or oil machinery.
So instead of an abolition of price cuts
with the inferred gain, there might be a
further reduction in wages earned by the
diminution of the time worked.
“The Miners’ Federation had £250,000
in cash and credits.” This statement was
fathered by the Red gentleman. How
long would that amount divided by the
minimum wage last the miners? Probably
about 20 days, after which the miners
would be dependent on the already de-
ficited Government, or on members of
other unions who may be compelled into
payment of additional dues to keep up
a fight the result of which is inevitable.
“Shares in most of the cos. can
be bought at a fraction of their
paid-up price.” How it would con-
vince Australians to see these Red
gentlemen buy up with that £250,000 two
or three undertakings and show us how
to run things properly. Failure to do this
now that there is an opportunity means
that they are funking it. Show us, and
then we can believe that they know what
they are talking about. The State might
even exempt such an undertaking from
taxation and thus assist the unionists to
high wages, arcadian conditions and pros-
perity for all.— Elysium (W.A.).
Loans for Workers
It is pleasing to see that arrangements
have at last been completed whereby
public servants can obtain reasonable
loans from the banks at fair interest
rates. The only pity is that the privilege
is not extended to others in similarly
stable types of employment.
In America more than 200 banks let
salaried people borrow small amounts,
without security, at 4 p.c. People who
have been employed for more than two
years in stable institutions such as Gov-
ernment concerns need not supply a
guarantor. One New York bank estimates
that on small loans totalling £250,000 it
has lost only £3OO.
Big businessmen can borrow money,
and some are inordinately proud of their
big overdraft. There seems no reason
why the wage-earner should pay usurious
rates of interest when he is forced to
raise a small loan. —F. A. B. (N.S.W.).
In Defence of Politicians
Those impatient O.F.M. contributors
who condemn our election methods and
talk glibly about “getting rid of our poli-
ticians and voting in some able men ’
display a profound ignorance of democ-
racy in practice and its consequent inevit-
able limitations.
If they took the trouble to investigate
they would discover that “these poli-
ticians” are hard to get rid of, because
the people responsible for putting them
in Parliament are well satisfied with them.
Those primarily responsible are the repre-
sentatives of the numerically strongest
political organisations in the electorates
and the electors, who generally show their
confidence in the endorsement by elect-
ing the selected candidate.
This endorsement is not the unmiti-
gated evil it is popularly supposed to be.
It ensures that the credentials of every
candidate are examined by responsible
men who are in a much better position
to discover the facts about a man’s ability
and integrity than the average elector.
It is true that members of Parliament
are farmers, trade-union officials, law-
yers and businessmen, but they are the
outstanding men of their respective
classes. They have had to spend many
years of hard work and study to build
up a reputation sufficiently high to war-
rant the confidence of the electors.
If these critics were faced with a line-
up of members of Parliament, they would
be driven to reject the fiction that
average politicians are stupid, dis-
honest and inefficient. A man who can
survive the competition he meets on his
way to becoming a member of Parlia-
ment, who can stand the fierce spotlight
of publicity and have no glaring defects
exposed (such as would destroy his
chance of election), needs to possess both
ability and character. —E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
Nationalisation
When “Nairb” (B. 27 /3 / ’4O) says “All
industries and services supplying the
absolute necessities of modern life should
be under Government control,” he goes
only halfway. To give Government
merely the essential industries and ser-
vices would be to make it a bigger
monopoly than it is., Moreover, with its
habit of swarming every department with
superfluous officials, any possible profit
would be more than swallowed, and the
taxpayer would have to come to the
rescue as usual.
In the interests of true justice every
member of the community should pay
equally for commodities and services, no
profits—only salaries —going into private
pockets. This can be done only if the
Government controls every sphere of in-
dustry and pays all wages and salaries.
Thus revenue would be distributed more
evenly to maintain industry, and the
people as a whole might be expected to
benefit more than from private enter-
prise.
Unfortunately, no form of government
is perfect, simply because man, who is
trying to govern himself, is imperfect.
He is learning by costly experience, and
any theory must necessarily take years,
or decades, to justify itself in practice.
The partial supervision which “Nairb”
urges is, I think, only a fraction of what
should be attempted if the worker is ever
to get more than a bare living.—Arthur
Falk (Vic.).
Unification and Local Government
Sometimes I doubt whether we shall ever
be able to make Australians realise what
one Parliament really means. I remem-
ber a friend in Wyndham (W.A.) telling
me, “Cripes, we can’t get anything done
from Perth, so what’ll happen if we have
to go to Canberra?” When I told him
that if unification were tackled properly
he would have to go no further than
Wyndham he began to see daylight.
One Parliament would mean that most
of the administrative functions of the
State Parliament would be transferred to
local authorities. Motor taxation, for
example, would be collected by local
authorities and used for local roads.
Schools, fire brigades and the police
would be taken over by local authorities.
The Commonwealth Government would
maintain a Police Department with In-
spectors-General to see that the local
authorities did not fall down on their
jobs, and an Education Department to
supervise education and ensure minimum
standards.
The main thing is that we should have
one law and one channel of administra-
tion instead of seven. We should have
one income tax instead of seven, say
150 politicians instead of 600, and the
civil service would shrink to its proper
proportions. We should then have, a
chance of doing something and getting
somewhere. — Garetlod (N.S.W.).
Power and Brains
This business of foreign exchange and
petrol rationing makes me wild. Let us
enter vigorously upon the growth of crops
that will produce alcohol in large quan-
tities and fill our bowsers with some of
the sunshine which is daily pouring upon
our continent. A substance which burns
so freely and cleanly must have great
possibilities, and of all “the great natural
resources” any country may possess I will
not admit that we lack brains. But let
us use them. — Impatient (N.S.W.).
Fair for AU
Is it not a curious paradox that the
men who have offered their lives in the
defence of freedom should find them-
selves after a broiling day in the field
sitting on democratic Australian soil drink-
ing unpalatable tea while only a few
yards off their officers imbibe beer or
what they fancy?
Asa woman I hesitate to com-
mend or condemn the dry canteen. As
an Australian I suggest that if alcohol is
detrimental to the health and morale of
the troops it is also detrimental to those
of their officers and the gentlemen
who run this country. Why not make
Canberra dry and let the Federal poli-
ticians drink only when “on leave”? —
Emma (Tas.).
Australian Orchestras
I like dancing and listening to some
of Australia’s leading orchestras, but I
find it hard to understand why some
apparently consider it fashionable or
exclusive or something to import a con-
ductor from overseas.
We have plenty of talented musicians
here who can competently perform the
job, and such importations are unneces-
sary and discouraging to Australians
with musical ambitions.— Peter Piper
(N.S.W.).
Hospital Taxes
A select committee has recommended
to N. S. Wales Cabinet, among other
things, that cash for hospitals should be
raised from an additional tax on alcoholic
beverages. Why put another burden on
grog when the taxgatherer gets so much
from it now? Other avenues for raising
hospital revenue could be a tax on com-
pany dividends exceeding 12 per cent,
annually, a tax on the unimproved value
of land and a small impost on incomes
exceeding, say, £SOO a year. Spread over
a variety of items and coupled with some
bigger lotteries, light taxes would more
than pay for the hospitals—provided all
the money was devoted to the purpose
for which it was raised. — Paul Pilgrim
(N.S.W.).
Wake Up!
There’s a lot of people who’are not
playing their part in this war. The
ostrich-like policy of smothering up
won’t do—a war is won as much by the
innumerable tiny contributions of the
individuals as by the collective action of
the Royal Navy. Each individual should
be prepared to give something, however
small, if they consider this cause worth
fighting for.
If, for instance, a business firm
normally guarantees its shareholders a
7 p.c. dividend, then surely it is not
asking too much to reduce the handout
to six or even five per cent, for the
duration of the war. Anyway, gas,
electric light, coal and other essential
supplies should have been taken over by
the Government immediately upon the
outbreak of war.
It is unreasonable to expect business
to proceed normally in war-time. Nothing
could be farther from the truth than
“Business as usual,” as can be seen from
the fact that the first disseminators of


the idea —the daily press—were among
the first to increase the price of their
commodity.
If the public continues to remain
stupidly apathetic to the implications of
the war, then it, too, should be taken
in hand and made to contribute—either
in man-power or wealth —according to
means. So far most of the work
appears to have been done in the name
of charity. What is charitable about
investing a few shillings in order to save
one’s business, livelihood, security? It
is worse than a half-measure ; it is no
measure at all. —Celt (N.S.W.).
A Harder Row
Many small-town critics think they are
striking a great blow for democracy if
they can pick holes in any leader's parent-
age, upbringing or occupation before
attaining high position. Thus Hitler was
“a down-at-heels house-painter, a no-good
artist” ; Ribbentrop was “a mere com-
mercial traveller in wines and spirits” ;
Mussolini was “the son of a poor black-
smith” ; Goring was “only a commercial
pilot” ; Franco was “an upstart general
who had only been in charge of a lot
of black Moors,” and so on.
To my way of thinking, a man who
can overcome grave handicaps of birth,
upbringing and occupation and rise to
become a ruler shows more greatness than
those who, with wonderful social advan-
tages, have been trained for their jobs
from childhood. Michael Joseph Savage,
late Prime Minister of Maoriland, had
various insults slung at him, such
as “bushwhacker,” “flax-cutter” and
“wharfie,” yet when he died he was missed
and mourned by every Maorilander.
Joseph Lyons, too, was a man who had
risen from humble surroundings to be
a great leader, and a better Australian
never lived.
Do not infer that I have any ad-
miration for Hitler and his mob, but I
certainly do not think that such cheap
gibes should be thrown even at enemies.
—B.V.S. (M.L.).
“A Penny for the Army”
The other day a lady rattled a collec-
tion box in my face and cooed, “Won’t
you plee-eese give me a penny?” The
collection box had a band round it on
which I read the words “Lord Mayor's
Patriotic Fund,” so I responded at once
with a loud and emphatic “No.”
My attitude as an ex-service man is
that the Commonwealth Government
should make sufficient provision for the
soldiers. What would be thought if Mr.
Mac Kay were to enlist the help of a lot
of “patriotic” ladies and send them put
in the streets to beg so that his
policemen might be provided with new
woollen underwear? Or, again, if the
N. S. Wales Director of Education hired
ladies to go around cadging for the
wherewithal to buy pyjamas, marmalade
and mufflers for the use of the State-
school teaching staff in the colder parts
of the country?
Why does the Australian public tolerate
the idea that soldiers and sailors must
be placed on a different footing from
any other Government servants? If these
hordes of Government servants can be
paid sufficient to meet all their needs, why
aren’t our fighting Government servants
paid on the same sort of basis? — Gerald
Dillon (N.S.W.).
Build It Yourself!
The sensible way to solve the house
shortage in Melbourne, lamented by
“P.M.” (B. 10/4/’4O), is to build your
house yourself. Blocks of land running,
not to a 50ft. frontage, but to several
acres in extent are available within easy
reach of Melbourne. They even have
natural bush upon them, and maybe a
bit of a creek ; and they cost less than
a meagre suburban block. Building
material costs nothing, as it is on the
land itself, unless the land is entirely sand.
Natural clay and earth have been used
since the days of the Romans, and some
Roman mud buildings are standing still,
as are some of the chateaux of France
The earth can be rammed or mads
into cob, but the simplest way is to place
the wet clay in wooden moulds to form
bricks. The mould is removed and the
bricks left to be baked free gratis by
the sun. They can then be bedded in
lime mortar like ordinary bricks. A man
and his wife and, perchance, a couple
of kids can make enough bricks at week-
ends in a few months to build a substan-
tial house. Timber, door frames, win-
dows and flooring boards can be obtained
dirt-cheap at city wreckers’ yards, and
it is often better stuff than is put
into modern suburban homes. Second-
hand windows and doors and fittings are
also better made and have nicer propor-
tions, since they mostly date from a
finer architectural era than our own.
There are pise, cob and mud-brick farm-
houses of England more beautiful than
any Toorak home. \
As for the building part of it, build-
ing construction is only commonsense,
and anybody with average intelligence
can overcome the problems as they come
along. If the house takes years to build
and the family has to live at the week-
ends in an old shack or a tent it will
still be worth while.
I know a man who bought a block of
land and paid builders for having the
pleasure of putting up his house, and
now he bitterly regrets it. Having moved
in, he now finds he has nothing to do,
while his next-door neighbor and his
wife, who previously had never done a
hand’s turn of manual labor in their lives,
are still bogging merrily in and seeing the
walls of their future home rising before
their eyes.
The objection that one hasn’t the time
won’t hold for most of us —how many
of us spend our leisure in a better or
more pleasant way?—C. Q. (Vic.).
Newcastle or Whyalla?
In the report of a meeting of the New-
castle Shipbuilding Revival Committee it
is stated that “the B.H.P. proposal to
build ships at Whyalla (S.A.) is not justi-
fied.” But can the N.S.R.C. point to
any organisation better fitted to exercise
a sound judgment on any phase of the
question or as likely to make a success
of the venture? There follows a miser-
able whine that such action by the B.H.P.
is “not fair to N.S.W.”
Does N.S.W. deserve to have this
co.’s great works within her borders? By
good luck the greatest silver-lead-zinc
deposit in the world was unearthed on
her side of the S.A. border, but at the
very outset the Government of the day
refused to contribute to the development
of the field, and private capital was
equally shy, leaving the opening up of
the field to Victorians and South Aus-
tralians.
The S.A. Government did not hesitate
to extend its railway 180 miles from
Peterborough to the N. S. Wales border,
while N. S. Wales would not even lay the
necessary 35 miles to the Broken Hill
field, nor make terms with S.A. to con-
tinue its line. The right was conse-
quently given to a private or public com-
pany, and this in turn was financed by
the other States. The same applied to
a much-needed water supply, a very vital
matter in those regions. After long and
bitter agitation, again a company was
called to the rescue, and once more N. S.
Wales capital held aloof.
If there is any unfairness it is rather
that the great steel industry was set up
in N. S. Wales instead of in one or other
of the States which produced the com-
pany and made the steel industry pos-
sible. Without B.H.P. Newcastle would
have been nothing but a dirty coal port
to this day. Too many of our vital in-
dustries are on this most vulnerable
eastern coast. The Whyalla shipyards
will be in an almost imnregnable posi-
tion. Also, a valuable move will be
made towards decentralisation and a
better distribution of Commonwealth
population.—A. G. E. (N.S.W.).
Decentralisation
A point about these Scandinavian
countries, now subject to Nazi invasion,
is that for centuries they have practised
decentralisation. Asa result they reached
the highest standard of civilisation yet
attained in the history of struggling
humanity. Oslo is the only large city
in Norway ; the rest of the population is
scattered throughout the country in towns
and villages of varying size.
Which brings us back to our own
Australia. The closer cities are linked
to the soil the more likely we are to
get good government. There is some-
thing about small cities which breeds big
men. The herd instinct is not so strong
where populations are small, and when
we know something about the man who
is out to control us, his family failings
and his personal interests, we are not
so easily deluded into holding him up
as a little tin god. Besides, he runs the
constant danger that hearth and home
will be besieged by indignant deputations
(and maybe a hint of worse to come)
when he does not come up to his
promises.
Realising this, it is hardly surprising
to find such a small number of “decen-
tralisationists” among our politicians.
There is too much likelihood that in
small communities people will come to
grips with realities and give the blah
merchant in any guise the reception he
deserves. Reality departs from politics
when halls become too big for the sure
aim of a rotten tomato. — Terra Firma
(N.S.W.).
Go on the Land, Young Painter!
Taking art to the country hasn't
worked out in Victoria at any rate (B.
10/4/’4O). Several country towns —
notably Bendigo, Castlemaine, Ballarat
and Geelong—have built themselves gal-
leries and gathered collections of pictures
together, but in every case they have
slavishly followed the dictates of the
stodgiest schools of academic thought.
The result is that the art of the country
galleries is representative of the art of
Melbourne 40 years ago, and whatever
is vital in the art of today remains totally
unknown to the countryman. This tight
little system is regarded as so unbreakable
that artists who are really representative
of their day and who have something
fresh to say refrain from competing for
country prizes, much as they might like
an extra sausage or two.
Art will be decentralised in Australia
only by some lucky accident, such as some
isolated and exceptional artist sticking to
the country and being content to paint his
immediate environment. That happened
when Old Crome started the Norwich
school. There was an efflorescence of
art in the cathedral town which lasted
for half a century, and it produced a
number of artists like Cotman, who be-
came famous in London and Paris. But
it won’t be done by the farmer buying his
art where his wife buys her gowns —from
the bloated metropolis.—F. S. (Vic.).
Old-age Pensions
Under the regulations governing old-
age pensions, the wife or husband of a
pensioner is not allowed to earn more
than 10s. a week to supplement the pen-
sion. This imposes a hardship on many
aged couples, and often they have to
rely on assistance from sons, daughters
or other relatives to keep a roof over
their heads.
Where such a couple are dependent
on a son for additional support I sug-
gest that the amount which may be earned
without forfeiting the pension be in-
creased to 30s. a week if a son enlists.
This would involve the Government
in no additional expenditure and
would give the couple sufficient to live
on and allow the son to offer his services
with a clear conscience.
Surely the Governments concerned
would be prepared to make that con-
cession to relieve any additional hard-
ship that may be imposed by a son offer-
ing his services to his country. Arc
(N.S.W.).
Police Promotion
The N. S. Wales Government has be-
come more amenable to reason on the
subject of police promotion. Perhaps the
talk of a thorough inquiry had some-
thing to do with that. There is a good
deal to be said for the Government's
refusal to promote two officers merely
to enable them to retire on a higher pen-
sion. There is also a good deal to be
said for promoting them if they deserve
it.
But why sho*uld a capable man be pen-
sioned off at 60? These are not the days
when the average expectation of life was
40 years. Many great men did the
things that made them famous after 60
years of age.
If a man has remained teachable and
young in mind throughout his 60 years
of life he is being shelved at the time
when his experience is most ripe and
most valuable. He should be made an
instructor of younger men. —J. A. Y.
(N.S.W.).
One for HIM
There is plenty of strain and hard work
attached to social functions (B. 3/4/’4O),
and if you do see newspaper photographs
of girls engaged in them they compare
very favorably with those of the male
sex at golf, cricket or the races.—-K. J. C.
(Q-).
Technical Education
The new Technical Education Bill
seems certain of a stormy passage through
the N. S. Wales Houses and of a very
cold welcome from the teaching profes-
sion. According to the Minister’s state-
ment, “Primary school education has
lately been bled white to supply the needs
of technical education,” and that pro-
nouncement could with perfect truth be
extended to cover the other victim, the
super-primary section.
The blank wall “No funds available’’
confronts parents and citizens’ associa-
tions seeking amelioration of the con-
gested and insanitary conditions, while
palatial edifices with chromium fittings,
rubber staircases and padded seats are
provided for students who attend for a
few hours at night.
The vesting of a large proportion of
tech, control in committees representing
industry is possibly recognition of
donations made towards equipment, but
the obvious danger in this move lies in
the fact that such providores would
obtain sufficient representation to orient
studies towards their particular needs, to
the exclusion of the skilled-labor needs
of less affluent and influential industries.
Inevitably a quid pro quo would be re-
quired by the donors, and the committee
system hands over the power to obtain it
on a platter. Under the present system
as proposed in the bill seats could
bought by the donation system sufficient
to win control of the college.
As the industries concerned tend to
benefit very considerably by the establish-
ment of these technical colleges, it is
merely equitable that they should meet
part of the cost of training their future
employees, and it is vital for the success
of the new departure that control should
be absolutely disinterested and impartial.
—Barwon (N.S.W.).
Tax Grabbers
Indications are that State Governments
are rapidly nearing that stage when sheer
bankruptcy will force them out of busi-
ness. Recently the W.A.
Government passed legislation taxing
income at its source.” The worker’s in-
come mostly. Measured up, this means
collecting next year’s revenue and spend-
ing it this year. In March, I got
an income tax assessment, not due
till July, but based on my last years
income. I have 30 days in which to pay;
default means a fine of 10 per cent. The
nerve of it! Tax a person on income not
yet earned, that may never be earned.
And then slog him with a heavy fine
should he, through sheer lack of income,
be unable to pay. — Anti-Hitler (W.A.).
Gadget Hunters
Fewer “labor-saving gadgets” are in-
vented nowadays because “labor-saving
is a misleading name for a good many
of them. Some of the smaller “labor-
saving gadgets” have to overcome the
strong conservatism of women. Many
are bought by men who believe they are
going to make life easier for their wives
and families.
Women, on the other hand, regard
them with a certain suspicion. Many
gadgets are designed to simplify tasks
which men think difficult and compli-
cated, though to women they are simple.
A man needs a bag of tools to do some-
thing which a woman can manage with
a bent hairpin, and while the man is
explaining some ingenious gadget he has
bought the woman may be thinking that
men are incurably childish.
And the man is always liable to bring
home something which is supposed to
eliminate something he bought last
month. The gadget-infested home is
rarely peaceful.—A. P. (Vic.).
Australian Woods
Scandinavia, at present so much in the
news, could teach Australia much in the
use of timber for furniture and home
construction. Their simple, utilitarian,
yet astonishingly comfortable and beauti-
ful chairs, tables, lounges, etc., of bent,
naturally polished plywood relegate much
of our heavy dark furniture and un-
hygienic lounges to the Victorian era.
Why do we use such a small variety
of our own splendid woods for furni-
ture? One of the loveliest —rose she-
oak—is ironically called “baker’s wood'’
because too often it is to their fires
rather than to the interior of our homes
that it goes. And when they do use an
Australian wood, why do the majority of
furniture-makers think it necessary to
use a colored rather than a clear varnish?
Then we have the N.S.W. Government
prejudice against wooden houses. Though
the Forestry Commission is working hard
to popularise timber for home-building,
. farcical council laws exist that, forbid a
man to erect even a £2OOO residence in
any fashionable suburb. Why the objec-
tion? Wooden houses are comfortable,
decorative and will outlast most brick
houses —in Sweden there are lovely old
wooden homes 200 years old and in per-
fect repair. We are told that there is
more fire risk. In the United States, where
there are so many timber homes, insur-
ance statistics prove that the risk on
these homes is one per cent, lower than
on brick. —E. L. B. (N.S.W.).
Refugees
In his prize-winning letter of B.
10/4/’4O an A.I.F. gunner suggests
that if refugees did not carry out the
conditions suggested by him they should
be deported. How can you deport
refugees? Deport them where? Send
them back to Hitler? Or dump them
on poor old England?— King’s Cross-
enstein (N.S.W.).


“The Bulletin” and
the Pelman Institute.
Through the Pelman Institute’s announce-
ments in “The Bulletin” many hundred readers
of this paper have become Pelmanists. Both
they and we are under obligation to “The
Bulletin” for effecting the introduction.
The universality of the appeal of Pelmanism
is apparent from the following particulars of
the latest 200 students of Pelmanism who are
“Bulletin” readers. The particulars also show
that the readers of “The Bulletin” are truly
representative of the thoughtful and vigorous
life of Australia.
200 Readers of “The Bulletin” enrolled for
the Pelman Course of Training.
Towns. Country.
“Towns” include not only capital cities, but
also many large towns throughout Australia
and New Zealand. Analysis shows that the
proportion of Pelman students who are readers
of “The Bulletin” corresponds with the town
and country populations of Australia and New
Zealand. Papua, Fiji and other South Sea
Islands are also included.
The callings of the 200 Pelman students are:
Accountants
(Chartered)
Advertising Specialists
Bank Officers
Barristers
Building Contractors
Cabinetmakers
Carpenters
Chemists
Clerks—
Insurance
Shipping
General
Commercial Travellers
Company Secretaries
Contractors! for Work
on the Land
Doctors
Engineers
Farmers
Journalists
Graziers
Managers of Country
Properties
Marine Engineer
Ministers of Religion
Poster Artist
Press Photographer
Prospectors
Salesmen
Shop Assistants
Solicitor
Stock and Station
Salesmen
Stockmen
University Students
Wool Sampler
Oostumiere
Housewives
Nurses
Personal Maid
Saleswomen
Teachers
Typist es
The ages of the men in the group range
from 20 to 64. The average age is about 33.
Pelmanists generally are engaged in practi-
cally every known calling. A complete list is
given in “The Efficient Mind,” the prospectus
of the Pelman Course of Training.
Pelmanism develops the following qualities:
Self-Confidence
Concentration
Decisiveness
Judgment
Will-Power
Self-Control
Observation
Tact
Initiative
Ease
and a Good Memory for faces, figures, names,
appointments, prices and useful data of
every kind.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality training. Of these over 44,000
have enrolled with the Institute in Mel-
bourne.
The Telman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its head-
quarters are in London, and its address in
Australia is 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne, C.l, where it has been
established for 33 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Liege 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1932. Paris 1933.
The Pelman Course has the approval of the
Army Council in London.
Already many members of the Defence
Forces in Australia and New Zealand have
completed the Pelman Course, and many more
are going through it. Inquirers who are in the
forces are invited to say so.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Giving and Taking
There is significance in the recency of the following letters selected from
hundreds received by the Pelman Institute during the past year. The letters
emphasise the ability of the Pelman Institute to give, and of its pupils to take,
the maximum benefit of the Pelman Course of Training even in very troublous
times.
Readers are asked to note the diverse occupations of the writers of the letters.
Bth September, 1939.
“I am enclosing my fifteenth Work Sheet. I
enjoyed every minute of my studies, and one
of the most helpful points about the course
was your advice and comments.
“I have derived wonderful benefits from the
Course and will have no hesitation in recom-
mending it to anyone who seeks a thorough
guide to life.” —Farmer (Q’land).
9th August, 1939.
“I have received much helpful advice from
you—advice which will benefit me not only
now but in the days- which lie ahead. The
Lessons themselves are excellent and straight
to the point. It is surprising how much wisdom
can be packed into each book. When this is
combined with the personal guidance which is
given according to each student’s particular
needs, it makes the Course a wonderful invest-
ment.” —Retail Salesman (Vic.).
14th June, 1939.
“The results of this one lesson are worth
the price of the whole Course, and make me
feel 100 per cent, for the day.” —Master Butcher
(Tas.).
10th March, 1939.
“Having completed the Course, I wish to
thank you most sincerely for your great
patience with me. All the Lessons have con-
tributed their quota to the attainment of mental
efficiency, but of them all I would like to
single out Lesson 15 for special commendation.
It is a real gem.
“The formal course of training has now been
completed, but this does not mean that I have
finished with Pelmanism. Far from it. The
helpful friendliness of the books will be of great
assistance to me for the remainder of my life.
“I will always entertain the warmest feelings
towards yourself, personally, for the under-
standing way in which you have corrected the
Work Sheets.” —Agent (S.A.).
6th March, 1939.
“The main benefit is the calmness with which
I deal with everything that occurs. The
momentary pause to decide between the balance
of thought and feeling, guided by will, has set
up a favorable form of analysis, which has
definitely educated me better than any school
could. I know much more (in a practical way)
than ever I did.
“The Physical exercises have had wonderful
results. Fresher, better sleeping, better sports
performances, and the feeling that ‘life is worth
living’ all come from this Course.” —Publisher
(Vic.).
16th October, 1939.
“I am grateful for your discussion with me
of the ins and outs of this problem and am
glad to say that I have made up my mind.
I have had far less trouble with worrying than
I had a year ago, due, I know, to your advice
and help. If I still say or do the wrong thing
now and then, it does not spoil three days of
my life as it used to do.” —Teacher (Vic.).
19th October, 1939.
“Please find enclosed my last Work Sheet.
Pelmanism does all that your advertisements
claim, and has suited my own case to perfec-
tion. There is something in the books which
casts a spell on one. Their contents arouse
latent powers, and the appended exercises give
the key whereby practical and personal applica-
tion is made possible. I shall treasure those
books.
“Many thanks for your invaluable help in the
correction of the Work Sheets. You always
had something to add which I had missed,
and so greatly enhanced my own efforts.”—
Clerk in Holy Orders (S. Aust.).
16th August, 1939.
“As this letter accompanies my last examina-
tion paper, I would like to thank you for
your very helpful criticism of my work. I
have enjoyed the Course from start to finish,
and I think it has marked a definite turning-
point in my life.” —Station Overseer (N.S.W.).
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised by every one of the many opinions and
letters published in “The Efficient Mind.” Copies of this book are posted free. Write
or call.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (cnr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
NEW ZEALAND
INQUIRERS
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrange-
ments to meet the financial
restrictions and enable resi-
dents of New Zealand to
enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin”
a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free.
You can write us fully, or
you can make just a bare
application by using or
copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be re-
garded as a confidential
communication; we have no
outside representatives.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
112
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
k
TO ‘THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. raterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra).
s
4
w
cr
.cO^
&
&
0
\) v
#
0°
&
\\ e *
o 1
.••’ sO^
.**’
•“ *&sss
•** of \0


ķ
ACFIIED J. IiKITON,
Australasia's Lead!ns: Physical
Director, Founder of “Health and
Physical Culture” Magazihe.
G. SMITH,
K.. N.Z.
O’CONNOR,
N.j S.A.
W. WILIvBS, S., N.S.W.
DO WOMEN’S GLANCES
ADMIRE YOU?
AS THEY PASS YOU in the street or on the beach? Do
people remark what a splendid build you present? Or
are you one of those undersized, half-developed, shrink-
ing chaps whom people only look upon with ridicule? Take
yourself aside and ask yourself that question!
I BUILD STRONG, HAND-
SOME, HEALTHY BODIES
OEOPLE call me the Muscle-maker. I make
men’s bodies strong and healthy. My list of
over 60,000 wonderful successes includes doctors
and lawyers, bookkeepers and clerks, grandfathers
and grandsons, fat men and skinny men, weaklings
and nervous wrecks. By a method of scientific
body-building I go all over your body, strengthen-
ing your internal organs, broadening your
shoulders, cutting off fat, and generally turning
you inside out until you’re a healthy, handsome
fighting he-man any woman will be proud of.
I will add one whole inch of live, flexible, steely
muscle to each of your arms, and two full inches
of rippling muscular strength across your chest.
Your legs will become straight and strong, your
head will snap back erect, and large lumps of
red-blooded muscle will begin to stand out on your
broadening shudders. What a hit you are going
to make .with : hat girl of vours! How proud and
happy she will be!
ĸ
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 24 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, Please send me absolutely FREE a copy
of your latest book, “The Secrets of Muscular Strength
And How to Acquire It.” I enclose a stamp for
postage,
NAME
ADDRESS 24/4/’4O
FREE to oil
BULLETIN READERS
“The Secrets of Muscular
Strength*’
THE GREATEST BOOK OF THE
CENTURY.
Never before lms any book created
such a sensation; never before has it
been possible to Slimv such over
whelming BROOK in amazing photos
and letters, and now you may get
this great Book FREE if you send
the coupon AT ONCE!
IT TAKES JUST 95 DAYS!
l’m not through with you yet. I don’t make
men by halves. Give me just 95 days, and then
look yourself over. Now you sure are somebody.
The pathway to happiness and success is easy!
People will ask to meet you. Successful business
men will realise that here is another man to accept
as one of their own group. Your boss will treat
you with a new respect, and that girl of yours will
have that look of love and affection in her eyes that
in itself will more than repay you.
fll
MG
-;>V ; •
ONLY
mm
(Top)
I’. s. BOND
T., X.Z.
(Right)
H. ARTHUR
G., Q’Jand. j
CLEMENT
E.j N.Z.
1
J. MAN,
Ceylon.
J. BURN, G-, Vic.
Alfred J. Briton,
Dept. L, 24 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ANOTHER 13WTRI/
TREATMENTS
to be distributed
THIS MONTH //
N ow you can test it yourself try this famous
treatment in your own home under any condi-
tions you like, and if it doesn’t' grow new hair, rid
you of dandruff or any other hair trouble you suffer
from within 30 days, it COSTS YOU NOTHING !-
not one penny! But you must hurry; this offer may
never be repeated. It places you under no obligation;
all you have to do is to post that coupon NOW!
WHAT MURCHISON DISCOVERED
ABOUT HAIR.
JT. does not matter if your hair is falling out, if you
are fast going bald—or what you have tried. You
have not used the RIGHT method. Murchison’s own
Rip This out-and POST/
k
hair fell out in handfuls, until he fast began to go
bald. He tried everything; but now has a thick,
lustrous growth of hair thanks to the important
discovery that—-
TONICS WILL NEVER GROW HAIR
yHEY never have—because it is impossible. There!
is one underlying principle that stimulates New Hair
Growth that principle is involved in the new Kelso
Murchison Treatment. It’s a new way—entirely
different, and successful. It approaches baldness,
falling hair, etc., from a new angle. With it you can
stop your hair troubles overnight.
“Don’t waste more time and money on worthless
'tonics’ and ‘hair restorers,’ but accept my great offer
and watch your hair grow! Get this special offer
coupon in the post to-day.
IT DOES NOT MATTER.
JT does not matter how long-standing your hair or
scalp trouble may be; it does not matter what you
have tried J. Kelso Murchison is prepared to PROVE
to you beyond all doubt, and without you risking one
penny, that YOU CAN DEFINITELY GROW NEW
HAIR —if you send the coupon alongside NOW!
WWZiiffimlmWlSi
85 000 NEW
HAIRS
GROWN in 2 MONTHS!
Stupendous Success of
Marvellous New Treatment
“WAS BALD FOR 16 YEARS,
HAIR NOW GROWING I”
“Hair has started to grow over parts which have besn
bald for 16 years.”
(Signed) G. L. Horton, 0., S.A.
J’HE secret causes of hair decay and a wonderful
new treatment have been discovered by a
well-known Hair Specialist who has spent 15
years in practice. J. Kelso Murchison has estab-
lished a sound reputation in this special sphere
of work; his many hundreds of voluntary testi-
monials from grateful users of his treatment more
than bear this out.
In one case Mr. Murchison has treated recently
he estimates that the treatment has grown fully
85,000 new hairs in less than two months. The
average head of dark hair contains 1 1 0,000 hairs,
the average head of fair hair 150,000; in this
case the person who was using the treatment was
practically totally bald. In less than two months
he had a head of strong, healthy hair after being
' bald for 1 6 years! It
will be seen, there-
fore, that Mr. Mur-
chison’s estimate is
well within the mark.
The ageing effect of
baldness upon one s
appearance could not
be more striking!?'
depicted than in this
picture.
ķ
ĸ
k
J. Kelso Murchison, Laboratory 94,
Wayne House, Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W'.
