

?! i
ijPjjgjjggSj
'msm
'A
?¥•
$
m.
a
if
K
■ M :■
: £i
~J
"The Bull"
Ludlow Shropshire
k‘ S
Although this ancient
I
West Country inn has
been modernised, the _
old out-buildings re-
main to-day as when
built in the fifteenth
. century.
m
4/
m
y-f: ■;
es .•
% -
m
-m.
<3
Host Holbrook says:
"I brew my Worcestershire
Sauce in the good old-
fashioned way, and mature
it in vats of English oak.
Ah! that is why it is so
fragrant .and appetising.”
146r/c/s yippelisQr/
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
ma
r, n
0
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/* Vol. 81.—No. 3146.
Wednesday, May 29, 1940.
A Lindsay War Cartoon
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
SIXTH S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Entries for this year’s S. H. Prior Memorial will close in one
week’s time on June 6, 1940. The prize will be awarded for the
prose work fiction, biography, autobiography, history, etc.—that is
considered the most outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
Entries should be typewritten, and must be submitted under a nom-de-
plume, and the correct name and address of the author, with the nom-
de-plume, must accompany the MS. in a sealed envelope. All rights,
including book, serial, dramatic, cinema and radio, are reserved to the
author, subject to the proviso that “The Bulletin shall have the option
to purchase the first Australian serial rights of any work submitted.
Entries will be acknowledged through the columns of “The Bulletin.
The value of this year’s prize is £3OO, of which £2OO represents
accumulations from previous years when no award was made. The
Trustees shall have the right to withhold the prize if no work sub-
mitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
Further particulars can be had by writing to
THE TRUSTEES, S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
“Bulletin” Office, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney
Sion! Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL — T -
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 340
The Red Page
BUREAUCRACY FROM
WITHIN.
Six and a half feet tall; gaunt,:
angular ; severe and sombre in dress, the
Big Shot stared at the applicant for a
job and suddenly shot at him the ques-
tion “Do you accept the fundamental
teachings of Jesus Christ?” The appli-
cant’s knees knocked ; his brain fumbled
for an answer.
“Have you any personal disability of
character, any weakness that you know
of?” The Big Shot was at him again.
“Did you apply for this post on your
own initiative? And, if so, what was
your motive?”
The applicant got the job, but for
years afterwards every time he had a
summons to the Presence he had to wait
for a few moments till the fog of nervous-
ness cleared from his brain ; always, con-
fronted with the Big Shot, he suffered
“a sense of mental distress and physical
discomfott.”
The applicant was Richard S. Lambert,
editor of London “Listener” from 1929
to 1939. The bloke with the disconcert-
ing manner was Sir John Reith, then
Boss of the 8.8. C. Lambert’s Ariel and
All His Quality (Gollancz ; Angus and
Robertson) is an extraordinary revelation
of bureaucracy in operation. Sub-titled
“An Impression of the 8.8. C. from
Within,” it follows Lambert’s career with
the Corporation from the day of that
almost incredible interview to the even
more fantastic lawsuit over a ghostly
mongoose that led ultimately to his
quitting the 8.8. C. Lambert’s summing-
up of his ex-Chief is a fair indication of
the tone of the tome:
Sir John was exceedingly meticulous
about matters of detail, including punctu-
ality. He would work himself into a fuss
about titles, orders of preference and cor-
rect modes of address. As time went on
his sense of dignity seemed to grow greater.
He liked being “Sirred,” and was once
heard to explain the infrequency of his
personal tours round the offices on the
ground that his entry would embarrass the
staff by causing them to stand up in the
midst of their work.... Whoever held the
position of Religious Director on the staff
was sure of direct and ready access to his
ear.
Sir John, says Lambert, was a whale
on “efficiency.” He “never encouraged
too much fraternising among his less-
immediaTe subordinates,” and indeed he
“considered too much harmony in a
department to be a sign of possible slack-
ness.” Lambert says he heard him say
that he liked his departmental heads to
clash with one another, since their rivalry
bred efficiency.
Employees were forbidden even to
discuss with each other in private their
rates of pay. Staff membership of trade
unions was “definitely discouraged”;
“promotion was refused to an individual
who joined the National Union of
Journalists.” The paternal eye of the
Corporation watched over the employees
in their private lives as well as in work-
ing hours, and “for many years to appear
in the Divorce Court as the guilty party
was a passport to disappearance from
the 8.8. C.” Lambert alleges that the
Corporation kept a secret dossier of each
employee, covering his private life.
Paternalism in winter went as far as to
institute compulsory gargling on office
premises: “Pontifical circulars would go
around directing the staff how to gargle,
when to gargle and what to gargle —ail
in the language of naval discipline.”
All this—Lambert says it has changed
for the better—is very beautiful. But
there were even more fabulous doings
when George V and Queen Mary first
visited Broadcasting House:
It was arranged that their Majesties
should inspect the staff, who were all to be
drawn up in rows in the big concert hall
auditorium. The staff were carefully re-
hearsed in the singing of the National
Anthem. One of the “high-ups” had a
bright idea for gilding the lily. The staff
was directed to break Off into three cheers
at the end of the anthem, with a fourth
and more prolonged cheer at the end to
make it sound more spontaneous. This
effect was rehearsed over and over again,
till we had learned from the signal of an
arm raised in the background how to time
our burst of loyalty so as to achieve per-
fect “spontaneity.”
To run a newspaper in such an atmo-
sphere was not, says Lambert, what one
would call easy. After a battle with the
press, which objected to Government
competition, the “Listener” appeared on
the bookstalls early in 1929. Lambert
as editor had little real
authority. For the first
five years of its existence
he was not permitted to
see the circulation figures!
The bureaucrats, who paid the mask ner-
ittfentjfryy to all letters from
drsg|ut3|le» listdrfers 'of readers, ‘favored
an insipid inoffensiveness in all matters
from poetry, to politics. ytton T
dejsp|what> the ( ‘df tpe* past
arm*present would think of “this curious,
hybrid between journalism and broad-
casting—this paper whose ‘copy’ comes
to it predigested from other sources,
which is not allowed to express opinions
of its own or to publish anything sensa-
tional, and whose editor must be primarily
an administrator and a diplomat.”
Further:— ,
The “Listener” was not part of a pub-
lishing concern, run on business lines; it
was an organ of the Information or Public
Relations branch of the Corporation. This
branch’s first aim was to keep the 8.8. C.
on good terms with the public. Under
the existing system, whereby the day-to-day
editing of the “Listener” is subject to con-,
tinual review and interference by the
8.8. C. hierarchy, it becomes possible to
emasculate the policy of a publication in
any field. The “pasteurisation” of
“Listener” art features killed essential vita-
mins of good journalism There is a
fundamental antithesis between officialdom
and journalism; what the latter gains in
sobriety it loses in liveliness through being
brought under the aegis of the former.
Mr. Lambert’s own story, threading
through his criticism of the Corporation,
wavers between the interesting and the
absurd. He was interested in the occult
and, hearing a story of a ghostly mon-
goose that tapped on walls, could speak
English and sing “The Isle of Capri” and
had killed 118 rabbits, he investigated
it and wrote a book about it. He
says he did not believe the story,
but merely recorded the facts as they
were told to him. But one Sir Cecil
Levita said of him that “he had been
heard to express belief in the occult,
notably the talking mongoose, and had
moved his house three times because of
pursuit by the evil eye,” adding that in
consequence he was no longer fit to
represent the 8.8. C. on the Film Insti-
tute. An action for slander followed and
Lambert was awarded £7500 damages.
In spite of various complications and
resentments, Lambert remained with the
8.8. C. The “Listener,” he says, had
slipped during his preoccupation with
the mongoose and the law, but he was
unable to overhaul it because of bureau-
cratic inertia. When he had completed
his tenth year of editorship he resigned
to look for a change of occupation.
Ariel and All His Quality, one imagines,
is causing somewhat of a flutter in the
dovecotes (or pigeonholes) of England.
In Australia its chief interest is as a
cautionary tale. There are no mongooses
here, but there is an A.B.C.
Mainly About Hitler.
Nevile Henderson’s Failure of a
Mission (Hodder and Stoughton) has been
so widely publicised in Australia, and
is so obviously the most important docu-
ment on the British case against Ger-
many, that it is unnecessary to say much
more about it than that copies have now
reached Australian booksellers. It is an
account of his tragically dramatic years
as British Ambassador at Berlin from
1937 to the outbreak of war ; how he
went to Germany with the definite
mission of creating understanding be-
tween that country and Britain; how,
with despair in his heart, he still strove
for peace after the breakdown of the
Munich settlement; how the final breach
occurred.
There is no attempt at sensational
writing, but there is no mincing of words.
He has set down exactly what happened,
and what happened was like a night-
mare. The book’s historical importance
is twofold: as an accurate, fully-docu-
mented account of the events leading to
the calamity ; and as a portrait gallery
of the Nazi chiefs, Hitler in his rages
and hysterias, Ribbentrop sinister and
arrogant, Goring the not-unfriendly buc-
caneer, ruthless Himmler, smiling Hess.
When it is not a sensation-hunting jour-
nalist but a British ambassador who says
that the war broke out because of “the
fanatical megalomania and blind self-
confidence of a single individual and of
a small clique of his self-interested fol-
lowers,” it drives home with new force
the realisation of how fantastically the
times are “out of joint.”
After Failure of a Mission, Beverley
Baxter’s Men, Martyrs and Mountebanks
(Hutchinson), “the inner story of per-
sonalities and events behind the war,”
seems somewhat superfluous. Baxter,
M.P., wields a flamboyant pen, and much
of his book is merely a highly-colored
re-hash of facts known to everybody.
One thing in its favor is that events
have moved so swiftly that facts which
should be remembered tend to be for-
gotten. Hitler’s “peace” speech after the
subjugation of Poland:
“Germany has never had any conflict-
ing interests with the Nordic States, nor
has she any today. Sweden and Norway
were both offered non-aggression treaties
by Germany, but they rejected them be-
cause they thought that they were not
threatened in any way.... Our relations to
that country [Denmark] are aimed at an
unalterably loyal and friendly collabora-
tion.”
Then similar reassurances to Holland,
Belgium, Switzerland and Yugoslavia.
Men, Martyrs and Mountebanks is
wider in scope than Failure of a Mission,
covering most of the European scene.
Baxter has a wide range of portraits—
the Pope, Gort, Ironside and most of the
prominent British Ms.P. among them.
One chapter is devoted to the “Great
Neutral,” and the great neutral has
seldom been more bitterly reproached.
His retort to the war-debt argument:
America demanded the repayment of her
dollars. We could not demand the return
of the dead. Yet America, in strict logic,
should have valued in dollars and cents
the lives of those who held the line, and
she should have applied it as a contra
account. The mere thought of such a
transaction is sickehing. But unless the
American Government was willing to value
the dead, she was not in a position to
insist upon the value of her dollars.
A third tract for the times, Count
Coudenhove - Kalergi’s Europe Must
Unite (Paneuropa Editions, Ltd. ;
Switzerland), seems a little academic
after the other two, but it is a book
worth reading. The Count, who is
founder of the “Paneuropa” movement,
looks forward to a post-war Europe
united in a system like that of the Swiss
cantons. He believes that the Leaghe
failed because of its world-wide charac-
ter and because it admitted the Soviet.
Before any sort of a world system is
possible, he submits that there must be
a European bloc. He reminds Europe
that it no longer rules the world:
European world domination, which dates
from the sixteenth century, came to an
end in the World War. It had already
suffered a serious setback through the
liberation of America. At the turn of
the century it received another blow by the
victory of the U.S.A. over Spain and of
the new Japanese military power over
Russia. Thenceforth, America and Asia
are equally rivals of Europe, and its world
domination is destroyed for all time.
This is a thoughtful study, written with
a sense of history lacking in many of
its kind. It is rather optimistically de-
scribed as “bold, but yet not Utopian,”
for the Count’s whole scheme depends
on the establishment of an international
police force —he suggests that “the best
plan would be to turn over all bombing
’planes to the Federal Air Force” —and
it will be a long time before European
civilisation is civilised enough to do that.
Science and War.
A scientific mind and a sense of humor
make John Hogdon Bradley’s Patterns
of Survival (Routledge) an unusual essay
in politics. He is perhaps the first writer
to present Hitler as a species of cater-
pillar, somewhat' resembling the one
which despoils the trees of New Eng-
land (U.S.A.), and which has living in or
on it 23 other varieties of insects; these
in turn support 13 parasites of their own,
and these in turn harbor two or possibly
five more.
Bradley sets out to show why some
forms of life have survived the cen-
turies, why others have failed, why
some of the survivors have progressed
and why others have stagnated. His
underlying purpose is to discover sig-
nificance for man in the struggle to live.
“To-day,” he says, “the dinosaurs are
remembered only by their bones, but the
shells of the one-celled Globigerina still
batten in the sea —unaltered and un-
diminished by the tribulations of a
hundred million years.” But the
Globigerina hasn’t done much good for
itself in the world; nor has the shellfish
Lingula, which still exists to-day in the
mud off the coasts of Japan as it did
five hundred million years ago. “While
mountains were rising and falling and
rising again,” says Bradley, “while the
climate was endlessly swinging between
tropic warmth and glacial cold, Lingula
sat in the mud with professorial calm.
He is history’s outstanding example of
stagnation.” So with Australia’s lung-
fish, and so with “the lizard which New
Zealanders call the tuatera”— the lizard
which New Zealanders call the tuatara.
When he comes to mankind, Bradley
sees great hope in the fact that men, like
the rhinoceros and the birds that dig the
ticks from his side, can engage in'
mutually beneficial partnership. War, or
the aggression that leads to it, he sees as
a form of parasitism, but he believes.
that “the parasitism of men, in being
more individual and imitative than racial
and hereditary, is curable.”
Edgar Middleton, another scientific
writer, has as little love for Nazism
as Bradley. The opening sentence of
his Men Who Are Shaping the Future
(Gifford ; Angus and Robertson)—“Since
their inception as totalitarian States
neither Italy nor Germany has produced
a single bit of scientific work of first-class
importance”—seems an amiable bit of
nonsense, but his survey of the work
British scientists are doing, apart from
its interest as a catalogue of miracles,
does serve to show the surprising amount
of organised as well as independent
activity there has been.
His most colorful personality is J. B.
S. Haldane, who is described using
himself as a guinea-pig, not only in his
much-publicised experiments with gases
used in war, but by producing in himself
the acidic state of the blood which occurs
in diabetes, by voluntarily going into
convulsions and by trying the effects of
carbon monoxide poisoning. Haldane
is quoted optimistically on the subjects
of mass bombing, gas attacks and
microbic warfare. He suggests, “It is
reasonably possible that some biological
methods will be used in war ; insect pests
like the potato beetle might be intro-
duced into Britain by hostile aeroplanes.”
Laura Mary Allen’s A History of
Christ Church, S. Laurence (Finn Bros.,
Ltd., Sydney) deals with the 95-year-old
Anglican church near Sydney’s Central
Square. It is written with humor as well
as with knowledge, and is interesting his-
torically as well as ecclesiastically.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’ ' —consistency from day to day.
iiiitfi.
Pliilil ■
1111
“Yes, I’m feeling
fine; thanhs to
Anthony Horderns 9
unique bedding
scheme 99
mmm-.
/m
«
m !
II
m
“THE SENIOR STORE”
SOUND SLEEP
Assures Daytime
ALERTNESS
. . . and the first and foremost
requisite for restful slumber is a
mattress that will give you proper
support ... for it is not how long
you sleep, but how well you rest,
that really counts. If your mattress
is uncomfortable or lumpy, or sags
in the centre, be rid of it as soon as
you can. A good mattress will
definitely go a long way towards
bringing you sound sleep with the
resultant energy and joie de vivre
so necessary to business success.
We W ill Give You Up To, I
FOR YOUR OLD MATTRESS f' l
During Our Better and Cleaner Bedding Campaign
What We Do and What You Do
We allow you £1 for your old mattress if you purchase a new full-size one from
our tremendous variety. If you decide on one smaller than 4ft. 6in. wide, we allow
you 10/- off the price of a new one. This, of course, is off our listed prices.
THEN YOU SELECT your fresh bedding from our fine range, the prices being, as
always, at Anthony Horderns', the lowest possible quality considered. BUT off
our "Famous Low Prices" you receive a generous rebate on your old bedding.
We do not include flock or fibre bedding in this offer, as we do not recommend
them as "Better Bedding."
In making this offer we are mindful of the important bearing that bedding has on
health, and how easily it might become unhygienic. You cannot have your old
kapok mattress remade. It is against the law of the State of New South Wales
(Public Health Amendment Act, 1921), except under conditions which are actually
prohibitive. You cannot sell it. You would practically have to pay to have it
removed. Take advantage of Anthony Horderns' hygiene campaign to secure
"Better and Cleaner" Bedding.
"H" QUALITY KAPOK MATTRESS. This quality
stands as the most popular of all our high-grade
bedding. The wide 6in. borders, the excellent
quality of the Belgian Linen Ticking, and the
perfect finish, make it a mattress that will give
years of lasting satisfaction. Hand-made
throughout.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Prices £4/15/- £5/12/6 £6/2/6 £7/2/6 £7/15/-
Pillows. Anthony Horderns' Price, each .... 10/-
"HF" QUALITY KAPOK MATTRESS. Similar to
"H" Quality, but with Belgian floral highest
quality Ticking in various colours.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Prices £5/5/- £6/2/6 £6/19/6 £7/17/6 £B/12/6
Pillows. Anthony Horderns' Price, each .... 11/-
• Bedding—Third Floor, Delivered free only within our delivery area.
s
•f » i
m
(
M
m
m
m
a
■y y
l .X s
’/ / 4'
w
•w?s
im
m
ASsftS
m
r
m
;'•'
m
m
w
1/8 KAPOK REDUCED TO 1/5 lb.
Here is an opportunity to add to your mattress if it does not yet
require replacing. This excellent quality Kapok is reduced for a
limited period only. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price .... 1/8.
SPECIAL PRICE 1/5 lb.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone M 2401 Day or Night.
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


THE TROUT-FISHERS' CLUB
By T. E. PALMER.
Leaders are born, not made, but even a leader
must await his opportunity to assume the role
_of leadership. That opportunity came to Ted
Barker when a cloudburst flooded the main
street of Bullemalong and left a two-pound trout
high and dry in the gutter outside Bob Parrott’s
store. Ted was without doubt the founder and leading
light of the trout-fishers’ club, but had it not been for
the cloudburst the club would never have materialised.
The rain started about ten in the morning, and,
although it literally fell in sheets in the centre of
Bullemalong, it was even heavier a mile or so to the
north of the town. In an hour it was all over, but
Manders Creek, which crosses the main street, came
down a banker and flooded the low-lying areas. The
flood, after creeping up the footpath and sneaking
under one or two doors, subsided, leaving in its wake
a thin skin of red mud and the trout floundering
in the gutter.
By the time I got there a small crowd had col-
lected. They were gazing at the fish with varying
degrees of disbelief and listening to Ted, who had
taken charge.
“Of course it is,” he was saying. “It’s a brown
trout and a good one, too. And it proves what I’ve
always said. It proves we could have trout-fishing
at Bullemalong. There’s no better sport.”
“Where did it come from?” asked Bob Parrott
vaguely.
“Come from?” said Ted. “Out of Manders
Creek, of course. Where’d you think? Out of the
sky?”
“It could have,” Bob answered defensively. “What
about waterspouts taking fish up in them? Besides,
I’ve never seen ’em in Manders Creek.”
“That’s ’cause you’ve never looked for them. And
probably there aren’t many there. If these streams
had been stocked up, you’d see ’em all right.”
Tom Dolphin disagreed. “I’ve been in Bullem-
along sixty years,” he said, “and I can tell you
there’s not a trout within fifty miles of here. It’s a
carp, that’s what it is.”
That started Ted off properly. Did we think
he didn’t know a trout when he saw one? If others
had spent all their lives in Bullemalong, he hadn’t.
He had fished for trout in Tassie and Maoriland.
Mr. Dolphin was only showing his ignorance when
he called it a carp.
Tom Dolphin went off in a huff, but that didn’t
mean the crowd were ready to believe Ted. Tom
was an alderman of the town and carried a bit of
weight, while Ted was a newcomer of only five or
six years’ standing. I could see from their faces that
they distrusted him and had concluded that the fish
was a carp, or if by chance it was a trout it had
come out of the clouds.
I threw in a word for Ted’s theory, not because
I had any faith in it, but because I owed him a good
turn and he seemed in need of a little support. The
idea that trout could live in the district seemed
fanciful. You know what the country is like round
Bullemalong. We have nothing even approaching a
river in size, and you can jump over most of the
creeks. Nor have the creeks any of the usual charac-
teristics of trout streams. Besides, none of us in
Bullemalong knew much of or cared much for the art
of angling.
That is what made Ted Barker’s achievement in
starting the club so remarkable.
r T'HE next I knew about it was when TeJf’Frank
* Portley and Bob Parrott called on me a few days
later.
“It’s like this,” said Ted. “We’ve decided to go
ahead with the formation of a trout-fishers’ club, and
we’re going to ask the mayor to call a public meet-
ing.”
“It’s for the good of the town,” Bob Parrott put
in. “And we think it ought to be done that way so
everyone will have the same chance of coming in at
the jump.”
“I thought you weren’t keen on it,” I said to Bob.
“Neither I was at first,” he told me; “but Frank
and me changed our views.”
Ted had worked out a pretty good line of sales
talk and he loosed it on me. He wanted me to be
one of the prime movers. He said it was our sacred
duty to start a club now that we knew that trout could
live in our streams —our sacred duty to the town.
He pictured Bullemalong—our Bullemalong—rising
to fame and prosperity on the back of a rainbow trout.
It seemed that anglers would come and spend money
in the town as soon as the sport was established. I
think that is what got me. Life in a country town
depends so much on everyone helping in every effort
towards the advancement of the community, and the
way Ted put it you simply couldn’t say “no” without
being disloyal to your fellows. The upshot was that
the four of us went to see the mayor without further
delay. He readily agreed to convene the meeting and
take the chair on the night. Mayors are the same
the world over; they are always willing to be in on
anything that is likely to go.
We all did a bit of staff work, but none of us
worked like Ted. Right up to the day of the meet-
ing he talked the scheme to everyone he met, with
the result that there were nearly fifty present in the
town hall on the night. Some, of course, had come
out of curiosity, but many were already converted.
The mayor opened the meeting by saying how
gratified he was to see so many interested in a move-
ment associated with town progress. There was,
he went on, no fear for democracy while men of the
calibre of those present were ready to come forward
as they had that night. That put everyone in a good
mood, and after explaining why he had convened
the meeting he called on Ted to speak.
Ted let himself go. After talking for twenty
minutes he wound up by moving that a club to be
known as the Bullemalong Trout Fishers’ Club be
formed, and that it be officially recognised by the
council. There was also something about office-
bearers pro tem. and the drawing up of rules. I
seconded the motion, and the mayor said it was open
for discussion.
Then came an unpleasant surprise. Alderman
Dolphin caught the mayor’s eye and climbed to his
feet. “I don’t want to sound a discordant note,” he
said, “and I realise the promoters have the best
intentions. But I feel it my duty as a town councillor
to see that honest people are not misled. What proof
have we that trout will thrive in our creeks? What
steps have been taken to get expert advice on the
subject? I say that the proposed club should have
official recognition only if, in the opinion of the
Fisheries Department, trout will do well here.” He
moved an amendment to that effect.
This upset the smooth course of the meeting for
a time. Eventually, however, the amendment lapsed
for want of a seconder, and the motion was carried ;
but only after Ted had assured the meeting that it
was his intention to get an official of the Fisheries
Department up anyway—though he had said nothing
about it to us.
In closing the meeting the mayor thanked us for
our efforts and wished the new club every success.
Then he invited everyone to stay and listen to a
talk on angling by Ted. All stayed except Tom
Dolphin, who went off alone. Ted had dug up a
lot of fishing gear —rods, reels, lines, casts and flies
—and he demonstrated it, afterwards handing it round
for inspection. Enthusiasm was running high, and
having taken on the treasurer’s job pro tem. I capi-
talised it by collecting subscriptions there and then. We
ended the evening with thirty-seven financial members.
Ted said it wasn’t bad for a start, and that the dream-
child he had conceived was now truly born. A select
few of us went down to Mrs. Gorman’s pub to wet
the baby’s head.
WE wanted Ted for president, but he insisted on
being made secretary because he said he could
serve the club better in that capacity. One of the
first things he did was to write to the Fisheries De-
partment asking that someone be sent up to confirm
the fact that our creeks were suitable for trout. And
because you had to order well ahead he placed a
fair order for trout fry with the acclimatisation people.
The man from the Fisheries Department arrived
on the morning train a fortnight later and was met
by Ted, Bob, Frank and myself. He was a dour,
unimaginative person, and I could see from the first
we were going to have trouble with him. During
several rounds of drinks, none of which he paid for,
Ted told him of our project and how important it
was that his report be favorable. He looked as
though we were trying to coerce him, and said that
if it was so important the sooner we showed him
round the better as he intended leaving by the evening
train.
We got a car and took him everywhere. We
walked him down Manders Creek to the junction, up
Lavender Creek to the swamp, and finally, after more
drinks and lunch, we drove him up to the town
reservoir.
“H’m,” he said grudgingly as we stood tired and
dusty on the retaining wall and stared into the water,
“trout might manage to live here.” It was his first
favorable comment.
“I’m glad to hear you say so,” said Ted enthu-
siastically.
“I only said might,” he told us. “And in my
opinion this is the only place with the slightest of
possibilities.”
“But we’ve got the club started now with a
membership of over sixty,” said Ted dismally. “You
can’t say that!”
“Well, that’s what I’m going to say, and in my
report, too. If you want an unbiased opinion, that’s
it. Sorry if it dashes your hopes, gentlemen.” We
drove him back in silence and left him to find his
own way to the train.
“It beats me why they have that kind of bloke
in these Government jobs,” said Ted when we were
alone. “Personally, I don’t think he knows the first
thing about it.” Apparently the same thought was.
in the mind of each of us. The more we talked it
over the more obvious it became that the fellow
knew nothing.
“What we want,” said Bob, “is a practical man
who knows the district, not one of these theorists
from the city—a man with a bit of imagination.
What about old Percy Woodcock, of Thistle Plains?”
It was a happy thought. We had Percy along to
the meeting at which Ted read the report from the
Fisheries Department man. It was as disappointing
as we expected, and was listened to in stony silence.
I got up and said that as one of those who had met
the official on his visit I could assure them the report
was anything but unbiased. In fact, I told them, I
thought it of very little value, and hinted darkly I
could say a lot more if I wished.
Then Percy Woodcock did his stuff. “That re-
port,” he commenced, “is a foul slander on the fair
name of this district, and the man who wrote it is a
knave and a fool.” He told us how, as a boy, he
had fished the chalk streams of England, many of
which were much smaller than the creeks around
Bullemalong. He went on about the big fish he had
caught and those he hoped to catch when we had
stocked up the creeks. The meeting roared its
applause. He invited the whole club out for a fly-
casting competition on one of the dams on his
property and said if any man went home sober it
wouldn’t be his fault. On Ted’s suggestion, amid a
crescendo of applause, we unanimously elected him
president.
After that the club went from success to success.
We made a number of prominent people vice-
presidents, and many of them came to light with
cheques. The membership was over eighty, and the
local press considered us of sufficient importance to
send a reporter to our meetings.
A LETTER came saying that the first consignment
of trout fry was being sent on the train which
arrived in Bullemalong at two-fifteen in the morning.
We had little time to make arrangements for its
reception, but as many of us as were able assembled
at Mrs. Gorman’s pub at five-thirty the evening be-
fore to hear from Ted what we had to do.
The question of where the fry should be liber-
ated was no light one, and the merits of each creek
had to be carefully considered. By the time we had
it all worked out it was ten o’clock and we were
still in the back parlor at Mrs. Gorman’s. Frank
Portley looked at the time and said it was hardly
worth while going home. It was very comfortable
there, and the beer was good, so we stayed ; but I
began to doubt the wisdom of it when we had to
tumble out into the cold night air to meet the train.
All told there were thirty cans of fry. They were
like the big cream cans in which milk is sent to
market except that they had gauze round the top to
let air in. Ted said it was important to liberate the
fry as soon as possible. We loaded them into lorries
and utilities and set out, first for the upper reaches
of Manders Creek.
It was a bitterly cold night and few of us had
coats. Bob Parrott, with more than half the cans
aboard, drove his lorry off the road and bogged it to
the axles. We got the cans on to the other vehicles
and set off again, abandoning the lorry until the
morning. Then the leader of the cavalcade took the
wrong turning in the dark, and this caused more
delays. Meanwhile it seemed to get colder and colder.
Arrived at Manders Creek at last, I ripped my
coat getting through a barbed-wire fence, and then
Frank and I, lumbering along with a can, missed our
footing and fell into the water. Ted said that seeing
we were in we had better stay in. You had to stand
the cans in the creek for a while before slowly
emptying them, so that the temperature of the water
inside would be the same as that of the creek. A
sudden change of temperature might kill the fry.
Ted said we could do the job better from the creek
than from the bank, so we stayed in and they handed
the cans down to us.
As daylight came we could see the fry darting
off as we released them. They were an inch or so
long and as lively as crickets. That is, some were.
Others had given the game up and lolled about, silver
bellies uppermost. Ted said we had let enough free in
the creek, and we would go on to the town reservoir
with the rest.
“You can go on to the devil if you like,” Frank
told him through chattering teeth, “but I’m going back
to get my clothes dry and a few rums into me.” As
I was numb to the waist with cold I returned with
him to Mrs. Gorman’s, where we found the fire still
burning.
J T was now only a matter of waiting until the fish
1 grew to legal length. But we were not idle. Not
only did the keenness of members increase by leaps
and bounds, but great progress was made in fellow-
ship. Mrs. Gorman offered us as a meeting-place one of
her travellers’ sample rooms and we accepted with
alacrity. Sometimes the meetings went on into the early
hours. With a few across his chest Percy Woodcock
would recite Omar Khayyam, and the sergeant of
police, Bill O’Neill, whom we had made an honorary
member for obvious reasons, would do “Gunga Din”
and “Clancy of the Overflow.”
Bob Parrott got in a stock of fishing gear which
he offered to members at a special reduction. The
club itself bought rods and reels, and raffled them
at cost, so that those with shallow pockets had a


chance of getting a bit of gear
together. I came by three reels in
this way. The period was one of
steady consolidation.
Then, just when everyone
started to look upon the club as a
permanency, things started to go
wrong. We are used to dry times
in Bullemalong, and very little
water runs in our creeks during the
hot months, but that summer they
stopped running altogether. Even
the deep pools started to dry up.
Unless something was done
quickly, every fish in the creeks
would die.
A hurried meeting of the club
was called. Percy, who presided,
stressed the seriousness of the posi-
tion. It was nobody’s fault, he
said. Droughts were an act of
God and might come at any time.
He asked if anyone had a sugges-
tion. As usual, it was Ted who
evolved a plan. Lavender Creek
and its branches would, he told us,
have to be let go. With true
generalship he brushed them aside.
But he believed the trout in
Manders Creek could be saved. The
town reservoir straddles it near its
source, and his plan was to ask
the council to let enough water trickle out of the dam
to keep Manders Creek running until the drought
broke.
The proposal was adopted with relief, and the
next day Percy, Ted and I saw the mayor and town
clerk and told them what we wanted. They were
non-committal, but the mayor promised to put our
request before the council, which happened to be meet-
ing that night.
The next day we had a letter in reply from the
town clerk. It informed us with regret that, owing to
the drought, all the water in the reservoir must be con-
served to supply the town, and therefore none was
available to keep the creek running. As it was, the
letter concluded, they feared a serious water shortage.
Ted took it badly. “To think they’d do that to
us,” he said. “Have they no feeling for all those
thousands of dying fish? It’s Dolphin who’s behind
this.” And then and there he sat down and wrote
them a snorter. He started by telling them that the
spirit of service which had characterised the council
in the past was now apparently dead, and concluded
by saying that the crime they had perpetrated would
never be forgotten by the members, many of whom
were ratepayers. I don’t think that letter did us
much good.
Then there was the misunderstanding over the
club picnic. We had intended holding it at the
junction of Lavender and Manders Creeks, but these
having dried up it was decided to go to the town
reservoir. It was the only place left where we could
hope to find any trout, and Ted had worked it out
that they should now be big enough to provide a bit
of sport.
It was a pleasant day and we had plenty to
drink, but no one caught any fish. It was not for
want of trying. Not only did the crowd fish the
reservoir from the banks, but at the upper end where
it is shallow some of them waded out to their middles
and flogged every inch of water within reach. Ted
explained that trout were like that. Some days they
just wouldn’t rise, and that was all there was to it.
When it got dark we went back to Mrs. Gorman’s,
little suspecting the blow fate was preparing for us.
'"THAT was Saturday. On Monday morning two
letters appeared in the local paper. The first
referred to a party of drunks who on Saturday after-
noon were seen swimming in the town reservoir, and
demanded that steps be taken by the council imme-
diately to prevent a repetition of the occurrence.
It talked of the pollution of the town water supply,
and was signed by “Outraged Citizen.” The second
was over the signature of Tom Dolphin, who objected
to the drunken orgies the meetings of a certain club
had degenerated into. On Saturday night the din
could be heard all over the town, he wrote, and as
it came from licensed premises he failed to under-
stand why the police had not intervened.
Both complaints were based on gross exaggera-
tion, but what could you do? Certainly on Saturday
night one or two of the brighter sparks had joined
in song, but that was all.
Events moved quickly. The council met and,
spurred on, no doubt, by Ted’s letter, lost no time
in closing the reservoir to fishing. Sergeant O’Neill,
rather apologetically, it is true, withdrew from the
club, and Mrs. Gorman, hearing of it, got panicky
about her license and said we couldn’t meet at her
pub any more. Then, as a final blow, Ted’s company
transferred him to another district.
It seemed hard to believe that an institution that
meant so much to the community could pass out so
quickly, but that put the lid on it. With no place to
fish, no place to meet and no guiding star, the Bullem-
along Trout Fishers’ Club was no more.
I still have my three trout reels. They are all
the fishing gear I possess or am ever likely to possess.
I keep them as paperweights and as reminders of the
vast futility of human effort. And yet, of such faith-
inspiring stuff are leaders made, I often think we
might still have overcome all our difficulties had
Ted Barker remained in Bullemalong.
"I'll bet he's the old bloke they found in the bulrushes."
THE TEST TERRIFIC
By WILL LAWSON
<< I F ever there was a prize for a long-distance
| tow,” said the greaser, “it’d go to the Champion
I for the time she brought the Lester Castle from
Auckland to Sydney. It took her twelve days
against a roaring westerly, and she’s a tug, mind you
—all depth and power, no freeboard —not a steamer
riding sky-high in the seas.
“It was an engine-room job all through. All they
had to do on top was keep her head to the grey-
backs and shut their eyes when she went through
them. Then the weight of the tow would get her
by the tail and yank her back into it again. Every
boat went overboard, the galley, too —everything that
would shift.
“It all started 6000 miles away from here when
the full-rigged ship Lester Castle was dismasted
off Montevideo in the South Atlantic. Under jury
rig she shaped for a South American port—any one
she could make or drift to —but instead she drifted
south, came clear round Cape Stiff and in eighteen
months she made Auckland, without ever being
sighted. A kind of miracle you might call it. Any-
way, that’s where our packet of trouble came from.
She lay in Auckland fourteen months before tenders
were called to re-rig her. Mort’s Dock got the job
and straightway rang up John Brown for a tug.
“ ‘The Champion can do it,’ he said. ‘lt’ll cost
you a quid a mile, counting it as 1200 miles from
Tiri to Sydney Heads.’
“ ‘Done,’ they said, as easy as that.
“We left Newcastle on July 17, 1909—that’s
thirty-one years ago and the old Champion’s still
afloat. We got across in four and a half days. Then
the trouble started. .
“There was a new tug over there, just out from
England, and her owners wanted the job. ‘You can’t
get coal here,’ they said. And we wanted 200 tons
of it. The skipper cables to J. 8., and back comes
the answer, ‘Wait. Will send collier full of coal.’
“That meant, besides coaling us, a thousand tons
of coal on the Auckland market. That fixed it. They
gave us the coal. Then the Government took a hand.
“We had a crew of twenty men. ‘Not enough for
the job, under New Zealand laws,’ they said. ‘You
must have eight more.’
“ ‘What for?’ our skipper said. ‘To spit over the
side?’
“But they sent them on board, mostly unem-
ployed. Poor devils, they damn’ near died on that
trip. The only place to put them was in the saloon,
which was a wonderfully-fitted place because J.B. used
the Champion as a yacht, and there were a piano and
divans and pictures and mirrors and all such things.
Extra tucker was put on board for them and they
thought they were on a luxury cruise and a fiver for
each of them over here. But that was before we
struck the westerlies. They had saloon all over them
after that.
NE day’s run this side of Three Kings we met
the westerly. More cable was paid out, and
more, to make a good spring to take the shock be-
tween the ships. There we were —us, with the funnel
under, tearing at it half-speed ahead, and a mile be-
hind us the ship, lolloping along like a lump of lead,
with a dozen greybacks between us.
“There wasn’t any navigation, I tell you—just
pulling, pulling, pulling against every force that ever
was thought of, weight and water and wind. The
engineer on watch had to nurse her all the time,
every minute, easing the big single screw when she
lifted, lest it foul the cable or shake us to fragments
spinning in the air, then giving her the gun when
she sank. We’d lift fine, then we’d get the cruel tug
of the tow and back we’d go with a bump, spilling
everyone all over the place.
“The firemen got it worst, bruised and burned
and worn-out, shovelling when they couldn’t stand.
Often they had to throw the lumps in one by one,
becau&qgthe furnace doors dodged about so.
“With the galley wiped out we had to cook in
the furnace. The hoboes in the saloon got no hot
feed ; nobody could carry it to them. They ate tinned
stuff, if they felt like eating. Every man on board was
seasick —hardly anyone slept, except in bits. When
the furnace jumped about too much we took a shovel
of embers and fried eggs on that. And all the time
the old ship kept going, her cranks never stopping,
going over and over and over, regular and tireless.
“On the twelfth day, when the skipper came down
as usual, the chief said ‘Where are we?’
“ ‘How do I know? Haven’t had a sight for a
week. Why d’ye want to know? I thought you liked
this.’
“ ‘Because we’re out of coal, all but twenty tons
or so.’
“Hanging on by a stanchion with his feet in the
air half the time, the skipper laughs and shoves his
hat on tight and says, ‘There’s land to port far away.
Whether it’s Australia or hell or New Zealand, I
don’t know. It don’t look like Sydney Heads.’
“It wasn’t. It was the Glasshouse Mountains
north of Brisbane ; the wind and ‘set’ had put us
north all the time. John Brown’s tugs had been out
looking for us for days, but on account of our drift
they never found us. But we’d got her across. Coming
down the coast it fined up, and the hoboes came to
life and played the piano and sang, as if they’d made
a fine crossing. When we shortened in the tow we
could hear banjoes ‘punking’ on the ship and chanteys,
too. We just had coal enough to crawl into Watson’s
Bay. The towline shackle was worn down from an
inch-and-a-quarter to five-eighths with the friction. We
left her there, and the old Champion came tearing
up the harbor like a yacht, with people cheering from
the ferries and whistles blowing. She did it, the old
swine, not us.”


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
Jftfyd IMmofWie mellowncfdandJjcuqiuet;
No taverns on Thames-side possess a political history quite
so interesting as that allied with the names of the Ship and
Trafalgar at Greenwich. The former on the water side faces
the western entrance to the pier and commands a fine view
of the Blackwall reach, with the Hospital of Greenwich on the
northern shore. The first notice of it is in 1634, when some
of the Lancashire witches were confined there. A brass money
token was until recently in the possession of the late Mr. Bale,
issued by this tavern in Charles I’s reign, on which a ship in
full sail is represented with the legend “Ship Tavern 1640.
Early in the last century the Conservative Ministerial dinners
took place at the Ship; the Liberal at the Trafalgar, on the
riverfront on the eastern side of the “Hospital.” Mr. Gladstone
tried to abolish the time-honored banquet, which was for some
years omitted, but Lord Beaconsfield revived it. Today it belongs
to “history,” though there has been some talk of its resurrection
when world affairs settle down. The year of fish dinners
becoming fashionable is not known, though Lord Exeter in
the time of Henry VIII had such a repast at Richmond. The
origin of the Ministerial fish dinners at Greenwich arose in
the banquets given to the Council during their sittings, and
accounts for these in 1501, 1579, 1597 and 1604 have been
preserved. They were termed “Starre-Chamber Dyetts of Her
Majesty’s Council” during the latter years of Elizabeth’s reign.
To the curiously -minded this is the menu of a Ministerial dinner
at the Ship in 1878, old-form spelling being used:
YE BILLE OF YE FARE.
Ye Soupe.
Soupe made from ye turtle, and also soupe made from
ye greene fatte of ye same.
Ye Fyshe.
Ye flounders curyously cooked, and salmonne servyd
inne lyke mannere; ryssoles of ye why ting; ye eles
skynned and stewed inne ye riche wyne of Oporto ;
ye omelette of crabbe inne ye style as servyd to ye
Guards of ye Blue Seale; ye troute from ye river
Spey, grylled with ye sauce of Tartar; salmonne inne
collopes, with ye sauce in ye Cyprus fashonne; ye
whyte baite be-frizzled and also be-devilled.
Fleshe and Fowle.
Sweetbreades, with ye mushrooms added thereunto;
ye haunche of ye royale bucke, with haricotte beanes
servyd therewith; ye undent hamme from ye citye of
Yorke, grylled inne wyne of Champagne; ye grouse
from ye North Countree; hogge bacon and younge
beanes.
Ye Sweetes.
Apprycottes flavoured with noyau; pudynges iced,
after ye Nesselrode mannere; lyttel cakes made with
cheese, from Parma inne Italy; ye ices flavoured
with oranges and strawberries; divers fruytes, which
are your deserts, and ye wynes of Champagne and
manie outlandysh countrees.
Ye dynner will be servyd after the mannere of ye
Russian people. Ye guests are bidden to enter after
ye Hungarie mannere.
Forty covers were laid for this banquet, and among those
present were the Earl of Beaconsfield and the Marquis of
Salisbury.
THE SHIP AND TRAFALGAR TAVERNS, GERRNWICH.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61. —No. 3146.
May 29, 1940,
THE ISSUE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
DANGER BRINGS UNITY.
Calamity began for the Allies when the enemy forced
the passage of the Meuse and drove through the
French lines in the Sedan sector. On May 21 Prime
Minister Reynaud gave a belated account of this
manoeuvre and the immediate results. He did not tell
the whole story, but the facts revealed were startling
and full of significance.
The region attacked was north-west of the actual
Maginot Line, being protected by “a lighter line of
fortifications beginning at Longwy and extending to
the Channel coast.” It was “defended” by an army
commanded by a certain General Corap. These
troops were not “well officered” nor “well trained” ;
in both respects they were far inferior to their com-
rades on the left, who, when the Low Countries were
invaded, advanced into Belgium from the “fortifica-
tions between Sedan and the sea,” pivoting on the town
of evil memory where Louis Napoleon, MacMahon,
Wimpffen, Ducrot and 82,000 officers and men were
taken in 1870. And it had been mistakenly supposed
that the Meuse would be “difficult to cross,” and thus
“a redoubtable obstacle to the enemy,” so “the divi-
sions entrusted with its defence were few and spread
out over a great area.”
Actually when the blow fell the river was found
“difficult to defend,” whereas German “infiltration”
was “easy.” To the French, “machine-gun fire on the
flank was impossible,” though this impossibility was
one of the many things that might have been fore-
seen. And whereas the invaders moved fast, the
French were so slow that “more than half the divi-
sions of General Corap’s army failed to reach the
Meuse, although they had a very short movement
to make.” Above all, the “defenders” neglected to
destroy the bridges, the necessity for which would have
been realised by Boy Scouts.
Across these bridges the enemy thrust armored
divisions when his air force had disorganised his
already muddled opponents. Thus “the hinge of the
French Army was broken” ; a breach 60 miles wide
was rapidly opened; an army composed of motorised
divisions poured through until it had made “a large
bulge in the direction of Paris”; then it “turned
towards the sea, taking our entire fortified system
along the Franco-Belgian frontier in the rear and
threatening the Allied forces engaged in Belgium.”
What did all this suggest to observers in Aus-
tralia? What it must have suggested to the French
nation —not merely gross and wicked incompetence,
but treachery. The old cry of “We are betrayed”
must have been heard in France from Dunkirk to
Nice, and from the Vosges to the Pyrenees.
There are Nazis in Alsace-Lorraine, and doubt-
less in other frontier districts, but Nazis alone could
not have demoralised Corap’s army and deprived it
and the staunch divisions on the left of protection
against the clouds of bombers and fighters which
scourged them at every point and spread desolation
wherever they went. Communists could, and Com-
munists did the latter job, at least. Though under
Weygand’s leadership the army has rallied, the air
force has been undone by Communists.
The rot set in when the Popular Front was
formed. Its first gift to the country was the 40-hour
week, which appeals so much to trade-union leaders
and politicians in Australia. Here the thing might
have been introduced in sheltered industries and —of
course —Government departments without doing much
damage while it lasted, but in France the effect was
disastrous. Australian visitors who loved France and
the French were appalled at the evidences of indis-
cipline, slackness and loafing which they saw on every
side, especially those who beyond the Alps and the
Rhine had seen men toiling like beavers from dawn till
dark. They knew something was radically wrong
when, making purchases in shops, they were asked
for English money. Though their wages had not
been reduced, French workpeople deliberately reduced
their output per hour. From Friday afternoon till
Monday morning, mines, steelworks, factories, work-
shops, woollen and sugar mills, department stores,
were deserted except by caretakers and maintenance
hands. To this period belongs the epidemic of sit-down
strikes.
The worst effects were felt in the aircraft fac-
tories. Under the administration of M. Cot, produc-
tion went to pot, and the quality of French machines
became the scorn of France’s unfriendly neighbors.
In a Paris-Damascus race arranged for the glorifica-
tion of the Popular Front Government and the French
aircraft industry, all the prizes were carried off by
Italians, who beat their French competitors by hours.
Afterwards a renowned pilot publicly insulted the
Minister, who had ventured to congratulate him, on
the score of the rattletrap he had had to fly. Cot,
though not himself a Communist —he was a collective-
security fanatic, with great hopes of Russia —used to be
fond of driving round Paris with Communists in his
car, as a sign that the Popular Front was a perfect
communion of souls, struggling to give France a
spiritual rebirth.
Then the Spanish civil war came. Though a
show of neutrality was made by the Government, the
Communists —now 72 strong in the Chamber of
Deputies, and in a clear majority in Paris, where all
the revolutions and insurrections start —brazenly inter-
vened on the side of the Reds. Escorted by Com-
munist politicians, mayors and editors, the Spanish
woman known as “La Pasionaria” made a triumphal
tour of France. A huge war fund was raised and
whole divisions of “volunteers” were sent across the
Pyrenees, together with arms, munitions and ’planes
which France could not spare. Marty, “the midget
Deputy,” notorious in connection with the naval mutiny
in the Black Sea in 1919, led a party of politicians to
Spain to take part in the fighting—or Ogpu butcher-
ing. When the cause was lost, he reappeared in the
Chamber, to be denounced by a Deputy of the Right
as a traitor and a squanderer of French blood. Traitor
he proved himself in September, when, summoned to
the colors, he bolted to a distant funkhole. From
other funkholes fellow-traitors issued masses of defeat-
ist propaganda, and the evil work went on even after
Communist Deputies had been rounded up and
sentenced to long terms of imprisonment.
In all the armies of the Republic there have been
political generals (Dumouriez, Bernadotte, Hoche,
Bonaparte, Augereau, Boulanger, Sarrail and many
others of less note), and, considering only the strength
and influence of the vote that elected those 72 Com-
munist Deputies, it would be a miracle if there were
not now Communists in all ranks. And it is painfully
evident that the enemy, with his far-flung legions of
spies, has had immeasurably better sources of infor-
mation than the British, whose secret service, from
the coup d’etat in Czechoslovakia to the emergence
of the flame-throwing and 80-ton tanks, has let the
Empire down badly. Putting two and two together,
it would now seem that Communist penetration in
France explains the mystery of Hitler’s long delay in
launching his attack. He apparently hoped that, given
time, it would enable him to manoeuvre France out
of the war and then offer the U.K. —already perhaps
weary of what the Stunt Press was so recently calling
“a kid-glove war” —the choice between a Nazi peace
and an air war in which the British people would
suffer even more frightfully than did the Dutch when
horror descended on their cities and ports for five
dreadful days.
This much is certain—that the Communists who
stifled French aircraft production, and contrived to
slow it down even when a new start was made, have
a criminal responsibility for the defeats and miseries
that have been suffered. It is largely because the
French air force is so weak that the enemy bombed
the Dutch into submission and blasted his way through
Belgium and northern France, even to Boulogne and
the gates of Calais. The Royal Air Force, itself with far
less than the machine strength it should have had, had
to be employed in perilous diversions such as the
attempt to hold up the invaders pouring through the
Sedan breach, which cost it dearly. Its glorious work
and the sacrifices of its dead have been recognised in fit
language by the French High Command. Lacking
support, it could not halt the invasion of armored
columns superior to the defenders in equipment and
speed, and at the same time check the cloud bat-
talions by which, always and everywhere, it has been
greatly outnumbered ; but all that skill and quenchless
courage could do short of the impossible it did and
is doing.
With the British Army separated from the main
body of the French and the enemy in sight of the
Channel, Parliament passed an Emergency Powers Bill
conscripting man-power, industry and all forms of
wealth, and in effect giving to the leader of a demo-
cratic Government all the powers wielded by Hitler,
except that there will be no compulsory Heils. The
Maoriland Government will follow the British
example, and the Australian Government may. Though
in each case a greatly increased war effort is necessary,
plus a full recognition—hitherto lacking—of the value
of time, and —in Australia —the suspension of State
Parliaments, there is no immediate reason why either
should blindly follow British politicians. Here suffi-
cient action can be taken under the National Security
Act and the Defence Acts (1903 and 1904), which
admit of “all male inhabitants between the ages of 18
and 60” being called up for service in Australia —
nature of service unspecified. Neither Dominion is in
apparent danger of large-scale invasion. Is Britain?
Americans think so. “An influential columnist”
gloomily envisages “the possibility of the surrender of
the Allied fleets.” He will never live to see the Royal
Navy surrender. The gentleman should rather take
courage from the attitude of the Empire, in which —
save for the rabble of Communists, who will be
attended to —there is no sign of defeatism, much less
sedition, even in India. There is, on the contrary, a
steady faith in the justice of the British cause and a
most inspiring confidence in the British character and
in the well-tried capacity of the British people to
triumph over all perils and calamities.
The Ghosts Rise.
A reference book which no Australian politician,
journalist or radio professor should be without is the
Annual Register. Published as a record of events for
200 years, the old chronicle mirrors as well the opinion
of its time, and reveals how much the course of his-
tory runs in cycles.
The reflective reader sees from 1787 onwards the
French people gradually working towards revolution,
pushed over the edge at last by a great famine. He
sees much the same ferment in Paris as was to be wit-
nessed 130 years later in Moscow and Leningrad.
There are outbursts of popular fury ; swiftly chang-
ing leadership; imprisonment and murder of the
royal family (fugitives and one princess excepted);
invasion ; the Terror ; successful resistance ; counter-
invasion ; enthusiasm for spreading the new doctrines
over the world ; evolution of the vast movement for
freedom from tyranny and misgovernment into a
dictatorship and world war.
In England young poets of the Left (nearly all
became Tories) acclaim the Revolution and societies
—precursors of Friends of the Soviet and Leagues
against Fascism and War —spring up. They discover
that France is the “instructress of the world,” as later
generations discovered that Russia was “the workers’
only Fatherland.” By 1793 the whole civilised world
has become partisan. “The two odious appellations
of Aristocrat and Democrat arise, the former bestowed
on those who are opposed to all changes, the latter
on those who demand an immediate peace with
France and an acknowledgment of the French
Republic”: “Fascist” and “Bolshevist,” as it were.
The second Pitt is Prime Minister. With a mental
equipment very like that of Mr. Chamberlain, he
works for peace. But France threatens and presently
invades the Low Countries. Poland suffers, Ger-
mans and Russians having “invaded the country from
all quarters.” The Russian boundary is advanced
into mid-Lithuania and Volhynia. Suwaroff bloodily
overwhelms Warsaw.
The French invaders of Belgium—then the Aus-
trian Netherlands —find many sympathisers there. Hol-
land has been guaranteed by Britain, as Belgium was
guaranteed in the nineteenth century and Poland in
the twentieth. Pitt takes the stand that Chamberlain
was to take. In 1793 England is at war with France,
the latter having, “on the most groundless pretensions,
declared war against his Majesty and the United
Provinces.” The French Convention urges English-
men to “cast off your chains and let France protect
you.” Dutchmen revolt against their leaders, and in
Amsterdam Mynheers Van Lang and Van der Zoo
shout “brave people, you are free.” The Stadtholder
flees to England.
Political misdirection and bad military leader-
ship lose the campaign of Flanders. Austrians and
English take Valenciennes (letting the garrison go) and
drive the French to Arras. When the way to Paris is
open, the conquerors divide their forces and are
beaten separately. The English, under the incom-
petent Duke of York, fail to take Dunkirk—an
eighteenth-century Trondhjem affair. The Prussians,
after beating the French on the Rhine, leave their
allies in the lurch, sending most of their army to
Danzig and Thorn to gather in Polish loot. Russia,
“the scourge and terror of her neighbors,” also con-
centrates on “her acquisitions in Poland.” The Rus-
sians “would willingly have seen every Power in
Europe involved in the quarrel with France in the
hope of being able to profit by their losses.” They
were “keeping a vigilant eye on those Powers which
retire from the struggle weary and exhausted.”
The British Parliamentary debates have startingly
modern touches. There are politicians who are sure
that the war will end soon because France must col-
lapse financially. Fox warns them that money will
not count. “Who was Attila’s Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer?” asks another doubter. Pitt, in 1794, is ex-
plaining that “our successes at sea have been on the
whole great....our trade and commerce prospers in
every quarter of the globe... .our fleets are everywhere
in search of the enemy, who continuously avoids com-
ing to action.”
And there are peace advocates, led by the Duke
of Bedford—the Marquis of Tavistock, who conducted
a peace campaign recently, is heir to the dukedom.
The Duke moves peace resolutions in the Lords.
He points out that Britain’s first object was to
secure the free navigation of the Scheldt and protect
the Dutch ; but “circumstances have induced the Gov-
ernment to solemnly declare that, provided France
establishes a Government of equitable principles and
capable of adopting the accustomed relations of peace
with other Powers, this country would be willing to
treat for a pacification, and would require only
moderate and equitable conditions.” He added: “We
have, to use our own phrase, taken up arms in defence
of the rights of all nations, but Sweden, Denmark and
America do not look on us as acting in that light. It
is our duty not to sacrifice our people and substance
in pursuit of so unattainable an object as the sub-
jugation of France.”
There was even an Eden—Lord Auckland. That
Eden had for years been traipsing round Europe
visiting foreign capitals and arranging treaties which
had gradually involved Britain more deeply in Con-
tinental affairs. He moved the adjournment of the
debate.
The Duke of Bedford and all other peacemakers
were rebuffed. The war went on. In process of time
a dictator, Napoleon, arose and the French overran
the continent until only Britain, Russia and Turkey
remained unconquered. Then an adventurous young
officer, Arthur Wellesley, fresh home from India, was
taken from the unimportant post of Secretary for
Ireland and sent to the last outpost of aggression in
the west—Portugal. He won the first battle— and the
last.
El V.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Signs of a Change.
All Australians welcomed the signs of a change in
Commonwealth defence policy and applauded such
of the measures as will put more vigor into war effort
and lay the foundations of real naval security.
The most important project decided upon is the
construction of a battleship dock in Sydney Harbor.
It will be cheap at the £2,997,000 which it is to cost,
especially as £2,600,000 of the money will be spent
on Australian labor and materials. But the job is to
take three years. Too long by half.
Ten local defence naval vessels for the Admiralty
are building in Australia. These will be manned
by Australian ratings, while the new Tribal destroyers
will call for considerably expanded crews. Also 750
officers and men will go into commission for anti-sub-
marine work —the total addition to personnel will be
1790.
A further A.I.F. division is to be raised, and it
is promised that general all-round production of
munitions, guns and materials will be speeded up. As
earnest, Essington Lewis, general manager of 8.H.P.,
becomes Director-General of Munitions Production
with direct responsibility to the War Cabinet. Brig.-
General H. W. Lloyd, M.L.A., whose record for
leadership and cool daring every member of the old
A.I.F. would have been content to own, becomes
Director of Recruiting—another excellent choice. Had
a lot of the work of preparing for war been handed
to men like these in the beginning, we should be
much further forward. Certainly, the principle of in-
dividual responsibility could be greatly extended.
And there is to be a trade-union advisory panel,
and the Prime Minister and the six Premiers are to
have monthly conferences. That is the weak feature
of the plan. Far better would it be to decree that
State Premiers, Governments and Parliaments stand
suspended for the duration of the war. In Australia
“conference” is only another name for procrastina-
tion and indecision.
Forward, the inventors!
It is a tragic fact that the conquest of Poland and the
Low Countries and the invasion of France have been
effected by means of machines invented and methods
introduced by English-speaking men.
The bombers which the enemy has used with such
terrible effect —and, in the case of Warsaw, Rotter-
dam and other wrecked cities and towns, with such
complete barbarism —are all modelled on an American
invention for which the experiments and discoveries
of an Australian, Hargrave—monoplane models, aero-
plane engine and box-kite —paved the way. His ’plane-
carriers were a British Army innovation. His
machine-guns are adaptations of the machine-gun
designed in England by an American, Hiram Maxim.
His tanks have been evolved from a tank thrown by
Britain into the Battle of the Somme in September,
1916—prematurely, as it happened, and against the
advice of those who originated it. And for his tank
tactics he is indebted mainly to the Australian
Monash, who employed them for the first time in
the combat of Hamel on July 4, 1918. They were
repeated on a greater and still more successful scale
on August 8, when the Germans lost, besides killed
and wounded, 22,000 prisoners and 400 guns.
That victory would have been more sweeping had
not British generals, clinging to their belief in cavalry,
jolted the attack at vital points by tying cavalry to
the tanks ; but, as it was, Ludendorff realised that
the game was up. It was because of the tanks and
the tank tactics that he wrote that August 8 was
“Germany’s Black Day.”
The tank had been thought of before the Great
War. A young Australian, De Mole, submitted plans
of a model to the War Office, which characteristically
rejected them, salving its conscience after the war by
making the rejected inventor a grant. Even when the
idea was finally approved of there were pundits who
objected ; it is sorrowfully recorded that “the history
of the tank from October, 1914, until it took the field
23 months later, and even afterwards, is a record of
progress made often in the face of apathy, scepticism
and even opposition.”
This is typical of the history of the evolution of
most inventions or new ideas.
There is now an urgent need for inventions that
will neutralise the enemy’s 80-tonners and flame-throw-
ing tanks. They may conceivably be within the capa-
city of Britons, Greater Britons or Americans if their
talents are allowed full play. In these matters Britons,
Greater Britons and Americans have far better brains
than the Germans, adept as the Germans are in adapt-
ing other men’s discoveries and pre-eminent in the
science and art of killing on a vast scale.
The invention and rapid manufacture of the
answer to the magnetic mine indicate what may be
done in other fields. When the magnetic mine began
destroying ships wholesale it seemed to be undefeat-
able. But a few naval men set to work, and, with
the assistance of a few scientists, they applied check-
mate in the form of an electrified hull girdle. By
devices equally simple and effective, the U-boat, which
in April, 1917, had reduced Britain to the verge of
disaster, has been brought under control. The explo-
sive bomb presents an appallingly difficult problem,
but if the inventive genius of the race is mobilised
and bureaucratic prejudice is swept away a way of
beating it may possibly be found. If so, the inventor
or inventors will be honored in all lands, except those
in which mass murder has become an instrument of
national policy.
As part of its war effort, Australia should be
offering every encouragement and inducement to new
Hargraves, Pomeroys and De Moles. Instead, nothing
has been done to help them or even to give them a
hearing. The pre-war procedure has in no way been
altered ; in other words, a man who has thought out
a process or device which he thinks would save life
and assist to win the war has to go through every
form laid down by the patent laws before he can even
hope to interest the Government. And with the Gov-
ernment in its September-April state of mind and
having a thousand and one other things to do, his
chance of interesting it is not bright. In the grave
emergency that exists, this is sheer folly.
In every State, indeed in every city and every
large country town, there should be a committee com-
posed, say, of war veterans, engineers and scientists,
with power to receive ideas and forward such as
appeal to them to the right Minister, with no pestilent
nonsense about red-tape or patent fees. The Minister’s
part would be to refer them immediately to expert
advisers capable of pouncing on a worth-while idea
and authorised to secure prompt acceptance and appli-
cation. Ideas should be welcomed from every quarter,
and poverty should be no bar. There might be even
illiterates who could think of something.
"Justifiable Criticism."
The bloody engulfing of Poland, Norway, Holland,
Belgium and northern France has had a sobering effect
in most quarters, but the Stunt Press continues to
wallow in cant and claptrap. For instance, the fol-
lowing appeared in the Sunday issue of Sydney’s
“Daily Telegraph,” locally notorious for its advocacy
of a Russian alliance (Russia, it alleged, could beat
Germany with one hand and Japan with the other)
and of “positive action against Japan” —America lead-
ing, Australia supporting with a trade boycott and the
Dutch with an oil boycott:
America was very bitter with Britain after the
Munich incident. Her critics lashed us for the way
we handled the war in Spain. Justifiable criticism.
Justifiable, be hanged! The so-called criticism was
the dead limit of ignorance and presumption. It
amounted to cheeky and long-continued demands, ac-
companied by bitter taunts, that the British Common-
wealth, then tragically ill-prepared, together with
Communist-ridden France, whose air force at the time
couldn’t have beaten Siam’s, should plunge into
war to gratify the feelings of Left Wing novelists and
try to pull the chestnuts out of the fire for Moscow
and its motley hordes —in America a gang of passport-
fakers, Hollywood morons and Communist Jews.
Czechoslovakia was one of the babies —Poland
was the other —that America left on John Bull’s door-
step. Had J.B. gone to war for it in 1938 he would
have been as incapable of preventing its rapid dissolu-
tion as he was a year later to prevent the rapid con-
quest of Poland ; and the odds against his air force
and his army would have been even more dreadful
than the odds they have had to endure, with tragic
spilling of the nation’s best blood, since May 10. Had
he committed acts of war against the Spanish
Nationalists —sent “H.M.S. Unriskables” into Bilbao
and other ports as escorts of blockade-runners, largely
Russian and Levantine —Nationalist Spain would im-
mediately have become an active enemy, its harbors
and aerodromes placed at the service of the Axis,
instead of developing into a neutral whose neutrality
has been useful.
The Stunt Press has all the imitativeness of cock-
sure and ill-informed youth. It followed its American
masters —lions of Hollywood-school journalism and
magazines specialising in bedroom and lavatory
“humor” —in being furiously anti-Chamberlain when
Chamberlain was right. It copied the impertinences
and imbecilities of English pictorial sheets (themselves
largely copies of American tabloids) in hailing Mr.
Eden as a wonder-worker, demanding that collective
security should be applied to the totalitarian Powers
everywhere, insisting that Russia and America were
“on our side,” declaring (being rather mad about sex)
that the course of world events and the policies of
Hitler and Mussolini were influenced by “beautiful”
women, and suggesting that the fortunes of campaigns
would be determined by “Amazons,” Abyssinian,
Spanish and Chinese (with portraits showing heaps of
leg). Among its other obsessions are astrology columns
and “Society” sections in which, with the war well,
advanced, gilded youth not in uniform is shown danc-
ing or swilling cocktails with young women, often
very dopey-looking unless the photographs belie them.
It may be that the Stunt Press unwittingly en-
couraged the enemy. Perhaps solemn asses in the
press-cutting branch of his Propaganda Department
convinced Goebbels and Hitler that, since the stuff
it prints is lapped up by millions, the Empire
and the U.S.A. must be inhabited to a large extent by
ninnies and sissies from whom there was nothing to
fear.
The Enemy Within.
Under an emergency regulation which empowers the
Home Secretary to intern persons suspected of con-
nection with enemy or subversive organisations the
British Government has made some sensational
arrests. Among those laid by the heels are Sir Oswald
Mosley, the Fascist leader, and some of his fol-
lowers ; Captain A. H. Maule Ramsay, M.P., who
belongs to a family of soldiers and was himself severely
wounded in France in 1916 ; and John Beckett, also a
disabled soldier, who was, M.P. for Gateshead and
chairman of the National Union of Ex-Servicemen.
Maoriland has taken action to suppress Com-
munists. Canada has followed suit with wholesale
raids by the Mounties on the National Unity and
other parties, and a special home guard is being estab-
lished throughout the Dominion.
The Australian Government has hitherto made
only feeble attempts to handle Communist and other
dangerous elements, but more resolute action is
foreshadowed. Nine Communist papers, previously
under special censorship, have been suppressed. Trade-
unions have been empowered to exclude from
executive positions persons opposed to the constituted
form of government. And the Attorney-General has
called for the dossier of every suspected Nazi in the
Commonwealth.
To guard against Fifth Columns something more
than calling for dossiers is required. As far as the
Communists are concerned, the case for action was
forcefully stated by the Deputy-Prime Minister in a
speech delivered at Sydney.
Among other examples, Mr. Cameron told a
story within his own knowledge of Communist activi-
ties in S. Australia. It is an old story, but it has lost
no significance. It begins with the seizure of papers
in “the Fourth District of the Communist party,”
which embraces South Australia and Broken Hill —
papers which, such is the Australian regard for legal-
ism, were handed back to the “party” under a
Supreme Court order.
The documents included a military programme
so comprehensive that it embraced the complete details
of billeting accommodation in all towns within the
district. There was a skeleton plan for “positive
action” against Commonwealth defence. Members of
the party were directed as to what militia units they
should join and as to how they should proceed after
joining, with a view to acquiring arms and ammuni-
tion for party use when the time came.
One case was unearthed of a party member who
had been expelled for joining a unit other than that
which he had been ordered to join—artillery instead
of infantry. He had been told that, whereas it was im-
possible for him to steal an 18-pounder gun, as an
infantryman he could steal small arms. Other hair-
raising details were given.
Anybody familiar with the Communist party
is familiar with its advocacy of “turning Imperialist
war into civil war” in order to establish mob control
for Comintern conquest of countries from inside. Yet
people who support these doctrines have been allowed
to permeate industrial and social movements.
Australia should put every person, whatever his
nationality or position, who supports revolutionary
doctrines or mixes with subversive elements in a
place where he can do no harm.
The Chickens Are Home.
At a time when firm and efficient functioning of a
democratic system of government has become a matter
of life and death, our seven Governments are found
to be dithering about like a crowd of suburban guild-
workers organising a Sunday-school picnic.
The position was bound to arise the moment the
nation was confronted with a real crisis. We have
the brains, the brawn and the material for the job
in hand, but red-tape entangles our machines, party
sludge dilutes the national spirit required to lubricate
them, our energy is being sucked away by myriads of
leeches which have attached themselves through 40
years of seven Parliaments, their attendant depart-
ments, boards, commissions and committees.
We are addicts to the conference drug. Every
Australian organisation, from back-country football
clubs to the Commonwealth Parliament, suffers from
it. We are never done hearing of the decisions of this
or that conference, and it is doubtful if the Tasman
Sea could hold the hordes of resolutions stowed away
in pigeonholes throughout the country. It would now
seem that Canberra thought the war could be won with
conferences ; that the belief persisted that a conference
was necessary before any ’plane could be built, any
machine-gun made or any new system introduced into
a munitions factory. Thus, after 10 months of war
and with the enemy battering at the very gates of the
Empire, the country finds itself with abundance of
conferences and stacks of boards and “panels,” but
short of things urgently required for the prosecution
of the war.
Meantime, men who had offered for the forces
as long as six months ago are still writing to the press
about the delay in being called up. A costly coal-strike
was allowed to cripple industry and transport, and
dozens of factories capable of producing articles for
war purposes are still making bottle-openers and
pencil-sharpeners, though they offered months ago
their services to the Government at bedrock prices.
Not one of the six State Governments has shown
the slightest appreciation of the situation, though here
and there the voice of a private member struggled
faintly for a hearing. Their greatest fear is that the
financial needs of the nation will deprive them of
loans and grants.
The N.S.W. affair has blundered blindly along its
terrible path of waste and extravagance, appointing
boards every time the chance offered and clamoring
loudly for its share of “defence allocations.” Last
week its Premier gave the enemy a tongue-banging,
prayed to God to strike Hitler down, and then sent
the members off on another allowance of leave with
full pay. In Victoria, Premier Dunstan —having forced
an unwanted election on the people—has been blither-
ing about placing British Tommies on the land after
the war, though his State still shudders every time
it thinks of a previous experiment in that field, and
though it is certain Britain will have no men to spare.
In S.A. the Premier seems to be trying to become
a radio star. W.A. remains immersed in its own pro-
vincial problems, largely wondering how much it can
get from Canberra in the way of grants. A deep
silence reigns in Queensland. The Speck continues to
look remarkably like an importunate small boy
bothering a worried father for pennies.
The need for unification was never plainer, never
more urgent. This grim hour shows up the multi-
Government system in a light so evil as to be scarcely
credible. A nation facing what Australia is facing
must act vigorously and quickly. If the State Par-
liaments cannot be abolished at once, then they should
be suspended for the duration of the war and their
members and many of their civil servants released for
national work.


Socirty
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Nakhoda”: I was in Italy just after
the last war, and part of the time was
trotted round by an Italian guide who
“Y' know, Bluey, it must be crook for those blokes wha't ain't got nobody to talk to."
looked after me like a mother. One
day while we were inspecting the ruins
of Pompeii, Antonio, who had been
gentleness itself, began to clench his fists,
groan, roll his eyes and mutter blood-
curdling threats against the nation which
had invaded his country, destroyed his
home and deprived him of four brothers.
I glanced behind me and saw a party
of fat German tourists. I calmed him
down by saying that he had told me he
had no brothers and that if he didn’t
behave himself I would sack him. The
same evening I stood alone on the Capri
precipice from which a Roman emperor
used to hurl his retainers. Gazing at
the bay, I heard a voice charged with
the vindictive acid of a grand opera
villain declaiming against the British
who had forced the Italians into war
against their old allies by economic pres-
sure and then despoiled them. It was
Antonio earning a quiet bit of overtime
taking round the German party.
* * * *
“Colbun”: One good effect of the extra
threepence a gallon on petrol will be to
slow down the speedhog and thus in-
crease road-safety. For the average
standard car, consumption at 20 m.p.h.
is nearly two gallons per hour less than
at 40, five less than at 50 and nine and a
half less than at 60 m.p.h. On a monthly
average of 1000 miles a cut in average
hourly speed from 40 to 20 will thus
save nearly four gallons, or within about
sixpence of what the new tax adds to
petrol prices. With a properly tuned
carburetter, close attention to tyre pres-
sures, brakes, valves and compression,
and a deliberate effort to get all possible
advantage out of coasting, a reasonably
careful driver will find that his petrol
bill will be less than it was before the
rise. Also, he will be handling a much
safer road-projectile, whether hit or
hitting.
* * * *
“Melton”: When the inevitable hawker
pitched his inevitable hard-luck story
and dumped the inevitable tin of magic
cleanser on the counter, I made the in-
evitable reply: “Is it any good?”
“Good?” he said. “Why, this stuff’d
take the stain outa ’ltler’s character.”
-i= * * *
“Ike Hollar”: The queer psychology
of the child! Two boys were play-
ing in a swamp at Rockdale (Sydney)
when a log they were trying to move
rolled over the younger, pinning him
down and drowning him. The elder boy,
only nine, ran home, and was too scared
to say a word about what had happened.
Although search parties were out for
22 hours he kept silence; only when
his little mate’s body was found and
direct questions were put to him did
he tell his tale. An incident somewhat
similar occurred in the South Melbourne
baths some years ago. A gang of young-
sters thought that one of their number
had gone home until they saw his body
floating in the water. Instead of calling
for help they grabbed their clothes and
bolted. Their silence on the subject was
profound until the police dragged in-
formation out of them.
* * * *
“S.R.”: If the records are worth any-
thing hunger-striking political prisoners
beat professional fasting men hollow.
Darcy, the I.R.A. zealot, died on the
52nd day of his hunger-strike in Dublin.
Terence McSweeny’s life flickered out on
the 74th day of his self-imposed fast in
Brixton gaol. When sceptics declared
it impossible for a human being to go
without sustenance for so long a time,
it was explained that, short of being
forcibly fed, everything was done to
prolong McSweeny’s life. Two nurses
attended him night and day, hot-water
bottles were placed in his hospital
bed, and the air in the room was
maintained during cold weather. Even
so, it was asserted that liquid food must
have been administered while he was
unconscious or semi-conscious.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Events have forced A.B.C. to
modify its policy of importing foreign
musicians and substitute Australian
talent; but Melbourne protests that a
virtual monopoly of engagements has been
awarded to Sydney. Amongst talented
Melburnians whose existence appears to
be unknown to A.B.C. are pianist Edward
Goll, whom one musical authority re-
gards as the greatest living exponent of
Beethoven ; Richard Chugg, who has had
no peer on the flute since the days of
Amadio; Lambert, the violinist, and
Frederic Collier, Browning Mummery
and Horace Stevens, the singers all
three with international reputations. Mel-
bourne has always regarded itself as the
Australian home of music, and A.B.C.’s
neglect gives it a pain in the neck.
* * * *
“Arak”: Scene, the physics lecture
theatre in an Australian university. The
stage is set for an experiment proving
that bodies of vastly different weight,
though of identical shape and size, fall
at the same rate. Up in the ceiling are
two spheres, one of steel, the other of
wood with an iron stud driven in so
that it may be held up by the electro-
magnet supporting the steel ball. When
the prof, switches off the current, the
two bodies, simultaneously released, are
required to fall side by side into a box
of sawdust. A previous experiment
failed because a sportive student had
shifted the box slightly to one side ; so
before releasing the switch the prof., with
a knowing grin, examines the floor. A
very faint chalk line marks the true
position, and with a triumphant smile he
shifts the box back. A flick of the
switch releases the two spheres, a hundred
eyes follow their ever-increasing velocity,
and 98 eyes light up with glee as the
balls thud on the concrete floor, A
sportive student had shifted the very
faint chalk line.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Hollywood does not only dic-
tate fashions in frocks, coiffures and
methods of applying woad to the female
skin. Russell-street, Melbourne, now
possesses as up-to-date equipment for
running the criminal to earth as is to be
seen in any American crook film. It
has a system of radio communication
which can pick up messages from its
fleets of cars stationed at all the entrances
to the city and broadcast instructions
simultaneously to every suburban police
station and the patrols as well. Blood
tests, “drunk” tests, thumbprints and
ballistics all have their laboratories run
on the latest scientific lines. And the
old-fashioned John has gone. He is now
a member of the “homicide squad.”
* * =H
“C. 8.”: Frederick B. Snite, junior, the
man in the iron lung, is—it is reported
from Chicago, where they know every-
thing that’s going on —shortly to become
a father. He is the first iron-lung patient
to get married and start a family,
having improved so much that he can
come out of his confinement for three
hours a day. An equally remarkable
achievement was recorded in Tasmania
during the i.p. epidemic. A young
woman admitted to a lung gave birth
in circumstances which would have been
regarded at one time as impossible.
* * * *
“Nakh”: A Melbourne woman getting
her husband’s breakfast heard a familiar
scratching at the back door. She poured
out a saucer of fresh milk, opened the
door—and fainted. Hearing the thud, her
husband rushed in and, after a little
effort, restored her to her senses. “What
on earth’s happened?” he asked. “The
cat has turned white,” she sobbed. “What
nonsense you’re talking!” the husband
expostulated. “There’s the cat and it’s
as black as Old Nick.” The agitated
woman sat up, looked at the cat, saw that
he was right and became more agitated
than ever. “Then I’m having hallucina-
tions,” she insisted. The husband had a
brainwave. He went to the door and
looked out at the back garden. It was
white with hoarfrost.
* * * *
“Lovemall”: In the midst of war
alarms and the task of deciding whether
’twere best to make for the Darling or
the Queensland jungle country, I was
sadly contemplating a banned bath-
heater in my Sydney boarding-house and
shivering at the prospect of a cold bath
when my eye fell on the morning paper.
“Bathing beauties,” said the headline
above a trio of delectable darlings, all
bosoms, arms and legs, who posed in the
flashlight. The buxom blonde awarded
a cup for having the best chassis looked
a bit ferocious about the gills, the distant
one didn’t seem too sure whether to
laugh or not, but the central one could
have had all my cups. By the time I
stopped looking I took the bath and
never noticed the coolness. It was one
got d way of beating the coal restrictions,
but I couldn’t help reflecting what a bait
the picture would make for Fritz if he
has ever thought of grabbing Australia.
* * *
“K. Ley”: He had but lately moved
into our street and now came along it,
obviously blithered. Zigzagging to our
front door he knocked. I responded.
“Lisshen, do you know me, do y’?” he
demanded. “Well, no,” I said. “Tha’s'n
all ri’, tha’sh all ri’,” he growled, turned,
fell over the step, picked himself up and
rolled out the gate. He went next door
and, I gathered, the same question,
answer and comment followed. Falling
over gates and things, and with frequent
bursts of song, he went from house to
house until he reached one farther up.
To the lady who opened the door he said,
“Lisshen, do you know me, do”
“Know you, you drunken fool! I should
think I do!” she declared indignantly,
and slammed the door. An expansive
smile lit the drunk’s features, he sat down
on the step, removed his boots, relaxed
and said with enormous relief, “Thank
herrensh, ’ome at lasht!”
* * * *
“Shawag”: When the history of these
dark days comes to be told, space must
be found to record the deeds of war
correspondents. One of them got in early
with a personal narrative:
In a town near the French coast, I
grabbed a German parachutist, who was
bleeding from injuries he received when he
hit the earth. I turned him over to the
military after I had secured his documents.
It reminds me of the country editor’s
report of how he defended himself
against an irate reader:
He swung at me, and I shoved my ear
against his fist. Then, blocking his kick
with my left shin, I got my head under
his left arm and stopped his vicious right
swings with my nose, ears and other parts
of the head. I then slipped under him on
the floor, shoved my right ear-lobe between
his teeth and, when the typewriter fell off
the desk and knocked him cold, I had him.
“Ike Hollar”: Typographical errors
(B. 22/5/’40)? The worst I can re-
member (and I have made a steady, if
small, income from such items) appeared
in the staidest of Great Dailies. An old
identity of blameless reputation had
fallen into Sydney Harbor, and it
attributed his decease to “shick.”
* * * *
On the London craze for noodity:
The outbreak of nude shows ranges from
the display of statuesque females in the alto-
gether to nakedness combined with obscenity
of gesture at bottle clubs. Even managements
are protesting, and eminent artists complain
that they must kowtow to the prevailing fashion
by taking off clothes or lose their jobs. And
for every bottle club closed down half a dozen
open.
The people who busy themselves with these
matters have bombarded the Government with
requests for a stricter censorship, but without
avail; and the reason is obvious. When the
Government is struggling to direct the greatest
threat in the country’s history, a bit of extra
nudity here and there is not likely to excite
its interest. It is in times of peace that Home
Secretaries of the Joynson-Hicks variety become
small Savonarolas. And at the present moment
the horror of a Joynson-Hicks at hearing a
word uttered on the stage which can be heard
every day in the streets of the city is nothing
to the horrors depicted in the news gazettes or
the grisly record of human suffering broadcast
over the radio.
The other evening Melbourne was put
through to an announcer describing the actual
fighting on the front in Belgium. The roar
of guns and the crash of bombs interrupted
his discourse, but he got one remark through:
“One of our boys has just come in from the
air, and tells me he bagged two before break-
fast.” Nudity in unaccustomed places shocks
some people inordinately, but others are equally
shocked by all the implications contained in
that casual sentence.
PULL YOUR WEIGHT.
Whoever you are, wherever you live.
The time has come of your best to give
For your land and kinsfolk, afar or near,
For all that your fathers counted dear;
For the heritage with its worth untold
You would leave your sons to have and to
hold;
For honor and freedom, forced to fight
’Gainst perjured cunning and ruthless might.
In the season of trial, at any rate
(Be it ever so light), you can pull your weight.
Too young for khaki, you may be told,
Or, just as likely, a bit too old,
But who can tell when the call may come,
The beat of the “quick alarming drum”?
And well for youth, when arrives its turn
To serve, the less that it has to learn,
While age, no longer for marching fit,
Has other methods to do its bit.
Though born too soon, or mayhap too late,
To shoulder arms, you can pull your weight.
Now, God be with them to save and shield,
The men we send to the battlefield,
And the dauntless spirits who forth must fare
To meet the foemen by sea or air!
But, wherever you are, whatever you do,
There is work for legions unlisted, too.
Not in life or limb will they pay the price
But in firm resolve and in sacrifice.
Fast-bound in unity, small and great,
Banishing faction’s hiss and hate,
At least we can all of us pull our weight.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sixenate”: “I had to meet him at
Operation Park,” said a witness in a
Sydney suburban court. The query of
the astonished magistrate brought the
explanation that Bondi esplanade park
was meant. The title is well earned.
Sydney women and women from the
country who have had “ops.” or intend
to have “ops.” seem to gravitate to
Bondi, and each sunny morning, after
dwelling on the weighing-machines (I
counted 37 in fronts of shops in the
Bondi Beach areas), they take possession
of the seats and talk “ops.”—their own,
their friends’, and those of distant
acquaintances. In a walk past the in-
quisitive stranger can pick up fragments
about kidneys at one seat, intestines at
the next, and so on till his stroll leaves
him with an impression that insides are
the chief interest of woman’s life. I
treasure one phrase caught as two ladies
discussed a third who had moved along.
“Poor soul!” one said. “Never had an
operation in her life. What on earth can
she find to talk about?”
* * * *
“P. Street”: An outer Sydney suburb
thought it had a fine example of mass
hysteria on its hands the other day when
a number of boys, none older than 13,
appeared in the streets laughing shrilly,
staggering about, falling over and play-
fully slapping each other. Just when
someone was about to call the anti-riot
squad the paroxysm passed, whereupon
the infants turned about and disappeared
into some handy scrub. Satisfied that
some infantile and consequently mys-
terious joke had been perpetrated, the
suburb went back to work, only to down
tools and rush outside again as the lads
reappeared and gave a similar perform-
ance, with variations. Rounded up by
several earnest citizens the boys, after
calming down, told of the finding of a
two-gal. demijohn the contents of which
both smelled and tasted nice and were
promptly sampled. It was wine from a
local vineyard.
H*
“Colonel B’st’r”: I wonder sometimes
what attitude the Republic of San Marino
is displaying toward the European situa-
tion. When, 40-odd years back, I first
climbed the main street of its capital—
too steep and narrow for any vehicle—
“I vant dat you direck me to der vicarage.”
“Have it your own Way. I still think we're flying too low!”
after a picturesque 14-mile walk from
Rimini, it looked as if it couldn’t have
changed much in all its 14 centuries of
independence. Some of the smells must
have dated back to Romulus and Remus.
I could have acquired a patent of nobility
as Duke of Woolloomooloo at the bar-
gain rate of £lOO for the Council, or
been created a Count for half the price.
Since then the College of Heralds kicked
up a fuss and deprived the 13,000 citizens
of the Republic of a useful source of
outside revenue, but its Council (of Sixty)
still gathers in a bit of foreign bunce
from frequent changes in the stamp issue,
tobacco and salt monopolies, and a
population-basis share in Italian customs
duties. One of the two regent-captains
gave me a hearty Australian welcome —
he had run a fruit shop in Sydney for
three years and done a stretch in Dar-
linghurst Gaol as well. He spoke very
highly of the gaol and of his dear friend
Mr. Longman, its governor.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Charlie, who is one of the
boys—the delight of saloon bars and the
commercials’ club —had a private grief.
Up to a month ago his four-year-old
daughter had never spoken. Doctors
reported her badly tongue-tied, but
assured her parents she would begin to
talk suddenly and unexpectedly. She
did—on a Sunday morning, when she
came out with some of Charlie’s choicest
expletives and others. In the first rush
of delight her parents scarcely noticed
what she was saying, but as she
progressed rapidly and with increasing
clarity Bella began to blame Charlie,
who, a devoted father, had been in the
habit of taking his daughter round with
him on all possible occasions. Charlie
retorted feebly that the lass was using
expressions he had never been guilty of
uttering. Restraining their impulse to
ring up all relatives and close friends,
they called in the family doctor, who ex-
plained the child’s performance psycho-
logically. Never having spoken before,
she had never been checked for any
lapse, and as bad language is, as a ruie,
spoken emphatically, it had made more
impression on her than the more refined
conversation she had heard.
* * * *
“The Prophet”: As advertised, there
was no mass meeting in the Rockland
Palace on “April 14, 1940, A.D.F.D.” If
you must know, the final initials stand for
Father Divine, who has inserted himself
into the calendar as well as other aspects
of American life. The dusky evangelist
has adherents in Australia, but anybody
who imagines that his message is for all
Christendom has another imagine coming.
No, the Father is out to save Democracy,
and only one brand of it at that. This
can be done, he asserts, by uniting all
the Americas, as per the hymn:
Unite the three Americas,
For in union there is strength;
If the Lord your God is for you
Who can be against?
So unify, unify,
On Father’s platform take your stand,
And Democracy will be strengthened
Into one gigantic band!
THANK YOU, FATHER DEAR.
If Hitler suddenly finds a mixed crowd
of American negroes, Chinese, Japanese,
Red Indians, French-Canadians, Argen-
tines, Italians, Scowegians, Mexicans,
Peruvians and even Germans flying
over Germany behind a little black man
he’ll know what’s happened.
**■ * *
“S. Piel”: Times and terms change, no
less in the profession of artfully relieving
the public of its money than in other
ways. As a retired take-down I was
puzzled to hear a modern operator
describe himself as a “dudder.” Inquiry
revealed him to be a seller of shoddy suit
lengths. In my time he would have been
a “shoddy dropper,” though the new
term fills the bill admirably.
* * * *
“Monseer Smith”: One of the minor
horrors of war is the eagerness of the
ether bleater to air his mastery of
languages. Listening to the overseas news
you hear that “Zjenerahl Vaygong” is
satisfied with the situation. Follows a
commune-e-kay in which M’sieu Rano —
this with a fanfare of rolled “rs” —men-
tions “Armeaung” and “Com-bri,” which
old Diggers mistakenly used to call
“A-me-ens” and “Cam-bray.” I have been
waiting to hear of flights over, Koln —
delivered gutturally —or raids on P’ree;
but no. They are still Col-ohn and Paris.
I hate to think of the fate of the
announcer if Przemysl ever comes into
the news again and he tries to pronounce
it in Polish.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Recent references in Mel-
bourne to the “Give ’em muck!” dictum
of Melba showed a complete misunder-
standing of the lady’s attitude towards
an audience. Whether or not she made
the historic remark to Clara Butt doesn’t
matter. The one thing that distinguished
Melba from her contemporaries and from
a large number of local and imported
virtuosi getting headlines at the present
moment was her capacity to identify
herself with her hearers. In fact, it is
probably the one thing that distinguishes
the really great executant from the
mediocre, not their habit of singing only
highbrow programmes. The diva knew
instantly she came on the platform the
temper of her audience, she knew in-
stantly when she had lost its allegiance
and she knew just as quickly when she
had recaptured it. When she felt she had
lost its sympathy she would start singing
“Home, Sweet Home” or some similar
artless ditty, and she would immediately
feel it relax towards her. Having got its
sympathy she would sing it better songs.
She always blamed herself for the feel-
ings of an audience. Lesser celebrities
are completely unaware of their audi-
ence’s feelings and blame their audience
for its lack of sympathy. And that is the
whole difference.
* * * *
Xerxes Popoudopoulos writes:
“In deesa da war, da Breeteesh anda da Greek
claspa da feest of da friendsheep. Da histora
showa dey geta toged’—basha da Turk, basha
da Bulg, basha da squarehead, basha efferyone.
Engerleeshman da bloke Byron helpa da Greek,
goodafella. Didda he nota say ‘Da islands
ofa da Greece, da islands ofa da Greece, where
Sappho frizzled up, maka da love, croona da
swing’? Orright. Traditione da friend, eh?
We coma your countrie, frya da feesh, cooka
da cheep, open da oyst. Good da cobber, eh?
But no gooda to Aussie Greek if da bust-up in
da Mediterran’. P’raps mistaka da Xerxes for
da Ciano and busta da wind’, slinga da feesh,
breaka da stove. Ifa da Fascist geta hot
under da coll’, wanta da stoush, da Greeks
puta up da sign in da wind’ say we da allies,
shova up Union Johnny imperish’ da cobber,
eh? No wrecka da biz, all segarnio. Anda
damma da Muss’!”
PUBLIC ENEMIES.
When half the world is flooded
With stuff that stings and stinks,
Beware of Reds full-blooded
And even Parlor Pinks!
But, though their growls and grizzlings
Disturb your nerves, recall
The Bolos and the Quislings
Are deadliest foes of all.
The profiteer who’s deftest
Deserves the sharpest word;
One features in the Leftist
A none too pleasing bird.
But when dictators’ solos
Are raised, their scores to notch,
The Quislings and the Bolos
Are those we need to watch.
Harmless and staid and solemn
And loyal they may contrive
To seem, who’re in the column
That’s labelled Number Five.
But who ensures the mizzlings
When hostile guns begin?
The Bolos and the Quislings,
The enemies within!
N.S.W.
IFOED.


■
.
*ss>
Y*'
o
ms
■
10 for
20 for 1/0
for 3/9
CRAVENA
are iso much smoother
sdfdsfdsf
PREVENT SORE THROATS
*
Wm&MM
m
i I
2818
POLITICAL POINTS
On a day when the situation on the
Western Front looked worse for Britain
than at anytime in 1914 and 1918, Men-
zies introduced the bill ratifying the car-
manufacture agreement with W. J. Smith,
of Australian Glass. He pleaded that
“the House will be in a position to make
any alteration it desires,” but the House
was in a distinctly hostile mood, the only
sign of encouragement coming from
Lawson, the Minister who leased a Smith
racehorse. Another such exhibition and
the demand for Cameron as P.M. will
become irresistible.
Alleged at Paris that Russia, Germany
and Japan have agreed to discuss the
future of the Dutch East Indies at
Peiping, and stated at London that
Britain is courting Moscow again—
apparently about a trade agreement.
Meanwhile the Japanese Consul-General
assured Minister McEwen that Japan
stands for the preservation of the status
quo in the Dutch possessions. And
Japan has never broken its to Aus-
tralia.
Last week the Italians celebrated the
first anniversary of the Berlin-Rome
alliance and the 25th anniversary of their
entry into the Great War. Suspension
of their transatlantic schedule has
prompted the usual “American Observer”
to prophesy that they will enter this war
by June 12. He may be right and he
may be wrong again.
To September, 1938, European land
that was Prussian or Austrian to the end
of the Great War was occupied by eight
Powers, big and small. After two had
been dispossessed by violence and a third
had yielded up Memel, Russia came in
for its cut in September, 1939, being
permitted to grab the Austro-Polish prov-
ince of which Lemberg is—or was —the
capital. Now, with the small gains of
Belgium and Denmark wrested from
them, and with France trembling for
Alsace-Lorraine, Yugoslavia for the
provinces taken from Austria, only the
Italian and Russian annexations have
not been threatened. The thoughts of
gentlemen in the Kremlin and the
Venetian Palace must be long, long
thoughts.
Sydney “D.T.” is at it again—“giving
Australia leadership.” Its choicest effort
in this direction —save, perhaps, its Rus-
sian-alliance campaign—was its urgent
advice that the Commonwealth should get
behind President Roosevelt in taking
“positive action against Japan” by start-
ing a trade boycott—an oil-boycott part
was assigned to the Dutch. Now it is de-
manding that private gentlemen it ad-
mires (presumably they return the com-
pliment) should be appointed to a
national Government, and it has per-
mitted an enthusiastic contributor to men-
tion E. G. Theodore. Why not Joe, the
Oyster King?
Though no other State using N.S.W.
coal had to cut down supplies of gas,
light and power, the Sydney Government
continued the idiotic restrictions even
after the coal-strikers had returned to
work. Not even the robbery taxes intro-
duced in a disgraceful effort to get in
ahead of the war Treasurer have so
shaken the public’s faith in the people
who have the ordering of its household
necessities and its transport. The
strike found small suburban gas and
electric-light cos. far better prepared than
the big city concerns. Of course, the
worst showing was made by the bragging
Railway Department, which, by neglect-
ing to lay in stocks, condemned many
thousands who have to use Government
trains and trams to five weeks of misery.
The Prime Minister speaking:
Time presses. Let no man delay. The
enemy is not waiting and will not wait
for us. He hopes that we shall not be
there or that we shall be there too late.
And, by way of disappointing his hopes,
“the Federal Government has decided
upon the construction of a battleship
dock in Sydney Harbor, between Garden
Island and Potts Point, on which 1600
to 2500 unskilled laborers and 250 to
500 skilled men will be employed, and
which will take three years to complete.”
Splendid!
Trautwein, the tax-dodging Sydney
M.L.C., has lost his appeal against the
magistrate’s sentence —12 months. He was
a members’ member—one of the first
group elected in 1933 by the Assembly-
men of the day and the expiring nominee
Councillors. His successor, if any, will
"Astrologers, teacup readers and the like are issuing a swarm of predictions as to the
duration and result of the war.”
“No need for YOU to enlist, young man. It says ’ere that ’ltler will die a ’orrible
death on the twelfth of June.”
have to be elected by the present
Assemblymen and Councillors, and there
is not likely to be a repetition of the
talk that rash wagers of £IOO to a fag
were laid against So-and-so getting in.
The Sydney Parliament’s expectation of
life is not worth talking about, and
Councillors are now three for twopence.
In Maoriland about £1,850,000 has
been given or lent interest-free to the
Government for the prosecution of the
war. Doubtless fired by this example
(though U.A.P. newspapers didn’t say
so), Mair, the Sydney Premier, has ad-
vanced the Commonwealth £4OOO free of
interest. It is very good of the gentle-
man, but it would really be better for
the country if he took the money back
and resigned all claim to the £205 p.a.
he voted himself in October, 1938 (the
gift was dated back to July 1), and called
upon the other 89 Assemblymen to do
the same. As it is, they have entered
upon another long loaf.
In the hurly-burly of the war news the
world scarcely observed a sad note from
Geneva on May 16. There Avenol, sec-
retary-general of the League, gave 205
officials the option of resigning or agree-
ing to a suspension of their contracts if
the international earthquake made it
necessary:—
Many who had been with the League for
20 years wept as M. Avenol spoke.
So much for one of history’s greatest
futilities.
The most original suggestion as to how
to fight bushfires comes from a man in
Melbourne. He suggests aeroplanes
loader! with tankc of water wWV,
loaded with tanks ot water which would
sprinkle the moisture in the path of the
fires. The idea is strange, but, on general
principles, the fact that it is strange is
a point in its favor. The State Ministry,
which hates strangeness of any sort, tried
to fight the mild bushfires of last summer
along familiar committee lines and failed
as dismally as it did in the year of the
great conflagration.
N.S.W. Premier Mair has assured
Menzies that whatever Menzies desires
the State Government to do it will do
with enthusiasm and expedition. Prob-
ably Menzies desires nothing more at
the moment than the suspension of all
State Parliaments until after the war,
though whether he’s game to say so is
another matter.
Mair has taken to writing newspaper
articles which differ only from Stevens’s
in being duller. In one he had the face
to describe as “foolish and inadequate”
the “imposition of State taxation with-
out regard to its effects on the other
States or the Federal budgetary problem,”
though his Government rushed in with
£4,000,000 of additional taxes in the
second month of the war, while Spender
was struggling With “the Federal
budgetary problem.” Mair now offers
to “co-operate with the Commonwealth
over the matter of taxation,” co-operation
to “take the form of a continuous series
of conferences.” A continuous series of
conferences! It is largely because of
the conference disease, outcome of seven
Constitutions, seven Governments and
seven Parliaments, that Australia’s war
effort has lagged.
By a melancholy coincidence, the bill
renewing the sugar agreement between
the Commonwealth and Queensland
Governments for five years from Sep-
tember, 1941, was introduced on the day
Holland surrendered, and the Java sugar-
growers lost their homeland market.
There will now, no doubt, be a revival
of the demand that Java sugar should
be admitted to Australia. Queensland,
while not destitute of sympathy for its
Dutch neighbors, will stand on the letter
of the Act.
Evans, general secretary of one of the
Sydney Labor parties, on the appoint-
ment of Essington Lewis as Director-
General of Munitions Supply:
In the direction of the nation’s arms
programme and general industrial policy,
the people of Australia must now look to
the boardroom of the B.H.P. rather than to
the seat of government at Canberra.
Then, judging by recent performances at
the latter place, the country should con-
gratulate itself.
Dunstan, of Victoria, on Australia’s
war effort:
Party and other differences should be set
aside, and all should work for the success-
ful prosecution of the war.
Dunstan is the man who put his State
to the expense of an unwanted election
because he fell out with an old pal. The
war was on when it happened.
Dunstan wants all-party “national”
Governments in all the States and at
Canberra for the duration. Most of
Australia wants one national Gov-
ernment at Canberra for the duration
and ever after.
Hogan, the Minister of Agricul-
ture, told a Bendigo deputation that,
“owing to the knavish tricks” of
dairymen, 33 per cent, of the milk
consumed in Melbourne was being
sold below the price fixed by the
Milk Board. Which simply shows
that producers can sell their milk
below board prices and show a
profit.
“The question of whether officials
of the A.C.T.U. will agree to the
proposal of Mr. Menzies to form a
union defence panel will be dis-
cussed at a meeting of the emergency
committee of the A.C.T.U. at the
week-end.” So, though every
minute counts, another cursed con-
ference has to be held before the
leaders of unionism can let unionism
go its hardest —as unionists want
to do.
Dillon, M.L.A. for Essendon
(Vic.), has been delivered of an idea ;
each State Parliament should
appoint a committee of three or four
members of each party to go to
Canberra and remain there to carry
out the will of the Commonwealth
Government. A natural extension
of Dillon’s idea is for the State Parlia-
ments to appoint other small committees
to manage State affairs and then vote
themselves out of existence.
In July of last year the Sydney Gov-
ernment appointed a Parliamentary Select
Committee on the Conduct and Adminis-
tration of Trotting. In spite of the war
the committee has held 25 meetings and
examined 84 witnesses. It has treated
itself to trips to Adelaide and Perth,
Goulburn and Newcastle. Almost 10
months from its appointment:—
It has not arrived at any conclusions
and therefore is not in a position to make
any recommendations.
It calls this a “progress” report.
In 1938-39 there were 1693 greyhound
meetings in N.S.W., and they grossed
£377,003. Most of this came from the
pockets of wage-plugs, who also pay most
of the enormous feed bill for the tykes.
Though they must have some idea of
what the “poor man’s sport” costs the
poor man, neither McKell’s Labor
“party” nor Lang’s ever mentions this
form of battening on the downtrodden.
As for the Mair crowd it can’t get beyond
royal commissions and select committees.


COUNTER-OFFENSIVE.
"The war behind the front lines will not be won by worrying over bad news, but by carrying on normal tasks with renewed energy.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
OPPOSING INFLUENCES OF INTEREST RATES
AND TAXATION ON SHARE PRICES.
CHANGES AND DEVELOPMENTS IN THE
FINANCIAL OUTLOOK.
May Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ptv.. Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
PERJQNAL ITEM S
A new A.I.F. recruit, Harold Holt,
M.H.R. for Fawkner (Vic.), is 32 and
was a practising solicitor before he be-
came a politician. When Holt started
practising for himself, Maxwell, the
blind barrister, used him as his junior.
When Maxwell died, Holt put up for the
seat on the U.A.P. ticket, was returned and
re-elected in 1937. He is a son of Tom
Holt, who was Thring’s offsider when
that magnate was trying to put the Aus-
tralian film industry on its feet. Vera
Pearce, an aunt, is doing her bit in
blacked-out London as a musical-comedy
headliner.
Dr. H. M. Moran, the international
footballer of other days who became a
distinguished Sydney surgeon and radium
expert, and found time to write his
reminiscences, is seeing a bit of another
war. He served in the R.A.M.C. in the
1914-18 war, notably in the Dardanelles
and Mesopotamia, ending up as a major.
In September he again volunteered for
the R.A.M.C. and was taken with the
rank of lieutenant. Now he has been
promoted to lieut.-colonel. At present
he is doing duty in the London Com-
mand.
F. C. Bickford, master of Adelaide
Hunt Club, hunted on a recent Satur-
day morning and then enlisted in the
A.I.F. Another in camp at Woodside is
Lloyd Davies, Sydney violinist, who gave
up leading Adelaide Symphony Orchestra
and A.B.C. studio orchestra and teach-
ing the violin at the Conservatorium to
train for active service abroad.
G. S. Reed, K.C., new president of
Adelaide’s Commonwealth Clubl, is a
Port Pirie native. He was admitted to the
Bar in 1914 and to the A.I.F. about
the same time. He has lectured on legal
matters at Adelaide University, is chair-
G. S. REED, K.C.
man of S.A. Red Cross emergency service
committee and recreates with golf.
Billy Curtis, K.C., one of Sydney’s more
forceful legal men, passed out suddenly
at 59. A graduate of Sydney University,
he very nearly became a Thespian, his
success in amateur theatricals being so
pronounced that J. C. Williamson’s made
him a good offer. But the law held him,
and 15 years ago he was made a K.C.
Many royal commissions knew him, and
he had acted as a District Court Judge.
Norman Frazer lives isolated in the
middle of Sydney Harbor, but he has a
real job. Though from the Harbor only
iron sheds and an occasional scaffolding
IN COMMAND AT COCKATOO.
(Modelled by Frith.)
can be seen, inside is one of the largest
and most comprehensive mechanical
plants in Australia with giant lathes,
boring machines and cranes. Among
them the quiet, incisive little Northum-
brian —he went to the same school as
The Bulletin’s Ted Scorfield seems
tiny and unobtrusive, but he is in com-
plete control. The secret of his success
lies in his unruffled demeanor, clear-
thinking brain, an intensive knowledge
of his work and a capacity to inspire trust
in his men.
E. Simms, the Melbourne man who
has just begun his pre-retirement leave
from the Commonwealth Railways,
began with the N.S.W. Railways, then
joined the Westralian system. He was
attached to the Commonwealth lines
when construction of the western end
of the Transcontinental was begun in
1912, was transferred to Melbourne as
chief clerk in 1914, and when the C.R.
was elevated to departmental status be-
came its secretary. Golf and war work
will occupy a lot. of his forthcoming
spare time.
L. R. Buckeridge founded the Mel-
bourne firm of Mayfair Motors, Ltd.,
about seven years ago. Asa young man
he went from shoe-selling to the acces-
sories department of Rhodes Motors,
thence to Adelaide to sell motor-bikes,
thence back to Melbourne to sell both
bikes and cars, in the meantime making
a name for himself as a racing and re-
liability motor-cyclist. He has now taken
to air travel and likes it. His auxiliary
yacht is well known in Port Phillip,
several yacht clubs having his name on
their membership lists.
Celebrated his 80th birthday in Mel-
bourne the other day, that veteran cleric
Rev. Ernest Selwyn Hughes, Canon of
St. Paul’s. He is unique in having re-
signed a youthful appointment at the
Royal Mint to enter the Church, and is
almost as well known in cricketing circles
as in ecclesiastical. A cricketing con-
temporary of the immortal Grace, he is
president of the Victorian Cricket Asso-
ciation and of the Malvern-East Mel •
bourne Club ; he has followed the for-
tunes of the latter for over half a century.
The death of Archbishop Kelly left
Rev. Father Thomas Gartlan as the
G.O.M. of the R.C. priesthood in
N.S.W. ; he is 87 years old and has just
celebrated his diamond jubilee as a priest.
Ascetic and intellectual, Gartlan put his
stamp on St. Ignatius’ College during his
term as rector from
1901 to 1919, with an
18 months’ interregnum
halfway through. He
started in the college
as a novice, and stiil
takes an interest in it.
Passed out in the
Speck, William E. Shoo-
bridge, who spent a lot
of his political time in
Parliament trying to
make people water-
minded. At Bushy
Park, South Tassie, he
demonstrated the value
of irrigation even to
the dampest State in the
Commonwealth. H i s
grandfather brought the
first hop plants to Tas-
mania, and his grand-
son did a great service
to apple-growing by in-
venting cup - shaped
pruning. W. E. was 94.
The Old Man with
the Scythe has stopped
a pleasant little cere-
mony ihat has been
followed in Sydney
Harbor for about 17
years. Capt. W. R.
Meyer, first on the
Ventura and then on
the Mariposa, always dipped a flag when
passing Blue’s Point in response to one
that dipped on the cottage of old skipper
Bob Williamson, a relic of the wind-
jammer days. The two met about 20
years ago, both having been in sail, and
became fast friends, hence the flag
courtesy. Williamson is dead at 82 and
Meyer’s last salute was to a flag at half-
mast on the cottage.
lon Idriess’s “Flynn of the Inland” has
become Dr. John Flynn, the University
of Toronto (Canada) having conferred
on him an honorary degree of Doctor
of Divinity. It can’t add anything more
to his well-earned reputation; still,
recognition of good work from far places
displeases nobody.
An old boy of Sydney and Brisbane
Grammar schools and graduate of Syd-
ney University, L. Keith Ward has been
in the limelight again through his inves-
tigations, as S.A. Government Geologist,
of the extent of iron-ore reserves back of
Whyalla, the new dolomite field south
of there, and coppermining revival
schemes. Ward has bossed the S.A.
Mines Department for 29 of his 61
years, and has presided over his sec-
tion of the Australasian Association for
the Advancement of Science. He is one
of Australia’s strongest opposers of wild-
cat mining schemes.
Journalist S. A. Rosa, dead in Sydney
in his 75th year, was a staunch fighter
for Labor for over half a century. The
son of a decorative artist and a descen-
dant of Salvator Rosa. Rosa left England
at 20 for America and became a freelance.
In Australia he joined Sydney “Truth”
and became its editor. He afterwards
edited “Common Cause,” the N.S.W.
miners’ weekly, was leader-writer and
literary editor of Sydney “Labor Daily,”
and later rejoined “Truth” as special
writer. He wrote two books Oliver
Spence, a novel, in 1895, and The In-
vasion of Australia in 1920, and at the
time of Federation produced a scholarly
pamphlet criticising the grammar of the
Australian Constitution. In 1901 he
stood for the Senate but was badly licked.
A small, stout fellow, with an impressive
forehead, he spoke always precise Eng-
lish, dressed smartly, was a keen debater
and mixed easily in press and political
circles. His pen was virile to the end.
When the 14th International Motor
Show opened at Melbourne Exhibition
it had the indefatigable H. W. Harrison
as organiser, as he was for the first one
and all the others. Harrison has been
mixed up with motors almost since he
was a child, and drove the first motor-
car that ever spluttered along an Aus-
tralian highway. He was born at Eltham
(Vic.), and started with Vacuum Oil.
Then he became editor of the “Australian
Motorist,” and has been secretary of the
Victorian Chamber of Automotive In-
dustries for 20 years. He is secretary
of the Federal Council of Australian
Motor Traders and is connected with
pretty well every motoring organisation
with inter-State affiliations.
On May 22 Premier Forgan Smith,
Treasurer Cooper and ex-Premier Moore
completed 25 years in the Queensland
Parliament. They came to the seats of
statesmanship after T. J. Ryan’s spectacu-
lar defeat of the Denham Government,
and, except for H. F. Walker, Father of
the House—who heads them with 33
years’ continuous membership—are the
only ones of the whole 72 to have lasted
the distance without a fall.
Harold Tindale, general manager of
Australian Gas Light Cos., Sydney, was
HAROLD TINDALE.
born and educated in the Harbor City
and followed his paternal ancestors in
the gas business. When not occupied
with gas he indulges in golf and surfing.
When the late J. D. Danker wrote his
history of the penal settlements in Tas-
mania he was considerably assisted by
William Mawle, who spent most of his
life at Port Arthur. Mawle’s father was
chief clerk of the penal settlement there,
and the son could remember a good deal
*,of the doings in its declining days.
-Mawle, dead at 76, firmly held to the
view that history and fiction between
them had conspired to paint early Van-
demonian days in colors much more lurid
than they deserved.


0L
X 4
777
•THRtt SEVtHS
wrgynwv a
c\g/vr£tt*s |
# I
Stme€xphws
prod u c T
Vise ACELLE
WRAPPED
FOR
FRESHER FLAVOUR
"Three Sevens” add up to the best quality
ten cigarettes you’ve ever bought for six-
pence. Ten fresh, fragrant, cork-tipped
Virginias—and blended by State Ex-
press. Buy a packet of "Three Sevens”
to-day and enjoy better smoking.
THREE SEVENS
10~6 D
20-1
A
Also Flat Fifties and Round Airtight Fifties.
Product
dsfdsfd


ABORIGINALITIES
“M. Urray”: There are times when
even the most experienced bushman’s
sense of location fails. Old Bob the
Buster was in charge of a bore and
pump, and used to walk five miles
through the scrub, night and day, to the
town. One time he got on a three-day
bender while a couple of contractors
hopped into a patch of scrub on the
town side of the bore with the axe.
Sober, though a trifle shaky, Bob set out
on the fourth night for home. The
axemen by their campfire heard a
floundering and crying and investigated.
They found Bob hopelessly bushed in a
few acres of cut scrub, all his old familiar
bearings gone. “Must’ve walked miles,”
he complained. “What part of Queensland
is this, mate?”
* * * *
“David”: Sinking a well in the Hunter
(N.S.W.) district and at a depth of 90ft.,
my mate, who was holding the drill, re-
ceived a whack between the shoulder-
blades that made him cough the candle
out. We found a large green frog
sprawled out on its back in the corner
of the well. For nearly two hours while
we belted through some of the toughest
bluestone I’ve met it lay there with
an occasional feeble kick. On returning
to the surface we placed it in a drum of
water, and in less than 15 minutes it
was as fresh as tomorrow’s egg.
Hj 4: * *
“Gidya George”: A dry time usually
means a twist in a tree’s growing. The
place to count previous droughts used to
be on the Georgina, below Urandangie
(W.Q.). In those thousands of square
miles of gidya scrubs there was rarely
one tree straight enough to make a fenc-
ing-post. But now they’re just gaunt
skeletons of bare boughs, the dry period
over the past decade having proved too
imuch for even those game old battlers.
Still, dry times aren’t the only things
which make ’em contort. One of the
two crookedest trees I’ve seen is a
coolabah near Austral Downs homestead,
on the Georgina (Barkly Tableland),
where there is a 15in. rainfall. The
other is on South Molle Islands, in Whit-
sunday Passage, and the rainfall averages
70in. there.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: I can match “Duco’s”
story of Fatty falling off the sixteenth
storey and getting caught in the crane
hook (B. 24/4/’4O) in actuality. A
Scowegian rigger helping in the erection
of a set of 120 ft.-tall poppet legs stepped
back without remembering that he was
standing only on the top set of 12in.
headings. Head first he rocketed down-
wards, clearly a goner. For use in
hoisting the last of the timbers a long
Manila-rigged three-sheave set of pulleys
hung idle from a derrick beam right at
the top, the bottom block and hook
being more than halfway down. Turn-
ing slowly over, the falling man some-
how got his foot into the double fall
of the six ropes. Sliding down between
these his boot finally jammed between
one set of ropes and the sharp top of
the iron pulley-block. And so he hung,
suspended by one foot, with still a drop
ahead sufficient to break his neck. It
didn’t take long to get him down by
means of a looped rope which he him-
self put round his shoulder. He was
back at work next day, though he did
complain a bit about a sore ankle. I
was his mate.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: On the job at
Waael he had been known as Talking
Tommy—and he lived up to it. When
I struck him at Mukinbudin five years
later I found that his new mates had
labelled him with the same moniker,
but for the opposite reason —he never
spoke if a nod or a gesture would suffice.
After I’d convinced the mob that I wasn’t
joking we took to wondering what calam-
ity had wrought such a complete change.
It was about even betting between a
woman and a bad accident until I faced
him with a direct question in front of
the mob one night. He took so long to
answer that I thought he hadn’t heard,
but unaccustomed speech came slowly.
“Well,” he said, “y’ve no idea how it
useter make me tired talkin’ all day, but
I sorta had the habit, y’ see, an’ I
thought I had t’ keep on talkin’ t’ drive
me meanin’ home. Then I got the
quinzy, an’ I couldn’t talk. I darn near
busted the first few days, tryin’ t’ tell
blokes things they didn’t want t’ hear;
“I wish they'd lay 'em a bit closer together."
then it strikes me I can git on just as
well without talkin’ at all. An’ if I don’t
haveter talk when I can’t I don’t haveter
talk when I can. See?” Whereupon he
lapsed back into his habitual silence.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A furious chattering and
shrilling of small birds led me to where
a score of tits and wrens were excitedly
mobbing a 3ft. brown snake. Even after
I had killed the enemy they kept on
shrieking defiance at its corpse. Yet it is
bush blasphemy to deny that snakes
“fascinate” birds, although no scientific
observer has ever found the least particle
of evidence to show that they do any-
thing of the kind. It is possible that a
snake’s vibrating tongue may be mistaken
for a worm or insect and watched
preparatory to grabbing at it. It has even
been suggested that snakes use their
tongues as lures. But the alleged power
of a snake’s eye is pure bunk.
* * * *
“Mt. Mawson”: Smith has a small
farm, perched away up on the side of
the ridge, about two miles from the river
that flows through our Tassie district,
so high up that it gives you a kink in the
neck to look at it. He was telling the
mob in the bar the other day of the
enormous spuds he grew and the record
crops of currants and raspberries he had
picked, when old Cassidy, the railway
ganger, who had heard it all before,
chipped in. “Look, if you don’t stop
skiting about that flamin’ farm of
yours,” he said, “I’ll come up some
Sunday mornin’ with me shovel and
throw it in the river!”
* * * *
“Nullica Bay”: “Dickie Beech” on
killer whales (B. 8/5/’4O) reminds me of
the two famous members of the species
whose friendship was formerly cultivated
by Twofold Bay (N.S.W.) whaling men.
They were bulls known as “Old Tom”
and “Hookey,” and were said to work
in with the whalers whenever a school
of whales appeared off the bay, carefully
shepherding them as dogs do sheep into
positions where the harpooners might
most effectively deal with them. So
valuable was their assistance considered
that the N.S.W. Legislature was induced
to protect the killers from human attack.
A dozen or so years ago when writer
was last at the bay a printed warning
to whom it might concern that Orca
gladiator must not be interfered with
was displayed on the wharf in Snug Cove
at Eden. Whenever a whale was captured
the whalers saw to it that the killers had
their favorite dainty titbit—the tongue.
* * * *
“Belar”: A Melbourne writer waxes
lyrical about autumn in Australia:
The fall, the Americans would call it.
The fall —it sounds a better name —the
season when the leaves fall, when our
little world is bright with golds and reds.
Having absorbed this, I went forth to
the butt of a solemn old gum and weakly
pleaded for guidance. Whereupon the
gum, after a mighty shake, managed to
drop a bit of bark. I’m sending it to
the editor of that paper to show how
bare our trees become in the aut —
pardon, the fall.
* * * *
“Lespy”: “I’m in charge of a job one
time,” said old Ben the handyman, “and
the boss brings a relation along. ‘Give ’im
a start,’ ’e ses ; ‘you’ll find ’im a steady
’and.’ ’E was steady all right; every
time I seen ’im ’e’s ’idin’ be’ind stacks
o’ bricks or timber. I can’t say nothin’
on account of ’im bein’ related ter the
boss, so I puts up with ’im fer about a
week. After that I can’t stand it no
longer. ‘ ’Ere,’ I ses to ’im, ‘why don’t
yer wake up ter yerself? I ’ave ter spend
’alf the day watchin’ yer.’ ‘Wot ’ave you
got ter go crook about?’ ’e comes back.
‘I spend all day watchin’ you!’ ”
H* * *
“Wester”: Young Joe, a bit on the
light side, sent to the city for a course in
body-building in response to an advt.
showing a human monolith flexing his
biceps. Despite chiacking, Joe went out
every morning to do the routine, and
soon the hands were laying bets on whom
Joe would pick first, it being an axiom
of the bush that a man who gets fighting
fit must fight or burst. One day a Here-
ford steer broke away and the boss
yelled “Get him, Joe!” Joe’s horse ran
the steer into a corner, and there the
steer decided to stay. This was Joe’s
chance to show the value of the course.
He slipped from the nag and grabbed
the steer by the horns. There was a
flurry of dust, some language and the
steer was still in the corner, having
tossed Joe over the fence. “How did
that happen?” he panted. “Dunno,” said
the boss, “unless he’s been readin’ that
book of yours, too, Joe!”
* * * *
“Aratta”: “A mob of us was in Ryan’s
pub one afternoon,” said Dan, “when a
big hard-faced coot, half-shot, blows in
an’ breasts the bar. He swallers his pot,
turns round, scowls at us all, then barks
out, ‘What a lousy-lookin’ lot! Do any
of you mugs wanter fight?’ ‘Here, here!’
ses Ryan ; ‘none of that in my bar.’ ‘lt’s
all right, Tim,’ ses a little whiskered
bloke, a good three stone lighter than
the fight-seekin’ party, ‘l’ll fix him.’
‘Don’t be silly,’ ses Ryan; ‘he’ll kill yer.’
‘Yes,’ bellers Hard-dial, ‘an’ then eat him
too,’ an’ he makes a step for’ard. The
next instant little Whiskers skips up to
him like a ballet darncer an’ clips him
hard on each side of his face with his
open hands. Hard-dial lets out a shriek
of agony an’ goes staggerin’ round the
bar with his hands clapped up to his
head. Whiskers grabs him an’ pushes
him, squealin’, to the door, plants a foot
on his rump an’ sends him flounderin’
out on to the roadway. Next we see of
him he’s makin’ for the scrub opposite,
still howlin’. Whiskers comes back
grinnin’. ‘Cripes!’ said Ryan, as aston-
ished as the rest of us ; ‘whatcher do to
him?’ ‘Oh, it was nothin’,’ ses Whiskers,
laughin’. ‘Didn’t yer notice them red
ears of his? Chilblains, they was ; an’ y’
know how tender they are! ’ ”
* * * *
“Cap Voltaire”: Has “D. Beech” (B.
24/4/’4O) ever tried to kill an octopus?
If not he will find that a bite on the
back of the neck is remafkably ineffec-
tual. Scores of times I have used octo.
for bait and, being moderately humane,
have sought to avoid cutting up the
living creature piecemeal. But the
octopus is tough. Even after the entire
head and vitals had been amputated the
W.A. variety still continued to crawl
around the boat. It was only when the
last reddish spot deep in the junction of
the tentacles had been excised that the
creature showed loss of vitality. As for
“D.B.’s” other contention that the octopus
doesn’t even eat fish —well, I can’t recall
ever having hooked the eight-legged gent,
with any other bait. More, the likeliest
place to find octo. for bait is to search
some spot on the water edge where suc-
cessful anglers clean their catch.
“Deep End”: A constantly recurring
fallacy is that a swimmer about to dive
for an extensive stay under water breathes
deeply, filling his lungs to their utmost
capacity. Native pearl divers do no-
thing of the sort. On arriving at the
surface they breathe deeply—in and out,
resting. Then, taking in only a normal
breath, they grasp their nostrils with
the left hand and swim downwards.
These fellows can stay down over two
minutes. I have heard of men who could
manage three minutes, but never met
them. Full lungs are overloaded lungs,
and pressure inside combined with pres-
sure outside would speedily become in-
supportable, not only within the lungs,
but also against the heart.
* * * *
“Arev”: The relief-workers were mak-
ing a road from Bungaroon to Skeleton
Creek, over country that was mostly
bracken fern and gorse. A car came
bumping along the unfinished track,
a fat man in a leather coat at the wheel;
and the men leaned on their shovels to
watch. Beside the driver was a stout,
haughty-looking woman in a fur coat,
doll’s hat and sun-glasses. The car pulled
up. “Which is the way to Stringbark
Flat?” the driver asked of nobody in
particular, the lady staring straight ahead.
Tim Blake took a step forward. “Well,
y’ go straight ahead until y’ come to a
burnt house. You turn left then, an’ go
on till y’ reach the creek. Turn t’ the
left again an’ you’ll strike an old bridge.
It isn’t safe, so turn t’ the left again an’
you’ll be on the right track.” “Aw,
thanks,” said the motorist. As the car
moved off somebody turned to Tim. “Eh,
why did y’ direct him like that? If he
goes the way you said, he’ll be back here
in another half-hour or so.” Tim spat on
his hands and took a better grip of his
shovel. “That’s right. We don’t get much
amusement round these parts an’ I
thought I’d like ter see that outfit go by
again.”
THE BEAST THAT MULLIGAN SAW.
What was the animal Mulligan saw
On the road by the whipstick scrub?
Was it a creature of Mulligan’s brain
Or a product of Sweeney’s pub?
With its baleful eyes and its lolling tongue,
It was fearsome of fang and claw;
And it crossed the road in a bound or two —
Did the beast that Mulligan saw.
It wasn’t a leopard—it had no spots
(Though maybe Dan Mulligan had);
A puma, he thought, from its tawny skin,
And, ’tis said, they are just as bad.
But in the sensational tale he told
There appeared to be just one flaw —
Though the ground was soft they could find
no tracks
Of the beast that Mulligan saw.
But the township swallowed the tale all
right,
And the muskets and old-time guns
That were brought to light would have put
the breeze
Up a squadron of Hitler’s Huns.
When they mustered there, in the dawn’s dim
light,
They had even invoked the Law
To send a blacktracker to help them hunt
For the beast that Mulligan saw.
And they scoured the hills till the dusk came
down
And the stars looked out from the blue,
But the only game that their dogs put up
Was a fox and a kangaroo.
But still round the whipstick scrub, it is
said,
When the evenings are cold and raw,
There are folk who remain indoors in dread
Of the beast that Mulligan saw.
VICTORIA.
THOS. V. TIERNEY.


“Wang”: “This good Samaritan biz-
ness don’t alwus pay,” said Dan. “I’m
squattin’ on a seat at the Bungabilli
Show when a well-dressed youngish
woman comes rushin’ up, throws her
arms round me neck an’ squeals ‘Oh,
George, how thankful I am t’ find yer.’
Then she whispers ‘Pretend yer me hus-
band —I want to get away from that man
over there who’s been follerin’ me fer
the last hour,’ pointin’ to a bloke a few
yards away. I gets t’ me feet, lookin’
savage, an’ strides t’wards him, sayin’
‘What’s yer game, follerin’ my wife
about?’ The bloke gives a scowl an’
sneaks orf quick. The dame thanks me,
an’ ses would I mind stayin’ with her a
while ; her husband has been detained
on bizness somewhere, but wus sure t’
be along sooner or later. Once or twice
I see the bloke what had been chasin’
her come snoopin’ round, an’ each time
she starts actin’ affectionate-like t’ me.
Be this time, I’m beginnin’ t’ like it, an’
plays up t’ her, which she doesn’t seem
to mind. Then all of a sudden I hears
a roar, an’ a bloke ’bout 15 stone comes
tearin’ up, bellerin’ ‘What the devil are
yer maulin’ my wife fer?’ Next moment
somethin’ like a sledgehammer lands on
me jaw. When I come to the tart an’
her husband has disappeared, an’ a bloke
is holdin’ me head an’ pourin’ whisky
down me gullet. I open me eyes an’ see
it’s the cove who I’d bin protectin’ the
tabby from. ‘Drink this, ole man,’ he
ses —‘I’m everlastin’ grateful to yer.’
‘Damn yer eyes,’ I ses, ‘if it hadn’t been
fer you I wouldn’t be where I am now.’
‘Yes,’ he ses, shovin’ some more whisky
inter me ; ‘an’ if it hadn’t been fer you,
I’d be where you are now! ’ ”
* * *
“The 0.D.”: Another contribution to
the old argument anent the reasoning
power of animals. The west wall of my
hut has no window, but a hole about two
square feet is covered by a hinged board
which opens inward if given a smart
push. During a dry spell I was feeding
half a dozen horses morning and night,
including the brown hack. One Sunday
morning, sleeping-in after a night in the
town, I was awakened by a thump over-
head and looked up to see the board
swing back and the brown’s head come
in and look at me. Chance, or his way
of reminding me it was breakfast-time?
* * *
“L.K.H.”: Billy, the abo. stockman on
Woorabinda (N.Q.), and Lily, his wife,
were preparing for their “walkabout” on
wheels, having a buggy and pair. They
were to leave at dawn next day for
Bowen and the races. Lily, the last wash-
ing-up over, was on her way along the
moonlit track to the hut clasping a huge
“Land on the port bow, sir.”
“Well, go and wipe it off.”
“Mt. Mawson”: At Lake Echo (Tas.)
recently, with one man on the knife, one
branding and one earmarking, 180 calves
were put through in 100 minutes. There
were two sets catching, with one spelling
(alternately for 10 minutes), and included
in the time was the counting out of the
five yards. Can any of you mainlanders
beat that?
* * * *
“Naturala”: In my garden live myriads
of tiny red ants, so small that nose to
tail 25 would barely make the inch.
Among the flowers flit the bees. Occa-
sionally a bee falls and dies. Saw an
ant scout find a large deceased bee.
Hastening back to headquarters the scout
touched antennas with every fellow-ant it
met. Soon an army of about 50 was
assembled. Scrambling, pushing, appar-
ently without leadership, it speedily
achieved results, and the comparative
mountain of food began to move in the
right direction. It was like an army of
pigmies struggling to shift an elephant.
Up hill and down dale, over quite formid-
able obstructions, the ants struggled. The
entrance was sizes too small to admit the
monstrous bee. This difficulty, however,
had been foreseen, for already gangs of
excavators were at work. With no thought
of job control or a 40-hour week, but
only of the bird that might swoop and
snatch the prize away, toilers rushed
dirt to the mullock dump. Soon the
entrance was large enough, and head
first the bee started for underground.
But for hours after the excavators toiled,
obviously enlarging tunnels that would
enable the prize to be stored in the
cake, a present from the missus. Billy
always met her halfway. But where was
Billy? He knew she was afraid of
Withera. Together they could face the
dread apparition with more confidence ;
but Billy was not there. Withera
was! Came a small whispering, and a
willy-willy, wraith-like in the moonlight,
encircled her. In terror she hurled her
terrified 14 stone along; but Withera
could run, too. At length, stumbling and
shrieking, she flung the precious cake at
the ghostly pursuer. Then at last came
the lagging Billy to pick up the broken
pieces. Withera, satisfied with his prank,
had drifted on, and the two went quietly
and fearfully home. Who said civilised
abos. don’t believe in ghosts?
* * *
“Golden Mile”: Apropos of Oswald
Pryor’s “new ’and from Broken Hill” (B.
1/5/’4O), I knew more than one Cap’n
who objected to promiscuous swearing.
Knew one who even smiled benignantly
when the men below took to singing
hymns at crib-time. Nor was he ill-
pleased when one group transferred such
hymnals to the home of a “brother,”
assembling there at night, and rendering
“Onward, Christian Soldiers” and other
favorites with a deafening, if discordant,
robustness, accompanied by much stamp-
ing of blucher-booted feet. All was to
the good until a couple of nasty police-
men stole up one night, rushed the
“brother’s” home and so surprised the
singers that they stopped dead ; though
the blokes in the cellar under the floor,
pounding up quartz in loudly ringing
dollypots, still went blithely on.
“Which of us do you think he resembles?”
larder deep down from the heat of the
sun.
* * * *
“Cloviski MacOdoacer” (T.N.G.): The
domestic cat, in pidgin “pussy,” is a
rare delicacy in New Guinea village
kitchens. But if you try to tell Brown
Brother that it’s a disgusting taste you
merely leave him puzzled. He is pre-
pared to admit that crocodile steaks and
roast sirloin of dog are acquired tastes,
which he would not expect the Philistine
to appreciate, but pussy he
knows to be an item on the
menu of the whiteman. For
tinned rabbit is also “pussy”
in the pidgin vocabulary,
and, not having seen the rab-
bit in life and not being very
good at imagining things he
hasn’t seen, Brown Brother’s
conviction is that the distinc-
tion between pussy and pussy
is purely academic.
* * *
“Odd Pint”: Old Jimmy,
camped on the northern side
of a big rock on the New
England (N.S.W.), eyed the
clouds at sunset, thoughtfully
lit his pipe and took a stroll
right round the rock. As
soon as it was dark he
whipped down the tent,
rushed it round to the south-
east corner and pitched it
there. “What’s the big idea?”
we asked. “Well,” said James,
“this ’ere New England
weather’s full o’ tricks, see.
Them clouds an’ winds up
there”—he shook an ancient
fist at the heavens—“they just wait till
y’re all set, an’ soon’s it’s night they
start to try an’ blast y’ camp outa sight.
Listen!” Sure enough, the light south-
easter dropped and a chilly gust leaped
from the north-west and soughed round
the rock. “Tricked ’em,” said old Jimmy
with a triumphant nod at the vacant
space formerly occupied by his tent and
now catching the force of the blast.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: “Happy Joe” has one of
those good-natured faces that draw
cadgers like ants to the sugar-din. Down
in Sydney on business, he was strolling
across the Domain when a professional
earchewer sidled up. “Listen, cobber,”
he whined; “I ain’t had a bite for four
days.” “Happy” was incredulous. “Not
four days?” he said. “Fair dinkum,
four whole days!” declared the “nip.”
“Not a bite in that time?” “I swear me
oath on it!” vowed the 13st. picture of
starvation. “Happy” grinned. “Well,
what about telling a bloke how you do
it?” he asked; “you’re the fifth bite
I’ve had in twenty minutes!”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Me an’ me
cobber Bill ’ad bin doin’ a bit o’ bandi-
cootin’ on some old workin’s on the
Macquarie, but we slings it in after on’y
gittin’ about 18 ’weights after three
munce yakka. First night on the track
we camps near old ’Ungry ’Enderson’s
place an’ nips ’im fer a bit o’ mutton
an’ a pannikin o’ flour. “Git ter ’ell outa
this,” ’e roars. “Jer think I got nothin’
ter do but feed a lot o’ loafin’ cows like
you?” We gits out; but nex’ mornin’ we
goes over t’ the corner of ’is ’ome paddick
an’ starts diggin’ in the bank of the crick.
After a bit we sees old ’Ungry startin’
orf f’r the township in a fine
noo sulky. Suddenly ’e spots
Bill shiftin’ gravel like a steam
shovel, an’ comes drivin’ up like
mad. I’m busy pannin’ a dish
o’ dirt, an’ as soon as ’e sees
me ’e ’ops outa the sulky,
rushes down an’ roars “Wot
jer think yer doin’ ’ere?” “Jest
pannin’ out a bit o’ dust,” ses
I, giving the dish a swirl an’
showin’ a nice little “tail” o’
gold. Then ’e starts ter per-
form somethin’ scanderlus;
but w’en we shows ’im our
miner’s rights ’e cools down
an’ ses ’e don’t want no trouble,
an’ ’e don’t want ’is place tore
ter bits on ’im, an’ ’e’s willin’
ter give us twenty quid ter
clear out. We keeps on work-
in*, an’ bimeby Bill ses
“Chuck in the ’orse an’ sulky,
an’ we’ll trade with yer.” This
starts a argerment, but I goes
on with me pannin’, the old bloke keepin’
a sharp eye on me all the time. W’en e
sees the color showin’ in nearly every
dish ’e can’t ’old out no longer. “Damyer,
it’s a deal,” ses ’e. “Come on up ter the
’ouse.” We goes an’ elects the twenty
quid an’ drives orf with our turnout an’
erbout fifteen ’weights we still ’ad left
in the old shammy-leather bag.
BARGO RIVER.
The river in the dawning
Lies like a negress veiled—
Blue mists on black breast fawning
And over dark limb trailed.
In the hushed noons, warm waters
In lazy beauty swim,
Oh! rivers are earth’s daughters
Aglow from rim to rim.
But not dawn’s mists nor splendor
Of noon can ever light
The river like the tender
Brown eyes of soft-lipped night.
Like ghosts the shadows, bending,
Steal down to kiss the stream
Or stand like guards defending
Her wealth where jewels gleam.
A blue peak, far and splendid,
Leans o’er a nearer hill,
Spellbound, to see day ended
And night earth’s valleys fill,
Save where in green and yellow
And grey and brown the trees
Murmur in dusk-lights mellow
Like sweet and distant seas.
Peace goes by Bargo River,
Clasped hand in hand with night,
Making its dark breast quiver
Beneath her footsteps light.
Her skirts stir leaves and rushes
And, by a sigh beguiled,
A rock-bound torrent hushes
Its music, rough and wild.
As night grows each star brightens,
Its light a levelled spear,
And silence softly tightens
Her bonds since peace is here,
Moving where waters hidden
Rattle on river-bars,
Like hoofs of black steeds ridden
To meet the morning stars . . .
O Bargo River, shining
Beneath massed banks of gloom,
Into our souls you’re twining
The strength of peaks that loom,
The glamor of dark dawnings,
The charm of blue-eyed day,
Who flings aside night’s awnings
And bids the sunbeams play.
When silver lights the dawning
That lies so black and still,
As a dark beauty, yawning,
Stirs limbs, men’s hearts to thrill,
Life comes to every shallow,
To every deep and bar
Set in a misty halo
That daunts the morning star.
But not dawn’s dark, rich splendor
Of star and mist can light
The river like the tender
Brown eyes of soft-lipped night.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL, PAID UP .. £1,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITA!, 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A, Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1883.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwp.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (Vice-Chairman) ;
Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. ; James Kidd; Colin A. Sinclair; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET A
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gauler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends. Writ- To
Mar., Profit. 10 p.c. ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £i £, £,
1930.. 655,134 500,000 50,000 105,134 3,362,907
8J p.c.
1931.. 561,206 425,000 50,000 86,206 3,449,113
6 p.c.
1932.. 276,838 300,000 3,425,951
5 p.c.
1933.. 291,944 250,000 20,000 21,944 3,447,895
1934.. 274,024 250,000 20,000 4,024 3.451.919
1935.. 275,591 250,000 20,000 5,591 3,457,510
5i p.c.
1936.. 294,403 262,500 30,000 1,903 3,459,413
5} p.c.
1937.. 325,627 287,500 40,000 3,457,540
6 p.c.
1938.. 347,401 300,000 50,000 3,454,941
1939.. 351,245 300,000 50,000 1,245 3,456,186
1940.. 356,096 300,000 50,000 6,096 3,462,282
In the war of 1914-18, and again in the
slump of the early 1930’5, the Aus-
tralian trading banks were one of the
pillars of our financial strength. Mean-
while, our whole financial system, now
buttressed by a central bank which en-
joys growing power and prestige, has
gained much in strength and flexibility,
thanks largely to the trading banks and
the part they have played in shaping
monetary policy. For these and other
reasons, of which more is said later,
Australia is well equipped to finance a
vigorous war effort without fear of any
undue or serious inflation of the
currency.
Certainly the national effort cannot be
allowed to fail for want of the means of
payment. In this respect, the point
at which national exhaustion is reached
is not when the debt rises to any
given amount, as is often supposed,
but when essential war requirements out-
run the resources of outside borrowing
and production. It is this fundamental
truth that provides a silver lining to the
war clouds that now hang over the battle-
fields of Belgium and northern France,
and helps to provide a stubborn will to
resist, with faith in ultimate victory,
despite early military reverses. Further-
more, the full fighting strength of a demo-
Empire’s man-power, economic
and other resources cannot be effectively
developed in nine months, and it might
be another nine months or more before
our full fighting strength is reached.
Meanwhile, it is the duty of every citizen
to play his part in developing it.
The broad and immediate aims of the
Government are cheap and plentiful
money, the direction of investment into
essential and away from non-essential
production, and the conservation of our
overseas funds, especially dollars, in order
to pay for essential imports and other
things. Also, to prevent a runaway
movement in costs, legislative control of
internal prices has been introduced.
At the same time the Government has
continued to spend for war purposes in
growing volume, and appearances are that
it will have to keep on doing so. Early
in May Australia’s estimated war expen-
diture at home and abroad was figured
at over £110,000,000. That was before
it was decided to enlist another
division for service overseas. It is pro-
posed to raise £50,000,000 by local bor-
rowing and £36,000,000 by taxation,
leaving £26,000,000 apparently to be
found in London. Indications are that
the amount obtained from each source
will have to be substantially increased.
Thus far, however, the Government
has refrained from mopping up, by way
of taxes and open-market loans, all the
surplus money that has become available
through defence expenditure and better
prices for our chief exports, which have
been taken by Britain under contract.
Hence the growing liquidity of the bank-
ing system at the moment.
Here are the National’s balance-sheet
figures:
1935. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. £5,000,000 £5,000,000 £5,000,000
Notes .. .. 47,590 47,549 47,546
Kills, etc. . . 623,948 1,518,426 1,980,864
Free deposits.. 12,448,036 1 ~ nr „ r -„
Pixel deposits 24,601,379 j 44,0u7,5 ' 3 47 ’ u9 ‘ ,04,>
Liquid assets.. 14,549,672 16,433,644 21.338,473
Advances .. 31,182,973 36,403,779 35,405,87 L
Premises, etc.. . 1,292,644 1,392,312 1,433,394
Last term an expansion of £3,539,473 in
deposits and of £462,438 in bills payable
was accompanied by a contraction of
£937,908 in advances and a growth of
£4,904,829 in liquids. When the books
closed liquids amounted to 43 p.c. of
liabilities to the public as against 36 p.c.
a year earlier. Advances were equal to
74.5 p.c. of deposits compared with 82.6
p.c. in 1939, and the bank was holding
£5 17s. 3d. of the public’s money for
every pound of its own. It is a very
strong position, and the co. is obviously
well equipped to extend further its lend-
ing connections.
The spring in the year’s gross earnings
(£1,440,342) was £51,693. Including
£130,127 (up £7778) set aside for taxation,
exes. (£1,084,246) took £46,844 of the
increase, leaving the net result £4849
better at 7.1 p.c. on capital, compared
with 7, 6.9, 6.5, 5.8, 5.5 and 5.4 p.c.
back to 1934. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the
£356,096 of profit claimed was 4.2 p.c.
The div. was kept at 6 p.c.
The market, which notes that neither
the new war-time excess- nor the undis-
tributed-profits tax is likely to affect the
co., prices the f.-p. £lO shares at £l2 10s.
and the £8 shares paid to £5 at £6 3s.
At these prices the return is a shade
under 4.9 p.c. in each case on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. The net tangible backing is visibly
335. lOd. per pound of paid capital.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co. (S.A.)
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ Jg £ £
1930.. 13,101 10 p.c. = 9000 4101 45,367
1931.. 11,764 10 „ „ 9000 |
Provident fund, £lOOO I
1932.. 11,160 10 p.c. = 9000 2160 49,291
1933.. 10,213 10 „ „ 9000 1213 50,504
1934.. 12,210 10 „ „ 9000 7 „ nin r „ rl .
Provident fund. £l2OO { 2010 52,514
1935.. 12,186 10 p.e. = 9000 3186 55,700
1936.. 12,828 10 „ „ 9000 7 „ R9R „ , 9R
Provident fund, £lOOO J 2828 58,028
1937.. 11,337 10 p.c. = 9000 2337 60,865
1938.. 12,284 10 „ „ 9000 3284 64,149
1939.. 13,225 10 „ ~ 9000 1
Provident fund, £l2OO S 07,174
1940.. 13,786 10 p.c. = 9000 1 q Q r.i »,
Provident fund, £835 J 3951 71,12 °
As a steady dividend-payer this Adelaide
trustee co. has an excellent record. It
was formed 30 years ago with the bless-
ing of Elder, Smith and Co., and for the
last 22 of them shareholders have enjoyed
an uninterrupted 10 p.c. There has been
no issue of bonus scrip, the policy being
to keep the div. steady and offer those
on the register new shares as the busi-
ness expanded. These new issues, how-
ever, were in the nature of bonuses to
shareholders, because the scrip has always
commanded a high premium in the
market.
Earnings are derived from investment
of the co.’s own funds and from corpus
and other commissions in the trustee
section of the business.
At the end of March, the £90,000 of
paid capital had the support and assist-
ance of £71,125 of reserves, and there
was £3500 in a tax suspense account and
£731 coming to outsiders. The lot was
represented by freehold, etc., £67,104 (up
£79); Government securities, £87,875
(down £1202); advances, £9925 (up
£5125); cash, etc., £5787 (up £789).
Three years ago, when the co. had
practically nothing invested in bricks and
mortar, its own funds were turning in a
shade over 10 p.c. on capital. Mean-
while, the trustee section of the business
has continued to expand, and last year’s
income from all sources—returns from
each section of the business are not now
separated in the published accounts —
stepped up £2068:
Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Exes. Gross.
1919.. £3,217,760 £11,212 £7,671 68.4 p.c.
1931.. 10,546,284 40,502 28,738 70.9 „
1932.. 11,124,002 40,252 29,092 72.2 „
1933.. 11,614,705 39,496 29,283 74.1 „
1934.. 12,276,708 41,034 28,824 70.2 „
1935.. 12,509,078 43,395 31,209 71.9 „
1936.. 12,950,598 43,952 31,124 70.8 „
1937.. 13,701,443 46,496 35,159 75.6 „
1938.. 13,791,547 47,207 34,923 73.9 „
1939.. 13,992,312 50,874 37,649 74.0 ~
1940.. 14,088,070 52,942 39,156 73.9 „
Exes, (up £1507) were proportionately a
shade lighter, leaving the net return £561
better at 15.3 p.c. on capital as against
14.7, 13.6, 12.6, 14.2 and 13.5 p.c. back
to 1935. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
and looks like remaining at that level
for the current term.
The present scale of direct war-time
taxes is not likely to bite very deeply into
earnings—last term’s profit was 8.5 p.c.
on capital and reserves combined, and
over 65 p.c. of the year’s net earnings
was distributed.
At 12s. 6d. (13s. a year ago) the pound
shares paid, to ss. return 4 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The backing is Bs. lid.
in net tangibles.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
r- Di vi dends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Loss. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
1930.. 61,359 16,374 8 p.c. = 40,000 4,985 286,010
Reserve adjustment, £25,500.. .. 260,510
Loss.
1931.. 20,806 16,374 Nil 223,330
Reserve adjustment, £4500 .. .. 218,830
1932.. 37.652 Nil Nil 181,178
Capital assets reserve, £16,800 .. 197,978
1933.. 19,391 Nil Nil 178,587
Feb.,
Capital assets reserve, £10,868 .. 189,455
1934.. 7,390 Nil Nil 182,065
Unexplained reductions, £2885 .. 179,180
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £1792 .. 177,383
Profit. 51 p.c.
1935.. 2,642 15,123 Nil 164,907
To Staff vVelfare Reserve, £lOl7 .. 163,890
5 p.c.
1936.. 54,341 54,011* 5 p.c. = 27,018 137,202
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £385 .. 136,817
Added Tax Reserve, £2OOO .. .. 138,817
6 p.c.
1937.. 60,025 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,229 150,046
Profit sale property, £827 .. .. 150,873
Written off Target Woollen Mills
account, £16,734 134,139
1938.. 61,564 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 12,768 146,907
1939.. 62,005 16,374 6 „ „ 32,422 13,209 160,116
Net addition tax reserve, £30,000.. 190,116
1940.. 60,003 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,207 201,323
* Includes £40,367 of arrears paid by issue of ord.
scrip.
Sales continued to expand, and so did
the gross profit therefrom, especially dur-
ing the last half of the term, when Gov-
ernment spending on defence and better
prices for most of our exports bumped
up bank deposits and created easy-money
conditions. Also, retailers’ sales got
some benefit from wage-lifts in the pre-
vious term, employment being main-
tained at a high level. The improvement
in the co.’s gross earnings (£414,722) was
£35,183. The wages bill was bigger, of
course, and costs generally continued to
climb. But it was the announcement or
the increased demands of the taxgatherer
to help finance Australia’s war effort that
caused the slight shrinkage of £2002 in
last term’s net earnings. The allowance
for taxation was £50,000 (up £30,000)
and the provision for depreciation
£16,770 (up £1397).
The £60,003 of profit that remained
was sufficient to pay the prefs. their full
contract rate of 6 p.c. and show a wink
over 8 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 8.4, 8.1 and 8 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding years. The div. was kept at 6
p.c., and, subject to the unexpected, looks
like remaining steady for the current
term, though net earnings may contract
a little.
It was mainly to meet 1939-40 increase
from 13.8 d. to 2s in the pound in the
rate of company tax that last year’s extra
provision was made. There has not yet
been any further increase in this rate.
The co. is unlikely to be hit by the pres-
ent incidence of war-time profits tax or
by the undistributed-profits tax. The
sales tax, which has been lifted from 6
p.c. to 8 1-3 p.c. (Id. in the shilling), and
war savings campaign may, however,
affect turnover, and competition, partly
from chain stores which have set up
near by, isn’t likely to lose any of its
keenness.
In anticipation of rising prices, the
management has built up stocks. Pro-
vided these prove the right kind of goods,
they should be a source of strength as
far as earnings are concerned. Here is
the position as balance-sheet figures
show it:
1932. 1936. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £772,902 £813,269 £813,269 £813,269
Liabilities . . 390,054 337,823 333,341 382,740
Property . . 731,386 723,352 727,285 728,044
Plant, etc ... 163,320 145,427 129,739 118,125
Stocks . . 399,943 362,370 348,266 456,462
Hook debts . . 36,716 79,961 93,061 105,223
Cash, etc. . . 12,709 11,024 32,772 13,876
To carry an extra £108,196 of stocks,
which are certified in excellent condition,
add £12,162 to debtors’ balances, and
clip £20,000 off the mortgage (£237,000),
the co. went to its bankers for £28,988
on overdraft and increased the amount
coming to sundry creditors (£116,752)
by £40,411. Cash, etc., was drawn upon
for £18,896. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£192,821,
including stocks) was £52,063.
In pre-slump days, Foy’s used to be a
steady 15 p.c. proposition. But those
times have gone, and aren’t likely to re-
turn.
Since the beginning of 1940, the f.-p.
pound shares have fluctuated between
17s. and 16s. in the market. At 16s. 3d.,
the price last week-end, the return is 7.3
p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
at 19s. yield 6.3 p.c. The net tangible
cover is £3 14s. 4d. prefs. and 275. sd.
ords.
Northcote Brick Co., Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re— Re—
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 13,198 10 p.c. = 15,000 48,172
Loss.
1931.. 1,858 2} „ „ 3,750 42,564
1932.. 2,530 Nil 40,034
Profit.
1933.. 3,181 If p.c. = 2,500 681 40,715
1934.. 8,846 5 „ „ 7,500 1346 42,061
1935.. 14,398 8J „ „ 13,125 1273 43,334
1936.. 9,375 6i „ „ 9,375 43,334
1937.. 9,591 61 „ „ 9,375 216 43,550
1938.. 15,861 8| „ „ 13,125 2736 46,286
1939.. 11,532 74 „ ~ 11,250 282 46,568
Depreciation reserve disappears, £BOOO.. 38,568
1940.. 11,156 74 p.c. = 11,250 38,474
There has been no lift in the Melbourne
price of standard bricks (68s. per 1000)
for 18 months now, which means that
these brick cos. have had to look to ex-
panded turnover and/or increased effi-
ciency to offset rising costs. Over the last
decade the value of building permits


A/OT MAA/-POH/FR
AIOA/F...
POUNDS, SHILLINGS AND
PENCE A VITAL FACTOR
We are fighting for our very lives . . . for the safety of
our homes, the security of our businesses, the future of our
children. Unless we win this War, your savings may be
worth nothing, and this War cannot be won by man-
power alone. Money is the most vital of all munitions.
By lending your savings to the nation you make possible
man-power, munitions, machinery, aircraft and the sup-
plies indispensable to the efficiency of our fighting forces.
You sacrifice nothing by invest-
ing in War Bonds (Your security
is Australia itself and your
interest is guaranteed by the
Government of Australia) —but
you sacrifice a great deal in
true citizenship if you with-
hold your savings. Without
money there can be no victory.
DO YOUR SHARE.
m
mm
■■
mm
m.
ms
: ss
mm
II
*
m
■
si
wmm
: : mi:
M
l!l»l#
v ' N %s% ■ s
The Loan closes
not later than
14th June, 1940
but the Trea-
surer reserves
the right to close
at an earlier date.
£20,000,000 is asked for, and the terms are 2f% for 5 years, repayable 1945,
or 3\% for 10-16 years, repayable 1950-56. Subscriptions may be paid by
instalments. Apply to any Bank, Money Order Post Office oi Stockbroker.
T
A
LET YOUR MONEY FI
N
A
a
A
G-HT FOR. AUSTRALIA
issued in Greater Melbourne for dwell-
ings of all types has behaved this way:
Year to Year to
T m X ' M m?!\ jerTsfes " 15
1932.. 1,429,431 17 1938.. 8,451,216 103
1934.. .3,896,064 48 1939.. 8,572,486 105
1936.. 6,984,180 8 5 i 940.. 8,560,888 104
, , ,
In the whole metropolitan area there are
sume 14 cos to share the trade, which
some i* cos. io snare me uauc, wi
last term was maintained at a level only
fractionally lower than the previous
year’s post-depression and all-time peak,
T-,- „ £ ,4,,
Competition is therefore keen, and de
livery costs, which are charged to the
buyer on a mileage basis, are an import-
ant factor determining sales.
The Northcote works are at Northcote,
on the north side of the Yarra. The
co. gets its fair share of city business,
though steel-and-concrete structures now
figure more prominently here than they
used to, and ownership of approximately
a third of the capital in other concerns
at Blackburn, Auburn and Oakleigh pro-
vides an interest in the trade on the
other side of the river.
Last term a larger slice of business came
the management’s way, and gross earn-
ings, including £6695 received from in-
vestments (disclosed for the first time),
improved £2387 to £17,955. But pro-
vision of an extra £1559 for depreciation
(£2122) and £586 for taxes, etc. (£1732),
left the declared net result practically
unaltered at £15,156, or a trifle less than
the unchanged 7j p.c. div. called for.
During the year the depreciation re-
serve was struck off plant, etc., resulting
in a net reduction of £9346 in the book
va W t H e whlrh ic rpnnrfprt in
A lf ie nem, wnicn is reported in
first-class order:
1927. 1936. 1939. 1940.
paid capital £ a6o)ooo £1&0 ,ooo £lS o,ooo £150,000
Liabilities .. 4,823 2 205 2 317 6,747
Freeholds .. 88,230 90,’021 88,073 87,425
riant, etc. .. 34,725 36,951 40,936 31,590
Stocks .. 2,447 1,888 2,189 5,105
Book debts .. n,B6i 4,055 6,934 12,861
shares other cos. 36,36 i 41,821 44,321 44,321
oash > ete - • • 33 > 060 24 > 552 23 > 932 21 > 419
Finances are obviously snug. The bigger
trading is apparent in the additions of
£2916 to stocks and £5927 to debtors'
balances, to carry which the co. added
£4430 to the debt rather than raid its
£21,419 holding of Consols,
Since the beginning of 1940 building
activity has been surprisingly well main-
tained in the Yarra city, and “we are
selling bricks as fast as we can make
them,” chairman Sewell reported at last
month’s meeting. The coal strike, how-
ever, has set the co. back a bit, and with
some doubt as to the future the market
prices the pound shares at 18s. lOd. as
against 21s. a year ago. At 18s. lOd. the
yield is a trifle over 8 p.c. on a p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible backing is
visibly 255. Id.
The Second War Loan
Right in front of the Commonwealth
Bank in Sydney last week Martin-place
was thronged with people, and on a
crowded dais young men were pressing
forward patiently and determinedly to
collect enlistment papers. A stream of
them passed down off the platform and
strode to the recruiting office further up
Martin-place. It was a sober but in-
cnirlntr cp P nf>
P T Tu r' Ul , .*
In the Commonwealth Bank itself the
terms of Australia s second war loan
were being discussed. Outside the man-
power was coming forward voluntarily;
inside, arrangements were being made to
enlist the money, also voluntarily. And
in the whole picture the struggle in
France and Flanders, and the further
struggles that might occur, were upper-
most in everyone’s mind.
The war is on now in no uncertain
shape. The organised forces of Germany
are a threat to every part of the Empire,
Only by counter-organisation can the
Empire resist the onslaught. And, since
resist it must, the sooner the counter-
organisation starts to work at full pres-
sure the better it will be.
Australia must organise its man-power
and money-power. After much prepara-
tion and deliberation a Commonwealth
financial policy has been evolved which
recognises the fact that we must pay, so
far as possible, out of current income
and that a minimum of the expenditure
™ ust be def « red ( b V the expedient of
f"™" 1 "®;, t
t 94 0 < to ralse £36,000 000) have
airead >' b “" announced and they were
n 0 h f ™ r ,han expected. Now the
second Commonwealth war loan has
been offered to the public in order to
P rov ide the first portion of the
£50 ,000,000 of loan money to be asked
f or j n res p e ct of 1940-41. It is essential
that this loan be fully subscribed,
Until recently the yield available from
liste d Consolidated loans had been falling
steadily. At one stage it fell to an aver-
age over all issues of £3 Is. 7d. per cent.
In t he uncertainty on the Stock Ex-
changes that has followed the deep thrust
G f the Germans into Holland, Belgium
and France Consols have been much
steadier than shares. Though the steadi-
ness may have been due in some measure
to the controlling efforts of the Treasury,
it still goes to show the extent to which
the Government’s powers can go in this
direction—even without conscription of
capital, as in Britain—and it should help
to make the investor confident that,
taking excess-profits and other tax
measures into account also, the essential


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
(J England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
capitalist in our present crisis —the sub-
scriber to Consols—shall be as well
looked after as any other type of in-
vestor.
It is imperative that our war effort
go forward unhindered by a badly-
balanced economy, and that Consols be
kept attractive in the eyes of investors.
We cannot have equality of sacrifice
without equality of investment yields and
profits, risks, etc., of different kinds
being taken into account. It may be
assumed, therefore, that no potential in-
vestor in Consols will gain anything
by waiting. The following table,
which gives the history of Australian
borrowings since the climb out of de-
pression began, shows how interest rates
have progressively declined since war
began:
Term, Issue Interest, Return,
Date. Amount. Years. Price. P.c. P.c.*
7/11/’32 £8,000.000 10 Par 3$ £3/15/-
22/5/’33 8,461,000 9 Par 3J 3/15/
16/11/’33 10,316,000 10 £99/-/- 34 3/12/5
5/6/’34 12,234,000 14 98/10/- 31 3/7/8
20/11/’34 15,042,000 14 99/15/- 3 3/0/5
11/6/’35 12,500,000 14 99/10/- 3j| 3/8/5
26/11/’35 7,500,000 14 99/15/- 3J 3/15/5
,2/6/’36 9,000,000 15 98/10/- 3} 3/17/6
26/11/’36 7,500,000 15 97/10/- 3} 3/19/4
27/4/’37 7,500,000 11 99/5/- 35 3/19/1
30/11/’37 8,000,000 14 99/15/- 3$ 3/15/6
19/5/’3B 10.250,000 16 99/10/- 3$ 3/15/10
15/12/’3B 71,700,000 f 16 Par 35 3/17/6
21/2/’39 8,500,000 16 Par 35 3/17/6
14/6/’39 4,750,000 16 £99/-/- 35 3/19/2
—/6/’39 3,000,000 t 4 Par 34 3/10/-
—/11/’39 12,000,0001 3-5 Par 3i 3/10/
15/3/’4O 18,000,000 { J J" ff
—/5/’4O 20,000,000 { 5} 3/5/-"
* Including redemption. t Cash and conversion issue.
I Issue taken by central and/or other banks.
The last line in the table represents the
current loan offering of £20,000,000. A
five-year loan carries 2\ p.c. against 3|
p.c. from a similar offering in March ; a
10-16-year loan gives 3| p.c., against 3f
p.c. The greatest reduction in yield has
occurred in the short-term loan, down
12s. 6d. p.c. against a fall of 7s. 6d. p.c.
in the longer-term issue. There is no
guarantee, either, that these rates repre-
sent bedrock. It has been freely fore-
cast that a 3 p.c. borrowing rate is aimed
at, and if that is achieved a lower rate
on longer-term loans is a certainty, since
longer-term loans are the backbone of
our borrowing operations.
Soon after the outbreak of war the
Federal Treasurer spoke on the financial
aims of the Government. At that time
he said : —■
We learned some lessons from the last war,
when credit expansion was carried to excess by
most belligerent countries and even by Aus-
tralia. This excess was reflected in the spiral
of rising prices and costs, profiteering, indus-
trial unrest and in the burden on fixed in-
comes and also on salaries and wages which
lagged behind prices. Moreover, to undue
monetary expansion in the last war must be
attributed much of the economic instability of
the post-war period. It is the intention of the
Government to avoid these evils in Australia
as far as lies in its power.
The simple fact is that defence must be paid
for now with men and materials. No manipu-
lation can alter the burden. All that can be
done is to change its incidence. Credit ex-
pansion overdone is one of the easiest ways of
doing this, but its results are very different
to what its advocates believe. While wage- and
salary-earners suffer and savings are whittled
away, those engaged in trade inevitably profit
from the war, and the large investor protects
and increases his wealth by holding equities,
the value of which will rise as the purchasing
power of money declines. Not only is it unjust
in its incidence, but it brings repercussions
which are harmful to the whole economic life
of the community. For every undue expansion
we shall ultimately pay the price.
The borrowing programme at present
is a temperate one. It hasn’t been over-
done, and is being intelligently conducted,
acknowledgment being made of the
danger of credit inflation. There is also
acknowledgment that money must be
kept “healthy,” and that it must be
raised honestly and sensibly, and in
accord with the men and materials avail-
able. The war-time financial policy of the
Government has much to commend it,
and the present loan is part of that policy.
Therefore it deserves full support from
those able to support it.
Pungah Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Since the break in Australian share-
markets commencing May 14, there
has been a general fall of 15 p.c. in tin-
share values, despite an enhanced price
—now over £270 a ton —for the metal
in London. Speculation regarding Asian
developments has been partly responsible.
Floated in 1927, this Siam (or Thailand,
as the country is now called) producer
is the last and largest tin float of Austral
Malay, which has a 23 p.c. interest
(£98,917) in the £430,000 of capital
issued. The property is on the Pungah
River. Two steam-driven dredges are
owned, combined capacity 5,760,000 c.y.
annually; but that will be increased
when improvements now nearing com-
pletion on No. 2 plant have been effected.
At December 31, 1936, measured
dredging reserves were estimated at
37,167,000 c.y., averaging 0.831 b. t.o.
Deducting the 10,261,000 c.y. dug to the
end of last term, that leaves just short of
27,000,000 c.y., equal to eight years’ work
on last term's quota basis. That excludes
a substantial yardage of dirt between
40ft. and 50ft., where, however, there is
a limestone bottom. The tin-bearing
wash is overlain by some 15ft. of soft
clay and sand, and is for the most part
easy-dredging ; fuel and water are present
in adequate quantities.
Last year was a period of rising tin
prices and export quotas, which aver-
aged 73.75 p.c. of Pungah’s 1305-ton
assessment, excluding buffer-pool contri-
butions. Though values were lower, net
earnings (£94,732 stg.) almost doubled
after handing the Government £40,889
~“21.8 p.c. of gross revenue—in taxation
of one sort and another:
T . _ t —I—iSurplu 1 —iSurplus— , —Dividends —^
Dee Revenue. Amt.* Share. Share. Amt.
£122,627 £53,120 2/4 1/6 £32,250
1937 210,776 98.915 4/7 2/3 45!375
13 J’ 156 50,567 2/4 2/9 59,125
1939 197,640 94,732 4/5 2/9 59,125
After deducting depreciation—l 936, nil; 1937,
£2869; 1938, £5257; 1939, £2871.
Div., however, remained unchanged at
13£ p.c., giving an average distribution
over the last four years of lly p.c. Over
the same period £99,459 of profits has
been withheld to swell liquids.
Outstanding feature of operating results
is the manner in which recoveries have
consistently bettered borehole indica-
tions :
_ . . , 1937. 1938. 1939.
Cubic yards treated 3,769,000 3,068,000 3,424,000
T.o. yield (72 p.c.
assay), tons .. 1189.0 1121.6 1181.1
Av. per c.y., lb. . . 0.70 0.82 0.77
Recovery p.c. bores 105 109 108
Mine costs, c.y. .. 3.77 d. 4.08 d. 3.52 d.
Forward stg. av.
metallic tin, ton £240/18/—£ 189/18/11 £224/4/2
Current term has opened promisingly, the
first quarter’s production—s 23 tons t.o.
from 1,283,000 c.y.—showing a mine
surplus of £58,680 stg. A 2s. div. has
already gone out.
The market prices Pungah’s pound
shares at 235., as against 30s. earlier
in the year. At Dec. 31 the co. had
liquids, including £19,729 in stores, etc.,
amounting to £174,313 and owed only
£1997. Fixed assets appear at £413,455.
Reopening of Mt. Chalmers, formerly
the big Fitzroy mine outside Rockhamp-
ton (C.Q.), is still hanging fire. Appli-
cations have been pouring in from miners
for registration, but there is some hitch
over the formality of raising capital.
Because it may be one of the bigger pro-
ducers of copper in Australia the pro-
posed reopening is blessed in official
quarters. The stopes extend to 400 ft. in
depth. Around No. 2 level the width
of ore reaches 100 ft., values around 3 p.c.
copper and 4dwt. gold. Plans show that
No. 3 and No. 4 horizons contain large
bodies of ore, and the old co.’s records
indicate half a million tons of average
low-grade stuff.
* * * *
West Imperial, Charters Towers (N.Q.),
one of the old outside mines, has come
into production with useful small crush-
ings that look like swelling. It started
in 1939 with a preliminary canter of
41 tons for 30oz. gold; a recent 36 tons
from the same stopes on the 150 ft. level
gave 15dwt. a ton. A larger shoot is
being opened up at 375 ft., but the
first crushing of 110 tons here aver-
aged only 3dwt. However, driving is
expected to bring in the shoot of higher-
grade ore from the upper levels, which
is trending diagonally in depth. The walls
are good, and a sprinkling of sulphide is
coming in along the bottom level, tokens
which are not unfavorable.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) stands like the
rock of Gibraltar in the gold group,
quotes for the 2s. shares having moved
no more than 6d. or 9d. about 235. for
weeks. Div. for 1939 stays at 100 p.c.,
and better is looked for when the new
7000-tons-a-month mill on the Croesus
block starts up around August. Lower-
grade ore is being crushed from the main
mine these days, but, despite a heavier
call for development, the average
monthly surplus shows little variation
from the full 1939 experience.
* * 4= *
The Gt. Boulder (W.A.) board has
issued two circulars. One (B. 22/5/’4O)
appeals to shareholders for support in
the fight for control, which is stated to
have cost the co. over £BOOO to date.
The other mentions treatment during the
first quarter of 1940 of 113,798 short
tons of ore for an estimated revenue
(after deducting Federal gold tax) of
£A255,454. Working costs, including
ordinary development, aggregated
£165,736, leaving a surplus of £89,718.
Special development absorbed £13,053,
and plant £4847. In all 6414 ft. of de-
velopment and 6410 ft. of diamond-
drilling were done, several important ex-
posures of ore in new ground resulting.
Tributing ceased at the end of January,
with the exception of one tribute in the
sulphide zone. Incidence of the new
British and Australian taxation is said
to have caused a great deal of anxiety;
it is estimated to reach a figure “seri-
ously handicapping the legitimate expec-
tations warranted from the excellent
position to which the co. has been
brought.” “Consideration,” however, “is
being given to the best method of pro-
tecting shareholders’ interests.” A first
interim for 1940 of 3d. stg. is payable on
June 28.
* * * *
With shareholders’ approval, Ora
Banda Mines has changed its name to
Sterling Gold Mines to avoid confusion
with other Ora Banda (W.A.) shows. A
report by R. McKeown confirms opti-
mistic reports from the co.’s supervisor
and manager.
* * * *
For the fourth time in its chequered
history Lancefield (W.A.) has closed
down, and for a fourth time miners, their
effects and their dependants have gone
with the wind. Tradespeople are pre-
paring to follow suit. This time falls of
rock at depth brought disaster. The
property was first worked 40 years ago
by a local syndicate and then by a
London co. floated by Herbert Hoover
and others. The shoot was long and
wide, but refractory ore made treatment
unprofitable. After two reconstructions
and much capital expenditure this co.
gave up. Later a syndicate of Golden
Mile mining men got a little wealth out
of the mine until an arbitration award
froze them out. The co. at present in
possession has paid over 7s. 6d. in divs.
on its 45.-paid shares, and is stated to
have another shilling or two a share in
hand.
* * * *
Reduction in Norseman’s June quarter
div., the first in which the share-issue
of October last participates, from Is. to
6d. per share is ascribed to a tying-up
of profits in reserve stores and plant
spares. A contributing factor has been a
slip of £9300 in the working surplus com-
pared with the same period of the pre-
ceding year, despite 30 p.c. increase in
mill throughput, mostly from the low-
grade Iron King block. Late delivery of
a new power unit, however, has pre-
vented the management taking full
benefit of its mill extensions, so some
improvement in results can be looked for
later. The ss. shares have slumped from
20s. lOd. to 12s. 6d. since the beginning
of the year, around which they appear
worth watching.
* * * *
Copeland Mines (W.A.) reports a
change in management. The late man-
ager recommended purchase of a £7500
plant, and, when the board declined to
incur this outlay, resigned. A successor
has been appointed, and K. J. Finucane,
consulting engineer, asked to report on
the property.
* * * *
Results of Ora Banda Amalgamated,
Ora Banda (W.A.), for the 12 months to
December:
IQQQ noon
Revenue £77,583 £76,405
Profit 17,948 20,478
Diva. 10,000' 20,000
Milled, tons .. .. 19,080 18,900
Gold, oz 8,666 8,112
Dwt. per ton .. .. 9.07 8.57
Recovery, p.e 89.3 88.1
All-in costs .. .. 62/6 59/-
The £2530 extra profit shown reflects the
higher price of gold and reduction of
3s. 6d. a ton in costs, which it is hoped to
lower further. Despite extractions, posi-
tive ore is now calculated 2500 tons
stronger at 30,000 tons, and a drilling
campaign has been put in hand in a
quest for parallel lodes at depth. Though
throughput (now 24,000 tons p.a.) has
expanded, the Bdwt. valuation placed on
reserve ore suggests that maintenance of
quarterly 3d. divs. may not be easy.
* * * *
Yellowdine, brightest star in the De
Bernales Westralian golden firmament,
has declared another div. Since com-
mencement of production in May, 1936,
over £ A 1,014,000 of gold has been won,
and shareholding cos. have received
£A532,118. Wealth in sight is declared
substantial.
* * * *
With Commonwealth production of
the red metal falling short of war-time
requirements, the S. Aus. Government
has been approached to reopen what is
left of the State’s old coppermines. It
has declined, but, through the Mines
Department, is prepared, where circum-
stances warrant, to grant financial assist-
ance towards development necessary to
enable a mine to enter upon reasonably
continuous production. Large-scale pos-
sibilities of the old Daly or Lyndhurst
mine, near Yudnamutana, have been the
subject of Mines Department investiga-
tion ; the overall 1 p.c. grade of ore in-
dicated by sampling, however, is reported
too low to offset the disadvantages of
location. Moreover, values are of
irregular occurrence, and there are treat-
ment difficulties, the better parts being
amenable to neither gravity concentration
nor flotation. To date the State’s copper
production has been worth over
£33,000,000, of which the 1914-18 con-
tribution was £3| millions. A post-war
slump followed, and the industry has been
practically dead since 1923, last year’s
output amounting to only 110 tons.
* * * *
B.H. Prop.’s Marulan (N.S.W.) and
Melrose (Tas.) dolomite fields may be
challenged by Port Gibbon, Spencer’s
Gulf (S.A.), as a source of the co.’s re-
fractories and fluxes. Mines Depart-
ment reports indicate the possibility of
1,000,000 tons of dolomite ore being
obtained by opencut down to 50ft. Mag-
nesium is obtained from dolomite, and,
with aluminium, is needed for aircraft
construction.
* * * *
Tongkah Compound, N.L., and its sub-
sidiary No. 2 and No. 3 cos. will each
hand out a shilling a share next month.
The pups’ distributions will be worth
£4834 to the parent, and to some extent
offset its own poor dredging results this
term. Nos. 4 and 5 cos., the latter still
inoperative, are now the only non-
contributors to the pool.
* * * *
Things are done in a big way on the
Rand. Interesting facts on last year’s
operations:
1938. 1939.
Tons milled . . . . 53,834,150 58,340.200
Gold (fine ounce) . . 11,839,077 12,352,099
Grade (dwt. ton ) .. 4.349 4.234
Revenue .. .. £83,412,856 £92,126,373
Per ton . . . . 31/- 31/7
Working costs . . . . £51,724,900 £56,609,412
Per ton . . . . 19/3 19/5
Per ounce . . . . 87/5 91/8
Working profit. . .. £31,687,956 £35,516,961
Per ton . . . . 11/9 12/2
Dividends .. .. £17,207,368 £19,903,321
Crown Mines, one of the biggest pro-
ducers, netted £1,868,398 stg. after pay-
ing £1,229,902 in taxation, and handed
shareholders a 190 p.c. div. Its crushings
(4,029,000 tons) came only 66,000 tons
short of Westralia’s total millings for the
same period.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
L.H.: (1) Co. has not yet reached the bonus-
paying stage, but should be in a position to
meet its policy liabilities as they fall due. (2)
Impossible to say without getting actual quotes
from the office. Surrender value is not likely
to be very attractive... .F.0.G.: At law the
co. could enforce fulfilment of the contract;
but as you have no wish to carry on payments
suggest you sit tight. Instalments already paid
are not recoverable G.8.L.: (1) First co.
mentioned handles forestry bonds exclusively,
outlook for which generally is uncertain and
which have no open market. (2) General invest-
ment is more safely done through a member
of one of the recognised Stock Exchanges
P.8.E.: The currency has a uniform value
throughout the Provinces.


SMOKE-OH!
“Australians eat half an apple a day.”
— ‘‘S. M. Herald.”
This keeps half the doctors unhappy.
*£• *£•
“The careful housewife can always make
something out of her scraps.” — Women’s paper.
Yes, if she’s victorious she can usually
manage to get a new hat for herself.
■J.
Application.
“Waitress, full, semi, or f, must be smart.”
— Advt.
Dear sir,—A lot of other girls will be
riting to you about this position and
some of them will be full, too, but I
never been full yet, although I worked
at 14 hotels. I don’t know what you
mean by semi but if it is the same as
underthings I am s.w. in wastes and
wouldn’t want much money only £2 a
week. At my last place the boss used
to tell me I wasn’t \ a waitress but
he was a terrible man. I hope you will
be satisfyed with me because I am going
up to Lake Boga next week unless you
do and I don’t know what the addres is
perhaps it’s just Lake Boga hotel. I
would like to start Monday.—Yours
Truely,
Em Eight.
4* 'f* 'b 4*
“Although the effect of the lecture was spoilt
by the coughing all over the hall, the collection
was a good one.” — “D.T.”
In short, they coughed, and then
coughed up.
•b b b b
“Over 500 bottles of liquor in fishing club.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
The bait attracted the members but it
was the cops who made the catch.
b b b b
“What do the words ‘decree nisi’ mean?”
asks correspondent.
Freedom, and half your week’s salary
in alimony.
4* 4* 4* 4*
By the time Hollywood film magazines
are allowed to enter this country again
talkie-fans will be half a dozen marriages
behind in their stars’ biographies.
b b b b
Cause and Effect.
“How often do we speak for the sake of
effect only?”— Women’s paper.
This is what he said to his host when
they arrived: “All my fault. I got home
late, but my wife and the kiddies were
ready, so I had dinner and then we came
“There you are—now look what you burleyed up.”
straight over. Oh, yes, she’s a great
little woman; always has my clothes
ready laid out for me . . . yes, a good
cook, too.”
And, of course, what went on at home
was: “Great Scott, woman, haven’t you
got the kids ready yet? Here I come
home an hour earlier to give us plenty
of time and I have to set-to help
bath the youngsters . . . And where’s my
clean shirt? Oh, so I haven’t got one!
. . . ’Struth, d’you expect a man to eat
this muck? . . . Good heavens, have I
to get the car out just to go over to
the Jenkses’? Can’t you walk a paltry
three blocks? . . . That’s right, start
howling!”
E.
“Wrestler marries dancer.” — News item.
From headlock to wedlock.
b b b b
“Few women make their mark as painters.'
—Art critic.
Except in the shape of Cupid bows.
bb b b
“Married men should be made rings
to distinguish them from bachelors.”
—Women s paper.
Aren’t those under their eyes sufficient
indication?
b b b b
“Men can knit as well as women.”
—“ World’s News.
Sox equality.
bb b b
“A Melbourne tram was so crowded that a
standing passenger fell in a faint. ’
He’d have been luckier had he got the
following tram, which was so packed
there wasn’t room to fall.
b b b b
He was only a cardsharp, but he went
to the pack when his wife presented him
with four of a kind.
“Prizes offered for essays on
apples.”
The entry of Granny
Smith was a Pippin, full
of Delicious quips, but
that of Cleopatra was a
real Rome Beauty, and
might have won if Jona-
than, who’d had too much
Cider, hadn’t declared it
to be a perfect pome. It
just shows what a Crab
he is.
Cran'fer Does His Bit.
“Apples as car fuel.” —“ Sunday Telegraph.”
A disadvantage is that you’re likely to
get the pip because the engine may be-
come seedy.
Please Return.
Give me again those lips I prize
Above all treasures in the world.
Give me again those lustrous eyes
To gaze in, while my soul is whirled
In rapture to a starry plane.
Give me again that vow so true.
But, most of all, give me again
The cash I’ve squandered over you!
T. W. NATHAN.
Discord.
Softly you sang a sweet love-song
Under a mellow moon.
After we wed it wasn’t long
Before you changed your tune.
PATON.
Righteous Indignation.
She confronted her husband with
flashing eyes. “If that’s what you
think,” she cried, “the sooner we
separate, the better!”
“I’m not accusing you,” he said
harshly. “I’m just telling you that I
don’t like the way you and young Martin
look at each other.”
“You suspicious beast! ” she hissed. “I
suppose you’re carrying on with other
women and you can’t understand any-
one being decent. You judge everyone
by your own low standards. How dare
you suggest there is anything between
Martin and me!”
Her voice choked ; it was a minute
before she could continue. “I’ve been a
good wife to you—and this is all the
thanks I get. Oh, why, why did I marry
you? To think that I should have linked
myself with such a suspicious”
Here he rose, jammed on his hat, and
marched out. She waited a few moments,
her breast heaving. Then she went to
the ’phone and dialled a number.
“Hullo,” she said. “That
you, Martin? Listen —
we’ll have to be more
careful. That old cow’s
beginning to wake up to
us!”
T. W. N.
“Of Mice and Men.”
“N.S.W. has had plagues of mice before and
doubtless will have them again. They come in
cycles.”— “D.T.”
Time was when the armies of field
mice used to march on foot to their
destinations. You could see them ad-
vancing across the paddocks in massed
formation, deploying when the wheat
stacks came in sight, and employing
echelon formation only if it was sus-
pected that there would be a battalion
of cats waiting in ambush to mop them
up. After they had cleaned up every
stack they’d march, following the
Napoleonic axiom, on their stomachs;
they had to, for they were so dis-
tended by their blowout, especially when
they had a drink straight after it, that
their legs wouldn’t reach the ground.
But time marches on. Mechanisation
rapidly followed. It soon became one
of the sights of our outback to see several
million mice pedalling furiously over
fallow and stubble, grassland and out-
crop. Those who couldn’t learn to bal-
ance on cycles themselves or who got
punctures coming over the bindi-eyes
double-banked on the backs of their
fellow-mice.
I well remember the last time I struck
a plague of them. Talk about coming in
cycles! It was down in the southern
N.S.W. wheatbelt, out Tarcutta way.
My uncle had evolved a scheme to over-
come the recurring mice
menace, and had secured
permission to try it out
around the district’s great
stack of bagged wheat.
His idea was to sur-
round the stack with pipes
from a refrigerator plant
which he had set up. These
pipes were made of a
metal capable of absorb-
ing the fumes from very
strong cheeses. My job
was to burn old cheeses and to put into
barrels the fumes that arose from them.
By means of a rubber tube leading from
the bung I then introduced the fumes
into the refrigerator pipes. The fumes
were thus solidified.
My uncle’s theory was that the maraud-
ing mice would have to pass the pipes
on their way to the stack of wheat. One
sniff of the cheese, however, which would
permeate the surrounding atmosphere
owing to the porosity of the pipes, would
hold them glued to it, for cheese is vastly
more attractive and appetising to a mouse
than any grain. If, after a time, the
mice, frustrated and angered, decided to
have a go at the wheat, their whiskers,
frostbitten, would have lost their sen-
sitiveness and they would therefore be in-
capable of feeling their way to the stack.
Should any by some means succeed in
reaching the grain, their tongues, numbed
in their vain attempt to lick the cheese
from the frozen pipes, would not be able
to taste the wheat and, puzzled, they
would leave.
I had heard from various bushmen at
the Lumpers’ Arms, the wayside shanty
pub I was stopping at on the Tarcutta-
Mundarlo road, that the latest cycles the
mice were coming in were petrol-driven.
They had also side-cars in which the
young ones were stacked. This may seem
far-fetched, but I can vouch for its
accuracy.
Because of having to go straight from
firing the boilers of the refrigeration
plant to pumping the cheese fumes into
the ice-cold pipes I developed a heavy
cold. It got so heavy, in fact, and my
cough so hollow that when I barked
the reverberations were lost somewhere in
my inside. When I got home from the
stack one Saturday afternoon old
Moloney, who owned the pub, kindly
said he’d give me something to cure it
in double-quick time. The ingredients
would cost me only a few pounds.
It was just on dusk the following even-
ing that I thought of my uncle’s Mice
Scarer-off. If the pipes had lost their
refrigeration the hordes of rodents might
well have eaten the whole stack.
As I got out into the open air I saw
a strange sight. Mice by the thousands
were swarming out of a huge hole they had
apparently dug under the bowser at the
side of the pub. Dripping wet, they
were streaming across to hundreds of
motor-cycles parked where the kerb
should have been. Then my eyes nearly
popped out as I saw each wet mouse
being wrung out by two of his fellows
over the open petrol tank. Fascinated, I
watched as, Moloney’s subterranean tank
at last dry, the mice screwed the tank
caps on and kicked over the starting
levers with a concerted roar that shattered
a near-by coolabah.
I had to leap aside as the cycles all
began to come at me. Perhaps the mice
were after their revenge for my efforts to
prevent their getting at the wheat! With
a strangled yell I made for the door of
the pub, shrieking at the top of my voice
for helpers as I tried to beat off the
hordes. I just remember dashing through
the swing doors as a hundred cycles,
ridden by . mice with hideous faces, tore
up my chest and over my face. But my
callings were in vain, for apparently
Moloney was busy ejecting some
obstreperous customer. I distinctly heard
his “Give us a hand to get this stupid
blankard up to bed again, Terry—he’s
got the dingbats proper this time! ”
I left the country the next day. Mice
in cycles are not in my line.
BO.


SECURITY FOR
1 YOUR SAVINGS...
Careful investors .will consider
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
which spreads funds over the
shares of 20 Companies.
; Custodian Trustees fori investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton-
Ltd.
• Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 W, G.P.Q., - SyDNCV
TELEPHONE: B 5294
Business, Rollery,etc.
The U.S.A. in Wonderland
G. F. Davidson, a Sydney businessman
with Cambridgei and Sydney ’Varsity
degrees, who has made a wide study of
finance (he is a brother to the banker),
in the following remarks tries to
probe into the heart of the problem
of the United States, a problem
that affects every country trading beyond
its own shores. Prosperity in America
has nearly always meant higher prices
for Australian exports overseas, and of
latter years the tone of business on Wall-
street has had rather an unjustified in-
fluence on Australian Stock Exchange
prices:
It is a disappointment to the entire globe
that U.S.A. unemployment remains a problem
after seven years of heroic effort under the “best
economists’ advice.” President Roosevelt’s first
Treasurer, Woodin, was a captain of industry;
the universities were combed to provide talent,
nicknamed the Brain Trust; money was spent
lavishly. There was no “wait and see” policy.
On the contrary, “try anything, and do it in
a big way,” seemed to be the watchword.
The failure indicates that the aim was wrong
fundamentally. The previous Administration,
Hoover’s, was no better. The 1929 crash on
Wall-street marked the early progress of a
decline which became disastrous in 1933,
just before Roosevelt took control. The root
of the trouble now seems to be connected
with the very low prices of farm products,
as can be seen from this table of index
numbers:
Cost of Hourly Farm
Year. Living. Wages. Prices.
1913 .. ..100 100 100
1919 .. .. 176 183 211
1929 .. .. 173 236 145
1939 (June) .. 142 275 88
The cost of living is low and the rate of
wages is high. Perhaps if wages had been
linked to the cost of living, as in Australia,
better conditions might have developed. The
amount of currency in circulation is very high
and still rising. There is a superabundance of
cheap credit.
In a huge country like the U.S.A. prosperity
should be possible without exports of magni-
tude. Yet the country’s world-record hoard of
gold has accumulated because exports have
been too large and imports too small. There
seems to be something wrong there.
Turning to farm products, the “rubber”
dollar —the States revalued gold in 1933—was
intended to raise the prices of basic commodi-
ties. It has failed permanently to do so within
U.S.A. It would seem that a great error was
made in raising the price of gold in terms of
dollars. If that price has been put too high,
then one would expect to see the world’s gold
streaming consistently to New York. Actually
such a ilow has gone on for years with such
strength that the rest of the world may be
drained nearly dry before the stream is re-
duced to reasonable volume.
Our forefathers regarded the streaming of
gold as an indication that something was out
of balance, requiring correction. America has
delayed responding to the indicator, and it may
therefore be expected that the cure will be
more difficult the longer it is delayed. The
hoard of gold is a heavy expense, and must
be dispersed sometime.
Maybe the rehabilitation of Europe after this
war can provide adequate scope for America’s
idle wealth, and presumably Sumner Welles has
had this problem as well as others in his mind.
But U.S.A. was very bold in lending money
to Central Europe after 1918, and lost heavily
thereby. We may be sure that every way of
investing American dollars outside U.S.A. is
being carefully studied. But that takes time.
One step, however, could be taken by Washing-
ton at once with advantage. Gold could be
minted and interest-bearing loans retired on
maturity in gold coin. Three benefits would
result, namely (1) the interest-bearing debt
would be reduced, (2) the hoard of gold would
be reduced, (3) this procedure would help to
unmask the true value of gold. . And the
greatest of these three is the last.
All that is necessary is to revive the right
of American citizens to own and trade in gold
freely. It is almost incredible that private
persons are prohibited from owning gold nearly
everywhere. The price of this metal has been,
for many years, held too low by the big buyers
who have granted themselves a “monopoly”
of it. It is in this way that the fair market
value of any commodity may be masked and
erroneous prices accepted.
Gold is of such importance in international
dealings that a wrong price for it may have
far-reaching effects. It is therefore high time
that an open market for gold be arranged
somewhere, since for 26 years its full degree of
freedom has been lost. U.S.A. is the only
country in the world where the official price is
stable and likely to remain so. It is there-
fore the right place to give the world a lead
in restoring the use of gold coins, which, inci-
dentally, should be defined in weight but not in
value Such a gold coin is our gold sovereign,
now officially quoted at £2 9s.
While the capacity of the American public
to absorb gold coins is being tested —and it
may be large—other countries will have time
to raise the price of gold in their own curren-
cies, each in a different degree to suit its own
economic well-being and thereby re-establish
equilibrium. The alternative, reducing the
price of gold in U.S.A., is supposed to be
politically impossible.
Even more curious than the gold hoard is
' that of silver, the monetary reserve of which
is put at $3,780,000,000, valued at $1.29 per
ounce —more than three times what it is worth
in the world’s markets! During 54 years before
the end of 1939 U.S.A. spent $1,233,000,000 for
silver, more than three-quarters of which was
purchased abroad at fancy prices. Evidently
some dehoarding is desirable. Meanwhile, the
position grows “curiouser and curiouser.”
War took heavy toll of sharemarkets
the world over last week. In New York
prices fell an average 23 p.c. below those
ruling before the German “push” into
the Low Countries and Northern France ;
it contrasts with Sydney’s 6 p.c. and
London’s 10 p.c. decline. Industrial-share
indices for the three capitals:
New
Sydney.* London.t York.f
May 9 .. 129.43 94.5 148.17
„ 18 .. 124.45 122.43
„ 20 .. 122.95 86.6 122.43
„ 21 .. 123.27 86.9 114.13
„ 22 .. 121.71 85.2 114.75
„ 23 .. 123.97 85.4 114.71
* Sydney Stock Exchange,
t “Financial Times.” t Dow Jones.
The Sydney and London recession was
largely psychological; American opinion,
in addition, was influenced by loss of
European markets and a growing realisa-
tion that its isolation was not nearly so
complete as supposed. In Australia, at
least, psychological reactions to war
bulletins can be expected to play a con-
siderably greater part than actual
economic conditions and profit prospects
in the determination of share values.
In Sydney the blow again fell heaviest
on Wednesday, and industrial prices
generally dived close to the 1939 “lows”
of August 25:
1940 May May May
High. 9. 22. 24.
A. .. 39/7 38/- 35/6 35/3
B. .. 51/6* 46/6 42/- 42/9
B. Tobacco 50/9 47/- 44/3 45/-
B. Philp .. 56/- 54/- 51/6 51/6
C. .. £s4f £s2£ £4B £474
Elec. Zinc.. 61/4 55/9 50/- 49/6
Felt & Tex. 43/6 42/- 35/9 36/3
G. MOrt .. 29/1 29/- 26/3 26/3
G.J. Coles.. 76/3 68/6 63/- 63/-
Mauri Bros. 70/- 66/9 65/- 65/-
Millaquin .. 46/- 45/- 42/3 42/-
Tooths .. 54/- 51/6 48/3 48/3
Woolworths 20/3 18/7 17/10 17/3
* Ex bonus basis.
Practically every market leader was
available shillings cheaper than a
fortnight earlier, and many people
were taking advantage of the fact.
Measured by the index, financial houses
and pastorals showed comparatively little
marking-down. Despite the continued
gravity of the war situation, Thursday
witnessed an appreciable upturn in values
that the markets were finding it a hard
struggle to hold at the week-end.
There has been a heavy shaking-out of
speculators from mining stocks. Though
tin lifted to above £270 in London —a
rise of £l5 a ton in a fortnight—Asian
stocks were affected as much as any.
Base-metals behaved this way:
1940 May May May
High. 9. 22. 24.
Mt. Lyell .. 34/6 31/2 25/6 25/3
New B.H. .. 23/1 15/10 13/1 13/3
Norths .. 48/3 42/6 36/ 35/9
Souths .. 30/- 26/4 23/6 23/4
Zinc Corp... 86/6 77/6 64/6
The severest relative falls occurred in
Lyell and Zinc Corp. The latter has
announced unchanged pref. and ord. divs.
in respect of 1939, while the increased
interim of the former may portend
a higher rate when the full year’s result
goes Up. At last week’s prices all base-
metal shares would have been considered
gift horses in ordinary circumstances.
* * * *
Mr. Menzies, announcing the appoint-
ment of B.H.P.’s Essington Lewis, who
should be the man for his most important
job:
The Director-General of Munitions
Supply will be freed from all hampering
regulations and will be given the utmost
authority, not only to get things done with
the existing Government machinery, but to
press into service civil factories or all or
any of the mechanical resources of those
factories.
There is a suggestion there of the belated
realisation that'“Business as Usual” is a
fallacious doctrine on which no modern
war can be successfully prosecuted, and
that industry will have to be comman-
deered as much, for example, as shipping.
The industrial switchover from a peace-
to a war-time economy in the past nine
months has been painfully slow, even
allowing for a shortage of skilled
operatives owing partly to the demands
of highly-mechanised fighting forces. But
the stage has now been reached when the
utmost available resources, human and
physical, must be thrown behind the
national effort; it will entail sharp con-
traction in the production of civilian
goods and services, and that means a
lowering of living standards, which have
suffered relatively little to date.
*** . *
Australia has much for which to thank
the B.H.P. But for tremendous expan-
sion of the big iron-and-steel and asso-
ciated enterprises at Newcastle and
Kembla (N.S.W.) of recent years the
national war effort would now be seri-
ously embarrassed. The nation will have
further cause for gratitude before hostili-
ties conclude. Recent major develop-
ments on the co.’s own accord are the
laying-down of shipyards, reported
capable of constructing up to 10,000 to
15,000-tonners, at Whyalla (S.A.), and
the proposed complete manufacture of
aircraft —it already has a fifth interest in
Commonwealth Aircraft Corp., Fisher-
men’s Bend (Melb.). Latest subsidiary
expansion affects Rheem Manufacturing
Co. (steel oil-drums), of Waterloo, Syd-
ney, while formation, in association with
Imperial Chemical Industries, of a new
chemical co. at Newcastle is projected.
Close co-operation already exists between
1.C.1. and B.H.P. As in the case of
Commonwealth Fertilisers and Chemicals
and Electrolytic Zinc, there is an ‘ un-
derstanding” that the Prop, shall have
the right to subscribe for 15 p.c. of any
cash share offers 1.C.1. may from time to
time make.
Investors did not let “Props.” stay long
at 425. last week. The accounts due
shortly may provide an inkling as to
whether current resources are likely to
be sufficient to provide for present and
projected expansion.
He H= * *
Colonial Sugar shows the result of
1939-40 operations in one line at
£1,103,744—up £98,074 to 9.4 p.c. on
capital—and an extra point, making
84 p.c., is tacked on to the div. Profit
was struck after adding £221,486 to
replacement and depreciation account
(£4,092,025) and £92,596 to suspense
accounts (£2,530,052), in both of which
is tucked away considerable hidden
strength. Though there was some reduc-
tion in Fijian output owing to hurricane
damage early, Queensland sugar produc-
tion shows a sharp increase as a result of
extension of acreage, favorable seasonal
conditions and introduction of improved
varieties of cane, while a better price
was had for the export surplus.
Half or more of C.S.R.’s earnings is
derived under its contract with the Com-
monwealth Government for the refining,
selling and financing of all but a fraction
of the Australian crop on a commission
basis. Other main sources of income are
refining in Maoriland, growing and mill-
ing in Fiji, and returns from a fine pile
of investments outside the business;
there are also pickings from, among other
things, pineapple-canning and pro-
duction of Cane-ite insulating board
from waste megass. The Australian
sugar agreement with the Commonwealth
Government has been renewed for an-
other five years from August, 1941, while
Great Britain has undertaken to purchase
our surplus outturn for the duration of
the war at a price that will return about
£lO Australian a ton. And there are
conditions with regard to shipping
freights, insurance and exchange that
will leave the return unaffected in the
event of any increases in these items.
While for the duration of the present
conflict the economic position of the local
industry is rendered more or less secure,
subject to seasons and the course of
internal costs, there is a long-term prob-
lem of overproduction to be tackled. The
position of the world sugar industry now
is very different from that prior to
1914-18. In 1913, nearly half the world
output was produced by the beet-sugar
countries of Europe, with the result that
there shortly developed a serious physical
shortage which was not overcome, de-
spite great expansion of production in
cane-sugar countries, till 1920. Since,
however, the producing centres have
become multiplied and distributed all
over the world, Europe having be-
come a negligible supplier outside that
continent. Any shortage of supply now
is hardly conceivable, except, of course,
such local shortages as may arise through
dislocation of transport as a result of
war.
In Australia the seriousness of the posi-
tion is illustrated by the fact that at the
beginning of the 1939 season it looked
as though only 320,000 tons of the
season’s outturn would be exported. Sub-
sequently, however, certain countries noti-
fied the International Sugar Council that
they would be unable to fill their export
quotas, and Australia was given a share
in the deficit; then another quota lift
was granted owing to the increased re-
quirements of Great Britain. But even
with these additions a considerable ton-
nage of cane would not have been har-
vested had not the Imperial Government
come to the rescue by purchase of all
surplus output. This overproduction is a
problem the solution of which should not
be left to the conclusion of hostilities for
determination.
* * * H*
Bankers and Traders’, a solid little
underwriter with Burns Philp connections
and Islands and Asian interests, is pay-
ing an unchanged 7 p.c. out of net earn-
ings £2712 higher at 28 p.c. on an
enlarged share-register. Encouraging
growth continues, though the benefit to
the underwriting surplus was mostly
absorbed by a higher call from the tax-
collector last year. The high earning-
power, plus reserves at balance day
£64,387 in excess of paid capital, en-
courages the market to accept the low
yield of 2.8 p.c. about the scrip in the
hope of later benefits. The co. has put
£121,000 into new premises.
* * * *
Up to 255. 6d. earlier in the year, the
f.-p. 14s. shares of Peters (Sydney) are
now wobbly around 17s. 9d. The mar-
ket realises that ice-cream is a luxury
easily dispensed with, and that luxury
trades aren’t the investments, say, insur-
ance scrip is in war-time. Moreover, wide-
awake competition has been making itself
felt for some time.
* * * *
Infusion of new capital and a brighter
pastoral outlook combined to produce a
rise of 50 p.c. in Younghusband’s gross
earnings last year, and of £15,574 in the
net result —£43,236, or 9.2 p.c. on capital
at work, after providing £13,800 more
for taxation; £37,333 goes out in an
8 p.c. div. Further assistance of £323,000
to clients, who are spread throughout
Victoria and southern N.S.W., is an out-
standing feature. Assuming div. is main-
tained on the £125,000 of new share-
money now being sought, the scrip
yields an immediate 5.9 p.c. at 275.
* * * *
Australian hosiery and knitwear manu-
facturers found trade less buoyant in
1938-39, the value of production declining
from £8,535,000 to £8,226,000 after rapid
expansion in the three preceding years.
While demand for men’s socks expanded,
that for women’s hose, which has been
heavily produced of recent years, fell
appreciably from the previous year’s
high-water mark. At June 30 there were
313 establishments (70 p.c. in Victoria),
mostly employing under 20 hands ; fixed
assets employed were valued at £3,892,900,
of which £1,930,564 was represented by
plant and machinery. Over the past
two years the average annual wage bill
has risen £lO per employee.
* * * *
Latest half-yearly accounts (to March
31) should be a source of satisfaction to
Gordon and Gotch holders. Profits show
little change at £46,422 —16.9 p.c. on ord.
capital—making a total of £92,667 for the
past year. Compared with the preceding
12 months, net earnings would have been
£25,055 up instead of £2160 down but for
the provision of £27,215 more at £59,690
for the taxgatherer. Next accounts will
give a truer view of the impact of war
on the business.
* H= * *
Accounts of Hoadley’s, the Melbourne
chocolate people, provided a surprise-
packet. After provision of £3526 more
at £7387 for depreciation, profits are
£13,013 higher at £13,461 (13.4 p.c. on
total capital), the best effort for 15 years.
Market for the prefs., which are back
in the picture with 6 p.c., reducing
arrears to 2s. sd. per share, has improved
from 7s. 6d. to 13s. since September. In
a reconstruction in 1935 prefs. were given
the right to participate to 7 p.c., while
any ord. div. must be accompanied by
transfer of a similar amount to a pref.-
div. reserve till it equals £11,250, or 2\
years’ requirements. When ord.-holders,
who have gone hungry since 1924, and
lost three-quarters of their capital,
are likely to get a meal, however,
is difficult to say, though more efficient
manufacturing has lately increased the
co.’s competitive power and helped off-
set advancing costs.


Here’s
Winter Health
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
contains medicinal
properties found in
no other spirit
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the ideal winter health
drink! As a preventative of colds and ’flu,
and as a diuretic to tone, cleanse and
strengthen the system, it has no equal...
while, at the same time, it is a pleasing
beverage, distinctive in flavour and aroma.
Always keep a bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps
in the home. As well as a general tonic, it
is a safe, pure stimulant for emergencies.
WOLFFS
SCHNAPPS
is obtainable
in large, half
and quarter
size bottles
at all hotels.
OLFE
=RRODUCT OF HOLLAND
THIS
iggSEVnC ALCOHOLIC
ffot 5
mgsutssa** i
»m--TSn- attcotksa a i IgiWiti J
SASASTSB9I
ET: I Mill FL 02
>v
m
a*
h
r : .;:
a
£-3
I
*
KEEP onr
ITER'S,*
A »>> CH/LLsf
drink
W OLFE’s
C.t-tAT A
WVLFE'S
schnapps
WOLFE’S
<zznrcmdtlc Sztmdam
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
W.S. 21A. FP.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
ITALY AND THE ALLIES.
(This intelligent and impartial summing-up of the
Mediterranean situation is condensed from London
“Economist.”)
In spite of the open declarations of the Italian
Government that Italy is not neutral and may at any
moment enter the struggle against us, many people
still find it hard to believe in Italy’s hostility towards
the West. They remember that she was our ally in
the last war and are conscious of no immediate clash
of interest. There exists very little desire to fight
Italy, rather surprise and regret that Italy should —
apparently— want to fight us.
The regret is justified, but possibly not the sur-
prise. Ever since Italy achieved national unity in
1870 her path to expansion and Great Powerhood
has been blocked by old-established Powers who had
achieved their positions while she was still struggling
for freedom. The war did not ease the position, for,
whereas France and Britain held that Italy was well
served at Versailles with Trieste, Trentino, Gorizia,
Istria, the South Tyrol and control of the Adriatic,
Italy herself looked on these acquisitions as a mere
completion of the work of national unification and
bitterly resented her exclusion from the division of
the German and Turkish Empires. Apart from the
consolidation of her position in the Adriatic and the
Dodecanese, the last war did not improve Italy’s posi-
tion in the Mediterranean.
The years which followed, especially after the
advent of Fascism, were filled with Mediterranean
bickering over Corfu, over Tunis, over naval parity.
The elements of future misunderstanding existed long
before the Abyssinian war brought about a new de-
terioration in Italy’s relations with the West. We tend
to look on sanctions as an attempted upholding of
international law, not the
crushing of Italy. There was
no thought of her as a possible
imperial rival, and compara-
tively little hostility. Italy,
somewhat understandably,
took another view. Sanctions
was a hypocritical plot to pre-
vent her competing in the im-
perial field, a desperate en-
deavor on the part of the old
imperialist Powers to enforce
their monopoly. The country
emerged from the ordeal in a
state of mind which must be
fully understood if we are to
see the significance of her
present position.
On the one hand, her hos-
tility towards France and
Britain and her desire to turn
them from the Mediterranean
were enormously reinforced.
On the other, their startling
failure to make their policy
effective encouraged Italy to
believe that their day was over
and that they were empires in
decline. Since 1936 our deca-
denza pluto-democratica has
been so widely advertised that
the Italians have come to be-
lieve in it. In 1938 Italy
appears to have believed that
Axis pressure would secure without fighting a transfer
of power in the Mediterranean. No other belief can
have underlain the “Tunis, Corsica, Nice” outburst or
the open canvassing in the press for a “Mediterranean
Munich.”
It is still a matter of conjecture why Italy did
not at once enter the conflict at the side of her ally,
but from Count Ciano’s speech of December 16 last
it is possible to deduce that the chief reason was un-
preparedness. At Milan and again at Salzburg, Italy
made it clear that she was not yet ready to fight, and
even mentioned a three years’ delay. The sweeping
changes in the Italian Government which took place
in October were connected with such matters as low
reserves, lack of military stocks and tardy reorganisa-
tion in the services.
Another reason may very well have been pique
in that Germany, in her violent career of aggression,
had left no time for the looked-for “Mediterranean
Munich,” and Italy was not anxious to join in a war
for Poland when her immediate aim was Tunis —
without a war. But her abstention meant no funda-
mental change in her attitude. The quick destruction
of Poland, the Finnish war and the general passivity
of the first phase tended to confirm Italy’s low opinion
of the Allies’ fighting power. Their overtures to her,
their concessions, their attempts to make her “non-
belligerency” economically worth while increased her
suspicions of their imperial strength. On the other
hand, the Treaty with Turkey, with its provisions for
“the maintenance of peace” in the Mediterranean, the
massing of a great army in the Near East and, above
all, our contraband control were as many irritating
reminders of the reality of our hold on the Medi-
terranean.
In spite of the “holdback guarantees” and the
navicert system, which reduce the actual searching of
Italian ships to a minimum, the Italians feel it intoler-
able to have to pass through our controls at Gibraltar
and Suez when entering Mare nostrum or to be invited
to stop at Malta on their way to Italian ports. There
is another difficulty. We expect neutrals to accept
our contraband control as a means to a victory which
will be as much to their advantage as to our own.
But Italy is Germany’s “non-belligerent” ally. If she
is interested in anyone’s victory it is Germany’s.
Acceptance of our contraband control thus puts her
in the paradoxical position of helping to defeat her
own apparent interests. She does not resent the con-
trol less on that account.
There is thus nothing in Italy’s recent relations
with the West to suggest that she will remain perma-
nently neutral. It is certainly a curious situation in
which we stand passively by and watch a hostile
power stock herself to the point at which she feels
ready to strike. Yet any action on our part might
precipitate a conflict we have shown every anxiety
to avoid.
. The problem of intervention does not, however,
solely concern our relations with Italy. We have to
take into account the possibility of German pressure.
And even if Italy were unwilling for intervention it is
possible that she could not afford to allow Hitler a
free hand in the Balkans and would be obliged to
march at his side in order to safeguard her own
interests.
So long as the issue is undecided, Italy stands
to gain by neutrality and war would be a tremendous
risk. It is hard to base an estimate of the outcome
on comparative military strength, for so many vital
problems—the effectiveness of air power against sea
power, the extent to which the vulnerability of a
long coastline can be offset by air action, the results
of intensive submarine warfare in closed waters —are
still unresolved. But it would be folly to underestimate
Italy’s military effectiveness. With an army which
can be quickly raised to 4,000,000 men, a front-line
air force of 1850 ’planes and a navy which has con-
centrated on speed and agility and is especially adapted
to Mediterranean conditions, Italy would be an adver-
sary to be reckoned with, even though her accessi-
bility and vulnerability would lay her open to a
—"Doily Sketch." London,
NEMESIS MUST COME.
type of attack which cannot yet be launched against
Germany.
It is in the economic sphere that Italy’s problem
is almost insoluble. The campaign for autarky and the
repeated assurances of its complete success have lulled
the Italian people into false security. Their war
economy is, in fact, vulnerable not only by what it
lacks but also by the ease with which—at Suez and
Gibraltar—its vital supplies could be cut off. War
stocks would carry the country over through a short
war. Naturally, the reminder of our potential
stranglehold exasperates Italy. It reinforces the feel-
ing of being a prisoner in the Mediterranean. It may
therefore lead not to peace but to war in a desperate
attempt to break the “foreign servitude.”
The tragedy of the present situation is that the
two facets of Italy’s attitude towards the West are
both based on a misunderstanding. It is not true that
we are weakly prepared to surrender our heritage
without combat. Our repeated attempts at concilia-
tion in the face of continued rebuffs spring not from
fear but from genuine goodwill. Italy is therefore
equally wrong when she pictures us as imperial rivals.
Perhaps it is too much to hope that Italy can still
revolutionise a manner of thinking which has been
slowly created during the last twenty years, and it
w'ould entail a revolution indeed to look on the West
as friendly and powerful rather than hostile and
weak. Nevertheless, it is our duty to continue to
impress both our present strength and our ultimate
friendliness upon her, a task as delicate as it is vital
to Mediterranean peace.
# * * *
Alarm in Yugoslavia
( From an article by Sydney Morrell in London ‘‘Daily
Express.”)
For the first time since war began the people of
Yugoslavia are being told as openly as officials dare
that they, too, may be drawn into the war. Their
papers are printing little notices daily saying: “The
enemy will rain down death from the skies. He will
try to sabotage the army, blow up bridges, mine roads.”
One paper came out with an officially inspired
article saying that Yugoslavia must be prepared to
fight an enemy five times her size and another three
times her size—meaning Germany and Italy.
Not that Yugoslavia is strong enough to come
out openly with her pro-AUied feelings. The German
Fifth Column is still strong, in spite of the fact that
so far more than 200 have been asked to go home.
Then the Croats are still being whipped into un-
rest from outside. Vladko Matchek, their chief poli-
tician, who made peace with the Serbs for the price
of Croat autonomy, is being attacked in pamphlets
smuggled in from outside. The Serbs believe that
extreme Croats are being supported by Italy in a
policy to separate Croatia.
Then there is the 600,000 German minority, which
has announced that it has at last chosen as leader
Dr. Josef Janko from Slovenia, near the Austrian
border.
The Serbs feel that they are in a much more dan-
gerous situation than even Rumania, because the
general opinion is that, if Germany should invade
Yugoslavia, Italy would try to seize Croatia and the
Dalmatian coast, in order to “protect” her interests.
Yugoslavia’s reaction to this has been to open
her back door to Russia with an economic delegation
to Moscow, but the hoped-for Allied help is still un-
defined. The Germans would object, but they object
to everything that tends to get Yugoslavia from their
grasp.
The other day, in darkened cinemas, their agents
showered down leaflets saying that Yugoslavia had
better kowtow to Germany, or else
This led to the fiercest anti-German demonstration
Belgrade has known since the war began. The police
had hardly begun their inquiries before the German
Press attache called on them and complained that the
leaflets were the latest manifestation of the British
secret service.
Some “Fifth Columns.”
(This condensed London “Star”
survey was published immedi-
ately prior to the invasion of the
Low Countries.)
Holland
Last April 160,000 Hol-
landers voted Nazi. There have
been many defections since, but
Mussert, one-time Utrecht engi-
neer, short, stout, fair-haired
and 50, still commands a large
following. Nazi meetings re-
cently have been banned, but
Mussert, the “Fiihrer,” is still at
work in his office, from which
portraits of Hitler and Musso-
lini look down. No orator,
Mussert is a capable organiser,
and his plans for Nazifying
Holland have been laid for some
time. Dutch military police
have searched the homes of
known Dutch Nazis and Nazi
sympathisers in many towns for
arms.
* * * *
Belgium
In the eastern province of
Eupen-Malmedy, nearly 50 per
cent, of the 60,000 German-
speaking population last April
voted for Nazi candidates. The
“Leader,” Antouin, dresses his
party in peaked caps and swas-
tika badges. His shock-troops play hooligan
tricks on Jewish shops. Meanwhile, Degrelle, Rexist
leader and friend of Hitler, waits a chance to come
back as a national figure. Goebbels, it is said, pays
for his two newspapers. Belgian banking circles help
him with money for propaganda. Rexists were re-
cently arrested for conveying information to Ger-
many about the disposition of Allied troops on the
Franco-Belgian frontier. The small but very voci-
ferous Flemish Nationalist party is also openly pro-
Hitler.
*****
France
(Extract from a “Saturdav Evening Post” article by
Edmond Taylor.)
In France the Nazis built up a powerful organisa-
tion of sympathisers, partly by encouraging separatist
movements like the Alsatian and Breton autonomist
movements, partly by exploiting the ideological sym-
pathies of French Fascists and anti-Semites, partly by
sheer bribery. It was a rude awakening for the
French people—but no surprise to those on the inside
—when the news-editor of the semi-official “Temps”
and an advertising executive of the ultra-patriotic
“Figaro” were arrested as German agents in the
summer of 1939.
Hitler won a ready-made Fifth Column in France
and England in the Communist party when he took
on Stalin as an ally— at least for his war of nerves.
There were Communist cells in France and England,
and the German psychological services set to work to
make sure that the subversive propaganda carried on
by them would support Nazi propaganda.
Both the official propaganda in the Soviet press
and the secret instructions of the Comintern to agents
abroad reveal a complete synchronisation with Ger-
man propaganda. In German propaganda, the war
was described as a “plutocratic” one, in Communist
propaganda as a “capitalist” one. Blame for it was
laid by both on England—Jewish-dominated England
in the German propaganda, “capitalist-imperialist
England” in the Red propaganda.
Though the Communist party was outlawed in
France, the French police had a hard time suppressing
the defeatist propaganda carried on by Red agents in
factories and even at the front. They were diaboli-
cally clever in outwitting the law. Subversive hand-
bills were distributed as factories were letting out, or


slipped by unseen hands in the pockets of coats left in
dressing-rooms. Once I found an almost microscopi-
cally printed Communist tract in a box of safety
matches manufactured by the State.
Another Communist trick was to send forged or
anonymous personal letters to soldiers at the front,
giving them false news about their families. The sol-
dier’s wife had run off with a British officer. His
children, evacuated to a country village, were dan-
gerously ill, and so on. Often there was no obvious
political propaganda at all in these fiendish letters.
The object was merely to shake the soldier’s nerves,
make him hate the war.
Getting names and postal addresses of soldiers
at the front and of their families for mailing lists was
one of the chief assignments of Communist agents.
Either Nazi agents had the same instructions or, more
probably, they exchanged information with the Com-
munists. For the German radio made a regular prac-
tice of broadcasting the names and home addresses of
French “prisoners” who had not yet been captured.
More dangerous, even, were the whispering campaigns
of alarmist or defeatist rumors started by German
and Communist agents in France. Here is an example
of propaganda used as artillery according to the Hit-
lerian theory: When the Belgian Government clamped
down on the defeatist propaganda by which Doctor
Goebbels hoped to break the will to resist of the Bel-
gian people, in view of an eventual German invasion,
Nazi agents went about distributing Belgian flags with
a swastika stamped on them to Belgian soldiers. “Keep
this flag,” they would explain, “and when the Ger-
mans come in, sew it on your tunic. Then you will
be sure to be well treated.”
Fewer Conscientious Objectors.
[Richard Law, M.P., in this (condensed) London
“Time and Tide” article makes a significant discovery
about the Conscientious Objectors, a class made
prominent by conscription.]
When the Twenty-sixes registered, it was found
that there were fewer Conscientious Objectors than
there had been in any other class. It suggests that
conscientious objection, in its cruder manifestations, is
one of those complaints of adolescents from which
most people, sooner or later, manage to free them-
selves.
There is no particular reason, after all, why a
young man who was born in 1913 should be more
belligerent than one who happened to be born in
1919 or 1920. On the contrary, you might expect
him to be more pacific ; for the last war is closer to
his consciousness, and he was growing up during the
Golden Age of Utopianism, with the Peace Ballot
as a kind of glorified twenty-firster. His younger
brother, on the other hand, has scarcely known any-
thing but the menace of Hitlerism ; and provided that
he was able to read the newspapers he could find little
enough in the world about him to indicate that man-
kind was to be saved by a policy of non-resistance.
If there is anything to be learned from the last regis-
tration it is that the form of pacifism which expresses
itself before Conscientious Objectors’ Tribunals is
only a phase through which some young people have
to pass. We are freed from the fear that a proportion
of Englishmen are being born into the world with soft
heads and with mean and narrow hearts.
It is possible to conceive of a conscientious objec-
tion to war, even to this war, which is genuinely
founded upon conscience and genuinely fortified by
reason. But I have spoken to a number of Con-
scientious Objectors since the war started and I cannot
think of many of them as being either particularly con-
scientious or even remotely reasonable. They talk a
lot too much about “rival Imperialisms” and “the capi-
talists’ war.” I find it difficult to understand how
people who are aware of what is happening, at this
moment, in Poland, in Czechoslovakia, in Norway,
even in Germany itself, can think of this war in that
kind of way.
This war, like the last, is a national war ; but we
are conscious, I think, in a way that we were not con-
scious before, that something more than the integrity
of small nations (or even of great nations) is at stake.
What is at stake is the integrity of Man himself, made
in the image of God.
Asia Invades Europe.
(Condensed from an article by William Henry Chamberlin
in London “Nineteenth Century.”)
Three times in the Christian era Europe, which
is geographically only a small peninsula jutting out
from the immense land mass of Asia, has been
threatened with conquest from the larger continent.
The triumphant sweep of Mohammedanism, after
engulfing Spain, was checked by the rough warriors
of Charles the Hammer on the battlefield between
Tours and Poitiers.
Islam advanced on Europe again when the
Turkish Empire captured the historic Christian out-
post, Constantinople, and swarmed over the Balkans.
It was a Polish army that turned the Turks back
from the gates of Vienna.
During the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries
Asia was in eclipse before a Europe that had gained
vast strength by its mastery of the industrial revo-
lution. The Turkish Empire decayed and shrank.
In Asia itself European Powers acquired one colony
and strategic point after another. It was not un-
common for a few thousands or tens of thousands
of Europeans to dominate directly or indirectly
Asiatic countries with populations running into tens
and hundreds of millions.
In our time we have seen a reversal of this
process. First the Russo-Japanese War, then the
World War undermined the prestige that is so im-
portant for the maintenance of Europe’s rule in Asia.
The European colonial Powers were faced with
storms of unrest from China to Morocco as an
aftermath of Europe’s destructive civil war from
1914 until 1918. Can European hegemony survive
another such war?
However history may answer this question, it
is highly thought-provoking that now, for the first
time since the ascendancy of the Turkish Empire,
Asia is invading Europe. By far the most permanently
significant result of the war so far has been the rapid
extension of the territory and influence of the Soviet
Union. And, whereas pre-war Russia was the most
backward of European Great Powers, the Soviet
Union may dispute with Japan the right to be con-
sidered the most advanced of the Asiatic States. The
Soviet Union possesses the advantage in size, in
population, in natural resources, in inherited con-
tributions to world culture. Japan must be con-
ceded superiority as regards efficiency, naval power
and relative decency of internal administration.
The political physiognomy of the Soviet Union
is overwhelmingly Asiatic. Name the essential traits
of the classical Asiatic despotism, from Xerxes and
Mithridates to the present time, and one has de-
scribed the basic characteristics of Stalin’s dictator-
ship. The first of these characteristics is absolute,
unlimited power. The conceptions of democracy,
of individual liberty, of checks and balances in the
exercise of authority have no real meaning for the
Oriental mind.
Asia is prodigal and contemptuous of human
life. Respect for the individual human being is a
product of Christianity and of the humanism of the
Renaissance. It has no place in Asia, where a huge
birthrate can be relied on to replace any exceptional
ravages of famine, flood, massacre and disease.
Typical of this Asiatic contempt for the individual
is the Soviet practice, now copied by Hitler, of
forcibly uprooting whole communities and trans-
planting them to other places of habitation.
German colonists who had lived for generations
in the Valley of the Volga have been deported to
the unhealthy coal mines of Karaganda. Koreans
“Star,” London.
DEEP WATERS.
in the Soviet Far East were considered of doubtful
loyalty and were shipped off en masse to Central
Asia. Recalcitrant Uzbeks from Turkestan were sent
to chop wood in the northern forests of Karelia.
Finns in the neighborhood of Leningrad were sent
into the deep interior of Russia. This typically Asiatic
.. ~ XT , ~ X o 1. u
practice, as old as Nebuchadnezzar and Sennacherib,
of mass deportation began immediately in Poland,
where there has been a round-up of prisoners for
labor in the Donetz coalmines.
rr.i a c j,
The Asiatic State is profoundly secretive, and its
statecraft, even by the far from high Western stand-
ards, is devious and treacherous. The Soviet Union
certainlv conforms to these snecifications Asia’s
certainly conforms to these specifications. Asms
achievements are almost always of .quantity, not of
quality; of the mass, not of the individual. And this
is most emphatically true as regards the Soviet Union.
Probably the most important consequence of
the Bolshevik Revolution was the triumph of the
Asiatic over the European element in pre-war Russia.
One should not be misled by electric-power plants,
steel mills, great canals, built, incidentally, by a most
inhuman exploitation of forced labor. Asiatic despots,
with the work of innumerable slaves have no? in-
fr quen y ciea impressive material works.
•of 1c n W? Spir p field that K the
victory of Asia oyer Europe in Russia has been
complete It reveals a comp ete misapprehension to
dismiss the Soviet record with the consoling reflec-
do P "a u 5 we ’ were worse under the Czars.
Judged by any reasonable standard of comparison,
number of people killed for political reasons, number
imprisoned, number banished to hard labor without
trial, suppression of even the slightest opportunity to
voice critical thought, Stalin’s tyranny is incompar-
a \“ e ferocious than that of any modern Czar.
, a Wa ? reaP y destr °yed by the Revolution
was the overlay of European culture in the now
liquidated Russian upper and middle classes. Almost
alone among prominent Russian revolutionaries Stalin
had no links whatever with Europe. He has only twice
been in Europe, and for very short visits; he knows
no European language but Russian. One can sense
in his character a_ consuming hatred of everything
characteristically European, freedom of thought,
range of cultural speculation, tolerance of divergent
opinion. It is no accident that he has killed, im-
prisoned or driven into exile every surviving Com-
munist with a Western background, every man whose
personality was formed under the influence of Paris
and London and Leipzig and Berlin.
Stalin has played no small part in bringing about
the present war. The leitmotiv of his diplomacy
during the last few years (every important detail of
Soviet foreign policy was dictated by Stalin, regard-
less of whether Litvinov or Molotov was Commissar
for Foreign Affairs) has been to promote a war
between the Democratic and Fascist Powers from
which the Soviet Union would remain aloof.
Spain seemed to offer the first convenient means
of embroiling France and Great Britain on one side
with Germany and Italy on the other. The Soviet
aid to Spain, too limited to affect the final issue of
the war, was designed to prolong the struggle and
to bait the trap for Britain and French intervention.
Stalin’s hopes rose again with the development of
the crisis over Czechoslovakia. Communists and
Communist sympathisers all over the world obeyed
Moscow’s orders and clamored for war over Czecho-
slovakia. Yet the Soviet Union made no gesture of
even partial mobilisation when the crisis was at its
height.
But Stalin possesses the Oriental capacity for
waiting. The European catastrophe which he had
vainly hoped for in 1937 and 1938 came to pass in
1939. The Anglo-French talks in Moscow were
foredoomed to futility from the beginning. No matter
what Great Britain and France had agreed to, there
was never any chance that Stalin would have carried
out (even if he had assumed) an obligation to fight
Germany. Such a war would have involved the
gravest risks for a regime that is already undermined
internally by so many purges and executions and by
its failure to lift the Russian living standard above
a very low Asiatic level, inferior to that of pre-war
times.
The price of Hitler’s aggression has been a major
war in the West. Stalin, in contrast, is able, up to
the present time at least, to extend the frontiers of
his Asiatic Empire without coming into conflict with
any great Power.
Asia is on the march. Europe is
tragically, suicidally divided —the same
state of affairs that in the past contri-
buted to the victories of the Saracens,
the Mongols and the Turks. There are
half a dozen parts of the world where
Stalin may conceivably push ahead as
opportunity offers. The biggest prize
of all may be his quasi-ally, the Third
Reich. Hitler has already brought Ger-
many a considerable part of the way to
Bolshevism.
Europe’s peril is real and grave, not
from any positive superior strength of
Stalin’s Asiatic realm, but from the in-
ternal self-destructive forces which the
war has let loose and which Stalin may
be counted on to exploit to the utmost.
In German Poland.
0 Condensed from London “Economist.”)
Roughly two-thirds of Poland has
now been under German occupation for
more than six months, and become a ter-
ritory sealed against the outside world.
The only information available comes
from German sources. Reports of
refugees and the information (coming
from the Hungarian or Lithuanian border
naturally relate to atrocities, food shortage, compul-
sion and regimentation. There is no doubt, however,
that life has become more normal again now. German
administrative machinery, as distinct from the
activities of the German army of occupation, has
begun to operate, and the mass of decrees reported
daily by the German press allow some picture to be
drawn.
The latest decree, introducing the Four-Year-Plan
machinery into the Gouvernement General, makes it
clear that Poland’s resources will be fully exploited
for Germany’s war economy. The political as well as
the economic administration of the German-occupied
part of Poland distinguishes between the new German
Ostgaue, i.e., Eastern Districts of Greater Germany,
and the Gouvernement General, whose capital is
Cracow.
The Gouvernement General is the central and
south-western part of Poland. It measures roughly
43,000 square miles, with a population of 14.5 millions.
Among them are two million Jews, 500,000 Ukrainians
and 70,000 Germans. The Governor-General, Dr.
Frank, is chief of the administration, which is divided
into several departments resembling the Ministries of
an ordinary Government. Some Reich institutions
have permanent representatives in Cracow, while the
Cracow administration keeps a kind of High Com-
missioner in Berlin. The Gouvernement General has
its own customs system, and has retained the Polish
currency. Official reports maintain that the total
number of German civil servants occupying only the
key positions in this new administration is 2500.
This does not include the German police, whose chief
occupies a position on the same footing as the
Governor-General. No information is available about
the strength of the German armies stationed in Poland.
During the first months of the occupation the
German economic administration confined itself to fix-
ing maximum prices for all goods. After that, com-
pulsory delivery of 80 per cent, of the total harvest
of cereals and root crops, as well as food rationing,
was introduced. The next step was the introduction
of a Central Control Board for the iron and steel
industry. The agricultural programme to be carried
out will concentrate on an increase in root crops, flax
and oilseeds. The number of horses and livestock,
especially pigs, has greatly decreased during the short
war, and in the district of Cracow, which is very
densely populated by small farmers, even cereals had
to be imported from the Reich in order to prevent


famine. The only surplus the Gouvernement had —
man-power—is rapidly being transported for work
to Germany.
Conditions in Warsaw are the worst of all. The
population is reported to have increased from 1.3 mil-
lions to 1.8 millions. The destruction of the town
and the primitive system of supply by individual
peasants living near Warsaw must have created con-
ditions which are hardly imaginable. There are un-
censored reports about fantastic price increases, obvi-
ously paid in illegal trade.
Meanwhile, one-quarter of Warsaw’s considerable
industry is reported to be working again. Public life
is, however, still restricted. Cafes and restaurants are
working nearly normally, but there are only seven
cinemas. Warsaw has been made the centre for the
transport of workers to Germany. The total number
of Poles to be sent to Germany is intended to reach
one million, in addition to the 300,000 Polish prisoners
of war already working in Germany. A considerable
percentage of them will be employed in German in-
dustry, particularly in coalmining.
The picture provided by the parts incorporated in
Germany is very different. In these parts German
administration included the Nazi party, and labor
organisation is already complete. Apart from East
Upper Silesia, Lodz and Danzig, the country is pre-
dominantly agricultural. All land owned by Poles
has been declared State property. Elaborate compul-
sory marketing organisation has been introduced in
a very short time. It is claimed that winter sowing
was 80 per cent, of normal. The extensive resettle-
ment policy will probably prevent any substantial in-
crease in cultivation during this year. The total
number of Germans transferred to these new provinces
is variously estimated at from 160,000 to 200,000 ; it
is proposed to resettle 100,000 Germans from south-
western Germany over a period of several years.
The Nuremberg Anti-Jewish laws are put into
practice with even more brutality than in Germany.
The wholesale transfer of Jews to the Jewish Reserve
near Lublin is hardly mentioned in the German press.
There are, however, many stories about the ghettoes in
Warsaw, Lodz and Cracow —in the usual Nazi style.
The great number of Jews who were independent
artisans in Poland are debarred from economic activi-
ties. This must have created a shortage of artisans.
Their shops in the incorporated part will be filled by
independent artisans from the Old Reich. The only
hope for the Jews seems to be emigration. But there
are hardly any possibilities. The only agency still
working in Poland is the Triestino Lloyd, of Italy,
which does seem to be active in providing facilities
for emigration.
The Outburst of Congressman Maas.
o Condensed from London “National Review.”)
The American press is filled with accounts of the
operation of the British blockade and the harm it is
doing to American interests, while nothing appears
in the press which suggests that American interests
have been at all affected by Germany. It is forgotten
that the risk of a far greater damage to American
interests by Germany was only avoided by applying
the Neutrality Act. You thus have a situation in
which friction between American interests and the
British blockade will continue to arouse irritation and
even anger, while no comparable source of irritation
with Germany exists.
The situation was made worse by the State De-
partment’s public notes of protest. There is some-
thing strange in the fact that Mr. Bert Hunt, the
Assistant Legal Adviser to the State Department, who
was credited in the American press with having
drafted most of the protest notes, should have resigned
his position with the Administration to join a group
interested in “promoting” German-American trade.
There is a point which is scarcely ever recalled
in the American press, namely, that during the last
war the United States searched all neutral mail it
could lay its hands on, not only at American ports,
but at Cuban ports and in the international Panama
Canal zone. No compulsion was used to force neutral
ships into belligerent ports: all that was done was
to restrict supplies of coal, so that the ships could do
very little else. This preserved the precepts of inter-
national law, for obtaining coal was a privilege and
not a right.
The United States searched neutral mails in the
last war for the same reason that Britain searches
neutral mails now, because it knew the mails were
being abused by German sympathisers to circumvent
the blockade.
The German counter-charge that Britain is really
searching American mails to find out commercial
secrets has been accepted and given publicity by
several Congressmen who should know better, for
example, Congressman Maas, ranking Republican on
the Naval Affairs Committee:
“The truth of it is that what they are after, and
what they are getting every day, is an opportunity to
examine the manifests and the bills of lading of
American merchants and American shippers. They are
copying these facts and furnishing them, through their
economic control, to their own industries and attempt-
ing to underbid us in commerce....
“When our ships are dragged into a contraband
port and held an unreasonable time, or until it is un-
profitable for the shippers and the shipping concerns,
the bills of lading are all furnished to British concerns,
and their agents in this country then go around and
solicit the American shippers, recommending that it
would be wise for them to ship on a British ship. It
is nothing but a continued attempt to destroy Ameri-
can commerce. They have been at it for 100 years,
and they are still at it
“Much of the mail is not delivered at all, or it is
not delivered until it is too late to be of any value.
I have been informed that British merchant firms are
given access to this mail, and they offer to fill the
orders to our customers when our mail is not de-
livered, and thereby very seriously interfere with and
destroy our commerce. I do not think the British are
so interested in stopping our ships to take contraband
from them as they are in forcing Germany into acts
that will force us into war with Germany....
“I am proposing that we put our mails upon
combatant vessels of the navy, and that we make
sure that we have enough warships to protect our
interests ; that we deny our ports and commerce to
the vessels of nations that violate our neutrality, and,
if necessary, that we convoy American ships with
American war vessels.”
Since the cash-and-carry sections of the Neu-
trality Act prevent belligerent Governments from ob-
taining anything on credit, the limited dollar resources
of the Allies are being husbanded and applied mainly
to arms purchases. The sale of farm products has
fallen off, and that of industrial products has risen.
The protests from the agricultural areas sound loud
in a Congressman’s ear when a political campaign is
near. One way out of the difficulty would be to make
purchases on credit possible, but that would be re-
garded as a step towards involvement in the European
conflict. Therefore, you find proposals being made
by the Senate Finance Committee to compel the
Allied Governments by the use of reprisals to buy
more farm products. As the headline on the front
page of the New York “Times” expressed it, “Allied
trade aims cause Washington to weigh reprisal.”
Thus, while vigorous opposition is raised in Con-
gress to economic pressure of any kind against Japan
or Russia on the ground that this might lead the
country along the road to war, prominent Isolation-
ists, such as Senators Vandenberg and La Follette,
have no hesitation in proposing economic measures
directed against Britain when, in her efforts to check
another aggressor Power, she treads on one of Uncle
“Time and Tide,” London.
“.. .declare the Norwegians honorary non-Aryans.”
Sam’s more sensitive corns. Yet how simple it would
be for the old gentleman to move his feet out of the
way.
Uncle Feels the Pinch
(Condensed from a London “Spectator” article by
Erwin D. Canham.)
Before very long America’s economic position as
a neutral is bound to come under severe pressure. It
is now recognised that while the Neutrality Law
has been admirable in keeping American ships out of
submarine and mine-laden waters, it has served to
make the nation’s economic difficulties greater. Eco-
nomic and financial pressure on the Neutrality Law,
to permit loans to the Allies for purchase of non-war
materials, is bound to grow stronger as time goes on.
Upon this economic issue the question of ultimate
American relationship to the war is likely to be settled.
Two facts; in the last week of March the gold-
flow to the U.S.A. reached the record-breaking total
of $231,000,000; exports of American farm products
in the same month, and all months since the war
began, are 25 per cent, lower than they were a year
ago, with the sole exception of cotton.
American farmers see their markets growing nar-
rower. They are not greatly pleased with the big
orders munitions and aeroplane manufacturers are
enjoying, for they see in them little more than another
contribution to unbalance. In short, the American
farmer is in the line of fire from the Neutrality Law,
and the ultimate consequences are bound to be severe.
For the Allies it is a simple choice between pro-
ducts they would like to buy and materials they must
buy. They must choose guns instead of butter, Ameri-
can aeroplanes instead of apples. For Americans, the
temporary advantages of a boom market in war sup-
plies are more than counterbalanced by the unfavor-
able effect on other products.
To meet this very real pressure, the thin end of
the wedge has already been inserted in unofficial dis-
cussions here. The present Congress will hardly make
any changes in the Neutrality Law, but some farm
exporters and some officials are beginning to talk of
loans and credits for non-war materials. The alterna-
tive, it is being pointed out, is heavy and expensive
farm subsidies. Any such proposal for loans must
combat great isolationist resistance. But this senti-
ment is strongest in the parts of the country where
the blow to farm exports hits most severely. Two
kinds of self-interest are therefore battling with one
another. By late autumn, after the Presidential elec-
tions in November, a special session of Congress is
possible ; either then or by next January, when the
next regular session meets, pressure for some such
change may have become irresistible.
The French Navy.
(Condensed from an article by London “Daily Telegraph s
naval correspondent, Francis McMurtrie.)
Though France is first and foremost a military
nation, there is no doubt that since the Great War
ended French interest in naval affairs has deepened
and widened.
Not only are a very high proportion of the ships
now in service of up-to-date design, but in the origi-
nality of their conceptions French naval architects
have excelled themselves. Beginning with the big
destroyers of the Chacal class, built under the 1922
programme, a new hull form was produced which,
it is claimed, offers the minimum of resistance at
high speeds. Certainly the results obtained at sea
with various warships constructed on these lines go
far to support the claim.
A whole series of super-destroyers followed the
Chacal type. Though the hull form remained vir-
tually the same, in size, speed and armament there
was a steady rise until in the latest ships the displace-
ment approaches 3000 tons, with a main armament of
eight 5.5 in. guns and a designed horse-power of 90,000.
The figure reached on trials by Le Terrible, of 2569
tons, launched in 1933, was 45 knots, the highest
speed ever attained by a destroyer.
Cruiser design has advanced on equally progres-
sive lines from the Duguay-Trouin, laid down in 1922,
to the De Grasse, now building ; while the two battle-
ships, Dunkerque and Strasbourg, completed in 1937
and 1938 respectively, have been remarkably success-
ful. Designed with the avowed purpose of being
able to hunt down and destroy the Nazi “pocket
battleships,” these fine ships have a displacement of
26,500 tons and mount eight 13in. and 16 s.lin. guns.
Their turbine engines of 100,000 shaft horse-power
were designed for a speed of 29.5 knots, but on trials
this was exceeded by a couple of knots.
When the Richelieu goes into commission shortly,
it will be the first of a class of 35,000-ton battleships
which are practically improved and enlarged Dun-
kerques. The Richelieu is armed with eight 15in.
and 15 6in. guns, and has turbine engines of 155,000
horse-power, which should give her a speed of well
over 30 knots. In this type, as in the Dunkerque
and Strasbourg, the heavy guns are mounted in two
quadruple turrets, effecting a considerable saving in
weight, as compared with double or even triple turrets.
The Jean-Bart, the second ship of the new class,
was laid down in January, 1937. The fact that she
is actually approaching completion shows with what
vigor the French naval shipyards have been tackling
their tasks —and these new battleships are the biggest
by far France has ever built.
A third battleship, the Clemenceau, has been
under construction for over 12 months past; and a
fourth, the Gascogne, will follow. The French Minis-
ter of Marine has just disclosed that their completion
has been pressed forward so rapidly that they will be
ready for sea 10 months ahead of the programme.
France’s brand-new “fleet” of capital ships
should be capable, if desired, of operating in a homo-
geneous squadron not only with the Dunkerques, but
also with the new British battleships of the King
George V class.
When war began the main strength of the French
Navy comprised seven battleships, one aircraft-carrier,
19 cruisers, 59 destroyers, 78 submarines and 12 sea-
going torpedo boats, besides numerous escort vessels,
minesweepers, patrol vessels, submarine chasers, etc.
With the exception of the cruiser La Tour d’Auvergne,
which caught fire and blew up at Casablanca on Sep-
tember 18, no warship has been lost, though three
auxiliary patrol craft have become casualties.
French warships completing or under construc-
tion were stated by the Minister of Marine, M. Cesar
Campinchi, in January to number nearly 150. This
total includes two aircraft-carriers of 18,000 tons,
three 8000-ton cruisers, 29 destroyers and big tor-
pedo boats, 23 submarines and a large number of
escort and patrol vessels, submarine chasers and motor
torpedo boats, besides the battleships already described.
During recent years particular attention has been
paid to gunnery in the French Navy. Not only have
training methods been improved, but the weapons
mounted in the latest ships are exceptional in their
range, power and accuracy. Thus the 13in. guns of
the Dunkerque and Strasbourg have a range of over
20 miles and can fire 12001 b. shells at the rate of three
a minute. The s.lin. guns which constitute the
secondary armament of these ships are what is known
as “dual purpose” weapons, capable of being used
with equal efficacy against either aircraft or surface
targets. They possess an effective range of 11,000
yards. In the latest destroyers the 5.5 in. guns are
semi-automatic and are credited with a range of
25,000 yards and a maximum rate of fire of 16 rounds
a minute. At the outbreak of war the navy’s per-
sonnel comprised 4900 officers and 82,000 ratings.
These figures have since been increased.
Certain of the responsibilities normally falling
upon the British Mediterranean Fleet have been tem-
porarily assumed by the Escadre de la Mediterranee.
From the French African Empire an entire army
has been transported to the mother country without
the loss of a single man. European drafts have been
sent to the colonies to stiffen newly-formed units, and
in some cases complete formations have been dis-
patched overseas. None of these movements of
French troops, which have been carried out under the
protection of the French Navy, has been attended by
a single loss.
Apart from these operations, French torpedo craft,
escort vessels and seaplanes have assisted in convoy-
ing the transports in which the British Expeditionary
Force made its way across the Channel. In December
last the protection of the convoy bringing the Second
Canadian contingent across the Atlantic was entrusted
to a French Admiral with his flag in the Dunkerqt/'


SPORTING
MOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT SAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Saturday’s meeting at Randwick was
productive of some exciting racing, and
though the attendance was only a little
over 17,000 a totalisator turnover of
£24,641 was satisfactory. Randwick will
go very close to a million this season.
Lockslea displayed unusual dash in the
Hurdle Race, and was a winner from
the time he went to the front after going
a mile. Tweedside lost ground when
Spearbine fell in the straight the first
time round, and later was a little ham-
pered. In the run home she had every
chance,, but, though shortly after starting
upon the last furlong she closed on
Lockslea, he left her again before reach-
ing the winning-post. Mag Mort was
making a run when he fell at the last
jump. This was Lockslea’s second win
of the season at Randwick, and he is
undeniably better than he looks.
Martheus ran so well against Our
Barney at Canterbury that his success in
the Nursery Handicap was not surpris-
ing, notwithstanding he started from an
outside position; yet punters let him go
out at 10 to 1. After going a couple
of furlongs he was clear of Many Ways,
Celebration and Loyal Lad, and from
the time the straight was entered there
was no likelihood of his stopping. His
time of 1.14 for a little over six furlongs
compared quite favorably with that re-
corded in any other sprint during the
afternoon. Sold as a yearling for 75gns.,
Martheus is by Pentheus from Marcella,
by Sun Cure from Persianello, by Per-
sian Knight.
The minor place-getters, Stylish and
Evergreen, are by Chatham. Evergreen
is a good-looking colt out of Emerald
(Constant Son-Kilkenny Lass, who was
a good galloper), and is sure to prove
worth the 250gns. B. R. Payten gave
for him. The trouble with him at present
is that he is a rather slow beginner.
Celebration, who is by Denis Boy, showed
pace, but on their form in this race
Enderby and Tunic are not as good as
previously supposed.
From the time he took charge in the
first furlong Winnipeg gave nothing else
a look-in for the Flying Handicap.
Tuhitarata, Nebraska and Adios were
nearest him entering the straight, but
though Adios and Hamurah filled the
minor places neither was ever a possible
winner. The only thing worth mention-
ing in connection with their form was
that Hamurah finished strongly to cut
Tuhitarata out of third money in the last
few strides.
Mohican did not show form of any
account, and, behind the place-getters,
nothing did more to attract attention
than Buzalong. Although above himself
he ran really well, and anyone following
him from now on is unlikely to have
any cause for regret. Winnipeg looks a
racehorse, and is one. He may go to
Brisbane for the Doomben Newmarket,
but his recent form will prevent him
being thrown in, and the northern horses
are hard to beat on their own ground.
One thing in his favor is that he looks
up to weight. Climax, who was having
her first run since the Adrian Knox
Stakes, has thickened and generally im-
proved in appearance during the past few
months.
Well placed from barrier-rise, Lavengro
won the first division of the Encourage
Handicap from L’Amond, who was giv-
ing him a fair start commencing the last
furlong. Mrs. Caudle and Miss Poppy,
who were first to tackle Lavengro in the
straight, should win before long, as
should El Camarillo, but Nubian Prince,
Gretchen and Mainridge were disappoint-
ing.
Peekmond was responsible for an ex-
cellent performance in the second divi-
sion of the Encourage Handicap. After
going a furlong and a half he was ahead
of only three others, and was still a long
way back entering the straight. He then
put in such a well-sustained run on the
outside that he scored by a head from
Paul Muni, who showed form that
should make him a winner at a suburban
meeting within the next few weeks.
Fancy Free was prominent throughout,
but' the favorite Tyrannus was never
doing well enough to look a probable
winner. Clouston and La Capitana
shaped promisingly, and Theorize has
pace.
In a most exciting finish Lockray won
the Warwick May Handicap. Never
further back than fourth, he was next to
Herarde entering the straight, and then
when he disposed of the latter a furlong
from home he was challenged by
Hilarious and Mischief, and a little later
Fearless joined in. Less than 50 yards
from the winning-post Mischief looked
as if he would dispose of Lockray, and
then, as he weakened, Fearless came
through with such a good run that his
rider thought he had caught the leader.
However, he failed by a half-head to
overhaul Lockray, who during the past
two months has improved more than
any other horse in Sydney. At his pre-
vious start Fearless was unable to gallop
in heavy going, but as it is now apparent
he is back to his spring form his owner
should not have long to wait for a win.
Hilarious and Herarde were very close
to the place-getters, and neither can be
overlooked for any races in which they
run during the next few weeks. Tinker
Bell and Bristol were the whippers-in
for the greater part of the trip, and,
though they made up ground in the
straight, neither was ever a possible
place-getter. Buzzal did not threaten
danger at any stage, nor did Thunderclap.
The track could not have looked better,
but, as the time for the mile and a quar-
ter was 2.7 i, it must have been on the
slow side.
Another great finish was that for the
Welter Handicap. Mabson was first into
the straight from The Kite, with Old
Serpent, All Set and Good Morning
handy. Half a furlong from the winning-
post the issue looked between The Kite
and Old Serpent. The latter tired, and
Fountain and Osculum, finishing in great
style, settled The Kite in the last few
strides. Fountain beat Osculum a head,
with The Kite a similar distance away,
and close up were Silver Joan and All
Set, who were not favored by luck in
running. They should be winning propo-
sitions at mid-week meetings. Old Ser-
pent, after appearing a certainty for a
place, stopped in the final 40 yards.
Fountain was a good fourth in the race
won by Überous at Tattersall’s meeting,
and if, instead of P. Phillips, one of the
fashionable riders had been on him his
price would not have been so liberal on
Saturday. Rathlin was backed, but,
though he had the assistance of D.
Munro, did not show up, nor did Panabil.
However, as Rathlin again looks in first-
class trim, it should not be long before
he does better. Mabson should have no
difficulty in picking up a race at a mid-
week or suburban meeting.
* * * *
The demonstration against Diaphane,
winner of the Mount Alexander Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley on Saturday, was
not altogether surprising. Favorite for
a similar class of race on the same track
a week earlier, he had dropped right out
towards the finish and finished ninth to
Chortle. With only 21b. less to carry
on Saturday, he hit the front near the
seven furlongs, and was not afterwards
headed to win easily from Rose Princess
and Marcius. Many flat patrons found
it difficult to reconcile the two perform-
ances, and voiced their disapproval.
L. J. McCann, trainer of Diaphane,
admits that his gelding’s improved form
did not really surprise him, and advances
sound reasons for the seeming reversal.
He points out that Diaphane, like most
long striders, is useless on a soft track,
and that the state of the going a week
earlier was even worse than he thought
it would be. Jockey Arthur Dev/hurst
informed him after the race that Dia-
phane almost slipped under the rails
near the seven furlongs, and was never
able to stretch out 'properly. Chortle
occupied 2.9 j in winning that race, but
the improved going on Saturday was
reflected in the fact that Diaphane cut
out the mile and a quarter in 2.5
Always well in the market, Diaphane
started at 5 to 1, but McCann declares
that he wagered only lightly. Diaphane
in the past has not been an easy horse
to train, and his trainer thought that his
races at Ascot and Moonee Valley on
successive Saturdays might have knocked
him out slightly.
It might be asking a lot of a rising
11-year-old to win a Grand National
Hurdle, but Dark David’s success in the
Federal Hurdle at the Valley has at least
placed him among the early fancies for
the big race. Contrary to general belief,
Alec Fullarton states that he did not
have a hard ride on the David gelding,
who, although a long way out of his
ground early, ran to the front on the
turn and won comfortably from Exmoor
and North Cape. Considering that he
has been racing since his juvenile days,
Dark David retains his form remarkably
well. Costing 55 guineas as a yearling,
he won a score of races in Westralia
before he was bought privately by J. M.
Niall, in whose colors he finished second
to Pageant in the 1939 Australian Cup.
In addition to Dark David, trainer Des.
McCormick has several other useful
jumpers in his team, including Mamillius
and Kevastar. Latter was a runner on
Saturday, and went well while his con-
dition lasted.
Cheery Jack and Winning Post have
afforded recent proof that Sydney jumpers
can hold their own with the allegedly
superior Melbourne division, and El
Banado may soon show the value of
Sydney jumping form. El Banado,
formerly trained at Randwick by Jim
Abbs, but now trained in Melbourne by
Steve Masters, raced over hurdles for
the first time in Melbourne on Saturday,
and, although only fourth to Dark David
at the finish, probably would have filled
a place but for the attentions of a rider-
less horse. The race will improve El
Banado, who is likely to be a better pro-
position at his next appearance. Another
G.N. Hurdle entrant to shape well on
Saturday was Our Boy in the Empire
Highweight Handicap. A versatile five-
year-old, who mixes hurdle and flat
racing with success, Our Boy’s first-up
fourth to Beaustone will not be forgotten
next time he steps out. Trained by Lou
Robertson, he is a comparatively inex-
perienced hurdler, but what we have
seen of him over jumps has left a good
impression.
From a G.N. Steeplechase viewpoint,
nothing impressed more than Brightello.
He did not meet a strong field in the
Commonwealth Steeple, but a rise of
111 b. for his win on the same course a
week earlier did not affect him in the
slightest, and his 10-lengths win from
Testudo demonstrates that he is a much
better horse than this time last year.
Grand National hopes centred in him a
year ago, but subsequent form did not
warrant a start, and on G.N. Steeple day
he finished third in the Footscray Steeple.
A couple of falls seemed to knock the
confidence out of him, but that is fully
restored now, and his four races since
his return from a spell have yielded three
wins and a fourth.
»*«•••
Only surprising part of Brightello’s win
was his starting price of 4 to 1. Early
backers accepted as low as 5 to 2, and
were somewhat perturbed when, synchro-
nising with Brightello’s drift, the latter’s
stablemate Gracstello firmed from 7 to 1
to 11 to 2. Gracstello again occupied
the role of pacemaker, but was beaten
some distance from home, and finished
third, 14 lengths behind Brightello. Real
reason for Brightello’s drift was a plunge
on Valimar, bought for 300 guineas after
a recent hurdle and steeple double at
Bendigo, and racing for the first time on
a metropolitan course. Backed from
4 to 1 to 5 to 2, Valimar jumped well
until he stumbled at the fence opposite
the stands the first time round. He did
nothing right subsequently, and fell near
the five furlongs.
Inspired by the action of the Moonee
Valley R.C., which forwarded the pro-
ceeds of Saturday’s meeting to the Com-
monwealth Government, Archie Crofts
made a commendable gesture after his
colt Balkan Chief had won the first
Piccaninny Handicap division. He
presented the winning stake, £175, to the
club secretary to help swell the proceeds.
Balkan Chief was always favorite, and,
even though he defied Harold Badger’s
efforts to keep him on the rails rounding
the turn, responded generously when
straightened up, and won easily from
Retnuha and Elated. His win was much
more clear-cut than on the same track
a week earlier, and there is every possi-
bility that he will prove worth his year-
ling cost of 1100 guineas. Trainer Harry
Freedman is fortunate in possessing two
such good rising three-year-olds as Balkan
Chief and Lucrative,
Smallest of the 11 runners, Throttle
beat Devon and Ten O’clock in a half-
head and head finish for the second
Piccaninny Handicap division. Lightly-
framed, and little more than a pony,
Throttle’s galloping ability belies her
looks —a fact demonstrated by two wins
and a third from her last three starts.
Trained by Lou Robertson for her
breeder, A. G. Hunter, she is by Wind-
bag from Little Valve, the latter being a
smart pony performer in her time.
Heavily backed on the strength of
brilliant track trials subsequent to her
failure to run six furlongs right out at
the Valley at her previous start, Adelaide-
owned filly Celeris recorded her first Mel-
bourne win in the Keilor Handicap.
Ridden quietly by Purtell, she moved up
third at the turn, and grabbed Bow Tie
in the last stride. Success for the latter
would have landed a substantial stake
for her country connections, and it was
unfortunate for them that their mare
should strike Celeris at her top. Celeris,
a three-year-old by Pennant from Cor-
vina, came to Melbourne early in the
autumn with a fairly high reputation,
and, although her form indicated that she
might have been overrated, her owner-
trainer, Jack Bond, decided to leave her
behind when he found it necessary
to return home. He handed her over to
A. R. Jamieson, who did so well with
Manolive. Celeris was bred by her
owner, who at one time was a leading
amateur rider in South Australia.
Three Westralian horses, Sir Agrion,
Atorna, and Beaufiler, were watched
closely at the Valley. Only one to show
up was Atorna, who, starting at 25 to 1,
revealed a fine turn of speed in the Keilor
Handicap. He led to the turn, hung on
to finish third to Celeris and Bow Tie,
and will be all the better for the race,
which was his first in Melbourne. Atorna,
a four-year-old gelding by Treat-Ornate,
was a good performer in his home State,
and should pay his way here. Sir
Agrion, a much-boomed juvenile who has
won in open company in W.A., was a
runner for the first Piccaninny Handicap.
Easing from 3 to 1 to 12’s, he trailed the
field for the greater part of the trip, and
ran past three horses in the straight.
His performance was not impressive, but
the race is likely to do a lot for him.
Beaustone, carrying the colors made
more or less famous by Regular Bachelor,
justified heavy support for him in the
Empire Highweight Handicap. He was
awkwardly positioned on the turn, but
had the pace to go through when an in-
side run came his way in the straight, and
won narrowly from Somerset and French
Gem. Beaustone is leased for his racing
career by Roley Trihey, who had out-
standing success with Regular Bachelor.
Disappointment of the race was Tidylus,
who firmed from fives to favoritism at
threes, but was a clear last near the
half-mile, and, after being forced to go
wide on the turn, finished strongly.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(By “PILOT.”)
Jumpers’ Flat Race: Sir Leigh-
ton, 1 ; Tweedside, 2 ; Trekster, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Martheus, 1 ;
Evergreen, 2 ; Our Barney, 3.
Flying Handicap: Jazbeau, 1 ;
Samurai, 2 ; Blue Baron or Vergure,
3.
Canterbury Handicap: Herarde,
1 ; Gilltown, 2 ; Hilarious, 3.
Progressive Stakes: Mrs. Caudle,
1 ; Miss Poppy, 2 ; Pimm’s, 3.
Ashbury Handicap: Aristocrat,
1 ; All Set, 2 ; Pennywise, 3.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(By “SENTRY.")
York Hurdle Race: Cheery
Jack, 1 ; Dark David, 2 ; Conan-
dale, 3.
Rothsay Handicap: Balkan
Chief or Prairie Prince, 1 ; Exactly,
2 ; Flashlight, 3.
Hopetoun Steeplechase: Bright-
ello, 1 ; Turf Boy, 2 ; Bully Hayes.
3.
Royal Handicap: The Decora-
tion, 1 ; Cumulus, 2 ; El Golea, 3.
Sandringham Handicap: Bell
Buoy, 1 ; Marcius, 2 ; Windrobe, 3.
Buckingham JJandicap: Glen-
fino, 1 ; Grandson, 2; Snow White,
3.


Stewards opened and adjourned an in-
auiry into his running.
* * * *
The most interesting finish of the day
at Rosehill was that for the Juvenile
Handicap, Sally Rich, Trade Mark and
Constant Chatter finishing almost in line.
A hundred yards from home Constant
Chatter led. Sally Rich is ponyish, but
game, and an added pleasure for her
owner, A. E. Cooper, was that she is one
of his own breeding, being by Salma-
gundi from Lady Waratah, by Australian
Sun from Early Hope. Tunic was fourth,
being well clear of the remainder, Brazen
Boy again failing to show himself as
good as he looks.
Gilltown’s running at Rosehill should
have been instructive to those racegoers
who are keen on reversal-of-form
inquiries. At Canterbury four days
earliet Lord Valentine beat Gilltown quite
71b. in the Turf Club Handicap, finishing
much the better at nine furlongs. At
Rosehill Gilltown met Lord Valentine
only 51b. better at a mile and a quarter
and beat the latter fully 51b. There was
no doubt as to Gilltown being defeated
on his merits at Canterbury, but if he
had started at a long price at Rosehill
it is probable someone would have
attempted to start an undeserved demon-
stration. However, as Gilltown was
favorite, and was ridden by a popular
jockey, all was well. Gilltown’s success
merely went further to show how much
one race will occasionally do for a horse.
Four-year-old Beau Frere’s win at
Rosehill was only in a division of a
Maiden Handicap, but as he carried 9.3,
scored decisively, and made a half-second
faster time than Evertrue (8.4) did in her
division, he should be worth following.
He is likely to be suited by the welter
scale, and will have no difficulty in getting
a mile. Sold as a yearling for 750gns.,
he is by Beau Pere from Chelae, by
Cyklon from Deneb. As a two-year-old
he showed a deal of promise, his first two
starts giving seconds in the V.R.C. Mari-
byrnong Trial Stakes and V.A.T.C. Debu-
tant Stakes. In the former he was beaten
a half-head and in the latter a half-neck.
Twenty-four of the 35 acceptors for
the Maiden Handicap at Rosehill were
three-year-olds, and it looks as if the
owners of most will have to wait some
time before they get a return of what
they cost as yearlings. One division was
won by a four-year-old and the other by
a five-year-old, and of the beaten
three-year-olds Eager Fox and Fisk
gave most promise. Olive Branch, who
is closely related to Manolive, did no-
thing to reflect credit on his relationship
to the latter. Fisk is by Marconigram
from Ash Queen, and is a half-brother
to Panax.
* * * *
For the Rosehill Guineas the adver-
tised added money is 700 guineas, but in
view of the promises of liberal contribu-
tions towards stakes for the Red Cross
meeting at Randwick, where the race
will be run, it is possible that sum may
be increased. So far as handicaps are
concerned it does not matter how great
their value —owners will be able to run
their horses without being penalised for
the Epsom or Metropolitan in the event
of a win. There is no penalty for the
Epsom, and those provided for in the
Metropolitan are 101 b. for the winner of
the Epsom and advancement to weight-
for-age for the. Derby winner if it should
be handicapped at less than that weight.
* * * *
Most of the horses spelled after the
A.J.C. autumn meeting will again be in
work within the next fortnight. John has
rejoined B. Payten’s team, and during
the next week Trueness, Rylstone and
Patrician will return. A lesser light in
Valhalla has also resumed, and he may
yet make a fair hurdler. The trainer
named is among those who will be at
the Doomben (Brisbane) meeting. He is
taking Anpapejo, John Peel and Caesar.
The trio look well, and among them they
should pay expenses.
* * * *
Attempts are being made to reduce the
number of urgers who frequent Sydney
racecourses, and some were put off at
Randwick last Saturday. About a fort-
night ago a tale-teller unknowingly paid
me a compliment. After you have been
at racing practically a lifetime you gener-
ally take on a “hard face.” Going up
Park-street a young man darted out from
the doorway of a pub and asked me
whether I had seen a well-known trainer
in town that morning. I replied to the
contrary and, thinking he probably knew
me, asked if I could do anything for
him, assuming it would be the same old
“bob for a drink.” However, he was
quite unaware of my identity, and re-
plied: “Well, I am down from Queens-
land with a couple of horses, and am off
to the A.J.C. office to get my license. I
find I am just 4s. 9d. short of the neces-
sary fee.” I expressed regret that I was
unable to help him out, but it was flat-
tering to know that after my many years’
association with racing my face was still
soft enough to make a tale-teller think
I was a person who would believe that
you went to the A.J.C. office and got a
license in the same fashion that you
bought a necktie at a mercer’s. But I
could not help thinking that his judgment
was unlikely to make him a success in
the urging business.
* * * *
Eight women owners had runners at
Randwick on Saturday, but they did not
supply a place-getter. Several women
have had winners in Sydney this season,
and those with most reason to be satis-
fied with results are Mesdames C. H.
Hicks (Own Folk and Katanga), P. H.
Osborne (John) and Mrs. M. J. Mackay
(Trueness). B. Payten trains for the trio,
and for Miss P. Stephen and Mrs.
T. L. F. Rutledge, who, with A. Stephen,
shares the ownership of Caesar.
* * * *
D. Munro did not take kindly to the
judge’s decision against him in the
Warwick May Handicap, and ventilated
the opinion that he won on Fearless. There
was very little between that horse and
Lockray, and possibly a stride past the
post Fearless had his nose in front. When
it is only a matter of a few inches a
jockey is generally riding too desperately
for his ideas to weigh against that of
the judge. It is always regrettable when
an experienced jockey finds fault with a
judge’s verdict in a close finish. It is
certain he is not in a position to tell as
well as the latter, and, anyhow, he should
always be prepared to accept the bad
with the good. It is not improbable that
at some time or other Munro got a race
which another jockey thought he wop.
Munro is also alleged to have- given his
opinion that the placings should have
been: Fearless 1, Mischief 2, Lockray 3.
To anyone in the official stand it was
palpable Lockray had beaten Mischief,
no matter how he may have fared with
Fearless.
* * * *
The idea that it makes little difference
to horses whether a track is soft or
hard is far-fetched, and this was further
demonstrated by Fearless in the Warwick
May Handicap. A fortnight earlier he
was backed for the James Barnes Plate,
but in the heavy going could not raise a
decent gallop and finished a pronounced
last. The interval permitted of some
improvement, but it would be difficult
to compute how many pounds better
he ran on Saturday last than at his
previous appearance. On a sound surface
he can be relied on to run up shortly
to anything shown by him in the past.
His last Sydney win was the Ellesmere
Handicap, \\ mile, with 8.5. After that
he won the Grafton Cup. Peekmond was
another who did very much better on
Saturday than in the heavy going at
Randwick last month.
•N H*
Runners for the Federal Hurdle at
Moonee Valley on Saturday included some
that are sure to be found in the Grand
National field in July. Dark David’s
win has earned him a few pounds extra,
but he will be at the advantage of being
thoroughly seasoned, and there is sound
reason for believing he will get the dis-
tance. Restford, second in the last Grand
National with 9.9, ran at Moonee Valley
with 10.2, and his fifth was not a bad
effort for a horse whose chance was so
lightly rated that he started at 20 to 1.
It seems as if this year he will again
play a prominent part in the National.
Ex-Sydneyite El Banado, fourth at
Moonee Valley, will be better suited by
the extra seven furlongs of the National.
* * * *
Horses to be offered at W. Inglis and
Son’s sale at Randwick on June 18 in-
clude Chatham, Royal Sun and Old
Serpent. Chatham has sired several
winners, and as he is only rising 12
there is still time for him to beget some-
thing approaching his own standard. In
view of what is paid for imported horses
Chatham’s price will be of interest. As
a yearling Chatham was sold for £650
and won over £lB,OOO in stakes.
* * * *
Newcastle J.C. is having a war fund
race meeting on June 17, the King’s
Birthday holiday. Profits are to go to
the Newcastle and District War and
Patriotic Fund. It is to be hoped clubs
everywhere will be “doing their bit” in
similar fashion, and it is practically cer-
tain they will.
* * * *
Stable-companions Denis, Adios and
Beaulivre have been nominated for the
Doomben (Brisbane) meeting, and it is
probable the last-named will be a runner
for the Doomben Newmarket. His holi-
day after the A.J.C. autumn meeting
greatly benefited him. Even in three
months his quarters have developed. He
had a rather strenuous time in Maoriland
before coming to Sydney, and when he
again races he will be a heavier horse
than he was in March. Another Maori-
lander in Yours Truly also put on weight
during his holiday.
* * * *
Merry Smile has nearly finished racing,
and adds to horses that gave great
promise as two-year-olds but never ful-
filled expectations. She won a few races
subsequent to the Gimcrack Stakes, but
failed on several occasions in moderate
company when a lot was expected of her.
Opponents of early two-year-old racing
can point out that Royal Sceptre and
Beaucaire, who dead-heated for the
Breeders’ Plate at the meeting at which
Merry Smile won the Gimcrack Stakes,
have not since been successful. When
Beaucaire again races it will be as a
gelding.
* * * *
At Tanforan (San Bruno, California)
in March the stewards suspended J.
Westrope, one of America’s leading
riders, and their action was upheld by
the California Horse Racing Board.
According to San Francisco papers West-
rope has not taken the decision quietly,
and has brought a suit for £6250 against
the Tanforan stewards. He might win
such a case in America, but it would be
long odds against him in Australia after
the action of a racing club had been con-
firmed by a ruling body.
* * * *
It must make handicappers smile when
they see horses running in races obviously
short for them. They are not likely to
make the mistake of conceding anything
to a middle-distance horse because of
failure at six furlongs, and it must be
an optimistic or not over-intelligent owner
or trainer who labors under that de-
lusion. Of course, a run in a short race
or two helps a middle-distance horse in
its preparation, but disappointment
generally awaits those who think it will
also help to a drop in weight. In Sydney
a few horses that have not shown up
in short races recently will do better when
they move into their proper distances,
but, as usual, it is probable books and
backers will be awaiting them.
* * * *
Density, a good sprinter in Maoriland,
may be brought to Sydney in July. She
is a four-year-old by Pink Coat from
Denise, and at her last three starts won
the Suburban Handicap (Wellington),
6 furlongs, 7.6, l.lOf; Great Easter
Handicap (Christchurch), 7 furlongs, 7.9,
1.23 1-5; and Doncaster Handicap
(Timaru), 6 furlongs, 9.2, 1.13 1-5. When
she won at Christchurch she led all the
way, and as it is not anticipated she will
have difficulty in getting a mile, the
Epsom Handicap is sure to be part of
her Sydney programme if she comes over.
* * * *
Cuddle’s half-brother Padishah, who is
in the G.N. Hurdles and Steeplechase,
has proved himself good at both branches
of the jumping game. At Christchurch
in 1938 he won the Grand National
Hurdles, 2\ miles, and last year the N.Z.
Grand National, 3i miles, with 11.5, and
two days later the Hurdles, with 11.7,
against the 10.5 he carried the previous
year. Three months after winning his
first G.N. Hurdles Padishah won the
C.J.C. Metropolitan Handicap, \\ mile,
with 8.8, in 2.32 2-5, those behind him
including Willie Win, Wotan and
Malagigi, and he was giving weight to
the last-mentioned two. A few seasons
ago Padishah’s owner tried him in Syd-
ney, and he was unequal to winning at
either mid-week or suburban meetings.
He also had a few runs in Melbourne.
As Padishah is rising 10 he is not exactly
young, even for a jumper.
* * * *
Peerless, who is being sent to Sydney
to be trained by P. Riddle, showed ex-
cellent form in Maoriland as a three-
year-old, but acquitted herself so poorly
in her two races here last spring that
T. George sent her home without starting
her at the A.J.C. meeting. She then had
four runs in Maoriland without getting
a place, her last two being in the New
Zealand Cup, with 8.4, and the Canter-
bury Cup, with 8.9. The latter was won
by Royal Chief, 9.4. Peerless was
weighted at 8.9 for the last Metropolitan,
8.7 for the Caulfield Cup and 8.4 for the
Melbourne Cup, but this time she may
be treated more leniently. Her last race
was in November.
* * * *
Sam Heapy, who has ridden more
winners than any other jockey in the
world, was still riding and training win-
ners in Belgium up to the time that
country was invaded by Germany. The
first day of the flat-racing season in-
Belgium was early in March at Boltsfont
—it will probably be a very long time
before there is a renewal of racing in that
country —and Heapy rode a winner.
Heapy is nearly 60 years of age, and a
celebration dinner was given in his honor
two years ago when he reached 2000
wins. Since then he has added consider-
ably to that total.
* * * *
In discussing Brownie Carslake’s re-
tirement, a London paper said he had
been fighting his weight for the past 20
years, and when he collapsed alter win-
ning on Ipswich at Alexandra Park a few
weeks ago the doctors said he had to
stop. Ipswich won by a half-head, and
the effort took so much out of Carslake
that he had to be practically lifted on to
the scales. “It’s not that I’m ill,” he
said later. “It’s simply that I’ve got to
take it easier. You get hardened to
starving after a while. I never worried
about it. It’s a bad time for horse-racing,
but I’ll train a few horses. I’ve spent my
whole life with them, and when you’ve
done that you’ve got to stay with them.”
* * * *
Lord Derby’s colt, Lighthouse 11, won
the Newmarket Stakes, 1| mile, last
week, and, if the War Derby is run on
June 12 at Newbury, he may win that.
Djebel was taken back to France after
winning the Two Thousand, and con-
ditions are such that his return to Eng-
land will be difficult. Probabilities, how-
ever, favor the cessation of all racing in
England by next month. The position
is different from the last big war.
* * * *
Horses that do well at the winter
meetings rarely shine in the spring. For
one thing, if they are in good racing trim
in July it is generally too much to ex-
pect them to retain their condition until
October or November. There have been
exceptions, and last year Rivette was one.
At the V.R.C. Grand National meeting
she ran second in the July Handicap,
1 mile, with 7.5. A week later she won
the Murrumbeena Handicap, \\ mile, at
Caulfield, with 7.5, beating Maikai, who
carried the same weight, and then in the
same month the Moonee Valley Glen
Orla Handicap, 1£ mile, with 8.4. Even
then she was not taken really seriously
for the Caulfield Cup. “Not class enough”
was the general summing-up, but she
disposed of that idea before her Caul-
field Cup win. This year, as a result
of Rivette’s deeds, winter form is likely
to enter into backers’ calculations more
than has been customary.
* * * *
As a rule dope is administered with the
idea of having a livening effect upon
horses, though I doubt whether a stimu-
lant has yet been discovered that will
make a really slow horse go fast. It
would, however, seem possible to dope
a fast horse into going slow. Recently
I read an English case where a couple of
men were imprisoned for inciting a grey-
hound track attendant to dope a well-
fancied dog. It was stated in court that
the drug would have a lethargic effect
lasting ten or twelve hours.
There is a possibility of that drug
having found its way to Sydney. Some
time ago a horse well in the betting for
a suburban handicap failed badly. A
week later someone remarked to the
jockey who was on it when it was beaten,
“That horse you rode will win today.”
“Not a chance,” replied the jockey, who
had been replaced by another rider; “I
did my best, and couldn’t get a kick out
of him towards the end.” “Never mind
that,” replied the jockey’s friend ; “he will
be different today.” He was, winning
like a champion. At one time I invari-
ably scoffed at the idea of dope being
used to any extent in Sydney, but there
is no doubt it's use has greatly increased,
and it would be interesting to learn the
identity of those who compound it. There
would probably be some surprises if that
could be ascertained.
* * * *
Opinions will always differ as to the
value of time in races, but records cer-
tainly point to horses now galloping
faster at all distances in Australia than
35 years ago, and at that time the Tod
Sloan style of horsemanship was in
vogue. We are told that tracks have
greatly improved. They have to some
extent, but not sufficiently so to account
for the difference in times. So far as
Randwick is concerned I oan write with
a training-track and race experience
covering more than 45 years.
Up to the commencement of 1907 the
Randwick best for six furlongs was 1.13.
Now it is I.loi. I have not got Rand-
wick figures for seven furlongs up to
1906, but the Australian record for that
distance was then 1.26|, Ibex and Step
Out doing that at Flemington. Quasimodo
has recorded 1.234 at that track. Lough
Neagh and Mohican now share the
record with 1.23, both making that time
at Randwick. Charles Stuart’s 1.38 was
the best for Randwick at a mile up to
1905, but Peter Pan, Ramdin, Sarcherie
and Ajax have since run 1.354- on that


WALTHER * STEVEHSOH lTo:
395 CEORCE ST. SYPHEV . 1
7*.
C o
mtl'iLk.L
POST—2/9
PER RUG
Write for
Rug List!
Saddler Made
HORSE RUGS
WITH
“Stays-on” Fittings
(Illm. left.)
HEAVY
WHITE DUCK
sft. 6in. .. 42/6
sft. 9in. .. 43/9
6ft 45/3
Fittings.
“Hind-Leg-Strap”
(Illus. right.)
HEAVY WHITE DUCK
sft. 6in 40/9
sft. 9in 42/3
6ft 43/6
sdfdsfd
You want the best! Then—
Let US attend to your requirements.
course, and Amiable at Flemington.
Hova’s 2.6 at Flemington stood for many
years as a mile and a quarter record,
but Manolive did 2.2 there less than 18
months ago.
Noctuiform and Maniopoto shared the
Australian and Randwick mile and a
half record with 2.32} in 1905, but at
Randwick those figures have been re-
duced to 2.29|. At Flemington 2.29-J-
-has been run, and at Caulfield 2.21}. Up
to 1909 Dumont’s 3.0| was Randwick’s
best for a mile and three-quarters. Young
Crusader now holds the record with
2.55. In 1905 Tartan was record-holder
for two miles at Randwick with 3.27,
and those figures held good until 1909
at least. They certainly do not com-
pare favorably with Mosaic’s 3.2 U
in last year’s Sydney Cup. Some wor-
shippers of heroes of the past would wish
us to believe that our stayers have made
no progress in the last 40 years, but that
idea is not upheld by time.
* * * *
It has been decided there shall be no
daily totalisator double on the New
York tracks. This was at the request of
the clubs, their opinion being that it
was too near a lottery, as doubles would
have to be confined to minor races to
make even fairly large dividends a possi-
bility. In races of class, speculation
would be confined to outstanding
favorites, and moderate or short odds
would appeal so little to the public as
to make the running of a double scarcely
worth while.
* * * *
Australia’s weight-for-age strength in
the spring will be much the same as at
the recent autumn meetings. Ajax reads
best up to a mile and a quarter at least,
though High Caste may be a trouble-
some opponent. It does not seem as if
the latter is likely to improve upon his
three-year-old staying form. Reading
will not be troubled by a mile and a
half, and perhaps may get further,
though as a distance weight-for-age
proposition he does not read as well as
either Mosaic or Maikai.
As Australia’s record-holder, Amiable
enters into calculations at a mile, as does
Beaulivre. The latter’s effort in the
Epsom with 8.7 was first-class, but the
race did not improve him in the manner
expected. Beaulivre’s preparation had
to be a trifle hurried, and before the
meeting commenced G. Price expressed
regret that it was not a fortnight further
away. In Maoriland Beaulivre did not
prove himself a genuine stayer, but a
mile and a quarter should prove within
his compass. His Epsom run proved
his worth at a mile. At that distance he
may be able to test the best next season.
Manrico seemingly just misses being
good enough to win in the best w.f.a.
company. He can be relied on to run
well, but something is sure to beat him
at a mile. Mildura’s w.f.a. win in Bris-
bane may have scarcely carried him up to
that class in Sydney and Melbourne, but,
as winner of the Newmarket and Don-
caster Handicaps, he must be credited
with the possibility of further develop-
ment, especially as he will not be five
until the coming season. El Golea is
a better handicap than weight-for-age
horse, but next season may see Pure
Gold a w.f.a. horse up to a mile. Nuf-
field, who has not raced since he was
unplaced in the C. F. Orr Stakes in
February of last year, is again to be
trained, and will be a welcome addition
to the w.f.a. ranks. Rivette may reach
the standard necessary for such races,
and Spear Vale, Own Folk and Katanga
are possible improvers, as is Winnipeg,
but apart from those mentioned, there
does not seem much hope for other
Australian-trained horses in w.f.a. races
of a mile or further in the spring.
* * * *
The way information travels is often
surprising. Some time ago a trainer who
wished to repay an owner for some good
turns met him at a provincial meeting
and said: “My two-year-old is a good
thing today, and is sure to be at a nice
price, as no one knows anything about
him. You had better have a good bet.”
Knowing that if he was seen putting £2O
on the horse it would quickly shorten,
the recipient of the advice asked a friend
to wager that amount for him, adding
that he was sure to get a fair price.
Whereupon the friend laughed and re-
plied : “You might, but as three trainers
rang me up before I left Sydney this
morning about that horse there is no
likelihood of liberal odds.” “Don’t put
it on,” said the would-be backer. The
horse duly opened favorite, started at
odds on, and was beaten.
* * * *
Breeders’ premiums are a feature of
French racing in both branches —flat and
jumping. Apart from selling races, the
equivalent of 10 per cent, of the added
money is allotted to the breeder of the
winner, and 5 per cent, to the breeder
of the second. Last year the most suc-
cessful breeder of jumpers was Chamon,
whose premiums came to approximately
£A435.
* * * *
A Wellington exchange says that Dr.
R. A. Falla, curator of the Canterbury
Museum (Christchurch), received from
the American Museum of Natural His-
tory a photograph of Phar Lap, repro-
duced from a bronze statue which
recently won for its sculptor first prize
in a competition on the horse in art.
The photograph will be exhibited in
association with the only other notable
relic the museum possesses—the skeleton
of the successful sire Traducer. Phar
Lap’s skeleton is in the Dominion
Museum, Wellington, and his mounted
skin in the Melbourne Museum.
* * * *
The owner of seven-year-old Bogskar,
winner of the Liverpool Grand National,
deserved reward for perseverance. Bog-
skar did not race on the flat, and in his
first three seasons as a jumper did not
win anything.
* * * *
A correspondent mentions that some
time ago in the “Referee” I gave the
best times of three champions—Carbine,
Phar Lap and Peter Pan —at distances
at which they won, and asks that they
should be repeated. They are as under:
CARBINE.
Five furlongs .. .. .. 1.5*
Six furlongs .. .. .. 1.15
Seven furlongs .. .. .. 1.27*
One mile 1.41*
Mile and a quarter .. .. 2.7
Mile and a half .. .. .. 2.42
Two miles .. .. .. .. 3.28*
Three miles .. .. .. 5.43*
PHAR LAP.
Six furlongs .. .. .. 1.15*
Seven furlongs .. .. .. 1.27*
One mile .. .. .. .. 1.37
Nine furlongs .. .. .. 1.51*
Mile and a quarter .. .. 2.21-
Mile and a half 2.30*
Mile and three-quarters .. .. 2.58*
Two miles .. .. .. .. 3.25
Two and a quarter miles .. .. 3.49*
PETER PAN.
Seven furlongs .. .. .. 1.24*
One mile .. .. .. .. 1.35*
Nine furlongs .. .. .. 1.52
Mile and a quarter .. .. 2.4*
Mile and a half .. .. .. 2.32
Mile and three-quarters .. .. 3.2
Two miles .. . .. .. .. 3.23*
Two and quarter miles .. .. 3.55
Carbine suffers to some extent by com-
parison with the other two, but on his be-
half it must be said that riding tactics
were different, “waiting” in some races
being indulged in to a much greater ex-
tent than later. However, when he made
his then Australian record of 2.7 for a
mile and a quarter in defeating Mega-
phone it was a case of practically “go
all the way.”
M.Q. and Rafferty
At Sydney Stadium last Thursday Ron
Richards outpointed Carmen Barth, the
latest import from the U.S.A. It wasn’t
much of a scrap. Both combatants arc
pretty old, as fighters go, and Richards
seems to have lost some of his enthusiasm
for the game. He is well-fixed finan-
cially, being a steadygoing, thrifty fellow.
* * * *
Ken Overlin, who visited Australia a
couple of years ago and failed to win a
fight, has whipped Garcia, the Filipino,
in U.S.A., and is now hailed as champion
of the world. It says little for the quality
of American middleweights ; but perhaps
Overlin didn’t show his best form in
these parts.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
While the first half of the Augusta
course is built on moderately hilly country,
the second nine is notable for its gentle
undulating fairways and the brook that
makes this half of the course very
picturesque. Formerly the tenth tee was
the first tee, but the nines were switched
over when several of the holes were
slightly altered some years ago, making
the present second nine holes a more
testing finish. Containing two par-fives
and two one-shotters, this nine measures
the same as the first half, 3400 yards,
having 36 as par.
Off the tenth (or clubhouse) tee, the hole
stretches 470 yards, dog-legging to the left,
and is downhill nearly all the way. It
is parred at four, as the 470 yards plays
about 20 yards shorter owing to the extra
run obtained on one’s drive. Considered
by many to be the outstanding hole of
its type in the world, it gives me a thrill
every time I play it. The ideal line is to
skirt the tall pines on the left of the fair-
way, landing the ball on the down slope.
• •••••
The 11th, of 415 yards, has one
bunker. A dog-leg to the right with a nest
of three little pots close together as one in
the centre of the fairway forces the hitter
to carry 190 yards. From here the green,
on a lower level, is partly hidden by huge
mounds and is surrounded on three sides
by the brook that follows the contours
of this and the next two greens. Usually
a No. 6 iron, following a good drive, finds
the green, which is a fairly flat one and
pear-shaped.
The 12th is a par-three of 155 yards,
with the brook running along the entire
front of the green, cutting into it at
several points with tiny inlets. Not quite
at right-angles to the tee, it is 20 yards
further to the right-hand top side than to
the left bottom, giving the greenkeeper
many testing spots to put his flag. A
No. 7 iron will find the left end of the
green, but a No. 6 is needed when the
hole is put in the tiger’s corner up on the
right. Very little room is left, as the
green nowhere measures much more than
20 feet across. A tiny grassy hollow is
at the back of the green, going up into
an almost perpendicular bank of rough.
The scene of many a crash, the green
cost over £2OOO to construct, but it is
truly a great hole of its length.
Four hundred and eighty yards of
tempting fairway and creek form the
13th, a dog-leg to the left, with the brook
following one’s progress from beneath the
tee to the green. A perfect drive carrying
the bend of the brook and finishing in
the corner of the leg gives the player
his chance of smashing a wood or long
iron to the green, which is situated just
over the brook. If ever a hole was
tempting to play this one is, for the
two carries over the water need length
and above all accuracy. A drive and
No. 4 wood would put me home, but
more often than not a safer drive, a
No. 5 iron short- of the hazard and a
pitch over often gave me the birdie.
The 14th hole is slightly uphill on a
gradual rise from tee to green ; 425 yards
is the “mileage,” and a good drive over
the large trap on the right of the fairway
can be followed by a No. 4 iron to the
elevated double-plateau green. Tee-shot
placing is not of paramount importance
here, but the further one strays from the
centre of the fairway the more awkward
the shot to the green becomes. Because
of its narrowness this green, like many
of the others, calls for a high dropping
iron with a certain amount of stop.
The 15th is where Sarazen holed his
spoon shot in 1937 for an “albatross”
two. It is a 485-yard par-five hole, and the
famous stroke was worth thousands of
dollars to Sarazen, as by it he tied with
Craig Wood for the Masters’ Tourna-
ment, and not only did he gain £5OO by
winning the play-off, but he sold over
20,000 spoons bearing his name. From
the tee a good drive gives the player sight
of the green nestling at the foot of the
fairway just over the brook, which has
again caught up with the golfers. A full
wood or an iron when conditions are
favorable can reach the green in the
second shot. Unguarded by sand traps,
the player has only the water to spoil his
card. Crashes on this hole are frequent
and costly.
• «••••
The 16th, of 145 yards, is more suited
to the “rabbit’s” game. The green is built
around the slopes at the foot of a hill,
with the ever-present brook making its
final bow as public nuisance No. 1. The
contours of the green, with its upper
level on the left and lower on the right
near the waters, offer an interesting shot
to all golfers.
No. 17 is 400 yards of uphill play.
The green is blind over the rise from
the tee, but a 240-yard drive to the brow
will show the green built up some 160
yards away. Generally a No. 5 iron will
carry the ball far enough to allow a
putter for the next shot. With tiny but
potent bunkers on each side for those
who drop short, the hole calls for an
accurate second shot.
The last hole on this amazing but
beautiful course is typically tough in its
features: 425 yards from tee to green, it
is uphill steeply for both shots. A drive
up between mighty oak-trees and tall
pines is awe-inspiring but necessary if
one wishes to see the green round on
the right. From this spot a No. 5 iron
of the high-flying type is called for to
land on the sharp undulations of the
putting surface. More so than on the
other greens, putting here in the full gaze
of the spectators is the trickiest part of
the course.
Foofbrawl
With two such teams as Melbourne
and Collingwood out for blood the
20,000 odd at the M.C.G. fully expected
to go home suffering from loss of voice.
Many did, but the cause was disgust
rather than appreciation, as neither side
played anything like good football.
Superior in the ruck work, marking and
kicking, Melbourne won, 17-12 to 13-20.
It was a hard-fought tussle at North
Melbourne, where the locals went down
to Footscray, both sides returning low
scores. North achieved the doubtful
distinction of failing to goal in the first
quarter. ’Scray, 9-12; North, 7-11.
In a gale that even drowned the bar-
rackers’ voices, Hawthorn got away to
a three-goal lead against the ’Dons at
Essendon. The wind settled all attempts
at high marking and long kicking, and
the affair was slightly mixed until the
home side got the wind in the third term
and turned on a dash of the same old
stuff, going to the lead and holding it to
win, 12-18 to 9-19.
Richmond went to Fitzroy. Headed
in the opening gallop, the visitors picked
up its stride, clapped on the pace and
downed the Maroons by 12-11 to 8-14.
Fitzroy forwards lost many chances.
Down at Geelong the locals got a shock
from a South Melbourne team, which
looked easy money at the start, but took
full advantage of the change of wind
and went to the front. At half-time the
poor crowd was in a state of gloom, but
the locals took hold of themselves—and
the ball —wore down the invaders and
hurled them back to the tune of 12-21
to 10-12.
An American convert to the Austra-
lian game who supports Carlton followed
the team to St. Kilda. On his return he
gave a version of the game in his own
language: “De poys gave ’em de woiks
from de foist innings, hitting homers
like a big Leaguer toined loose against
a bunch of hick pitchers.” Translation:
The Blues led all the way and won, 11-19
to 6-18.
On August 3 the V.F. League intends
to turn on a lively spectacle at M.C.G.,
when the 12 clubs will play six 20-minute
games in a knock-out contest. Teams will
probably be matched on strength. All
proceeds to patriotic funds.
* * * *
Randwick’s Rugby Union team was
beaten on Saturday for the first time
this season. Eastern Suburbs did the job
and did it well; though the margin was
narrow (15-14), East scored three tries
to one. But ’Wick still tops the com-
petition table ; East is second, two points
lower down, with Parramatta and Drum-
moyne together third.
The Randwick-East match was the best
of a season which is unlikely to last much
longer. Forwards and backs put vim
into their work. Randwick was handi-
capped by the loss of its hooker early
in the first half, but the backs lacked
their customary dash.
A.I.F. enlistments and calls to militia
camps are weakening most of the clubs,
especially Northern Suburbs and St.
George, whose match was willing and
little more. Saints won 19-11. Gordon
inflicted another defeat on University,
11-6 ; and Parramatta, thanks chiefly to
its hardworking forwards, downed Drum-
moyne, 18-14. West v. Manly was
another forwards’ game and ragged.
West came out on top, 11-8.


Nm
11I1S 10d 3wmi
* | 'HE method of distillation used by the leading distil-
leries in the West Indies is the Pot Still process.
Double distillation under this method, combined with
longer maturity, has endowed Bowen Rum with a delicate
flavour and fine quality— a quality
hitherto unknown to be produced in
Australia.
Obtainable in Basket Bottles and
Half Bottles at both overproof and
underproof strengths.
~
mm
■ t &
. | <
M > ««.« 4WW >*** «£' | •
ysk^yy/yw?'/?:
- W'wfckM. -mam.
M >
mm
PRICES
in Metropolitan Area: —
Bottles, U.P.B/6, & O.P. 11/-
f Bottles, U.P. 4/9, & O.P. 6/-
MAKES
MILK
MARVELLOUS
Obtainable from leading hotels, including The Australia,
Aarons, Carlton, Plaza and Usher's.
AGENTS:
HARRISON & ATTWOOD PTY. LTD.
11 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: 8W6336, 85256.
m
mm
**' ‘ V
WE
CORDIALLY
INVITE
YOU
to visit our
Showrooms at
44 Bridge Street
00 We have created these Show-
rooms for your convenience. They
are the culmination of a constant
progressive effort extending over
half a century.
Since its inception, our Firm has
grown with one idea—complete
co-operation with the practical
“man on the land,” and our objec-
tive is to supply quality products at
the lowest initial and operating cost.
.. . .Here is a list of the
celebrated M.V. Products.
SHEARING MACHINERY
JETTING PLANTS
DIESEL ENGINES
PETROL ENGINES
KEROSENE ENGINES
ELECTROLUX REFRIGERATORS
LIGHTING PLANTS
WINDMILLS
IRRIGATION PLANTS
PUMPING PLANTS
MILKING MACHINES
STERILISERS
ORCHARD SPRAY PLANTS
SAWBENCHES
HAY PRESSES
FUMIGATORS
CHAFFCUTTERS
Being experienced Engineers and
Manufacturers, we are in the excel-
lent position to give sound technical
suggestions and advice.
If you have any mechanical problem
to solve, or need advice on any
matter —you are cordially invited to
consult our Expert. There is no
obligation whatever.
These Showrooms are situated at
44 Bridge Street, right in the centre
of the Pastoral section of the City,
and we want you to make full use or
the facilities they have to offer.
w«
am
S
sdfdsfd
©
MAY WE EXPECT A VISIT WHEN
YOU ARE NEXT IN SYDNEY?
Note the sign M.V.—Remember it—for wherever
you see it displayed you will know that there you can obtain Moffat-Virtue
products and Moffat-Virtue Service.
The letters “M.V.” are your guarantee of excellence —It is the Hallmark
of Quality.
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LTD.
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS
4 1-25 PALMER
SYDNEY
I584B, G.P.O.
’Phone: FL5214 (6 lines). Telegrams: “Virtue,” Sydney.
ALSO BRISBANE AND LONGREACH, QUEENSLAND.


The Gas and Lighting
Restrictions are over
and the
HOTEL PLAZA
at Wynyard
is again in full swing, and this week
we are specialising in
Freshly-caught Fish .
ITS FRESHNESS IS
GUARANTEED.
Our expert Chefs prepare this
appetising food in every possible
way. You may have it Fried,
Grilled, Baked, Boiled, Mornay, etc.,
etc., and served with suitable sauces.
A fish meal at the Plaza is something
to remember, for there is nothing
better in Sydney.
HOTEL
Q W'
4091
nrfm
at Wynyard
the Friendly Hotel.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Primrose Path”
Well, said Clarice, I’ve just been to
Sydney Century to see “The Primrose
Path” and it was simply marvellous
because it’s all about Ginger Rogers who
is a poor girl living in a horrible place
called Primrose Hill where nobody knows
what virtue is and her father drinks and
her mother earns her living by something
dreadful and grandmother used to do the
same but now she just stays at home and
encourages her mother and tells Ginger
that she should do the same but Ginger
won’t of course because she is not that
sort.
Well one day when Ginger is gather-
ing clams among the sea shells on the
sea shore or somewhere a boy drives
up on his motor-bike and helps her
gather clams and then takes her home
on his motor-bike and tries to kiss her
but she slaps his face and walks home
because she’s never been kissed before
and thinks it is wrong because she is
not that sort.
Well when she gets home she starts to
think about being kissed and then she
goes up to her room and puts on her
best clothes and goes down to the beach
where the boy keeps a hamburger stall
and asks him to come outside and kiss
her again and when he’s done that she
tries to jump in the sea and drown her-
self but he stops her and they get mar-
ried because he doesn’t know she comes
from Primrose Hill or that her mother
and grandmother are like that but it
really doesn’t matter because Ginger her-
self is not that sort.
Well Ginger helps her husband serve
hamburgers and things behind the
counter of his store and they are simply
gorgeously happy until one day Ginger’s
mother drives up with one of her men
friends and makes such a terrible scene
that Ginger is ashamed and her husband
finds out where she comes from and
what her mother does and what her
grandmother was and that her father
drinks and so he walks out on her be-
cause she has lied to him by not telling
him before even though she was not
that sort herself.
Well poor Ginger goes home again
and her father gets very drunk and
shoots and kills her mother and just be-
fore she dies she asks Ginger to take
care of the family so Ginger can’t go
back to her husband because she has to
try to get a job and when she can’t her
horrible old grandmother keeps telling
her she should go out and do what her
mother used to do or else they’ll all
starve so at last Ginger goes down to a
flat where a friend of her mother lives
and she dresses her up like one of
those women and they ring up two
men and go off in a car together and it’s
simply terrible because Ginger is really
still not that sort.
Well they stop for a few minutes at
the place where Ginger’s husband used
to get drunk sometimes and Ginger goes
in to show him what she’s come down to
because he’s left her and then she goes
out again and they drive away in the car
and it’s terrible and then the man in the
car with her turns the lights off and on
several times to signal someone which
is Ginger’s husband who is sorry for
what he has done and has been follow-
ing them all the time and now he drives
up on his motor-bike and takes Ginger
back with him because he knows she is
still not that sort in spite of everything.
“Cauboy” views a contrast: —
I saw two films at Melbourne Savoy the
other evening which provided an interesting
contrast. The first was the old “Blossom
Time,” with Tauber singing Schubert. The
music was divine, and so was the singing,
while the singer acted admirably. Schubert
may not have been like that at all, but
somebody could have been. Somebody
could have gone about Vienna weaving
sounds into beautiful arrangements, but with
the same romantic ideas about love in his heart
as a public-school boy. When his girl fell
in love with a handsome, aristocratic young
guardsman, he might have thought it right and
proper that she should prefer the soldier to the
obscure composer and, unable to get her, he
may have solaced himself by singing gloriously
at her wedding. With such notions in his head,
how could he have acted otherwise? And, if
magnificent music eventuated, all the better
for the rest of us.
The other was the French film, “The Dis-
appearance from St. Agil.” There was also
plenty of skill in this one; the actors were, ex-
tremely good, especially the schoolboy ones;
it was witty and there were flashes of psy-
chology. But all the talent was put to the
services of a mystery story with which one
could identify oneself about as much as one
can identify oneself with the feelings of the
individuals at present involved in the European
struggle by looking at a daily newspaper war
map. Most people could identify themselves
with the situations in the Schubert picture, but
all one could admire in the French film was
the ingenuity of the producers in thinking out
artificial situations.
It always seems to me inexplicable why
producers expend such a lot of money and
effort in making feature films which have no
relation to any real problem and only occa-
sionally and by accident portray a real situa-
tion. The great fascination of the cinema is
that filmgoers can identify themselves with the
characters on the screen. That is the real
reason why the theatre has such an enormous
attraction for the public; and if an Australian
producer had the feeling for this fact in his
blood he would be able to make films for next
to nothing which would at least hold their own
with the super-super productions of Holly-
wood. “Dodsworth” was the most perfect
Don Nicol, Charles Zoli (in kilts), Lloyd Lamble and Nigel Lovell taking their
French without tears at Sydney Minerva.
example of the sort of film Australian pro-
ducers should study. Most of them say there
aren’t suitable stories in Australia, but have
they never heard of Henry Handel Richardson
and Maurice Guest and Ultima Thule ?
* * * *
“It All Came True” is the main item
at Sydney Plaza. A few dear old ladies
soften the heart and head of gangster
Humphrey Bogart to such an extent that
he turns their old-fashioned boarding-
house into a night club for them. Jeffrey
Lynn and Ann Sheridan are tangled into
the yarn to provide lurv-interest, and a
few moments of comedy from Bogart
decorate an otherwise mediocre stretch of
sentimentality. Support is “Free, Blonde
and Twenty-one,” a comedy-crime opus
notable for a. keen, unsentimental portrait
of the villainess of the piece.
* * * *
In “The Man from Dakota,” at Syd-
ney Capitol, Wallace Beery and John
Howard are captives in an Amurrican
Civil War prison camp. They escape,
encountering goil (Dolores Del Rio) and
highly important map of proceedings.
Tale deals with subsequent wanderings
of the quartet through country thick with
enemy. Beery again reveals heart of gold
by making noble sacrifice. In the sup-
port, “Thou Shalt Not Kill,” Charles
Bickford is a Hollywood bad man doing
penance as a clergyman. Talks the town
ne’er-do-well into an honest life and sees
him win the right goil. An f.a.q. bill.
* * * *
“Viva Cisco Kid,” at Sydney Cameo
and Civic, has Cesar Romero playing
the O. Henry character. Fairly good
comedy and the fact that he doesn’t
marry the goil raise it slightly above
average Western fare. Support is “Escape
to Paradise,” and, with Bobby Breen
doing his best, it’s good stuff for Breen
enthusiasts.
* * * *
“Millionaire Playboy,” at Sydney
Century, has Joe Penner filling the title
role and suffering from a peculiar afflic-
tion which brings on a violent attack of
hiccups every time a wench kisses him.
Penner is a good clown, and the film
bowls along easily enough on a note of
broad, knockabout comedy.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“French Without Tears”
Lloyd Lamble, Nigel Lovell, Maxwell
Osbiston, Don Nicol and Charles Zoli
made a good team in “French Without
Tears,” the first of Sydney Minerva’s
proposed series of light comedies. Zoli
was the bearded teacher of French,
Lamble his very naval pupil, Lovell the
youthful—and useful —foil, Nicol the
bright young ass, Osbiston the pupil
who was almost proof against the wiles
of Diana. Aileen Britton, playing the
flirt, was more competent than con-
vincing. Jane Conolly made an attrac-
tive Jacqueline. As a whole, the play
lacked some of the polish and sparkle
of the film English actors have a
flying start when it comes to playing
English bright boys—but it should im-
prove as its run goes on. The dialogue
—more liberal in two senses than in the
talkie —is very funny, and the huge first-
night audience enjoyed it immensely.
* * # *
“Judgment Day”
This play, by Elmer Rice, was put on
at the Union House Theatre, Melbourne
University, and was the first presentation
by a graduates’ society called the Tin
Alley Players. It is an obvious attempt
to dramatise the events of the famous
Reichstag fire case. The trial of three
prisoners charged with the attempted
assassination of a dictator in south-
eastern Europe opens before five Judges.
One of the accused is a semi-idiot, and
there is not a tittle of evidence that the
other two had anything whatever to do
with the crime or even that a crime was
committed. But they are members of
the People’s Party, and the Court is com-
pletely dominated by the dictator’s simple
ethic that what he thinks is good for the
State is right for the individual. With
this easy guide to justice the guards can
torture a prisoner with a perfectly good
conscience and the Judges can perform
feats of mental gymnastics which they
would have thought themselves incapable
of doing before the totalitarian era.
Stanley Lowe was admirable as the
leading Judge who wants to remain
kindly in an earthquake, and Frank
Brooks made an eloquent second. Allan
Ashbolt, as prosecuting counsel, reduced
the law to a shambles in the interests
of the dictator. Murray Sutherland and
Joyce Turner gave sensitive portrayals
of the wrongly accused couple, and pro-
ducer Keith Macartney was the doped
moron whom the secret police had hyp-
notised into believing that he was the
liberator of the nation from a tyrant.
Gorgeously arrayed, Lance Carlson was
the Goring of the melodrama, and
Donovan Clarke made a brief, ineffec-
tive appearance as dictator. It would be
interesting to know if the legal proceed-
ings were in the hands of members of
the profession. They couldn’t have been
done much better.
* * * *
Gladys Moncrieff made her first con-
cert-platform appearance under the
A.B.C.’s banner at the Sydney Town Hall
last week, and her clear, effortless sing-
ing was a joy to listen to. Schubert’s
“Thou Art My Rest” and “Margaret’s
Song” were given with refined restraint;
Schumann’s “Dedication” was a captivat-
ing encore. Lashings of light stuff from
her many musical comedy successes fol-
lowed, and the audience enthusiastically
joined in. Supporting Miss Moncrieff
were the N. S. Wales Police Choir, the
Police Band, Lionello Cecil nicely
lyrical in arias by Bizet and Puccini —
and Raymond Lambert, who coaxed the
beauties of Liszt and Chopin from the
grand and accompanied the singers.
* * * *
Large crowds have been rolling up to
His Majesty’s, Melbourne, to witness
the percussion ballet “Icare,” but a
ballet which concerns the first attempt at
aviation looks like an anticlimax when
Jasinsky concludes his aerial reconnais-
sance by sliding on his ear down a
wooden chute which is in full view of his
audience. It requires an enormous effort
for the average spectator to abstract him-
self from his associations sufficiently to
appreciate Lifar’s choreography. Never-
theless, it is a strangely arresting ballet
in which the hard, brittle movements of
the dancers match the unmusical crash-
ings and bangings of the orchestra.
“Thamar,” another ballet new to Mel-
bourne, is conventional in cut but gor-
geous in color.
* * *
By a more sensible arrangement the
Melbourne City Fathers’ midday concerts
now start at 12.30 and knock off at
1.30, so that both the 12 o’clock
luncheoneers and the one-o’clockers can
have a slice of music and have time to
nourish their bodies as well. The result
is two big crowds a time to listen to
the concerts, which last week comprised
an A.B.C. symphony orchestra perform-
ance under the spruce Mr. Post. Items
included a charming concerto by C. P. E.
Bach, second son of the famous Johann,
and short but engaging pieces by De
Falla, Delius, Elgar and Hamilton Harty.
Artbursts.
The teaching of art in schools is boom-
ing in Melbourne, every big public
school, suburban technical college and
many country ones having their art
masters. To start teaching art before one
knows anything more about its problems
than can be learnt at the orthodox
academies is a risk that few young
graduates are strong enough to take,
and it says something for water-colorist
R. Montgomery, who teaches at Warr-
nambool, and Colvin Smith, who teaches
in the suburbs, that their work hanging
at the Riddell Galleries, Melbourne, does
not yet look as if they had given up the
idea of experimenting altogether. They
have little as yet to teach except the
academic tradition, but in one or two of
their pictures there is a freshness that
can come only from an interest in Nature.


BRAN BALER’S
mi
r*
6Q.V
/PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BKAXUADJtR * CO, Ltd, BIJUUMaHAM, UNO
Legal Notice.
TO JOSEPH HENRY JOHNSON (also known
as Joseph Johnston or Johnson) nephew of
Joseph Boyce a farmer who died in New
Zealand on the 19th December 1919 leav-
ing a will and to any of his issue and to
all persons claiming by through or under
him or them or any of them by derivative
title or otherwise howsoever.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or before
the 31st December 1940 your claims to the
estate of the abovenamed deceased failing which
the said estate will be distributed amongst those
entitled thereto disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 9th day of May,
1940 The Solicitor, Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, puffiness under the eyes ana
excess uric acid.
Don’t delay! Neglect is dangerous. Take
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Let
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
His subjects and friends from John o’
Groats to the Bluff in Maoriland, and
in every bit of the Empire in between,
clustered around the radio to hear the
King’s Empire Day broadcast. As they
listened to the earnest sincerity of that
voice, they visualised the King’s tall
figure, his thin, sensitive face, and every
man, woman and child longed to be up
and doing in the cause of Right against
Might. . _ . t ,
Last year, after the Empire Society s
dinner, there were films showing the
King and Queen as they went about their
duties and their pleasures. War had
not then brought its disruption, and one
film showed them at a boys’ camp, sur-
rounded by a group of happy youngsters,
singing “Under the Spreading Chestnut
Tree,” and enjoying all its gay absurdities.
This year the Empire Society did not
celebrate with a dinner, but gathered at
the Australia for an evening reception.
A topical film, “For Freedom,” which
was made by Gaumont-British, co-
operating with the Admiralty, was
shown. Lord and Lady Wakehurst were
there, her chiffons of Parma-violet. All
the Allied Consuls were guests. Margaret
Platou was with her father, who is
Consul-General for Norway. The
Premier and Mrs. Mair were among
the guests ; so were Sydney’s Mayor and
Mayoress. President of the society Hugh
Denison and his lady did the honors.
“This is no time for laughter,” said a
woman of many committees to this
writer last week when the Nazi hordes
were sweeping across France. But she
was wrong. If a war is to be won it is
not won by the downcast heart, by people
palsied with dejection. Laughter never
lost a battle yet. Indeed, as the Boy
Scout must do his good deed every day,
there should be a rule for adults that
each lift another to at least one laugh
every 24 hours. A gude Scots friend
is fond of quoting Harry Lauder, who
said during the 1914-18 war: “If they
[the Germans] think you’re downhearted,
why, it’s giving them salt to their por-
ridge.”
Yehudi Menuhin played with richness
and nobility of expression at his concert
last week, and yet for one listener it
was like trying to pay attention to a
conversation while all the time you were
listening for the telephone to ring. These
days and nights, war news and war-time
activities are the only subjects capable
of holding the undivided attention. Mrs.
Menuhin was in the audience, her blue
velvet cloak collared in red fox. The
Rupert Scammells were among the pro-
gramme’s most understanding, Mrs.
Rupert being a violinist and sister Nell
Thomson, who was in the family group,
one of the city’s well-known pianists.
Artists present included Dora Jarret and
Adrian Feint. Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar
was among the handsome, and Mrs. Bob
Paterson, her wine-colored moires snug
under mink, was among the noted.
Violinist Phyllis McDonald was a music
ardent.
This Letter’s long-time friend Dorothy
Helmrich has come back to Australia
to add her sweet and fluent voice to
A.B.C. programmes. Next week she goes
on tour, starting with Brisbane. Dorothy’s
big regret at leaving London this time
was that she missed the first of a series
of concerts she had arranged for the
Lady Mayoress of London’s Comforts
Fund. These are the first midday con-
certs in the City of London (the
others are West End) and are in
the Clothmakers’ Hall, and that’s near
the Tower of London where the Sydney
singer once lived. Lord Wakefield spon-
sored these concerts, so that all the money
will be clear profit. News to hand yester-
day told that more than 200 had to be
turned away from the opening Chopin
recital. Dorothy, who was very popular
in Holland, Denmark, Sweden and
Norway, had made many tours through
those countries. Early in 1939 there
was a movement set on foot by
the Stockholm Musical Academy to
send its pupils wishing to study in Lon-
don to Dorothy. But, alas! strafe put
an end to the piping times of peace.
Film audiences throughout Australia
smiled and maybe cried a little over
“Boys’ Town,” that 300 acres of Omaha
that has been turned into a heaven on
earth for 5000 boys of America. These
boys might have easily turned into help-
less, hopeless citizens of the dead-end but
for Father Flanagan. Mrs. C. A. Fraser,
J.P., of the picture below, has visited
Boys’ Town. She told all about its work-
ing to avid listeners at a lunch in the
rooms of the Catholic Women’s Associa-
tion last Thursday.
Among her hearers was Father Dunlea,
who has started the same sort of estab-
lishment at Sutherland. Father Dunlea
told of its beginnings. One night a
small stray came to the presbytery and
asked for shelter. Somehow a second
boy was added to the first. Then there
were three. You see, it’s like the rhyme
of the ten little nigger boys, the other
way round. One night a swagman came
to the presbytery to stay till morning.
He never went away, and is part of the
family now. Then something had to be
done, so Father Dunlea took a cottage.
Every day some new citizen joins the
community. To be homeless, unhappy,
uncared for, makes a boy eligible.
Nationality, color, religion, don’t count.
As Mrs. Fraser, who was elected the
first and only honorary mayor of Boys’
Town in America, told her story, the
vision grew of a self-supporting colony,
making its own cheese and butter, grow-
ing its own produce, breeding its own
sheep. And why not? Surely hearts
beat just as warm in Australia as in
America. This land, too, is free and
wide, and every man should walk equal
with his brother man.
Boys’ Town in America has its own
picture theatre, gymnasium, swimming-
pool, workshops. The buildings are fire-
proof. The boys govern themselves,
electing their own mayor and so on. But
can they, as Father Dunlea can, claim
a boy whose ambition is to be an opera
singer, and who is having his voice trained
towards that end? Or a small boy who
writes plays and can write an opening
line of such profound thought as I am
nothing”? /Eschylus or Shakspeare
couldn’t have put the case for Man better.
Friends and flowers! Gladys Mon-
crieff loves them both, and both sur-
rounded her at her “come-back concert
in the Town Hall last week. Gladys,
who was caught in a bad car smash over
two years ago, has been well enough to
sing on the air for some time, but not
to make public appearances.
When she did return to the stage she
did it with practically the whole police
force at her back. The star of Australia s
musical comedy said to the Commissioner
of Police one day, talking about her
coming A.B.C. concert, You know, I
am used to singing in opera surround-
ings with a chorus near by. But at the
Town Hall I will be alone on that big
stage.” “What’s wrong with the Police
Choir and the Police Band?” said the
Commissioner. “That,” said Gladys, is
how I come to have these splendid men
supporting me.” Then she laughed:
“Well, I’ve got the police where I want
them! ” ~
Those great stalwarts did support her,
nobly, in her final “Land of Hope and
Glory!” And after them the audience
joined in, too. Looks as though, befoie
the tour is over, Gladys will be Aus-
tralia’s Clara Butt. Never, probably, in
the history of living man has the Town
Hall stage been so banked with flowers.
Friends had done it themselves. Along
the edge was a low, thick bank of yellow
and tawny chrysanthemums. Then came
a narrow intermission of green leaf and
fern. Below this fell a curtain of alter-
nate ropes of chrysanthemum an
autumn leaves. The whole length ot he
unheated Town Hall was fragrant with
them. Gladys sang like an angel, wore
shining white and a spray ot orchids
presented by a lad of the A.I.F.
Over 2000 went to the Ice Carnival
for the Red Cross. This was a glitter-
some display, with Hope Braine, the
world’s champion, speeding about with
incredible grace. All the State’s best
skaters and many of Australia-wide
renown whirled and twirled in a dazzling
performance. Then as many as liked
took to the ice. There were some who
had never been on the ice before ; and
some who looked as though they d been
in cold storage a long, long time. The
Lindsay Nicholas couple, from Mel-
bourne, were among the tiered spectators.
With them was her sister, Yaltah Menu-
hin. Mrs. Warwick Fairfax was presi-
dent of the committee, Mrs. Frank
Packer the organiser, Mrs. Gregory Blax-
land and Mrs. John Fairfax the secre-
taries. Mrs. Jimmy Bancks and Philippa
Stephen were the treasurers. Mrs. Alan
McGregor brought her warm smile and
a large party. Nuttie Mackellar and Mrs.
Ernest Watt were among the many.
Yvonne East, a teen-old, plays the
girl heroine in the film “Dad Rudd, M-P-
Yvonne made her stage debut in Mrs.
Harold Clapp’s amateur production of
“Joanna” in Melbourne, and has toured
as a dancer with the J. C. Williamson
firm. She has red hair and the fair
complexion that goes with it.
The Minerva, practically a war baby,
celebrated its first birthday last week
with a gay little French play. There was
also a three-tier cake of flowers on the
stairway. The house was packed tight
as herrings in a barrel. ‘French Without
Tears” is the show, and as presented by
Harvey Adams it proved an untrue state-
ment. There were lots of tears—good,
healthy tears of laughter —as the play
blew along on its thistledown way. Per-
haps it was good for minds harassed with
the thoughts of total war in Europe to
have a moment or two with this iridescent
bubble of fun. Strangely enough, before
the war-gongs sounded, the Minerva on
the night of its birth as a theatre had
echoed to the bombing of “Idiot’s
Delight”—a prophetic opening, indeed.
Playwright sisters Margot Neville and
Anne Goyder, who write as Margot
Neville, were in the house with actor
Gerald Kirby, grandson of Dion Bouci-
cault. He collaborated with them in the
play “Giving the Bride Away.” Mrs.
David Martin was in one of the boxes.
The Professor Tasman Lovells watched
son Nigel, who played the important part
of Kit Neilan. Mrs. Max Munro, who
was Barbara Salenger till last week, came
with her lieutenant husband, an upright
sprig of the R.A.N. Mr. and Mrs.
Salenger were there, too, and daughter
Margaret. The Bertie Kellys brought a
large party; so did the George Fitz-
patricks. Almost shoulder-length were
the lapis lazuli suede gloves worn by
May Sheehan with her black taffetas.
Mrs Vernon Coles wore red roses with
her black laces. Dorothy Tremlett,
whose French is as fluent as her English,
understood all the French jokes. Jane
Conolly and Aileen Brittton were the
glamor girls of the cast.
That bright lad Sumner Locke-Elliott
has done a good piece of work in his
“The Little Sheep Run Fast.” It is pre-
sented at the Independent Theatre, and
has both humorous and dramatic
moments. Still, this Letter believes that
Sumner would do better to make comedy
his best girl. The scene is set in a farm-
house, now a holiday home, and the fun
is provided by some of the guests, the
tragedy by one of them and the son
of the house. The impudent sparkle of
Florrie Wallace was conveyed by Gwen
Oatley. Heroine honors were shared
by Jean Robertson and Jessica Noad.
The whole is the story of love that went
astray in the shadow of a beautiful
mountain. In between acts Director
Doris Fitton’s knitting needles worked
with great sureness and rapidity.
All the workers for that good old firm
the Lord Mayor’s Fund bustled around
to the Town Hall last Thursday to see
a cheque for £lOOO. This was handed
to Mayor Crick by secretary of the
younger set Laurie Arnott in an un-
signed condition. President Sheila Ton-
kin, who was to make her mark on it,
did not arrive till an hour or so after
starting time ; cause was late arrival of the
train on which she was returning from
the country and having to rush to her
home on the North Shore line to change.
However, she was there before the shut-
ters went up, and the cheque, signed and
blotted an’ all, was handed over.
Mayoress Crick was smart in black
ensemble and black hat. Peter Lubbock
represented G.H. Cornflower blues weie
worn by Mrs. F. J. Davy, who sipped
a glass of sherry beside the Julius lady.
Town Clerk’s secretary Frank Crane
helped the party spirit (he’s a splendid
mixer). Keith Docker was there, and
crowds of the girl workers who had
whistled up the £lOOO breeze for the
cause by “Gone With the Wind, a
night at Luna Park and cocktails at
Prince’s.
Last Thursday this Letter stood in
Martin-place watching the long line of
volunteers waiting to enlist. After half
an hour or so foot-tiredness caused a
move onwards. It also started the brain
churning over a scheme for supplying
the lads with a cup of tea, a sandwich
and a cigarette some time during the
waiting. Suppose, for instance, there are
200 eager to enlist, and it takes seven
minutes for every 10 to get through the
preliminaries of signing forms and so
on. That means the final 10 are standing
in Martin-place over two hours before
their turn arrives. Would a hot cup of
tea taste good about halLtime? Button-
holed at his own party that afternoon
Mayor Crick was all for the scheme ,
thought it might be done through the
Mayor’s Fund. But one of the adminis-
trators saw difficulties ahead. Well,
maybe Sydney women war workers
will with their customary warm-hearted
efficiency look into the scheme. And
while we’re about it, why not a roofed-
in space where the boys could take it in
turns to sit down? There’s no sense in
keeping them standing exposed to the
weather ; no wisdom in it should we get
a spell of rain.
Ever since the outbreak Sydney women
have been doing their bit in the way of
war effort. But now it’s a case of all
hands to the pumps. There’s a dash and
a vigor in the planning of innumerable
entertainments. The Lord Mayor’s Fund
concert in the Town Hall on the 30th
promises to be one of those do you
remember the night” memories. All the
comforts funds are manned to the teeth.
Every soldier hut has a great army of
supporters. The Red Cross is sending
away mountains of parcels.


Personal and Missing Friends.
RE JOSEPH BINNS, late of Nhill, in Vic-
toria. Will JOSEPH ERNEST BINNS, son
of Jonas Binns, deceased, and nephew of above-
named, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with TRUMBLE AND
PALMER, Solicitors, Nhill, Victoria?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 624 of 1940.
BETWEEN PHYLLIS ELLEN PARKER Peti-
tioner
And GEORGE JOHN PARKER Respon-
dent.
TO GEORGE JOHN PARKER late of 11
Jersey Road Woollahra.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PHYLLIS
ELLEN PARKER has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted her and without any
such cause or excuse left her continuously so
deserted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Fifteenth day of August One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED the Seventeenth day of May, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
F. J. DOWNING, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 826 of 1940.
BETWEEN QUEENIE HODGSON Petitioner
And GEORGE HODGSON Respondent.
TO GEORGE HODGSON late of Caringbah
in the State of New South Wales Motor
Driver.
TAKE NOTICE that the said QUEENIE
HODGSON has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground that
you have without just cause or excuse wilfuliy
deserted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twentieth
day of August One thousand nine hundred and
forty and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of May, a.d.
1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
GREGG AND MILNE, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 752 of 1940.
BETWEEN DORIS AVEY CRANSTON Peti-
tioner
And JOHN CRANSTON Respondent.
TO JOHN CRANSTON late of 71 Victoria
street Potts Point.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DORIS AVEY
CRANSTON has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter ah appearance
to the said suit at- the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Sixteenth
day of August One thousand nine hundred and
forty and in the event of your not so doing
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-third day of May, 1940.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALAN V. RITCHIE, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 10 Martin Place, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The new Travellers’ Aid Hostel was
given a pre-opening day housewarming.
Guests brought parcels of linen, but
many forgot to put in name cards;
a dozen pairs of sheets was one anony-
mous gift for which the committee was
particularly grateful. Miss L. Armytage
and Mrs. Harold Brookes were to have
stood side by side at the front door, but
Mrs. Brookes was up at Woodend fight-
ing an endurance test with an influenza
germ. As deputies she sent her daughter,
Mrs. John Colquhoun, and Liberty
Brookes. Miss N. Malcolm was also in
combat with one of the prevailing wogs,
and had to carry on all conversation in
a husky whisper.
The hostel is a cheery building four
storeys high, well ventilated and
pleasantly furnished. It accommodates
60 people, and men are admitted pro-
vided they are with their wives. The
time limit is a couple of weeks, except in
cases of emergency. The hostel has
plenty of roof-garden space for drying
clothes, and a special laundry with a
wood copper for country mothers who
don’t understand gas. Downstairs there
is a separate kitchen for nervous
mothers and children. There are a
large general lounge and dining-room,
an electric lift, a radio and a refrigerator.
Donations and beneficent gifts made
the hostel possible, and several dona-
tions were forthcoming for furnishing
memorial bedrooms. Miss Armytage re-
quested that her two-bed room would be
used when possible by young teachers
and nurses. Mrs. H. B. Shaw chose
domestic arts students as her “guests.”
In all cases travellers must move on as
soon as permanent living quarters are
found for them.
Only a few more days of the ballet
remain. Like the cherry on the top of the
ice-cream that is saved for the last mouth-
ful, “Pavilion” was kept until last week.
It is a slender ballet indeed, with cos-
tumes and coloring as in a fairy-tale.
Cecil Beaton was the designer. As the
season nears its end houses are still good.
The idea of dressing has waned gradu-
ally, though the first rows of stalls and
circle always manage to produce a
few white ties and glimmering gowns.
Mrs. Geoff Grimwade and Mrs. Dudley
Brunton were together one night last
week, Mrs. Grimwade in a person-
ality frock of ice-blue woollen sheer
with scrolls of silver braid, a cunning
decoration that tricked the eye to a
thought of pearls and diamonds. Mrs.
Brunton’s carnival-pink frock had a skirt
of super fullness, flared and fan-pleated.
Mrs. Ainslie Meares was with her sister,
Bessie Byrne. Mrs. Max Pirani was
there making the most of her visit to
town from country life in N.S.W.
The padres are busy these days; there
is no let-up in the popularity of the
Marriage Stakes, though extravagant
receptions are fewer; so are the long
list of linen teas which in past times
reduced the brides’ girl friends to a state
of penury.
Jan Moran and Paddy Carter were in
agreement about a very quiet wedding, a
tryst in the Hoban Chapel of Wesley
Church, behind-the-poplars in Lonsdale-
street, and afterwards some well-wishing
among intimate friends at Little Milton,
the home of the bride’s parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Leslie Moran. Jan’s coiffure on
her wedding day might not have been so
very different from her grandmother’s
when she was a bride, for granddaughter
wore grandmother’s tiny circlet of orange
blossom on top of her Edwardian curls
and gathered at the back a wispy tulle
veil floating over her ivory satin gown
of very full skirt, elbow-tip sleeves
and scrolled braiding of moss-
green velvet. Also old-world was her
antique brooch of jade with sprays of
gold-flowers, a gift from the ’groom’s aunt,
Miss G. Carter, which has been worn by
many brides of the Carter family. After
their honeymoon the bride and ’groom
(he is the second son of Mr. and Mrs.
H. G. Carter, of Chesterfield-avenue,
Malvern) will live in a flat in Stradbroke-
avenue.
Marion Thomas and George Purbrick
were married very quietly in St. Mark’s
C. of E., Camberwell, but 160 people
came to say “good luck” afterwards
when the bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Richard R. Thomas, gave a late-after-
noon party at their home. The bride
chose a powder-blue woollen ensemble,
navy accessories and a couple of glamor-
ous pink orchids. The bride’s sister,
Mrs. J. Campbell Johnston, flew from
Sydney on one day for the wedding and
returned the next. She has been in
Melbourne only once since her marriage
two and a half years ago, when she and
her husband returned from Europe. The
newly-married couple (George is the
elder son of F. C. Purbrick, of Wan-
garatta) have gone to Sydney for their
honeymoon. They have not yet made
up their minds where their future home
in Melbourne is to be.
The speech of the week was made by
Canadian Trade Commissioner Captain
Fred Palmer at the inauguration of King
Haakon’s Fund for relief in Norway.
The public meeting convened by the
Consul for Norway, J. A. Schreufer, took
place in the Town Hall Council Chamber,
with the Lord Mayor in the chair.
Captain Palmer’s speech was a contrast
to most speeches we hear and read these
days. He spoke without notes, without
tricks of oratorical intonation, and if ever
a man was sincere in an appeal he was.
He had a light in his eye and a ring in
his voice that mean grit, the only kind
that’s going to win the war for Britain.
Men of his calibre would boost up re-
cruiting ; and they would not speak
through microphones in cosy studios on
winter nights.
Cr. Coles reminded those present that
it wasn’t the practice of his office to
sanction appeals where it was not known
definitely if the money raised would
reach the right quarter. But out of the
chaos in Norway a glimmer of light must
sometime arise, and the situation that is
now vague will be clearer eventually.
In the meantime a Norwegian appeal has
been launched in England with head-
quarters at Norway House in London,
and with Lord Halifax as president.
From England there comes news that
the proposed co-operation from Mel-
bourne would be welcomed. Mr. Menzies
also spoke at the initial meeting. At
the end of the afternoon it was announced
that £lO5O had already been raised.
In Broothorn’s photo, is Mrs. T. C. i.
Paterson. For her these school holidays
mean skating more often with daughters
Judith and Diane, but not to the detri-
ment of knitting socks for soldiers and
cute little pants-and-pullovers for son-
and-heir Christopher, aged three-and-a-
half. Mrs. Paterson is also interested in
Air Force House, and has offered to work
regularly there in the canteen or in some
other useful capacity. This home from
home for the lower-salaried ranks of the
Air Force is in Market-street, and will
be ready for occupation in a few weeks’
time.
Joan Purnell and Noel Dickson were
married very quietly at St. John’s, but
with all party embellishments afterwards
at the home of the bride’s parents,
Shan-Teng, Punt-road. Joan changed her
mind several times on everything per-
taining to the wedding (except the
’groom), for originally she longed for a
huge party and a whole aisle full of
attendants. Finally she had no ’maids at
all (though Noel had Simon Fraser as
keeper of the ring), and there were no
speeches mingled with the popping of
corks. The honeymoon is a leisurely
drive to Sydney with some ski-ing in the
mountains.
An infant movement flourishing as
satisfactorily as the babes that are to be
its life’s work is the correspondence
scheme of the Infant Welfare Depart-
ment, born only three months ago.
Foundation work was necessary, for first
of all the department’s director, Dr. Vera
Scantlebury Brown, had to get the Birth
Notifications Act altered to include
compulsory weekly reports of births from
all those municipalities which do not
possess an infant welfare centre. The
department can thus invite every Vic-
torian mother of a new baby to join its
rolls for advice. Personal letters as well
as routine correspondence are a great
help to outback mothers. Sister M. Peck,
who knows Victoria as the palm of her
hand, Sister Elwyn Dunstan (a daughter
of the Premier) and Sister E. M. Moun-
sey are among those who, through the
department, have worked for the scheme
in its earliest stages.
Miss Mounsey had until two weeks
ago been travelling in the Mallee with the
Baby Health caravan, on which her con-
frere was Sister D. Serpell. Both these
nurses are now on the staff of the Depart-
ment of Infant Health, but they haven't
said good-bye to the caravan, which is
now undergoing its annual overhaul,
They will now alternate duties; while
one is three months on the mobile unit
the other will be spending her three
months in the correspondence office.
Mollie Clapham (Spencer Shier photo.)
recently announced her engagement to
pastoralist Raymond Watson, who is the
eldest son of the Rupert Watsons, ot
Perricoota, Moama (N.S.W.). Mollie is
the daughter of the late Claude H. Clap-
ham and Mrs. Phillip Gell, of Selsden
Park, Mount Eliza. After the marriage,
which will probably take place in two or
three months’ time, the bride and ’groom
will live at Perricoota. Additions in the
form of a self-contained flat are now
being built on to the family homestead.
Our first for-the-duration Red Cross
Shop in the city has been opened by the
Toorak and South Yarra Red Cross Com-
pany branches at 82 Collins-street, just a
pleasant little walk up the hill on any
frosty morning, and within a stone’s-
throw of numerous professional cham-
bers. Husbands with rooms therein are
going to find it no trouble at all when
their wives ring up with an SOS for a
home-made cake or a bunch of foliage
to decorate the flat.
Working on the idea that Lady Dugan
might come in uniform, the committee
decided not to mix a frivolous bouquet
with the severity of khaki, so it had
ready for her presentation a box of
chocolate biscuits. No doubt the con-
fectionery was just as welcome, even
though the recipient came along, as
smartly clad as alv/ays, in geranium-red
jacket worn with black skirt and silver
foxes. Mrs. Konrad Hiller (president of
the company), Mrs. Tom White and Mrs.
Cliff Scantlebury were all in khaki with
Red Cross badges and several scarlet
stripes apiece as arm bands. After her
opening speech, Lady Dugan set to with
her shopping, showing considerable
interest in boudoir cushions, several of
which were made by Mrs. James Fell,
and a tray of quilted satin between glass
and frame. Among others in the crowd
which overlapped on to the footpath were
Mrs. L. J. McConnan, Mrs. Kingsley
Dawborn, Mrs. Archie Thompson, Mrs.
Frank Thomson (all makers and sellers
of cakes), Mrs. Arthur Richards (selling
children’s woollies), Mrs. Alec Cato,
Mrs. G. D. Healy and Mrs. Russell
Clarke. Dr. Newman Morris made his
exit dodging the prickles of a bunch
of berries for his surgery.
Some of our Americans were up with
the lark (and in the dark) last week when
they met for an 8.30 breakfast. Reasons
for the come-hither out to Mrs. Luigi
Luiggi’s home in Glen Iris was the Little
Old New York Ball, and for the early
hour the exigencies of the gas restric-
tions. The gas held out pretty well;
even the last batch of cookies —plump,
light as feathers and almost brown enough
when the flame flickered and died —were
saved. Mrs. Luiggi had the help of
numerous electrical hotting-up gadgets.
Mrs. A. M. Coates, working the very
modern “popping-out” toasters, wondered
why they took so long. “Because,” said
the hostess in a stage whisper that Aus-
tralians weren’t supposed to hear, “the
bread in this country is so damp you
have to give it double time.” Coffee, a
gallon at a time, came out of a copper
coffee pot whose duties have been purely
ornamental for many years.
There were many debs. Mrs. Jimmy
Clymer brought her Mary (on school
holidays); Mrs. J. B. Burnett was
accompanied by her Helen. The attrac-
tive lass had to swallow her breakfast
fast and go to her dress-designing job
in town. With her snappy spectator
sports turnout Mrs. Burnett wore a
cheeky bird upon her Breton sailor hat
and around her neck an unobtrustive
glitter of gold. She says the chain is
worth more than the pendant nuggets,
but she’s fond of these nuggets, for she
panned them herself on American River
in California. Mrs. J. M. Lindsay
brought married daughter Mrs. Archie
White.
At the party also was Mrs. Ralph
Smith, who now has a little dinkum
Aussie daughter. Mrs. F. Rock said “Good
morning!” with a scarlet hankie around
her hair. Also with a twisted kerchief
was Mrs. C. W. McKay. She awoke so
late that when she arrived the bacon
should have been cold (though, thanks
to electricity, it wasn’t). Mrs. Charles
Hartman brought along a batch of
doughnuts, for she’s the blue-ribbon,
grand-champion doughnut-maker of Vic-
toria, and her friends will back her
against all-comers.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
dsfdsfd
fOR WfAN MfN AND WOMtN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
fm* GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. . Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
EH
GL-fIND
TONIC
THBLfTS
THE SERVICE MAN
Blitzkrieg-—Second Week.
“Ek Dum”: In the first week the
enemy hacked his way through the
French army grouped about Sedan and
drove hard towards the Channel coast.
In the second week, suspending his
threat to Paris, he reached the coast at
Boulogne and other points, and at the
end of the week, according to his own
account, he had “encircled the Belgian
army, parts of the First, Second and
Ninth French armies and ‘the bulk’ of
the British Expeditionary Force.” Cer-
tainly he had done what he failed to
do in 1914 and 1918 —separated the
British army from the main body of the
French.
The Meuse, unbridged, would be a
difficult barrier for any mechanised army
to cross in force. But the French about
Sedan were taken so much off their guard
that they did not even destroy the
bridges which run across that well-walled
river every two or three miles, often
under the very muzzles of the heavy fixed
artillery. This was disclosed by the
French P.M., M. Reynaud, whose state-
ment that “somebody” would be
“punished” was followed by the dismissal
of 15 generals. Tens of thou-
sands oi dead, hundred of thousands of
.jmeless and bereaved, country-
sides fuTof refugees who have been
machine yenned off the roads to make
way for the roaring German juggernaut,
have been punished fearfully.
The real picture of the first days, like
that of the later ones, will not be told for
some time, but it becomes clearer every
day that the German attack has been con-
ducted on a gigantic scale with deadly
precision and exact knowledge of every
factor of safety or capacity within the
Allied lines.
British headquarters were at Arras,
which lies at the junction of three roads
converging from the vital key ports
of Boulogne, Calais, and Dunkirk —
roughly 60-70 miles from each by high-
way. Correspondents there were so much
taken by surprise that the first they knew
of any attack was the thumping of bombs
round the ancient town, about the open-
ing time of the invasions further north
and east.
On May 14, the Germans actually
bombed the leading hotel at Arras, in
which a large part of the British General
Staff was housed. They bombed other
staff headquarters further west —Amiens
and coastal ports.
Within a week of the first blast, the
telephone lines between Arras and Paris
had been cut, apparently by saboteurs,
and “S. M. Herald’s” man on the spot
declares that all communication with
England, at any rate in that region, had
been severed save by steamer and air.
It is to points nearest from Arras to
the coast that all the main submarine
cables run from England to France —two
groups from a little east of Dover to
Calais, another group from near New-
haven to Dieppe, though there are others
further west. At dawn on Monday,
May 21, press correspondents moved to
London in a body.
By that time all the original defence
lines had crumbled or had been reduced
to a state of siege in the isolated sectors
which held out, miles behind the German
advance.
The British and Belgians, having been
forced to abandon Brussels and Antwerp,
were resisting stubbornly on the line of
the Scheldt. On their right the French
were fighting from Tournai to Valen-
ciennes, which lies at the base of a high-
way triangle 17£ miles from the main
highway between Arras and Ath.
Meanwhile, the Germans had continued
their main drive towards the Somme and
the coast, accompanied by all the features
of their earlier drive across the Meuse ;
the smashing head impact with 80-ton
tanks behind a blast of aircraft —the
heaviest British tanks are comparatively
puny 16-tonners armed with six-pounder
guns—the boring forward of columns on
either side of the general direction of
movement, seeking weak points and
salients ; the scouring action when those
points were found until a break-through
was made.
On May 18 Mr. Churchill flew to
Paris. On the following night he broad-
cast an account of the situation. He
said it “would be foolish to lose heart
and courage or suppose that well-trained
and well-equipped armies, numbering
3,000,000 or 4,000,000 men, could be
overcome in the space of a few weeks
or even months by mechanised vehicles.”
Both sides are in a dangerous position,
and the whole scene may be transformed
suddenly... .After this battle in France
abates, there will come a battle for this
island.
But on the very day the P.M. was in
Paris the British headquarters staff was
preparing to leave Arras; the morning
after he spoke it was on its way ; the next
morning but one, the press correspon-
dents were hurriedly bundled over the
Channel. Before that, the Germans seem
to have swept over Amiens and taken
Arras and the country —about 35 miles
—between.
In this region, on each side of the St.
Omer road, there are two spots which
Englishmen would do well not to forget
in these times.
At one, Crecy, English long-
bowmen taught the Continent the value
of new weapons and of salients six
hundred years ago. At the other,
Agincourt, Henry the Fifth shouted, as
he surveyed the “five to one” forces
“all fresh” against him: “ ’Tis true we
are in great danger; the greater there-
fore should our courage be.”
The advance did not stop at Abbeville.
In a few hours German troops were in
Montreuil, 25 miles further up. On May
23 Mr. Churchill announced that heavy
fighting was proceeding in and around
Boulogne.
At the same time, other news, less
stressed, made it clear how dangerous
the whole position had become. In North
Belgium, the Germans were 35 miles on
the Channel side of Brussels forcing a
passage of the Scheldt at Oudenarde, 40
miles from Ostend. They were, also, only
24 miles from Menin Gate.
They appeared to have converged on
Boulogne not from Abbeville only, but
from Arras, having taken St. Pol. They
were forcing the pace in the battle round
Valenciennes.
The whole of the German forces had
now developed a new type of advance-
ment. Its action was like that of a fish-
ing net being drawn up from two sides
round the British and French armies and
fortifications of Northern France and
Belgium. The northern end was closed at
Antwerp and lower down. The south
and east were encircled by a broad band
of German occupation on the Belgian
side of the Somme, which was being
widened as the Valenciennes armies
pushed up along the Belgian border.
The net-haulers were at Boulogne, sliding
up the coast towards Calais.
Beyond Boulogne, there were at the
week-end three ports of use to the Anglo-
French armies of the north: Calais, with
its long Pier Maritime ; Dunkirk, which
has vast dock accomodation, but so poor
an entrance that into it ships must be
locked through a sluice one at a time ;
lastly, Ostend. Calais is 22 miles from
Boulogne, Dunkirk 27 miles from
Calais, which is as near to England as it
is to Boulogne. From both these latter
towns the English coast can be seen.
On May 26 the Germans asserted that
they had “captured” Calais. This was
taken to mean that they had reached the
Old Town of Calais, and that the New
Town —the civic centre —was still held by
the Allies.
Further north, the Germans claimed
to have gained all the heights along the
Belgian border from Lille past St. Omer
—John French’s headquarters early in
the last war —to Gravelines, an old
coastal fortress town of the Louis period,
now a quiet fishing village. The heights
include Vimy Ridge. The coastal point
reached was 11 miles from Dunkirk and
about 16 miles from Calais.
Nearer Antwerp, the end of the Ger-
mans’ net, according to their own asser-
tions, had been pulled in across the
Scheldt and the Lys north of the Ouden-
arde salient. They declared that their
troops had arrived at Ghent, about 35
miles by road from Ostend and the sea.
The strip of coast not yet reached any-
where by the enemy was about 40 miles
in length.
Meanwhile, the Germans were attempt-
ing to force the head of the Oudenarde
salient at Courtrai on the Lys, seven
miles from Menin and 28 miles across
country nor’-nor’-east from Ath, which
has been the s.-w. pivot of the British
line at the beginning of the week.
The Allies had begun, at the same time,
to reveal Weygand’s strategy. They were
attacking, from both sides, the weakest
point of the belly of the German net;
the point where the German forces were
narrowest, where it was easiest to
approach them from the fortified lines
behind the Somme and where the inside
pressure on the Belgian side was exerted
at its heaviest by the grappling of armies
round Valenciennes. It was evident that
the Allied armies in the Belgian area
were making a terrific effort to break
through the Germans here, grinding the
enemy armies, in the comparatively
narrow strip of German-held country,
against the main French forces on the
Somme line. This is hallowed ground
to the old A.I.F.
The squeeze had reduced German-held
territory to a strip only 12 miles wide
between Bapaume on the n.-e. and
Peronne. The strip was all the way
within range of the Allied medium-to-
heavy artillery, but into it the Germans
were still pouring troops and mechanised
units bound for the coast.
Near the Rethel angle of the Mezieres-
Montmedy line, almost forgotten in the
whirl of events further north and west,
there came an attack on the French lines
at Attigny, s.-w. of Rethel. It might
signify an attempt to encircle Rheims and
drive down the Marne in a further rush
towards Paris. But the French offered
stout opposition and no important gain
seems to have been made.
The Peronne-Bapaume operations are of
the utmost importance. Whether they are
decisive depends on the ability or other-
wise of the Germans to establish com-
munication with the coast further north
and form a junction between their
northern and southern coastal forces.
If they do this, the shape of the war
will be something on these lines: the
Germans will hold the whole of the
north from Holland, with a wide salient
running down the coast to the Somme
at Abbeville. The Allied lines in the
west will face them from the coast
beyond the swampy and difficult parts
of the river to the Peronne region. From
there to the Aisne at Rethel the Allies
will hold, as well, a broad triangle
running into Belgium. From Rethel
their lines sweep back to the Maginot
at an angle.
Here at the bend and around Peronne
will be the crucial points. Line angles
and joints are always the decisive points
in large-scale operations, as Foch proved
in 1918.
Monday’s news looked a bit better.
“Still firmly held” was the report about
Calais and Dunkirk, and British de-
stroyers outside Boulogne, though one
was lost, were effectively shelling Ger-
mans in the neighborhood, helped by
R.A.F. bombers. And there were signs
that the enemy was feeling the strain of
his immense effort. None of the com-
batants has published his casualties.
Those of the Germans must be great,
and they are no more exempt from
anxiety about supplies than the Allied
soldiers fighting so strongly in Flanders.
“El V.”: I know of places where the
German advance has had a stimulating
effect. Recruiting booths and offices all
over the Commonwealth have been
rushed from morning till night since
Hitler’s tanks reached the region of the
Channel. And it is now possible for a
rookie of the new lot to walk into the
office and be on his way to Ingleburn
or some other camp within an hour or
so. But Brigadier-General Lloyd will
need to get at the exemption lists with
a box of matches.
Around the Army.
XXVII.
THE GUARD.
Though shadows may menace, and dark
be the night,
The guard with his rifle and bayonet
stands;
Keen-eyed, he’s prepared in an instant
to fight.
He challenges all with his ringing com-
mands.
After the new recruit has got into his
giggle suit, turned up the spare 18 inches
of sleeves and legs and stuffed yesterday’s
paper under the sweat-band on his hat
to make it fit, his thoughts naturally turn
to his rifle and bayonet. For a couple
of days he will lovingly run his finger
down the groove and, fascinated, prac-
tise the whipping of the pigsticker out
of the scabbard and the clamping of it
to his rifle ; so it will be with a thrill
that he receives the news that he has
been told off for guard duty.
He may be allotted to one of four
points: the officers’ quarters, the “boob,’’
the Q.M.’s store and the main gate. The
first three he will find uninteresting—
it will not be until somewhat later in
his martial career, when he is more skilled
in the handling of such a handy thing as,
say, a trenching tool, that he will appre-
ciate being allotted to guard the Q.M. s
store. But it will be right into his barrow
if he is put on the gate.
Stiff as a ramrod he will stand, and
ever and anon he will cautiously feel
with his thumb the sharp point of his
gleaming bayonet, eager for the oppor-
tunity to present it forcefully at the breast
of anyone who may attempt to pass him,
and to lower it—and then only grudgingly
—after he has had watertight evidence
that the challenged isn’t one whose entry
into the camp could constitute a danger
to its inmates.
While he is on his first guard a resplen-
dent figure, all gold leaves and red tabs,
will come cantering up, a groom at a re-
spectful distance behind him. Here is
the Opportunity! With a staccato.“Halt!
Who goes there?” the “marmalade” will
come on guard, and the rider will have
to rein in violently to prevent his charger
being spitted on the upthrust bayonet.
The next few minutes will be hectic as
the G.O.C. makes some appropriate re-
marks about half-wits, and roars the
corporal up for not turning the guard
out or informing “that idiot” correctly
as to procedure.
But as the rookie becomes a better
soldier he will view his guard duties in
their proper perspective. He will learn that
when grilling a chop in the brazier one
mustn’t let the point of the bayonet stick
right through it, as the blackened tip is
liable to be seen by an inspecting officer;
that returning revellers after “lights out”
must be tossed into clink if the penetrat-
ing quality of their raucous voices is
evidenced by lights going on in the
officers’ quarters; that if said revellers
are carrying external as well as internal
cargoes these must never be allowed past
the guard, and that in no circumstances
must he dash into the confiscated grog
himself—it must be shared with all the
guard.
It is the morning after payday that
the guard has its most difficult time.
Following heavy confiscations during the
night it will be a dog’s-leg line of sway-
ing figures who will endeavor to respond
to the corporal’s “Now le’sh show the
ole blighter how y’ can do it—guard,
preshent—arms! ” As his voice cracks
and goes up an octave a dozen crazily-
held rifles will go up for the inspection
of the colonel who has been standing
alongside them, grimly silent, for a couple
of minutes, and immediately thereafter
the boob will be accommodating its ex-
guardians.
But it is in the sterner test when action
is joined with the enemy that the man
on guard must come to quick decisions
and learn to recognise friend from foe;
at night his mainstay in this is the pass-
word. He learns to make no bones about
it if his hissed request for it isn’t answered
promptly by “Panjandrum” or “Waratah”
or whatever the chosen word is. Or if,
as is more likely, the reply is “Shut up,
you stupid ; cripes, do y’ think a
man is a lardhead got up as
a Aussie?”
S. W. K.


WORLD’S GREATEST REMEDY
DISEASES CAN BE REMOVED OR PREVENTE
Every disease has a cause. The removal of the cause will eliminate the disease
itself. R.U.R. gets at the root cause of the disease. It makes the blood alkaline
and germ-resisting and brings about a real lasting benefit and good health.
SUFFERING IS NEEDLESS
R.U.R. ends ill-health and suffering. It is the only remedy which contains a
liver stimulant, kidney cleanser, laxative, blood purifier and acid corrective.
It contains no harmful drugs and is not unpleasant to take.
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE
If after taking the full course in the 7/6 size in accordance with directions you
do not show a definite improvement in health your money will be refunded
without question.
Hundreds of Letters of Heartfelt Thanks Tell Their Own Story
On the files of R.U.R. are testimonials from people in every walk of life
testifying to the remarkable benefits received in the treatment of complaints
referred to in this message. Quite a number of these testimonials are also
included in the booklet, “THE CONQUEST OF ILL-HEALTH AND PAIN”,
contained in every packet of R.U.R. EVERY R.U.R. testimonial is GENUINE
without any shadow of doubt. The name, address of the writer, together with
the date, are given, not merely the initials.
PILES
NEURITIS
INFLUENZA
INDIGESTION
LISTLESSNESS
SKIN DISEASES
STOMACH ULCER
KIDNEY TROUBLES
RHEUMATIC HEART
BLADDER TROUBLES
STROKE AFTER EFFECTS
Testimonials have
been received for all
these complaints.
REAL UNIVERSAL REMEDY
SCIATICA
LUMBAGO
HEADACHES
RHEUMATISM
CONSTIPATION
BROKEN SLEEP
LIVER WEAKNESS
SMOKER’S HEART
MUSCULAR PAINS
RHEUMATIC FEVER
RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS
Test imon ials have
been received for all
B. - .40 these complaints.
TAKE R-U-R TWICE R WEEK RIID THER VOU'LL FIRO THE HEALTH VOU
SEEK
THE FLYING COLUMN
The R.A.F.'s Wonderful Work.
“Aileron”: The curious thing about
the air war has been that so little has
been heard of French activity. The
R.A.F. has been everywhere stemming
rushes, defending the Channel, carrying
out raids on German communications,
oil supplies, railways and roads, moving
troops and industrial areas back of the
line. Some squadrons have penetrated
as far east as Leipzig.
The French Army High Command
during the week issued an order of the
day:
The French Army salutes the memory of
British airmen who have sacrificed their
lives for the salvation of our two countries.
And well it might. Outnumbered, at a
disadvantage through the rapid advance
of German occupation over the country
in which their organised aerodromes and
petrol supplies were located, apparently
well back from any possible ground
attack, British airmen have fought
through day and night against superior
numbers, taking a heavy toll. Many Aus-
tralians and Maorilanders have made
names for themselves —two in particular,
L. O. Clisby, of Adelaide, reported miss-
ing after a short and glorious career in
which he brought down 14 German
machines, and “Cobber” Kain, of Maori-
land, who, when the last report came out,
had 25 German machines to his credit.
On May 20, with the falling back of the
armies, R.A.F. headquarters were trans-
ferred from France and Belgium to Eng-
land. It was an inevitable move which
leaves it as close to main defensive objec-
tives as it was a fortnight ago, but it
also puts the air crews’ backs to the wall.
Against the R.A.F. alone German
strength is at least two to one, leaving
efficiency out of the question—a factor
which is all on the British side in actual
air fighting. But the British forces are
necessarily dispersed over a large area
covering ground as far away as India.
In addition to military air strength,
Germany has a civil air fleet built
primarily for conversion to military pur-
poses applied to the definite objective
of invasion of near-by countries.
With those facts in view, the gravity
of the situation cannot be shirked.
At the same time, superiority of num-
bers does not mean triumph for the
enemy.
It is a characteristic of British victories
that they have always come against what
seemed to be overwhelming numbers.
And in air fighting the man counts
more than the machine, all things being
equal. The records of the present battle
prove it. One patrol of Spitfires shot
down eight MellO’s—a two-engined,
more heavily armed job plus three
bombers, in a single flight.
And in the midst of the aerial inferno
created by the nightly bombing of French
and Belgian towns, a bag of 20 or more
Germans in an evening has become
common. When it comes to the real test
morale should count heavily as it did in
the last war.
Scarcely a Feather.
“Aileron”: The Empire Air Scheme,
as Australia knows it, is a sorry example
of the results of lack of co-ordination.
A recruiting organisation was set up,
headed by Donald Cameron, whose name
is written in the history of the Palestine
campaign, with an assisting committee of
well-known flying men. For all purposes
55,000 men will be needed.
To May 9, 65,000 had volunteered and
15,150 had been accepted; but at the
last accounting a few days ago only 8363
actually had been called up.
The excuse for keeping 6787 young
men on the waiting list is that enlistment
has rushed ahead of equipment and train-
ing facilities.
The Prime Minister and Minister Fair-
bairn protest that there is no delay and
no unnecessary waiting list. While at
Ottawa the Air Minister undertook to
start our schedule two months ahead of
the original one proposed by the United
Kingdom Air Mission. He now says that
all accepted recruits will be absorbed by
the end of the year.
The fact remains that thousands of
eager young Australians, many of whom
gave up their jobs, are left cooling their
heels in suspense, because there is no
sufficient organisation in machines, equip-
ment and personnel to put them through
their preliminary courses of training.
“Now that's what I call real stunting."
The more advanced types of ’plane —
Avro Ansons and Fairey Battles are
only beginning to come forward.
Now, with the war within sound of
Britain itself, there is little chance of
large deliveries of British craft for some
time to come. Five hundred engines
and 350 frames for trainers which have
been ordered in Australia are not even
near delivery point. Only Wirraways
to an unspecified number are in pro-
duction.
Until the present surpluses of men can
be absorbed there surely must be some
avenues of training which could be
applied to recruits for whom there is
no flying equipment gunnery courses,
map-reading, photography.
It would be better to give them pre-
liminary infantry experience than to let
them hang round waiting until their
enthusiasm is quite dead.
The Bedevilled Years.
The Bulletin pleaded for national
training and service during the bedevilled
years when both parties rejected it for
the sake of votes —at the 1934 election
the U.A.P. was even more ignominious
on the subject than Labor and, like
Lord Roberts, whose line (alas!) has
come to an end in Flanders, it “was not
heard.” It suggested to the politicians
that if they were not game (o restore
the system and organisation which the
necessities of Australia demanded, and
always will demand until all nations agree
to place war in the same category as
murder, they should at least enrol and
give some military training to the motor-
cyclists of the Commonwealth, a tough
and daring lot. Again it was addressing
the heedless.
The enemy has made great use of
motor-cyclists in the invasion of the Low
Countries and France. Even when
Weygand was preparing his counter-
attacks, “light German motor-cycle units
were continuing the push towards the
Channel ports.” Yet in a contest be-
tween these Fritzes and boys of the hardy
breed that pioneered dirt-track racing,
Australian money would be on the Aus-
tralians —English money, too.
It has been stated that there are 60,000
motor-cyclists in the invading army. Aus-
tralia has 80,000. What grand aeroplane
crews could have been —and can still be
—drawn from them!
“T.”: The Allies’ greatest need is
’planes, bombers and fighters ; and that
goes for Australia and Maoriland too.
Any Australian with an idea for a ser-
viceable model or models that could be
built and engined in quantity should be
offered his weight in gold.
* * * *
In September, 1938, Goring told the
British Ambassador at Berlin that the
German air force was “numerically
superior to those of Britain, France,
Belgium and Czechoslovakia combined.
Sir Nevile Henderson records it in his
book Failure, of a Mission. It must have
been true —and the Allies must have
thought the fat man was bluffing.
The Air War Day by Day.
May 21-27: Still against heavy odds,
the R.A.F. continues to bomb and
machine-gun “tanks, lorries, marching
troops and other enemy concentrations”
in heroic efforts to stem the German
advance towards the Channel coast and
take pressure off the Allied army (British,
Belgian and French) defending the line
of the Scheldt. In combats with enemy
’planes it inflicts heavy losses, some of
which the enemy admits; its own losses,
though grievous, are not serious, and are
steadily made up by reinforcements from
Britain.
It is belatedly admitted that all British,
American and Dominion press corres-
pondents were bombed out of Arras (as
was British G.H.Q.), Amiens and “a
Channel port,” and were thence trans-
ported across the Channel on May 21.
“S. M. Herald” correspondent records
that the Channel port was “bombed
nightly,” some of the German ’planes
being only a few hundred feet up, “dis-
daining the balloon barrage rd anti-
aircraft fire.”
Germans claim to have brou o iit down
120 ’planes and sunk a cruis< r, a mer-
chantman and a transport in one day,
and to have lost only 10 themselves. An-
other day’s work, according to the enemy,
resulted in the destruction of 47 Allied
’planes, also six transports, four tankers
and a French destroyer; German loss,
15 ’planes.
In dogfights R.A.F. fighters destroy
or seriously damage 40 aircraft, losing
six; in another series 49, losing eight.
Bombers hit two supply trains near the
German town of Geldern, and a bomber
scores direct hits on an ammunition train,
which blows up, rocking the British
machine.
Eleven R.A.F. fighters shoot down 11
Messerschmitts and damage three others
without losing a machine. Bombers
attack enemy communications in the
Rhineland; six do not return. Eighty
enemy aircraft brought down in two days
(May 23-24). Ten British fighters missing.
Estimated in London that Germany is
losing 500 ’planes a week, and that the
invasion of the Low Countries and
France has cost it over 1500 (May 24).
Enemy claims successes for his
bombers in attacks on shipping off
Narvik, Norway, where fighting has flared
up again. His naval and air-force reports
are largely guesswork ; those of his High
Command are more trustworthy, at least
when things are going well for the army.
Aid raids on Essex, East Anglia and
the North Riding of Yorkshire (May 25).
No harm done except in Yorkshire, where
11 civilians were injured.


*tV\
yes
/ T'S
/5
DEGREES
WARMER since
VE INSULATED
WITH CANE-/TE V}
’r>t
<r,
(
fk
o
s
ID
tt/AenMnteA
Will You be Warm and Cosy?
THE house that is insulated with Cane-
ite defies heat and cold alike. Mill-
ions of tiny air cells ensure snug warmth
in winter, refreshing coolness in summer.
What is more. Cane-ite deadens external
noises . . . makes every room an oasis of
peace. Remember . . • Cane-ite is the
white-ant-proofed insulation which not
only adds to the STRUCTURAL strength of
the building but makes it possible for you
to DECORATE as you insulate. Cane-ite
is made in three thicknesses—in boards
up to 12 feet long. It can be easily and
inexpensively installed and lends itself to
attractive modern treatments.
Cane-ite is now being produced in Australia.
CBf^-fITE
STRUCTURAL INSULATION
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide . Brisbane . Perth
OR WILL YOU SHIVER
IN AN UN-INSULATED
DRAUGHTY HOUSE?
»)
CA9-40
MASONITE, "The Wonder Board
of 1000 Uses", is ideal for
partitioning.
NORTH OF
TWENTY- EIGHT
Foreign Missions and Security
“Nach”: Long before the war Austra-
lians living in the neighborhood of Ger-
man missions in and about Australia
had doubts to which they gave forcible
expression.
Two N.G. missions have come in for
most attention: the great Lutheran mis-
sions at Finschhafen and in the Madang-
Sepik areas.
Finschhafen is more than 60 years old.
Almost self-contained, it has medical ser-
vices which cover scores of villages, and
its native teachers honeycomb the
Morobe district adjacent to the gold
area. When war broke out, it had its
aeroplane services and young, active
technicians fresh from Germany and en-
thusiastic about the new German regime.
And, however innocent its operations may
be, its influence among the natives, its
means of communication and its know-
ledge of the country are so great that
it could be a danger.
Madang-Sepik mission, an offshoot,
became a separate organisation in 1932.
Both missions have done considerable
scientific work. Finschhafen has provided
the best, often the only, dictionaries of
various native languages. Its religious
and school books are the only ones in
existence in at least 20 local tongues.
There are seven German missions in
N.G. Together they employ nearly 400
German missionaries and workers. There
are only about 100 missionaries and
workers of British blood employed.
In Australia, there is only one Ger-
man mission of consequence —the Finke
River concern at Hermannsburg to the
s.-w. of Alice Springs. It is old-estab-
lished and subsists on a pastoral lease
grant of 1000 square miles. Stalled en-
tirely by Germans, it teaches the German
language to many natives, and has a trade
school in which the making of belts and
whips, tanning, woodwork, leatherwork
and needlework are taught. It has nearly
300 natives directly under instruction,
supplies them with materials, arranges
sales of finished products and credits the
abos. with the results of their labor. Both
the mission and its disciples are nearly
self-supporting. It has done excellent
work and has great influence, as the
only civilised agency within many tens
of miles, over the local population.
Now, it has come under fire in Parlia-
ment along with other inhabitants of
the Centre, including a postmaster and a
Government patrol officer.
Mr. Blain, M.P., told Parliament that
when he was surveying land around the
mission there were three Nazis
there who have since gone home
to Germany — one was a
geologist. Mr. Stacey, of Adel-
aide, who visited the mission
some time ago, said he endorsed
everything the member for the
N.T. had said.
“Scat”: Answering questions
about the proposed settlement
of Jewish refugees in the Kim-
berleys, “the Minister repre-
senting the Minister for the
Interior” (splendid title) said
that “it is against the policy of
the Government to encoarage
any aggregation of aliens in
refugee settlements.” I suppose
this means that the Government
has vetoed Dr. Steinberg’s plan,
which has the support of so
many bishops, Judges, feminists
and other benevolent people ; but it is
r~+ -f the nature of politicians to be
explicit.
“Ralander” • Chock-full of cash and
whiskers the man from the Territory hit
our back-Oueensland town in a hilarious
j rijj. nrneress from pub to pub
soon became a procession as the mob
In The celebration and by late
'afternoon &Tbs,feting
♦u Police gathering in the
e sough, vainl? 'tr fte cause
Of the trouble. He was found just on
dusk disporting himself in a handy
waterhole, P blowfng and roaring and clad
only in his whiskers. “Phoo-00, I’m a
“Now you're quite sure these won't hurt the poor little dears.”
water buffaler,” he roared as the force
closed in ; “watch me waller! ” They got
him to the station and left him there for
the night. He blithely paid the fine next
morning and headed for the nearest pub.
Later that day the police answered an
alarmed call and again converged on the
waterhole, where the Territory man,
armed with a .44, crouched behind a log.
“Sh-sh!” he warned as they approached
warily, “I’m dwellin’ on a big buffaler
I remember seein’ here last night.” It
cost him another two quid.
* * * *
“Beery Bob”: If The Bulletin has
any spare burr-cutters about the premises
it had better ship them up to our Emerald
(C.Q.) district at once. The place is over-
run with the spiny pests and men can’t
be got for love or money. Out at Wolfang
there are 150 cutters hard at it and burrs
for another 50. There is a big shortage
in crutchers and shearers, too, and life’s
becoming a bit complicated. A man has
turned up with a special burr-destroying
powder, but he doesn’t explain how it’s
to be got on the roots.
* * * *
“Dip”: Darwin is managed through a
Territory service by the Interior Depart-
ment at Canberra. There was a Town
Council until 1937, when it was dissolved,
the Town Hall being handed over to the
Commonwealth Bank. The bank is now
building premises of its own, and the
member for the N.T. wants the Town
Hall used as a library and museum. It
would be better to resuscitate the muni-
cipality and let it decide.
* * * *
“Mullengah”: Queensland United
Graziers’ Association celebrates its 50th
birthday this year. Its first secretary,
F. M. Ranson— still living—held the job
for 33 years, after helping to found the
organisation. He was followed by William
Muir. The present secretary, P. A.
Brown, was appointed in 1926. John
Cameron, M.L.A., and A. H. Whitting-
ham, M.L.C., share the presidential re-
cord with 12 years’ service apiece.
* * * *
“Phildee”: Blood and pumpkins were
what Jack Ryan lived on when he was
blown out to sea while voyaging from
Bynoe Harbor to Darwin. At Bynoe,
which is about 35 miles west of Darwin,
Ryan and a mate grow vegetables, and
Ryan was bringing in a load when the
storm hit him. He anchored at Charles
Point, but the anchor rope went and, in
three days, he was blown 63 miles out
into Clarence Strait. Ryan gashed his
arm for blood to relieve his thirst,
chewed pumpkins made his will with a
nail on a piece of tin and wrote a mes-
sage to his mate on the cabin wall. Then
Fate was kind; the boat went ashore at
Fourcroy Point, ‘he westernmost pomt
of Bathurst Island if he d missed that
he'd have been in the middle o the
Timor sea or more probably, at he
bottom of it by now Abos. found the
exhausted man and bore him 60 miles
to the Catholic Mission on the lslan .
There he rested before repairing his boat
and returning to Bynoe.
* * * *
“Dip”: Reclamation work on the Dar-
win harborfront has raised such a cloud
of dust that people whose homes fringe
the harbor are wishing that they lived
somewhere near Alice Springs. Among
the worst sufferers have been the men of
the N.T. patrol service, who are quar-
tered almost on the water’s edge. Captain
Bell threw up his job in disgust; as a
temporary relief the rest of the crew are
out on the Kuru on extended patrol. The
Administrator and other people have
borne up bravely, but are thinking of
requisitioning gas-masks.
* * * *
“Lid”: It is generally accepted that
the buffalo-fly invaded Australia from the
East Indies, probably arriving not long
after the first buffalo. The insect was
first detected in Arnhem Land (N.T.),
and, though the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and other bodies concerned were
warned repeatedly, they paid little heed.
The pest is in the N.T., the Kimberleys
and N.Q., and threatening to invade still
more cattle country. Now we are told
that “a survey carried out four years
after the liberation of parasites bred from
those introduced from the Orient failed
to discover any evidence that the para-
sites had increased in numbers or had
exercised any control on the fly.’ Ah
the same, the C.S. and I.R. hasn’t aban-
doned hope.
* * * *
“Mt. Boppy”: Although they may be
laggard in some respects, the Queens-
land Railways have set an example to
other concerns. The first producer-gas
rail motor in Australia has been com-
pleted at the North Ipswich workshops.
If tests are satisfactory, it is proposed to
have all the State’s rail motors run on
producer gas.
* * * *
“Philp”: Darwin representatives of
southern newspapers are being accused
of writing “grossly exaggerated” reports
of matters which are “local and trifling.
Instead of making so much of petty
labor disputes, beer-drinking, frog-jump-
ing and the like, Darwin correspondents
could do the Territory a service by driv-
ing much more important facts home to
southerners. For example, that the people
of the N.T. have only a voteless member
in the national Parliament, are without
even a shire council, and have seen sound
developmental reports cast aside like so
much waste paper.


NOW READY
m
.r
/
■V
~
“This book of photographs ... .should be on the
shelves of all Australian golfers, both for its in-
structional value and as a very faithful record of
the methods of our greatest player —From Eric
Apperly’s introduction to the book.
JIM FERRIER’S "GOLF SHOTS”
contains 118 photographs of the champion in action,
selected by Ferrier from a special slow-motion
film made of him before his departure for America.
The essential points of each shot are illustrated
and explained in a way that puts 80 off the stick
within the reach of everyone.
The size of the page is 10 x 12 inches.
PITCH WITH STOP
i
I
Half-way down lo the ball the body hat practically,
.returned lo the potition ahowo in the firtt picture.
fghghgf
PITCH’WITH STOP
ghgfhgfh
.4
SE-rSfiwS
.. not up .o the Jk, .. 10. <h* lo
fghgfhg
■n m
■ ' v ‘iM
:
rJsrtoSi'S&t
(postage 3d. extra).
Price 3 -
From the publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 252188.
'BUNKER* PLAY
fghgfhg
J.
fghgh
ghgfhgh
•BUNKER PLAY
fghghg
gfhgfhg
fghg
h
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor , xiot to members of the staff personally.
P.H.T.: Try reading it to unwelcome guests.
~/5.8.F.: A shot of humor might bring “The
Outsider” nearer... .L.P.R.: Not here....
H.T.N.: Is that all you can do with murder,
drought, bushfires and floods? ... .R.M.W.:
The crossword puzzles on the Tiny Tots’ page
are more mysterious... .H.R.: “Lion at Large”
is now safely caged in the w.p.b C. 1.8.:
“And so the hot desert sands claimed another
victim.” The basket did, t 00... .L.R.W.: Cut
out the sentimentality and you might do some-
PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
thing with it... .P.G.R.: No room for fairy
stories P.R.C.: “Mary’s Little Lamb”
coming home with Mary 8.H.: Other
writers have made better jobs of the same
yarn P.D.L.: Take that “tough guy” and
his “gat” to America... .T.J.R.: If the pioneers
were like that we shouldn’t be here n0w....
L. : You’ve been to the movies G.S.G.:
If we published “The Truth About Ned Kelly”
half of Australia would up and call us liars.
. ...H.T.P.: It’s not bad until it weeps at the
finish... .P.R.G.: They’re all old friends....
8.T.E.: Sending “The Farmer’s Daughter” back
to her milking H.H.: That light-fingered
gentleman has been at our pockets without suc-
cess for over 20 years... .8.R.J.: Cattle have
been pulled down by their tails for branding,
but the people who do it don’t dress or talk
like that F.S.E.: “The Touch” refused
8.R.A.: Why not set the same yarn in Aus-
tralia? F.A.V.: Don’t read too many comic
strips H.R.W.: You’re the 964,342 th writer
to discover that lost reef... .K.T., P.R.V.,
M. : Elsewhere perhaps.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J .D.: Front-line sketch was sentenced by
office court-martial to confinement until the
end of the war M.M.: Can’t share the John
Hop’s admiration for the lady in the bath-
room Steve: The duck-shooter missed the
target... .W.S.: That warrior is a dull jester....
L.J.: Still scratching our head as to the mean-
ing of the drawing Don: You might have
told us what the two storks were chatting
about... .8.5.: There wasn’t a w.p.b. big enough
for that outsized atrocity R.A.H.: Dated.
. ...8.T.R.: Faint gleam of humor in gag;
drawing just below f.a.q J.E.8.: You’ve
come to the wrong shop,.. .C.P.: Keep off war
topics—events move too quickly for your slow
pen... .F.W.C.: The octogenarian is hobbling
his way home J.A.D.: Gag too far-fetched
and drawing is hopeless J.M.R.: That batch
of misfits might come in handy for a paper-
chase. .. .T.M.C.: Can’t see you seriously com-
peting with regulars 5.8.: One of the
oldest of castaway-on-desert-island jokes....
H.L.: Fat model on her way back for repairs.
. ...W.S.M.: You could do with lessons
BJ.: Submarine commander and mermaid will
not make a match of it in our pages... .8.J.:
Leg-of-pork-and-seasick-passenger gag was never
to our taste.
A MIXED GRILL.
In the light of what has happened
this last month, how foolish were those
leaflet raids over Germany! They
amounted to nothing more than a waste
of petrol and machines and the risking
of gallant lives, every one of which was
required for the urgent work ahead,
Moreover, such leaflets as were trans-
lated were poor stuff and could have
had no effect on secret friends or open
foes, except to make the latter jeer
louder than ever. The R.A.F. saw the
futility of the business, and would
a thousand times rather have been em-
ployed bombing military objectives. In
the case of the flights over distant cities
like Warsaw it is now clear that, had
they been seriously opposed, not one of
the brave boys would have got back.
* * * *
“0.T.”: The Commonwealth has 41
advisory panels, boards, committees
and so forth. N.S.W. is carrying
, ' . . .
on w.th 312 boards, commissions and
other authorities. It wont do. There
must be an immediate increase in the
number of these organisations. Surely
Australia is not to be asked to face the
reproach, after the victory, that its war
effort was limited to 500 or so
_ _ _ * * , * , * ,
N.S.W. taxpayers, who have seen the
Transport Department abandon scores of
miles of tramway and substitute fleets of
double-decker buses (all bought with
borrowed money), are wondering what
the losses will be at the end of the
financial year, with fuel costs rising all
the time. On Sydney-Newcastle tram
and bus receipts amounting to £4,374,334,
a surplus of £14,504 was claimed last
year. The Auditor-General drily notes
that “£150,000 was written off loan capi-
tal indebtedness without the authority
of Parliament or determination by the
Capital Debt Committee” ; that “full de-
predation” was “not provided as a
working expense” ; that “depreciation in
respect of tramways was not provided
to the same extent as in previous years.”
And on June 30 the “combined services”
had an accumulated deficit stated at
£267,928.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Home is popularly accepted
as the safest of all places, but casualty
statistics show that it is more dangerous
- . * Tyr . -
than streets or workshops. Kitchens pro-
vide an endless stream of woman-and-
child hurts from burns, scaldings, cuts,
falls and electric shock. Except for cuts,
domestic laundries are next most dan-
gerous to women. Bathrooms lay out
males and females alike by falls through
slipping on the floor or bath, electric
s h° c kj gas poisoning, explosions, burns
scalds; the bathroom is also the
favorite place for suicide. The family
garage contributes a solid quota of
carbon monoxide poisonings, petrol ex-
plosions, falls, burns and crushings ; the
garden weighs in with cuts, falls and
tetanus cases; the woodheap does its bit
w ith axe wounds of legs or head and
ace injuries from flying sticks, and
stairs can always be relied on for a
steady supply of fractures and disloca-
tions. I’m going down to the corner
P f° r an hour or so of real safety,
* * * *
“P.S.”: Almost daily now one can read
a b° ut this, that or the other maid
or matron who is doing, or who has a
rfiatwe domg, war work in England.
Frequently we are shown pictures of the
, adjes in unifo with the usual
bujld of the , th are , a j
in the Empire’s defence." Many of them
belt 0 the upper crust and (though
this is never mentioned) the et
Aussie ivalent of flft bob a we( , k
No doubt (hey are genuinely eager t 0
serve, but they have no more right to
publicity than a buck private>
* * * *
“Gettonya G. String”: That over-
boomed art music is shot through with
neckpains, not the least of which is the
highbrow critic’s attitude to the “vir-
tuoso.” If the player is under 22, you
can W ager that his interpretation of some
long and uninteresting “heavy,” the
repetitive phrases of which are mainly a
test of digital suppleness and retentive-
ness c f memory, will be voted “imma-
ture.” Let the same pianist or fiddler
return after a f ew years of p i ay i ng t he
same works in exactly the same way
abroad, and the highbrow critics will
agree that he has acquired “feeling” ;
t h a t his interpretations are fired with the
wa rmth derived from a “greater experi-
ence of life” ; that he has plumbed the
composer’s “inner meaning” (whatever
that may signify); that he plays with
more “authority”—and the rest of the
mumbo-jumbo. They’ve said it of every
to Pn°t c h e r, from that icy automaton
“» U *ose fellows
were in one room, and in an adjoining
one the worl(fs 12 best executants plav-
jng the same work, one after the'other
I’ll bet my top teeth that not one high-
brow would make the right pick.


Corns Sentenced to Death ,
Corns have worried you—now Worry them ;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
ciLK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
i Corns are killed while you sleep—
fitter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
S'ILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
W - -
interesting -0... ..■ "“'!»(
br"ancl>es~for trained men and wo ™ n - A£' , ,bW > to
any business career. (You need not be ab« ri
draw).. Successful students from to c
r- &L~SB3&£&'g£i
abn 5 Adas a-a
p this ad°diseme?t en !or' o biq a "?4-pabe boot, tree to Itoser
36 Grosveaor St.. Sydney Est*Mi*aed
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Saddler, Sydney, elderly, seeks work on
station anywhere; good tradesman, can do
odd light jobs, in receipt of pension; first-class
refs.—7l42.
Gentleman (38), Sydney, journalist and
organiser, invalid, seeks position in Sydney.
—7lBO.
To buy copy of William Dampier, by
J. H. M. Abbott.—7l6l.
To buy second-hand copies of Australian
stud books containing pedigrees of racehorses,
also reference books on stud-horse breeding.
—7182.
To buy, cheap, copy of Australian Bhort
Stories, edited by George Mackaness.-^—7179.
Words of poem containing the lines:
On the banks of the Shannon when Shelcagh was
nigh,
No blithe Irish lad was as happy as I. ,
Words and music of “The Londonderry Air.”
—7133.
Information Sought.
Were any Australian troops engaged in France
at the time of the November, 1918, armistice?
7223. . . |.
After nearly a month in rest the Australian
Corps was, in early November, on the march
to the front again when, after the Battle ot
Landrecies, came the news that the enemy was
asking for an armistice. But some Australian
field artillery took part with the British in the
last fighting; there were Australian tunnellers
in the advance-guard of the British Fifth Army
east of Lille, moving towards Mons; and over-
head the two Australian squadrons of fighting
scouts were active to the last.
How many returned soldiers were settled on
the land in N.S.W. and how many either aban-
doned or transferred their properties? Areas
of different classes of land upon which returned
soldiers were settled ? Cost of such land ?
7188.
At June 30, 1938, the area set apart for
soldiers was 9,755,264 acres, of which 1,710,272
acres comprised acquired land purchased at a
cost of £8,113,956. The number of settlers to
whom farms, etc., had been allotted up to June
30, 1938. was 9675. Of these, 4927 soldiers
have either transferred or abandoned their
farms, leaving 4748 in occupation of 7,342,347
acres, of which 5,075,024 acres were Crown
lands (including 3,687,465 acres in the Western
Division taken up under the Western Lands
Act), 1,278,647 acres acquired lands, and 87,776
acres within irrigation areas. These totals ex-
clude 703 discharged soldiers who purchased
privately-owned land with their own capital
and were granted advances for the purchase of
stock and plant or for effecting improvements.
* * * *
Total value of Australian imports from
U.S.A. during the year 1937-38, also values
of the principal items? —7220.
£17,759,175. Principal imports were: Motor-
cars and parts £2,941,733, motive-power
machinery £2,287,069, tobacco (unmanufactured)
£1,859,645, petroleum spirit £1,081,345, other
machinery £1,067,326, lubricating (mineral) oil
£907,811, iron and steel (plate and sheet)
£788,438, electrical machinery, etc., £513,670,
drugs and chemicals £445,042, wood and
wicker £419,627, paper and stationery £390,223,
films £344,068, sulphur £341,010, aeroplanes and
parts £304,308, metal working machinery
£254,543, tools of trade £239,976, sausage
casings £223,973, mining machinery £187,966,
apparel and textiles £187,856, adding and com-
puting machinery £175,776, fibres £169,840,
kerosene £166,828, gums and resins £147,377,
and paints and varnishes £139,471.
* * * *
(1) Native population of the New Guinea
Mandated Territory? (2) Number of inden-
tured natives in the Territory ?- —7217.
(1) As a large portion of the Territory is not
under Government influence it is not possible
to obtain reliable figures. At June 30, 1938,
the numbers counted in the various districts
were as follows: Kieta 45,268, Madang 88,276,
Manus 15,103, Morobe 136,975, New Britain
99,643, New Ireland 42,623, and Sepik 147,926.
This total, 575,814, does not include 5528 mission
scholars, constabulary, etc. The total native
population is estimated roughly at about
666,000. Whether the number is increasing or
decreasing cannot be ascertained with certainty.
(2) The number of natives indentured as
laborers, mostly for plantation work, on June
30, 1938, was 41,849, compared with 40,259 in
the previous year.
* * * *
In his lectures on Australian literature (B.
15/5/’4O), to be delivered at Sydney University,
does H. M. Green intend to deal with
Australian literature generally or to pick out
particular authors and devote particular atten-
tion to them ? —7227.
The answer is both. The lectures will run as
follows: (1) Introductory to the course as a
whole, (2) introductory to the period 1901-
1922, (3) Bernard O’Dowd, (4) and (5) Henry
Handel Richardson, (6) Daley and Quinn, (7)
introductory to the present period, (8) and (9)
Katharine Prichard, (10) some poets of today,
probably R. D. Fitz Gerald, Kenneth Slessor,
“Furnley Maurice” and Lesbia Keough.
* * * *
A beneficiary under a will in N. S. Wales
has not been heard of for many years, though
frequent efforts to trace him have been made.
When, for the purposes of the will, may he be
deemed dead ? —7204.
When no intelligence of the beneficiary has,
after reasonable search and inquiry, been re-
ceived for seven years the law presumes his
death, but raises no presumption as to the par-
ticular time of death. Should that be required
it must be proved. If satisfactory proof cannot
be produced to the executors under the will
they may apply to the Equity Court to make
an order appointing a trustee to hold the
money until such proof of death is produced.
* * * *
A man dies intestate, leaving a widow and
four children. How is his estate divided be-
tween them ? —7191.
If the net value of the property does not
exceed £5OO the widow is entitled to the whole
of it. Should, however, it exceed that sum
she would be entitled to £5OO and half the
residue, the balance being divisible among the
children, share and share alike.
* * * *
A man 69 years old and his wife 67 intend
applying for the old-age pension. Will value
of house in which they live affect pension, and
what cash can they hold ? There is an insur-
ance policy on the life of the husband for
£2OO. Can the Pensions Department take recom-
pense from the insurance money or from the
value of the pensioners’ home? —7043.
Where a pensioner has property, other than
the home in which he (or she) permanently
resides, the rate of pension is subject to a de-
duction of £1 for every complete £lO by which
the net capital value of such accumulated
property exceeds £5O. Where the value of the
property exceeds the sum of £4OO no pension
is payable. In the case of husband and wife,
the income and property of each are deemed to
be possessed by both in equal shares. The
surrender value of the policy is property within
the meaning of the Act, and would be assessed
as such. No claim by the department would
be made to refund any pension paid legally.
* * * *
When a woman is divorced, whose surname
should she use, her own or the divorced hus-
band’s ? —7197.
Legally she is not entitled to use the surname
conferred on her by marriage after that mar-
riage has been dissolved. She should revert to
her maiden name; but where there are children
of the marriage custom recognises the use of
her former married surname.
* * * *
Books on the following subjects: (1) The
case against the theory of Communism, (2)
the theory of capitalism, (3) the principles of
democracy, (4) the theory of Communism, (5)
any writings giving convincing evidence of the
rottenness of the present regime in Russia, (6)
any other writings you would recommend in
connection with the subjects named? —7088.
(1) Stalin, by Souvarine; Socialism, by
Ludwig von Mises; Communism and Man,
by Sheed. (2) Wealth of Nations, by Adam
Smith; Principles of Economics, by Marshall.
Also Economic Basis of Class Conflict, Eco-
nomic Planning and International Order and
Essay on National Significance of Economic
Science —all by Lionel Robbins. (3) Meaning
of Democracy and Life Within Reason, by
Ivor Brown; Equality, by R. H. Tawney; and
In Defence of Democracy, by Fulton and
Morris. (4) Communism, by Laski; Coming
Struggle for Power and Theory and Practice
of Socialism, by Strachey. (5) Assignment in
Utopia, by Lyons; I Was a Soviet Worker,
by Smith; Russia’s Iron Age, by Chamberlin.
(6) Any book by Maurice Hindus or any of
Chamberlin’s books on Russia and Soviet Com-
munism, by S. arid B. Webb.
* * * *
(1) Names and addresses of American literary
agencies? (2) London offices of some American
newsagencies ?— 7240.
(1) Curtis Brown, Ltd., 347 Madison-avenue;
Brandt and Brandt, 101 Park-avenue; Hughes
Massie and Co., 40 East 49th-street; Paul R.
Reynolds, 599 Fifth-avenue; Ann Watkins, Inc.,
77 Park-avenue; and Sanders and Conroy, 522
Fifth-avenue —all New York. (2) Associated
Press of America, 20 Tudor-street, E.C.4; In-
ternational News Service, 72-78 Fleet-street,
E.C.4; and United Press Associations of
America, 30 Bouverie-street, E.C.4 —all London.
* * * *
Are there any limestone caves in Tasmania?
Can glowworms be seen in any of them? —
7160.
Caves in Silurian limestone are frequent
both in northern and southern Tas. districts.
Only in the north have they been opened up.
These include the Chudleigh caves, the Mole
Creek series—Scott’s, King Solomon’s, Bayard’s
(Marakoopu), and Baldock’s caves, all within
easy distance of Mole Creek, 60 miles from
Launceston —the Ulverstone caves at Gunn’s
Plains, 16 miles from Ulverstone, and the
Winkleigh caves near Beaconsfield. In some
Caves (particularly those at Ida Bay in the
Huon district) there are myriads of glowworms.
* * * *
What does the copyright in musical composi-
tions comprise? —7l94.
(a) The right of publication in print and sale
of printed copies, (b) the right of public per-
formance, and (c) the right to use the work
for making gramophone records, sound films
or other similar copies.
* * * *
Details of the Femina Vie Heureuse and the
Heinemann prizes? —72ll. _ . .
The Stock (formerly Femina vie Heureuse)
Prize is of the value of £4O, and is offered for
what, in the opinion of the committee, is the
best work of imagination produced within a
given time by one of the younger British
authors or by one who is considered not to
have received adequate recognition. There are
meetings of the English committee during the
vear at which books are placed upon the
voting list. Finally three books are sent to
the French committee for adjudication. Similar
conditions apply to the reciprocal prize to
France, piovided by Wm. Heinemann, Ltd.-
three French works are submitted to the Eng-
lish committee for selection. Miss Margaret
Harris, 86a Oakley-street, Chelsea, London,
S W., can give further particulars of both prizes.
* * * *
What are the objects of the Royal Humane
Society of Australasia?— 7l4B
(n) To grant awards f<?r skill, promptness
and perseverance in life-saving where the rescuer
has risked his or her life; ( b ) to provide
assistance in cases of danger and apparent
death; (c) to restore the apparently drowned;
(d) to collect and circulate the latest informa-
tion regarding approved methods and apparatus
for life-saving. Awards of medals and certifi-
cates are made numbering about 100 annually.
Upwards of 300 lifebuoys have been provided
at various places on the coasts, rivers, lakes
and reservoirs in the various States. Swimming
is encouraged amongst schoolchildren, and
awards are made for proficiency.
* * * *
Details of the career of Robert Lowe, after-
wards Lord Sherbrooke, before he came to
Australia? —7156.
He was born at Bingham, Notts, on De-
cember 4, 1811, and educated at Winchester
School and University College, Oxford. In
1835 he was elected to a fellowship at Mag-
dalen College, Oxford, and on May 1 was
admitted to Lincoln’s Inn, where he was called
to the Bar on January 28, 1842. He took part
in the Tractarian dispute, and published in 1841
an anonymous pamphlet The Articles Construed
by Themselves. In 1842 he migrated to Syd-
ney, and was admitted to the N.S.W. Bar on
October 18.
* * * *
Biographical details concerning Dr. Douglas
Hyde, President of Eire? —7210.
Born in 1860 at Frenchpark, County Ros-
common, he was educated at Trinity College,
Dublin and became Professor of Languages at
the University of New Brunswick, Canada.
He returned to Ireland, and founded the Gaelic
League in 1893 to work for the preservation
and revival of the Irish language. He wrote
many books on and in the language, among
them a Literary History of Ireland, and edited
collections of old and new Irish poetry. In
1909 Hyde was appointed Professor of Modem
Irish at Dublin University College. . He con-
tinued his work for Gaelic revival after the
establishment of the Irish Free State. When a
non-party candidate was sought for the newly-
created Presidency of Eire in 1938 Hyde was
offered the post, and was unanimously elected
on May 4, 1938.
* * * *
(1) I have a picture inscribed “Hand-printed
Facsimile.” What does this mean? (2) What
is meant by a “good print”?- —7058.
(1) A hand-printed facsimile is an accurate
copy of an original picture, reproducing exactly
the size and coloring, etc., and printed by hand
as distinct from the rapid machine printing.
(2) “Good print” is a term used to distinguish
prints of artistic merit, carefully made from
good originals as distinct from rapid machine
prints made from photographs or poor originals
or commercial prints.
* * * *
7 have a number of metal soup ladles and
spoons that require retinning. What is the pro-
cess ?— 6937.
There are several methods: (1) By contact
with melted tin. The metal is first thoroughly
cleaned by pickling it in diluted sulphuric acid
and scoured with fine sand. It is then heated
over a fire to about the melting-point of tin,
sprinkled with powdered resin, and immersed
in melted pure grain tin covered with resin to
prevent its oxidisation. The article is then re-
moved and the surface rubbed over with a
brush of tow to equalise the coating. The
operation is repeated if necessary. (2) By tin
amalgam. A film of a pasty amalgam of tin
with mercury is applied to the cleansed and dry
metallic surface, and then heated to remove the
mercury. (3) By simple immersion. Best adapted
to coating articles of brass or copper. The
articles to be tinned are first thoroughly
cleansed and then put into a hot solution of
ammonium alum \l\oz., boiling water 12|0z.,
stannous chloride loz. (4) The electrolytic
method. A better coating can be obtained by
using the following bath and placing the pieces
in contact with a strip of clean zinc also im-
mersed : Potassium bitartrate 140 z., water (soft)
240 z. and stannous chloride loz. It should be
boiled for a few minutes before using.
* * * *
How to destroy cockroaches by fumigating
with sulphur ? —7229.
Make certain first that the ventilators,
windows, chimneys and doors have been
properly sealed. Then burn rock sulphur or
flowers of sulphur in the proportion of not
less than 31b. to each 1000 cubic feet capacity
of the room. The sulphur, moistened with a
little, methylated spirit, is placed in an iron
vessel supported on a brick in a tub partly
filled with water. The methylated spirit is then
lighted. The room filled with the sulphur fumes
is kept closed for eight hours, after which time
it is freely ventilated.
* * * *
What is the penalty in billiards for a player
miscueing or deliberately shooting his own ball
into a pocket without contact with the object
ball ? And what is the penalty for causing
a ball to leave the-table? —7071.
Rule 13, of the latest Billiard Rules is as
follows: “For a miss, the nomstriker shall
add one to his score; if, in consequence of a
miss, the striker’s ball goes into a pocket
(generally known as ‘running a coup) or is
forced off the table, the non-striker shall add
three to his score. If, after contact with an-
other ball, striker’s or any other ball is forced
off the table, the non-striker shall add two
points to his score. For a foul stroke, the
striker is liable for any forfeit of points
(which must be added to his opponent s score)
where prescribed by the rules. His opponent
may continue from where the ball (or balls)
is left, the red, if off the table, being spotted
as if no foul had been made; or may play
from hand, the red being placed on the spot,
and the white ball on the centre spot.
* * * *
Some details concerning the stonefish ?
7016. • , j
It belongs to a small group which includes
some of the most venomous fishes known. A
common species in Australian waters inhabits
coral reefs, and has a remarkably shaped head
and body, resembling a piece of eroded stone.
It is variously tinted and marked, so as to
appear like a fragment of rock covered with
marine growths, and is so difficult to detect,
when lying perfectly still in a coral pool, that
it may be easily grasped or trodden upon
unawares. Its wrinkled and warty skin hides
needlelike spines, a prick from which causes
intense agony and may be followed by con-
vulsions and death. The spines are provided
with venom glands, and grooves on each side
convey the poison to their tips. Several species
of stonefish are found in Australian tropical
waters. Notwithstanding the venom glands,
their flesh is said to be good eating when the
glands and spines are removed.
Brief Answers.
S.F.: Closes on June 6, 1940. Entries should
be addressed to the trustees, S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office, Box 252188,
G.P.0., Sydney.... J.M.P.: The “Australian
Stamp Monthly,” 8 Orr-street, Melbourne, is
the official organ of all the leading philatelic
societies in Australia... .G.H.R.: Can t find it
in any of the standard vocabularies G. 8.:
It means that one line of space is left between
lines of typing....C.B.: Write Department of
Development and Supply, William-street, Mel-
bourne W.A.W.: Unable to furnish his-
tory of instrument from particulars supplied.
R.G.M.: Write H. A. Evans and Son, 358
Coliins-street, Melbourne D.M.D.: Write
Department of Agriculture, Farrer-place, Syd-
ney.. . .V.H.C.: Haile’s Composition for Photo-
grahers (165.), Firth’s Idea and Form (17s. 6d.),
Haz’s Emphasis in Pictures : (10s. 6d.), Ham-
mond’s Pictorial Composition in Photography
(£1 25.), and Natkin’s Photography and the
Art of Seeing (15s. 9d.)... .F.M.: Baroona
means “place far away,” Belgamba shield,
Goondah “rainstorm,” Jerematta “scrub,’ Jil-
loong “a small waterhole,” Kunama “snow,
Marooba “thunder,” Nambucca “crooked
river,” Nooroo “dark,” Narran “hungry place,
Orara “home- of the perch,” Tabulam “my
home,” Umbango “to gaze,” Walgett a
crossing”... .8.G.K.: Ogden’s ABC of Basic
English (4s. 3d.), Basic Dictionary (4s. 3d.)
and Steed’s International Talks in Basic
English (4s. 3d.)....A.8.T.: Sewing-machine
heads are not manufactured in Aus-
tralia, although there are one or two com-
panies making the moving parts of the machine
which fit inside the heads... .D.C.: (1) and
(2) Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence
Department, Melbourne. (3) Rat-fender or
hawser-cowl P.A.: The Pan-European Union
was started by Count Nicholas Coudenhove-
Kalergi in Vienna in 1926 and aimed at the
establishment of a European federation ex-
clude Russia. The movement met with little
success... .A.G.W.: Write to Central Board
of Health, Adelaide E.M.D.: The English
St. Leger was cancelled last year owing to the
war. Winners from 1933 have been: Hyperion,
Windsor Lad, Bahram, Boswell, Chulmleigh
and Scottish Union... .N.H.: In Victoria land
the unimproved value of which exceeds £-50
is subject to land tax. As the unimproved
value rises above £250 the £250 exemption
diminishes at the rate of £1 for every £1 of
excess, so as to leave no exemption at £5OO.
There is a uniform rate of per £1 of unim-
proved value, with a minimum tax of 2s. 6d.
K.W.: The one-mile freestyle swimming
record is: Men, J. Medica (U.S.A.), 1934, 20min.
57 4-ssec.; women, Miss R. Hveger (Denmark),
1938, 23min. 11.5 sec T.F.: Ex-Kaiser is
81; ex-Crown Prince 57... .R.M.: There
is a complete prohibition of children’s toy
books from all non-sterling countries....
W.H.M.: The American Institute of Public
Opinion was founded and is directed by Dr.
Gallup for the purpose of ascertaining the trend
of public opinion through frequent test polls
on topical questions... .C.T.: The Man Power
Committee is empowered to carry out a survey
of the man-power resources of the Common-
wealth from the statistics available from the
National Register, and to prepare allocations
of personnel to the armed forces, munition
factories, key industries and essential services.
Members are Lieut.-Gen. Jess, Commodore
Boucher, Major-Gen. Miles, Air Commodore
Anderson, A. E. Leighton, R. J. Murphy, Pay-
master-Commander Ramsay J.8.W.: rull
details are obtainable from the British Drama
League, 44 Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .8.D.:
Full particulars are obtainable from the Regis-
trar, University of Sydney... .P.L.S.: Many
excellent color-prints made from originals ot
some of the leading Australian and overseas
artists are available in Sydney from leading
picture dealers. Recommend Hans Heysen s
“Australian Landscape,” Elioth Gruner’s * Bel-
linger River” and “Poplars, Canberra, ana
Robert Johnson’s “Gums—Burragorang Valley
(from oil-painting)... .S.F.C.: In wire-netting
there is neither top nor bottom. In fabricating
the netting it is endeavored to keep both sel-
vedges running evenly H.G.F.: See Mac-
phail’s Seaborne Trade or Corbetts Official
Naval History.... A.W.T.: Write N.S W.
Forestry Commission, Sydney, for pamphlet
“Combating Borers in Furniture Timbers.
1.M.D.: The family name of English royalty
before the 1914-18 war was Guelph.


HITS
LYS
fi
proof.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m
3«
m
«jUL 4 « _ •? it, .-if.-,. *.w;.#l
x*'.y;J.x- M
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"L Y SAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING.
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
grower has no right to share in any
excess price. A somewhat similar position
has arisen about the wheat contract.
Wheat has been sold subject to delivery
of given qualities in f.a.q. condition,
with no time clause. At present the
Commonwealth holds 56,000,000 bushels
sold to Britain which may or may not be
shipped within the next year or two
years, depending on whether there are
bottoms available to carry it. But if
the mice or W. M. Hughes eat it in the
meantime the loss falls on the Australian
taxpayer, who has the responsibility for
the product for whatever time it remains
in store.
Grazing for Pigs.
“Porcine”: Skim-milk is not essential
to Dennis’s ration. Concentrates—
grains and their products —should be
considered as supplementary to green
feed in various forms. Naturally, the
pig is a grazing animal, and in modern
pig-raising, either of baconers or porkers,
Footrot.
There have been new out-
breaks of footrot in parts of N. S. Wales
where autumn rains were good, and
immediate precautions are necessary.
Dealing with “footrotted” sheep is a hard
and tedious job. It is called for usually
when all hands are needed for other
work. But vigorous measures now can
save weeks of treatment, mustering and
handling.
There are two types of footrot —real
or “black” rot and foot abscess. Treat-
ment is the same for both.
True footrot spreads rapidly from
affected ewes to young lambs. When the
hoof is opened the tissues are black and
there is little or no pus. This condition
may be found in more than one foot.
The cause is an organism which can live
for any length of time only within the
hoof. Sheep suffering from chronic
lameness are most likely “carriers” and
should be taken out of the general flock.
Foot abscess is caused by a germ which
has its home in the bowels. It is found
wherever droppings accumulate, and
when wet pasturage renders hooves soft
or allows entry through minute cracks
the trouble begins. Although sheep go
lame, when their feet are examined the
hoof may appear quite sound, but if
opened down the front of the toe pus
will be found. If the hoof is not opened
the abscesses will break out above the
coronet. Foot lameness may be con-
fined to one hoof or even one toe.
Treatment of both types lies in paring
away the hoof to drain all pus and re-
move all decayed tissue. Make up blue-
stone paint by dissolving 31b. powdered
bluestone in one gallon water and apply
with a brush on pared areas. Put affected
sheep through a footbath at frequent
intervals. All sheep that have been run-
ning with them or that may be suspect
should also be put through the bath
once a week during the danger period.
Affected sheep should stand in the bath
for at least 20 minutes at a time.
Bluestone and formalin give equally
good results. Use a 10 p.c. bluestone
solution (lib. powdered bluestone to each
gallon of water) or a 5 p.c. formalin
solution (one gallon formalin to 19 gal-
lons water). Formalin is much easier and
quicker to mix and does not stain wool.
If sheep get down in the bluestone bath
or if they get splashed the fleece will
be stained.
A footbath may be built of wooden
planks in the form of a shallow trough,
but a concrete floored pen large enough
to hold 40 to 100 sheep is best. One of
the dip pens may be made watertight
and a wall added that will give an even
liquid depth of 4in. in the bath. Such a
job in a district where footrot occurs
often will pay for itself over and over
again.
Wool and Wheat Contracts.
“Ghanam”: When the war-time wool
agreement with the British Government
was signed “raw” wool was not defined,
though profits on sales to foreign coun-
tries above the basic price of 13.4375 d.
are to be shared. Now the British manu-
facturers contend that scoured wool has
been processed and that, therefore, the
“Good-bye, son, an don't 'ee put on swank just because 'ee un livin' at
a pub”
economical and efficient feeding is de-
pendent upon provision for grazing dur-
ing the growing stages and before top-
ping off.
In N.S.W., not 10 p.c. of the dairy pig-
farmers provide permanent grazing for
brood sows and growing stock ; few of
the remainder include greenstuff in the
regular ration. The ideal is the sub-
division of grassed paddocks for rota-
tional grazing, with creeps for the sepa-
rate feeding of weaners or the smaller
pigs.
In coastal districts Kikuyu grass is out-
standing for all-the-year-round green
feed and resistance to dry conditions.
Inland pig-breeders, especially on wheat
farms, find nothing better than lucerne.
Pigs also make good use of stubbles and
fallows. , .
A variety of crops can be grown for
green feed or soiling oats, barley,
maize, lucerne, millet, field peas, cowpeas
and rape. These on dairy farms should
be in addition to sowings for the cows.
The pig is not a rooter of pasture if
given sufficient space, shade and water.
Fodder Reserves.
“8.C.”: The R.A.S. party at present
touring N.S.W. country districts in con-
nection with the fodder conservation
championships has seen little change
either in the amount of fodder conserved
or the system of conservation. In many
districts the same old winners turn up
money on
the contests has organised conferences in
country and city, and has obtained sup-
r,°il f at b fuf?f a piedcaT“'com!
pensate the society.
The man on the land is an incurable
optimist. He is always sure the weather
will break, always sure the grass will
grow always sure things will “come
good ” In latter years he has become
equal’ly sure that if he puts up an
organised howl the Government will come
tn his aid with cash and concessions
when things Tet too tough. This optimism
Z tu verv well but in the long view it
costs the community an enormous sum
in drought losses of stock and reduced
production.
It has been suggested that conservation
of fodder should be made compulsory
on all farms, under practical guidance.
Such a plan would arouse bitter opposi-
lion, but it might well be necessary.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mt. Boppy”: A skirting table 9ft. by
4ft. 6in. by 3ft. high will serve a shed
handling 500 sheep. Make the top from
by lin. battens, with all edges well
rounded, or lin. dowel sticks. Space
the battens or sticks lin. apart. Six
legs are necessary. Place a movable
wooden tray under the table, about 6in.
from the floor, to catch the locks, etc.
“Valerin”: For ewes affected with
toxaemia at pregnancy try loz. com-
pressed yeast and a quart of water. Stir
thoroughly and give 1 fluid oz. morning
and evening. Ewes should be kept in a
shady yard and fed sparingly.
“B-gar”: To obtain best appraised
results crutchings should be picked care-
fully—not dumped together in One lot.
Remove all stains and dags and make the
longest-stapled and cleanest wool first
crutchings, the seconds comprising the
remainder. If only portion of the wool
is burr-infested care should be taken to
keep it apart from the free wool.
Stained pieces should be allowed to dry
before baling. It won’t pay to rail dags
to market; later any wool worth while
can be clipped from them. If the quantity
warrants it topknots should be kept
separate from the crutchings ; otherwise
they should go in with the seconds.
“Bundalinga”: Don’t crop hill soils
before sowing with pastures. Too much
cultivation encourages erosion and re-
moves the protection of the native grass
cover. Sow a mixture of grasses and
clovers suitable for the district as soon
as possible after the seedbed has been
prepared. Let the sward become .well
established before it is grazed heavily.
“Mullengah”: Pigs that have the run
of good grazing areas are not so likely
to suffer from diet troubles as those
housed intensively. Length and leanness
are demanded in bacon pigs, and can
best be developed by grazing. Lack of
exercise breeds surplus fat. Provide at
least an eighth of an acre of grazing for
each sow and her offspring up to bacon
weight. Move the pigs on to fresh pas-
ture to prevent fouling of the ground.
Build shelter sheds and troughs on skids
so they can be moved.
“Yeno Ham”: In curing bacon by
dry salting, use 121 b. coarse salt, 61b.
brown sugar and 6oz. saltpetre to each
1001 b. of meat. Crush the saltpetre fine,
and before mixing with the salt and
sugar rub some on the fleshy parts of
each side. Mix the balance
of the saltpetre, salt and sugar
well together. Put a layer on
the bench ; then, for the first
couple of days, give each
piece 3 good rubbing with the
mixture. Place one piece on
top of the other on the salting
bench, reversing the positions
after the daily rubbing. Put
some of the mixture under
and on top of each piece,
keeping the fleshy side upper-
most all the time. Open the
shoulder and buttock joints
and work mixture in. Re-
move the shoulder-blade and
haunch bones to lessen the
risk of the meat going bad
around those parts. When
cured —in 14 to 21 days--
soak the meat in clean water
for 12 hours. Scrub well all
over, absorb the moisture
with a cloth and hang to dry
in an airy, shady place.
“Mullengah”: Mangolds
alone are poor food for pigs,
but are satisfactory with pol-
lard, crushed grain and skim-
milk. Don’t give them too
freely until the pigs get used
to them ; then give only what
can be cleaned up at one meal.
“Pome”: Zinc sulphate spray (501 b.
to 100 gallons water) applied during the
dormant period before pruning is an
effective control of “little leaf” disease
in apples. Experiments have resulted in
complete recovery. This disorder has
also spread to stone fruits. It is marked
by very small narrow leaves, scant new
wood growth and die-back.
“Yarrunga”: That sheep may be sub-
mitted to repeated dipping over a long
period without detriment to the quality
or condition of the wool has been shown
in tests at Cangai, on the Upper
Clarence, N.S.W. Merinos in the
Copmanhurst cattle-tick eradication area
were dipped at fortnightly intervals in
the regulation arsenical fluid during the
three years of a clean-up campaign. Part
of the clip (scoured) was recently
appraised at prices ranging to for
the top line of super AAA combing. The
broker’s report stated that the wool fibre
showed no evidence of depreciation from
the continued dipping.
“Yarrunga”: A feature of the N.S.W.
wheat varieties census (B. 15/5/’4O) is
the progress of the new rust-immune
types. Fedweb 1, in its second year of


For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
“CARBOX” is an Australian product for Australian conditions.
“CARBOX” embodies only the finest materials in its ingredients, providing not
only a surehealer of the highest quality, but a superlative cleansing ointment,
and has well earned its place as the farmers’ friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”: —
HORSES. —For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE. —For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, milk fever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP.—For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
marking, etc.
PIGS.—For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DOGS.—For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses, cracked
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
‘‘CARBOX’- is not Good for Parasites—lt Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, J-gallon, and tins
Full particulars obtainable from:—
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributers:
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Houses in All States. When wilting mention “The Bulletin.”
THE SKYLINE OF EUROPE
mmms
>:
-r
m
LONDON ROME BERLIN BELGRADE ANKARA MOSCOW
j*
r? '/
From the capita! cities of Europe
news broadcasts flash across the
oceans to your home when equipped
with a dual-wave Radio —vivid—real
—as only the spoken word can be.
In your console or second set, Radiotron
Valves ensure realism that loses nothing
of the original brilliance and inherent
characteristics of each nation to which
you listen.
I
/ I
\ 1
f
m
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.
AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD
1940-41 SEASON’S WHEAT
NEW BAGS
COMPULSORY
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the
Australian Wheat Board will only accept
delivery of wheat of the 1940-41 season
in New Cornsacks. All licensed receivers
of the Board are being instructed to this
effect, and growers are hereby warned
that bagged wheat in other than New
Cornsacks will not on any account be
accepted by the Board.
AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD
G. A. H. HOLBOROW,
State Superintendent.
33 Macquarie Place, SYDNEY.
Special
Shoe -
BROAD
LAST
276
If broad feet have made
it impossible for you to
get a shoe that is really
comfortable, try this new
Abbey Shape; you’ll be
more than satisfied.
281 18.
Made especially for men
with broad feet, this
Abbey Shoe is exceptional
value. Made with a plain
stitched vamp and cap, in
highly polished Black Calf.
Stocked in full and half
sizes in wide fittings.
Order TODAY while stocks
last.
Note: You can order by mail from Abbey’s with
every confidence. A record of thousands of shoes
sent all over Australia and to all parts of the
British Empire proves that Abbey Shoes give
service and satisfaction. Use the coupon below
if it is more convenient.
ABBEY
316 George St., Sydney.
334 Pitt St., Sydney.
SHOES
Abbey Shoes,
316 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me 1 pair of your Special Broad
Last Shoes at 27/6. I enclose remittance for this
amount, plus interstate postage. My size is
(Enclose tracing of stockinged foot if possible.)
NAME
(In Block Letters.)
ADDRESS •
(In Block Letters.)
Tick here if you would also like a
copy of our catalogue of orthopaedic models.
Sent FREE.
A 23-1684.
1 =
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into tlie soil.
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELLS, FRIES OR GERMS.
The Commonwealth Government has been
using them for 12 years and has just
bought 90 more for R.A.A.F., Narromine.
PRICE, £l7/9/6,
including sales tax and crating.
Write Desk IS for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
gh
commercial cultivation (1939), was sown
on 13,147 acres, and Eureka, in its first
year, on 4198 acres. Both gave better
than average yields. There is a marked
increase in areas sown this season.
“A.A.D.”: Production of biscuit-flour
wheats in N.S.W. has not made the pro-
gress hoped for. A grain of very weak
flour strength is required, and Sydney
biscuit factories are prepared to make
forward contracts with growers. Local
plant-breeders evolved, in Apollo, a
variety suitable for tableland districts,
but the maximum area sown is 858 acres.
No appreciable increase is expected this
season in spite of the offer of a premium.
“The Gai”: On his Gundagai (N.S.W.)
farm Bruce Minter tried to beat saffron
thistle with lucerne, but failed. Then
he sowed a mixture of sub. clover,
Wimmera rye and lucerne in equal pro-
portions at the rate of 61b. of seed per
acre. The paddock has turned off 300
fat steers, and today the clover rules it
entirely, with odd patches of rye and
lucerne, and no thistles. Superphosphate
is used for topdressing annually on at
least a third of the whole property.
“Dorrigo”: Sodium chlorate is now
officially approved as a roadside black-
berry destroyer. Experiments at Dorrigo
(N.S.W.) 10 years ago showed its effi-
ciency, but the cost ran to £lO an acre.
The State weeds officer confirms that
to-day the cost on general infestation
cannot be less. Under the amended
Noxious Plants Act the farmer can be
compelled to use this method.
Outback Occupations.
No. XX.
Noxious Weeds.
“Toowenty million pounds a year!’’
cries the lecturer at the local branch of
the Agricultural Bureau, “that’s what
noxious weeds are costing you farmers.
Too-went-y mill-ion pou-ounds a year!
Think of it!”
He pauses and reaches for a glass of
water while you think of it. Just when
you’ve about got an idea of the sum by
visualising every ant on your property
as a pound note, he leaps forward,
clenches his fist in the air and waves
the other wildly, and cries, “Fifth-
columnists of the agricultural front,
that’s what they are! I urge you, I appeal
to you, I solemnly adjure you to go forth
from this hall tonight determined to de-
stroy ruthlessly every weed that raises its
evil head! Men, the work is imperative
and pressing! 1 thank you.”
Home you go, thinking hard. In bed
you think some more, and before you
rises a vision of burrs, ragwort, saffron,
Mexican poppy, stinkwort, skeleton weed,
hoary cress, St. John’s wort, black oats,
fat hen, star thistle, mustard, wild
tobacco—a vast concourse of vegetables
parade before you, all sucking life from
your soil, all doing you out of toowenty
millions a year. In the darkness you
swear a solemn oath of eradication.
Next morning you are up an hour
earlier and pull out the two boys and
the immigrant hand, commonly known as
Dorset because he comes from there.
You address the three of them at
breakfast: “Every weed on this farm is
doin’ us out of toowenty millions a year,
see! We’re goin’ out with our hoes today,
an’ every other day while there’s a blanky
weed alive, an’ we’re goin’ to give ’em
what for. Tom, you and Dick can start
in the river flat, I’ll do the slope above
y’, an’ Dorset can work from the house
down to the road gate.”
Says Dorset, “I be not knowin’ all them
weeds, Mr. Fordcubbin. How can I
tell they?”
Says you, “What y’ll have to watch for
is mustard an’ St. John’s wort. Both’s
got yeller flowers. Cut everythin’ y’
see with yeller flowers, Dorset.”
Says your wife, “I’m going to town
with Mrs. Richey this morning. I’ll leave
your lunch hot on the stove.”
The boys grab their hoes and head
for the river, you start for the slope, and
Dorset begins peering about the vicinity
of the house. You can see by the grim
look on his dial that no weed will survive
his eagle eyes.
Bathurst burrs, star and saffron thistles
are thick on the slope. You wade in.
Saffron thistle spines prick your ankles
and, when you sweat, the pricks sting
maddeningly. The burrs cling to the hoe-
handle and climb up it, driving their half-
inch spikes into hands and forearms, or
into your knees as you kick them aside.
Star-thistle heads break off and get in-
side your boot tops or shirt, turning
you into a contortionist. Before long
you’re picking and scratching at a multi-
tude of stings, pricks and minute
abrasions. One knee is hot and swollen
from burr poison, and saffron juice has
almost blinded one eye. Grimly you
battle on, hoeing them down. At midday
your forces gather at the house for lunch.
The boys report steady progress on
the flat. So far Tom has a bruise under
one eye and Dick’s foot is bleeding from
a hoe cut. Dorset is unhurt and enthu-
siastic. He tells you he found a thick
patch of they St. Jonny’s pimples —could
tell they be the blossoms all yaller —but
now they be no more.
Lunch over, the fight is resumed. In
the afternoon your knee is stiff and sore,
but you tramp grimly from burr to burr,
thistle to thistle. A good deal of the
early enthusiasm has waned, and though
the slope is strewn with dead and dying
weeds there are still plenty alive. With
maddening persistency tiny burr and
thistle plants appear in the long grass.
You begin to wonder how many days
it will take to cover the farm and whether
your attack can reach one end before
the weeds begin growing again at the other.
About four o’clock you hear sounds
in the direction of the house and see
Dorset running hard towards the river.
Not far behind him is your wife, running
hard in the same direction. You climb
a post and try to see if there is a fire, or
if one of the boys is in trouble. Dorset
runs into a patch of box suckers; so
does your wife.
Alarmed, you drop the hoe and begin
to run that way as best the stiff knee
will allow. You wonder whether it is
Tom or Dick that is hurt. You arrive
at the river. Dorset is on the other side,
soaking wet and shivering. Your wife
is crying out at him. Tom is lying on
the ground in convulsions, and Dick is
holding weakly to the trunk of a sapling.
Your wife turns as you come up. Her
face is angry and red.
“Toowenty million pounds,” she sneers.
“What ? Who ? Running like
this? How- —?” you ask.
“That, that,” she points to the shiver-
ing Dorset; “he’s destroyed all my lovely
gazanias, my violas and the alyssium.
He —he was starting on the little chrysan-
themums when I got back. You —you
Oh, my heavens!” She sits down and
begins to weep.
You look hard at Dorset. He stares
back across the water.
“I saw they yaller flowers,” he
whimpers, “and cut they. Diddun you
say I be to cut all plants wi’ yaller
flowers? They St. Jonny pimples”
You leave him shivering there and take
your wife back to the house. You take
a surreptitious look at the chaos in her
garden. You know what this is going to
cost and you wonder whether it wouldn’t
be cheaper to let the weeds have their
toowenty million pounds.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2 Id. per line.
Names—though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don t object.
The unique contribution for which double rates are awarded this week came
from a Boisdale (Gippsland) lady. Her little girl’s peace plan is leagues ahead of
collective insecurity.
A Child’s Peace Plan
My ten-year-old daughter has
attempted to solve the world’s problems
in the following original manner:
Every nation in the world should have a big
meeting and agree not to have v any wars, but
to have a build-up plan for five years. During
that time each nation should set about to build
and make all the beautiful and useful things
in its power.
At the end of that time another big meeting
should be called, when special men and women
would judge the work that had been done.
And the nation that had done the least good
to help the most people should then be handed
over to the Government of the nation that had
done the most, in proportion to its possibilities.
This plan should be kept going until all the
world was one big, useful and beautiful nation:
As an afterthought my daughter
added: “And then Hitler could go home
and paint some more houses.” — Stormy
Petrel (Vic.).
Wet v. Dry
“Teeto’s” argument (B. 1/5/’4O) that the
mechanised conditions of modern war-
fare demand clear thinking and steady
nerves is true enough, but is it necessary
to give up beer to achieve these com-
mendable objects? If it is, why not give
up tea, coffee and tobacco as well. They,
too, affect the nerves.
If “Teeto” is right, surely the heads of
the British and French armies would
have forbidden their soldiers to drink.
If ever it is deemed advisable to pre-
vent the troops drinking, it will be neces-
sary to put all pubs and booze-sellers
out of bounds, which would require
strenuous policing of such places with
heavy penalties for those caught dispens-
ing liquor to soldiers. Dry canteens only
arouse the indignation, of the men and
they get their liquor in spite of them. —-
Wung (N.S.W.).
Give Them Shelter
Despite the fact that the war has pro-
gressed nine months and two contingents
of troops have already left our shores, I
frequently see groups of uniformed
A.I.F. men (mostly from other States)
huddled together in city and suburban
doorways late at night, apparently for no
other reason than that they lack money,
friends and somewhere to go.
Isn’t it about time that some of the
large sums collected from the public
and subscribed by private individuals for
war funds was spent here in providing
well-equipped hostels for the entertain-
ment and comfort of our soldiers on
leave? It might be argued that places
of refuge for soldiers have already been
provided, but it is obvious that parks
and doorways are preferred by friendless
troops at a loose end to disused ware-
houses.
Surely the man who is thought fit to
fight for us is worthy of decent accom-
modation outside the training camps
where he might be generously housed,
amused and fed during his leisure hours
whatever the state of his pocket. In
war-time particularly, charity should
begin at home. —P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Going to Waste
There is a general feeling in Australia
that Mr. Menzies’s “Business as usual”
advice is being observed too literally.
Even Mr. Menzies seems to be realising
that his preparations for a five-year war
may be cut short by the other party hav-
ing other ideas. It takes time —a con-
siderable time —to transform raw recruits,
no matter how keen, into an efficient
fighting force. No one realises that
more than a soldier or ex-soldier, and,
while they would be the last to inter-
fere with or embarrass the war effort of
the Government, the majority of returned
soldiers are keenly critical and conscious
of the things that might be done.
In England and France, men and boys
beyond the limits of military age are
being organised to deal with parachute
troops. It is not suggested that Australia
is in immediate danger of such an jfl-
vasion, but there are other possibilities,
and steps should be taken now to
organise Australians to meet any eventu-
ality—not to wait till it comes. Holland
was confident that its police force could
handle the fifth column, and we know
what happened there.
In Australia we have the material
ready and waiting to form a volunteer
force for special service at home. All
over the country, returned soldiers too
old for the A.I.F. are chafing at their
inability to be doing things. They, more
than anyone else in Australia, realise
the gravity and can picture the ruthless
annihilation that is going on in France
and Belgium today. They hate- war be-
cause they have good reason to know
what war really means, but they also
have a better idea than most as to what
will happen to Australia if Germany wins.
These men possess the training, the
discipline (somewhat rusty but still there),
and the experience that would render
them a ready-made force. , Their drill
would have to be polished up a bit, but
most of them would gladly give time at
week-ends and evenings if they thought
they could get back with the old mob
again. These men are not only trained
in the use of arms, bombs and machine-
guns, but they themselves have been
bombed and shot at. They know what
it feels like and they know how to act
and how to deal with such emergencies.
Singly and scattered as they are today,
these men can do little, but organised in
groups within the districts in which they
reside they would become a body that
could be quickly assembled to guard,
guide and control the civil population
in any situation that may arise. Men
of the old A.I.F. in steady jobs and with
responsibilities are carrying out Mr.
Menzies’s policy by keeping trade going,
but they are capable and willing to do
more.—J. J. Hardie (N.S.W.).
Headlines
The Norwegian campaign has empha-
sised one chronic disaster that Australia
can deal with. On the very day that
arrangements were being made to
abandon southern Norway, one of our
Great Dailies cheerfully announced in
streaming headlines across the front page
that British warships had forced the
forts guarding Trondhjem. An examina-
tion of the cable showed that it was
merely based on a Swedish (or German)
rumor. But many Australian readers are
incapable of assimilating information in
small print, and most of the remainder
regard the method of presentation of
news as an indication that the newspaper
itself believes what it says.
It is true that Daventry was seriously
to blame in this false news-mongering,
but that is no reason for still further dis-
tortion of facts. The net result of the
anticlimax has been seriously to impair
public confidence.
Prohibit headlines, I say. Their absence
would make people read and think. We
have enough censorship and regulations,
so surely it would be possible to deal
with newspapers spreading false impres-
sions.
“Journalism” has fallen, in public esti-
mation, even lower than politics.—
George Graham (Tas.).
The Six Condemned
Australia was robbed of a great chance
for development in the past 10 years.
Away from the big cities there was
a crying need for more and better roads,
water conservation, bridges, harbors, re-
afforestation, erosion - control projects,
schools, hospitals, hydro-electric schemes.
There was no money for these things.
Not because the country was bankrupt,
but because the money collected in
special taxes poured into the big cities
where the unemployed were concen-
trated, and whence nobody was game to
move them out.
Country towns, of course, asked for a
share of relief money. Most of them
got something. But there was no guid-
ance as to its spending, and they did,
on a smaller scale, what was being done
in the cities. They shifted sand or cut
burrs or built swimming-pools. Christ-
mas relief grants ranging from £lOOO
to £lO,OOO became popular, and able-
bodied Australians were armed with
brooms to sweep up the dust in their
streets. The dust, because there was not
sufficient money to pay someone to cart
it away, remained in little heaps for a
day or two and then dispersed.
Thus the six State Governments spent
millions on mostly useless works or gave
it away as dole to big crowds of city
unemployed, while inland and along the
coasts were fields for development and
reproductive work lying ready for the
plough.
Had there been one national Govern-
ment it is certain these fields would have
been ploughed and the seed sown. In-
stead, six wasteful Governments among
them spent millions of the national in-
come, and there is proportionately nothing
to show for it.
State politicians are fond of reviewing
what they call their achievements. Un-
employment and the resultant taxation,
together with the way the money was
spent, condemn the whole six super-
fluities.
With one national Parliament Austra-
lia can face anything, can do anything.
State Parliaments must go. —O. T.
(N.S.W.).
Parliamentary Salaries
With every section of the community
called upon to bear additional burdens,
and being taxed —directly and in-
directly—to the utmost, it is strange that
neither Federal nor State Parliaments
have given the example of sacrifice by a
voluntary reduction of their salaries.
Placed in the happy position of award-
ing his own salary, the Australian poli-
tician has shown no lack of initiative in
assessing his worth, generally at a figure
far in excess of that which any indepen-
dent and impartial arbitrator would
name. When salary increases are under
discussion, there is invariably complete
unanimity among all parties. If only the
same spirit of co-operation and good-
will prevailed in dealing with the national
problems, the country would be a
veritable Utopia in no time. Ricardo
(N.S.W.).
When will public funds be regarded as
trust funds by those who handle them?
How long before it will be illegal—it has
long been “an offence” to tax- and rate-
payers —for politicians and councillors to
raise their salaries without the sanction
of those called upon to pay them?
Would shareholders of any commer-
cial co. tolerate a rise in its directors’
fees when no dividends were being paid
and calls made to carry on? Govern-
ments and Parliaments and members of
Brisbane’s City Council have raised their
own salaries with no corresponding re-
duction in rates and taxes. They have
scandalously stuck to their ill-gotten
gains when their concerns were showing
deficits or on the verge of bankruptcy.
During the depression a cut in inter-
est in Government bonds was accepted
by the public with little demur. But it
was to Federal members’ pay that the
first restoration was made, and that when
the price of bread went up.
The “expenses” of some Ministers are
a scandal. Railway passes were intro-
duced to* allow members to keep freely
in touch with their constituents —for the
benefit of the latter. Now they are re-
tained for life (at least in Q.), regard-
less of how short the Parliamentary term
of a Minister or how little he has done
for his country during that time. And
our railways never pay!—O. M. G. (Q-).
Vandalism
Queensland’s electric tree-assassins are
on their appointed job again, this time in
the few remaining bits of tree-beauty on
the tourist road across Buderim Moun-
tain and down to the coast. What used
to attract delighted admiration of a wind-
ing green-shaded road blending into
vistas of noble forest is now an untidy
wreck of shattered branches and jagged
stumps. It is merely another item in the
senseless destruction which extends for
100 miles through the forest country
around Brisbane, nine-tenths of it due to
mere barbarous ignorance.
I have seen many of the great lines
which provide England with domestic
and industrial light and power. Also
many of those which furnish similar ser-
vice in Scandinavia, Japan and Germany.
In none of them has it been necessary
to vandalise every bit of timbered
country through which they pass, right
down to flowering shrubs which could
never attain a quarter of the height of
the gaunt gallows-like monstrosities
which form their ugly monuments. Why
should Australia, already beginning to
realise from dire experience that tree-
destruction is followed inevitably by
erosion, have so little sense in such
matters? —M. Turlutu (Q.).
Education
“Retep” (B. 1/5/’4O) seems ignorant
of the basic principles underlying edu-
cation of immature minds. In the few
years available to the teachers nothing
more than the crust of learning can be
broken in the schoolroom. The main
object is to enable pupils to think. With
such power of reasoning, albeit immature,
comes the capacity for further broaden-
ing of the mind by individual reading.
To “E.C.” (B. 1/5/’4O), “ancient his-
tory and the memorising of dates,” etc.,
and “hours of laboring over geometry and
algebra” are just plain rot. No person
with an intellect superior to a bull pup
would even suggest that ancient history,
dates, geometry and algebra are taught
for their own sakes. The real purpose
is to develop in the mind a back-
ground of facts, mathematical or
historical, upon which the child may
draw in adolescent and young adult
years. This lack of historical back-
ground is what makes the study of
classics written in a foreign language so
difficult. Imagine attempting to read
intelligently an account of the Russian or
French Revolutions, or. the Agrarian
Revolution in England for that matter,
without some knowledge of the events of
the preceding century.
The underlying evil which faces
teachers and schoolchildren alike is the
apathy of the children’s parents. The
standard of the next generation is being
laid today by the environment of its
members. If parents generally would
pause to consider that the teacher has
only six hours’ jurisdiction over the child
each day on five days in the week, they
would realise how little the uplifting
effects of the schoolroom can count in
the long run against the effects of a home
in which no effort is made to consolidate
the fundamentals imparted during the
day.— Thos. Clout (N.S.W.).
There’s too much of this calling for
“practical education” (B. 1/5/’4O). If
“Retep” and others were to have their
way and nothing but “useful” subjects
were taught in the schools, we would
probably develop great efficiency—the
efficiency of mindless slaves. After all,
we are men, and not adding-machines
or mechanical-shovels, and unless we
continue our all-round education we are
doomed to cultural decay. Keats,
Shakspeare, Chris Brennan, Joseph
Furphy—those men were not given “use-
ful” educations.
Aldous Huxley has sounded a warning
in Brave New World, and unless we listen
to it we may, like the inhabitants of
that book, gain everything of material
comfort and lose all true culture. —
Savage (S.A.).
Contentment
Cannot agree with P. Radwon’s de-
scription of contentment as a form of
laziness that “can be more of a vice
than a virtue” (B. 8/5/’4O).
I visualise contentment, not as a form
of laziness, but as a temporary emotion
privileged to the industrious who have
struggled and achieved, or as a perma-
nent pleasantry experienced by those
aged and feeble who can sincerely re-
view their past and say “We have done
our best.”
Laziness, on the other hand, is the
temporary delaying or permanently
shirking of a personal duty. Laziness and
selfishness are brotherly shortcomings—
for a man to be lazy he must be totally
regardless of the trouble he causes others
by failing to pull his weight.
Now how can any man be contented
while shirking labor, evading duty and
watching his nation decay? Rather I
should imagine he would feel dejected
and ashamed. —H. J. McL. (Vic.).
Wheat
The time has come for farmers and
Governments to realise that unlimited
wheat is no longer unlimited wealth.
Above a certain limit, wheat is a drug on
the market. To go on producing wheat
above that limit is sheer lunacy, equalled
only by the lunacy of Governments which
bolster up its production with bounties
and bonuses.
Whether we like it or not, wheat-
growing has reached a point where
further expansion is practically impos-
sible. Indeed, indications point to con-
siderable contraction. World markets are
no longer expanding. Daily every
country becomes more and more self-
supporting. The task of our Govern-
ment is not to create a fictitious value
for an unsaleable commodity by means
of paper-money grants and subsidies.


Its duty is to adjust the balance be-
tween production and consumption in a
sane and equitable manner. — Cocky’s
Boy (W.A.).
Not Neglected
“W.P.T.” (B. 8/5/’4O) slipped when
writing about the promptness of Austra-
lians to subscribe to victims of overseas
earthquakes, etc., while neglecting vic-
tims of Australian disasters. He referred
especially to the big forest fires of Vic-
toria. Responses to the relief funds
amounted to many thousands and came
not from Victoria alone, but from all
parts of Australia. Hundreds of victims
received substantial relief, millowners
were provided with funds to re-establish
their burnt-out mills, and tradespeople
generally were much benefited. — Adsum
(W.A.).
State Lotteries
“Paul Pilgrim” (B. 24/4/’4O) should
look to Queensland for hospital finance.
Brisbane, “the healthiest city in the
Commonwealth,” has a mighty block of
hospitals that tower over the city as
forbiddingly as the Harbor Bridge hangs
over Sydney.
Was that block built out of land taxes
and super-taxes? No. It was built out
of a State-owned lottery, the principal
subscribers to which were relief-workers
and near-breadline workers staking an
ill-spared bob on the chance of winning
their way out of misery and wretchedness.
All of which, quite possibly, is as it
should be, because then they suffer mal-
nutrition more than ever for want of the
gambled “deener,” almost inevitably end
in the hospital and receive free treatment
by a Service supplied from their own
meagre dole incomes. And that com-
pletes the magic circle of supplying
medical attention to a sick public. It
provides countless clerks, officials and
others with constant employment, be-
sides ensuring that the constant stream
of young doctors flowing outwards from
the* portals of the newly-established
Medical College near by is not allowed
to dissipate in a healthy community.—
Benn (Q.).
Exit Romance
' In song and story only the brave
deserve the fair. When knights were
bold they ventured forth to accomplish
deeds that would show them worthy of
the hand of some beauteous maiden.
Lesser heroes merely slew the chief
villain, climbed balconies ’by night, or
were at least able to strum on some
stringed instrument and serenade the
young woman.
All of these things required strength,
or nerve, or hide, or musical ability of
some sort. The hero had to be able to
meet the opposition of avowed enemies
or show that he had more “personality”
than his competitors. But today adven-
ture can be bought at the box-office, just
as beauty can be bought at the chain-
stores in tubes and jars.
The lovesick swain doesn’t even have
to brave the boot of the heavy father.
He whistles at the front gate, and the
maiden answers promptly. Together they
proceed in comfort to the talkies, where
all the deeds of valor, all the dirty
work, all the serenading and all the heart-
rending are done for them. All they
have to do is to hold hands and thrill
in unison as the plot thickens in celluloid
sentiment or dissolves in glycerine tears.
Two-gun experts or two-fisted he-men
strut their hour upon the screen as
“stand-ins” for millions ojf strong, silent
youths in cushioned seats. Glamorous
maidens in distress —at incredible salaries
—suffer or are rescued as proxies for
the sentimental flappers who nibbie
chocolates the while.
Are the boys less bold or the girls less
fair than they were in the days of old?
Perhaps not, but they must lose a lot of
fun. They don’t get the real thrill of
the corduroy course of true love that we
old fogies knew, when we had to fight
off the other blokes with bare knuckles,
proye to the old man that our intentions
were honorable and our income adequate
and, for the rest, depend on personal
charm and boiled lollies to achieve our
heart’s desires.
But perhaps I’m only old-fashioned, or
jealous, or something.— Sere and
Yellow (S.A.).
Manufacturers
Australia’s secondary industries, save
those controlled by trusts and certain
proprietary lines, do not enjoy fixed
prices (B. 8/5/’4O). Trusts are the excep-
tion rather than the rule in Australian
secondary industry. There is keen com-
petition in most lines.
Secondary industry has not forced the
farmer to become dependent on the
tractor and fuel oil. Those farmers who
have gone in for power farming have
done so because they considered that
they would thus secure a higher profit
and more easy working conditions. There
is nothing to prevent a farmer returning
to the horse if he wants to.
The Australian manufacturer labors
under many disabilities from which the
farmer is free. He has to pay higher
rates, or rent, if he does not own his
own premises. He has also to pay award
wages, observe complicated factory regu-
lations and fixed hours of labor,
whereas most classes of farmers are free
to work their employees as long as they
like and to pay them what they choose.
The manufacturer also is obliged, either
by awards or union rules, to engage
special labor to perform tasks which, on
a farm, would be done as part of the
day’s work by the hired hands.
These advantages more than compen-
sate the farmer for having to sell his
products at a price determined by world
parity, and, therefore, generally lower
than that secured by a manufacturer
marketing his whole product—as do
most Australian manufacturers —locally.
—Lyle (N.S.W.).
C. J. Dennis Memorial Prize
Three things puzzled Solomon —the
way of an eagle in the air, the way of a
serpent on a rock and the way of a man
with a maid. If he had lived today he
could have added a fourth —the way of
a committee with a literary fund.
About a year ago the Commonwealth
set aside £lOOO a year to help indigent
authors ; £6OO of it was handed on a
plate to the rich universities!
Now the C. J. Dennis annual prize of
£25 is being offered (according to a press
advertisement) for the best poem already
published in the press or in magazines
during the previous year.
Anyone who walks the Inky Way
knows that the past year has been the
most disastrous for poets in their history.
It is doubtful if the beloved “Bloke”
himself could have had his sentimental
rhymes published under the conditions
now ruling. Consequently many per-
fectly good rhymes are wasting their
sweetness in the form of returned MSS.
The space reserved for the Muse in
the press is meagre, and “great” poetry
of any kind is never good journalism,
though smart rhyming may be. Some
poets actually pay for space in maga-
zines. It is safe to say that many fine
efforts never achieve print because they
are a few lines too long, or are too clever,
or because syndicated stuff is cheaper, or
because the writer is short of stamps.
These would all be barred from this com-
petition. There are many minstrels who
would sing new songs for the chance of
such a rich prize.
Of course those responsible have a per-
fect right to state the terms, but in this
column there have been many para-
graphs dealing with the best ways of
fostering Australian literature, and the
aforementioned plan seems one of the
least likely to obtain that end.
With liberty to choose a subject and
a fair amount of elbow-room as regards
length, the competition would whip up
Pegasus briskly and commemorate the
bard widely, thus fulfilling the twin ob-
jects of the fund. —A. Glug (S.A.).
Curable Diseases
The modern scientist regards disease
as a manifestation of a natural law, some-
thing that can be cured or prevented when
research has revealed the working of that
law. But to find that working the scientist
must have the co-operation of the public.
Doctors know how to cure and prevent
syphilis, but law and public opinion pre-
vent the spreading of such knowledge,
so the disease goes on killing babies and
filling asylums. Men and women who
catch it are looked on as criminals, and,
through fear and shame, are forced to
seek the aid of quack doctors. The same
applies to cancers of the breast. Statis-
tics show that 91 p.c. of cancers of rhe
breast and 50 p.c. of cases of uterine
cancer treated five years ago at a suffi-
ciently early stage are still alive and
show no recurrence of the disease.
If, as a nation, we are to maintain a
healthy standard of life and allow medi-
cal science to progress unhampered, we
must tear aside this hypocritical veil of
mock modesty.— Retep (Vic.).
“Scabs”?
Miners are not the only ones who,
while quick to resent any scabbing by
outsiders, don’t mind doing a bit them-
selves (B. 1/5/’4O). Freelance journalism
is the trade most harried by scabs, some
of whom even use their social or pro-
fessional positions to give them greater
scabbing strength. Politicians, politicians’
wives, schoolteachers, university profes-
sors and such are the worst offenders.
If it were from an uncontrollable urge to
write and to see their work in print their
actions might be explainable. But one
suspects that they write their stuff rarely
distinguished ; very often poor —from a
desire to add to already comfortable in-
comes.
Anyway, if it is the urge of genius
that drives them into print, surely they
would agree to the money going to some
fund for distressed journalists. Hack
(S.A.).
Gambling
Publicity or lack of education has got
nothing to do with the gambling spirit.
Like murder, it will out if it’s there.
And anyone who doesn’t realise the odds
against him is not a gambler he’s a
fool; and there are more gamblers than
fools running around.
Gambling, like most other things, is
harmless in moderation. It’s the excess
gambler who gives all the others a bad
name, but he doesn’t last long, because
he’s a goat, and goats get butted into
gaol or the bankrupts’ court.
If one man’s idea of a good time is
to take a sporting chance of getting a
fiver to five bob —well, that’s his business.
And provided he doesn’t spend the rent-
money he is entitled to give the landlord
a poke in the nose if the landlord
criticises his idea of fun. Some of us
like to gamble ; others like to sit at home
and suck peppermints. Each is happy
and neither should be criticised, provided
he doesn’t overdo it. Even too many
peppermints is an excess, punishable at
least by heartburn. — Elm (N.S.W.).
Road v. Rail
For years it has been generally recog-
nised, mainly outside Australia, that no
development in or behind the Barkly
country (N.T.) can be expected until the
district has rail connection with the coast.
“Puff” (B. 3/4/’4O) expresses the rather
amazing, if typically Australian, view
when he demands that no such railway
be considered until it has been proved
that a “road-train” cannot be built to do
the job. Logic would suggest that were
such an idea feasible it would have been
developed in America, where every
factor favors road transport, instead of
in a country which lacks almost every-
thing required for it. Moreover, although
the overwhelming advantages of road
motors are taken for granted by most
O.F.M. writers, they aren’t by me. Flexi-
bility and convenience are obvious, but
“Puff’s” idea would eliminate both, and
concrete evidence of cheapness is entirely
lacking.
Much nonsense has been written about
the Centralian road-train. The fact that
the lowest rate for a very limited variety
of traffic is more than double that at
which the inefficient, union-ridden Q.G.R.
could handle all traffic at a clear profit
doesn’t indicate cheapness to me. As a
taxpayer with only the community axe to
grind, I require a transport system which
will haul everything from ashes to bullion
in millions of tons, at the lowest possible
cost per ton mile and with the least pos-
sible expenditure of foreign exchange.
“Puff” and others visualise, without
obvious reason, a vast increase in road-
vehicle efficiency in the near future. When
that happens and road transport, bur-
dened with the full cost of its road (why
not?), award labor conditions and com-
parable safety regulations, and while
using local fuel and equipment, can offer
to haul all traffic offering at a lower aver-
age rate —that will be the time to replace
the obsolete railway. But, as there’s little
prospect of that, isn’t it about time we
stopped chasing shadows and got on
with the job?—Ex-Loco (Calcutta,
India).
Marriage and Divorce
When I wrote that adultery is not a
crime I was not “back-pedalling,” as
“W.L.” (B. 1 / 5 / ’4O) so gracefully puts
it, but trying to show that “W.L.” was
confusing the civil with the moral law.
“If it’s not a crime, why is legal sanction
necessary?” he asks. If it were a crime,
how could legal sanction be obtained?
The law may be an ass, but it is not ass
enough to sanction crimes it is designed
to punish and prevent. My point was,
and is, that “W.L.” and his fellows wish
to use the community’s civil law to
nullify the community’s moral law—a
law sanctioned by thousands of years of
usage and, as many of us believe, a law
divinely ordained.
“W.L.’s” statement that a poor man
desiring divorce “must resort to the ‘poor
man’s divorce’—C. G. Salis’s kind —bare-
faced desertion,” is not only an offensive
distortion of my argument, implying that
I suggested that unhappily married men
should desert their wives, it is a com-
plete misstatement. I said that couples
who find their married lives intolerable
may obtain separation simply by separat-
ing. Implicit in this statement is the idea
that both parties desire separation. This
is far from “barefaced desertion.” As for
the truth of his claim, it is well known
that those who cannot afford to brief
counsel may sue for divorce as poor
persons, obtaining aid from the Crown
Law Office.
The “simple business of allowing two
unhappy people to make a fresh start in
life” is not as simple as “W.L.” imagines.
No evidence can be adduced to show
that the “fresh start)” would have a
better finish than the first start, and,
pitiable as the plight of unhappily mar-
ried couples may be, we must not let
maudlin sympathy for individuals blind
us to the needs of society. And society
depends for its continuance on the per-
manence of the marriage tie and the
stability of family life.
In a recent article on “Juvenile Delin-
quency,” Dr. H. W. Williams, Research
Officer of the N. S. Wales Department of
Education, discusses the effect of broken
homes on the development of children.
After quoting figures compiled by four
United States investigators showing a sig-
nificant relationship between broken
homes and delinquent children, he sums
up: “There appears to be considerable
support for the view that there are in-
herent in broken homes or inadequate
family structures many factors conducive
to progressive social maladjustment
it must be remembered that a broken
home is itself a product of a variety of
possible causes.” Precisely. And one of
those “possible causes” is the social mal-
adjustment produced by broken homes.
In effect, the proponents of easy
divorce are asking the community to
take action which, while it can be of
only doubtful benefit to a comparative
handful of living people, may well destroy
society a few generations hence. “A little
space of youth belongs to us; all the
rest of life belongs to our children.” Let
us not tamper with their heritage.—C. G.
Salis (N.S.W.).
Petrol Tax
In time of war we hear and read a
lot about equality of sacrifice, which
usually means the poor sacrificing an
egg from the breakfast table, while the
rich sacrifice a liqueur from the after-
dinner drink list. We must be on our
guard lest this principle be applied to
petrol.
Already the Federal Treasurer has put
forward a plan which, in effect, places
the sacrifice entirely on the shoulders of
the worker car-owner by placing petrol
beyond the reach of his slender purse.
He thus not only sacrifices petrol, but
his car as well, which is the result of
years of sacrifice, saving and scrimping.
On the other hand, soaring petrol
prices would not seriously inconvenience
the wealthy, whose purses can well with-
stand the added strain. They can and
will obtain all the petrol they require.
The obviously fair and honest method
of curtailment is rationing. Every car-
owner in Australia, irrespective of the
state of his purse, is entitled to his share
of the petrol available. This is the
method adopted in Great Britain and
Maoriland. Are we less democratic
than they?— Nigel (N.S.W.).
Whither Unionism?
Probably counting upon an early
triumph of the Allied arms and Australia
being left pretty much in the condition
it was when war first broke out, Aus-
tralian unionists continue to lodge their
logs of claims for increased pay and im-
proved working conditions in the Federal
and State Courts of Arbitration. Long
and heavy lists are waiting, and new ones
add to the cares and toil of staffs and
Courts.
Whether the country will be able to
bear the burdens these Courts inflict is
a question few would dare to answer,
but one thing is always there —the re-
luctance of the unions to yield an inch
of the ground they have won whether
the outlook is black, blue or purple.
Employers hard up against circumstances
following the 1914-18 war could get little
or no easement of irksome conditions,
and even when Courts were sympathetic
union advocates strenuously objected to
any whittling down of pay or conditions.
The most that many employers got was
a suspension of the obligation to give a
week’s employment or a week’s notice,
with a right to work men on a limited
number of days, which the Court took
care to declare lest the harassed em-
ployer tried to save one or more.
When the big depression hit the
country, easements were obtained from
the imposts of rigid basic wages, but the
unions fought the relief as strenuously
as ever. Numerous employers, those
not covered by any war-time industry,
are already feeling the pinch of reduced
trading, but one will look in vain for any
overture from the unions to any Arbitra-
tion Court to consider a step or two
which will relieve them of some of the
hardships they suffer or are likely to
suffer soon. — Bill Ding (W.A.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
15 Jewel Precision
£5/10/-
gh
gh
Tested to stand tropical and all severe conditions.
Folly Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Send for Diamond Ring and Watch Catalogue.
DIAMOND
&• WATCH
SPECIALISTS
gh
112 MARKET ST
SYDNEY, I
OPR DAVID JONES
SUPER DUAL WAVE
RADIOS • F* om ! f
Every set guaranteed by RELIANCE.
SPECIAL FEATURES include Neo-
seopic Station Tuning:, Automatic
Volume Control (A.V.C.), Latest
Triode-type Valves, Low and High
Frequency Tone Control, Ball-
bearing IMal Operation for Smooth,
Accurate Tuning, Magnavox Speaker.
Terms as low as 2/9 weekly.
(Terms allowed metropolitan area only.)
RELIANCE RADIO PTY., LTD.,
14 Barrack Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8698 J.
First window on right from George St. {nr. G.P.0.).
gh
LAMBS SAVED
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
flies, or :nfection
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Safe—and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback —fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
gh
gh
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4jin. knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 4'Jin. to a in. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
weight OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and, £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send fbr New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
The DUNLEAVY DIAGRAM
Write
for
FREE
BOOK
(KEG.)
T
s*. / A framework
■ ' to simplify
and improve
boxing, with
directions. Acts
ns a self--/
instructor. |
JACK I
DUNLEAVV, \
1791 K, f
.0.. Sydney. ]
1
Box
Write
for
FREE
BOOK
rmmnMum
il
t
WAKE MONEY AT HOME. OVER £7 WEEKLY.
No skill required. Free trial offered. Amaz-
ing Re-Nu outfit contains 29 Money-Making
Plans, over 200 secret formulae, pfyeesses,
etc. Learn arts, crafts, moulding, plating,
manufacturing, decorating, etc. Make beauti-
ful antiques. We buy all goods or supply list
of buyers. We finance marketable inventions,
ideas, etc. For employment offers, 75 other
lines, pamphlets. Free samples, etc., enclose
lOd. stamps (refundable). RE-NU Ltd.)
(Est. 1932), opp. Richmond Sin., Melb’ne.
gh
gh
When replying, please enclose this
cutting of advertisement and you will
receive a Free useful present.
'CJStJ
M
/
\
Y 9m
>, l
"
i c. %. tr rr^
Off
f / rf
i*
o. ,i
e
V
r,/
if
n -,
&
,w
-
r2s*
7 tois/i /o tender my resignation!
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
gh
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
gh
OILSKINS
for long, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
STREET, SYDNEY.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar*
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only .35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
i days, otherwise we will refund your
I money in full. This offer cannot be
] repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
lif you wish.
TALKERIES,
t«l CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
MILITARY SURPLUS STOCKS
MILITARY BAYONET SHEATH KNIVES, extra
long-, 12/6.
TAN OFFICERS’ BOOTS, Leather-lined, superior
quality, only 22/6 per pair. NEW.
ALL-WOOL KHAKI PUTTEES, 8/6 per pair. NEW.
MILITARY POUCHES, 1/- each. BELTS, 4/6.
RIFLES. Genuine B.S.A. Military .32 cal: Rifles,
in brand-new condition; original cost, £7/10/-.
NOW ONLY 35/- complete with Sights, Protector,
Distance Gauge, 600 yards. A Genuine Bargain.
200 Pairs Military PACK SADDLE BAGS, brand-
new, made of the best English leather; size, 27in.
x 17in. Worth £7/10/-. TO CLEAR. ONLY
£2/5/- per pair.
HARRY MITCHELL,
Dept. B, 246 George Street, Sydney.
(Licensed Govt. Dealer for over 25 years.)
THE THREE-! N-ONE SAW
FOR ALL PURPOStir^“
IN ACL HOMES
2/6
Blade Length 5 i ins;
This mos t useful tool, in the home or workshop,
combines, in a neat ami compact form, throe
very useful saws, easily interchangeable in a
second merely by the turn of a screw. There
is a blade for cutting wood,, another for metal
and bakelite and a third for using on iron.
While our stocks last they are obtainable for
2/6, post free.
Union Manufacturing and Agency Co.
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
THE BEST” RAT TRAP
Made in Australia.
LPat. Applied for No. 2427/1939.)
I *
BAlTf^^
Press bait into hole, set as above. Test
showed 100 per cent, kills of rats up to 18
inches long. BAIT CANNOT BE TAKEN.
A touch up or down on trigger releases spring.
1/- each (plus postage 6d.).
10/- per dozen (plus postage 2/-).
A. M. CAMERON, Macdonell House
321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
sjmoi >OO
o*'s
«?■;;
sa
fig
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet,, FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Artillery Timber Splitting Gun
REVOLUTIONISES TIMBER SPLITTING.
(Pat. 6727-32)
•s-
-k\i
Driven into timber
without boring. Uses
ordinary blast in g
powder and fuse.
Gun is lain, diam.,
18in. long.
Price (for improved
model), 35/-.
(Add exchange.)
Postage: N.S. W., 2/—.
Elsewhere, 3/6,
gh
Obtainable from stores or from the manufacturers,
MA'.FIC CO , 161 River St., Earlwood, SYDNEY
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
'Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possiole improvement or recovery. Made >o
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation,
THE "ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
To You
for
3/9.
gh
Goods
Sent
C. 0.1).
The “Ideal” Cigarette-making; maehine
and Combination Tobaeco Box. Usual
Priee «/« —“Bulletin” readers 3/D.
Send fid. in Stamps for liberal sample
of “Bevy sown” Quality Tobacco at 77-
lb.—worth 10/- lb. —for Cigarette or Pipe.
SOL LEVY
X TSKZZ-
713- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
gh
AMPLI
HOMF POWER UNITS
It miggs * sriwnoH
1 small, compile
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
PRICE, £39/15/-
Write for comprehen-
sive Bulletin No. 79.
gh
a w I JL A N V
3U 3HMANV
gh
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-vratt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
lgal. of petrol.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney., N.S.VV.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
gh
ncTs
LIKE THE HfMB
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27G), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
DEAF?
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
K. A. NOTSDL, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney,
WNcuMsnjt
SKATES
17 16— 21/-
WITH STEEL ROLLS
COWLES
and DUNN
KING STREET, SYDNEY
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscnption rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
29 / 5r40 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss..... ....
Cut this out and send with your “ Wants’ ’ to the Service Department. “The Bulletin
Office. Sydney or Melbourne.


RLL- RUSTRRLIRN PRODUCTS
■WAR AT AH
STEEL FENCING WIRE
BLACK OK GALVANIZED
'WARATAU"
INaHa TleiUnq,
' WAR ATAH'
BARBED WIRE
FOR STRENGTH AND DURABILITY
* "WAR ATAH'
Stul?4M£UlCLPoiti
LIGHT AND STRONG |f
■
‘WARATAH
HINGED JOINT FENCE
STAYS TAUT AND FIRM
’WAR ATAH’
MOTOR BY-PASS
THE EVER OPEN GATE
AN INVITATION IS EXTENOEO TO CUSTOMERS
TO VISIT OUR WORKS AT NEWCASTLE
1
;>--v
■■■■■l
'M
%£2
■ :''■ \
■/■: j;.: :%$
Wsmimm
mm
' ■:
mm
«.■• - : - Vs- ;•
:||l|
, !
mm
W' illfipil
\ r '*WJs * 1 w-‘ rrTF^W
l|iii|il -
.: : •
'
-
mm
&XZX
.
• ■
MADE PROM
mi in m
■LJPallaff ■
NEWCASTLE STEEL
HYLANDS BROS, (aust.) PTY. LTD.
WORKS: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 422 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Rylands stand behind their products
